CORNELL UNIVERSITY
Center for Radiophysics and Space Research
Space Sciences Building
Ithaca, New York  14853
Telephone (607) 256-4971
Laboratory for Planetary Studies
June 6, 1977
Mr. Alan Lomax
215 West 98th Street
Apartment 12E
New York NY  10025
Dear Alan:
I am extremely pleased that you will be able to lend us the bene-
fit of your considerable experience and expertise in ethnomusicology in
the production of the Voyager record.
Voyager I and Voyager II are unmanned deep space probes which will
be launched from Cape Canaveral in August and September, 1977. Their
mission is to examine close-up the major planets, Jupiter, Saturn, and
Uranus, their 20 some odd moons, and the rings of Saturn and Uranus.
After these fly-by observations are performed, the two spacecraft will
be ejected from the solar system, becoming mankind's third and fourth
interstellar space vehicles. The first two such vehicles, Pioneers 10
and 11, were launched some six years ago and contain a 6 x 9 inch gold
anodized aluminium plaque on which is etched some simple scientific in-
formation about the location of the Earth and the solar system in the
Milky Way Galaxy, and the moment in the ten billion year history of our
Galaxy when the spacecraft was launched. There are also drawings of a
man and woman.  The plaques were a sort of message in a bottle, cast
into the cosmic ocean, in case at some remote epoch in the future an
extraterrestrial civilization were to come upon Pioneer 10 or 11 and
wonder something about its origin.
Voyager permits us to continue on the Pioneer 10 and 11 experience,
but in a much richer way. When NASA asked me to chair a committee to
decide what should be the nature of the Voyager cosmic greeting card,
it soon became clear that much more information could be conveyed in the
same space on a metal mother of a phonograph record than on a plaque of
the same size. Since this is the 100th anniversary of Edison's invention
of the phonograph, a record seems particularly apt. NASA will be launching
on each Voyager a bonded pair of copper mothers containing the equivalent
of four sides of a 12-inch 33-1/3 rpm long playing record. One of these
sides will contain digital scientific information — largely diagrams
and pictures; a range of human voices, including some especially prepared
at the United Nations and one special greeting by Kurt Waldheim, the U.N.
Secretary General; and a selection of non-musical, non-vocal sounds of