November 8, 1942 

Mr. Alan Lomax 
Bureau of Special Operations 
Office of War Information
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Mr. Lomax: 
Very glad to hear of your advancement. I hope that you will 
find your new work as interesting as the old. I have finally arranged 
my report so that the records will not be indispensable. Up 
to now, I have not been lucky in my relationships with your compatriots : 
always given much more than I received. But, it may change, 
Paris was not built in one day. 

Had a letter this week from Dr. Johnson of Fisk University asking 
me to work with them for some time, as he speaks of you in the 
following paragraph I suppose that you suggested it to him and I 
thank you very much. However, he is quite vague about ... everything. 
So I answered by thanking him and asking for more details. 
As I told you before, I hope to go to Chicago in February, but Fisk 
has for me another kind of appeal and I shall certainly go there later 
on if those people really want me, even in February if anything goes 
wrong with the Chicago plan. 

About the Louisiana project, I could no give you a definite 
answer because my husband as you know was against it and was trying 
to get me into the British Isles (I had even accepted to enlist in 
the Auxiliary Services), but he has failed for the second time and 
although he has not lost every hope, I think I am safe in telling 
you that I will do the survey and be very glad to do it, if the Rosenwald 
Foundation agrees to cover my expenses. 

About songs symbolic of the " democratic traditions" of Haiti, 
what do you mean by "democratic"? The four freedoms? If so, we 
have no folk songs of the kind and I am afraid no popular song that 
I know of. Try to introduce one and you will see what happens . . .
A few patriotic songs about independence, "equality", love of the 
flag. If you want them I will try to get you some when I have time. 

Received a telephone call from your wife inviting me to dinner 
for Wednesday. As I told Mrs. Lomax I am perfectly willing to go 
and meet her . . . when I know exactly where to go. 
Sincerely yours, 
Suzanne Comhaire

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.