OUR SINGING COUNTRY * REVIEWS

Sunday Herald Leader- (
Sunday Herald Leader.---Ky.--(A.B.Guthrie Jr.)- Dec.28,1941

JOHN AND ALAN LOMAX'S SECOND BOOK OF BALLADS CONTAIN NUMEROUS SELECTIONS
FROM KENTUCKY.

John and Alan Lomax, who gave us that well-known book "Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier
Ballads", are placing us deeper in their debt with their books on American ballads
and folk songs. "Our Singing Country" is the second volume under the heading, and
it is one that students and historians will want to have and that the casual reader
will enjoy.

The book is divided into six general selections: "Religious Songs," "Social
Songs", "Men at Work", "Outlaws", "Hollers and Blue", and Negro Gang Songs".

Direct from the mouths of the singers, these songs and hundreds of others
were recorded on wax discs during the course of many a journey which the two Lomaxes
made with portable electric sound apparatus.  Their aim was the addition of the songs
to the Archive of American Folk Songs, in the Division of Music of the Library of
Congress, which shortly will make the records available to the public at cost.  The
records made, the most suitable and significame of the songs were selected for this
book, which, as the result of the work of Ruth Crawford Seeger, music editor, contains
not only the words but the music as well.  Some of these pieces are familiar, many
are strange, but all of them are interesting and, together, greatly revealing.

We have, indeed, few researchers so devoted to their subject as John and
Alan Lomax, and none who approach it with a livelier feeling for its general rather
than its special significance.  They start out a notable preface to this book with
words that might be from the mouth of Sandburg, so stout and zestful and appreciative
of the working stuff are they: "The function of this book is to let American
folk singers have their way with the readers. Most of these singers are poor people,
farmers, laborers, convicts. old-age pensioners, relief workers, housewives, wandering
guitar pickers.  These are the people who still sing the work songs, the cowboy songs,
the sea songs, the lumberjack songs, the bad-man ballads, and other songs that have
no occupation or special group to keep them alive.  These are the people who are 
making new songs today.  These are the people who go courting with their guitars,
who make music for their own dances, who make their won songs for their own religion.
These are the story-tellers, because they are the people who are watching when things
happen.  These are the great laughers and the liars, because they know that life is
so much more ridiculous than anyone can ever hope to tell.  These are the people
who understand death, because it has been close to them all their lives.  They have
lookes at the faces of young men whose lives have been torn from them in industrial
accidents.  They have been acquainted personally with young girls who killed themselves
when they were deserted by false-hearted lovers.  They have sheltered the
families of men wo were sent to prison for murder.  These people make the deep, slow
jokes while they are waiting for things to happen, and they know that what a man is
not willing to fight for must not be true for him..."

The energetic perception and the robust appetite thus indicated hardly
could bring forth any but the satisfying, illuminating book that this one is, a
book that has popular appeal and cultural importance.  Here in Kentucky we should
have a special interest in it, not alone because we live in a region that resounds
with fiddle and guitar music but because numerous of the selections herein given 
were obtained from Kentuckians.

-----A.B. Guthrie Jr.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.