2.

a. Rumor is transmitted through a series of interpersonal 
relations which are determined by the 
intimacy of the persons involved. Thus, rumors 
are an index of the structure of the group, since 
they tend to pass over more or less established networks. Again, some groups will be inclined to 
accept rumors of one emotional coloring, others, 
rumors of another coloring. Thus the affective
dispositions of different groups are revealed by
the unverified stories current among them.

Example: The rumors circulating among the Italian 
population of Boston at the outbreak of the 
war were largely fearful or pessimistic in expressive 
content. In those circulating among 
the Harvard students, less anxiety was evident.

b. The amount of rumor current in a given group of 
people is a direct index of the degree to which the 
formal system of communication, i.e., radio and 
newspapers, satisfies their need for information. 
Such a state of dissatisfaction may arise as a result 
of (1) actual inaccessibility of the desired
information, (2) censorship, (3) inefficiency of 
the formal communication system, (4) distrust of 
those who control the formal system.

Example: In France prior to the Battle of Flanders, 
there was widespread distrust of information 
appearing over the radio and in the press.
During this period, rumor was rife. With the 
coming of the crisis, the formal communication 
system broke down almost completely. In England, 
on the other hand, the formal system has been 
largely trusted, and there has been comparatively 
little rumor mongering.

c. The expressive quality of rumor is a reliable 
index of the prevailing emotional currents in the 
group. Widespread anxiety rumors betoken poor 
morale. The degree of realism is revealed by the 
extent to which rumors are of illogical or implausible 
content. Particular complaints and sources
of friction reveal themselves in rumors.

Example: During the first 43 hours after the 
bombing of Pearl Harbor, the vast majority of 
rumors were expressive of anxiety. The fleet 
was reported "annihilated." Midway Island was 
said to be captured, etc.

d. Rumor is an instrument of propaganda.  Its 
principal value would seem to be (1) the disruption 
of a group, (2) the creation of a "smoke

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.