THE NASHVILLE
In the Inner Citadel of the [??]
VOL. 32 -- No. 2051
NASHVILLE, TENN., FRIDAY MORNING

$1,000 Reward Offered For
Letter Everybody's Read

Story of Letter to Mother From Son Captured In
Japan Spreads Like Wildfire--Try To Find It

REWARD: The Tennessean offers $1,000 (one
thousand dollars) reward to the person who will produce
an authentic letter written by a Nashville boy to
his mother from a Japanese prison camp with a secret 
message written beneath the stamp of the letter.
__________
This story is not a news story. A news story is written
about something that is not generally known. In fact,
the purpose of a news story is to tell people something
they hadn't already heard.

But everybody in Nashville already knows about this
letter. That is, practically everybody knows. And so do
people in nearby towns. And so do people in Detroit and 
people in Washington, D. C.--at least two people in Washington
know about it and, therefore, we presume the
people there have been as quick to spread it as have the
people in Nashville.

Blood-Curdling, Horror Story
It is a macabre story, a blood-curdling story, a horror
story. It is the kind of story people sometimes say they 
can't understand why a newspaper prints.

It is the kind of story that makes you shudder when
you first hear it. You say to yourself, "I won't tell that
story to anybody. It's too terrible." And you don't tell
anybody--for at least a little while. Then you go to
the grocery and are chatting with the grocer about what
the war's doing to prices, whether there's really any reason
for this sugar rationing etc., etc., and the story comes
to mind and you tell the grocer.

Just Too Big a Story to Keep
Or you go to the bridge club and the story just occurs
to you. And since it was told to you by a close friend
of the person who lives right down the street from the 
mother of the boy, why you just
feel it's too big a story to keep.

And you, Mr. Man--you heard
the story, too, and you didn't intend
to repeat it, either, but there
you are at the barber shop and
the man in the next chair has just
told something he heard about
what happened at Pearl Harbor
and his story is not nearly as big
as this one, so you tell it. Why not?
If you don't tell it, somebody else
will.

Did it ever occur to you who
started the story? Did you stop
for one instant to think how absurd
it was--how impossible for
such a letter to get out of Japan,
let alone be delivered in this country?

We're sure a lot of people thought 
of that and the story stopped with
them. But too many people didn't
think before they talked, and as a 
result, they've spread the horribly
ridiculous story from one end of 
this town to another. And, we
have good reason to believe, from
one end of the country to another.
Hence this story, which is not
designed to tell you, not that something
happened, but that it didn't.
__________
Heard in Bus Conversation
For more than a week we've been
hearing the story. First, a reporter
for The Tennessean heard it on a
bus. The lady who told her lady 
friend explained she had heard it
from a neighbor. Wasn't it horrible
such a thing could happen,
she said to her friend.
The reporter wasn't supposed to
go to work for another hour yet.
He didn't have faith oftentimes [???]

"In the absence of all
the facts, as revealed by
official sources, you have
no right to deal out unconfirmed
reports in such a
way as to make people believe
they are Gospel
truth. Every citizen, in
every walk of life, shares
this same responsibility."
--President Roosevelt.

Nelson Favors
Bonuses, Higher
Piece Pay Rates

Administration Aides
Fight Ban on 40-Hour
Week and Closed Shop

By ROGER TATARIAN
WASHINGTON, March 19--UP--

War Production Chief Donald M.
Nelson today advocated "incentive
payments" to labor--bonuses
and higher piece rates--rather than
restrictive legislation, as the best
means of speeding up arms output.
He was one of a group of top
administration officials who appeared
before congressional committees
to oppose the bill by Rep.
Howard Smith (D., Va.), to suspend
the 40-hour work week, outlaw
the closed shop, and limit
profits on arms contracts to six
per cent.

Secretary Perkins Heard
Nelson and Secretary of Labor
Frances Perkins testified at a
closed session of the senate military
appropriations subcommittee,
which in inquiring into production
lags and contributory strikes, while
Undersecretary of War Robert P.
Patterson appeared before the
house naval affairs committee
which is studying the Smith bill.
Smith had testified earlier regarding
his measure, conceding
"very frankly" that its purpose is
to "uproot the closed shop" and
other New Deal legislation which,
he said, had forced him to the conclusion
"that there is a pretty definite
effort to bring this country
under the control of organized
labor."

Recognizes Gravity of Threat
He said he had heard reports
there will be a general labor strike
if his measure passes.  "And," he
added, "I recognize the gravity of
that proposition. But I believe the
country has come to the conclusion
that, if we have an insurrectionist
spirit in American labor, if we
can't trust labor to work in our
defense plants without being pampered
and petted, for God's sake
let's know it now.
"We want to know if Congress is
going to operate this war effort
or if the labor unions are."
Nelson said he believed incentive
payments would do away
with the "slowdown" -- a labor
weapon which Chairman Emory S. 
Land of the maritime commission
testified is hindering ship production.

Shift From Day Rates
[???]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.