NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY
EVANSTON - CHICAGO

OFFICE OF THE RADIO DIRECTOR
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS

December 24, 1941

Mr. Alan Lomax
Musical Archives Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

John T. Frederick and I both were disappointed that you 
couldn't be with us on Of Men and Books this Saturday, but 
we have another plan, which seems even better.

On Saturday, January 31, 2-2:30 p.m. EST, Professor Frederick
will discuss "Our Singing Country" and we'd like to have you
sing and talk. Your title would be the theme of the program,
too, and at this writing we plan to include reviews of
"Songs of Yesterday", edited by Philip D. Jordan and Lillian
Kessler; "Songs of the Michigan Lumberjacks", edited by
E. C. Beck; and "The Gold Rush Song Book", edited by Eleanora
Black and Sidney Robertson.

We'd like to have you tell about your work, as well as sing
for us to illustrate it. Professor Frederick suggests that
you answer these questions: Why are you doing this research 
in American folk music; How are you doing it; What are
some of the experiences -- particularly amusing ones -- which
you have had in this research; What is the permanent value
of the research and of arousing public interest in folk music?
But, if you think there is more interesting material than
these questions would draw forth, please let's have them. You
know much better than we what  in your field most interests
people. Certainly your material will tie in extremely well
with John's special interest in regional literature.

The usual pattern of the program is direct and simple. Since 
the war, we actually begin at 2:05, although we don't know 
whether the 5-minute news period preceding us will still be 
there on Jan. 31. But, on the present basis, here's a 
suggested procedure:
   2:05   Frederick:   Introduction, background, etc.
   2:10   Lomax:        Song and speech
   2:15   Frederick:   Further comment; introduction second
                                  Lomax appearance

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.