-4-

Words: Put your little foot
(Verse)  Put your little foot
Put your little foot right there
Put your little foot
Put your little foot
Put your little foot right there

Chorus: Tra la la la la la la -.
Tra la la la la la la -.
Tra la la la la la la -.
Tra la la la la la la -.

Formation: Couples, woman on man's right, moving counter-clockwise in
large circle. Woman extends her arms sideways easily, man
stands slightly behind her, extends his arms and grasps
her hands, so that his arms are around her shoulders, keeping
this position throughout. As the girl shifts from side
to side in front of the man, he may find it necessary to
bend or straighten one or the other arm.

Action:
(Verse)  Moving diagonally left forward, step with the left foot diagonally
forward left, bring right instep up to left heel and put
weight on it (close), hold (or for advanced groups "raise" by
raising left foot behind, toe pointed to floor, while rising
on right toe and lowering), thus "Put (step) your (close)
little foot (hold or raise)." Repeat for second line. Third
line, step left, close right, step left and point right foot
diagonally forward right. In doing this the man shortens his
step, while the woman lengthens hers, at the same time crossing
in front of the man to point her foot from his left side.
Repeat all, starting right foot to the right, moving diagonally
right forward.

Chorus: Starting left foot diagonally left, girl takes three steps
across in front of man and points her right foot, thus, "Tra
(step) la la (step) la la (step) la la (point)," while man
does the same steps almost in place. Repeat with right to right.
Repeat all.

Method of Play: Players should flirt with partners rather than watch
feet, even though they do bend toward the moving or pointing 
foot.

Additional Games with Music (In Twice 55 Games with Music, C.C. Birchard Co., 
Boston, Mass., $.25)

Bear Went Over the Mountain, The                Jingle Bells
Broom Dance                                                      Jump Jim Crow
Captain Jinks                                                        My Bonnie
Chebogah                                                            Old Zip Coon
Come, Let Us Be Joyful                                      Poison
Comin' Thro' the Rye                                         Popularity
Crossing the Brook (Magic Carpet)                 Rig-a-jig-jig
Dixie's Land                                                         Virginia Reel
For He's a Jolly Good Fellow                             We Won't Go Home Till Morning
Jerusalem                                                             Yankee Doodle


K.F.B. #25

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.