[*Recording trip
Mich. etc. *]
        
                                                        August 15, 1938

Mr. Alan Lomax
4467 16th Street
Detroit, Mich.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

              You will have received my telegram by the time this letter
arrives. Please do not delay in sending me the material requested.
List every item which was missing, because if you don't it will be
impossible for me to replace it.

              I recommended the purchase of new apparatus to Mr. Roberts
and he seemed to react favorably but has not committed himself yet.
In the meantime I investigated the various machines and spent all
Saturday with Mr. Henry of the National Archives discussing their
relative merits and demerits. The choice of the machine is really 
a difficult one but fortunately, or unfortunately the law has helped me 
make a choice. If we are to get you a machine within any reasonable
length of time it will have to be a Presto. Otherwise, should
it be attempted to purchase any more expensive outfit, specifications
have to be drawn up and bide issued.

              Even if we use all possible dispatch the order could not go 
out in less than two weeks if the system of competitive bids is used.
Furthermore I hear that delivery is much slower on the larger machines.
Under the circumstances, therefore, I shall recommend the purchase 
of a new machine Presto of the type which you already have. If there
are any special gadgets or manner of change you wish undertaken on 
this, let me know immediately. I am doing all I can to expedite this
matter and you can cooperate by complying with my requests for information 
with all possible dispatch. Before Mr. Roberts and Mr. 
Dumaine will consider my recommendation, they insist on having an
itemized list of everything which was stolen. I shall keep you informed
on all developments.

                                                        Sincerely,
    

                                                                 Harold Spivacke
                                                                 Chief, Division of Music

HS
MBR

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.