WALTER C. GARWICK
SOUND RECORDING INSTRUMENTS
RYE, NEW YORK

November 3, 1934

Mr. John A. Lomax,
General Delivery,
Atmore, Ala.

Your trouble is caused by recording at a slower speed than when the records are played back. Very likely it is caused by a slipping of the idler wheel under the lighter load of playing back, it is not slipping as much as when the recording is done. It could also be caused by a badly written idler wheel, but this is not probable. The trouble may however be that the motor bracket has slipped out of adjustment and you will find a casting that holds the motor shaft in adjustment against the idler wheel. Release the screws and move the motor toward the left (toward the idler wheel) this casting is slotted to permit this. If you move it too far it will be too tight, so it will be necessary for you to make the correctly, it is not a difficult job. You will have it correctly adjusted if the turntable does not lose speed under the pressure of your finger, this is about twice that of the cutting load. At the time I shipped this instrument to you, I sent along a little swinging gate that was to be used for obtaining the correct speed which is 78 R.P.M. This was adjusted to 78 R.P.M. under cutting load, but it was only approximately correct as the turntable travels about 79 R.P.M. when not under cutting load. If you will send this back to me I will adjust it so that the points will be a compensation for this extra revolution. It is quite important that your turntable revolves at 78 R.P.M. This is the standard speed. Several extra R.P.M. will change the pitch of the voice or music to quite a noticeable extent.

We heard from the Postmaster at Arkansas and they deny receipt of the packages. We are putting in a claim for them I feel sure that these packages were sent to Austin, as I immediately worte to them to send it on with the postage guaranteed. We sent you 25 discos 12 inch to you at Atmore, Ala. The needles are enclosed in the letter to Atmore. Your writing is not entirely clear, but we believe that it is Atmore, Ala. We are sending a copy of this letter to you at Montgomery and one to Atmore. To avoid error in the future won't you please print the shipping address.

Your professor is wrong about the pickup. It is not a cheap one. It is as good as any magnatic one on the market. It is rubber damped however, but it is possible that the rubber has become hardened or some of the internal parts have been damaged. I am now using a crystal pickup which is much lighter in weight at the needle head. It is getting much more out of the records. Riding lighter makes less surface noise and the needles last much longer. It means making a change in the amplifier, and I will have to look at the wiring diagram to see what changes are needed. I will let you know the cost of making this change. I think however when you get the 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.