Alan Lomax, 
Archive of American Folk Song,
June 18, 1938.

The stage a raised dais about eighteen feet in diameter
leading down by a series of steps to a dance
floor that encircles the stage, and around the dance
floor, in turn, levels for tables. On the dais-stage,
scenes from back country life will be set in the simplest
possible fashion. For example, a pot-bellied
stove and a big lard can will represent the country
store. The actors will make their entrances and exits
down the series of steps and through the audience that
surrounds and watches them. The stage will serve to
raise the performer to the level where all the participants
can see him as he sings or acts or dances, even
when a dance is going on on the floor.

Here, as well, a demonstration group of square
dancers can perform so that the audience, both on the
dance floor and at the tables, can observe them and
learn the figures. The action of the drama will be
punctuated with numerous dances, and the company of
folk performers can step across the narrow well of the
dance floor and bring the audience into the action of
the play by teaching them the square dances. In this
fashion, the folk performers will not feel themselves
isolated from their audience; and thus working under
conditions to which they are accustomed in their own
environment, will be able to unfold for the patrons
their own culture in the most natural fashion possible.

I should insist that in the break-down house,
there be served corn bread, corn liquor, spare ribs,
hominy, green corn, apple cobbler and all the other
succulent dishes of rural America.

Each table could be provided with a set of songs
that will be sung in the course of the entertainment, 
and the audience naturally will be encouraged to join
in the chorus.

I have in mind at this moment a number of mountain
people who could fit into the break-down house
very naturally: Aunt Molly Jackson, Sarah Ogan, Pete
Steele, Luther Strong, Walter Williams, Uncle Alex Dunford,
Crockett Ward, Fields Ward and many another.

As for the dramatic material, the ordinary mountain
square dance can provide plenty of this. Such affairs
are beyond the religious pale in most communities
because they are often times the scene of quarrels, desperate 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.