-4-
"FACT--Lieutenant Colonel Frederick Schoenfeld, commanding
officer of induction in Eastern Pennsylvania says: 'This,
too, is one of the oldest rumors of this war, or of any
other war. It seems obvious such rumors are being circulated
by axis sympathizers.
"'In my 37 years' experience in the Regular Army, I
cannot imagine either of these things happening. Rigid
regulations are in force in the inspection of food and
water for American soldiers. So stringent are these
regulations, that the soldier is given much more protection
than the average civilian gets. Army laboratories,
manned by trained scientists, are giving the soldier the
best protection that can be had. These rumors are absolutely
ridiculous.'"
The answer of the authority quoted is one calculated to cause
considerable suspicious among those people who may have heard the rumor.
He says: "It seems obvious that such rumors are being circulated by
Axis sympathizers." He takes too long to get to the actual denial. At
no point does he specifically state that the rumors are false even though
he does end by said that they are "ridiculous." The careful reader
could not be sure that unfit drinking water may not have been discovered
and labelled such. The casual reader is very unlikely to be left with the
feeling that the only answer to the rumor is that it probably is untrue
because it is difficult to imagine such a thing being true.
Sometimes desire to be authoritative and complete leads to such
a complex answer that the nub of the argument is overlooked. As the following
illustrates, under such circumstances, there may still be no
answer to the rumor:
"RUMOR--Much of the scrap rubber recent collected will
never be used.
"FACT--In last Sunday's Rumor Clinic, John I. Taylor, Jr.,
of the Conservation Department, New England Regional
Office, WPB, 17 Court Street, Boston, pointed out that so
much of this scrap rubber still is seen in piles about

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.