144 Hill Street
Ann Arbor, Michigan
October 7, 1942
Mr. Alan Lomax, Bureau of Special Operations
Office of War Information
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Lomax:
     Your letter about the Rosenwald fellowship has just reached me;
it was delayed in being sent to my old address here in Ann Arbor. Consequently,
I am rushing this answer to you with no time take for preliminary research
and little time taken for reflection on your four suggestions.
Please let me comment on each suggestion:
1. "A Folklore History of a Rural Negro Group"
I have done some work with Mr. Willis James along this 
line; and, being something of a musician myself (under
Dawson, Drye, etc., at Tuskegee for six years), I would
enjoy at least assisting someone in doing this. The fact
that my early years were spent on plantations in Sunflower 
and Coahoma Counties in Mississippi might give me
important "leads" for either of the projects you suggest
for the South.
2. "Survey of the Materials of an Area...."
I am not sure that I understand just what this entails.
3. "A Study of the Patterns of Folk Religion" in a Region
I could do this in Mississippi, Alabama (where I attended
school for seven years) or Georgia. My mother
lives in Mound Bayou, Mississippi, and I have other
relatives over the state, all of whom might be of service
in my doing such a project as this one. Also, in
my thesis on Negro Preaching in Macon County, Georgia,
I have already done quite some research on Negro religions.
4. "A Study of the Negro Holiness Church in the South"
This project most of all appeals to me. In the first
place, there is so little known about this church,
even to one who has lived as intimately with the Southern
Negro as I have. Yet there are many Negro soldiers,
just to mention this one group, whose personalities are
definitely conditioned by the background of the Holiness
Church. A thorough investigation and analysis of this

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.