Their Program Wins National Honor at Ohio State


The "Bog Trotters" of Galax, pictured above, were featured artists 
in the American School of the Air broadcast, originating in Roanoke, 
which won first place in the competition for recordings of educational 
programs at the Institute for Education by Radio at Ohio State university 
this week. The group played and sang mountain square dance 

tunes and ballads on a Columbia Broadcasting System program January 
9; produced in the studios of station WDBJ. As shown above 
they are: Standing, left to right--"Uncle Alec" Dunford, Fields Ward,
Wade Ward; seated, left to right--"Uncle Crockett" Ward, and Dr. W.
P. Davis. (Times staff photo--Hamnersley).


WDBJ PROGRAMS 
GET HIGH HONOR

"Bog Trotters" Broadcas 
Tops in Folk Music

The Columbia Broadcasting System 
has won first place in a national 
contest for educational radio 
programs with a recording of the
January 9 folk music broadcast 
originated in the studios of station 
WDBJ here, Ray P. Jordan, manager 
of WDBJ, said last night.
Mr. Jordan said he had received 
a telegram from Jack Weldon 
WDBJ's program director, who is 
attending the Institute for Education 
by Radio, Ohio State university 
Columbus, announcing also that 
honorable mention was awarded to 
the dramatization of "The Three 
Dwarfs" by the Children's Theatre 
of the Junior League of Roanoke 
broadcast March 2 and entered by 
WDBJ.

Was One of Series
Weldon and Paul Reynolds, WDBJ 
studio director, collaborated in the 
production of the American School 
of the Air broadcast which won 
first place. Reynolds announced 
the program, and a group of mountain 
string musicians the "Bog 
Trotters," of Galax, were the feature 
artists. The broadcast was one of 
the Tuesday morning series, "Folk 
Music of American," and was devoted 
to square dance tunes and mountain 
ballads.
The Galax musicians who played 
and sang on the program were 
"Uncle Alec" Dunford, Dr. W. P. 
Davis, Crockett Ward, Fields Ward, 
and Wade Ward. William Fineshriber 
of Columbia's New York staff, 
produced the program, and Alan 
Lomax, folk music expert, was the 
commentator.
The Junior League broadcast was 
one of the Saturday morning series 
and was given by a cast made up 
entirely of children, the oldest 13 
years old. Mrs. A. A. Farnham, 
chairman of the Children's Theatre 
committee of the Junior League, 
narrated and directed the production.
Members of the cast were: Bobby 
Heins, George Thrasher, and Harrison 
Weinstein, as the three dwarfs; 
Sylvia Farnham, the stepmother; 
Hermine Weiner as Helen; Mildred 
Jones as Margaret; Harrison Weinstein 
as the king. Sound effects 
were handled by Virginia Donnam.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.