-8-

16. United Nations

17. Neutral nations

18. Lend Lease

19. The enemy

20. Domestic information programs

Rumor Reporting

The first responsibility of a rumor-control project is,
therefore, the collection and analysis of rumors. In order to have
a truly representative collection and analysis of rumors, rumor-control groups should have representatives of civic
clubs, different religious denomination, unions, minority groups, 
educators, professional men. In a large community it is desirable to have [regular rumor 
reporters are desirable] persons who devote themselves to the systematic reporting of rumors; in a small community, they are probably not necessary. Rumor
reports [should be] are most useful if submitted in writing, signed by the reporter. The 
signature is simply a testimony of good faith; the names of reporters
should never be disclosed. [In large communities, where designated
rumor reporters are used, their names should be withheld. Rumor]
Experience shows that rumor reports should not be [taken] accepted (or encouraged) over the telephone: first, because the 
use of the telephone exaggerates the seriousness of the rumor; and
second, because the telephone encourages spontaneous conversation
about the rumor instead of considered analysis of the total body of
rumors.  [Wait to ?]

Rumor reports should , if possible, [as nearly as possible] describe the
circumstances in which the rumor was repeated and the kind of person
telling it. (The actual name of the person is not important. [as there 
should 
be no effort] The analyses of the Office of War Information lead to the conclusion that it is unwise for any private group to attempt to track down the "originator" of the rumor or to 
assign responsibility for this spread.)

(Make a note what page this change is on) also, Lend Lease.

Rumor Analysis

If rumors are to serve as a barometer of information needs,

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.