-2-

     As you undoubtedly know, these records are difficult of
access. They go out of print very rapidly, and they once were
beneath the notice of the commercial companies. I urged everywhere
that a systematic program of release of these recordings
be adopted and, I believe, have succeeded in convincing the
editors of the companies that this should be done. Victor asked
my father to pick out a group of records for them, and to issue
them as an album, and I was to do a similar job for Columbia
and possibly for Decca. More important things have come in 
between, but my father has finished his first assignment for
Victor in Smoky Mountain Melodies, and I must say that even my 
most sanguine hopes were outstripped in the reaction to the 
album. This shows, what I have long suspected, that probably
the healthiest phase of American folk song is the contemporary
"hill billy" development via radio and phonograph, where the
performers are paid for their work.

     The Victor album does not represent new recording, but
only re-issue of chosen material from already recorded commercial
records. The individuals on those records sing over the radio
every day in the South. The Carter Family, for instance, is
a North Caroline group; they are the most popular singers among
the Okies of California. They sell transcriptions which
advertise everything from patent medicine to false teeth.
Uncle Dave Macon broadcasts over the Grand Old Opera in
Nashville, Tennessee, and has performed in country vaudeville
all over the South. He recently has helped make a movie.
The Skillet Lickers were one of the first groups to make
commercial records, performing for Black Seal Columbia in
years past.

     This whole story of folk singers on commercial records is
pretty well fresh material. Nobody has ever looked into it,
so far as I am aware, but myself during that period of listening
to records, and I have never had time since to follow up all
the leads which I feel are there to be followed. The Archive of
American Folk Song, with current expeditions in Alaska, Texas,
Old Mexico, New England, Brazil, Tennessee, Mississippi, and
Arkansas, with material coming in from Trinidad, Wisconsin,
the Okie camps of California, has been too busy to follow up
this all-important field.

     We are, however, preparing a series of records out of our
own files for release, a series of thirty of which will go to
all the Latin American republics and then be generally available,
and with hundreds more to be issued if we can find a way to do
it. I'd like very much to work with you on this story. Will
you let me hear from you about your reaction to the additional
information contained in this letter.

Sincerely yours,

Alan Lomax
Assistant in Charge
Archive of American Folk-song

ALjs

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.