William H. Webber    -2-    October 10, 1942.

except on rare occasions.  He said he would be glad to cooperate with
us at any time but would not like to undertake an assignment that would
require more than a day to carry out.

6.  L. J. Campbell, Chief of the Columbia police department.  After contacting
several policemen, we were convinced that we should secure the
permission of Chief Campbell before requesting the services of a
policeman in this rumor collection.  Chief Campbell informed us on
Tuesday, October 6, that he would be delighted to cooperate with us
in this instance and would assign two policemen to the work.  One of
these officers, he said, patrolled a beat along Main Street
in Columbia.  Our plan was explained thoroughly to Chief Campbell,
who assured us that the reports would be ready for us Saturday morning,
October 10.  When we checked with the police department Friday afternoon,
we discovered that Chief Campbell had been unexpectedly called
out of the city and would be many several days.  Inquiry among several
of his subordinates revealed that he had not left the reports with
anyone to be transmitted to us.  Upon his return, we will check with
him and obtain the reports gathered for us.

6/  (a)  Fearing that one or more of our rumor collectors might fail to
come through satisfactorily, we requested Miss Thelma Stokes, secretary
of Draughn's Business College, to collect rumors for us.  Her
reports are being transmitted with the others.  She would be glad to
serve in this capacity at any time her services might be desired.

We believe that the rumor collection procedure followed in this
assignment would prove satisfactory is we could receive several days' advance
notice.   The average person contacted in an effort to secure rumor collectors
seemed eager to help but was unable to grasp quickly the exact definition of
rumor for the purpose of this project.  In checking with the collectors from 
day to day, we found that during the period covered by this project rumors
seemed lass prevalent than they had been in previous weeks.  All of those who
cooperated in this project said that the period had been unusually unproductive
and expressed regret that we could not have conducted this project earlier.

We would suggest that a taxi driver, a minister, and a hotel clerk be
included when another project of this type is undertaken.  In this section,
individuals in these three fields have exceptional opportunities to hear rumors.

A Rumor Clinic has been established here by the local Lions Club and
during the period covered by this report it officially "spiked", through the
local newspapers, two of the rumors included in this collection..  They were:
(1) The report that many thousands of Negro troops were coming to Fort Jackson
and, (2) Saboteurs have been active at the Lexington Air Base near Columbia.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.