exhibit the underlying anxiety which is troubling the person who told it.
Many rumors of this variety are military rumors reflecting anxiety about
people in the service, although some relate to the domestic front. Illustrative
of this type are;

Did you hear the report that the U.S. Navy did not sink that Jap
aircraft carrier? I heard that is the fourth time that the Navy
have claimed to sink the same boat. Why don't they tell us about
the Aleutian Islands? Why don't they tell us about the rest of it? Our
losses are terrific. Somebody is making mistakes and now they are
trying to cover up. (Indiana)

You remember the McGee boys? They were in the Philippines and the
Government reported that only the youngest was missing, but you
can't depend on the Government reports, and I just know all three
of them are dead. I feel so sorry for their mother I don't know
what to do after raising them and all. (New Mexico)

Isn't it true that the Government will be so heavy in debt that they
will have to take the bonds as taxes or else just won't try to pay
them? (Iowa)

The least frequent rumors are the wish rumors. These rumors reflect the
personality characteristics of an individual who when confronted with a grim
reality denies it by distorting it as if seeing it through rose-colored
glasses. The anxiety rumors reflect a distortion in the direction of an
exaggerated problem; the wish rumors distort, but choose another direction.

Illustrations of the wish type are:

Warehouses are full of sugar, so why should it be rationed.
(Minneapolis, Minnesota)

There is no shortage of meat in this country. We have more cattle
and hogs than ever before in our history. (Tennessee)

Lloyds of London is betting that the war will be over in 1942.
(Kansas City, Missouri)

I think the war will be over this year.  If you knew what I know
you would think so too.  The Government is planning something big
and it is coming up this fall. (Birmingham, Alabama)
-6-


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.