ALL MESSAGES TAKEN BY THIS COMPANY ARE SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING TERMS:
    To guard against mistakes ore delays, the sender of a message should order it repeated, that is, telegraphed back to the originating office for comparison.  For this, one-half the unreapeated message rate is charged in addition.  Unless otherwise indicated on its face, this is an unrepeated message and paid for as such, in consideration whereof it is agreed between the sender of the message and this company as follows:
1.  The company shall not be liable for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery , or for non-delivery, or for not-delivery, of any message received for transmission at the repeated-message rate beyond the sum of five hundred dollars; nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for not-delivery, of any message received for transmission at the repeated-message rate beyond the sum of five thousand dollars, unless specially valued; nor in any case for delays arising from unavoidable interruption in the working of its lines; nor for errors in cipher or obscure messages.
2.   In any event the company shall not be liable for damages for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for the non-delivery, of any message, whether caused by the negligence of its servants or otherwise, beyond the sum of five thousand dollars, at which amount each message is deemed to be valued, unless a greater value is stated in writing by the sender thereof at the time of the message is tendered for transmission, an unless the repeated-message rate is paid or agreed to be paid, and an additional charge equal to one-tenth of one percent of the amount by which such valuation shall exceed five thousand dollars.
3.  The company is hereby made the agent of the sender, without liability, to forward this message over the lines of any other company when necessary to reach its destination.
4.  Domestic messages and incoming cable messages will be delivered free within one-half mile of the company's office in towns of 5,000 population or less, and within one mile of such office in other cities or towns.  Beyond these limits the company does not undertake to make delivery, but will, without liability, at the sender's request, as his agent and at his expense, endeavor to contract for him for such delivery at a reasonable price.
5.  No responsibility attaches to this company concerning messages until the same are accepted at one of its transmitting offices; and if a message is sent to such office by one of the company's messengers, he acts for that purpose as the agent of the sender.
6.  The company will not be liable for damages or statutory penalties in any case where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after the message is filed with the company for transmission.
7.  It is agreed that in any action by the company to recover the tolls for any message or messages the prompt and correct transmission and delivery thereof shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal  by competent evidence.
8.  Special terms governing the transmission of messages according to their classes, as enumerated below, shall apply to messages in each of such respective classes in addition to all the foregoing terms.
9.  No employee of the company is authorized to vary the foregoing.
THE WETERN UNION TELEGRAH COMPANY
INCORPORATED
R.B. WHITE, PRESIDENT
CLASSES OF SERVICE
TELEGRAMS
A full-rate expedited service.
NIGHT MESSAGES
Accepted up to 2:00 A.M. at reduced rates to be sent during the night and delivered not earlier than the morning of the ensuing business day.
Night Messages may at the option of the Telegraph Company be mailed at destination to the addressees, and the Company shall be deemed to have discharged its obligation in such cases with respect to delivery by ailing such night message at destination, postage prepaid.
DAY LETTERS
A deferred day service at rates lower than the standard telegram rates as following:
One and one-half times the standard night letter rate for the transmission
of 50 words or less and one-fifth of the initial rates for each additional 10 words
or less.
SPECIAL TERMS APPLYING TO DAY LETTERS:
In further consideration of the reduced rate for this special Day Letter service,
the following special terms in addition to those enumerated above are hereby
agreed to:
A. Day Letters may be forwarded by the Telegraph Company as a deferred
service and the transmission and delivery of such Day Letters is, in all respects,
subordinate to the priority of transmission and delivery of regular telegrams.
B. This Day Letter is received subject to the express understanding and agreement
that the Company does not undertake that a Day Letter shall be delivered
on the day of its date absolutely, and at all events; but that the Company's obligation
in this respect is subject to the condition that there shall remain sufficient
time for the transmission and delivery of such Day Letter on the day of its date
during regular office hours, subject to the priority of the transmission of regular
telegrams under the conditions named above.
NIGHT LETTERS
Accepted up to 2:00 A.M. for delivery on the morning of the ensuing business
day, at rates still lower than standard night message rates, as follow: The standard
telegram rate for 10 words shall be charged for the transmission of 50 words
or less, and one-fifth of such standard telegram rate for 10 words shall be charged
for each additional 10 words or less.
SPECIAL TERMS APPLYING TO NIGHT LETTERS:
In further consideration of the recuded rates for this special Night Letter service,
the following special terms in addition to those enumerated above are hereby
signed to:
Night Letters may at the option of the Telegraph Company be mailed at destination
to the addresses, and the Company shall be deemed to have discharged
its obligation in such cases with respect to delivery by mailing such Night Letters
at destination, postage prepaid.
FULL RATE CABLES
An expedited service throughout, Code language permitted.
DEFERRED HALF-RATE CABLES
Half-rate messages are subject to being deferred in favor of full rate messages for
not exceeding 24 hours. Must be written in plain language.
CABLE NIGHT LETTERS
An overnight service for plain language communications, at one-third the full
rate, or less. Minimum of 25 words charged for. Subject to delivery at the convenience
of the Company within 24 hours.
SHIP RADIOGRAMS
A service to and from ships at sea, in all parts of the world. Plain language or code
language may be used.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.