Saturday.

Dearest Deanie and Father:

At last we are settled; tho for how long I do not know. We
arrived, more or less as we left Dallas, at about six p.m. Thrusday,
the last day driven more by nerve than anything else. I felt that I
had to get here in time to register for gasoline and that feeling of
urgency was bad. All of us stood the trip well except Susan who was
car sick. Poor lamb she could not eat and when she did just had an
accident. One time I had to unload the car by the side of the road
(the occurance came just as I was passing a large truck and quite a
bit of damage was done before I could stop) taking everything out of the
back to get clean clothes out for the children and had to strip both of
them [by the] and use their clothes for mops. I just kept on until we
reached a town where I could change. When we got here we had an enormous
laundry to do.

I registered for my three gallons a week and then went to the
Navy Yard. After not too much trouble I located the officer of the day
and after I had convinced him I was not a spy he told us the ship was
not in and led me to believe it would not be too long. I have since
found out from a Commander who lives here that it was due in the 15th
and delayed until the 18th. no one knows why. We spent the first night
at a terrible tourist camp where all our clothes, inside and out of our
bags were covered with ants by morning. After a day of searching we
moved to this inn called the Battery Park Inn where we have two large
cool bedrooms connected by a bath and meals. It is very expensive but
I could find absolutely nothing else and Susan had become so upset by
the time I located this place that I was afraid to wait. She is  perfectly
well today tho and looks fine.

I am pretty well tired out and will spend the next few days
resting up and worry about where we will stay next week when I get
around to it. Even if we spend all our money for a month on this trip
I guess we have a right to do it. I am getting very anxious to see
Chris and am so glad that we came on. The rationing is all the papers
talk about and people here seem to feel that it is your patriotic duty
not even to use your three gallons so I have not needed the car and have
still a full tank. I don't think I will have any trouble getting enough
to leave on. There is not much more than I have told you. I am only
a few blocks from the postoffice so just write me there, general delivery
but if you need to reach me try this place and I will leave word
here where I will go if I decide to move.

I hope that father is feeling well and working on the book.
I know that you are both enjoying the peace of having the bunch of us
gone, no matter what you say I know how much of a difference it makes
to have guests for so long. Deanie, you know how much I love you and admire
you and how I appreciated all your many goodnesses to us. I send you a
special hug of gratitude. Love to you both from your wanders.
Shirley

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.