p----2
Dance Songs proper.
Dance song in the Middle Ages was called carol, hear of the carols before
ballads. Probably pure lyrics. Peasant[,]x groups if analogy of existent
folkways is good, danced to same material, a little being times. Dance
songs have a different movement and r[y]hythm than the Child specimens.
Regrain, instead of decaying[m], becomes [ze] more and more important in developing 
dance songs. Narrative element becomes more inconsequential.
Ballads sometimes danced, it is true, but we have a great inheritance of
    dance songs without [?]any t[a]races of the ballad influ[e]ence. if ballads had
been much used in this way they would assuredly have been preserved in
the same form. existing game songs in America show degenerate survival of
modes and manners and poetry "assimilated from the usage, in bygone vouge,
of people of another social class." "There is no evidence that ballads
are ever built up from dance songs, but a great deal that dance
songs[s] may be built upon popular songs of all types."
Narrative songs and the dance.
In amjority of cases the narrative pieces less suitable for utilization for
dance songs, than others. [*re read pp: 70-83 uncertain reasoning.*]

(83) 1) When songs already existent are used as communal dance songs,
they tend to rettrograde to simple reptitions of striking lines. If [narrat]
narrative, they lose story. Prim. dance songs never narrative.
2)Repititions much more adundant in and more intimate a part of dance 
songs than ballads. Refrain, in [dacne] dance more pervading and cruder
and if not regular recurrence. Ballads, refrain is most fluctuating element.
3)All songs, ballads included, decay when danced.
4)Genuine dance songs are not stanzaic like ballads.

Physchology of dance presentative, not representative.
Work songs, lullabies, love songs etc. , seem as primitive as choral dance
songs, not offshoots.

Chapter iii. Ballads and the Illiterate 
Generally assumed that ballads are preserved among the illiterate.
Sources of Recovery.
Pepys manuscript; Percy Manuscript, both of whom drew largely on [ball]
broad sheets etc..
Elizabethan song-books. "Contrary to the belief of many leading scholars,
reduction to print dies not kill good ballads but helps to keep them alive.
(89)....most effective texts of Child collection are those which have
least claim to oral transmission."
Mrs. Brown, source par excellence of ballads, like other good ballad
informants, was very intelligent. Daughter of and Aberdeen pre fesser, she
wrote poetry. Her songs derived from peasantry-had probably been preserved
by them-- the popular songs of the middle ages-- just as popular songs of
[to] yesterday are turnong up in the repertorie of "folk-singers" now--
"as for the crude pieces that the people sometimes improvise--not very
often for characteristically at that-- they lack memorable quality except as
they borrow from or are based upon better pieces; and they lack impetus
for and modes of, diffusion." "the real songs emerging from the unlettered
are too crude, ungrammatical, fragment[r]ary and uninteresting to attract
anyone but the student of folk-song. and he, too, usually passes them
by; for he is stalking or seeking to salvage pieces of older style
and obv[o]iously pedigreed."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.