ARTHUR E. GARMAIZE

Attorney at Law

One Cedar Street
New York

April 7, 1941

The Macmillan Co. Inc.
60 Fifth Avenue
New York, N.Y.

Gentlemen:

On page 361 of your work entitled "American Ballads and
Folk Songs" collected and compiled by John A. Lomax and Alan
Lomax, issued in 1934, you print the words and the music of a 
musical composition entitled "Alla En El Rancho Grande", the
copyright on which is owned by my client Edward B. Marks
Music Corporation.

A note on the same page indicates that you have taken
the extract from the "Texas Folk Lore Society". Mr. J. Frank
Dobie of the Texas Folk Lore Society advises me that at the
time he used the portion of the song he was not aware that
it was a copyrighted song.

I have not until now called you to account on behalf of
my client for the printing of the song on the ground that you
had taken it in good faith from Mr. Dobie's publication. I
now understand that Mr. John A. Lomax or Mr. Alan Lomax is
disseminating the information that the song in question is in
the public domain. The contrary is the truth, for the song was
first published with a United States notice of copyright in
1927 and was duly registered at the Copyright Office at Wash-
ington. The statements of Mr. Lomax are damaging the song and
my client.

Since you are the publishers of the volume containing a
portion of the song, I call upon you to secure and submit to
me proof that the song is in the public domain or the grounds
upon which Mr. Lomax bases his statements. I desire that you
submit this material to me within one week or prevail upon
Messrs. Lomax to cease slandering my client. If the material
I request is not submitted to me within a week or if in the
alternative you do not assure me that Messrs. Lomax will
cease the slanderous and damaging statements I shall be com-
pelled to bring an action against you for infringement, since
neither you nor Mr. Dobie had authority to print the portion
of the song contained in the respective books.

Very sincerely yours,
A. E. Garmaize

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.