2.

produced on the drums and the origin (Often purely physiological)
of certain rhythmic patterns. The same thing is true of the
close-ups of the faces of singers in the act of singing, since
a study of the use of the lips, teeth, body, in singing often
throws light on the characteristics of the songs themselves.
But the most important thing, of course, is to have movies of
the dances. As I have written you before, dancing and singing in
Haiti are simply two sides of one integrated phenomenon. The
types of melodies and rhythms grow out of the dances and at the
same time influence the dances in a complicated fashion that I
imagine a student better trained than myself could only understand
if he had both recordings and moving pictures.

I think if the matter is explained to the state department in this
fashion and the point is made that in the library such material
is strictly reserved for the use of technical experts, [that] the
whole thing can be very easily arranged. Dr. Melville Herskovitz
and others have arranged to use cameras here and have taken pictures
of dances and I see no reason why the same privilege should not be
allowed the Library of Congress. So far as I know these gentlemen
were not required to promise to restrict the material in any fashion
and perhaps that part of the matter can be best arranged at this
end. I leave that to the judgement of yourself and the state department.

I want to apologize again for all the trouble this may cause you
and for the fact that I misinformed you about the camera, but
the person whose attitude I had previously had no reason to question--
I mean Dr. Leon---suddenly changed his mind about the
camera. I hope, too, that you will not regard this letter as
an impudent instuction about or anything of the kind. I do not
intend it as anything but a set of suggestions that will save your
time and will prevent delay.

I think in view of the fact that Dr. Leon has at all other times
made my road easy here that he deserves a letter of appreciation
from the Library. He is the kind of man who appreciates being
appreciated in a rather extravagant fashion.

Yours sincerely,
Alan Lomax
Alan Lomax

P.S. Dr. Spivacke asked me to write at once
if I needed any additional photographic
supplies, etc. I should guess that Eastman
has sent me a good apparatus equipped for
use here. What I shall need, however, in
case the camera is admitted, is money to
pay the [singers] performers. To make decent movies requires [funds] material.
Haitians are money-mad and they don't like to be photographed. I imagine that
for the best results at least $100 will be necessary.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.