3

Charles F. Lummis describes the Coyote's wail as "a wild medley of bark,
howl, shriek and whine."  He is the only breathing that is a ventriloquist at birth.
You never know whether his noise comes from north, south, east, or west, so that half
a dozen coyotes seem like a hundred.  Out here on Mustang Island a bunch sings me
to sleep every night.  Like Dobie I think the Coyote is good company.  To me he only
seems to be complaining that he cannot explore the stars that twinkle beyond his
reach.  Of all the names he has won I like best those that point out his qualities
as musician:  Desert Serenader, Voice of the Night, Desert Troubadour, the Patti o
of the Plains.

The anal gies of the resemblance of animal traits to human traits are ol-
der than civilization.  Such stories often reflect credit on the animal instead of
on man.  Reynard the Fox in France, Chanticleer in Chaucer, Bre'er Rabbit in our own
American Uncle Remus are examples, though these stories go much farther back,.  The
old writers only set down (without the aid of Folk-lore Societies) what was carried
in the minds of the people as an inheritance from the far past.  Lattevi Ajaii, a
young African from the Yoruba district, once gave me an excellent version of Chaucer's
"Chanticleer", which he said he first heard told around a campfire in the African
jungle, where he tribe sat in a circle at night listening to the tall tales of
their elders.

Coyote, as the flare declares, "is the hero of this book.  He is well worth
reading about."  It is.  Miss Lillian Elizabeth Barclay, a teacher in the Waco High
School, won the degree of Master of Arts in The University of Texas partly on a thesis
entitled, "The Coyote:  Animal and Folk Character."  She says, "If all the Coyote
tales told by the Amerinds were collected, there would be enough to fill several
volumes, . . . revealing a whole system of religion and philosophy," much of which is "found in the reports of the Jesuit fathers."  The "figure head of the West," says James W. Steele," should not be the buffalo bot the coyote, because he comes closer to
being the representative animal of this region."  He belongs to the desert country

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.