May 26, 1942

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Father:

Bess and I are haing a wonderful time working and living together.
She now plans to stay on until June 11th, since Jo Schwartz is still sick.
We have gotten more done in ten days together than I have done in six months 
before. Since last Thursday we have been working at home on the pamphlet
for the South American Albums, and the job is all but done.

I greatly enjoyed the letter from young George Hill. You ought to
frame this document, for what he says about your work and influence in
this country is quite true. There is no reason for you, as far as your accomplishments
are concerned, to be the least bit gloomy. No other American
folk lorist has come any where close to you in terms of sheer accomplishment,
and nobody except Dobie touches you on the score of bringing folk lore to
the American public. When you consider that our folk literature is our most
significant contribution so far to world culture, then the significance of
your role becomes apparent.

I am glad that you dropped the Clarksville thing for the moment,
because I really think that our project might have been hindered by linking
the name of Lomax with an investigation of a local chain gang beating. It
is impossible to interview the Negroes of the county without the permission
of the local plantation owners since we must do all our work on their premises,
and I do not want them to have the wrong impression of what I am
trying to do.

Attached is a letter from Blaine Stubblefield's father to whom
Blaine sent an autographed copy of Our Singing Country for his birthday.
I certainly would like to meet the old gentleman. Attached also is a letter
from Jess Morris. You'll be able to see him on your coming trip to West
Texas. That little item, by the way, will have been approved by the middle
of the week, I am sure.

Best to you and Deanie,
Alan Lomax

P.S. This is from Bess, the neat and industrious typist of the preceding
lines. We're well and happy and doing quite a bit of work. Did you wire
Shirley, as I asked in my previous letter? I have a proposition to make to


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.