                                                                                                                                                    2

was made by the fiddle.    So, to avoid trouble, at gatherings
the young folks sang songs set to fiddle music.     Bob was the
favorite leader, singing to keep time and giving the squared dance
calls in between the lines of the songs.
          A commotion on the long gallery outside.  " Here comes Bob,"
some one shouted.    Into the big front room,  the expectant girls 
seated in chairs around the walls, would stride Bob,   hat off,
spurs jingling merrily.    A swing of the hat,    a sweeping bow.
" Hello everybody!  Come [over] girls and cowboys! Partners for Weevily
Wheat,"  and the fun was on.    As in the regular square dance,
either four couples, or eight couples in pairs when the crowd 
was large, danced the figures as Bob called them, and the crowd
joined him in singing:
                 Oh, Charley he's a nice young man,
         1       Charley he's a dandy;
                   Every  time he goes to town
                   He brings them girls some candy.
     
                   Chorus:
                   Oh, I won't have none of your weevily wheat, 
          2        I won't have none of your barley,
                      It'll take some flour and half an hour
                    To bake a cake for Charley.

                      Charley here and Charley here
                       And Charley over the ocean,
          3          Charley he'll come back some day
                      If he doesn't change his notion.

                      Charley loves good wine and ale,
                      And Charley loves good brandy,
          4          And Charley loves a pretty girl
                      As sweet as sugar candy.     (Chorus.)

                      (-Chorus:-)
                       The higher up the cherry tree 
                       The riper grows the berry;
          5           The more you hug and kiss the girls
                        The sooner they will mary.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.