RUBY TERRILL LOMAX
THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS
7456 SAN BENITO WAY
DALLAS, TEXAS

January 10, 1942

Dearest Shirley, 
Your nice letter has just arrived and been read and enjoyed.
Before I go any further, I'll report that we haven't seen Chris's trousers,
I'm sorry.  The only left-overs found so far were the doll dress which I sent
to Susan, and two or three little books that I though could wait.  I have been 
anxious to know whether you found your watch; Mike reported that you thought you 
left it in the bathroom.  I do hope you found it packed away somewhere, as it hasn't 
put in its appearance around here.  I'm sorry that Susan was sick; I don't know
anything he ate here, unless it was candy or a few nuts in fact I was a bit
worries that she didn't war very much.  The day after Christmas where we were at 
Denton Miss Parker served corn, but we very careful took it off Susan's plate.
I can well sympathize with Mts. Mansell in her uneasiness about water-pipes.
Even though I have been on the spot, I have had to wonder each morning whether 
the water w[o]uld come through, and am still holding my breath until the thaw. This
is the tenth day now that the thermometer has held below freezing .  Instead o 8f thermometer, it ought to be called frizzy-o-meter.  This morning at 8 it showed
11 degrees.  I dread to see this month's gas bill... Have you had your
blackout yet? We are to have ours Jan.19, and I have mine already planned, - not so
elaborate, however, as Collier's suggests. 
I seem to be rambling, but this is what comes to mind just now. 
Galveston, friend, Mrs. Kahn, wri[t]es that her son was the only doctor left on
Wake Island; she has not been able to hear anything from him since a
letter dated
Dec.3, which came out on the last Clipper.  His wife, who was in Honolulu, has had no 
news either.  She is now with her mother in Galveston, expecting a baby about Feb 1.
Her latest word from Mason came to H. on the same Clipper.  Mrs. Kahn says that 
Major Devereaux was killed, but I have seen no such announcement in the paper;
don't know where she got that information; it may be rumor, so don't pass it around
outside the family.  This also for private consump[t]tion: she feels pretty bitter
at our government for leaving Wake Island in such plight..
--I've just had a talk with Jospehone,  We expected your Aunt
Sue this weekend, but she too, it seems, is afraid to get away from her water, and 
Martha Sue's thought is sore again.  Barbara seems to be o.k. -- Johnny went down
to talk with the FBI men while hw was here, but seemed discouraged because of the
various streams of red-tape that he would have to wade through.  I suggested that
there might be something int he business side of th Navy that would fit him, but 
don't think I made any impression.  The sone of one of my friends is preparing 
himself fo such a hob with the Navy the p romises a starting salary of around
$4,000.--- Margaret came in from Clarksville New Year's Eve, and Johnny not many 
hours after her.  They stayed around the house most of the time; Margaret did a 
good deal of telephoning; saw some of her friends at a tea which Lois Upshaw gave
in her honor, and made some calls on others.  New YEar's day we went over to a tea
at the Stillwells, and Johnny was the man who married the glamorous Margaret Marable.
Margaret is learning to knit; I may be telling tales out of school, but she had already
made a sweater for Patsy's doll, and had started on one for Susan's.  However, 
before[e] she [l]eft here she had about decided it was big enough for Susan herself.










Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.