Acting-Chief of the Music Division, page 2.
August 14, 1937


mountaineer - the so-called mountain eagle - and the miner - a modern workingman. 
Both types have produced folk-songs, and Omie Wise flows naturally
into The Hard-Working Miner. Here the mountains have formed culture
eddies where one can find the music of the American pioneer, in all degrees
of purity, in some isolated spots little affected by nearly a hundred years
of change in the "outland", in others acquiring new vitality in the mouths
of the miners. From Harlan, Bell, Clay and Knox, the coal-mining counties
North into Pike and Breathitt, I shall be journeying backward in time and
adding to the Archive materials essential to the understanding of the development
of American folk-music, material that at present it particularly needs.

It will be advisable and interesting to try out as many types of entrees
into the region as possible. First of all, I have, through Mr. Fuson, Miss
Barnicle, Miss Jean Thomas and their friends, a large number of personal contacts
in the Southern and Northern extremities of the area. Second, I can ask
the advice of Miss Mary Newcomb and Professor Josiah Combs, both Kentuckians
and balladists, and letters can be sent to other collectors who have worked
in the area. Third, in the counties where I do not have personal contacts
through other collectors, I can establish them by letters to county school
superintendents, to Miss Mary Breckenridge's mountain nurses and to the mountain
schools that have been established by Northern philanthropy. Fourth, the
senators and congressmen from Kentucky can be consulted and asked for assistance.
They should be able to furnish valuable letters of introduction.

I have already done considerable reading about Kentucky and have looked into
the collections of songs that have been made there. The notes from this reading,
the field notes and the records, should add another colorful panel to the mosaic
of American oral literature and music that the Archive is occupied in piecing
together. At the very least we shall give certain melodies and tales, that
Kentucky mountaineers have already chosen as worthy and beautiful, more rich
years to live.

Alan Lomax


r

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.