September 27, 1940

Dear Father:

   Mr. Seigmeister wired me that his book was coming out tomorrow
and asked for the permissions.  I said $15.00 per song
and hope that it was allright.

   I have taken care of the notarization matter.  My program
is on W.A.B.C. (860 Kil.) 9:30, E.S.T.  It's really worth hearing.
I will be on the American School of the Air preview, Oct.
1, 10:30 P.M. and regularly after that beginning Oct. 8, at
9:15 - 9:45 and in the afternoon.

   Bess is here in Washington and will stay on until Sunday
since her friend Counts decided on the last minute not to come
down to Bryn Mawr until Sunday.  She looks in the pink and we're
keeping her in bed and feeding her up for her years work.  She
speaks with great enthusiasm about the trip and our handling
of the singers.  The results, so far, sound fine, folkloristically,
but shy, acoustically, because of the machine.  It would
improve your work a great deal to record at 78 instead of 33 and
I suggest you make that change at once.  If you have any
more troubles of a serious nature, set back on your heels and
wire us.  I might even be able to wrangle a better machine for  you.
We have no objection to recording the entire interview between
 you and the informer, including the songs you sing them, the leading
conversation that you use and the fullness of their replies.

   It will be marvelous to see you again.  I'll look the judge's
story up at once in the  Southwest Review and let you know what I
think.

   Here's a quote from your letter of Aug. 8.  "I now propose
to transfer to you all my claims to the three books in
question, ABFS, Leadbelly, & OSC, by legal document, giving to
me the entire proceeds other than for radio use, for a period of
ten years.  You thereafter to own entirely, all proceeds in any
form whatever, the income, from whatever source from these books".
My added suggestion was to allow me radio rights for Cowboy Songs,
revised edition, where material from the same is used. in a program
in which I'm connected myself.  As for the other books, radio
rights should include any and all radio programs.  It is a very
generous offer and I hope suits your convenience as much as mine.
May I assume that it is in operation from this date, pending a formal
agreement.

Much love,

Alan

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.