Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc.
485 Madison Avenue, New York
WIckersham 2-2000

February 19, 1941

Dear Alan:

I understand that your White House party went
off very well, and I'd love to hear details about it
from you direct. Congratulations! I'm afraid the
School of the Air show was not one of our best, but I
think it served its purpose. Maybe some day we will
actually get down to Georgia for those spirituals we've
been seeking.

Our March 1st demonstration steadily grows 
more ambitious and more complicated. Sterling Fisher
caught me in one of my customary stupors yesterday and
sold me the idea of including a classroom demonstration
in our program at the Waldorf. The overall time for 
the little show we put on is entirely up to us and can
run as much as an hour and a half if we want it to. Our
total budget for that demonstration is $300.00. The
demonstration I'm talking about can probably best be
done by inviting Miss Freida Nack Adler to bring her
group of kids down and at some point in the program
having a routine of this sort: a five minute discussion
of the pre-broadcast preparation done in the classroom;
then a fifteen minute (more or less) excerpt from one of
our broadcasts with you and the artists performing on one-half
of the stage, and a screen separating you from Miss
Adler and the kids - the kids to listen intently and to 
participate of course in the singing of several songs; 
then a five minute follow-up discussion by Miss Adler
and the kids.

I have already gotten in touch with Miss Adler
and discussed it with her. She is anxious to cooperate
and she urges two very important points, both of which
I agree with heartily. The first is that the fundamental
idea behind the entire demonstration should be a build-up
for democracy. Since this has been our approach all the
way through, that offers no problem. Her second idea is
that she must have at least one, and preferably two,
sessions with you and the kids so that the songs they
sing will be well done and the program will be a credit
to all of us. The easiest answer to this last would be

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.