2  "Just one more trip," said the sleepy brakeman
As he tumbled out of his bed,
"For tomorrow night the panthers are coming
For to paint old Somerset red."

3  "Just one more trip," said the sleepy conductor
As he kissed his lovin' wife,
"For we've stole enough of money from the railroad company
To last us all through life."

4 Well, five young men had broken the railling
And robbed them of their load,
'Twas the worst old wreck that we ever did see
On the old, old Somerset Road.

5  We will settle down in some lonely forest
And live there all alone,
But the last man found was the dead conductor
On the old, old Somerset Road.

Alternate Chorus:
Was a sad farewell when we heard the signal
As the brakeman dropped the pin,
He come out and give us the signal
As he backed the old train in.

THE WHITE HOUSE BLUES

When McKinley was dead and Roosevelt in the White House drinking
from the silver cup, the people thought the matter over slowly and made
up a song to mourn McKinley's death. When the song was done, it did not
speak ofthe crowds at his bier, the flags at half-mast or of thunderous salutes
to symbolize their sorrow, but, instead, put the Cannonball Express on the
road from Buffalo to Washington, tearing down through Maine, screaming
out the sad news to America with its shrill whistle, snorting its sympathy in
its steam valves.

MUSIC--The White House Blues

1 Roosevelt's in the White House, doing the best,                               27
McKinley in the graveyard, taking his rest,
He's gone a long old time.

2   "Look a-here, little children, now don't you fret,
You'll draw a pension at your papa's death."
From Buffalo to Washington.

3   He said, "There's one thing that's grieved my mind,
That is to die and leave my poor wife behind.                                     27
I'm gone a long old time."

4  "Look a-here, you rascal, and see what you've done,
You've shot my husband and I've got no gun."
From Buffalo to Washington."

5   He jumped on his horse, and he tore down through Maine,
Says to that horse, "You've got to outrun that train,
From Buffalo to Washington.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.