THE PLANTER AND THE SHARECROPPER
The planter lives upon the sweat of the sharecropper's brow;
Just how the sharecropper lives the planter cares not how.
The sharecropper raises all the planter can eat,
And then gets tramped down under his feet.
The sharecropper raises the planter can wear,
Whilst he and his family have to go bare.
The sharecropper works and toils and sweats;
The planter brings him out in debt.
The planters has good and wholesome food to eat;
The sharecropper has cornbread, molasses and fatback meat.
A lots of good things the planters has to waste,
But the sharecropper knows not how it taste.
The sharecropper's wife goes to the cork kitchen washtub and field,
Whilst the planter'swife enjoy herself in an automobile.
The planter'schildren dresses up and goes to school,
Whilst the sharecropper's puts on rags and follows a mule.
If you asks the planters for your rights,
You might as well spit in his face and ask for a fight.
The planter says he inherits his wealth from birth,
But it all comes from the poor man who tills the earth.
The planters gets together and they plots and they plans.
You can bet your life it's all against the poor man.
The planter takes the sharecropper's mule, wagon and plough,
Don't allow them to have a home nor a cow.
When the sharecropper dies he have to be burried in a box,
Without any necktie or any socks.
Makes no difference how much the sharecropper raise,
The planter he gets all of the praise.
The planter lives in a house as fine as the best,
Wears good clothes and gets all of the rest.
The sharecropper works hard and wears cotton sacks,
And lives in the filthy raggedy broken down shacks.
The poor man has fought all the rich man's wars,
And now he is punished without any cause.
The sharecropper labors the planter's pocket to swell,
But the planter's unjust deeds are sending him straight to hell.
No rich planter to be do ever I crave,
But I want to be something more than a planter's slave.
And now if anyone thinks this ain't the truth,
He can go to the South and get proof!


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.