So Alto Lane took the dice in his hand, dropped his pair into the horn and rolled them. Pow. A strike. He couldn't miss, because his dice didn't have anything but fives and twos, and the house dice were in his vest pocket. Pow! He cracked another seven. $200 bet. Pow! Another strike. He reached for a cigarette, changed the dice, handed the horn to the next man with the house dice in it and walked out of the place with two hundred and fifty dollars in his pocket, with the toughest thugs in Memphis standing all arounds him, ready to blow the head off any man that tried to pull a fast one. 

I took my seventy five, it made me nervous. I didn't feel safe in that man's town. I was working legitimate in Fred Barasso's Savoy Theatre. Among other performers at that time, there were: Bessie Lebelle, Baby Cox, Rena and Ethel Jones, Harry and Zenobia Jefferson, Mattie Dorsey Whitman of the Whitman sisters, Laura and Stella Harris and that old-big-mouth, Will Benbow and his wife, Edna Landry. Barasso decided to try to start a colored circuit and for the first engagements booked four houses: Vicksburg, Greenville, Jackson and Memphis. I was glad to go. Benbow and I went out with the first show and I believe this was the first colored circuit in America. I made old man Benbow pay me twenty-five bucks a week.

One night we played in Pine Hill, Ala., which is not far from the famous Scottsbora . The place we gave the play in was a little old school house at the end of the road and overhanging a steep bluff. Wasn't no way to get out of that place except along that road. The audience seemed to like our stuff and they wouldn't let us leave town although we had an engagement the next night in Jackson. That night we pulled the curtains at eight and no one was there. Nine o'clock no on had come. Nine thirty, we began to get worried. I told one of the boys to scout around front and see what was the matter. This guy walked out the front door and run into a whole nest of men



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.