[* written at the *]
Florida Penitentiary Farms
Raiford, Fla.

Some time ago I made records of the singing of two Mexicans,
Pedro Gonzales and his wife, at Chrystal City, Texas. They
were both very old but their voices were yet clear, even flutelike
in tone. Villa and the long civil war he brought had driven
them from the interior of Mexico to Texas. Here they sung the
same religious songs with which the members of a small country
church in the far interior of Mexico had comforted themselves
on Sundays when the priest did not come. The people would
meet at church and sing these quaint, peaceful, brooding,
lonely and lovely songs. Caught up in these tunes, as it seemed
to me, was the spirit of the wide-stretching plains, their unchanging
flatness, the monotony of their quiet; the far, ever-receding
horizon. There was no sudden change of movement in
the songs, just as there is no sudden change in the plains country.
Winter and spring and summer and autumn pass. The shimmering
horizon, the flat earth remains unchanged and unchangeable.
As Pedro and his wife chanted tune after tune their wrinkled,
bronzed faces softened, and I was swept away with them back to
the little adobe church with the dirt floor, the crude altar, with an
image of the bleeding and suffering Christ looking down. And I joined
with them in their longing for the impossible.
Last night a slight young Negress in the Florida Prison
Farm, through the singing of the "Blues" of her people, brought
back the same feeling of hopelessness longing, of remoteness, of
quiet resignation to the inevitable. Nothing was left to be
done except to attempt to let music express their despair.
Pedro and his wife used the rich imagery of religion to
give body to their emotion. Lena, the young Negress (in the Florida penitentiary) from some Florida Coast barrel-house, produced the same musical effect with words detailing the perfidy of her man.
"I wo' my tonsils out hollerin' and cryin',"
sang Lena. As she sang her face also wore that far-away, rapt
expression. She forgot her surroundings as her own music possessed
her, the drab buildings, the iron bars, the guards with
black-jacks and guns. She forgot the whirling machine and the
microphone and her hundred fellow criminals; and that audience,
like the one in Chrystal City, became breathlessly quiet. In
both cases it was the tune and the tone. No matter the words.
Iron Head, my paroled [?] companion on this queer journey of folksong
hunting, can at times produce a similar effect on me.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.