3315 North 16 Street
Philadelphia, Pa.
February 20, 1938.

Mr. Alan Lomax
Archive of American Folksong
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

My dear Mr. Lomax:

    As you may remember, I was in contact with you and your father
last fall in regard to a collection of songs I have obtained from an
old lady in Gloucester, N. J. The suggestion was made then that
she might sing these for your archives. This I have prevailed on
her to do, and I am very willing to have you make such records, with
the understanding, of course, that I have first claim to their use,
should I want to do a book about her.

    I am enclosing a list of her titles of her songs; this list will,
no doubt, be greatly extended by the time you get here, for as I find
titles which are generally spread throughout the country, I
ask her if she knows them, and, not infrequently she does! In this
way I recently got her to recall "The Butcher's Boy," and several
dance tunes. I am planning to ask her particularly for dance-songs
when I go there again this week. My only difficulty is that I shall
have the bulk ready within the next two weeks, and I believe that any
time after that would be satisfactory if you still want to come here
for these songs.

    I am eager for you to meet Mrs. Devlin as I hope you will be able
to get her to recall some that I may not have thought to ask about,
and also I hope you will be able to identify some of the songs which I
have thus far been unable to trace, even with the help of some of my
professors at the University of Pennsylvania.( I have an M.A. from
there, and am allowed to use their library for this purpose).

    Now as to details: As I told you, I am a member of the English
Department of the Olney Senior High School in Philadelphia, and teach
daily until 1:45. Were you to come up during any week-day. I could
meet you in the centre of the city by 2:30, and we could be in Gloucester 
by three o'clock. I do not know how long these recordings
would take, but if they could be finished that evening, I would be glad
for you to be the guest of my family overnight. Mrs. Devlin is always
at home, but during the week is better than a weekend visitation as
the Gloucester house is over-run with guests then! Perhaps Friday-Saturday 
would be the best combination of all, but that must depend
on your duties in Washington.

    Will you let me know if you are coming, and when, and how? I
have a car and would meet you at the station if you come by train.
If Mrs. Lomax can come, we shall be glad to put you both up here. I
feel that this trip will be as helpful to me, at least, as to the
National collection.

    Sincerely yours,
    Kay Healy

Please give my greetings to your father.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.