-3-

When state committees are set up, the Bureau of Intelligence
of the Office of War Information will cooperate in planning
for rumor collection and analysis. The development of specific
counteraction would have to be a local responsibility because of 
the importance of local factors in the form in which rumors spread.
where the OWI is needed (or can be helpful), it will be. Rumor
studies should head up to a state organization, with the possible
exception of a few major metropolitan areas, in order to maintain
some coherence in the programs of counteraction. A large number
of independent groups all scouting for the prevailing rumors and
developing their own programs of counteraction would probably do
more harm than good (and far less than the good that could be accomplished
by a coordinated program).

Rumor Counteraction

We have just received a report of the rumor from X that
"at least 400 X high school girls are pregnant because of relations
with men in the Army and Navy services in this area." The next
"morning a check was made with principals of the three high schools
here, with emphatic statement by each that so far as he knows there
is not one case in his particular school"

Rumor clinic public denial of this rumor might well lead
to the reaction "Oh, then the contraceptives were effective" and
the rumor gets wider circulation through the medium of the publication
without effective elimination of the rumor. This rumor which
is found in some form very commonly reflects distrust of soldiery,
the peacetime stereotypes of the lecherous soldier and sailor. It
serves to heighten civilian-military tension, prevent "nice" girls
from helping provide recreational facilities (decent, of course)
for the soldiers; thus it contributes to lowered military morale
and so plays into Axis hands. Counteraction might well be by a
special series on the "new" soldier, the highly cultured and specially
educated, gifted people who are now in our armed forces,
the high tone of the interests of the soldiers, together with special
provisions for parents and soldiers to meet.

EHorowitz:mgb

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.