January 14, 1941

Mr. J. W. Calhoun
University Station
Austin, Texas

Dear Mr. Calhoun:

    I entered the University in 1895. During that first session
or the second, Dr. Halstead made an address which I attended, in
which he talked in detail of a trip he had made to Japan the previous
summer where he had been the recipient of much distinguished atten-
tion. I recall, however, illustrated the account of his journey
with incidents with Japan's distinguished men. At that time, he
claimed that two of his books on geometry were being used in the
colleges of Japan. Perhaps, they were. But his claim made his
story seem more plausible. At that time, that Dr. Halstead had never
been to Japan, neither the past summer or at any or at any other
time; that his lecture from beginginning to end was entirely a feat
of his vivid imagination.

    The story of a special train in his honor about which you
inquire, I heard over and over again in his classes, just as I did
further details of his imaginary adventures in Japan, but I cannot
at this time recall having seen them in print.

    I know that while Horace Whaley was editor in chief of the
college paper- The Ranger or the Texan, I went to him and protested
against a lot of the material he was publishing about Dr. Halstead.
I said to him that the stories were lies and that the University
public knew they were lies and further that the stories were not
written by him, Whaley, but by Dr. Halstead, himself. It may be
that the story you're looking for appeared in this series of arti-
cles. I think the articles were printed the year before Dr. Halstead
left the University, perhaps, even after the announcment of his dis-
charge.

    One University bit of gossip that I recall cannected with
Dr. Halstead levaing the University was that when the Regents asked
Dr. Porter about him, Porter replied that Halstead belonged to the
common garden variety of a liar. Another story which you doubtless
remember was in explanation of President Prather's attitude and ran
thus: Dr. Halstead was out visiting schools for the Affiliated School

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.