[*List of Songs.*]

                                                      320 Trussler Street
                                                      Oakland City, Indiana
                                                      June 1, 1936

Professor John A. Lomax
400 East 34th Street
Austin, Texas

Dear Professor Lomax:

                  I hope you'll pardon my tardiness in acknowledging
receipt of your letter of April 4. Illness has prevented
my answering sooner.

                  I am enclosing, as you request, a list of the
Indiana folksongs collected thus far, with some attempt at
classification. If further information is needed, please
let me know.

                  What you say of the superiority of records over
transcriptions is true, of course, and I should be glad to
have your help in recording the tunes already collected.
Plans for the publishing of the collection are very vague
as yet. I am now trying to get an assistantship in English
at I. U. for next year, and am to have an interview with
Professor Carter, Head of the Department, June 3, on which
date I have been asked by Professor Thompson to talk to his
class in ballads. Should I be successful in getting this
assistantship, I am planning to complete my doctorate at
Indiana, using as the basis for my dissertation part, at
least, of this folksong material. In any event I intend to
see that the collection is published somehow, and I should
expect duplicates of all records made for the Library of
Congress, and, too, I should expect (and feel that I have
the right to expect) that I would be given prior claim on
the use of all material furnished.

                  With apologies for having kept you waiting so long
for a reply, I am

                                                      Sincerely yours,
                                                                   [Paul G. Brewster]
                                                                   Paul G. Brewster

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.