therefore ,are as follows. I will go away from the city for a couple of days--
it is fearfully hot here-- and rest up and write my [?] report. If I have not
jumped into the Detroit River by that time, I will have heard from you and
perhaps will have decided what to do, myself. The Presto agent here wants
$8.00 a night for the rental of a machine and I'm not going to be that
extravagant without specific advice from you. It would be a shame to interrupt
this trip, I think. I have a superb list of contacts throughout Michigan, more
than I can visit and the same thing will be true of the other states as I work
West. The material I gather here will be , as youknow, a completely new [?]
field for the Archive and , besides, I will be gathering addresses that will
be absolutely essential if the World's Fair Program is to be put on.
In regard to the World Fair, by the way. I saw Krimsky's report as soon
as I got to New York and felt that it was. not very encouraging. Krimsky saw me
more out of courtesy to Downes than out of sincere interest in my plan, but after
two conversations with me, he sent me across to the employment office to put
in a tentative application and the personnel manager hinted that if I wanted to
stay on as a part of the publicity staff until the other job came through they
would take me on. I turned down the offer because I felt that my summer's work
here would be more useful [and] all the way round, both to the Library and to
folk lore for the World Fair than anything I could possibly do in New York. That
evening  I went to Krimsky's apartment and [he asked] we talked about the Horse
Opera he is putting on next season in his American theatre. He told me that he
might want my adice there. Downes was greatly delighted by the progress I had made
with Krimsky and felt that I might be more useful to him, Downes, in Krimsky's
office, functioning as a sort of liaison man between the two , than [in]
[?] if I were working directly under him(D.). He added, however, that he would
try to arrange something, [?] for me when and if his budget [?] was approved.
Both of them urged me to keep closely in touch with them, so they could wire me
at any point on my itinerary.
For these various reasons and especially in view of the fact that we
have felt for so me time that the purchase of a new  and better recorder was in
[in] order, I suggest, that, unless there is some obstacle in the way that I know
nothing about, a new recorder be purchased and shipped to me here. I would
be only too happy to take a week or so of leave while I was waiting for it. I
am quite tired and a little Michigan lake sun would do  me good. ... Perhaps I
should be a little more specific about my contacts. Professor I.H. Walton of
the University of Michigan has  made a very important collection of Lake Ballads
and Lake chanteys. He has agreed to work with me in the field. I have letters
of introduction to various collectors of Lumberjack material all over the state
and [I] numbers of contacts in Cornish, Polish, Bohemian, Finnish and French
Canadian mining and frontier communities upstate. Downes wanted me to find
someone to  sing the Kalevala for him at the fair, but that would only be the
beginning of things. Sunday a Serbian played [the] his shepherd's flute for  me--
a virtuoso performance by a steel chipper who reads and writes little and still
plays his pipe for his amusement in the shadow of the automobile work. Goatlike,
leaping. Really I could stay her in Detroit for a couple of months and never
run out of material. The guitar player responsible indirectly for my disaster,
commutes between here and Memphis and knows more of then Negro ballads(Brady,
Stagolee, Stavin' Chain, etc.) than any other one person [eiother] either father
or I have ever encountered.
Please write me as soon as you can of anything definite. I feel very
discouraged. Airmail special at 4467  16th St..
Yours, Alan Lomax
Yours, Alan Lomax

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.