4.                                                           IOWA  
                                                              8-8-42
Conduct of War, Cont'd.
     "There is a lot of talk going around that the contractors on government
construction jobs are getting too much profit. They feel that on the Des
Moines Ordnance Plant $300,000 as just a handout to the contractor, was too
much. Labor says if the contractor makes such a big profit, we will have
to ask for more too."          Aug. 7 - Federal official
     "A civilian was in my office this morning and looked at the headline
that we could lose the war. He said, 'I rather doubt that. I can't see any
particular reason to be excited about the war.' There is a lot of that dis-
position running through the minds of the people. The thing is getting so
serious that I think we are going to have to do something."
                                               Aug. 6 - Selective Service Public Relations Officer
     "There is really nothing about the war that affects most of us from
day to day. We are rationed here and there, but it doesn't hurt us. I don't
know what will have to be done to bring the war home to the great majority
of the people, but it isn't there now."          Aug. 7 - Housewife
     "The government bureaus are getting a lot of criticism as being inefficient
and concerned with too much red tape. The Town Hall broadcast week before last
and an article in the last Readers Digest both attacked inefficiency of the
government bureaus, and I have heard both incidents discussed a lot. Business
men say that that there is so much red tape we can't afford to do business with
the government.          Aug. 5 - Accountant
     "When NYA was regionalized there were complaints that their bills were
unpaid as far back as January 18th and people said they couldn't see why the
government had to do business on that inefficient a basis."     Aug. 4 -Fed. official
     "People feel very depressed about the war. They talk about the second
front but most of them I hear say that is a military question they shouldn't
try to determine."         Aug. 5 - Accountant

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.