1618 Avenue Y,
Lubbock, Texas.
October 10, 1938.

Dear Mr. Spivacke:

I have a suggestion for you to pass to Alan without making
any reference to me. As I told you, it seems best to let him run his
own affairs without my interference, unless he specifically requests my
advice.

In going through the records of the Archives recently with
Mr. Greene, I found only the acetate discs are protected from dust. It
seems to me that all should be stored in boxes kept closely shut, as are
the acetate records. Before playing any of the aluminum records I
found it necessary to clean each one with very soft tissue paper. Even
then, small particles of grit must have been left embedded in the deep
grooves, where such a condition will soon ruin the quality of the records.
The cost would be small, but some such protection as I have suggested
should be given at once. I found the exposed records covered
with dust.

Proposition number two you can discuss with Alan as you
choose: When he gets home and is resting up, as he plans to do, why could
you not have his machine put in thorough order and send it to me to
make some records of real cowboy singing? The records in the Archives,
except for old cylinders of my gift to the Library, contain little
Cowboy music. I blame myself for not trying to secure a comprehensive
collection before all of the Old Timers have passed along. If we can
do no better, I can sing a few myself when I come back to Washington.
As the matter stands, I would be willing to visit the big ranches left
in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona in a hunt for real cowboy ballad singers.
The Library would, I should think, be willing at least to take
care of my expenses. If you can do better, I should not complain. In
any case should the idea not appeal to you and Mr. Putnam and Alan,
don't bother about it; not even to write me % Republic Bank, Dallas,
Texas.

I should like to go out once under your direction where I
would not feel driven to make a large number of records, and where, in
addition, I should take time to work carefully so as to get inevery
case, as nearly as possible, perfect records. The Library should certainly
have records of the rhythmic calls and music of Cowboy square
dances before they are gone forever. In the section from which I
write these dances are yet occasionally held.

Please pass the enclosed envelope on to Mr. Vance of the
Law Library.

Sincerely always,

John A. Lomax

John A. Lomax.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.