IT'S A MAN'S WORLD

Characters........
Grandma Nelson.....
Sara Winthrop, her granddaughter....

GRANDMA is dressed in a dark gingham dress with a white apron. She sits in a rocker and knits or mends.  Sara is dressed in a crisp house dress.  Her hair is waved and she looks trim and neat as any young farmer's wife of the day.

SCENE........Room in Grandma's home.  Ordinary farm living room.  A flower in the window, if possible, clock on the table.  Gramdma sits rocking and hums "When You and I Were Young, Maggie."

(ENTER SARA, evidently having walked hurriedly)

SARA....Hello, Grandma.  Are you alone?

GRANDMA: Why yes, dearie.  Your Grandpa went into town a while ago.  I was just wishing you would come over for a little visit.  How is Tom?

SARA....(Crossly) Oh, he's all right.  He should be.  He always gets the best of everything.

G'MA....Well, well, a bride of six months -- talking like this!

SARA.... Now Grandma, don't tell me you never did so.  You must have gotten peeved at Grandpa sometimes.

G'MA...Of course I did, Sara.  I used to think I'd go home to my mother, lots of times, but I never did.

SARA....Did you really, Grandma?  Well, I don't want to worry mama---you know how she would fuss, but honestly, Grandma, the world is so unfair to women.  Tom just takes it for granted that I should do everything for him.  He thinks I'm a poor sport if I don't.

G'MA...Yes, it certainly is a Man's World, my dear.

SARA....I'll say it's a man's world.  Why Grandma, ever since we've been married, Tom seems to think that is a privilege for me to wait on him.

G'MA....Yes, men are all that way.  Some are worse than others, though.

SARA....Well, there isn't a one that's worse than Tom, Grandma.  I know. Do
you know what he did today?  He went to town and never asked if I needed any water of fuel carried in--and he know I had to can corn to-day.  I'm just worn out from carrying water and fuel and getting all that corn cold packed.

(GRANDMA) rocks away, looking sympathetic)

SARA...Selfish pig--that's what he is.  I wish I didn't have anything to do but ride to town.

G'MA...Yes, men get the best of things, mostly. Look at


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.