Jacob ladder hitch to a star
Angel ax im "is your d[?]r?"
Jacob say "I'm climbin' sho-
Ter ? ? dont let go!"
Su? by ve? of the low country
Ga.

"Ef you don't bear no cross
You can't wear no crown"

II A

See "Uncle Remus, his songs
and saying" by J?
Chandler H?is.

Among the reels,--Alabama Bound, Frankie and Albert, The Blues,
Big Jim's Dead an' Gone, Railroad Bill; among the spirituals,--
"Couldn't Hear Nobody Pray," "There's a Little Wheel a-Rollin'
In My Heart," "God's Goin' t'Ride on a Whistlin' Chariot," "Norah,
Hist de Winder,"--are all genuine negro folk-songs.

Many of your readers know such songs or know where they can be
had. I shall greatly appreciate any help given me in getting into a
permanent form this illusive material, both the words and the music.
Possibly the music of the negro will turn out to be his most important
contribution to American culture. It can be easily cuaght on
the phonograph.

Others of your readers who have not been thrown into contact with
the negro may know ballads equally as interesting. There are
current in America many ballads of the cowboy, the gold-seeker, the
solider, the mountaineer, the sailor, as well as interesting versions of 
the traditional old world ballads. All are of interest to the student of
music, of literature, and of social customs; and I shall be most grateful
for any help in collecting this shifting, fast-vanishing expression of
the American ballad spirit. I particularly invite the correspondence
of persons who are willing to help in collecting this material.

Sincerely yours,
John A. Lomax.
President, The American Folk-Lore Society.

------------------------

Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., February 17, 1911.
Professor John A Lomax, of the University of Texas, Austin, has
been appointed a Sheldon Fellow in Harvard University "For the Investigation
of American Ballads." We believe that Professor Lomax's
investigation is of peculiar value to students of American literature,
American history, and American Folk-Lore, and we urge persons in-
interested in any or all of these subjects to give him tha thearty co-operation
which he needs if he is to make his work thorough.

Barrett Wendel, Professor of English,
G. L. Kittredge, Professor of English,
F. N. Robinson, Professor of English,
L. B. R. Briggs, Professor of English.

P. 104/156

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.