JANUARY 6, 1941    13

They're in the Army Now

FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS close to a million
men a year will be poured into the great molding
machine of the United States army. Now
that there is no turning back, we ask ourselves, will
they come out as robots trained only in the use of force,
jobless, an easy prey to some home-grown Fuhrer? Or
can these American boys of all classes, creeds and national
backgrounds be taught, by some miracle of planning,
even while they are learning the uncivilized arts
of warfare, to value democracy as something more than
a catch-phrase, and to take their places in a free society?
So far neither the War Department nor the administration
has announced a constructive plan. The fanfare
in the newspapers of December 4 over Paul
McNutt's new assignment misled more than a few
readers. His efforts to coordinate welfare work for the
defense forces will be limited to the communities outside
the training camps. All leisure-time and extra
military activities within the camps will remain the
province of the Morale Division of the army, of which
Colonel H. H. Pfeil is the chief.
Asked about the army's plans for educating the
draftees, Major Hinman, assistant to Colonel Pfeil,
and Colonel Rose of the Adjutant General's office,
gave me to understand that the army will have its
hands full, instructing, within the short space of twelve
months, green civilians in mechanized warfare. They
felt confident that military discipline, respect for the
flag and a sense of obligation to his country are all
the training in democratic citizenship a draftee needs.
The army's "broad recreation program," to which
Colonel William H. Draper of the General Staff referred
in a recent speech, is to consist, so far as it is
planned, of movies, dances, hostess houses, camp theatricals
and athletics. It is thought that this type of 
recreation with a capital R will be all that tired bodies
will want. For boys who like to read, camp libraries
will be available, the books to be selected by army officers
with some advice from the American Library
Association. The accent is to be on fiction, biography
and travel, and books on controversial political and
social questions will be few and far between.
If this were the last word from the army, there
would be ground for despair. In point of fact, the General
Staff is sensitive to the pressure being applied by
educators and certain New Dealers. General Marshall
himself is reported to be open-minded about a revision
of the program along broader lines. Word comes from
Mr. Clarence A. Dykstra, Director of Selective Service,
that "the General Staff is now discussing the question
of an especially appointed committee . . . representative
of educational and recreational groups, to
discuss with the staff a program for the camps."
To a certain extent, Mr. Dykstra backs up the army
officers' defense when he says, "In all fairness, it should
be stated that the army is not getting any men who are
under twenty-one at this time, and that our schools
have had these men up until that time under our universal
compulsory educational program." Yet Mr.
Dykstra, himself a university president, would be the
last to deprecate the need for adult education generally,
or, more specifically, among our drafted youth. Let us
remember that sixteen is the age limit for compulsory
school attendance in our most advanced states, and that
in the South all attendance laws are a mockery.
Mr. Dykstra adds that "a part of the training of
some of the men will doubtless have a relation to vocations
which men can follow . . . in civilian life. With
the increasing mechanization of the army, there is a
natural opportunity for a considerable number."
It is true that the draftees will be classified more
carefully than they were in 1917. If a draftee can show
that he is a competent amateur radio operator, he will
be put in the Signal Corps. A lawyer or a clerk may be
assigned to the Quartermaster Corps, and so on. In this
way the army hopes to utilize whatever skills the individual
draftee possesses, and help him keep his hand in.
While the army now calls for many trades and skills
which have their counterpart in business and industry,
it still is true, as Colonel Draper has said, that the
"army is not made up entirely of specialists." "A very
large percentage of men," he concedes, "carry a rifle
and are the backbone of the . . . entire army."
It will follow that the many young men who enter
the army from the ranks of the unemployed, will be
thrown back into civilian life without jobs or marketable
skills. With this dilemma in mind, Dr. John
Erskine proposed in an article in the October Reader's
Digest that the draftees be allowed, after a six months'
shakedown, to devote half their day to vocational or
cultural classes of their own choosing. But this hardly
seems practical, in view of the complexities of mechanized
warfare.
Looking toward the draftees' readjustment to civilian
life, Mr. Dykstra has given assurance that "every
available facility of the federal, state and local governments
will be enlisted under a nationwide coordinated
plan providing for return of an old job or provision of
a new one for every draftee."
Is is to be hoped that employers who have promised
to take back workers on their return from the 
camps, will be able to make good when a post-armament
slump hits them. For the men who have no jobs
to go back to and no special skills, a special program
of vocational training, preferably given by civilian institutions
at government expense, will need to be pro-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.