3 -
Maynor and others have brought our interprative artists a welcome opportunity 
after mastery of a great universal language to pay their 
racial homage to the native source of their artistic skill . and 
spiritual strength and to express their indebtness to the singing 
generation behind them and to the present genius who were in --
phrase the black and unknown bartsof long ago.  To these humble folk roots we now turn as directly as we can through recordings of contemporary survivals from the folkd song archives of the 
L[C?] and with the assistance of their group 
of folkd singers and musicians close to these roots.  They were -- 
and very racial arts gives comforting assurance that these folkd 
sources are still alive in our generation even though we shall never 
again hear the spiritual in their original fervor and intensity.  Since 
slavery was their historic setting we can gladly dispenxe with that.  
Even the primitative religion which was their other root is lapsing fast 
and both the emotional and musical patterns of so deep a group experience have survived much to our musical and spiritual gain.  
Indeed the contemporary compositions spitiruals is still an occasional 
as the singers who will illustrate in due course by rendition one of their 
own making.  
such, however is shortly to be distinguished from that 
modern conction of artificials so-called spirituals.  With superficial imitations of the folkd idioms with --- student folkd music 
or misrepresentative character of the deeply sincere and noble tradition.  For spirituals even when lively and - -- in American 
or which religions work serious removed ---- That does not even 
exclude your work of the true spiritual is always 
the voice over naive long unshaken faith for which the things of the spirit are as real as the things of the flesh.  This naive and sprit acceptance 
of Christianity is the true bark of the true spiritual.  Other 
factors have entered in otherwise we should have merely

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.