The purpose of this organization, it was whispered, was to
hurl defiance at white housewives, to demand certain extraordinary
privileges, and to disrupt in general the pleasant
relationships heretofore existing between the races. There
is no such organization here, and none is contemplated here.

It is known that Mrs. Roosevelt is quite generally hated
in some areas by some people, for her well-known humanitarian
activities, including a concern for the underprivileged of all
races, creeds, and colors, so it was natural enough for the 
designing perpetrators of this cruel and base rumor to give
it Mrs. Roosevelt's Christian name.  It smacks of Ku Kluxery
at its worst.

It reflects, also, the resentment against the exodus of
domestics from $3. to $5. a week jobs, to jobs in small
industries having to do with war productions which pay the
women from $12. to $15. per week.  It reflects an unwillingness
to be governed by the law of supply and demand, which has
affected every business and industry, every individual and
private home in the nation.

A good analysis of this situation is given by the Virginian-
Pilot, in an editorial Thursday morning:

If there exists such an organization as the Eleanor Club,
inquiries conducted by competent investigators, including some
very responsible Negro leaders, have failed to find any trace of
it.  And if a trace of such a club should be found, it would
suggest not a spontaneous movement among Negro domestics to
force a radical revision of the relationship between themselves
and their employers, but a scattered infection due to another
kind of germ planted by enemies of our internal peace.

Stuck way in the woodwork of our society are not only alien
lice who would like to infect and poison the relationship between
the two races, but also domestic haters of Roosevelt's social
and economic philosophy and that of his wife, who could not be
above supplying some free paste for the Eleanor Clubs' Rooseveltian
label.

Also, this "Daughters of Eleanor" thing is not local.  A long 
distance telephone call to the Journal and Guide Wednesday
morning revealed that it is being worked for all that it is 
worth in South Carolina.  In fact, the information -- which came
from a government source -- indicated that it is South-wide. It 
is both an effort to humiliate Mrs. Roosevelt, and at the same 
time stir up discord between white and colored people, and place
the responsibility for it upon Mrs. Roosevelt.

No Cause for Alarm

White people in Norfolk have nothing to fear from an "uprising"
among Negroes.  They should disabuse their minds of any fears
that Negroes are going to do anything illegal or insane to reflect
discredit upon themselves or upon their city in these

-4-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.