Adventures- Lily Dale 

LILY DALE ASSEMBLY 
One time I had an unforgettable experience in the queerest hick town 
in the world. The place was across Lake Chautaugua, almost opposite the great 
national Chautaugua grounds that reached their peak of popularity in the 
Gay Nineties. This original of all the Chautaugua Bishop John H. Vincent and 
Lewis Miller, father-in-law of Thomas A. Edison, founded a long popular resort 
for people who wished to absorb education by homoepathic doses. Once Thomas 
Edison was advertised to deliver a short address. The committee got him as 
far as a seat on the platform, but when they called his name he had disappeared. 
I was told that he never again visited the place. I recorded my first records 
in 1907-8-9-10 on and Edison phonograph. Not many years ago Mrs. Edison sent 
me without warning the latest improved machine. She didn't even write a letter. 
I thanked her. She did not reply. 
As the big Chautaugua I hd been invited to give six talks on American 
Folk Songs at vespers in, as I recall the name, the Hall in the Woods-- the Hall 
being mainly several graceful white Doris pillars rising impressively among 
tall trees. One morning csme a telephone call from a community across Chautaugua 
Lake asking me to come over and tell them about Cowboy songs. Here i was then in 
the queer place it turned out to be.,-- the national gathering of all the spirit- 
ual and semi-religious Isms that exist in the United States, the land of the 
free and the home of the brave, but also the region on the earth where the 
population is sadly lacking in fool-killers. I should have forgot the name 
of the gathering but for a recent reference to it in the magazine Time. Lily 
Dale Assembly is its euphonious, if sentimental, name. 
As I walked up from the railway station I met all sorts of queer 
looking people--men with long hair, women dressed in flowing robes, abnormal 
physical specimens--giants, dwarfs, bean-poles, oodles of God's creatures who 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.