     "That wooden ox-yoke over the entrance in its time has been to Jeffer-
son and back, and that skillet in the art we used when we killed a yearling
and bedded him in it, or mixed and cooked a mess of son-of-a-gun. 
      "See that old row of old cow and calf bells hanging on the gallery
eaves? You can play a tune on them if you know how. I picked them up around
the ranch. Back in the days of the open range each cowboy carried one wrapped 
up in his bedding. At night he belled his cutting horse and turned him out to
graze. Net morning the tinkle of the bell told where to find him. His bell
didn't sound like the bell of any other horse. 
      "Come into the fruit room and I'll show you some pictures and momen-
tos of the past", he said, as we walked past rows of chairs turned upside down
on the gallery, ready for a sudden rain. "That picture of Teddy Roosevelt re-
minds me that when I was State Senator, Judge John Peeler of Austin, Sam Webb of
Albany and I were appointed to entertain that gentleman when he visited the
Legislature. He took to us. We got at him through his stomach. When he told 
us good-bye he said, 'If you ever want anything in Washington, some small thing
such as a Democrat deserves, I'l give it to you'. There's a good likeness of 
Franking Roosevelt, too, but he aint my hero, though I ant talking much. Next 
to him you see the 'Nine Old Men', the best court in the world. I regret that
they are talked about as they are. I shore was with those sweethearts when
they knocked out the N.R.A."
        "Who would think that John Garner ever looked like that picture
taken when he and I were in the Legislature, when some one said of us, 
'Yes, they are in the Legislature, but they don't know what fur?'. You know John 
came from Jim Wells' district down on the Rio Grande, where Jim aid he could
swim enough Mexico is across to elect a good Democrat and vote 'em before their
hair got dry. Schluter of Jefferson, John Garner and I were on committee to 
re-district the State in 1901. We all three hankered after the [?] of Washington. We

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.