[*Fellowships*]

November 3, 1942 

To:  Dr. Lyman Bryson 

From: Alan Lomax 

Subject:  Recommendation to The Librarian of Congress of a Study 
of Czech Folk Culture in the United States by 
Mrs. Svatava Pirkova-Jakobson. 

Last Spring I had the great pleasure and good fortune to meet 
Mrs. Jakobson and to discuss with her the studies she has done in Czecho-Slovakia, 
and is continuing in this country. 

Briefly, what she did was to study the musical cultures of 
several folk villages in the mountains of Moravia in relation to their 
total culture, to write the histories of these cultures as they have
been influenced by social and political developments, and to evaluate 
all her material in the light of a broad acquaintance with the folk and 
popular music of Central Europe.  She plans to continue her investigations 
here in this country, studying the assimilation of this same musical 
tradition into the general culture of the United States. 

When she sent me and account of her plan, as I asked her to do, 
I gave it to Dr. Goodchild, of the American Council of Learned Societies, 
through the good offices of Dr. Charles Seeger, a member of the ACLS 
committee on musicological studies. This fall Dr. Seeger, Dr. Goodchild, 
Mrs. Jakobson and I further discussed the project, and Dr. Goodchild 
agreed to take the matter of sponsorship up with the ACLS and with the 
Carnegie Foundation. A tentative budget was prepared by me, and gone 
over with Dr. Goodchild. He has subsequently decided that the Council 
cannot undertake so large a project and has suggested that it might be 
a good idea for the Librarian to apply to the Carnegie Foundation for 
the funds for a year's fellowship to be administered by the Library. 

Naturally, such a project as Mrs. Jakobson's must now be evaluated 
in terms of its wartime significance. It is in such terms that I 
wish to discuss it briefly. 1) Our large foreign minorities have tended 
to be regarded as "problems" rather than as sources of strength for American

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.