- 2 -

them each day and relieved them of the recording work.  
Although the cooperation received from each one was good, 
the best response came from the labor leader and the beauty 
parlor operator.  The next best results were received from 
the drug store proprietor and the trade association secretary.  
The dentist had little to offer.

The beauty parlor operator felt that she would not be 
willing to continue this work because she feared that the 
girls employed in her shop might say and spread the report 
that they were doing FBI or Government investigating 
activities; that this talk might reach the public and might 
operate to hurt her business.  Motivated by this fear, she 
asked that the Office of War Information should not even 
send a thank you letter to her because such a communication 
might be seen by the operators on duty and give rise to the 
talk referred to.  She said that she was happy to have 
cooperated she had done in this instance; but that, on 
thinking the matter over, she felt it best to not to continue 
this rumor work.

Under the circumstances, please do not send Miss Alice 
C. Johnson a letter of thanks, because I assured her that 
her participation would be kept strictly confidential.

The other four individuals said that they would be 
willing to repeat this type of rumor reporting at reasonable 
intervals of time when called upon to do so.  They thought 
the work was interesting; and said that they would be glad 
to cooperate with the OWI in the future.

I was unable to obtain any results from the two policemen 
on beats who were contacted.  They told me that no rumors 
of the type desired were heard by them.  However, they did 
report opinions heard.  It seems that these men were not in 
a position to pick up the information sought.

Two dentists promised cooperation; but only one gave 
me any reports that could be used.

A local Chamber of Commerce Secretary promised his 
cooperation; but had nothing to report.  He said he had held 
a staff meeting, but could pick up nothing.  The Secretary 
of the St. Paul Grocers Association, whose assistance was 
also asked to make doubly sure of results from business 
sources, did come through.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.