NB-235

-5-

Now sometimes we have good news; lately we have had quite a lot of it, and we
hope to have an increasing amount of it as the war goes on; but these demands for
brutal frankness sometimes make us feel almost apologetic, when we have good news
to give you. We want to be frank, whether the news is good or bad; and we want
to be prompt. But sometimes an excess of promptitude would only mislead you.
Reports from naval battles are apt to come in slowly; for the simple reason that
men in battle are apt to be too busy to sit down and write a long report to
Washington till the fighting is over; especially as ships’ radios, during an
action, and usually before and after it, are kept pretty busy with purely
operational messages. In hit-and-run battles lasting for several days, the full
details are apt to be correspondingly delayed; and still more so if the action has
covered thousands of square miles of water, so that the reports from individual
ships, and individual planes, cannot come in immediately to the commander of the
fleet.  So the first news of any battle that comes in to Washington is fragmentary;
and is much more likely to deal with what they did to us than with what we did
to them.  First reports of the battle of the Santa Cruz islands on October 26th,
reaching Washington on the morning of the 28th, left it quite uncertain as to
which side had got the upper hand; not till a couple of days later, when the
enemy fleet had retired from the scene and full reports of what we had done to it
came in, did we know that this had really been an American victory.  And, as I
have said, early reports of the battle off Cape Esperance two weeks before gave
a very inadequate account of the heavy loss we had inflicted on the enemy.
Competition among American newspapers and press associations has put a premium on
speed in reporting and publication of news and the American people are accordingly
used to expecting their news to be served as fresh and hot as possible.  But the
armed services, the navy particularly, must often choose between speed and
accuracy.  And that is why our first official reports on naval actions are apt to
be brief and non-committal, while the enemy is instantly on the air with long
lists of our battleships and carriers and cruisers that he says he has sunk.
We want our news to be accurate, even if that means that you may not get the details
as promptly as you might like.

We have sometimes been accused of holding up bad news until we have good news
to balance it.  I do not know whether that ever happened at all; I do know that it
has never happened in the five months since I have been in Washington. One
instance has been charged against us, and falsely charged. On the evening of
October 12th the navy released the news of the sinking of two of the cruisers in
the battle of August 8th--news, I admit, which had been much too long delayed;
but I was to blame for that delay just as much as the navy. Twenty-four hours
after this bad news, the navy announced the first good news from the battle off
Cape Esperance on the night of the 11th and 12th; but the navy had not yet heard
that good news when the bad news was released the night before. That was pure 
coincidence. We do not hold up any kind of news to balance it against any other
kind. But good news can almost always be reported promptly, because the enemy
already knows what we have done to him. When he doesn't know, as in the case of
his submarines that we have sunk, we delay that good news, so as not to give him
information that he would find useful.

Lately gentlemen returned from the South Pacific with some travelers' tales
of many disasters which, he said, were known to everybody except the American
people. I do not know what his definition of a disaster may be; he mentioned the
battle of Savo Island, which was certainly a severe local defeat; but the enemy's
failure to follow up his advantage saved it from being a disaster. Anyway, that
battle has been reported; we have suffered no disasters, or defeats, which have
not been reported. We have announced, to date, the loss of  every major ship--
Carrier, battleship, cruiser or destroyer--which has been sunk or otherwise destroyed.
We do not announce, and would be foolish to announce, the names of ships
damaged in action, and the extent of the damage.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.