After a while it got to be annoying to be working at a job for 
which everyone else was getting more money. They went to the
supervisor first and he admitted that it was bad. He knew they
were doing CAF-2 work, and he thought they should be getting
CAF-2 pay. He said he would try to do something about it
during the next fiscal year.

July 1 rolled around and still nothing happened. They had a 
promise but they hadn't gotten their reclassifications. So they
went back to their supervisor. This time he tried to put them off.
He still agreed that they should have their raise, but there was
red tape and he couldn't say when they would get their raises.
Then the twelve CAF-1's want to know if they were going to
get their raises at all. The supervisor couldn't say. Then they 
wanted to know what about his promise. To this the supervisor
said he was sorry about it, but he just couldn't hep it.

Naturally they were sore, but being sore didn't help. To get
help they appealed to their union, all twelve of them, the eight
union members and the four non-union members.

Then the adjustment committee of the union saw the supervisor.
He told the committee just what he had told the twelve
CAF-1's, he would like to do something but he couldn't, maybe
next fiscal year. But the adjustment committee knew that already.
What the twelve employees wanted was their raises. So
then the adjustment committee went to the chief of the division.

He saw the point to the appeal right away. But he explained
too that he couldn't do anything. From there then the adjustment
committee went on up to the Secretary's office, where it put 
the case up to the Assistant Secretary as strong as it could. The
twelve people were all doing $1440 work and they were working
with people who were making $1440, and besides they had been
promised raises for more than a year.

It was unjust the Assistant Secretary agreed and the union was 
right to bring it all the way up. He would see that the twelve
workers got their raises right away. And sure enough the raises
came through on the next check. The twelve CAF-1's became
CAF-2's.

5

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.