THE SOUND SPECIALTIES COMPANY
LINCOLN THOMPSON, PRES.
31 BECKLEY AVE. STAMFORD, CONN. U.S.A.

Dec. 11, 1937

Dr. Harold Spivacke
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Dr. Spivacke:

Thank you for the opportunity of showing 
our equipment. I am preparing a list of specifications of
a complete rerecoding setup which you might have some future
interest in.

I am interested in the problem of the field
collector of music in remote regions. There seems no doubt that
field recorders should operate from 110 AC and that operation
away from power lines should be through external units. Otherwise
one always has the weight and inconvenience of battery
operation even though AC may be available in many places.

I believe that the new compact gasoline
engine generators are a better answer than the storage battery
and converter. They use about a gallon of gasoline per day
and are simple and foolproof. A governor and flywheel assure
a steady 60 cycle current and an extension cord can be run
for a couple of hundred feet if wanted, so as to get away
from the noise (which is surprizingly low). They weigh 72 lbs.
and cost $80. Twelve volts of storage battery will weigh
this much alone.

With very careful design we could reduce the
weight of our Junior machine as well as its size. A careful
study has indicated that we could bring it to about 45 lbs.
provided we put the loud speaker in a separate box, weighing
another 15 lbs. This separate box could also carry accessories
and records. This would make a complete field outfit of about
as low weight as I can conceive and still make it truly high
quality. If the recorder were equipped with our oil damped
cutting head, with especial care we could provide recording
as good as our University type machine (the large machine
demonstrated) although the playbook fidleity would not be as
good.

Frankly I do not see much market for this
machine but there might be a specialized field we could develop.
We are very busy with our standard units but would be willing

SOUNDSCIRBER RECORDING AND REPRODUCING DEVICES
SOUNDSCRIBER RECORDING DISCS AND ACCESSORIES

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.