-2-

(a) More or less well informed men who enjoyed hearing original music forms
or who affected to enjoy it, on the principle that what is new and original
is consequently good; (b) Men from rural areas who had heard such music in
childhood or afterwards and had a nostalgic liking for it.

Finally, let me mention, the opinion of WXLC's staff. Their opinion
ranged from mild approval of several tunes to strong condemnation of the
entire series, the proponents of the latter view being, as you might imagine,
the 'hep cats' of the station. All agreed that the technical reproduction left
much to be desired, perhaps an understandable fact in view of the time of
recording and the primitive conditions under which it must have been done.

The above views are necessarily general in tone because I am sure you
would feel little confidence in my quoting exact statistical estimates based
upon such a small listening sample and at such a distance myself in time and
space from the scene. I am having the albums sent to Adak and will have WXLB
handle a similar series. This time we will make spot checks immediately after
broadcasts and will make sure that the commentaries and arrangements are
both colorful and markedly masculine in tone. You will, of course, have the
results as soon as tabulated and I hope they will be more helpful.

Regarding your request for transcribed material from this area, (all but
one station has a cutting head and that is coming) we have been held up at most
stations largely by lack of blank platters. If a supply could be sent me for
distribution to the newer and poorer stations, I can insure a supply before
spring from each base of at least semi-authentic combat zone music and verse.
Would you care for recordings of the jive sessions we have sponsored at
the larger bases? Some of these are weekly fixtures and up to 40 men have
sat in on a single session.

The North Pacific Chain has flourished since I last wrote. There are now
ten Armed Forces stations, from Attu to Sitka, in this unique circuit. As you
know, the Navy is actively participating in twelve overseas stations---10 of
these are under our command. I have gradually succeded in getting Navy men
on every station and all the new ones have been built, staffed, and equipped
by both services together. Within the coming three months we shall begin a
system of exchanging programs locally recorded and, if you like, I can shoot
you these plates when they have run a circuit of, say, five stations. If there
is anything you want on the worn platters, we can have it re-recorded up here.

Also thriving in these islands of the blessed is the College of the
Aleutians. Nearly 1500 men from both services have passed through my original
branch at Dutch Harbor and the principles I established there have been
applied, to a large extent, to the whole Navy. As Education & Radio Officer
on the Sector staff, I have standardized the branches all through Alaska and
expect to have 1500 men continuously in class throughout the winter. There
are now six officers in my College setup with a dozen branches in operation and
I expect more of each very shortly.

Music Appreciation has been one of the most favored of the 'humanities' 
offered by the College branches. It has been very difficult to find
instructors who are more than mere commentators but the Dutch Harbor class,

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.