Livingston, Ala.
Nov., 5/4I.

Mr.Alan Lomax
Division of Music,
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C

Dear Alan: -

Several days ago I sent you a copy of a letter in answer
to one from your father, and indirectly replying to one 
from Mr. Spivack, whose name I am not quite certain about because of
having careless misplaced his letter.A circuitous route but I 
hope it reached all of you and two things I have made clear.
First to Mr.Spivack and you that I deeply appreciate being offered
the work with your father, and second that I regret the offer came
too late for recording among negroes in this section. 

Had we begun in September as originally planned, I expected
to speed up the work so during the good weather, that I's have no
conscience pangs about the November days, when work would be impossible.
But beginning November I5th and working through January I5th 
as your father suggests, The Library of Congress could not get its
money's worth and its only fair I advise you. 

Practically all of the records made with Mr. Lomax, with the
exceptions of the congregational singing were made in my garden, and 
while I have a large out-of-door fire-pace it does not protect from
wind and rain, and we're having both right now and certain of more
later on. You know I'm sure, the conditions of our Alabama cabins and
many of our country roads, and I believe will agree that it would be 
unwise to attempt the work at this time. 

Now here's another matter which I would like to make clear at 
this time. Mr. Spivack has several times mentioned my contribution to 
the Division of Music for the Library. In his recent letter I recall
he said because of this he was glad to cooperate by  having me do 
this work. 

The work which I have done wit your father has meant so much
more to me than my little assistance could possibly mean to the 
Library.  I inherited a keen interest in the negroes and their songs 
from my father some fifty years ago..  ln the horse and buggy days I 
spent many Sunday afternoons with him sitting our near one of their 
country churches and listening to them sing.When he particularly 
likes a song he would make another generous contribution to the

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.