-3-

                        A woman, who was working on the line that was turning 
            out airplane motor carburetors, came to work for a number of 
            days with her left hand bandaged. She claimed that she had 
            cut her hand rather badly and thus needed extensive bandaging. 
            After this went on for a good while, someone became
            suspicious and asked that the company doctor examine her hand. 
            When he removed the bandages, he found no wound. But rather 
            concealed in the bandages there was a sharp object with which 
            the woman was puncturing each carburetor that passed by her 
            and thus making it unusable.

      Another topic which has been especially popular has been tales 
of the army and draftees. These appear to come from all reporting areas 
and to be a subject which is frequently and openly discussed. These have 
ranged from stories on how to get a commission or how to evade the draft, 
to, especially popular, the many diseases which the boys have had. The 
disease stories are especially interesting:
    From the Near West Side:
                        At Fort Custer, I hear that five or six hundred soldiers 
            are quarantined with yellow jaundice that they got from the 
            serum injected for vaccinations for yellow fever. Also, a 
            lot on the West Coast have yellow jaundice.
    From Hyde Park:
                        High officers of gas warfare took malaria shots. They 
            were shot with something else causing the officers to be 
            disabled for life.
    From Highland Park:
                              A friend told us an interesting solution to the mystery 
            of the many hundreds of cases of "yellow fever" reactions 
            and to the sixty-two deaths caused by the reaction to the 
            shots given all men entering the armed forces.
            A doctor at St. Luke's Hospital had told a friend that 
            the serum was put up at the Rockefeller Institute in New York 
            and that there saboteurs had substituted real yellow fever 
            germs for the regular serum. Two such culprits have already 
            been caught.

    The continued collection of rumors will make it possible to throw 
light on such questions as the following: what kind of rumors have limited 
circulation and what kind have broad circulation; do rumors differ greatly 
in nature and extent from one kind of people to another; do rumors center 
around events of current public interest; how far do rumors indicate un- 
certainty, fear, anxiety, prejudice, or just lack of information; how far 
do rumors point to suspicion and lack of confidence. Your aid in helping 
to answer these questions by submitting rumors to us is greatly appreciated.

    The next issue of The Listening Post will review further rumor 
subjects in some detail. Be sure to get your material in on time. If
you need more supplies, let Mrs. Johnson know at once (phone--Midway 0800, 
extension #738).



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.