-3-

and thus escape the draft.

Illinois -- In order to fill quotas certain residential districts have been stripped of family men while the rooming house districts have not been touched.

Note:  Anti-Semitic draft evasion rumors by far the most numerous.

Exclusive of stories alleging Jewish draft evasion, the Middle West has considerably more of this type of rumor than any other section of the country.

Anti-Administration -- graft, waste, inefficiency, and accidents in war production

Illinois -- An Army engineer assigned to erect fortifications on an island base found that he had $175,000 left over when the job was complete.  Upon reporting this, he was told by Washington to do anything he wanted with it as there was no way to take care of it on the books.

California -- The United States is loosing more men through accidents in defense plants than on the battlefields.

New York -- A yacht owner offered his boat to the government and was told he would be given sufficient warning before the boat was taken over.  While on a short cruise, the yacht was approached by a Navy cutter and the people aboard were told they would have to go ashore immediately and return home by train.  The yacht was then turned over to Harry Hopkins for his honeymoon.

Anti-Negro

Pennsylvania -- "Daughters of Eleanor" clubs are being formed all over the country among Negro domestics.  Their slogan is, "Every white women in her own kitchen by Christmas."

Virginia -- Negroes have been buying up all the icepicks in preparation for a big uprising.

South Carolina -- Negroes are saying,  "After the white men go off to war, we'll take our pick of their women."

These rumors are naturally strongest in the South.

Anti-Army and Navy --leaders incompetent

Massachusetts -- The attack on Pearl Harbor was particularily disasterous because all the officers were drunk at the time.

Kansas -- Hundreds and even thousands of commissioned officers were killed by their own men in the last war, and the same thing is going to happen in this war.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.