-3-

ing, whiney, creepy, saturated with gloom. Negroes classed it among their lonesome
tunes. My manuscript collection contains nearly forty versions of the words; all the 
tunes were much alike. Once while lecturing at Coe College in Iowa, I referred to
the Sam Bass story. At the conclusion of the talk a freshman cam up and said
proudly: "I thought you might be interested to know that my mother was a sister of 
Sam Bass!"

"Sam used to coin the money and spend it just as free."

Like Robin Hood, as the legend goes, Sam robbed the rich to give to the poor.

One story goes that he rode up to a lonely ranch house one day and asked its
mistress for something to eat. She caught, killed, and fried him achicken. On
leaving, Sam handed her atwenty-dollar gold piece and told her to keep the change.

At another time Same, when hard pressed by the officers, and, when his own horse
could go no farther, proposed to a ranchman to buy ahorse running loose in the lot.

"He's not for sale," said the man.

"If he was for sale," inquired Sam, "what would he be worth?"

"A hundred dollars," was the reply.

"Here's two hundred," said Sam, counting out the money from a handful of gold, as he
at the same time loosed his pistol from its holster. "Saddle him up quick, I've got
to be on my way. And I'll give you my horse to boot."

Still another good story is told of how Sam andhis men were given lodging one
night at afarm house where the owner and his family were to be put out the next day
by amoney lender who held a mortgage on the place.

Sam laid off the mortgage when the man came for his money and gave the happy
couple aclear deed for their home, and then at the first turn of the road robbed
the money lender of the money he had just paid him.

Whether these and other stories were true, it is afact that many country people
sympathized with Sam and warned him when the officers were near.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.