THE PUBLIC LIBRARY
THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER
DENVER, COLORADO

MALCOLM GLENN WYER                                                      August 17, 1942
          LIBRARIAN


Mr. R. Keith Kane
Chief, Bureau of Intelligence
Office of War Information                                                            [*267*]
Room 300, Library of Congress Annex
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Kane:

            Your letter of August 5th to Dr. Wyer has been referred to me and
I have heard the following stories which may be added to your collection:

            Story No. 1---"The Germans have persuaded 'the government' to invest
$13,000,000 in California in a factory to produce things that are not useful         [*7b*]
for the war. 'The government' has been persuaded by Nazi agents to
waste a lot of its money this way."

            Story No. 2---"The F.B.I. has placed both Japanese and German saboteurs 
and spies under guard at Fort Logan, Colorado. The Germans are interesting, 
well educated and well behaved men. The Japanese, on the other                          [*3*]
hand, are making nuisances of themselves and causing all kinds of trouble.
When I asked why they are not given enough rope to hang themselves, the
reply was that was what everyone wanted to do, but that they constantly
tried to commit suicide without the nerve to go through with it, just
causing everybody a lot of trouble."

            Story No. 3---Told me by a very truthful person, a loyal citizen,
in whom I have great confidence. "She went into Mapelli's grocery store,
15th and Cleveland Place, Denver, Colorado, an Italian owned store, patronized 
by Italians of the city, but also by other people who want good
quality. The store was crowded with customers when a truck driver came
in and said, 'Come help me put twenty boxes of books in the basement.' 
All clerks left the customers unwaited on and departed hurriedly to the
alley to move twenty boxes of 'books.' My friend wondered why 'books' 
should be delivered with such care to a grocery store that is known to
be a gathering place for the Italians of the city."

            These three stories may have no significance but may be interesting 
to you.
                                                                            Yours very truly,

                                                                            [*May Wood Wigginton*]

                                                                            May Wood Wigginton

MWW:ep

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.