-6-

2. Preparation of booklets and articles on the nationality of immigrant people. This would occupy a central place in the program and would serve as a source of information for the other functions. The handbooks would set forth in compact popular form information on the items listed above ( see pp.3-4). They would not glorify the role of individuals; instead they would stress the active role of the groups in the building up of our country from colonial days to the present. They would carry the theme throughout that all groups, old stock or more recent ones, are American. These handbooks would be distributed to nationality and immigrant groups as well as to the public generally.

3. To provide a liaison between groups or their organizations and government agencies. Only a few outstanding leaders of these groups have wide contacts Conventions or congresses of the different groups should be encouraged, and speakers should be supplies that could interpret government aims. Of equal importance would be the functions of bringing problems, grievances, and attitudes of the groups to the attention of the government and other agencies.

c. Administration.

1. The administration might be places under any one of several government agencies. It could be set up as a WPA unit sponsored by a federal agency; or it might be set up within a government agency and be permitted to make use of WPA materials and some its personnel.

2. The duties of the staff would be: (1) continued collection of materials (research), (2) selecting and preparing materials for immediate use, (3) informational service including the preparation of memoranda, answering requests from other agencies, etc., (4) editorial work calling for skilled writers able to address effectively several types of audiences through booklets, articles, radio, and through the cooperation of educators, clergy, civic and social organizations, apart from nationality organizations and the foreign-language press.

3. The size of the staff would depend on how far this program is extended.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.