OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION

William H. Webber
Office of War Information, Washington
Allan Markley, Field Representative, Boston

10/12/42

Rumor collectors - your letter 10/3

PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL

        The following information is submitted in connection with your
letter of October 3 on the subject of availability of rumor collectors
for future studies.

        You, of course, appreciate that we had only Sunday to set up the
listening post for rumor reports for the week of October 4 to 9, previously
submitted to you.  The following are the names and addresses and comment
regarding the six people who cooperated in this one-week's collection.

        Sergt. Daniel Donahue, 86 Baldwin Street, Charlestown, Massachusetts.
The Sergeant, as you know, is connected with the Boston Police Department
and is stationed in East Boston, in territory adjacent to the waterfront,
which may be termed to be one of the "tough" spots of New England.  It has
often been said that East Boston is not the place where gangsters' manoeuvres
are carried out, but it is the place where a good many of them are concocted.
Sergeant Donahue lives adjacent to the Charlestown Navy Yard and I believe
is quite capable to undertake the work that you want.  He has brothers
and other relatives serving in the armed forces and is quite anxious to
cooperate in any way he can.

        Probably the second-best of the contacts made for the purpose
of the rumor report was that of Dorothy Kenneally, 1413 Centre Street,
Roslindale, Mass.  She is the proprietor of a small beauty parlor which happens
to enjoy a trade of both the aristocrats and the ordinary people.  She
had one brother who was killed in the last world war, and has another who is
an inmate of the Bedford Veterans' Hospital as a result of overseas service
in 1917-18.  She is very anxious to do anything possible.

        The third party on the list is Dr. Charles M. Lee, 1668 Beacon Street,
Brookline, Mass.  Brookline as you know is a rather high-class town within
the city.  Dr. Lee's dentist office is located where he gets some patients
from the elderly, gossipy women of Beacon Street, as well as the general run.
Dr. Lee himself is a man about sixty but very consciencious on the war effort
and very anxious to be helpful.

        The fourth is that of William R. Dacey, proprietor of Dacey's Drugstore
at Wellesley Hills, Mass.  Frankly, Mr. Dacey was not very productive during
the week of collecting rumors.  His place was selected not only because it

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.