Negroes
               "Colonel Nelson at Moody Field says he's going to fire all the Negroes
at Moody Field, the servant problem has gotten so bad here.  If the husband or
sweetheart works at Moody Field, the Negro woman won't work and so many of them
are making money off of the white soldiers that they won't work."  (Georgia)

               "The colored people all over the country are rising up and demanding
equal recognition with the white people.  They have sent colored troops overseas
to be mowed down for a democracy they have never experienced."  (Arizona)

               "The papers say there were race riots last night in Dallas, New Orleans,
and Atlanta.  Mrs. Roosevelt has sure started something."  (Washington, D.C.)

               "There have been uprisings among the Negroes.  Policemen patrolled up
and down the alley back of my friend's house all last night."  (Servant houses are
built on the backs of Dallas lots pretty generally.)  (Texas)

Armed Forces

               moving around from one camp to another
               "I have heard of another bunch who are again being moved from one camp to
another all over the country coming back to the same camps again every month and
off again - I can't see any sense to the way things are going, can you?"  (Mass.)

               "It beats all how they are shifting these army boys around all over the
country.  I hope they know what they are doing.  One boy I know has been back
and forth East and West and North and South in about twenty camps in four of
five months.  It doesn't look like they know what to do with them."  (Mass.)

               induction
               "Men are being inducted into our Army at the rate of 500,000 a month."  (N.Y.)

               "All men between 20 and 44 will be in the army before the war ends, I
heard on the radio today."  (Texas)

               "The Arizona Legislature is going to pass a bill making it compulsory for
all men to either enter the armed forces or some defense industry, retroactive 
to August 1.  Oregon already has such a law."  (Arizona)

               furloughs
               "After this week, our soldiers will be granted no more furloughs."  (N.Y.)

               "Boys who are getting a long furlough now will be sent to Ireland when
they go back."  (Indiana)

               "general" criticisms
               "Troop trains are coming into the Phoenix station and having long waits
of three and four hours.  Troops not allowed off the trains and windows are darkened.
Attempts have been made by the Yeomanetts and Legion Auxilliary to contact officers
in order to serve refreshments.  No cooperation whatever."  (Arizona)

               "Troops often arrive in Phoenix to be stationed at Papago Park, broke, and
having lost their kitchens.  No provisions have been made to feed or pay them for
several days upon arrival."  (Arizona)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.