RELATIONSHIP OF AMERICAN FOLK LORE TO AMERICAN DEMOCRACY

1. Folk lore, by its very nature is democratic. Whether
communally composted or merely communally accepted, it has
been through the process of folk legistration, refinement,
change, enlargement, etc. until the lore has been, so to 
speak, voted on and has become the lingua france of a whole
group. This process of development in folk literature has
been going on for ages and American folk lore is merely one
end point of that democratic process.

2. The material is integrative in character for the reason
discussed above. It draws people together and furnishes
them the ideas in the language which they can use for purposes
of communication. It speaks so simply and so sincerely
of things profoundly near to all people of all ages
that it can at once be understood and accepted by all of
them. Even if it appears to indulge in absurdities, these
absurdities are so rooted in the language and psychology of
the people that they are hard to forget and they provide a province
of nonsense through which men can communicate in a 
sort of emotional fourth dimension that is rare in all literature
and music.

3. The material, true to its democratic and popular roots, is
also profoundly local and regional in character. There are
certain special ways of speech, certain singing styles,
certain types of stories which are close to one community
and which will serve for communication there in a way that
nothing else will do. No better path to the thoughts and
friendly feelings of this community or region can be obtained
than through the lore that originated there or is a 
part of life there.

4. Because of the fact that they styles of this material are close
to the backgrounds of all Americans and because, too, the
techniques for performance are necessarily fairly sipple and
direct, rather than introspective and difficult, folk tales
and folk songs provide admirable material not only for community
amusement of all kinds, but for individual artistic expression.
I feel that through the natively virtuoso leanings
of the American people it would be extremely easy to set
afoot a nation-wide movement which would involve this type
of creative activity. Folk lore has had the advantage over
written material of being completely portable and already
a seasoned traveler.
Music, simple music, has always been immensely important
in time of war. Marches, soldiers songs, sentimental songs,

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.