"If in your programs you desire that something, artistically different, yet interesting and educational, as well as entertaining, you will find in Mr. Allan-Allen a valuable artist."
     "For colleges, schools, clubs and other organizations Mr. Allan-Allen has prepared special programs, with interpolated remarks concerning the historic or legendary events surrounding the selection about to be sung."

    An excerpt from a criticism following a recent recital at Yale University reads:
     "There were many familiar songs which he revivified in such a way as to make us feel that we were hearing them for the first time. The music distilled through his imagination and sense of musicianship sounded once more fresh and unhackneyed.
     "We need a singer like Mr. Allan-Allen to remind us how rich a heritage we have in these old songs. They must be revalued, their beauties redemonstrated, lest from familiarity we grow too contemptuous of them."--"New Haven Register."

     "Mr. Allan-Allen moved from his native land to Canada in his early youth, served with valor during the late war in which he received several wound stripes, and has since been located in New York City, spending however the greater part of the musical season on tour.
    "Dressed in the kilt and tartan of his native clan he brings to his audience the real Scottish atmosphere until one can almost detect the perfume of the heather.
    His voice, a full resonant baritone, has a natural charm, with clear enunciation, robust tone and pleasing timbre. With these vocal qualities he combines as appealing personality and an earnestness and sympathy with his subject matter which unite to make his recitals forceful, interesting, artistically satisfactory and peculiarly appealing. 
     "His knowledge of the native environment of the old Gaelic, Scotch, Irish and English folksongs which he sang, coupled with his other exceptional qualifications as a musician resulted in a recital unique in the experience of Charleston music lovers.
    "The audience was distinctly pleased and impressed, feeling that the atmosphere was charged with the spirit and sentiment of old Scotland."
            --"Charleston Daily Mail."

    "Charming program of British Folksongs--brilliant visual note--rare entertainment--charm and appeal--picturesquely garbed. The audience, which completely filled the hall, was most distinguished."  --"New York American."

    "At the Academy of Music an unusually enthusiastic and demonstrative audience crowded the Hall and many had to be turned away."
                   --"The Brooklyn Daily Eagle."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.