2

            (4) Who stated the rumor? We do not want the names of these
                        persons. We should like to know their sex, approximate
                        age, social position, economic position and 
                        any other facts about them that might help us to
                        judge the kind of group from which the person comes.
                        It should be easy for you to supply this information 
                        about your friends and acquaintances, and, once you 
                        get started you will quickly be able to report most 
                        of these items about any casual contacts which you
                        might have.
            (5) To whom was the rumor told? Was it to you, to some
                        other person, or to a group of persons. If you can
                        we should like you to describe simply the persons
                        to whom the r mark was made. For example, you
                        might say "I heard a middle-aged woman who was quite
                        well-dressed say to her companion, who was about the 
                        same age and similarly dressed ........" This statement
                        could serve as an adequate description of the
                        person stating the rumor and the person to whom it
                        was addressed. 
            (6) what was the response of the persons to whom the rumor was
                        reported? Did they say, "Yes, that's probably so,"
                        or "You don't say --," or, "I can't believe it."
                        Maybe they said nothing at all and just accepted the
                        rumor as fact. Whatever is your impression of their 
                        reaction, report it.

            If you are in doubt as to whether an item is a rumor or not
report it anyway. You probably will find it helpful at first to jot down
rumors that you hear as soon as possible after you have made your observations.
This will help you to remember the interesting things about a 
particular situation. Try to keep a record each day of the rumors you 
have heard that day.

            To help you get started a sample report sheet is attached. This
is not a model. Report in your own way, but this sheet will help you see
the kind of things in which we are interested.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.