November 24, 1944

Mr. Kyle J. Kinzer, GM3/C
Armed Guard
First Ave.,& 52nd Street,
Brooklyn, New York.

Dear Mr. Kinzer: 

Although not primarily intended for original poems 
or songs, the Archive of American Folk Song here in the Library has 
been maintaining a file of folk songs and parodies which refer to 
the war. The intention was to gather material which would give an 
inside view of the life of the armed forces of various sailors and
soldiers experienced it. Like your former songs, "Hooray for America",
and "Were you There" have now been added to this file, and we are
grateful to you for these additions. Since we do not maintain a 
collection of miscellaneous pmanuscript poems on non-military
subjects, it seems best to return the other two songs --"Guide me
Oh Precious Savior" and "Mother Darling." Were they set to music,
they could be deposited for copyright as unpublished songs, but the
Copyright Office also has no provisions for registering manuscript
poems. Since you may have musical settings for some of these poems,
we are enclosing a leaflet issued by the Copyright Office which will
give you some idea of how this procedure operates. We might add that,
once registered, the copies deposited are eventually transferred to 
the collections of this library, and hence there would be no occasion
for you to send us duplicate copies.

The Library cannot undertake to express opinions on the reliability
of song publishers. We are enclosing, however, an off-print
of an article by Sigmund Romberg on the difficulties amateurs meet
in trying to get their songs published. It appeared in a recent issue
of "Notes," the quarterly journal of the Music Library Association.
We hope that it will prove of interest to you.

Sincerely yours,

Richard S. Hill
Reference Librarian
Division of Music
RSH/rm

ENC: Code of Federal Regulations of the Copyright Office
Pamphlet on song publishing
2 poems by Mr.Kinzer

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.