LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF MUSIC
May 28, 1939.
Dear Harold,
   Things are coming down a little too fast for me these
days.
   1) Hammond definitely assures me that Columbia wants
to sign a contract to do some albums and that, if the revivals
of old records prove to be successful, he wants to do other [collectio]
material actually recorded in the South. He adds, however, that
he does not completely trust me in the matter of Negro material,
but that he'll leave the hill-billy things entirely up to me---
he's a very impudent young lad, indeed.
   2)Conversation with Davidson Taylor yesterday, when I
was very tired, broke and dirty. He asked me to prepare them an [outli]
outline for a twenty-five week program fortheir American School
of the Air on American Folk Music and to submit this outline by
the end of the week. I am some what non-plussed and would like your
encouragement and your suggestions.  If they like my outline, as
I feel sure they will, that will mean they will [n] want me to
wok for them steadily, more os less until the program is complete
--which will mean the end of next year.  What do you think?
What do you thin [og t] of my suggesting Charley for the job? Naturally 
they will eventually acquire a lot more musicologizing than
I can offer them, at least for some time [c] to come.  [It] Agreeing
to do this will also mean that I won't have ti e to complete the
ballad book in June as I had planned. Don't write Dave Taylor or 
tell anyone [abo] but Carolyn about this, please, but give me some
advice.  I don't want it talked about until its settled one way or
the other.
   3) The American Writers Congress has asked me to sing
at their reception when Benes is to speak, etc., also at the 
Folk Lore panel on Sunday.  I have until Monday to get Dave Taylor his
outline so I think I'll stay over, if that's O.K. with you.  In addition
I want to complete arrangements for the Columbia album right
away.
   4) As you probably know by the papers I am to play
a banjo for the king and queen next week in a very august assembly
of performers. Will Dr. Putnam permit it or no?
   5) I have just this afternoon completed my eightieth second
record for the Library.  Aunt Molly 61, Captain Dick Maitland 21.
Two very fine and very complete bodies of maetrial, thoroughly
documented. Aunt Molly turned [to] out to be a regular gold-mine.
You know she has composed some Union songs, using old tunes, but
her best stuff turns out to be ancient Baptist hymns.  I enclose
two reccomendations for payment of these two people. They both have
certainly earned.  Aunt Molly gave me nearly a solid week of her
time.
   6) Enclosed you will find the bills I have contracted
lately for recording materials.  If you have received a bill from
Reeves, pay it no attention for the moment, because the two
sapphires did not prove to be very satisfactory.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.