November 19, 1938

The Archive of American Folk-Song
in the Library of Congress

The Archive of American Folk-Song was established in
1928 and for five years, limited by the experimental nature
of the recording apparatus of that time, was largely occupied
in accumulating folk songs in manuscript. Since 1933, however,
the primary concern of the Archive has been in recording
American folk songs in the field. The collection thus
accumulated now embraces over ten thousand folk songs and
instrumental selections, recorded on acetate and aluminum
discs, and covers in a representative way the following
regional types of American folk music:
White Anglo-American folk music from the South,
Southwest, Middle West and the Lake States; Negro
folk music from the South, the Bahamas and Haiti;
Mexican folk music in the Southwest; Franco-
American folk music; Polish, Finnish and Jugoslavian 
folk music from Michigan.
Besides this body of material, already one of the 
largest collections of its kind in the world, there are on
deposit in the Archive over a thousand discs and cylinders
which would become the property of the Archive if duplicates
of them could be furnished their owners. By means of the
same duplication service, the Archive could acquire the
several thousand records in private collections throughout
the United States.
During the past few years, requests for these records
on the part of scholars, musicians and the interested public 
has been steadily increasing. It has been impossible,
however, to fulfill these requests or even to open the
collection to the scholars who can study in the Library,
because of the lack of equipment to duplicate the recordings.
(Significant of the potential usefulness of these recordings
was the thirteen week program of the British Broadcasting
Company during the past summer, in which twenty of the
Archive's records were used. The British Broadcasting Company,
 of course, was able to transcribe electrically its
own duplicates from the Archive's master discs. See attached
letter.)
It is time now that the collection of the Archive of
American Folk-Song be made available for scholarly use and
public service. In order that the Archive may play this
significant cultural role, it needs duplicating equipment
and a personnel devoted to these operations. At present
it has none.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.