[*June 12
FILE RUMORS*]

Rumors on Rationing
Rationing is a consequence of governmental inefficiency.

1. The government had ordered sugar growers in Florida to plow under part of their crop.
Ans. According to the Information Office of the O.E.M., this is totally without foundation.

2. There are three tankers in the Boston Harbor at the present time loaded with gas. They are awaiting instructions from the government to dump their cargoes in the bay.
Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. says that if such tankers exist, their cargoes will most certainly not be dumped in the harbor. Not only is this gas gravely needed to meet current demands, but such disposal would violate fire and sanitary regulations.

3. In California sugar beet growers are being payed not to grow beets.
Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. declares this to be totally without foundation.


Rationing is unnecessary
1. There are enough tires in New England now to last the next thirty years at current rates of consumption. 
Ans. According to Mr. Backman of the O.P.A. this is untrue.

2. The gas shortage was deliberately induced to curtail the use of rubber in tires. Actually there is plenty of gas.
Ans. Gas rationing was necessary in this area because shipping facilities have been so seriously curtailed by [g]the war. Rubber is rationed independently by the existing regulations. 

3. The A. and P. warehouses in Boston are bulging with sugar. Sugar rationing is not necessary.
Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. declares that sugar rationing was necessary to prevent hoarding and to assure equitable distribution of the existing supply.


Rationing is the fault of our allies.
1. There is sugar rationing because we send most of our sugar to England for the manufacture of explosives.
A[N]ns. The Information Office of the O.E.M. declares that we are shipping a negligible quantity of sugar to England.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.