—4—

I. Relations to Russia are complicated by Britain.

38. "Britain is telling us what to do about the war. 
That's why we're not doing anything to help Russia." 
(Minnesota)

39. "You know a friend told me something the other day 
that I think is about right. He says that they are 
just playing Russia against Germany, letting them 
decimate themselves; but if it hadn't been for Russia,
last year, England would have fallen; they would have 
had the English fleet, and the Axis would have licked 
us sure by this time." (Louisiana)

40. "I understand that England has about three or four 
million well trained soldiers. They are claiming that 
if they sent their soldiers to aid Russia, Germany 
would invade England and capture it without much trouble. 
I agree with some of the boys at the plant that we 
should send a few million of our soldiers over to 
England and tell them that we will guard England for 
them and then they can send their soldiers to help 
Russia. It seems to me that the English are looking 
out for England and for themselves." (Colorado)

41. "England doesn't want the war to end now because 
Russia would be too powerful and have too much to say 
at the peace conference." (Ohio)

42. "It seems as though England wants the Germans and 
Russians to kill each other off." (Ohio)

43. "Winston Churchill visiting Moscow to persuade Stalin 
from signing a separate peace with Germany now." 
(Alabama)

J. Our Internal affairs are influenced (adversely) by Britain.

44. "We have to pay high taxes just on account of England. 
Everything is going to be tough because we got ourselves 
tied up with trying to pull England out of the 
hole." (Minnesota)

45. "Churchill's visit to America was a sign of increased 
taxes on the American people." (Illinois)

K. England will be unreliable when it comes to settling the peace.

46. "England is smart. If they have the general, they can 
win the peace conference." (Kentucky)

47. "England will again give us the short end of the stick 
in the discussions over the peace after the war." (Ohio)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.