Alpine, Tex. 4-2-42

Mr. John A. Lomax, Dallas, Tex.

Dear Sir, Yours of 3-15 and enjoyed very much I would have answered, but have been
expecting some printed letters or circulars from headquarters of our ICA which will
tell part of what we have done and part of what we hope and expect to do. Yes, I agree
with you with you that the Cowboy should have copies of all the records you
make, especially the Old Cowboys Home, but we will have to build the home first,
which we would have been started on before now if the Japs had not jumped on us.
Of course the war will delay us some but we hope and are trying to keep the movement
alive until we can put it over. Of course everything will have to be done until we
can put it over. Of course everything will have to be done by donations as we have
no other way of raising money, we had the promise of several large donations, but that 
went into defence bonds which of course was proper.

We appreciate any one who shows interest in the ICA> I hope to be able to
help build a home for these old faithful hands who need it, and are worthy. A more
noble and trusty group of men never live that the oldtime cowboys of our Western
States. I will do what I can towards finding out what they think of it, but President 
Bill [Spal] Splan and Chas, Harting are the best posted men in it and I never would
suggest that you take it up with them.

I suppose you have been reading the Cattlemen and understand that we have 
no building yet, but I understand that they are going to build a log cabin in the Spring
for a starter to store stuff in. The Association and this building are two difference
things and the Association will continue if we never do any building.

I sure hope you get some tires and visit all of us. Probably we can all help
each other. We can hollow or sing for you or let you know where you can find some one
who can and you can be of much help to us, boosting, pull and pushing oure movement.
I believe you the one who wrote Home on the Rand and Rounded Up in Glory, am I
right? I will say that they both are fine and Home on the Range is something extra.

Say, I have a few poems which I composed but they don't amount to anything; th
they have never been used only  by the Yellowstone paper at Billings, Montana, and they
will publish anything. The titles of mine are: It Seems that We All Liked It;
Old Squatters Home; Parable on Ky. Old Then and Now; and the Pecos Valley. I noticed
someone one had written on about other rivers but I had never seen anything on the Pecos
Valley. When I get a few typed I will mail you those four, with the circulars you mentioned.

Say, did you every notice Cowboys tunes have the time of the movements of a 
horse, I have made many a tune caused from living alone a horse traveling under
me. But knowing nothing about music it all got away from me. I don't believe it is
possible for a man who was never on a horse to sing those old cowboy [songs] tunes.

When you get those tires I sure hope you bring all of your collection with
you if you can, I would enjoy looking over them. I woule suggest you try to get
Bill Splan, Chas. Harting, Ed Connery and Edwin B. Barker, to locate the men who can
sing like you want Jell Gilmer of Alpine told me last year that he could get two
men for me who could sing those old [songs] cowboy songs at a meeting we were having
here, I think he sid they were somewhere near Rock Springs, Texas.

Hoping you get tires, I will close

(Sloan Matthews
ICA W.Tex. Range Boss

P.S. Since I wrote you I have appointed another Wagon Boss. It is J.W.Merrill, Ft. Davis, Tex.) 
1 contact

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.