JANUARY 6, 1941   15

recruited and commissioned by the army for the emergency.
This policy has been followed in the case of the
chief librarian, Mr. Ray L. Trautman, who has been
given a lieutenant's commission in the Reserves and
is now attached to the Morale Division.
It has been suggested that plays, movies and pageants
emphasizing democratic ideals could be prepared
by such masters of their craft as Robert Sherwod,
Charlie Chaplin and Louis Schaeffer of Labor Stage.
Such pageants and plays might, however, become
vehicles for government propaganda. Mr. Redefer
thinks this danger would be obviated if "the educational
program also included civic education in the
broadest sense and training in the democratic technique
of discussion." In this connection he urges that the
draftees be allowed to select the books for their
libraries, with the help of their educational leaders.
"If children in progressive schools are now doing this,\
why not allow grown men to do it as well?"
Training in democracy seems an anomaly in the 
army, where discipline, which appears to be nine-tenths
of military training, is authoritative. Talk about
"a people's army" comes close to wish-fulfillment.
Commands must be handed down and instantly obeyed.
To offset the psychological dangers of military discipline,
Mr. Redefer recommends "discussion and
frank recognition of the necessity for commands and
obeying at certain times." He thinks the draftees
should be taught that there are "limits for militaristic 
behavior."
Here, at least, are some of the possibilities to be considered
by the committee which Mr. Dykstra says the
General Staff is thinking of appointing. Its field will be
as wide as America if it can devise ways and means for
making a year of army training a broadly educational
experience.
Even those of us whoa re not military-minded must
concede that military training will be good for young
America's physique, so long as epidemics can be prevented.
Personal cleanliness and good health habits
will be inculcated, and the army discipline may have
some value as character training, although it will fall
short of self-discipline. And selective service should,
by mingling all classes, have a democratizing influence.
Yet it is plain that military training, which is the
science of killing,cries out for an antidote. Our young
men must be turned out of the army machine not
robots, but citizens free to think and vote for themselves,
zealous in their respect for the rights of minorities,
and dedicated to the creation of a juster social
order than we now have. Unless we work toward this
end, we shall invite the destruction of our free institutions
by the very men who have been mobilized
to defend what we glibly call democracy, and to impose
it, perchance, on other peoples in a far-flung
sphere of influence.      DORTHY DUNBAR BROMLEY


Obituary Notice

IN A MINING TOWN near Cadiz, Ohio, thirty-one
company houses are filled with mourners. They
are the families of the men who were trapped by
an explosion in the Nelms mine of the Ohio-Pennsylvania
Coal Company. The death warrant for those
miners was written in Washington, D. C.
Several weeks ago, the House Committee on Mines
and Mining talked over the Neely-Keller mine-safety
bill, killed it, and slid it back into a subcommittee
grave. Representative Jennings Randolph, a member
of the committee, set to work to get the bill before the
House the hard way. Working with labor organizations,
Randolph got 211 Representatives to sign a
petition to take the bill out of the committee's hands.
Seven more names were needed to get it before the
House for debate and vote. So the mine operators and
the insurance companies got busy, and within a few
days the National Coal Association got fourteen Representatives
to withdraw their names. Now the bill is
dead, like the 1,576 men killed in the mines since it
was introduced last May.
Neither sponsor of the mine-safety bill will be in
Washington this year to carry on the fight for its
passage. Representative Keller was defeated in the recent
elections and Senator Neely was moved from the
Senate to the Governor's mansion in West Virginia.
The mine-safety bill isn't violent legislation. It
merely gives federal authorities the right to inspect
mines from time to time, and publish their findings.
Yet the coal operators have used everything but an
elephant gun to impede the bill's passage.
On May 16, 1939, the bill was introduced in the
House by Representative Keller and in the Senate by
Senator Neely. It wasn't until a year from that date
that a subcommittee of the Committee on Mines and
Mining began to hold hearings. Finally, on August 15,
fourteen months after the Mines Committee got the
bill, a report was rendered.
While the bill was pending, there were newspaper
stories for Representatives to read:

July 14, 1939: Explosion in a mine of the Duvin Coal
Company, Providence, Kentucky. 28 dead.
January 10, 1940: Explosion in the Bartley Mine, Pine
Creek Pocahontas Company, McDowell County, West
Virginia. 91 dead.
March 16, 1940: Explosion at the Willow Grove Mine,
M. A. Hanna Company, Neffs, Ohio. 72 dead.
July 15, 1940: Explosion at the Sonman Mine, Kop-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.