- 26 - 

"RUMOR -- A certain local draft board composed entirely of 
Jewish members had been outrageously lenient in deferring 
Jewish registrants. A vast majority of its inductees 
were Christians. The situation became so scandalous 
that a Catholic priest went to protest. He was insulted 
by a board member and finally beaten up. The FBI had to 
move in and close up the board. 

"FACT -- This is one version of probably the most widespread, 
persistent rumor that has been peddled around New York 
since Pearl Harbor. For the past two months it has sprung 
up in all five boroughs, with reference to dozens of draft 
boards. 

"Sometimes it appears in an Italian neighborhood and at 
others in an Irish. One variation is for a Protestant woman 
to appeal to a Catholic priest, who then intervenes and is 
rebuffed by the draft board.

Its inexhaustible variations alone show how fantastic the 
rumor is. According to one, received recently by the 
World-Telegram 110 inductees in the Fordham section of 
the Bronx stages a two-day sitdown strike until they 
forced their board to call a larger percentage of Jews. No 
such incident could be traced. 

"In an Italian section of Brooklyn, Draft Board 202 was 
supposed to have been closed after the priest from the 
Church of our Lady Guadalupe complained of favoritism. 
The Rev. Joseph McCormack, pastor of the Church repudiated 
the story as a complete falsehood. The fact is that 
80 percent of that particular board's registrant's are 
Italians, so its percentage of Italian inductees is naturally
 high. 

"Another common version, involving the alleged fist 
fight between a priest and draft board member, centers in 
Washington Heights. Here the church is invariably 
mentioned as the Church of the Good Shepherd. This last 
week it was retold in a postcard addressed to Mayor La Guardia 
at City Hall, and in a letter received by this paper from a 
shop foreman who said that 300 workers in the shop are 
talking about it. Both referred to the Church of the Good 
Shepherd.

"Inquiry at the Church of the Good Shepherd brought a reply 
from the secretary to the pastor, the Rev. John H. Sullivan, 
that "there is no truth whatsoever to the story." The 
rumor has been going around the neighborhood for weeks, she
added.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.