Sharpe.2.
Chap. III.

Evolution-- Continuity, variation, selection.
a) Fine memory of folk-singers. Record of oral tradition highly accurate
b) Folk- singers more interested in words than melody, appreciation of
tune unconscious. How else explain example: folk-singer agrees that tune
sung is one he knows and then later sings a quite different tune for
the same song? "I have never yet met with a singer who could detect
small melodic differences." Without words singers confuse and mess up melodies.
Fiddlers remember tune by association of dance. Some singers constantly
introduce variations in tunes from love or ornament, or by insertion
of unmetrical lines, by adaptation of old tune to new stanza,
change of mode,; all these may result in variation entirely out of
proportion to original small change, Act of individual.
c) Slection by appeal to community taste: aesthetic, intellectual,
expressional. Dependant on racial character of community.Act of community.
"Every line, every word sprang of the ballad sprang in the
first instance from the head of some in dividual,reciter, minstrel, or
peasant; just as every note, every phrase of a folk-tune proceeded originally
from the mouth of a solitary singer. Corporate action has originated
nothing and can originate nothing. Communal composition is unthinkable.
The community play a part, it is true, but it is at a letr stage, after and
not before the individual has done his work and manufactured the material.
Its part is then to weigh, sift and select from the mass of individual
suggestions those which most accurately express the popular taste and the
popular ideal; to reject the rest; and then, when more variations are produced,
to repeat the process once more." p 31.
Chap. 1v.
Early songs consisted of ballads rather than lyrics because
primitive man moer interested in story than he is in analysis of feeling.
Ballads ofetn mere retelling of marchen or popular tales known
all over the world. Minsterl took over ballads and sang them to great lords
at once time became merged in epics. educated audience no longer needed minstrels
and he turned to common people , broke up the romances into smaller
pieces, also epics.
Ballad characteristics:
Impersonal and objective. Economy of invention(incremental repitition).
the hackneyed phrase, conventioanl beginnings.Much left to the imagination.
refrain. Connection with dance-- leader first had small part, then
part of crowd degenerated into repititions of regular phrases, leader
assuming more important role. Nonsense refrain probably degenerate forms
of meaningful insertions.
Types of songs: Love, rover, not many work-songs besides sailor
chanteys( these only sung by sailors when actually at work, at all other
times like ballads--- sea-songs, although these are sung as much by those
who have never seen the sea. patriotic(not many). historical or political
(not many) those usually readaptations of some old ballad), few hunting
besides those that deal with poaching and its sad consequences, few drinking
songs, execution songs( words poor doggerel, music traditional and
fine), of supernatural(few), none in praise of home or virtues of domesticity
(Wraggle Taggle Gypsies, oh!!), very few humorous( humor always
rude and boisterous), cumulative songs popular, carols(real folk
melodies) fast disappearing.
Braodside distribution tends to vulgarize folk-ballads."A broadside version
is usually, therefore, a very indifferent one, and vastly inferior to
the genuine peasant song." But since broadsides contained no music, tunes
on the whole uncorrupted.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.