Nebraska
August 8, 1942

4.

whereabouts of our boys in Service.  I have heard so many complaints from parents
who have sons scattered to the four winds who are now either prisoners, or who
have given their lives.  I have a neighbor.....a mother who gave her only son at
Pearl Harbor.....she waited for five months before she heard a word which finally
came in form of an official death notification.  During those five months she
actually suffered so much anxiety that when the news did come, even though it
was of his death, it was a welcome relief.  Now, it seems to me the necessary
official red tape clearance wouldn't have to take that long.  It all seems
ridiculous there should be so much delay.  The mental anguish cause that mother
during this long delay is terrible, and I know many who are feeling that same
way about it.  Something is wrong, or those missing could be accounted for before
five months' time."

August 8 - The next rumor came from an Omaha employment representative
who said:  "What's the matter with the Martin Plant?  Why don't they get going?
I understand they have had some Government investigations already, and from rumors,
I think they need some more, for no one knows the reason for their slowness to
get into operation.  I guess they have a few planes flying around, but they are
moving awfully slow for some unknown reason, and people are wondering about it.
There is something funny about it, and certainly not that much a military secret.
Many people I've talked with are dissatisfied."

August 4 - From a highly respected Omaha real estate dealer:  "Many
people I meet are confused and are becoming depressed because we are losing the
war to date.   Men who, heretofore, have been hopeful and optimistic, for the
first time are expressing fear for our future.  They know we are miserably unprepared,
and that it takes time to get on our feet, but they also feel there is


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.