were collected for him by a poor boy to whom he gave work one summer 
out of charity. I forget one other source-- a John Surgener, who 
knew, so far as I could discover, two songs. Please understand that I 
have recorded some of Fuson's material and that I have parted from him 
on the most amicable terms. He is a fast friend of the Archive.
             In the past week I have recorded about ten ballads that have 
been composed in the last decade, several of them from the singing of
their authors. The most flourishing genre of singing at the present 
in Eastern Kentucky is that associated with the Holiness, or as it 
enimies term it, the Holy Roller Church. These people have swallowed 
the whole of the Southern tradition: Negro spirituals and blues, Baptist
and Methodist hymns, the ballad form. One of their composers, a manic
woman named Mrs. D. L. Shepherd sang me several ballads of her own
composition last Monday night: one descriptive of the death of her own
son who was run over by an automobile, the second retailing the facts of 
the kidnapping of Lindberg's baby, the third voicing the Christian 
thoughts of a group of miners trapped in a mine, the fourth telling 
of the death of an old woman run over by a train, and so forth. She 
believes that the voice of God speaks in her soul as she sings.
               For the past two days I have been recording the songs of an 87 
year old woman who sang for Sharpe when he visited this country. I 
have made movies of her singing and numerous records of her rather 
remarkable ballad performances and I believe she can typify 
one of the many colorful characters in the story of folk-song here and 
in England. For years she has been the gay lady and sometimes the 
bootlegger of Hyden and at the same time she has been the best ballad 
singer in the region.
           From all I can discover the real ballads are still to be found in the isolated parts of the country, difficult to reach by auto. I have

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.