Outcome of the war
"The reason this country hasn't opened up on Japan is because Washington
is waiting to see how strong Germany is. If necessary this country will make a 
peace which will permit Germany to operate in Europe and Africa . . Japan to
control Australia and Asia . . . and this country to control the Western hemisphere."
(Pennsylvania)
"Germany and Russia are like stags fighting and drawing blood from each
other. England and the United States will come in at the kill." (New York)

Criticism of United Nations
"It isn't fair the way the Allies are bombing the cities of France. They
have planes which can fly over from England to Germany and back -- why don't 
they bomb Germany?" (Colorado)

"There isn't such a thing as the United Nations...everyone in it
would turn on the other if it were to their advantage." (Pennsylvania)

"On the train coming up from Hartford a woman asked me if I heard of our
dumbness in Iceland. I just talked with the woman in the apartment upstairs and
she too asked me if I heard it, have you? They say that there was a submarine off
Iceland and all the time our men thought it was an iceberg. We are getting as
dumb as the English. It was all in the papers they say." (Massachusetts)

"Australia is about to demand her freedom.  She was so mad when England
didn't do anything to help her against Japan, and to stem the Japanese tide, that
she pulled all her forces out of Africa... and she won't send another Australian
soldier to help...that's why Rommel was able to gain so much in Africa." (Pa.)

Shipping losses
"A freighter was torpedoes by a submarine off the Cape in Massachusetts."
(Rhode Island)

"I read that a merchant ship off New England was struck by two torpedoes
on opposite sides of the ship within a few seconds of each other -- indicating
that two submarines were teaming together on the same boa; the boat sank in less
than a minute; there must be a hell of a lot of submarines out there." (Mass)

Miscellaneous
"Even the population of Australia can't buy cigarettes." (Oregon)

"The Canadian soldiers think MacNaughton is a good officer but they don't 
like him because he is too strict a disciplinarian." (Oregon

"My father told me years before he died that this country would be beat
by the Japs and Mrs. Pates ... I think he was right. He knowed a lot of things
and told me a lot has come true. Another lady I work for is scared to death the
Japs are gonna come right here to Pittsburgh." (Pennsylvania)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.