July 9, 1942

Dear Harold:

I deeply appreciate your very kind letter about the
efficiency rating. As I wrote you, my long screed, I
realize that it could do much to clear up for both of us
certain misunderstandings that have been a long time growing.
So far as I am concerned, my letter and your kind reply
had just that effect for me.

Attached is the sheet giving you the answer to the
problem of what songs ought to be included on the backs
of the South American transcriptions. The songs marked
with the simple x should last a minute and a half to two
minutes each, and thus provide fourteen minutes of
music out of which the local sessions could build programs
similar to the transcription on the opposite side of the 
record. Using the complete songs which generally run three
and a half to four and a half minutes would not provide
sufficient material for the construction of a program.
Therefore I think the sampling technique is much better.
Johnny just told me over the telephone that you wanted
to use whole songs. Therefore to the left of my preferences
if you followed this letter procedure.

Attached is a letter from Sam Bayard with my reply.
If there is nothing you can do about it until I return,
give it to Jo for filing. Attached also is a letter from
Susanne Comihar. This application I shall take up with 
the Baltimore people at the proper time. Let Jo have
this letter, too, unless you want to take action immediately.
Under separate cover I am sending you a group of songs
which Woody Guthrie recently handed on to me. I know
the tunes to some of them, and some are quite good. I 
thought perhaps you'd like to look them over. He has
written me offering us the chance to make copies of two
big manuscript collections of songs in his
possession. Botkin's WPA projecttyped the last collection,
but perhaps we could photostat these two. This matter is
two or three weeks old and Jo has a copy of the memo I
wrote you at that time filed. I have told Woody that he 
may expect to hear from one or the other of you. I still
feel that the Vance Randolph project may as well be continued
as long as he cares to go ahead with it, since the cost of
the field operation has now dropped to a minimum. I presume
that you are following this up as it is practical.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.