- 5 -
RUMORS. August 10 - 15, 1942
PRODUCTION OF WAR MATERIALS. LABOR RELATIONS. (Cont.)

"Factory management on the whole are not anxious to push productions. They
would like to prolong the war."
"In order to have the men anxious to put in an honest days work it seems
that one member of each family should be closely associated with the war."
From relative of official in Detroit ammunition making plant: "I know
from -------, that the men working in that plant are constantly told to "slow
down - slow down" - by the C I O union leaders for their own plant. If a man
of his own accord can put out more work, he isn't allowed to."
"Persons with relatives working in the Chrysler Corporation say that
these relatives have been told to slow down."
"Ninety per cent of all the labor union stewards are foreigners."
"A woman told me that the tool and die makers earning $25.00 on Sundays
are still complaining that they aren't making enough."
"The government has so much metal that they don't know what to do with it."
"Eighty per cent of the women employed in defense plants are poor workers.
They waste materials and slow up production."
"Why are some of the army and navy officers, in disgrace since Pearl Harbor,
employed in a confidential capacity in industrial plants?"
Factory man at Ternstedt's - "Our work has stopped for a few days as we
can't get axles for our machines. They say 100 factories in the country are
closed for lack of materials. If the government would concentrate more on
furnishing needed materials to factories and less on other things maybe we
could fill our orders. I do not believe industry will ever be able to fill all
orders the government asks of them."
"There is a great waste of essential materials in defense factories."
"Foremen in a factory manufacturing guns (not named) are compelling workmen
to keep productions down to a definite number."
[*] "The safety doors on the bombers being built at Willow Run are fitted on in
such a way that they cannot be opened. One of the workmen noticed this and started
asking questions. He was put off several times and then was offered a foremanship
if he would keep quiet."
"Although the men are at Willow Run eight hours a day, they seldom do more
than two hours of actual labor because the tools are never ready."
"Five train loads of soldiers have been brought into Detroit in anticipation
of labor trouble."
"Upon hearing the prediction made by Henry Ford that the war would perhaps
be over in three months, the wife of an employee of the Willow Run bomber plant
who has recently been working few hours with less over-time due to a slow up on 
his particular line was heard to remark: 'I bet that Henry Ford is in with the
Germans against Russia. He would rather see Germany win than Russia. That is
why he is making that prediction and cutting down on the work that is being put out'."
"I hear they have laid off 1500 men at the Chrysler tank plant."
"Unless our production speeds up, its' going to be bad for us. We need
closer and more effective cooperation between government and production."
[*] "Not one plane has gone out of the Willow Run bomber plant as yet."
"My room-mate who works at General Motors told me that one of the men in
her office said that a friend of his in one of the defense plants (not General Motors)
was warned by the foreman not to work so fast and not to turn out as many gears because
the Union sets a limit on what a worker should produce and when that is reached he must
stop."
"That Ford is deliberately sabotaging the war effort, as not a single plane
has yet come out of Willow Run plant."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.