LITTLE JOE, THE WRANGLER

During 1907-1910 I found in Texas several versions of this song, and printed it anonymously in 1910. Later I discovered the song in a small collection of cowboy verse published in Estancia, New Mexico, by N. Howard (Jack) Thorp. Mr. Thorp says he wrote the song in 1898. See page 96 of "Songs of the Cowboys," by N. Howard Thorp.

It's little Joe, the wrangler, he'll wrangle nevermore,
His days with the remuda they are o'er;
'Twas a year ago last April he rode into our camp,---
Just a little Texas stray and all alone,---

It was late in the evening he rode up to our herd
On a little Texas pony he called "Chaw."
With his brogan shoes and overalls, a tougher lookin' kid
You never in your life before had saw.

His saddle was a Texas "kak," built many years ago,
With an O. K. spur on one foot lightly swung;
His "hot roll" in a cotton sack so loosely tied behind,
And his canteen from his saddle-horn was swung.

He said that he had to leave home, his pa had married twice;
And his new ma whipped him every day or two;
So he saddled up old Chaw one night and lit a shuck this way,
And he's now trying to paddle his own canoe.

He said if we would give him work, he'd do the best he could,
Though he didn't know straight up about a cow;
So the boss he cut out a mount and kindly put him on,
For he sorta liked this little kid somehow;

Learned him to wrangle horses and to try to know them all,
And get them in at daylight if he could;
To follow the chuck-wagon and always hitch the team,
And to help the cocinero rustle wood.

We had driven to the Pecos, the weather being fine;
We had camped on the south side in a bend;
When a norther commenced blowin', we had doubled up our guard,
For it taken all of us to hold them in.

Little Joe, the wrangler, was called out with the rest;
Though the kid had scarcely reached the herd,
When the cattle they stampeded, like a hailstorm long they fled,
Then we were all a-ridin' for the lead.

'Midst the streaks of lightnin' a horse we could see in the lead,
'Twas Little Joe, the wrangler, in the lead;
He was riding Old Blue Rocket with a slicker o'er his head,
A-tryin' to check the cattle in their speed.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.