Rumor in Boston and Vicinity
Rationing was instituted for ulterior reasons
1. Gas rationing was instituted not because of a gas shortage, but to determine who could afford to have their private car requisitioned by the government. Those with A cards may expect to have their autos confiscated.

Ans. According to the Information Office of the O.E.M gas rationing was put into effect because of transportation shortages and not for ulterior reasons. There are no plans at the present time for the confiscation of private autos.

2. Sugar rationing was put into effect so that personal information for the F.B.I might be gathered from private citizens.

Ans. The local office of the F.B.I declares this rumor to be totally false. Sugar rationing is completely divorced both in organization and operation from the activities of the F.B.I.

Rationing is the fault of the government
1. The government has ordered sugar growers in Florida to plow under part of their current crop.

Ans. According to the Information Office of the O.E.M. this is an outright falsehood. On the contrary, the government is doing everything in its power to encourage the domestic production of sugar.

2. There are three tankers in the Boston harbor at the present time loaded with gas. They expect instructions from the government to dump their cargo into the harbor.

Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. states that such an action would violate pollution regulations as well as constitute a grave fire menace. Moreover, this supply of gasoline, if it actually exists is imperatively needed to meet the demands of the coming weekend. It is fantastic to suggest that it would be thrown away.

Rationing is not equally distributed
1. Rationing in New England is merely a government experiment. Other parts of the country are not rationed.

Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. states that all rationing is equally distributed throughout the United States save the rationing of gasoline. Gasoline is rationed throughout New England and along the Atlantic seaboard because of transportation bottlenecks. In the middlewest gas rationing is not in effect because transportation problems are not acute. 

2. The English have a greater sugar ration than do we.

Ans. According to the British consulate in Boston, the English ration is one half pound per week, the same as here. In other respects, the English are rationed much more stringently than are we.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.