The Institute of Folk Music
University of Northern Carolina

TRADITIONAL SONGS AND FIGURE-DANCES IN SOUTHERN SCHOOLS

One evidence of the cultural integrity of the South, and 
one of the finest of her traditions, is her people's music. For
generations certain families and certain communities have kept
this tradition alive" - in ballads, songs, wonderful old hymns
and carols, in children's Singing Games, and in Country Dances
with ancient and intricate figures. These are our own folk songs
and folk dances, belonging to our race and handed down to us from
our forefathers; but we have just begun to be aware of this
inheritance and to realize its value to us and to our children.

Once, these things were taken for granted. It was the way
people sang and danced; and it was a way of dignity, simplicity
and wholesome enjoyment. - When families sat together after supper
children asked for "Froggy Went A-courting" or "Billy Boy"  or
the funny old ballad about the Devil carrying off a farmer's wife
and then bringing her back because even he couldn't put up with
her! - young folk learned "Barbra Allen" or "The Old Lord by
the Northern Sea" while mothers sang over the mending; the old
tune books were spread out on the table and the whole family
sang their parts, "lead", bass, "tribble", and "counter", for 
the beautiful hymns of Southern Harmony or The Sacraf Harp - 
over and over again until the harmony was established; and when the
week's work was done the young folk took down a bed or two, made
up their "sets" and ran figures - "Weevily Wheat", "Ocean Wave",
"Birdie in the Cage", and all the Caller knew - until the clock 
struck twelve and it was Sunday.

Shall we forget these wholesome social arts of our people?
Is there anything in our modern customs that can compare with
these for beauty and real enjoyment? Their continuance is only
a question of giving children a chance to learn them; nothing
else is needed. If young people once know how to do the figures
of these dances or how to sing these songs they find much more
"fun" in them than in the usual and less wholesome forms of
music or dancing of today.

Thirty years ago, G. Stanley Hall, in his book Youth, said 
that "a work of rescueand revival of folk dancing" was "greatly
needed for the sake of young people". This kind of work was 
begun some twenty years ago by the late Cecil J. Sharp, founder
of The English Folk Dance Society and editor of English Folk
Songs from the Southern Appalachians. And this Institute, for
two years now, has been working toward this end - learning from
older citizens of the South and teaching to younger ones, the
folk songs and folk dances that are ours. 

Much scholarly work has been done in this field, at Universities
here and in England; but little work has been done to enable more and more of our people to enjoy these things in the 
actual singing and dancing. The work of these scholars will be 
valueless unless this social work can follow. And this "work
of rescue and revival" must begin with our children.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.