BUREAU OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS

February 8, 1943

Mr. William C. Haygood
Director for Fellowships
Julius Rosenwald Fund
4901 Ellis Avenue
Chicago, Illinois

Dear Mr. Haygood:

      Wartime restrictions on travel, materials, equipment,
etc. have operated to alter completely the plans I discussed
with you several months ago for wartime folklore research in
the South. Vance Randolph of Arkansas, John Vincent of Kentucky
and Lewis Chappell of West Virginia, whom I thought could make
contributions in the field of southern white folklore, have been
dropped from my list because their projects require a good deal
of travel. Bess Lomax is busy at OWI, Overseas Branch. The
Library of Congress has greatly restricted its activity. My
suggestions for fellowships have, therefore, been narrowed down
to three people. Each one of these people can, I believe,
operate under wartime conditions, make a valuable scholarly or
cultural contribution and be of considerable help in my work in
the Office of War Information.

     Perhaps I should first say something on this latter
point. The Office of War Information has few contacts which 
enable it to gauge the wartime problems and opinions of folk
groups, especially in the South. Folklorists can make a valuable
contribution by documenting, as only they are equipped to
do, oral opinion on wartime matters. Further than that, wartime
songs, stories, and sermons will be useful to me in constructing
radio programs and other information bearing material aimed at
the South. I am setting up a plan by which folk comment on the
war will come to the Office of War Information, play a part in
our evaluation of informational problems in general, make a
contribution in terms of slogans, songs, etc. to our various
information campaigns and go back to the Southern folk group
over the radio, through the churches, etc. Thus, the people
will help to explain the war and war issues for themselves in
the peculiarly eloquent language of which they are past masters.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.