Oct.  5, 1942
Mr. Herbert C.  Hunsaker
OWI,  Bureau of Special Operat ons
Eugene Katz
Chief,  Special Services Division
Comments on proposed Cleveland Rumor Clinic
This proposal seems fundamentally sound and in accordance with the
conception of rumors which has been developing here.  Much depends
on the way in which it actually would develop. 
The problem of  electing a few rumors to reproduce and analyze may
be the crux of the difficulty.  The illustration given in paragraph
2 on page 2 (in section on methods,  not on "Sample Illustration"),
raises the possibility of YES vs  NO situation.  This has been the
sort of answer that has appeared in the Boston Herald from time
to time.  There is also the constant temptation to dramatize materia l
and select rumors in terms of their appeal to the reader.  This is 
something which cannot be overcome by simple discussion since all
concerned may be assumed to be operating in g od faith and this sort
of pressure often works unconsciously.
The statement on page 1 of Janney's memorandum that "rumors are
symptoms of anxiety or resentment"  is incomplete.  The recent
Bureau survey on wartime rumor indicates the need for a broader 
perspective.  Inasmuch as the statement simply needs expansion to
include application of the same point of view to other  kinds of  rumors,
this is not a serious criticism. 
On the whole,  I would be inclined to encourage the development of
this "clinic".  I would be inclined to suggest that obtaining cooperation
of the county defense council would not only give the clinic status,
it would also emphasize the responsibilities involved for its directors. 
An advisory board could be set up to help safeguard the products against
some of  the possible undesirable trends indicated above,  as we l as to
supplement the judgement of those now planning the column.  It would
also be highly desirable to have the clinic keeping in close touch with 
the Bureau of Intelligence of OWI not only to make available the results
of its studies,  but to be kept informed of current developments in 
rumor study.  We could probably provide suggestions for anything which
might make the material more useful both to the community and to us. 
We would not,  however, wish to be formally associated with the clinic
in  ny way. 
Since we are very  uch concerned in this sort of ma erial,  I would 
appreciate being kept informed  on what happens to this.  


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.