COPY
Page 4.

III. The Court

The inner court of the exhibit building will probably
be a small park, land-scaped informally, with flagstone
paths, grass, benches, trees, perhaps a fountain. This
will then be a place where both adults and children can
sit quietly to read, to watch or listen to entertainment,
or to play with simple tools and materials. The Recreation
Division has submitted the following as its contribution
to this court:

A. A mobile cart, cleanly designed and gaily colored,
containing simple toys for small children and simple
games for older children. Two recreation leaders,
at least one a pre-school leader, would be required
to operate this cart and to lend the equipment to
the children.

Neither this cart nor the equipment in it has been
built. However, you have had experience with this
sort of equipment in the play streets and the city
of Chicago has used a somewhat larger cart in their
playgrounds. I can send you a report on the use of
the cart in Chicago. However, this calls for a
completely redesigned cart which is attractive. It
might be well to have designs for this cart made as
soon as possible.

B. Another cart, a duplicate of the one above, to contain
simple crafts material and tools for articles
which might be made by adults or children in a very
short time. Such articles include block prints made
out of rubber inner tubes, and paper bag, rubber ball,
and soup ladle puppets, and articles made from such
materials as clay, wire and wood. This cart should
be accompanied by one or two trained recreation leaders
who are as well versed in adult activities as in
work with children.

C. A story teller in costume who would carry on her
activity much as it is now done in the children's
play centers. In so far as possible, she would use
the small stage sets and other material which you
have developed to illustrate the stories. To some
extent she might be able to guide the children in
illustrating the stories themselves.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.