-2-

looked the plain nuts that they were.  I had never before seen so many oddly
shaped heads.  And then the signs, in the windows, over doorways, swung over
the sidewalks.  Usually the advertised crude home products proclaiming
mystic relief from every mental, physical or spiritual ill.

The future as well as the past of each individual was clear to those 
seers.  "Vibratory treatment free with board and lodging"; "your fortune told"
for prices ranging from fifty cents to five dollars; nightly seances announced.  Chrystal
gazing at so much per.  Treatment by persons possessed of abnormal electric powers,— 
"Ten cents for each touch of the fingers".  Nearly every home, shack or hole in the wall was adorned with some such sign.

I drifted into a hall where half a hundred people listened to an exponent
of the vibratory treatment, good for every human ill, from a carbuncle to soul
sickness.  The principal expounded seemed to have a fundamental soundess: The ills of the human organism grew out of excess tension of mind, nerves, soul,
Relaxation, silence and retreat within yourself would bring rest and cure to 
mind and body.  To secure perfect relaxation one person could help another
through the flow of nerve energy or some other mysterious fluid from each to
each.  This flow necessarily depended on contact.

"So-o,"— the earnest zealot concluded.  "For twenty-five cents each
you can now test my claim.  All who feel the need of something they haven't got,
who wish relief from the depression of this loss by having the lost poweres
restored, come forward, deposit a quarter, form a circle as I direct, clasp hands, and I will do the rest."

Among the large group that felt the need of vibratory restoration and went
forward to the altar I noticed several most comely looking young women.
I never discovered whether or not them were decoys.  I only tell what happened.
We made a circle by moving chairs.  I got in between two most personable young
females who seemed much less excited than I.  The room was darkened.  The leader
ordered us to clasp hands.  I fumbled around until I found each of my neighbors.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.