February 5, 1935.


John A. Lomax, Esq.
c/o Macmillan Co.
60 Fifth Avenue
New York City

Dear Mr. Lomax:

     I was glad to have your letters of January 16 and 23. Besides
these, I have also seen your letter of January 27, addressed to the 
Librarian and enclosing copies of your correspondence with the Carnegie
Corporation.

     Before I reply to any of your other questions, let me relieve 
your mind of such anxiety as you may still feel about your various
shipments of records. The large shipment from Austin came in duly on
January 9. It consists of five packages containing, in all, 144 of
the large-size aluminum records, besides a few smaller disks, some 
aluminum, others flexible composition. In addition to this large shipment,
there is a single package from Louisiana containing 22 large-size
records. Finally, there is a small suitcase - I presume that you and
Alan brought this with you - containing 30 large-size records. Total - 
196 records, not counting those smaller than standard size. I have no
disturbed the order in which this material was received or the papers
that came with it. It seemed necessary, however, to make a count, if 
only to let you know what to expect.

     As regards representative Vinson's correspondent, one of Garwick's 
sound-recording instruments - similar, no doubt, to the one you are
working with - was used in Kentucky last June to record the festival of
the American Folk-Song Society.

     With the Librarian's approval, these records were made by Mr. Garwick
under the direction of Jean Thomas. The expanses of the recording
were covered by a Rockefeller grant with the understanding that the Library
should receive the records for deposit. I might add that the application
for this grant and the proposal that the records be deposited
here came from Miss Thomas, not from us. The Library agreed, however,
to accept the records for deposit. I enclose a list of the materials.

     Representative Vinson was informed, of course, that Mr. Garwick is
not connected with the Library as your assistant or in any other capacity.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.