- 10 -

14. Where a rumor is denied by an authority, quoted in the column, it is worth
considering whether the authority will be believed by most readers--or
whether readers may not think, "What other answer would you expect him
to give?" A rumor about bankers, for example, may be denied more effectively
by someone who is not a banker that by someone known to express the official
viewpoint of bankers. Similarly, a rumor about labor may better be
denied by someone not identified with labor.

15. Where an authority is used to deny the rumor, it is best to avoid cluttering
up the identification of the authority with long, technical titles
and data. This may reduce the reader's interest and cool off his curiosity
about the rumor-denial.

16. If an authority supplies an answer which the editor considers weak or
ineffective (or which falls into one of the errors cited above), the
editor is entitled to suggest a re-wording before printing the rumor-
denial. It is the newspaper which lends its name and influence to the
rumor column; the newspaper has the right to reject unsatisfactory 
materials or badly-worded denials. [*column editor?--or c group*]

17. Some rumors should probably not be denied. Rumors which are harmless,
or which fall into the category of folklore, serve a positive psychological
function to certain types of people. Most supernatural stories,
fantastic predictions, "tall stories", miracle stories, etc. have a
perennial appeal. If specific stories in this category are denied, then
other fantastic stories may be expected to replace them--and the new
crop may, unfortunately, be more dangerous than the rumor which was
denied. It seems wiser to allow harmless rumors to gratify the curiosity
or mysticism of certain kinds of people.

18. Rumor columns ought to guard against printing rumors designed to force
the release of information which has been withheld for military security 
reasons.

As has been previously pointed out, the most dangerous rumors to handle are
hate-rumors. The technique recommended by the Office of War Information regarding
[these] treating them in direct denial fashion is as follows: print hate-rumors about any group only as part of a long 
list of similar rumors about other groups. For example:
                                                   Current Rumors
"The British are getting rich on the war."
"Big Business is getting rich on the war."
"Labor is getting rich on the war."
"Farmers are getting rich on the war."
"Catholics are getting rich on the war."
"Jews are getting rich on the war."
"Baptists are getting rich on the war."
"Stalin is getting rich on the war."
etc.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.