a.  The Panels and Correspondents
          
          1.  Interview panels
          2.  Correspondence panels
          3.  Unsolicited correspondence
  
    1.   The interviewees will be of two types ---
           a. intelligent key observers, b. rumor mongers.
           The interview technique on (a. will be direct;
           on (b. indirect.
  
    2.  The correspondents will be manipulated through 
           "indirect" directives.

     3.  No controls are possible over the material in 
the unsolicited correspondence.

b.  Likert's Interviewers

Due to the relatively unguided character of the 
interview, rumors in the center of the focus of
attention of the interviewees are likely to emerge.
Interviewers will be instructed to probe further
according to specified standards.  A form will be 
provided interviewers for the reporting of each
rumor according to the classification categories 
suggested under 1.  (Detection and Analysis of Rumors).

c.  Department of Agriculture field staff members have 
practical, first-hand contact with rural people.  
Their relationship is not on the basis of planned,
attitude-eliciting interviewing, but rumors will
emerge in the course of their contacts.  They should 
use much the same form for reporting as provided for 
the Likert interviewers.

d.  The O.P.A. field staff is active in urban areas.  Mem-
bers of the field staff circulate in working-class
districts and thus furnish a coverage not supplied 
by (b. and (c).  Like the Agriculture field staff,
they are best qualified to detect rumors bearing on 
their professional concerns (rationing, price control,
etc.)

e.  The Defense Bond local committees are of problematical
value.  Members of the committees are non-governmental
(thus, less trustworthy) and untrained in observation.
Their activities will not involve planned interviewing, 
as they will not be informed of their function as rumor-
gatherers. They will be asked to report on attitudes
toward fiscal policies, etc.  O.F.F. will use the same
indirect technique on them as it will use on the
correspondents.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.