Easter Wine

continued from page 7

We kids had had our supper, played around the
kitchen near the warm stove, and went to bed. I
did not fall asleep. Later, while papa and mama
were in bed I heard him say:

"Dear one, I have been unfaithful many times.
You have done me only good . . . And I—"

"I could hear mama whisper proudly:

"I do not blame the women for desiring thee
. . . Dio has created three handsome above all men
. . . my childhood Geremio . . . "

Papa was silent, then sighed and said fervently:

"'Ziata, how I love thee . . . "

Papa insisted mama buy some fancy clothes.

"Doll up, 'Ziata," he said, "and we'll go to the
moving-pictures arm in arm like grand folk."

Mama blushed and made excuses. "Oh dear, oh
dear," she said, and she had "so much to do," and
"Have we got too much money?"

"With your face so peachy tender," papa said,
chucking her chin, "people will think you my
daughter—I mean it!"

"Go and divert yourself, husband; you have
worked the week long on Job and it is properly
just that you enjoy yourself."

"Come," protested papa, "I have promised myself
these days to have you and me at the Lincoln
theatre when the Valentino plays with Nita Naldi
in 'Blood and Sand.'"

Mama held her head high.

"You, are my Valentino."

She straightened his polka-dot tie and pecked
at his strong smooth tanned cheek.

"Go forth," she whispered, "and show to the
world what a blooming flower is my Geremio—
This father of eight Christians."

While she buttoned his vest he carefully removed
the towel from about his head, revealing
the slick raven hair.  He made admiring faces at
himself in the dresser mirror.

After he had nattily put on this top-coat, soft
hat, and gloves, he lit a cheroot and puffed at himself
in the mirror.  Watching himself, he changed
his hat into different styles, made serious poses,
and play-acted in changing voices.

Mama laughed, and us kids were so tickled we
jumped with glee and kept shouting : "Do more,
papa, do more!"

When he was ready to leave he put his hand on
the door-knob and said to mamma very high-toned :

"Senora, a gentleman wishes to invite you away
from the 'Low life' and accompany him for a swell
time of it in the 'Hight life."

Mama was delighted.  She folded her arms :

"Go, Signore, and God bless you, for I love only
my honest hard-toiling husband."

"Bah, your husband is only a bricklayer, a
greenhorn, while I—" And raising his voice
operatically he sang out :

"I . . . I am a big sport!"

"Go and sing in public, oh Cavalier," said mama
in happy laughter, "that my heart is for the poor
Geremio!"

Papa was smiling and going out. Us kids were
giggling.  He stopped and turned in the doorway.

"Sweet Senora—oh soul of stone, do you not
love me a tiny bit?"

"I love my husband!"

"Papa winked.

"I'll go, Senora so superb ; but I'll take this
bricklaying Geremio away from you someday ;
then I'll visit you in the manner so grand that
you will not deny me."

He twirled an imaginary mustachio, bowed,
and said elegantly :

"Ah, when you see the carriages, the attendants,
the fanfare, ahhh!" He closed the door
gaily and skipped down the hallway.

Mama had suddenly ceased to smile.  Her mouth
fell open and as an echo she repeated :

"Carriages? Attendants . . . ?"

The week before Easter and accident happened
on the corner of our street.  I was coming home
from school and saw a crowd of people standing
around an ambulance parked in front of the
candy store.  I hastened to the corner and saw that
a truck had run into the plate-glass window, and
under its wheels was a crushed kiddie-car.  They
said that some boys had tried to drive the truck
and lost control, and that it jumped the curb and
killed missus Hines' baby in the kiddie-car.

I could hear missus Hines crying for baby in
the ambulance.  I almost stepped into some of the
blood on the sidewalk.  It made me scared, and I
ran home to tell mama.  Later, at the supper table
I was so anxious to tell papa that I dropped my
spoon down on my plate loudly and blurted :

"Papa, missus Hines' baby was killed!" And I
rushed into the story.  At first I thought papa was
not listening.  He kept looking into his plate ; then
he stood up and swung his hand across the table
to slap me.  I ducked under the table.  Mama
quickly plead for me.  She said that from then on
I would not speak at the table.

The funeral of missus Hines' baby was the first
I had ever seen.  I stood on the sidewalk with the
neighbors and saw the fine black and white horses

22

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.