Charles R. Pinnell, President

B. W. Hannold, Secretary

KANSAS COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL
Member North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools
John C. Roberts, Superintendent
KANSAS, ILLINOIS

#3

Friday, August 14, 1942 Kansas, Illinois

6. A carpenter on the Wabash Ordnance Plant. "I have worked
for the past ten years for $15 a week. Last Saturday I made
that much in one day. But the thing I can Not understand is
why they do not want you to do an honest days work. The  [*7-a-b*]
company and union bosses are always riding us about slowing
down. Its slow down, slow down, slow down, do you want to 
work yourself out of a job. To hell with them, my kid brother
is in the army, I'm working for him, too. And the the way they
waste lumber, I could build a house with the pile they burn
every day. Some of it good boards with only a foot or two 
cut off. Most of it over ten feet long. I wish they would
let me truck it home but they would rather see it burn. Uncle 
Sam pays for it any way."

Saturday, August 15, 1942 Illiopolis, Illinois

7. "For year I had bought flower bulbs and shrubs to
beautify my home. Harold always liked those things so
much and after he died it seemed to help to work with
them. When I received final notice from Mr. Fisher that
I would have to move from my farm because of the ordnance
plant I went to Springfield to ask if I could take some 
of the flowers and shrubs with me. Mr. Fisher said absolutely
not, those things were all government property now that I 
could not touch them under penalty of arrest. I went home
and moved to town. The next thing I knew they had moved in
with tractors and bulldozers and had completely destroyed
all of them flower bulbs and shrubs. Thats the way they do
it in the German occupied countries. I never dreamed that any
American citizen would do something like that to another
citizen. Its been almost five months since they threatened
me and made me move but I have never been paid yet. I have to
borrow money to live on. It seems like every body takes
advantage of a widow woman. They tell me we have to pay
for the appraiser the government hired and the negotiator the
government hired. Looks like if we have to pay the bill we
would be allowed to hire our own appraisers. That negotiator.
Phooey, nothing but a politician they wanted to pay off with
our money.

Sincerely yours,
John C. Roberts

John C. Roberts

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.