[* Horowitz *]

GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICY AND PRACTICE

A. We can't believe what we're told; news is withheld and distorted.

1. "After the election we'll be told the truth about the
war." (Illinois)

2. "We are not being told of all the ship sinkings." (Ohio)

3. "We are not being told the truth about our losses." (Missouri)

4. "Washington is withholding true information on the
status of the war." (Wisconsin)

5. "War news is sugared.  Government is withholding bad
news."  (California)

6. "If we can believe half what we read of the war information
(and I don't) there is something wrong with our
Government." (Alabama)

7. "Newspapers are not giving us the true war news.  They
don't want the public to have the right news.  They
just fix up the war reports to sell their papers.  One
day the Americans win -- the next day the Japs, the
next day the Russians or the Germans." (Arizona)

8. "Why all the secrecy on this war business.  Instead of
the Government putting up a story about the least little
victory that we have had, they ought to let us know the
true facts and tell us that we have got to get out and
work and fight if we are going to win this war." (Utah)

9.  "Good news is being held back until such a time as it
may be advantageous to release in order to off-set the
bad news." (Ohio)

B.  Enemy sources have the information.

10.  "We don't know what's happening on the war fronts.  It
looks like the only way we can find out for sure about
what's happening is to read the Tokyo and Berlin reports."
(Minneapolis, Minnesota)

11.  "We are losing as many ships from our convoys as the
Germans claim.  I was on two ships that were sunk and
know of several convoys where over half the ships went
down.  The Navy ought to tell the people because
Germany already knows the facts." (Texas)

C.  Japs have made large gains.

12.  "Why must we get our really first hand news from Jap
sources?  They have half of our islands in the Pacific,
but we won't admit it." (Alabama)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.