-2-

of the city or in an Okie camp these fundamental American
attitudes are much the same. The folklorist has the key
to them.

c) The material, true to its democratic and popular roots, is
also profoundly local and regional in character. There are
certain special ways of speech, certain singing styles, certain
types of stories which are close to one community and
which will serve for communication there in a way that nothing
else will do. No better path to the thoughts and friendly
feelings of this community or region can be obtained than
through the lore that originated there or is a part of life
there.

d) Because of the fact that the styles of this material are close
to the backgrounds of all Americans and because, too, the techniques
for performance are necessarily fairly simple and 
direct, rather than introspective and difficult, folk tales
and folk songs provide admirable material not only for community
amusement of all kinds, but for individual artistic expression.
I feel that through the natively virtuoso leanings
of the American people it would be extremely easy to set afoot
a nation-wide movement which would involve this type of creative
activity. Folk lore has the advantage over written material
of being completely portable and already a seasoned
traveler.

3. CONTRIBUTION OF ARCHIVE OF FOLK SONG TO A DEFENSE PROGRAM - General

Several basic ideas; a) Folk song singing, folk dancing, folk-lore
devices can contribute immensely to national, local and individual
morale. b) The material of folk-lore can show directly and can
be used to show the American people that they have something worth
defending and what that something is. c) To let the people explain
to themselves, in terms of their own language and lore the
significance of democracy.

1. Music, simple music, has always been immensely important
in time of war. Marches, soldiers songs, sentimental songs,
dance music to relieve tension, etc., have helped win wars
without end and this is particularly true of necessary
in a democracy where grumblers are likely to grumble just
out of habit.

2. One of the major conflicts of present-day society lies in
the defeat of the individual's aspiration toward creative
expression by mass-industry, by commercialized and slicked
up art of all sorts. The materials and ideas of folk-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.