30 Gansevoort Street
New York City
12 September 1935

Miss F. McFarland,
Director, Music Projects,
Works Progress Administration,
Port Authority Building,
New York City.

My dear Miss McFarland:

The possibility of the Works Progress Administration
approving a project in American folk music has been
this week suggested to me by Mr. Herbert Halpert.  On the basis
of your interest in American culture, I should like to submit a
project that will be an important contribution to the scientific
study of American folk song and to American culture.  I have
discussed this project with many musicians and students of folk
song, and it has generally been agreed that it is vital to the
study, preservation and proper presentation of American folk
music.

As you perhaps know, my father, John A. Lomax,
has been for twenty years a collector of American folk-songs and
was the compiler of the first book of indigenous folk-songs issued
in this country -- "Cowboy Songs" -- which still remains
the authoritative book in its field.  For the last two years my
father has been Honorary Consultant in Folk Songs at the Library
of Congress and under a grant from the Carnegie Foundation has
been, by means of a high fidelity electric recording instrument,
engaged in recording folk songs in the South.  During this time
I have been his assistant and have collaborated with him on two
books, "American Ballads and Folk Songs", issued last fall by
the Macmillan Company, and "The Songs of the Lead Belly", to appear
in the near future.

Our collection of recordings, made up of Negro
folk songs from all over the South, French folk songs from
Louisiana, Mexican material from Texas, songs from the mountain
whites, and a large and interesting collection made by myself
last summer in the Bahamas, is deposited in the Archives of the 
Library of Congress.

But to make use of this material in furthering
either the scientific study of folk songs or the composition of
an American music which should be based on our extensive and

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.