K--1

Outline---Introduction to Kittzredge Edition of English and Scottish Popular Ballads
xii xi
Ballad---song that tells a story or story told in song.
Impersonal, author unknown, his individuality unimportant in ballad style.
Narrator unimportant, does not prejudice story, "tale telling itself. 2"
"This quality puts them in a class by themselves."
xii
poetry of folk. author means writer. author, who can't write to audience who can't read. oral literature belonging to whole population at one time, now relegated to [working class] "plowboys and spinsters."
xiii
chronology not definite, but relative in view of evidence from existing cultures. "the folk" does exist and does transmit great masses of literature from generation to generation. the popular ballad really do belong to the folk. 
Child collection of 305 pieces comprises whole extant mass of material. most survive only in printed versions. ballad-making and-singing a lost art in English-speaking nations.
only eleven ballads extant in manuscripts older than the seventeenth century. xlv. ballads among Anglo-[Saxons], and before. but in nature of [c]ase not written down. probably much ballad material in chronicles. "Judas" in thirteenth century. "St. Stephen and Herod" in 1450. "The Maid and the Palmer" not until 1650 Percy manuscript,---[Percy]xmanuscript found by Percy being used to stoke the fire in a country house-- nut remembered in part by Scott.  but the ballad, to judge from its wide currency in Denmark and the Faroe Islands, was currentx before that. (part of the Magdaleneand SamaritanWoman legend)xv. language is language of time the ballad written down, but signifies nothing of age of ballad[s]. 
Robin Hood mentioned in "Piers the Plowman" in 1377, first written down in 1500. in this case language older than 1500.
xvi romances, because of greater age of manuscripts, should not be thought origan of or older than ballads. occasionally derivative, but most often ballad and romance from the same source--in popular tradition. certain ballads from chronicles, but chronicles from ballads, too.
some ballads historical, but not accurate. sometimes readaptations of old story to local setting. iff too accurate, suspect.
xvii. poem, dated, closed account. date of composition is only beginning for ballad. second act of composition in changing from singer to singer, in linguistic change, extended over great range of space and time, resulting occasionally in new ballad. same [as[ change as a word is subjected to. oral transmission absolutely essential.
xvii, Gra Grimm: folk=-songs an expression of spirit of folk, perpetuated themselves in fitting themselves to new environments with little or no intentional change on the part of an individual singer. "mystery" reached when we try to imagine how folk as a whole "composes".
modern criticism does not accept Grimm's [thro] theories because composition is essentially original, folk cannot compose poems in unison. but to deny Grimm completely would leave ballad [ori] distinctiveness a question of anonymity.
xix. we shall take folk to mena, not a whole nation, but a small tribal gathering, gathered together to celebrate in dance and song a successful hunt or foray, commonly shared emotions. sum of verses chanted by different memebers of singing, dancing throng make up song-[a]folksong.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.