[*Mr E Horowitz
Special Services Div*]

Study S-68
Division of Surveys                                            Memo # 3
Planning Section                                              7/28/42
                                           
Rumors in Wartime

Purpose of the study. This study represents a preliminary exploration
of the problem of wartime rumors. A special effort will be made to
test the following hypothesis, which is presented as a tentative 
hypothesis only: On a certain topic, or in a certain news area, rumor 
is high when interest in the topic is high and when news concerning the
topic is lacking, ambiguous, or contradictory, and when certain
personality characteristics are present. For the purpose of this study
rumor is defined arbitrarily as any story concerning the war which has 
not come through wholly authoritative sources. The study will attempt 
to determine, in two defense areas on the Atlantic seaboard:

1.  What kinds of war rumors are currently in circulation.
2.   The extent to which these rumors have penetrated into the
 population, i.e., the classes and strata which show the  
highest sensitivity to rumors.
3.  The probable sources of these rumors.
4.  Possible explanations of why people accept and spread rumors,
in terms of such factors as:
a.  Inadequacy of news in the sphere of interest in which 
the rumor belongs
b.   Various personality characteristics of the informant

Method of the Study.  The interviewers will become participant observers
seeking data which will be particularly susceptible to qualitative
analysis. The interviewers will select representative individuals and 
families in each community to be studied, and the cooperation of these
individuals and families will be sought to the end of using them as 
channels of information. In each community the individuals and families 
selected will include: banker, lawyer, doctor, minister, priest, rabbi,
Service Club President, policeman, bartender, restaurant keeper,
merchant, clerk-stenographer, skilled workman, unskilled workman, barber, 
etc.  These individuals and families will be taken into the study as 
participants. They will be visited several times during the interviewing
period and will pass on to the interviewers information relevant to the 
study. This will consist of such data as:

1. Reports of rumors
2. What people are circulating rumors
3. The probable origins of the rumors
4. The extent to which people believe the rumors
5.  The elements in the rumors which do, or do not, make for
credibility

On the basis of intimate contact with his informants, each interviewer
will be able to achieve some degree of understanding as to the function
and significance of rumor in individual cases and to different types and

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.