Mr. Eugene Katz                  - 2 -                      August 26, 1942


The rumors reported in seem to be selected for their
representing an antagonistic or hostile attitude. This probably is
due to the lack of clear formulation of rumor definition, and we
cannot therefore attempt to outline the totality of people's attitudes
though we  can outline some major components of hostile attitudes which
may be prevalent.

From those already studied, it would seem as if there is
close correspondence between aspects of rumor study and some of the
better-known approaches to attitude study. At the present time this
would confirm the belief of those of us who have been working with
rumor study that it would be worthwhile continuing the process. It
is suggested that a continuing rumor study would make it possible to
train reporters so that quantitative analyses will be possible. Rumor
can be defined so that it is readily recognized by reporters who
may not have enough skill to detect tensions which have no central
definition. As it may be defined, rumor study can cover the entire
area of war involvement attitudes and provide us with listening posts.
Continuous analysis would permit not only quantitative study as such, 
but by observing trends and studying comparisons it would be possible
to spot areas of special problems, since rumors reflect attitudes and
specific[ations] of information, as well as general piloting for attitude
studies in fields of opinion where we have not already developed a
backlog of material.

In addition to this function of piloting attitude studies, 
it would also give us clues to informational programs which may be
necessary,  and policies; after interpretation by Sources when relating
rumor to the sort of things people have been saying in authoritative
statements.

It will also be suggested by the Committee that it would be
desirable to have repeat studies by the Survey Field Staff every
four months or six months, because we can expect with increase in censorship 
or with increase in anti-rumor campaigns that the meaning of
rumor may well change. If we have machinery for continuing rumor
study, it would be wise to have an occasional check on the basis of
which the machinery could be over-hauled if necessary.

Attached are copies of the frequencies of rumors from different 
classifications as done by Sources on our first week, and the
thematic analyses which have been made so far.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.