RACE DISCRIMINATION-NEGROES

44.  "Colored boys on learning that many of their race
are being rejected by the army because they are afflicted
with syphilis are deliberately acquiring this disease.
(Louisiana)

45.  "Many colored boys just prior to coming up before the
examining board are having doctors give them a shot of
something to make them appear mentally unbalanced.  Others
are resorting to the drinking of some kind of wine so as
to appear woozy when before the examining board."
(Louisiana)

F2.  Negroes make inferior soldiers.

46.  "I overheard on the train going down to Richmond that
the person who was talking had on the highest authority
the fact that colored soldiers were exceedingly poor troop
material and that in the last World War many colored
troops had actually refused to fight."  (Virginia)

47.  "All negro troops thus far sent beyond the borders of the
United States have been assigned to service-of-supply or
labor battalion activities."  Note:  This statement implies
that there has been prejudiced treatment of colored soldiers
in that many of them desire assignment to combat units."
(Minnesota)
48.  "Negro soldiers are being used to garrison air fields
because they are no good as combat soldiers."  (Alabama)

F3.  Negro soldiers introduce difficulties in contact with
civilians.

49.  Inspectors of the Federal Alcohol Tax Administration 
are authority for a report that civil police authorities
at Sault Ste. Marie and Battle Creek are having tremendous
difficulty effecting any co-operation with Negro MP's at
both places, that the tendency of Negro soldier police
is to take the side of the Negro soldier in any dispute
with the civil authorities to conveniently disappear or
even to hid out colored offenders to the civil authorities
cannot reach them."  (Michigan)

50.  "My informant yesterday stated that "the Negro civilian
men residents of Anniston, Alabama are on the verge of
mass open clashes with Negro troops stationed at nearby
Fort McClellan.  The Anniston courts are busy disposing
of numerous cases involving irregular domestic relations
offenses.  A few days ago a Negro sergeant obtained a
marriage license and married with ceremony the common-law
wife of seven years standing of an Anniston Negro.
The robbed "husband" took his grievance to court and lost."
(Alabama)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.