July 26, 1940

Dear Father:

1. The first week in May is the earliest I can come.
I hope you're not pushing Dobie into something for your own
sake rather than bringing them something they will really
like. It might seem to a lot of people like the old fantastic
father to son maneuver that certain folklorists might be
unusually jealous of by this.

2. I also feel inclined to let your proposition jell
a bit more but I had no idea my obligation to you was so large.

3. I've come up somewhat out of the hole since I last
wrote you and I feel I'll make it somehow through October.
I'm awful tired spiritually right now because of the pressure
that has been on me continually for the last fourteen months.
I look forward with unholy delight to taking a couple of weeks
vacation at the end of August (maybe).

4. Nick's and my progra, called "I'm a Stranger Here
Myself" with Clifton Fadiman, M.C. will be given a dress try out
on C.B.S. on August. 19. I'm going to be tearing around pretty
rapidly between now and then. If the program sells, my end will
be writing the scripts here in Washington which ought to be fun.

5. I think ou might be interested in a memo of mine 
which is going around. Please read to Deanie and return in the
next mail. It's extremely confidential in character since the
Library has not embarked as yet on any kind of program such as
the one that I have laid out in the paper. I thought you might
be interested in knowing the possible direction things may take
and the direction my thinking has taken in the last two or three
months. It goes without saying that it is not very well written.
I did it in one evening at home.

6. The Library has just recently acquired a new passel of 
red tape and your trip is being untangled from the midst of it. No
question but that you'll be ready to go on the first of September
as you desire, and, in the meantime, we can get everything beautifully
laid out for you. I'm enclosing in this letter a list of 
persons out of my correspondence files and past trips whom you may
be interested to see, perhaps. Spivacke and I have no particular
desires in the matter, except; 1. To get records extremely tuneful

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.