III

Wedge-driving Rumors

     Wedge-driving rumors are so termed because they foster disunity
and suspicion. Typical of this class are those which attack
racial and religious groups, government leaders and policies, and
allied nations.

Anti-Semitic -- draft evasion:

Massachusetts -- Thirty-five students, all Jews, failed the
color-blind test of the physical examination for the Army
Medical Reserve.

New York -- Jewish boys get doctors to give them something
to hasten their heart action just before their physical
examination.

Illinois -- There are very few Jews in the army because most
of the draft boards are headed by Jews.

     The rumor of Jewish draft evasion is most prevalent in
New England and along the Atlantic Seaboard, and although
present throughout the country, decreases as it goes west.
This story, in its various forms, is one of the five most
widespread rumors in the country today.

Anti-Semitic -- other

New York -- Soldiers are reported saying, "After we finish
cleaning up the Japs and the Germans we're coming home to
clean up the Jews."

Pennsylvania -- All Jews have been evacuated out of Niagara
Falls, N. Y. and this is going to happen all over the
United States as soon as the war is over.

Illinois -- The price of lettuce has soared because it was
formerly grown by the Japs in California and now the Jews
have taken over.

     Anti-Semitic rumors exist all over the country. In
general they tell of Jewish profiteering or complain that
Jews occupy prominent Washington positions.

Anti-British

Massachusetts -- They won't give out sugar for canning
strawberries because the sugar has all been shipped to England
for marmalade.

New York -- Winston Churchill hates Americans. He is also
a member of a political group in England which is trying to 
get Russia and Germany to exterminate each other; that is
why no second front has been opened.

Illinois -- We are at war because of English tyranny and
imperial policy.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.