           2


            (3) When you heard it (such as "yesterday," "two days ago," 
                        etc."). Record this on Form #1 under "When did you 
                        hear it?"

            (4) Who said it? We do not want the names of these people. 
                        What we would like to know is whether it as a man 
                        or woman, their age (if you don't know, make a rough 
                        guess), what they do (if you know or what you guess 
                        they might do), whether they looked rich, poor, or 
                        middle-class. It will be easy for you to give this 
                        information about people you know well, and once you 
                        start you will find that you can do it for people 
                        you hear on the street, and so forth.

                        Remember, no names, please. Put this under "Who 
                        said it?" on Form #1.

            (5) To whom was the remark made? Was it made to you, to someone 
                        else, to a group of people. Put this under
                        "To whom?" on Form #1. If you can, give us a little 
                        picture of the persons to whom this remark was made. 
                        Something like this would be good-- "Woman of about 
                        40, who seemed pretty well-dressed said to another 
                        woman, about the same age, same kind of clothes---." 
                        Record this under "Kind of people?" on Form #1.

            (6) What did the person to whom the remark was made say or 
                        do? Did they say-- "You don't say," or "Is that so?", 
                        or "I can't believe it." Maybe, they didn't say anything. 
                        Try to size up the way they took the remark, 
                        and report it to us. Record this under "Answer?" on 
                        Form #1.

            If there is some other incident or remark that you think is 
interesting or any other comment you wish to make, record it under "Anything 
else" on Form #1.

            If you're not sure if what you've heard is of interest to us, 
report it anyway. You'll find it useful to write down what you want to 
report as soon as possible after you hear it. This will help you remember 
the different things you hear. Use a different form for each remark, 
and use as many sheets for your report as you need.

            To help you get started a sample report form is attached. This 
is not a model. Report in your own way, but this sheet will help you see 
the kind of things we want to know.

            As soon as we have enough material, we'll report to you about 
the things people are talking about.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.