REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
DALLAS, TEXAS
January 26,1934
Mr. David H. Stevens
% Rockefeller Foundation
49 West 49th St.
New York City
Dear Mr. Stevens:
I note from your letter of January 8th that a maximum amount of $350.00 will be available for equipping my automobile conveniently for the work in collecting negro folk songs and other types of indigenous American ballads that we may run across on our journey. For example, we are spending a few days soon in Southwest Texas getting the records of the singing of American Mexican peons who have "made-up" songs about their life on the Texas frontier (Spanish).
I note that you wish me to send receipted bills for such expenses as we incur to Mr. George J. Beal, Comptroller of the Foundation, as a basis for payments to me. I hope it will be in perfectly good taste for me to say that after our talk in St. Louis I very much hoped that my further prosecution of this work would be in association with you. You were kind and generous in your attitude and you held out the hope that the period of aid might extend over some three or five years until a fairly complete collection was made.
As the matter stands, I am only promised help for a single year and that on quite a different basis from what you suggested. At least I shall always recall with very great pleasure the fact that your proposal came to me unsolicited and in a manner that relieved me from all possible embarrassment.
Mr. Garwick has written and asked me to send him one of our master records of negro singing so that he can make a copy to give you as a present. I should be very glad to have you indicate any song that you heard Alan play in the hotel room that especially appealed to you. You need not limit the number to one, I will see that additional copies are made if you desire them in your own collection.

With kind regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
JAL:B John A. Lomax
University Station
Austin, Texas.
COPY

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.