A

November 8, 1938

John Green
St. James, Michigan.

Dear Johnny:

Perhaps you think I have forgotten you, but
that is certainly not the case. Instead, I have been
over my ears in work in Michigan until a day or so ago.
You should know that you have the largest stack of ballads
of anyone I met in the whole state and that the archive
is many times richer for the addition of  material you
were kind enough to give us.

I am sorry now, of course, that I did not stay
longer on the island. If you remember your young days of
travelling you will know how I felt. But I certainly look
forward to coming back and spending more time on the
island. You may expect from now on through the years a
regular procession of my friends because they have all
heard or will hear about the place and you and Dominick.

In Escanaba I called on some of your friends.
The former Mayor Gallagher was very pleasant but neither
he nor Mrs. Gallagher could think of any people who still
know the old songs. Scaley Willy, as you must know by this
time, had just lost his wife and did not feel in the mood
for singing, but promised to sing the next time I came
back. All the other people you directed me to had either
moved away or were dead so I wished again I had stayed
on the island longer. - Mrs. Kovis and I had a chat. -
"Help yourself to the mustard."

You remember when I left, you and Mrs. Woods had
promised to get together and finish up the job you and I
had begun. I hope you have stuck to your promise as much
for your own sake as for the Library of Congress's sake.

A complete collection of all the songs you know
would stand as a monument to you and to the Beaver Island
Irish long after the houses have tumbled down and the gravestones 
turned to dust. I feel sure that you know at least
200 songs, and, perhaps, if we can get them all together it
will be worthwhile publishing them as a united collection.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.