[left page]
Brought into existence by John A. Lomax and L. W. Payne, Jr., in 1909,
the Texas Folk-Lore Society has come to its twenty-fifth birthday.  It is
fitting that the annual dinner this year, on Friday night, April 20, should 
in its flow of soul be directed towards the founders of the Society.  Quite
possibly not everything at this feast will be as reasonable as the price of it.
No matter—let's pile on the dog.  No fools, no fun.  All friends and members
of the Society are eligible to a plate of chuck, but everybody who 
eats will have to pay or get somebody to pay for him.

Six-bits around.

Make reservations by the morning of April 20, either by writing the
treasurer of the Society, Marcelle L. Hamer, University Station, Austin
or telephoning her at 20267.  The secretary will also make reservations
at the usual commission.

PROGRAM
THURSDAY NIGHT, APRIL 19
8 O'CLOCK, Y. M. C. A. AUDITORIUM

Some like it hot,
Some like it cold,
Some like it in the pot
Just nine days old—
as at the Founders' Dinner.

The Pirates' Serenade: A Song of the Texas Coast, John A. McCurdy, 
Austin.

Traditional Proverbs and Ejaculations of the Rio Grande Border,
Jovita González, St. Mary's Hall, San Antonio.

Walk Around My Bedside, Martha Emmons, Waco.

The Wonderful Chirrionera, Dan Storm, Austin.

Cowboy Songs from the Cedar-Brakes, by four boys from the brakes.

Brer Coyote, Sarah S. McKellar, Austin.

Gallopin' Rheumatiz, H. B. Parks, State Apicultural Laboratory,
San Antonio.

[right page]
FRIDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 20
3 O'CLOCK, Y. M. C. A. AUDITORIUM

I had a piece of pie, I had a piece of puddin',
I gave it all away to see Sally Gooden—
at the Founders' Dinner.

Business meeting; election of officers, etc.
Program begins at 3:30.
The Enchanted City of Monte Alban, E.R. Sims, University of Texas,
Austin.
Voodoo Charms in Dallas, Virginia Waters, Southern Methodist
University, Dallas.
Folk Nomenclature in Texas, E. G. LeStourgeon, San Antonio.
Kildare Lore, Tressa Turner, Kildare, Texas.
The Word on the Brazos, J. Mason Brewer, Dallas.
Negro Folk-Lore, A. W. Eddins, San Antonio.
The Mustang of the Mescalero Apaches, Joe Storm, Austin.

FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 20
6:30 O'CLOCK, UNION BUILDING
Founders' Dinner
(No one will be foundered).
Oh, it's bacon and beans most every day—
I'd as son be a-eatin' prairie hay.

Frost Woodhull, Toastmaster.
Every guest will be called upon for just one old-time saying or
proverb.  Come primed.  The wheel that squeaks the loudest
gets the grease.  And this grease won't melt.  It is going to be
a real prize.  Don't kick before you are spurred, but be ready
when you are spurred to kick like a bay steer.

L. W. Payne, Jr., I Was Here When the Woods Were Burnt.

John A. Lomax, Folk-Lore Trails.
(Alan Lomax will sing to lighten up some of the dark places in his
father's talk.)

Mable Major, A Sixpence of British Song.

J. Frank Dobie, The Facts of the Case.

Presentation of prize for best folk saying or proverb.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.