UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA
GRADUATE SCHOOL
COLUMBIA, S. C.
REED SMITH
DEAN
October 19, 1934

Mr. W. Oliver Strunk
Chief, Division of Music
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Strunk:

You will remember that you kindly consented to serve
on a Committee of the Modern Language Association on American Folk-Song.
The present personal of this Committee is as follows: Philips Barry,
of Cambridge, Mass.; Miss Martha Beckwith, of Vassar; Mr. W. Oliver
Strunk, Chief of the Division of Music, Library of Congress; John A.
Lomax, of Texas; Arthur Kyle Davis, Jr., of Virginia; and Reed Smith,
University of South Carolina, Chairman.

A member from the West should be added and possible
names are being considered. I should appreciate a suggestion from
you on this point.

Up to now, the work of the Committee has been confined
to corresponding on the part of the Chairman with various organizations
and persons interested in balladry and folk-song. A cooperating committee
has been appointed by the South Atlantic Modern Language Association
and will begin work at the Thanksgiving meeting of the South
Atlantic Modern Language Association. The American Folk-Lore Society
has also been asked to name a committee. As soon as Professor Franz
Boas, President of the American Folk-Lore Society, names this committee,
it will be available for consultation and work. The Music
Department of the Library of Congress through Mr. Oliver Strunk,
Chief of the Division, and Mr. John A. Lomax, Honorary Curator, will
be glad to cooperate fully.

Our field is so large and the work so tremendous that
it is difficult to know how to delimit and where to make a start. The
two things, it seems to me, we should work into first are these:

1. Discovering, listing, and collating all the folk-song
collections and folk-song collecting activities that are now being
carried on in this country. We might serve as a kind of central focus
or clearing house for all such activities and prepare a bulletin or a
catalog in order to acquaint those interested with exactly what is on
file, what is being done in the field, and how to get into touch with
the various collections and collectors. I believe it would be a useful
piece of work if it could be thoroughly and faithfully done.

Along with this could be incorporated certain individual

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.