[*ansd 11/15/38*]

Mary Hardin-Baylor College
BELTON, TEXAS
DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH

November 1, 1938

Mr. John A. Lomax
Austin, Texas

My dear Mr. Lomax,

After a week of being immersed once more
and college work, and deeper this time than ever, it seems, I am finding
time for a few letters; and first among these semi-official ones I want
to send a word to you, by way of thanks for your presence with us in
the Dallas meeting and for the part you took.

This thanks is no less for your discussion in the business
meeting than for your talk before the folk-lore group. If your proposal
for an increase in dues which will make us independent of any outside
activities can be carried, I shall be very happy. At least you have
pointed us in the right direction. It is only by such free interchange
of opinion that we can arrive at any satisfactory solution of the problem;
and I thought the discussion was distinctly wholesome.

I had a letter a day or two from Mrs. Baker, our new president,
saying that after thinking it over, she thought the main objection
to the proposed amendment was that the increase was too much for the president;
and that if at this time we moved up from one to three dollars for
annual dues, the proposal would gain more support. I should like to
know your reaction to this suggestion, and whether you would want to
amend your own motion to that effect; if so, I think we could agree to
make the proposal as amended. However, if I do not hear from you, I
shall send out the letter proposing the increase to five dollars, not
to three. And one more question in that connection: should this letter
state the reasons for the proposed increase?

I trust that this will reach you somewhere in Texas, or somewhere
in America. By the way, what shall we put down as your address,
on our mailing list-- Austin, Washington, or ---where?

Once more let me express my appreciation, personal as well
as official, for your interest and cooperation. With men of your character
and caliber giving time and thought to it, the organization may
come to mean something for the cultural development of the Southwest.

Cordially yours,
William H. Vann
William H. Vann

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.