The Soco Gap Folk Artists

The Soco Gap Folk Artists take their name from the mountain valley in which they live as farmers, lumber mill workers, teachers, clerks, mechanics, and so forth.  The group of about 25 in number, include singers, players and dancers.  Of these the largest unit is the Soco Gap Dance Team of 16 members.  Behind the signal recognition implicit in their White House invitation are many other appearances at important festivals as far west as St. Louis.  They have been frequent first-prize winners in their own regional, competitive Asheville Folk Festival.

Their art is the healthy, living, contemporary art of a healthy, intelligent, homogenous community of people, with a long cultural tradition.  The group includes the finest exponents of the various folk-arts from a big region where these folk-arts are found at their best in the country.

*
The American Folk Dance
"The form of dance that is known to the mountain people, has an infinite variety of figure and is a finely constructed dance, expressive of great beauty and forceful emotion."
         Maud Carpeles, British Folklorist and folk-dance authority, Collaborator with Cecil Sharp.
*
The Folk-Song As Art
Representative folk-songs -- "the single tunes - are so many examples of high artistic perfection.  In their small way they are as perfect as the grandest masterpieces of musical art."
          Bela Bertok, 
          Hungarian Composer and Folklorist
*
American Tradition and Education 
"Of the supreme cultural value of an inherited tradition, even when unenforced by any formal school education, our mountain community in the Southern Highlands is an outstanding example.... What better form of music or of literature can we give them (the nation's children) than the folk-songs and folk-ballads of the race to which they belong, or of the nation whose language they speak?  To deny them these is to cut them off from the past and to rob them of that which is theirs by right of birth.... The aim of the educationist should be not to forget the first link of a new chain, but to add a fresh link to an old one." 
          Cecil Sharp, British Folklorist and Educator.
          Preface, English Folk-Songs from the Southern Appalachians. 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.