(3000 8-34)
(Printed in U.S.A.)

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1. The provisions of this receipt shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the consignor, the consignee and all carriers handling this shipment and shall apply to any reconsignment, or return thereof.

2. In consideration of the rate charged for carrying said property, which is dependent upon the value thereof and is based upon an agreed valuation of not exceeding fifty dollars for any shipment of 100 pounds or less and not exceeding fifty cents per pound, actual weight, for any shipment in excess of 100 pounds, unless a greater value is declared at the time of shipment, the shipper agrees that the company shall not be liable in any event for more than fifty dollars for any shipment of 100 pounds or less, or for more than fifty cents per pound, actual weight, for any shipment weighing more than 100 pounds, unless a greater value is stated herein. Unless a greater value is declared and stated herein the shipper agrees that the value of the shipment is as last above set out and that the ability of the company shall in no event exceed such value.

3. Unless caused by its own negligence or that of its agents, the company shall not be liable for--

a Difference in weight or quantity caused by shrinkage, leakage, or evaporation.

b The death, injury, or escape of live freight.

c Loss of money, bullion, bonds, coupons, jewelry, precious stones, valuable papers, or other matter of extraordinary value, unless such articles are enumerated in the receipt.

4. Unless caused in whole or in part by its own negligence or that of its agents, the company shall not be liable for loss, damage or delay caused by--

a The act or default of the shipper or owner.

b The nature of the property, or defect or inherent vice therein.
 
c Improper or insufficient packing, securing, or addressing.

d The Act of God, public enemies, authority of law, quarantine, riots, strikes, perils of navigation, the hazard or danger incident to a state of war, or occurrence in customs warehouse.

e The examination by, or partial delivery to the consignee of C. O D. shipments.

f Delivery under instructions of consignor or consignee at stations where there is no agent of the company after such shipments have been left at such stations.

5. Packages containing fragile articles or articles consisting wholly or in part of glass must be so marked and be packed so as to insure safe transportation by express with ordinary care.

6. When consigned to a place at which the express company has no office, shipments must be marked with the name of the express station at which delivery will be accepted or be marked with forwarding directions if to go beyond the express company's line by a carrier other than an express company. If not so marked shipments will be refused.

7. As conditions precedent to recovery claims must be made in writing to the originating or delivering carrier within nine months after delivery of the property or in case of failure to make delivery, then within nine months and fifteen days after date of shipment; and suits shall be instituted only within two years and one day after the date when notice in writing is given by the carrier to the claimant that the carrier has disallowed the claim or any part of parts thereof.

8. If any C. O. D. is not paid within thirty days after notice of non-delivery has been mailed to the shipper the company may at its option return the property to the consignor.

9. Free delivery will not be made at points where the company maintains no delivery service; at points where delivery service is maintained free delivery will not be made at addresses beyond the established and published delivery limits.

Special Additional Provisions as to Shipments Forwarded by Vessel from the United States to Places in Foreign Countries.

10. If the destination specified in this receipt is in a foreign country, the property covered hereby shall, as to transit over ocean routes and by their foreign connections to such destination, be subject to all the terms and conditions of the receipts or bills of lading of ocean carriers as accepted by the company for the shipment, and of foreign carriers anticipating in the transportation, and as to such transit is accepted for transposition and delivery subject to the acts, ladings, laws, regulations, and customs of oversea and foreign carriers, custodian, and governments, their employees and agents.

11. The company shall not be liable for any loss, damage, or delay to said shipments over ocean routes and their foreign connections, the destination of which is in a foreign country, occurring outside the boundaries of the United States, which may be occasioned by any such acts, ladings, laws, regulations, or customs. Claims for loss, damage or delay must be made in writing to the carrier at the port of export or to the carrier issuing this receipt within nine months after delivery of the property at said port or in case of failure to make such delivery then within nine months and fifteen days after date of shipment; and claims so made against said delivering or issuing carrier shall be deemed to have been made against any carrier which may be liable hereunder. Suits shall be instituted only within two years and one day after the date when notice in writing is given by the carrier to the claimant that the carrier has disallowed the claim or any part or parts thereof. Where claims are not so made, and/or suits are not instituted thereon in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the carrier shall not reliable.

12. It is hereby agreed that the property destined to such foreign countries, and assessable with foreign governmental or customs duties, taxes or charges, may be stopped in transit at foreign ports, frontiers or depositories, and there held pending examination, assessment and payments, and such duties and charges, when advanced by the company shall become a lien on the property.




Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.