rumors . . . .p.2.

Prices and Rationing, continued

cars requisitioned 
"By the end of August, the Government will be taking possession of all
cars from 1935 model on." (Tennessee)

Production

shipping problem 
"The Spang-Chalfont mill has been closed down for a couple of weeks . . .
my husband is taking his vacation because of it. He doesn't know why they're
shut down, but I think the government doesn't see any sense in making their
product (pipes) when they can't get it across the ocean anyhow." (Pennsylvania)

"Ocean transportation from this country is at a standstill. The docks in
New York are loaded with stuff . . .and the warehouses across the country are
full. We aren't sending a thing across." (Pennsylvania)

morale in plants
"The current joke at Brewster now is "I wonder what Goebbels wrote the
boss this morning" and "The reason we aren't working hard, Hitler told the bosses
to lay off." (New York)

"Another man works for a factory turning out bullet jackets for Remington-Rand.
He is on the machine, and hasn't the faintest idea how it works or anything.
They have told him to grind, so he grinds. Remington-Rand sent several
shipments back, and the man said if he had a supervisor to tell him what to do,
he could probably do it right, but there doesn't seem to be a foreman over him,
so he just grinds." (New York)

"Shipyard workers aren't taking the responsibilities of the war very
seriously. 900 laid off on one day in one shipyard." (Washington)

priorities - distribution trouble
"If the priority mess isn't straightened out they'll be so slow getting
material we'll be six months behind in production." (Pennsylvania)

"If more sub-contracts aren't given to smaller firms, all the small
businesses will be closed, because they can't get materials without priorities,
and can't get priorities without sub-contracts." (Pennsylvania)

steel
"Production is way off on finished steel products because they haven't
any scrap iron. This country thought it had so much scrap on hand that  they
stopped making blast furnaces, and now they're doing all they can to make enough
to turn out pig iron to make steel. It will take a couple of years." (Penna.)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.