RUBY TERRIL LOMAX
THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS
7456 SAN BENITO WAY
DALLAS, TEXAS

June 8, 1942

Dear Bess, 
One mo note before you leave Washington.  And please do send us
your next address. Alan writes us that you are buying some clothes and o
otherwise taking care of your natural beauty  I hope you find some clothes
[t]hat do justice to your charms, - especially your hair and eyes.  And while
you're buying be sure to stock up in deodorants and shoe trees and cleaning
fluid and a blck of magnesium, etc. How you take care of your clothes
means almost as much as how they look on you when you buy them.  Also shoe
polish and brush! I'm still looking for a letter saying what you want sent
from here. Did you take your blankets and other cover with you; or I sent
them, didn't I? except that your afghan is here. Shirley has written about
covers and I have promised her two double blankets that we have here. 
I'll put in your afghan, too, which I did n't find when I sent your cover
last fall. I'm so glad Shirley and Pat are going. I do hope they have
some time with Chris. It looks very doubtful to me.  Alan writes that he
will visit us later in the summer; it would be wonderful if you and Shirley
ocould be here too, and of course Johnny can come up unless he's got to
war by that time.  Margaret has been ill and Johnny has been nurse. 
Your father is better as to health.  We have  had a good deal of "company"
lately; some relatives of mine from Missouri and Arkansas spent two days 
with me; and Saturday Harry Stephens, he of the Night Herding Song, came
down from Denison and recorded some of his experiences as well as some
songs; his voice is certainly not euphonic, but he says that the worse
it sounds the nearer to the genuine cowboy you get.  His cattle calls
are wonderful.  Perhaps I told you that we have a new roof on the house,
 and now are having some of the ceilings repapers, which were leak-staine[d]
Our garden does very well; we seldom have to buy vegetables now; have
even canned some beans. I forgot to say that Willmott Ragsdale spent [Wed]
Tuesday night with us.  Considering all he'd done meantime, it hardly seemed
possible that he had dinner with you and Alan just the Friday night before. 
He seemed to have done some interesting thing but didn't seem to be much
of a raconteur,. Maybe he writes better than he talks, or maybe he was over-awed by your father, who, however, was friendly enough. They got to the airfield
just three minutes before plane time. Even your father 
got nervous at Mr. Ragsdale's deliberateness.  Railroad Smith and another of 
your father's friends and classmates - or U of T friends, spent Saturday 
afternoon with us, and Railroad stayed for supper ; we took him to his train. 
I'm certainly glad we don't have a bunch of company here while the papering
is going on... My sister has just sent me a letter from her son Terrill, 
somewhere in the Pacific, written May 28 - that sounds near enough, but of cou
course came by air. We imagine he is in that Midway fight, but of course he 
can't say.  I must go now.  Please get out my last letter before this and
answer my questions about what you want sent and where and by what transportation
and how addressed (I'm not sure we have a booklet of the ca
camp or last summer's address).  I'm so glad you and Alan had such a 
pleasant and profitable month together.  And happy that he plans a visit
home; can't you come too?
Bushels of love. Your father is better.  Deanie











Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.