THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS

Reunion
CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE.

crust of Hollywood smugness among 
the men he calls the salt of the earth.
Old-Timers Show Grit.
One of the things Rogers meant was 
demonstrated when j. A. Low of 
Doole, 61, one of the old-timers, after 
having roped his calf, broke  his own 
leg while throwing the critter to the 
ground.  Low didn't quit but hog-tied 
his calf while sitting down before he 
would allow himself to be carried  
from the arena.
With big delegations due Thursday 
from Dallas and other Texas cities, 
Stamford's steets on the Fourth of 
July are going to be hard to navigate, 
as the crowds on the second day already 
have made a beehive of t his 
beautiful, bright city of the Plains.
Official high point of the day's program 
was the election of new officers 
of the Texas Cowboys' Reunion Association, 
made up of grizzled veterans 
of the cow country.  Clyde Burnett of 
Benjamin was made president; Walk 
Cousins of Dallas and Lewis Ackers of 
Abilene, vice-presidents; Claude Jeffers, 
Matador, range boss; Judge C. E. 
Coombes of Stamford, secretary-treasurer; 
J. V. Hudson, Haskell, horse 
wrangler; F. G. Alexander, Haskell, 
wagon boss, and Fred Franklin, Guthrie, 
wagon cook.  Directors are Uncle 
Johnny Gist, Odessa, chairman and 
retiring president; Frank Rhoades, 
Throckmorton; W. B. Mitchell, Marfa; 
John C. Burns, Fort Worth; Tom Burnett, 
Iowa Park; W. C. Goodman, 
Breckenridge; John Davis, Throckmorton; 
J. V. Hudson,Haskell; G. F. 
Ratliff, Midland; Dayton Moses, Fort 
Worth; A. J. Swenson. Stamford; Tom 
Ballord, Haskell; W. W. Brunson, 
Midland; John L. Darrouzet, Galveston; 
George Humphrey, Guthrie, and 
John Tourbeville, Archer City.
Rogers yells Approval.
The first anyone knew that Will 
Rogers had come to town was when 
he yelled approval at a cowpony and 
hand during the morning contest of 
cutting out calves from a herd.
"This is the real thing," Will declared, 
glancing about at the dusty, 
big-hatted, happy crowd under the 
broiling sun.
Tex Moore, gray haired but with 
twinkling blue eyes, has an exhibit of 
his paintings in the Stamford Inn.  
He is a natural painter, never had a 
lesson in his life, but his realistic 
canvases of the great outdoors are 
being gathered up by shred collectors.
Tex is frankly contemptuous of modernistic 
art of all kinds.  His genius 
for color and composition hold the 
eyes long on his works.  Man may try 
to copy but he can never improve on 
God's beauty and grandeur, he declares.
Started Paining for Fun.
He began fooling with paint and 
brush to amuse himself during one 
winter while snowed up on his ranch 
in Colorado.  He was surprised when 
an Easterner offered to pay $150 for a 
painting.  This same canvas sold for 
$3,000, he was told.
Among the shuffling, laughing 
crowds of veteran cowmen and their 

women folks who packed the bunkhouse, 
official headquarters of the association, 
Wednesday night during the 
square dances, John Lomax was to be 
found, pencil in hand.  What he was 
trying to get was an old square dance 
called the "Prophet's Special," being 
called by Judge Charles Coombes, 
general attorney for the Swenson cattle 
interests, the former president of 
the West Texas Chamber of Commerce.  
The Judge's head is nearly as 
full of old rag songs as are Lomax's 
notebooks.
As the fiddles squealed, the guitars 
strummed, and the spry old couples 
whirled and smiled, the Judge's call 
went out.
"First old boy across the ring, circle 
to the left with a pigeon wing, swing 
your opposite with a right-hand swing.  
Swing your corner with a left-hand 
swing.  Swing your partner with a 
right-hand swing.  Swing your opposite 
with a two-hand swing.  Treat 
your corner just the same.  Swing 
your partner and everybody swing.  
Round up equal till you all get 
straight.  Swing your corner like 
swinging on a gate.  Swing your partner 
and pull your freight."
And swing their partners they did

while cheers broke from the throats 
of Governor, other honor guests, 
tanned sons and daughters of the 
open range and city folks come to 
enjoy the fun.
Boy Riders Score.
But old-timers and honor guests are 
not the whole show at the Stamford 
reunion.  An exhibition of daring 
and riding ability was given by 
three boys, Bob Estes, 14, of Baird; 
Bill Gist, 15, of Abilene, and Claude 
McAden, 14, of Abilene.  They forked 
wild Brama steers in competition with 
the tophands so well that McAden 
took first prize at the first night's performance 
and Estes fourth place.
These boys who have been riding 
steers and working cattle since they 
were 8, make down their bed rolls together 
under the stars near the S.M.S. 
churckwagon every night. 
Although the rodeo contestants are 
not quite as slick in the arena as the 
professional rodeo performers to be 
seen at the Fat Stock Show in Fort 
Worth, the contests here are more significant 
because the spectator realizes 
these boys also mend fences, ride herd, 
brand calves and make the cow industry 
click instead of spending all 
their time practicing tricks with a rope 
or twisting a cow critters neck.
If the management of the reunion 
will keep the program in the arena as 
true to the real range as it now is and 
not try to imitate the stunts of effete 
arenas or the big cities, they will be 
doing much to perpetuate the growing 
fame and success of their annual cowboy 
gathering.
Winners of prizes for best entries in 
main reunion parade held during the 
day were:  S. M. S. Ranch, Spur, chuck 
wagon with four matched buckskin 
mules, most typical ranch exhibition; 
individual entry, J. E. Jackson Jr., 
horse and buggy; juvenile entry, Billy 
Bob Looney of Fort Worth.


Spend Wisely, 
Governor Says

- Associated Press WIREPHOTO.
ALF M. LANDON.
TOPEKA, Kan., July 3 (AP). - Gov. 
Alf M. Landon has balanced Kansas' 
budget and his Republican friends 
hope he will get a chance o tackle 
national finances  "Apply business 
principles to Government and don't 
spend money that is not available," 
the presidential prospect says.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.