Route 4
Burlington, N.C.
January 8, 1942
Dear Alan:
Since I wired you last night, I've decided to drive to Washington 
this coming Monday, arriving sometime in the early afternoon of that day.
I'll telephone you when I get in. Margaret will be with me.
I was saving the Curriculum Vitae, which you wrote me Spivacke
wanted, until you got here, for advice and hilarity. But I reckon it's not
such a serious matter as all that, and I'm enclosing it, in case Dr. Spivacke
wants to see it before he sees me. 
Elon College is a bit more promising now than it seemed likely to
be when I last saw you, and I've decided to resume teaching there on January
19th, when the new semester begins and my leave ends. But only for that one
semester; I am sure the college is no place for real functioning in war-time,
and so far in my life I haven't done much compromising with reality in the job. 
So I'm not only grateful to you for Spivacke's request and god knows what else,
but also still quite earnest about finding my new function, if possible with
you. As a matter of fact, I can still ditch Elon immediately if there is 
something more important to do.
"Dear Mister President" sounds interesting, and certainly a step
forward for the documentary. I hope to have some good transcripts for you. 
Incidentally, the day before your telegram came - and after your letter from
Key West, indicating no [new] immediate developments on the documentary front - I got
off a letter to Mrs. Roosevelt, asking for an appointment for you [?] and
me sometime during the week of January 12th. Unless you have already seen
her[e] about our projects, or unless you think we need no immediate assistance
from her, I'd suggest that we let the appointment stand and give her a [?]
chance to hear some of the recordings. I haven't had a reply from her yet.
If your judgement is different - and you know the situation better than I - 
will you wire me so I can call off the appointment or postpone it indefinitely?
Best telegraph address for me is WesternUnion, Burlington, N.C., not Elon College,
where the station agent takes half a day to peck out and decipher a telegram,
and another day or so to get it to me.
Yours,
[Fletcher?]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.