COPY
CADWALADER, WISHERSHAM & TAFT
14 Wall Street, New York
May 1, 1941
George P. Brett, Jr. Esq.
President, The Macmillan Company,
60 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
Re Lomax
Dear Mr. Brett:
Mr. Garmaize, the attorney for Edward B. Marks Music Corporation, has, I believe, shown every evidence of wishing to be reasonable and co-operative as far as the Macmillan Company is concerned in connection with the controversy between his client and Stasny Music Corporation in connection with the publication in AMERICAN BALLADS AND FOLK SONGS of the song "Alla en el Rancho Grande". I think that the release and waiver to your Company which Mr. Garmaize and his client have proposed and which I recently sent you, indicates this. My feeling, therefore, is that it will be the courteous thing and perhaps the useful thing for us to comply, if possible, with his request as follows:
In a recent application to the Court made by Mr. Garmaize for a summary judgment in this controversy, the Court declined to grant the relief merely on the presentation of the letters which you recently obtained from the Lomaxes, father and son, to the effect that while they formerly thought that the song referred to, published by you, was in the public domain, now they are not so sure. The Court indicated that this was not the proper kind of evidence but that this view of the Messrs. Lomax should be presented in the form of affidavits. Accordingly, Mr. Garmaize now asks us to ask you to ask the Messrs. Lomax to execute affidavits in the form enclosed or with such changes as they may wish to make for the sake of accuracy, for submission by him in a future application to the Court for the relief of a summary judgment. I have checked these proposed affidavits with the recent letters written to you by the Messrs. Lomax and they appear to be in harmony with the statements there made.
I hope you will feel that you can forward these proposed affidavits to the Messrs. Lomax and suggest to them that they execute them, with appropriate changes if necessary, for the purpose mentioned, and to return them to you. At the same time it might be useful for you to briefly describe to the Messrs. Lomax what would seem to be the spirit of co-operation by Mr. Garmaize concerning the present and future editions of AMERICAN BALLADS AND FOLK SONGS.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) Walbridge S. Taft

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.