Dr. Alan Lomax   2   January 21, 1939
   Then several spoke up to say, "But he does have them on plates."
   My answer was that that was the only way that they could be transcribed 
faithfully but that there was no ulterior motive in "writing them
down."
The interview ended in an entirely friendly spirit and I was assured
that I might return to their services whenever I wished but they insisted
once more that I nor anyone else would ever be permitted to use the
hymns for broadcasting on the radio.  I am describing this bit of conversation 
rather in detail because I think it will give you a clearer idea
of the kind of opposition I am meeting and trying to overcome.
During the conversation on of the members asked me whether I believed
that these tunes were divinely inspired or given by the Holy Spirit.
Naturally I could not commit myself on that question for fear of offending
them, but I called their attention to the fact that the Ausbund itself
stated that some of the hymns were to be sung to such tunes as "Ein
Bluemlein auf der Heide," or "Es ging ein Maedchen mit einem Krug."
The chief song leader spoke up quickly to say, "But we don't use those
tunes."
Mrs. Umble and I have been wondering whether there is not another reason
for their unwillingness to do further recording.  It is altogether possible
that they have given you practically all of the tunes with which they
are really familiar.
I have succeeded in interesting a young friend of mine in the Amish 
hymns and hymn tunes.  He is making a study of this material in connection
with graduate study in music at Northwestern University.  I am hoping that
that will give him sufficient background for tracing the German folklore
origin background of these hymns so that we can learn whence they are derived.
Since I have begun my study I have found that several of our younger men
have tried to do some work with the hymns, but all of them have had the
same difficulty which you have experienced.  You have reasons to congratulate 
yourself most heartily on your success.  No one else has ever been 
able to persuade two of these Amish hymn leaders to sit down before a
microphone and record their hymns.  I thank you for your suggestion about
the use of a recording devise.  I may be able to use it in this or in some
other Amish community.  I feel, however, that the Amish in this community
are probably as well able to help with these recordings as they would be
anywhere, provided, of course, that we can overcome their reluctance
and timidity.
I should like to make clear, if I have not already done so, that I do not
think their refusal to make the recordings is due to any mistake made by 
your wife and you in dealing with our Amish friends.  I speak their language
fairly well and understand something of their psychology but as you see from 
what I have written above, I also have a great deal of difficulty in gaining
and holding their confidence.
Very sincerely yours,
John Umble
JU:ds  John Umble


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.