8.

direction of the danger is defined and action
may be taken.

c.  Since the anxiety rumor is often "action compelling,"
one reason such rumors are transmitted so
readily is that there is great danger in ignoring 
them.  However they start, their transmission is 
often assured by the fact that failure to accept
them may involve great threat to the wellbeing of
the group. 

Example:  During the first days of the current war
air raid rumors swept the country from coast to 
coast.  In some instances, they were endorsed
by officials through their own ignorance; in others
they were not.  But the important fact remains
that if they had been true, great damage
and loss of life might have resulted had they not
been heeded.  Accordingly, rather than risk this
possibility, people acted as though a raid were
actually coming.  This, of course, merely reenforced 
the conviction that there really was danger,
and so reports spread like wildfire through 
both official and unofficial channels.

Many rumors, which superficially appear to be wishful
or hostile, may actually be motivated by deeper anxiety.
It may be, in fact, that these rumors serve as 
mechanisms for controlling or allaying anxiety.

a.  Wish rumor motivated by anxiety.

Example:  In the early part of 1915, when England's 
military position was particularly precarious,
there appeared in England the rumor
that Russia was sending huge reenforcements to 
the western front.  Although totally false, it 
was widely accepted.  It would appear then that
this rumor served to allay a widespread anxiety
over the course of the war.  It is not suggested
that this rumor was deliberately spread, but
merely that it met a widespread need in the individual
British for escaping their own fears.

b.  Aggressive rumor motivates by anxiety.

Example:  Most of the covert rumors circulating 
in Germany about Hitler and the Gestapo reveal
unmitigated hostility.  Actually both Hitler and
the Gestapo are greatly feared in Germany, and
it seems not unlikely that many of these rumors
are basically motivated by fear.

Again, on this more complex level of motivation we may

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.