The INSTITUTES...
1. Singing Games Institute...
A rich variety of folk play from pioneer days will be surveyed.  These "play party games" are genuine fun, are immediately usable and popular with young people everywhere, yet are of sufficient variety and interest for advanced groups.  Many newly recorded figures will be presented to the public for the first time during the week.
Southern States - Five Tinkers - The Miller - Swing on the Corner - Alabama Girl - Yonder She Comes - Jump Josie - Girl Behind You - Jubilee - All Night Long - U-tang - Round Town Girls - Kreely Kranky - Old Joe Clark.  American Mid-west - Bingo - Brown-eyed Mary - Come My Love - Down the River - Four in a Boat - Jennie Crack Corn - Jim Along Josie - Needle's Eye - Old Brass Wagon - Oh Susanna - Paw Paw Patch - Promenade the Hall - Shoo Fly - and others.
This week is also designated as RECREATION IN CHURCHES WEEK.  Special conferences will be held for representative leaders of the social life of youth in churches.
2. Folk Dancing Institute...
Two dozen carefully chosen folk dances of universal popularity and which are within the capacity of amateur leaders will be used.  Emphasis will be placed upon careful instruction, appreciation of folk qualities, and joyous participation.
American - Alabama Circle Dance - Kentucky Set Running - Soldier's Joy - Virginia Reel - Barn Dance Schottisch - Rustic Reel.  European - Carrousel - Gustaf's Toast - Napoleon - Petronella - Rosalil - Paul and His Chickens - The Thief - Weave the Wadmal - French Reel - Seven Maids - Ace of Diamonds - Little Man in a Fix - Tantoli - and others.
Members with previous experience or who plan to stay for the next two weeks may study Advanced Folk Dancing under the special direction of Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Smith.  Danish, English Country, Morris, and Sword Dances will be stressed.
3. Square Dance Institute...
Skilled leaders in old-time dancing will instruct in the techniques of quadrille and square dancing.  Practise in prompting and calling, sources of music, and detailed descriptions of all dances will be emphasized.
New England - Grand Marches and Mixers - Sicilian Circles - Portland Fancy - Basquet Quadrille - Money Musk - Lady of the Lake - Hull's Victory - Pop Goes the Weasel - Jigs, Reels, and Hornpipes.  Mid-west - Chase the Squirrel - Cur off Six - Dip and Dive - Elbow Swing - Log Cabin - Right and Left Six - Star Promenade.  Great Smoky Mountain Dances - Georgia Rang-Tang - Black Snake Twist - Raise the Window - Open Tunnel - Wagon Wheel - Grape Vine Twist - Double Bow Knot - Roll the Barrel - The Twirl - and others.
During the third week special emphasis is to be placed upon RURAL RECREATION.  Recreational leaders confronted with rural problems will meet for special lectures and discussions.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.