Mr. Eugene Katz        July 17, 1942

Eugene Horowitz

Notes on Rumor Survey Proposals

From my present point of view rumor is a channel (medium)  
of communication.  It differs from other channels chiefly in that it is 
more widespread, it is much more difficult to record for later analysis,
it is more susceptible to distortion of content, and it is more significant 
as an index of the psychic state of the nation, or any part of the nation. 

In the light of the belief in the importance of rumor analysis 
and the past history of the efforts to arrange for continuous study on 
a sound basis, the present suggestion of a Bureau Survey on Rumors 
should be considered most carefully.  The Bureau Survey should be designed 
to shed light on important propositions; e.g.,  In an atmosphere 
of silence, that which is said may carry undue weight or influence; 
disunity of opinion varies inversely with the availability of clear-cut 
information. ("Disunity of opinion" here means more than confusion; 
it is meant to emphasize obstructionist aspects of the opinions which 
circulate.) The Bureau Survey should provide significant information 
concerning rumors now circulating. The Bureau Survey should provide 
the basis for policy formulation. The Bureau Survey should provide the 
basis for evaluating the importance of a continuing rumor study. 

The Tyroler-Grabbe proposal differs in primary orientation 
as to what a rumor is. Despite the difference, the collection of orally 
transmitted rumors is provided for. Because of the difference, check 
of orally transmitted rumors against other media is made more easy. It 
is a coherent, integrated, well-planned outline. 

Eugene Katz's draft of an outline introduces difficulties. 
Emphasis on "unverified and untrue" nature of rumor produces problem. 
Things may be true though unverified, things may be apparently verified 
but still untrue, things at time of circulation may be untrue but become 
true. "Shotgun" collection of rumors (all types) would prevent 
parallel progress of analyses by media and Sources Division; would make 
careful analysis of data with limited staff most difficult. (See the 
efforts at analysis of Chicago and Boston rumors -- could they be satisfactorily 
compared, broken down, used?). Limited rumor collection would 
serve purposes of Bureau Survey.

To test the point raised in Don Bussey's memorandum to Du Bois 
and satisfy the outline of Purposes of Bureau Survey above, I would 
suggest using the Tyroler-Grabbe outline on two subjects instead of one.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.