Philadelphia Office       Report made August 14, 1942
Rumor Report- Week of August 3,1942
28. If Russia is defeated, Stalin is going to fly to the U.S.
and take the apartment Harry Hopkins had in the White House. Hopkins
is going to retire from public life and he and his wife are going to
live on a ranch in Alberta, Canada, which was given to him by the Prince
of Wales for helping to get the United States into this war.
(Story picked up in Harrisburg and Philadelphia from members of
middle class country club set).
***
B. Rumors Relating to the Armed Forces
1. American fighter planes are inferior to Japanese and English {*2*]
 fighter planes.
Philadelphia--8/3/42. College student.
2. The Garand Rifle is no good. I heard a lot of our boys
had to use knives against the Japs, because the new Garand Rifle
wouldn't work in the field.
Philadelphia--8/3/42. Middle class professional man. Above average
 intelligence.
3. Navy Commissions are easy to get if you know the right
people, or live on the "Main Line." It isn't right. A decent, capable,
ordinary citizen doesn't have a chance. This Navy outfit is nothing
but a big country club, made up of Philadelphia's most socially 
prominent citizens.
Philadelphia-- 8/3/42. Insurance company manager. Very intelligent.
4. It's easy to see what they're trying to do. These Roosevelt
haters around here are filling the Army and Navy with officers who are
rabid reactionaries, or who come from nests of Republican conservatives.
They know what they're doing. If the war goes against us, they'll use
it as an excuse to throw out the Administration in a military coup,
which, even now, I believe is being designed by those 9 day wonders.
Philadelphia--8/3/42. Business executive. Above average intelligence.
5. Is it true that the Government is going to evacuate civilians
from certain districts on the Atlantic Coast?
Philadelphia--8/2/42. Above average intelligence. Not known personally.
6. President Roosevelt sent MacArthur to Australia, so that he
wouldn't become so popular and outshine him.
Harrisburg--8/7/42. Middle class business executive.
-5-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.