10.

Thus, as we have already seen in our discussion of
the action-compelling rumor, an anxiety rumor may
be accepted because of the danger in ignoring it. 
Generally, we may say that this "threat to security"
will be great as need for action and environmental
danger are at hand.

Given these three variables, we may state the following.

a.  When evidence is conclusive, belief will be determined
according to the weight of evidence.

Example:  A story to the effect that an American
aircraft carrier had been sunk would likely be 
accepted because such a loss, amply precedented,
is highly probable under the present conditions
of war.  On the other hand, a story that a British 
army is marching on Berlin would not be accepted
because the weight of evidence makes such
a condition extremely unlikely.

b.  When evidence is lacking or equivocal, then belief
will tend to be determined by subject motivation, 
i.e., wish or threat to security.

1.  Wish will tend to dominate so long as danger
is remote and action is not required by 
the acceptance of the rumor.

Example:  So long as Germany did not attack
the countries in the west, there were widespread
wish rumors in France.  The German
army was reported in rebellion, its equipment 
said to be inadequate, the Maginot 
Line impregnable, etc.  Similarly, here in
America, during the early stages of the war
in Europe, rumors were largely of the wishful
sort.

2.  Threat to security will tend to dominate
belief when danger is proximate and action required
in the acceptance of the rumor.

Example:  Once Germany struck in the west,
widespread anxiety rumors put in their appearance.
Cities evacuated long before 
necessary, defeat was rumored before it 
actually was accomplished, etc.  Here the 
threat was proximate and the rumors were
of the action-compelling variety. Hence
belief was determined by threat to security.

VII.  What conditions will dispose a group to rumor communication?

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.