7.
months has convinced me that Negroes are not 
only thoroughly disillusioned with the New Deal but profoundly suspicious of the defense program and the 
motives behind it. I think that a library of Congress program 
or programs on the Negro's contributions to American culture 
in both hemispheres would help to clear the air a good deal.
The program should take such a stand as to make the Negroes
feel that they are not being condescended to and the
Southerners feel that the program is not being written
by "nigger-lovers." Such a program would naturally be rich
with music and folk-lore of all sorts, but it should also
have interviews with successful Negroes in this country and
include dramatizations of the lives of great Negroes on both
continents. It should certainly not shun the problems that
have faced and still face the Negro people in [both halves of]
the hemisphere. Herskovitz was decorated by the Haitian
governemt because of the honesty and tact of his treatment
of "Life in a Haitian Valley."
m) It has been suggested that [really] the most profound
vein of American lore lies in the humorous story and I do not
feel that this opinion is amiss. There are several possibilities
here it seems to me. 1) A fine ad lib program could be
built by bringing together for a night a week the five or six
bext story tellers of Washington for fan 
exchange of stories. 20 The material might be given a good
deal more force and point by conducting an investigation into
the backgrounds of American humor. For example a direct thrust
might be made at Hitler by bringing together a group of Jews to
tell the best Jesish stories they knew, Negroes to tell stories
on Negroes, Irish on the Irish, radiomen on the radiomen,
Texans on the Texans, etc...
The list of programs can be expanded but I have set
down here a series of examples of various types of programs
that might be developed from the [ideas that I discussed
in] generalities on the first pages of this memorandum. [I
hope that I have been able to make clear in these examples
what I wanted to say in the first few pages of the moo and]
I hope I have been able to show how the folk-lorists approach
can motivate a cultural program in time of war. When the basis
premises have been accepted, namely:
1) That the meaning of tradition in folklore
is a process of democratic choice by a whole people.
2) That in American folklore this is all the more
clear because of the experince of the people in actually making
a democracy work.
3) and that , therefore, there is no better material
for a cultural defense of democracy than lies in
the tradition of American folk lore.
then I believe the
ideas [as] outlined here will be seen to the
logical and proper consequences of these premises.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.