meeting, besides the displays of pioneer and folksy things, and the exhibition 
of square and other folk dances, was the contribution of student papers, as 
per the suggestion made last fall when the program was being planned with 
the TSCW faculty. About thirty short papers w ere selected from nearly two hundred on lore, customs, ghost stories, etc. Singsongs were an additional feature. Mody Boatright is the new president.

Last weekend I went over to Commerce to make a talk at a Delta 
Kappa Gamma dinner. There I saw some thirty of my former colleagues and friends 
and had a general good time with the exception of the twenty minutes when I 
was on the floor, or on the spot. Returned Sunday morning.

Dr. Fred and Jimmie, as you may have heard, flew to Philadelphia to 
see Dr. Canon; Shirlyey saw them in Fort Worth en route. They returned through Dallas,but we were away at the folklore meeting. Josephine and Virginia took care of the children while we were gone; it seems to have been a mutually satisfactory arrangement; Susan and Barbara had such a good time that Susan stayed two nights more, and the Lieut. Commr. asked us to let her stay longer. 
Meantime Shirley had arrived. We expected your Aunt Alice, whom John P. was to bring up with him, but she wrote the trip did not materialize; she herself 
isn't well; has some kind of allergy and a sort of hayfever.

We have had some work done on the house,-repairs and tightening up; 
pillar supports among other things. Today we are having a new roof put on. 
When the workmen started to repair ,the shingles came of like tissue paper 
and there wasn't anything to do except reroof,- except for one or two sections that get the sun to dry them off quickly.

I'm wondering how you celebrated your anniversary. Did Johnny re-present the family silver? I received an invitation yesterday to the wedding of 
my nephew, Ben Stover, who is an ensign in the Navy. He is marrying a Chicago girl of Italian descent, a Catholic. I like her letters very much; she will make him a good balance wheel, I think.

Alan wrote that he thought an appropriation for a recording trip 
was going through. I don't see how our tires are going to hold out for a long trip but that's not my business. I had hoped that we could spend our time now on putting the book together. We sent on the 250 word spiel for the advance 
sales talk yesterday. I don't think that Alan knows what he will do as regards service. Mrs. Harold telephoned me last week; she said that Elizabeth[e] was worried about it; said Alan might go into Facts and Figures with MacLeish.

Keep us informed. Hart's wife called us on their way to Denver, 
but by that time, she couldn't come out as she had intended; she had received 
no answer to [?] earlier. I hope they had a good trip.

Let us know how things are with you. I wish Shirley had gone by 
to see you, but she has been upset most of the time. She went by bus on her trip to M. and had a terrible time,-- crowds and bad weather and uncomfortable 
seats and baggage left behind, etc. She also has ahead of her the prospect of 
a lot of dental work, but maybe that will take her mind off Chris a bit .

This is goodbye for this time sure enough. Come to see us, both of 
you. The house will not leak anymore and we can have some vessels to cook with. How are you progressing with your plumbing lessons, Margaret?
Lots of love.
Deanie

[*Mis*] Mrs. Shumate had an experience re:plumbing. She has added a new section to her house ,requiring additional plumbing. She thought the bid 
she received too high; so Mr. Shumate and a friend undertook to do the 
work; the bidder complained to the city, an inspector came out, and the city 
made Mr.Shumate take out the whole business beacuse it wan't done by a licensed plumber.

[*Dr. Fred [?] fine, Shirley said. Dr. Neighbors has found his trouble -- not enough [?], as had [?] with excellent results.*]

[*A Fall publication*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.