RCA His Master's Voice
RCA MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.
A RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA SUBSIDIARY
Camden, New Jersey
July 12,  1940
Mr. Alan Lomax
Music Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Lomax:
Our Mr. Wetherald has shown me some of your recent letters to him and
discussed to some extent your opinion of me as you have gathered it
from letters which I have recently written not only  to you but to
Mr. John Lomax. I should like very much to have an opportunity to
sit down and talk to you about these matters, and I think you would
gather a more favorable impression of me and my motives.
I have written Mr. John Lomax offering to pay the royalty you suggested
on all 12 of the selections recently recorded and which he was instrumental
in collecting for the publisher, MacMillan. We have not had
time to hear from him, but we hope he will accept the plan.
As to the matter connected with the selection "Oh Didn't He Ramble",
I have no objection at all to paying you for your trouble in looking
up this matter for us, as I have already told you. It so happens,
however, that the information which you have so far supplied has not
been as helpful as I had hoped it would be, as any time I have found
the references which you supplied as to the "Ram of Derby", or other
titles, I have been disappointed in that the tune has been different
from the familiar refrain of the song "Oh Didn't He Ramble". I feel
quite certain that this familiar tune "Oh Didn't He Ramble" was not new
in 1902 when the first publication of the song took place. What the
tune was called before 1902, I do not know, nor do we have any definite
proof that our surmise is correct. With respect to obtaining definite
evidence of this, I thought you by your vast experience in this type of
material would undoubtedly be able to put your finger on something
definite, and I am still hoping that this will be the case.
We trust that the foregoing will at least explain our position, and I
should like to know whether you think there are other references which
will be helpful to us, and if so, whether you care to supply us with
additional information. I should like to hear from you along these
lines at your earliest convenience.
Very truly yours,
HC Darnell
hcd-w  Manager of Copyright Section.
"GO RCA ALL THE WAY"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.