This series can be amplified and extended almost
endlessly. Two additional ones come to my mind almost at
once: 1. A book called "Swing Your Partner" with tunes,
figures and rhythm calls for square dances, which are growing
in popularity again by leaps and bounds all over the country
and which evidently will be put on at camp entertainments.
2. "Weevily Wheat", a book of games and play-party
songs with directions, to serve the same purposes.

II. PLANS FOR EVENINGS OF ENTERTAINMENT.

Evenings of song swapping, storytelling and simple
dramatization of both of these can be planned for the Camps
all over the country. Every Camp should have occasional
festival of regional song and story. Phamplets of simple
dramatizations and suggestions should be published to motivate
these evenings.

A series of movies, having to do with the Folk Music
of various typical American communities should be planned in
connection with this general cultural program. These movies
should further develop the theme of a common democratic cultural
ideal by actually showing the function of music in the
hands of ordinary people in ordinary communities.

This program with require the following creative staff:

1. A general editor, 2. A music editor, 3. A stenographer,
4. A field research man, to record in the camps, the songs and
the lore of the conscription and to check up no the success of
the folk lore morale program and also make suggestions for
the field or it's amplifications. 5. A field crew of entertainers
to tour the camps and furnish the initial stimulus for
camp programs based on this material and to plug the song books.
Such a field crew should consist of a group of expert folk singers
and musicians, led by a field director capable of introducing
them, developing dramatizations with the group and so on.

In order for this creative program to function successfully
with the Archive, the already serious deficiency of Archive
staff will have to be remedied. We already need, in order to
keep up with current business, a cataloguer, a folklorist, a
musicologist and a permanent stenographer. This does not provide
for any field workers to keep fresh material pouring into
the Archive from the field. We need four (4) full time field
workers ( Ireland has 25) to make records and direct the work
of other ametuers in the various regions of the United States.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.