1.

One of my correspondents of twenty-five years ago sent me the letter which 
follows. In his Chisholm Trail song Mr. J. Grigsby travels this famous cattle 
route from Texas to Kansas and on to Montana and the Dakotas. In additionto
the light thrown on life on the cattle trail, Mr. Grigsby's song holds special 
interest for me. I spent my boyhood on a cattle ranch on the Bosque River
twenty miles north of Valley Mills where the first stampede happened and where 
"one of the boys bought a hat". In following the stampeding cattle his hat 
blew off and could not be found. Mr. Grigsby writes:

Your editorial in the S.W.F. of April 15th was very interesting
to me. You have got the cowboy down about right. In the spring 
of '78 I worked on the ranch at Goliad, Texas, for Joe Taylor. It 
was just after the smoke cleared between the Taylors and the 
Suttons. I saw several old battle fields in the post oaks around 
the town. Look like wood chucks had been pecking. Big Foot Wallace
and John Wesley Hardin was still in the minds of the people then.
I will send you the song. I composed on the trail as best I can
collect it together. We considered it a dull day's drive if we 
did not add a verse to our song. I see in May the first of South
Western Farmer you solicit data from old cowboys to put in book 
form. I would want one when you get them redy. We sung Lula and 
one we called Idaho, but this is the only one I ever herd composed 
on the Chisum traile. You will see from this song we had a rough 
night on Bosque. One of the boys come up hatless and never could 
find it. Bouth one in Valley Mills. We had some very interesting 
times. However if you had trained night horse you felt pretty 
safe. Grey Dog or Blue Dog were our favoret color or naimes. The
old cowboys were a big hearted bunch of fellows and as long as I 
live I will always have a warm spot in my heart for them.

Later Mr. Grigsby sent me a second revised copy of the song and another letter 
which read:

Kind Freind: You will see that I have improved on the song some. 
I would be glad to have you with us at the Old Settlers Reunion which 
comes off the first of July. If you can come, let me know and will
have your name placed on the program to make us a cowboy talk. 
Hoping you success--will assist you in every way possible. Your Freind

P.S. Would you care if I had this song published in the paper? When the 
gun went off in the Littlefeild herd the horses was nocked down and 
the rider lay close to his side till he shot his gun that winged them 
both out and had he not shot the would trampled him and the horse 
to death. They were pretty badly bunged up. I shook my slicker to 
wing them off a bluff, it seemed to me was forty feet and they had

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.