   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

    I sometimes wonder why I wrote out  the music for the songs
in this book, because, for the most part the folks that will
like the songs best will be folks that can't read a note. But
don't be bashful; just slam away at the old tune best's you can,
and if you don't hit the right note - why, who's to say that the
one you hit ain't as good as the one wrote down?
    Good many of the melodies were transcribed right down from
victrola records; some of them commercial records, some of them in the Archives of; some were written down by others some of which
were incomplete or weren't there at all, Woody and me just made
em up as best we could. Most of the tunes are straight old
american folksongs, as pure as they come, and some are modern 
popular songs. You'll notice that most folks, when they want to
make up a union song, use old familiar songs, whole cloth, or
pieced together, or twisted around to put their new words to.
    By way of explanation: You'll notice I didn't write out any
sort of piano part. Partly 'cause I didn't know how to, partly because
it wouldn't necessarily sound so good, partly because a 
lot of folks haven't got pianos to play on even if it was written
so it sounded good.  Also, it was [?]. But up above the notes there's some tricky
little diagrams, which I'll now take some time out to explain:
a)  This here is the fingering for
a guitar, if you want to chord
along on it. The top 4 strings fit a uke.
b)  This means you play in C major, and
if you are playing chords on any
other instrument, you follow this 
letter to the right of the diagram.
c)  This here means you play a A chord
with an extra note - the 4th in the
D scale stuck into it.
d)  These are the notes you sing, if you
can read them.
e)  General instructions: loud enough
so the fellow next door can hear
you.

These
marks means
keep on playing the
same chord - when you
don't see
'em stop.

My boss has fleas.

Yrs. Respectfully
Pete



















Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.