Straws in Wind of Texas Culture
By J. Frank Dobie

No, my children, I have no story
to tell this week.  I have to plead
again the cause of your rights to your
own stories, your own pictures, the
memories of your own land.  But
next week I'll tell you a coyote story.
At this annual meeting last week the
Texas State Historical Association
passed a resolution asking the regents
of the University of Texas to
take action to build upon the campus
a Texas Center - a building designed
to house the precious records, printed,
pictorial and manuscripts, pertaining
to Texas.  Such a structure could be
designed to fit the climate and soil
of Texas.  It would look as if it belonged
to Texas.  In its furnishings
could go Texas woods.  The walls of
some of its rooms could illuminate
Texas characters, themes and events.
If designed, erected, fitted, filled and

putting tons of Italian marble in a
Texas Museum and making the west
side of it out of glass -- something
that might fit very well the bottom of a
canyon in Greenland's icy mountains.

Would Record Rebel Yell.
A letter from Walter E. Jonas, superintendent
of the Texas Confederate
Home at Austin, informs me that the
Daughters of the Confederacy want to
record the Rebel Yell.  The veterans
that are left now can't raise it in all
its lusty vigor. Where did it originate?
I have heard that Texans started
it, that it was pretty much a cowboy
yell, derived largely from the
Comanche war whoop. I wonder if it
is too late to get at the facts. An authentic
sound record of the Rebel
Yell would be a good deal more interesting
and valuable than the brayings
of some politicians who are so-

Davis. It is a novel about cotton, and
the author--dean of the North Texas
Agricultural College at Arlington--has
been a farmer. With strength born of
the earth, with humor that tempers
the fierceness of excoriation and with
a knowledge that plows far deeper
into the fields of cotton than into the
natures of his characters, Davis holds
the Scourge up between the winds
and against the sun until its bones
and sinews are as clear as the veinings
of a new elm leaf in bright light.
The nature of the Scourge is defined
in the introduction: The Southern cotton
fields have a greater affinity for
illiteracy and thriftlessness than the
corn fields and wheat fields of the
great Middle West. It doesn't require
as much intelligence to raise cotton in
Texas as it does to raise corn and feed
livestock in Iowa. The most serious

manity--black, white and Mexican--
subsisting on cotton. On cotton lowly
blacks, peonized Mexicans and moronic
whites subsist by the millions and
propagate like fruit flies. It is a biological
fact that human beings in the 
lower brackets of intelligence are
more prolific than those in the upper
brackets--and cotton while depleting
land goes on surfeiting society with
humanity in its lowest form.
Theme Never Dies.
Through the pages of the book
this theme, whether in the prophesying
of characters, revelation of the
tenant families or the bold outspeaking
of the author, never dies. "The
South is drifting steadily toward a
peasant type of agriculture doomed to
be infinitely worse than anything Europe
has ever known. It will be a
peasantry of the ignorant, the weak,
and simple--the ones left behind, a
peasantry from biological rejection,
the scum and dregs of humanity."
And Texas is, as respects cotton, the
most southern part of the South. To
grow more of it, the Mexican population
in Texas increased from about
70,000 in 1900 to about 250,000 in 1920.
The revelation of their peonage in its
starkness makes all of the modern
academic rage over Latin-Americanism
seem like bottled moonshine, reminding
one of Queen Marie Antoinette's
playhouse diary in the backyard
of the palace on the eve of the
French Revolution. It historians have
noted it, I have failed to find their
notation, but here is a picture of the
stampede of cotton planters to West
Texas in the opening years of the
present century that was an overwhelming
as the Ranger oil boom or
the rush for free land in Oklahoma in
1889.
The action leads from cotton--cotton
--cotton to the Legislature at Austin,
where an idealistic young legislator
introduces a birth control measure
providing for "the sterilization of imbeciles,
morons, inebriates, the viciously
diseased, and habitual criminals
lacking in mental balance."
Of course, that measure failed to
pass, but that way, Mr. Davis seems
to think, and that way only, lies the
salvation of our cotton country society.
The White Scourge is the most
powerful novel dealing with a Texas
problem that has ever been published.
A lot of people ought to read
it. It is issued by a Texas publisher
coming to have a civilized conception
of Texas culture--The Naylor Company
of San Antonio.
In the May issue of the Atlantic
Monthly John A. Lomax has an essay
on Will Hogg, Texan, that is one of
the most interesting, powerful and
pulling character sketches I have ever
read. It is full of anecdotes, some of
which make the tears scald. It bulges
with the humanity of a man who
fought for Texas humanity and for
the University of Texas--against self-seekers
and Jim Ferguson--with a
fierceness, picturesqueness and generosity
not paralleled in our state's
history. Would to God that Will Hogg
were with us today to lead in bringing
to Texas people their own cultural
inheritance! He added honor to
the name that Gov. Jim Hogg made
famous--the Jim Hogg who asked that
a pecan tree be planted at his grave
and that the pecans from it be given
to the people of Texas for planting so
that pleasant shade and good fruit
over the land might increase.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.