LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF MUSIC
Thursday.
Dear Miss Sanborn,
My best address from now on will be [in care] Library 
of Congress, Washington, D. C..  I can give you a weekend 
address later on.  The reason that my reply to your letter 
has been delayed is that it had to forwarded to me. 
The Chisholm Trail--P.     Cowboy Songs
Santa Anna  ----  This Singing Country( to be published this 
winter 
Ox Driving Song---  This Singing Country--
 Springfield Mountain--P.     Cowboy Songs
 Shoot the Buffalo---  P.  296, [Cowb] American Ballads and 
Folk Songs
 I Married Me a Wife--[By] This Singing Country
 Samson---  This Singing Country
The Cowboy's Lament---p.     Cowboy Songs
Tamp 'em Up Solid--- p.  17, American Ballads and Folk Son gs
The Boll Weevil---112,  American Ballads and Folk Songs
You will notice a couple of changes of title here.  Please let
them stand.  Pagination for This Singing Country is impossible. [to]
Before I left New York Mr. Levine assured me that there
would be no songs cut out of the manual copy [without] unless I
was consulted.  I note [then] that four songs have been omitted
from the list---Lolly-too-dum from the program entitled
Courting Songs;/Old Joe Clark from the program entitled Square
Dances;  The Lowdown Lonesome Low from Sailor's Songs;  The Grey
Goose from Negro Gang Songs.  I am absolutely opposed to the[se]
elimintation of these songs from the booklet and I hope that
it has been simply a piece of carelessness on someone's part
that they were not [insert] included.  Please bring this matter
to Mr. Levine's attention at once and ask him to write me
in regard to it.  Lolly too dum comes from This Singing Country
as does The Lowdown Lonesome Low,  Joe Clark, page 277, American
Ballads and Folk Songs;  The Grey Goose, page 242, American
Ballads and Folk Songs.  The fourth song was "The Boston Come-all
Ye" from Joanna Colcord's "Songs of American Sailormen" page.
188.  Miss Colcord can be reached at The Russell Sage Foundation
New York City.  She , however, does not own the copyright on
the songs in this book.  It belongs to W.W. Norton, whom she
suggested I contact myself.  Mr. Levine felt that your office
should handle the matter.  In writing Norton you can tell them
that Miss Colcord was delighted at the prospect of her material
on The American School of the Air.
Please let me know your final decision about[x] the four
songs I discussed above.
Sincerely yours,
Alan Lomax

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.