A complete catalogue of public misinformation would be quite startling.
What do people say about the war? What do they regard as the inside story?
What is the "informational" accompaniment to people's attitudes on the war effort?

Although continuously interested in the problems raised by rumor study, the
Bureau of Intelligence undertook a special survey and analysis August 3rd through
August 15th.  During this period intensive studies were made in Portland, Maine
and New Brunswick, New Jersey, by a small interviewing staff, and a nation-wide
round-up of rumors, utilizing the various field staffs of the Bureau and cooperating
agencies was completed.  This special study of rumor makes it possible to 
report a few generalizations concerning the nature of rumor and some observations
about the forms in which certain rumors are circulating.

In studying rumor it is important to evaluate the factors operating in the
individual who circulates the rumor as well as the situation in which the rumor
is circulated.  Important factors in determining the motivations behind the
spreading of rumors are the rumor spreader's information, education status, 
degree of tension, and general sociability.  In the situation two factors, a
precipitating event and insufficient news, seem to be of the greatest importance.

Perhaps the most important discovery of this preliminary study was the 
evidence which tended to contradict the notion that rumors are found in greatest
abundance among the ignorant.  The lower the informational level of the person
interviewed, the fewer were the rumors reported by the interviewer.  Sixty-three
per cent of the well-informed people, in contrast to only twenty-five per cent
of the poorly informed, mentioned over six rumors. An analysis of the educational
background of the persons interviewed revealed the same tendency.  Those who had
high school backgrounds were more prolific in rumors than those who had never
attended high school, and college-trained people repeated more rumors than those
who had never attended college.  People under emotional tension tend to repeat
more rumors than phlegmatic individuals.  Three out of five people rated as tense
reported more than seven rumors as compared with two out of five among those who
were not tense who repeated this number.  People who participate widely in society
report more rumors than those who are socially isolated.  Sixty per cent of the
"sociable" people reported more than six rumors, in contrast to only twenty-eight
per cent of the isolated group.  Men, contrary to preconceptions, seem to tell
more rumors than women, though we cannot consider this a necessary sex difference,
for employed women circulate many more rumors than do housewives.  This difference,
too, is probably related to the informational status of an individual.

Concerning situational determinants, let us consider the case studies of two
rumor episodes provided by R.H. Knapp, of the Division of Propaganda Research in
the Massachusetts Committee of Public Safety:

The Queen Mary Episode
About the middle of March, the Queen Mary put into the Boston Harbor.  Her
arrival, stay, and departure were carefully censored from all newspapers and other
public media of information.  However, since she was plainly in view the news soon
spread by word of mouth and many people went down to the Harbor deliberately to
view the ship.  During the following period of two weeks, rumors began to appear.
Apparently with the precedent of the Normandie in mind, the following stories 
developed:

-1-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.