LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON

DIVISION OF MUSIC

Feb. 26, 1939.

Dear Dr. Spivacke,

Certainly my last letter to you did not convey my feeling 
about the Columbia phonograph matter. What I tried to do was to
ask your advice about that step I should take next. 
This is what happened. Not having been told that Columbia
was of a mind to present the Library with hill-billy and race
records, I went to Hammond who was the only person in the concern
I knew to be directly interested in the matter and made to him the
same proposition I have made to several officials of Columbia
before--i.e., that in return for free access to their factory 
files I would tell them what good folk song records they had.
Hammond then practically offered me the company and I was so surprised
that I wrote you to ask what to do about it. I shall certainly
call on Mr. Wise and Mr. Taylor next week to try to straighten
the matter out. 
I have sent off an airmail request for my Texas record 
and it will be in your hands shortly... The Presto letter turned
up among my papers yesterday and I am sorry you cannot take a
small bit of kidding. Of course I had no idea that it was on your
desk. I shall call on Presto next week and see if I can't fix
the matter up. ... I thought you might be interested to see the
Department of Labor letter.... Do you think you can use NYA help
in the Archive. The last person I saw in Washington was Aubrey 
Williams and he practically swore at me for not having asked the
NYA in on the folk song business. Would you like me to arrange to
see him when I come down this weekend.... I would not have wired
you about the travel order if I had not received a wire from
Mary LaDame. This led me to believe that she wanted action on
this appointment. I presume the Department of Labor is dearly 
concerned, and certainly it is pleasant to have them come to us 
for material. Please forward me a travel order for the train
trip down. I will come Thursday night or Friday morning early
and go back Saturday night or Sunday depending on how much there is
to do in Washington. At that time I can have Nonie Collett's records
duplicated and sent on to her. ... Elizabeth is much better,
but for a while she was quite sick and had to have steady nursing.

Best regards,
Alan
Alan

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.