-1-

XXXXXXXXXXX

John A. Lomax     XXXXX     to     Dr. Spivacke     XXXXX

Herewith I submit my report for the year ending June 30, 1937.

In reporting for 1935-36, brief mention was made of a trip in July 1936 to the mountains of North Carolina under the sponsorship of Professor Frank C. Brown of Duke University, and immediately thereafter a visit to the Washita Mountains in Arkansas in company with Professor Lawrence Powell of Little Rock. In North Carolina Professor Brown and I secured records of a hundred songs, all from white singers except a dozen of more Negro songs from a State Convict Camp at Boone, North Carolina. In her lonely mountain cabin several miles out from Mena, Arkansas, sat blind Mrs. Emma Dusenberry and later sang for Professor Powell and myself almost continuously for more than two days - a total of 83 songs. From no individual have I ever secured so great a number of tunes. Some months afterwards, Mrs. Sidney Robertson of the Special Skills Division of the Resettlement Administration visited Mrs. Dusenberry and recorded from her singing a dozen additional tunes which are to be added to the Folk-Song Archive. 

Again in Texas I recorded more Mexican melodies in San Antonio and vicinity. To Abilene and Lubbock and Waco, as well as in Austin and in Llano, I found and recorded many of the old breakdown tunes yet commonly used at cowboy square dances and at Frontier Day celebrations. Captured along with these dance tunes also were the chanted dance rhymed calls in great variety. Through the cooperation of Harold Preece, working for the Writers' Project in Texas, several folk singers were discovered in different sections of Texas, notibly Mrs. Minta Morgan of Bells, Texas, from whom during three separate visits I have recorded several unique songs, in all, more than fifty tunes. Mrs. Burges and her mother of Grand Saline likewise contributed some interesting material - more welcome additions from white singers. 

During the year I revisited twice Mrs. Genevieve Chandler, of Murrell's Inlet, South Carolina, for the seemingly unending supply of Negro spirituals that come from Heaven's Gate Church and its pastor, Reverend Aaron Pinnacle. Also I made second visits to Montgomery and Mobile, Alabama, to Parchman, Mississippi, to New Orleans (here I spent one entire day recording the singing of Creole tunes in a home for aged Negroes). A stay of three days in and around Jackson, Mississippi, yielded many tunes to the collection of Negro folk songs. But at Livingston, Alabama, around which lives a dense Negro population, a week's visit brought in 104 tunes. Such unusually fine results would have been impossible except through the hospitality and active aid or Mrs. Ruby Pickens Tartt, who knew the singers, went to the country after them in her car, and persuaded them to sing by her patient and considerate attention. I set up the machine in her home and there my wife and I worked happily for more than a week.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.