- 7 -

OREGON

Workmen themselves are the sources or rumors that
two or three do the work of one man in the shipyards.
Such tales have had foundation but are corrected when made known.  Workmen
also fostered a less widespread rumor that completed ships are ready for
sea but engines are unavailable.  Members of most groups discuss claim
that Britain has us do her fighting.  Anti-Administration elements, possibly
unwittingly, talk most frequently of the possibility that our
democracy will be lost in the war, and this group also makes claim that
our leaders are incompetent, and the Government is inept in conducting
the war.  Secretary Morganthau's speeches have helped dissipate talk that
the war will bankrupt the country.

PENNSYLVANIA

There are not many rumors as far as war is concerned
in Pittsburgh area, but they are rife in Philadelphia,
and take usual form of Axis propaganda against British and Russians.

RHODE ISLAND

Most rumors can be traced to Father Coughlin's
Social Justice.  Aside from this, no real rumors
exist in State.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Rumor-mongers have been meeting with scant success.
Public morale remains unshaken.  Rumors regarding
Pearl Harbor losses were prevalent for a time, but have now ceased.

SOUTH DAKOTA

Gossip intended to portray labor in a poor light,
although declining in volume, is still heard.
Purveyors of such gossip usually are declared union foes, persons strongly
isolationists before December 7 and politicians attempting to discredit
the Administration.  A typical story is one telling of a California
airplane worker who receives top wages for passing one small machine part
to another twice a day.

TENNESSEE

State is comparatively free of rumors.

TEXAS

Most rumors appear to be based on misunderstanding
of radio reports and messages received from Army
and Navy acquaintances, and circulated by simple folk who mean no damage.
The "We Want Action" movement has been nourished by rumors: rumors of
union atrocities holding up production; rumors of our armed forces suffering
from lack of equipment, etc.  These stories were probably inspired
by special interests, but have been accepted so completely because names
and addresses of persons with "union trouble" have been given.  A disturbing
rumor is that defense plants already do not have necessary materials
for production.  Another, and very persistent story, concerns the "true
damage to our fleet at Pearl Harbor."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.