and folk art a basis for much that has gone into their art forms.
These writers and composers have found that they grow in strength
as they come in contact with the age-old tradition of the folk.

The Institute is arranged with the interests of these four groups
of folklorists in mind. It consists of the following divisions: (a) The
Collecting of Folklore, (b) The Study of Folklore, (c) The Enjoyment
of Folklore, (d) Folklore in Literature and Art.

Collecting and Studying Folklore

Work of the Institute directed towards these two aims will be conducted
in regularly accredited University courses described below.

Presentation of Folklore

During the Institute there will be opportunities for observing, and
in some cases participating in, various forms of folk expression. It is
planned to have a series of social folk-dance programs with dance
callers and groups from the local countryside, weekly campus folk-sings,
displays of folk-art and design, displays of folk musical instruments,
photographs by folklore collectors, commercial records (demonstrations
and lectures), and special radio programs. The Department of Physical
Education for Women will also conduct classes in folk dancing and will
give public performances.

Folklore in the Arts

The use of folksong themes in art music will be illustrated in
concerts. A series of short plays based upon folk themes will be
presented. Consideration will also be given to the use of folklore in
literature and motion pictures.

Visiting Professors and Lecturers

Ralph Steele Boggs, who will conduct classes throughout the Institute,
is Professor of Romance Languages in the University of North
Carolina. His Index of Spanish Folktales established him as a competent
student of the folktale. Besides publishing a series of important
studies on the folktale, particularly of the Romance countries and of
America, he has taken chief responsibility for the bibliography of 
folklore studies of the western hemisphere. In line with the latter interest,
he has visited most of the leading folklorists in Latin America,
where he was sent on a grant from the American Council of Learned
Societies. He is director of the society, Folklore of the Americas.

Alan Lomax was born into an atmosphere of folksong. As a college
boy, he joined his father, John A. Lomax, in folksong collecting.

(3)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.