high lights . . .

   "Somewhere in the trail of her progress toward preparedness
for a teacher's career her high moment struck.
It was when Co-Ed Lexie Dean met Jack Robertson --
now one of the liveliest and most likeable business men
and Chamber of Commerce secretary in Texas or anywhere
else -- who undoubtedly must have been the red-haired
hero of the college days to whom Lexie Dean
Robertson has addressed one of her good short poems." --
Hilton R. Greer, Poets of Texas, The Evening Journal.

columnist . . . 

   "Lexie Dean Robertson's columns (The Book Shelf)
have a unique and pleasing flavor.  Author of several books
of poetry, possessor of a national as well as a statewide
reputation as a poet, not to mention a more than passing
fame as an interesting and compelling platform personality,
Lexie Dean is full of wonderment that anyone
should like to read her newspaper column . . . "It
is so trivial, she says.  So Chaucer must have mused as her
jotted down the trivia of that journey into Canterbury,"
---Vignettes, Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
   This syndicated column of verse, book reviews, spicy
comments on the passing scene, etc., now appears as a
regular feature in fifty or more newspapers.

in general . . .

   "Her whimsical moods have won her friends because of
her human touch to the problems of homemaking.  Her
expressed craving for 'Red Heels' has touched a  common
bond of understanding and her courage to 'Keep a Rainbow'
(an intangible something too many let escape) has
brightened the thoughts of her friends." -- Emily Gleason
Perkins, President, Texas Federation of Women's Clubs.
   "It has so much integrity, such hotly authentic music
in its bowels, such value as a lyrical document and a local
record that the form (free verse) flows through and under
the story sustaining it perfectly." -- Joseph Auslander,
writing of The Wager.
   "I am delighted that I Have Heard Whippoorwills won
first place in the Texas contest. I thought it far and away
the best poem and a most beautiful one." -- Jessie B.
Rittenhouse.
   "The delicacy of her touch, the soaring reaches of her
imagination limn the fantasies of each scintillating poem."
-- Col. C. C. Walsh, San Angelo Standard.
   "Perfect poetical expression."  --  Mrs. Edwin Markham,
writing of This Loveliness I know.
   "Lexie Dean Robertson has progressed through various
stages of recognition of her poems, from the local and
state press, publications of various organizations and sectional
magazines until now her name is a familiar sight
in periodicals of national and international importance." --
Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
   "Indeed, Lexie Dean Robertson has been called two of
Texas' poets laureate:  Her oil field pictures which hhave
captured the ruthless roughness of the boom, the dirt and
scurry, the beauty and romance of the land of flowing
   (Continued on Back Page of Folder)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.