August 29, 1941

Mr. Fletcher Collins, Jr.
Route 4
Burlington, N. C.

Dear Mr. Collins:

Mr. Alan Lomax, who is now on a recording expedition in Mississippi,
has asked me to answer your letter of August 7 addressed to him. 

I regret that I cannot give you the final word about the recording 
project planned for next October as I have not yet received all
the approvals necessary from the various authorities here. I foresee
no obstacles, however, and should be able to let you know about this 
in a short time. 

I should like to take up with you now the question of the album
of recordings which you discussed with Mr. Lomax. We should be very
glad to cooperate with the folklore committee of the National Council
of Teachers of English in the preparation of such an album. It would
be best, of course, if you came to Washington and helped in the collection 
of the material. No descriptive list could take the place of actually 
hearing the records. The only difficulty that suggests itself
is, as usual, a financial one. We could obtain probably the necessary
funds to prepare the masters and a sufficient quantity of pressings,
but before we could undertake this, we must have some sort of guarantee 
from the National Council of Teachers of English. This guarantee
need not take the form of actual cash in advance. A subscription list
would do, but before we could get the funds assigned to us, we would
be called upon to produce a sufficient number of subscriptions to 
cover at least a part of the initial expenses. Please let me know if it
would be feasible for your committee to gather subscriptions for an
album of recordings which it would sponsor in cooperation with us.

I cannot tell you if Mr. Lomax will be free to attend your convention 
in Atlanta. I regret that it will not be possible for the Archive
of American Folk-Song to present an exhibit. Unfortunately, we are
in no position to compete with the commercial companies in this [?]ay

It was very kind of you to suggest to your friend that he send the
Delaney song book to the Archive. Thank you for your kind interest. 

Sincerely yours,

Harold Spivacke
Chief, Division of Music

HS/fg

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.