July 29, 1938

Mr. Olin Downes
The New York Times
Times Square
New York City

Dear Olin:

Thank you for your letter of July 18 which I found awaiting me when I
got back from my vacation. It rained most of the two weeks that I was away,
but I did manage to catch up on a lot of sleep and feel much better for it
now.

I am glad you found the figures of previous Fairs useful. It isn't
really necessary that you consult the originals from which I took these
figures as they all add up to the totals which you have and the percentage
remains the same. I hope your friend Mr. Whalen will see it our way.

Your letter to Mrs. Coolidge was very satisfactory although I have not
heard from her about it as yet.

I am sorry you take a pessimistic view about the possibility of Lomax's
cooperation, because I don't think Mr. Krimsky's report was as discouraging
as you do. In fact it might even be interpreted as an opening for Lomax
to sell him one or two of the ideas contained in his report, especially that
about the square dances.

There is still another possibility for cooperation though and that is
more or less in an official capacity. Do you think the Fair would be in a
position to invite the Archives of American Folk-Song in the Library of
Congress to present one or even more "scientific demonstrations" in the
course of your series of concerts. If so, would there be any funds available
for this purpose or would the Fair expect the Library to finance it.
This is, of course, completely unofficial as I have not discussed the matter
with anyone and have not idea what reaction it would bring, but it seems
to me to be a very good idea and perhaps we could work something out.

Can you come down for a few days soon? The heat is really no worse here
than it is in New York and our place in the suburbs is relatively cool. Furthermore, 
we have acquired some new furniture and been able to fix up the
spare room which we hope you will find comfortable. There is really very
much here that I would like to show you and I am sure that you will find the
trip profitable and, I hope, enjoyable.

Sincerely,


HS/mr

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.