gold, have won for her long ago the title 'Laureate of the
Oil Industry."  But L. D. R. has another side:  She writes
of rainbows . . . of enchantment and fantasy.  In this field
she has won an even greater following."  --  Pampa Press.
   "Lexie Dean Robertson is the answer to one man's
argument that what America really needs is a happy
women poet.  She glows with good cheer and has a zest
for living."  --  Bess Stephenson.
   "Lexie Dean Robertson has a place in her heart for all
the world.  That's why she is a poet."  --  Jan Isbelle Fortune,
author of Texas Centennial Cavalcade.
   "This columnist was years ahead of the Texas Legislature
in recognizing Mrs. Robertson's poetic ability." --
Boyce House, in I Give you Texas.

lecture-recital . . .   
   Lexie Dean Robertson has appeared in lecture-recital
(in some instances as many as four times) before North
Texas Teachers College;  Texas Woman's College;  The 
University of Texas;  Dr. John O. Beaty's English
classes, Southern Methodist University;  Mary Hardin-
Baylor College;  McMurry College;  Howard Payne College;
Daniel Baker College;  Hardin Simmons University;
Texas Folk Lore Society at Texas Christian University;
Southwestern University;  Texas Legislature;  University
of Oklahoma;  Writers Conference at Boulder, Colorado;
Baylor University;  The Poetry Society of Texas;  Callahan
County Teachers Association;  Fort Worth Poetry
society;  San Angelo Poetry Society;  Abilene Poetry Society;
Georgetown Group in Creative Writing;  Oklahoma
Group in Creative Writing;  League of American Pen
Women;  Dallas Pen Women;  Texas Women's Press Association;
South Texas Editors Association, and before various
high school groups.
   Men's organizations:  Rotary, Lion's Club, and Chambers
of Commerce at Beeville, Brownwood, Ranger, Cisco,
Eastland, Abile, and others.
   Women's Clubs:  State and District meetings of the
Texas Federation, and various literary and cultural organizations
in Fort Worth, Dallas, San Antonio, and
numerous other Texas towns;  in Greeley, Colo.;  Duncan,
Norman, and Byars, Okla.

Organizations, schools, clubs and colleges
interested in securing Lexie Dean Robertson
for a personal appearance will please
communicate with her secretary and business
manager, Mrs. H. C. Gracey, Rising 
Star, Texas.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.