August 28, 1942

Mr. R. Keith Kane 
Eugene Katz, Special Services Division
Status of First Rumor Study

The first Bureau rumor study was scheduled for the 
period August 3rd through August 15th. In this period the Surveys 
Division did an intensive rumor study in New Brunswick, 
New Jersey, and Portland, Maine.

Special Services received more than 3,000 rumors 
picked up during this period by BPI and FSA field offices and 
by the Librarians' Panel. 

The first 3,000 rumors are being sorted now by the 
Government Sources Section of the Source Materials Division. 
A few families of rumors have been selected for intensive study 
by Special Services. Analysis of these categories is being made 
in terms of content themes and the themes are being turned over 
to Media, Government Source and Enemy Source in order to match 
them against news material, enemy propaganda material and source 
material. 

The incomplete analysis makes it quite clear that in 
this particular study we do not have the makings of a quantitative 
analysis of rumor material. Our inability to do this is 
attributable to the faults of the current study. This, however, 
represents a criticism of the study now on hand and does not, 
by any means, indicate that in future studies undertaken on the 
basis of our experience of this one we cannot make quantitative 
analyses of rumors. 

It is already clear that there is a close correspondence 
between rumors and popular attitudes, as revealed by polls and 
surveys. A continuing rumor study will make it possible to use 
rumor content analysis as a guide for (1) informational themes, 
(2) surveyswork, (3) polls work. 

Went the final report is complete, in early September, we 
will make specific recommendations for the continuation of this 
work and for its adaption to the needs of the Operating Bureau 
and the Divisions of the Intensive and Extensive Surveys.

cc to Mr. DuBois

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.