Bit & Spur
[*Library*]

      A Veteran Cowboy's Ruminations

Oft times I get to thinkin' of the changes times has wrought 
Since upon the Western ranges long ago I cast my lot,
Of the days when yaller Injuns was a roaming everywhere
Keepin' us uneasy fur the safety of our hair, 
I was young and full of ginger in them days of long ago, 
Now my limbs are all rheumatic an' my head is teched with
snow, 
An' I often git comparin' of the cowboy of to-day
With the weather-tanned ol' riders, now respectable and grey. 
      [*Early Frontier Days*]
Didn't have no dandy riders with their fancy-bosom shirts, 
Didn't have no love-knot ribbon tied by gals upon our quirts. 
Didn't pack no looking glasses in our saddle bags, to see
If the wind an' our complexion seemed inclined fur to agree.
Didn't wear no chaparejos trimmed with fringes an' with beads.
An' to keep our tailor breeches from the bushes an' the weeds,
An' you bet you never saw us, it's as true as preachin', boss, 
With a hundred dollar saddle on a twenty dollar hoss.

Warn't no shindigs at the ranches, as they have them now-a-days,
With a lot of purity cowgals fur to jine in the
hoorays,
Whar the music of the fiddle started every heart
to prance,
An' the gods of fun and folic ruled the sperrit of 
the dance,
Then we lived in tents an' dugouts, jest some 
blankets fur our beds
Used our saddles then fur pillows onto which to
lay our heads,
An' our rifles an' our pistols right beside us we
would lay
So's to git'em poco pronto if the Injuns made a 
play.

Does me good to git a thinkin' of them days of
old lang syne,
An' about my ol' companions, now away up in
the line;
Texas Jim, a holy terror, wild an' reckless, brave
and bold,
Now a high-toned legislator up in Denver I am
told.
Lazy Sam from Arizony, no account from head
to toes,
Is a lawyer in Pueblo wearin' tailor fashioned
clothes,
An' ol' Lightnin' Jack McGinnis, allus spoilin'
fur a fight,
In the church at Kansas City is a bright and
shinin' light

An' is now back thar in Congress slingin' style to beat the band,
An' ol' Andy Duzenberry, I am quite surprised to hear,
Holds a guvament position with a fortune every year.
But the news that most surprised me was that Swearin'
Tommy Bell
Him that used to sneer at heaven an' to crack his jokes at hell,
Toughest cuss on all the ranges with their tough outfits of
boys,
Is a preachin' of the gospel back in Southern Illinois.

I'm the only sole survivor of the cowboys of the past
That has stuck to cowboy customs, an' I'll hold them to the
last.
An' I often sit an' wonder if them good ol' boys an' I
Will be apt to drift together to the home ranch up on high,
Often wonder if they'll know me, an' will recognize ol' Shaw
That was with them punchin' cattle down along the Arkansaw.
An' if they'll be 'shamed to own me if I ain't so stylish dressed
Whar' the wicked cease from troublin' an' the weary are at
rest.

[The author, we are sorry to say, is unknown to us.]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.