Rumors may arouse fears which tend to prevent full cooperation with the
war effort. In Canada, for example, a very widely spread rumor was the 
following:

A girl employee in a shell-filling plant went to a hair-dresser
for a permanent wave. As soon as the power was turned on there
was an explosion that blew the girl's head off. The explosion 
was caused by explosive power in her hair."

Such a rumor is not very helpful in securing a large supply of labor for  a shell-filling plants. Along the same lines we have New England rumors of very high 
accident rates at the shipyards.  These stories have served to prevent parents
from giving permission to their children to go to the shipbuilding centers to
work in the yards.

During a recent rain storm a worker was injured and became unconscious.
He was taken to a hospital in an ambulance and was
still unconscious at the time of arrival at at the hospital. The
guard who had escorted him there came back and said that the
man had not regained consciousness. Then the rumor spread about
the yard that the man was dead. This rumor spread throughout
the yard and by 6:30 many of the workers had dropped their work
for the day and left the yard." (Maine, Shipbuilding Yards)

Some of the rumors reinforce general anxieties, the most obvious being 
those which diminish confidence in our security, such as the following examples:
On August 10th this was heard in Montclair, New Jersey:

"I really have this information thoroughly substantiated. A 
German submarine recently was captured and there was found on
it a fresh loaf of bread with a wrapper from a Montauk, Long
Island, New York, baker."

On August 11th, this was heard in Columbia, South Carolina:

"A German submarine was captured off the Carolina coast. On
the submarine were found loaves of break in wrappers from a 
Charleston, South Carolina bakery. In the pockets of the 
crew were found stubs from the Victory Theater in Charleston,
South Carolina."

On August 12th; this was heard on a train on route from Atlanta to Birmingham;

"In the pockets of the crew of a German submarine captured
in the Gulf of Mexico were a menu from the St. Charles Hotel
in New Orleans and stubs from a movie theater in New Orleans."

-10-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.