                                                 3. 

Psychological Type. In Boston we have found less and 
lessuse for the "curiosity" type of rumor, and I am
surprised to find so many in this report. Nowhere
is the "curiosity" rumor defined adequately. Here is 
a problem for solution in future typologies of rumor.
An analysis of 765 rumors reported to Boston did not
necessitate this category at all; if it were used, it 
would have been much smaller than the 35 per cent in 
the present report.

Page 7. Average Frequency. This is a good finding, and could 
only have been secured by intensive interviews. But
what is its practical implication?

Page 9. Factors in the Spread. Isn't an additional hypothesis
important, viz., that rumors spread when news is ambiguous
or contradictory? This study may not have found anything
on this hypothesis, but it is important enough to be 
retained.

Rumors and level of information. The finding about the
relation between information and rumors is probably 
overdrawn (1) because of the verbal ability of the
better informed, and (2) because white collar interviewers
get a bigger yield from white collectors interviewees.
Also is it not the semi-well-informed 
and semi-educated who are the biggest sources of rumor
(high school rather than college graduates)? Further,
rumor yield from an interviewee has no necessary relation
to rumor spreading. In general, we do not 
know enough to be sure of the meaning of this finding.
If it is true that high school graduates circulate
rumors, then and educational campaign would be more
effective than if the uneducated were the rumor-mongers.

Page 10. Rumors and Prejudice. Although the statement is probably 
both true and important, one wonders how prejudice 
was assessed. Wasn't the judgement based on the 
yield of rumors? If so there is a specious effect
operating on the correlation.

The cues on which interviewers rated prejudice and
tension are not given.

Page 11. The case of the wife of the Portland RFD carrier is 
a good one, showing the psychodynamics of the tension-rumor 
situation.

Page 13. The finding that 70 per cent of the rumors were believed 
is important.

Why do prejudice and tension engender belief? Is it

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.