HOW TO JOIN THE UNITED FEDERAL WORKERS 
OF AMERICA

All civilian Government employees who do not have the right to hire
and hire, with the exception of postal employees, are eligible for membership
in the United Federal Workers of America.

The functioning units of the United Federal Workers of America are
the locals. Locals are formed by the application of ten Government workers
in a single Government agency for a charter. However, in cities where a
single agency is not large enough to justify a Federal Workers' local, locals
may be organized as city locals. These locals then accept applications for
membership from all Government workers in that city.

Where there is no local in existence, Government workers may join
the United Federal Workers of America by applying for an organizational
membership. Such organizational memberships are attached to the National
Office until ten union members are secured in the organizational members'
departments or city, at which time they are transferred to a local union.

Dues are seventy-five cents per month. Of this seventy-five cents,
twenty-five cents will be retained by the local for its own purposes. The
remaining fifty cents will be forwarded to the National Office to finance
the National Office organizational activities, the offices of the regional 
adjuster-organizers, the publication of Federal Worker paper, and the
legislative, legal and technical activities of the United Federal Workers of
America.

The present rules and regulations of the United Federal Workers of
America, which may be had by writing to the National Offices of the
United Federal Workers of America, are provisional. The present officers
of the United Federal Workers of America are also provisional.

However, as soon as an adequate representation of Government employees
is secured in the United Federal Workers of America, a Constitutional
Convention will be called, at which Government workers themselves may
determine their own Constitution elect their own officers, and adopt their
own program.

The Charter Fee for a local is $20.00, to be paid on application. This
fee covers the cost of the Charter, seals, book-keeping, and membership 
records, stationery, and other supplies. If an application for a Charter is 
disapproved, all money is refunded promptly.

Applications for Charters can be made directly to the National Office of 
the United Federal Workers of America, Transportation Building. Washington,
D.C. Inquiries regarding the United Federal Workers of America
should be addressed to this same office.

UNITED FEDERAL WORKERS OF AMERICA
District 3250
532 17th Street, N. W., Washington, D.C.
Affiliated with Committee for Industrial Organization
I want to join the United Federal Workers of America.

Name.................................................................................
Address.............................................................................
Government Dept. .........................................................

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.