2.

effect of the TVA on the life of the people. We recorded the county
editor, the doctor, the farmers, a revival service, the local ballads,
the [local] county agent, [at] a family reunion and a fox-hunt. The
interview with the country doctor is typical of our experience.
He was the midwife of the community and also its champion
fox-hunter. We went into his kitchen about [six] seven o'clock one morning
and he began to talk right over his morning coffee. You couldn't
stop him. [H] Our microphone followed him across the yard while he fed his
dogs, into his little office where he [prescribed and ex] examined
his patients and prescribed for them for the mike. Typical story.

"In the old days I used to have to get about over this rough
country in the old fashioned buggy--- confinement cases, you, know,
pull you out of bed at all hours of the night. Well, I was about
to start home one night and they forced a pint of whiskey on me, [siad]
said it would thaw me out when I got too cold in the
road. When we got along the road about an hour, my driver's eyes were
getting weak on him and I decided to give him a little drink and
my old horse he heard that corn-cob coming out of the jug and by the time
I could get around to him he had his head up high--- he was raised down
among the Byers'ses and they was great hands to [drink whiskey] make 
whiskeys. Well, old Ferd had been raised on still slop and he
had learned to drink whiskey and to know about it. Never would drink
more than a half a pint. But his partner, Old Bess, [skeid] she was messy
about her drinking. She'd slobber it all out on the ground. I believe
she'd just drink to be sociable and then spit it out when my back was
turned."

C. Old Man Ledford has a wizened face like a monkey and [a wit]
[like] the wit of an Irishman. I spent two days with him and recorded
[thax] his whole story and that of his friends. The TVA was evacuating
all the farmers who lived in his valley because a new defense dam
was being built and the water would cover their farms. Ledford, one
of their best experimental farmers, was now sore as a boil at the
TVA, even though he would admit the necessity of the move. This section will
be presented almost entirely in [script] dialogue form with the story
of how this man in two days became a first rate actor for radio. For a sample
of his language, see QUOTES LABELED II/)

D/ Wilmington, North Carolina. In October one of our field men went
to Wilmington, which has doubled its population in the past year
and talked to the people about what was happeneing. The story in terms of their
own comments is gripping and powerful. The plan here is to make the whole
chapter dramatic narrative, a sort of short play in one act.

E. There Is a Hell! In Maple Springs Church in Tennessee last summer
I recorded a whole Negro revival service, prayers, sermon, spirituals,
shouting, mourners bench and all. The sermon is a magnificent and powerful
piece of prose poetry. The whole service is again a dramatic form.
F. Bonneville Dam. The [Division of] Washington State Section of
the Power Division of the Department of Interiors last summer hired Woodie
Guthrie, Okie poet laureate, as an information specialist for the summer of
1941. During one month he wrote a series 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.