                                                                                                           3831 Newark St., N.W.
                                                                                                           Washington, D.C.
                                                                                                           November 8, 1945.
Dear John Lomax:
                                I have delayed answering your letter through a variety of reasons. One, mother is seriously sick with a heart attack which has also congested her lungs and Marion and I have been with her in New York for ten days, and Marion is still staying on with her; two, I went through the usual drawn out routine of getting out of the army; and, three, I was appointed to the Archive job at the Library of Congress at just the moment when the mail began pouring in as a result of the article about you in the Readers Digest. I have alternately thanked and cursed you for being the collector of American folksongs -- the former when I think of what you have done for folksong, and the latter when I see the piles of requests for catalogs. We must have had by now at least 20,000 requests for catalogs. You know how slowly the Lib-rary can sometimes move...we are behind in our answers, behind in the printing of the extra catalogs needed, and will pro-bably be behind in records when orders come in. Since I have been there, as a result, the job has been purely one of administration and will continue to be until the Readers Digest for October falls apart. Even after this rush is taken care of, there will be a long haul to make the Archive function as it properly should. Which is not intended as any reflection, although I should like to explain it.
                              Predecessors in the job - Gordon, you and Alan -- were necessarily concerned above evrything with collecting material. If you hadn't done it, there would be no Archive as it now exists. You were the pioneers. And the thing grew. In order to come into being. When Botkin took over there was a large body of material which needed handling in order to make [???] it useful and available. Due probably to a shortage of help and the fact that he was working on his book, the full work on the Archive was not done and its potentialities -- both public and scholarly were neglected. Necessarily, perhaps. For example, the records on file have not been classified except by title, state of origin, and collector. I was surprised that I could not look up songs under the headings of "cowboy", "penitentiary", "ballads" "miners", etc. Also there was no [?????????????] index to first lines, no break-down into white and negro, etc. All of that must be done with the thousands of songs now on hand, let alone the others which will be coming in. It is a terrific job, but I don't think that I can look you or myself too happily in the face until it is done. In other words, the Archive has grown so that it now must be a place of general service to the public and to scholars, and in order to be that it must be pulled together administratively -- a thankless task in many ways, but necessary.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.