5.
Iowa 
8-15-42
Army and Navy
Woman office worker, 8-9-42: "I have a friend who has a fellow in Ireland and she
got a letter last week from the censor there telling her she wouldn't hear from
him anymore - that they wouldn't pass his letters because he talked too much."
Young street car conductor, 8-10-42: "Some fellow told me on the street car the
other day that they were drafting labor for an aerial map of South America to be
made by Army Intelligence. You hear an awful lot of things on the street car, but
if there is anything like that I would like to find out about it."
Young man watching news reel of U. S. stratosphere fighting planes, 8-8-42: "They
might just as well keep them on the ground. They're not worth a damn. A Jap
plane can run rings around them and have them down before they know what happened."
(This apparently was a reflection from a newspaper article to the effect that the
Japanese had foregone armored protection to secure higher speed in their planes.)
Young business man, 8-9-42: "Dr. so and so (who has a commission as a Navy officer)
just shows up down there at the recruiting office every day or so and has his
private business continuing as usual. That is the kind of soft job that gripes me."
Housewife, 8-9-42: "Dr. so and so got his papers months ago and was told he would
be called to active duty by June, so he finished everything up and closed his office,
and hasn't been called yet, and he just sits around home waiting for his orders and
getting more furious every day."
Young doctor, 8-8-42: "A young doctor would be a fool to try to start a practice
now. If he were to go into a new community the whole community would boycott him
and he probably couldn't even get hospital privileges. You are going to have to 
be able to prove that you are physically about dead before you could get by."
Nurse in oculist's office, 8-8-42: "He doesn't expect to be here a month from
now. He's been waiting for his call for two months now and if he's still here by
the end of August, I for one hope I'm not here to hear him gripe about it."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.