MEMORANDUM

FROM
     Jerome B. Wiesner     DIVISION

TO THE CHIEF OF THE 
     Mr. Edward Waters     DIVISION

July 24, 1941

     I would not do anything about the Herskovits matter until Dr. Spivacke
returns. Their will be plenty of time then. Alan is unhappy about the 
restrictions which Herskovits purposes to impose on the materials. By the 
time these materials are needed either John or myself will be back to get
them ready. If I am not here would you have John pack 200 Alumium records
which are still left in the stacks, in a wooden box such as he describes in
this letter and ship them to New York. Probably we had better find out
from Herskovits what boat he is taking to Brazil and we can have the records
shipped directly to the boat.
     In regard to the Albums for the Friends of Music, Elaine has all the
material conveniently arranged. She is going to wait until the labels come
from the John Horn Co. (if they don't come by Friday send them a special delivery 
letter raising the dickins, because they were promised for Monday) then she is
going to send the labels on to the Clark Phonograph and Record Co. with my
instructions, with a request that they make a sample set if possible. Perhaps
you had better check these instructions before they go out. If the records
come back before I do they can be placed in the albums which are in the studio.
By that time the packing boxes should have come back from the manufacturer.
If they don't they are being made by the Murry Heisteler Co., Elaine can find
you their address. I think it was out plan to check the Friends of Music
supplement with them. We were going to mail the records out on francs.
     If Alan's memo regarding the 50 discs for Todd and Sonkin is approved will
you please tell Elaine. She is going to have the U. S. Recording mail 50 glass
discs Express pre-paid to Todd in California.
     We have gotten an order from Glen Haydon by his records, but he did not
return the check list which we sent so we can't copy them. Alan is trying to 
reach him on the phone, but if he doesn't we will leave a note with Elaine,
telling you that we couldn't reach him. Will you then please send him a letter
asking for this list. I have arranged to have Pete Meisinger duplicate these 
records for us. Elaine knows the details. In the folder which is attached to
this memorandum are the pertinent papers on this expedition.
     Out itinerary is not very well established; so much we know: we will be in
Asheville, S.C. where I think you can reach me through the AAA on Friday and
Saturday. Sunday and perhaps Monday we will be at Knoxville, Tenn. where we
can be reached through the Tennessee Valley Administration. I do not know at
this time where we will be for the next 10 days. When we find out, I will send
you a letter. On the 16th of August we will arrive at the Galax, Va. folk-
festival where we will get together with Charles Seeger and friends of his.
If you have anything to send to me you can do so through him. More later.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.