Office of War Information
Bureau of Intelligence
Sources Division
Enemy Sources Section
September 1,1942
C
[Contributions of] Enemy Sources [Section to]  [?] Analyze
[Study of "Rumors" in the United States]

The possible contributions of the Enemy Sources Section to a study of
"rumors" in the United States include (a) assistance in the determination of
the origin of the "rumor, (b) assistance in determining the seriousness of the
"rumor" by furnishing information on the part which it is playing in the Axis
propaganda (c)  furnishing instructions to field agents on what to look for on the
basis of "rumors" Axis propagandists seem to be trying to "plant" or spread,
and (d) making it possible to point out in an information campaign on "rumors" that certain rumors are of Axis origin or are given currency by the Axis in
order to discredit such "rumors". A "rumor" study can aid the Enemy Sources
Section to evaluate Axis propaganda strategy by indicating whether  or not Axis propagandists are picking out vulnerable spots in the United States. This would contribute to the development of materials and methods for dealing with Axis
propaganda.

In preparing materials in connection with the "rumor" study the Enemy
Sources Section can make certain acceptable assumptions. (1) We may assume
that all Axis propaganda has as one of its purposes the originating of, and giving
currency to, "rumors" which will hinder American participation in the war. On
the basis of this assumption Axis propaganda themes may be compared to "rumor" content. (2) We may assume that Radio Debunk, the American "freedom station" has, as one of its primary functions, the originating and spreading of "rumors" inimical to the
American war effort. On the basis of this assumption Debunk propaganda themes
and content can be compared to "rumor" theme and content. (3) Debunk uses certain
special methods to implant and spread "rumors". The main technique is the
use of a "news flash" stating locality, participants and other circumstantial
details to give the "rumor" body and character. Anecdotes are sometimes used
for this purpose, or other kinds of stories are related. Such materials would
seem to give an indication of the "rumors" which the Nazis would particularly
like to see widespread in the United States. On the basis of this assumption
comparisons of special Debunk "rumor" items to American "rumors" may be made.

A continuing, systematic study of "rumor" would greatly increase the value
of the "rumor" study. (1) It would facilitate the determination of the source
of the "rumor" by furnishing the date of the first appearance of the "rumor". (2)
It would aid in evaluating any program designed to deal with "rumors".

It should be pointed out that a "rumor" study in which data on opinion are
collected informally sheds light on the problem of the "private'" more personal,
attitudes of the American people as compared to data obtained by ordinary polling
and interview techniques, which ordinarily provide data on "public" attitudes.
A study of "rumor" may provide hypotheses for "better-controlled" polling or
interview studies, but the highly personal data obtained by the technique used
in the "rumor" study is very useful in its own right.





Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.