ELON COLLEGE - Department of English - ELON COLLEGE, N. C.

August 7, 1941

Mr. Alan Lomax
General Delivery
Blairsville, Georgia

Dear Mr. Lomax:

Thanks for your letter of a few days ago. Any chance that you
will be coming north from Georgia through North Carolina?  If so,
please come through here, spend the night with us, etc.

About the recording project down here.  I'm glad to hear that you 
all can free a machine for my use in October.  I am going ahead
with plans to sew up Mr. Greer's time for some week in October.
I shall let you know as soon as he chooses the wee k.  I estimate
that for his repertory I shall need about thirty ten-inch acetate or aluminum
disks, and for recordings in two other communities (mentioned in
my last letter) about an equal number;  at least s ixty in all, better
seventy-five.  I shall of course return to you both the used and any
remaining unused records.  The project can be compl e ted in about ten days; I
shall devote full time to the recording while the machine is here.

I didn't mean to seem legalistic about publication restrictions on
the recordings, for you know how I feel about that sort of thing.
Merely that in case I should be publishing some materials from this
region in the next two years I should like to be free to use
whatever songs I have collected.  I am not only willing but desire
greatly to see you use in pressings or duplicates anything I have or
make for educational distribution;.  I am just a s keen about that
as you are.

It is good to have your information about the educational program
of the Archive, and your offer of cooperation with my Folklore
Committee of the National Council of Teachers of English.  Without
having yet consulted either my committee or the executive committee
of the Council, I am confident that the Council, through my committee,
will wish to sponsor the release of a series of the pressings you
describe.  Before I can act on this I shall of course need to know
quite specifically which recordings to select as most useful to
teachers of English.  What I'd like to know now is whether, in order to
familiarize myself with the Archive body of available materials and so
make an intelligent choice of a series, I shall need to come to the
Archive in Washington, or whether you already have available a descriptive
list or index of the archive materials.  If you have anything like the
latter, send it on down to me and I can tell from it whether I need more
specific information.  I also have a feeling that we together could work
out some mutually useful plans if you could stop off here on your way
north.  I fear that there may be too many ramifications for our letters to
contain, and I know that talk between us can produce superior plans.

Can we in any case move pretty quickly on the proposal to sponsor a series
of releases through my committee?  The annual convention of the Council is
at Atlanta at Thanksgiving time this Fall, not long from now.  It would

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.