7.

Nebraska
August 8, 1942

August 6 - The next comment was overheard in a bus on the way to
Lincoln.  The gentlemen were talking:  One said:  "Those saboteurs should have
been shot on the sot instead of taking up all the valuable time they have.....
..and maybe that's exactly what they want to do too......slow up our progress in
every way possible.  Just think of all the time they have been given.....it's too
bad it couldn't have been handled with more spreed.  We will have to pay with
some of our boys' lives, but that is to be expected.  They should deal with
them entirely different....shoot them and keep it out of the press."

August 6 - The next comment came from a Judge of the State Supreme
Court in Lincoln, and it was considered worth passing along in this report,
because it was a splendid point of view;  He said, "Our constitution gives us
our freedom of press, freedom of speech and freedom of religion, but in time of
a crisis, those freedoms should yield to the Government."  My friend, who was
also present and heard the Judge's remark, said:  "I never thought of it in just
that light, but how right the Judge is in that thought, because we accept and
exercise these freedoms and quickly challenge the right of any one to take them
away, yet without our Government they would be no good, therefore, we should
consider its safety first.  That's just why all these conflicting statements
coming out of Washington through press and radio should be eliminated.  People
are getting so they don't know who to believe, and so many have just quit
listening and reading because they have no faith in any of the sources."

August 6 - The following comment is from an Omaha contractor, a
gentleman who comes from a family of contractors of several generations, is a
very conservative type, and highly respected.  He has been building some of the
defense homes on the Bellevue project near the Martin Bomber Plant (Omaha).

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.