6. 

IOWA 
8-15-42

Army and Navy, continued. 

Patient of oculist, 8-10-42: "Dr. so and so said his hands are simply tied, that 
he's been told he will be called any day, and has been told that for two months, 
and so he can't take any new cases and not be sure he will be able to finish them, 
and he is so disgusted with waiting and sore about the money he's lost because 
of their inefficiency that it's all he talks about." [*35*]

Housewife whose son-in-law is a doctor, 8-9-42: "All the young doctors are waiting 
for their calls and have been since the last of May. They don't have any idea how 
much longer it will be, but it is nervewracking to say the least. Then every once 
in a while someone comes out and accuses them of lagging in their enlistments, and 
that certainly doesn't help any, considering that it's out of their hands." [*36*]

Woman worker, 8-10-42: "I got a letter from my nephew -- and I don't know how it 
ever got through the censors - and he said the food in Ireland is terrible, that 
[*2*] everything is warm - even the beer. He said girls are a dime a dozen in England 
and that they are crazy to go out with American soldiers because they are so much 
better paid than the English. If that's the situation, I don't see why they had 
to court martial that poor American boy over there when it probably wasn't his fault. "

Young wife with husband and brother in Army and Navy, 8-9-42: "There is something 
very strange developing in the Army and Navy. Fellows in the Navy who have been 
training as storekeepers and who have never been anything but business men are 
having their storekeeper's training interrupted and then have to take great numbers
[*1*] of aptitude tests in order to try to get them into training for some mechanical
skill. A whole bunch of Iowa fellows who are out at San Pedro are being sent to 
Detroit to take electrical training and they have had no experience in that line 
at all. The same thing is happening in the Army, where they are taking men without 
any mechanical skill and putting them in radio school in the Signal Corps. What 
really gripes Ted is that he is being sent off to take electrical training just

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.