The Sunday Star - Mar 30/41 Clippings

F-8     MUSIC.

Music Division Created
For Pan-American Duty

Charles Seegar has Charge
Of Efforts to Develop
Valuable Service

By Alice Eversman.

   At the conference held at the Library of Congress a year ago for the
discussion of ways and means of cementing the friendship between the 
Americas through a stronger cultural relationship, it seemed for a time
that a great deal was said about it and little done. However, the committees 
formed shortly afterward have been working in all earnestness
and the result has been an organization of material and its availability
that bids fair to be most helpful in
the future. The Pan-American
Union recently announced the establishment
of a music division, the
purpose of which will be to act as
a clearing house for information. 
The eminent musicologist, Charles
Seegar, has been appointed as chief
of the division.
   In the years when the concerts at
the Pan-American Union were the
only means of hearing full programs
of Latin American music, not much 
thought was given to the value of
this service. There was no special 
office dedicated to this purpose, set
aside at the Union, although the 
library of music which was assembled
as a result of these concerts
has been available to any one who
might desire to borrow the scores.
Now, with the cultivation of closer
understanding between our neighbors 
and ourselves, the Union has 
realized the necessity of better organization
of its activities and of its
material.

Reports on Music
   The main objective of the new
department will be to keep both the 
United States and the Latin American
countries informed as to the
music and the musical activities of 
the various republics. Any one,
from amateur performer to professors 
of universities, may call upon
the division for help or information.
The first project on which the
department will set to work is the 
issuing of a series of reports on the 
music of the Americas.
   The Music Division of the Library
of Congress and the American
Council of Learned Societies were
among the first to indorse the idea 
of a separate music division at the
Pan-American Union. The project
was originally proposed by the
Inter American Music Committee,
one of those organized at the conference
and the realization of it was 
made possible by the co-operation 
of the Office of Co-Ordinator of
Commercial and Cultural Relations
between the American Republics 
and the Carnegie Corp. of New
York.

Solve Problems.
   Mr. Seegar, a graduate of Harvard
and for several years chairman of
the department of music at the
University of California and lecturer
at the Julliard School in New York,
has been assistant director of the
Federal Music Project for the past

two years. In speaking of the work
to be done in his new position he
says:
"By helping to solve problems of
musical exchange we hope to accelerate
the ever-increasing interest of
individuals and organizations everywhere
in the United States in music,
both classical and popular, of our
neighbors to the south and likewise
the interest of the Latin Americans
in our music."

Inter-American Plan.
The plan of the National Music
Week Committee to dedicate one
day to an inter-American celebration
has received wide indorsement.
In fact, the idea has appealed so
greatly, especially to our Latin
American neighbors, that it is
thought one day will not be sufficient
and that more time will be
given for the programs featuring
Latin American music of various
kinds.
In a letter to C. M. Tremaine,
secretary of the National Music
Week Committee, President Roosevelt
writes: "The decision of your
committee to set aside one day of
the National Music Week as Inter-
American Music Day is indeed
gratifying to those of us who have
been so keenly interested in bringing
about a deeper understanding
between the people of the Americas.
I believe that Inter-American Music
Day will make a real contribution
toward this end and encourage the 
study of the hemisphere's rich and
varied cultural heritage in the field
of music. In so doing you are
serving the cause and ideals of
democracy throughout the Americas
in these critical times."
The ambassadors from the Latin
American countries, Mr. Mackenzie
King, Prime Minister of Canada,
and the Governor General, the Earl
of Athlone, Secretary of State Cordell
Hull and Dr. Rowe, Director
General of Pan-American Union,
have also written letters of high
indorsement. This general enthusiasm, 
which the musicians of
the different countries share, will
warrant the full week's dedication
to this great work, for as Mr. Tremaine
says, "Music is the one common
language through which we
can best express and best advance
our common aspirations and promote
the spirit of amity."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.