- X 2 -         OFFICIAL CHINESE BROADCASTS

then 100,000 war victims were utterly destitute and their plight had been
aggravated by recent floods which washed away about 5,000 acres of farm land.
The Kiangsi provincial authorities have allotted further money for urgent
relief. It can be recalled that ([Wushan]) was the first of the cities to
bear the brunt of the Japanese "summer offensive'."

JAPANESE BOMB NORTHERN FUKIEN TOWN

According to Chungking (Nov. 1, 8:30 a.m. EWT), broadcasting in English to
the South Seas, "Japanese planes for 2 consecutive days repeatedly bombed...
in northern Fukien, causing some damage and casualties. On October 30, five 
enemy planes in two waves rained high explosives on the city, killing more
than 20 persons, and demolishing (50) houses. On the previous day, eight
enemy planes bombed the western suburbs of the town."

T.V. SOONG LAUNCHES DRIVE FOR FUNDS 

In Chungking the...cultural service campaign was launched under Dr. T. V. Soong,
with many high officials attending, Chungking says (Nov. 1, 10:00 a.m. EWT) in
English to China. The goal is to raise money for cultural service programs
for the armed forces, the broadcast adds.

CHIANG THANKED FOR LOAN OF LATTIMORE

" Elmer Davis, director of the Office of War Information, has sent a message
of thanks to General Chiang for the latter's action in granting leave of
absence to Owen Lattimore," Chungking says, in an English-language broadcast
to South Seas, (Nov. 1, 8:30 a.m. EWT). "In announcing that he had (sent)
the message, Davis said Dr. Lattimore's profound knowledge of the problems
of the Far East...fits him to take charge of the information and programs
of the O.W.I. for that area. We believe that in the position for which he
has been released by courtesy of the Generalissimo, he will render great
services not only for the U.S., but also for the cause of all the United
Nations."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.