[*1*]

Southern Methodist University
Dallas, Texas
November 17, 1937

Mr. John A. Lomax
Curator of Folk Music
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:
    The possibility of your securing a governmental appropriation
to make duplicate records of your folk-lore collection of music
has come to my attention by virtue of my possition as President
of Cycen Fjodr, a local senior men's honorary-service fraternity.
I am writing to you at this time to find out if there is any
possibility of your securing such an appropriation from the government. 
If there is such a possibility we are extremely anxious
to secure a collection of these duplicate records for Dallas and
Southern Methodist University.

    Dallas is well situated geographically, with respect to
the Southwest. I believe that it may be said without reservation
that Dallas has the most musically minded public of any city in
the South west. Frank Malone, our band director, informs me that
there is an organized society now meeting to study and enjoy
various types of music in the recorded form.

    I am not a student in the school of music, but I have talked
with many of the professors on the campus, and they are, without
exception, heartily in favor of having such a collection placed
in the new library which we are building.
  
    We have two Education in Public School Music courses that
deal almost entirely with Folk Music of all nations. In our
Music Appreciation and History of Music courses Folk Music is
studied from the standpoints of theory of music and the origins
of music.

    We have courses in our English Department, taught by Dr.
John Lee Brooks, that use folk-lore as their subject. In addition
to the courses in our English Department, our Physical Education
Department offers courses which make a study of folk dancing.

    Practically all of the recordings that are now published are
available in the music school and in several private collections
that are available for school use. However, there has been very
little folk music of North and South America that has been recorded
by the commercial companies. Especially is this true when the
actual performances of natives of this country is concerned. Such
a collection as you have would greatly increase the value of
our present nucleus collection.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.