Music  Elie Siegmeister directs the American Singer, who 
have been broadcasting over WXQR during the 
past month and who will appear at The Town Hall 
Ellie Siegmeister next February in a concert of American folk music.
Against a rumbling accompaniment 
of strange, new counterpoints
 -- the screech of shells, the
crashing of walls, the death cry of 
peoples -- from those centers of culture 
which first gave the art of counterpoint 
to the world, another musical 
season has been declared open.  
The lights have come up in Carnegie 
Hall and Town Hall, the dress suits 
have taken their places in the boxes
and the business and working suits 
in the balconies, and we are all set 
for another season of harmony and 
dreams, for an hour and a half at a 
time, at so much per throw.  But perhaps 
this is too crass and unrefined 
-- perhaps we should be thankful that 
our great musical institutions are 
still here to bring us once a week or 
so the living heart of that culture 
which seems now about to die.  In a 
country still at peace we can be 
thankful that we can hear our Wagner 
and Debussy -- even side by side.
And yet, the question still remains 
-- in music as elsewhere -- where do 
we go from here?  Even those perennially 
untroubled Olympians, the orchestral 
conductors, seem to have 
been peering through a glass darkly 
of late.  Goossens, Stock and Ormandy 
have all paid public lip service and, 
let us hope, something more, to American 
music;  said they felt Europe 
was dead, and the hope of the future 
here.  Even grand old Toscanini, the 
master of them all, who some years
ago stated that his failing eye-sight 
did not permit him to study new 
American scores, has sensed the new 
current, though to be sure, the prospect 
of listening to the 83-year-old 
Strong's "In Der Nacht" can hardly 
thrill the devotee of native values in 
music.
ASCAP's six-day Carnegie Hall 
splurge was another straw in the 
wind.  Although motivated not solely 
by the disinterested purpose of 
"taking the minds of the people away 
from the worries of these unsettled 
times" -- (let us not forget impending
battle with the broadcasting monopolists, 
over larger royalty feeds, scheduled 
to take place at the end of this 
year) ASCAP's free banquet of
American music was a handsome 
16

show and did provide free entertainment
for thousands.  The trouble with 
it was that it accented precisely that 
kind of American music --- musical 
comedy, the light classics, jazz and 
swing --- that has already been emphasized 
way out or proportion to its 
importance because it has been and 
is, the only money-making American 
music. American folk music was conspicuous
by its absence, and the two
programs of American classics by
ASCAP members suffered from a 
spiritual anemia which betrayed the
fact that most of America's best composers
have never joined ASCAP.
This is due to two reasons: (1) symphonies,
operas, quartets, etc., by
American composers are rarely published,
and ASCAP is not interested 
in composers whose works are not
published. and (2) ASCAP is not interested
in collecting royalties for the
works of serious composers, which as
yet do not compare with the sums
pulled down by the Broadway and
Hollywood boys.
But while the concert organizations
are backward in those aspects of
American music which reveal the
true America, radio seems to be perking
up. Of great importance is the
Columbia School of the Air series
of native American folk music, given
by Alan Lomax Tuesdays at 9:15 A. M.
Alan is the son of the well-known
John Lomax, one of the most active
collectors of native folk song, and is
a splendid collector in his own right.
Columba is to be congratulated in
having secured the services of such
an able performer and commentator,
and the children of the country are
lucky to be getting a first hand
knowledge of our genuine American
music in a way that is delightful and
intriguing. Every week the children
are taught a new folk song, and
throughout the schools of the country
every Tuesday morning millions
of kids in every nook and cranny of
the land are yippee-i-aying in unison
to the accompaniment of Alan's
guitar in a fashion that would glad.
Wasn't it he who said, "I will plant
companionship thick as trees all
along the rivers of America...I

will make inseparable cities with
their arms around each other's
necks..."? To hear these programs
of real American folk song, and to
think of them echoing at the same
time in every school in the land is to
realize the great cultural potentialities
of radio, and to look towards its
future hopefully. At any rate the next
generation of music-lovers, which
has been brought up on stuff like
this, will have a much different, and
far healthier attitude towards our
own native products.
While speaking of the  next generation
of music-lovers a word must 
be said about that splendid institution,
the New York High School of
Music and Art.  A visit there will
soon be de rigueur for anyone interested
in important musical trends of
our time.  Here we see the results of 
an enlightened, progressive city administration
(the school has been one
of La Guardia's pets). Here each
year a class of 250 children, selected
by a city-wide competition, is given
a musical education which is both
free and superior to anything that
can be had outside. It is superior not
only because of the progressive and
able musicianship of the Chairman
Mr. Alexander Richter, who insists
that all students without exception
should lean hot to play in an orchestra
and to compose (up to the
limits of their abilities of course) but
because of the idea insisted upon by
the principal, Mr. Benjamin Steigman,
that music students should remain
normal individuals, with a well-rounded
experience and education-
an idea not carried out to this extent
in any other institution in the
country. If the School is allowed to
pursue its work unhampered by cuts,
restrictions and political interference,
it should make an enormous impression
on the on the musical life of the city
in the years to come.
Among the events especially worthy
of attention during the coming
month are: the first concert of the
TAC music division, promised for
the end of November, with new and
interesting works; the Wallenstein
Bach cantata and Mozart concerto
series, and of course, the Toscanini
and Philharmonic broadcasts.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.