14   THE NEW REPUBLIC

vided. Then jobs of some kind--made work if necessary
--will have to be found for them, if we are to escape
the threat that might come from hordes of unemployed
young men trained to use weapons and no other tools.
While his daytime hours must be devoted to carrying
a rifle, the draftee will still have the evenings after
six o'clock at his disposal. Every camp is to have one
or more movie theatres where the men will see "A"
and "B" features along with second-run newsreels of
small-town vintage. Admission price will be 14 cents.
The boys will be free to rig up their own radios in their
quarters, borrow books from the camp library, and to
entertain mothers, sisters and girl-friends in a hostess
house. This house will be built in each camp to provide
rooms for visitors at a moderate price.
In the last war, the Commission on Training Camp
Activities under Raymond Fosdick, through its affiliated
welfare organizations, took charge of recreation
in the camps and promoted such educational activities
as language classes. This time, General Marshall announced
in a recent broadcast, "there will be no competing
organizations on the military reservations. . . .
The army will provide the recreational facilities."
It is in the peripheral communities outside the
camps that the welfare organizations have been urged
by General Marshall "to cooperate to develop wholesome
places for the soldier to go for his entertainment."
This area alone will be open to the newly formed
National United Welfare Committee for Defense.

The National Welfare Committee will be expected
to work with Paul McNutt and his aids. If recreation
rooms, theatres and play areas are needed in small
communities, the NYA will help build them and the
WPA will help staff them. At the same time, a newly
appointed morale officer, Colonel Kemper Williams,
has been delegated to watch the trainees' activities outside
the camps and to check unhealthy tendencies.
The army claims it can take care of its own inside
the camps. Yet its program to date falls short of what
will be needed. If movies are to be the chief attraction
in the camps and theatricals and musicals are limited,
as is usual, to the talented few, the daily recreation
of the large majority of the draftees, except for competitive
athletics, will be non-participatory in character.
In each camp the leisure-time program will depend
to a considerable degree on the good sense and imagination
of the camp commander and the commander of
the corps area, under the decentralization scheme
which has been worked out. Camp Dix is probably a
fair example, since the responsible officers there expressed
views similar to those I heard in the War
Department. At Camp Dix, I was told, only the study
of military subjects would be promoted. An atmosphere
of mental inertia lay over the camp even though
most of the officers, belonging to the Reserve and the
National Guard, were fresh from business jobs. A
major who conducts a marine-insurance business in
civilian life confessed that he never looks at a newspaper
in camp, while in New York he reads two a day.
Another major, a broker in civilian life who seemed
hardly fitted to direct the army trades classes, indicated
that the draftees will be contented enough if they are
well fed and their physical welfare is looked after.
(There may be something in this: a boy whose family
is on relief cannot hope for dental or medical care, but
he will get all the attention he needs in the army.)

It must be admitted that army officers as a class
(and this goes for at least some of the Reserve and
National Guard officers) lack the necessary understanding
of our democratic processes--of our Bill of Rights,
for instance--to be qualified to teach citizenship. Their
patriotism tends to be of the flag-waving, my country-
right-or-wrong variety. Even the more enlightened
officers would rather not touch the thorny subject for
fear of getting mixed up in politics. "It is not our job,"
Major Hinman of the Morale Division said to me,
"to teach the men in the army what is right. It is simply
our job to teach them to fight for what is right, as laid
down by the government."
In the CCC camps, the American Youth Commission
has found in an exhaustive study, formal evening
classes for youth employed all day in strenuous physical
work have made very little appeal. Still it can be
argued, as Howard Braucher of the National Recreation
Association does, that "provision should be made
for the minority in the training camps who would be
willing to devote their spare time to working hard at
regular scholastic courses." He would like to see
"music, drama and special courses related to subjects
with which the soldiers will need to deal."
Just how the boys shall be given citizenship training
is an open question. Certainly if the army officers
have their way and nothing is done to instil the democratic
ideal in our drafted soldiers--many of whom
will have found that our form of democracy could not
provide them even with jobs--they will lack the drive,
the dedication to a cause, which has impelled Nazi
youth to die for ideals we believe to be false.
In the opinion of Frederick L. Redefer of the Progressive
Education Association, "courses should be offered
in current events and problems related to the
present emergency should be taken up." He recommends
"historical courses showing the struggle for
liberty in the United States and the development of
our free institutions." Discussion could be included
here of the advances made during the past eight years
in social security, rehabilitation of farm population,
the spread of public works, housing, rural electrification,
etc. The media would be formal lectures, documentary
films and informal group discussions.
To carry out this program, Mr. Redefer would like
to see a civilian army of our best progressive educators

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.