-10-

Jumpin' Judy; Jumpin' Judy; Jumpin' Judy,
Wonder where de captain gone?
Lawd, you want a dollah,
Lawd, you want a dollah,
Lawd, you want a dollah,
But he got to go home.
But he got to go home.

Jumpin' Judy; Jumpin' Judy; Jumpin' Judy,
What's de matter now?
What's de matter now?
Well, you kick me and you beat me;
Well, you kick me and you beat me;
Well, you kick me and you beat me.
That's all I know, that's all I know.

Yonder come my captain,
Yonder come my captain,
Yonder come my captain,
Who has been gone so long.
Gone tell him how, oh Lawd, you treat me.
Gone tell him how, oh, Lawd, you treat me,
Gone tell him how, oh, Lawd, you treat me.

Lawd, you better git gone,
He's got a 44, he's got a 44, he's got a 44,
In his right hand, oh, Lawd,
In his right hand, oh, Lawd.
Yonder goes Jumpin' Judy,
Yonder goes Jumpin' Judy,
Yonder goes Jumpin' Judy.
Way down in No-Man's-Land.

3) In this Negro blues you can find the basis of most of the instrumental
innovations that makes Benny Goodman's hot music hot.

D. Kentucky Mountain Songs

While the Negro was unceremoniously grabbing melodies and musical
material everywhere he found it and out of this materialcreating the stuff
of American music, the Southern mountaineer and poor white was conscientiously 
guarding the traditions of his English pioneer ancestors.  His music 
has not evolved so rapidly as the music of the N egro, but at the same time
it was from him and his ancestors that the N egroes took many of the ideas
that they have utilized so cleverly.  Perhaps the difference can best be
summarized by saying that Negro music is fertile in new ideas and new
techniques and mountain white music has more to offer in the way of solid
musical and metical material.  The following mountain ballads are, so far
as I know, indigenous.

1) "I Rambled This Country Both Earlye and Late", sung to a traditional tune,
portrays the disappointed lover.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.