1

“Did you ever hear of the brand ascribed to ‘Judge Lynch’, the fabled
umpire who presided at the quick vigilantes trials of cow-thieves?”, asked 
Senator W. J. Bryan of Abilene, as we rolled along to his 7000 acre T Diamond
ranch, forty miles northwest of the city. “Judge Lynch used a branding iron
which made a picture of a buzzard sitting on a fence rail.” 

Pushing his Cadiillac up to sixty miles, he went on: “And speaking 
of cow-thieves, a friend of mine up North once complained to me that he could 
never understand why in the early days of the cattle country the people of 
the West would sometimes free a murderer, and then hang a man for stealing a 
yearling. I explained to him that there were plenty of men running loose in 
the world who ought to be hung, and nary a yearling that ought to be stole. And 
I think he saw the point."

Some Hereford steers moved away from the car as we drove up to the
paling fence surrounding the ranch house [of the yard]. A bunch of turkeys gobbled a welcome. No other
sounds marred the peaceful quiet of the sunshiny afternoon. The Senator
looked affectionately at the one-story ranch-house of the T Diamon d brand
which was first founded by his father, Wash Bryan, eight miles north of Marlin.

"[2]My mother", said the Senator, "who managed the T Diamond [*when it was located in [?] [County]* while Father fought through the Civil War, was probably as good a cowman as ever 
lived in the world. She was known far and wide as the cattle queen of Texas.
She used scissors instead of a knife to mark the calves in the spring. Her [sad]
saddle is in the museum at Simmons College. I guess I gave her some trouble.
George Eaton, who was assassinated near Marlin in 1875, once said to my father 
when I was two years old, 'Watch out for this boy of yours. He is either
going to make a smart man or a hell of a rascal.' Everything I have done
has been a success, even my failures", mused the Senator.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.