Two country doctors who transformed a Minnesota
village into the medical crossroads of the world

Dr. Wil and Dr. Charlie
Condensed from Scribner's Commentator
Edward M. Brecher

THE MAYO BROTHERS were "Dr.
Will" and "Dr. Charlie" to 
the pioneer families in Rochester,
Minn. And to everybody who
knew them they remained "Dr.
Will" and "Dr. Charlie," even after
their practice had transformed the 
prairie village into the world's most 
famous medical center.
   When the Mayo boys' father,
English-born Dr. William Worrall
Mayo, came to Minnesota in 1855,
settlers were so few and so healthy
that the "Little Doctor" eked out
his income by surveying, working 
on a Mississippi River boat, and
serving as army surgeon during the
Indian wars. From one of his war 
trophies - the skeleton of Chief 
Broken Nose - Will and Charlie
learned to name every bone in the 
human body at an age when other
youngsters struggle with the multiplication
table.
   Despite his isolated post, the Little
Doctor kept abreast of medicine's 
rapid progress. In 1871, though
well past 50, he went back to study
for a year at Bellevue in New York 
City. The epochal work of Pasteur
and Lister was then centering attention
on germs, infection and
Copyright 1940, P. & S. Publishing, Inc., 654 Madison Ave., N.Y.C.
(Scribner's Commentator, July '40)     

antisepsis, and the Little Doctor
returned to Rochester longing for
a microscope. The entire family
shared his enthusiasm and the Mayo
homestead was mortgaged to raise
the needed $600. It took 10 years
to pay off the debt; but during those
years Will and Charlie acquired a
skill in microscopy then possessed
by few full-fledged physicians. That
brass microscope is now Exhibit 
No. I in the Mayo Museum.
   As his reputation grew, patients
from miles around came to the 
Little Doctor for major operations.
Since there was no hospital, spare
bedroom were equipped as makeshift
operating rooms. In one of 
these, the Little Doctor would set
up his portable surgical table and
wield instruments which the village
blacksmith made for him out of
teeth from an old grain reaper. Will,
at 13, acted as "scrub nurse" and 
Charlie, only 9 and short for his
age, sterilized the instruments by
heating them in the charcoal furnace
of a soldering outfit. Charlie
also served as a mobile surgical 
cabinet, with suture threads and
strands of catgut dangling from his
lapels and buttons.
                                                                       43

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.