[ * LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RECEIVED
NOV 13 1946
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT * ]

[ * THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
NOV 13 1946
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT
MUSIC * ]

[ * MUSIC DIVISION
NOV 14 1946
RECEIVED * ]

67 Perry St.,
New York City.,
November 11, 1946.

Dr. Harold Spivacke,
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C..

Dear Dr. Spivacke,

Perhaps you will recall that I discussed the possibility
of a recording project with you several months ago. My folklore
work under my Guggenheim Fellowship is now about to begin. In
that connection and in the course of my ordinary contacts here
in New York City a great deal of very interesting folk music
and folklore comes my way. Therefore, I should like to request
the loan of one of the recording machine from the Archive
of American Folk Song under the following terms.

1) Terms of project-- six months, with an option of renewal.

2) Blank records (300) to be furnished, as needed, by the
Archive. Originals to be deposited in the Archive. A set of
duplicates to be made for me by the Recording Laboratory within
three weeks of the receipt of the originals.

3) The machine be, if possible, a 16 inch recorder (Presto
Y) or, if that is out of the question, that it record with high
fidelity at 33 RPM so that interviews can be taken down in extenso.

4) That certain of the recordings (especially I am thinking
here of interviews such as the Jelly Roll reminiscences) be
given a considerably longer period of restriction than is usually
discussed. Some of the material may, for instance, be so confidential
that it could not be made public during the life of the
informant.

5) That I be permitted to loan the machine to Dr. Svatva
Jacobson in her work in foreign minority folklore as she needs it.

6) That the Library consider supplementing this project with
certain additional funds for field expenses, if and when I go into
the South, as I hope to do late next spring.

With my very kindest regards to you and Duncan and my friends
in the Library, I am,

Sincerely yours,
Alan Lomax

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.