-26-
          Talks or releases directly on Rumor as a topic (rather than on
rumors) is at times appropriate.  This may best occur when it seems wise to
reduce people's anxieties about RUMOR.  One of the important roots of 
rumors is people's anxieties.  If anxieties increase, we might ordinarily
expect rumors to increase.  A flurry of rumor-control activity may well
serve to increase anxieties, to increase people's guilt feelings about past
utterances, to increase people's suspicions of their neighbors.  When talk-
ing about Rumor, therefore, it is important to consider the end-result of
the talk.  Presumably the result desired is the reduction of rumors.  There-
fore, the talk should serve to help people understand how natural and in-
evitable rumors are in wartime, give them techniques for identifying and
stopping rumors, relieve their general anxieties and guilt, and improve
their morale.
             Rumor control projects must not lead to witch-hunts.  Care must
be taken to avoid the over-simplified identification of the rumor-monger
with the Axis-agent.  Undoubtedly, there are Axis agents spreading rumors.
However, most rumors are being spread by loyal-thinking Americans.  These
loyal members of the community must be educated to the error of their 
ways, but the community must not get the feeling that every gossip is an
Axis agent, that their neighbor is living on gold from Berlin or Tokyo.
         Just as rumor control projects must avoid the conception of Axis
agents in every block, so too much they avoid giving the impression of
unsurpassable cunning in the enemy.  Attempts to show the relation of
rumors to Axis propaganda may prove very dangerous.  A person who care-
lessly passes on a rumor and then discovers that it has appeared on the
Axis short-wave is likely to become very much concerned about the source
of the rumor, how he came to be "duped," etc.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.