Mr. DuBois

RUMOR ANALYSIS

Facilities immediately available to detect rumors, determine
their origin and currency.

1.  From correspondence panels, through voluntary remarks 
and replies to directives on rumors.

2.  By inquiry through field staffs of O.P.A., O.G.R.,
Likert's organization, and others.  Field men should
not be relied on to report rumors outside their special 
fields:  O.P.A. field men, for example, could be used
to report rumors of hoarding, profiteering, supply, and
would be sufficiently familiar with public attitudes in
this area to report objectively.  They probably would
not be able to report objectively on subject unrelated
to their own work.

Due to the random distribution of the available field
staffs, this procedure would produce only the rumors
themselves - no absolute data on their origin or currency.

3.  By analysis of unsolicited mail which includes many letters 
inspired by rumors or with actual rumor content.

Rejected suggestion for rumor detection

(a) Rumor "clinics" organized by college staffs or other
trained observers not under direct O.F.F. control.  Rejected
because their uncontrolled activities would certainly produce 
unfavorable local and possibly national publicity.
Uniform standards difficult to apply to varied voluntary
groups.

(b)  Listening posts established through cooperating newsmen 
or newspapers.  Same objections as above, although some 
wide-awake editors might be able to detect and refute
certain types of locally circulated rumors quickly and successfully

The above are obviously partial measures commended only
by their availability.  A more thorough investigation of rumors
is indicated, perhaps as a function of the Special Service Division.

For simplicity of discussion the subject can be broken
up into two main divisions:  (1)  What are the rumors themselves;
to what source can they be attributed; how fast and widely do they 
spread; and (2)  The people; how are their opinions affected by
rumors.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.