Page 9: Factors in the Spread. Isn't an additional hypothesis important, 
viz., that rumors spread when news is ambiguous
or contradictory? This study may not have found anything
on this hypothesis, but it is important enough to be retained.

Rumors and level of information. The finding about the relation
between information and rumors is probably overdrawn
(1) because of the verbal ability of the better informed, 
and (2) because white collar interviewers get a bigger yield
from white collar interviewees. Also is it not the semi-well
informed and semi-educated who are the biggest sources
of rumor (high school rather than college graduates)? Further,
rumor yield from an interviewee has no necessary relation to 
rumor spreading. In general, we do not know enough to be
sure of the meaning of this finding. If it is true that
high school graduates circulate rumors, then an educational
campaign would be more effective than if the uneducated
were the rumor-mongers. 

Page 10: Rumors and Prejudice. Although the statement is probably
both true and important, one wonders how prejudice was
assessed. Wasn't the judgment based on the yield of rumors? 
If so, there is a specious effect operating on the correlation.

The cues on which interviewers rated prejudices and tension
are not given. 

Page 11:The case of the wife of the Portland RFD carrier is a good
one, showing the psychodynamics of the tension-rumor
situation. 

Page 13: The finding that 70 per cent of the rumors were believed is 
important. 

Why do prejudice and tension engender belief? Is it not 
because the rumor serves wither (a) to explain the tension, 
or (b) to justify the prejudice? 

People tend to explain and justify; then if they are not
successful, they change their minds about the whole thing,
sometimes, giving up their prejudices. This psychodynamic
analysis needs to be given in order to point out methods
and policies for rumor control. 

Page 21: The section on Negroes confirms what is already known.
The question is what's being done about it? The interviewers 
should have been watching for counteractive influences, 
and should have been encouraged to include
policy suggestions.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.