-3-
RUMORS. August 10 - 15, 1942
CONDUCT AND PROGRESS OF THE WAR. WAR EFFORT (Cont.)

"American success in bombing Tokyo was due to the use of a secret device
similar to the 'electric eye'."
"Government officials in Washington are sure that Russia will make a 
separate peace this Fall."
"Wall Street is betting 4 to 1 that the war will be over by the middle of
November." (Highland Park, Michigan)
"That the public has not been completely informed of the losses at Midway
and that they were a great deal more than has been represented."
"United States will not win the war until grasping politicians were cleared
out of Washington."
"The greatest bottle neck in our present crisis is that the business men
and those who can do the most, think in terms of themselves; and, think of the
time after the war in terms of their own ends."

ESPIONAGE

"Don't believe the saboteurs were given the electric chair as stated in 
the paper because no reporters were allowed. What happened to the bodies?"
"The spy trial was a hoax, and just some more government propaganda."
A woman, who was discussing the fact that the United States is too easy
on all aliens and saboteurs, said that she had been told by a young man that
he thought that the two Germans who had turned state's witnesses at the recent
trial were really F.B.I. They may have even come over from Germany with the
others but they would soon be taken quietly from prison to work again under a
different name.
"People in California are suspicious of servants. Cleaning women,
principally German, are agents of the Axis partners. A simple woman may be
the tool of a clever relative trained in intelligence work, and seek work in
the families of Army officers or diplomats returned from China, etc., obtaining
through children's conversation or the rifling of mail, information as to movements
of troops or international relations."
"Spies are being smuggled over on the exchange boats, using passports
of those entitled to come. People whose relatives are arriving on the boats
feel this to be true because the F.B.I. is checking with every family in this
country to learn all characteristics and disabilities which might enable them
to make positive identification of those Americans arriving."
"Many Americanized Japanese are being used in the United States and in the
Orient by Japan as intelligence officers."
"Two Japanese are on the exchange boat arriving from the Orient by way of
Lourenco Marques, Portuguese East Africa, said to be American citizens but
probably spies."
"That Stephan was being executed, as a sop to the people and to keep them
off the real traitors, Standard Oil and other corporations with foreign connections." 
This is in essence, a repetition of a letter in the daily News public
letter box.
"That Stephan was heard to say, 'Hitler will not let me hang'."
"Those saboteurs were really not executed; in fact the whole story is
very probably a fake to 'scare the public'."


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.