4
Cheyenne

As I started to leave he deplored the blindness of people who
do not seek to preserve what is really vital and distinctive in their
institutions, worshipping their ideal of things rather than the grosser
and more truthful reality. He cited the indignation felt at his
"Winning of the West" because he did not make knights of the pioneers
instead of the free-booting Vikings that they really were. He claimed
that he had too much respect for a Forty-Niner to call him a "knight".
I asked him if he was going to write a history of Texas. He answered
about as follows: "No, I shall not be able to do that. See the work
that is piled on me. Don't you see the people won't let me alone? I 
don't suppose they ever will until I break down entirely. If I were to
come to Texas, you University people would let me do my work in my own
way; but nobody else would. I would have thousand of demands on my
time." I told him that I thought his determination was a pity, since
he certainly was splendidly equipped for the task. He replied quickly:
"I think I am, too; and Texas has a history of such wonderful interest
which has been illy handled by northern writers. They all say that
Texas was settled from a desire to extend the slave territory, when the
truth is that Sam Houston and his crowd would have conquered Texas in
just the way they did had there never been a slave in the South. It was
again the old Viking spirit pressing westward and overcoming and dispossessing 
an inferior race. But I can't, I can't" he added mournfully,
"I won't have a time."

Mr. Abbot referred to his speech at the John Brown celebration
next week and Mr. Roosevelt interjected: "I told these people that I
wouldn't talk about John Brown. I can't say what I really think of him."
Then he put his hand on my shoulder in a playful manner and said, "
quote in my speech what Abraham Lincoln said about John Brown. I guess
the people can't object to anything Abe said, eh?" And he laughed delightedly.
As I went, I told him I was grateful for his help. He said
rather aimlessly and meaninglessly, repeating the word three times,
"Fine, fine, fine." I forgot to say that as I came into the room, Mr.
Roosevelt gave me a hearty introduction to Mr. James Garfield, formerly
of his cabinet.

This is what he wrote:

"You have done a work emphatically worth doing and one which
should appeal to the people of all our country, but particularly to
the people of the West and Southwest. Your subject is not only exceedingly
interesting to the student of literature, but also to the 
student of the general history of the West. There is something very
curious in the reproduction here on this continent of essentially the
conditions of ballad-growth which obtained in medieval England, including
by the way, sympathy for the outlaw, Jesse James taking the
place of Robin Hood. Under modern conditions, however, the native ballad
is speedily killed by competition with the music hall songs; the 
cowboys becoming ashamed to sing the crude homespun ballads in view of
what Owen Wister calls the "ill-smelling saloon cleverness" of the far

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.