LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON

DIVISION OF MUSIC

124 West 12th,
New York City.

Dear Dr. Spivacke,

   I saw John Hammond on Tuesday and he told me about
the outcome of your visit to Columbia.  He said that besides
the classical records affair, he believed that in the
next two weeks Columbia would have agreed to send
you their race list--in all about five or six hundred
records.  Naturally they have many more than this out
of print.  Opon hearing this I suggested my old plan of making
a bibliography of commercial folk recordings, including
those of which the masters have not been destroyed.  He
siad that he could get me into the factory with a carte
blanche to hear everything I cared to and that he believed
Columbia would stamp anything that the Library wanted.  He
was very enthusiastic about the bibliography and felt that
it would materially help their sales. It seems to me that
this is an excellent way to introduce the other recording
companies to our desire to have folk and popular issues and
I shall, therefore, study their catalogues carefully (he
says they have a fairly complete file) and visit their factory.
With the information thus obtained I shall then be able
to approach other companies in town and by the end of the
spring I think I should have 1)  found out what they've done
in the way of folk recording 2)  completed a fair bibliography
and 3) perhaps obtained from them certain promises regarding
special Library of Congress issues.  Naturally I want your
suggestions about this.  For one thing, if I discover a lot
of old and valuable catalogues in their files, do you
want me to arrange for microfilming and deposit in the
Library?  For another, would their be any objection to my
editing an album of folk records for Columbia in case I find
enough good stuff or do you feel that that might hurt our
chances at the moment?
   As you know it has been extremely difficult for me
to get around to all my work with Elizabeth in bed, but I
feel that from now on things won't be so hard.  Columbia is
a great deal of fun and my connection with the Library of
Congress is, as you have suggested, most helpful in
getting me in to see all kinds of people.  I shall call on your
friends, Clarke, Smith etc., next week at the latest.

Best regards,
Alan
Alan.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.