Mr. Eugene Katz                                                                           October 8, 1942

Area Studies Section


                    We are engaged in TOTAL WAR.  To win this type of war,
we must go "all-out", we can't do it "with one hand tied behind our
back."  Rumors tie our hands.  The one about war bonds not being
redeemed, makes people unwilling to buy the bonds and tends to 
encourage inflation; the one about waste at army camps makes people
resentful and unwilling to contribute to salvage campaigns; those
about the Negroes, the Jews, the British, prevent full cooperation
for a united front for victory.  Rumors are dangerous sometimes
because of the information they spread, and most of the time because
of the misinformation they spread.

                    Rumors should be looked at in at least two ways.  The recent
study by the Office of War Information shows that while rumors
have meaning for the state of people's information, they also reflect
aspects of people's morale and attitudes.  To eliminate rumors, we
must provide the needed information and we must also attend to the
psychological factors that were underlying the spread of the rumor.
The rumor, "While American boys are fighting in many places of the
earth, British citizens living in this country escape military service"
might be "answered" by the facts concerning eligibility for
the draft and the inclusion of British in our selective service
system; but it SHOULD be approached with the recognition that it
reflects an anti-British sentiment which goes beyond the details
of this particular rumor.

                    To help win the war, morale agencies should be concerned
with rumors.  Rumors should be collected, analyzed, and counteracted.
The counteraction should be in terms of a full program designed to
get at the roots of the rumor evil and not just some of the superficial
symptoms.  Stories of the submarine which was captured and
on which were found German sailors who had in their pockets ticket
stubs from American theaters can be denied by the appropriate authorities,
but basically it reflects an uneasiness about the adequacy of 
our coastal defenses which a simple denial does not remove.

                    How should morale agencies organize their rumor programs?
The "Rumor Clinic" of the Boston Herald has received much publicity
and appeals to many people as a good device.  From the point of view
expressed here, while better than nothing, this approach is NOT the
best.  Briefy, the Rumor Clinic is a regular feature of a commercial
newspaper.  While it may have the best of motives, it still represents
for the reader one of a number of "features".  It generally takes the
form of quoting a rumor and following it with the "truth".  Often the

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.