[*Austin, Texas
8-15-42*]

CUT THE RED TAPE
"Cut the red tape" were four words spoken 
by Congressman Lyndon B. Johnson upon his 
return from Australia which might well be 
pondered. That these few words will meet 
with a wave of opposition is sure, but that they 
will bring about a line of thought contrary that 
we must spend weeks and maybe months furthering 
this or that war effort is equally certain.
Time is perhaps the largest factor to defeat 
or success in this world-wide conflict. Only a 
few short weeks remain in the Russian theatre 
of war in which the Axis might do their worst. 
When Winter comes along, the Russians will 
more or less be again favored. On the other 
side of the world the same situation prevails. 
When monsoons cease over the equatorial 
lands in the Pacific, Japan may again have the 
favorable end of the contest. That is, unless 
something is done about our procrastination, 
not procrastination in getting a second front 
under way or building ships and airplanes but 
in not "cutting the red tape".
Congressman Johnson is not the only one 
who believes this. Some of the best informed 
commentators are now arguing that there must 
be revolutionary changes in the organization of 
those in charge if the war effort is to be advanced 
with maximum speed and minimum delay. 
They point out that our long way of cutting 
red tape makes really quick and effective 
action impossible in many vital matters  That 
there is a good deal of criticism of the military 
organizations themselves is obvious. The critics 
say that full cooperation of the army, navy and 
air forces has not yet been accomplished. Lack 
of cooperation, it will be remembered, was one 
of the main reasons for the debacle at Pearl 
Harbor, according to the Roberts report. Since 
Pearl Harbor, considerable progress in the right 
direction has been made - but apparently more 
is necessary.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.