July 14, 1941

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Father:

I am awfully sorry that you are feeling under the weather,
and hope that you continue to get perter.  All the more so,
because I cannot go to Denver.  I have arranged to go on a
field trip with the Radio Project boys, leaving here the 24th
to last until the 10th of August.  We are going to document
completely words, music and sound of a mountain community in
Tennessee and put it together in the form of some radio
programs.

On the 10th of August, CBS and the Defense Council fly
me to Mexico City for a performance with the Golden Gate
Quartet and Joshua White.  Back to Galax on the 15th, for
some recording with Charley Seeger and a Portuguese from
Brazil.  Then into the field again until September with the
second-truck.  Don't know exactly where at the moment.

I think you are silly when you say that I should go to
the Denver Conference.  You make the best damn speech this
side of the Rio Grande and all you have to do is to put up
a front like some of the other boy do to impress them
academically.  You should have enough material with what we
have sent you and for recordings there is the story of the
Archive.

Your questions three can be answered thus:

No. 1.  Approximately 16-thousand songs on disks in
the Archive.  That does not include the Gordon collection,
which by rights belongs to us and would bring the total up
to 20 or 25-thousand, you know best with.

No. 2.  Catalog will be ready within the next six months.
Evans and Spivacke will not be more definite that that.  A
commercial printer told me it could be finished in a week yet
we could give him $1700.00, but I have not been allowed yet
to apply for the money, although I think it will be forthcoming.

No. 4.  The Archive this year has $12,000 to spend on
duplicating the records in other collections, and for field
trips.  Plans so far:

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.