Proposal for the Utilization during a
National Emergency of Materials relating
to Nationality Groups in the United States.

This memorandum concerns itself with American cultural forces
as they affect national unity, and proposes a plan for utilizing
these resources in the present national emergency.  Briefly set forth
are: (1) the problem; (2) proposed program; and (3) administration.

I. THE PROBLEM

Well in advance of armed aggression against a state, fascist
forces have prepared the way by spreading dissension and producing
cleavages among its people. In counteracting such tactics, especially
in an emergency, there will be a tendency toward cultural regimentation
and the riding roughshod over the emotions and sensibilities of the
nationality groups and immigrant populations. An effective defense
program calls for national unity, but any effort toward national unity
which disregards cultural diversity will defeat its own ends.

In present-day European developments we have an illustration of
the crushing of democratic forms of society by the distortion of human
relationships and the inciting of mass prejudice. Unprecedented use
has been made of racialism: the dominant group has been deified in the
name of the "nation" and national minorities have been reduced to the
status of second-class citizens or serfs.  We may be sure that fascism
will follow the same tactics here.

There are certain factors affecting our national unity which may be
traced directly to our cultural diversity.  We have always been a nation
of immigrants.  To insist upon cultural unity would lead to suppression
which in turn would give rise to dissension.  In Europe such a confusion
of national with cultural unity made for disruptive forces that threatened
the State from within, especially in time of war.

In our country the cultural problem assumes unusual importance.
Probably one third of the population in the Northern states is made up
of immigrants of the first and second generations -- a proportion which
rises to two thirds in an industrial state like Connecticut.  This
large immigrant population in our industrial regions may be significant
in any expansion program related to national defense.

The problem has Pan-American implications.  A rough estimate would
put the number of Spanish-speaking people in the United States at five
million, including two million in Puerto Rico.  Hitherto our attitude
toward this group has been indifferent and often prejudiced to the weakening
of a potentially important link between the Americas.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.