COMMENTS from the PRESS

For some time Mary Gillen has been collecting 
songs and stories of the negro race, and
interprets them in her fascinating and inimitable
manner, without a shade of affectation.  She
feels that which she sings and reads, and it is
this sensing of her subject which imparts the
force and charm that delight her audiences.-
Musical Monitory

Bessemer will do honor to her most celebrated
daughter, when "Mary Gillen Day" will be
observed at the Community Sing, Sunday after-
noon at 5:30 o'clock.  A pleasing program has
been arranged for this occasion, which is to cele-
brate the publishing of a book of negro folk
songs, compiled by Mary Gillen.  She has won
quite a distinction in the musical world with her
work, which is the only publication by the Bond
Shop, of Chicago, other than those of Carrie
Jacobs-Bond. - The Birmingham (Alabama) News.

Mary Gillen is a delicate slip of a woman,
whose entire graceful being is distinctive of cul-
ture and good breeding.  She possesses a rich,
beautiful voice, and delighted her audience. -
Memphis (Tennessee) Commercial Appeal.

Mary Gillen is a thorough artist.  Her change 
of facial expression from gay to grave is remark-
able. - Times-Picayune (New Orleans, La.).

Mary Gillen, who has spent several weeks at
Chautauqua, gave some folk tales at a meeting
of the American Bird and Tree Club.  She
captured the audience with her charm and her
artistic handling of the dialect work. - The Daily
Chautauqua (Chautauqua, New York).

Mary Gillen possesses a rich colorature voice,
and its mellowness and sweetness seemed doubly
noticeable in her unpublished folk songs, which
come so naturally to this wonderfully gifted little
woman. - Daily Corinthian (Corint, Miss.).

Mary Gillen made her first appearance in this
city before a large and enthusiastic audience, at
the high school auditorium, and gave a demon-
stration of her thorough artistry.  She responded
to encores galore, and her audience was loth to 
have her go. - Tuscaloosa (Alabama) News.

Mary Gillen appeared before the Song and
Story Club Sunday afternoon in a program of
original songs which were received with much
delight.  This writer of song and story is in 
Chicago, awaiting the publication of her books,
which will soon be brought out. - The Chicago
(Illinois) Post.

Mary Gillen, who is well known throughout
the United States as a reader of folk tales, and
who has recently returned from France, where
she served as entertainer for the American Red
Cross, has just had published a book called "Old
Melodies of the South."  This book will be of 
much interest to every musician, as it contains
simple melodies of the negro race.  Miss Gillen
gathered her material by personal trips through
the cane and cotton fields of the South.  An inter-
esting feature of Miss Gillen's new book is that 
Carrie Jacobs-Bond, America's foremost woman
composer, was her collaborator.  Miss Gillen's
book will be interesting to the music lover, also
to the student, as the melodies are given just as
they are sung in the South, and she has made no
attempt to improve or add to them. - The Bill-
board.

Mary Gillen is an expert on negro melodies
and folk lore. - The New Orleans Item (New
Orleans, La.)

Mary Gillen is exotic.  The old saying that
"when God made such and such a person, He lost
the pattern" might easily be applied to her per-
sonality.- Dolly Dalrymple in Birmingham (Ala-
bama) Age-Herald.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.