CULTURAL FRONT

The Kamin publishers of 15 West
56th St., New York, are bringing out
an international quarterly magazine
of film opinion, entitled FILMS,
early this month. Seeking to provide
a medium whereby film-craftsmen
and the film-audience may have a
forum for the mutual exchange of
ideas, the magazine will contain
articles and film material by many
noted writers and workers in the
cinema. The first issue includes
articles by John Grierson, Sawyer
Falk, Kurt London, Alberto Cavalcanti,
and others, in addition to an
unpublished article by Harry Alan
Potamkin, annotated by Edgar Dale
of Ohio State University, and a previously
unpublished screen treatment
of "The Lower Depths" by Maxim
Gorky, translated by Alexander Bakshy.
The Editorial Board of FILMS
consists of Lincoln Kirstein, Jay
Leyda, Mary Losey, Robert Stebbins,
and Lee Strasberg.

Ballet Alphabet, "A Primer for
Laymen" by Lincoln Kirstein is also
published this month by Kamin. Its
appearance coincides with the opening
of the 1939-40 Ballet season, the 
premiere of the Ballet Russe at the
Metropolitan Opera House, and the
start of the second trans-continental
tour of the American Ballet Caravan
of which Mr. Kirstein is director.
Ballet Alphabet lists all the useful
words comprising the large vocabulary
of theatrical dancing. Many of
these, such as: entrechat, pirouette,
and tutus are vaguely familiar to the
large theatre-going public, but for 
the first time Mr. Kirstein traces them
to their origin and gives them complete
definition and analysis. A special
feature are the drawings of dancers
by Paul Cadmus, well known
young American painter, done particularly
for this book.

Negro artists and actors combined
their talents in a recent fund-raising
affair at the Harlem Suitcase Theatre
in New York to aid the orphaned 
Spanish refugee children whose condition
in the concentration camps of
southern France have grown steadily
worse since the beginning of the present
European war. Richmond Barthe's
statuette, "Little Spanish Mother,"
was presented to Mrs. Sarah Sellin

of the Bronx, by Miss Edna Thomas,
star of the Federal Theatre production
of Macbeth and acting executive
secretary of the Negro Actors' Guild.
"Mighty Wind a Blowin'," a one-act
drama of the life of southern share-
croppers was put on by the Suitcase
Players, as part of the evening's
program.

A joint benefit recital of modern
dancing and piano music has been
arranged by the China Aid Council
and the Negro People's Committee to
Aid Spanish Refugees for Sunday
evening, November 5th, at the High
School of Music and Arts, 135th 
Street and Convent Avenue, New
York. The participants are Miss Silan
Chen, Chinese dancer and William
D. Allen, concert pianist. Miss
Chen, whose picture appeared in
DIRECTION last month, is the
daughter of Eugene Chen, former
Finance Minister of the Chinese Republic,
and studied ballet with Fokine,
famous European ballet master.
She has appeared in recitals in both
Europe and America, and will offer
on this occasion a program of modern
Chinese dances. Mr. Allen is
making his first American appearance
following a dramatic last-minute
flight across Europe. 

The pulse beat of rising chauvinism
thumps loudly in "Modern
American Painting," the new picture
book generously illustrated with
color plates originally used in Life
magazine.

In a text replete with such phrases
as the "emergence of America as a
world power in art," Peyton Boswell,
Jr., undertakes to draw a line of
sharp cleavage between "Americanism"
and "alien influences" in the
art of this country. He gets right
down to cases and separates the sheep
from the goats, those who "paint
American" and those who paint well,
but not "American."

Such distinctions will be about as
palatable to those who stand for cultural
freedom as the distinction made
in Nazi Germany between the embodiment
of the "Aryan" spirit and the
"non-Aryan." Carried to their
"logical" conclusions they can only
lead to the same results that brought
devastation in Germany.

Julien Bryan, roving news cameraman,
who recently experienced a two
weeks' siege by the German Army at
Warsaw, gave the first of three documentary
film lectures under the auspices
of the Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences on October 26. His
subject, "Mexico," was profusely illustrated
with motion pictures he
made in that country last year. Mr.
Bryan will be prepared to reveal his
film record of the Polish War in his
second Institute lecture, which will
be given on December 21.

For three weeks, beginning November
1st, an exhibition of sculpture
and paintings done by children in the
WPA Art Project classes is to be
held at the Whitehall Ferry Terminal
at the foot of Whitehall Street. A
group of photographs and health
posters will be on view at the International
Ladies Garment Workers'
Union, 218 West 40th Street, from
the first through the 28th of November.
Last month, an exhibition of
paintings and drawings by patients in
the Psychiatric Division of Bellevue
Hospital aroused much interest at the
American Prison Association Convention.
These drawings are a result of
a very valuable experiment carried
out by instructors of the Project's
Art Teaching Division, under the
supervision of hospital psychiatrists, 
including Dr. Paul Schilder, whose
interesting article on this subject was
published last spring in DIRECTION.

Statue by a child pupil in a
Federal Art Project Class.

IMAGE

20

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.