Brother Merrill, a college friend, first gave me the dance song,
Goodbye Old Paint, in Cheyenne, Wyoming, on July fourth, 1910. We were
both attending the great Frontier Day Celebration held each summer in 
Cheyenne. We met unexpectedly and joyously one night as we faced each
other at the entrance of a noisy saloon. Booth was going out one swinging 
door, and I was going in through the other. We grasped hands and
chanted together the last verse of our old college song:

"The eyes of Texas are upon you till Gabriel blows his horn."
Then both doors swung inward and we found a quiet room at the back end
of the saloon. I was running down and recording cowboy songs, Boothe
on a vacation from his duties as prosecuting attorney for a country in
Western Oklahoma.

"Out in my country," said Boothe, "we do not dance Home Sweet Home
for the last waltz at a cowboy breakdown; instead we stop the music and
we all sing and dance together, to slow waltz time, Goodbye Old Paint."
He wouldn't let me "can" his voice, but he did sing the tune over and
over again until I was able to carry it in my head back to Texas. Years
afterwards Oscar Fox, of San Antonio, Texas, sat down the tune, wrote the
harmony and published it in sheet music. The song because popular throughout
the country, especially over the radio and won a place in "American
Folk Songs and Ballads."

Since then I have often heard the song among West Texas where
"play parties" yet flourish instead of dances, fiddle music being yet
thought sinful while the same music with dance music with precisely the
same sance movements is not frowned upon by churches.

To the stanzas sung to me by Booth Merrill in Wyoming have been 
added other stanzas all in loving tribute to a cow pony whose name was
Old Paint. A paint horse is a spotted horse the favorite colors being a
mixture of white and black or white and bay. Such a horse in the "string"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.