As has been indicated earlier, rumors spring up as the function of the
relation between interest and the available news.  In some communities, 
particularly ports, war industry towns, and army camp towns, some members of the 
community have an opportunity to witness events related to the war effort.  It is obvious 
that these items are of considerable interest not only to those who witness them, 
but to the community at large.  It is also obvious that for many of these things,
newspapers must refrain from making any comment until long after the event.  These
circumstances contribute to the development of rumors.
Rumor control projects in communities where this type of rumor is likely
to develop have special responsibility in assisting the newspapers to retain the
confidence of the people in their standard sources of information.  People should
understand why it is that some information is delayed or completely withheld in
order that they may refrain from spreading rumor under conditions where they might
normally be expected to develop.  If the members of the communities are confident
that what is withheld should be withheld until such a time as the papers make
their release, then they may be willing to refrain from spreading information
which leads to rumor.
In order to retain their status, newspapers should make quite clear the
reasons why information was not published earlier when they have occasion to publish
a delayed story.  The rumor control project must constantly help the community
to an understanding of the wisdom of occasional delays, and the need for the
individual citizen to abide by such delays even with his own private sources of
information.  If people keep to themselves what they may see in the normal course
of their day, impose upon themselves the same sort of self-discipline that newspapers
are expected to apply, rumors will not develop.  The flow of rumors depends
upon, in part, people's confidence in their news sources.  It is not enough for
this country merely to have the most reliable information sources, this fact must

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.