THE IONIAN SINGERS
     THE IONIAN SINGERS are an ensemble established with the avowed purpose of seeking out and making available to the public the best of male-voice music, from the days of Palestrina to our own. Its research has unearthed masterpieces which have been all but completely forgotten because of the long-standing pre-occupation of male singing groups with the less difficult ballads and popular hits of the hour.
     These men, though active and experienced soloists in their own right, have cultivated the rare ability to submerge themselves in the interests of a delicately attuned, blended and balanced tonal ensemble. With voices of exceptional individual quality and range, with a background of long study, thorough musicianship, uncompromising artistic ideals, and extensive concert experience, they offer a program that is a unique and exhilarating experience -- a program of high musical worth, intimate appeal, and great variety. 

                                   ANNOTATIONS
                                                 I.
Lure, Falconers, Lure!  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  John Bennett
     This rousing 16th century madrigal, in praise of falconry, appeared in Thomas Ravenscroft's famous "Brief Discourse" in 1614. John Bennett, who died in 1618, was one of the last of that group of madrigal composers that included the great names of Morley, Weelkes, Gibbons and Wilbye.

An Evening's Pastorale .  .  .  .  .  .  Wilfrid Shaw
     This is an excellent example of 19th century part-song writing. It is a reverie in the mood of Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" -- "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."

Smugglers' Song (Hedridean) .  .  .  .  .   Granville Bantock
     "Smuggler's Song" is a traditional song of contraband-runners, toasting their doughty ship "Loyalty" and her success in the morrow's raid. It is from "Songs of the Hebrides," a collection by Marjory Kennedy-Fraser.

Gently Johnny (English)  .  .  .  .  .  .  Seth Bingham
     England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland offer a vast treasure of excellent folk-tunes. Seth Bingham, who arranged this amusing one, is a member of the faculty of Columbia University. 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.