In the Event of War the Archive of
American Folk Song

1)  Can furnish a group of easily singable tunes for parody and for marching songs.
These tunes can be ticketed as suitable for certain regional groups or racial
groups of linguistic groups.

2)  Can furnish for commercial radio broadcast a series of perpared recordings of
American folk songs and dramatizations of folklore having to do with specific
regions and appeals calculated to arrouse the populations of those regions.

3)  Can furnish material for commercial radio broadcasts to be used by stars like
Kate Smith and other already established singers that will make regional
and national appeal: songs not having to do with war [w] but with sentiments
and ideas of tenderness that will appeal to all Americans.  Such broadcasts can
be directed to certain parts [f] of the country and use for focus certain regional
types of music.  The Red River Valley, Git Along Little Dogies --- for the West

4)  Can furnish such community service programs as WPA music project and NYA with
somgs pamphlets, dramatic skits and so forth suitable for use in [camps] training
camps and for town meetings and so on.  It can supply additional material for
use in organizing the community entertainments which are so important in war-time;
these entertainment should be stimulated by these community service organizations
wirh only a certain amount [pf] of "taught" material.  The rest of th material
should be got out of the home folks, in line with that wartime maxim that
everybody must contribute something.  The same should be true of work in soldiers'
camps.  I collected some of my best versions of mountain ballads from soldiers
at Fort Knox and nobody laughed in that room.  The boys were all West Virginia boys.

5)  Can furnish script for radio production designed to reach each and every American
minority and remind them of their past contribution to the nation and their
future contribution.

6)  Can furnish programs for key stations in the country like WLW which reach rural
populations which will be designed for their audiences, musically and linguistically.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.