ANTI-BRITISH RUMORS

A.  There will be a war between England and the U.S.
1.  "England is just trying to get all our boys trapped in
Britain where they'll be slaughtered and then England
and Germany will gang up against the United States." 
(Oregon)
2.  "It's common knowledge that England won't flight.  She 
never has.  She has always hired her fighting done --
but when we know this why should we pay the price of
our sons for her?  When England and America fight it
out we'll fight her to a finish."  (Alabama)
3.  "Trouble between United States soldiers and British
soldiers is commonplace."  (Illinois)

B.  It is England's War.
4.  "England got us into this war -- and the last one." (Wisc.)

C.  At any rate, there is a difference between England's War and
ours.
5.  "We can't fight our war and England's too."  (Alabama)
6.  "I am not pro-German, but England has got to be beaten 
in this war, she has sneaked out of every thing for too 
long."  (Massachusetts)

D.  The British are not working efficiently.
7.  "England was impeding the prosecution of the war efforts."
(Missouri)
8.  "Something is definitely wrong with England's management
of the war, that they are holding back."  (Missouri)
9.  "England is trying to name the general for us when she
can't even combine her own land and air forces."  (Kentucky)

E.  British bungling characterizes relation to colonies.
10.  "Leave it to the English; they are always 105% for themselves,
but they are certain to lose now everything they 
have held on to for centuries, that's all over wait and 
see."  (Massachusetts)
11.  "A number of people said that England has demonstrated a
lack of capability in administration of an empire.  This
is proven by the fact that she does not enjoy the same
loyalty from her colonial troops as the United States has
received from native Philippine troops."  (Arizona)
12.  "The British lost Tobruk because so many of their soldiers
were colored natives who didn't give a damn about winning
for Britain". (Michigan)







Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.