John A. Lomax. University of Texas Station. Austin Texas
COPY
May 19, 1933
Mr. John A. Lomax,
University of Texas,
Austin, Texas.

Dear Sir:

     I have secured the order from the Atlas for a 
battery operated recording instrument and I hope to be able to duplicate it for you.  I have seen Mr. Engel and he will advise me as soon as word comes from Washington to proceed.  Since I talked with you Fairchild has stiffly increased the prices of all instruments much against my will 
- their battery portable now is $600 and as our ideas of policy and construction are getting farther apart every day 
I have decided to sever my connections with them.  Every improvement in their instrument has directly come about through me and my efforts and I have already given them much 
of the specifications for the instrument which I will agree to build for you for $450.00 including batteries.  If you wish to provide your own batteries, deduct $30.00 (see specifications 
for description) I will have as my technical staff the engineers at the studio where I took you.  These men are recognized as being 
at the very top and are called in or have been by the other manufacturers of recording instruments.  They have a reputation 
for making the best metal and wax records in this city.  Part of the equipment which I propose to use has been in constant 
use there for many months.

     The objection that I have always had to the Fairchild portable in size, weight and power will be eliminated as the 
weight of each of the two cases will almost be cut in half 38 to 45 pounds instead of 70 to 75 lbs.  The size of the case will be 17 x 17 x 16, about 2/3 of the Fairchild size.

     I can not cut the weight of the batteries except to cut the quality of the recording.  I am, however, using the same batteries as with the Fairchild or other standard 
set despite that fact that I will provide an amplifier with at least 4 times that of the Fairchild set.

If you use one 6 volt wet battery you will have 20 hours of recording - two will give you more satisfaction and about 40 hours.  You could carry a small trickle charger and one battery and keep it charged up to full capacity.

You will need 180 volts of B battery and these will 
last a long, long time.  On my new outfit you maycut either celluloid or metal and you will get 20% more on every disc 
than on any other standard instrument as it will cut 120 lines to 
the inch in metal discs.  In changing from metal to

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.