- 6 -

private information to help them get better perspective on how their individual 
contributions are being used in the total project.

II The Analysis Program -- Analyzing
An analytical staff should be recruited from people who have the necessary
training for such activities.  Advanced students in psychology and sociology at local
universities should prove most satisfactory for this type of work. [and in all cases] Analysts
should work under the close supervision of the research director.  Because of the
difficulty in classifying many reports, it is recommended that all rumors be
independently analyzed by at least two skilled workers, from each of whom the report of
the other is carefully concealed until the analysis is completed.  Those rumors where
classifications are not identical, may be referred to the dirctor for decision.
The first analysis should be into local and non-local rumors.  It will be immediately
obvious that some rumors are completely local.  "Mr. Jones, the President of X Plant
is doing thus and so with the funds of the Employees Welfare and Recreational System."
Other rumors will represent local variations on a national theme.  "So and so is not 
keeping to posted ceiling prices."  Still other rumors will be clearly non-local, such
as reference to state matters or personnel or federal matters and personnel.  It is
the function of the Bureau of Intelligence of the Office of War Information to organize
the non-local material and all such rumors should be referred to them for treatment.  
At first these rumors will be analyzed by OWI them and appropriate recommendations to the proper agencies will be made. [* how far down they go *] [As situations develop,] the Bureau of Intelligence will provide special information describing the classification schemes which are to be used for the non-local rumors, and the first processing of these rumors should be undertaken in the local projects.  This will be done in order to provide improved
perspective for those responsible for local rumor programs.  It should be clear that non-local rumors must not be used in the local rumor campaigns except at the express direction of the Office of War Information.  LOCAL RUMOR PROJECTS SHOULD DEAL WITH LOCAL RUMORS.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.