RUBY TERRILL LOMAX
THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS
7456 SAN BENITO WAY
DALLAS, TEXAS

May 19, 1942

Dear Bess,
The latest news of you came from Alan, who said that he had asked permission to use you in his office for two weeks or so while his secretary gets her balance, or words to that effect.  Todauy we had a note from Alan, all business, with no reference to you; so we are in the dark again.
Shirley and children left her last Tuesday a.m. for Charleston.  That night a phone call from M. came in for her, but we told the operator to try Vicksburg, where she intended to spend the night at a hotel there. Yesterday a card came saying that on Thurs, noon they were in 135 miles of their destination,-and that's all we know about her.  We certainly miss all of them.  We let Mike have a few days off to go to La. to outfit his son for the close of school.  He'll be back tonight and then we get to work on spring housecleaning.  We had the roof reshingled last week; the old ones are still decorating the yard; they are too many to save for kindling and would ma make a fire men[?]e anyway, but  your father has some plan,as best unrevealed to me, but which he hopes to save some moody on them.  Back to Shirley and her plans: a Camp Ketchuwa (sp.?) announcement came today. 9 years seems to be the minimum; I hope Shirley can arrange to be there.  She left most of her clothes here that you want sent, please let me know.  But especially let u   s know what you are doing, or at lea least where you are.  

We are having a wedding in the Terrill family.  My sister Stella's son Ben, an ensign in the Navy, is marrying a Chicago girl next Saturday.  They'll be in Galveston, at least for headquarters for a while, and then I don't know where.  They may come by Dallas, but your father doesn't like the boy and says he will leave home if they come here.  I don't know what to do but to let him leave for a day, for I can't insult my sister by refusing to entertain, or at least see, her son and his Bride. Your father has been writing his fri friends that his life is a failure and has been very gloomy about his health.  I tell him that he is giving his friends the lowdown on me, because he shows them that I can't make him happy.   Well, don't worry about that.  But you can help by writing regularly.  And write to Shirley, too.  General Delivery Charleston, S.C., unless you have later directions.  She was nervous and on edge when she left here, and Chris leans so hard on her that she is worn down. However, she said that the first month was in Mobile with him was the happiest they had since they were first married. 
I don't think of any news. Let me know if there is anything I can do for you.
Much, much love to you. 
Deanie
The week's Saturday Review of Literature is the Southwest edition. It has some sketches of your father's i it, and also, but he way a terrible sketch of your father by Jerry Bywaters. I wish you would diagnose[?]r that is the matter with it; the top of the head is good, th jaw is good, but the total effect is atrocious,-I think it's the eyes.  There are interesting ar articles by others of your friends.  
Sue stander graduates from Lubbock High next Monday.
(over)



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.