File
Under
J.A. Lomax
For the [   ]
Review

COYOTE WISDOM

Texas Folklore Society Publications, Number XIV (1938)

Whatever happens in the next literary aeon or two, folklore in the South-
west will be closely associated-let us say almost synonymous- with the name of one
man, J.Frank Dobie, called by some of his intimates "Poncho Dobie".  Not only has he
been the outstanding leader in the movement to preserve the lore of the South-
west, but he has also been a masterful interpreter, a forceful and resolute, sometimes
even pugnacious exponent of "regional" literature.  Without quarreling over this term
let us agree that literature may have a local setting and still be literature; a for-
eign locale is not absolutely necessary, not a time ancient as the pyramids of Egypt.
But to win Frank Dobie's interest and favor quickly it would be well to remember
his distinct bias for "the awareness of things that surround" us.  Had Frank ever won
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy- (May God long delay it!)- his thesis could have
been nothing else save a fierce polemic against the "sheer ignorance and stupid
pedantry" of those who fail to realize the naturalness and the inevitableness of re-
gional literature.  Truly this man would have been willing to become a martyr for
his cause.  Fortunately he possessed some friends, stategically [strategically] situated, who have
helped prevent the tragedy when help was needed.  No longer is there work for them
to do, save to swell the chorus of praise for what Frank Dobie has accomplished, or
to cheer as he moves ahead to more admirable achievements.

In addition to being a "full" professor in the University of Texas, Dobie
turns out about a book a year, publishes numerous short stories and articles annual-
ly in standard magazines, wins a Guggenheim Fellowship whenever he wishes one, or se-
cures an appointment for a friend, meanwhile shooting a hatling g un against injust-
ices, ranging from the policies of the new deal to reform in the parking laws of th e
city of Austin, Texas.

But such activities, after all, are the smaller part.  He is devoted to the


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.