salvage .. continued 
"While the civilians are hunting and turning in scrap metal and rubber the
A   Army Camps waste metal in shops, lumber, etc.  Army officers waste valuable time
of men working on personal projects for them."  (Georgia)

"The mother of one of the boys at Pine Camp told me that they re-tired
all their trucks, Jeeps, and cars at Pine Camp with new tires and burned the used
ones in a great heap."  (New York)

transporting products
"67% of the planes the U.S. starts across the Atlantic never reach our
allies, a man connected with the ferry command told me."  (Texas)

"We didn't go to Ocean City (New Jersey) this summer because they say the
ocean is covered with pools of oil from the sinking ships.  It certainly wouldn't 
be any fun to go swimming."  (Pennsylvania)

"We don't have a single air raid defense, anywhere.  Friends of mine in
Florida say they see boats go down every day off the coast ... if we had anti-air
craft guns they could get those ships ... they work on a lever, you know."  (Penna.)

miscellaneous
"The Government is going to cancel all defense bonds when the war is over.
No bonds will be redeemed."  (Texas)

"The Government has no business sending our boys into the Solomon Islands.
The Japs already have holed-in there and our boys will be trapped."  (Oregon)

"When the war is over, Franklin D. Roosevelt will be the boss of the
world."  (New York)

"It is very possible that we may be defeated in this war."  (New York)

FIGHTING FRONTS

England
self interest (we are fighting for them)
"England is not doing her proper share in winning the war.  She lets us
bear the brunt of it all."  (Colorado)

"England's just trying to get all our boys trapped in Britain where they'll
be slaughtered and then England and Germany will gang up against the United States."
(Oregon)

"I'm not pro-German, but England has got to be beaten in this war, she has
sneaked out of everything for too long."  (Massachusetts)

"Leave it to the English; they are always 105% for themselves, but they 
are certain to lose now everything they have held on to for centuries, that's all
over wait and see."  (Massachusetts)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.