because it would cost so much that poor people couldn't afford to purchase 
it.  But he feels that the public should benefit from his discovery and 
so he is distributing it himself from door to door.  He is giving it away 
at the nominal figure of one dollar per bottle, the dollar being used to 
[?] buy the expensive ingredients that go into its manufacture and help 
defray his traveling expenses.  It is no concern of mine, of course, but I  
want to give you this opportunity and hope for the sake of your ailing ones 
you will take advantage of it."
Oh, I was a fair tal[k]ker in those days.  So they would generally take 
a bottle, ready to try anything.  We had ordinary sized bottles, just any 
old kind so long as they were good sized.  We sold plenty of them and there 
wasn't anything in them that could hurt anybody, only salt, soda pop, and 
a little turpentine.  But we didn't have the nerve to reap no harvest so 
somehow or another when we sold one of those bottles to a poor family and 
their sick child died, we caught the next train.
This fellow, Jack the bear, was small, but he had more nerve thn 
anybody I ever saw. There wasn't anything he wouldn't try.  Somebody has 
shot his head off long ago, I guess.  He would do things like this.  Going 
up on the train, he was wearing some kind of fake pin in his coat lapel 
and every time he found on of those real simple looking colored people, 
especially a man, that had on any kind of a pin, he would walk up to him 
and cover the pin with his hands and say, " I've got you covered now. If 
you, as a memberof this royal secret society cannot offer me a complete 
explanation of the secret ceremony of the Third Region, I will be forced 
to punish you for violating the strict rules of this order.
If this guy he had covered was able to say anything, Jack would let 
him go, but if he couldn't, then Jack would make him payna fine. From time

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.