    Oh, roll on babe, don't roll so slow,
    When the sun goes down, you'll roll no more.

4 I ain't got no money, but I will have some
   A-Saturday night when the pay train comes.

          Oh, roll on, babe, don't roll so slow,
          When the pay train comes, you will roll no more.

5 I love nobody, nobody loves me,
   I'm a-lonely and single, spend my money free.

          Oh, roll on, babe, and make your time,
           For I am sick, and I can't make mine.

6 I looked at the train as she blew by,
   I thought of home, set down and cried.

           Oh, roll on babe, don't roll so slow,
            When the sun goes down, you'll roll no more.

7 I looked at the sun and the sun looked high,
   I looked at my love and she looked shy.

           Oh, roll on, babe and do your best,
           When the sun goes down, sit down and rest

8 That same old train that runs the track,
    That same old train will bring me back.

           Oh, roll on, babe, don't roll so slow,
           When the sun goes down, you'll roll no more.


I met a man the other day I never met before,
He asked me if I wanted a job a-shoveling iron ore.
I asked him what the wages were.
He said, "Ten cents a ton."
I said,"Old fellow, go chase yourself, I'd rather be a bum."
  
                                  *                     *               *
                      Works awhile and makes a pay day,                                   22
                      Rides de cushion or de beam;
                      Boys, de itchin' done got me,
                      Home ain't nothin' but a dream.


                                      WAY OUT IN IDAHO

     It is fitting that the man who made this song and the man who composed
"Sam Bass" should have used the same tune.  For another similar ballad, see
"The State of Arkansas," Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier Ballads, pp.
283-285 (1938 revised and enlarged edition).

MUSIC---Way Out in Idaho

I Come all you jolly railroad men, and I'll sing you if I can                            29
  Of the trials and tribulations of a godless railroad man
  Who started out from Denver his fortune to make grow,
  And struck the Oregon Short Line way out in IDaho.

         



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.