Excerpts from Criticisms, following a Recital at Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

OLD FOLK SONGS
     ABLY RENDERED
     The true beauty of folk music was 
clearly revealed Thursday night by 
Baldwin Allan-Allen, who gave a recital 
of British folks songs and ballads 
in Sprague Hall, before a good-sized 
and appreciative audience. Clad 
in appropriate costume, Mr. Allan-Allen 
sang songs of Scotland, Ireland 
and England, and sang them with a 
feeling for their simple beauty and 
restrained pathos.
    To "Loch Lomond," Mr. Allan-Allen 
gave an interpretation that recreated 
it, and made us aware of 
much in the song which we had taken 
for granted before. Throughout the 
program there were many of these 
familiar songs which he revivified 
and presented to us in such a way as 
to make us feel we were hearing 
them for the first time. The music 
distilled through his imagination and 
sense of musicianship sounded once 
more fresh and unhackneyed. 
    To our mind the high spot of the 
evening was "She Moved Through the 
Fair," an Irish song of most distinguished 
melodic beauty, arranged 
with an effective accompaniment. Mr. 
Allan-Allen rose to the music, and 
sang it with perfect taste, creating 
a striking effect.
    Throughout the evening the singer 
set the right mood in each song--of 
pathos, of humor, of patriotism-- 
steering clear of any temptation to 
sentimentalize or to linger over the 
long unfolding phrases of the melancholy
ballads.
    Every once in a while we need a 
singer like Mr. Allan-Allen to remind 
us how rich a heritage we have in 
these old songs which have grown up 
along with the British peoples. They 
must be revalued, their beauties redemonstrated, 
lest from familiarity 
we grow too contemptuous of them.
    At the end of the program he added 
several more songs, by request. -- New 
Haven Register.

RECITAL OF 
  BRITISH FOLK SONGS
    Baldwin Allan-Allen, a baritone 
whose name alone establishes his 
Scotch descent and whose kilties confirmed 
it last evening, gave an enjoyable 
recital of various sorts of 
Celtic folk songs in Sprague Hall. 
One found elusive beauty and delightfully 
frank ingenuousness in several 
of the songs. Mr. Allan-Allen won his 
audience with the ingratiating charm 
and intelligence with which he presented 
the program.
                       * * *
    Explaining the historical connection 
and meaning of most of the 
songs lent considerable interest to 
the recital; and it is surprising to 
learn of the national importance and 
personal connections many of the 
songs have, such as "Loch Lomond" 
and "Flow Gently Sweet Afton," 
which one regards today simply as 
"good old songs" of an early vintage. 
Many of the songs on the program 
were of this type but there were, on the 
other hand, many of distinctive beauty 
and individual tang, foreign to modern 
ears. Such a song was "She 
Moved Through the Fair," from the 
Old Irish Group. Both the words and 
music speak from the depth of Irish 
mysticism; the words tell us of the 
vision of a man who sees his dead 
love and hears her say to him, "We 
shall be wedded soon"; and the music 
so completely and so sensitively 
expresses a strangeness, a mystic 
quality reaching to the unknown, that 
one is greatly affected--not moved, as 
much as hypnotized by its beauty, Mr. 
Allan-Allen deserves particular commendation 
for a poetic interpretation 
which created weird and unearthly 
loveliness.
    In ballads of vigor and high spirits 
Mr. Allan-Allen was as expert in capturing 
the buoyancy and good feeling 
as he was in expressing the depth of 
the more serious ones. From the 
Old Scottish group "The Bonnie Earl 
of Moray" and in the group of songs 
from the Gaelic, "the Reiving Pirate 
Ship' were sung in good voice and 
with particular charm and masculine 
vigor. From the Gaelic group "The 
Sacred Wild Swan" especially suited 
the singer's voice, exhibited its vibrant 
richness, more than most of the 
others. He was fortunate in the 
smooth and unforced singing he 
achieved; there was strength in his 
voice; and his middle register and 
higher register were most effective. 
From beginning to end it was easy to 
observe that he understood and enjoyed 
what he sang; his interpretations 
were consistently tempered 
with feeling and artistry which can 
best be described as nationalistic.
                   --Yale News.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.