Death Letter Blues

     Here we find a blues that is beginning to take the ballad 
shape because of the influence of a modern institution -- the
phonograph record. This process, which is of course peculiar
to the twentieth century, is interesting enough to describe
briefly. The big phonograph companies discover, through the 
aid of one of their numerous scouts, some local singer, Negro,
mountain white, or Mexican, who knows the folk-songs and popular 
songs of his locality, {{is the recording studio where a set of 
records are made.}} If the singer does not have enough words to 
fill a three minute record, the company supplies them in the
proper dialect, in the proper vein to suit the mood and sentiment
of the song and the prospective audience. Then, through the
agencies of the five and ten cent stores and through high pressure
advertising, the record goes into every small town in the South.
If it becomes popular, the song is heard and, perhaps, is sung
by every singer in the South who tries to keep up with the "late
songs". The song, especially if it be a blues, is changed,
every conceivable way. The recording company brings East another
folk-singer who, by this time, knows the song in a different
version, and records it again under the same title. The popularity of
the first record helps to sell the second and so this process
is repeated; the phonograph record has taken the place of 
the wandering minstrel and does his work of popularizing songs
and ballads with the great economy and efficiency that is 
characteristic of machine civilization.
     Lead Belly seldom sings it because it makes him think about
death and he gets "worried", and also because the accompaniment,
which moves along like a fast mail train clicking over the sleepers,
makes him "sweat". It is interesting to note that Iron head
sings a version of the "Death Letter Blues" to the tune of "Shorty
George". See page 200 of American Ballads and Folk Songs. The 
melodies of the two songs seem to be relatives.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.