Waltzes from Opus 39 .  .  .  .  .  Johannes Brahms
     Brahms had a deep, impersonal love of life, and universal joy in the substance of his expression. These waltzes vary from moods of tender beauty to those of great charm and graceful rhythm.

Prelude--Pour le Piano .  .  .  .  .  Claude Debussy
     Debussy was the most gifted representative of the French school of impressionists. This Prelude, published in 1901, is one of the most interesting and exciting of all his unusual creations. He achieves particularly characteristic effects by the use of both pedals, as well as by daring and brilliant glissando.

                                                  V.
Who Is Silvia? .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Ruggero Vené
     Inasmuch as this group is devoted to the music of our own country, it is pertinent to note that Ruggero Vené, Italian-born and a pupil of Respighi, is a naturalized American citizen. His distinctive harmonic idiom is well exemplified in this modern setting of the familiar Shakespeare lyric from Act IV of "Two Gentlemen of Verona." It is sung by Proteus underneath Silvia's window.

Sweet Little Jesus Boy.  .  .  .  .   Robert MacGimsey
     A devout "spiritual" based on a tune heard in Louisiana.

Torchbearers.  .  .  .  .  .  Arthur Bissell--Ralph Lyman
     Here is an Indian ghost dance, heard in one of the last great pow-wows held by the Coahuillas in the mountains of southern California. The war chant was accompanied by the beating of drums and the low moanings of the squaws. Set to these words, the tune has become a Pomona College song.

Sour Wood Mountain.  .  .  .  .  .  David Malin
     American musicians have in recent years come to realize the treasure of folk melody in our own country. The Appalachian mountain folk have been a prolific source. "Sour Wood Mountain" is one of the rustic, jovial, high-spirited type of folk-ballad with a nonsense refrain. This version was gleaned from Kentucky.

                                      VI.
Down to de Rivah.  .  .  .  .  .  .   Robert MacGimsey
     The Negro attaches great and far-reaching importance to baptism. He expects to come up out of the water washed of all his sins, completely changed and "saved." It is an occasion of great emotional outpouring, and in this "spiritual" we catch something of his feelings as he looks forward eagerly to the great event while marching in the procession from the "church house" to the river's bank. 

Doctor Foster.  .  .  .  .  .  Herbert Hughes
     This is one of a number of musical settings of nursery rhymes which the late Herbert Hughes, Irish composer, made in imitation of the styles of well-known composers. Händel was the inspiration and model for this bit of parody.

Hymn to the Night.  .  .  .  .  .  Louis Campbell-Tipton
     Campbell-Tipton was an American who made his home in Paris in his later years. He evinced a genius for composing songs of sweeping melody and dramatic power.

These Annotated Programs are furnished by the COOPERATIVE CONCERN SERVICE, the central organization through which all Cooperative Concert Associations of the United States and Canada are internationally associated.

Community Concert Service

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.