-9-

An analysis of authoritative U.S. Government statements reveals
that some official statements may give rise to rumors or help circulate
already existing rumors.  This is particularly true of statements which
are confusing, contradictory, and misleading. In a few instances, there have been sources acknowledging the
existence of rumors and explicitly denying them.  An example of this
is a War Department release of July 15 which reported an organized effort
to strike at the morale of the American factory worker by spreading rumors
of British carelessness toward American planes, tanks, and materials.
This rumor was encouraged by Axis agents abroad.  Colonel Craw was quoted
as saying: "Contrary to the German talk, the British have been most
cooperative, helping us in every possible way.  But the propaganda,
insidiously instilled, has had a certain effect and today rumors are
floating back to this country which are definitely Axis inspired."  In
spite of such direct approaches, anti-British rumors persist.
Close parallels can be found between rumor and Axis propaganda.
Examinations of the out-put of Station DEBUNK offers the following
alignment:

In Minnesota, the rumor was over-heard:  
"The Jews put Roosevelt in.
After the war there will be a 
revolution.  Roosevelt won't be the
President, and all the Jews will be
chased out of the country."

Radio DEBUNK, on April 28, 1942:
"After the people of the United
States shall have suffered the burdens 
of war year in and year out;
when they see the hardships and
privations increasing with each
year; when the number of killed and
wounded melt into the hundreds of
thousands and millions, they will
recall that it was the Jews who
wanted war.  The Jews were not far-sighted 
when they stated the war
campaign seven or eight years ago.
This war is not going to make the 
world safe for the Jews; it is going
to do just the opposite."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.