(Put with article about origin in Ft. Worth
"Gypsy Lady". Int. to Singing Country)
1.

Get Along Little Dogies

Before the days of railroads, during the quarter of a century immediately
following the Civil War, probably twelve million cattle, mostly of the longhorn
breed, were driven from Texas to Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, the Dakotas, Montana,
and other mid-western states. Texas with its mild winters, lush grasses, vast, open,
free ranges, made an ideal breeding ground; further north colder weather and richer
grass grew a better quality of beef, firmer and sweeter steaks. Nowadays many Texas
steers are shipped by train loads to the grain producing states, Iowa and Illinois,
to be fattened on corn. Choicest Texas-bred beefsteaks are served in Chicago and New
York City. They don't come back to Texas.

Some of the herds numbering from 2,000 to 2,000 head were mixed herds of
varying ages. Cows with young calves were plentiful. These younger animals would tire
on the long day's drive and lag behind the main herd. The cowboys called them drags.
Along with the young calves would come the sick or weak cattle and the cripples.

The motherless calves were called dogies, a dogie being "a calf that has
lost his mother and his daddy has run away with another cow". This picturesque word,
dogie, according to a cattleman's story, came about this way:

"You know when a young calf lost its
mammy and had to eat grass before its 
stomach was strong enough to digest this
food, why, its hair grew long and its
body got pot-bellied. Its little spindly
legs could hardly tote its poor little 
body. These weaklings always strung out
behind the herd and gave the drag-driver
lots of trouble. Some of the boys-- the
calveshad such big bellies-- got to saying 
that they didn't have nothing in their 
guts but dough. Soon they began to call 
them dough-guys and dough-guys just naturally
growed into dogies. After awhile we 
might call any sort of cattle "dogies". 
The word kinder spread you know."

Never, I fancy, even by H.L. Mencken or Goerge Lyman Kittredge, will there be given

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.