9-I

blazing open fireplace,- a big brown-bearded, English-looking man with kind eyes and a blustering, explosive manner of speech. Timidly I told him my choice for a theme
 subject. He was immediately interested and boomed: "Do you mean to tell me that the cowboys have made up a literature of their own in the form of songs and that these
 songs have never been collected and put into print?" When I said that they were not k known except locally, he sprang from his seat and approved my subject enthusiastically; then he came around the table at which he and a friend were sitting,congratulated me, shook hands with me, and introduced me t[i]o his caller who turned out to be the editor of Scribner's Magazine. [Thr ough] Out of that interview [came] grew a new [interest in] chapter of my life.

Through Professor Wendell's kind offices I soon met Professor George Lyman Kittridge, the lienal successor of Francis J.Child in the field of balladry and one of the great English scholars of all time. One day while [crossi]I was crossing Harvard Yard, some one tapped my shoulder. "Is your name Lomax?" "Ye-e-es, Sir!" "I'm Professor Kittridge, Can you coem 
to my home to dinner tomorrow?" "Ye-e-es, Sir!" Lo! Jove had come, had spoken and gone.

I wrote my paper on cowboy songs and read it to the class in American literature. [Even] The sleepy boys sat up and listened and a few cheered when I sang. Meanwhile Professor Wendell and Professor Kittr[i]edge,joined later by Dean Briggs and Professor Fred Robinson,authorized me to send [out] a letter under their names to several thousand newspapers throughout the West,asking their readers to send in to me any folk songs that were current in their sections. A great mass of letters began to pour in on me--in fact, that news story is still going the rounds; more than twenty-five years later I am yet receiving occasional replies to it.

Soon after I left Harvard University I was appointed "Sheldon Traveling Fellow for the Investigation of American Ballads". I held this fellowship for three years. Through it I was able to travel in every state west of the Mississippi River in my search for the rough ballads of the West, for I found not only cowboy songs but also the songs of the Mexican vaquero, miners' songs, lumber-jacks songs, songs of the Forty-niners, Mormons' songs, tramp songs, and occasionally a beautifully rhythmic tune that had

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.