HARVARD UNIVERSITY
DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY
                                                                Emerson Hall
PSYCHOLOGICAL LABORATORY           Cambridge, Massachusetts

September 8, 1942

Mr. Eugene Katz, Chief
Special Services Division
Office of War Information
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Katz:

I am glad to hear of your progress with the rumor problem. You 
know, probably, of the article in the September Mercury, and Reader's 
Digest. It has brought to our Division of Propaganda Analysis several 
hundred letters. Mr. Knapp is now busy sorting the rumors and finding 
very interesting regional differences. For example, there are more horror 
stories in the South, and more anti-Semitic stories in New England. The 
latter seems to vary directly with the density of population. Knapp is 
preparing a report on the material, and probably a special pamphlet dealing 
with the twelve most frequent rumors.

I am wondering whether your plans for future rumor studies, and 
more particularly plans for prophylaxis, ought not consider our Boston experience pretty carefully.

Knapp is a first-rate man in this field and now has several 
months' experience. Ordinarily I should say he ought to be used by the 
O. W. I. The situation locally is becoming strained because the Massachusetts
Committee for Public Safety loves publicity and is doing various 
things to get more publicity for our rumor work. There is no particular 
argument against this, except that our standards are occasionally threatened 
by unwise statements from people who don't really know the subject, but who 
crave publicity.

It might be better if our work were reported directly by some 
office such as yours, rather than by the Massachusetts Committee on Public 
Safety. Actually, I think it could be centered from Boston, and made 
national in its scope. We already have a head start and are in a position 
to do the work on a broader scale. If any contracting arrangement seemed 
feasible and desirable to the O. W. I., I believe we would be in a position 
to consider a proposal to that effect. Needless to say, it makes no difference 
to us, so long as the work makes a contribution toward winning the 
war. I am simply saying that because of our head start, and because of our 
experience, the O. W. I. might want to utilize us in a national program. 
If it does not do so, there will continue to be duplication of effort.

In any case, I shall be glad to see the report that your investigators 
are writing up and will give what help I can in interpreting it and 
planning methods for future rumor studies.

Cordially yours,
Gordon W. Allport.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.