Freedom 
PTFLS - vol. X. pp. 15. 

HOW BUCK WON HIS FREEDOM 

Buck was the shrewdest slave on the big Washington plantation. 
He could steal things almost in front of his master's eyes without 
being detected. Finally, after having had his chickens and pigs stolen 
until he was sick, Master Harry Washington called Buck to him one 
day and said, "Buck, how do you manage to steal without getting caught?" 
"Dat's easy, Massa," replied Buck, "dat's easy. Ah kin steal yo'
clo'es right tonight wid you a-guardin' 'em. "
"No, no," said the master, " you may a slick thief, but you can't 
do that.  I will make a proposition to you:  If you steal my suit of
clothes tonight, I will give you your freedom, and if you fail to steal
them, then you will stop stealing my chickens."
"Aw right, Massa, aw right," Buck agreed.  "Dat's uh go."
That night about nine o'clock the master called his wife into the
bedroom, got his Sunday suit of clothes, laid it out on the table, and
told his wife about the proposition he had made with Buck.  He got on
one side of the table and had his wife get on the other side, and they
waited.  Pretty soon, through a window that was open, the master heard
the mules and horses in the stable lot running as if some one were
after them. 
"Here, wife," said he, "you take this gun and keep and eye on this
suit.  I'm going to see what's the matter with those animals."
Buck, who had been out to the horse lot and started the stampede
to attract the master's attention, now approached the open window.  He
was a good mimic, and in tones that sounded like his master's he called
out, "Ol' lady, ol' lady, you better hand me that suit.  That damn 
darkey might steal it while I'm gone."
The master's wife, thinking that it was her husband asking for  his
suite, took it from the table and handed it out the window to Buck. 
This is how Buck won his freedom. 
            ............................................................................................



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.