Port Aransas, Texas
2/7/39

Dear Mr. Spivacke:
    I am asking Mr. Greene to wire you for any concessions about
the Negro folk song material. It is a matter of relief to me
that the records are by now back in your hands. Hereafter, for
any reason, you may feel sure that I shall not again make a
similar request of you. Would you please send Mr. Greene's letter
up for Mr. Putnam's reading? He heard from your predecessor in
office so many aspersions on my persistence in recording Negro
music (as well as on any other possibly damaging angle)that I
should like for Mr. Putnam to see what Mr. Greene has to say. I
think, also, that this letter should remain in your files as an
answer to critics who may be telling you of my manifest and
confessed short-comings.
    In this connection, may I say again that I expect you to
object now to any phase of the collecting trip that I have
outlined to you that does not meet with your approval? And,
disregarding my suggestion, please feel free to make your own
directions about what you think I should do. You must get into
your head that at least one of my faults is not an overplus(?) of
ego, that I know it all, that I do not confess to many gross
blunders, due to ignorance, inexperience or sheer stupidity--all
equally blamable. You can speak your mind to me. I'll welcome
any suggestions.
    Last week I made a 500 mile preliminary trip down to the Rio
Grande on my own expense, locating sources and starting at least
half a dozen people to lining up singers for me. At any other
place I plan to stop on my way to Washington (as I wrote you
briefly from Houston) I known whom I should see and, in each
case, some of the material I expect to find. Alan Lomax has
written at length what his ideas are. Some of his directions I
shall follow; some I shall not.
    With kind regards, I am
    Always sincerely
    John A. Lomax

    (on back of Envelope-dated 2/8) - Consider Greene's letter as
possible publicity for the Folk Song Archive--if you think best?

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.