[*Nestler Harold*]
[*Contact card*]
[*Collector file*]

Violet Avenue R.D. 1
Poughkeepsie, New York
April 28, 1941

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I received your letter the other day, and thank
you very much. Having recently been working or trying
to find work, my time for folklore ad folksongs
is limited; but this morning having a few spare moments
I sat down to answer a few letters.

Not long ago I went out to locate a few Irish
tales or songs in Poughkeepsie. I contacted a lot
of Irishmen but it was not until about four-thirty
in the afternoon that I was successful, and that
particular Irishman lived two blocks from my home.
He did not give me any songs, I mean stories, but
did give me several songs and surprised me by singing
them. Like a dozen other people I have interviewed,
he had heard "Barbara Allen" and "Lord Lovell"
and "The Hangman's Tree" but did not remember the
words. One old fellow in Sullivan County, New York,
went so far as to tell me that he had heard the song, [*["Barba] "Barbara Allen",*]
a thousand times but did not like it and consequently 
never bothered to learn it. But the Irishman did
give me an interesting ballad called "Lord Lovell
and his Bride," in which the story is related that
a new bride, just for fun, hid in an old oak chest
in a castle, but the lid snapped shut and her bones
were found years later by her weeping husband. And
he gave me an interesting variation of that popular
"Vilikins and his Dinah." I believe I told you
in my other letter about a song I had collected in
New Hersey called "Young Mary", the words of which
I had not been able to locate anywhere else. Well, 
the interesting Irishman of whom I have been writing,
knew a fragment of it which he had heard in County
Wexford, Ireland.

Yes, I imagine that there are hundreds of songs
and ballads in the Hudson Valley region, and I hope
to find many more of them. (Do not mind me using the
words songs and ballads interchangeably because
I often get them mixed up.)

A few of my informants have sung the first verse
to me but it did no good because I know nothing of
music and would not be able to copy down the tune,
although I wish I could. (The only two subjects in

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.