Dr. Harold Spivacke -- 2
September 4, 1941

Enclosure 2 -- Would you be so kind as to turn Enclosure No. 2 over to "Ed" to
take care of. It is not in my line.

Enclosure 3 -- Please note the first paragraph of Mr. Randolph's letter. I 
think certainly that we want the pictures Mr. Randolph says he can obtain and I recommend that Mr. Wisener purchase ten (10) film packs for his5 x 7 Graflex Camera, with the material cost of the Randolph trip. I shallwrite Mr. Randolph that I have made this recommendation and that the rest
of the letter is taken care of.

Enclosure 4 -- If you care to, you might ask Mr. Rabbit what happened to poorPete Steele's check. Remember his wife is in the hospital and he is a sweeper in the factory.

Enclosure 5 -- You can quote me on Mildred S. Stocker as follows: "She is anexcellent stenographer, typist, and a file clerk and general secretary. In
her six weeks work for me, she proved herself to be a person of a great deal of talent, individual initiative and resourcefulness. I think anybody who hired her would be lucky to get her." 

Enclosure 6 -- Professor Gardner has edited two of the best books in the field of American Folk Song -- "Folk Lore from the Schoharie Hills," and "Ballads and Songs from Southern Michigan." She has been carrying on an intensive survey
of the folk music of Detroit, working through the students in her ballad classes there. She now wishes to borrow, during the remainder of the school term, one of our portable recording machines, along with sufficient records
for her work. I suggest that two hundred (200) would be enough for the purpose. Such a project should cost us not much more than shipping cost of the two hundred disks and 200 duplicates. I have written her that I have recommended
the project to you and that she can expect to hear from you before our return to Washington.

Enclosure 7 -- From Willem van der Wall.

Enclosure 8 -- I thought you would be interested in the inclosed letter from Pearson of Yale. I have already written him and when I get home I'll makeup his records at once. But there's a possibility there I think that they will want to use a great deal of our material. This fits in with Fletcher Collins' interest I think.

On my way home through the Virginia mountains, I'm going to try to take as many records of the classical English and Scottish Ballads as possible. We have too few of these songs recorded satisfactorily.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.