Michigan 
Detroit
Reported by Bert M. Grim, a
beauty parlor operator. 10-11- 42

Rumor: While talking to several men at a public gathering in Rochester, Mich.,
an official of the Ford Tank Plant stated they could get out twice as
many tanks if the Government inspectors and personnel men knew what they
were supposed to do and would cooperate with the factory officials.  He
stated that most of the ordnance men were smart, cocky Jewish fellows who
got the jobs thru a pull merely to keep them from being drafted and they
continually show their authority by holding up orders and O.K.'s on detail
technicalities which could be speeded up by a little more cooperation
between the two rather than turning them down or sending them back thru
the line just to show that they were Government men with this authority.
This causing very poor morale between the men who actually make the tanks
and are more than willing to do their share in producing same.  

Michigan 
Detroit
Reported by Bert M. Grim, a
beauty parlor operator. 10-7- 42

Rumor: A customer in a beauty shop on West Grand Boulevard in the General
Motors district told of knowing a foreman in the Ford bomber plant
who said that it was almost impossible to get any work done; that the
plant and Government were employing Negroes in large quantities; that
the Negroes carried weapons -- knives, razors, billies, etc. -- and 
defied the foremen to fire them for slowing up production.  Within the
past ten days a Negro attacked a white man with a razor.  When the
attacker was fired his union sent his steward to investigate.  This man
who represented the union upheld the Negro saying that it was too damn
bad he didn't cut the foreman's throat.  The rumor is that this
situation is getting worse and the foremen and plant personnel cannot
get out their production as fast as they could if they had better
cooperation.  The lady reporting this rumor seemed to be a very
dignified lady about sixty years old, a life-long resident of Detroit
knowing several officials and men working in the Ford plant.  

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.