PURPOSE OF THE INSTITUTE

The Institute will bring together a group of successful and distinguished
folklorists for lectures, demonstrations, and conferences. The
wide variety of activities in the Institute will be directed towards the
interests and needs of several groups: (a) regular university students,
(b) practical folklore collectors, (c) the general public, and (d) the
folklore specialists themselves.

Regular credit-bearing courses will be conducted throughout the
half-semester, which will serve (a) to introduce students to the whole
field of folklore, and (b) to train them in research methods. There
will also be non-credit lectures and demonstrations, round table discussions
and opportunity for private conferences, as well as a regular
weekly series of public lectures.

In planning the Institute, it has been recognized that folklore
touches many other fields of study. Perhaps most important of these
relationships are those with literature, on the one hand, and with
anthropology on the other. In its broad interpretation, folklore refers
to any of the traditional forms of expression of a people, and might
very well include not only all the tales and songs that a group has
handed down, but its superstitions, its peculiar customs, its games and
dances, its riddles and proverbs, its musical instruments, its decorative
patterns, its regional costumes, its building types, and its speech habits.

In view of the impossibility of covering adequately the entire field,
the Institute will place its principal emphasis on the manifestation of
tradition in tales, songs, and folk speech. The staff is composed of
scholars representing various approaches to folklore: ethnologists,
linguists, folktale and folksong collectors, musicologists, and comparative
folklorists. Folklore is not yet a well organized subject of study,
and the student often finds himself working quite alone. Having little
association with his fellows, he may well lose sight of other approaches
to his subject and of other interests than those he has himself discovered.
One of the principal functions of the Institute will be to give
opportunity for the presentation of a variety of points of view which
should prove stimulating to all folklorists, whether they be amateur
collectors or highly trained scholars.

The student will find in the Institute a variety of specialists such
as cannot be brought together under ordinary conditions by a single
University.

Different Approaches to Folklore

Folklore appeals to persons of many different interests and calls
for various kinds of training and talents. Before any use can be made
of folk traditions they must be collected. They may then be studied
like any other scientific or historical data. Many persons, however, prefer
to retell the tales and sing the songs, or dance the dances. They
enjoy folklore for its own sake and pass this pleasure on to others.
Finally, many artists of various kinds have found in folktales, folksongs

(2)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.