UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
ANN ARBOR
Department of English

April 10, 1940
Mr. Alan Lomax
Folk Song Archives
Library of Congress

My dear Alan
I wish to thank you and the Archives for your generosity in sending me the duplicate recordings of the folk songs collected on the trip to Beaver Island in the summer of 1938. All three boxes arrived in perfect condition and in time for use on the occasion of a meeting of the Michigan Folklore Group in Ann Arbor, March 15 and 16. They proved to be very useful. I also appreciated very much your including the marine songs recorded from Captain Asa Trueblood. I intend to present the collection to the University of Michigan as soon as I have transcribed the material that I intend to use. 

I was sorry that you were not able to attend our meeting. We had a good turnout of people from about the state who are interested in collecting nd preserving folk songs and other types of Michigan folklore. I explained as best I could the purpose of a National Folksong Archive and hope that you will benefit some from it. If the talks that were given and the discussions that followed are any indication of the attitude of those present at the meeting, there is considerable enthusiasm among folklorists in this state, and I am quite certain that valuable results will follow. 

We formed a more permanent organization that the one we formerly had and are now regularly affiliated with the Michigan Academy of Arts, Sciences, and Literature. I was re-elected Chairman for the ensuing year.

We have established a State Folklore Archive in conjunction with the Michigan Historical Collections in the Rackham Building of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The collections are under the direct supervision of Professor Lewis G. Vander Velde. I do not know of course what the results may be but am quite confident that the local archives will eventually acquire sufficient manuscripts and recorded material to make it valuable to people working in American folklore.

Again, may I thank you for the duplicate recordings which you sent me.

Sincerely
Yvonne H. Walta

IHW:MM

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.