Mr. Willian H. Webber                         -2-                            October 12, 1942

                        strictly speaking, a labor official such as was
                        mentioned in the Directive, but he was requested
                        to cooperate in obtaining rumors because of the
                        inability to contact labor officials at the
                        time the collection was to start, and because Mr.
                        Jeffries is in constant contact with both labor
                        officials, veterans of previous wars, and union
                        workers.

            From the standpoint of the number of rumors reported, the collection
in Kentucky can not be termed much of a success. This is also true if the
rumors anticipated were to be of the sensational type such as the ones that
were released by the Office of War Information and published in local newspapers 
on a recent date. Your Kentucky office, however, believes the inability 
of the majority of the people cooperating in this report to locate
a single rumor is indicative of the fact that the rumor factory is not working
over time in this locality. As two of the individuals who did not report
rumors were enthusiastic about the study, we do not construe their failure
to report a single rumor as being due to lack of interest.

            Both Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Peak will be glad to continue their
cooperation in this study in any way you deem desirable. The report
blanks have been left with the four individuals who no rumors to report,
and will be collected and forwarded to you as soon as they are able to
detect a rumor. Your Kentucky Office doubts the interest of Mr. Ben H.
Husbands and will attempt to obtain another person in his place. Attached
are the report forms filled out by Officer Peak and Mr. Jeffries.

                                                                               [*William B. Floyd*]

                                                                               William B. Floyd,
                                                                               FIELD REPRESENTATIVE

ENCLOSURES

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.