I hope that this has been acknowledged with gratitude
George H. Mahon                                                                       Lloyd Croslin
19th District, Texas                                                                       Secretary
                                                                                                       George Witten
                                                                                                          Assistant Secretary
Congress of the United States
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C.
July 7, 1939

Mr. John A. Lomax, Sr. 
Folk Song Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

You will recall our conversation regarding the proposed expansion of the American Folk Song equipment at the Library of Congress.  I think you know without my saying it that I am very enthusiastically in accord with your views that these songs should be made available to the public through the channels which we have discussed.
I have discussed the matter of an appropriate by Congress with several of my friends and have given the matter full consideration, and I am fully convinced that there is no reasonable opportunity to secure any appropriation at this session of Congress.
Within the next few weeks the various departments of the Government will begin to prepare their requests for Federal funds.  These requests will first be considered by the departments involved.  After the requests of the various divisions of the departments have been considered by the department, the requests for money will then be presented by the departments to the Bureau of the Budget.  When Congress convenes next January, the Bureau of the Budget will make its recommendations to Congress regarding the various items which have been recommended for appropriations. 
In view of this fact, it seems to me that it would be wise for someone connected with the Library to see to it that the Library itself makes a request of the Bureau of the Budget for the additional equipment which is being sought.  If this request is approved by the Bureau of the Budget, there should be little dif-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.