Philadelphia Office
Report made August 11, 1942
Rumor Report - Week of August 3, 1942
20. Russia is ready to make a negotiated peace with Germany,
and is going to turn over to Hitler all the supplies the United States
is shipping over there now.
Philadelphia -- 8/6/42. Business man of good character. Intelligence --
average.
21. The Russian Government is ready to break relations with [*2/4*]
England, because England has not opened a second front.
Philadelphia -- 8/6/42. Above average intelligence. Middle class
business man.
22. Russia is making her war workers work fifteen hours a day.
Philadelphia -- 8/7/42. Sheet-metal worker. Below average intelligence.
23. Here's the way I see it, and I know a lot more people who
feel the same way I do. Suppose Russia does beat Hitler? What then?
The rich people in this country have no love for Russia. Look at what
the newspapers printed about Russia and Communism, before the Russians
got in the war on our side. Why even yet, fellows like Westbrook
Pegler, are taking underhand pot-shots at Russia. No sir! Nobody can
tell me any different. If Russia beats Hitler, we will have to fight
Russia, go Socialist ourselves, and the Mellons, the DuPonts, and
the Fords and the Harrimans wont stand for that.
Philadelphia -- 8/6/42. Eighteen year old college student made the
above statement.
24. This war will last for ten years. When we do beat Hitler,
we will have to turn around and clean up Stalin.
Harrisburg -- 8/5/42. Statement made by salesman for large drug firm.
25. We're only shipping stuff to Russia to have it shot back
at us later, just like the Japs are doing with the scrap iron Roosevelt
sent over to Japan.
Harrisburg -- 8/6/42. Wealthy middle class. Business man.
26. The entire Russian Navy has been captured by the Germans,
but the Allies wont say anything about it, because of its' effect
upon civilian morale, and the Germans wont announce it, because they
are getting it ready to fight the English Navy.
Philadelphia -- 8/7/42. Occupation -- unknown; looked like laborer.
Intelligence -- questionable.
27. The Russians are fed up with the little help the Allies
are giving them, and are ready to make a negotiated peace with Hitler.
Philadelphia -- 8/6/42. Middle class professional man. Excellent
character.
[-4-]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.