6           THE SEARCHLIGHT

What Is a Political Machine?

     Administration partisans, State officials, and
Governor Herbert B. Maw deny strenuously
that there is such a thing as a Maw, a Three 
Gs, or a State Machine. They profess ignorance 
of any machine. His Excellency says he
doesn't know about it if there is one. All of 
them dismiss the idea as a malicious invention
of the Searchlight.
     But what are the facts? What is a political 
machine? Is there one operating at the State
Capitol? For answer let us examine the birth,
structure, and functions of the dingus the
Searchlight calls a machine.
     A meeting of all Democratic State Commissioners 
and key political figures was called at
the Capitol by His Excellency in the late summer 
of 1941 shortly after the close of the numerous 
legislative sessions of that year. Virtually
all persons invited were in attendance.
     Discussion turned on methods of political 
"organization" that could maintain the grip
of the Maw forces on the Democratic Party and
on the State Government. Two groups within
the "organization" strove for control. The
Three Gs — Garner, Grover, and Gibson — got
off to a flying start. They out-maneuvered the
opposition group in the early organizational
phases.
     Proposals for a slush fund — they called it
a campaign fund — were considered. Several 
individuals wanted a flat 2% levy on the salaries
of all State officials and employees. Others
thought a 1% assessment each month
would fill the till to overflowing. Finally the
question was settled by fixing the levy at 1%
with an additional 1/2% for purported social 
activities. His Excellency approved the final
arrangement.
     The clever Three Gs lost no time in assuming
the guardianship of the slush fund. Lambert 
Gibson, Second Counselor in the Three Gs,
and Justin Hurst, administration errand boy, 
were made the actual keepers of the fund.
The opposition was shut out of a direct voice
in handling the money. His Excellency approved
the choice of custodians of the slush
fund. 
    As time went on the division between the
two factions sharpened perceptibly. The Capitol
reeked with intrigue and counter plots. *
The situation drifted from bad to worse. Finally


His Excellency was compelled to intervene.
    He called another meeting of his commissioners 
and key officials and told them in no 
uncertain terms that he was sick and tired of
dissension and would tolerate it no longer. All
were given the curt information that if they
couldn't get along harmoniously together he
would call for their resignations.
     The gubernatorial reproof worked wonders.
Four top officials representing both factions got
together and named a State Slate for the Senate.
That Slate received general support from 
official and State employees through the primary
and runoff elections. It qualified three
Slate members for the Democratic nominations
for Senator in Salt Lake County and lost 
three.
     Obviously the foregoing facts — and they
are facts — leave no room for doubt that there
is a Maw Machine. At times we refer to that 
Machine as the Three Gs, in honor of the
brilliant political aids who help His Excellency
run it. At other times we call it the 
State Machine because, with the exception of
the offices of elective constitutional officers, it
virtually blankets the State Government.
     The Machine levies and collects money from
State employees for campaign purposes. It
names and supports political slates. ** And it
          (Continued on following page)
-----------
      *Jeannette Garner found it almost impossible to 
tolerate a degree of glory for another official that
might dim the luster of her own exalted position
as His Excellency's confidential advisor, and as
Dr. Maw's go-between in his dealings with Fitz
& Fish.
     It was Jeannette's clever work coupled with her
great friendship for literary personages that enabled
her to put the Fitz & Fish publications at
His Excellency's disposal, and convert the Tribune
morgue into a glorified Maw picture gallery.
----------
          **It operated slates in various parts of the
State. It crowded Organized Labor off the political 
map even though Labor contributes about 
50% of the votes in the Democratic Party. And it
is forcing Labor into an alliance with all non-Maw
Democrats as an alternative to leaving the
party.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.