Adventure - Chicago 5

mechanically remarkable, (perhaps not even good), but capable of making the listener
get up and go where the singer want him to go, and feel what the singer feels.
     "Never has any singer of cowboy songs since then made me see the dust, the great
grass ocean, the harried, bellowing steers as you did in that yodel. It was strange, eerie
and Western. Your voice would break and hitch sometimes but would get right back on the 
pitch and go on, and that made it all the more real -- and all the more imaginative.
     "We kept you singing a long time that night. Tom would do 'Dese Bones Gwine Rise 
Agin', and Carl 'Hallalujah, Bum Again' and 'Humble Yourself' in between times, the we'd
get you on the plains again.
     "There were two nights I can't separate in my mind -- Tom was there both times
and MacArthur once. MacArthur and I had been making beginnings at the time of collections
of cowboy ballads on the phonograph, and you set us off hunting more. There weren't many 
then, though in succeeding years more came on the market. The Tin Pan Alley took it up.
     "I remember Carl, a day or two after hearing you sing the first time, saying,
'That Lomax, ain't he something when he drives the doughies?' We none of us knew what
doughies were before you sang about them; had to ask you. I remember MacArthur and I showing
his little boys soon after how you skinned the buffalo, and how their eyes shone even
at the second-hand and highly unmusical imitation.
     "Tom Peete Cross was, and still is, the most interesting talker about folk-lore
I ever know; has more information about legends, myths and folk-sayings. MacArthur was,
and is, as you knw, one of the best of all tellers of stories that have a native tang.
I was busy collecting legends and myths about Lincoln, after his death; and Carl was
collecting songs from all the sources that the cultivated musicians scorned; so you 
met a set of men who were ready to recognize the authentic collector, the artistic characterizer
when he came along.
     "The time was ripe too. Here were we in a modern metropolis, all farmboys or small
town boys, and all getting a little sick of the efficiency, the mechanism, the culture of the

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.