-3- 

overhear rumors. Frequently, there is a strong tendency to build up a large staff
of reporters on the assumption that some of them will function properly, and the
larger the dragnet, the more satisfactory the results. While there may be some advantages 
in this sort of system , the administrative problems involved, the general 
attitude towards reporters which develops when they are not individually selected, 
the wasted effort in training people who are not originally good material, all would
suggest that staffs be developed slowly and carefully. 
The good rumor reporter should be one who has many social contacts. He 
should, however, be the sort of person who, either through occupation or temperament, 
is on the periphery rather than in the center of the group. A taxi driver
represents an illustration of a person who is professionally in a good position. 
He can hear conversations without being expected to participate. He had opportunity
for contact with many different people. The barber, however, is in a slightly different 
position since ordinarily he is engaged in the conversation and it is rather difficult 
for him to perform his function of noting rumors that are passed. It should
be understood that these generalizations do not necessarily describe all the members 
of each occupation.  Dentists, who in many ways are similar to barbers in their relationships 
to their customers, prove to be good sources of rumor material. This
may be a function of the more intimate contacts between the dentist and his patient,
than between the barber and his client. 
Personal qualities are also important in this selection of a rumor reporter.
The socially active, exuberant person is not necessarily a good rumor reporter because 
such a person is too often in the focus of a conversation and would therefore
have difficulty in preparing a careful record of what passes. (As part of a counter-action 
program, one must not overlook the possibilities of recruiting a rumor monger
into the project in order to be in a position to bridle his tongue.) Reliability, 
responsibility, a willingness to work anonymously, a willingness to proceed with

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.