COPY
(Re:  Will Hogg, Texas in Atlantic Monthly, May 1940)
702 Park Place, Austin, April 29, 1940

Dear John: 
    The mail man brought the ATLANTIC this morning. I sat right down to "willHogg,   
Texas."  I began reading character sketches or essays more than thirty years ago - and all 
these years the biographical sketches has remained a favorite form of literature with me.
I have read a great many examples of this form. I have never read one, however, in finer
form, more inherently interesting more moving in its power, or more graphic in the narrative
parts than yours.  If I were this moment asked to pick out the best thing in Texasana
that has ever been written, I'd pick out your essay.  It made me cry and roused my wrath
from the holiest profundities of my nature; at the same time I was admiring all the time
the skill of your construction.  By God, you have written something truly great. It required
an amplitude to compass Will Hogg's amplitude.
    A hundred thousand copies of this essay should be decently printed by the 
University of Texas and sent free to all the exstudents, to all the members of the
Legislature, members of the Texas Historical Society, members of the Texas Folk-Lore
Society, and to other lists of people suppose to  be interested in the welfare of 
Texas.  I am gong to give Rainey a chance to think of doing this. 
Your friend, 
Frank Dobie
You've known more characters and have a better grasp of details about them than anybody
else in Texas.  I hope you write a book a sketches about them - putting Will Hogg
first. 
                                  ---------------------------------------------------------
702 Park Place
Austin, Texas 
May 1, 1940

Dear Mr. Lomax:
    Iliked it too, very much. It made me cry.  When I said so at lunch, my Freshman
nephew wanted to know what was sad in an article on Will Hogg, Texas. And then I tried to
explain that tears are not for sorrow only but also for beauty or nobility suddenly 
come upon.
    Please tell Miss Ruby that I heard her folk-lore paper was just right.
    With a affectionate regards to you both, I am 
Sincerely yours, 
Bertha Dobie

[*over*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.