11: RO: VIII
Special Service Division,                 Minneapolis, Minnesota
Bureau of Intelligence,                   August 15, 1942
Office of War Information 

Palmer Elder, Assistant Regional Representative,
Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance,
Region VIII, Social Security Board

Cooperation with Office of War Information

Pursuant to your stated wishes as relayed through the Social
Security Board there is recorded herewith those rumors heard sometime
during the period August 8-15, 1942. Each of the six rumors was heard
but once.
1. "Col. McCormick (Chicago Tribune) is going to be tried by
a grand jury on charges of sedition." (b). Minneapolis,
Minnesota, 8/12/42.
2. "Hitler will be all through by Fall." (b), Minneapolis, Minn., 
8/12/42.
3. "Ghandi will be overcome by the Mohammedans if not by the
Christians." (b), Minneapolis, Minnesota, 8/12/42.
4. "Shortage of steel is caused by monopolistic handling by
big steel interests working through $1-a-year men in
Washington," (b), Minneapolis, Minnesota, 8/12/42.
5. "At a given signal 2 million trained U.S. soldiers now
in this country will cross the Atlantic by transport planes
to create a front (not stated) which will crush Hitler."
(c), Minneapolis, Minnesota, 8/12/42.
6. "Goebbels is worried - one million evacuees from other
German cities which have been bombed are flocking into
Berlin," (c), Minneapolis, Minnesota, 8/14/42.
(a) Rumors told directly to this reporter. (None recorded)
(b) Rumors passed along to a group of which this reporter was a part.
(c) Rumors overheard in their recounting to an outside individual or
group.

As for the previous week the undersigned performed no official
travel outside his official station during the period under current review.
He will travel next week thus encountering more extended opportunities for
hearing rumors relating to the war effort.
This report, in duplicate, is respectfully submitted,
Pe:nm Palmer Elder

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.