[*A*]

January 21, 1939

Mr. John A. Lomax
Port Aransas, Texas

Dear Father:

The "Fiddler-crab Song" was delightful according to Bess, Elizabeth,
myself, Doctor Spivacke, Mr. Waters, Miss Rogers, Miss Andrews, and all
and sundry who have seen it. That you have not received acknowledgment
is due, first, to the coldness of heart induced by the climate and the
tempo of life in these parts, and second, to straight ingratitude. Try
to forgive us all collectively.

I bought Bess for Christmas a large camel's hair coat costing about
$39.00, and had to spend the rest of the money on Library business.
When I get paid back I shall buy myself a $21.00 Christmas present in
kind memory.

I was as astonished as you were to find the American Ballads and
Folksongs in the "Oxford Book of Light Verse".  Also, to hear that two of
our songs were in Marc Connoly's recent flop "Everywhere I roam" without
acknowledgement. Also to learn that our version, word for word, of
Jessie James was used in "Missouri Territory", another Broadway production.

One more word about Bess. She is already something of a leader
on the Bryn Mawr campus, because of her charm, earnestness and intelligence. 
She is very happy there and is growing in every sort of way,
probably too fast to be able to write about it well.

I can't find the  opy of American Ballads and Folk-songs you
mentioned in your letter of the 15th, but I have talked the matter of
revision of the music over with Spivacke, Waters and Mr. Seeger. They
all feel that extensive correction of Mary Gresham's work has to be done,
and do not feel that Mr. Strunk's correction would be sufficient. A
number of the songs will have to be corrected directly from the records,
and it seems best to have one p rson do most of the job.

A little more about the machine - Doctor Spivacke is anxious to
find out how long a trip you want to make, so that he may make out the
necessary request for mileage and per diem. The machine will be ready
a month from now, probably, depending on what condition the Detroit
thieves left it in. We need some good acetate recordings of work-songs
for possible inclusion in  he  uggested album for Pan-American
rep blics, etc., and I suggest that you go by Huntsville, Darington, and
the other prison farms in Texas and Arkansas, and stay as long as you
can and get bang-up recordings of group work-songs, also as many blues
with guitar accompaniment as possible. We have made one fairly serious
mistake all along, and that is not repeating songs until really good

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.