J.R. SCOTT, JR., PRESIDENT CARL F. HOPPER, VICE PRESIDENT J. WAYNE GORE, CASHIER R.R. SCOTT, ASST. CASHIER

THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
NO. 14072

FALFURRIAS, TEXAS
December 26, 1939

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Lomax:

My grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. L. N. Porter have asked me to write and
tell you how delighted they were to receive your Christmas greetings.
They most especially want you to know that their best wishes will be
with you throughout the New Year.

Your visit and the many thoughtful things you did for them was indeed
a bright and happy event in their lives. They discuss and re-live every
moment of your stay over and over again. May I add the comment that
it is all to rare that we find individuals with the deep understanding
and thoughtfulness of elderly people that can and does bring so much
happiness and sunshine into the lives of those who live in memories.
i am most grateful to you, and so happy that it was possible for my
grandparents to know you.

Being so devoted to them, and deeply interested in preserving every
possible memory of them I am sure you will understand my desire in
securing, is possible, a copy of the records which you made of grandfather's
'fiddlin'. If you could make it possible for me to have a
set I should be eternally grateful to you. There will, of course, be
several items of cost to you in furnishing this which I shall expect
to take care of: in fact, knowing your generosity, I am going to insist
at this time that you allow me to do this. Making it possible for
me to have them will be more than generous of you, and let it be my
pleasure to defray every item of cost in connection with this.

At your pleasure, may i hear from you at my permanent address! Again,
with every best wish from the Porters and from me. May your New Year
bring you a mesure of the pleasure you brought in the past year
to all of us.

Cordially yours,

M. M. Gouger - cO Western Light & Telephone Co., - Donora, Penna.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.