- 18 -

material directly, however, and the Office of War Information prefers to exercise
a certain amount of restraint on such releases due to its perspective. It is undesirable
for local rumor control projects (with their limited facilities for such
activity) to attempt to establish their own check on Axis propaganda. This service
is available through the Office of War Information, where it can be rendered with a
viewpoint which will prevent local projects from misinterpreting short-wave broadcasts
and inadvertently aiding the Axis.

VI  Principles for Personnel

      The reporting and analytical staffs should be anonumous for the duration of
the project. It is quite obvious though, that the existence of the central office
and how to report phonies should be common knowledge. For individual phony reporters
to be known, would tend to interfere with their effectiveness. They should receive
appropriate public commendation after the dissolution of the project or perhaps at
the time of their separation from it. All such commendations, however, should be
undertaken in a form which would avoid anyone's feeling that a native Gestapo is being
developed. These people, it should be understood, are not spying on their neighbors,
they are helping in the monitoring of a channel of communication which is difficult
to get properly recorded. The Directors and the members of the advisory councils
should be made known to the public. The success of the project depends largely upon
the skills of these people, and the confidence they inspire.
     Workers in the project should make themselves expert in the fundamentals and
practice of critical thinking. They should be given special training in the psychology
of cognitive activities and regular review sessions in the application of such knowledge. 
Phonies must not be passed in an office directed to their elimination. Conversations
among workers cooperating on this project, outside of the project office,
should never include any phonies. Anywhere there is any opportunity for being overheard

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.