- 4 -

KENTUCKY

Most rumors in State are about labor problems and
profits made by companies constructing various
projects for Government, particularly in Army camps throughout State
and neighboring States.  Also, a few disputes between labor and management,
equitably settled very quickly, were enlarged upon and spread
throughout State in form of rather damaging rumors.  Rumors of this
type are now believed to be few in number and previous ones had very
little tangible effect upon public.  There are very few rumors about
various religious, racial and social groups in State.

MAINE

Rumors are constantly on the decrease.  People are
cautious in talking to strangers, and sailors seldom
talk about incidents at sea.  Favoritism in appointment of reserve
officers in the Navy is frequently commented on.  "Social position and
financial influence are said to be the essential in obtaining a commission."
Such appointees are referred to as "90 day wonders."  Opinion is that many of these officers appear to be inefficient, snobbish and
know little about the Navy.  An unwholesome condition is growing up
between officers on sea duty and reserve officers on shore duty.  Enlisted
men are talking about outsiders easily getting Navy ratings that they
have been working years to get and have not received as yet.  A great
deal of complaint is heard about the non-delivery of mail in the Navy.

MASSACHUSETTS

State has had its share of rumors.  One of most
serious was that Army planes upon sighting submarines
along coast could not proceed until authority was given by Navy.
Public came to conclusion that there was woeful lack of coordination.
Many people have powerful short-wave receiving sets and repeat propaganda
heard from European radio stations without realizing danger in doing so.
For example, one Government official whose loyalty to Government is
beyond question quotes statements of Lord HawHaw to associates and
acquaintances.

MICHIGAN

Rumors do not seem to be current in most parts of
the State.  In a survey at Wayne University in
Detroit, however, it was found that many rumors were making the rounds.
Among these is the rumor that Detroit will be bombed within six weeks
to three months; that Australia, Canada and India will break completely
with England at end of war; that we have a "great, secret weapon"; that 
Russia is selling Japan the supplies United States is sending her; that 
Russia will make a separate peace and will bear much watching; that the
Pacific fleet was almost completely wiped out at Pearl Harbor; that
knitted sweaters are being destroyed by the Red Cross in San Francisco
because warehouses are overstocked.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.