[(Date __)]

OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION
Memorandum for Rumor-Control Groups
Not for Publication.

The Office of War Information has received many requests for cooperation and
guidance from groups which are interested in rumor control. This memorandum is
written in response to such requests. It was prepared on the basis of an analysis
of more than 4,500 rumors and the experience gained in working with various rumor-
control projects.

Fighting rumors is a complicated, technical task. It raises problems in public
information, military security, and social psychology. It involves specific techniques
for handling the uneasiness and hostility which any war necessarily arouses.

Dangers in anti-Rumor Activity
(Anti-rumor activity) Programs which (is) are conducted without an awareness of the inherent and potential dangers of anti-rumor activity may tend to:

a. Circulate the very rumors which are being denied.
b. Circulate more rumors than are effectively denied.
c. Make the community too "rumor-conscious."
d. Create widespread uneasiness, which is fertile soil for more rumors.
e. Exaggerate the danger of enemy propaganda--creating unnecessary fears
about the enemy's cleverness or propaganda success in the United States.
f. Deny only certain kinds of rumors, allowing other rumors to circulate
more freely.
g. Monopolize rumor-fighting by a given group so that the rumors denied are
simply those which offend the particular sensibilities or interests of
the group--ignoring those rumors which the group does not recognize as
rumors or as dangerous.

[Information and] Anti-rumor Activity

It is clear that rumors always arise during periods of tension. Rumors always
spread during wartime, because people are under emotional strain. The public tensions
and uneasiness which are inevitable during war can best be eased by a continuous flow
of news about the war. The antidote to most rumors is information--clear, complete,
honest news.

But even the most complete and accurate information about the war, with its multdude 
of details, cannot prevent rumors from springing up. For war increases feelings
of anxiety. War sharpens public interest, and focuses public attention upon problems
about which full information cannot always be given promptly, or upon situations so
complex that even the publication of the known facts does not always provide simple and
reassuring explanations. War therefore fosters those conditions in which rumors flourish

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.