WHAT IT IS AND HOW IT WORKS 

This new department of the Farmers 
Union in the northwest states was formally 
set up on January 1st, 1936. Its 
purpose is to aid the states subscribing 
to it in the furtherance of cooperative 
education, that the educational program 
may keep pace with the growth of the 
business activities, and that the membership 
may keep in closer touch with each 
other through the co-ordinated program 
of education.  

Montana, North Dakota and Wisconsin 
Divisions of the Farmers Educational 
and Cooperative Union of America, together 
with the Minnesota Farmers Union, 
voted in their annual state conventions 
to subscribe to the support of a 
central education unit, whose function it 
should be to create and compile educational 
material for their use. 
 
The Education Service is financed by 
these four state organizations and by the 
Farmers Union business activities by 
which they are served: The Farmers 
Union Terminal Association, Farmers 
Union Central Exchange, Farmers Union 
Herald of St. Paul, and the Farmers 
Union Livestock Commission Co. of South 
St. Paul, Minn., and Fargo, N. D. 

OFFICERS AND MACHINERY 

No department can function efficiently 
without a definite setup as to officers 
and machinery. The machinery of the 
Education Service consists of a Director 
who superintends the preparation of material,
and the publicity of the Education 
Service, an Advisory Board who discuss  
and plan the kind of material needed by 
each state, and a Finance Committee 
who make up a yearly budget and pass 
upon all financial matters pertaining to 
the Education Service. 

The Advisory Board consists of the 
State Directors of Junior Education in 
the four states of the Education Service. 
Mrs. Mildred Kay of Montana, Miss Mary 
Jo Weiler of North Dakota, J. Edward 
Anderson of Minnesota and Mrs. Ruth 
Huntingdon of Wisconsin.   

The Finance Committee consists of the 
heads of the Farmers Union business 
institutions in St. Paul. Charles D. Egley, 
Manager, Farmers Union Livestock Commission; 
Emil Syftestad, Manager, Farmers
Union Terminal Association and 
Farmers Union Central Exchange, and 
A. W. Ricker, Editor, Farmers Union 
Herald. 

The Director is Mrs. Gladys Talbott 
Edwards, Jamestown, North Dakota. 

PURPOSE OF THE EDUCATION 
SERVICE 

It is the purpose of the Education 
Service to furnish reading lists, syllabi 
for schools teaching cooperation, lesson 
 
 


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.