(copy)
Written on letter head of the Barringer Hotels
Augusta, Ga.

(Livingston, Ala.)
Letter not dated but postmarked Feb, .3, 1939)

My dear Mr Lomax, 

This is where I ain't - and I'm mighty glad of it, for it would break my heart to miss seeing you folks. I've thought so often of those delightful days together, the interesting work, and the things you both said, and I've longed to live them all over again. I'm afraid I was not half appreciative enough of the little I had to share. I recall apologising for the little ceiled rooms you occupied, for them they seemed so ugly, and now - I don't even have those to offer. I've had to rent that part of the house to one of the teachers and his family, and Pratt, Mrs. Pickens and I are crowded into what was the kitchen and one back room. There isn't a chance to "move over", for we did just that in order to have Blanche with us, when things were even worse for them in Washington. How it hurts not to have comfortable rooms for you, but it will be such fun seeing and working with you, and we still have three meals a day and I insist on havin gyou share those with us, I'll be hurt to death if you don't. And I can get you a comfortable room with bath at a frind's home, that she often rents, or better still in a few days a small hotel, if it can be called that, will be completed in connection with a new drug store; anyway it's new and clean and of course you will be a lot more comfortable than you were before, only I won't be, for I'll miss so having you all the time out here with me. We can have the [negroes?] sing out here however, and take care of the mike (generous, isn't it?), because I believe they'll do better work where they feel at home. I can't wait to see you, so please don't let anything interfere. In the meantime I'll get busy finding more old songs. How I've missed your cooperation and enthusiasm. It will be such fun to renew the search now with you coming back to enjoy them and boost!

Poor old Blind Jesse passed on this fall. I went to the funeral sermon (weeks later) and carried teh "mourning sheet". Lottie wrote: "Blind Jesse is sho' dead". The minister had doubts about my getting there, the roads were bad, but he had prepared the congregation for what might happen. As I walked in late to the packed church, the preacher had his arm raised, saying, "Blind Jesse settin' dare in de kingdom", without pausing he sighted me and added, still pointing heavenward, "En here com Miss [Ruby?] now." If my job continues under one Myrtle Miles, that's about as clsoe as i'll ever get to a funeral sermon of my own, I'll probably end in the potter's field. But I'll tell you of that later. In the meantime I'll round up another accordian player (closer home), one I've recently heard of. I've found some nice playparty songs since you left, and a few other good songs and one fine voice, a new preacher, but Miss Miles has not been interested, so most of my work has been along other less interesting lines.

If I could lie as well as she can, I'd say that I had written you immediately thanking you for the lovely books; alas, like George, I can't - not that I wouldn't llke to - but just can't. Anyway I've loved them, each one, and so have all my friends and I've thanked you down deep in my heart every day. With one table in my room, they're right on it this very minute, of course. I have to dig to find them but they're there, and I know it and they can be found. Please forgive me, it's unpardonable, but if you could know all that has happened, how I've had no heart to write, but always like Sam in the new Atlantic believing "it will be daybreak soon", and that then I could do it. It's terrible, I know and I'm oh, so sorry. You were so kind and generous with them.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.