August 4, 1937

Mr. John A. Lomax
1618 Avenue Y
Lubbock, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

Alan has kept me informed about your trip which seems to have been a
very successful one.  The Archive of American Folk-Song has been booming
at this end too.  Its activities are increasing daily and both Alan and I
are kept very busy.

I have been trying to systematize some of our activities, and one of
our most difficult problems is that of "restrictions".  These restrictions
would be on the playing of the records.  They are not equivalent to a copyright
on a song.  I have been trying to work out a form by which collectors
would have to specify a definite time limit on the duration of the restrictions.
I should like to have your opinion on this matter.

I have entered into correspondence with Professors Morris and Smith,
and have received very interesting letters from both of them.  Professor Morris
wants to have his records withheld from the public until his dissertation
is published.  He says that he suggested a three year period, but wants the
privilege of extending this is case he doesn't finish in time.  I suggested
that he ask for a three year restriction with the option of a three year renewal.
If you approve, I shall accept these conditions.  Professor Morris
also asked me to write an article on the activities and plans of the Archive
which I promised to do as soon as certain of our plans are a little more
definite.

Professor Reed Smith wrote me explaining the viewpoint of the average
folk-song collector and what he expects from the Archive.  Some of these requests
can be met by the Library and some cannot.  I have just written him
explaining all this and hope to solve several problems by corresponding with
him.

I hope that you and Mrs. Lomax had a very pleasant trip and will
enjoy a good rest when you get home.  Please write me soon.

With kindest regards,
Sincerely,

Acting Chief, Division of Music

HS:ep  A

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.