Adventures-Sheldon 2

to the distance. In the late afternoon groans were heard, and the miserable faces of 
old maid school teachers, sore, shaken - faces begrimed with dust which they were too
tired to wipe away- made a picture of absolute wretchedness that transcended all space.
"Look on us a time," they seemed to say, "and space shall be no more." Two fained and
fell from their pa[y]ient mules the day we went down, and they were carried to the top on
stretchers.

The August sun did not prevent Cason and me from skipping down the first two or
three miles like a couple of young boys out for a morning lark. Then gradually came the
heat and the pull of muscles going an unaccustomed task with wearying repetition. Down,
down, down, never a restful step upward or on the level, the therm omete rising certainly
a degree with each 100 feet descent.

About half way to the river we came to a ranch house. The door to the kitchen
stood invitingly open. May we have a drink of water

"May we have a drink of water?" said Cason to the man, busy over a crowded cook-stove.

"Nothin' doin'," the cowboy returned cheerfully. "I haul all my water from the
creek. Run on down and help yourself. It's free and plentiful,- just got in from the
snow-cogered peaks of the Rocky Mountains."

He grinned and then turned to stir a bubbling pot of beans.

"It's 120 degrees in the shade and I'm all tuckered out," muttered Cason. Then
to th e cowboy: "May we rest in the shade of your house?"

"Until the centipedes and the tarantulas and the  vinergarroons come out to 
flirt with the Evening Star. Recline on my shaded sward and be damned to you. I'll be out
to see you presently while my baens do the slow-bubble jazz." Again our friend grinned
happily as he waved us from his doorstep.

Presently out he came to where two tired, disillusioned travalers were deciding
that the Colorado River could run safely along without further exertion on our part. We
yearned only for the comfortable inn just up the hill but at least ten thousand miles
away. The cowboy squatted on the ground, resting his weight on the upper high heels of
his Mexican boots. Balancing himself neatly and delicately in this precarious perch, he

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.