- 2 -

13.  "The British empire is shot.  When India goes the
backbone of the empire goes with it.  Britain will
never be able to subdue India."  (Pennsylvania)

14.  "Ghandi, in his loin cloth and with his goat is outsmarting
the British Empire."  (Arizona)

15.  "The English have always taxed the Indian people too
heavily and have shown them no consideration in other
ways."  (Arizona)

16.  "If England doesn't give India her freedom it will
prolong the war by five years."  (Colorado)

F.  The British have personal characteristics and habits which prevent
them from being good allies.

17.  "The Limeys are yellow cusses and stuck up.  They're
certainly learning how to run backwards, fast."  (Cal.)

18.  "How can England expect to win battles with her boys
drinking whisky and playing cricket behind the lines?"
(Alabama)

19.  "There is too much tea drinking and too little paying
attention to business among the English officers."
(Arizona)

20.  "England and her people are going to have to learn to
work - no more 'blue bloods'."  (Alabama)

21.  "The English have had Rommel in a corner twice but both
times they have stopped for tea instead of finishing
their job."  (Arizona)

22.  "We returned from a visit in Canada about a week ago
and all those people talk about is how much they hate
the English.  We picked up two boys who are members of
the air force and took them with us for about 100 miles.
They called the English everything they could think
of, said they had been to a training school in Eastern
Canada, where the instructors took a very arrogant attitude
toward the Canadians, did not know their business,
and did very little except drink tea."  (Arizona)

G.  The British do not fight.

23.  "British do not fight."  (Illinois)

24.  "England is not doing her proper share in winning the
war.  She lets us bear the brunt of it all."  (Colorado)

25.  "What the hell is the reason for our troops in the
British Isles?  Are we going to fight another battle
for England?"  (Indiana)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.