Philadelphia Office                           Report made August 15, 1942
RUMOR REPORT - WEEK OF AUGUST 10, 1942
Very few rumors were noted in Philadelphia during the week
of August 10.  Rumors coming in from our agents in Harrisburg, Reading,
Allentown, and the hard coal region, were also very meagre, when compared
to the preceding week.
This sharp drop in the rumor market, we believe, can be attributed
to a series of events which occurred during this week.
First, the execution of the six saboteurs, Saturday, August
8th, had a salutary and sobering effect upon the people who are prone
to scatter rumors.
Second, the offensive action of our naval and land forces in
the Solomon Islands group gave our people something definite to talk 
about, after a long period of conjecture as to the possible course
our armed forces would take as to the opening of the second front.
There was a short wave of rumors this week, from all parts
of the State, after the "Aircraft Markers" story broke.  These rumors,
in the main, said that the story was a warning to the public to expect
an enemy air raid in the near future. However, with subsequent admission
of the War Department that the release was not based on fact,
these rumors disappeared.
Again, for clarity, these rumors we were able to pick up,
will be divided into six divisions:
A. Rumors of Allies;
B. Rumors of Armed Forces;
C. Rumors of Un-American Activities;
D. Rumors Concerning War Effort;
E. Rumors Concerning Jews;
F. Miscellaneous Rumors.

A. Rumors of Allies
1. The English and American Army is ready to begin an invasion,
by way of Norway, this month. I know this is true, because 
a friend of ours in Selinsgrove has a nephew who is flying bombers
to England, and he told him that everything is in readiness over
there for an invasion.
Harrisburg--8/11/42. Middle Class. Housewife. Average intelligence.
2. Russia is ready to negotiate a peace with Hitler. The war in Russia will be over September 15th.
Allentown--8/10/42. Heard in Taproom. Speaker, Anglo-Saxon, about
37 years of age. Seemed to be of average intelligence.
-1-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.