Fees:

The statutory fee for registration of any published work is (with the exception of prints
or labels used for articles of merchandise) $2, including a certificate of registration under seal.
The registration fee for a print or label published in connection with the sale or advertisement
of an article of merchandise is $6. The fee for an unpublished work is $1. In the case of a
published photography, if a certificate is not demanded, the fee is $1.

It is not safe to send currency, stamps, or coin through the mail. Remittances should be
made by money order, bank draft, or certified check, payable to the Register of Copyrights.

C. L. Bouvé
Register of Copyrights.

------------

Extract from the Act of March 4, 1909, respecting the Copyright Notice

Sec. 18. That the notice of copyright required by section nine of this Act shall consists either of the word
"Copyright" or the abbreviation "Copr.", accompanied by the name of the copyright proprietor, and if the work
be a printed literary, musical, or dramatic work, the notice shall include also the year in which the copyright was
secured by the publication. In the case, however, of copies of works, specified in subsections (f) to (k)*, inclusive,
of section five of this Act, the notice may consist of the letter C enclosed within a circle, thus ©, accompanied by 
the initials, monogram, mark, or symbol of the copyright proprietor: Provided, That on some accessible portion
of such copies or of the margin, back, permanent base, or pedestal, or of the substance on which such copies shall
be mounted, his name shall appear. But in the case of works in which copyright is subsisting when this Act shall
go into effect, the notice of copyright may be either in one of the forms prescribed herein or in one of those prescribed
by the Act of June eighteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy-four.

Sec. 19. That the notice of copyright shall be applied, in the case of a book or other printed publication,
upon its title-page or the page immediately following [the back of the title-page] or if a periodical either upon
the title-page or upon the first page of text of each separate number or under the title heading, or if a musical
work either upon its title-page or the first page of music: Provided, That tone notice of copyright in each volume
or in each number of a newspaper or periodical published shall suffice.
------------------
* The following are the classes of works "specified in subsections (f) to (k)":
(f) Maps.
(g) Works of art ; models or designs for works of art.
(h) Reproductions of a work of art.
(i) Drawings or plastic work of a scientific or technical character.
(j) Photographs.
(k) Prints and pictorial illustrations, including prints or labels used for articles of merchandise.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.