THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS, DALLAS, TEXAS, SUNDAY, AUGUST 8, 1937

[[image of John A. Lomax]]
John A. Lomax
Mr. Lomax, photographed under protest after a 500- mile trip on a hot day, is collecting more ballads in Texas.

New and Old
Writer Visits Dallas on Ballad Collecting Tour
John Lomas Has Plans for New Book
----------
A visitor in The News editorial offices last week was John A. Lomax, author of "Cowboy Songs and Frontier Ballads," "Leadbelly" and other books, who is back in Texas and neighboring States on a new ballad-collecting tour.  This time he is equipped to get not only words but music as well, since he carries in his car a specially constructed recording machine.  Mr. Lomax, as National Adviser on Folklore for Federal Writers' Project, has for the last year made Washington his headquarters; but before he accepted this position he received permission to continue his own work and to follow any leads in his particular field.  The present tour is one of a series of long trips into Ohio, Kentucky, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida.

Folklore in State Guidebooks.

Mr. Lomax talked enthusiastically of his share in the Federal Writers' Project.  The Federal Writers, it will be remembered, are working on guidebooks for each State, with an essay on the folklore, folksongs and folkways characteristic of that section of the country, in each volume.  He has assisted in the gathering and organization of the material.
Among other things, thousands of reminiscences of ex-slaves -- what they remember of prewar days -- have been recorded; these and the surplus material not included in the guidebooks may appear in a later series of volumes on folklore.

Song From Revolutionary Days

Just last week Mr. Lomax visited again a Texas ballad singer, Mrs. Minta Morgan, who keeps house near Bells for her two farmer brothers.  She sang for him eight long ballads; one, which her grandfather sang to her, was a song that was popular after the Revolutionary War and celebrated the prowess of George Washington.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.