IMAGE

The ears of America will be tuned in on
Virginia on Tuesday, January 9, both at
the rising and the setting of the sun for
the program that will be broadcast over
WDBJ, Roanoke, and which will originate
there, will be sent out twice from 9:15 to
9:45 a.m. for the East, Midwest and Southeast;
and from 3:35 to 4:00 p.m. for the
West. It is rather a portentious sign
that the beginning of the New Year the
Columbia School of the Air has decided
that the music that the nation should hear
is that centered around the enjoyments of
the pioneer as they moved westward from
the Shenandoah valley where still can be
heard the fiddler as he plays for the
square dances which have never quite gone
out of vogue in sections of Virginia. And
that is the reason why this particular program
will originate in this section of
America, and will feature the Galax string
group composed of two violins, with "Uncle
Alec" Dunsford, Weldon as first fiddler
and caller, one banjo; one guitar, and an
auto-harp, the last named being an instrument
similar to a dulcimer.

Member's of WDBJ's staff will assist
representatives of CBS in producing the
program. Alan Lomax, of the Archive of
American Folk Song in the Library of
Congress, and one of the directors of the
folk music programs for the American
School of the Air, is reported as being in
Roanoke right now arranging for the
program. Mr. Lomax has made a study
of ballads and folk music and tunes. He
is co-author with John A. Lomax of the
volumes, "American Ballads and Folk
Songs," "Cowboy Songs," and "This Singing
Country," and is himself heard on each
of the broadcasts in the folk music series
and prepares much of the script for the
broadcasts.

The CBS teachers' manual and classroom
guide on the American School of the
Air programs says of the broadcast on
square dances to be given from Roanoke:

"Whenever a new settlement grew up
in the wilderness, one of its prime necessities
was a fiddler. If, however, the communit
was too poor or too prejudiced to
support a fiddler, the square dance went on
anyhow, under the stimulus of the brass-
voiced caller and the singing of the fiddle
tunes by the dancers. The fiddler carried
in his tune bag a repertory of the sprightliest
airs that Scotland, Ireland and England
together had produced through the
centuries. The fiddler and the square

perceptibly more Negroid, but with the old
fire and recklessly gaiety intact."

It is in this connection that we take the
liberty of using the above pictures, even
though these men may not be heard on the
broadcast. But to write an article about
folk music in Virginia and not include
mention of John Powell of Richmond would
seem almost sacrilegious. He is pictured
in the insert, and a group of his folk
musicians who appeared at the White Top
mountain festival which annually attracts
thousands to Southwest Virginia in August
and which is directed by Mr. Powell
who is a composer and an authority on Virginia
folk music. The trio pictured from
left to right are Uncle Jim Chisholm, B.
Wohlford, and Joe Russell.

Recently there have been many Fiddlers
conventions and contests throughout Rockbridge
county, the latest of which was held
at Glasgow and will be an annual affair.
Singing Schools, too, are reviving to old
folk songs, and as they gather together
invariably the evening ends with the dancing
of the old and young to the tune of
the fiddle and the bow strumming the old
square dance. No doubt this is one way
that Virginia is using to counteract the
depression that comes with too much talk
of war and propaganda. Not so long ago
it was reported by Dr. Luther A. Richman,
State supervisor of public school
music of the State department of education
that over seventy-five percent of the
counties of Virginia have recognized the
significance of music as part of the public
school program within the last three
years. He furthermore stated that a
thousand elementary teachers were enrolled
in the extension music courses
taught in the various centers throughout
the State during the last year. Yes, there
is no doubt that Virginia will be listening
to both broadcasts next Tuesday, and the
ears of America will be tuned this way.

So instead of the Gazette giving its
readers news of wars, of hatreds, of ships
sunk, and men killed no matter on what
battlefield, this "Oldest Weekly in the
South" in its first issue dated 1940 describes
a little bit of folk music that is originating
here in the valley which this week looks
very much like the north or middle west
because a huge blanket of snow lies on the
ground, and the weather is very cold bringing
thoughts of Finnish relief where winter

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.