-2-

Your letters have been consistently superb, but
there are a couple of items of news that I'd like
very much to have. Do you have any inkling of father's
and Deanie's plans for next year? Have you
made up you mind with great firmness to come to 
Washington for at least a week with us before you
go to Bryn Mawr?

I note that in your last letters your sympathies
are becoming decidedly Fascist and I want to be 
notified at once as soon as you join the Bund so 
that I can follow suit here in Washington and we
can greet each other in a true Aryan fashion when
you arrive. The Nazis have, by the way, decided
to make me organizer for Washington, despite the
fact that my ancestry in not strictly German; but
because they realize that folk-lorists make admirable
and serviceable fighters in the great campaign 
against the Semitic degeneration of world society. 

Chavella and I are still worse than broke. My first
act on getting a raise was to lose nearly half of my
pay envelope, and we are still paying back the debts
we accumulated. We can invite you, therefore, to
bring us a lot of nice presents from Europe. But I
hope you have picked up a lot of funny papers, cartoons, 
magazines, propaganda and stuff of that kind
for me. It's the sort of thing I really enjoy more
than anything else--just a lot of miscellaneous and 
very popular printed material--notices of meetings, 
handbills, advertisements, popular song books, etc.
I would like some day to design a real archive of
popular literature with such material as its basis.

I hope that you will persist in writing us because
your letters are a great deal of fun, and perhaps
when I get to Detroit, we'll write you a little about 
Poland and Hungary, etc.

In the meantime, since there is no more news and it's
time for lunch on Saturday, I will bid you a sad farewell.
I have on commission for you:- deliver my love
to all Fascists that you encounter and tell them that
I sympathize with them in their persecution by the Jewish
war mongers. Best regards to Elizabeth. 

Love-


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.