CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
military morale.  It also prepares a people for an extreme reaction in the opposite direction, when enemy victories falsify hopes built on the original myths.

(2) The Defeatest Rumor -- Simpler, and probably on the whole less effective than the above.  Apparently used by the Nazis chiefly during the active course of campaigns; and normally as a check-play for the mousetrap.  Current in France between April and June 1940.  Apparently not as yet common in the United States.

(3) The Slanderous Rumor -- Directed against either men or institutions.  Usually designed to undermine a people's faith in the integrity, competence, and physical and mental health of its civil officials and military leaders.  A technique effectively used by the Nazis throughout their rise to power. 

(4) The Strategic Rumor -- Designed to mislead a people, and if possible its government and armed forces, as to the area of imminent military attack.  Used with considerable effect in the many stories tending to create the impression that the Germans would attack in the Balkans, just before the actual assault on Denmark, Norway and the West.

(5) The Confused Rumor -- Two or more stories, on the same general subject, in contradiction with each other.  Designed primarily to create confusion of mind; and if possible to destroy the faith of a people in the reliability of its own news services.  Effectively used in conjunction with the Mousetrap Rumor to cause a people to believe that its own government is intentionally misleading it.

(6) The Recurrent Rumor -- Major rumors of several of the above types; used repeatedly.  Examples: The Peace Offensive, and reiterated stories of a rift between Hitler and the Reichswehr.  The second of these has recurred at more or less regular intervals, ever since the beginning of the Nazi regime.

As large a file as possibly should be assembled on each individual story, in order to study its dissemination, spread and specific character in each of the areas in which it may have been used.

With this data as background, selected current rumors can be effectively studied

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.