8
Texas Jack etc.- Adventures 

TEXAS JACK AND SILVER JACK 

His name was Texas Jack, an ex-cowboy, stocky,massive in build, [and-] quick as a 
panther. For two days I had watched him bull-dogging wild steers at the great Frontier 
Days celebration held each year at Cheyenne,Wyoming. Here before immense crowds you [may] could 
see the life of the West, especially  the work of the ranch, unrolled before you by wild 
cattle, wild horses, wilder men. (I write of the early [days] years of the present century).
For two afternoons I had looked on at Texas Jack, riding full tilt into the arena, 
just as wild steer was turned into the open in front of him.
When [he] Jack rushed by the center of the grandstand, he would suddenly dash up close to the fleeing
steer,lean over,catch a horn with his left hand, [jump down] leap forward from his horse, sending himself
clear of the ground in front of the steer, with his own body, faced backwards, lying 
[*]
high up between the steer's horns his breast braced against the [??]. At the same instant, with his free hand now clinging 
to the other horn, he would suddenly twist the animal's head and throw him in a heap to the ground. 
Texas Jack, the king of bull-doggers, [and] as he told me, was to get $100 if he thus  threw his steer 
on three successive days.
[*The two running animals, the wild leap of the 
cowboy, the steer lying helpless on the ground, the 
horse with reins dangling standing quietly by - it
all happened too quickly to seem real.*]
On the third day, after the last show, Texas Jack and I were to have dinner together 
and he was to sing cowboy songs for my recording machine. As I helped him dress 
for his last day's bull-dogging, things looked bad. His right wrist was swollen to twice its size 
from a strain in a struggle of the day before with a steer of enormous size. He could barely 
bend his fingers. His face was twisted with pain. Before mounting his horse Jack handed 
me a hypodermic needle and gritted his teeth as I pumped morphine into three places in
his swollen wrist. Then he rode out into the arena.  The steer was big and vicious, but Jack 
threw him just in front of the judges' stand in which at that moment sat Teddy Roosevelt, 
President of the United States. Jack galloped his horse to the door of the tent where I 
stood waiting for him, and as he walked towards his bed, he fell flat on the ground, fainting 
with pain from his tortured wrist.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.