November 7, 1938

Mr. John A. Lomax
1908 Nueces Street,
Austin, Texas

Dear Father:

Thursday morning at 11 oclock the Plymouth
wobbled up to the library stop light and came to a
drunken stop. There on a corner waiting for a car was
Dr. Putnam, dapper and incisive in the sunlight. In
telling the latter to the round table luncheon he said that
he had already noticed this car and thought it belonged
to some poor farmer that had come to town with his 
vegetables and squalling family. When I leaned through
the window and flagged him I could see the color rise
to his cheeks. The same color came Saturday morning when,
in the midst of a chat about Michigan, he suddenly said
"You will never make another trip in that car, Mr. Lomax."
It cost me about $200 this summer and now it is literally
falling to pieces like the old one horse shay. But I 
consol myself that whether or not I will have a car at
least the Library will, in the future, send out a sound
truck when it goes after folksongs in the field.

This morning I fell rested for the first time
in months and even glad to be back. One of the first things
that made coming back pleasant was your long letter,
which I appreciate more than I can tell you as much for
what it did not say as what was written there. And I am
more relieved than I can tell you to know that you are
all at work and facing things with so much courage.

I think it would be an extremely good idea if
we let the book rock along for six or nine months. It
is quite out of balance now and that is something that
can be helped only with time and consideration and there
is no question that we have done books faster than any
other team in existence.

My plans are as follows. Next week-end with
Bess then another week of clearing desks at the library,
then two or three weeks vacation "with Nick on Cape Cod"
where we are going to do a play on the growth of jazz,
a play already well mapped out and exciting in its 
possibilities.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.