3

of ballads about the Bonneville Dam and its effect on the
land and the people. One about the Jackhammer Man, one about
the Columbia River, another about the homeless people coming into
the [a] green irrigated land, etc.. A cycle of simple and powerful poems that
are as interesting and exciting as anything I warrant written during
that summer. I propose to make this section a summary of the best of
that material.

IV. Fairy Stories from the Fairy Isles.
In the summer of 1935 I visited the Bahamas with a recording
machine and for the first time in my life discovered that fairy tales
were real. I found villiages where [the talking of fairy] listening
to fairy tales was one of the principle amusements of the people, but,
although some of these were the same as those in Uncle Remus and
Grimm, the stories were elaborate vehicles of the [talnent] talents of the
teller for mimicry, improvisation, singing and low comedy. I recorded these
tales and they are uproariously delightful, the only full and elaborate
versions of fairy stories that I know of anywhere. I want to make this
chapter up of about five or six of the best ones.

V. Aunt Molly Jackson.
Aunt Molly Jackson sat with me for two weeks one spring and
filled about seventy records full of her songs, [li] philosophy and life history.
I shall add to this material additional notes to be obtained from her and
make this section the portrait of one of the most remarkable women
of our time --- midwife for Clay County, Kentucky; ballad singer extraordinary
union organizer; [member of all the] mountain intellectual who joined
all the churches in her country one after another seraching for the
true religion; mountain roughneck who can outdrink, outcuss, outyarn
any man of her acquaintance.

VII Fire Engines!
Woody Guthrie has been working for about a year on the story of
his life. He has written among many other things a long chapter on his
boyhood, called "Fire Engines." It is a picture, as passionate as
Thomas Wolfe has written, as penetrating and involuted as Joyce (nearly)
about his neighborhood gang, the ganghouse in the deserted lot, the
fist fights in the streets with the whole town watching, the hard and
savage life of a boy in a raw Oklahoma dust-bowl town. It ends with
the scream of a fire engine across the empty lots as his house with his
mother in it burns to the ground. (This chapter we will have to buy the rights
to.)

VIII. Mister Jelly Lawd!
Jelly Roll Morton, recognized as one of the foremost jazzmen
of all time, was as fantastic personnaly as he was fabulous musically.
He spent nearly a whole summer with me here in the Library telling

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.