LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
LAW LIBRARY
WASHINGTON

OFFICE OF THE
LAW LIBRARIAN

March 22, 1937

M. Alan Lomax,
Box A-32,
Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

Dear Alan:

First, let me congratulate you on your marriage, as I take
it the Napoleonic Code and your father have long since given their
consent. My wife joins me in wishing you and your femme an eternal
honeyman, as your neighbors over in Santo Domingo would say.

I must apologize for not writing sooner in answer to yours
which arrived the latter part of February, but in the meantime we were
told to get ready for hearings to be held before the Appropriations Committee,
and we were kept in suspense about ten days before the event
took place. Thereafter, I had to go to New York on a matter, and then
these hearings on the President's bill to unpack the Supreme Court have
kept the entire Law Library unusually busy.

Immediately on receipt of your letter I got in touch with Mr.
Spivacke and the Chief Clerk's Office, and learned that everything was
up to date as far as expediting your stipends was concerned. Unfortunately, 
I have not had time to listen to the records you have sent up as yet
on account of these various matters, meetings, conferences, etc., but I
hope to hear them within a few days. 

Your impressions of Haiti did not surprise me. It is a wonderfully
interesting country, and I wish I had had the energy and forethought to
write down my experiences there on several trips on horse-back and by broken-
down Ford cars through the interior. The Haitians are a strange mixture
of the savage and French veneer, and while they did not attract me as much
as their Dominican neighbors across the frontier, I found them more interesting
from various viewpoints. I hope they will let you stay down there long
enough to gather a good cross section of folklore. If I get a good chance
to put in a word for you, I shall be glad to do it.

The dinner in December was a great success. Everybody said your
father's contribution was the most entertaining of all. I am sending you
some memorabilia under separate cover.

With renewed felicitations to you and Mme. Lomax, believe me

Very sincerely yours,
John T. Vance

ad

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.