16   THE NEW REPUBLIC

pers Coal Company, Cambria County, Pennsylvania. 64
dead.

Add to the toll ten men who were killed in an
Arkansas mine this August. Add 1,274 more, killed in
the mines last year. They weren't on any newspaper
casualty list. When less than ten die, there are no discussions
and no announcements. The deaths are recorded
by the Bureau of Mines, and no questions
asked. A small, unimportant accident--six or seven
men dying in an out-of-the-way mind shaft--doesn't
count. And the mangled, the misshapen, the gassed
and crippled--they aren't on the lists. They just exist.
Every time a miner is killed in Great Britain, we kill
three. Every time a miner is killed in France, we kill
four. Every time a miner is killed in the Netherlands,
we kill six. Those countries have national mine-inspection
laws.
Governor Holt of West Virginia went to Washington
to tell the subcommittee that his state mine-inspection
department was excellent, and that federal
inspection would be costly and repetitious. Fremont
Davis, president of a powerful United Mine Workers
local, went to Washington too, but didn't get a hearing.
So no one got the chance to point out what Governor 
Holt neglected to mention: that mine inspectors
are political appointees, and that the state legislature
has never appropriated enough money to support the
mine-inspection department. West Virginia law requires
that all mines be inspected every ninety days.
But the mine-inspection board has only enough finances
to inspect mines every five months. Partial inspection
of the mines every ninety days might be possible but
the state's attorney has discouraged it.
Something else the Governor forgot: with mechanization
coming in, mines develop six times as fast as
they did in the days when the state inspection laws
were framed. In the old days, a miner could hear the
weight shifting in his section of the mine, and have
some warning when a "fall" was coming. With the
giant machine loaders jarring the passage, banging and
clanking, the men running the machines can't "hear
the weight coming into place." The constant shaking
of the machines creates new hazards, calling for more
frequent inspection. Mining experts say that mines
should now be inspected every thirty days. The Bartley
Mine had not bee inspected for three months before
the disaster.
Some of the larger companies can afford to hire their
own inspectors, and some of them do. But the wildcat
companies work fast and chase quick profits. They tell
the miners, "Get the coal out any way you can, mister,
but get it out!" And the dead lie silent, asking no
questions.      MILL LAMPELL


Dr. Millis: Scientist of Labor

IN REVERSE FASHION, the appointment of Dr. Harry
A. Millis as chairman of the National Labor
Relations Board was sensational. What made it
sensational was that it evoked comparative calm. Before
Dr. Millis' nomination, employer groups, the
AFL, the CIO, a large part of the Senate and House,
had been locked for months in a seemingly hopeless
tangle over whether or not the then NLRB head, Mr.
Madden, should be named for a second term. It was
thought that whatever was done, there would be outcries,
protests, bitterness. But when finally Dr. Millis'
name was brought forward, all groups miraculously
professed themselves pleased. All, that is, except a
half-dozen Madden partisans withing the NLRB itself,
who honorably resigned.
There must be very few persons in any sector of
society with Dr. Millis' reputation for fair-dealing. In
part, at least, this reputation comes from the fact that
Dr. Millis has stuck to a single-minded career all his
life, and has lived sixty-seven years. When he was a
student of nineteen, he began weighing, measuring and
describing labor organizations and labor problems, and
has now been at it nearly half a century. When he
speaks, he does so from a richness of experience that
hardly another man in the country can equal.
When he was not yet twenty-one, Dr. Milis sat on
committees with bearded men who had helped Master
Workman T. V. Powderly direct the balloon-like
course of the Knights of Labor. In the 1890's, he
watched the young, lusty AFL in its genuinely heroic
struggle to establish craft unionism, watched Mr. Gompers'
rise to power. A short generation later, just before
the First World War, he saw at close range the
AFL beat down the mass sweep of the IWW; still
another short generation later, in 1935, he watched the
split between AFL and CIO. No one can tell Dr.
Millis that this or that turning of the labor movement
means the deluge. He has seen the same thing, or
something very like it, before.
Besides his long association with labor, people probably
trust Dr. Millis because of his physical appearance.
He is a great, gray mastiff of a man, vast and
mountainous. Although he lacks the lumberman's
peaked cap, he vaguely resembles, in his benignity,
Hawthorne's Great Stone Face. He smokes a pipe,
stretches back in his chair; his talk is slow, mellow. But
the real reason for the universal confidence he arouses
is that he is a scientist, with a scientist's jealous regard
for fact, and facts, while usually painful, are reassuring.
It is possible that one of the reasons for Dr. Millis'

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.