FOREWARD

     These songs come from the plain of South Texas.  The plain 
stretches away from the country of live-oaks and limestone hills 
near San Antonio,east to the swampy coastal plain of the Gulf and 
South through the arid flat-land of mesquite and cactus to the warm and 
sluggish Rio Grande.  This country was the cradle of the Western cattle 
industry, the Texas cowboy, and the famous Texas longhorn.  It has been 
a land of many wars and much violence.  It has been , and still is 
to some extent, a wild country.  In speech, in culture, in way of 
life and, most of all, in music, it is strongly Mexican.

     San Antonio is the metropolis and cultural hub of this region.  On the 
market square, [where] in little open-air stalls you may eat the best 
chile, tamales, enchilladas and tacos that money can buy and in the 
evening ten or fifteen bands of strolling singers are at your service. 
For a few pennies they will play for you brilliantly and sing in 
voices [as hard and clear as beaten silver] that are steel-hard and steel-clear songs from all over Mexico, 
ballads of local murders, histories of the Villa revolution and corridos 
out of the cow country to the South.  We have recorded numbers of songs 
from these singers of the market square, from school children, from 
private citizens like Jose and Bita Caballeros and from performers 
in Los Pastores and Las Matachines, all in busy metropolitan San Antonio.

     South and East the singers are scattered through the country on 
ranches and farms.  The Lopez family belong to the blackland of sugar cane 
and cotton near Houston. Their home is the typical frame lean-to of 
the rural South. There are twelve children in the family. Every year the 
house of the Lopezes hums with the excitement of a theatrical rehearsal. 
Senor Lopez is the director, producer, prompter and principal actor 
in the traditional Spanish religious drama, The Good Thief, whose cast is
recruited almost entirely from among the twelve younger Lopezes.

     Two hundred odd miles to the Southwest in Cotulla, another Texas-
Mexican farmer has kept alive a much older religious play, Los Pastores, 
which he presents each Christmas, for the pleasure of his friends and 
neighbors.I shall never forget my first sight of this man.  We had driven 
over miles of winding roads through mesquite and cactus thickets and suddenly 
came upon a red field of newly turned red [earth]land which bore all the signs of a 
savage and bitter conflict between   land  man and the wild earth. The 
field was dotted with mesquite stumps.         There in the center of this 
raw[,red field] clearing a powerfully built man, his tawny skin gleaming in the 
sun, was hacking at a tough mesquite. Our friend hailed him and he came 
striding across the furrows with his axe.  His face was Indian in cast, 
his hair a black thicket over brown brows.      Stripped to his 
belt, his [so]heavy bare feet planted in the red soil, he greeted us 
with dignified words across the barbed wire fence."This," my friend 
said,"Is the director of Los Pastores."

     This man had learned the full book of the mystery from his 
father, he from his father, and so it had come from the past down  by word of mouth 
from one tough-handed Mexican farmer to the next, a whole libretto 
with all its songs, its cues, its costume and stage business. That

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.