appreciation. It seems to me somewhere there ought to be a service organization
of this sort. 

But to return, I don't suppose there is anywhere a twenty-five
cent little booklet with a few pictures in it and a little study of South
American music? Should I write Charley and tell him to get one out? I'm a
little sore because he so completely missed the point of my request. 

My job is getting worse and worse; I spoke to Dave Taylor about 
how bad I thought next year's outline was, but I don't believe it'll do much 
good. I feel a little strange about the whole thing; CSS and I just don't
speak any more, and he's trying to get me out of the picture entirely, for
which I don't guess I blame him. But [it] I've just been saying exactly what 
I thought for several months, and now it looks to people like I'm angling for
a CBS job which I amn't. At the end of this year's series, I'm going to go 
to Levine and Fineschriber and Taylor and tell them that I've been sticking 
my neck out purely because I think it's [unpatriotic] damn well unpatriotic not
to make the thing you're doing the best possible thing in these days, and if
they don't want me around I sure don't have to stay. I don't give a godhoop[e]
about it really, it's just that I get so sore when I see things being messed
up and botched and inefficient and so many good people sitting at desks at 
CBS just dying to be used. The whole thing is very complicated; this job has
had a very degenerative effect on me because I so strongly believe in
everything we're doing that I don't work either quickly or well, and so Smith
can go around saying I'm slow and inefficient and he's right. The only thing
I really enjoy doing is answering fan mail; darling, I'm a beautiful fan mail 
answerer. I just love to run around looking things up for Mrs. Snedman out in
North Dakota, and it seems to me the best thing that's going on in connection
with our whole program. We've gotten long correspondences started up with

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.