I'm All Out an' Down
A poor white in Southwestern Louisiana, when we had complemented him on his wife's looks, said, "You can have her now. I'll give her to you. She's nothing to me but a trouble. It used to be before I married, I had plenty of money in my pocket. Now, when I want to get some new clothes or want to go at and spend money with my friends, it's always 'Daddy, I need some new shoes, I need some new shoes. Daddy, sweet, take me to the movies.' What do I want with a wife? All I want is some good-looking clothes and some money to get drunk on. You can have my wife and I'll get another when I need one." 

The Negro man on the lever camp job, striding along in the dust behind the mules and the scraper, is in the same state of mind. He wants his woman to leave home before pay-day comes so he can spend a little of his own money. He knows how expert she is at getting every cent out of him and. Thinking of all this makes him cry, He does' see how he can get along with her and he knows he won't be contented with her gone. He's tired. His belly is empty. His mules are thinking of the lot and are acting contrary. The man gets the "worry" blues and begins to sing. 

On one occasion Lead Belly said that he had learnt this song from a little boy "who couldn't get in de house a' get set down 'fo' he'd 'gin to sing this ol' song" On another occasion he maintained that he had agile the song from a group of lever camp workers who had stopped overnight at his father's place. At any rate under the agile fingers of the "king of the twelve string guitar players of the world" "I'm All Out and Down" has become a genuine barrel-house stomp. Lead Belly says there are women around Morningsport  who begin to wiggle as soon as he picks the first notes.  the story of this tune's.

We believe that development from holler to blues is typical of many, if not all, of the folk-blues. Corn field holler plus guitar plus two-step rhythm equal the blues. The formula may be this hollers plue strange chording on the guitars have combined with two - step rhythm to make the blues.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.