The
Searchlight
A Specialist in Neglected Truth

Published every alternate Friday
F. L. Jensen, Publisher
72 T Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
Dial 5-3989
$2.00 a year

VOL. III, NO. 12     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 9, 1942     10c PER COPY


Runoff Consolidates Machine Power
     Labor took its customary beating in the 
runoff. It couldn't be aroused from its smug
lethargy. Over feeding for several months 
apparently dulled the perceptions of the members.
The boys had two-bits in their pockets
and the world seemed bright enough.
     To their shame they let down two of their
own men, rather callously when a little decent 
hustle would have saved the day. Without the
help of independent Democrats they would
have lost everything.
     However, the political slothfulness of union 
members does not excuse ganging up on them 
politically by the Maw Machine. Whispered 
assurances that His Excellency proposed to 
give Organized Labor an even break were 
found to be hollow - as usual.
     Indeed those assurances might better have 
not been given at all. The Maw Machine continued
its relentless drive to eliminate Labor

{{column break}}

candidates from the party legislative ticket.
It managed to defeat Haycock and Jenkinson.
But it was unable to save its ace political manipulator,
Wendell Grover. Nor could it nominate 
another senatorial aspirant who was put 
on the State Slate by Jeanette Garner and Mr. 
Grover.
     Altogether the State Machine nominated
three candidates for the State Senate. The
Labor-Independent Democratic voters nominated
three. As referred to elsewhere the most 
important development of the campaign was
the formation of a State Machine - County
Machine coalition which already has been
merged into a super-machine. J. Henry McGean,
Democratic County Chairman, and one 
of the State Machine Slate makers, presides
over the new combine.
     During the primary and runoff campaigns
          (Continued on page 5)

{{section break}}

"No. 2 Is a Tax On You"
     The debate on the proposed Chain Store
Tax grows hot. It has reached the point where
"authorities" are being quoted. Mr. Sherman
P. Lloyd, chief propagandist for a coterie
of so-called Independents, already has brought
in the late Justice Louis D. Brandies. We look 
for Lincoln and Washington to edge into the 
fray by the end of next week. 
     The controversy appears to hinge on a 
question of inefficient merchandising versus 
modern methods. The inefficient merchants
turn to political methods instead of raising
their merchandising standards. By no stretch 
of the imagination can the issue be said to 
be limited to the preservation of individual enterprise.
Indeed a few chains are exempted 
from the operations of the proposed law. The 
people are called upon to decide by referendum

{{column break}}

on November 3rd whether they shall pay a 
tax on efficient merchandising to enable less
efficient merchants to compete on even, or better 
than even terms.
     The proposal seeks to reverse the present 
trend of consumer patronage. Nowadays we
go to a downtown or a district chain store to
obtain standard quality food at substantially
lower prices. The proposed Chain Store Tax
would force us to go to the corner grocery
again and pay from 10 to 15 per cent more for
supplies than we pay now.
     Before a vote is taken on the Tax proposal 
the public is entitled to a cleancut answer to 
this question: If the aim of the Taxers is to 
preserve individual enterprise, as they claim,
why do they not preserve individual enterprise,
          (Continued on page 2)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.