THE LIBRARY OF  CONGRESS
WASHINGTON

Aug 15, 1941

Blairesville, Ga.

Dear Ed,

I don't know for sure what happened to the order for
the disks, but here is the history of them.  About five
months ago I asked Presto to put aside six hundred of
them for me because they are pretty scarce.  This they
did, I was hoping to get some money into the revolving
fund before I paid for them because I thought that this
expedition would eat all the funds we had available, but
when we borrowed money from Bond for the trip I called
Tait and told him that I was going to order them and that
he should tell Presto that the order was comming through.  I
wrote out the usual order for such materials, but it seems
not to have gone the rounds.  Will you please have Elaine
look for it, it may be in the basket in an untyped form
for I do not remember seeing it signed.  It should call for
six hundred - 12" glass disks and I believe the price was
$.50 ea. - I have been living under the happy illusion
that the order was clear on it, and I have been cussing
Presto for being so slow.  They probably thought that it
was alright to send them on with out the order for we
have sometimes bought things that way and ordered them
later.  (This does not make such proceedure legal).  Will
you please straighten this thingout and at the same time
order 100 - 16" disks, these too will probably have to
be glass.  Elaine can get the price for you from Tait or
Golden.  Charge the whole business to the revolving fund.

I share your surprise at the express cost of 180.00 for
Falk.  Alan is not here so I will have to wait until this
evening to have him explain, for while I was with him
at Knoxville, I did not see the letter giving the estimated
costs after it had been typed.  Sounds like a mistake
to me.  I hope the explanation is good.

The trip is going along pretty well, though I guess the
pace has been too fast for me, because for the past
two days I have felt like hell.

You know, this country up here is so nice that I think I
will get the Music Division to open a branch up here.  We
have mountains, lots of woods, good fried chicken, and
lots of mountain folks to record.

Give my regards tothe gangin the office, especially Dick,
Mary, and Elaine and give my best to Carrie.

Please apologize to poor mr Morgan who thought his troubles
were over when I left Washington.  Sincerely
[?Jerry]

[*Laya says 
hello to
you and
the gang*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.