[*Send on to Shirley
and Shirley, please return
to me.     Father*]
[*Alan:  Miss Cates
might have the book
[?] to Mr. [?] too
Use what you wrote
about Zora.*]

Box A-32
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
December 21, 1926.

Dear Father,

I can't recall whether I have written you before or not since I
have been here, but I know that I got the first letters I have
received since leaving New York today.  Two of them came from
your hand and were dated the eleventh and twelfth respectively,
mailed in Washington.  So you see what you lose by straight mail.
The airmail takes only a day and comes three times a week.  The
other comes once a week and takes four days.  So, if you want to
correspond with me, you'll have to pay some money.
I'll tell you as much about my week here as I can crowd on a page and
then I'm going to bed.  It's late and I've worked hard and I have to
be up betimes.
Zora has been splendid.  She has advised me constantly, introduced me
as a friend to all the people I needed to know, has fed me and made 
me feel at home in her house, andat the same time has let me know in
no uncertain terms that she wants to interfere only so far as I want
her and no farther . . . When I came the President and all the important
officials were in the South and it wasn't until three days ago
that I began to see the men I must see before going to work.  I discovered,
you see, that a very carefully reflected upon permission was
necessary before I could go to work.  After two or three days of interviews
that has at last been arranged although I shall probably devote
the remainder of this week too to my official devoirs here in
Port-au-Prince.  But now I don't feel quite so anxious as I did at
first.  Perhaps it is the tropics, but I believe that I have at last
seen a lot of the material and know what the job is ahead of me
more or less and I have tested the recorder quite exhaustively and got
it in the pinkest condition that any of our recorders were ever in.
So far as I can tell from a few minutes of talk here and a little bit
of dancing there, this is the richest country for folk-songs I have
yet hit with the possible exception of Mexico.  I've ticketed twelve
categories already, each comprising God doesn't know how many titles,
and there are certainly other types.  The drumming is amazin gand the
stuff is all pure folk, with absolutely no radio, movie or
phonograph adulterants.  I have hired a boy to interpret for me and
at the same time teach me Creole, which must be learned entirely
by ear, and to help me with the machine and in transcription.  Later
when we are traveling he will also be my cook and housekeeper and
laundress and etc. -- all for the amazing sum of ten dollars a month.
He speaks a little English when I need it, but already I am pleased
to say that my part of the conversation at leats is almost entirely
either French or Creole or my personal patois.
I shall certainly miss Christmas with you and the family.  You know
it's too damn warm here to be Christmas and I shall have to overlook
the date completely except to go with Mr. Polines to mass. (polines
is the man Friday)  And it will be damn lonesome, let me inform
you, the sun only making it more lonely . . . I should so like to
see Bess and Sirley and Deanie.  Give them all my love and don't feel
discouraged or unhappy yourself.  It seems to me that you can certainly
say that it is all due to your own effort and courage.  More later.
For the present joyeux Noel or merry Christmas or whatever it happens
to be.
Yours,
Alan


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.