NOTES ON
BULL - FIGHTING

In Mexico the bull-fight is more than merely a custom; 
rather it is an institution,intimately woven into the 
fabric of Mexican life.  Brought to Mexico from Spain in 
early Colonial days, its popularity has never waned.  
And in Mexico City today one sees the world's finest 
performances of this colorful, exciting but extremely 
dangerous sport.  Every other important city in Mexico 
has a bullring, although in the provincial towns the toreros 
who perform with cape and sword are usually of 
lesser fame.
The large modern bullring or Plaza de Toros in Mexico 
City holds 20,000 spectators.  The winter season, lasting 
from October to the end of March, is the major season, and 
during this time on each Sunday afternoon one may see 
the greatest toreros of Mexico and Spain.  The summer 
season is limited principally to novilleros - young bull-
fighters who, although daring and skillful - have not yet 
carved out a name for themselves among the great 
maestros of this difficult art.
Sharply on the stroke of four o'clock the spectacle 
begins, following a very old tradition and ritual which 
have not changed over the centuries.  A bugle announces 
the entry of the official representing the old Spanish 
alguacil who, elaborately costumed in black velvet 
and mounted on a spirited horse, crosses the ring to the 
judges' box, following the ritual of seeking permission 
for the performance to begin.  This granted, he backs his 
horse across the entire arena and makes his exit.  Next 
follows the beautiful parade of cuadrilla, composed of 
the gorgeously dressed matadores and their assistants, 
the mounted picadores and the lesser ring attendants 
humorously called monosabaios or wise monkeys.  The 
position of each participant in the parade follows a 
code of precedence stricter than at a diplomatic banquet.  
As soon as the cuadrilla leaves the ring,the first 
bull is admitted to the arena.
This is a tense moment; the bull rushes out snorting 
and looking for trouble, which he soon finds.  And in 
this moment, too, the torero who will play the bull has 
to study his animal and plan his strategy accordingly.  
He walks straight toward the bull, with nothing for protection 
but his cape which, in his skillful hands, is better 
than a weapon.  His various passes with the cape, 
each of which has a separate name, clearly show his 
skill and bravery.  This is one of the most beautiful parts 
of the spectacle in which the perfect coordination o 
mind, nerve and muscle is apparent even to the unitiate.  
And there is something truly magnificent in the nonchalance, 
arrogance and grace which characterize the 
skillful torero in action.
The picadores, who follow, are mounted on horses 
protected with heavy padding.  With long blunt pikes 
they jab the attacking bull in the shoulder.  They in turn 
are followed by the banderillero, who places three pairs 
of arrow-like darts behind the shoulder of the bull as 
it makes a direct frontal attack.  Sometimes three banderilleros 
participate, each placing a pair of banderillas.
Finally the matador himself enters the ring alone, 
armed with a sword and his small red muleta.  After 
playing the bull with the muleta he maneuvers the 
animal into position and makes the kill with the sword, 
thrust deep behind the bull's shoulder.  This grand finale 
sometimes proves a bit strong for people who are 
adversely affected by the spilling of blood; yet it cannot 
be denied that the spectacle of the bullfight represents 
physical skill and courage developed to a very 
high degree, often characterized by great beauty.  And 
it is generally recognized as being no more inhumane 
nor cruel than any ordinary method by which animals 
are killed.  Six bulls comprise the usual progam, but on 
special gala occasions as many as eight or more animals 
are handled.
The bullfight also has its humorous side in the 
partisanship noisily shown by the fans or aficionados, 
who do not hesitate to express their approval or condemnation.  
The loudly voiced remarks, especially of the 
gallery element, are often so pungently humorous as to 
throw the entire crowd into good-natured laughter.  
Again, half the spectators will disagree with the other 
half, and the consequent verbal battle across the arena 
is always good for a hearty laugh.  And as a spectacle 
for the foreign visitor - especially he whose temperament 
is not over-sensitive - the bullfight offers an edifying and 
entirely new experience in seeing human skill developed 
almost to the status of a fine art.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.