Enclosed copy of my letter to Mr. Wells. His transcription
is a little rough. Even so I believe transcriptions of 
some simple pieces (any of there's or working songs for instance) 
would be an addition to the book.  But transcriptions
of the blues for instance would not turn out very well, I fear, 
nor accompaniments of the ballad-like things, on the whole.  I 
think if it explained that these are approximations, accompaniments
of simpler songs made by Mr. Wells would be quite
nice in the book. 
Enclosed also: 1. Texts of Governor O. K. Allen and 
Governor Pat Neff which Alan worked out and which I am ashamed
to send so late.  Text of You Don't Know My Mind which Alan want
is not the New Haven; I must have sent it to him before. 2. 
Copy of William's You Don't Know My Mind Blues, i.e. the melody
culled from ------.  Alan requested it thinking it might
be included in the book; I have referred to it in my remarks. 
By the way, my remarks may take up more space than
they ought to. If so, please do not hesitate telling me so;
it will not be difficult now to shorten it. 
Practical details: 1) I shall be very glad to read
proofs, of my remarks, but especially of the music if you or 
the publisher find it advisable.  With the music it might be 
necessary to insure correct copy.  I shall be in Europe during
the summer but can leave forwarding addresses and if Macmillan'l can pace the time to send it to Europe, it might be safer
to have me take care of the proofs.  Other matters which I 
ought to straighten out, either on the proof or before, are;
2. references in the music to footnotes and variants. As it 
is now the numbers in the music refer indiscriminately to 
variants in music as well as to footnotes at the bottom of the 

[* I think if 
can't have some of the
complicated guitar things 
we'd better 
call it off and timely. *]

[*? Send this [?] your disposition*]

[*I'll let 
[?] stand 
unless we
hope to end
the book [?]

[* I'll put this
up to Macmillan*] 



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.