HMB

December 3, 1938

Dear Dr. Keppel:

The Archive of American Folk-Song is, as you know, due chiefly to
grants from your corporation for the gathering of records in the field and
otherwise. Comprising now some 10,000 recordings, it is, we believe, the
largest such collection at any one center.

We wonder if now the Corporation would consider a further amplification
of it, and a fructification.

The amplification would consist in further work in the field, including
some to be done by outsiders with equipment furnished by us; the
fructification would consist in the reproduction upon request of records
of which from time to time copies are sought by other institutions, groups
or educational enterprises.

For each purpose, there would be required additional equipment and
a special personnel which can be provided only through some grant from an
unofficial source.

The opportunity, together with a budget* to cover a period of three
years, is set forth in the accompanying memorandum which can be enlarged or
supplemented at any point where further information is desired. The need
of further acquisitions is obvious. That for the reproduction of the records
for outside service has become increasingly apparent from the applications
that have developed during the past two years, and prospects of an
outlying service such as that proposed by the Committee for Cultural Relations
with Latin America in the distribution of records to each of the
twenty-one Latin American Republics. In addition to the response to specific
requests, there may also be considered the possibility of utilizing
the equipment for a general phone-duplication service analogoud to the
photo-duplication service now being rendered here by the grant provided
by the Rockefeller Foundation.

A presentation to you of this program has been long under consideration,
but the opportunity has now become so pressing that we do not longer
withhold it.

Believe me

Faithfully yours,

*totalling $39,255.

(Enclosure)


Dr. Fredrick P. Keppel, President,
The Carnegie Corperation of New York,
522 Fifth Avenue,
New York City

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.