-2-

However, the analysis of rumors is most valuable in revealing those areas of
information in which public ignorance or confusion lead to rumors. Rumors can be
converted to positive value if they are studied as a guide to information gaps
which need to be filled--not by rumor denials but by intensive information programs.
If there are many rumors in a community about Lend Lease, for example, the most
effective way of handling such rumors might be to launch an information campaign
on Lend Lease--lectures, feature stories, editorials, discussion groups, Sunday
articles, etc.

Sometimes an information gap cannot be filled temporarily, because of military[r]ary
security. when a warship is in an American harbor, for example, that fact cannot
be published without aiding the enemy--even though the ship and its sailors are
visible to many people in the port area. Extravagant rumors about the ship, or the
crew, or the cargo may arise from such a situation. But these rumors would not
spread unless people repeated what they saw or what they hard. The Office of War
Information is in possession of ample evidence that the enemy, or his agents, often
does not know what hundreds of Americans do know about a given war port of war plant;
the repetition of facts or rumors, in such circumstances, often makes it easier for
the enemy to find out what he did not know, or simply suspected.

Types of Rumors

the 4,500 rumors analyzed by the Office of War Information fall into five general
classes:

a. By far the greatest number may be called "hate rumors"; they express
prejudice, animosity, or hostility for groups other than the enemy.

b. The second group may be classified as "anxiety rumors." They reflect
uneasiness or fear and commonly take the form of unfounded reports of
Allied disaster or weakness, or of overwhelming enemy strength.

c. A third group, classifiable as "escape rumors" reflect, in the main,
wishful thinking about the progress and duration of the war.

d. A few can be classified only as "supernatural rumors"; these contain
fantastic prophecies of disaster or impending miracles.

e. finally, there are a substantial number of "curiosity rumors" which
contain amusing or novel tad-bits or supposed "news."

Treatment of Hate Rumors

The most dangerous rumors are hate-rumors. They analysis of the Office of War
Information leads to the conclusion that it is dangerous to print or repeat a hate
rumor in any form, even in order to deny it. the purpose of a hate rumor is to spread
hatred, to make a given group a scapegoat. The denial of specific hate rumors does
not spike the hate which created the rumor but tends to shift the hate to different
"facts" or different rumors. Hate rumors should never be repeated or printed by


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.