Mrs.
8170
September 5, 1947

MUSIC DIVISION
SEP 9 1947
RECEIVED

Mr. Arthur Jourtellot
March of Time
369 Lexington Ave.
New York, N. Y.

Dear Mr. Jourtellot:

During your vacation period I talked with Miss Harker about a request,
explained below, from the family and friends of John A. Lomax. Miss Harker
suggested that I write you after Labor Day.

Your records will show, I believe, that a few minutes of your second
issue of March of Time (Spring 1935?) were given to the adventure of
John A. Lomax, Ballad Hunter, in finding and bringing to New York the
Negro ballad-singer, Hudie Ledbetter, known as Lead Belly.

Later Mr. Lomax and our son Alan made a book about Lead Belly and his
songs, and this year Macmillan has published Mr. Lomax's Adventures of
a Ballad Hunter. All the recorded fruits of these adventures are deposited
in the Archive of American Folksong of the Library of Congress.

On September 23 Mr. Lomax will reach his eightieth birthday. It seems to
his family and friends that this would be an appropriate time to present
to Mr. Lomax a copy of your film about his finding the ballad singer, Lead Belly
with the understanding, perhaps, that it be deposited finally along with
the Lead Belly records in the Folksong Archive of the Library of Congress.
It is our supposition that your operators took many feet of film which
were not used in the March of Time public issue.

If you can grant this favor you will have the appreciation of Mr. Lomax
as well as the appreciation of his family and friends. He has no idea that we are making such a request of you. If you have need immediately
of further information, you may find Alan Lomax at his home, 67 Perry St.,
New York (telephone is name of Elizabeth Lomax) or with Decca Records.

Yours sincerely,

Mrs. John A. Lomax
[*8170 San Benito Way
Dallas 18, Tex.,*]

Copy to Miss Harker

[*[If] In case March of Time
mentions this request -
I send you this -
would appreciate your returning it later.
Hoping all goes well with you & Mrs. Emerich.
wish you could be here
to help us celebrate  R.*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.