Bureau of Public Inquiries
Jacksonville, Florida
Inter-office memorandum
[Office of Government Reports]

To: Chief, BPI                         Date: 10/9/42
From: Florida Office
Subject: Availability of Rumor Collectors


Frankly, this office has not been able to do much on rumors under the
plan outlined in your instruction of October 1st. It is almost impossible
to induce busy people to stop their work to write down the exact wording
of a report they may have heard, and certainly the average beautician,
barber, policeman, etc., cannot appreciate the fine distinctions of rumor
analysis by attempting to give the exact wording if it is heard repetitiously.

This work is extremely interesting and in this office has been handled
through previously established contacts, one of whom is a city salesman
who visits between 300 and 400 retail food stores each week, and the heads
of war agencies who travel the state quite frequently and who have been
requested to make a mental note and to repeat to this office any rumor
which they hear at any time, whether in Jacksonville or out of their
offices, certain school children and similar sources.

Even in these cases it is possible to get only the essentials of the rumor.
People naturally are anxious to cooperate, but they fail to appreciate the
seriousness of this matter, and under conditions of operation after November
first, I make the following suggestions:

The public is acutely conscious of rumors and the so-called rumor clinics,
as the result of the recent Readers Digest discussion and the very splendid
presentation in Life magazine this week. In Florida the Business and Professional
Women's Club had started to make this a project in this state,
but had been delayed by the attitude of the Florida Defense Council Information
Education and Morale Chairman, which I reported in detail
and certainly none too vigorously earlier this week.

Since field intelligence apparently will be unavailable shortly, it seems
to me that thorough coverage could be obtained if either the Florida
Defense Council or the Business and Professional Women's organization
would proceed with plans for a statewide rumor clinic, clearing through
Bill Bennett of the Florida OWI News Bureau. He is intensely interested
in this matter and can develop a most valuable statewide influence in
discounting rumors if some machinery is set up to gather them. He is
extremely skillful in such matters and could develop a weekly feature
story which nearly all daily newspapers would grasp anxiously.

This would have the effect of making it possible for the public as a
whole to relay their rumors quickly and painlessly by telephone, whereas
it is my observation that 98% of people heartily dislike writing a letter,

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.