hugged up.  I'd-a give a dollar to-a got [away rid of him] loose, but Ise afraid  to do
a thing, you know.  Well, I got a-loose from him an' we took off down the holler.
Down the holler we went an' we come to Ernest Mathew's, a feller down there, you, know.
He had a wife an' five or six kids but we busted right in, Hell, right into the God
damn yard an' hollered him out. Out he come, he'd come from work. "You want a God
drink of whiskey." "No, I don't, boys." He's afraid of his old lady. said, "No, Hell
fire[w], no, he begin showin' us the way to get outa there, you know.  Well, there's
a palin' fence an' he got to this palin' fence an' he would have a drink, you know,
we give him a big drink and he pretended he didn't want it, he didn't want his
old lady to know [it] it.  He was a-awantin' is to go an' him drink an' her know 
nothin' about it.

Part X.

Well, we went on down from Earnest's, you know, an' we hit the damn branch, notin'
but rocks an' water, rocks an' water, an' now an' then a little mud hole.  Well,
we got off down through there, you know, an' I lost-- all my mind left, didn't [knwo]
know a damn thing 'till we hit a bridge down there that come from ----- across
the damn crick an' onto the railroad.  We got across there, you knwo, we still had
this damn little dab of whiskey.  Well, we had about a pint of and a hlaf. We meet 
John's brother, the one that's down drunk we'd left in the holler, his daddy an' our
daddy.  Well, "Where's John." Well, god damn it, he's about two mile up that holler
a-layin' right flat of his facean' he won't get up, Hewon't walk an; we left the
sonofabitch a-layin' there, damn blood a-runnin' outof his ears and eyes and nose
and ever'where.  He's been in the briar patch.  Well, they said, "Where's abouts?"
"Aw right up the holler, keep that damn little path an' you'll find him.He was [layin'] right in
it when we left him, if he ain't rolled in that branch an' got drownded.  Well, his
brother[,] said, "Boys, have you got any whiskey." "Well we've got a little sup here
We called quarts an' pints sups.  He said, "Give me a sup of that an' I'll go git John.
I'll go git him if it takes me all night.'' Well god damn it, he turned up a quart jar



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.