Yvonne Rokseth (France)--Music of the
German Passionsspiele in the Middle Ages
Albert Smijers (Holland)--Music of the
Illustre Lieve Vrouwe Broederschaps in
Herzogenbusch 1330-1600
Fernando Luizzi (Italy)--Notes sur les "Barzelette"
et "Canzoni a ballo" italiennes du
XVme siecle, d'apres des documents inedits
Leonard Ellinwood (East Lansing, Michigan)--
The French Renaissance of the 12th
Century in Music
Johannes Wolf (Germany)--The Lewis van
Gruythuyse Song Collection of the 14th
Century
(Discussion at discretion of the chairman)

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY FACULTY CLUB,
400 WEST 117TH STREET
(Walk from Library)

1:00 Luncheon, Paul Henry Lang presiding
(Reservations must be made in advance with
Assistant Secretary Angell or Chase; see note
on last page)

2:00 Visit the University

THE CLOISTERS, FORT TRYON PARK
AT 198TH STREET
(Take Independent Subway to 190th Street and
walk to the Museum or take the No. 4 Bus up
Riverside Drive)
George Gray Barnard, the sculptor, in 1914 opened
to the public his fine collection of mediaeval sculpture
and architectural material.  In 1926 this was
augmented by Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller,
Jr., through whose generosity the present building,
housing the collection (still further enlarged), was
contructed and opened in May, 1938.  The plan of
the building was developed around the architectural
elements comprising much of the collection--large
sections of the cloisters of 12th-15th century French
monasteries, etc.  (Mediaeval musical intruments are
represented in the capitals of a few of the cloister-
pillars).  The collection's 15th-century French or
Flemish tapestries depicting the Hunting of the
Unicorn are the outstanding set of Gothic tapestries
in this country.

4:00 Concert of Mediaeval Music by YVES
TINAYRE, a Select Choir of the PIUS X SCHOOL
OF LITURGICAL MUSIC, and assisting artists:
Introit--Requiem aeternam (Gregorian);
Kyrie: Alme Pater (Gregorian); Sanctus
from Mass III (Gregorian); Responsary--
6


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.