Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier Ballads

and inconvenient part of the equipment was a large horn used to play
back the tunes to eager listeners. Especially did the horn arouse derisive
remarks from the otherwise gracious cowboys. At the unrivalled Frontier
Days Celebration in Cheyenne, Wyoming, on one occasion I met
President Theodore Roosevelt, whose universal interests also included
cowboy songs. For several years he used his powerful influence to have 
folk song collecting included among the beneficiaries of one of the great
Foundations.

At the University of California Library a twine string, rotten from
age, fell apart as I picked up a bundle of Old Put's Songsters, for
which I had looked the country over. I like to think that the eminent
historian, George Bancroft, had tied that string. It was his collection
that included the Days of Forty-Nine treasures of Old Put, California's 
earliest bard.

[*Here to end*] To tell the stories back of finding each song, some of which have
become wildly popular, [printed in the original Cowboy Songs,] would
fill a book. Tom Hight of [Mangum], Oklahoma, the person who furnished
the largest number of tunes, sang for me throughout two happy,
bibulous days. If ever printed, many of Tom's songs could only be
circulated by express shipment and then not without danger. Tom in
former years had represented his Texas ranch in singing marathons, 
where each ranch put forward its champion. The contests, held when
work was slack, might go on for several nights. "I could always sing
my man down," declared Tom. Singing turn and turn about, the man
who won the accolade was the man who sang the last song. The best
singer knew "by heart" the greatest number of songs.

Some one told me that in San Antonio, Texas, lived a Negro singer
and cook, who had first plied the latter art in the rear of a chuck wagon
which followed many a herd of long-horned cattle up the trail from
Texas to Fort Dodge, Kansas. I found him in 1908 leaning against a
stunted mulberry tree at the rear of his place of business, a low drinking
dive.

"I'se too drunk to sing today. Come back tomorrow," he muttered.

[2]


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.