-2-
RUMORS. August 10 - 15, 1942
CONDUCT AND PROGRESS OF THE WAR. WAR EFFORT (Cont.)
"The situation at Alaska, with the Japs just off the coast, is most serious.
What are we doing about it?"
"Our real danger is the Japs in the Pacific, let Europe handle the Germans."
(Chicago business man)
"If we only knew what was really happening."
"I hope the second front gets started soon."
"We have a second front in Jugoslavia right now, and what are we doing to 
help it along? - nothing!"
"We need more leaders."
"The second front is practically open in Europe. The boats carrying our
soldiers to England and Ireland are carrying so many men that it is necessary
for them to sleep on decks. The Queen Mary recently sailed for Europe
packed with our soldiers."
"Our war effort is now at a standstill because Washington is so overcrowded
with government agencies that they cannot work efficiently."
"Our war effort is now at a standstill because of the coming elections,
particularly in New York, where President Roosevelt has a special interest."
"Our war effort is being held up till after the election."
"Roosevelt is selling us out to Churchill."
A school teacher who had just received a letter from relatives in England
believes that the second front will start right away because the letter spoke
of the piles and groups of tanks, etc. off Maiden Head. Also the Canadian
soldiers stationed there are given no leaves.
"The first three troop convoys sent across the Pacific to Australia were
torpedoed by the Japanese and all men aboard were lost." (New York Central
Twilight limited from Chicago to Detroit)
"Bombers are leaving the east coast of Florida every night in groups of
six for Africa." (New York Central Twilight limited from Chicago to Detroit)
"Nether England nor the United States wants to help Russia because they
don't want it to become too strong." (Ferndale, Michigan)
"I hear that England and the United States will not open a second front
until Russia is practically defeated because England fears Russia almost as
much as Germany."
"What about guarding our own coast line? We are sending so many men to
England that she will have to start a second front in order to take care of them."
"The war is going to end very suddenly and unexpectedly."
"The war will not last many months longer, according to some counter-espionage
agent."
"The second front will not be in Europe at all but some place else and in 
a short time."
"England and Germany do not want Russia to win because they do not want
communism."
"United States is waiting for Germany to win the war in Russia before
striking at Germany, as the United States does not want to become involved with
the communists. United States will then strike at Germany, with the intention
of demolishing everything."
"United States does not like or understand Russia. United States is 
simply sitting back and waiting for Germany to knock out Russia then United
States will be willing to start a second front after Russia has collapsed."
Supposedly quoted from a small newspaper item. "The bodies of three
American soldiers were found floating off the coast of Newfoundland. It is
supposed that a convoy ship on its way to Iceland must have been sunk." The
remark that followed this rumor was "I'll wager that won't get in the headlines,
and how do we know how many convoy ships are sunk?"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.