[*E Katz
Rumors*]

Mr. Cornelius DuBois                   Sept. 1, 1942
Sub-Committee on Rumor Study
Report to Committee 3, Recommendations

The first thing of importance is to note that rumors can be 
studied. In Canada, the Committee for Morale makes a continuing study 
of rumor and provides the basis for a program of counter-action. The 
two-week rumor study by the field staff of Intensive Surveys was able to 
collect over 1100 rumors in two cities. The nation-wide cooperating 
field staffs, in the two-week period, reported about 3000 rumors. 

Rumors should be studied systematically on a continuous basis. 
Such a project would have a number of values:

1. Certain kinds of rumors may injure American war effort. 
For example, in Canada, experience has shown that rumors 
can function to close important industrial plants for 
periods of days. In New England, the Survey study collected 
evidence which indicated that rumors are serving 
to reduce the labor supply being made available in certain 
important war industries. There is some evidence 
reported by the Special Services Division that rumor 
campaigns are being initiated among some of the leaders 
in anti-democratic groups. For example, we have the report 
that Mrs. Faber, President of the Mothers of the 
United States of America, prides herself on her ability 
to spread rumors and to encourage others to do likewise. 
Among the Italians in New York there seems to be evidence 
of an inspired rumor campaign. In addition there 
are rumors of rumor campaigns in various places. Axis 
radio propaganda efforts aimed at this country seem to 
be making a special point of deliberately planting 
rumors. 

2. Such a study would provide a means of evaluating the 
degrees of interest and concern people have in different 
areas of their general thinking. Since rumor is related 
to personal concern as well as the available news, if we 
had a standard on the basis of which rumors were reported 
it would be possible to develop comparisons among 
the different topics about which people talk. 

3. Rumor study offers another approach to the analysis 
of the needs for information and the evaluation of 
existing programs. Rumors are concerned with aspects

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.