Memo
Dr. Harold Spivacke
In re: Archive of American Folk Song and Folk Lore.

     The Archive of American Folk Song has long included all sorts of speech
material with its magnificent collections of American folk songs. Now the 
Writers Unit of the Federal Works Progress Administration is in process
of adding to the Archive collection its million and more pages of folk lore
coming from all over the country. It seems to me that it is now time to expand
the Archive to include, officially speaking, the material that it includes
now, practically, and to make the Archive of American Folk Song into
an Archive of American Folk Song and Folk Lore.
      This Archive should have the same function as the now Archive of Folk Song,
i.e.: to act as a central depository and clearing house for American 
folk song and folk lore. State Archives are being established all over the country,
large collections of material are in private hands and in the collections
of institutions of all sorts, and this material should be gathered together
and properly coordinated. This does not take into account the increasing amount of
Latin American contacts coming to us through the Conference on Inter-American
Relations in the Field of Music Sponsored by the State Department. These contacts may
involve the Archive in a two-way exchange of material which we must meet in a large way. In his letters to the Librarian Dr. Stith Thompson of the University of Indiana, and one of the leading scholars
of folk-lore in the world, has stressed the need for this Archive which will include
both musical and speech materials.
      Increasing requests come for information about folk songs and folk lore from
educators, writers, musicians, commercial radio and movie companies. The Archive of
Folk Song is responsible for a goodly part of the business of the Music Division and 
will in the future be responsible for much more. I therefore recommend the following
staff:
      A director for the Archive ------------------------------------$3800.00
      An assistant director for the Archive --------------------$3200.00
      A folk-lore consultant------------------------------------------$3200.00
      Two clerical assistants-----------------------------------------$2880.00
                                                                                               ---------------
                                                                                               $13,080.00
     We have the opportunity now to make the Library of Congress the center for
the people's speech and the people's song for this democratic hemisphere. We
should take advantage of the opportunity while it is still ours.

                                                                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                                                       {signed} Alan Lomax
                                                                                      Alan Lomax
                                                                                      Assistant in charge,
                                                                                      Archive of American Folk Song

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.