-2-
WISCONSIN
August 15, 1942
Russia's just about washed up. She may ask for a separate peace.
- Trucker - Milwaukee - August 13th.
If we don't get supplies to Russia soon we can't blame her if she sues for
a separate peace.
- Barber - Milwaukee - August 10.
If Russia quits, and it looks like she might unless she gets help right
away, we'll be in a helluva fix. - Doctor - Milwaukee - August 10.

B. Second Front
We've gotta open that second front to relieve Russia. If not -- she'll
fold up and probably sign with Hitler, putting us in a real hole.
- U.S. Gov't official -Milwaukee-August 14.
[*4*]
All this about a second front is just talk. We'll never see a second front 
in Europe,unless you can call concerted bombings a second front.
- Salesman, Milwaukee -August 14.
[*4*]

II. There will be no Labor Day observance this year.
We're just not planning on our trip to the lake. We usually go over Labor Day,
but they're not having a Labor Day this year. - Ho sewife - Milwaukee - Aug 14.
We expect to work then. We haven't had any word that we wouldn't, so we're
planning on working.(on Labor Day) - Machinist - Milwaukee - August 12.
What with the war, Labor Day'll be just like any other. We'll work.
- Stenographer - Milwaukee - August 13.
We might go, but if John has to work, we won't. I guess every one'll work
on Labor Day. - Landlady - Milwaukee - August 14.
Why celebrate Labor Day? It's more important to run the factories, isn't it?
- Mechanic - Milwaukee - August 10.

III. There is inefficiency in Washington
There's no coordination in Washington. Every dep't is trying to run the whole
show by itself. - Wholesale grocer - Milwaukee - August 13.
Washington needs some businessmen. At least, a few businessmen couldn't do
any worse than now. - Business man - Milwaukee - August 12.
Newsmen and censors are havin it hot and heavy over how much should be told
to the citizenry - and when it should be given out.
- Housewife, - Madison - August 14.
[*3*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.