[*LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RECEIVED
FEB28 1938
SECRETARY'S OFFICE*]

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
DIVISION OF MUSIC
ARCHIVE OF AMERICAN FOLK-SONG

Memorandum to the Librarian of Congress:

Appended are the letters in regard to requests for duplicates
of the Archive's records that I have been able to find in a rather cursory
search in the files of the Music Division. Dr. Spivacke informs 
me that there have been numerous other written requests , but that these
have been handled in the form of memos through your office. It is impossible
to find these memos if one does not know the names of the individuals 
who made the inquiries. 
In conversation with Dr. Spivacke, however, the names of several
institutions that have made informal verbal requests suggested themselves.

Music Division, New York Public Library
The Department of Music, Vassar College
The Carnegie College Music Set
Columbia University
The Columbia Broadcasting System

The following individuals and institutions have asked me, verbally,
for duplicates of our recordings:
Professor Mary Elizabeth Barnicle, New York University, who needs 
them for her teaching work; Dr. Harold Thompson, New York State Teachers
College; Dr. George Herzog, Columbia University; Miss Margaret Wilkin, University
of Colorada;
Herbert Halpert, Federal Theatre Project; Henry Alsberg, Writers
Project; Charles Seeger, Farm Security Administration; the Librarian, University
of Texas; Charles Ritter, recording engineer of the Project for the Blind;
Dr. David Stevens, Rockefeller Foundation; Dr. Rulx Leon, Chief of the Department
of Hygene, Haiti; Miss Laura Bolton, who has the largest collection of
African records in the country.
Many government officials in Haiti expressed an interest in having
the whole set of Haitian records duplicated to form the basis of a collection
of their own. In fact, almost everywhere I have made recordings, I have been
showered with requests from singers, from their friends and relatives,
educators and other individuals in the neighborhood. Naturally, with no
duplicating machine at my service ,I have been forced to discourage these
requests; but I think it should be pointed out that field work would become
much easier if singers could be promised duplicates of their records.

Alan Lomax

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.