LIST OF AMERICAN FOLK SONGS ON COMMERCIAL RECORDS*

Compiled by Mr. Alan Lomax
Division of Music
Library of Congress

After listening to three thousand odd commercial records
of white and negro songs and tunes from the South, I have compiled
this list of three hundred and fifty representative titles
in order that the interested musician or student of American
society may explore this unknown body of Americana with readiness.
The choices have been personal and have been made for all sorts
of reasons. Some of the records are interesting for their complete
authenticity of performance; some for their melodies; some
because they included texts of important or representative songs;
some because they represented typical contemporary deviations
from rural singing and playing styles of fifty years ago; some
to make the list as nearly as possible typical of the material
I examined. I feel sure that I have heard only a quarter of
the interesting records; for example I was able nowhere to find
a large group of  Okehs or Gennetts to audition. Many records
have been passed over because at times the auditioning process
has had to be hurried. But I have come away from this listening
experience with the certainty that American folk music, while
certain folklore specialists have been mourning its decline,
has been growing in new directions to compete with "thick"
commercial music, and that it is today in its most "distorted"
form in a healthier condition, roving the radio stations and
recording studios than it has been or ever will be in the notebooks
of collectors. No better indication of this can be found
than in the songs of contemporary ballads and songs, some of
them songs of protest, that can be found in this list.

Many of these records are out of print. It seems to be impossible
in the present state of confusion that exists in the
files of commercial recording companies to say which records are
in print and which are not. As a general rule the most modern
records are the easiest to obtain. I will deeply appreciate any
suggestions for or additions to this preliminary list.

Bluebird and Victor records are available from the Victor
Recording Company, Camden, New Jersey; Decca, Paramount, Brunswick,
Vocalion (the earlier numbers) from Decca Record Company, New York
City; Columbia, Okeh, Crown, Champion, Vocalion (the later numbers)
from Columbia Record Company, New York City. Perhaps those most
easily available are the Decca and Bluebird items in the list.

Code

*This list is a reprint, with revisions, of pages 126-146 of the
Report of the Committee of the Conference on Inter-American Relations
in the Field of Music (September 3, 1940). 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.