Source?
Probably WPA file. 
Copied by P. Homes
as by for program

FOR SALE- CHEAP

     At seventeen, my father sold out and gave away his interest
in the family farm and went away to Philidelphia to work. He worked
hard at various odd jobs, farming in New Jersey, cooking in Phil. and 
acting as handy man and etc. for private families for seven years, not
returning to his home in Virginia all this time.
     One day, after being away for this long time, he received a 
letter from his mother, asking him to try and come home that fall for
the yearly revival meeting. In telling him all of the news, she mentioned
that she hoped that he'd be able to get a horse somehow, to put
in the fall crops while he was home. So, father decided that he really
should go home and made efforts to go. He also thought rather constantly
about getting his mother a horse, too. he knew one was badly
needed and he was glad to be able to help furnish one.
     Having saved a few dollars, bought a new suit of clothes, had, 
and shoes, he decided to leave his job and go home for a month or so.
His money should have been enough to buy some kind of animal and also
furnish him transportation, so he wasn't the least bit worried. He had
seen little of the city of Phil itself, being busy every day working, so
he decided to go down town and look around a bit so that he could tell
the folks at home what kind of a place it was.
     Dressed in his finest and only suit, he left his room on Saturday 
morning and walked down Market street. It was rather early, about 10 
o'clock, so he had plenty of time to inspect all of the places that he
passed if he wished. He was planning to take a train the next morning
to Richmond, Va., so nothing occupied his mind seriously. Leisurely,
he strolled along, until he came to the Bizarre down on South Market
Street, where the auctioneering of live stock, farm produce and etc.
was being held. He followed the crowd and found himself inside the
shed where live stock was being auctioned. He had never been to a 
sale of this kind and he was corious to know all about it, and so he 
moved right up to the front. The sale began soon, the auctioneer came
out and started yelling about the various animals that were put up on
the block for sale. He listened enthusiastically, because this was
something real, new to him. Soon, a mule was called out and the bid
started, he thought at $2.00. This made him curious indeed, and he 
angled up closer and closer to see this animal. Getting in close, he
saw that it was a white mule, rather large and this did interest him
more. In all of his years on the farm in Virginia, Maryland and New 
Jersey, he had never seen a snow white mule before. He was very close
by this time, in fact, he could just about touch the mule with his hands.
He made a step or two more forward and caught hold of the mule's head
and looked into its mouth. He though he would be able to tell the age
of the mule by this, having heard older farmers say so. Before he could
satisfy his curiosity, the auctioneer had yelled, "Knocked down for $40.00
to the man right there (pointing to him). He tried to say no, he hadn't 
even bid on the mule, and didn't want a mule, but all eyes were on him

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.