M. MARGARET ANDERSON, Editor
FRANK MLAKAR, Assistant Editor
DAVID DEMPSEY, Circulation Manager

Common Ground
222 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY
ALCONGUIN 4-6440

PUBLISHED BY COMMON COUNTIL FOR AMERICAN UNITY READ LEWIS, Executive Director

March 16, 1942

Dear Mr. Lomax:

     I am delighted that you will do the article for us along
the lines you suggest in your letter. The approach closely
parallells an idea we ourselves have been playing with: that
interest in folk materials can be greatly stimulated by playing
up the personalities who are engaged in the work: the singers
and the collectors; the graphic incidents relevant to it; and
of course the first-hand evidence of the richness and vitality 
of the actual material. We hope that this series which we
have planned along these lines will eventually resolve itself 
into an important book.

     About the rate of payment: Probably like most such ventures,
we operate on a pretty inelastic budget. So the financial end 
of the magazine is continually embarrassing to us. Here's our
situation. We have a definite budget for each issue, more or
less determined by the amount we get from the Carnegie Corporation
which aids us, and out of this amount we have to pay all the
contributors to the issue. If we pay one person disproportionately
to the rest, all the others must take a cut; unfortunately
there's no other way for elasticity. In the last issue, no 
single contributor was paid more than $35 an article or a piece,
and this included Sigrid Undset, Woody Guthrie, Waldo Frank,
Mrs. Roosevelt.

     When your letter came, Margaret Anderson and I talked it over
and decided that the very best we could do was $45, fo rwe want
very much to have you and your work represented in the series.
Does this appeal to you? We hope very much that you will do the
article you suggested in your letter, but if you feel that you
cannot do it for $45, perhaps you'd do it more briefly, say, 3000
words or so. I am sure that you will understand our situation.
May I hear from you soon? ... The deadline for the coming issue is
April 10, though a few days later would probably be all right.

     And thank you for your generous comment on Woody Guthrie's
article. It is encouraging both to the author and to us, and
helps make us feel that we are going in the right direction.

Sincerely yours,
{{signed}} Frank Mlakar
Assistant Editor

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 san Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.