Sarobia, Eddington, Pa.
Tuesday, July 19, 1938   
[*Ans.*]

Dear Alan:

So sorry I missed you yesterday afternoon--sorry for myself, I mean.
And I did hope you didn't get caught in the rain. Does it always rain
so much in Washington? Even though "Philadelphians are very peculiar
people," please don't think us inhospitable; we were glad to be of service
Sunday night. Nor are we ungrateful; I can't begin to tell you
how much I have appreciated your suggestions, such as the one that sent me
back to Ed. Marks "They All Sang." It was a big help

I hope the enclosed letter will be a help too. I hate to bother you,
but where else can I get such help?

Remember the sheets (particularly a whole book full of broadsides printed
in California) and newspaper poems in the Penna. Historical Society. I have
a note here that says that "Is That Mother?" and "The [Slain?] at Baltimore" are
on contemporary events.

I'll see that your department gets a complete set of Gran's words, absolutely
untouched, in the fall. Will you be back in the latter part of Sept?
I should like to make a definite arrangement so that I can (a) hear all the
records (b) have you look over some of the work I shall have done by then.
The reason for the second function is that I want to introduce you and your
work in the last section of the book "Found A Folk-Singer". May I have your permission
to do so? I want to describe Gran as she is today, how she regards her
songs, how others do, etc. in that chapter, and, since your visit was one of
the big events of her whole life, my present outline calls for a section on
"Gran and the Machine."

I haven't been near her because I already have tons of notes which I
want to write up first, then check with her, and add. At present I am
living in the country, working in a summerhouse--all ideal.

I hope you get off soon. Just fill in those blanks for me, first,
won't you, but DONT take the trouble to look anything up !

Sincerely,
Kay Dealy

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.