William H. Webber - OWI - Washington      -2-      October 12, 1942
Subject: Rumor collectors

was a typical community drugstore but because it was the agency and waiting
station for the Boston and Worcester bus system.

The fifth person serving was John Paul, Secretary of the Framingham
Chamber of Commerce, and his address should be used in mailings to the office
of the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Paul is very much interested in public
reactions and in community effort sustaining the war program. He is very
active and very cooperative.

The sixth person to report was John Shaughnessey, 79 Central Avenue,
Hudson, Mass. He is a worker in a war production plant and prominently connected
with fraternal organizations in Hudson. He has a son who has just
entered the Army service. Although Shaughnessey is not a man likely to write
at length on any subject, he does hear, and I believe will report, pertinent
developments among the workers and what they are talking about.

When I discussed with each of these people the possibility that they
would be asked to continue reporting of rumors direct to Washington, they
all expressed themselves as being glad to do do. I do believe, however,
they they should be given some letters of instruction which will make it fully
clear what type of work is required, what sort of material the Intelligence
Branch is interested in, and that you should send to them special self-addressed
envelopes for their use.

I do not believe specific-week reports are desirable on the whole.
Rather, I believe you would get better results by asking them to be constantly
on the lookout and furnishing them envelopes for their use.

You will doubtless get considerable quantity of material which is of
little value. On the other hand, you will get some general trend which
should be very helpful in keeping the central office in Washington informed
of what people are thinking and talking about in the eastern Massachusetts
areas.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.