June 23,1961
Dear Alan:
   We are preparing to do the duplicating of the Smith and
Gladden records.  In all of your correspondence with us you have not
indicated what size tape or speed you want these copied.  You do
mention "highest possible fidelity" which means full track copies
at 15in./sec. to me.  If this is correct, please let me know.  I
assure you I will give you all the fidelity left in these records and
we will do no editing.  As you probably know, these very records were
abused when they were first deposited here by certain people transcribing
the words from the records on the old heavy type arms and home
phonographs. 
   One other question I would like to ask.  In the old days
here without newer types of filters it used to be standard practice to
"knock off" the top end to reduce surface noises as much as possible.
This practice loses too much music in my estimation and I usually "roll 
off the top" starting at 20 kc until it starts to interfere with the
music and whatever surface is left will have to stay.  Of course you
can further filter to any point you desire after you get the tapes.  On
the other hand too many people using filters on the same tape can ruin
what you are trying to do by bringing up tape noise in the 3 to 5kc band.
If you have proper filters and technicians, I could copy these records
flat (with proper playback equalization) without using any filters and
let you take care of this.  Whatever you decide let me know by return
mail.  I will be off on vacation starting June 30 until July 10, and
then again around the first of August for a week.  If you are in a great
hurry, we will do these the week of June 26 to June  29, so answer my
questions quickly.  Otherwise it will be the middle of July before you
get them. 
Sincerely yours
Robert B. Carneal
Chief Engineer
Recording Laboratory
Mr. Alan Lomax
121 West 3rd Street
New York 12, N. Y.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.