Typed

[*3*]

Here is the statement of a fifty-year old South Chicago steel-maker.

The only people who are making money out of this war are the Jews. I’ll bet there will be more rich people after the war and they will not be people like you and me who earn our dough the hard way working in a factory.

3. Among certain minority groups, for example, the Italians, there seems to be some evidence of pro-axis feelings.

Here is a report of statements made by fairly prosperous Italians:

     On Sunday June 28, 1942 at a breakfast party held by a church organization, a middle-aged man, fairly-well dressed, said: “Say, you know at the place (factory) where I work there are some German people who talk to those of us who are Italians and whose people in the old country are with the Axis, and when they talk about how the war is getting along they say, ‘How is Roberto? Roberto is doing pretty well today? Roberto will win, will he not?’ Of course, you all know that he (Roberto) is the Axis. You can see that is the way we talk so nobody knows what we are talking about. Yesterday, one of these German guys told me, ‘Russia is finding Roberto tough now, ain’t she?’ Pretty soon, a member of the group asked of the speaker, ‘But who is this Roberto?’ Whereupon he replied, ‘Rome-Berlin-Tokyo. RO-BER-TO.’” About half of the group expressed surprise, the other half seemed to know all about the “secret” word. Then, this same speaker said, “They say Mussolini is the boss of the Axis - he’s the brains of it. But they are making off that Hitler is so as to trick everybody into thinking the brain power comes from Germany. But the real power, we all know comes from Rome that’s why it’s Ro-ber-to. Rome comes first. Ciano and Mussolini they are smart men.” To this that same half of the group responded with approbation but the other half remained incredulous.

Another rumor from the Italian area concerns itself with the refusal of American soldiers to embark for overseas duty. According to

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.