-5-

porters making notes as soon as the sketch is finished, summarizing the details
to be summarized, and giving verbatim records of the rumors that have been passed.
This sort of practice should be undertaken during the intensive training given to
the rumor reporters very early in their careers and should be repeated from time
to time partly as refresher training, in service practice, and partly to permit the
research director to analyze the accuracy of the individual reporters with an eye to
weeding out the unfit.  Training of this practical sort should also be given in estimating
people's age, social and economic level, and some of the other variables
for which it will be important to have reliable reporting.  The skits presented
should be adapted to the type of situations in which the reporters will actually be
functioning.

Rumor reporters should not consider themselves wardens; that is, it is not
their duty to undertake personal campaigns to stop rumors.  Their function is to report
rumors which they hear.  It is obvious that they themselves must not spread
rumors.  It is further obvious, or it should be, that as members of the community,
they should participate in the general campaigns undertaken to minimize the rumors
current, but should not feel responsible for the activities of the educational branch.
For some special purposes, it may be to the advantage of the educational program to
call for their help in certain types of campaign, but in general, their energies and
attention should be focused upon the important task of rumor reporting.

In maintaining such a staff, the morale of the individual reporter is very important.
He should understand that his work is being appreciated and also understand 
that any sort of public recognition of the contribution he is making to the community
would immediately impair his effectiveness.  He may be given some special designation
and perhaps identification or participation card, but he should not be publicly
acknowledged until after the project has been dissolved or until he leaves the service.
Special pains, therefore, should be taken to arrange for meetings of the staff, so 
that they can be directly informed of their contributions and be given some special

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.