The butler and the footman during an awkward
moment in a modern ballad "The Queen's Tact"
From the program 'Green and Gold'

WHAT THE PRESS SAYS ABOUT
JOAN AND BETTY RAYNER:

PARIS. " A highly original and uniquely interesting
programme was given in Paris, by Joan and
Betty Rayner...Through most of their work
there runs an undercurrent of mild caricature, 
of amiable irony, of discreet exaggeration...
Its apparent artlessness conceals
the very quintessence of art, which is to 
pass unperceived . . ."
Paris Edition of the Daily Mail.

LONDON. "Miss Joan and Betty Rayner, as Troubadours 
gallantly maintain the spirit of the
pretense . . . Delicate mockery . . . Fresh,
gay and amusing." The Times.

BERLIN. "The two young artists from New Zealand
with their brilliant abilities and lovable
charm evoked a storm of applause."
Der Tag.

NEW YORK. "New York has been shown something 
new and has received it with a clamor
of enthusiastic applause." Evening Post

LOS ANGELES. "Unique in the mechanized twentieth 
century the modern troubadours, Joan
and Betty Rayner, are as refreshing as a
May morning." Los Angeles Times.

SAN FRANCISCO. "Their charm is the happy
zest with which they perform, but the quality 
that holds it through an evening is their
style." San Francisco Chronicle.

CANADA. "The audience chuckled and applauded
its way through the programme abounding
with novelty and joyous fun . . . there is a 
spontaneity about their art which is irresistible." 
The Times Victoria.

AUSTRALIA. "No one who feels the 'weary and
heavy weight of all this unintelligible
world' should fail to see these players, with
their romance, vision and spirited charm."
West Australian.

The lad and his lass in a romantic
Bohemian song "Trouble with a Husband"
From the program 'Scarlet and Gray'

Like the Strolling Players of olden times who
acted, sang and told their stories in the palaces
of Europe, Joan and Betty Rayner travel from
country to country presenting a dramatic program 
that is unique in the theatre - bubbling
with fun and surprise, gay with many changes
of costume, fast moving, inspiring - a program
that has already delighted many audiences in
New York, London and Paris. With colorful
costumes and their rare gift for vivid characterizations, 
these young artistes bring to their
audiences the romance and humor of many
different lands.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.