Rumor Data Sheet Date 8/31/42
Content Code (F6223) Validity Code ( ) Dispersion Code ( ) Frequency Code ( ) War Impact ( ) Emotional Tone ( )

Rumor Theme: Enemy sources have the information.
Validity:
Dispersion code:
Frequency code:
War Impact inference: Lack of confident in government information: information program.
Emotional tone inference: Distrust, anxiety, intra-aggression.

Reported in Texas Date August 1942

"We are losing as many ships from our convoys as the Germans
claim. I was on the two ships that were sunk and know of several convoys
where over half the ships went down. The Navy ought to tell the people
because Germany already knows the facts."

Referred to: Sources: Government ( ) , Enemy ( ) , Private ( ) , Media ( )
Special Services ( ).

Government Sources: This is a complicated rumor involving shipping questions
and information policy. Factors which may contribute to this criticism of
information policy: (1) The Navy announces shipping losses individually,
and does not release periodical statements of total losses. The Axis
issues reports of numbers of ships lost and the amount of tonnage involved.
(2) Announcements of losses are frequently held up several weeks. (3) It is
not always clear in general references to our shipping losses whether the
United Nations losses are also included.
There have been official statements comparing the general progress of
shipbuilding with shipping losses. For example, A War Shipping Administration
release of July 21 declared: "Shipping losses during the week of
July 21st reached their highest level since the beginning of the war. While
construction in American shipyards is breaking all records, sinkings of
United Nations' ships through enemy action and marine casualties have
greatly exceeded new construction."

Information policies which have been publicly announced follow these
lines: (1) Facts will be given when information has been definitely and officially
confirmed, and will be released at a time that will not prove valuable
to the enemy (President Roosevelt, Dec. 9); (2) Bad news must be held
until it does not affect military operations (Pres. Roosevelt, Pres[s] Conference, 
May 22); (3) Navy will not announce names and types of merchant ships
sunk by Axis (Knox, March 11); (4) News of sinkings will be released as soon
as possible but sometimes it must be withheld weeks in order to permit other
ships in some areas and on similar missions to return home (Admiral Hepburn,
April 16).

Enemy Sources: Station DEBUNK, June 18, 1942
"And then there is the Atlantic. The admirals do not dare to admit
the sinkings of our ships in the Atlantic because their failure to protect
our sea lanes also demonstrates their inability as incompetent. They hide
(over)




Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.