ADVENTURES*     Preface     2

My tin buscket would hold every color of seed-corn, white and yellow and red
and speckled grains,- we picked the longest ears and planted only the fully
grown kernels. Plant full grown seed from big ears and you'll reap big ears:
that was the theory.
**********

Just as I dropped corn when I was a six year old boy, blindly trusting
the chance of wind and rain and sunshine, openly paying tribute to the known
enemies of growing corn, the crow, the blackbird, the cutworm, so in some such
way have I put together The Adventures of a Ballad Hunter. I kept no notes
during the more than thirty years wherein I was on the lookout for folk songs. Collecting folk songs, except for two periods, was a pleasant diversion in
a very busy, humdrum life.

In 1936 at the close of the annual meeting of the Modern language Association
in Philadelphia, Professor Hustvedt urged me to set out the
story of my experiences as a ballad collector. A day or so before I had appeared
before the Division of Popular Literature with Lead Belly. I translated
the words of the Negro's songs each time before he bagan to sing. His dramatic
rendition of raw folk songs shocked his hearers into attention. The
learned Professor, perhaps, thought that all of my encounters werbeen as
romantic as has been my finding the ex-convict, Lead Belly. He declared that
my experiences had been unique, that the detailed story of my search might
prove helpful to other collectors. What he had to say set me to thinking about
what I should tell and what i should omit in case I did attempt to re-live
ballad collecting journeys that have taken me into all the states except
North Dakota. The tale turned out tortuous and long,- quite enough to fill
half a dozen volumes. Choosing the incidents to be recorded reminded me of
my corn-planting days. Any handful might include infertile kernels; some of
the seed that looked most promising would not get beyond the blackbirds,
crows and cutworms.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.