NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR 1939
INCORPORATED

ADMINISTRATION BUILDING     WORLD'S FAIR, NEW YORK

July 18, 1938

Mr. Harold Spivacke
Division of Music
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Harold:

I enclose copy of letter which I have written to Mrs. Coolidge,
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for the invaluable statistics
you dug up for me about the expenditures of other World's Fairs for music.
Would you believe that your letter of July 2nd with its extremely important
enclosures was left at my house, and was deposited on a pile of old material
in a corner of my music room by a member of my family, so that if I
hadn't realized that a clean-up of that room was essential, you would not
even now be receiving my heartfelt thanks and acknowledgment? Your figures
are a knockdown argument.

In reference to Lomax's excellent report, I am sorry to say that
it touches upon a very involved situation here due primarily to the unorganized
and unclassified relations between the Music Department and the
other departments of the Fair. It developed that the Entertainment Department
had already contracted for a number of so-called "villages" with folk
music, folk dances, etc., and it was necessary, since this had already been
done, for them to examine Lomax's paper.

I enclosed the commentary of the head of the Entertainment Department
on it, and you will see from it that it would be difficult for me to 
appoint Lomax, as I wished to do, as representative of a co-ordinated folk
music division of the Fair.

It is unfortunate that this is so for many reasons. But since the
Music Department of the Fair is six months old, and the Entertainment Department
is about 18 months, the younger department will have to suffer in many
ways from this circumstance. it is still a possibility that I can secure
some dispensations for co-ordinated programs of folk music aside from the
"villages" which will represent aspects of that art not covered by the Entertainment
Division of the Fair. If Lomax desires it, I will ask Mr. Krimsky
if he would like to talk with him, with a view to co-ordinating his efforts
in this direction with those of the Entertainment Department, though I am
skeptical of the reply. I wish the Music Department could have Lomax's services,
and I shall not relax my efforts to find a place for him here, but at
the present time it looks as though my plans for his cooperation were going
rather "flooey".

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.