Father of the Blues, W.C.Handy (ed. Arna Bontemps_     pp. 76-7

     "I hasten to confess that I took up with low fold forms hesitantly. 
I approached them with a certain fear and trembling. Like
many of the other musicians who received them with cold shoulders at
first, I began by raising my eyebrows and wondering if they were quite
the thing. I had picked up a fair training in the music of the modern
world and had assumed that the correct manner to compose was to develop
simples into grandissimos and not to repeat them monotonously. As a 
director of many respectable, conventional bands, it was not easy for me
to concede that a simple slow-drag and repeat could be rhythm itself.
Neither was I ready to believe that this was just what the public
wanted. But we live to learn.

     "My own enlightenment came in Cleveland, Mississippi. I was
leading the orchestra in a dance program when... a second request
came up. Would we object if a local colored band played a few dances?

      "Object! That was funny. What hornblower would object to a timeout
and a smoke -- on pay? We eased out gracefully as the newcomers 
entered. They were led by a long-legged chocolate boy and their band
consisted of just three pieces, a battered guitar, a mandolin and a 
worn-out bass.

     "The music they made was pretty well in keeping with their looks.
They struck up one of those over-and-over strains that seem to have no
very clear beginning and certainly no ending at all. The strumming
attained a disturbing monotony, but on and on it went, a kind of stuff
that has long been associated with cane rows and levee camps. Thump-
thump-thump went their feet on the floor. Their eyes rolled. Their
shoulders swayed. And through it all that little agonizing strain persisted.
It was not really annoying or unpleasant. Perhaps 'haunting'
is a better word, but I commenced to wonder if anybody beside small
town rounders and their running mates would go for it.

     "The answer was not long in coming. A rain of silver dollars began
to fall around the outlandish, stomping feet. The dancers went wild.
Dollars, quarters, halves -- the shower grew heavier and continued
so long I strained my neck to get a better look. There before the boys 
lay more money than my nine musicians were being paid for the entire
engagement. Then I saw the beauty of primitive music. They had the stuff
the people wanted. It touched the spot. Their music wanted polishing,
but it contained the essence. Folks would pay money for it. The old
conventional music was well and good and had its place, no denying that, 
but there was no virtue in being blind when you had good eyes.

     "That night a composer was born, an American composter. Those country
black boys at Cleveland had taught me something that could not possibly
have been gained from books, something that would, however, cause books
to be written."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.