December 7, 1945

Pvt. Alan Lomax
67 Perry Street
New York, N. Y.

Dear Alan:

I have two letters from you addressed to me and Dr.
Spivacke has passed over for my attention the correspondence
addressed to him. As a result of the publicity in Readers
Digest and Time and also the press release on the albums,
the Archive has been extremely busy with purely the mechanical
job of handling outgoing mail and the Recording Laboratory
itself has been as busy. However, I am asking Mrs. Korson
to type out the accession list which you need to have for
your Guggenheim application and this should reach you soon.

The Jelly Roll manuscript has been microfilmed and we
are only waiting for a more or less formal request from you
for it or our files. The request should contain some brief
statement about your intended use of it. I do not know all
the angles involved with the Jelly Roll estate and you perhaps
are more familiar with them than I am and the possible need
for clearing with them before using the material. In any
event, I should like to keep the whole record of it cleared here.

In another letter you indicate interest in a variety of
subjects and I agree with you that much can be done with the
material. our chief problem here as far as work goes is the
job of making duplicates when we have only one engineer who
must spend part of his time packing and mailing orders, recording
new stuff and making duplicates of collections that come
in. You should take this into serious consideration in the
event that you wish to order duplicates and allow for considerable
time lag before their delivery.

The best bibliographical source which I can suggest for
Western mining lore is the California Folklore Quarterly
where you can find articles by Wayland D. Hand who is the
foremost authority on the subject. Quite apart from his
articles, the Quarterly lists books of the particular type
that you want and you will find them in the "books received"
section. I am sure that the New York Public Library has these
on file.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.