to Allen Lomax, the Library of Congress

#3.

Whenever I find a book on American folklore, I read it with the 
greatest delight, the subject matter always excites me, no matter how badly it
is written, for I can see the character behind the writing.

But no matter how good the book, no matter how well written it
may be, the illustrations are generally without exception, bad, almost always
effeminate, done in an amateurish way. I don't like that..... I want to see
illustrations, portraits, that a person can look at and say, "That's the man!
That's America."

For we have played around long-time enough. We have made a
buffoon of Paul Bunyan. We laugh at all our folk characters as if they were
poor hoosiers from three miles the other side of the sticks.

Most people know nothing about them. And of those who do, too
many deprecate them because they don't wear silk and armor. In my own work,
I want to take our legendary heroes, a man like Paul Bunyan, for instance,
and show that he has as much deity, as much divinity, as any of the old gods of
other mythologies. For in the legend of Paul and Chief Kick-in-the-Shin, the
Flatfoot Inyun from Fallen Arches, Arizona, Paul actually made the
world into a ball with his own hands. No other god ever did more.

I want to show that in those common laboring work-a-day cowpunchers
and lumberjacks and argonauts and frontiersmen there was the same dignity
and sincerity and deity that is innate in any people. I want to show in
my work that the mythical characters and legendary characters of the American
people are not buffoons and liars and louts and ignoramuses to be presented always
in a purely comic light. There is humor in them, yes, but I don't see the
need for the burlesque that Boy Scouts and business men and scissorbills have
brought into the interpretation. They all become too damned clever and smart
when they tackle the field. Of course, there are exceptions, and when one finds
the exception, it proves the vastness and grandeur of our mythology.

I know of the work you and your father have done, and I know you
have worked profoundly at it, and I feel that your help in my present difficulty,
trying to get started, would be invaluable. Will you write me, please, at your
early convenience? I write you not because I am trying to escape the drudgery of
the task, I am not, I simply want the help of an expert, if you will help me,
so that I may get on the right track and not lose time.

Do you ever come to New York? I can't afford to make a trip to
Washington right now, but I'd sure like to see you if you ever come up here. Will
you let me know if you do? I should like so much to talk with you.

I might say, in closing, that I am equipped for the job both in
drawing and in writing. Writings of mine, articles and poems have appeared in
POETRY: a Magazine of Verse, ESQUIRE, Scribner's, the American MERCURY, the Herald-TRIBUNE, etc. I earnestly hope you will help me if you possibly can.

I am, sincerely yours,

Julian Lee Rayford—
(I am sorry I have no ink)

julian lee rayford
242 west 12 street
new york, new york

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.