-11-
14. Where a rumor is denied by an authority, quoted in the
column, it is worth considering whether the authority
will be believed by most readers -- or whether readers may
not think, "What other answers would you expect him to 
give?" A rumor about bankers, for example, may be denied
more effectively by someone who is not a banker than by
someone known to express the official viewpoint of bankers.
Similarly, a rumor about labor may better be denied by
someone not identified with labor.

15. Where an authority is used to deny the rumor, it is best
to avoid cluttering up the identification of the authority
with long, technical titles and data. This may reduce the
reader's interest and cool off his, curiosity about the
rumor-denial.

16. If an authority supplies an answer which the editor considers 
weak or ineffective (or which falls into one of the 
errors cited above), the editor is entitled to suggest a 
re-wording before printing the rumor-denial. It is the 
newspaper which lends its name end influence to the rumor
column; the newspaper has the right to reject unsatisfactory 
materials or badly-worded denials.

17.Some rumors should probably not be denied. Rumors which
are harmless, or which fall into the category of folklore,
serve a positive psychological function to certain types
of people. Most supernatural stories, fantastic predictions,
"tall stories", miracle stories, etc. have a perennial 
appeal. If specific stories in this category are denied, 
then other fantastic stories may be expected to replace 
them -- and the new crop may, unfortunately, be more 
dangerous than the rumor which was denied. It seems wiser 
to allow harmless rumors to gratify the curiosity or
mysticism of certain kinds of people.

18. Rumor columns ought to guard against printing rumors
designed to force the release of information which has been 
withheld for military security reasons.

The most dangerous rumors are hate-rumors. The analysis of the
Officer of War Information leads to the conclusion that it is dangerous to
print a hate-rumor even in order to deny it. The purpose of a hate-rumor
is to spread hatred, to make a given group a scapegoat. The denial of 
specific hate-rumors does not spike the hate which created the rumor but 
tends to shift the hate to different "facts" or different rumors. Hate-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.