-2-

and economic heritage. At the same time the transitional nature of 
our times makes all the more urgent the need of immediately directing
(through a short-term study) these cultural trends and relationships in 
the face of their impending realignment and possible perversion.

In any attempt to control large-scale cultural development it
should be borne in mind that war and war-emergency, emergent unities
and dis-unities of various kinds, are normal functions of culture.
Cultural growth does not stop in time of crisis. Either deceleration or 
acceleration, integration or diversification, of any strand or group of 
strands may occur during crises as well as before and after them.

   II. Supplementary Material

Block resistances and acceptances are partly amenable to analysis
and control through literary studies and through economic, political,
sociological, statistical, psychological and other techniques.
But to the extent that they take rise in oral traditions, the bookless 
world, and folk and popular levels of thought, feeling and expression--
urban and rural, industrial and agrarian, contemporary and "surviving"--in
the intangibles and imponderables of social adjustment and morale--to that
extent may these block resistances and acceptances not only be out of 
reach of formal studies and techniques but also be pushed farther out of 
their reach.

The unwritten and popular sources of American culture ("folk stuff") 
are creative as well as conserving; and in their conservation and enrichment
lies an unused and unexplored power of mass-appeal and social 
control. In the study of the American culture they tend to be neglected because
of an undue emphasis on "intellectual" and "prestige" forms of expression
and because their growth is an obscure process of slow accretion, 
buried under layers of "print" and the abstractions of an all-leveling
Americans. To penetrate through those layers to the core of our native-
immigrant, indigenous-cosmopolitan "expression-spirit" is the object of
this proposal. 

The significance of these unwritten materials to the people themselves
cannot be overstressed. Rooted as they are in group experience, 
they are constantly submitted to the test of that experience and so
embody the results of common sense, common knowledge, and common truth.
And constantly submitted for group approval and acceptance, they represent
the workings of the democratic process in tradition. At once collective 
and individual, stabilizing and plastic, they are the nurture of 
a living and vital culture and the safeguard of democracy.

B. A. Botkin
Charles Seeger

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.