Some Texas Comments
H.Y. Benedict, President University of Texas:
"Out of a great and authentic mass of material he selects with admirable judgement that which is amusing, interesting, and instructive.  Despite the patience with which he has amassed his sources, his cowboy stuff bears not the brands of the closed study but of the open ranges."
E.D. Jennings, Dean of Southern Methodist University:
"I was immediately struck with your natural, pleasing and effective voice and found myself surprised at your ability to imitate the cowboys not only in their songs, but also in their crooning and whooping.  I never fully realized the poetic beauty of the songs until I heard you repeat them with such accuracy and melody."
Mrs. Karle Wilson Baker, Nacogdoches, Texas:
"Few programs that I have heard carry so rich a content in so happy a vehicle of pure entertainment."
T.D. Hobart, President Panhandle-Plains Historical Society:
"I do not think that I halfway expressed to you the appreciation of our Society for the wonderful assistance you gave at the banquet of the Pandhandle-Plains Historical Society."
J. Frank Dobie, English Department, University of Texas:
"Lomax is doing for the balladry of America what one Percy did for the ballad literature of Britain.  And as Percy remains the ballad curator of Britain, so does Lomax retain his preeminence as preserver of American folk-poetry."
L.H. Hubbard, President of the Texas State College for Women, Denton:
"You gave us a new conception of the importance of ballad literature in the Southwest, and the artistic manner in which you presented the subject recreated for your listeners the life on the plains in a peculiarly vivid manner."
Mrs. T. A. Armstrong, President of the Waco Press Club:
"Hard-riding centaurs, herding migrating cattle among the cacti, gallop across imagination's stage so plainly that it becomes unbelievable that they are conjured up by the professional gentleman who stands talking alone behind the lecture table in wing collar and drawing-room clothes."
E. E. Davis, Dean of the North Texas Agricultural College:
"I have heard dozens of students and practically all of the faculty people express their appreciation for the fine entertainment you gave.  It went over as a one hundred percent success."
Cullen P. Thomas, Dallas:
"For three-quarters of an hour, without a dull moment, I was charmed with your interpretation of cowboy life and literature."
Sam Acheson, in Dallas News:
"His appearances in forty-three states and in most of the important universities have earned John A. Lomax an enviable reputation as an interpreter of perhaps the saltiest and most vital of all American folk art."


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.