JOHN A . LOMAX . UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS STATION . AUSTIN TEXAS

celluloid only the cutting head is changed - - - takes about 2 minutes. Celluloid cutting calls for a little more skill but is the coming method. There are many features for convenience and better recording that will be included that
will not be found on any other instrument. I have travelled
about 30,000  miles during this past year with various kinds of portable recorders - starting out with a bulky one in a
large wooden box to the present type of Fairchild and I have
demonstrated -recorded and played records in every conceivable
place and in the meantime have been constantly at work
designing and improving these recording instruments and I
believe that, with the engineering talent and facilities
which I will have at work for me that no one is in better
position for producing your instrument. The men who sit
behind desks in factories are needed of course, but they
have no conception of what is needed out in the field.

I will have specifications on weight, size and power
and a N. Y. office in a few days. In the meantime would
you like to give it a name? What would be a classic name
for echo or reproduction? I will greatly welcome your
suggestion I have guaranteed the Atlas the finest recorder
for this type of work and they have dealt long enough with
me to believe that I can do this without any question. I
have been handicapped heretofore with antiquated equipment
that had to be used up but now I am free to build with the
latest material and ideas.

Already this set is the fastest selling and so far
it is going only to the professional trade, such as the
studios, you visited, the radio station etc.

Later I may be compelled to make a slight raise in
price because I am giving far more than any other manufacturer.
The amplifier alone will cost many times the
one in the Fairchild and similar jobs but that is the
boiler works and where quality should begin.

Obtained some find recordings of "Copy" also
Andre Morize but could not get Dean Briggs on this trip,
Pardon the length of this letter . I am surely hoping that
I can serve you.
Sincerely,
W. C. Garwick
12 Sterling Ave
Mamaroneck, N. Y.
Miles Hanley said to tell you that he was getting one
of these new instruments and hoped that you got one. I have
not seen Prof. Greet but will in a few days. He will give me
an AA1 rating as I have worked very close to him for several
years.
WCG

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.