-3-

He reached the ferry about 3 A.M. He had no fare to cross, so he 
waited around thinking hard as to what to do, because he had to get
across the river, somehow. About 4 o'clock, a man with a double wagon
approached the ferry and the man allowed him to sit in the wagon and
lead the mule across. This did not cost the man anything extra. Over 
on the other side, he started toward Gloucester and went on until he 
came to Cherrydale which was about 4 miles. The man lived on the out
side of town, but he walked on and on and finally reached his farm.
     It was early, about 5 o'clock, he he put the mule in the inner 
yard (there being three separate gates) and let him loose to graze, and
he went out in the shed and laid down on the seat in an old buggy to
go to sleep. About six o'clock (Sunday morning), these people got up.
First, one son came out and looked around. He spied the mule grazing
but couldn't name out what it was. He called another brother, and this
one called the third brother. Then, they all called "Oh, Paw, Come
here, see what this thing is in the yard. Looks like a mule, but we 
ain't never seen a snow white mule before." The old man came running
out and starred, then the mother and all the little ones. Finally, they
decided it was a mule. But, how did he get into the yard when all 3 
gates were shut. By this time, father had heard the commotion and came
out to explain the situation. He was treated very cordially, given food
for himself and his mule. This old man thought he knew of another 
man who wished to buy a mule so they decided to go to see him early the
next morning. About nine o'clock they started out and soon reached the
next farm. there they found out that, due to fall season setting in 
the man was disinterested, so he still had the mule on his hands. He 
said goodby, and started back to Phil again. Down to the ferry he came
as before and waited until he could hitch onto a wagon that was crossing
as before. Once across the Phil. side, he made straight for the
bazarre. He put the mule in a stall and then went around to see about
selling him. It costs $1.-00 to{{??}}enter an animal in a scale and this he
did not have, so he made his way back to the stall to decide just what
he could do. By this time, he was about worn out and desperate. He 
walked along the stalls, not seeing not feeling nor hearting, in reality.
He started when he heard one of the attendants remark "Ain't that old
Ned back here again'." That old mule gits sold every Saturday and auctioned
every Monday". Looks like he been painted, he's so white." He 
listened and walked on dumbfoundedly. 
     Well, he got the old mule entered for sale for whatever he'd 
bring minus $1.00 for selling him. When he was knocked down, he 
brought $16.00 (CASH). He reluctantly accepted the $15.00 as his very 
own and started away. All the millions he had heard about didn't look
any dearer than those three five dollar bills. The last he saw of old
Ned, an old farmer was leading hi from the Bizarre by a piece of rope,
If the lives or mules run to decades, father believes that old Ned
is still being sold at the Bazarre in So. Market St., Phil. Pa.

Note: This true story happened in 1889.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.