The words we use and where they came
from - a monumental 20-volume
dictionary of American English

The Book America Wrote

Condensed from The Saturday Review of Literature
Edward M. Brecher

"WHEN we Americans get
through with the English
language," remarked the
celebrated stove-league philosopher,
Mr. Dooley, "it'll look like it was 
run over by a musical comedy."

Mr. Dooley was mistaken. We
Americans have been manhandling
the King's English for more than
three centuries, yet it now looks 
better than ever. American ingenuity
and disrespect for tradition
have immeasurably enriched it.

You'll find evidence of that, laid
out in alphabetical order from abalone
and absquatulate through guyasticutus,
and pixilated to wunk and 
Zu-zu, in the mammoth new 20-
volume Dictionary of American English
on Historical Principles, of
which 10 volumes are already published.
Promptly nicknamed the 
D.A.E., it proves that our American
language has beauty, dignity
and precision, as well as the musical-
comedy touch.

Scholars at the University of
Chicago and elsewhere have been
at work on the D.A.E. since 1925.
It is quite unlike the ordinary dictionary.
In place of the usual definitions,
you will find gobs of quotations
illustrating the part each
word has played in American life.
As for spellings, you'll find so many 
variations you will conclude that
the editors, like Mark Twain, have
no use for a man who knows only 
one way to spell a word.

Instead, for example, of merely
defining democratic as meaning "of
or pertaining to democracy," the
D.A.E. quotes the earliest recorded
use of the word in this country,
from the Rhode Island Colonial
Record for the year 1647:

It is agreed . . . that the forme
of Government established in Providence
Plantations in Democraticall;
that is to say, a Government held by
ye free and voluntarie consent of all,
or the greater parte of the free Inhabitants.

By amassing more than 1,000,000
quotations like these, the editors
reconstruct the life history of American
words and things. Under Conestoga
wagon, for example, you will
find quotations describing how those
broad-wheeled prairie schooners were
built in the Conestoga Valley of
Pennsylvania; how they first hauled
farm produce to Philadelphia and
later ventured into the West;

Copyright 1940, Saturday Review Co., Inc., 420 Madison Ave., N.Y.C.
(The Saturday Review of Literature, November 16, '40)

73



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.