-2-
2. England has a greater sugar ration than we do.
Ans. According to the British Consulate, the English ration is 
exactly the same as ours; one half pound a week.

3. There is a gas shortage because England has most of our tankers 
lying idle in British ports.
Ans. According to the Information Office of the O.E.M. this rumor 
is totally without foundation.

4. There is a rubber shortage because we are sending so much to 
England; to Russia.
Ans. The Information Office of the O.E.M. states that only small 
amounts of rubber are being sent these countries, and this only 
for war purposes.

5. England has no tire rationing.
Ans. According to the British Consulate no tires for civilian 
purposes have been sold in England from the time of Pearl Harbor 
to the present month.

Rationing is not equally distributed
1. Rationing in New England is merely an experiment. Other parts 
of the country are not rationed.
Ans. With the exception of Gasoline, rationing is equally distributed 
throughout the country. Gas rationing is necessary here 
because of transportation limitations. In the middlewest these 
transportation limitations are not acute and hence gas is not 
rationed there. O.E.M.

2. Civilian tires are retreaded with second hand rubber while 
those of officials and people with "pull" are retreaded with 
new rubber.
Ans. According to the Information Office of the O.E.M. this is 
totally untrue.

3. Canada has an unlimited supply of gas shipped through New England.
Ans. Rationing is already in effect in Canada with respect to gasoline, and negotiations to equalize the rationing system are now under way, according to the British Consulate.

Rationing is merely a disguise for other operations.
1. Gas rationing was instituted to determine who could afford 
to have their autos confiscated by the government. Thos with A 
cards may expect to have the government take their cars.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.