Clemson, South Carolina,
December 28, 1938.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I am sending you a clipping of a notice from
the Pickens Sentinel, Pickens, S. C., our county newspaper,
about the annual meeting of the Hurricane Township Singing
Convention. I am writing also to ask if you know about these
singing societies -- they all are called singing conventions --
that exist all over the red clay hills of upcountry South
Carolina. There are thousands of members, all either small
cotton farmers, tenant farmers, or mill workers. They meet
very often and spend an entire Sunday singing and in the
summer, usually in August after the cotton crop has been
laid by, they hold the South Carolina Singing Convention at
Textile Hall in Greenville, S. C. Last summer the convention
lasted three days and was attended by ten thousand persons.

I do hope some of this music can be recorded,
for it is original American music, dating back to the Great
Revival of the early 1800s when John Wesley was in this
country. It differs from Negro music -- from the spiritual which
is often sung much slower in this section. But it has
a marvelous, quick rhythm, and I believe has had as much to
do with jazz as jazz has had to do with it. They sing hymns,
of course, but the rhythm is kin to the buck dance. It is
regional music -- peculiarly South Carolinian. Usually a quartette
or a trio will sing a verse or so and a chorus. Then they turn
their backs to the audience and sing a verse and chorus to
the judges. The Oakwood Baptist Church in Anderson, S.C., used
to go on the air on Sundays over the local radio station and
I noticed in two years that they were losing their original
primitiveness -- they were becoming more particular and more
concerned with finish.

The people around here -- the tenant and the
cotton mill worker and the Negro -- are very appreciative of
this music. They do honor to a fine singer. I have seen Negroes
go up after a service and pat a singer on the back. Sometimes
they give them little presents of appreciation.

Have you heard of these conventions?

Very truly yours,
Ben Robertson.
Ben Robertson.

Mr. John Lomax,
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.