Division of Music
August 26, 1940

My recent memorandum on national defense showed how the
Archive of American Folk-Song could aid the War Department
in its welfare work. In this memorandum, I shall attempt to
indicate how the Music Division can aid the defense program in 
its work with the population as a whole.

First of all, I should like to suggest that we publish a 
pamphlet on the Star Spangled Banner to be given away or sold
at a nominal price - five or ten cents. The publications on
this subject, including the reports issued by the Library, are
rather weighty tomes and hardly suitable for popular consumption.
The proposed pamphlet, although based on the best information
available and designed on strictly scholarly lines, should
primarily strive for readability and clear simplicity. A 
strictly factual account of this sort would make the pamphlet
of permanent value and help to avoid the stigma of "propaganda."

The text should cover the origins of the tune, the composition
of the words (with sufficient historical background to 
fit the defence of Fort McHenry into the War of 1812) and a
very brief account of the subsequent history of the song - noting
particularly significant changes in the tune and the Act of
Congress which made it our national song. Sufficient illustrations
should be employed to make the account vivid - a portrait 
of Key, our copy of the first broadside, the manuscript, the 
first printed music, a map of the region, etc. At the end should 
come a straight-forward piano arrangement of the music with a
good version of the words. As a special supplement, special
arrangements of this version should be made available for full
orchestra, theater orchestra, dance band military band, and
concert band. 

In addition, the Music Division could issue songsters containing 
(or perhaps only bibliographies of) patriotic songs,
songs of the other wars, selected folk-songs which could be
supplied to radio stars and other performing artists for use in
their programs. This would assure a wide and immediate audience
for the material.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.