[image]

REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK
AND TRUST COMPANY

CAPITAL AND SURPLUS, $5,500,000.00

DALLAS, TEXAS

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS RECEIVED JAN 29 1924 B SECRETARY'S OFFICE
January 26, 1934

MUSIC

Mr. Carl Engel
Music Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Engel:

I wrote you in St. Louis on December 31st giving you an account of the conversation which Mr. David H. Stevens had had with me regarding my work of collecting folk songs. As I told you then,he sought this conference, made the proposals that I outlined to you, whereupon I told him the entire situation as I knew it. I came on back to Texas and was notified by you and Mr. Putnam that the Carnegie people had granted me expense money for one year.

On January 8th Mr. Stevens wrote me saying that an amount of $350.00 had been allotted me to equip my car for conveniently carrying the machinery, batteries, etc., and for equipping it with electrical appliances that would charge the battery as we drove along. These outlays were for the purpose of expediting the work;in the same letter [manner] Mr. Stevens wrote me, "Through Mr. Leland I learned that routine of your further work under the Library of Congress is issued from other source. I am greatly pleased to learn this. I shall be as much interested in your results as though we had gone further in our discussions of possible aid from this source."

On January 11th he write in addition, "I fully understand that the program that you have in hand is being extended by an other organization and that our discussions in St. Louis were entirely on the basis of that expectation." In this letter statement Mr. Stevens goes further than was my understanding at St. Louis. At that time, it was not known that the Carnegie grant would come. I simply tbld him that I had put in an application. He made no reply. Mr. Stevens himself first proposed a grant to last from three to five years and in an amount that would, in addition to expenses, furnish income for the support of my two children. He specifically asked about my responsibilities. Of course, that offer coming to me unsolicited was ideal. I at once wrote to you regarding the offer and I think also to Mr. Leland. I am writing now to you simply to give you the complete record as I know it.

I enclose you herewith a letter that I have sent to Mr. Stevens, acknowledging two communications from him.

Yours very truly,

John A. Lomax

John A. Lomax
JAL:B University Station, Austin, Texas.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.