[*General*]

A volume could be written about the receptions (sometimes they were
eruptions of disgust) given me by wardens of southern penitentiaries.   I
once had an amazing experience at the State Penitentiary at Columbia, South
Carolina.  It all grew out of a letter.  Surprisingly enough the courtly and
diplomatic Herbert Putnam, Librarian of Congress, had a hand in the composition
and circulation of this letter. In fact, it went out as a franked official
document from the Library.

After completing my visits to the penal institutions of the southern
states, the idea occurred to me that Negro prisoners in Federal penitentiaries
might also know folk songs.  Thereupon I prepared a letter addressed to the
heads of all Federal prisons, and submitted it to Librarian Putnam.  He polished
my English a bit, kindly added his endorsement and authorized me to go
ahead.

Our joint composition read as follows:

Library [n] of Congress
Division of Music
Archive of American Folk-Song

Dear Sir:

I am collecting for the Library of Congress the words and tunes of
songs or ballads current and popular among prisoners, or "made up" by 
them and passed around by "word of mouth" rather than by the printed page.
Many of these songs--though by no means all of them-- relate to experiences
in prison, to the life of criminals in jail or in the "free world".  They
grow in length or change verbally as they are passed around.  I wish to
secure copies of them all, no matter how crude or vulgar they may be.
Where a visit seems justified I plan later to visit your institution to
record the tunes of these songs on an electric recording machine.  The
material I wish to secure is especially plentiful among Negro prisoners.

Will you, therefore, be good enough to make proper inquiry and let me
know whether such songs are current among the persons under your charge?
May I also ask you to forward to me at this time the words of those songs
that are available, with such remarks and suggestions as might be helpful?
Even short scraps will be welcome.

This proposal is part of a plan of the Library of Congress to collect
and make available to properly qualified students the words and music of all
American folk-songs.

I shall greatly appreciate a reply to this communication.

John A. Lomax
Honorary Curator and Consultant
in American Folk-Song.

Compliance with the above request will be a service to the Library
of Congress, and appreciated.

Herbert Putnam

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.