myself or suddenly burst out singing loudly to 
everyone else's great embarrassment.  Part of this general
confusion, though, is a result of Elizabeth's 
and my separation for the last two days.  D. 
and P. went on to [Mun] Berlin; and as soon 
as they went I left for Nuremberg in order to 
save money. Elizabeth stayed in Prague, she 
having more kronen than I.  I'm loaded down 
with a large check for Reichsmarks which
must be spent in Germany.  D. & P needless
to say, don't know of this latest move. Anyway
I hadn't realized quite until now the 
powerful, mind-saving effect of the human
voice.  I'm nearly going mad because I 
haven't anybody to talk to.
Of course last night a group of German
maidens cornered me on my upper story bed 
in the Youth Hostel where I lay like a great
black panther on his ledge in the zoo, I'm sure, 
while they tried out their English on me.  They
were very kind, you know the way, but refused 
politely to believe that my friend who was coming 
in four days was a girl.  They kept asking me

why I didn't want to marry him.  This expression 
of German morality annoyed me no end; so I 
said he was a Communist with a great long red 
beard that he grew so he could carry secret 
messages into Deutschland between his lower 
lip and his chin, and that furthermore he always 
kept his hands in his pockets so that nobody 
could see his fists were clenched.  I then rendered 
the Internationale and went to sleep for which
I shall probably be kicked out of the Youth 
hostel tomorrow.  But I simply do not like 
German maidens, or German youths or German
hausfraus or German good men.  They annoy 
me, and I'm just waiting until I get back 
into nice old dirty sexy urbane France. Paris 
is still my favorite though I liked Prague a 
lot.
In Prague I met the secretary of the German 
students in Czechoslovakia, and he escorted 
me around Prague for five days crying 
Up the Germans into my ear the whole 
time. He is a dangerous man and will be 
more dangerous in a few years when he has 
learned good French and English.  He is only 
twenty-two, quite as fanatical as we are.
and a hundred times more efficient.  His 
German is beautiful and eloquent - rolls

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.