[*A*]
Music Division
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C..

Mrs. Rosa Warren Wilson, 
Martins Point, South Carolina.

Dear Mrs. Wilson,

In the course of my cataloguing work here at the Archive of 
American Folk-Song I have just come to and played through the 
records of Plantation Echoes and I can say with all sincerity 
that I wish I could have been there to have enjoyed the fun. The 
singing of spirituals was beautiful and the whole performance 
was simple and unaffected folk-lore, and that from a folk-lorist 
means that he liked it. 

There are various difficulties in the matter of cataloguing 
the records and thus giving an accurate account of the play to 
posterity that you can help me clear up. I feel sure that, although 
the task may be a little tedious you will be interested in helping 
me. Act. I
1) The first musical number after your announcement, with 
humming and singing, what is its name and who played the guitar?
2) Who lead He Never Said a Mumbaling Word, and could you send 
me the words they sing?
3) Who lead "Amen" and what are the words?
4) Who lead "I've Got an Ark on the Ocean Sailing", and what are 
the words?
5) [Who gave] What was the [woman] name of the woman who spoke the 
long and beautiful prayer of Act I?
6) Who lead "I Wonder If I Ever Shall Reach Home and what are 
the words?
7) Who preached the sermon about Jesus and Zacharias?
8) Who lead the hymn Jesus Love Us which came directly after 
the above sermon?
9) Who lead Jesus on the Mainline Too and what are the words?
10) Who lead THIS OLD WAR DON'T LAST ALWAYS and what are the 
words?
11) Who lead I HEARD THE ANGELS SINGIN' and what are the words?
12) Who lead MARCHIN' THROUGH AN' UNFRIENDLY WORLD and what 
are the words?
13) Who lead COME WITH ME and what are the words?
14) Who lead Drinkin' of the Wine and what are the words?
15) Who lead I'M GOINI TO MEET YOU IN THAT LAND and what are 
the words?
16) Who lead Till We Meet Again and what are the words?
Act II 
1) Who lead WAIT FOR ME and what are the words?
2) Who preached the short sermon that followed?
3) Who lead I'M GONNA STAY RIGHT HERE and what are the 
words?
4) Who preached the short sermon that followed this song
5) Who lead "OH?, BLESS GOD and what are the words?

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.