RACE DISCMINIATION -- JEWS

A. Jewish problems at times reviewed with the Negro situation.

1. "There is a strong feeling against the Jews in the area,
especially Omaha, I think because that is where most of
them are located, and many times, I am inclined to
believe they are to blame for this feeling, themselves.
I find many people even prefer the Negro to the Jew
and while we have cut down discrimination in the State,
many employers still have a very strong feeling or resentment
against them and won't hire them at all." While 
there is  no doubt that a certain resentment against the
Jewish people does exist, there are no open or noticeable
conflicts on the Negro or Jewish question in this area.
The Martin Bomber Plant, for instance, does not discriminate
and at the present time, approximately 200 Negroes 
are employed on the grounds and in the plant, in fact, I 
am told one of their best welders is a young Negress.
While there are still some organizations who refuse to 
hired the colored people, generally speaking, there are 
no racial conflicts in this area at this time." (Nebraska)

2. "Man 'A' was discussing Jewish people, and said that they
will make trouble after the war because most of them are
prospering at the present time, and they will resent surrendering
a part of their earnings in anticipation post-war
high taxation. Man 'B' agreed and mentioned trouble
in Jacksonville colored section Sunday, where police
reserves were required to arrest Negro as prevention 
from attack with knife upon a Negro woman, and a group
of Negroes attempted to prevent arrest." (Florida)

B. This is the Jews' war.

3. "This war is being fought for the Jews and they should
put all their money in war bonds." (Minnesota)

4. "The Jews have caused this war. If it wasn't for them
there wouldn't be a war. They are running the country."
(Minnesota)

5. "The Jews brought on the war." (Illinois)

G. Jews control the government

6. "Jews have control of the Government in Washington."
(Illinois)

7. "The Jews put Roosevelt in. After the war there will
be a revolution. Roosevelt won't be President and all
the Jews will be chased out of the country." (Minnesota)

8. "Roosevelt has a lot of Jew advisers around him and they
are telling him what to do." (Minnesota)

9. "The Jews are getting all the jobs in Washington. The

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.