Ruby Terrill Lomax
The House in The Woods
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Feb. 3, 1942

Dear Shiely, 

I suppose your father wrote you from Washington or New York, or en
route, that he suddenly (for me) decided to take off for the East; he told me
in time to pack his bag. I've been afraid that he would be cold but the two
letters enclosed seem to indicate tht he is doing very well. Please return
them, as I like to keep his letters; I have all he has written me; these are 
not very personal but I'd rather you would not pass them on to Johnny. I
feel more timid with him than I do with you.

I've thought a good deal about you and family since you were here,
"every little thing etc.," How did you make out in the blackout? And what 
conclusion did you come to about the subs? Or is that sh-h? Everything seems to
be sh-h these days. The only addresses Im have for three nephews is c/o
postmaster at some big place like New York or New Orleans. Here let me say that
we enjoyed your letter muchly.

As I[t] told you, I wasn't willing to make the exploratory trip to 
N.Y., but I think it very well for your father to go. He would not have been 
satisfied with a second hand report anyway, and he was getting homesick to 
see Bess and Alan. He said he wasn't willing to send Bess a lot of money
which she would let get out of her hands before she got around to clothes;
you see in letter what he has to say about the clothes. I did write Bess a long letter
giving her some advice about how to take care of what clothes she has; though
I didn't think it necessary to remind her to sew buttons on her coat, at least
when the last one fell off. I should have thought that Jack Frost [might have]
would suggest that. I'll tell you when I hear what report your father gives on
Bess's companions. I'm afraid they are not very high-class. By the way, did I 
tell you that I had lunch and a picture-show with Mrs. Harrell about three weeks 
ago? She reports that Anne divorced Charles Raines last summer and married
on Dec. 27 Sam Lester, one of the pinkies that used to run with Elizabeth's 
crowd. He is now on the business staff of one of the camps near Houston- is it 
Ellington Field? Mrs. Harrell also told me that when she wrote her son Mike to 
ask what she should send himand Sudie for Christmas, he replied that they w ere 
"living apart". Sech folks! But I suppose Sudie got tired of supporting Mike.
However, Mrs. H. blames "Steve", who divorced her UT instructor husnband, went back 
to NY. and moved in with Mike and Sudie. Mrs. H. says Steve is a trouble maker
and Elizabeth once told her (Mrs. H.) that Steve tried to make trouble between
her and Alan. Mrs. H. told Anne's new husband if he ever saw Steve coming to
run! Such a mess of gossip! Please forgive.

I miss your father terribly; calamity has best us ever since he left.
The car battery went dead over night and had to be recharged; Mike has been sick 
with flu; I crashed a tooth and had to have it pulled; this morning we found
the water-heater running like the Niagra Fallas; and I had to spend the
morning investigating and shopping for a new one,- expensive because the water-
purifier eats out a galvanized lining and Dallas can't sue that kind; this one
we are putting now is guaranteed for twenty years. And yesterday I dropped
the little radio and busted the back, BUT- on streak of silver in the cloud's
lining, the radio may unscrewed something, screwed up something, set it going,
and didn't charge me a cent, sweet fellow. So I'm ready for Calamity John to
come home to eclipse Calamity Rube.

John Alan has come to see me, so of course I'll have. He says tell

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.