2

their stamp of approval on the material and recommending it
to a publisher. I have fooled around so long that I am
in the position of the grasshopper who found himself in
a precarious position when winter struck him. I know I
can with a little time get out a book of tales and then
a few more so that I will be started; but right now I am
looking for something that will pay me a living wage. It
does not make a great deal of difference what it is.
Do you ever have a chance to know which of the publishers
of New Yourk are most interested in material with an animal
folklore slant, or which publishers are interested in
anything at all. Let me ask it this way: do you up there
have any notion of knowing what the publishers are looking for.
I have a desire and an intention to write something with a
wham it in someday; but first I would like to get out a
little book or two of Mexican and Indian folk tales with
some drawings by Joe or Mark, just to see how they would
be liked by the American Public.

My brother Mark has done a couple of pretty good Oil
paintings. He works for the Shell Oil company in Houston.
Joe is working for the American Agriculture Adjustment
Association. His headquarters are in Bozeman Montana, and
he spends a lot of time in Washington. You might run across
him sometime.

What ever happened to Harold Preece? I have thought
about him quite a bit and hoped he would have success.
They are having unheard of weather down here. The younger
set (those under fifty) saw snow for the first time in
their lives. I never did think I had enough of your company.
Now after having passed the thirty year mark, I am suddenly
brought to the realization of how ridiculously paltry
few are the years we are allowed to live - even provided
we live out our span. I often think of Jack Orlic. One
reason I like to keep in touch with you is that he thought
a lot of you. He seemed to think I wasn't so bad.

Have you written anything else beside the book that
you co-authored with your father? I have seen Engerrand
a couple of times during the last year or two. I
guess he is getting a big wham out of the goings on in the
world. Since you once described his attitude toward the morning
paper some time ago, I conceived the idea that he is like
some superior being here on earth to study man as I might
study the race of coyotes; and takes as much interest in
the world as a whole as I might take of the University campus.

Please let us get back in touch again. I am in the ranks
of the unemployed. If you know of anything I might fit,
let me know. But write me a letter regardless of whether or
not you know of any work. Is there any way a guy like me can
keep his head above water in the city of New York.

Adios, Yours,
Dan Storm
1317 Ocean Drive
Corpus Christi
Texas.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.