series of conferences with the administrator of the department.
Out of these conference came an agreement between the union
and the administration which provided for the approval of all
transfer requests except in the case of some specific objection
made in writing. However even this objection was subject to 
hearings if it did not meet with the approval of the worker involved.
Publication of this agreement has attracted to it the
favorable approval of many other government workers, workers
who do not have such an agreement to protect them. Now they
too want similar provisions adopted in their departments. For
them the United Federal Workers is now at work on a law
which will give this protection to all government workers. When
the law is finally passed, and there is every likelihood that it will
be passed, then the work of an adjustment committee in one
department will have culminated in a law that adds to the security
and job happiness of every government worker, wherever he is.

Administrators Have A Lot Of Authority

Administrators in the government service generally have a
wider discretionary power than in any other country in the world.
Thus the field for successful agreements between employees and
administrators is wider here than anywhere else.

Wage schedules and the general terms of employment are
defined in law by Congress. But within the broad classifications 
of the law there is a great discretionary elasticity which offers
many possibilities for the improvement of the employee's status
and conditions without a change in the law.

On the other hand legal elasticity is potentially as dangerous 
as it is beneficial. Against possible abuses resulting from the
unwise or unfair exercise of discretion employees have only one
certain defense, a strong employees' union.

Adjustments and agreements are the raw materials for legislation.
When similar grievances occur and reoccur throughout the
government service, then obviously the repetition of the grievance

15

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.