GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
1938-1941

President
Mrs. Saidie Orr Dunbar
1734 N Street N. W. 
Washington, D. C.
General Headquarters
1734 N Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.
Department of Fine Arts
Mrs. Carl L. Schrader, Chairman
Division of Music
Mrs. Frank H. Ludwigs, Chairman
315 Newell Street, 
Walla Walla, Wash.
Committee on 
Folk Music and Folk Festivals
Mrs. Helen Hartness Flanders, Chairman
Smiley Manse, Springfield Vermont
[*informant*]

April 16, 1940

Dear Mr Lomax,
I couldn't seem to keep up with myself last week. For one thing, 
I couldn't put my hands on Helen Norfleet, after I had ascertained you would like to 
meet her for a few minutes in  your tower. Taxis were slow, she was behind no phone, etc 
then the concert came due and I knew you would redognize something had gone agley. 

I hope you met Miss Norfleet at the reception last night. I was not there. I was 
so ready to fold up and flop when the afternoon concert was over, that I chose to 
do it on a train homeward bound. I was beyond enjoying or experiencing any more music. 
It had been meat and drink to me, too much so. And some of it demanded an acquired taste. 
I hated tremendously to miss the evening program, particularly the Arnold Bax. 
Next year, if I come, I shall forego some one concert, knowing my capacity for such 
heady music is limited.

I had dined with Dr. Carrie Weaver Smith, who has been in charge of Reform Schools 
for girls -- in Texas and in D C, I believe. She spoke of "John writ a letter" a long 
song about the Book of Revelations, in the nature of a spiritual. Do you know it? 
Dr. Smith -- she now runs the Reader's Bookshop, if you wish to look her up -- has the 
words written down as the girl sang. When I asked about the tune, she said the
 girl is now on parole in Alabama and that the Department of Justice could probably 
give her address. She was mixed up with the Scottsboro boys. Dr. Smith says she 
knew lots of songs.

Dr. Smith spoke of Dr Sterling Brown of Howard University a negro, who has 
investigated the John Henry legends among his people.

Dr Spivacke told me of the grand Carnegie appropriation. Congratulations!

A letter from Professor peach gives me a bit more time for the inventory. Please 
send me your listing by MAY 10 -- a dead-line date. May I trouble you to make it out thus: 
Song Title                   Place recorded                      Singer's name
Sincerely yours
Helen Hartness Flanders

1938-1941 Theme: "Adjusting Democracy for Human Welfare"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.