Mr. Reiser:                                 - 2 -                                    July 8, 1937

mighty pleasant, for we had been almost two days away from Creole 
and from Haiti and were beginning to feel a little lonely among 
the American passengers.  The trip to New York was as stormy as our 
three days of parties there.  And since then, as I've said before, 
we have had little time to think about Haiti.  Certainly you seem 
very far away, you and Revoli and Ciceron and Dodo and Saul and 
Madame Degras and Cecile, but now that all the worry and press and 
illness that followed me through the last three months of my stay 
there have passed, you seem very close and delightful.  Cecile and 
new dresses and her dancing and her Wose, Ciceron and  his spare 
intensity and honesty, Revoli and his cosmopolitan resourcefulness 
and charm, madame Degras and her transformations from simple old 
lady to queen, and you with your Western whole-hog hospitality and 
camaraderie.  It is delightful to have these three hundred records 
to bring back all the lights and all the dancing and all the fun.

The Library has put me in charge of the folk-song collection 
here which now amounts to about thirteen hundred records and when 
my regular job begins July I shall have my hands full, especially 
with the facilities this Library offers for research.  The salary 
is very small but the opportunity is pretty marvellous, so 
for the time being E. and I will be here in Washington.  I hope 
you'll get a chance some day to come and work on your books here 
in the Library where I will have a chance to play host to you for 
a time.

Will you give Revoli all my love and tell him that we miss 
him every day and all the time.  Tell him I shall send him a present 
as soon as I'm "unbroke".  I should like him to write me if 
he can ever take time from his jardin.  Ciceron's drums have been 
much admired as have Cecile's and Anna's singing.  I have never 
had time to put on a real Haitian show for the people here at the 
Library but when I do I think that it will lay 'em in the aisles.  
Let me repeat again that I am and always will be grateful for what 
you did for me with the help of all the strange and kindly people 
of Pont Beudet.

Sincerely yours,

AL:ep

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.