Facsimile of a pamphlet secretly distributed in
Germany just before the outbreak of the war.

Although material on illegal literature has appeared
before we believe that Mr. Weiskopf brings out
cultural significance of this weapon, which has
enlisted the service of the leading German writers.

A Little Package of Tea
F. C. Weiskopf

Any reader of these lines may
have had the experience of coming
home to find a little sample of toothpaste,
oatmeal or tea, in his mail box
or under his door.  Such a little
sample of tea, as that shown above,
was found in the mail boxes of thousands
of writers, doctors, chemists,
lawyers, teachers, engineers, a few
days before the outbreak of war.
This tea had a "kick" in it—in fact
it was almost as explosive as the 
Boston Tea of 1776!

In this package, under the
cellophane compartment for tea, there
was a tiny booklet, exactly the size
of that shown above, printed on very
thin paper, and filled with articles by
famous exiled writers and journalists,
who are fighting for a Germany
free of Hitler, a Germany to which
they may return.  There are pieces by
Thomas Mann, Heinrich Mann, Gustav
Regler, George Bernhard, and
others whom we dare not mention because
they are still within reach of
the Gestapo.

This sort of illegal literature has
been circulating for some tie in Germany.
At first it was only political
in character, but afterward broadened
to include stories, dramas, historical
sketches, etc.  The best names
of German literature have consistently
appeared and have been circulated
amongst intellectuals, workers and
types of people who never read "high-
brow" literature before.  But they are
written with a directness and force
that appeals to all.  Heinrich Mann has
written more than twenty pamphlets,
that have crossed the border;  Bert
Brecht, Egon Erwin Kisch, F. C.
Weiskopf, Leonhard Frank, Ernst
Bloch, Oskar Maria Graf and many
others have been consistently read
under the nose of the Gestapo.  One
collection of illegal publications
numbers over 200 titles.

Since the war started, of course it
has been hard for us to get news of
what is going on in the underground
movement, specially as regards this
illegal literature.  But such reports as
we have gotten, indicate a strengthening
of the underground movement
in general.  In Prague and Ostrau,
troops were suddenly ordered to
other positions when anti-fascist
pamphlets were found on many of
them.  Deserters from the German
army who reach Jugo-Slavia had
pamphlets given out by the German
Communists.  The pamphlet bombardments 
of the English also indicate of
what great value these sorts of
bombs are considered to be.

As the was goes on, the underground
movement will use this
weapon of illegal literature to a
greater and greater extent, and if
there are heavy losses and economic 
depressions, it may play a decisive
role.

9

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.