"I GOT A RAINBOW 'ROUND MY SHOULDER" 


YOU'VE heard it many a time: "I got a rainbow 'round 
my shoulder!" But did you know it's singing woodsman's 
language for a flashing axe-a "diamond blade"? It's 
an old American phrase, from a people's song...............
For more than 30 years John Lomax has been trekking across the American continent, recording songs of people as they sang 
on the job and for fun before the fire at home. In 1910, President Theodore Roosevelt wrote to Lomax from Cheyenne: "It is 
a work of real importance to preserve permanently this unwritten ballad literature of the back-country and the frontier." At 
first John Lomax took down the songs and stories on the wax cylinders of a "talking machine". Now he records with the most 
modern equipment, traveling from ranch to cotton patch, from canal boat to penitentiary, from lumber camp to cane brake, in 
search of the spontaneous songs created by the people. The people like to sing for John Lomax, and on these records there's 
a feeling of naturalness, ease, and sociability. He found singers like "Lead Belly", Clear Rock and Iron Head, Kelly Page, 
Captain Nye, Alec Moore, Minta Morgan, Vera Hall, and many others. He found songs like "Git Along Little Dogies", "Goin' 
Walk Around in Jordan", "Home on the Range", "Sam Bass", "Boll Weevil", and many others. Spirituals, blues, fiddle tunes, 
old country ballads, railroad songs, sea chanteys, and ballads of the cowboys. John Lomax recorded them all. From the 
12,000 records in the Archive of American Folk Songs, the Radio Research Project of the Library of Congress, under the 
direction of Philip H. Cohen, has prepared a series of transcriptions featuring John A. Lomax, the BALLAD HUNTER, and the 
songs of the American people. John Lomax tells the story of his song-hunting travels, and presents for the first time American 
folk music sung by authentic singers, along with eloquent and authoritative explanation of its background. The transcriptions
are distributed by the FEDERAL RADIO EDUCATION COMMITTEE, U. S. OFFICE OF EDUCATION, FEDERAL 
SECURITY AGENCY, WASHINGTON, D. C. For radio stations, for schools, for libraries, the BALLAD HUNTER programs 
offer an unequaled opportunity to hear the everyday music of the people--the simple, human stuff--the roots of democracy. 

[next page] 

"I THINK the BALLAD HUNTER programs are important 
because they search one of the deepest currents in the development 
of American culture--the current of American folk 
song."--Archibald MacLeish, Librarian of Congress. 

"AN AID to appreciation of America's cultural heritage which 
libraries, along with other agencies for democratic education, 
will welcome."--Carl H. Milam, Executive Secretary, 
American Library Association. 

[end document]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.