Part IV, Page 1)
I was behind on a god damn [?] brush with a sourwood stick, a-whippin' a horse, you know.  This brush was my horse.   Well, I tuck off down through there and I got down there to a bi--g chestnut log that had fell across, well, I got 
me some more logs and Peanut and John Broughton was behind me, Peanut Dozier an'  John.  I thought I'd block the road on 'em, you know.  I put a bi--g lot of logs in the road so they'd have to crawl over 'em.  That shows you, you see, how full a man was.  Well me an' Earl Lee we took on, Earl Lee, I got him away [?] though, an' we took on, just me an' Earl an' we just had a quart with us, quart jar that hadn't been opened.  We wouldn't open that quartvfor hell either.  We got off down there an' we come to where the branch is forked, on Vaughan 
Branch, you see, Lotta sky sickkimores there.  Water thar the year round, some
water, you know.  Bi--g high sickkimores, god damn, tall as mountain an git  
as little as yore arm in the top, you see, We got down there and we kep'
settin' there lookin' for John an' Peanut to come up.  We looked back up
there where we had the road blocked an' them god damn sonsofbitches had stopped there just lookin' at one another, you know.  And like they's in some city, just met a-talkin' away and just layin' it off with their damn hands.  See, they'd done got drunk, layin' it off with their damn hands.  They come on down 
you know, I mean they stood there and I said "Earl Lee, Let's-- I can clib that 
goddamn sickkimore." He said, "You can't."  I said, "Ill bet you a damn dollar I 
climb it.."  I got up on the first limb.  Earl Lee said, "Hell I can climb higher than that."  Well, he got to climbin' an' he just kep' goin' an' goin' an goin' and I locked up my legs around the first limb, you know, and I almost tipped 
the ground with my hands and I skinned down.  Well, there I hung, I intended to 
hang there until they come along and there I'd hang holdin' with my feet, with my head down.  Earl Lee clumb up till I got friad that the god damn thing would 
out and they's ice, you see, and that  timber just as cold as [?] and I8se afraid that timber would break out and he'd fall out and he'd kill hisself

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.