and the railroads have been built, the roads blazed, the swamps drained, the forests
cleared, the land made habitable, to the accompaniment of native melodies poured from
the hearts and throats of the black man.

Many of these are the "made-up" or "jumped-up" songs, sung in unison by the Negroes when they are at work. Work on the farm, like hoeing, picking cotton, cutting wood, stripping and cutting cane, is done by gangs of laborers with a gang leader. The rhythm controls the speed of the work. The Negro also sings these rhythmic songs of labor when building levees, lining, tamping or laying ties of a railroad, loading steamers with freight, compressing cotton. In the penitentiaries of the South, where gang labor necessarily is still used, we also found these songs preserved. It is true that much of the Negroes' work of the South, at least in recent years, has been done to the accompaniment of songs, but this work must be hand labor. Machinery with its noise and efficiency and speed makes singing impossible.

The isolation and the loneliness in frontier conditions have bred the folk songs
and ballads of America. Wherever men- and not always illiterate men- have worked cut off
from books and newspapers in situations where their entertainment depended on their own resources, they have inevitably turned to song as one form of solace. When they grow
tired of singing all the songs they know they make up songs. Naturally the songs have
grown out of their lives, often reflecting their daily common experiences. This is certainly
true of such types of songs as cowboy songs, songs for the lumberjacks, miners' songs, railroad songs, songs of the Forty-Niners, songs of the Great Lakes, songs of the Erie Canal,
and Negro work songs.

Some of these songs have been of such merit as to live, and it is these that we a are now able to preserve. The ballad-making of the Negro goes on today and his beautiful spirituals are unique in the literature of the world. His secular songs, when better known will doubtless win an equal place in the esteem of mankind. Not all by any means are cast

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.