-3-

Adventures

Stager. Carl Sandburg possesses a rare, unerring, instinctive feeling for the
genuine ballad. When we remember that he had spent much of his life pounding
pavements looking for news items, it is remarkable that the first large collection
of folk songs, his The American SongBag, contains so few examples of cheap
tin-pan alley maunderings. He loves simple folk and his instinct for their
genuine product is uncanny. 
When he brought the Sliger letters back he said:
"When you and 'Bedi' (Roy Bedichek, Sliger's 
best friend) and I meet Harry Sliger up in Heaven you won't have
to introduce us."
I leave to Lloyd Lewis, then, as now, a star reporter on Chicago's
best newspapers, to interpret this quartet's reactions to me. Lloyd Lewis
has become nationally known through his life of General W. T. Sherman. He will
do other historical masterpieces, granted only that he has time from earning a
living. Lloyd has written without any thought of publication a flattering
summary of what I did as an avocation during the two years I was submerged in
the financial vortex of Chicago, to keep alive my interest in folk stuff. During
the time I put together and sent to the publisher an overflow book from Cowboy Songs,
another smaller volume, Songs of the Cow Camp and Cattle Trail, which has sold
sluggishly, though steadily, through the years.
Too personal (is the following letter from Lloyd Lewis), yes, but at
the same time at least a fine tribute to the validity and appeal of cowboy music.
"It was a Sunday afternoon, the year I suppose about 1920 (it was
soon after you came to Chicago to work for Lee, Higginson & Co.) that Tom Peete
Cross brought over to our apartment at 5220 Dorchester Avenue the Texas folklorer
he had so often talked about. I was curious, for you had but lately
gained fame in academic circles at least, by defying Pa Ferguson on the matter
of academic freedom, and were said to have been recommended to Lee, Higginson
by Teddy Roosevelt, Then, too, I was curious about your songs, for Tom Cross
and I, in our elaborately untrained voices, amused ourselves with folk songs. 
He knew more than I, being a Southerner, but in Indiana on the farm where I
grew up, we had North Carolina uplandets as farm hands and they had sung many

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.