COPY
ARTHUR E. GARMAIZE
One Cedar Street
New York
The Macmillan Company,          April 15, 1941
60 Fifth Avenue,
New York City

Gentlemen:

My client, Edward B. Marks Music Corporation, the undersigned, 
owner by assignment dated July 28, 1934, recorded in Book 319, page 55, on 
July 28, 1934, at the Copyright Office at Washington, D.C. of the copyright
identified under Class E XXc No.663020 and date April 30, 1927 of the musical 
composition entitled "Alla en el Rancho Grande", for an in consideration of 
the payment of the license fee of one dollar, receipt of which is hereby 
acknowledged, does hereby release and discharge you, John A. Lomax and Alan
Lomax from any claim whatsoever arising from or concerning the past use of 
said musical composition in the work entitled "American Ballads and Folk 
Songs" collected and compiled by John A. Lomax and Alan Lomax, and published 
by you provided you recognize and agree not to contest the validity of the 
said copyright, and provided you annex an erratum slip in conjunction with 
page 361 in all copies of the present edition of "American Ballads and Folk 
Songs" now in your possession or under your control. Said erratum slip to 
contain the following:

ERRATUM
ALLA EN EL RANCHO GRANDE
Composer and Author Silvano R. Ramos
Copyright 1927, by Edward B. Marks Music Corporation

and Edward B. Marks Music Corporation does hereby consent and permit the f
ree use of the aforesaid musical composition in its present form in any 
future printings of said "American Ballads and Folk Songs" published by 
you provided that you print under the title of said musical composition in 
all copies printed and published by you in the future the following:

Composer and Author Silvano R. Ramos

and at the foot of such page the following:

Copyright 1927, by Edward B. Marks Music Corporation

Your signature under the word "Accepted" herein-below signifies 
your agreement to the foregoing.

Very sincerely yours,
Arthur E. Garmaize
EDWARD B. MARKS MUSIC CORPORATION
By Edward B. Marks, President

ACCEPTED:
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
By George B. Brett, Jr.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.