Collier's for August 12, 1939  25

Lois thought she knew the fellow who
had got me into trouble.
She said, "Hun"—my given name is
Hunter and Lois calls me Hun—"what
did Joe want when he went in the booth
and spoke to you?"
I said, "Do you know him, Lois, that
you call him Joe?"
She said, "No. I don't know him at
all.  Only I think he came into the milk
bar once and watched your broadcast."
I said, "He got me into big trouble!"
"Oh, the snoozer," said Lois.  "I'll
wring his neck."

That was when I went back to the 
store to sneak in and get my hat.  Mr.
Nutzhorn looked out of the offices in the
rear and caught me talking to Lois, and
he gave me good news for a moment.
"We have heard from all the stores,
Sweetwynd, and we were hit only once!
All we had to pay out was one single
hundred dollars!"
"Well, now, Mr. Nutzhorn," I said
signing with relief, "isn't that the mercy!
I will be more careful tomorrow, Mr.
Nutzhorn."
"No you won't," said Mr. Nutzhorn,
unappeased. "The mercy, Sweetwynd,
is that nobody listens to your broadcast.
I'll talk to Mr. Linch and we'll have a
new Peep o'Day Boy here tomorrow!"
I was working, you understand, for
the broadcasting chain and not Mr. 
Nutzhorn.  But if Mr. Nutzhorn howled
to Mr. Linch, who was Eastern manager
of our chain, it would be no rich golden
butter on my salary check.  I might find
myself announcing for fresh butterfish
from the tail of a wagon.
Surely there was some explanation of
why but one of my vast unseen audience
had come in to claim a crisp, fresh
hundred-dollar bill.
I went over to 14th Street, to the Bureau
of Engraving and Printing where
they make the money, and told a sub-
director of my mortifying experience.
He laughed.
"Mr. Sweetwynd," he said, "what is
surprising is that you had to pay even
once!  Assuming that everybody in the
District, or six hundred thousand-odd
people, listened to you this morning—"
"Yes, sir," I said attentively, "we'll 
agree on that."
"No," he said, "we won't agree, we'll
assume.  There are four big broadcasting
systems in the District and many 
small; but assuming!  And assuming 
that they all had all their money ready
in hand to look at you would still be
talking to only about one half of one
per cent of all the dollar bills in 
circulation.
"But, Mr. Sweetwynd. Assuming that 
one half of our people had something to
do besides play the radio at six in the
morning, and assuming that you got one
quarter of what audience there was,
and that not more than half their money
was in the bank, your chance of making 
a hit was thirty in—just a moment—oh,
about thirty in thirty-two hundred, or
less than a hundred-to-one shot."
I took out the dollar bill which had
been pinned to the script the fellow
handed me and which I put in my 
pocket, as nobody seemed to own it.
"This number—U 93034500 A Series
1935 A.  Is this the only dollar bill with
those numbers and letters, sir?"
"The only one.  Every bill is unique,
and no duplicates."
I went back to see Mr. Nutzhorn.
"How's business Mr. Nutzhorn?"  I 
inquired politely.
"Business, Sweetwynd," he said, "is
looking up!  It seems there was a rumor
around that we were offering to give
away hundred-dollars bills to anybody
who had a dollar and people dropped in
and we did four per cent more business
this morning.  If we could only keep up
that trend for six months we would bust
the Samson Lock and Hardware Company
like a rotten egg, and let them offer 
their valuable prizes of burglar locks!
But who can give away three thousand
dollars every morning?"

The Samson Lock and Hardware was
Mr. Nutzhorn's biggest competitor 
because they broadcast on another chain
in the Peep o"Day Boy period.
"Mr. Nutzhorn," I said, "what will
you say, sir, when I tell you that you
had only one chance in a hundred of
anybody collecting a hundred-dollar bill
from you this morning?"
"I will say, Sweetwynd," he said,
"that this is a blessing in disguise as it
has let me find out the nobody listens
to you. But you have the face to tell
me so yourself? Myself, Sweetwynd, I
never did like your voice and you should
see the swell letters I am getting about
you every morning.  Here is a stack of
them right here!"
"Ah, my public, sir."
"Yes, your public, Sweetwynd.  One
says you sound like a lovesick wang-
doodle, and another says you have a 
lovely voice for hollering fish up a dark
alley, and another says he had to get
right up from his breakfast.  That's the
way they write about you."
I dropped the subject right there.
"Mr. Nutzhorn," I said, "let us think
constructively and be calm and objective."
And I gave him the facts and
figures I had from the subdirector in the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
"So you see, Mr. Nutzhorn," I concluded,
"you could offer three thousand 
dollars every day in the week, and you
wouldn't have to put out three thousand
dollars more than once in a hundred days
on the average, or an average of thirty 
dollars a day!  And you would save
thirty half-pints of whipping cream and
your sales would go bounding along."
(Continued on page 37)

[image]

"Peep, peep, people!" I said. "We have a nice surprise for you this morning in celebration of our president's birthday"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.