2         THE SEARCHLIGHT
-------------------------------------
So The People May Know
     The Joint Legislative Committee, representing all three divisions of Organized Labor,
has taken a strong stand against the referendum proposal to put a discriminatory tax on
Utah Chain Stores. Those groups or divisions are united in condemning the proposed tax 
as the equivalent of a wage cut.
     The Labor groups charge that the move is a needless attempt to increase retail prices
in Utah compelling Chain Stores to raise prices high enough to cover the tax, or to 
go out of business. Individual Labor leaders assert the scheme is designed to swing trade to
incompetent low-wage, high-priced stores who have only the vaguest notions about modern
methods of selling.
     Supplementing the lead of the Joint Legislative Committee, the State Federation of Labor,
the Women's Auxiliary organizations, and the Salt Lake Federation of Labor, have
assailed the tax as creating another burden on Utah wage earners and professional people. 
Local unions throughout the State have made declarations and have passed resolutions of
similar import.
     Eighteen months ago the Searchlight, in cooperation with CIO officials, urged Governor
Herbert B. Maw to veto the measure which then had passed the legislature as Senate Bill 44.
     Labor now has united in urging that all its members, and the public at large, to vote
against the referendum proposed on November 3rd. It is identified as No. 2 on the ballot.
Remember, "No. 2 Is A Tax On You".

{{section break}}

"No. 2 Is a Tax On You"
          (Continued from preceding page)
     by bringing their merchandising methods and
their prices around to modern standards? Before
they ask the public to submit to a special
tax that inevitably will raise the prices of 
commodities to higher levels, they should try
the other methods of efficient competition first.
     It is far easier for patrons to buy groceries 
at the corner store than to lug them from downtown
in crowded buses. The only reason people
do that is to save a little badly needed 
money on their purchases. An even break on
prices, quality, and cleanliness always gives
the independent merchant the edge in competition. 
Even fairly comparable prices does that. 
Those independent merchants who merchandise
efficiently have found that out. They do not 
complain at the chains.
     Consequently, if certain merchants desire
to drive out the chains, they should do the trick
legitimately with better merchandising methods 
and lower prices - competitive prices - instead
of resorting to smelly taxation schemes.
     There are many independent merchants in 

{{column break}}

Utah - perhaps a majority of them - who decline
to enter into unfair political plots to ruin
their competitors. They do not fear modern
competition. They jump in and meet it. And
they get their full share of business. They are 
conscientious merchandisers - not political
schemers. They keep busy supplying the needs
of their customers and building up their own
businesses.
    Merchants of all classes should remember
that after all, it is the public interest that 
must be served. If the group of so-called Independents
who high-pressured the Chain 
Store Tax through the last Legislature really 
want to serve the public interest, why in the
name of common sense don't they get down to 
brass tacks and do some honest competing instead
of attempting to use the power of the 
State to drive more efficient business men out 
of business.
    The Chain Stores don't try any legislative
hocus-pocus on their competitors. Neither
do the better class Independents. Instead,
they attend to business; keep their overhead
          (Continued on following page)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.