EULOGY ON THE COW

In a recent auction sale at Apringfield, Ill; Col. F. W.
Woods delivered an eulogy on the cow, and the words he uttered
deserve to give him the appellation of the "Bob Ingersoll" of
the cow. Col. Woods said: "Of all the animal friends of man she
is the greatest. To her we owe the most. I wish that I, as you
are about to sit down to a noon day meal, might remove from your
table what the cow has put thereon. I'd take the cup of milk
waiting at baby's chair. I'd take the cream the cheese and the
butter, the custard pie, the cream biscuit, the steak, the smoking
roast of beef and leave you to make a meal of potatoes, beets,
pickles and toothpicks.

"There is not a thing from nose to tail but what is utilized
for the use of man. We use her horns to comb our hair, her skin
upon our feet, her hair keeps the plaster upon our walls, her
hoofs make glue, her tail makes soup, she gives up our milk, our
cream, our cheese and butter, and her flesh is the greatest meat
of the nation; her blood is used to make our sugar White, her
bones are ground to fertilize the soil and even her paunch, she
herself has put through the first chemical process necessary for
the production of the best white card board, and they have discovered
that such paper can be made into the finest quality of
false teeth.

"No other animal works for man both day and night. By day
she gathers food and when we are asleep at night she brings it back
to rechew and convert it into all things of which I speek.

"She has gone with man from Plymouth Rock to the setting sun. 
It was her sons that turned the first sod in the settler's clearing.
It was her sons that drew the prairie schooner for the sturdy
pioneer as, inch by inch, they fought to provide that 'westward
the star of the empire takes its way', with the old cow grazing behind,
and when the day's march was done she came and gave the milk to 
fill the mother's breast to feed the suckling babe that was perchance,
to become the ruler of the country.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.