COPY
Page 6.

V. Arrested-action exhibits

These exhibits would have the same subject matter as the
living exhibits mentioned in the previous section. They
may be used to supplement the living exhibits, or in case
it is decided that living exhibits cannot be used,
arrested-action exhibits showing steps in construction
and the use of articles will be planned. The connection
between this and the previous section can be worked out
in any way you see fit.

Panel or static exhibits

As you know, plans for the interior of the building call
for a photographic mural on a false wall along the outside
wall from the ceiling down to a height of 12 feet. Below
this photographic mural will be panel exhibits which elaborate
the story told in the mural. There are at least
four models or charts concerning the Recreation progress
which should be prepared for use somewhere in this panel
exhibit.

A. Models or charts indicating locations in which the
WPA Recreation program operates, such as playgrounds,
parks, camps, community centers, tot lots, back yard
playgrounds, etc. Additional diagramatic charts
might explain the relationship of these locations
to the community, to the Recreation program, and to
the participants in the program.

B. Charts or peep show dioramas indicating that wide
range of hundreds of activities the Recreation
Division offers to the public. This might be indicated
by type of activity and the age group which
they serve.

C. Chart showing the place of the WPA program in relation
to other public and private agencies and to
other social programs within a community indicating
how the WPA has worked toward coordination and co-operation
of working relations among these agencies.

D. Charts showing the variety of services which the
program offers to small groups and to communities
and to entire states. These include the organization
of leisure time programs, the provision of
trained recreation leadership and the contribution
of expert advice through bulletins and personal
conferences.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.