Brandon

NOTES ON AMERICAN TALL TALES

It is a pleasure to be able to write a bibliographic note to accompany the
charming short Tall Tales. By watching the picture you can learn more about
tall tales than by looking at any of the books I am going to mention shortly.
The main thing has always been to tell your big lie as if it were the solemnest 
truth. The singer or story teller, if he is a folk artists, does not put his
song over with dramatics and emphasis. He is likely to be pokerfaced and casual,
letting the lines speak their own story and song for these people was not an
event. It just happened while you were sitting in front of the fire resting
from the day's work or pitching horse shoes as the director of this movie has
so eloquently told us.

The number of tall tales in song in America is small for a song seems to have
been mainly a vehicle for telling the truth and for giving the facts just as
they stood while your true liar ran to prose. Paul Bunyan, Mike Fink, Davy
Crockett, were all too extravagant to be confined in meter.

There are, however, a number of folk songs which depend on humorous exaggeration 
for their content. Many of these are out of the British ballad stock
that came to America and made its home here with the pioneers themselves. One
might came the Farmer's Cursed Wife (1), The Mermaid (2), the Golden Vanity (3),
The Rm of Darby (4), Frog Went a-Courtin' (5), Sally Buck (6) and the Swapping
Song (7) to name only a few.

Your pioneer workmen turned away from the fanciful tradition of the old country,
took little interest in superstition and fairy tales. He had a practical job to
do which outran the confines of any fairy story that he knew and he seems to 
have a pretty sober-minded song maker. Therefore our American heroes were
likely to be either real workmen or superhuman workmen. In the first category
we have Little Joe, the Wrangler (8), Strawberry Roan (9), Foreman Monroe (10),
Jesse James (11), Joe Bowers (12) and Casey Jones (13) who are not heroes because
of what anybody imagined they did but because of what they actually did do. Perhaps
a few generations of folk transmission would have swollen their legends but
as the frontier became city and farm, the growth of these ballads has ceased.

In the second category of folk-song from human workmen, we find Davy Crockett
and his companions who were half men, half horse and half alligator who could
scream up a wind storm and grin a knot off a hickory tree. Alongside them, but
of larger dimensions are Paul Bunyan, hero of the northern lumber woods, and
Tony Beaver of the southern timber jacks and Pecos Bill of the cow camps and
oil derricks. These men symbolized for their crafts the vast undertaking of
taming a whole wild continent, of clearing away the stupendous forest that
stretched from Maine to Washington. Perhaps these tales were necessary to assure
their tellers of the courage that was needed for their job.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.