-- 4 --

has frequently in the past been in a position to give away a good deal of
money and she could be expected to estimate the probable effect of this presentation.
Her chief criticism was of the sentences in which I tend not to
let my right hand know what my left hand is doing, and she seemed to think
the paper was interesting and sufficiently closely reasoned, and she made no
criticism of the amounts named. I was able to rewrite where she indicated,
and all I can do now is resign the matter to Fate. I have been very nervous
lest I set the amounts too high, so that a smaller gift would not seem worth
while, but I had to jump one way or the other, and all I could do was follow
my hunch.

There are a lot of considerations of propriety involved, but having committed
the major indiscretion (from a governmental point of view) of getting
a former Sect'y of the Interior involved in my affairs, the impertinence of my
bland recommendation of the Library seemed small in comparison. It all seems
awfully funny; I trust you won't have any trouble laughing with me! Of course
it is a great shame that the opportunity to be heard could n't have fallen to
someone better prepared to handle it; and it also is too bad that, since it
had to fall to me, that the time was so short for me to do more than follow
my own hunch. I wrote with what I know of Dr. Rosenwald rather definitely
in mind, of course, and with the idea that he would be likely to consult musicians
among his friends --- hence all the descriptions of instruments.

Well ....! I hope I may live to be forgiven.

I have been meaning, ever since I knew Alan had gone to Kentucky, to suggest
that he cross over to Carbondale and hunt up Dr. David McIntosh of Southern
Illinois State Teachers' College. Dr. McIntosh recorded a few samples of his
collection for me and the songs are delightful; but of course they should be
recorded at his source. I think he would be willing to help get this done, as
he is young and enthusiastic and entirely approachable. He made his collection
as his thesis for the degree of Mus. Doc., or whatever the Ph.D. equivalent in
music is-- at either Chicago or Wisconsin, I am not sure. He told me he had
sent a copy to the Library of Congress. He seemed -- but this is only an impression--
quite innocent of information about the background of the
things he'd found, and apparently only regarded them[, quite rightly,] as attractive
bits of rural music. He teaches singing at Southern Ill. State. In Chicago
there was a fine cowboy singer -- not the radio kind -- named Ross Whitmire,
and he and his wife invited me to return and visit them and make records. I
heard him sing before the recording machine reached me, and was never able to
get back with it. Also there is an extraordinarily fine Scotch player of the
bagpipes in Chicago. I can't get at his address but will look it up and send
it if there is any chance of Alan's getting there, for his is the real stuff,
and I think if one heard enough of it some of the southern Appalachian tunes
might emerge. He's a man of 50 or so and I was told he won all the competitions
in Scotland and is conceded the palm among the mater pipers. (There are ranks, titles, etc. among pipers, as you probably know.)

Also if Alan could possibly plan to be at Ste. Genevieve (just south of St. Louis)
during the fortnight before Christmas, I will give him a letter to Father Van
Tourenhout there and perhaps he can get some of the very old Christmas music
still preserved there. I got sick last year and could n't get back at the right
time; but I had considerable correspondence with Father Van Tourenhout and he
seemed glad to help me. The joker here is that the music is Fr. Canadian but
the French have moved back into the foothills and the Catholic Church
has "preserved" the traditions (in a manner of speaking!) by teaching the French
songs to the German population which has moved in among the farms at the edge of
the river.There is good old stuff to be had among the French but they seem to be
wilder than our legendary Appalachian mountaineers and unless Alan could spend

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.