February 22, 1941

Mr. Archibald MacLeish, Librarian
The Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. MacLeish:

After experience in the posts near Washington in recording the folksongs the
men know, in teaching others to them and in preparing the folksong program
for the White House, I wish to make the following recommendations for an Army
Music Program.

In general, the program should follow the desires of the men. Their tastes
can be taken as the main criterion for the program.

There is an enormous interest among the white soldiers, the youngsters, in
"hill-billymusic", -- that is, in contemporary American folksong. Basic to
this interest is their enthusiasm for stringer instruments: guitar, harmonica,
mandolin, banjo and fiddle, in that order of importance. A great many of the
boys know how to play these instruments extremely well in the folk style,
others can play a few chords, others wish to learn. Very few have instruments
of their own and those that do are afraid to bring their instruments to camp.

A great many of the boys know cowboy songs and other white folksongs and like
to sing them individually and in small groups. Few know as many verses and 
tunes as they would like to know.

Therefore, I should like to propose the following (these suggestions may be
applied, with appropriate changes, to Negro camps):

1. To furnish the words for songs (cowboy songs, hill-billy songs, sentimental
songs, popular songs, folksongs) in leaflet, pamphlet and song sheet form.
These leaflets, besides references to the historical and regional background
of the songs, should contain directions and calls for square dances.

2. To furnish similar types of songs on records.
a. Select commercial records.
b. Select Library of Congress records.
c. Other records to be specially recorded in the field for the Library of
Congress for this purpose.

3. To furnish all types of stringed instruments, making them available in the
barracks and suitable recreation centers.

4. To furnish instruction books for playing these instruments, along with tunes
and chord diagrams to fit the types of songs above discussed.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.