OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION

WASHINGTON
334 Phoenix Building
Birmingham, Alabama
March 13, 1943

Dr. Eugene Horowitz
Office of War Information
Special Services Division
Library of Congress Annex #300
Washington, D. C.

Dear Dr. Horowitz,

Enclosed are jokes, jingles and other materials submitted to the teachers
at Parker High School by Negro students.

I might explain that, at the suggestion of the superintendant of education,
in order to get a more naive response I did not discuss the matter as a study
in racial attitudes, but told the teachers at the Negro high school we were
interested in getting the reaction from young people. I believe that this was
better as it helped relieve any self-consciousness from entering the picture
so far as the school teachers were concerned.

On the other hand the teachers did withhold some of the reports, explaining
that they "picked the best ones." It would have been better, I know if we could
have taken all the reports without this culling on the part of the teachers. But
it would have been rather difficult to get this done.

You no doubt are bearing in mind that some of the more spontaneous folk
jingles and anecdotes are couched in vulgarity and pornography, and hence were
not submitted to the teachers. Or if any pupil under the [axxxxx] cover of secrecy
did submit any such report they were thrown aside by the teachers before they
were turned over to me.

Please bear in mind that the Negro teachers, naturally, wanted to show
the best in their pupils, and to present as good a picture as they could of
their fellow Negroes. I might say that they were enthusiastic about this project,
as were the pupils. They were especially eager to help the government.

Please let me know if I can be of any possible help to you in this
connection or any other way in Alabama.

Sincerely
Walling Keith
Regional Analyst

FOR VICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
AND
STAMPS

[*Folder 114*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.