October 12, 1942

Mr. William H. Webber
Bureau of Public Inquiries
Office of War Information
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Mr. Weber:
There is inclosed our report on rumors which you requested in 
your letter of October 1. The letter did not arrive until eleven
o'clock Saturday morning when it was too late to contact many of 
the persons listed. Such a report needs considerable organization
work before contact is made to determine the best contacts and a 
good deal of personal interview work in order to clarify what is 
wanted. We felt it would have been very desirable in several instances
to have asked a second representative individual to check 
when the one contacted seemed not to clear about what was wanted, 
but this was impossible in the time allotted. 
Therefore, the survey covers the period from Tuesday through Saturday
in every case except the dentist in which case the survey
ran from Wednesday through Sunday. 
We are depressed with the results for we made what we feel was a 
quite good selection of persons and a thorough effort to educate
them to what was wanted. With the possible exception of the 
druggist, we feel that all the persons selected were unusually 
intelligent representatives of their classification and we would 
recommend that they all be utilized if a future survey were undertaken. 
All were well disposed to the survey and impressed with its value
but have concluded that there is a minimum amount of rumor in Des
Moines. 
Yesterday, we heard two WAAC officers in a public discussion emphasize
the volume of adverse rumors, some of them definitely established
as eminating from vicious sources, concerning the WAAC 
so I especially inquired of all those contacted today if they had
heard any rumors about this organization. Without exception, the 
answer was that rather than hear critical comment, they had heard
either harmless jokes or approving comment.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.