[*Exhibit B: Instructions - lower educational level*]

                                 University of Chicago
     Committee on Communications and Public Opinion 
                        INSTRUCTIONS FOR REPORTERS


                                                 Purpose

            The Committee on Communications and Public Opinion is cooperating 
with government agencies and the local Office of Civilian Defense
in getting some information on the way people feel about different things 
such as the War, sugar rationing, the government, and so forth. The reports 
which we are asking you to send us will be used in making up the material 
that we furnish the Government. Such material will then be a guide to the 
government and the O.C.D. in morale work. It will give them information on 
the kind of work that is needed in each community and the kind of thing
that is unnecessary.

                                                    General

            The Report Sheet, form #1, is to be used to turn in your reports
to the Committee. This form should be sent in at the end of each week, 
Friday or Saturday, so that it will be in this office before Tuesday of 
the next week. On the top of the page fill in the sheet number starting 
each week with number 1 and number each page you need to use--2,3,4, and 
so on. After "Reporter's Code," put your own initials. Fill in the month 
and day after "Date."


                                               What to Report

            We are interested in what people are saying about the war, especially 
the things that they say that haven't been printed in the papers 
(except in gossip columns) or reported on the radio. The sort of remarks 
we mean usually begin "I heard--" or "Someone who ought to know told me--" 
or "Everyone is saying---" or "Have you heard---."

            Report all such remarks about the war, the administration, the
army, our Allies, rationing, OCD, defense workers, or any other things 
you think are interesting. Try to report these remarks fully. Tell us:

            (1) What you have heard. Record this on Form #1 under "What 
                        did you hear?"

            (2) Where you heard it (such as "at the barber shop," or 
                        "at the bridge club," or "at a party," or "on the bus"). 
                        Record this on Form #1 under "Where?".


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.