G. The British do not fight.

"England is not doing her proper share in winning the
war. She lets us bear the brunt of it all." (Colorado)

H. We can't trust the British.

"It looks to me as though England want sot keep this
war going." (Ohio)

I. Relations to Russia are complicated by Britain.

"Britain is telling us what to do about the war.
That's why we're not doing anything to help Russia."
(Minnesota)

J. Our internal affairs are influenced (adversely) by Britain.

"Churchill's visit to America was  sign of increased
taxes on the American people." (Illinois)

K. England will be unreliable when it comes to settling the peace.

"England will again give us the short end of the stick
in the discussion over the peace after the war." (Ohio)

Almost all show hostility, but at least seven also reveal
anxiety. These anxiety tinged rumors (A,D,F,G,H,J,K) link Britain
to military service worries, to domestice American taxes, and to 
post-war world difficulties. It is very difficult to classify rumors
without the context from which they were taken. Nevertheless, I could
represent at curiosity rumor. Rumor E may contain a bit of the "wishful"
character with respect to Filipines along with the hostility toward
Britain. "It should be emphasized that "wishful" rumors are not 
necessarily at variance with the facts. They are so characterized
because they reflect a hoped for, wished for phenomenon rather than
a completely objective appraisal. if we may elaborate insufficient
detail -- this rumor coming from Arizona may have as its origin a "wish"
which compensates for the guilt and anxiety caused by local discrimination 
against Spanish-Americans. The Spanish-Americans are related 
to Filipinos through bones of common language and also through the fact
that the original defending troops of the U.S. Army in the Philippines 
were composed predominantly of Spanish-Americans)

Examination of authoritative British and United States statements 
reveals that there may have been some implicit awareness of the
attitudes involved in the hostile pattern expressed. Statements which
represent refutations of the implications can be found for almost all
of the rumors listed. In contrast to the many rumors demeaning the
British war effort, we may review the speech of Production Minister
Oliver Lyttelton on August 26 in which he said:

-14-


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.