May 11, 1940

John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I received your very kind letter and delayed answering it only because
I haven't been certain and am still not quite sure of how I want to use some
of the songs in your book. This much I can say for certain, however. I gave
a talk on poetry in relationship to music and the American composer before
the American Writers Congress last spring, at which time I quoted freely from
several of the songs in your collection. I think some of the swellest poetry
in the world is right in those folk songs and I emphasized that fact to the
Congress. Well, Donald Ogden Stewart conceived the idea of taking sections 
from all the speeches delivered at the Congress and putting them in a book.
This is to be published under the title of "Fighting Words" by Harcourt Brace
and Co. The songs from which I used words included John Henry, Little Red Ruby
Rising Sun, Ain No Mo' Cane on de Brazis, Tie Tamping and Tie Shuffling songs.
Here I would like permission to quote sections from the songs with a credit
line to you and Alan. I am receiving nothing for my contribution to the book
so it is a little bit hard for me to ask for anything for you folks on that.

However, one or two things have come up definitely in connection with the
songs John Henry and The Grey Goose. I recorded them for Timely Records here
in New York as part of an album including several of my own songs. Only 500
copies were put out and I doubt if there will ever be much money connected with
them. But Robbins Music Corporation is interested in publishing them with an
arrangement by me for a solo singer and Paul Robeson is anxious to sing them.
So in this case I think you should definitely participate in any royalties accruing
from performance rights or sales of copies - and of course, with any
possible future records to be made by Robeson or other big names. I really
don't know what percentage arrangements to suggest and would really feel

I agreed

I asked
for ½ of
his receipts
for [th] our
two songs.

I asked
for ½ of
the amount
[has] 
allotted to
him, also
that our part
should come
direct from
the company
on a signed advance
agreement.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.