Alan Lomax,
Archive of American Folk Song,
June 18, 1938.

await the Fair visitor in the folk lore night clubs,
from which the performers had been drawn.

An American Folk Theater

The fore-going sections of this plan have discussed
the manner in which folk lore might fit unobtrusively
into the ordinary entertainment scheme of
any large fair. Folk lore should, however, be presented
in a more serious fashion in a theater of its
own.

Such a theater would present carefully edited
folk material in all its aspects: exhibits, lectures
by specialists, plays about the folk, recitals of music
and dances which use folk themes, performances of
folk songs and folk dances by trained groups of amateurs,
and finally a presentation of folk plays of the
organic sort described above. In this fashion, the confusion
that usually overtakes a folk festival can be
avoided.

In such festivals a genuine folk singer is forced
to compete with a group of sophisticated singers performing
folk songs and no difference is made for the benefit
of the audience between the two types of performers. The
folk performer, therefore, is likely to suffer, since the
audience is more accustomed to citified than countrified
singing. An American Folk Theater however, if it were
carefully edited, could present a continuous series of
programs covering all phases of American folk culture
from the buck and wing to Katherine Dunham, from the
mountain ballad singer to the orchestral suite, from
the folk anecdote of the academic lecturer to folk tales.

Such a theater would, of course, be very much simpler
to operate than the series of concessions suggested
above and it might take the place of these concessions
entirely. In a word, this theater would crystallize
American folk culture for the World's Fair and show how
it has been and is being used by both artists and scholars. 

I append here a preliminary list of suggestions for
the program of the American Folk Theater:

Symposium on American folk music with lectures by
Dr. Charles Seeger, Dr. George Herzog, Dr. George Pewlin 
Jackson, Lawrence Powell, Dr. Robert Gordon, Rosamond K. 
Johnson, Frances Densmore, etc;

-7-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.