- 6 -

        On the negative side it should be noticed that the column
uses the [labor] bold "answer" for the rumor counter-action, rather than
"fact" or "truth" or some other way of pairing the necessary belief with
the phony. The phony should not have [siimply] been labeled a rumor [in] only of the
beginning; [by hearing] but with rumors of this [long-termed] length, the term phony should [??]
inserted in the middle as well as being added at the end.
        The same source in a later issue tried answering the very
tricky rumor concerning Jews evading the draft. Normally, [I] as suggested
elsewhere, we might expect this rumor to be approached by pairing it
with a series of other rumors about other groups evading the draft.
This column, however, [but emphasizes] by emphasizing the local character of the specific
rumors, was able to make an interesting approach. There are a number of
defects in its specific handling but some sound principles emerge.
[*N.Y. World-Telegram*]
                "RUMOR--A certain local draft board composed entirely of
                Jewish members had been outrageously lenient in deferring
                Jewish registrants. A vast majority of its inductees
                were Christians. The situation became so scandalous
                that a Catholic priest went to protest. He was insulted
                by a board member and finally beaten up. The FBI had to
                move in and close up the board.
                "FACT--This is one version of probably the most widespread,
                persistent rumor that has been peddled around New York
                since Pearl Harbor. For the past two months it has sprung
                up in all five boroughs, with reference to dozens of draft
                boards.
                "Sometimes it appears in an Italian neighborhood and at
                others in an Irish. One variation is for a Protestant women
                to appeal to a Catholic priest, who then intervenes and is
                rebuffed by the draft board.
                Its inexhaustible variations alone show how fantastic the
                rumor is. According to one, received recently by the
                World-Telegram 110 inductees in the Fordham section of
                the Bronx stages a two-day sitdown strike until they
                forced their board to call a larger percentage of Jews.
                No such incident could be traced.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.