Its creative force may be thwarted
for a time by the atmosphere which
the war mongers are striving to induce.
But its future is secured by the
strength of the American people,
which must remain the backbone of
democracy and culture in this country.

Stage
John W. Gassner

THERE are signs that the theatre
world is awakening to a realization of
the blow it suffered when the Federal
Theatre was liquidated last summer.
The Federal Theatre disappeared at
a time when the stage was vacationing;
now that the season has begun,
the full impact of the catastrophe is
being felt. Producers are slow in
forming their plans, unemployment
in the theatre is larger than ever,
and audiences who flocked to the
Project's popular-priced plays are
simply staying away from Broadway.

It is cognizance of this fact that
led the management of Abe Lincoln
in Illinois to establish a dollar-top
scale at the Adelphi. It is this that
has led a number of producers to
plan the establishment of a popular-
priced theatre in New York City,
something they would not have considered
before. Max Gordon tried the
experiment earlier in Philadelphia
with The Women and found it successful.
Out of this ferment may
come that long-deferred institution, a
theatre for the masses. But this optimism
is tempered by the reflection
that the metropolitan stage can reach
only a mere fraction of the audience
that was created and fed by the government
project. Tentative efforts are 
therefore being made to resuscitate
the Federal Theatre, at least in an
abbreviated form, and a revival of
Yasha Frank's captivating Pinocchio
is in the offing.

Meanwhile at least one provincial
group, the Barter Theatre from Abington,
West Virginia, has been revealing
the fact that there is potential
theatre in the hinterland, and a
showing of that company's summer 
plays in New York City recently disclosed
talent and intelligence. Its
freshest offering was a delightful

operetta, Fred Stewart's Lady Baltimore,
an entertaining chapter in the 
story of the "American Way." Here
prejudice is scattered by the ingenious
tactics of a Drury Lane girl who
succeeds in putting her chequered 
past behind her and becomes an
American matron. A fine tribute to
Lafayette and the spirit of liberty
galvanized the second and more engaging
part of the piece. Charming
and utterly simple and inexpensive
scene changes disarmed the audience,
and it was patent that a musical production
need not to be gargantuan
to be effective even in gargantuan
America. Admissions was low, and in
its local habitat the group has been
willing to accept anything from a
Virginia ham to a live chicken from
patrons. Clearly, the spirit in the
nationwide potential theatre is willing.

Another auspicious sign was Leonard
Stillman's Drama Festival in the
city which opened with two-week revivals
of R. C. Sheriff's war play
Journey's End and Sidney Howard's
They Knew What They Wanted. The
productions were inadequate, the
damage being comparatively small
to Journey's End, which merely
lacked intense acting in a number of
parts; but it was positively ruinous
to They Knew What They Wanted,
which was poorly cast and made one
feel the absence of Pauline Lord
keenly. This only proved how imperative
it is to encourage a repertory
theatre such as a selected and refined
portion of the Federal Theatre might
have become if it had been accorded
the necessary security of permanent
incorporation. Young actors like
Jack Merivale and older ones like
Colin Keith-Johnston, both of the
cast of Journey's End, would make a
valuable collection of players for a

stable organization. How greatly this
is needed was evident in view of the
fact that both plays rightly belonged
in repertory - Sheriff's tragedy because 
of its crisp pity and sense of
the waste of soul and body inherent 
in war, and the late Sidney Howard's
comedy because of its simple humanity.

This is not a carte blanche for
either play to qualify as a masterpiece.
They Knew What They Wanted
is evocative rather than provocative
with its story of the Italian winemaker
who wooed a girl with his
worker's picture only to be betrayed
on the night of the wedding, but only
to forgive because his need for a 
wife and children was greater than
the demands of that overworked bromide
of European theatre "honor."
This California Paolo and Francesca
is American stuff. The ten-year-old
Journey's End is also more evocative
than provocative with its picture of
English officers being nerve-shattered
and noble in a dugout. This is English
stuff bearing the stigmata of
British compromise prominently displayed
on its contours.

Cheering possibilities for the season
are badly needed. They lie in the
possible success of one-dollar theatre
plans, in an at least partial revival
of the Federal Theatre, in the potential
enrichment of our drama by the
many German playwrights who have
found succor here, and in the arrival
of English plays which the European
war situation sends our way. An
ironic note injected into the sombre
European story may be noted: Shaw's
League of Nation's satire Geneva is
being toured throughout Canada as
pro-Empire propaganda about the
same time that Shaw has been blasting
British diplomacy . . .

J. C. Orozco, Hudson Walker Gallery

15

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.