2 The Sound Specialties Company

General Description of SoundScriber Recording Machine

    SoundScriber equipments employ the disc system of recording, making use of high quality microphones,
vacuum tube amplifiers, electromagnetic cutting heads which simultaneously generate the record groove and
register the sound undulations (not pregrooved recording). The current media in use are aluminum and
cellulose "acetate" discs, both of which can be played back immediately on any standard phonographic
equipment or the machine itself.

    The microphone supplied depends on the type of application, but only the highest quality instruments
are furnished since the faithfulness of the recording is only as good as the weakest link in the chain of apparatus 
involved in the recording process. A substantial microphone stand is included together with ample
rubber covered extension cables.

    The microphone cable plugs into the control panel of the amplifier speaker case. This case also contains 
the vacuum tube amplifier and the twelve inch loud speaker. The control panel is simplified as far as
possible yet still permitting selection between the positions for recording, for playing back and use as a high
quality--high volume phonograph, or as a public address system. The volume control and volume indicating 
meter permit correct adjustment of the recorded volume so the grooves are not so strongly modulated
that they run into each other, or, on the other hand are so weak that the recorded sounds are faint compared
to the inherent record "scratch". An exclusive amplifier design provides ample distortion -- free power
together with unusually wide frequency response and yet permits building the total amplification into one
compact unit in the bottom of the case. Substantial, non-interchangeable plugs and cables connect the panel
to the turntable case.

    The turntable case contains the recording mechanism completely built around a substantial main casting.
This main casting carries the motor drive, turntable, feed mechanism, cutting arm and head. The motor is
a quiet synchronous type, self starting, and of precision manufacture and ample power. It is equipped with a
worm and gear, machined to the minutest accuracy, and coupled to the turntable spindle through a special
membrane coupling which transmits the motive power without transmitting any motor vibration, thus assuring 
a steady running turntable free from vibration. The feed mechanism employs worm gears in sealed cases
and the patented constructions automatically take up wear or play and assure perfect microscopic accuracy
in the groove spacing permanently without ever needing adjustment. The cutting head is oil damped and
permits recording on a par with the finest studio transcriptions but with simplified apparatus and non-technical 
operation.

    The recording operations are reduced to the simplest terms. The cutting arm is always free to move
and "feeds" through a friction. It is moved into position over the record and the cam behind the cutting
head is turned to lower the head and engage the cutting stylus with the record. Cutting begins and continues
as long as desired and a turn of the cam again raises the cutting stylus from the record and the cutting ceases.
The arm then can be swung out of the way, and the reproducing pickup is then placed on the record for
playing it back. There is no multiplicity of gadgets or levers, or overhanging delicate feed screws or mechanisms,
all of these functions being taken care of by the sealed mechanisms under the turntable. No rotating
parts are exposed and there is not a single place that even needs oiling for three years.

    Every part that goes into a SoundScriber machine is rugged and made for years of service. The whole
construction is characterized by ruggedness, simplicity, and precision. The elimination of exposed parts, need
for lubrication, and the simplified operation make these machines as advanced beyond the ordinary types as
the modern, enclosed-mechanism, stream lined automobile of today is compared to the early open types with
their multitudinous controls and exposed mechanisms.

The Sound Specialties Company 3

SoundScriber University Type Recording Machine

    This machine is illustrated below. It comprises a microphone (not shown), selected from the current
high quality types for the specific application, an amplifier-speaker case, and a turntable case. The amplifier
is Class A throughout, terminating in a pair of 2A3 output tubes. Oversize condensers are standard throughout 
and are of far higher rating than required. Resistors, transformers and other parts are oversize. Audio
transformers are high quality laboratory standard types and the loud speaker is a twelve inch high fidelity
cone type.

    The turntable operates at 78 rpm only and accommodates records up to twelve inch. The drive is a
back geared, synchronous, self starting motor, direct connected to the turntable through a membrane type
coupling to the turntable spindle. The feed mechanism is the Sound Specialties precision feed without exposed 
rotating parts and completely enclosed beneath the turntable. The cutting head is oil damped and provides 
a uniform response to 2000 cycles with increasing accentuation to 5000 cycles, and dropping to the
2000 cycle level at 7000 cycles. The playback is the finest high fidelity magnetic type. Speed regulation is
accurate enough for recording the most delicate music.

    Machines are supplied to feed either inside out or vice versa, or can be supplied for both at extra charge.
The cutting head mounting permits easy change of angle and pressure for aluminum or acetate cutting and
permits simple adjustment to any future medium.

SoundScriber Professional type Recording Machine

    Identical with the university type except that the turntable is 16" in diameter and a belt drive is used
between motor and turntable to allow for changing from 78 to 33 rpm speed at will. Usual feed 100 lines
per inch but for special purposes feeds as high as 150 lines per inch are supplied. Speed regulation perfect
enough for most critical music recording.

    Supplied for radio or microphone input or with turntable alone with cutting head any desired impedance.

    Supplied either in portable case or as separate exposed chassis.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.