[*4/15*]

LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE
UNIVERSITY STATION
BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA

1/2/3/4/5/6/7/8/9/10/11/12
RECEIVED
APR 15 1942
OFFICE OF 
FACTS AND FIGURES

DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY

April 13, 1942

Mr. Robert Huse
Office of Facts and Figures
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Huse:

Early in February Mr. Chester S. Williams, Assistant to the
Commissioner of Education, called at our institution with a request that
we organize a Rumor Clinic to function as a unit in a nation-wide project.
I assume that you are thoroughly familiar with all details of the plan,
so I shall not attempt to review Mr. Williams' presentation to us. His
request for cooperation was made at a conference including our Director
of Civilian Defense, Col. Roy A. Hill, Prof. Wayne Dennis, Chairman of
the Psychology Department, and myself.

At the request of Col. Hill I assumed responsibility for
organizing the local unit. The plan received administrative approal
from President Hodges, and shortly thereafter we notified the Office of
Education that we were ready to function.

After waiting a month for word from Washington, I wrote to
Mr. Williams for advice and was told that the program had been delayed.
Although Mr. Williams did not indicate the precise nature of the delay,
I gathered that it was due to technical difficulties in arranging for
necessary monitoring services from the Office of Facts and Figures and the
Coordinator of Information. Just why such arrangements had not been completed 
and thoroughly understood long ago is a point which is far from
clear to us.

All of us here continue to feel that the Rumor Clinic plan is
an essentially sound, most promising type of civilian defense activity.
From the press reports that I am gathering I should say that the need for
some kind of official method for handling rumor is increasing in this area.
If the Rumor Clinic plan does not materialize, may we look forward to something
to take its place?

Much as we should like to learn why this program is being
delayed, it is more important that we have some definite,official ,and
final statement. The confusion and uncertainty which may very well exist
soon--if the idea was announced throughout the country as suggested--will
doubtless be gratifying to our fifth columnists. It hardly seems possible
that they could have done a better job had they managed it themselves.

[*✓ 003857*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.