THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON

February 24, 1941

Mr. Archibald MacLeish, Librarian 
The Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. MacLeish:

You ask me to make recommendations for the activities 
of the District Music Unit of W.P.A. in the Library of Congress.
This Unit can, given a little freedom and proper direction, render
invaluable services to the Archive of American Folk Song.

I should like to make the following recommendations:

1.  That Mrs. Sidney Robertson who is an experienced and able
field collector of folksongs and who has already directed 
a similar project in California under the W.P.A., be
appointed  supervisor. She is a person whom we should
not like to lose in the Library of Congress and she would
be invaluable to any Defense Program.

2.  The Project must complete its work on the Check List, including 
geographical supplements, the foreign language
supplements. Much remains to be done to bring to completion 
all the indices, by singer, place, classification,
etc. for the Archive catalogue.

3.  We have the opportunity to bring into the Library and to
complete and index of American Folk Songs, in published
form, initiated and carried two thirds to completion
by Archer Taylor of the University of California.
Mrs. Robertson has worked on the index in California, and
under her, the project could shortly round it out. This
index, along with the index of Library recording would give
the Archive its basic working tools for any cultural project 
whatever.

4.  It is possible for the Library to acquire for the asking 
all the folksongs that have been recorded on commercial
records. These records will have to be indexed as they
come in to be useful to us and again they are basic to
us for National Defense.

5.  I understand, besides, that the project is keeping current
an index of American Composers and ordering and indexing the
duplicate files of the W.P.A. between the years of 1935-1940.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.