Sam Bass

The opening stanza of the ballad of Sam Bass, as first sung by Texas cowboys,
authorship unknow, includes many of the material facts of the life of this famous
outlaw:

Sam Bass was born in Indiana, it was his native home,
And at the age of seventeen young Sam began to roam.
Sam first came out to Texas a cowboy for to be,
A kinder-hearted fellow you seldom ever see.

He left Indiana at the age of seventeen, in 1860, in search of adventure as a Texas
cowboy. Like Robin Hood and many another highwayman and freebooter, he was "kind-hearted,"
according to popular tradition. He took away from the rich and gave to
the poor as Sam's personal inclinations dictated. Truly at all times, Sam was the
"master of his fate, the captain of his soul." His home was in the brush; society
had no claim on him. He distributed the wealth that he collected at the point of
his pistol just as his fancy directed. In the distribution of wealth, so that every
man will be a king, there must be a he-king, a brain-truster or what not, whose
word is final. For several years Sam reigned supreme in North Texas as he threw
about twenty dollar gold pieces that were his share when he and Frank and Jesse
James and the Younger boys staged the famous Union Pacific robbery. He would hand
the lonely farmhouse lady a twenty-dollar gold coin, refuse any change, for a 
hastily prepared meal of fried chicken, hot biscuits and buttermilk. When hardpressed
by pursuing Texas Rangers, he would pay a farmer two hundred dollars for a horse
which the farmer valued at half that sum. What wonder that the common people loved
him and covered his tracks as he rode for years over Texas, robbing banks and holding
up trains as his needs required. In the eighties there were no telephone lines
to help locate him.

Young, handsome, free-hearted, a matchless rider, he and his band of wild, hot-blooded
young adventures, aided and protected by an admiring populace, rode and robbed
almost at will in the most thickly settled section of Texas.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.