California
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE REPORT NO. 6.
REPORT OF RUMORS
August 8, 1942.

The people of California have been pretty well schooled in
the art of keeping their mouths closed in the matter of rumor utterances;
especially the type that has direct connection with the war effort.  Press
and radio releases and posters displayed in public, as well as stickers
on windows and windshields of automobiles, inform them "Our enemy wants to
know what you know" to good effect.  Groups rumors are heard but seldom and
are intangible.  There are individuals who would like to express their own
views, which are almost never born out by the radio and press, but refrain
from doing so for fear of being classed as unpatriotic.

There is some satisfaction in the fact that rumors are so decentralized
and so diversified that they are not repeated, or at least have 
not been intercepted.

Anti-British sentiment is growing without any one being able to 
say just what is causing it.  Most jibes and jokes heard on the street
poke fun and criticisms at the British army and are without any apparent
background.  There is decided lack of understanding and a lack of desire 
for understanding of the British people evidenced in expressions directed
towards them.

The most outstanding rumor is one that predicts in a variety
of ways that a second front will be established on continental Europe before 
fall.  Support for the idea is gaining weight here gradually.  The extent to
which it has gone so far is mainly in committees being formed to determine
the proper approach which should be made to Government to properly express
the views of those concerned with the idea.

SUBJECT - CURRENT RUMORS

"This may be a free country, but you can't work in this country
unless you join a Union.  Even that won't do no good.  First you have to 
raise $70 or even more to join the Union or even get a permit to go to work.
You either have the money or borrow it and pay up.  Then what happens?
You're given a permit, you start work and everything goes swell for about a 
week.  Then some other guy joins, because he has seventy bucks.  So you're
laid off and the new guy gets the job, just because he's got another seventy
bucks for the Union boss.   You can't win, no matter what happens."  (South
San Francisco, August 3rd.  Defense worker)



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.