6-I



                                The higher up the cherry tree
                                The riper grows the berry;
                                The more you hug and kiss the girls
                                The sooner  they will marry.
      
                                Take her by the lily-white hand,
                                 And lead her like a pigeon;
                                 Make her dance the Weevily Wheat
                                 Till she loses her religion.

Often the figures of a set were so well-known that the chanted directions were omitted entirely, the dancers all singing as  they "swung corners", "do-ce-doed", gave 'grand right and left," joined   hands and circled in groups of four, six, eight, promenaded,  made the figure eight and other figures of the dance> As he sang Bob would often jump to the center and "out the pigeon wing", "back step", or double shuffle, " " just to show some of you 'slow drags' how to dance," smiled Bob. Next would come "Shoot the Buffalo", 
a little slower in movement but still lively enough to make the girls breathless. 
Finally Bob's favorite, "Come Jingle at my Windows, Low",-  which later in life made me think of one of Chaucer's lovers who  "tirled at the pin".

                        On Saturdays Bob and his bunch of satellites would go to Meridian, the county seat, and spend the day drinking in the saloons and playing pool or poker. As darkness fell, the group would mount their ponies at the  nitching rack where they had stood patiently all day. Inflamed with liquor, they would spur their mounts to a wild gallop to the measu measure of 
                            
                          " I'm wild and woolly and full of fleas,
                             I never was curried above the knees."

                          " I'M a she-wolf from Bitter Creek
                            It's my night to howl!"
                            I've got nine rows of jaw teeth
                            And holes punched for more!
                                    Whoopee-ee-ee-yi-ee."

                           "We're the sons of desolation,
                             We're the outlaws of creation,
                                 A-ridin' up the rocky trail from town!
Out wo uld come pistols.  A sharp yell would follow each shot and jet of powder flame.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.