-2-

may be published by any number of the following devices

(1) Rumor Clinic

The Rumor Clinic in Boston is a weekly feature of the Boston Herald-Traveler. It consists of current rumors answered by competent authorities. Intermixed are editorial comments on the effects of rumor, its relation to enemy propaganda, and admonitions against spreading them. It is undoubtedly one of the most effective methods for combating specific rumors, but  it serves at the same time to discredit rumors generally.

(2) Investigating Committees. 

Some rumors may be combatted by appointing a committee of investigation to determine the fact. In Boston, for example, when rumors circulated about the disposition of Negro blood by the Red Cross Blood Donor's Center, a committee of prominent Negroes were appointed to investigate. After visiting the Blood Donor's Center and speaking with Red Cross officials, they were thoroughly convinced that the rumors were unfounded and vicious.

(3) Posters and Graphic Methods.

Most posters depict rumor as a source of information for the enemy. The demoralizing effect of wedge-driving rumors is probably much more serious. The cover of Sucker Bait illustrates a second approach in which the theme is, "when you spread rumors against your fellow Americans you are working for Hitler, not for the U.S.A." The British, earlier in the war,  ussued humorous posters following the theme, "Walls have ears". These turned out to be unsatisfactory. Caution should be taken to see that humor attaching to a graphic attack upon rumor is not a liability to the campaign.

(4) Propaganda Literature. 

Probably the best bit of propaganda literature to appear on rumor so far is a pamphlet called Rumors (made in Germany) by George Britt, published by the Council for Democracy. The booklet Divide and Conquer, published by the Office of Facts and Figures, contains a well written section on the Nazis' use of rumor in their psychological warfare against France. The enclosed pamphlet Sucker Bait illustrates a brief and inexpensive dodger which conveys its message with a minimum of elaboration. 

(5) Radio Programs.

Two types of radio programs are effective in combatting rumors. The first of these if the "facts" programs such as

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.