- 3 -

lore, folk-song, etc., provide the easiest avenue of expression
for individual ego-expression. Soldiers songs are notably
profane about war and its discomforts, for example; but
intelligent officers have never discouraged them because they
realized that the men were merely blowing off steam and singing
a song, instead of, perhaps, shooting an officer in the
back.

3. There are many regions, groups, nationalities, and communities
which are off the beaten track of progress in America 
today. These communities are likely to feel resentful against
a group of powerful people who are bringing them into war, in
fact, they feel generally resentful toward the industrialized 
and urbanized communities. These communities and groups cannot
afford to be neglected by a nation preparing for defense.
They must be made to feel at home. It is desperately important
that the government go further in its program of fostering
and encouraging their native songs, arts, ways of expressing
themselves, so that these people may feel they have a contribution
to make to the defense program as creative people as
well as workers or soldiers.

4. Not even Hollywood, the radio, the educational system and the
public library has succeeded in selling "culture" to the
people. There is a strong resistance, and a healthy one, on
the part of most Americans, particularly the average American
male, toward being "cultivated". This represents a profound
suspicion on his part of European ways, high-brow talk, long-
hair music and poetry. To make these people feel that they
are interested to defend all democratic culture and to keep
potentially Fascist forces in America from realizing on the
culture resentment described above, they must be approached
on their own terms and I profoundly believe these terms are
ultimately better known to the folklorist than to anyone else
in the nation.

Under b)

Presumably part of my defense program will be programs, movies,
plays, books, etc.. It is time that all of these vehicles
for human understanding in this country be used by the
government for more than instructive, educational or propaganda
purposes. It is possible for movies used for retraining
veterans to be sound artistically and honest and for them
to be more effective that way. It is possible for the radio,
for the theatre to tell what America is like honestly and profoundly
and do more to knit the people of this country together
than all the flag-waving Hitlers in the world. We have our
problems in America and we are ready to talk them over; we have

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.