- 2 -

On Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Men and Books,
Columbia Broadcasting System, Our Singing Country will be
reviewed on the air. I am going to be there as the interviewee.
At that time I will be on my way to the American Folklore
meeting in Andover, Mass. I feel that I should have some
contact with these people before any more time has passed,
since I have not seen them for some time. This is especially
true since I will be going to South America probably in
February. I plan to come to Texas for a visit with you all
before I leave. Present destination, Colombia, so possibly
I will go from New Orleans. Don't get excited about this at
the moment, because there is doubt on all sides whether I can
go or not.

In relation to the letter from Guggenheim about Mr. Emrich,
I don't think that Bess, or any other woman, could possibly
do that job, and although I think that some better person than
Duncan Emrich could be conceived, still at the same time he is
the only person in sight, and besides he has made a wholehearted
beginning.

In relation to the enclosure from Mrs. McClusky, I had
one of the most unpleasant interviews of my life with his
Mr. Frank Wixom, who is a crotchety old gent who feels that
he owns all the oldtime lumberjacks in Michigan. He could not
or would not recommend any sources of songs at the time I saw
him, and I'll personally never touch him with a ten-foot pole
if I can help it.

If I may make any additional suggestions about your trip,
I would say try to get some real tuneful, folky performances
of cowboy songs. I know that's a tough assignment, but there
it is. Otherwise, I would go to some likely place in East Texas,
or western Louisiana, where good prospects are to be expected,
and really settle down to explore the community and get the
best of the material there. I am sure that your work with
the hollers and cattle calls of the territory will be very
exciting, and I hope at the same time you can get interviews
and stories from the cowboys you encounter.

Until later, much love to you and Deanie,
and John and Shirley,

Alan

ALjs

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.