Liberal Benefits Offered

When admitted as a bed patient to a participating
member hospital-

Hospital care up to 21 days in any contact year to
each participant.

More than one admission if necessary.

Semi-private accommodations for adult participants
and juvenile ward for children.

General nursing care.

Medications except oxygen and sera.

Use of the operating room as frequently as necessary
within the 21 days allowed.

Surgical dressings.

Routine laboratory examinations.

Obstetrical care or care for conditions incidental to
or resulting from pregnancy is offered in the Subscriber-
Spouse and Subscriber-Family contracts
after more than 10 months’ participation in the plan.

Use of the delivery room is offered to those eligible
for obstetrical care.

If more than 21 days’ care is needed, participating
member hospitals will offer a discount of 10 per cent
for accommodations similar to those offered under
the plan.

Private room service in any participating hospital
May be obtained by paying the difference between
the rate charged for semi-private accommodations
and the rate charged for the room and service
desired.

Important Additional Benefits

For subscribers on whose contract no hospital service
has been given in the preceding contract year and for
the listed family members (if any) who have participated
under such contract in the preceding contract
year, the following additional benefits are offered:

30 days of hospital care, if needed, instead of 21 days
in the current contract year; and, to provide for

6 months’ cate-in lieu of the discount if 10 per cent
offered above, Group Hospitalization, Incorporated will
pay, to a PARTICIPATING MEMBER HOSPITAL ONLY, one-
half of such hospital’s charge for room service in semi-
private accommodations for any confinement beginning
within the 30 days allowed above and extending continuously
for a period not to exceed 6 months from the
date of such admission.

The above services are available under the terms of
the contract in the participating member hospitals listed
on the page opposite.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.