STUDENTS REACTIONS TO THE WAR

Directed By
Mandel Sherman

The following is a brief summary of the material you wanted. The 
survey of the attitudes of youth was made in three high schools in Chicago
and in the high school of a small town near Chicago. The data were obtained
mainly from themes which the students wrote entitled "What the War Means To
Me." These themes were written in a forty-minute class period at the request
of the teacher who suggested the title as an appropriate one on which she
could base her opinion of their ability in English. In addition, about 400
youth of high school age of those who wrote the themes were interviewed for
further elaboration. The following classification was made of the responses
of the students.

1. Direct antagonism to the war, including criticism of the government,
of the war effort, and of the reasons for the war. (More 
emotional and general than 2.)  5.2%

2. A critical attitude towards the war and towards the government,
including criticism of the way the war is handled, criticism of
rationing, etc. 5.8%

3. Neither critical nor favorable. In this category, statements
are made that war "perhaps could not be avoided," or
"since we are in the war, we might as well go through with it." 21.0%

(a) Neither favorable nor critical: statements about how
bad rationing is; that there will be a depressions.

4. Favorable attitude towards the war, but critical of specific
elements. For example, one boy stated that there is no
reason for taking young people, older persons should go. 
Another boy said that they are going to draft his father and
there is no reason why their family should be penalized because
the nation goes to war. Specific criticism of rationing 
is also common. 9.0%

5. Evident confusion, where the adolescent states that the whole
war is a sort of mystery and he does not know what to think.
Often statements are made that perhaps it might be all right
to have a war because people will learn how to save. 12.0%

6. A favorable attitude toward the war with statements that he
will try to help as much as possible by selling stamps or becoming
a nurse, or an airplane pilot. 26.0%

7. A strong favorable attitude with, perhaps, statements that we
should have gotten in earlier with parallel vindictiveness
against the enemy. 21.0%

The above distribution is that of the responses of 7,600 high
school youth.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.