December 3, 1940

Miss Valborg Kjosness
Box 1097
Stanford University
California

Dear Miss Kjosness:

I am very much interested in your project to re-
cord Basque music in Boise and hope to be of service in
getting a good job done there. The Archive of American
Folk Song has a machine at its disposal to loan to competent
field workers but, expects them to purchase their own copies
of the records they make and is not now in a position to
assist them in field work. I suggest that Dr. Allen communi-
cate with Dr. Spivacke, Chief of the Music Division, Library
of Congress in this latter connection.

It will not be possible for us to get a machine to you
for work this Christmas but I see no reason why you cannot
make preliminary arrangements for recording during the holidays
so that work can be done next summer. For background in field
work, I suggest that you examine: "Folk Lore In America by
Martha Beckwith." Research in Primitive and Folk Music" by
Dr. George Hertzog (a bulletin of the American Council of
Learned Societies), "The Introduction to British Ballads from
Maine" by Phillip Barry and F. H. Eckstrom," Minstrelsy of
Maine" by Fannie H. Eckstrom and Mary W. Smithe, "Folk Lore
from the Scholarie Hills" by E. E. Gardner, "The Quest of 
the Ballad and Ballads and Sea Songs of Nova Scotia" by W. Roy
McKansie, "The Ozarks" by Vance Randolph, "A Song Catcher in
the So. Mountains" by Dorothy Scarborough, "Folk Song Variants
from Jamacia" by H. H. Roberts, Vol. 38 (JAFL).

I think that after you look over these volumes, some
of which can be looked at cursively and some of which deserve
a close reading, you'll have a pretty good picture of some of
the problems that come up in field work and that your field
work might touch upon. Under separate cover, I am also mail-
ing you a questionaire prepared by Herbert Halpert for use
in the field by collectors. It also brings out a number of ques-
tions that one would like to have the answers to. I think it is
up to the field worker after a certain point to decide what prob-
lem he's going to tackle and how. However, if I can be of any
further help in future correspondence, please let me know.

Sincerely yours,
Alan Lomax, Ass't in Charge
Archive of American Folk Song
Library of Congress

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.