Easter Wine
Continued

"What's the matter, papa?" I asked.
He paused, surprised that we were awake.
"Sleep, little ones," he whispered, "sleep."
We wondered. He tip-toed through the flat trying
the doors and windows. And I heard him saying:
"Who's there? Damnit who's there?—God—
damnit! who's there!!"
The next day was Good Friday, and cold. I got
up with papa and mama, and sat by papa to have
some of his hot coffee and fried eggs. As he was
dressing to leave for work I remembered his saying
how freezing and windy it had been on the
scaffolds all week, so I got my leggings that I had
bought in the Army and Navy store, and suggested 
he wear them under his trouser-legs.
I wrapped the heavy woolen leggings from his 
ankles to his knees. He stalked about and said he
felt like a soldier going to war. While mama was
packing his lunch I filled his corn-cob with Honest
tobacco, and held the match to the pipe as he
puffed. He blew the brown-smelling smoke in my
face, picked me up in his fast strong arms, and
said to mama:

"Our smart little American is not going to be
a bricklayer and risk his life on scaffolds—He
shall be Somebody—To live for us our dreams!"

He gave me his handsome gustful kiss and set
me down. At the door mama said the soft prayerful,
"Abide thy step, Geremio, abide..." And
he answered with his nonchalant, " 'Bye—Do not
worry. 'Bye..."

I spent the morning helping mama mix the
flour, milk, eggs, yeast and spices into the dough
from which would come the hot pastries for the
Easter festivities. I aided in the making of the
rough-formed animals that were to be cookies,
held the flaps in the pan for the big cheese cake
while mama filled it richly and designed a thick
crucifix on the top cover; and I rolled hundreds
of little balls that were to be fried and dipped in
honey.

The afternoon was chill, cloudy, and as I was
desperately playing cops and robbers with the
neighborhood kids in a sandlot hidden from the
street by billboards, I head papa's whistle. It was
that "Feeerrrr—EE!" no one else could do. I
halted, wondering why he was home so early and
wanting me. No, I thought, it must have been
someone else who sounded like him, and I went
dashing into the game. Again papa's whistle
came, the long "Feeerrrr—" and the sharp upward
"EE!" I crawled under the billboards and
went out onto the street, but he was not within

sight. Just when I got back with the boys in the
lot his whistle came longer and sharper. I knew
it was him. And I went home.

I found mama taking the big cheese cake out
of the coal-stove oven, and the kitchen was
sweetly heavy of baking. Mama put the rich cake
upon the table and contemplated it contentedly.
She made the sign of the cross over it, kissed it,
and gazing far far away she began to weep.

What are you crying for, mama?" I asked.

She put her apron to her eyes.

"It is now that our lord Gesu was crucified."

I felt sorry for our Lord Gesu. I thought. I
asked mama would He have died since if they had
not killed Him; and I wanted to know why He
was not Italian like us.

She dried her tears and said children should
not ask questions about Gesu Christi.

Suddenly I remembered why I came home, and
said:

"What does papa want? Where is he?"

Mama glanced quickly at the clock on the closet
shelf. It was barely three o'clock. She looked to
me questioningly. I turned to see if papa was
around for I had been positive he was home. I
was about to tell mama of papa's whistling for
me when the look in her widening eyes staring
into mine made me pale in every part of me. And
she said tremblingly:

"...Why...?"

It had become very late evening. And mama
was still sitting in the rocker. I was watching
her. Dark lines were cut in her forehead and
about her mouth. It seemed she had gotten old.
The supper had lost its warmth and was drying
on the table. The kids hung around the cakes and
pastries that loaded the sideboard in the dining
room. They were hungrily picking at the crusts
and nibbling the honey-balls. And mama did not
say anything to them. Downstairs, the street-door
opened. I could feel the draught come through the
space at the bottom of the kitchen door.

There were people coming. Their movement
told me they were the paesanos. They stopped in
the vestibule, and slowly began climbing the three
flights. There were men and women, and their
feet touched the stairs with light respectful tread.
It took a long long time for the people to come up.
They paused by the kitchen door. I could not breathe.

Mama pressed her head back against the rocker
and quivered.

There was a slight low hum of Italian voices,
a soft resolved tone, and then the door opened.

24

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.