- 14 -

properly labeled. Avoid the use of italics or bold face, or any other typographical
technique for setting the phony off from the facts in such a fashion as to permit
people to read the phonies only if their time is short. The phonies quoted should
have the word phony in bold caps printed at the beginning, in the middle, and at the
end of the citation. If it is decided to include a lengthy phony, and remember, generally
this is undesirable, the label "phony" should be included several times through
the body of the text. That a rumor is a phony should be made clear toward the very
beginning of the counter-statement. At all times, the truth should be emphasized.
Publicity should call attention to the fact that the truth will be published, not that
phonies will be reproduced. Never put into the headlines, or the subheads,
the substance of the phony. Summarize the truth, not the untruth. Use terms like "truth",
"fact", to describe the authoritative material which is presented, not "answer". Phonies
are not "answered", they are annihilated. In any one release, attention should be
paid only to a few phonies. A long release with many phonies loses the value of the
work from the point of view of the over-all educational campaign. It also tends to
give the impression that rumors are more prevalent than they really are, increasing
anxieties needlessly. On the whole, when regular newspaper space is available, it
is preferable to title it something like, "Did you know - - -," rather than "Rumor
Column." This shift in title permits the Educational Director to use his descretion
in allocating the use to which they space may be put. At times he may wish to avoid
presenting the rumor-fact pairs but launch into a general discussion. Too rigid a
tradition or label greatly impairs the usefulness of the column to the project. 
        Phonies about groups in controversy should be avoided. Inasmuch as phonies
reflect prejudice, any additions to the lines of cleavage and tension already existing
in the community, should be avoided. These phonies should be used in guiding the educational
director toward the sort of over-all program that is needed, but should not be

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.