Route 4
Burlington, N.C.

November 8, 1941

Mr. Alan Lomax
Archive of American Folk-Song
Division of Music
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I have just had a letter from I.G. Greer which definitely commits
him to record for us on November 24 and 25.  He is a busy person
and inclined to stall, but I think we can count on his keeping these
dates.  Will you therefore have the machine and disks sent to me
by that time, a few days earlier if possible?  The most convenient
express address for me is Elon College, N.C.

Mr. Greer apparently did not entirely remember my description last
Summer of the situation regarding publication rights, and has written
me for more complete information.  I have written him that material 
recorded by me for the Archive is not to be used in publications by 
the Library or others for a period of two years, and that you have my 
permission to use my recordings immediately for educational purposes.
He mentions the possibility of selling his collection to "a Northern
college".  I told him that under the circumstances I did not believe
he would be prevented from such a sale by having recorded for the 
Archive.  However, I also told him, and suggest to you, that you would 
write him a letter stating formally the rights, privileges. and immunities,
as far as the Archive is concerned.  I am bit doubtful about
his possibility of a sale anyhow, but it's just as well to have it all
in writing for him.  His address is Mills Home, Thomasville, N.C.

He is reserving also part of December first for possible unfinished 
recording from the 24th and 25th, As I wrote you last Summer, I have 
also some other folks to record - notably a damn fine singer to the banjo - 
and should like to have the machine through say the 15th of December.
The banjo singer is up in the mountains, and weather conditions may mean
the postponement for a couple of days after the first; the 15th will be 
an ample deadline.  I can't begin the recording project until the 24th of 
November. 

Yessir, I do believe the album of recordings for the National Council is 
going to happen.  The executive secretary of the Council wrote me and Dr. 
Spivacke of his assumption that the board would authorize it. I'll know
about the first of December.  Sometime thereafter I'll be coming up to 
the Library to listen to the Archive for a week and to select the contents
of the album. 

I still don't understand the rationale of you all not exhibiting in Atlanta,
but it's not crucial, merely disappointing.  
Cordially 

Fletcher Collins, Jr. 
Fletcher Collins, Jr. 

[*P.S. I have written Spivacke to try for a set of figures on costs of 
album production. I'll need them before I leave for Atlanta on
the 19th.  Will you jog him about that, please? 
F.C.*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.