- 2 -

John A. Lomax July 2, 1938

The warmest news in the building at the moment is
the resignation of Dr. Putnam, effective as soon
as a new librarian is appointed. I hope, along
with the Union, of course, that it will be John
Vance and I understand that his chances are very
good.

Elizabeth is on the point of getting a job with the
WPA, possibly at the same salary the Library is generous
enough to give me; and if that works out we will
be able to live a little better and perhaps even save
some money next year. And on top of that, unless something
happens in the meantime, I shall next year be
spending part of my time in preparing the folk-lore program
for the World's Fair. This may grow into a very
important scheme or not, but there will certainly be the
chance for a great deal of interesting work.

Plans are at last in the air for an Archive of American
Folk-Lore. Dr. Thompson and the president of his folklore
society have petitioned Senator Minton and others
to submit a bill to Congress; and although neither Spivacke
nor Putnam is very enthusiastic, it may very well
go through under Vance, in which case I feel I will be
totally and forever submerged in this marble palace.
Not that I should complain at the very soft and exciting
and pleasant job, but sometimes the whole thing still
seems a little bit childish and certainly it has come
my way too easily. I keep thinking that perhaps the
best thing for me would be to let go with both hands
and try something else that hadn't been handed me on
a silver platter.

I was very much surprised at how gloomy your last letter
was. I certainly hadn't realized that you were worried
or homesick or sad or anything of the sort. Your other
two letters had seemed so cheerful, in fact, that I had
told a person or two perhaps you would stay on in
Europe a while just for the fun of it. I am terribly
sorry that I caused you worry by not having written.

Your five dollar check was very much appreciated and any
others that follow will be received with the same pleasure.

As to the Seeger's, Charlie has recently been appointed
on the music project of the WPA at a very good salary.
Ruth may get on the Writers Project, but in the meantime
plans, as I already said, to finish up the ballad book --
so you see, everything is rocking along very nicely.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.