4.

7) Under c.
As I pointed out above the whole basis of folk-lore
is democratic and the people know thisinstinntively.  Besides , however,
all of the material worth considering in American folk-lore treats in one
way and another of democratic feelings, yearnings, strivings, struggles
which have always been part of the lives of all people. The people
have developed a language for telling the story of democracy which is
beyond the reach of pamphleteers and propagandists. Let the people
feel that they are telling themselves that democracy is worth defending
and building and making their own. Don't tell the people that democracy
has brought them this or that and that democracy represents this or that
high ideal invented by philosophers and worked out by technicians with 
language. Let the people tell their own story to themselves in 
their own way . This should be the bias, the leaning of a any cultural
program at this time. 
4) Specific Reccomendations.
1) That a folk-lore division be set up in the Library of Congress
to carry out the following functions:
a) Research and indexing projects should be fostered and continued.
The
indexing projects initiated by WPA must be completed so that material
already available in print and on records will be easily available.
b) Large scale field work must be planned and set in operation so that
parts of the country that are unknown to folk-lorists may be explored
for material, singer and performers as yet unknown located, techniques of
community amusements further studied.
c) The results of this research must be examined and
index with the needs of the defense program constantly in mind and this
work should lend directly into creative work of all kinds, much as the
work of the Legislative Reference Bureau rpoceeds at present.
d) To plan, write and produce a number of documentary radio programs
and movies; to set up and publish a large number of mimeographed
compilations of material to take the place of the expensive collections
or the rare publications which take folk-lore materials out of the reach of
even most students once it is in print.
2) Radio programs.
a) A program to be titled "LISTEN TO OUR STORY". A dramatization
of the local history of certain specific towns, communities, counties,
or cities out of the materials in the Library of Congress. This program
is to be broadcast directly to an audience assembled for the purpose
of hearing it in the auditorium of the local library and inviting the
rest of the nation to listen in if it wishes. This suggestion of the
Librarian's appeals to me as one of the most potentially
successful ways of getting away from the coldness and impersonality
of all radio.
b0 A program to be entitled " Out Our Way". A documentation of life
in America transcribed in the field with a sound truck and put together
at the dubbing table in the Library. A series of American
portraits drawn by themselves and having the directness and the authenticity
[of] by the use [to] of real people and real sounds rather than [?]
sound effects. America can get to know herself through a program like

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.