The Office of War Information has received many requests for
cooperation and guidance from groups which are interested in (group) rumor control.
This memorandum is written in response to these requests. It was prepared
on the basis of an analysis of more than 4,500  and [on the basis of]
the experience gained in working with [these various] rumor control projects.

[Groups that wish to undertake the considerable responsibility
of fighting rumors and their community are obviously armed with a first-
hand knowledge of local opinion which is invaluable in conducting those
information activities necessary for rumor control. But there are some points
on rumor control which hold true whatever the community.]

Fighting rumors is a complicated, technical task. It raises
problems in public information, military security, and social psychology.
It involves specific techniques for handling the uneasiness and hostility
which any war necessarily arouses.

Anti-rumor activity which is conducted without an awareness
of the inherent and potential dangers of anti-rumor activity may tend
two:
a.  Circulate the very rumors which are being denied.
b.  Circulate more rumors than are effectively denied.
c.  Make the community too "rumor-conscious."
d.  Create wide-spread uneasiness, which is fertile soil for
more rumors.
e.  Exaggerate the danger of enemy propaganda - creating unnecessary
fears about the enemy's cleverness or propaganda
success in the United States.
f.  Deny only certain kinds of rumors, allowing other rumors
to circulate more freely.
g.  Monopolize rumor-fighting by a given group so that the rumors
denied are simply those which offend the particular sensibilities
or interests of the group - ignoring those rumors which
the group does not recognize as rumors or as dangerous.

The analysis of rumors is most valuable in revealing those areas
of information in which public ignorance or confusion lead to rumors.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.