-2-

and all said "Oh, Yes it's your mule allright. You can do that here.
He's yours, and you must take him." Father didn't know what to do or
say, but he had heard that very serious consequences come from refusing 
a bid, so he said, "All right, if he's mine, I'll take him." The mule
was pulled down by an attendant and put in a side stall in the rear of
the plade while he paid for him. When he went to get the mule, the nice
shiney halter had been removed and a ragged rope was around his neck.
     About three o'clock, he led forth the mule by the rope and started
up Market street. What to do with him he did not know and could not 
think. Every cent, $40.00, exactly, had been used to pay for him. No
food for himself nor the mule did he have and no place for either of them
to sleep. He walked about a block dumbfounded. Anman, walking along the
street, sensing his predicament, asking him if the mule was his and if
he wanted to sell him. He told him yes, so the man joined him an offered
to take him through Phil. to a brick kiln where he had worked and where
he thought they could use a mule. So, they started out walking. They
walked and walked about ten miles to the other end of Phil. and out to
the suburbs until they came to the kiln. It being Saturday night, the 
place was deserted save for an old man who stayed around as caretaker. 
They told their story. The man looked at the mule, questioningly, and
said he would try him to see if he would pull the cart. They put him
to the cart which was filled with bricks ready to be drawn up out of 
the kiln, and the old mule balked completely. He would just spread out
his back and hind legs and refused to pull at all. The only time that
he made any effort to come out of the hole was when the man would catch
him by the rope and lead him. The old man said plainly that he couldn't 
us such a temperamental mule and was sorry. Disappointed, they left
and started out walking again.
     This old man lived about 5 miles across Phil, and he suggested that
they walk over there with him and maybe he could find someone who really
wanted a mule. Meantime, a terrible storm was brewing. The sky grew black 
and soon it began to rain. It poured, the lightning flasked, the thunder
roared, and then it fairly swept them from the street. They walked along
slowly, and got wetter and wetter. The mule got whiter and whiter. Father
had on a new Jew suit and this drew up higher and higher and his new
patent leather high shoes (which had fitted him) began to stretch. They 
passed a few people on the street, and they heard them remark "What is
that?. Is it a mule. I don't know. Never seen a mule that white before in
my life. even his skin is white." Father says the mule seemed to get
larger and larger as he got wetter and smaller. Finally, about 11 o'clock
they reach the old man's house. He was a poverty stricken old fellow,
had a wife and about ten children waiting there for him to bring them
some food or money. He had nothing to pay the old man for his trouble
and so he rested a short while, bid them adieu, and about 1 o'clock 
he struck out again for Phil., leading, by this time, a snow white mule.
     On reaching Phil. it came to his mind that an old friend for whom
he had once worked, out in Cherrydale, New Jersey might buy the mule, so
he started back down Market street to the South Ferry which would lead
to Gloucester Co., N. J. to try to find this old gentleman.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.