COLUMBIA ARTISTS, INC.

485 MADISON AVE., NEW YORK        HOLLYWOOD CALIFORNIA

February 13, 1942

NEW YORK OFFICE
Mr. Alan Lomax
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

You hereby designate us as your exclusive representative for securing for
you engagements in commercial radio, commercial recordings and lectures,
except in respect of such activities which you shall initiate and negotiate
entirely without our help or advice. You will not, during the period
of this agreement, engage any other person than us in such capacity.

The period of this agreement shall be from February 13th, 1941 to June
30th, 1942.

We will use our best efforts to further your artistic career and interests
and obtain proper publicity for you, and to secure suitable offers for your
services in the above designated fields; and we will maintain offices and a 
staff for this purpose, as well as for the representation of other artists.

We will not conclude engagements or enter into contracts for you without 
first securing your approval. You will inform us promptly of your approval
or disapproval of contracts or the terms of engagements which we submit to
you.

You will pay us 25% of all considerations which you receive or are entitled
to, directly or indirectly, from lecture engagements, and you will pay us
10% of all considerations which you receive or are entitled to, directly or
indirectly, from any engagement or activity in commercial radio and commercial
recordings, and from any such engagement subsequent to the term of this 
contract, but pursuant to agreement made during the term hereof, and from
any such engagement subsequent to the term hereof, which is a continuance or
resumption of an engagement commenced or agreed upon during the term hereof,
whether such continuance or resumption is under the original agreement or
otherwise; provided, however, that we shall not be entitled to such commission
in respect of any activities which you initiate and negotiate entirely
without help or advice from us.

We shall have the right to disseminate, reproduce, print and publish your
name, likeness and biography in order to secure for you the advantages of
publicity and to promote your artistic career, and we may grant to others
the right to disseminate, reproduce, print and publish your name, likeness
and biography as news or informative matter and in connection with advertising
and for purposes of trade, provided, however, that we shall in no event
grant permission to any person to use any direct endorsement by you of any
product or service, without your written consent. We may open all correspondence
intended for you which we receive and may answer or cause to be 
answered any correspondence relating to your activities hereunder.

If you shall render services on the West Coast, we may, during such times,
cause the services contemplated hereby, to be rendered to you by our affiliate,
Columbia Management of California, Inc., which is authorized and licensed
to do business and to represent artists in California.

Very truly yours, 
COLUMBIA ARTISTS, INC.
BY: [?]

ACCEPTED:
Alan Lomax

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.