March 13, 1942

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Father:

I just had an interview with a newspaper editor from
west Texas who's kin to Margaret, and what he said about the 
cowboy songs there fires me with enthusiasm.  I went to Spivacke 
and wrung consent from him to reopen the matter of your trip 
immediately.  First, though, I'd like to have your reaction 
to the following ideas.

Would it be possible for you to make part of the trip by 
automobile and part by bus and train?  For instance, what about 
going to Odessa and Fort Davis by car and staying ten days to 
two weeks in each place, and really getting everything there 
was there?  My recent informant assures me that there is much 
there, but that you have to hang around and let people get 
acquainted before they will sing for you.  This means, roughly, 
a round trip of about 1100 miles.  Even this part of the trip 
might be made on the train, because, according again to my 
newspaper editor, the best thing to do is to wait in town till 
the boys come in for their mail, and catch them then.  You are 
so well known around there that you will probably have people 
offering to take you around a good deal, too.

I imagine that most of Woodie's people live right in town 
around Panpa, and you can make a third leg on the train
trip. There again, I think you should stay at least a week
and really try to locate all the singers in the vicinity. Your
Oklahoma man would make another leg, and Harry Stevens yet
another leg of the trip.

If you will let me know in some detail where you want to
go and how your will be able to travel, and how long, more or
less, you will want to stay, I will go right to work and get the
trip drawn up in formal style and approved.

The man in Odessa is named R. Henderson Shuffler. He is
editor of the Odessa American, and very intelligent, and can give
you a bunch of excellent contacts, cowboy bands, and a singer
named Sam Hill who knows a great many songs. At Fort Davis,
According to Shuffler, there is Justice of the Peace Barry
Scobee, who is a writer and who knows the whole Fort Davis
country. Shuffler says if properly addressed Mr. Scobee can
put you in touch with all the singers in Fort Davis
country. He says there are lots of them.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.