Straws in the Wind of Texas Culture 
By J. Frank Dobie
No, my children, I have no story
to tell this week. I have to plead 
again the cause of your rights to your
own stories, your own pictures, the
memories of your own land. But 
next week I'll tell you a coyote story.
At its annual meeting last week the 
Texas State Historical Association 
passed a resolution asking the regents 
of the University of Texas to
take action to build upon the campus
a Texas Center--a building designed
to house the precious records, printed, 
pictorial and manuscript, pertaining
to Texas. Such a structure could be 
designed to fit the climate and soil
of Texas. It would look as if it belonged 
to Texas. In its furnishings
could go Texas woods. The walls of
some of its rooms could illuminate
Texas characters, themes and events.
If designed, erected, fitted filled and 
managed properly, it would be to Texans
the most cherished unit on the 
great campus of this great university.
The university now possesses three
rare book collections—largely European
—said to be worth millions of
dollars. It is building up a Latin-American 
collection at the expenditure
of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
It is unable, however to buy a small 
collection of Stephen F. Austin 
pamphlets and manuscripts recently
exhumed in El Paso. Its Texas collection
is at present the tail-end of
the Mexican collection. 
Still Colonials
We are still colonials, thinking we
can buy culture and not realizing 
that, to quote President Homer Price
Rainey—"the only real culture is indigenous
culture." Gov. O. M. Roberts,
"the Old Alcalde," said a long 
time ago: "National greatness is homemade
—a home-made material, not exotic,
not imported, but produced and 
reared on the soil that it ennobles."
One of the young writers of Texas
that I am banking on is Paul Crume
of Dallas. In a newspaper article 
concerning "highly educated, artistically 
receptive people," he says: "They 
[?]ing operas, ballets, road shows and 
[?]her good things to town.  They support 
a symphony and an art museum.
[?]ut these things are not a culture;
[?]ey are the products of a culture.
taken together, they may add up a 
[?]nd of culture for a few people, but
[?] are talking of the kind of culture
[?]t ties the ordinary man to his soil, 
[?]t puts him at ease with the [?]

putting tons of Italian marble in a 
Texas Museum and making the west
side of it out of glass--something that
might fit very well the bottom of a 
canyon in Greenland's icy mountains.
Would Record Rebel Yell.
A letter from Walter E. Jones, superintendent
of the Texas Confederate 
Home at Austin, informs me that the 
Daughters of the Confederacy want to 
record the Rebel Yell. The veterans 
that are left now can't raise it in all
its lusty vigor.  Where did it originate?
I have heard that Texans started
it, that it was pretty much a cowboy
yell, derived largely from the 
Comanche war whoop. I wonder if it
is too late to get at the facts.  An authentic
sound record of the Rebel
Yell would be a good deal more interesting
and valuable than the brayings
of some politicians who are solicitous
of having their voices preserved
in the Records Division of various
public libraries.
I have just finished reading The 
White Scourge, by Edward Everitt
TRA
19
A

Davis.  It is a novel about cotton, and
the author—dean of the North Texas
Agricultural Collage at Arlington—has 
been a farmer.  With strength born of
the earth, with humor that tempers
the fierceness of excoriation and with
a knowledge that plows far deeper
into the fields of cotton than into the 
natures of his characters, Davis holds
the Scourge up between the winds 
and against the sun until its bones
and sinews are as clear as the veinings
of a new elm leaf in bright light. 
     The nature of the Scourge is defined
in the introduction: The Southern cotton
fields have a greater affinity for
illiteracy and thriftlessness than the
corn fields and wheat fields of the 
great Middle West.  It doesn't require
as much intelligence to raise cotton in 
Texas as it does to raise corn and feed
livestock in Iowa. The most serious
rural problem in the South is not that
of soil conservation, crop production,
co-operative marketing, or race relationships,
but that of the biologically
impoverished tribes of marginal hu-

Of course, the measure failed to
pass, but that way, Mr. Davis seems
to think, and that way only, lies the
salvation of our cotton country society.
The White Scourge is the most
powerful novel dealing with a Texas
problem that has ever been published.
A lot of people ought to read
it. It is issued by a Texas publisher
coming to have a civilized conception
of Texas culture—The Naylor Company
of San Antonio.
In the May issue of the Atlantic
Monthly John A. Lomax has an essay
on Will Hogg, Texan, that is one of
the most interesting, powerful and
pulling character sketches I have ever
read. It is full of anecdotes, some of 
which make the tears scald. It bulges
with the humanity of a man who 
fought for Texas humanity and for
the University of Texas--against self-seekers
and Jim Ferguson--with a
fierceness, picturesqueness and generosity
not paralleled in our state's
history.  Would to God that Will Hogg
were with us today to lead in bringing
to Texas people their own cultural
inheritance! He added honor to
the name that Gov. Jim Hogg made
famous--the Jim Hogg who asked that 
a pecan tree be planted at his grave
and that the pecans from it be given
to the people of Texas for planting so 
that pleasant shade and good fruit
over the land might increase. 
John Lomax has written a great and
rare essay—certainly the most distinguished
thing of its kind that has
 ever come out of Texas. Reading it, 
you forget that anybody wrote it,

The conclusion on
back of editorial
about you and me
[7?]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.