- 30 -

            People should understand why it is that such information is 
delayed or completely withheld. The members of the communities must be 
confident that it is withheld justifiably as so that they will refrain 
from spreading the information by word of mouth. Newspapers, therefore, 
should make quite clear the reasons why information was not published 
earlier when they have occasion to publish a delayed story. 
           If people keep to themselves what they may see in the normal 
course of their day, impose upon themselves the some sort of self-discipline 
that newspapers are expected to apply, rumors will not develop. The flow 
of rumors depends upon, in part, people's confidence in their news sources. 
It is not enough for this country merely to have the most reliable information 
sources, this fact must be known by the people of the country. The 
people must hove confidence in their normal sources of information or else 
rumors will run riot. 

VI.   Principles for Personnel  
            The reporting and analytical staffs should be anonymous for the 
duration of the project. It is quite obvious though, that the existence of 
the central office end how to report rumors should be common knowledge. 
For individual rumor reporters to be known would tend to interfere with their 
effectiveness. They should receive appropriate public commendation after the 
dissolution of the project or perhaps at the time of their separation from it. 
All such commendations, however, should be undertaken in a form which would 
avoid anyone's feeling that a native Gestapo is being developed. These 
people, it should be understood, are not spying on their neighbors, they are 
helping in the monitoring of a channel of communication which is difficult 
to get properly recorded. The Directors and the members of the Advisory 
councils should be made known to the public. The success of the project 


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.