RACE DISCRIMINATION-NEGROES

26. "This country faces possible trouble with the Negro race,
that trouble is already brewing in many of the Southern 
states, and particularly in Washington, D.C. Incidents
in the nature of riots have not been published in Washington, 
such as hotels using tear gas bombs and police aid
to eject Negroes from premises; that it is not an uncommon
sight in Washington to see Negroes escorting white women
on the streets. This trouble is caused by Negroes demanding 
equal rights with the white people throughout the 
country, particularly in the South. This rumor was heard
several times, once on August 3, and again on August 7."
(Pennsylvania)

27. "The following rumor was reported to me, when in the course
of a conference I asked a gentlemen if he had heard any 
rumors of late. This is the statement of talk which is
going around: "Hitler's agents are doing a good job of 
sabotaging the White House by stimulating actions of
various Negro organizations to demand what they think is
right and to obtainrecognition. The CIO sent organizers 
into the Shreveport area over one year ago to urge Negroes
to get together in order to assure their rights. The indirect
object being to play the Negro against the white.
Behind this is some clever work on the part of the Nazi
organization to stir up trouble among the southern white
people. One northern worker told a Negro woman "If Hitler
does win the war the Negroes will not be worse off than
they are now." (Lou[s]i[i]siana) 

28. "Unidentified negro made statement that after the war
the colored people will be in charge of things, and that
they will have full racial equality." (Florida)

29. "A white man has never considered the Negro his equal but
Jap and Negro will be equal." Another rumor that persists 
in this Negro area and is quite current is "For what
reason should the Negro fight in this war?" (Illinois)

30. "This business of trying to get jobs for negroes and put
them in charge of white people is going to strarttrouble.
We are going to have violence yet." (Alabama)

31. "Of course they don't let Negroes work out at the ordnance 
plant. If they did, all the white men would quit. They
can't afford to antagonize them." (Iowa)

32. "Negroes are being discriminated against in defense jobs."
(Chicago)

33. "Treasury Department order in Washington that white female
employees and Negro female employees are to be given 
separate lavatories" (Chicago)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.