BUDGET 
     In relation to the Defense Program memo submitted to the 
Librarian on August 29, 1940, I should like to summarise the concrete 
working machinery which will carry out the program suggested 
in the memo. 
I. The Archive of American Folk Song at pres at has no staff and 
no facilities to embark on such a program. I suggest therefore: 
1. That the Archive of American Folk Songs be called the 
Archive of American Folk Culture. 
2. That funds be found for a director of the Archive at a salary 
of $4500.00 a year. The best person in my mind for the job 
is Dr. Charles Seeger, present director of the Music Project 
in the Library of Congress. 
3. That two permanent stenographers will be required, each at 
$1800.00. 
4. That the post of Assistant in Charge of the Archive be 
created at a salary of $3500.00 a year. 
5. That the entire staff and energies of the Federal Writers 
Unit of the Library of Congress Project be turned to the 
creation of a subject-regional dictionary index of American 
Source materials for creative writing under Dr. B. A. Botkin. 
This should not interrupt, but should rather facilitate and 
coordinate, the acquisition from state projects of permanent 
material. This wing of the Folk Lore Archive should actively 
incorporate into the Archive of American Folk Songs the materials
so obtained from the states and should rapidly bring together 
the material that now is in the hands of private individuals 
and should incorporate the material in the Archive in photo-static 
or mimeograph form. Dr. Botkin to be given the title 
of Folk Lore Editor at the salary of $3500.00 a year. 
6. That the Folk Music Unit of W. P. A. in the Library of Congress 
should devote itself to creating a complete index of published 
sources of American Folk Songs, melodic as well as a textual 
index. In addition, this unit can produce arrangements, transcriptions 
and other pertinent materials. 
7. A major need of the Archive of American Folk Songs at present 
is for sufficient funds to duplicate folk songs on records in 
other collections and to carry out recording trips in the field, 
for the accumulation of additional material for the Archive. 
I suggest that the sum of $10,000.00 be set aside for the forth-coming 
year. 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.