Dearest Alan, I went over to Jimmy's and Fred's to hear the broadcast on their super-
radio, and still didn't get much of it. Static drowned out a great deal of the first
part, being especially bad during the So Long, but I heard nearly the whole of
the Noah. That was magnificent; I had waves of goosebumps up and down my back by the
end, and Fred was very much impressed. Fadiman annoyed me [very much] horribly; you know, his
voice is just like one of our local announcer's-- I expected him all the way through
to leap [at] up to the microphone and start in about

Wether the weather be cold or
Wether the weather be hot
Good old Vitamin Ice Cream
Will always hit the spot.

You'd have to hear ours to really appreciate Fadiman. At least our announcer is in
earnest and even enthusiastic; but the quality of their voices is really amazingly alike.
I couldn't hear the part where Woody was talking very well, bu this voice sounded terribly
colorless; I thought maybe that was because Dan Doyle's voice sort of cancelled
him out; you know in lots of ways a more imitated accent has it all over a more genuine
one. That may only have been because I couldn't hear well; I don't know. But damn, the
whole program was wonderful; it had pace and interest, and it was awfully well done.
And you got all that solid stuff put together with professional smoothness but without
being a single bit smarty, which to me is the chief drawback [to being] of most professionals.
Shirley was out of town and Deanie and Father were trapped in their mountain by a rain,
but I send congratulations to you and Nick and the whole cast. I want to come up and
be in your chorus; I sat by the radio and sang like hell the whole time. You should 
hear me now, by the way. I'm not smoking in honor of Deanie, and as far as volume goes
I'm simply terrific.

Shirley, Patsy, Susan, Willie, Brownie (dog) and I drove up to Eagle Nest
to spend two days with Father and Deanie. We had a marvellous time, and then I drove
solemnly back to Lubbock with SPSWB because for some obscure reason Deanie and Father
didn't want me to go with them. They picked me up yesterday in Lubbock and we started
on to Dallas. At Guthrie we were flagged down and told that Deanie's brother who lived
in Canyon had died and we were to come back at once. So I turned Little Bosco around

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.