13. 

Example:  Had information regarding the Hess
affair been made as complete as possible, there
would have been little need for the rumors and
conjectures surrounding the event.  As it was,
only enough was given to arouse intense curiosity.

D.  By making information as accessible as possible. 

Example:  The British Army has recently instituted 
"educational meetings" at which information regarding
England's military position is given out.
Such information tends to remote regions of doubt 
and ignorance from the minds of the soldiers, and
thus discourage rumor mongering.

e.  By keeping people bust at constructive occupations 
and thus preventing idleness, monotony and 
personal disorganization.

Example:  A somewhat unsuccessful version of 
this technique is being employed in Germany today.
Here the workers are given a mnimum of 
unoccupied 
time.  Following the day's work, they
are required to attend party meetings, etc.,
which are intended to relieve the monotony of
their daily existences and so occupy them as to
prevent private discussion of political and military 
events.

f.  By deliberately campaigning against rumor mongering.

Example:  This policy is illustrated both in the 
actions of our own government, i.e., the president's 
speech at the outbreak of the war, and in
the prolonged effort by the British government 
to discourage rumor mongering though the use of
posters, public admonishments, etc.

XI.  Why does rumor flourish especially in wartime?

The nation at war presents all of the condition likely
to foster rumors

a.  High degree of social interactions.  This is an
inevitable consequence of any large scale group effort.
The massing of men together in military camps,
increased productive activity, and intensified governmental
supervision, etc., all contribute to this condition.

b.  Homogeneity of intense wishes and fears.  The 
nation at war is confronted with an intense desire

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.