4. International Games and Crafts Institute...
Instruction will be given in making and playing popular games from all parts of the world.  Equipment of universal and permanent interest which should be owned by all alert leaders and progressive groups will be studied and made.
Balero (Mexico) - Chess - Checkers - Chongkak (East Indies) - Dancing Doll - Dutch Tactics - Devil's Needle - French Solitaire - Emperor (China) - Go-Moko (Japan) - Halma - Morris - Pyramid - Ruma (India) - Yoot (Korea) - Songe and Wari (Africa).
Informal sports also will be offered under skilled instructors: Badminton - Archery - Dartball - Shuffleboard - Box Hockey - Lawn Bowls - Table Tennis - and others.
During this week the Arts and Crafts Studios will give special attention to the interests of the members of the Institute.
5. Folk Arts Festivals Institute...
Under the immediate direction of Mr. Frank Smith and his staff, this week will be given over to interpreting the role of folk arts festivals in community life.  The philosophy, organization, and content of such festivals will be surveyed and practise had in certain major activities.  Dance classes will continue.
Shepherd's pipes and amateur instruments - marionettes - Punch and Judy shows - masks - story telling - informal drama - wood carving - exhibiting of products of the Arts and Crafts Studios - use of folk dances, folk music, and similar activities in festivals.
6. Music in Community Life Institute...
During this week, Martha Cruikshank Ramsey will bring to a climax the musical experiences of the preceding weeks and will introduce by means of seminars and practice periods the modern viewpoint regarding music in community life.  Experience will center around group singing (unison, part, and descant), exploring possibilities in voice and instrument ensembles, playing of shepherd's pipes, listening to music, and creative music making.  Opportunity will be given to study sources of material and to develop projects for school and agency programs, community festivals, etc.  The emphasis throughout the Institute will be on maintaining a high quality of experience, meeting the various levels of experience and interest in the group, and on the development of an attitude toward the place and growing possibilities of informal music education in modern life.
RATES AND ACCOMMODATIONS...
Through the cooperation of the management of the Silver Bay Association and the Summer School, special rates for living and tuition are announced.
The inclusive fee for each week is twenty-five dollars.  This includes residence in the hotel or lodges, all meals, tuition fee for the Institute, guest privileges for all activities on the grounds for seven full days.  Small extra

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.