RECEIVED
FEB 9 1942
OFFICE OF
FACTS AND FIGURES
ccc
2/11
SCHOLASTIC
The American High School Weekly
220 EAST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.
[Mr. Machleish]
[Mr Bell]
February 7, 1942
Mr. Archibald MacLeish
Director, Office of Facts and Figures
c/o Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. MacLeish:
Scholastic Publications are taking as active a part as possible
in the national program for defense and the expansion of democracy.
As you no doubt know, we have joined with eight other classroom
magazine publishers to issue a pamphlet, "What the War Means to Us,"
in cooperation with the Office of Education, which will be sent to
over 100,000 superintendents, principals, and social studies teachers
in the public schools.
Among the phases of war effort which we should like to publicize
this spring, especially from the standpoint of the participation of
high school students, is ways and means of detecting Axis propaganda
and insidious rumors deriving from it. I read with interest your
recent statement on this subject and I feel sure that it is important
to try and develop an ideological immunity to these rumors that so
readily circulate among the general public.
A suggestion has been made that a "rumor clinic" be established
on a nation-wide basis with branches in large communities, under the
auspices of universities or other impartial centers where examples of
rumors would be collected, compared with verbatim records of short
wave broadcasts from Axis sources gathered by the Office of the Coordinator 
of Information, and then publicized. The rumors could thus
be exposed and to some extent neutralized.
I do not know whether your office is engaged in developing such
a plan or not but, if so, we should be glad indeed to publish a brief
article about it. We shall appreciate your furnishing us any authoritative
material on this or related subjects. It seems to me important
that social studies teachers generally should turn their own classes
into "rumor clinics" regardless of any larger program.
0 0 06
SCHOLASTIC • JUNIOR SCHOLASTIC • SCHOLASTIC COACH

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.