rumors. . .

collected by NORC interviewers
between August 3 and 15 **

HOME FRONT

Prices and Rationing

Ceiling prices
"Some grocery stores have changed their ceiling prices posted since the
early days of ceilings. One brand of lard at first listed $ .14 lb. is now posted
at $ .18 ceiling."  (Georgia)

The ceiling price on round steak at the A & P market is $ .49. Round
steak was not selling for $ .49 here in March." (Georgia)

next things to be rationed
"Ration cards have already been printed for clothing and shoes." (N.Y.)
"We are going to have rationing in clothes very shortly. Don't know why,
but that is what the government is going to do." (Arizona)
"The next commodity to be rationed is soap." (N.Y.)

rubber ( synthetic)
"The government sure is putting the synthetic rubber plants up in a hurry.
You don't need to worry about rationing. Mr. Pates ...three plants in Pittsburgh
are all set to go. In another six months we'll have all the gas and rubber same
as we always had." (Pennsylvania)

There's no use getting recap on tires--the recaps don't give any
service and the government is going to release some second line tires for sale
soon." (Georgia)

gasoline
"Gasoline today is much inferior to the gasoline before rationing." (N.Y.)

"We will have no gas rationing along Eastern Seaboard soon, because all
the travelling men have passed a resolution to sell their many thousands of
dollars worth of stamps and bonds if it continues." (Georgia)

chiselling in gas
"A man I know who has not used up all of his first gas ration card bought
all his units up and had them put into a new 50 gal. tank he bought for the
purpose. It is stored at his home." (Georgia)

"An oil dealer I know has 8 or 10 five gallon cans full of gas stored in
his garage at home. I saw a friend drive in and get one from him about dusk." (Ga.)

sugar
"He is closing his New Orleans sugar plant. Hundreds of people will be out of
work. He has warehouses full of sugar which is hardening. There is no earthly
reason for sugar rationing. There is as much sugar as ever." (Texas)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.