Uncle Bob Ledbetter

Extracts from RTL letters to family--
Oct. 14, 1940 from New Roads, La.

Transferred to card
[After jiggling around considerably in East Texas with Sacred Harp conventions
and Negro Baptist Associations and guitar pickers and an ex-slave, we struck out for
Shreveport. Except for some pretty newsboys' cries, all our recordings there were made by
Negroes, blues singers from Texas "Avenco", French Creole singers, guitar and mandolin picks]

Excerpt from family letter.
Uncle Bob  We hunted up Leadbelly's old Uncle Bob. He asserted: "Hudie is sh' a bad nigger
when he's drunk or night to drunk"... His voice is about gone but we enjoyed him,- took
him to our Motel room in Oil City, where he and his grandson, Noah Moore, recorded for us.
Noah is a blues singer and guitar picker. It was from Uncle Bob that Leadbelly learned 
many of the songs that he "composed" himself! .. Uncle Bob had had no supper, so John
Avery brought a bottle of milk, a sandwich and a pie to him in our room. When we took
him home, he told his granddaughter, with whom he lives and her family of nine children
and spouse: "I sho' has been treated like a king. This is de fust time I ever et in a white
folk's hotel!" We asked him about voting. He said he voted twict in hislife; once in
a local option election and once for Cleveland; didn't vote other times "'cause de white
folks all time make us niggers vote de way dey says; beat us yp if we didn't."
"Yassir, I drinks some, spent consid'ble money on whsikey in my time. I ain't gonna
lie to you 'bout dat. I says I don't ever lie 'cep'n when I'se by myself or wid somebody." 
"I do 'clare," he exclaimed at some of John Avery's yarns. here's a sort of toast
he gave as John Avery apologized for the scantiness of the refreshments:

"Too much for one, not enough for two,
So I'll drink what's in de glass,
And leave de rest for you."

R.T.L.

[We came over he e to New Roads to hunt Negro French, Creole and Cajun, songs, also hoped to
find some cane-stripping and cane-cutting songs; not sure yet we'll get them; have recorded
a few jig songs and blues. This town is located on "False River", part of the old
Mississippi River bed. There's plenty of fish caught, but none to eat. Nearly everybody
has a French name. Yesterday we recorded LeBeau and Boudreaux, both Negroes. .. We are
not far from Baton Rouge. We go out to a cane or sugar plantation this afternoon]

Transferred to another page

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.