Refugees            Continued

be pushed, material relief must reach
the refugees in sufficient quantities so
that the French "appeasers" will at
least not have the additional argument
of calling the refugees an impossible
economic burden for France
to carry under war-time conditions.

In addition, efforts which have 
been, and are at present being made,
to persuade the refugees to return to
Nationalist Spain where Franco's
Law of Political Responsibilities
continues to be invoked as a means
of doing away with all who oppose
his regime, or who even fail to support
it actively, must be prevented.

It has been denied, of course, that
pressure has been exerted to force
the refugees back to Spain regardless
of their fate back there. And it has also
been denied that any reprisals against
Spanish Loyalists are being taken by
Franco. As to the first, the following
extracts from an account of a relief
worker for a French Catholic refugee
committee, stationed at the camp of
Septfonds, written in the early part
of August of this year, indicates that
such pressure exists.

"For ten days very intense propaganda
has been exerted in the camps
to make the Spaniards return to
Spain. The authorities profit from all
occasions and use all methods in order
to convince the men. The highest
authorities of the camp have said
that it was an immoral thing to remain
in the camp after six months;
that he bread, the potatoes, the rice,
beans which the refugees eat, the assistance
to sick and wounded in the
hospitals and the allowance given to
the women, children, old people - 
absolutely everything was being paid
by the French government, while on 
the other hand the French soldiers
who carry out the guard of the camps
have had to abandon their families
who in no case receive any allowance
from the government.

"Then announcements are made in
the camp by loud-speaker that unemployment
is general throughout all
countries, and that there is absolutely 
no possibility of finding work in
France, except for a few metal workers
who have already been accepted
after tests and for several miners who
have already been taken from the
camps. It was explained that these
had perhaps been the sole such
chances and that without doubt, it
was much more advantageous to return
to Spain and begin a new life.

"On different occasions the refugees
were asked where they would
like to go on leaving the camps and
on those days a selection of the men
was made. Ranks were formed and
each refugee was asked for what 
reasons he did not wish to return to
Spain. The refugees had to answer
these calls with all their belongings.
Those who answered that they were
now ready to return to Spain were
put aside and the same evening they 
were sent to Spain."

This account goes on to say that
the types of pressure exerted on the
refugees to return to Spain varied
according to the character of the officer
in charge and that sometimes such
pressure was accompanied by threats
and ill-treatment. An additional argument
cited in the account as to why
the refugees should voluntarily return
to Spain is said to have been
the one that their relatives in Spain
would not receive assistance from the
Franco Government unless they returned,
and that the mere fact that
they did not wish to return led the
French authorities to assume that they
must have had "criminal acts on their
conscience." They were told further,
according to the report, that conditions
in Spain were normal and that
the Catalans who refused to go back
to their own country were playing a
German game because, if they did not
return, the Germans were going to
make a colony of Catalonia. The report
ends with the statement that
similar forms of pressure were being
exerted on refugees in all the camps.

As for reprisals in Spain, there is
sufficient evidence, despite the heavy
censorship, to make it clear that under
present conditions, no Republican
sympathizer, least of all Republicans
who actively supported the
cause of their Government, can at this
time return to Spain in safety. The
men who shot Javier Bueno, Modesto
Sanchez Monreal, Carlos Rahola,
Ricardo Lamote De Grignon and
thousands of others; who, since the
end of the war have imprisoned, according
to the most conservative estimates,
more than 225,000 persons,
and who as recently as August 19th,
according to the London Times, had
filled the prisons of Barcelona,
Madrid and Bilbao until they were
"crammed to overflowing"; cannot
be expected to dispense either justice
or mercy. This is particularly true
when they feel so strongly that

Spain's position in relation to the
present conflict may well be a decisive
factor, and when they know
that, despite the cries that go up from
certain democratic countries for a
holy war against fascism, the policies
which resulted in the betrayal of
Manchuria, Ethiopia, Austria,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Spain,
itself, are still operating.

It is clear that the possibilities of
absorption into French economic life,
the essential instability of the Franco
regime in Spain and as a consequence,
the possibilities of obtaining
a political amnesty for all Loyalist
supporters, and the willingness of
Latin-American countries to accept
a large number of Spaniards, all tend
to make an early and permanent solution
of the Spanish refugee problem
feasible. And it is well to remember 
that the political and economic difficulties
which now beset the Spanish
refugees are in the main similar to
those which have hindered a solution
of all other refugee problems.

Certainly one is justified in assuming
that the history of recent years
proves the impossibility of handling
any major refugee problem on the
basis of expediency. Until the refugee
problems are eliminated in the
countries of their origin, there can
be no satisfactory solution - until
anti-Semitism is destroyed in Germany,
until fascism is destroyed in
Spain and elsewhere, until, in short,
all forms of aggression against minority
groups or defenseless nations
have been eliminated, the refugee
problem will continue to exist. In the
meantime, however, literally millions
of men, women and children are being
alternately bullied, bribed and
sold by opposing political factions
which to date have shown little concern
for the elimination of the causes
which have made these people helpless.

Until democratic Governments take
an active moral, political and financial
interest, together with private
relief organizations, not only will the
refugee problem exist, but even
temporary measures of relief and resettlement
will be relatively unsuccessful.

In this connection, we in this
country who believe that we still
have the right to make and influence
Government policies should remember
that we also have the responsibility 
to do so.

6

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.