July 30, 1941


Mr. Fletcher Collins, Jr.
Route 4
Burlington, North Carolina

Dear Mr. Collins:

I would like to know how many record and how much time you calculate will
be consumed in recording your project described in your letter, which sounds
very interesting to me. I imagine we can free a machine for your use in
October. We are willing to agree on the publication restriction if the
collector is willing to allow us to press or duplicate the recordings for
additional distribution, and if the restriction does not run on for longer
than two weeks. I think you should think pretty seriously about an
intensive recording schedule because it will make it much easier for us to
help you.

The Archive is much interested in cooperating with the Folk Lore Committee
and we can already furnish in recorded form the words and tune of nearly
any American folk song you may want to mention. In some cases, scores of
tunes or songs. We are, besides, initiating a publishing program, that is
we are beginning to make pressings, as distinguished from the acetate
duplicates mentioned above, of the records. If your committee can sponsor
the release of a series of such pressings, which would be adapted to your
purposes, the Archive would be delighted to cooperate. We are going to
make up such a series for distribution in the Latin American Republics
this winter, the money being already available. I am very excited about
the project of publishing the words, music, and headnote in broadside
sheet form so that they will be available cheaply to schools, libraries,
and hoboes. Such single sheet publication would make it possible to put
together regional collections, variant collections, type collections
with no labor. However, this project which I think can pay for itself
and which would protect the songs and ballads from the copyright raids
now going on will cost a good deal of money to initiate.

The Archive would very much like to have the Delaney songbook collection.
I believe we have one fairly complete copy in the Music Division but
another one would be extremely useful. A gift to the Library would bring
him a very nice and highly decorative acknowledgement from us.

My address for the next then days will be General Delivery, Blairsville,
Georgia.

Cordially yours,

Alan Lomax.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.