-10- Rumors, 8-3 to 8-8 New York 8-14-42
in the Social Register you can get a Navy commission.   I know for a fact
that the Admiral at 90 Church Street keeps a Social Register on his desk
to check people who ask for commissions."  (The building at 90 Church St. is
the headquarters for the Third Naval District and the Eastern Sea Frontier.)
New York 8-7 (Irish-American store clerk): "Mrs. Roosevelt is a
red but they made her son a Lieutenant Colonel.  They'd put me in jail
if I tried to get a commission, and I'm only a leftish union man."
New York 8-8 (Banker): "That New Deal talk about a democratic
Army is bunk.  Look how easily Elliott (Roosevelt) was promoted to Colonel. 
My son is a corporal and he isn't using pull to get anywhere."
New York 8-7 (Young Army officer): "If you have an 'in' promotions
come quickly.  I haven't any 'in', but look at Colonel Elliott Roosevelt."
New York 8-6:  "Look at all these phoney officers.  Take that Aroff
who was taking big money to get movie stars into the Navy, and take Lt. Col.
Elliott Roosevelt.  How do they get commissions?  Roosevelt is appointing
all his Jew friends and his relatives to high jobs."
Labor Matters
New York 8-7: "A lot of Washington people hate LaGuardia.  That's
why we aren't getting war contracts and are getting so many unemployed."
New York 8-7: "Southern Congressmen have worked a deal with the 
War and Navy Departments to build new low-wage factories in the South,
especially clothing factories, freezing us out."
New York 8-5 (Garment worker): "Wages in the garment industry
will be ceilinged at a date unfavorable to them as compared to vital war
industries.  War industries are getting all the breaks in increased wages.
But the workers are not supporting the war bond campaign as well as we are."
New York 8-5: "Most war workers are taking it easy.  They don't
want to see the war get over too soon because it would end their fancy
jobs."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.