TENNESSEE POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
Cookeville, Tenn.
October 26, 1934.

Mr. W. Oliver Strunk,
Division of Music, Library of Congress,
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Friend:
You are invited to become a charter member of the Tennessee
Folk Lore Society, and to be present at its organization, Nov. 10
(Home Coming Day), at 10:30 A.M., Room 1. Administration Building, T.P.
I. campus. If you cannot be here in person you can help by indicating
your desire for membership, sending the address of anyone else who may
also desire membership, and criticizing the enclosed constitution,
suggesting any additions or changes that you consider essential.
In the matter of annual dues, for instance, what would you favor? The
Texas Folk Lore Society charges $1.50, but some thought that might be a
little high. What do you think? In order that you may understand the 
purposes of the Society, the following explanation is made:
Perhaps no other section of the United States is so rich in folk lore
as the mountains of Tennessee, and the collection, study and preservation
of it is a very worth-while endeavor. Especially is this true now
for the activities of the T.V.A. and related governmental bodies in
fast breaking up the old native life habits and traditions of our people.
In the collection of folk lore Tennessee is backward. Several other
states have their folk lore societies, but she has none, and her educational
leaders have made no concerted effort to gather such material
and preserve it. The Tennessee Folk Lore Society is a move to remedy
this very situation. Although it has its origin on the campus of Tennessee
Polytechnic Institute, it purposes to become state-wide in scope
and membership, and through its annual meetings and publications to increase
the interest in the whole subject of folk lore. To better inform
you as to the nature of the work, we quote the following fairly adequate
definition of folk lore:
Folk lore is the traditional oral heritage of a people. It includes
songs and ballads; superstitions, signs, omens, cures and
racial or provincial customs; legends, tales, ghost stories; dialectical
words, sayings, proverbs, similes, nicknames, place names.
and in general the flavor of folk language; games, play-party songs
dances; rhymes, jokes, riddles, traditional anecdotes and yarns; 
and the vast lore of animals and plants (from a bulletin of
the Texas Folk Lore Society).
Already we have collected a considerable body of songs (not found in
beaks), play party tunes and figures, superstitious sayings, cures for
diseases without the use of medicine, calls and figures for square
dances, idiomatic or peculiar language expressions, good and bad luck
omens, ideas about planting crops, and a few buried treasure and
ghost stories. The field has hardly been touched, however, and almost
anyone by talking thought could probably aid in the work. Send in your
contributions, and join an organization which is pledged to the collection
and preservation of this interesting phase of our life.
J.A. Rickard
Secretary Pro Tem

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.