-2-

folks in the Blue Ridge a couple of hours from here, and another family group
in a community a half-hour from here. We might record them while the machine
is down here, if you are going to send it, and if you want all you can get
of the real thing. Neither Greer nor the other two groups have been touched
or even grazed by the hill-billy stuff.

There were a couple of other matters that I hoped to be able to talk over with
you. One is the Carnegie-endowed project you folks are working on now.
I'd like some pretty specific information about the nature and date of the
services the Archive is going to offer to educational institutions and teachers.
I think I told you that I'm chairman of the Folklore Committee of the National
Council of Teachers of English, and that I see this agency as potentially quite
useful in connecting English teachers with the Archive's services. My committee
is at your service, and at the service of English teachers - thousands of 'em.

The other is an inquiry and offer I had some time ago about a fairly complete
collection of Delaney's songbooks, published quarterly in the Nineties, a you 
know. The offer is for 26 numbers, with numbers 1, 4, and 14 missing. The
person who has them, in good condition though fast crumbling away, wrote me
to find out if I'd like to have them for awhile before he sold them to a 
song-writer friend of his. I wrote back, by all means don't sell them to
anybody until I find out whether the Archive needs them. I believe the man
would donate them to the Archive if you want them badly. if you do, will you
let me know where and how he should send them to you? Express collect? For
all I know they may be common as dirt, though I know how such chapbooks
even though extremely popular in their day, even because of this popularity,
suddenly become scarce as hen's teeth, are worn out and thrown away before
anybody thinks of their permanent value. I've kept this fellow waiting a
long time, so I'd appreciate something speedy from you on the subject.

Having just finished up the stretch of summer teaching at Chapel Hill, and
being on voluntary leave, without salary, from Elon until February first,
I am beginning to feel emancipated for the first time in more than ten years.
Poor but honest. I've got some writing and music I've been wanting to do, and
this is the chance.

Cordially yours,
Fletcher
Fletcher Collins, Jr.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.