Collier's for August 12, 1939   45

jured and a half-dozen others had been 
badly jostled.
The freight trainmen of No. 83, fortunately,
had had just enough warning 
to leap to safety. No one else was
killed—just Casey.
One of the sections of train No. 26,
which was lying there on the house track
by the station, was handled by Jim
Gaffney, a pal of Casey's and a man for
whom he had once fired. Gaffney heard
the crash and the screaming of the
brakes. Gaffney saw the red glare half
a mile away and he turned pale. He
dropped from his engine and ran the
few feet to the dark Vaughan station.
His elbow smashed in a window and
Gaffney crawled into the empty room.
His trembling fingers found the light
and then he sat down at the telegraph
key. He had once been a telegraph operator
but he had never sent a message
like this.
He wired to near-by Canton that
No. 1 was in a ditch and to hurry a
wrecker along.
It wasn't until 9 A. M. that the world
heard of the wreck. Then a brief telegraphic
report reached the Chicago
headquarters of the Illinois Central.
"Engineer Casey Jones killed," the report
read, and harried railroad officials
wired back for confirmation. "We have
no engineer named Casey Jones. There
are two Joneses on the Mississippi Division.
Which Jones is meant?" The 
answer came: "Engineer killed was
J. L. Jones."

The Song's Birth

Up and down the line they talked of
nothing but the death of Casey Jones.
Everyone liked and respected Jones. He
was the idol of the Negro workers on the
railroad. Jones always had a distinctive
whistle on his engine and the Negroes
would chuckle at night when its 
piercing strains came to them. "There's 
Casey Jones playin' music foh us....
That's Casey Jones, his hand on the
throttle...." They repeated stories of
Casey Jones and told and retold the 
story of his last few minutes when his
thoughts were on his new whistle. The
outside world didn't take any notice.
It had only been a small wreck and Admiral
Dewey was coming home from the
Philippines and the Boers had Baden-
Powell bottled up in Mafeking. But in
the switch shanties in Mississippi and
West Tennessee they kept on talking of
Casey; especially the Negro workers
talked of Casey.
Casey had always been nice to Wallace
Saunders, a cinder-pit man, and
Wallace and his helper, Ike Wentworth,
grieved deeply over his death. Finally
their deep emotion found expression in
a chant, a spiritual that grew each day
as others would sing the song and then
improvise verses of their own. Round-
house helpers and yardmen heard it
and the song rolled up and down the
Mississippi Valley gathering momentum
like a snowball. Each verse comemorated
something that Casey had done....
"Casey was a man who could handle
air," they sang. "No one could quill a
whistle like Casey used to do."
They sang about the time that Casey
was firing for Bill Ruffin, on the M. & O.
One day their train was flagged just before
it came to a bridge. A horse had 
fallen through the open floor of a trestle
in the dark, and was firmly lodged between
the ties. No one knew how to 
get the dead horse out of there so the
train could proceed. Casey got an idea.
He tied the horse's tail fast to the front
coupling link and then suggested that 
Ruffin back up the engine.
"The horse's tail will pull right off,"
Ruffin protested.
"Me, I know horses," Casey grinned.
Ruffin thought he'd try it. One yank
and the horse came clear to tumble forlornly
down into the ravine below.
They sang of Casey's love for his wife
Janie and for his three children. The 
song spread beyond the confines of the
Illinois Central roundhouses and switch
shanties. The Leighton brothers, who
had a vaudeville act, heard the song and
after working on it, writing new lyrics,
they presented it. It was a tremendous
hit and two years after the wreck the
name of Casey Jones was famous all
over the country.

Come, all you rounders, for I want you 
to hear
The story of a brave engineer.
Casey Jones was the rounder's name.
On a big eight-wheeler of a mighty fame.

Casey Jones was a brave engineer
and a good engineer. Many of the railroad
men who worked with him are 
alive today and they'll tell you (they 
told me) stoutly that he had no superior
at handling big locomotives and that
he could get more mileage out of a tankful
of water than any other man on the
railroad. His record was excellent, and
reading it now in the old files of the Illinois
Central you see no stain of blood
upon it—save eventually his own.
The song Casey Jones has become
art of the folklore of our land. It is the 
song of the railroad and it's still sung
in switch shanties and roundhouses. The
song itself does not actually reflect
Casey Jones nor does it give the story
of the wreck as it happened. One verse
in the song was distinctly detrimental
to Casey and one night a theater was
almost wrecked in Memphis because of 
it.  The offending verse was:

Mrs. Jones sat on her bed a'cryin'.
Just had a message saying Casey was
dyin'.
She said, "Go to bed, children, and hush
your cryin',
Cause you got another daddy on the
Salt Lake Line."

A Song in His Heart

In 1903, only two years after the
wreck, when the memory of Casey was
still green in the minds of men who had
known him, a vaudeville team sang the 
song in a Memphis theater. At its conclusion
grim-faced men came from all
parts of the theater toward the stage. 
The two vaudevillians paled and ran.
Needless to say, the management immediately
canceled their act.
Casey's widow went to court about it,
seeking an injunction to prevent the
singing or publication of the offending
verse but she found no remedy in the
law. Undoubtedly the verse is libelous.
Casey Jones was a family man. He 
found his Janie Brady in Jackson in
1886 and he married her and they lived
happily until Casey's death. Casey was
a happy-go-lucky, swaggering railroad
man with a song in his heart and a smile
in his eye, but though his eye might rove
a little, his heart never did. Janie was 
completely happy being Casey's wife.
Casey's three children were youngsters
when he met his death. Somehow she
managed to rear them. Today Casey's 
eldest son Charles, forty-nine, is a machinist
in the Illinois Central shops and 
Charles' son John is breaking into the
railroad craft as an apprentice.
Casey's locomotive, old No. 382, was
patched up after the wreck, rechristened
No. 212 and it continued to do valiant
service until 1935, when it was scrapped.
After the wreck Casey's brother-in-law,
Tom Brady, took Casey's whistle and
used it on the Mobile & Ohio for years.
His engine made a run out of Jackson,
where Casey had lived, and at night,
when the air was still, Casey's friends
used to lift their heads and hear the
mournful requiem that the whistle sang
under the hand of Tom Brady. Then
they'd shake their heads and they'd talk
of Casey and they'd always end up by
saying: "Yes, sir, there never was a man
who could handle air like Casey, and 
there never was a man who could quill
a whistle like old Casey Jones."

{{image caption: "I do wish I could find a recipe for only two people" CLARK O'DANIEL}}

MY 
STOMACH
DOESN'T LIKE TO
TRAVEL

Experienced travelers know the penalty of
hurried, nervous meals... improperly prepared
foods and change of water. They 
take Pepto-Bismol with them!

When your stomach is out of order
your intestines are often out of order,
too. Don't add to the upset with drastic,
irritating physics and purges.

Take Pepto-Bismol and help
quiet the upset. Not an antacid.
Pepto-Bismol soothes the irritated
intestinal walls, aids in
retarding intestinal fermentation,
gas formation and 
simple diarrhea.

   At your druggist's -
Price 50c, in the distinctive 
three-cornered bottle.
Or by the dose at
drug store fountains.

Makers of Unguentine

PEPTO-BISMOL
WHEN YOUR STOMACH
IS UPSET

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.