Macmillan Company - Listen to our
Story

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
Publishers
SIXTY FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK

GEORGE P BRETT, JR., PRESIDENT
H. S. LATHAM, VICE PRESIDENT
E. L. MEAD, SECRETARY
R. M. BRETT, TREASURER

April 3, 1942

Dear Alan:

I have only just learned that Mr. Latham was unable
to spend the latter part of this week in Washington as he 
planned owing to the dearth of hotel accommodations. I had
counted on his seeing you while he was there and talking
with you about LISTEN TO OUR STORY. That's why you have not
heard from me sooner. I am doubly sorry as I had thought
that if he could have gone over some of the material with
you it would have heightened his enthusiasm for the book
and would have given the whole project the necessary shot
in the arm to put it over. Unfortunately, despite my best
efforts, I have not been able to persuade our editorial
board to offer a contract for the book on the basis of
the material which you have sent us. As I am sure you
realize, this whole business of translating the spoken
word into the written word is something new in publishing 
and as is natural sometimes successful and sometimes not.  
Somehow or other the material which you gave us, while
particularly rich and colorful seems to lose something
rather important when read rather than heard. This may
be because we are not used to it and it may well be
that by the time the book was ready we should be eating
this sort of thing up. Just now, however, it seems a 
little strained, and with all the difficulties which the
war has brought to the publishing field, we hesitate to
make a definite commitment on the book. 

I realize, of course, that you may hesitate to
go ahead with the preparation of future material on the
book without a definite assurance from us, but I can't 
help hoping that you will. Perhaps one of us will be 
in Washington a little later in the spring and if so can
see or hear more of the material. I am still very bitterly
disappointed that your hotel situation was so bad as


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.