Adventures - Chicago 4

     "I fairly rushed to Carl Sandburg, who was a fellow newspaperman in town, and told
him you were living on the North Shore, and he must hear you. He sang a lot, collected songs,
and would go with Alfred MacArthur, Otto McFeely and myself to the sand dunes and sing
hobo songs, all kinds of folk songs over week-ends, fooling around, taking it easy.
     "I don't know whether Carl had heard of your songs at that time. It seems to me
that he had but I am not sure. Anyway we had you and Tom over again, and Carl out -- one
evening, I think -- and you and Carl cut loose. I remember it was that night that
you sang 'The Buffalo Skinners', and Carl rocked his granite head to and fro and shut his 
eyes and raised his eyebrows and made whistling little 'ohs' as he listened, and when you
were done, he said, 'That's a novel -- a whole novel -- a big novel -- it's more than a song.'
     "I remember how Alfred MacArthur kindled when he came out not long after and heard
you sing that same song. He had knocked around a lot, was a successful businessman and
publisher, a hard-fisted Scot, and like Tom Peete Cross the scholar, and Carl and me, the
newspapermen, couldn't sing a note in the conventional way, didn't know anything about
music, -- none of us did, or gave a damn for it, as such. But what we used to talk about was
that you had what we took to be pitch, you could hit the sharp, often piercingly right
note that gave the song character, made it descriptive, made it a picture of somebody, or
some mood. We could see the characters who were singing -- the buffalo-skinners killing old
Crego, the Negro woman when her apron got too high, and then the role that I always thought
you did best, the Westerner who when riding one morning for pleasure met a cowboy who was
singing about the little doughies who wouldn't lie down.
     "I remember it was this time when Tom and I had Carl with us that you cut loose
with that yodel at the end--the yodel just after the cowboy had assured the little doughies
that Wyoming will be their new home. It was one of the damndest pieces of transporting of
the imagination I ever experienced, and I had before that and since seen a lot of actors
and heard a lot of singers. It was the same sort of thing that Bert Williams and Mary
Garden did -- the song without singing -- the role established without great technical
display -- the singing voice made a medium and not a goal ---- the singing voice which isn't

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.