The Rumor Clinic Column in the Boston Sunday Herald on August 23rd, carried
the following:

"I think the newspapers should have published the news two weeks or
so ago of a submarine landing its men on Fishers Island (off Long
Island) -- raiding attempted perhaps. Also, as I heard it, they were
all captured. In one week I heard it from four people, once or twice
removed from someone who knew directly of it. A few days later an
officer said there were tickets stuck in one of the German's pockets
from a play running in New York. Also American bread on board."

The latter column also includes the statement form the Naval Office of Public
Relations in Boston:

"Someday, someplace, somebody will really catch up with this submarine 
with a crew that possesses tickets of admission to local
theaters and has on board bread distributed by local baking concerns.
This same submarine has been reported from dozens of points
on the coast, points as far removed as Bar Harbor, Maine and Galveston,
Texas. It might be interesting to turn back the pages of
history, and note that the same 'submarine', fully outfitted with
theater tickets and other material furnished 'locally' made the
rumor tour during the first World War. The answer is simple. This
is but another of the many rumors making repeated rounds, usually
told by somebody to somebody else, and, of course the source of 
the story is always believed to be a 'reliable authority.'"

Rumors also serve to reenforce divisionist attitudes. There are the
persistent anti-Negro rumors. The press has already discussed the prevalence 
of the Eleanor club rumors and it may be interesting to note that in spite
of the wide-spread exposes, there is still considerable talk about these
"organizations". We also learn in city after city that Negroes have purchased
all the ice picks, all the knives, in preparation for race riots. Communities 
are being armed, air-raid wardens are being warned about violence to be expected in the next blackout. Anti-Semitic rumors continue to develop. "Jews
are evading the draft." The crop of anti-Government rumors, anti-allied rumors
all serve the same purpose. They divide us and prevent the complete cooperation necessary for a United Nations' victory.

-11-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.