Personal

THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
AUSTIN

DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH

July 16, 1941

Dear Alan and Chavella;

We were rejoiced to get word from all of you, but hit
seems like Washington is steadily getting more unlivable in.
God's Bones but them prices you quote killed off my appetite
for nearly a day.  I'd try some of them sawdust and flour
biscuits that they claim folks are living on in Germany
these days.  Ever time me and Hally eats a big, thick steak
now, I let 'er ease down into my guts real easy and think
about y'all.  Pore devils!

A friend of mine's goin' to hit Washington before long.
Wilbur Lee O'Daniels, Senator from Texas, is going to come
smirking and praying into town with more righteousness per
corpuscle than a Baptist preacher.  The Senate had better
not mess with him, neither, because he'll drop on his knees
and whine a prayer at the least provocation.  Them Washington
high prices is discouraging enough, but now with O'Daniels
there I should think that even the rats would be shoving on
to more bearable surroundings.  I shore don't envy y'all
none when Pappy O'Daniels gits on the radio up there and
comes out flatfooted and unafraid agin sin, stomach ulcers,
nose-picking, and other forms of political corruption.

The recording machine has arrived and when I get my
first fifty recordings done in the field, I will heave them
to the Recording Laboratory.  That will be next week, and
I'm hoping that I can get some cutting needles, along with
the discs, from the Library, inasmuch as Rosenwald has
only furnished me with three!  I am sending along three
discs (6 sides) that I made of an old gentleman, James B.
Freeman, 84 yrs. old, who composed the "Buffalo Song", alias
"Buffalo Skinners".  Mr. Dobie brought him out here and he
sings three songs on the discs and tells his story of the 
Buffalo Song on the 4th side.  He was a real delight.  I 
record about every day, here and there.  I will have four
or five complete services and a number of quartet singings
to send along next week.

I have a pack of awful good books on various phases of
Negro culture, Herskovits, Dillard, Ferguson, etc., on hand
and I am discovering (to my amazement) that my knowledge of
the Negro was most superficial.

I'll let fly with a worth while letter before long,
Y'all write us when you get a chance.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.