Benefits Away From Home

All contracts make special provisions for hospitaliza-
tion in other cities in the event of an accident or an 
acute illness occurring while the subscriber is out of the 
city of Washington and unable to utilize the facilities of 
a participating member hospital. Such care not to ex-
ceed $5 per day for not more than 21 or 30 days.

Services Not Included

The benefits offered by this contract do not include 
the services of the subscriber's or family member's at-
tending physician or surgeon, radiologist, pathologist, 
physiotherapist, anesthetist, or special nurses. 

Hospital service for pulmonary tuberculosis (after 
diagnosis as such), venereal disease, quarantinable dis-
ease, alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disorder, or any 
case provided for under the workmen's compensation 
law is not included in the benefits offered by this agree-
ment.

In the Hospital Service Plan for self only (Contract 
Number 1) no benefits are offered for obstetrical care or 
cases incidental to or resulting from pregnancy.

No service can be provided for the treatment of any 
ailment known by the subscriber or family members to 
exist at the time of the subscriber's application for par-
ticipation in the plan.
The Cost

Per Month
No 1. SUBSCRIBER CONTRACT $.65
(Contract No.1 offers no obstetrical care)
No 2. SUBSCRIBER-SPOUSE CONTRACT $1.50
No. 3. SUBSCRIBER-FAMILY CONTRACT $1.75

The only other charge is a small enrollment fee of 
one dollar for each contract.

Eligibility Requirements

A person regularly employed by an organization in 
which a group is formed, who is under the age of 65 
years, who is in sound health, and who knows of no condition 
which might require hospital care, is eligible 
to subscribe.

Participation is available to the age of 65 years for 
the subscriber, 65 years for the spouse, and from 3 
months to 18 years for the children. Benefits to any
participant, however, will continue to the expiration of 
the contract year in which such participant has reached
his or her age limit.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.