     (Since this is part of a larger investigation in which all should
proceed alike, please read the following directions exactly as given.)
     "We have been asked to cooperate in an investigation of what passes
by word of mouth about the war -- things which often fail to appear in
print.  The investigation is being made by a friend of mine for a war
agency.  What we are asked to do is to write down five jokes, anecdotes,
puns, rhimes or "cracks" about the war.
     Please use the paper I am passing out -- one sheet apiece.  (Ordinary
typewriter paper.)  We are asked not to write our names but to indicate
the class in High School (or college) Freshman, Sophomore, Junior
or Senior, and to indicate also our race and sex.  Will you please write 
in a box at top of the page:  High School (or college) Freshman, or 
High School (or college) Junior or whatever class you are in, followed
by the word Negro.  (Illustrate on board,) and either male or female.
     To insure your frankness, I shall not read any of the papers nor
will anyone else here, so you may be sure you will not be personally
identified.  In fact, as soon as the papers are handed in I shall seal
them up in this envelope and mail them.  Please do not put your name on
the papers.
     Now what kind of stories or "cracks" should we write?  Any kind
of story, joke, pun, toast, or jingle about the war.  The limit is five.  
Choose the five which most impress you (the underlined words slowly and
emphatically,) which you have heard, not seen in print or picture (or, if
you have both heard and seen it, which you have heard first.)  A story may
be impressive for any number of reasons:  because you like it, or because
you don't like it, because it is amusing, because it is true, because it
is unfair, etc., or any combination of these and other reasons.  Some of
                                                                                                                                    Folder 113

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.