[*226*]

Topeka - Wednesday, August 12, 1942

"There seems to be a great deal of confusion among government people right now. 
A lot of people seem to have different ideas what to do or what is being 
done and no one seems to know what is right."

"If this war should keep on another four or five years I'm wondering if we might 
not end up with some form of dictatorship."

"The Russians are still losing ground. It looks like nothing can stop that 
Nazi war machine."

"The cost of living has gone up and the only people making any more money are [*7a*] 
the war workers. Our merchants here haven't had any great increase in business."

"This guy Kaiser is showing 'em how,--he is really the man of the moment. He 
is an opportunist and fits beautifully into the type of mad economy we have now. 
He wouldn't be worth a damn in a different set-up, but he really is head man [*7b*] 
now. I'd like to see them put him in charge of all production - in Nelsons' job."

Topeka, Kansas - Thursday, August 13, 1942

"I would like to see a well organized and extensive propaganda campaign in 
this country. People do not know what we are fighting for. For instance, some of 
these young officers are told that they are fighting to preserve what they had 
before the war started.  Before the war started, Before the war started they had no job, or a poor 
scale of living, and now as army officers they have a good job and personal [*3-1*] 
power and a respected position. Why would they want to fight to get back to 
what they formerly had before the war. We need to make more effort to build 
up some emotionalism around this war. People need more information about what we are doing and why."

"I can't get any good typists and stenographers. The government and these war 
plants have taken all the experienced help around here."

"They are going to call me in the draft almost any day now. I'm going with the 
idea that this war may last ten or fifteen years. I don't expect to see my wife 
after I get in and I'll be an old man when I get out."

"We have to win this war. We are in it up to our ears and whatever it takes we 
have to win it."

"There will be a vastly changed economy after this war is over. If it goes on 
for four or five years we may see several different types of economy and then 
a military regime for years to come. Peace can only be maintained by proper 
policing. In this country we are apt to come out with some very different 
theories of government at the end of the war. If we just reach a point of
exhaustion and hostilities cease without our define winning of the war we 
may have an extended period of world police work to do that will give us a 
military government entirely different from anything we have had in this 
country before.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.