May 7, 1936

Dr. Waldo G. Leland
American Council of Learned Societies
Washington, D. C.

My dear Dr. Leland:

Responding to your telephone call of yesterday, advising me that the Carnegie
Corporation has sought the opinion of the Council on the application of Dr. John
A. Lomax for a continuation of the great covering the expenses of his quest for
material to be added to the Archive of American Folk-Song in the Library of
Congress, I take pleasure in sending you the following comment:

We are glad to certify that the results of this quest, in terms of recordings
actually deposited, seem to us an important contribution to the Archive from
a field, in itself important, which Dr. Lomax, both from previous experience and
present contacts, is especially competent to explore. To date, after two successive
grants in 1934 and 1935, Dr. Lomax has sent in, from the southeastern
states and the Bahamas, 641 recordings. Just how much remains to be done in this
territory we cannot undertake our estimate. It is rather for Dr. Lomax to outline
the prospects, as he sees them, of securing further significant material in this
region.

Disposed to this extent the application of Dr. Lomax, we think it
not inappropriate to enumerate the conditions which we believe essential to the
development of a comprehensive and representative folk-song archive in the Library
of Congress. If the project is to function effectively and to become, as it should,
the national center for the concentration, preservation, and the study of folk and
primitive music, its collections ought not to be drawn from any one aea or due to
the activity, especially the subsidised activity of any one individual, no matter
how competent. On the contrary, they ought, in large to consist of existing
materials drawn in by active effort from the center, which should, then, be in a
position to encourage and direct the efforts of local groups by placing at their
disposal apparatus and information, developing and disseminating its own collections,
in the meantime, through re-recordings and exchange. Not until it is in a
position to do these things will teh Archive be able to live up to the endorsement
given it last year by the Modern Language Association and, more recently, by
the American Society for Comparative Musicology.

If the above is sound, it follows that to concentrate collecting activity in
one area, through repeated grants to one individual, though it may for a time be
advantageous, will result eventually in a one-sided contribution to the Archive.

Faithfully yours,

Chief, Division of Music
OS
r

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.