-2-
the dead animals and spread the skins out to dry, the others packed the hides of
those recently killed and loaded them into the wagons.
"Two to shoot, four to skin, one to cook," says an old chronicle. Long years
afterwards Charles Goodnight, a noted Texas cattleman, raised buffalo for food. He
is said to have sold a single carcass for $350.00.
In passing, it might be said that years afterward other men came through the
same territory with other wagons, collected the bones of the buffalo, bleached white
by wind and rain and years of sunshine. They made more money selling these bones
for fertilizers than had been obtained from the hides. In their migrations from
North to South buffalo moved in enormous herds. Reaching the swift flowing Arkansas
river, legends say, the millions of beasts drank the river dry. "For five days,
says a frontiersman," we had ridden through and camped in a mobile sea of buffalo."
Another traveller says, "For seven miles from the Arkansas River back to the foothills
was a living mass of buffalo, pressing in countless thousands upon each other.
Migration of millions of prime animals--no young or old--from the Indian Territory
to the Hudson Bay basin where the winter killed many."
The old hunter went on to tell the story of a group of buffalo hunters that he
had led from Jacksboro, Texas, to that region of Texas far beyond the Pease River.
The hunt lasted for several months.
The plains were dry and parched. The party fought sandstorms, flies, mosquitoes,
bedbugs, and wolves. Even the Indians watched to pick them off from near-by Mexico.
At the close of the season, the manager of the outfit, who had been hauling the
hides to the nearest market, announced to the men as they broke camp for the trip
home that he had lost money on the enterprise and could not pay them any wages.
They were naturally disappointed. They argued the question with him. He had no
money to pay them and gave them no hope, that he would ever be able to square the
account with them.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.