Alan Lomax,
Archive or American Folk Song, 
June 18, 1938.

fights and a great deal of love making. Into
this picture the whole pattern of back-country speech
and culture can be woven and I predict that all of New
York will come to the break-down house to learn really
how to square dance and sing mountain ballads.

2) The Negro Honky-Tonk - The Negro honky-tonk
occupies in the Negro community a position similar to
that of the break-down in the mountains. It also is
outside the pale of respectability and is the scene of
riotous gaiety; the place where oppressed Negro
laborer comes to drown his sorrows and spend his weekly
wages, where the gambling shark comes hunting for his 
victim, where the Negro musician finds his audience.
 
Dramatic potentialities of the honky-tonk are
so manifold that it is hard to do more here than to
sketch them very badly, for in the social theater the
tragedy and triumph of Negro culture is intensified and
dramatized. One could portray there the life cycle of
a large group of Negroes in the South: Saturday night, 
pay-day night, crap shooting, dancing, boogy-woogy piano
playing, guitar picking, blues singing, ballad making
and brawls bringing on a Sunday in jail and a Monday in
the chain gang with work songs and racial bitterness put
to rhythm and back again on Saturday night to more dangerous
merry making in the honky-tonk.

Here again, the development of Negro music from
cornfield blues through its contact with ragtime and
its development of jazz could be effectively and authentically 
told. It was in the honky-tonk that swing
began and the New York audience could be shown the 
fashion that blues tunes and blues techniques were taken
over by the trumpet player, the clarinetist and the pianist
in the first days of jam sessions.

The honky-tonk house itself should be physically
different than the mountain break-down concession. I
see it as an ordinary stage, except that this stage should
slope onto a dance floor at the rear of which the audience
should find tables and, as usual, the food and drinks that
fits the honky-tonk theme.

In regard to all folk places of the type described
above, I suggest that the final form of the dramas presented
in them should grow out of the casts, themselves.

-4-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.