Adventures

IN CHICAGO  1917-

Back in 1917, just as the United States entered the World War, a local
political explosion of the University of Texas campus catapulted me from the
State. James E. Ferguson, the new Governor, didn't like me. I landed in
Chicago with my family and household goods, and exile from all that I held dear,-
the hills and prairies I loved, my half-paid-for home in Austin, Texas, the
University of Texas that I had served since the day following my graduation in 1897.
I had come to Chicago to work for the rich investment banking house
of Lee, Higginson & Company, many of whose employees had recently joined the
United States Army or Navy. Barrett Wendell, Jr., of the firm, whose father
had taught me in Harvard, had taught me in Harvard, had offered me a salary
almost twice as large as I had earned at the University of Texas, "as much as
the Governor of Texas gets", chortled my children, Shirley and John and Alan.
I knew nothing of high finance, I know even less today. At that time I don't
think I could have defined accurately the difference between a stock and a bond.
My ignorance made me painfully self-conscious and unhappy. I didn't want money
that I had not earned, and I soon discovered that I possessed no immediate
earning capacity. Just before Christmas, after I had begun work September 1, 1917,
I found on my desk one morning an envelope containing four hundred dollar bills,
crisp and brand new, together with a letter from the partners thanking me for my
services, saying the money was my part of the year's bonus to employees. Up to
that time I had probably not earned for the firm half that amount. Some generosity
humiliated and shamed me. I laid the money on the desk of Charley Schweppe,
the senior Chicago partner, and told him I couldn't accept a bonus that I didn't
deserve it. He listened patiently to my halting, embarrassed explanation and
then said:

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.