July 18, 1938

Mrs. Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge
2400 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mrs. Coolidge:

I must ask your pardon for an enforced delay in acknowledging
your last letter due to a thousand conflicts of provisional dates and
other circumstances affecting the Fair music program for 1939. I did not
want to write you until I had something clearly arranged to propose in
taking advantage of your magnificent offer of nine chamber music programs
by the Coolidge Quartet.

Your last letter convinces me that the apprehension I had of
echoing events by the San Francisco Fair was beside the mark, and I can
well understand the problem on your hand of making any changes in the
repertory that the Coolidge Quartet plans for next season.

The New York World's Fair of 1939 will be most happy and grateful 
to accept the programs that you offer.

If it meets with your approval, I suggest that these concerts
be morning concerts given at 11 o'clock in the Music Building of the Fair
on Tuesday and Friday mornings from August 22 to September 8 inclusive,
and that the last three concerts be given on the mornings of Monday, September 11, Wednesday September 13, and Friday September 15. My reason
for wanting three of these concerts in the week of September 11th is that
we expect a Congress of Musicology at the Fair during that week, when the
foremost musicologists from Europe as well as from America are expected
to be present, and I want as rich and varied programs as possible to interest
these gentlemen, as well as our Fair public on that occasion. I think
I shall be able to alternate with the quartet performances some performances
on the chamber music scale of old and new choral compositions. If my plans
further develop for this particular part of the Fair as I hope they will,
we shall also have in the first half of September some concerts by the League of Composers, and I may be able to arrange before I finish, a Festival
of the International Society for Contemporary Music to take place in
New York.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.