Chief of the Music 
Mr. Mearns
July 16, 1942

The proposed schedule of allotments for 1942-1943 contains an item of $2,000
for the Archive of American Folk-Song. In 1941-1942, the Music Division was
allotted $15,000 for recording in general so that the proposed allotment would 
practically eliminate recording from the Division's list of activities. I believe
this cut to be excessive and shall attempt to justify this belief by a description
of the types of recording activities which seem to me important during the war
period.

1. The recording of radio speeches by high government officials as well as
certain war broadcasts is an exceedingly important form of historic documentation.
As far as I can tell, no government agency is attempting to record this material
in systematic fashion. The National Archives is prevented by law from making any
original recordings and must rely entirely on gifts from radio stations, a procedure
which will hardly produce a representative collection. 

2. During the past six months, it has become increasingly apparent that the
men in the armed services are creating a significant body of songs of a folk and
popular nature which is not receiving the attention it deserves. It has been my 
hope that the Library would play an important role in the preservation of such
material by sending recording expeditions to the military and naval posts. These
records would not only be of historical significance but the Army might be interested
in disseminating copies of them for purposes of morale. 

3. I am not inclined to allow the Archive of American Folk-Song to adhere
to its past policy in organizing recording expeditions, for the duration of the
war. Such expeditions should now be limited to the acquisition of material directly
connected with war projects. For instance, we expect another appropriation from the 
Inter-Departmental Committee for the preparation of albums of phonograph records
for exchange with Latin American institutions and although we already have enough
material for dozens of albums, it may prove advisable to record a few new ones for
this purpose. 

For the general purposes outlined above and for the occasional purchase of
albums of phonograph records not obtainable as gifts, I believe that a sum of about
$12,000 will be necessary. I realize, however, that with reduced appropriations 
it may not seem advisable to set the full sum at the moment. I should like
to recommend, therefore, that an allotment of $3,000 be made for the documentary
recording outlined in 1 above and for occasional purchases of phonograph records
but at the same time I should like to express the hope that I shall be allowed to 
make recommendations for the other projects described above to be charged to the general funds available to the Librarian and that such recommendations will be 
favorably considered.

Respectfully submitted,
Haold Spivacke
Chief, Division of Music

HS
mr

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.