I remember one night when I lay watching the flickering cowboy camp-fire across the branch, I saw a sudden flash of flame,followed quickly by the crack of a pistol. I covered my head in fright. Early the next morning the cattle and the cowboys moved on over the brushy hills, Montana bound. Later in the day my brothers and I visited the deserted camp. Nearby under a cluster of liveoaks we found a mound of fresh earth. A rough pine board had been stuck into one end of the mound. On it was scrawled in lead pencil, "Pete Dennis, Cowboy." Later the story of the tragedy sifted back. While at supper,one of the cowboys had applied a vile epithet to another. His mate dashed a cup of hot coffee into his face and ran. He moved too slowly. The shot I had heard ended the life of another rough rider of the plains.
"In a narrow grave just six by three,
They buried him there on the lone prairie."
And that was the end: no investigation; no identification; no coroner's inquest. Pete had one sincere mourner. A barefoot boy would often stand by his shallow grave and wonder.
A few years later Bob Hanna,a singing cowboy, rode into my life. Early in the spring of the year Bob would drift to the Abilene country farther west to help through the breeding season and in the big round-ups; then he would follow a herd of longhorn steers from Texas to Dodge City,Kansas, where cattle sellers and cattle buy-ers met. In December,back to Bosque County for the winter months would come Bob Hanna along with his lively crew of cowboy companions. Bob was always the best-dressed man in the bunch. His high-heeled,knee-length boots were an inch or so taller than those of his companions,the tops more elaborately decorated with colored thread sewn into graceful figures in front and on the sides just below his boot straps. He wore bells on his spurs which he rarely took off,jingling to the time of some cowboy song that he was usually whistling or singing. All his clothing was new-- heavy light-colored trousers,a figured flannel shirt, around his neck a bright colored silk handkerchief.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.