just putting up a bluff . . . continued
"I don't like to say this . . but I've never liked Russia . . and while
I feel that her people are sincere and that they have helped this country so far
. . . there is no questions but that she would turn on us as so on as possible." (Penna.)

Russia won't lose
"From a truly authentic source I heard today that we can stop worrying
about Russia. The English have a million men hidden in the Caucasus ready to
trap the Germans." (Texas)

"Russia can hold out indefinitely -- recapturing in the winters what
Germany has taken in the summer." (Colorado)

if Russia loses so will we
"If the Russians are beaten we will be outnumbered two or three to one,
if you don't believe it, read Life." (Massachusetts)

Length of War

"When the war started I thought it would end in six months but now after
attending the air-raid warden school I doubt if it is over in ten years." (Colorado)

"No one will know in advance when the war will end. It will end very
suddenly like it did in World War I." (Colorado)

"The war will be over within a year from now." (Colorado)

"The war will probably last for at least 5 years." (New York)

Axis

Germany
"Germany has 18,000 transport planes which will carry 1,000,000 men." (Colorado)

"Hitler isn't planning to crush Russia. He'll lie low when he gets the
oil fields he wants." (Washington)

"By the first of the year the population of Greece will be half gone. 
Germany is deliberately starving the people to death. She's probably doing it to
all the conquered countries." (Pennsylvania)

Japan
"The Japs got better planes than we have. They got more sense than white
people" (Tennessee)

"When the Japs and Germans capture Negroes -- they don't treat them as bad
[and] as they treat white Americans." (Tennessee)

"The Indians are going to fight with the Japs. The Japs are gonna give
them arms because this is really a race war." (Tennessee)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.