country school yard.  To the boy or girl brought up on the English Mother
Goose, these American folk rhymes will seem of the same nature--jolly and
learnable.

San Antonio Evening News--A store of memories who will read the book aloud;
diversion for the child listener, who will find the verses as much alive as
those in the classic Mother Goose.  One hopes to see and hear more of the
American Mother Goose.

Times, El Paso, Tex.--A collection of maxims and verses that will carry the
reader instantly back to the days of his childhood.

Record, Philadelphia--Important folk-lore.

Tom Collins in Kansas City Journal Post--Ray Wood has done the American
people the distinct service of being the modern American Mother goose.  For
doing his fine book he deserves all the red letter days he can get.

Transcript, Boston---You will be surprised that America has produced such
folklore.  Ask your young people to let you see it, too.

Daily News--Galveston, Tex.---Different from the English Mother Goose in
that it is presented with a distinctly American feel and flavor.

Observer, Raleigh, N.C.--Mr. Wood has done a fine job of collecting and
presentation.  The test of a book for children is whether children like it.
We tried this one out on our three-year-old daughter and the verdict is
thumbs up.

Saturday Review of Literature--Supposedly young but really for all.  Valuable
folk-lore, delightful drawings.

Austin, Tex. American-Statesman--For proof of its worth, all you have to do
is to start reading it.

Dayton, O. Herald--The young should be instructed in these rhymes, which
are not contained in the English Mother Goose.

St. Louis Post-Dispatch--
     Good-night, sleep tight
     Don't let the mosquitoes bite.
We didn't learn it that way up our fork of the creek.  Has Mr. Wood's
otherwise excellent memory played him false or can it be that down in
Arkansas the version is as sissified as that.

Dobbs-Ferry N.Y. Sentinel--As genuinely American as Buckwheat cakes.

Secondary Education--Real American tang and flavor.

American Mercury--As American as the Log cabin and the catfish.  They will
appeal to many mature spirits as well as to the smaller fry.  The essence of
homespun frontier life.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.