LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RECEIVED
APR1 1937
SECRETARY'S OFFICE

Monday, March 29th, 
Box A-32,
Port-au-Prince.

THE LIBRARIAN

Dr. Herbert Putnam,
Library of Congress,
Washington, D/C..

Dear Dr. Putnam, 

The American Minister has just advised me as follows in regard to the
importation of the camera and film the Library has sent me:

1) That it was a mistake on my part not to have brought the camera
with me when I came and not to have arranged the whole matter in
advance through the state department.

2) That, as the case stands, a letter must go to the state depart-
ment stating: why a series of movies is an essential supplement to
the scientific study of Haitian folk-music that I have already record-
ed: what the camera will be used for : that the Library will guarantee
that none of the photographed material will be published (if the Hait-
ian foreign office so desires) or that any part of it be not published.

3) That the state department be requested to advise the American
Minister at once and ask the Haitian foreign office to admit the
camera and film duty free and to  make all necessary arrangements
with the Haitian department of Interior for the use of the camera
in Haiti. 

Everyone is very discouraging, but this is a country where people
like to multiply difficulties to keep from moving from their chairs.
As I said in my Saturday's letter, Dr. Leon had let me understand
that there would be no difficulty in regard to the camera here, but
that in the interval between our two conversations he seems to have
changed his mind completely.

The camera will be used: 1) To photograph musical instruments and
how they are played, 2) to photograph singers in the act of singing,
3) to photograph dances.

All the recent material in regard to the scientific study of music
of whatever kind, but most particularity of folk and primitive music,
stresses the necessity of moving pictures as supplementary to 
phonographic recordings. In the first place, unless, the collector
learns to play every instrument that he records it is impossible
to understand the origin or the reason for certain rhythmic and
melodic peculiarities of exotic musical instruments, unless one
can watch in detail the techniques of their performers. For example
unless one has a film of how the hands are used on the drums here
it will be impossible to understand how the different tones are

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.