 David S. Pruitt,                                                                                             Horowitz           
Manager - 40                  FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY
                                          Washington (Austin, Texas) 8/8/42
                               Bureau of Old Ale and survivors insurance 

Notes:

This is the (?) I thought suggesting for the (?) - information campaign
- Sue

Quillen's Editorial                                             Austin American August 7, 1942

THE BEST SERVANTS OF THE GESTAPO ARE FREE MEN NOT ON THE PAY ROLL

There are distant and hidden things that
all persons of good sense can know beyond
doubt by the process of reasoning.

For example, they know that shrewd
leaders of the gestapo have issued the fol-
lowing orders, or similar ones, to those who
are training men for sabotage in America.

"The American passion for publicity has
once more served us well by pointing out
our mistakes, and hereafter our saboteurs
must be taught to avoid these blunders.

"They must not attempt to bribe members 
of the coast guard. These men will accept 
the money in apparent good faith, but they 
cannot be trusted.

"Our saboteurs must not be soft. The four
accosted by a lone coast guard on the beach
might have lived to carry out their mission
if they had killed him. They were fooled by
his apparent stupidity and let him live. It
was a blunder that must not be repeated.

"Saboteurs who smoke must be provided
with American cigarettes. The four stupid
ones who were fooled by the coast guard
made the additional and inexcusable blun-
der of dropping butts of German cigarettes
on the beach. We are especially grateful
to the Americas for calling our attention
to this mistake. We shall be more careful
hereafter.

"Saboteurs who are caught must give their 
correct names. When these are made public
by the simple Americans, we know which
units must be replaced in order to have
their objectives achieved. And since all cap-
tures are promptly reported, we know
which units escaped capture and therefore
which methods of landing are most success-
ful.

"We need not fear America's counter-
espionage or doubt the good faith or dis-
cretion of our agents living in America. If
the method of capturing our saboteurs had 
been kept secret, we would have had reason
to believe that the FBI knows our secrets
or that some of our agents are not to be 
trusted. Such suspicions would have handi-
capped our work. But since the Americans
kindly revealed all details of the capture
we know it was largely accidental and we
have nothing to fear if we use ordinary dis-
cretion.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.