What is Happening to the Federal Writers' project

Direction has a particular interest in the Writer's Project because we have published
two collections and many short pieces of creative work by Federal Writers, of 
high literary excellence and originality.  Our September issue of such work received
warm response and a flood of orders.  But already, three young writers represented
here, have been dismissed, along with eighty others, for no apparent reason and in
spite of the fact that they were given written assurances by Major Battley, assistant
to Col. Somervell, that no more employees would be dismissed... what is happening
to the Federal Writers' Project?  Read the story of an ex-supervisor of the N. Y .
Project on page 21.

Refugees for Sale

Our cover this month symbolizes the plight of thousands of refugees kept behind
wire in concentration camps.  President Roosevelt, addressing the inter-governmental
committee on political refugees recently, points out that 20 million people may become
refugees before the European War ends, and some long-range plan must be
worked out "if world order, which rests on security of the Individual, is to be restored."
He quoted these words written on the Statue of Liberty:  "Let us lift a lamp
beside new golden doors, and build refuges for the tired, for the poor, for the
huddled masses longing to be free."  See article, page 4. 

Direction
Contents  November, 1939  Vol. 2, No. 7
Blitzkrieg Among the Intellectuals
George Seldes 1
Embargo
Kenneth Burke  2
Refugees for Sale
Douglas Jacobs 4
Easter Wine
Pietro di Donato  7
Inside Germany Reports
Released by Friends of German Freedom  8
A Little Package of Tea
F. C. Weiskopf  9
Experiment at Highlander
Lillian Barnard Gilkes   10
Painting and Sculpture at the A.C.A. Gallery  12-13
Art
Jerome Klein  14
Stage
John W. Gassner  15
Film  
Harold Leonard  17
Books
Henry Hart  18
Cultural Front  20
Protest - By an ex-Supervisor of the
Federal Writers' Project  21
Editors
W. L River
William Gropper
Thomas Cochran
M. Tjader Harris

Direction:   Published monthly at Darien, Conn.
Copyright 1939 by Direction
Entered as second-class matter, September 1, 1939, at the
Post Office of Darien, Conn. under the Act of March 3.
1879.  Single copies.  15c. subscription price $1.50 a year,
$1.00 for 8 months.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.