- X 1 -

OFFICIAL CHINESE BROADCASTS

GEN. CHIANG EMPHASIZES RESPONSIBILITY

Chungking reports (Nov. 1, 10:00 a.m. EWT) in English to China that Gen.
Chiang Kai-shek, in his speech to the People's Political Council, says:
"We must inspire our countrymen to pursue the duties of comradeship until
the final victory is won, accelerating the atmosphere of growing patriotism.
One of the chief matters for gratification recently is the abolition of
the (extraterritorial) treaties. I wish to express the importance of the
fact that Britain and the U.S. have done this with sincerity.

Equality Achieved--"I believe the thing of the moment is how we achieved
equality with other nations, liberated from the shackles which have bound us
for the last 100 years. The battle of the republic of Dr. Sun Yat-sen made
it a principle to achieve (equality). The vindication of our national honor
has been the only demand of the Chinese people. Having achieved this equality
we are now responsible, and no difficulties or obstacles must deter us from
our objective. After the war we must collaborate with everyone to achieve
world order.

World Liberation--"China is the most aged of the Asiatic countries. We have
entered this war with not one selfish purpose but for the liberation of the
world. It is our duty to follow the dictates of righteousness and coordination.
Our interests must have the indivisibility of our common cause. We cannot
maintain that complacency we have so often adopted in the past. We must make
ourselves cultivate more political and cultural elements. We have now the
status we have acquired through 5 years of war."

Favorable Situation--General Chiang continues: "The recent war situation is
more favorable that at any other time. The problems of the future are many.
In a country afflicted with so many maladies as ours, it will not be easy to
rejuvenate it. We must not allow any particular circumstances to affect the
reconstruction of our nation. These are the days when the nation's hopes
are high. We will all strive to do our utmost in service."

GENERAL LIU RECOUNTS JAP ATROCITIES

"Recounting some Japanese excesses, Gen. Liu Chien-hsu, Governor of Fukien, said
that the Japanese have been known to throw dead bodies of civilians into the
river, and have also stuffed mangled bodies, which they hacked into pieces, into
a big jar," Chungking (CENTRAL NEWS), in an English-language broadcast to the
world audience, reports (Oct. 31, ll:13 a.m. EWT). "The Governor said that
the Japanese ruthlessness indicates that they have decided to use terroristic
methods in order to cow inhabitants into submission. However, he asserted that
that the crimes committed by the Japanese would merely intensify the Chinese
hatred.

100,000 Destitute--"Houses within a radius of 15 kilometers of (Wushan), a
railway, highway, and waterway center in eastern Kiangai, were almost completely
razed, and several thousand civilians in the district were massacred. More

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.