1. She had been sabotaged at her dock.
2. She had been set afire.
3. She was loading ammunition and had exploded.

Other rumors related to her crew.  Typical of these were the following:
1. She was manned by Negro sailors.
2. All her officers were Jews.
3. None of the officers or sailors were Jews.

Some two weeks after her arrival, she set forth in broad daylight.  Her
departure roughly coincided with the first city-wide blackout of Boston, giving
rise to the following story:

1. The blackout had been called for the express purpose of permitting the
Queen Mary to slip out of the Harbor.

In the week following her departure a good many rumors appeared. The
following is a typical crop:

1. Negro troops had to be driven aboard the Queen Mary when she left. They
mutinied and white troops had to be called in.

2. As the Queen Mary left, troops aboard broke into a song the words of
which were, "We are going to get Hitler and when we get back we are
going to get the Jews,"

3. She was carrying 15,000, 20,000, 50,000 troops.

4. All of the troops loaded in Boston were Negroes.

5. She had sunk with all lives lost.

6. She set sail for England, Ireland, Iceland, Africa, Near East, Australia.

7.  She was heavily loaded with ammunition, carried almost no troops.

The Provincetown Episode

On the 15th of June a ship was sunk off Provincetown, with a small number of
American Troops aboard.  On the 23rd of the month the Navy issued a statement
regarding the sinking, but failed to mention the time or place.  Casualties were
placed at about 80, survivors at an equal number.  On the 12th of July, almost a
month after the sinking, the name of the place of the sinking, Provincetown, was
released along with an account of the work of Civilian Defense units.  Since
there were many witnesses to the bringing in of survivors and dead, stories soon
spread.  The following are a few of the versions reported:

1. 15,000 troops lost off Provincetown.
2. The entire Cape under martial law and great numbers of bodies of soldiers
washing ashore.
3. The bodies of 40, 120, 200 nurses washed ashore.
4. All hospitals and hotels in Provincetown filled with wounded.

-2-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.