-2-
Adventures

"John Lomax, Lee, Higginson and Company think they know how to run
their own business. You take that money and go back to work." A few days
afterwards he brought his wife from their Gold Coast home in Lake Forest to
visit us in our rented cottage in Highland Park. There are some other types of
millionaires.
But I found little happiness in the money-grubbing toil of State
Street. The excited barkings of brokers in the Stock and Grain Exchanges where I
sometimes loitered resembled the yapping of coyotes. I had little sympathy for
this sort of warfare. My life seemed drab and desolate. The streets were cold,
inhospitable. On the corners the policemen's whistle in the murky, wintry darkness
sounded like the cry of screech owls, dismal and forbidding. At times
even now I seem to hear those shrill whistles and my heart again turns cold.
For me Chicago held one bright spot- the home of Tom Peete Cross, one
time fellow student at Harvard, a Virginian with a lovely wife and two lovelier
daughters. As a student of Irish literature he knew ballads and folk songs
scientifically. He cheered me on in my work as a collector. Almost every year
we had met at the annual sessions of the Modern Language Association where a
group of like minds would sing together some of my latest finds. Through Tom
Peete Cross I met Lloyd Lewis, Alfred MacArthur and Carl Sandburg. These four
men changed the color of my existness as a high financier. Their friendship
and sympathetic attitude kept alive my interest in folk stuff, even amidst the
deadening influence of the stock ticker. We met informally now and then and
swapped songs.
Carl Sandburg came out to see me on a holiday, taking away with him
the "Letters of Harry Peyton Steger", friend and class-mate of University days,
the literary executor of O. Henry. Few know that the "H.PS." signed to the
Introduction of the thirteenth and last volume of the definitive Peyton of O.
Henry are the initials of that inimitable and eternally lovely boy, Harry Peyton

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.