87.

4  Next time I tell you goin' take your life,
Wo, Eadie, go way;
Next time, I tell you goin' take your life,
Wo, Eadie, go way.

"Now this here is a blues. You never heard a white man could sing the
blues in your life, have you? You know the reason why? They don't have
them. Blues was composed up by the Negro people when they was under
slavery. They was worried.
"When you lie down at night sometime, it ain't too hot and it ain't too
cold, but you turning from side to side. What's the matter? Blues got you.
When you get up in the morning, the blues is walkin' round your bed. You
may have a mother and a father and a sister and a brother and maybe a girl
friend, and none of them ain't done you nothin'. Anyhow you don't want
no talk out of 'em. What's the matter with you? The blues got you."

"The blues are made by working people, both Negroes and whites, when
they have a lot of problems to solve about their work, when their wages are
low and they don't have no way to exist hardly and they don't know which
way to turn and what to do, whenever they're low in spirit and actually
feeling blue.
"I used to hear a bunch of colored boys that belonged to an old colored
preacher by the name of Steve Crews that lived right over from us. They
was next-door neighbors but they lived just across the track--the mining
track, that is. I'd rather hear them sing that 'Lordy, Lordy Blues' than eat."
--AUNT MOLLY JACKSON.

I BEEN A BAD, BAD GIRL

If the Bessie Smith enthusiasts could hear Ozella Jones or some other
clear-voiced Sothern Negro girl sing the blues, they might, we feel, soon
forget their idol with her brassbound, music-hall throat. The blues, sung
by an unspoiled singer in the South, sung without the binding restrictions
of conventional piano accompaniment or orchestral arrangement, grow up
like a wild flowering vine in the woods. Their unpredictable, incalculably
tender melody bends and then swings and shivers with the lines like a reed
moving in the wind. The blues then shows clearly their country origin, their
family connection with the "holler."

MUSIC--I Been a Bad, Bad Girl

1 I been a bad, bad girl, wouldn' treat nobody right,
I been a bad, bad girl, wouldn' treat nobody right
They want to give me thirty-five years, some one wanted to take my life.

2  Judge, please don't kill me, I won't be bad no mo',
Judge, please don't kill me, I won't be bad no mo',
I'll listen to ev'rybody, something I never done befo'.

3 Now I'm so sorry, even the day I was born,
Now I'm so sorry, even the day I was born,
I want to say to all you bad fellows that you are in the wrong.

4  I'm sittin' here in prison with my black cap on,
I'm sittin' here in prison with my black cap on,
Boys, remember this even when I am gone.

5  Now, I'm so sorry, etc.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.