Man's world

And it's the ones that have the least that count their blessin's the oftenest, I guess. Maybe they're easier to count, when there aren't so many of 'em. 

SARA.....But where are there any blessings to count in a life like that?

G'MA.....Well, Alvire's got awful cute, curly-headed children an' I've heard her say, many's the time, that Joe was awful kind to them and that he's awful pleasant and sweet tempered to her.

SARA.....Humph! He should be. She does all the work. What about the others? Lulu Jones doing all the chores while he lay in bed.

G'MA.....Poor Lulu. She was raised up by a cross, ugly father who beat her and she thought she had a good house to live in and he was only middling cross to her.

SARA.....Oh dear! What a dull life to think of -- and what about poor Lizzie Hunter slaving all her life and never even getting to buy a dress. Did she count her blessings, too?

G'MA.....Rueben died and left Lizzie mightly well-fixed. And she used to sit and rock and talk about how good he was to her. I think she actually hated the thought of having to buy herself a pair of shoes.

SARA.....(Laughing) Grandma, you're giving me a regular sermon. You have them all well satisfied with life except Almira. What were her blessings?

G'MA.....Well, there was something awful pleasant about him. He was the most kind-hearted and generous man you ever saw. Everybody liked him and he was awful good to Almira--helping her around the house and takin' care of the children. He was an awful smart worker, too.

SARA.....(Slowly) I see what you mean, Grandma. Even the men that seem to be the worst have some good in them. So their wives don't have as hard a time as it seems, is that it?

G'MA.....Yes, dearie, that's it.

SARA.....But it's still a man's world, isn't it?

G'MA.....Yes, mebbe so. But I've noticed that a wise woman can manage most any man--if she puts her mind to it.

(TELEPHONE RINGS)

G'MA.....Just answer that, will you, dearie?

SARA....(Answering telephone) Hello! Yes, oh hello Tom.--Yes, I'm over at Grandma's.----You were worried? What about, silly? Didn't know what happened to me?-------What? What did you say, Tom?----You are a nice boy-----I'll be right home-------Goodbye, honey.
(TURNS TO GRANDMA) (GAILY) Grandma, he brought home fresh strawberries and he says he'll have supper all ready when I get home so that he can go to hear a speaker at the Farmers Union Hall tonight. I must run. Oh, it's fun---being married, Grandma. Bye (EXIT)

G'MA.....(Rocking and smiling) A man's world, all right--but who wants to be a man when it's so much more fun to be a woman.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.