My Day

ELEANOR ROOSEVELT

WASHINGTON, Friday.

We had a very jolly evening at supper on my
cottage porch. I was glad that our son, Franklin,
Jr., who is gaining a little experience in
Judge John Mack's law office, is finding actual
contact with realities more interesting than
studying theories out of books.

We all know one needs theory, but it is a
help to obtain an actual contact that proves
the value of putting in several years of study.

It gives one a feeling that some day one
will enjoy working on real problems and
handling human beings and that the years
of preparations were not wasted.

Adrian J. Dornbush, from Washington, spent
the night with us. Two friends, Roger Brett
and Miss Jane Brett, came up from Beacon
for supper, as did the two Morgenthau boys.

Royal Records Played

Everyone intended to have a swim before
supper, but only two of us succeeded, for rain
was threatening by the time all the boys had
arrived.

After supper Mr. Dornbush played us the
records which he made of some of the music
given at the White House the night the King
and the Queen were with us.

We all enjoyed the music, especially the
ballad of the soldier and the lady and Alan
Lomax's rendering of a cowboy song which
tells of "winning his true love across the Red
River."

Miss Thompson and I left fairly early this
morning for New York city, stopped to do
some errands and went down to our little
apartment. There two gentlemen from Harding
College, in Arkansas, came in to see me
at the request of their Congressman.

I will tell you a little more about this college
some day in the future, for it seems to
me to promise a real solution to some of the
educational difficulties which beset a great
number of the younger generation today.

Not Too Much for Education

I was very much interested to see by the
morning press that Assemblyman Moffat has
served notice he will introduce a bill when
the special session of the New York Legislature
reconvenes to prevent the threatened
closing of kindergartens and night schools in
New York city.

We have, of course, for a long time in New
York State felt that we were paying a great
deal for education, and in consequence we
patted ourselves on the back for being far in
advance of many other States.

I question if today we spend more in proportion
to our State income and give our children
much better opportunities than do some
other States. I am perfectly sure, however,
that curtailing educational opportunities is
not wise economy, nor should the salaries of
teachers be lowered.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.