Together they visited penitentiaries and prison camps and heard hundreds
of songs hitherto unknown to the folklorist. These and later journeys
resulted in the publication of American Ballads and Folk Songs, and
Our Singing Country. Alan Lomax's work has taken him to most parts 
of the United States and to the West Indies. For some years he has
been Assistant in Charge of the rapidly growing Archive of American
Folk-Song at the Library of Congress. His programs of folk music
have attracted wide attention and have been heard by multitudes over
the radio.

John Jacob Niles is both student and performer of folk music. With
a solid conservatory training in music he brought to his task a more
adequate equipment than that possessed by most folksong collectors.
He has been unusually successful in finding interesting material and in
learning to perform it. He is a remarkably skilled player of the dulcimer
on which he accompanies his songs. As lecturer and singer he has
become increasingly popular, especially before university audiences. He
is frequently heard on the radio, and he has made several albums of
commercial recordings.

George Herzog, well known musicologist of Columbia University,
was born in Budapest and received his early education there in the
Royal Academy of Music. In Germany he studied under von Hornbostel,
and later brought to America the tradition of excellence in
musicological studies received from the eminent recorder and student
of primitive music. After receiving his doctorate at Columbia he
served in the Anthropology Departments at Chicago and Yale. He was
a Guggenheim Research Fellow in 1935 and was a member of the
University of Chicago Expedition to Liberia. Though he has done
field work in Africa, among the American Indians, and among the New
England Yankees, he has come to be best known for his studies of the
music of folksongs throughout the world.

Harold W. Thompson, Professor of English at Cornell University, 
is a man of many interests. A skilled organist and authority on organ
music, his life work has been the teaching of English. He has spent
much time in Scotland where, in his investigation of Henry Mackenzie,
"the man of feeling," he became the recognized authority on 18th century
Scottish literature and received the highest academic honors in
the gift of the Scottish people. In recent years he has been increasingly 
interested in folklore, especially folksong. By the use of the
radio and by assiduous correspondence and visiting, he assembled a
mass of folklore from New York State which he published under the
title Body, Boots, and Britches. He is now president of the American
Folklore Society.

Courses of Instruction

English 294. Introduction to Folklore. The various manifestations
of folklore and the problems connected with their preservation and
interpretation. Methods for approaching these problems. Lectures by the
Director of the Institute and guest lecturers. One hour lecture followed
by one hour discussion by students and Instructors of the Institute.
Professor Thompson. 2 credits. Tu.Th. evenings, 7-9.

(4)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.