Personal file

American Youth Congress
EIGHT WEST FORTIETH STREET NEW YORK
LOngacre 5-1770

August 27, 1940
Allan Lomax
Columbia Broadcasting System
485 Madison Ave,
New York, N.Y.
Dear Mr. Lomax:
Dick Comfort, Chairman of our Rural Commission has figured out that it
will take you four and a half minutes to read this letter and the Creed of the
AMERICAN YOUTH CONGRESS. (enclosed)
To bring a message of hope and progress to isolated rural youth, to carry
out the spirit and letter of this creed, four puppeteer groups under the sponsorship
of the Rural Commission are touring Oklahoma, Iowa, Alabama, and Wisconsin
this summer and autumn. The response to them is indicated by excerpts from
enthusiastic letters received. (enclosed)
These quartettes of touring players portray in a novel, visual, and stimulating
fashion the need of 10,000,000 rural youths. many of these millions live in
counties that have no libraries, no hospitals, one-room schools, postpone marriage
and bury their talent under a load of poverty.
The puppeteers work without pay, sleep in tents, cook their own meals, budget
their own expenses. Hundreds of farmers help out by feeding and housing
them when the going gets tough or bad weather hits the troups.
One big hurdle still stands in the way. We are in an emergency. The four
teams are broke; living on prunes and rice; unable to perform at scheduled meetings
because they lack gasoline money. The enclosed excerpts from their letters
show the swell work they are doing and the dire need they are in.
Every $10 contribution makes possible 150 miles of these vital tours. 
Many people have pitched in to make the trips possible, to lighten the burden of
unemployment and insecurity that falls on our young farm population.
Would you help-now-today-so that this emergency can be overcome? These 16
courageous young people need $250. Your contribution will be deeply appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Lee Marsh
Lee Marsh
Secretary to Rural Commission

Please make all checks payable
to the American Youth Congress
8 West 40th Street, N.Y.C.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.