New York, May 2, 1933.

Carl Engel, Esq.
3 East 43rd Street,
New York. 

Dear Mr. Engel:

On your request I saw yesterday the Fairchild people, with
reference to sound reproduction machines to be used in recording folk-songs, 
and for my purposes to be used where there are no possible electric connec-
tions. In other worlds, the machine must be operated by batteries. Such a 
machine the Fairchilds offered to build within three weeks time at a cost of 
$475. It will weigh about 300 lbs. Should they also build a platform for 
carrying the machine in the back of an automobile, the total cost would be
$500. The Fairchilds furnished a machine of this type to Prof. De Onise of
Columbia University, and Prof. Schindler of Bennington College, for recording 
folk-songs in Spain. Mr. Garwick claims that 200 successful recordings were 
made. 

I visited the Amplion people this morning. They asked me
$495 for a similar machine complete, the chief difference being that their 
machine weights less than 100 lbs. The Amplion people inform me that Dr. 
Greet of the English Department of Columbia University has in use an outfit
purchased from them that has given entire satisfaction. They also claim
that New York University has recently purchased a machine. 

Both of these companies gave me satisfactory evidence that 
their machines operate successfully, both in recording and reproducing
singing, when such a recording is done under the favorable conditions of 
their own equipment and expert operation. I did not have an opportunity 
of hearing any records played that had been made under field conditions. 

I am deeply grateful for your very kind interest in my work 
and the constant courtesy you have shown me. 

Sincerely yours, 
John A. Lomax  [?]

P.S. For your information, a letter addressed to me in care of General
Delivery, Albany, New York, will reach me any time for a week. After that, 
I shall be at the University of Texas, Austin, Texas. 

P.P.S. Prof. De Onise tells me the machine was entirely satisfactory. 


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.