14:F0

                                FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY
                                  SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD
                                                                               [*206*]

BUREAU OF OLD-AGE AND                                             650 MAIN STREET.
SURVIVORS INSURANCE                                                  HARTFORD. CONN

                                                                             August 15, 1942


TO:                  Special Service Division
                        Bureau of Intelligence
                        Office of War Information
                        Room 300
                        Library of Congress Annex
                        Washington, D. C.

FROM:            Francis J. C. Donohue

SUBJECT:        Current Rumors in Hartford, Conn. Defense Area


            The writer has been requested by John F. Hardy, Regional
Director, to extend the report sent on August 7 for one week.
To my knowledge there has been no decrease in the frequency of
the rumors notated in my previous letter.

            There does seem to be a definite increase in remarks from
many sources concerning the cashing in of purchased war bonds.
As the rumor goes, many people in this area who have been influenced 
in defense plants to purchase war bonds have done so,
but as soon as they become negotiable have cashed them in, leaving 
the impression with their employers of making substantial
contributions to the war effort, while actually they invest a
very small amount of money for any appreciable length of time. [*8*]

            It is obvious that the ramifications of such a situation,
if true, could have a tremendously bad effect on the purchase of
war bonds. It would seem that this rumor could be readily verified 
by contact with whatever department actually turns these bonds
into cash.   
           A member of the banking fraternity locally suggested that
all bonds should be cashed where purchased so that at least moral
persuasion could be used to educate purchasers to the need for
duration investment.

            This would be the only rumor, within my knowledge, that
could be added to those recited previously.

                                                               [*Francis J. C. Donohue*]

                                                                  Francis J. C. Donohue
                                                                  Manager

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.