WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION
WALKER-JOHNSON BUILDING
1734 NEW YOU\RK AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON, D. C.

HARRY L. HOPKINS
ADMINISTRATOR

Hello you mug!

We'll gather up your material and send it Railway Express early tomorrow morning. I'm sorry you had to do without it and I hope it hasen't inconvenienced you too much.

I've not found a great deal more on Wagoners but will continue to search. Have you looked through the material you took on that subject. I wish you'd let me know what you feel is lacking so I can go after it. I've begun on the lumbering stuff. There are a great many books on the subject - some fair - some useless - couple which are quite good. I've had some difficulty with the guards. For some damned reason they began to clamp down on my taking stuff upstairs at all. As you remember, some guy in the stacks told me not to put in dummies - both of us thought it strange - and today a guard stopped me again. It seems it got from [?] the guards to Mearns and from Mearns to Spivack - as near as I can figure it because Spivack told me he had not yet been approached on the subject but was afraid it would happen. Anyway, in his very VERY subtle way he suggested to Nick when they were talking yesterday that I give him a ring or come in to see him. Today when I ran into the difficulty I decided to take him up on it and phoned. He was very gracious and said though he could not arrange for me to take books upstair he would give me a desk in the Music Division. That's all right, of course. But I wish all those things had been straightened out before you left. I'm just a little tired of being hunted by glaring women and suspicious guards. Ah meeee!

I came across a book on folk lore - tale tales, that is - growing out of Wisconsin lumbermen. In it is the story of the Nebog (I'm not sure of that name) but its a critter that was once an ox which after it died had to be burned for seven years to burn all the profanity it had heard out of its hide and it turned into a kind of dragon and haunted [the] & liiie laid eggs! How do you like that. Have you heard of that critter? I though some stuff like that might very well do as your subsitute for Paul Bunyan stuff.

Write me if there is anything you want or need. I'll keep working on this stuff and I hope to have a pretty good stack of it by the time you return. Love to Bess.

Jean

Can't find Hans' address right now but will send it later.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.