-2-

other day I heard that a Gentile family was finally
lucky enough to land a job there." (Minnesota)

D. Jews in the Army Cause trouble.

10. "Girls at USO Centers are primarily Jewish and soldiers
stay away as they don't want to dance with them."
(Illinois)

11. "I think there is something more to this Aroff affair
than meets the eye. Now you know there's a lot of 
gifts and such given to to Army officers who help get 
appointments and commissions for people. I don't think
that's all wrong. There's nothing so awful about giving
a man a car you can't use, or giving him anything 
else no more valuable than that. I don't think that's 
bribery or anything. But here's why I think Aroff
is getting into trouble: he's Jewish and they're after
him -- that's all." (Colorado)

E. But Jews don't go into the army.

12. "No Jews are volunteering for war service." (llinois)
13. "Jews are making every effort to avoid the draft."
(Tennessee)
14. "Mr. T. had heard that a large number of Jews are
managing to get draft deferment." (Minnesota)
15. "A local Selective Service Board (Minneapolis) is having
trouble in getting any men inducted because nearly
all the registrants in that deistic are Jews." (Minn.)
16. "Deferments are granted Jews and Selective Service Boards
do not check up to determine whether the dependents
(pares in most cases) are the same as those listed by
other members of the family also claiming deferment."
(Minnesota)
17. "The Jewish boys are all being deferred or commissioned.
You don't see any of these scoundrels as buck privates,
and you'd think if any race should hate Hitler and be
ready to fight against him they would." (Alabama)
18. "I haven't seen any Jews volunteering in the Army or
being drafted. Most of them are trying to get commissions
or to become officers, instead of going in as 
others do as privates." (Minnesota)
19. "I haven't seen any Jewish volunteers or any drafted.
Most o them figure they can get commissions and be 
officers and not go through he normal channels of
being privates. There are few Jewish privates in the
regular Army." (Minnesota)(

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.