Alan Lomax    Dr. Spivacke, Music

November 4, 1940

Dear Dr. Spivacke:

The Archive of American Folk Song now contains over 4,000
discs, both aluminum and acetate, of folk songs, folk tales and
folk melodies collected in the United States and in the West Indies.
In addition, there is an interesting series of recordings
copied from cylinders made by Percy Granger in the South Seas, Denmark,
and the British Isles in the early part of the century. The
recordings in this series of seventy additional discs, naturally,
are not acoustically good in quality, but the material is of great
scientific interest.

Geographically, the Archive of American Folk Song represents
the following states in the United States: Vermont, New York, Penna.,
District of Columbia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, Louisiana, 
Texas, California, Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Michigan and
Wisconsin. There are also sizable collections from Haiti and the 
Bahamas in the West Indies.

Linguistically, the songs are in English and dialects of English,
with a very large section of the songs in the Negro dialect of
the southern part of the United States. Other languages represented
are:

French. French-Canadian, the Cajun speech of the southwest
Louisiana, the Creole Negro Patois of Louisiana and
Haiti.

Spanish. Songs from Texas, New Mexico, Colorado and California. 
Especially interesting are some of the old
religious songs from the southwest, Alabados and
Los Pastores.

Finnish. Songs from Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin.

A large number of very fine examples of Slavic, Russian, Polish,
Yugo-Slav, Czecko-Slav, Rumanian, Slovian are represented in
small groups of songs largely from urban centers such as San Francisco
and Detroit.

Others. Portuguese from San Francisco, Norwegain from Wisconsin, 
German from Pennsylvania and Indiana and 
( particularly interesting and rare are some hymns
of the Amish sect).

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.