THE BRITISH BROADCASTING CORPORATION 
British Empire Building
620 Fifth Avenue
TELEPHONE CIRCLE 7-0630  New York  CABLES; BROADCASTS, NEW YORK
 October 3, 1938
Mr. Harold Spivacke
Chief, Division of Music
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Spivack:
On behalf of the British Broadcasting Corporation I would 
like to thank you most warmly for the help your Division of the
Library of Congress gave to us in connection with an important
series of programs on American songs and ballads. This series, 
complied by Mr. Alistair Cooke and broadcast to British listeners,
attracted an immensely wide audience of listeners, and is considered 
by us to be one of the most successful series that we have ever 
transmitted. 
The broadcasting of such a series would be have been quite
impossible if it had not been for the help your Division gave us
and particularly for the copies you allowed us to make of some of 
the valuable collection of recordings that your Library possesses. 
I wish it could be said that the governments of all countries had
been as far-sighted as yours has been to record and preserve for 
permanent use the native songs and ballads which form the basis of 
the real culture of the people.
On the face of it a series of programs on American songs and 
ballads would not appear to have a wide popular appeal, especially
to an audience unfamiliar with and remote from the United States. 
It was, however, an encouraging surprise to us to see the response
which this series created from all sections of our listening public. 
The series was commented on by many newspapers, including the London 
Times.  The success of the series was so remarkable that we are 
extending the experiment further, and, as you know, I am now compiling
a series on the songs and ballads of the American Negro.  We have to 
thank you again for the way in which you so readily placed the help
of your Division at our disposal, and for allowing us once more to 
make copies of some of the Negro songs in your collection.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.