Why even Hollywood and the "Boys of Broadway" haven't been able to
down my song and me--yet! It's still being sung--still being sold.
My publishers and I still hold our copyright and my name is still on 
my song.

All the mud-slinging, all the malicious misrepresentations, all the
ballyhoo, suits, etc. by would-be "cutters-in" haven't stopped a song 
the whole world wants and loves.

Again, what does it matter who get what from whom--where, when, how and
who got the two dollars! Or does Mr. Lomax still care?

Mr.Lomax admits, in his Southwest Review article(given over entirely
to the squabble of Home on the Range) that his Lead Belly folk tune
was a complete flop--that it was years later that Home on the Range
swept the country.But, what he cleverly evades is the actual fact--the
OTHER fly in the ointment--that it was Guion's Home on the Range, and
not the flop he got from his Lead Belly, that set the world a-singin'.

He would have you believe,dear reader, that the above mentioned artists,
President Roosevelt, Will Rogers, and all America, over night discovered
the recording he made on an old wheezy phonograph of a homely folk tune
long forgotten.He would have you believe that I am a fake--an imposter--
a "song tinkerer" to quote him specifically! Well, I am in mighty fine
company, for Beethoven,Brahms,Dvorak,Tchaikovsky,Grieg,and on down to
Gershwin have been "song tinkerers"!

I'm wondering what Mr.Lomax thinks of the New World Symphony, built on
the themes of Three Blind Mice, Swing Low Sweet Cahriot andother old
negro folk tunes.For Mr. Lomax abhors "song tinkerers" and wants all folk
songs to remain folk tunes--un-touched, COLLECTED by John A.Lomax,mind you!
In other words,Mr. Lomax wants credit for songs he got from the public
domain and has now given back to the public domain,but all labeled and
stamped with his(Lomax's) approval. And according to Mr.Lomax, these songs
must remain folk tunes,never to be fashioned into classic art songs,
concertos and symphonies,by "song tinkerers".Seemingly Mr.Lomax does not
believe in progress.

President Roosevelt did not "forget" to send me a wire congratulating
me on my song Home on the Range after he had announced,publically,that


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.