Dr. Herbert Putnam         -2-           June 1, 1938

My proposal, which I worked out with Mr. Lomax is this: that I 
should have the records I need shipped to New york. There I should have
them copied at my own expense, and immediately return to you the original
set. I take these records to England, play them, and bring them back here
when I return at the end of September, and then present them in toto to
the Library, to supplement your own copies and possibly save wear and
tear on those of which at the moment you have only masters. The B.B.C.
usually makes transcriptions of its feature programs, and I suggested to
Mr. Lomax that if they did this, I would bring back that transcription
with me and deposit it with the Library. The question arose as to
whether I should be allowed to keep a copy of this program transcription
for my own private use, and that of course rests with you. (I have a 
small collection of speech records and of all my own feature programs, all
of which bear on the label strict prohibitions on any kind of public
performance.) By this arrangement, nobody - including myself - would
have access to the songs after my series was over. And it is at your
mercy whether I might be allowed a record of my program. I should also
add that the B.B.C. has full protection against the using of anything
from its programs, and you would not have the slightest infringement to
fear from them. It is a question of how well I can be trusted, and there
I must let Mr. Greene and Mr. Lomax speak for me. I am sure that if you
grant your permission to this proposal, you would like me to have some
official letter of acknowledgment for your files, and I shall most
promptly attend to this and ask the Director General for such a letter
when I get to London. My last series of programs on the United States
was introduced by the late Ambassador Bingham, and I am hoping this year
to have the patronage of Mr. Joseph Kennedy. 

I do not think there is any more to say, expect that I am sorry
I did not think sooner of writing to Ambassador Kennedy and asking him
if he would make an official request to you for this favor that I am
asking the Library. What can be done later, however, I assure you will
be done. I am listing the records Mr. Lomax and I decided were best for
my purpose, and reiterating in a signed statement the conditions under
which I might expect to receive this loan.

Finally, I want to say how deeply indebted I shall be to you
personally and to the Library if this favor does not seem too much to
grant. When I first became interested in American folk songs I had no
idea so little had been done in recording, and how desperately hard it
is for an amateur to get within earshot of the music he is interested in
and excited about. 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.