THE BUFFALO SKINNERS *

[*II*]

Come all you jolly skinners and listen to my song,
There are not many verses, it will not detain you long;
It's concerning some young fellows who did agree to go
And spend one summer pleasantly on the range of the buffalo.

It happened in Jacksboro in the spring of Seventy-three,
A man by the name of Crego came stepping up to me,
Saying, "How do you do, young fellow, and how would you like to go
And spend one summer pleasantly on the range of the buffalo?"

"It's me being out of employment," this to Crego I did say,
"This going out on the buffalo range depends upon the pay.
But if you will pay good wages and transportation too,
I think, sir, I will go with you to the range of the buffalo."

* "Song made by Buffalo Jack," writes J. E. McCauley, Seymour Texas; "I don't know
the author or how it come to be wrote, or anything of that kind, but they must have been
somebody of that name for a starter." Cf. Shoemaker, North Pennsylvania Minstrelsy,
pp. 76-78; Gray, Songs and Ballads of Maine, pp. 37-38; Adventure, Oct. 20, 1924, p. 191.
These contain a miner's song, a lumber chantey, and a railroad song that seem to be 
forerunners of "the Buffalo Skinners."

"Yes, I will pay good wages, give transportation too,
Provided you will go with me and stay the summer through;
But if you should grow homesick, come back to Jacksboro,
I won't pay transportation from the range of the buffalo."

It's now our outfit was complete---esven able-bdied men,*
With navy six and needle gun---our troubles did begin;
Our way it was a pleasant one, the route we had to go,
Until we crossed Pease River on the range of the buffalo.

It's now we've crossed Pease River, our troubles have begun.
The first damned tail I went to rip, Christ! how I cut my thumb!
While skinning the damned old stinkers our lives they had no show.
For the Indians watched to pick us off while skinning the buffalo.

He fed us on such sorry chuck I wished myself most dead,
It was old jerked beef, croton coffee, and sour bread.
* "Two to kill, four to skin, and one to cook."
Pease River's as salty as hell fire, the water I could never go---
O God! I wished I had never come to the range of the buffalo.

Our meat it was buffalo hump and iron wedge bread,
And all we had to sleep on was a buffalo robe for a bed;
The fleas and graybacks worked on us, O boys, it was not slow,
I'll tell you there's no worse hell on earth than the range of the buffalo.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.