October 21, 1941 
Miss Laura Boulton 
The Leonori 
26 East 63 Street 
New York City 

Dear Laura Boulton: 

Your letter last summer found me in the midst of field 
work with no mind for it, and I felt sure you'd understand 
why I delayed so long. I have consulted with Jerome Wiesner 
of the Recording Laboratory for an answer to your inquiries 
about recording equipment. Although it's impossible to 
quote us directly in this matter, Mr. Wiesner says that we 
have been using Presto recording machines, primarily because 
they are light in weight and simple to operate. He goes on, 
however, to add that we are not satisfied with certain features 
of the Presto machine because of flimsy construction, and that 
we plan to design special equipment for your own field work in 
the future. It's impossible to predict when plans for the 
equipment will be ready. It's my belief that Mr. Wiesner 
uses both Audiodiscs and Presto discs in the laboratory. 

We are discussion various types of lightweight recorders 
and I believe before the end of the year we will have constructed 
at least one experimental machine for my use in 
South America. It will probably be a multiple purpose unit 
with one turntable that will run by spring and another by 
alternating current, so that recording may be done independently
of electricity and easy transportation, and in centers where 
batteries and AC current are available I'd like very much to 
hear about your experience in Canada, and would be very much 
pleased to keep in touch with you about your work in Louisiana, 
since we also are discussing the initiation of a project in 
that territory. It seems to me that active collectors should 
keep closely in touch, both in order to avoid duplication and 
with eventual exchange of materials in mind. 

Sometime you must stay in Washington long enough to discuss 
with us the potentialities of some real collaborative 
work. 
With kindest regards, Iam 
Sincerely yours, 

Alan Lomax 
Assistant in Charge 
Archive of American Folk-songs 
ALjs 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.