Report of Observation Post, Wichita, Kansas

Wichita, Kansas
Meeting of January 14, 1942

I.    The conclusions may at times appear to be contradictory, but they represent 
      the judgment of the committee.  People often hold contradictory opinions, and 
      different groups of people may be reacting differently to the same situation.

II.   Correction:  The Victory Women is an organization of the wives of airplane 
      workers.  Chief function--social: To enable the people to become acquainted 
      with the city, and with one another.  The City Government is providing them 
      with a meeting place.

III.   People are becoming more war conscious; they are expressing a feeling that 
       we ought to "do something", that there is "too little pep and enthusiasm".  
       Not all of this is intelligent.  Rather it is emotional.
       A. Registration in Civilian Defense is picking up fast.
       B. At several social gatherings (not integrated groups) the general feeling
           expressed was that we did not have enough "enthusiasm"; that we have no 
           "hip, hip hurray"; that we ought to develop it.
       C. In the Home and Family life Organization which is attempting to adjust 
           people to living in the period ahead, the members are more interested in 
           war activities such as Red Cross work, etc., than in such subjects as 
           nutrition, etc.
       D. The League Women Voters members want to "do something for defense", 
           "to stir up the  people for the battle of production," etc.
       E. The Opti-Mrs. and other women's groups "want to do something".  It is 
           "do something" rather than study what needs to be done.
       F. All groups tend to label their activities (no matter what) as "defense".
IV.   The working class is more enthusiastic about the war than the upper middle 
       class.
                 A. Red Cross workers report  that workers have given more readily and comparitively, 
                      larger amounts than the higher income groups.
                 B. Individuals in various economic levels, but particularly in the higher 
                     income groups, have expressed an uneasiness or even a vague fear of what
                     will happen after the war is over.
V.   Students Reaction:
                A.  At Friends University--no enthusiasm for the war.  Some

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.