[*4/16/41 - The Washington Post*]

****X THE WASHI

B. L Lunsford
Will Advise
Folk Festival

Bascom Lamar Lunsford, accepted
generally as the foremost authority
on the folk songs and dances of the
Appalachians, was a lawyer in
North Carolina for many years. He
still is, but hand in hand with the
law there stepped an avocation,
which about 15 years ago began to
dominate his career. The story was
told yesterday in the National Folk
Festival offices.
This avocation was concerned
with reviving and preserving the
ballads and square dances that
stemmed from pioneer days, both
for the grace and pleasure inherent
in performing them and as an element
of folk history. Lunsford has
made 315 recorded transcriptions
of the old ballads from memory for
the Columbia University Library,
and for eight years has been a principal
consultant with the National
Folk Festival Association. Since
1927 he has directed the annual
Mountain Folk Festivals in Asheville.
About 25 exponents of the mountain
dances, directed by Mr. Lunsford,
will come to Washington for
the eighth annual National Folk Festival
to be held in Constitution Hall
May, 1, 2 and 3. These will include
the Pigeon Valley Square Dance
Team, which centers about Hayward
County, N. C., and is famous all the
way from the Blue Ridge to the
Great Smokies. They will appear
on the two programs of Thursday.
With them will be the Farmers'
Federation String Band, to illustrate
the old dance music, much of which
is indigenous to the Appalachians
and has been played there for more
than a century.
Lunsford, who will remain in
Washington until after the Festival,
has been retained for lectures and
demonstrations of the mountain music
by various academic and social
groups.


Square Dance Team

THEY'RE COMING TO FOLK FESTIVAL, TOO--Bascom
Lamar Lunsford, the man dancing with his partner through
the arched arms, will bring the famous Pigeon Valley Square
Dance Team to the National Folk Festival. He is shown at
the home of Sylvia Myer (right), National Symphony Orchestra
harpist, who is calling and directing the square dance

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.