7456 San Benito Way, Dallas
Jan. 28, 1940
Dear Alan,
Wednesday is your birthday, I believe; I send you greetings,
congratulations and best wishes. You have gone far for a young man of your
few years, and there's no telling how far you may go in this field of folk
song and lore in general and in the field of reporting on it through magazines
and books, provided you keep you head and your health, physical and
mental. The latter depends a good deal on your not trying to keep too many
irons hot in the fire at once; for either one of two things may happen,-
you will have to spend so much time merely pulling them out and sticking them
back that you will not have any time left to use them effectively, or so
many irons will smother out the fire. So go a little easy, particularly
until some of the operations become more or less automatic. The Sunday sermon
being over I'll repeat my good wishes for your birthday. I wish we were near
enough to help you celebrate and help you blow out the two dozen or more candles.
We enjoyed your "Aunt Molly" program very much and hope the next
will be as good. I am enclosing a copy of what a cousin writes me about your
play-party program: if many old ladies (she is past seventy) feel as she does, your
program was not the failure you seemed to think it. She is the mother of seven
children, all of them are successful: one son is a major in the U.S. army, via
West Point, another a Mass. Tech man, now with an oil company, two sons are graduates
of Yale Theological School and are pastors; her three daughters are college
women, one a farmer's wife, another a teacher, and the other a social worker in the
mountains of Missouri. The grandfather that she mentions is also my grandfather
(my father's father); he was both preacher and physician, carrying his Bible in
his saddle pack with his medicine kit.
We had a charming letter from Bess, written in the midst of her
exams. Our news is mostly weather news, as we have had the hardest and longest
cold spell for forty one years. Our share of casualties consists of a broken pipe
and a cold for your father. He says he is all right today. One of Mr. McGunniss's
helpers on the Southwest review is to call on him this afternoon about reviewing
Prof. Harold Thompson's new book.
Your Aunt Alice wrote that Mrs. Raines and Elizabeth came through
Austin. If she came by Dallas we heard nothing about it. Mrs. Harold told me before
Christmas that she would let me know if Elizabeth came. I have telephoned
her three times to her once since we have been living here.
We had a nice letter from Dr. Davis who gives you a large share
of credit for the Bogtrotters' success on the program. We are always glad to hear
from you. And always we follow you with much pride. and affection.
Deanie(?)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.