FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY
SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD                                                                    
INTEROFFICE COMMUNICATION                                                                  IN REPLY TO
                                                                                                                            FILE No 14:RO:II
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTAL

TO: Mr. Joseph B. O'Connor,
Executive Assistant
                                                                                                                    August 17, 1942
FROM: Hugh F. McKenna,
Regional Representative, Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance

SUBJECT : Cooperation with Office of War Information

Replying to your memorandum of July 30, 1942, I am listing below the substance of remarks that came to my attention on a recent trip through the State, with the place and date indicated. 

Newburgh 8/3/42  Staten Island is the largest embarkation point for soldiers going abroad. Many transports leave there not only bound for the British Isles but also for the Southern Pacific via the Panama Canal.

Troy 8/4/42  The shortage of paper is a hoax. A mill in Hoosick Falls, which has been manufacturing paper for many years, has just closed down because they seemed to be unable to find a market for their product. This also results in the unemployment of a substantial number of people who otherwise might continue to work. People formerly employed by this company in Hoosick Falls will be forced to go elsewhere for employment or pick up odd jobs in that community as best they may. 

Plattsburg 8/5/42   Again, the shortage of paper is looked on as a story that is incorrect and unfounded. Several mills in this area have greater supplies of pulp wood on hand as ever they had before, and as well, their warehouses are full of paper which they are unable to move for lack of a market.

Glens Falls 8/6/42  A large plant in this community has closed down because either they have been unable to market their product, which consists mostly of paper specialties, or they have not been able to get adequate supplies of raw materials. (The story is not quite clear on this point.) However, the resulting unemployment is substantial for a community of this size.    

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.