Notes from Reed Smith's "South Carolina Ballads."
"It is the penalty of oral tradition that it can exist only where
literacy does not. The two vary inversely; as literacy waxes,
oral tradition wanes; and as it wanes, it is automatically confined to
lower and lower levels of talent and intelligence. In our day, owing
to the universal spread of educational opportunity and cultural advantages
oral tradition has almost reached the vanishing point in quantity, 
and has almost touched the bottom in quality." (p. 55)
Etymological corruption.
"Adieu, adieu."
---"if you, if you,
"Bedew, bedew."
The Gypsy Laddie: Gypsy Geordie, the Gyptian Laddie, Gypsen Davy, Gypsy
Davy, Black Jack Davy, Black Boy Davy, Gypsy Daisy. (plot change in last).
Organic corruption. 
p. 35. The weakness of the anti-comunalists' attack lies in the facts
that it is negative in character and that it rests upon analogy. First,
as to its negative quality: the attackers point out that there has been
brought not been brought to light a single modern ballad re-
assembling the Child or Gruntvig ballads which is clearly the result
of communal authorship or group improvisation. The communalists grant this 
but reply that neither have the anti-communalists brought to light
a modern ballad resembling the traditional ballads which is the result
of individual authorship or any other kind of authorship. In other
words, such ballads are not being produced any longer anywhere in the
world. This fact, however, as an argument, could be used as
logically against individual authorship as against communal composition. 
Second, as to analogy: the anti-communal argument, stripped to its essent-
ials, is that no modern community, not even one of naive, isolated and homo
genius character, such as a mountain cove or a cattle ranch, has produced
communally a ballad resembling the Child ballads. Therefore,
community, anywhere or at any time did so or could have done so."
The differences between conditions surrounding peasant life in England
and Scotland, say in 1350 or 1400, and those surrounding community life
anywhere in America, say in 1850 or 1900, are so manifold and essential
that signifigant comparison would seem almost out of the question."
p. 39. In a recent article on ballads Professor G.H. Gerould of
Princeton calls attention to the signifigant fact that, of the 305
ballds in Child's collection, no fewer than 65 are represented by differ-
ent versions of distinguished merit and high poetic value, not one of
which could well be spared."
p. 41. . . . . set Danny Deever to a really catchy tune, give a couple of
dacades's start in oral tradition, and it would feel perfectly at home
in the best traditional company."
p. 78. Quotes from Prof Gerould, "The Making of Ballads" Mod. Phil.,
vol. xxi. "I supposed that any self-centered community that sings

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.