RCA MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.
A RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA SUBSIDIARY
Camden, New Jersey

June 12, 1940

Mr. Alan Lomax
Music Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

We have delayed answering your letter of May 24th until we have had an
opportunity to examine Publication #5 of the Texas Folk Lore Society,
to which you referred us.

This gives a very interesting story and seems to place the song at least
as far back as 1888. The accompanying score of the chorus on page 157
of the above publication does not, however, fully back up the story  and
confirm that the now familiar refrain of "Oh Didn't He Ramble" is the
same as that which was known in Texas in the 80's. The second, third and
fourth measures are somewhat similar, but the rest of the chorus is quite
different. This does not present sufficient and satisfactory information
for us to prove our contention that the familiar tune was not new at the
time of the Bob Cole (Will Handy) copyright in 1902. We still feel that
Cole in all probability picked up the chorus almost in its entirety from
some older source, - perhaps only by ear, but it will probably become
necessary to produce evidence to this effect. Such evidence is not yet
in hand.

Mr. Marks told me that Rosamond Johnson has informed him that as far as
he knew the composition was original with Cole (Will Handy, - not to be
confused with the Handy of St. Louis Blues fame), so you will see the
statement of Rosamond Johnson to Robt. Gordon is contradictory to this.
Mr. Marks told me that Rosamond Johnson was picked up by Cole to be used
in the vaudeville team of Cole & Johnson to replace an older "Bill" Johnson by
another name, simply because he wanted to perpetuate the name of Cole &
Johnson, which had quite a reputation in vaudeville circles at the time
of the date of the original Johnson. Mr. Marks, therefore, feels that
Rosamond Johnson probably knows comparatively little about the matter,
sine he was very much of a junior partner.

We note that you expect a fee in return for the time which you spent
looking up material on this song. We do not object to the fee which you
indicate, but up to the present time the information which you have furnished
has not been of sufficient value to materially improve our situation.
If you feel that you have exhausted your resource for references
which will prove conclusively the fact that this chorus melody is
oder than 1902, we shall appreciate advice to this effect.

"G O  R C A  A L L  T H E  W A Y "

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.