                                                - 2 -

"truth" is merely an authoritative denial of the rumor's pseudo-fact.
The reader has his choice of authorities:  someone tells him something
and apparently believes it, the newspaper says someone else says,
"This is definitely NOT TRUE."  Sometimes the counteraction is less
clear than the rumor.  Little attention is paid to combatting the
underlying motivation for the spread and acceptance of the rumors.
It might be worth while developing another term, perhaps an Information
Depot, Info Dept (?), War Lore, Town Talk Terminal, something
that would go beyond the need to present and counteract rumor, a
phrase which would permit the promulgation of a definite program
of information when that is indicated

                   Each state civilian defense council might appoint a committee
for rumor and propaganda control related to its morale committees.
These committees should have represented on them not only
representatives of he community, labor, consumers, educators, but
also some specialists such as psychiatrists, psychologists, sociologists.
The rumor control program should be a part of the state
civilian mobilization and not identified with any special group,
organization, commercial enterprise in the community.  The state
central committee should develop a system of rumor reporters who
would be operating on a volunteer basis and who would send in 
verbatim accounts of the rumors they overhear, together with notes
about the circumstances in which they circulate.  Care must be taken,
however, to avoid the impression that a native Gestapo is being
developed.  We must be careful, but there must be action.  We are at
war.  The rumors sent in should be analyzed in accordance with 
procedures which experience shows to be most useful.  In this connection,
it would be important for each state committee to keep in close touch
with the Bureau of Intelligence of the Office of War Information.
This Bureau could give guidance on how materials might be analyzed,
coordinate the work of adjacent states, channel suggestions from the
rumor studies to the operating units of the Domestic Branch of the
OWI, which in turn may have suggestions to make to the states.

                   Counteraction programs must be developed in terms of the
particular rumor crops.  No necessary commitment should be made.
A newspaper column, a radio program, slogans, posters, all "might"
be useful but no approach is necessarily the best for all counter-
action programs.  Flexibility is necessary, but all media should
be considered and used when they are appropriate.  Care must be
taken to keep the community from feeling harassed by charges of
rumor mongering.  There must be some opportunity for conversation
without guilt.  Rumors should be used as cues to the sorts of programs
needed, not something that must necessarily be hammered at
directly.  Rumors which are anti-Army and Navy might, under some
circumstances, be combatted directly by counteraction, sometimes
be approached indirectly by a special campaign of information about
the armed services, and sometimes be shut off by the more general
"If it helps the Axis, don't say it" or "What is it worth to Hitler
to have you say this?" or "Goebbels pays money and spends time to
have these things broadcast to Americans; are you helping him>"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.