brother, fifteen, awkward and
clumsy, with a good grin.

Costumes-The girls wear gingham
dresses, the boys overalls.

The curtain rises to show Beth
sitting in a chair sewing, Sis on the
floor playing jacks. A loud slam
out of doors (offstage left) followed
by the sound of a falling object is 
heard.

BETH: No doubt about who that
is. I hope he didn't knock mother's
plant off the steps. She put it out
there before she left for town.

SIS: I hope he did knock it down
and Ma licks him.

BETH: He's pretty big to lick,
Sis.

(Enter Larry, stumbling over his
own feet as he comes, and almost
pitching headlong.)

LARRY: Hi, apes!

BETH: You know what mother 
told you about calling us that!

LARRY: I know-but Ma ain't
here.

SIS: "Ain't!"  Our teacher told us
that ain't ain't a word.

LARRY: Oh, it ain't ain't it! You
should tell anybody about the mistakes
they make. "If I'da knowed
you'da goed I'da came for you!"

SIS: I didn't say that, ever!
(Throws a pillow at him.)

BETH: For pity's sake, stop.
Neither of you are in a position to
say much. You both murder the
English language.

LARRY: Yah! Just because you
had a couple of years in high school,
you think you're a college prof. Well,
I had some news when I came in, but
seeing as how you've gone collegiate,
probably you don't want to hear it.

BOTH GIRLS: What?

LARRY: Guess who's here?

BETH: Dick? (Hurriedly rising
and fixing her hair.)

SIS: Clara?

LARRY: Dick- that sidewalk
sheik? No, thank goodness. And as
for Clara? That little-skip it!
No, if it was either of them I wouldn't
be excited about it, let me tell you
that! No, sir, it's somebody important.

BOTH GIRLS: Oh, tell us.

LARRY: Star!

SIS: Who's Star?

LARRY: She's about so long and
so tall, and has a star in her forehead.

SIS: Oh, the new calf! Goody,
goody! She's mine and her name isn't
Star, it's Muggins!

BETH: Well, I hate to disappoint 
you both, but she's going to be mine,
and I am going to call her "Zeta."

LARRY: You would! She is my 
own personal property and her name
is Star.

SIS: Muggins!

BETH: Zeta!

Larry: (Yelling loudly) STAR!

BETH: This isn't getting us anywhere.
Can't we get together on this?

LARRY: Call her all there of 
them-Star Zeta Muggins-How's 
that?

BETH: Horrible!

SIS: No, sir. Just Muggins! That's 
such a cute name.

LARRY: Says you!

BETH: Zeta is such an unusual
name.

LARRY: Unusually awful!

BETH: Let's compromise. Let's
think of a name we'll all like.

LARRY: O.K. Let's cooperate.

SIS: Oh, Larry, that's the name!
Let's call her "Co-operation." We'll
own her together, and name her together
and all help to take care of
her together.

LARRY: Sis, you're smarter than
you look. "Co-op's" her name.

BETH: That's a fine idea, little
sister.

SIS: And with that name I bet
she'll turn out to be the best cow in
the whole world. Let's go look at her.

(Exit.)

The Regular Party Man

I am the Upright Citizen-Taxpayer is my name;
I'm one of the city's solid men and I'm everywhere the same;
I've built the sewers and paved the streets and paid for the parks you see,
And all of the Contractors, Bosses, Beats and Leeches feed on me.

You see, I'm a Regular Party Man-it's bred in my flesh and bone.
I've voted for every Republican since the party has been known.
I've always vote my ticket straight, though at times it's a bitter pill;
I never split it, and I may state that I hope I never will.

Now Smith, next door, is a Democrat, and another solid man,
Who always knows right where he's at and votes by the self-same plan.
And Smith is an Upright Citizen, and his name's Taxpayer, too;
And as one of the city's solid men, he's down on the Grafting crew,
And so am I. So we go to the polls and vote straight down the line,
Two square and quite well-meaning souls, and his vote offsets mine.

Now, I've talked with Smith and he's talked with me and we've talked quite
plainly, too.
I've said to him: "Now Smith, you see, I'm down on this grafting crew,
And our man is the man to win the fight-he's a clean and able man."
And Smith says: "Yes, I guess that's right, but he's a Republican,
And I always vote my ticket straight from A to Z-that's how
I've always done and it's getting late to change my methods now.
Our man isn't quite what he ought to be, I quite agree to that,
But he's the Party Nominee, and you know I'm a democrat.
So I guess I'll stick to the good, old ship, and vote right down the line."
And Smith makes one cross on his ballot slip-and so his vote kills mine.
Now, Smith and I, we mean all right, and we want things on the square,
But when there's a Regular Party fight, a man must do his share.
My faith comes down from Fremont's time, and his from Jefferson,
And to cling to the Old Time Faiths sublime, no odds how the paving's done.

Sometimes I think his man's the best, sometimes he thinks mine is,
But I vote straight, North, South, East, West, and he votes straight for his.
We quite agree on the little things, like the tax rolls and the streets,
The city schools, police, white-wings and the health of milk and meats,
But when it comes to matters big, like a Regular Party plank,
Why Smith is stubborn as a pig, and I'm somewhat of a crank.

And we'd like to vote alike and then we could down the grafting crew,
But we are both Regular Party men-so what are we going to do?

-JAMES W. FOLEY.


1-36680

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.