SAVE THE SPANISH REFUGEES FROM FRANCO

Read Douglas Jacobs' article on page 4 of this issue and you will know how imperative it is
you continue and extend your help for the Spanish refugees.  Help us now and help them by
doing your utmost to put into effect the following program:

1. Increased material aid from private sources.

Send us immediately as large a contribution as you can possibly spare

Ask your friends to send us their contributions.

Get in touch with all organizations in your neighborhood. Tell them the situation of the
Spanish refugees and solicit their support.

Contribute to a Christmas gift of food, clothing, medical supplies, toys and books for the
Spanish refugee men, women and children.

Help us to meet the national quota of $50,000 which we must offer to the Spanish refugees by
January 1, 1940, in order that they can start the new year with life and hope.

2. United States Government Assistance
Write to your Congressman and Senator, and to President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Hull, urging:

That they do everything possible to make American service and supplies, including surplus
commodities, available to the Spanish refugees.

That they do their utmost to make United Sates ships available for the transportation of
Spanish refugees to Latin-American and other countries which have agreed to accept them.

That they undertake to extend the traditional United States policy of the right of asylum to
Spanish political refugees and to members of the International Brigade in the United States
and its possessions.

That they take the initiative in protesting to Franco against reprisals in Spain, and urging that
a general political amnesty which will be guaranteed and controlled by reliable and neutral
observers, be granted to the people of Spain, and that this amnesty be a prerequisite in the
voluntary return to Spain on the part of any of the Spain refugees.

That the United States propose to other governments similar actions.

3. Write, visit or telephone the local Spanish consulate and the Spanish Embassy in Washington,
urging that Franco cease reprisals against Spanish Loyalist supporters and grant a
political amnesty of the type mentioned above.  Urge your friends and all organizations with
which you are in contact, to do likewise.

SPANISH REFUGEE RELIEF CAMPAIGN
Harold L. Ickes, Honorary Chairman
National Office
381 Fourth Avenue, New York, N.Y.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.