THE SEARCHLIGHT 5

Runoff
(Continued from page 1)
Mr. McGean did his utmost to divide the councils
of Labor and destroy the friendship of
many Labor leaders for the Searchlight. He
ascribed the activities of the State Machine to
its reaction to the Searchlight's political discussions.
But he failed to inform those he was
trying to confuse and mislead that the Searchlight's
expose of the Machine, its methods and
its Slate come after - not before - the Machine
had set up its Slate and had slapped Labor in
the face.

Mr. McGean's anger and his thrusts at the
Searchlight resulted from the expose of the
State Machine and its County ally by this
publication.  McGean hated to be caught. And
quite naturally he struck back at the newspaper
that exposed his activities.

The results of the runoff election will hardly
restore the confidence of Labor in the Maw
administration. Nor will those results tend 
to promote confidence in gubernatorial pledges.
Beyond question the professed friendship of
Mr. McGean for various unions and Labor 
leaders will receive a new and far more accurate
evaluation.

Out of it all one lesson is clear.  If labor
unions want to preserve their present enviable
position they must bestir themselves.  They
must protect their own interests.  In this ruthless
world no one cares a rap about people
who are too indifferent to protect their own
interests.  If Labor can take that lesson to
heart it can yet save its gains of the last decade.

The Joint Legislative Committee will meet
shortly to map its course in the final elections
November 3rd. Many important decisions
and moves are yet to be made.

Power Hearing Set
Hearing of the rate case against Utah
Power & Light Company by the Public Service
Commission has been set for Nov. 16th. The
Commission will pass on the recommendation
of its former chief engineer, Eugene Merrill,
that a million dollars a year be clipped off the 
Power Company's rates in order to bring the
Company's profits in line with a fair return
on a bona fide investment.

In 27 months the most important syllable
in the word EXCELLENCY will be EX.

Upon What Meat Doth This Our Henry Feed?

Political ethics - to say nothing of statutory provisions - of the pre-Maw era made it
mandatory on County Chairmen to keep out of primary and runoff contests.  Chairmen were
always impartial and neutral.

But Salt Lake County's new Democratic Chairman J. Henry McGean, subscribes to no
quaint customs of those unsophisticated times.  To Henry the office of County Chairman is
a legitimate weapon to help his side and his friends win. And he uses that weapon lustily.

Shortly after assuming the office of Chairman in 1942, Henry put all of the power of 
his office back of George W. Morgan and Gwynne Page in their contests for nomination for
County commissionerships.  Morgan qualified in the primary election. McGean bragged openly
in the daily press that he had put Morgan over.

He made no bones about his partisanship and active aid for Page in both the primary
and runoff election contests.  And when election results were coming in at the Newhouse
Hotel Tuesday night he did a bit of strutting.  He grew talkative - even boastful.  The Page
job was duck soup for him.  His next job, he assured his admiring hearers had already been
planned.  He had decided to put over the Chain Store Tax.

If Henry continues his uninterrupted march toward greatness - if his victories are too
fast and too frequent - there'll be no living with him in Salt Lake County. His opponents
had better plan to seek refuse in the military service.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.