-10-

Minnesota:  "Roosevelt has a lot of
Jew advisors around and they are telling
him what to do."

Arkansas:  "They told me that they
are going to have 750 Negro cadets
stationed at this school, and that
white men are going to do the menial
jobs.  There will be plenty of trouble
if that is the case.  I hear that
they have been having race riots down
at Montgomery, Alabama, and that they 
have had to shoot a bunch of Niggers."

Illinois:  "Trouble between the
United States soldiers and British
soldiers is common-place."

Radio DEBUNK, April 6th:  "But would
you have reelected FDR a third time
if he had honestly told you what he
and his Jewish crowd of advisors
were up to?"

Radio ROME, to North America, July
29, 1942:  LISBON:  The United States
War Department communicates that
769, I will repeat the figure, 769
Negro cadets have been admitted to
an American Officers Training
School."

Radio DEBUNK, June 18th:  "American
doughboys in Iceland staged a short
but heated battle with British
soldiers there but came out on top.
Our boys had one casualty, whereas
the Limeys suffered two dead and
three wounded.  The British soldiers
had called our soldiers cowards for
not starting an offensive."

At the present time we cannot be sure of just what the origins of
our rumors may be. The parallelism between domestic rumors and Axis
propaganda does not necessarily mean that our local rumors are Axis inspired.  
In some cases the rumors take a very [definite] different trend.  For example,
the Axis tries to emphasize through plugging rationing that we have very
little in the way of necessary supplies; whereas in this field the rumors
seem to be in large part of the wishful sort exaggerating the supplies we
do have.  Whatever the original source of the rumors may be, we do know
that rumors are working for the Axis.  People spread rumors and believe
them.  According to the interviewers in the intensive study, over seventy

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.