The Hundred Pipers (Scottish Border Ballad) . . Kenneth Murchison
     In November, 1745, two thousand clansmen, led by "Bonnie Prince Charlie" on a white charger, marched upon Carlisle, to the sound of a hundred bagpipes, to claim the crown for their prince. At Longtown they forded the swollen Esk, then the border between Scotland and England, with only their heads and shoulders visible above the water. But they clung to each other and not a man was lost. Safely landed, the pipers struck up, and all danced reels and strathspeys until they were dry.

                                                II.
Ave verum corpus  .  .  .  .  .  Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
     The familiar Latin hymn-text, "Hail true body, born of the Virgin Mary," has never had a more melodic setting than this universally beloved one by Mozart. As Mozart composed very little for men's voices, it is being sung in a transposition and adaptation by Gottschalk. 

The Broken Melody  .  .  .  .  .  .  Jan Sibelius
     Jan Sibelius, now seventy-three years of age, is recognized as one of the greatest of living composers. The text of this song is one of the gems to be found in the "Kalevala," that great collection of Finnish poetry and folklore handed down for centuries by the lips of peasants and published over a half-century ago. Sigmund Spaeth made this translation. The unusual 5/4 rhythm gives a restless effect to the music.

Sérénade d'hiver  .  .  .  .  .  .  Camille Saint-Saëns
    Four romantic serenaders, wearing masks, appear beneath their mistress' window, begging her to listen to their song. Her smile, they say, turns winter into spring. They praise her charms and bespeak her favor. Of themselves they confide only that they are gentlemen of honor and courtesy with but two loves in their hearts -- Woman and Poetry.

                                          III.
And Now 'Tis Time To Go .  .  .  .  .  .  J. S. Bach
    The pious Bach of the chorales was not one to spurn a convivial round at the tavern. In setting this excerpt from the "Peasant Cantata" for four voices, H. E. Baker has faithfully retained the original counterpoint. 

The Shepherdess .  .  .  .  .  .  Dermott MacMurrough
    MacMurrough, a contemporary English composer, has set to music this text by Alice Meynell.

Slovakian Folksong  .  .  .  .  .  .  Deems Taylor
     With songs like this popular workshop of southern Europe laborers in the fields lighten their return hoe after the day's toil.

Silent Strings  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   Granville Bantock
     Bantock is another contemporary English composer -- one of the best known and most productive. 

                                  INTERMISSION
                                           IV.
Waltz in C sharp minor  .  .  .  .  .  .  Frederic Chopin
     To the waltz Chopin gave the dignity of an art form, creating compositions of rare beauty. His melodies are unsurpassed in originality, nobility and grace. 


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.