EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 

OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT 

OFFICE MEMORANDUM    [*Rumor file*]

To: Mr. Eugene Katz 

From: Eugene Horowitz 

Subject: Notes on Rumor Survey Proposal 

Date: July 17, 1942

From my present point of view rumor is a channel of communication.  It differs from other channels chiefly in that it is more widespread, it is much more difficult to record for later analysis, it is more susceptible to distortion of content, and it is more significant as an index of psychic state of the nation, or any part of the nation. 

In the light of the belief in the importance of rumor analysis and the past history of the efforts to arrange for continuous study on a sound basis, the present suggestion of a Bureau Survey on Rumors should be considered most carefully.  The Bureau Survey on Rumors should be designed to shed light on the important propositions; e.g., In an atmosphere of silence, that which is said may carry undue eight or influence;  disunity of opinion varies inversely with the availability of clear-cut information.  ("Disunity of opinion" here means more than confusion; it is meant to emphasize obstructionist aspects of the opinions which circulate.)  The Bureau Survey should provide significant information concerning rumors now circulation.  The Bureau Survey should provide the basis for policy formation.  The Bureau Survey should provide the basis for evaluating the importance of a continuing rumor study.

The Tyroler-Grabbe proposal differs in primary orientation as to what a rumor is. Despite the difference, the collection of orally transmitted rumors is provided for.  Because of the difference, check of orally transmitted rumors against other media is made more easy.  It is a coherent, integrated, well-planned outline.  

Eugene Katz's draft of an outline introduces difficulties.  Emphasis on "unverified and untrue" nature of rumors produces problem.  Things mat be true though unverified, things may be apparently verified but still untrue.  "Shotgun" collection of rumors (all types) would prevent parallel progress of analyses by media and Sources Division; would make careful analysis of data with limited staff most difficult.  (See the efforts at analysis of Chicago and Boston rumors -- could they be satisfactory compared, broken down, used?).  Limited rumor collection would serve purposes of Burau Survey. 

To test the point raised in Don Bussy's memorandum Bu Bois and satisfy the outline of Purposes of Bureau Survey above, I would suggest using the Tyroler-Grabbe outline on two subjects instead of one.
                                                                                                                                               OEM-32
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24332

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.