THE DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
Arts Commission
Edsel B. Ford, President
Albert Kahn
Robert H. Tannahill
Edgar B. Whitcomb
    Commissioners

W.R. Valentiner, Director
Edgar P. Richardson, Assistant Director
Clyde H. Burroughs, Secretary

April 7, 1940
Mr. Alan Lomax
Assistant, Archive of American Folk-Music
Library of Congress,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:
I very much enjoyed your lecture - recital on America: a 
Singing Country in Detroit last Friday evening, although I and 
many others would have been glad to have had you continue much 
longer as it is not often that we have an opportunity to hear 
an authority so widely versed as you on present American folk 
song.

For many weeks I have been meaning to write you, but I have 
not been able to until stirred by your recital.

Last summer I procured from my aunt, Mrs. Tracy D. Waring 
(Persis Snodgrass) of Toronto, a copy of the only folk-song which 
I know of in our family. She had it from her father, as you can 
see by the enclosed sheets. A little investigation on my part 
discovered another, only slightly differing, version in Cox's 
"Folk- Songs of the South", the clue being that the Snodgrass 
family came from West  Virginia and so Cox would seem the logical 
place to find a song known to that family. Oddly enough the 
Cox version was also supplied by the Snodgrass family.

I am led to ask you two questions. Is anything more known 
of the "Battle of Bridgewater"? Its origin? Is it found elsewhere? 
And can you tell me where I can find the the music that goes with this 
ballad?

The data I enclose may not be of any use in your files, but 
I should like to feel that I have perhaps made an infinitesimal 
contribution to the Archives of American Folk-Music, in which I 
am immensely interested.

With very best wishes, I am,
Very sincerely yours,
[Francis Waring Robinson]
Francis Waring Robinson
Curator of European Art.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.