Mr. R. Keith Kane                                                                                              October 24, 1942

Eugene Katz

Rosten and Rumors

         In half a dozen appointments in the last week, Horowitz
and I have spent a good many hours with Rosten towards perfection
of OWI rumor policy and rumor releases. Present status of the situation
is:

     1. OWI will release a rumor story similar to the aircraft
         story. This has been partially written by Rosten and
         will be completed by him.

     2. OWI will prepare a questionnaire to be sent to local
         rumor clinics, purpose of which will be to ask so
         many and so elaborate questions as to discourage rumor
         clinics. (Prepared by us)

     3. For the more energetic local groups who [whether] [service?] the
         questionnaire, a "rumor bible" is being prepared by
         Special Services. It will be a long discussion, perhaps
         even longer than the original war-time rumor report
         assembling all the do's and don't's about rumor
         analysis and rumor refutation.

     4. The Bureau of Intelligence will be the point of assembly of
         all the material coming from local rumor clinics in
         the future.

          Because of the importance of this question in the front
office and in other Government departments [and in the popular mind,] I
definitely recommend that the continuing analysis of rumors be provided
for in the future. Proper handling of this project on a
nation-wide basis, answering of correspondence with rumor clinics,
maintenance of advice, and preparing reports on current rumors to
indicate information gaps will take at least the full time of one
senior analyst plus the occasional spare time of from six to eight
additional people--say the equivalent of 18 or 20 extra man-days
per month.

          I respectfully suggest that this project continue to head
up to Horowitz who, with proper direction, is fully capable of handling
the analysis with assistance from Correspondence Panels in maintaining
liaison with the local projects. The extra man days can come
from Media, or Sources, or if there is an adequate staff,
the Area Study Report Analysts.

EKatz:mgb

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.