-10-

discount the denials. The constant presentation of a "No, No, No," pattern leads
to a set for the sort of answer to be expected, with a tendency to save himself time
and to skip the reading of the counteraction. Since most reading is of spotty sort,
quick, casual review of material, rather than a careful analysis of the precise implications
of the content, the reader who recognizes a "this is not so" counteraction,
would be inclined to skip the full statement and go on to the next juicy tidbit.
        Items that are partially true are difficult to counteract since it is always
necessary, if one chooses to be honest, to acknowledge the truthful part. Any statement
that presents a rumor first and then a counteraction where one says, "it is true--
but", loses the effectiveness needed for the elimination of the rumor.
        A rumor that has two parts, or is relatively lengthy, should not be included
in direct counteraction program. If the rumor is complex in form, then the response
to it will have to be relatively complex and it becomes difficult for the untrained
reader to keep the various parts separate. He loses the nub of its being denied. The
whole sequence becomes a reading exercise without the sharp lining up of "False" and
"True" which is implied in the sort of program designed.
        Some rumors are simply direct expressions of prejudice. Prejudice is literally
"pre-judgment". Denial of prejudice is useless, for the person already has the judgment.
The traditional advice concerning not arguing religion and politics represents
the tacit acknowledgment that in these spheres, prejudice is such as to prevent argument
on a rational level from being significant. Such argument generally serves merely
to cause the holder of the belief to assume his position with greater vehemence and
to develop negative emotional attitudes towards the person propounding an opposing
belief. It must be recognized that there are prejudices outside of the realm of politics
and religion which people maintain with some degree of heat. If the direct
counteraction program attacks people's prejudices crudely, directly, it will be found
very soon, those attacked will be completely alienated; whereas, an attack upon material

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.