[*A*]
June 1, 1939

Mr. Alan Lomax
124 West 12th Street
New York City

Dear Mr. Lomax:
I cannot tell you how happy your letter made me.  After our terrible
disappointment with the Carnegie Corporation, it is necessary to leave no
stone unturned and it is nice to hear that some of the things that we have
been hoping for are coming to pass.  I realize that their all coming at
once complicates matters a bit, but with cool heads we ought to be able to
swing them all.  On the chance that you have kept a carbon of your letter
to me, I shall retain your numbering but change the order of the points 
you mentioned.

4)  Your performance at the White House may turn out to be the biggest
thing that could have happened for you at the present time and I should like
to have you devote all your energies towards this for the next week.  You
will have to "open cold" and must therefore be thoroughly rehearsed.  You
will have no time to warm up.  I suggest that we have a few private performances
next Tuesday and Wednesday so that we may subject you to some
pretty nasty criticism.  I'll bet that even an experienced performer like
Kate Smith and Marion Anderson are doing just that at the present moment and
I wans you to go over big - very big.   Please let me know immediately what
aid we can render in helping you prepare for this.

I spoke to the Librarian about this performance and he asked me to
tell you that he is gratified!  He also asked me to transmit to you his appreciation
for the Lead Belly album and to tell you that he played some of
the records at the Round Table and enjoyed them very much.

1)  Even if you regard Mr. Hammond as impudent, I suggest that you cultivate
him for the time being because as you remember your connection with
the Columbia Phonograph is something I have suggested to the authorities
for well over a year.  I suggest that you agree to sign contracts first and
argue with them later.  In fact I have such confidence in your talent that
I believe as soon as you begin to write for them and produce that they will
eventually let you have your own way.

2)  You may remember that I first taunted Davidson Taylor with the work
of the BBC last Christmas and have kept after him steadily with regard to
the question of broadcasting American folk music.  I have pushed folk songs

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.