The Leonori
26 East 63 Street
New York City
July 9, 1941
Mr. Allan Lomax
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.
Dear Allan Lomax:
I was delighted to see you the other day in Washington and 
only regretted that we had such a short time together.  I 
had hoped to have another day in Washington before leaving 
for Canada this summer but it begins to look hopeless.  Would 
you be good enough to write me a letter with your views 
regarding field recording equipment?  I have been asked to 
write a chapter on field recording for Oxford University 
in England and I plan to mention the outstanding available 
equipment for recording.  Have you been using Presto Equipment 
entirely?  Did you ever try the Fairchild machine?  Have you 
ever used Allied Equipment?  How many and what kind of 
machines do you have available for field work and where are 
they being used now?  What type discs do you use and recommend?  
I think your idea for a light weight, really portable 
machine is marvellous.  I understand one is being evolved 
but it may be a couple of years before it is available.  Do 
you see any immediate hope of this type of recording equipment?  I'm 
interested to know where you have people doing field recording 
at present and something about their projects.  Will you 
have a really good machine available for five or six months 
after the first of the year?
I wish I could see you - - there are so many points I would like 
to discuss in detail but there is no time now.
I leave Saturday for my usual series of lectures at the Harvard 
Summer School and will proceed from there to Canada where 
I have been asked to do a three-month recording project from 
coast to coast for the Canadian Government.  I shall then 
start a recording project of Louisiana folk music for Tulane 
University.  Then will follow the six months of recording in 
South America.
I had a wonderful time with Dr. Barbeau and your ears should 
have burned with pleasure at all the nice things we were saying 
about you.
All good wishes and the best of luck,
Laura Boulton

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.