WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION
OF
ALABAMA
Federal Writer's Project

505 Court House
Birmingham, Alabama.
May 24, 1937.

Mr. John A. Lomax
National Advisor on Folklore
1500 Eye Street, NW.,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I am in receipt of your postcard and wish to
re-assure you as to our efforts to find the tune
of the Rube Burrow ballad. Our representative in
Uniontown, where the ballad was discovered, has
been told to make every effort to get the tune
sung for her and written.

I am sending under separate cover several
songs. Three were in a batch of songs submitted
by our new Negro worker. He sent a number of
others but I didn't think them worthy of forwarding
as they suggested, and I believe are, published
works.

Luther Clark says that "Billy Boy" is a variation
of a song his sister sings. Clark is at this
moment off in a corner somewhere trying to sing to
a musician on our project the air to his song "Cindy".
I am hoping that when they come in they will have
something in the way of a tune to submit as I hope
"Cindy" is a novelty. After Clark's heroic effort
to produce a tune,(he claims to be tone deaf) I
sincerely hope it will be a new one for you.

The Negro Shelby has just started and these are
his first submitted manuscript. I am writing him
today and sending one of Mrs. Ruby Pickens Tartt's
typical Negro songs as an example of what we want.
I think he is inclined to let his own educated versions
of the songs replace the words of his Negro
friends. He told me during a recent interview that
he knows a number of slavery Negroes. His letter
this morning stated that some ex-slave interviews
will follow. I am hoping for something characteristic
from him and if not disappointed will take great pride
and pleasure in forwarding.

We have two illustrated slave stories in process
of editing. You will receive these very soon.

Yours very cordially
Myrtle Miles
Myrtle Miles, State Director

MM:D

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.