GINN AND COMPANY
EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHERS
FOUNDED IN 1887 BY EDWIN GINN
INCORPORATED 1939

Statler Building, Park Square
Boston, Massachusetts

April 8, 1942
My dear Mr. Lomax,
Our correspondence with the attorney for the Edward B. Marks 
Corporation has revealed the fact that during the negotiations of the Marks
Music Corporation with The MacMillan Company the latter company secured from
you and your son Alan affidavits to the  effect that you were both ignorant
that "Alla en el rancho grande" was copyrighted when you included it in your
American Folk Songs and Ballads.
I have also learned that The MacMillan Company was granted permission
to continue to sell their present stock of this book, provided they placed
upon the page containing the song an erratum slip reading: "Alla en el rancho
grande. Composer and Author, Silvano R. Ramos. Copyright 1927 by Edward B.
Marks Music Corporation." It would seem therefore in our negotiations with
you in February that you must have forgotten the affidavits and the arrangement
with The MacMillan Company. Otherwise you would not have accepted
payment for the song and would have indicated to us that it was copyrighted
by Edward B. Marks Music Corporation.
In order to straighten out the matter with the Marks Corporation we
are paying them a fair amount for the privilege of reproducing the number.
Under the circumstances it seems that the ten dollars which we paid to you
should be refunded to us or paid to the Edward B. Marks Music Corporation.
They have been courteous enough to deduct from the amount which we paid them
the sum of ten dollars, expecting that we will secure a refund from you. If
you prefer to send the refund to us we will make it over to the Marks Corporation,
or if you decide to deal direct with them it may be sent to their
attorney, Mr. Arthur E. Garmaize, 1 Cedar Street, New York City. In the
latter event will you please let us know what action you take?
I regret that there seems to have been confusion in the matter, but
I am happy to have it satisfactorily adjusted.
Very sincerely yours, 
Helen S. Leavitt

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

S

I refunded the Ten 
Dollars. Here's a person
after my own heart,
and I told her so.
J


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.