See cylinder records, JL

Cowboys who must live away from newspapers and books often
memorize poetry that appeals to them. Around the campfire at night
or at other times when he feels at ease, he will recite a poem as
his part of the entertainment--"say his speech" as the men say.

One night in 1908 I was sitting in the back end of a saloon in
[Donning] Deming, New Mexico, watching for singing to break out from some one
in the crowd. At one table were three men enjoying the warmth of
the red hot stove near by. Outside it was bitter cold. One of these
men was a railroad brakeman just off a long run, one a cowboy from
the Diamond A. Ranch, one a tramp, a graduate of Oxford University,
England. The bartender's assistant came in with drinks for this
group carrying also one for himself. When the glasses were emptied
the four of them sang "Casey Jones," just then becoming popular.
They sang with such feeling that the noisy room became as quiet
as a church. When the song was finished the crowd cheered loudly
and asked for more.

After a time the brakeman said to the cowboy, "Jim, you old 
hornswaggling cadaver of a Pinto, say your piece for us, and put on
all the tremolos. I'm pining for home and mother."

And big Jim Swanson, still wearing his spurs, and marking the 
rhythm of the verses by waving his quirt, bowing first to his eager 
audience, reciting The Cowboys Ruminations.

Early Frontier Days

Didn't have no dandy riders with their fancy-bosom shirts,
Didn't have no love-knot ribbon tied by gals upon our quirts.
Didn't pack no looking glasses in our saddle bags, to see
If the wind an' our complexion seemed inclined fur to agree.
Didn't wear no chaparojos trimmed with fringes an' with beads
An' to keep our tailor breeches from the bushes an' the weeds,
An' you bet you never saw us, it's as true as preachin', boss,
With a hundred dollar saddle on a twenty dollar hoss.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.