No maverick or slick will be tamed
In that great book of life in his home,
For he knows all the brands and the ear marks
That down through the ages have come.

But along with the strays and the sleepers,
The tailings must turn from the gate;
No road brand to give them admission,
But that awful sad cry, "Too late!"

For they tell of another big ower
Who's ne'er overstocked, so they say,
But who always makes room for the sinner
Who drifts from the straight narrow way.

They say he will never forget you,
That he knows every action and look;
So, for safety, you'd better get branded,
Have your name in his big Tally Book,

To be shipped to that bright mystic region,
Over there in the green pasture to lie,
And be led by the crystal still waters
To the home in the sweet by-and-by.

*A parallel stanza:
Oh, they say that the boss is a-coming,
To rope and to brand and earmark,
And will take all the cuts back to the Judgment
To be registered on his great Tally Book.

By "cuts" the cowboy refers to cattle not suitable to driving up the trail, or not up to 
the standard of their class.
Underdeveloped, and therefore not acceptable, cattle; sorry dogies."

"O bury me not on the lone prairie"
These words came low and mournfully
From the pallid lips of a youth who lay
On his dying bed at the close of day.

"Oh, bury me not on the lone prairie
Where the wild coyotes will howl o'er me,
In a narrow grave just six by three.
Oh, bury me not on the lone prairie."

He had wailed in pain till o'er his brow
Death's shadows fast were gathering now;
He thought of his home and his loved ones nigh
As cowboys gathered to see him die.

"In fancy I listen to the well known words
Of the free, wild winds and the song of the birds;
I think of home and the cottage in the bower
And the scenes I loved in my childhood's hour.

"It matters not, I've oft been told,
Where the body lies when the heart grows cold;
Yet grant, Oh, grant this wish to me;
Oh, bury me [?] the lone prairie.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.