SPECIAL REPORT:
MASSACHUSETTS.
August 15, 1942.

RUMORS HEARD -- AUGUST 8 - 15, 1942 - NEW ENGLAND

The method in collecting rumors for the period August 8 to 15 was confined
to two:
1.  Rumors and criticism heard by the writer in the course of public contacts
in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont.
2.  Rumors reported by friends of the writer from dependable sources in
New Hampshire and Maine.

In presenting the following, we are treating the question of rumors in its
broad application not only as rumors but including critical comment, where that
comment seems to be pronounced in a community. It is interesting to know that from
Brunswick, Maine emanated a story to the effect that the Aircraft Carrier Wasp
was in some difficulty and that this same report was picked up at two different
places, in Vermont. Reliable information is to the effect that there are some Maine
men serving on the Aircraft-carrier Wasp who have probably not been heard of for
some time coupled with the fact that there has been no recent announcement regarding
the whereabouts of this carrier since it has been known to have delivered planes to
the island of Malta. It would appear to us that the rumor had its origin in the
lack of information in the [industries] hands of the people.

One statement that was heard in Boston from a captain of the fire department 
was to the effect that we were sacrificing Airmen and Marines in a Solomon
Island fighting and that the islands themselves are of no value materially or
strategically. It was stated also that they had been considered so worthless that
even the British Empire did not claim them until 1903. To the writer this would
appear to be a part of the anti-British talk which has been current in the Boston
area particularly among the Irish people. It ties in very closely with many
statements being make  not only in Boston but in other parts of New England to the
effect that Britain is keeping her major armed forces on the home front allowing
the colonials to do the fighting and waiting for America to open a second front.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.