- U2 -                OFFICIAL SWEDISH BROADCASTS

SWEDEN HAS EUROPE'S ONLY DIVING-BELL

Stockholm, in English to the world, (Oct. 29, 11:00 .m. EWT) state that "the 
Swedish Navy has Europe's first and only diving-bell for the rescue of
 submarine crews. Since last summer, intensive practice has been held in the 
Stockholm archipelago to train the diving-bell personnel and navy divers for
descent to greater depths. The bell has a crew of two men, but there is room 
for 10.

Rescue Method--"In order to sink the rescue bell to a sunken submarine, a
diver carries a wire down and attaches it to the vessel.  The bell, run by a
motor, then slides down along the wire.  The lower opening of the bell is
fastened to one of the hatchways of the submarine, so that the crew may enter
the bell and be taken to the surface.  The total weigh of the bell is about
8 tons. Navy divers have taken the bell down to  depth of about 200 feet.
Another diving-bell will soon be ready for use on the west coast.

CROWN PRINCE TO HAVE A SIMPLE BIRTHDAY

"Crown Prince Gustav Adolph," says Stockholm in English to the world, "will be
60 years old on November 11. He has always received a greeting from the entire 
country in peacetime, but under present circumstances no special ceremonies are planned. His birthday will be celebrated only by a family dinner for the 
Royal Family at the Stockholm palace in the evening."

SWEDISH RIKSDAG WILL MEET NEXT WEEK

According to Stockholm, in English to the world, (Oct. 29, 11:00 a.m. EWT) "the 
Swedish Riksdag will meet for a few days next week. This will not be a working
session, but merely a get-together, as the Government considered it advisable 
to inform the Riksdag regarding the progress of various internal and external 
matters. As the Riksdag has not met since last summer, the Government feels
it desirable to come into direct contact with the representatives of the people.
The meeting will not only be informative, but will also give the members of
the Riksdag an opportunity for debate. It is believed that the meeting will 
last about 4 days."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.