Tennessee Folk Lore
Society Begins Work

The Tennessee Folk Lore Society, which was organized November
10 for the purpose of collecting, studying, preserving, and publishing 
the folk lore of Tennessee, is perfecting its plans for gathering
available material throughout the state.

The following officers were elected: president, Dr. Charles S.
Pendleton, head of the English department, Peabody College, Nashville;
first vice-president, Dr. H. L. Upperman, president Baxter Seminary,
Baxter; second vice-president, Dean E. R. Hunter, Maryville
College, Maryville; third vice-president, Miss Fannie Burr Kiser,
teacher in the public schools of Goodletsville; secretary and editor
Dr. J. A. Rickard, head of the history department, Tennessee
Polytechnic Institute, Cookeville; treasurer, Mrs. Maude Somerville
Terry, elementary educational supervisor of Putnam County; councillors,
Miss Irene Bewley, collector and reader of folk lore, Mrs.
John Trotwood Moore, state librarian, and Dr. Walter D. Cocking,
state Commissioner of Education.

Folk lore, which includes folk songs, dances, tales, superstitions,
traditional narratives, legends, speech, poetry, and customs
provides us with those intimate, real, everyday activities of the
common man through the ages, and aside from its romantic aspects,
has an unique historical value. Tennessee is exceedingly rich in
folk lore, with its traditions of pioneers, Indians, Negroes, mountaineers,
countless war heroes, and river lore.

As time goes on, much, and eventually all, of this rich folk
lore will become lost unless it is preserved in permanent records.
Thus the task of the Tennessee Folk Lore Society is an important
one. The schools of the state are perhaps the best channels that
could be used in collecting folk lore, and for this reason it is
hoped that the high schools, colleges, universities, and other institutions
of higher learning will be greatly interested in the work
of the Society.

To enlist the co-operation of this group, a number of contests
for best folk lore contributions are to be sponsored among the high
schools and colleges of the state.

As for membership in the Society, any person, organization, or
institution interested in folk lore is eligible.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.