and we drove to Canyon. We'll be here until tomorrow afternoon, when we'll make our
last try for Dallas; I don't see how we can possibly start the trip on time with the
house to rent and Deanie and Father neither one in good shape.

Poor Deanie is dreadfully nervous and upset, and Father likewise; you know,
they both have a sort of nervous outbreaking on their skins which drives them wild--
a different kind of thing, each, I think, but both very painful. They were nearly
well in the mountains I believe, but I noticed a new patch on the back of Deanie's
neck last night. So what progress we're going to make I don't know. I achieved a
driver's license from a gloomy and misanthropic state cop whom I drove solemnly
around the Lubbock courthouse twice, so I can help out with the driving now. Father
says I'm going to side-swipe the cars I meet, and Deanie says I nearly run
off into the gravel, so we roll along merrily.

I'm due in at college on the 26 of September. I doubt I'll come up much
earlier; I want to stick with P and D as long as I can, but I'll come through Washington
anyway. I wish you'd write and tell me what especially to do on this trip; Father
seems to me not very enthusiastic and not very pushy about it; we'll probably get
back into it once we start, but just in case I have to push us all along and keep
us from getting lazy, I'd like to know what is particularly important to watch out
for. Now, for God's sake, don't write Father and say I mentioned this or that you
even think so; I just want to quietly take as much music work as I can off the two of
them because they're feeling pretty touchous and pretty tired. [and you Deanie] And you
know Deanie; [if] she'll sit up all night to do her duty no matter how she feels. If
they want to be leisurely and restful about things, they certainly have a right to
as much as two people ever had; but I can do a lot these days. I'm feeling just marvellous.

Sen my love and congratulations and admiration to everybody on that program,
and if you want me to write CBS a fan letter and sign it Mrs. J. Rutherford-Colsby
of Canyon, Texas, I'll be delighted. In the meantime, Dr. Fred said he was going to.
Much, much love to you and Elizabeth and respectful salutations to Corey.
Bess

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.