Lewis Jacobs'
Rise of the American Film
Reviewed by
Harold Leonard

THE appearance of Lewis
Jacobs' The Rise of the American
Film, articulating within a single
volume the industrial, artistic and
social aspects of the film, furnishes 
us with the first complete textbook
of American film history. Beautifully
constructed (as though the film Intolerance
were its model), it has proportion
and fullness. Jacobs blocks
out his periods: 1896 to 1903 (and
the story film); 1903 to 1908 (and
Griffith); 1908 to the War; the War;
1919 to 1929 (and the advents of
sound and the depression); the depression
to date. Within each period
consideration is given business operations,
the advance of technique,
with an accompanying discussion of
key directors, and significant story
content. The execution is unmechanical
and results in a rounded view.

It fills the large gaps in our knowledge
of those years to the point of
congestion. Jacobs approaches film
technique and, making relatively easy
progress through the years to 1902,
digs in at Edwin C. Porter. He gives
us the complete script of the Great 
Train Robbery ( a matter of two
pages), of the preceding Life of an
American Fireman, synopsis of several
significant Porter films which
followed (hitherto lost in the general
anonymity shrouding production of
the period), and ties them, the chapter,
and the book together with a
minute exposition of the principles
of editing. Reaching D. W. Griffith
he devotes twenty-five pages - not to
the Birth of a Nation (1915) and Intolerance
(1916), which receive
thirty pages - in a later chapter - but
to the one- and two-reel pictures
made for Biograph at the rate of two
a week from 1908 through 1914.

Possibly the prime revelation of 
the Rise of the American Film is the
picture it affords of changing trends
in story content. Jacobs' procedure is
to break down the production of a 
period into manifold subject categories.
It is heartening to learn that 
before the war the movies, costing a
nickel, and attended predominantly

by working men and immigrants saw
fit to make films about working men
and from their point of view. The
degradation of poverty, the venality
of politicians, the conflict of capital
and labor (though strikes were invariably
settled through the patronizing 
generosity of the employer),
were not uncommon screen subjects.
Only with the advent of "better
class" audiences, attracted by theatres
newly redecorated to accord with the
dignity of feature-length films and
famous players in famous plays, did
the motion picture begin to take on
the pseudo-refinement and the debilitating
vacuity its manufacturers assumed
would please the cash customers.

On the critical side, Jacobs has
scored points, in the temerarious
view of this critic, when he dissociates
Chaplin the technician from
Chaplin the screen creation, finding
his importance "not in what he has
contributed to film art but in what
he has contributed to humanity."
Judicious also appears Jacobs' reappraisal
of a decade of sound when he
asserts that the maligned appendage,
after causing a temporary setback,
has had the final effect of quickening
progress in every department of
film technique, facilitating the film's 
maturity.

Voracious rather than ungrateful,
we would have relished, particularly
as served up by Mr. Jacobs, more
about the history of newsreels, the
serial as a form and a chapter in the
career of motion picture exploitation,
silent-era sound devices and theatrical
sound effects, the long and varied
background of the animated cartoon,
the role of the short subject in a
feature era, the rocky saga of the
non-theatrical film.

The American film, pretending to
have many things it lacked, has long
had a tradition without knowing it.
The Rise of the American Film
pushes the exploration of that tradition
to its source and marks a stage
in the rise of an American film literature.

IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

Stills from Lewis Jacobs' book that
recall the early days of the American
Film. At the top, we see
Charlie Chaplin in Easy Street.
Next, typical posters advertising an
early "thriller." Bottom, Louise
Fazenda, dear to the hearts of the
first movie fans, in a typical slapstick
comedy.

17

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.