Alan Lomax, 
Archive of American Folk Song,
June 18, 1938.

exhibits, to look at each other, to participate in
herd amusements and to do and see things that are
outside of their every-day experience. They will
look at a few wonders of science, but what they
mainly want is fun; and they should find it on the
streets of the New York World's Fair, free.

What I propose, therefore, is to set up a series
of strategically placed open air stages throughout the
Fair Grounds and there to present at the crowd level,
folk singers, banjo players, balalaika orchestras, Indian
medicine shows, spasm bands from New Orleans, shanty 
men, singing cow-boys, Mexican ballad vendors, Haitian voodoo
dancers and what have you. These groups would be chosen
from among the performers in the "folk lore night
spots," discussed above, on account of their ability to
successfully invite audience participation. The audience
for the cow-boy singer, for example, should be provided
with the words of his songs and be induced to sing along
with him. The Mexican ballad vendor should actually vend
his wares throughout the Fair Grounds exactly in the fashion
that he does on market day in Mexico, where he holds
hundreds of people entranced for hours on end with his
chit-chat, and his sounding guitar. The spasm band from
New Orleans should demonstrate their dances, as well as 
their music, and invite the gullible members of the audience
up on the stage to learn a couple of new steps.

Besides these stationary groups, there should be
at various times of the day bands of singers and dancers
dancing their way through the Fair Grounds pulling the
crowds along in their wake to participate in the parade.
For example, a Haitian Rara band with its booming bamboo
horns, its subtle drumming, its gay costumes and masks
and its simple dance pattern could, I am sure, pull several
hundred people through the streets in its rhythmic
wake. A gang of husky Negro men from the honky-tonk can
throw their ax blades into a big live oak log and raise a
powerful work change that will roar down the streets of the
Fair and drown out the pistons of the mechanical exhibits.
In the evening on some square a Bahaman drummer could light
his fire of palm leaves and begin to tune up his goatskin
drum, and by the time his companions had begun their fire
dance, there would be a crush of spectators and potential 
participants gathered around the flame.

These performers at the street level would serve
not only to bring back into the Fair the ancient feeling
of gaiety that our stream-lined commercialism has smothered,
but besides advertise the further delights that

-6-


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.