[handwriting]

Joseph Utay
Attorney at Law
1506-07 First National Bank Bldg.
Dallas, Texas

June 11, 1935

Mr. John A. Lomax,
University Station,
Austin, Texas.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

Huddie Ledbetter has called to see me and ask
me to look after his legal matters in the future.

He informed me that he made a trip through
to East with you beginning sometime in November and
extending into March of this year, and that while on this
trip he played and sang at various cities. From my
conversation with him I could not learn the exact arrangements
that he had with you with the reference to the division
of any moneys earned by him on this trip. I am therefore
writing you to ascertain just what arrangements you had
with him and what amount, if any money, is now due him as
a result of this trip.

Furthermore, I understand while in the East
Ledbetter made some Records for the American Record 
Corporation and that he is to receive certain royalties
for these Records. I will appreciate if you will let me
know what kind of contract was made with the American Record 
Corporation, and what portion of the royalty Ledbetter is
to receive.

Also I understand that the MacMillan Company
Publishers are publishing a song book containing Ledbetter's 
Songs exclusively and I will appreciate if you will let
me know what royalty Ledbetter is to receive from the sale
of these books.

Also please advise me what sums, if any, are due
Ledbetter in the moving picture "March of Time".

Ledbetter has indicated to me that you have been
very friendly to him, and sided him and that this letter is
not intended to in any manner indicate that he has in any 
manner lost confidence in you, but he is anxious for me to
become familiar with his affairs so that he can in the
future be fully advised of all contracts in which he is
interested, and it is my purpose to advise him in these
matters.

With kindest personal regards, I am,
Sincerely yours,
Joe Utay

JU:S.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.