June 30, 1938.
Mr. William A. Myers,
Federal Writers Project,
1200 Kentucky Avenue,
Indianapolis, Indiana
Dear Mr. Myers:
I have never thanked you for the very real help the Writers
Project gave me in Indiana, largely because I have not had
the time until recently to catalog and play over the Indiana
recordings. Through you and Mr. Lockridge a short visit to Indiana
proved very fruitful for the Archive. Mr. Doyle Joyce
and Mrs. Caney in Vincennes, Mr. Wolfe and Mrs. Elliott in
New Harmony, Mr. Dixon in Mt. Vernon and indirectly Mr. Parke
of Crawford County were among the most useful informants.
My very cursory view of the Writers Project folklore work in
Indiana convinced me of the fruitfulness of folklore in the
WPA. Some of your workers, particularly Sudie Knight and
Luana Creel, have done a particularly fine job. Miss Creel
is a natural collector, one of the few I have ever met and
I hope the Indiana Writers Project will find a way to make
her more useful.
There are two bits of material that I should very much like
to add to the Archive collection. The first is the material
gathered in Vincennes that pertains to the customs, songs,
dances, etc., of the old days. The second is a group of songs
collected by Sudie Knight, District 11. The titles are:

The Girl with her Dog and Gun             Happy as a Birdie
Pretty Maid out in the Garden              The House Carpenter
The Steamer Little Clyde                        On the Banks of the Sweet
Gambling on the Sabbath Day                        Dundee
The Bumble Bee Joe                                The Roving Soldier
The Ballad of the Green Willow Tree    Shoo Fly Don't Bother Me
The Ballad of Fair Ellender and             There Was an Old Man
            Sweet William                               You Bet I Was a Different
An Old Fashioned Singing in                             Lad When I Left Arkansas
            Crawford County

I don't know whether it is possible for you to get me copies
of this material, but if so, the Archive would accept it with
what restrictions you care to impose.


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.