September 16, 1938.

Mr. Alan Lomax
General Delivery
Escanaba, Michigan

Dear Alan:

   I am sorry to hear that you have had so much trouble and that
you have had to cut down on your food. This is inexcusable as I 
thought I had impressed on you many times before that it is not the
Library's wish to see you drive yourself to death. I wrote you all
this when you were in Kentucky and thought you had learned your lesson.
But I see that you haven't. You should plan ahead and play safe. If
you find yourself short of money, it is foolish to move very far until
you have received some money. You can always stay put and do official
government work right where you are - arranging records, writing texts,
etc., etc., etc. You ought to know by now that you cannot expect too
much in the way of special service from the government. So don't take
any changes hereafter and plan your excursions on a conservative basis.
The chances are that your total production will not fall off more than 
a few percent as a result of this.
     I shall leave the question of your return to Washington entirely
up to you. Father of course seemed quite anxious (although he didn't 
come out and say so) to have me wire you to return for the family reunion.
I did not feel that I could do this. But you know best how
long it would be advisable for you to stay in the north - there is no 
obligation on your part, however, to cover Wisconsin and Minnesota if
Michigan proves so fruitful. As soon as I hear from you how long you
will want to stay, I shall make the proper recommendation to the Librarian 
and feel quite confident that it will be approved.
     You apparently did not understand my question regarding the discs.
At present we have practically none here and unless you have an enormous
stock on hand I shall order another hundred immediately. You 
asked us to place an order for films and to send them on to you when
you would notify us to do so. I assume from your question that you want 
them now. Your salary was sent air-mail special to Escanaba.
      As you undoubtedly know by now, Capt. Nye's letter was not enclosed.
                   Sincerely,

                              Harold Spivacke
                              Chief, Division of Music

HS/mr

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.