Mr. William B. Lewis
R. Keith Kane
Rumor Report
September 30, 1942

   Attached you will find special Intelligence Report, dated
9/30/42, subject - Rumors.
   Perhaps no single subject has engaged the fancy and the attention
of more information men in the government than rumors.  In
fact, the study of rumors has itself been the subject of rumors.
   This first Bureau of Intelligence canvass of the subject will,
we feel, put an end to a good many half-truths which have been circulated
among us about rumor and, more important, will indicate certain
directions in which positive work can be done to neutralize rumors.
   One additional thing this study makes plain:  "Don't talk"
and "don't rumor" are quite different as informational themes.  Careless
talking may give valuable information to the enemy.  Careless
rumor mongering, this study shows, isn't calculated so frequently to
give valuable information to the enemy.  Its danger lies in its harmful
effects on Americans themselves.
   It seems to us that this special rumor report may suggest
to the Radio Bureau certain treatments of the subject of rumors (as
differentiated from the "don't talk" aspects of the security campaign)
such as radio playlets or a series of radio playlets about the effect
of rumor, narratives about how rumor has slowed production in such
and such a plant or has disaffected minority groups in such and such
an area.  A script writer who assimilates the material in this report
will, we feel, have a head start on the writing of a script which will
convey to the public the menace of rumor.  Because of the comparatively
complicated explanations required to put over the ill effects of rumor,
short spot announcements don't seem to us as well calculated to do
the job as the longer, more colorful and informative type of program.
Of course, your ideas about this will be better than ours.

cc to Mr. Douglas Meservey
Mr. Charles Siepmann

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.