-2-

other numbers of mine.  In that same year, I was engaged by the Roxy Theatre
to present, and appear in, personally, my all-Guien Cowboy Production -- the
first ever to be presented in New York City.

Home on the Range was only one of many of my numbers used -- however, it met
with prolonged applause at each performance and became popular almost over
night.  It had never before been heard, or sung, in the East.

I was immediately engaged for commercial and sustaining net-work programs.
Home on the Range was included in all my programs -- later becoming my theme
song.  John Chas. Thomas, Lawrence Tibbett, Morton Downing, Richard Crooks,
Bing Crosby and others started singing my song.  These artists, at various
intervals, were invited to sing at the White House.  The President always requested 
to hear my song -- he shortly announced that it was his favorite song.
On learning this, I wired the President and thanked him -- he answered
with a wire and congratulated me on my song and gave my publishers and me permission 
to use his name on the printed sheet music.  The cover page was then reprinted 
and now bears this inscription, - PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT'S
FAVORITE SONG.  Mr. Roosevelt then sent me an autographed steel engraving of
himself, and it is now on my piano.

You know the rest -- the song was sung from coast to coast and quickly spread
to foreign countries.  Then, came the suit against my publishers and me.  This
suit was thrown out, as you know, because I gave proof that my song was based
upon an old, long forgotten tune.  However, in recreating Home on the Range,
added an ORIGINAL GUION MELODY and rewrote the folk tune -- giving it a new and
proper setting.  It is this combination of tunes and the rewriting of the old
tune that has made Home on the Range the American classic it is today.

No one knows this better than Mr. Lomax.  He is well aware of the fact that the
popularity of the song came from my pen and not from the recording of the tune
he got from San Antonio.  He also knows that his published collection of folk
tunes, in 1910, had nothing to do with the success of my song.

A year or so ago, Mr. Lomax wrote to me for full information regarding my Home
on the Range.  He gave me as an excuse, that he wished to include my letter with
this information in his coming book.  He has used neither, and when he gave an
interview to Mr. Day he cleverly with-held this information.  Frankly, what Mr.
Lomax had to say of the success of this song is misleading and untrue.  It would
seem he now wishes to hop on the Guion Band Wagon!

I only want credit given where credit is due.  America learned Home on the Range
from my pen [underlined in the original] -- not that of John A. Lomax, or from any other source -- regardless
of the recent misleading ballyhoo given the song in current magazines.

I feel you will want to make known to your readers this fact.  That you will be

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.