July 13, 1937


Dr. Rulx Leon
Department d'Hygiene
Port-au-Prince, Haiti

Dear Dr. Leon:

My wife and I have thought about you a thousand times here in Washington,
about your countless kindnesses, about your endless patience with
a couple of young and harassed Americans. We remember with gratitude your
graciousness and your real concern with our welfare. And I hope you will
forgive my not having written sooner when you learn how busy I have been
since my return here.

From the first of May until the first of this month, I worked as many
hours a day as I had strength to in helping my father edit a revised edition
of his "Cowboy Songs" and since that time I have been adjusting myself
to my new job here at the Library, as assistant in charge of the Archive of
American Folk-Song. And I have been trying all along to make the records
I promised you, but breakdowns in the apparatus and the use of the machine
for other purposes have forever interrupted me. At last, however, I snatched
some hours yesterday, found a fully charged battery, and made you two duplicate
records, which I hope you and your family will be pleased with. Of course
they are not quite so good as can be made, but they are the best that the apparatus
we have now can produce. Later on, when the Library is given a real
duplicating machine, and I hope that will be soon, I will make a better set for
you, but I hope that for the present these will answer your purposes. I should
like to know whether you and your family and your visitors enjoy them and if
there is something else you might possibly like to have recorded. If there is,
you have only to let me know.

The other night we saw a little of Haiti in the newsreels - the market
and the palace square with its gendarmes. We felt very home-sick. The United
States seemed for a long time after our return a very colorless place with
a disappointing sea and a sky that was positively plain.

Will you give our best regards to Mrs. Leon, to Fannie Dess, and to
your children. And, if it is any pleasure to you, know that without your
never-failing courtesy, out visit to Haiti would have been far less profitable
and happy.
Sincerely your friend,

P.S. I wonder if you could find a place for Revoli at Pont Beudet. During
his time with me, he proved completely devoted to his job, intelligent, resourceful,
and honest. It struck me particularly about this man that his most
important motivation was the need to do his job well. I hope you can employ
him.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.