Dear Alan,

Blind Lemon is dead-- he died in Chicago several years ago, was probably about
fifty-five then. I tracked his aunt down in Dallas, an old suspicious witch who sat
back in her dark hall and refused point blank to come to the door and to tell me anything 
about her nephew. He's dead now, [as] she pointed out reasonably enough, whyn't you
come asking questions about him when he was alive. Anyway, his mother and sisters live
in Wortham, Texas; Father says if it's important enough, we can go by there and see
them. Are his records valuable; should I ask specially for them? Mike says he saw Blind
lemon once-- that he was six foot and fat and always used to wear a dark blue handkerchief
around his neck. And he played in the old Ella B. Moore theater a lot when Ida
Cox and Bessie Smith used to come singing there. Is it Wortham to follow all this up? (Scuse

Mike has found us two good bunches of spiritual singers, long meter hymns mostly.
Tonight we go out to listen to the second group. But I doubt we'll be off on our
real trip before the tenth or that we'll be out of Texas before I leave to come back to
college. I wish you'd let me know if you or Elizabeth will be in Washington around the
twenty-fifth or sixth. If so I'll get my ticket through Washington; otherwise it's
cheaper not to, I think. By the way, tell Elizabeth I spent all afternoon reading letters
from you and her (Haitian); unfortunately most of them I had to bur in the interests
of discretion. Just consider the loss to your biographers. Everybody is fine; I want to
come on North as soon as I can. I have vacationed, I am through, I am finished, I am exhausted.
I have led an exemplary and a Christian life for the last three months, and
now I want to dissipate something awful. Anyway, love
Bess

Let me know how I should feel about Canada Dry. I will [a] water the flowerbeds with it
or turn teetotaller at your slightest nod. And also-- I found a whole bunch of letters
to you from Mike and Faith mostly, and I put them away in a box marked Private Alan with
a skull and corssbones. Or should I [br] burn them too,

[*Please write instructions*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.