made history when we cut out John's district. Schluter and I didn't;t have
much luck. 
      "There hangs a picture of Thomas C, Gathright, outstanding as an educa-
tor, the first president of the Texas A. & M. I was in the first graduating class and he
was my favorite teacher. He often said to us: 'Young men, never go to any place
where you would not feel proud for your people to find you if you happened to
die"
       "Here is Judge A.W. Terrell, Governor S.W.T. Lanham, William [?]. Bryan, the venera-
ble Governor Frank Lubbock; also my political hero, the Statesman, Joseph W. Bailey; and General A.P. Wozencraft, who once offered to loan me $5000 without interest. 
        "That Knott cartoon, 'The New Deal' is good for man or beast. But the be
bets cartoon Knott ever drew there it is-is the average legislator with his 
brain expose and that scientists examining it and doing his best to determine
just what are the [?] [?] of his [?]. 
         "You can see Will Rogers up there, smiling as usual and feeling at 
home. Mae West's picture was put up by the junior member of the firm, 'Tex'
Bryan, my son. More pictures? An autographed photograph of Speaker Seabury
of Brownsville; The Knott Negro on horseback, singing 'I'm ready for the first
Round-up'; the cat who walks the fence at midnight, yelling till he gets results, 
for everybody comes; a grey-whiskered ranchman looking at the last buffalo; 
Tom Love, who causes so much noise; the largest herd of longhorns you in existence -
on the ranch of L.A. Schreiner near Kerreville; A.T. Hoover of Canadian, one of the
best among my 22 law classmates in Cumberland University when I 
graduated in 186; George Saunders, who was an authority on the Old Chisholm
Trail; Rev. Ira Landreth, [?] classmates in Cumberland University, once candidate for
Vice-president on the Populist ticket; Ex-Congressman Claude Hudspeth, natural 
product of the Pecos Country; the great Irish singer, Scalan, who at Kansas City
I once heard sing "Peekaboo" and "Fathering myrtle"; Andrew B. Martin and
Judge Green, law teachers at Cumberland University. Here's the Populist mule

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.