5.
this. It should be made in small towns and shipped to small town radio stations for use on their sustaining hours.
c) A program to be entitled "Our Singing Country." The story of America in terms of its popular and folk music and the lives of the people who made it. A criss-cross-patchwork of American lives in music, designed for the morning hours and housewives. 
d) A program to be entitled "The Language of Freedom". The central idea of such a program to be American tolerance of all languages, creeds and colors. The materials for the program to be drawn from the experience of various minority groups in America. Each program an exhibit of the story and the culture of a national minority group or broken by a dramatization of the contribution of some member of this group toward the growth of democracy in the world. 
e] A program to be entitled "Their Weight in Wildcats." This program is to build the notion of Americans as fighters for democracy and as rootin', tootin,' hell-rasin' fightin' democrats. All the characters of this kind in American history from Gentlemen Jim Jeffries, through Stonewall Jackson to Andrew Jackson and Davy Crockett should have their stories told. A program for kids could be built out of this kind of material, although it might be better to use for the kid program mostly material about scouts and trappers and western men of various kinds.
f) A program to be entitled "Tearin' out the Wilderness". This program should have to do with growth in this country and should be a melange of material dealing with industrial growth, with the development of regions of trails through the wilderness and with the people had to do with them. This might well be the focus of the program discussed under (a).
g) A program to be entitled "American Forum." (This is an idea of Nicholas Ray only reported by me here.) A round table of Washington experts held weekly in the Library of Congress to walk over the most important issue of the hour. The program should be one hour long and should somewhat resemble the Fred Allen forum except for a good deal more formality and a good deal more newsworthiness. You shall have in "ashington the best minds in the country to discuss issues of national import and give all sides a platform for self-expression. The political issues behind the questions will add x to the excitement of the program. The program should be broken in the middle by a ten minute dramatization of the issue, perhaps a demonstration of a street corner or corner grocery store dispute over the question, where the issue is presented from the point of view of violently held opinion. Mr. Ray suggested as a moderator a sort of Will Rogers, Artemus B. Ward, Mr. Dooley sort of person who would take the edge off the argument and point the questions for a mass audience. 
h) A program to be entitled "Ask a Librarian." This program should be a plug for the building. It should dramatize the research activities of the Library. The MC sits in front of his mike and tears open his letters, reading the questions as he comes to them, The program should dramatize the process of search and investigation necessary to properly answer a question, should dramatize the patricular problems of

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.