THE ROANOKE TIMES, ROANOKE, VIRGINIA: SUNDAY MORNING, JANUARY 7, 1940. 
School Of  The Air' Programs Result Of Ten Ye
William Fineschriber (above), is the producer of the American School of the Air for Columbia Broadcasting next week for the production of the CBS broadcast on square ios of station WDBJ.
WIFE PF MUSICIAN LOVES FOLK TUNES
Wife of Uncle Davey Once Sang Ballads Herself.
CBS Commissions Twenty Composers For Program
Folk Music Specialist Employed and Thorough Research Made
       A full season of music drawn from authentic American sources is the culmination of ten years' development of Columbia's "American School of the Air," which will originate two of its programs from the studios of WDBJ in Roanoke Tuesday. 
       Here to direct the programs will be Alan Lomax, folk-song specialist of the Library of Congress, who has been engaged by Columbia to conduct the "Folk Music of America" classes of the School of the Air, a feature devoted to the lyric art. 
                         20 Composers Employed
         For the folk music classes Columbia has also commissioned 20 American composers to write original works based on folk themes, and has worked out its programs on a decade's experience in examining every fact of music for child-study.
         In the spring of 1930, when "Columbia's American School of the Air" was founded, young CBS listeners were introduced to the music of their own land in three outstanding programs: "Historic Panorama of American Music," "American Folk-Music" and "A Musical Trail Across the United States." Another part of the opening season's schedule, "Men Who Made America," contained additional music showing the type that was written and performed in each period of the country's history from the time of Columbus. Similar parallels were also drawn between music and other allied subjects such as art.
                         Divided Into Grades
          In the ensuing 1930-1931 season music was divided into grades for primary, intermediate, and upper class students, as well as for high school pupils and even adults. Primary grades were encouraged to use "My Radio Picture Book," distributed by CBS, which they could read and color.
           The intermediate grade was instructed in various types of music its forms and instruments. A general history of music from medieval times was traced for advanced listeners, American music naturally being prominently included. 
              

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.