May 31, 1941
1615 Grant Street
Denver, Colorado.

Mr. Alan Lomax
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I should have answered your very cordial
letter long before this, but have been up to my ears in
work of one sort and another.

First, thank you for the list of collectors
who might also have material on Western mining songs and
ballads. And second, thank you suggesting that I cooperate
in some way with you and your father in the continued
and first hand collection of the material. You undoubtedly
have made plans of your own for the Western and Alaska trip,
and I do not feel that a rank amateur like myself should
interfere and be added baggage along the way.  On the other
hand, you are certainly welcome to all that I have so far
gathered and to everything else that I run across. In most
cases I do not have the music of the songs, but also in most
cases the music is quite bad, the Cousin Jack songs of the 
Cornish miners being an exception. The majority of mining 
tunes are and have been popular tunes which have been used
with a new text. This is not parodying of tune, but sheer
robbery. However, it would please me to know how to run and
operate one of your recording machines. There is much other
material here apart from mining songs as I shall try to show 
you when you come on. One girl in my class has given me folk
songs of her grandmother's which obviously go back to Revolutionary
days. 

The other day I received an application blank
for a Guggenheim with the compliments of the Secretary, Alan
Moe -- correction, Henry Allen Moe. I do not know whether
you or your father had a hand in this, or whether it came as
a result of radio talks on ballads I have been giving here.
In any case, it is something which would delight me, giving
me opportunity to spend a full year on the job and get it done
up properly. I am applying for the fellowship and am taking
the liberty of using your name and your father's as reference,
both of you people [who] "from whom expert opinion may be 
obtained regarding the value and practicability of your proposed 
studies." Since the fellowship does not close its
applications until October, I hope that I can see you this 
summer in Denver so that you will not be under the necessity
of recommending me sight unseen. 

By the time you come on this summer, I ought

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.