HOW TO MAKE A LOCAL GO

First.  Select a careful program made up of women
and let this part of the work be in the hands of the
Women's Auxiliary.  To accomplish this best, be sure
to get your local school teachers into the Union, then
impress upon them the advantage of preparing the
youth mind upon agricultural problems.  These teachers
constantly instruct their pupils to recite and write essays,
why not make a practical use of these recitations
and essays in the local meetings?

Second.  There are enough preachers and public
speakers in the average community to have a short
address at least six times a year.  If your preachers
won't respond, it will be a surprise.  The thing is, they
are not given sufficient reasons to believe they are
needed at your meetings.  A recent address given by a 
clergyman before a Union meeting was worth the price
of a year's membership.  Give the clergy an opportunity.

Third.  Appoint an educational committee, whose
duty shall be to bring to the local, national, state and
local items of interest.  What about a Farmer's Union
nail, over dad's desk, upon which everybody will place
items of farmer interests, which appear in local
papers, magazines or public press?

Fourth.  Appoint a livestock, a grain, an insurance
committee including the life, property and automobile
protection.  Get these three committees to divide the
territory covered by your local, and list every member
with a record of all his insurance, when due, etc.  Then
report same to your nearest Union insurance agent
and watch the action that follows.  Obtain the grain and
livestock record for your shipping association through
your committees.

Fifth.  Nominate a legislative committee which
shall act during legislative sessions and report the
doings of your legislature.  During legislation, it would
be a good thing to have a meeting every two weeks 
and study the prospective bills and stir up your representatives
when necessary.

Sixth.  Keep the latest catalog from your exchange.
The president and secretary ought to take
it upon themselves the pleasure of having something of 

- 1 -

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.