All soldiers and sailors believe that the war will be over by Christmas, and that they will be with their families by Christmas. 
(St. Louis, Missouri)

Rumors are stories allegedly true, spread by word of mouth. When we 
try to compare rumors with the more authoritative channels of information, 
we find a rather complicated structure. There is no simple relationship 
between the frequency with which items are referred to in the newspapers, and 
the frequency with which rumors are reported. Around Portland there were many 
shipbuilding rumors, but an analysis of the Portland newspapers revealed a 
minimum of shipbuilding news. Similarly in New Brunswick, rumors related to 
camp life, and the local newspapers carried very little on this topic. However, 
we do find that there is much space devoted to rationing in the newspapers 
and also that there are many rumors on this topic.

An analysis of authoritative U.S. Government statements reveals that 
official statements sometimes may give rise to rumors or help circulate already 
existing rumors. This is particularly true of statements which are 
confusing, contradictory, and misleading. In a few instances, officials have 
acknowledged the existence of rumors and explicitly denied them. Example is a 
War Department release of July 15 which reported an organized effort to 
strike at the morale of the American factory worker by spreading rumors of British 
carelessness toward American planes, tanks, and materials. This rumor was 
encouraged by Axis agents abroad. Colonel Craw was quoted as saying: “Contrary 
to the German talk, the British have been most cooperative, helping us 
in every possible way. But the propaganda, insidiously instilled, has had a 
certain effect and today rumors are floating back to this country which are 
definitely Axis inspired.” In spite of such direct approaches, anti-British 
rumors persist.
[*-7-*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.