Another Man Done Gone    Sung by Vera Hall, Livingstone, Ala., 1939
   Recorded by John A. Lomax and Ruby Pickens Tartt.
   It seems likely that the Negro "blues" is quite a recent outgrowth. 
The earliest examples we have date from the period between 1890 and
1910,  when this form seems to have crystallized.  Most of these early
examples have the same stanza form as Vera Hall's enigmatic song - - 
that is,  one verse four times repeated or one verse repeated three
times with a final single line, usually unrhymed.  The modern blues
form is a three verse stanza.
   Vera Hall, who lives on the outskirts of a small town in the 
red-lands of central Alabama,  sings religious and secular songs equally
well.  This song tells enigmatically of the escape of a Negro from
the county "chain-gain".  The singer, if she knows anything about
the runaway prisoner, certainly will tell you nothing.  The song is
full of shadows and hidden meanings.  The last line,  which has no
apparent connection with the rest of the verses,  means "I'm going to
chastize you."

The Boll Weevil
   The boll weevil is a parasite which bores into the green cotton
boll and kills it before it opens.  As the Texas version of the
Boll Weevil ballad truly says,
   "The boll weevil is a little black bug,
   From Mexico they say,
   Come all the way to Texas,
   A-lookin' for a place to stay,
   Just looking for a home. "

   He made his illegal entry into the U.S.A about 1890 and in
the years following marched across the South,  as the song puts it,
"with his whole family,  looking for a home" and doing millions of
dollars of damage to the cotton crop,  the staple of the South. 

   The Negro tenant farmers and farm laborers,  who were also
"looking for a home", felt some kinship with "the little black bug"
and they made a ballad which followed the boll weevil from the 
flatlands of Texas to the tidewater of Virginia.  Vera Hall's is the
Alabama version,  much shorter than the usual form.   The word "square"
refers to the shap of the cotton bud before it blossoms.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.