- 6 -

Possibly some exaggerated report of the sort is what this returning traveler calls
a disaster, for such episodes lend themselves to exaggeration.  Stories were going
around Washington last month, quite circumstantial stories, of the loss of ships
which had, in fact, been damaged; but which had been repaired, and were again in
action against the enemy, at the very time those tales were being whispered around.
There is nothing the enemy would like better than to know just what ships he has
damaged, and how long those ships may be out of action while undergoing repairs.
He does not tell us that sort of thing, and we do not propose to tell him.

Finally, for one more of this traveler's tales--that there is no unified
command in the South Pacific.  Well, it is true that Admiral Halsey commands in
one region, and General MacArthur in the region next door; but they both operate
under orders from the joint chiefs of staff in Washington, whose chairman is
Admiral Leahy; and there you have a unified command not only of these two areas,
but of American forces everywhere.  General MacArthur's bombers, by attacking
enemy bases and ship concentrations farther north and by providing information of
enemy fleet movements through long-range reconnaissance have given valuable aid
to our forces on Guadalcanal; and both the Solomons campaign, and the vigorous
and successful offensive which General MacArthur is conducting in New Guinea, are
parts of a prearranged and coordinated plan.

I am not questioning at all the good faith of this gentleman, but he happened 
to visit the South Pacific at a time when the situation was much less satisfactory
than it was several weeks later, when he made his report to the public; and he
seem to have put an unjustifiably gloomy interpretation on what he saw and heard.
He is not the only citizen who does that, who seems to have the feeling that bad
news must be true, or even a bad rumor.  I have cited some of the rumors that were
current last month; I do not know who started them or why; but some rumors that
have been traced down have started with the innocent misunderstanding of some small
fact, and in no time that tiny kernel of fact has sprouted into a regular jungle
growth of fiction.  In those cases there was no evil intention--only a gullible
willingness to believe the worst, whether it was so or not.  I don't know what the
government can do about that.  We are trying not to fool the people, but we can't
do much for citizens who insist on fooling themselves.

Once in a while we do try to discourage over-optimism such as is likely to
arise when the news for a while is consistently good.  Take the case of submarines,
for instance.  The vigorous effects of our navy have pretty well driven enemy
submarines away from our own shores; and accordingly some people are likely to feel
that the submarine menace is ended.  It is not; submarines go where they meet least
opposition, and they are still doing great damage in other parts of the world.  Now
if we say that, we are likely to be accused of telling the people what to think.
We are not trying to do that at all, only to try to keep them from thinking something
that does not fit the facts.

I have tried to make as clear as I could the policy which the government is
following on military news; a policy based on the two principles of telling the
American people as much as we can, and not telling the enemy what he does not know
already.  Once again let me remind you that the enemy tells us, and tells his own
people, very little about his own losses; though he has a great deal to say about
what he wants the American people to believe he has done to us.  There will be more naval
battles in the Pacific; and you may expect that after every one of them the enemy
will claim that he sank anywhere from six to fourteen of our cruisers, and three
or four aircraft carriers, and a battleship or two thrown in.  Our stories will be
less spectacular than his, I am afraid, because ours will be true.  We cannot
promise you that we shall always give you the whole truth immediately; we are not
going to promise that we will announce the sinking of every American ship that is

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.