[*Rumor folder*]
R. Keith Kane                              3/16/42
Cornelius DuBois and Eugene Katz
E. A. Shils
Memorandum concerning Rumor Discovery and our Counter-Rumor Policy
A. Rumor Discovery
     It is indispenable for us to know what rumors are in circulation. 
At present we have no organization for finding out anything about a) what 
rumors are floating around, b) among whom, c) who  has set them in motion, 
d) how they move, etc.
       Items c) and d) are not discoverable except by prolonged and arduous 
investigation, if at all.  Items a) and b) can be investigated without the 
Rumor Clinics of the sort the Office of Education was going to establish.

        The existence of particular rumors, their relative frequency and their 
areas of circulation can be discovered through the collation of the following 
sources:
           a) Reports from the Panel Corresponents. ( A special request
               could be addressed to them, asking them to report on rumors)
           b) Maples' field staff.
           c) Likkert's interviewers
           d) The Roving Reporters
           e)  Department of Agriculture field personnel
           f) O.P.A. field agents

       By this means, we could find out which rumors are current and where.
I suggest that Mr. Tyroler be made responsible for this task.

Rumor Policy
                1)  After we have found which rumors are making the rounds, we should 
set ourselves to counter-acting them.  This should not be done, normally, 
by the designation of the rumor and the citation of the facts necessary to 
refute it.  To do this would raise in the minds of the public, suspicion as 
to the motives of the government in making the refutation and as to the veracity 
of the statements made to refute the rumor.  It might also leave the 
audience confused as to which part of the presentation is rumor and which is 
refutation.
         When a rumor has been discovered to be sufficiently widespread or to be 
threatening to become widespread, the radio and press should be requested to 
present with adequate prominence material which will promote rejection of 
the rumor by those to whom it is addressed.  Rumors develop where information

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.