Maybe it is only a fancy that I recall this scene;maybe it never happened at all. But it is true that in Bosque County, Texas, long ago began my first interest in cowboy songs. And from my love of cowboy songs my enthusiasm spread to all types of our native folk songs. Here was born for me an absorbing avocation. 
My father had moved us overland from Mississippi in wagons, one pulled by a span of mules, Jack and Fan, the other by a yoke of oxen,Bright and Berry. His ranch home was near a beautiful creek- we called it "the branch", in the spring of the year brim full of clear swift running water. Half a mile away the stream cut through the land in a deep curve and formed a circular flat,grassy glade,flanked by the creek banks. Water,grass,[and] a nearby spring of cold water and the lay of the land made the spot an ideal bedding ground for the herds of Texas longhorns headed for Red Bluffs on the Red River, where the Chisholm Trail led on to the North,first to Abilene,later to Dodge City,Kansas. Often from March to June each year a long trail-herd would come over the hill to the South and camp for the night on this level plot of ground near our home. With the cattle rounded up along the circular creek bank and spread all over the secluded valley,little work was left for the cowboy sentinels who,with changes every four hours,must ride along the rim of the herd that was not protected by the creek bank. Starting at a point of the circle and riding in opposite directions,each cowboy would ride along the edge of sleeping cattle until he reached the creek bank,whirl his horse and double back to meet his companion,turn and repeat until relieved by the next watch. Cattle startled in their sleep would not jump quickly over a bank into dark unknown waters. These night riders,tired,sleepy and lonely, sang songs to keep awake, sang because the singing voice had a wonderful influence over the cattle. Perhaps it sounded friendly. The sleeping cattle came to feel that, so long as they could hear a familiar voice crooning a cattle lullaby,they need have

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.