August 26, 1957

Dear Alan:
     In answer to your letter of August 15, I am enclosing two
version of "Shoo Fly." The first one, "Shew Fly," appears to be the
model for all the later publications. Spaeth, Loesser, and all of the
twentieth century collections that we found, as well as the nineteenth
century text. The only differences are in the spelling of the title ("shew"
is most common in the earlier versions, and "shoo" in the later editions),
and varying degrees of use of the minstrel-show Negro dialect. The
second text with the spelling "shoe" is unique and appears to be a 
parody on the first. The tune is different too, being a take-off on
La Donna e Mobile, from Rigoletto. The greatest variety in texts is
in the Botkin Play-Party book which, I take it, you already have.
There is one other slightly different folk text in Randolph's collection,
which is the third text enclosed, in case you don't have access to it.
Randolph and several other sources mention Thomas Brigham Bishop as the
most probably composer, but we have been unable to find any publications
of the song in his name in LC. No text is given in Sullivan's Our Times).
The earliest version in the Music Division files is the 1869 arrangement,
naming Frank Campbell as the composer.
     It is now my turn to ask for your help. In our search for good
folk songs, we recently played The Ballad Hunter and found the entire
series most interesting. In fact, several educators who heard them agreed
that they would be very useful in college classes as well as in elementary
school classes. Permission to reissue the series under the Carnegie grant
has been received and we are now working on a descriptive pamphlet to 
accompany the records. The second item on Side II, "Blues and Hollers"
is identified in the script as "Gar Mouth" record. We cannot identify
"Gar Mouth" or the title of the song. "Who is "Gar Mouth?" If we knew 
his real name and on his record is in the Archive, we can get the other data.
     On Side III, "Chisholm Trail," the songs "Trail to Mexico"
and "Whoopee Ti Yi Yo, Git Along Little Dogies," are (we believe) sung by
Woody Guthrie. However, we do not have recordings of these songs by Woody.
Were they taken from your father's personal collection? If so, would you
know when and where they were recorded?
     I shall appreciate any assistance you can give me. With the best
regards,

Sincerely yours,
(Mrs.) Rae Korson
Head, Archive of Folk Song

Mr. Alan Lomax
10 Cholmeley Park
London, N6, ENGLAND

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.