9-1695
MEMORANDUM
TO THE
LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS

FROM THE Division of Music
August 14. 1937

REFERRING TO The Archive of American Folk-Song.

The aim of the Archive of American Folk-Song to accumulate a representative
collection of American folk-music on records has only been partially accomplished
so far. Mr. John Lomax has contributed a comprehensive collection of
Negro work-songs gathered in the prisons of the south,and, more recently, some
ballads of southern white singers. Our collection of songs of the southern
whites is far from complete, however, and those to be found west of the
Mississippi, in the middle west, and the northeastern section of the country,
practically unrepresented.

To make a systematic survey of this vast area would be too great an undertaking 
for the Archive with its present equipment. But the same result may
be accomplished by carefully planning its activities during the next few years.
If the Archive were to dispatch recording expeditions to strategic points, it
would soon build up a cross section of the country's singing and at the same
time encourage private collectors in territory surrounding those points to
contribute their own collections. The interest thus displayed by the Library,
as well as the contacts made by the Library's representative, should go a long
way in accomplishing this result.

The first point of attack more or less suggested itself. Mr. Alan Lomax
recently expressed a desire to be sent on a recording trip to Eastern Kentucky.
Soon thereafter, Mr. H. H. Fuson of Harlan, Ky., author of "Ballads of the
Kentucky Highlands", suggested that we send someone to record the music which
he had failed to include in his book. And a few weeks ago, Miss Jean Thomas
requested the loan of a recording machine for work around Ashland, Ky. All
this seemed to point to Kentucky, especially since the Archive of American
Folk-Song has only twenty-two records from Kentucky, presented in 1935 by Miss
Thomas.

I should like to recommend, therefore, that Mr. Alan Lomax be sent as the
Library's duly authorized representative to Eastern Kentucky for a period not
to exceed two months, to survey and record the folk-music of that region.

The recording machine to be used would be the new Presto now in the possession
of Mr. John Lomax in Texas, but which is due back here by the end of this month.
Since the 110 volt alternating current required for this machine is not available
in the more remote sections, I would like to recommend the purchase of
a converter and batteries which would enable Mr. Lomax to venture into such
sections. The estimated cost of these and other equipment necessary for this
trip are itemized below*.

I should like to recommend further that Mr. Lomax receive a per diem allowance
in lieu of subsistence expenses and be reimbursed for the operating

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.