widely used. He asks, do films add anything to records, radio, 
etc.. in the study of folk music? The answer is very obvious. Perhaps 
Lomax could prepare some material on the value of the film in the 
study of "folk music" and the value of this project to the archive.

May we again review the project as it finally took shape, owing 
chiefly to your own imagination and foresight about it.

I, Losey, Nicholas Ray, and Lomax would form a committee of four for 
for the general supervision and production of three initial films. 
The Library of Congress would produce the films, employing these 
individuals for the actual execution. This would mean of course 
that the Library would have final jurisdiction on subject matter, 
treatment, etc., although actual production including budget making, 
selection of staff would rest with us subject to Library approval. 
The grant, if any, would be made to the Library, not to us. 

I, Losey, Ray would each take personal responsibility for one film. 
The films would be approximately one real (ten minutes) each. Such 
subjects as the Holiness Church, Spirituals, Railroad Songs, Music 
of the Southwest, have been tentatively considered.

The films would cost about ten thousand dollars a piece, though 
perhaps $15,000 each or $45,000 could be asked for. The ten thousand 
is low but possible, particularly if the Library donates its 
sound truck and engineer.

The pictures would aspire to theatrical release ( MGM, RKO or Warners). 
Earnings on the release would accrue to a revolving fund for similar 
programs in  the future.

While the pictures were being shot, as a by-product, we would supply 
the Library with detailed photographic records needed by the archive.

We hope you will want to present the plan strongly to Marshall and 
will be willing to make formal request for the grant to execute it. 
We would be glad to cooperate of course in any way you wish on the 
request. If Marshall should fail, we feel confident that a response 
can be gotten from other foundations and that possibly funds will be 
available from the alleged $150,000 music program of the American Film 
Center. 

The picture should be made this summer, as light and weather conditions 
are most favorable during that season and it would be wise to arrange 
for its release around September or October. So you see we have no 
time to lose at this state of the game.

I regret sincerely that I am taking up so much of your valuable time 
for this project, but I hope we can put it on the way - it is 
certainly worth while.

With kindest regards,
Sincerely yours,
JORIS IVENS

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.