- 9 -

which presents a rumor and follows it by the truth. This direct blast at a given 
rumor is designed to eliminate the particular item from currency, on the assumption
that if given a choice between a true and false statement, the truth will always prevail.
This assumption, for implimentation and translation into a sure, sound working
guide, requires that the items that are paired are clearly labeled truth and falsehood
in some form or another, and that in the presentation, care be taken that no advantages
from the point of view of the psychology of remembering be given to the
falsehood. Below, an effort will be made to organize some specific suggestions to
make sure that if anything, the factors which would be expected to give a bias in the
direction of greater remembering, will be placed on the presentation of truth.

IV Educational Program - Direct Counteraction

     A. Selection of Materials

     Some types of items should NEVER be directly counteracted. These items are the
sort for which it is difficult to prepare effective counteraction. They may lead to
indirect counteraction, but as far as simply pairing the rumor with the truth, it
seems wisest to avoid these types. Among these are: those items that are simply not
true, items that are partially true, double-barreled or lengthy items, expressions
of prejudice, and anxiety motivated items.
     Items that are simply not true are difficult to counteract, since in their
original form they are in the range o f the plausible. They might be true, except that
they aren't. Under these circumstances, the only thing that can be truthfully said is,
"this is not so" or some equivalent. This type of response is rarely as colorful as
the original rumor. One of the important factors that bias an individual in the direction
of remembering is the vividness of an experience. If we pair a vivid rumor with
a relatively dull categorical denial, it seems very unlikely that the latter will be
the one to prevail. If we are given a series of such items, the reader will tend to


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.