LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF MUSIC

April 8, 1939.
Dear Harold,

      There are a number of things of some importance
I want to tell you in this letter and I must ask your
tolerance for not having written you about them before.
     First of all, in regard to record albums.  Musicraft,
a small but very flourishing company that does specialty
recording, has just finished an album by  Lead Belly -- the first
genuine album of American fold songs that has yet been done.
Hammond assures me that this in no way hurts my relations
with American Records.  Second, as you probably have learned
from Mr. Wolffert Gamut records wants father to collect
an album of material from them on this trip.  Gamut is even 
smaller that Musicraft, but they have done very nice things
and they are the subsidiary of one of the best recording
studios in town -- Reeves, where our acetate is made.  Their
offer to father is 15% royalty with no advance.  Since none
of the big companies, so far as I can learn from Hammond and
others, are quite ready to try this, I see no reason why
as a sort of trial balloon for everyone concerned this
Gamut experiment should not be tried.  Fro the enclosed letter
from father you can see his feeling about the matter and,
if he hasn't written you already, I think you might write
him directly and personally what you feel should be done.
     Third, in regard to the record bibliography.  Last week,
after days and weeks of stalling around and waiting, I fin-
ally got to go out to Bridgeport in Hammond's company.  I spent
about three hours in the factory and learned the following:
     a) They have between twenty-four and twenty-five thousand
masters there.
     b) If you pick a [master] record out of an old catalogue
that you would like to hear, they have no copy of it for you 
to play and
      c) In order to discover whether or not they still have
the master from which a pressing could be made they would
have to spend five to fifteen minutes running through their
complicated, incomplete and disorderly files.
     d) They do not have anywhere[re] near as complete a set
of catalogues as has New York Public.
      e) They feel that most of the records I would be inter-
ested in have been junked, although as you know
that scrapping process has been completely discontinued.
     f) They are in the process of revising their filing
system and think they will be through next year.
      g) In the meantime they clearly indicate to me and to
Hammond they are too busy to bother.  I am inclined to agree
with them.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.