Dallas, Texas     
August 7, 1942

Dear Harold, 

When I came to the day to leave home and return to Clarksdale, I just 
couldn't make it happen. There were things to talk about that hadn't been 
talked about and I didn't know when I'd see my folks again. So I stayed 
over a few more hours. For the record my period of leave began on 
Thursday, July 30, at 12 noon and will end on Saturday, August 8 at twelve 
noon, by which time I shall be at work in Clarksdale again. That makes nine 
days. I don't feel that this should be deducted out of my salary as leave 
without pay, since I accrued enough overtime in the field to make up for it. 
My working schedule in the field ran from 8 or ten in the morning to twelve 
midnight and beyond. I hope you can make this adjustment. 

Since I have not heard from you here I presume that you have written me 
in Clarksdale about extension of the trip. I hope the answer was favorable. 
Even if it wasn't, even if the trip wasn't extended, wouldn't it be 
all right for me to spend a few extra days in the field without receiving 
per diem. I would elect to if necessary. I called Louis Jones in Clarksdale 
yesterday and he says he is willing to stay on and work with me there until 
Tuesday or Wednesday so that I can record the material I will need for 
the final study. Most important item are the children's games which I will 
film as well as record. I think my contacts will new me forty or fifty 
of these and they will have immediate use in our educational program. 

I have so much material that I scarcely dare to try to give you a report 
on it. It is the best documented body of stuff in the collection, backed 
my extensive interviews and observations. And it is good for the whole 
Delta area, not just Coahoma County. I have  been able able to check much of it 
with residents of the county who come from other parts of the Delta. Essentially 
what we will be able to outline:

1) The general growth of the folk music in the area 
over the past eighty years in relation to the social and historical growth 
of the area itself.

2). The importance of folk song and folk attitudes in the modern 
Delta community and the implications for education, for morale activity 
etc...

I have been at work in a territory where the Negroes are not reached 
by the newspapers or the radio, where the whites are quite defeatist 
in their point of view, where the Negroes hear about the war 1) "Hitler 
is going to kill all the niggers if he wins." (from the whites). 2) "This 
war is the judgement of God on a wicked world. Only Christianity will win 
through.  Kneel down and pray.  (This is message of the Negro church to 
the religious Negro.) The result is a not surprising apathy on the part of 
the ordinary Negro to the war effort. If an invasion army were to lad
in the United States today, the Southern Negro would not volunteer to go and fight
the enemy. The whites here know this, sense it rather, and they are tense 
and nervous. I have had more trouble with local whites on this trip than all 
the rest put together, because of this tension. It is terribly important 
that some program be initiated which will offer some solutions for these 
problems. The best approach to the people is through the Negro church and 
Negro music and Negro folk attitudes. Such an approach would knit the 
two groups more closely together emotionally, since most of the whites 
like the folk Negro, and at the same time it is almost the only way that ideas, 
information and purposeful plans can reach to Negro rural group. When I come 
back to Washington, I'm going to try to reach people with this [plan] idea and I 
hope you will feel like helping.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.