7-26-42
MEMORANDUM ON STUDY  S-68
A Study of War-Time Rumors in Two Defense Communities

General Purpose of the Study
To make an exploratory excursion into the problem of studying war-time 
rumors. Special effort, however, will be made to throw some light upon 
the following hypothesis: That in a given news area or in a potential 
news area, the amount of rumor increases as [*the ambiguity of*] news decreases or lack of 
news becomes apparent.

[Procedure to be Experimented With] Aim
To determine in two defense areas on the Atlantic seaboard:
1.  What kinds of war rumors are currently in circulation.
2.  The extent to which these rumors have penetrated into the
 population, i. e. the broad classes and strata which show the 
highest and lowest sensitivity to rumors.
3.  The probable sources of these rumors.
4.  Possible explanations of why people accept and spread rumors 
in terms of such factors as:
a.  Inadequacy of news in the sphere of interest in which the 
rumor[s] belongs.
b.  Various personality characteristics of the informant, e. g. 
prejudice, level of interest in the war, degree of confidence 
in the news, degree of social participation, etc. 
Note:  For purposes of the study rumor is arbitrarily defined 
as any story concerning the war which has not appeared 
through any of the usual [*public*] channels of communication.
[*Which has not come 
thru wholly authoritative 
sources*]

The Communities Selected
It is proposed that New Brunswick, New Jersey and Portland, Maine be studied 
intensively. These seaboard communities are roughly equivalent in size, 
similar in their proximity to large metropolitan centers, largely engaged 
in the production of war goods, thus providing the homogeneity useful in 
handling the small sample plan. Yet they are sufficiently separated geographically 
so as to avoid the possible limitation due to local idiosyncrasies 
of any one city. Furthermore the social structures of these communities 
are already somewhat known by the study director[s].

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.