OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION
              WASHINGTON

                                                                        Des Moines, Iowa
                                                                        October 13, 1942.

William H. Webber
Bureau of Public Inquiries
Office of War Information
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Webber:

This is with further reference to our report on rumors dated
October 12, 1942. The beauty parlor operator advises me today
that in spite of the fact that he talked war and attempted to
draw his customers out, he had no rumors to report, that while
most people are seriously interested in the war, they are prone
to be conservative in their expressions about it and apparently
aware that repetition of rumors is dangerous.

Perhaps Mr. Bender is too intelligent a beauty operator to be
used in such a survey. He is not the usual effeminate male beauty
operator, and has traveled enough over the country to be well-
informed. Unquestionably Mr. Bender exercised his own judgement
in concluding that he had heard nothing which he would term a rumor
under the definition you had given, because he said he had heard
gossip about local programs but nothing of interest to the general
war effort.

We are still unable to secure material from the labor man since
we tried most of yesterday to get in touch with him, and find today 
that he is at work throughout the day where he cannot be reached
by telephone or personal contact.

There is inclosed the Saturday report of the Negro policeman who
visited in the office yesterday to emphasize the importance of concrete 
activity to lessen the breach between the Negro and the white
man.

                                                           Very truly yours,

                                                                [*RBRoot*]

                                                           Ruth Bailey Root,
                                                           Field Representative.


[* FOR VICTORY

                 BUY
               UNITED
               STATES
                WAR
               BONDS
                 AND
              STAMPS *]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.