GUIDE TO ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONING OF LOCAL RUMOR PROJECTS
A project, involving the analysis of rumors, and the development of appropriate counteracting programs, requires very skillful direction to achieve maximal results. While many rumors reflect casual curiosity without any very strong personal involvement, projects should be developed in such fashion that they can contribute to a comprehensive community information and morale program. Essentially, rumor projects have two main branches: one is the program of analysis, and the other is the program of education. These two branches must work closesly together, for the rumor analyses must be coordinated with the sort of educational facilities to be developed, and the educational programs must be based upon a careful analysis and thorough understanding of the implications of the rumors reported. 
The rumor project will inevitably come into close relations with newspapers and magazines. Such media will ordinarily be eager to make space available to the project, sometimes for feature articles, sometimes for regular releases. In all such cases, the direction and responsibility for what goes into print must rest with the project directors and not with the magazine and newspaper editors. At the present time, some of the best rumor columns represent public service by newspapers, nevertheless, the rumor column must be coordinated with the total program of the rumor project and the direction must be from the broader perspective of the project directors. 
It seems wise to have a project organized somewhat as follows. First, a project director in whom is to be centralized responsibility for the total program. He is to function with the services of a general advisory council. The general advisory council is to include representatives of the civic administration; specialists responsible for the security of information made available; representatives of all minority groups, special interest groups, and other important segments of the

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.