England . . . continued

british-india problem
"The British empire is shot. When India goes the backbone of the empire
goes with it. Britain will never be able to subdue India." (Pennsylvania)

"If England doesn't give India her freedom it will prolong the war by
five years." (Colorado)

Second Front - Russia

unsympathetic
"They do not trust Stalin; they have always known he was a villain. They
are going to let him get weaker before they go in." (New York)

"England and the United States will not help Russia unless Russia appears
to be on the verge of extreme collapse, because they want Russia to exhaust not
only Germany, but herself. They are just as much afraid of a victorious Russia 
as of a victorious Germany." (Pennsylvania)

"There will be no second front until Russia is virtually on her knees because
then both Russia's and Germany's forces will be greatly depleted, and the United
Nations won't have to worry about any demands Russia may make." (New York)

"I have heard it said that the United States and England are allowing
Russia to become exhausted so that she will not be in a position to dictate
peace terms when the war is over. This is why they do not open a second front."
(New York)

"The people want a second front in Russia, but the leaders don't. England
and the United States are holding back until the Germans thin out the Russians
and the Russians thin out the Germans." (New York)

Russia will lose, stop fighting, unless there is a 2nd front
"If the United Nations don't open up a second front within the next four
weeks Russia will sign a separate pact with Germany and stop fighting." (Colo.)

"Russia will be defeated because England will never start a Second Front."
(New York)

miscellaneous
"The Allies and Russia have agreed already on the day the second front
is to be opened. Russia is deliberately retreating to get the German army as
far as possible away from the new front which is to beopened up." (Colorado)

Russia
just putting up a bluff - will turn on us
"Russia is just putting up a bluff, at fighting Germany. As soon as she
gets a good supply of materials from the U.S. and Gr. Britain she will give up and
surrender all supplies to Germany." (Indiana)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.