October 1, 1954

John A. Lomax, Esq.
University Station
Austin, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

Let me begin by acknowledging, with thanks, your letters of September 
9, 10, and 14, also your wire of September 19, the contents of which has
been incorporated in your report for the year. I should have written more
promptly had I not been away from Washington during the ten days beginning
September 15. Returning on the 24th, I determined to attend to your circular
letter before writing. Hence the delay.

As to this circular letter, Dr. Putnam has approved the text and added
a word of endorsement, and the Government Printing Office is ready to begin
work. Dr. Putnam's signature will appear in facsimile; I assume that you
too will prefer not to sign each letter individually. May I ask you, therefore,
to send me a sheet of white paper bearing several specimens of your
signature in black ink in order that a good facsimile may be made? I am
having the letter done on stationery similar to that printed several years
ago for Mr. Gordon and headed:

Library of Congress
Division of Music
Archive of American Folk-Song.

I expect to send you some of this stationery shortly; if I am unable to  find
the remainder of the old stock I shall have a new lot printed.

Your reference to the directory published last June by the American
Prison Association saved me much time and trouble. We hae a copy here, and
I note that it covers both the United States and Canada. There will, then,
be no need of going beyond this pamphlet for addresses.

I assume that you will want us to mail these letters from Washington and
forward replies to you as they come in.

I am glad to know that Professor Smith has asked you to serve on his
Central Committee and should think that you would accept as a matter of course.
My first thought on reading your suggestion that I also serve was that I might
perhaps further the Committee's work more effectively as an outsider than as a 
member. Yesterday, however, I received a second invitation, this time from
Professor Boggs of North Carolina, Chairman of the Folklore Section of the MLA,
and on reconsidering the matter I have decided to accept. Assuming that you
were responsible for this second invitation, as well as for the first, I thank
you for both.

I am writing today to Professor Boggs, also to Professor Smith;

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.