Sharpe. 1

Notes on Cecil Sharpe's "English Folk-Song Some Conclusions"
Chap. I.
Musical ability of a nation, inborn quality.  therefore folkonsg index of people's musical ability.
Folk-song created exclusively by the common people.  Common people, "strictly in its scientific sense" conntoes those whose mental development has been due not to any formal system of training or education, but solely to environment, communal association, and direct contact with the ups and downs of life."  It is necessary that a sharp distinction should be drawn between the uneducated and the non-educated.  The former are the half or partly educated, ie., the illiterate.  Whereas the non-educated, or the common people, are the unlettered, whose faculties have undergone no formal training whatsoever, and  who have never been brought into close enough contact with educated persons to be influenced by them."  p. 4-5.

"The countess Evelyn Martinengo-Cesarecse records that a modern Greek folk-singer once said to her, "  As I do not know how to read, I have made this story into a song so as not to forget it." (5)
"There seems to be a great probability that originally all folk-tales of a serious character were interspersed with rhyme, and took therefore the form of cante-fable.  It is indeed unlikely that the ballad itself began as continuous verse, and the cante-fable is probably the protoplasm out of which both the ballad and the folk-song have been differentiated, the ballad by ommitting the narrative prose, the folk-tale by expanding it."
Quotation from Mr. Jacob in "English Fairy Tales."  p5-6.

Perhaps differentiation between prim and folk music -- one phrase -- and two or more.
Folk-song must have originated with the people -- "Because to search for the originals of folk-songs amongst the printed music of olden days is mere waste of time."  art distinct from folk music.

Oral tradition responsible for folk-lore in general.  "All products of the primitive mind, that are preserved orally and are not written down, are in a perpetual state of flux."
Flux produce something that will actually express tasted of and feeling of the community.
Examine effects of national temperament on themes.
Even in written material.
If folk-songs are a corruption of some mysterious original, then we must regard Beethoven's first idea of a melody as an original and the finished melody the corruption.
Folk-tunes probably began either as repititions of well-known phrases linked together or as rambling, inchoate melodies which developed form through long use.  Art -- personal, composed in short period of time, fixed by being committed to paper.  Folk -- product of a race and reflects feelings that are communal rather than personal ;;  always in solution, existing at one time in many forms.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.