Government agency. There were also many rumors about local plant expansions,
which did not seem to reflect anything other than curiosity stimulated by unexplained
activity upon which the people had chanced.

Hostility rumors are not so clearly local items. To a large extent they
are manifestations of basic prejudices which might have been found in peace-time,
but which have been intensified in wartime either because of a real exaggeration
of the circumstances to which the people objected, or as a channeling
of the aggressions piled up by the variety of frustrations to which people are
subjected in wartime. In this category are anti-government, anti-labor, anti-British
rumors like the following:

There is so much red-tape connected with the Government that the
new lumber used at Remington for temporary sheds and buildings
is just piled up and burned when they are through with it, instead
of allowing it to be used some other place or sold to the 
public.  (Salt Lake City, Utah)

Men joining the carpenters union at Helena have to pay $50 or $75
for initiation fee. This is nothing but a big union graft.
National recently requested all unions to cut their initiation fee
to $25 fee maximum. This used to be the usual fee, but since this
work sprung up over night at Fort Harrison, the union is taking
advantage of this and raised the initiation fee. (Helena, Montana)

The British lost Tobruk because so many of their soldiers were
colored natives who didn't give a dam about winning for Britain.
(Michigan)

Anxiety rumors also seem to be much more dependent upon subjective factors
than objective. The anxieties which must necessarily develop in all by
the over-optimistic find expressions in diverse ways. The rumors take different
forms and it must be remembered that with these rumors the specific
content of the rumor does not necessarily reflect what it it that is disturbing
the individual. In this type of rumor it is necessary to go beyond the
rumor itself to understand its cause. If you were to clear up the misinformation
embodied in this particular rumor, a new rumor would soon be used to
-5-


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.