
B
January 12 1934
Dear Dr. Lomax: 
Your day letter of the 9th reached me promptly, and on the
11th came your note of the same day with the copy of the one to
Mr. Engel.  If I withheld an immediate reply, it was because I 
thought that I should be hearing from Dr. Stevens.  I have no from
him a copy of his note to you of the 11th.
So far as the Rockefeller grant is concerned that quite
clears it.  I suppose that the grant from the Carnegie Corporation
should be similarly cleared, but assume that this will be the care
of Dr. Leland who was an intermediary in regard to it.
Possibly Dr. Stevens himself may have had a word with Dr.
Keppel, as is, I think, quite the practice between the two foundations 
where a cooperation is suggested.
We of course greatly welcome not merely the assurance but 
the enlarged and extended prospect offered by the Rockefeller grant.
It is an important confirmation of the significance of the undertaking.
Assuming the Carnegie grant to stand, we shall have to consider 
in what form it is to be made available to you.  One way would
of course be for you to report periodically your outlays for the preceding 
period, we then transmitting to you a remittance to cover them.
Another way would be for us at the beginning of the period to advance
the sum which you estimate will cover the expenses for the subsequent
period.  Please let us have your preference.
Where disbursements are made for an expense account rendered
we have to regard the regulations of the General Accounting Office,
which require itemized statements and even vouchers: including, for
instance, receipts for gasoline purchases, stubs of Pullman checks
where Pullmans are used, receipts for repairs to car if those are a
proper debit, etc.  How far we may be able to relax any such requirements 
proving inconvenient to you will appear in connection with the
first transaction.  It would, however, be prudent from the start to
preserve an itemized record so the details may be available if called
for.
Faithfully yours,
Librarian
Dr. John A. Lomax
care Mr. Oscar Callaway
Comanche Texas

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.