HOOSIER FOLKLORE SOCIETY
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA

ROBERT E. ALLEN, PRESIDENT
PAUL G. BREWSTER, SECRETARY
MARGARET SWEENEY, TREASURER                 April 30


Mr. Alan Lomax
Archive of American Folksong
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

Dear Alan:

          Dr. Thompson has just showed me the letter in which you mention 
having recorded about seventy tunes during your short stay with us
here in Indiana.  I am glad that your trip was so successful, glad both
for your sake and that of the Archive, and also for the "boost" which
it gives the sate of Indiana.  I hope that you and Elizabeth will be
able to come again sometime, and trust that I can be of more help to you
on your next trip.
          I'm sure you'll be interested to know that I have a date with
the Bryants and with Mrs. Ward for next week-end, at which time I hope
to get some songs which I do not have.  By the way, you mention in your
letter to Dr. Thompson an eighty-four year old lady in Vincennes, a Mrs.
Caney.  Could you send me her address and any helpful information about
her before I leave (Thursday, May 5)?  It might be possible for me to 
see her while I'm home.  To make sure I'll get it, perhaps you'd better
send your letter to my home address - 320 Trussler Street, Oakland City.
I should appreciate your sending me sometime, too, the name and the
address of the old gentlemen in Brown  County (the one who knows "Lord
Bateman").  I made a note of it, but seem to have lost the note.
          I hope I didn't seem too importunate about the MS., but I had
put off preparing the report, and then when I discovered that I needed
some of the material in the Indiana stuff, I was afraid I wouldn't get
it in time.  You were perfectly welcome to use it, of course.  I'm glad
that it was of help to you.
          I'll let you know later the results of my next week's visits.
Kindest regards to you both.


                                                                              Sincerely yours,


                                                                              Paul G. Brewster

P. S. I've had two letters (both containing songs) from the Parks family.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.