Patch," "Chittlin' Cookin' Time in
Cheatham County," "Cross-eyed
Butcher," and many others.
   While the tunes have not changed,
more have been added as the hills of
Tennessee, Alabama, Kentucky poured
forth new singers and new songs.
   The newest star of the Opry, however,
arrived two years ago from the
Smoky Mountains of Tennessee. He
is Roy Acuff and he calls his group
of neighbors "The Smoky Mountain
Boys." Roy is just past thirty and has 
spent all those years living in the 
mountain area and rural areas of the
South. He has become a student of
folk-music and has thereby been instrumental
in bringing to life many
songs that had seemed lost.
   Such songs have been "Maple on 
the Hill," "The Great Speckled Bird,"
"The Wabash Cannon Ball," and, more
recently, "The Broken Heart."
   Once WSM and is listeners almost 
lost the "Grand Ole Opry." Nashville,
which is a thriving metropolis, did not 
like a four-hour program which they
call "hillbilly" as the sole presentation
available over their greatest station.
They petitioned against it. They
said that it misrepresented Nashville
and gave the rest of the United States
the idea that their city was a hick
town.
   They were wrong, of course, but 
there was a time when the show was
almost off the air. Arguing, pleading, 
and hoping, the Opry singers kept going.
Presently, folks who had been out
of town started coming back and
bringing the world that everywhere
people were listening to the Opry and
praising it as a great show. The Opry
stayed.
   The spirit of the Opry is best exemplified
in the story of Dr. Humphrey
Bate, leader of the Possum Hunters.
   Dr. Bate loved his neighbors so
much that when he graduated from
the Vanderbilt Medical School and
was offered an attractive internship in
a large midwestern city, he turned it
down.
   Like his father before him, he chose
to be a country doctor and to minister
to the folk in his own area of Cheat-

{{column break}}

ham County. His home had been the
gathering-place for the Possum Hunters
for several years before the Grand
Ole Opry started. He was among the 
first to bring a sting band to Nashville,
and he came every Saturday
night for more than thirteen years. He
often said nothing but death could
keep him away - the threat of death
to a neighbor who needed him, or
death to himself.

THAT death was pressing close upon
him, Dr. Bate well knew. But he
would not leave either his folk in the 
hills or his "Grand Ole Opry" to take 
the rest other doctors had prescribed
for him.
   "Your heart will wear out," they
told him.
   "My heart would break to leave the
Opry or my people," he answered and
continued the way of life he had
known. Each Saturday midnight Dr. 
Bate would make the rounds, personally
shake hands with each member
of the Opry cast and tell them
"good-by, if I don't see you next Saturday."
   Two autumns ago, on a Thursday 
night when the Possum Hunters had
all gathered at Dr. Bate's for their midweek
get-together, they were in the 
midst of playing "Chittlin' Time in 
Cheatham County" when his heart
wore out. Saturday morning, some
sixty "Grand Ole Opry" performers
gathered on the lawn and sang "Maple
on the Hill," while Dr. Humphrey Bate
found a final resting-place beneath a
tall maple on the hill overlooking his
Cheatham County home. Back to 
Nashville came those sixty Opry performers,
and, as usual, the Possum 
Hunters opened the show at eight
o'clock. In the group were young
Humphrey Bate and Alcyon Bate, another
generation to carry on.
   Men may falter, but each springtime
down from the Smokies and all
the other hills and valleys 'round-
about Nashville come young singers
and fiddlers to try out for the "Grand
Ole Opry." Their tunes and their talents
will carry on, entertaining their
neighbors all over America.

{{image}}

GEORGE HAY of WSM and his friend, the late Uncle
Jimmy Thompson, started "Grand Ole Opry" in 1925.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.