EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT
C. C. BIRCHARD & COMPANY
PUBLISHERS OF MUSIC
BOSTON   :    MASSACHUSETTS

May 13, 1942

Dear Mr. Lomax:

I recall very pleasantly our short chat at the Birchard exhibit
in Milwaukee and have been meaning ever since my return
to write to you on the subject of "The American Songster" which
you mentioned at that time. I have been so occupied with accumulated
duties that this is the first opportunity I have had
to talk seriously with Mr. Birchard about the matter. He is very
much interested and would like to consider publishing such a book
as you outlined.

We are at present very busy with two volumes of our series
of grade school music books which have to be out to meet a dead
line, but by the time you would have your material ready, I
think we would be in a position to go on with it.

If you care to consider us as publishers, would our customary
ten per cent royalty be satisfactory to you?

Dr. Dykema tells me that he had the pleasure of looking
through a section of the dummy of our fifth grade book with you,
and he seems quite happy at your reaction to the American folk
material we are including. In that connection, may I ask if we
may have your permission to include "The Rattle Sna-wa-wake"
from the pamphlet prepared for your demonstration at the Milwaukee
Conference? There seems to be no previous publisher's name
attached to this particular song.

We also would like to include "All the Pretty Little Horses"
from "American Songs and Ballads" and will write to MacMillan
about it.

To return to "The Songster", will you let us know more
definitely any suggestions you have in mind concerning size and
format? Also, what you think might be the selling price of such
a book.

We trust that you will be able to undertake this project
with us, to the satisfaction of all concerned.

Very sincerely yours,
Gladys Pitcher

Mr. Allan Lomax
Library of Congress
Washington, D. C.

GP:MW

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.