file
Dear Father,
One of our new portable recording machines which has been 
in [Mark?], New Mexico for a few weeks will be shipped to you from there 
in a few days.  It will arrive along with records from the Library early 
enough for you to record around Dallas and Fort Worth before your trip 
begins officially on September first.  he assures me that the authroization 
will have come through by next week so that you can leave on that date.
I presume that you copied out the addresses sent you 
in an earlier letter on cards.  I will have a few more to add to these 
before when I come back from New York on the 20th of the month.  May I suggest 
that you sit down and draw a map of your trip before you begin with 
approximate stopovers roughly calculated.  The allotment procedure of the 
Ligbrary is extremely strict and if you spend any more money in miles, 
days or records than is allotted for the trip Dr. Spivacke will be in 
an extremely embarrassing position.  On the other hand mileage not used 
up on the way up can be used on your return.  I don't know 
how your Chicago plans fit into the picture, but if they will coincide 
with your return to Texas, we have some extremely interesting work lined 
up with Dr. Beck in Michigan which has not yet been done.
I'm going to New York tomorrow night to stay up a week with 
Nick's and my radio program called "Back Where I come From."  My estimate 
at this point is "only fair," but it may work out in rehearsals.  A lot 
of compromises have had to be made, such as having Clifton Fadiman be the 
MC.  The only reason for this was the hope that his presence will make the 
program a commercial possibility.  Listen to CBS, 8-9 EST, Monday the 19th.  
Your friend the FBI ranger called and I invited him to attend the broadcast, 
which will be billed as "Forecast."  Please call some of our mutual friends.  
I'll write Shir and Bess from NY..
I'm simply awfully tired and I hope my cvacation the end of this 
month will be possible.  If so, I'm going to go to the Carolina mountains 
and hike for two weeks and sleep in the rumble of the car.... McLeish is 
out of town, which is why you haven't heard from the Texas project.  As 
I read the Lead Belly contract they are under no further obligation to 
you except to furnish you with a statement.  They never made their $250 
I am pretty sure.  The records were badly recorded and badly marketed.... 
I've just searched through the big file of your letters in my office 
and I'm again impressed by your thoughtfulness and deep and completely 
fine regard for me--- I ain't wuthy.... I'll have two or three days 
free in New York and I'm going to wind up the affairs of our joint book 
and turn the final copy over to Macmillan.  I'll write you again 
from there.  In the meantime, love and best love to you both.  Alan.
Address me c/o Dave Taylor, 485 Madison Avenue, CBS, New York City..
*I misread your letters and will write these people on my return from New York

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.