OPERATOR'S NOTATIONS, TIME SENT, Etc.

THE POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY (INCORPORATED)

TRANSMITS AND DELIVERS THE WITHIN TELEGRAM SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS:

To guard against mistakes or delays, the sender of a telegram should order it REPEATED: that is, telegraphed back to the originating office for comparison. For this, one-half the unrepeated telegram rate is charged in addition. Unless otherwise indicated on its face, THIS IS AN UNREPEATED TELEGRAM AND PAID FOR AS SUCH, in consideration whereof it is agreed between the sender of the telegram and this Company as follows:

1. The Company shall not be liable for mistakes or delays in the transmission by the negligence of its servants or otherwise, beyond the sum of FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery  of any message received for transmission at the REPEATED-MESSASGE rate, beyond the sum of FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS; nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery, of any message received for transmission at the SPECIALLY VALUED MESSAGE rate, beyond the sum at which such message shall be valued, in writing, by the sender thereof when tendered for transmission and for which payment is made or agreed to be made of the amount of the repeated-message rate and an additional charge equals to one-tenth of one per cent of the amount by which such written valuation shall exceed five thousand dollars; nor in any case for delays arising from unavoidable interruption in the working of its lines, or for errors in cipher or obscure messages.

2. The Company is hereby made the agent of the sender, without liability, to forward this telegram over the lines of any other company when necessary to reach its destination.

3. Messages will be delivered free within one-half mile of the Company's office in towns of 5,000 population or less, and within one mile of such office in other cities or towns. Beyond these limits the Company does not undertake to make delivery, but will, without liability, at the sender's request, as his agent and at his expense, endeavor to contract for him for such delivery at a reasonable price.

4. No responsibility attaches to this Company concerning messages until the same are accepted at one of its transmitting offices; and if a message is sent to such office by one of the company's messengers, he acts for that purpose as the agent of the sender.

5.  The Company shall not be liable for damages or statutory penalties in any case where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after the telegram is filed with the Company for transmission.

6.  It is agreed that prompt and correct transmission and delivery of this message shall be presumed in any action for recovery of tolls therefor, subject however, to rebuttal by competent evidence.

7. Special terms governing the transmission of messages under the classes of messages enumerated below shall apply to messages in each of such respective clauses in addition to all foregoing terms.

8. NO EMPLOYEE OF THIS COMPANY IS AUTHORIZED TO VARY THE FOREGOING.
POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE CO[?]PANY, (Inc.)

EDWARD REYNOLDS, Vice-Prest. and General Manager. CLARENCE H. MACKAY, President.

CLASSS OF SERVICE

FAST TELEGRAMS. A full-rate expedited service.
NIGHT TELEGRAMS Accepted up to 2.00 a. m. at reduced rates to be sent during the night and delivered not earlier than the morning of the ensuing business day. Night telegrams may at the option of the Telegraph Company be mailed at destination to the addressees, and the Company shall be deemed to have discharged its obligation in such cases with respect to delivery by mailing such Night Telegrams at destination, postage prepaid.
DAY LETTERS. A deferred day service at rates lower than the standard fast telegram rate. One and one-half times the standard Night Letter rate for the transmission of 50 words or less, and one-fifth of the initial rate for each additional 10 word or less.
SPECIAL TERMS APPLYING TO DAY LETTERS. In further consideration of the reduced rate for this special "Day Letter" service, the following special terms in addition to those enumerated above are hereby agreed to:
(a) Day Letters may be forwarded by the Telegraph Company as a deferred service and the transmission and delivery of such Day Letter is, in all respects, subordinate to the priority of transmission and delivery of regular telegrams.
(c) This Day Letter is received subject to the express understanding and agreement that the Company does not undertake that a Day Letter shall be delivered on the day of its date absolutely and at all events; but that the Company's obligation in this respect is subject to the condition that there shall remain sufficient time for the transmission and delivery of such Day Letter on the day of its date during regular office hours, subject to the priority of the transmission of regular telegrams under the conditions named above.

No employee of the Company is authorized to vary the foregoing.

NIGHT LETTERS. Accepted up to 2.00 a. m. for delivering on the morning of the ensuing business day, at rates still lower than standard night telegram rates, as follows: The standard telegram rate for 10 words shall be charged for the transmission of 50 words or less, and one-fifth of such standard telegram rate for 10 words in addition to those enumerated above are hereby agreed to:

(a) Night Letters may at the option of the Telegraph Company be mailed at destination to the addressees, and the company shall be deemed to have discharged its obligation in such cases with respect to delivery by mailing such Night Letters at destination, postage prepaid.
No employee of the Company is authorized to vary the foregoing.

THE FASTEST TELEGRAPH SERVICE IN THE WORLD






Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.