To:  R. Keith Kane

October 7, 1942

From: Alan Barth

Subject: Revised Edition of Rumors in Wartime

The Rumor study, revised for wider circulation, seems an excellent
piece of work.  I think it conveys all the essential points of the original
Bureau study and contains nothing the publication of which can be harmful
if it is not taken out of context.

There are a few minor suggestions which I should like to offer respecting
style and content:

(1) On page 1, the last sentence seems awkward in construction. It
might better read "Mr. R. H. Knapp, of the Division of Propaganda Research
of the Massachusetts Committee on Public Safety, made a study of them upon
which the following account is based."

(2) On page 3, paragraph 2, the last sentence of this paragraph
might preferably read: "But, roughly, rumors may be divided into three basic
categories reflective of their psychological motivation."

(3) On page 4, last paragraph, the initial sentence of this paragraph 
might read more smoothly if it were changed to "Wartime conditions multiply
fears."

(4) In the discussion of escape rumors on page 5, it seems to me that
there should be some reference to rumors about rationing, since this forms
the subject matter of a great many rumors of this type -- e.g., "Warehouses
are full of sugar, so why would it be rationed?" (Minnesota)

(5) I suggest that the percentage of curiosity rumors should not be 
stated since the classification is very uncertain. Both Gordon Allport
and Raymond Franzen feel that all rumors can be put into one of the three
major categories -- hostility, anxiety, and escape.

(6) In introducing the section in rumor incidence in two cities on
page 6, it would be helpful, I think, to give the reader a sentence or two
explaining the nature and purpose of the study.  The subject is introduced
so abruptly as to be perplexing.

(7) On page 8, in the discussion of the spread of rumors, the terms
"education" and "information" appear to be used interchangeably.  It would
be better to confine the generalizations to one or the other.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.