In relation to the Defense Program memo submitted to the Librarian
on August 29, I should like to summarize the concrete working machinery
which will carry the program suggested in the memo.

1. The Archive of American Folk Song at present has no staff
and no facilities to embark on such a program. Personally, I'm involved
in so many projects on so many fronts and I have so little
efficient help, that I can't possibly produse material for the Defense
Program. I suggest therefore;

1. That the Archive of American Folk Songs be called the Archive
of American Folk Lore.

2. That funds be found for a director of the Archive at a salary of
$4500.00 a year and the only person in my mind who can do the job
is Dr. Seeger, present director of the Music Project in the Library
of Congress.

[3. The funds be allocated for the employment of a writer at $3500.00
a year, to handle and coordinate the great amount of creative
writing involved.]

4. Two permanent stenographers will be required, each a t $1800.00.

5. That the post of the Assistant in Charge of the Archive of American
Folk Songs be created at a salary of $3500.00 a year.

6. That the entire staff and energies of the Federal Writers Unit of
American Folk Song be turned to the creation of a subject-regional
dictionary index of American Source materials for creative writing
under Dr. B. A. Botkin. This should not interrupt, but should
rather facilitate and coordinate the acquisition from state projects
of permanent material. This wing of the Folk Lore Archive
should actively incorporate into the Archive of American Folk Songs
the material so obtained from the states and should rapidly bring together
the material that now is in the hands of private individuals
and should incorporate the material in the Archive in photostatic or
mimeograph form. [*Dr. Botkin to be given the title of Folk Lore
Editor at the salary of $3500/yr.*]

7. The Folk Music Unit of W.P. A. in the Library of Congress should
devote itself to creating a complete index of published sources of
American Folk Songs, melodic as well as a textual index. In addition,
this unit can produce arrangements, transcriptions and other
pertinent materials.

8. The first need of the Archive of American Folk Songs at present is
for sufficient funds to duplicate folk songs on records in other
collections and to caryy out recording trips in the field,for the
accumulation of additional material for the Archive. I suggest that
the sum of $10,000.00 be set aside for the forthcoming year.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.