In Reply 
Refer to:

6:3:HFG

January 29, 1942

MEMORANDUM

TO:
Director, Division of
Field Operations

FROM:  Chief, Clearance and 
Coordination Section

SUBJECT:  Public Reaction Project

My original memorandum on this subject was intended to be a tentative
draft to furnish the basis for preliminary discussions in your office.  I was
quite surprised when I learned that you had sent it to the regional offices
for comments.  I hoped that this would come later when the project had been
thought through.

The comments made by the regional offices are constructive.  They re-
flect the high caliber of the men in the regional offices.  However, in the
main, they touched upon points which I had considered and was working upon.
Thus, Mr. Ferguson mentioned the OFF surveys.  I had already talked with the
man working on these surveys, Rensis Likert, and he regarded the project  as
an excellent one to supplement his work.  He did not regard it as conflicting
or superfluous.  Mr. Neigel mentioned the Gallup poll.  As pointed out by Mr.
Grubb of the Bureau of labor Statistics, who has worked with Gallup, there
were many seriouse limitations to the Gallup poll.  We could correct some of
these by our procedure.

Mr. Nicholson thought that the project might not operate because tires
were not worn out as yet, and the public was not talking.  This merely indi-
cates the necessity for two or more polls on the same subject reflecting
changing views based on changed conditions.  Also, this point is taken care
of by the fact that sugar will furnish the basis of conversations.  Mr. Nash
of Commodity Distribution told me that he thought the people were talking about the tire rationing program and he gave me some examples.

In Dallas, Texas, the project was received with great enthusisam and a 
number of interviews were submitted to me by inspectors who has not even been out in the field.

In the Chicago office Mr. Weigel and Mr. Grubb were not familiar with
my twenty years' experience in this field.  If I had known that the project
was to be so submitted I would have suggested a few introductory remarks on
the technical competence of the section to handle it.

Attached is a tentative draft of a set of instructions for such an
investigation.  As a result of the comments, I am more more strongly of the opinion
than ever that this is a project which will greatly increase the usefulness of 
the Division of Field Operations, and will be of inestimable value in guiding
the administration toward a sound public relations policy.

H. F. Gosnell

Attachment
HFGOSNELL:lo'm

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.