Mr. Rosten                - 2 -                October 13, 1942

University there is on the staff Floyd H. Allport, brother to Gordon
W. Allport of the Boston Clinic and Harvard University.

        The Essex County, New Jersey, American Legion group wants to
start an American Legion Rumor Busting Column in one of the Newark newspapers.
We have a letter from the county commander in the files that is not available
to me now.

        South Carolina.  In Columbia, South Carolina, the Lion's Club
passed a resolution recently favoring the establishment of a rumor clinic
in Columbia.  Eugene H. Salmon was appointed Chairman of the committee and
Eugene Leier, Vice Chairman.  The remaining members of the committee are:
N. E. Brown, Clarence Dreher, Shep A. Griffith, John C. Heller, A. F. Funderburk,
Jr., Frank Hartsfield, Kenneth R. Kreps, Clarence I. Meeks, and J. C.
McWaters.  So far, no material beyond the first announcement.  Anderson,
South Carolina, has gotten more newspaper publicity.  G. Paul Browne, head
of the County Committee for Information is apparently organizing a rumor
clinic in connection with the newspaper, the Independent Tribune.  It is reported
that the State Director, H. Mahon (OCD?), is investigating this organization
to decide the advisability of a state-wide set-up.

        In Florida, the Duval County-Jacksonville Defense Counsel has a
division of information, education, and morale, of which Jesse M. Elliott
and Gold V. Sanders are co-chairman.  They have recently announced the establishment
of a rumor clinic.  Still more recently, John Kilgore has written
to this office for guidance in relation to the Jacksonville Clinic.
It is significant to note that at a recent annual meeting of the state board
of directors of the Business and Professional Women's Clubs of Florida,
decision was reached to set up rumor clinics throughout the organization,
with a director in every local club.  This is now in the process of being
developed.  No information concerning personnel nor extent of progress.

        Ohio.  Cleveland is developing its rumor clinic.  The newspaper,
Plain Dealer, is working in conjunction with the League of Human Rights.
Each Sunday, starting October 11, the Plain Dealer will publish its rumor
column comparable to the Boston Clinic.  The League for Human Rights is
addressed at number 509 Chester-Ninth Building.  Apparently the League is
to do the rumor study and the Plain Dealer to be used as an outlet.  The
iniative was with the newspaper which approached the League for such guidance.
Still more recently, there has been a brief note concerning the establishment
of a Clinic by the Cleveland "Press" in cooperation with the
Cleveland College Psychology Department.  I do not have enough information
at hand to know whether this is a second clinic or an expansion of the first.

        Illinois.  In Chicago, at the University of Chicago, Professor Herbert
Blumer, of the Department of Sociology has been running a rumor study
for some time.  He has had no newspaper tie-up.  The newspaper "The News"

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.