TUESDAY

S-1 each weals
History of American Labor
Philip Booth, Economist in the Division of Unemploy-
ment Compensation Research, Social Security Board, fol-
5 O'clock lows the development of the American labor
movement from its first appearance in Colonial
America, through all its significant phases down
to the C.I.O. This course unravels the threads
Jacksonian revolt, the Civial War, the Great Railroad Strikes,
the Knights of Labor, the eight-hour-day struggles, the
World War, and the N.R.A.

S-1 Trade Unionism in Action Weals

Joseph Senturia, former Assistant Chief of the Division
of Industrial Relations in the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
5 O'clock offers in this class a continuation of Eleanor Nel-
son's course in trade unions. Beginning with the 
purposes of trade unions the class will seek to
determine what a union can accomplish, to as-
certain what methods are most effective, why
why are effective and when they are apt to be most desirable
strategically. Finally the class will examine the relation-
ship of the labor movement to government and to politics.

Public Speaking Str
Isaac McBride in this class will drill students in public
speaking. He will cover such important points as voice
5 O'clock control and projection, sensing and visualizing
the audience, securing material and building a
speech, and poise and effectiveness on the public
platform. This course will be infinitely valuable
to all people who wish to work in committees
or in unions.

Statistics*
Hal Wolkind, statistician for the Division of Economic
Research of the Department of Commerce, and formerly a
7 O'clock statistician for the Standard Statistics Company,
continues has class from last semester. The
course, which will enable students to use and
understand index numbers, time series, and
correlations, is open to students who took the
first course, and to other students who have an elementary
acquaintance with statistical methods. 

2-S Behind the News Weals
Cedric Fowler, member of American Newspaper Guild
and Assistant Publicity Director of the C . I. O., brings
8 O'clock American labor history down to date. He will
discuss the background of the labor movement, 
analyze the present problems of the C. I. O. and 
present the fact behind the labor news head-
lines. This course will enable students to extend
their knowledge of the labor movement by studying labor
history from the inside as it happens. 
*See also Wednesday : Elementary Statistics.

4


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.