March 20, 1941

Dear Mrs. Coolidge:

I am writing to you without introduction in the
belief this formality can be waived if there is any likelihood
of your being interested in what I propose.

I will be as brief as possible. I merely wish
to introduce the subject in the hope that you will care to
discuss it in some detail when you are again in New York.

I am a theatre and film producer and director.
For the past several years I have worked chiefly in documentary
pictures. Joris Ivens, whose name you may know;
Alan Lomax, whose name you certainly will recognize; Nicholas
Ray, producer with Lomax of "Back Where I Come From", the
folk music program on CBS, and I have for more than a year
attempted to find some way of financing the production of
films that would be based on /American folk music material.
Before I go any further, let me state that I am well aware
you have been primarily interested in chamber music. I hope
this does not exclude the possibility of your interest in
the field of folk music.

We have all felt that folk music material (for 
instance, the Holiness Church or Railroad songs, or songs
of the children of racial minorities in this country) could
make exciting film material; in the process of production
the Folk Music Archives of the Library of Congress could be
provided with much valuable documentation which it lacks
and needs; these films could be invaluable to national morale
through the development of the awareness of our rich musical
heritage.

Such films cannot be financed commercially because
there is little or no money to be made their distribution.
If you are interested in financing them, in whole or
in part, there could be no assurance that all or any part
of your money would come back. It would be largely a philanthropic
undertaking. The people concerned would work for
minimum salaries, and the money should be administered through
the Library of Congress. About a year ago, as a matter of
fact, this kind of arrangement was discussed with Mr. McLeish
who at that time was very much interested. The films, as


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.