Alan Lomax,
Archive of American Folk Song,
June 18, 1938.

Symposium on hot jazz with Benny Goodman, Louie
Armstrong, John Hammond, Charles Smith, Sidney Martin,
George Bell, Hugh Panassié, Duke Ellington, etc;

Symposium on regional literature with J. Frank
Dobie, Benjamin Bodkin, Sterling Brown, Paul Green,
Frances Densmore, Howard Odam, etc;

Symposium on the American folk tale with Dr.
Stith Thompson, Dr. Ralph Boggs, Dr. Frank Boaz, Zora
Neil Hurston, J. Frank Dobie, Martha Beckwith, etc;

In addition to these conferences and symposiums
which might, of course, be very much amplified and subdivided
there should be represented in the American Folk
Theater recitals of all the foremost American composers
who have used folk themes; and these recitals should be
accompanied by a scholarly discussion of the lives of
the composers and the significance of their work.

It might be further interesting to trace through
a series of performances the development that led from
spirituals and the buck and wing to minstrel to ragtime
to cake walk to jazz. Then, perhaps, the development of 
popular song, both sentimental and comic, through the course
of the nineteenth century and up to 1920 where it merged
and was influenced by jazz could be woven into a delightful
musical production. It would be interesting, besides, 
to give a history of the development of American vaudeville,
using for material the old chap books and the descriptions
of early vaudeville stars, which can be obtained from newspaper
reviews and other contemporary accounts. These, of
course, are only suggestions to be amplified more fully if
the Fair Committee were interested.

In such a theater, I hope, every sizeable foreign
group in America, as well as native, would have the opportunity
to exhibit its traditional lore and its traditional
artistic techniques and, besides, the development that has
taken place within these techniques in America. These
groups might be financed by application either to the diplomatic
representatives of the countries from which the

-8-



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.