-2-

Crash! a loud chord and all are awake. A mean joke -- no, they would have
missed some delightful music. The strings continue and the wind instruments
join in to finish the theme. The first variation is for second
violins and violas over which the first violins add a graceful accompaniment.
Both sections of this variation are repeated. The second variation
is in the relative minor (? minor) and is announced pompously,
continuing in freer form to the end of the record. The fourth record 
surface brings us the third variation which is for oboe and strings and 
is achieved by doubling the notes, i.e., instead of quarter notes, sixteenths.
Then the strings take over the theme and the oboe and flute
play over them. The fourth variation has somewhat the strength of
Beethoven and consists of the theme in the wind, the first violins playing
rapid broken chords while the other strings accent the up-beat with
loud chords. A short coda ends the movement.

Haydn once remarked to a friend that a better minuet was needed in
the symphony. He used the term scherzo and speeded up the minuet. it
was left for Beethoven to really create the scherzo. However this
minuet (Allegro Molto) needs no apology. It is graceful, rythmic, and
tuneful. The first section is repeated, the second section is not. The
trio which is in quieter vein is for strings and bassoon. Both sections
of the trio are repeated after which the minuet is again heard, this time
without repeats to the end.

The fourth movement is in 2/4 time, Allegro Molto. The older classic
masters usually cast their finales in a light vein. This gave rise to
the quip that they showed in the first movement what they could do, in
the second what they could feel, and in the last, how glad they were to
be done! This finale is as happy-go-lucky as a boy just out of school.
The strings start merrily off, and gradually the others join in. There
is a pause and then the second theme is heard. As in the first movement
it is as jolly as the first theme. There is a short development of the
first theme and then all is repeated. Just at the end the wind instruments
(flutes, oboes, and bassoons) have two soft chords as if to say
'that's all' and all answer emphatically 'That's all'.

Symphony No. 8 in B Minor (Unfinished) by
Franz Schubert (1797-1828)

The following thumb nail sketch by Philip Hale is a vivid picture
of the man:

"Schubert was a clumsy man, short, round-shouldered, tallow
faced, with a great shock of black hair, with penetrating though
spectacled eyes, strong-jawed, stubby-fingered. He shuffled in
his walk, and he expressed himself in speech with difficulty. He
described himself as unhappy, miserable; but his practical jokes
delighted tavern companions, and he was proud of his performance
of 'The Erlking' on a comb. He kept a diary and jotted down
platitudes. He had little taste for literature, painting, sculpture
travels; he was not interested in politics or in questions of
sociology. He went with his own kind..... He loved the freedom
of the tavern, the dance in the open-air or late at night, when he
would play pretty tunes for the dancers . . . Schubert was a simple
kindly, loving, honest man, whose trade, whose life, was music."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.