economic philosophy and that of his wife, who would not be
above supplying some free paste for the Eleanor Club's
Rooseveltian label.

These are the veteran rumors.  There are others more
individualistic and imaginative.  Their common theme is an
act of Negro disdain or affront against members of the white
race, male and female.  Every one of these rumors that has
bee made the basis of a report or complaint to the police
has been run down by the police and proved to be either 
violently exaggerated or a fabrication out of the whole cloth."

I here quote a portion of an editorial taken from the
Richmond Times-Dispatch on August 21, 1942.

"It is impossible to resolve all the problems of inter-racial
co-operation that beset us, during the period of the
present emergency, or perhaps for a long time after it is
over.  But we can prevent the injection of the toxins of
race hatred into our effort to make progress toward their
solution.  All over Virginia, the rumor that Negro domestic
workers are forming "Eleanor Clubs," and preparing for a wholesale
evacuation of the kitchens, has been going the rounds.  It
isn't true.  At least, there hasn't been a word of truth in the
report of the organization of such clubs in Southern cities in
which government agents have conducted their investigations.
In Georgia, the rumor took a different shape.  The toxic effort
was a little greater.  There the word was passed around that
Negro domestic workers were organizing "Black Widow" and "Black
Spider" clubs.  Government investigators found that a tissue of
lies was responsible for this report.  Domestic workers have
been leaving the kitchens, not because of "Eleanor Clubs" but
because they were able to earn higher wages in war industries.

We must nail these rumors, for they spread bigger and more
dangerous lies including reports of plots and counter-plots.
If we can't kill them promptly when they arise, they may work
overtime, and with great effectiveness -- for Hitler.  It
might be helpful if the Mayor of every Virginia city appointed
a special advisory council on interracial affairs to assist him
in his role as defense head in his community, in combatting
rumor designed to help Hitler "divide and conquer."  The same
advisory council might be helpful in assisting the heads of
our cities on specific problems that impede co-operation between
white and Negro workers in winning the war - wherever
they occur anywhere along the line."

-2-

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.