- 7 - 
RUMORS. August 10 - 15, 1942
RED CROSS

"In regard to articles sent to soldiers by organized groups, I heard that
the Red Cross had received consent from Congress to handle all this exclusively,
so that the Salvation Army and similar organizations were blocked in their
efforts along this line."
"One thing that worries me is that I am told that the Red Cross only stands
back of the First Aiders if they follow the textbook exactly and everyone considers
the textbook so out of date that they prefer to follow the advice of doctors or
nurses."
"Persons offering to drive for the Red Cross are sent on assignments such
as taking women from the suburbs to beauty parlors in downtown Detroit. One driver
was thanked for her service because it saved a taxi fare."
"Red Cross selling sweaters we are knitting to Canadians for $1.00. Canadian
woman calls us Americans 'suckers'."

WAR STAMPS AND BONDS. INFLATION. CURRENCY.

"United States money will be worthless after the war. Therefore do spend it."
"Old worn out currency is to be left in circulation for psychological purposes - 
and they might even start using again old money that has been recalled."
"Do not put more than 10 per cent in war stamps and bonds. When the war is
over the government will say, now we've won the war just cancel all our debts and
be glad you are free." (Chicago business man)
"Inflation will follow the war sure and nothing but silver will be any good.
Better hoard silver in half dollars, quarters and dimes in your own home to have
something to live on. Many business men are doing this now." (Chicago business man)
"I'm going to buy an iron safe and keep money in it for after the war. I know
other men doing it."
"Mrs.X said that where she works all the employees are forced to buy Defense
Bonds even though many of them have until recently been on relief and have debts
galore which should be paid off first but when they try to cash their bonds the
Post Office refuses to give them the money saying that no bonds are being redeemed
at the present time."

MISCELLANEOUS

Washington taxi driver told a Wyandotte business man, "Everyone in Washington
knows that Roosevelt is building a new home for Harry Hopkins and his bride on the
grounds of the White House, though it hasn't appeared in the newspapers."
[*] "They're going to build a house for Harry Hopkins on the White House lawn."
"Dutch Harbor was our Shangri-La."
"We have too many foreigners here now who are anxious to see the Axis win."
"Most of the people in the conquered countries, especially Slavs, are in favor
of the Nazis. Only the minority disapproves."
"When this war is over we will have another one on our hands - with England."
An American soldier prisoner in Japan in writing to his sister mentioned
his "collection" and his sister realizing he had a stamp collection looked under
the stamp where he had written "My tongue has been cut off."
"With the C.I.O. saying "Join or else", and the army controlling what's left,
this country is fast heading for civil war."
"Departing Axis diplomats were allowed to take quantities of foodstuffs from 
this country, soon likely to be scarce for our people. Our citizens returning from
Europe have no such privilege."
[*] "Some high school girl graduates are working in Washington, D.C. and living in
Philadelphia. They arrive at work at 10:30 and leave at 2:30 to be sure to get home
before dark."


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.