RUMORS - 2

MASSACHUSETTS.
August 15, 1942.

The most constantly heard and widespread criticism of the "home front" 
in various places visited in New England is:

1. Gasoline rationing is unfair because it does not apply to the entire 
nation.

2.  Congress and the Administration is playing politics with the war 
effort and there will be no drastic action taken until after the Fall elections.
[*3*]
In Springfield, Mass., the writer overheard the following statement 
made by a prominent business man:  "If a few bombs fell on the east coast, war 
production in the Springfield area would be increased almost double. Men in the 
war production plants are making no real effort to speed up their work."
[*7-8*]
From widespread areas, we are again hearing that Russia will make a 
separate peace with Germany. In the Eastern Massachusetts area including the 
city of Worcester, there are all sorts of comment and stories regarding the Jews 
in circulation, all more or less tending to show that the Jewish people are not 
cooperating in the war, evading the draft, seeking non-combatting assignments in 
ordinance or quartermasters, or trying to get commissions in some branch of the 
service where they hope to be assigned to short duties.
[*6*]
The rumors and criticisms most constantly heard are:

1. Russia will make a separate peace.

2. Jews are not doing their part in the war.

3. Gasoline rationing is unfair because it is not nation wide.

4. Congress is playing politics and no necessary steps will be taken until after 
the election.

5. England is waiting for us to open a second front.

For the first time this week, we have heard critical comment in some 
sections of South] NE that the dependent's allowances do not become effective 
until November 1. A great deal of significance is attached to this fact, people 
interpreting it to mean that Congressmen want to claim credit and use the passage 
of this act in trade for votes to get re-elected.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.