Mr. Cornelius DuBois -2- July 18, 1942

(f) Reporting of rumors by 100 CBS affiliates if
Frank Stanton can secure the cooperation of the
Columbia Broadcasting System

These rumors will be collected for the same period
of one week and analyzed by areas, by type of origin, by subject,
by alleged authority. The processing of all of the
above material will be done by the Special Services Division,
with the exception of that portion of the material collected
by the Surveys Division. Procedures, however, will be agreed
upon by Surveys and Special Services so that classification
of material and categories are identical in both collections.

When the rumors have been classified, they will be
studied by Source Materials and Information Channels to determine
their relationship, quantitative and qualitative, to
news and official statements issued during the week's study
and for the two preceding weeks.

In cities, such as Chicago and Boston, and in the
cities chosen by Surveys for its intensive study, detailed
analysis of local media by Information Channels is suggested
in order to learn at close quarters the quantitative relationship
between news and rumors.

Enemy Source will examine Axis radio broadcast
content for the week's study and for the two weeks preceding
to learn what, if any, parallelism exists between rumors reported
and Axis broadcasts.

Other Procedural Considerations

Responsibility for execution of the several parts of
the proposed study is divided between Surveys, Source Material,
Information Channels and Special Services, plus the possible use
of Polls Division field men for incidental rumor reports.

It is recommended that the project be stewarded by
a Committee existing of one man for each of the division
principally involved--Sources, Information Channels, Surveys,
Special Services--but that the final putting together of the
material for appraisal and completion be left to the central
staff and consultants.

It is suggested that the week for which rumors are
to be collected shall be July 27th through August 1st. This
will leave the necessary time for rumor classification and
comparison with Source, Information Channels and enemy Broadcast
material and adequate time for final editing.

In order to start its machinery for the week of
July 27th, Special Services must have final approval of the
outline by July 21st.



Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.