OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION
INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM

[OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT REPORTS]

TO: William H. Webber, Bureau of Intelligence
DATE: 10/12/42
FROM: Field Representative, Oklahoma - Frederick B. Behringer
SUBJECT: Availability of Rumor Collectors for Future Studies--WHH 10/3/42

The names and addresses of the persons cooperating in the collection of rumors 
are as follows:

Mr. Dan Hollingsworth
Oklahoma City Police Department
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Mr. George Austin, Proprietor
Classen Drug Store
2722 Classen
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Mr. O. L. Crain, President
Oklahoma City Trades Council
Franklin Buildig
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Dr. George E. Roland, Dentist
Medical Arts Building
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Mr. Harry B. Rutledge, Sec'y
Chamber of Commerce
Norman, Oklahoma

Miss Leslie Smith, Proprietor
Leslie Merle Beauty Shop
Norman, Oklahoma

The only persons indicating any definite interest in the job were the policeman 
and the beauty operator.  The policeman, the labor representative, and the 
beauty operator are willing to cooperate further in this line of rumor reporting; 
the policeman and the labor representative being willing to keep up the 
activity from time to time; whereas, it was a burden on the beauty operator, 
and she could participate only occasionally.

It is my own opinion that an effective method for obtaining rumors can best 
be accomplished on the basis that the persons asked are personally known to 
the field representative to have certain innate qualities; a willingness to 
devote sufficient time and thought to the problem; and, accept possible infringements 
on his or her time and business.

The time allowed to make the assignments and collect the rumors for this 
initial report was entirely inadequate to give consideration to proper selection 
of persons or the necessary detailed instructions for complying with the requirements 
set forth in your directive.  Time should be allowed for the field 
representative to make careful selections of persons who are capable and willing 
to maintain a constant vigilance on such matters and "jot" them down when 
they occur.  Probably the only two on this list who could be effectively used 
as contacts out of Washington would be Mr. Hollingsworth and Mr. Crain.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.