RUMORS IN THE BOSTON REGION
March 20 – May 25, 1942
Page 2

British (Continued)

7. The sugar shortage was caused by our having shipped
too much to England where they already have more
rationing allowance than do we 4-2
8. The British sunk some of their own ships in the
St. Laurence in order that the French population
might be frightened into accepting conscription. 5-3
9. Ship sinkings in the St. Laurence and in the Gulf are
caused by our own mines getting loose, and not by
submarines of the enemy. 5-3
10. The British are forcing seamen of neutral nationalities
to serve on their merchant marine. 4-4
11. English sailors in Norfolk are using the corridors of
their ships for urinals. Local people extended 
cordial hospitality to them in the beginning, but the
English soon imposed on it and so are now no longer
welcome. 4-4
12. English firms have been underselling the United States
in South American steel markets ever since the
Lend-Lease Bill. 4-3
13. The submarine warfare is going badly for us because the
British have withdrawn most of their fleet from the
Atlantic. 4-3
14. A large part of the rubber we now have is being shipped
to England. England has no tire rationing. 4-3
15. We are shipping much of our sugar to England to make
black powder, which the British are still using. 4-3
16. The American air force has instituted a committee of
inquiry in order to find out where bombers drop their
bombs. This is because it was discovered that the
British were dropping theirs in the channel. 4-2
17. Much of the British navy is in hiding in American ports
under the pretext that they are here for repairs. 4-2
18. We have sent a good number of oil tankers to England
where they lie idle in port. Here we have an oil
shortage. 4-2

Draftees

1. The Army is having great difficulty in getting men from
the draftees to serve in the paratroops although an
increase in pay is offered. Morale is very bad. 4-4
2. The army is rejecting great numbers of men for high
blood pressure because so many have died after
receiving inoculations. 4-3
3. The morale among the draftees is so poor that none will
enlist in the paratroops even when a wage increase is
offered as an inducement. 4-4

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.