C-4          Want Ad Headquarters

MORE ABOUT
MOUTNAIN BALLADS
Starts on Page One, This Section

found only a hard bed to lie in and no ribbons nor pretty clothes
- one of the oldest known ballads in the English language.
   Or the sad tale of the lady who left her house carpenter"
and babes to go with a "nice young man" to the "banks of the
sweet Tennessee," and then their tragic end:
   "They hadn't been sailing but about three weeks,
          "I'm sure it was not four.
   "Till that fair ship began for to sink,
          "She sank and riz no more."
   Sometimes, but not too often, the ballads carry a vein of
rustic humor, as in "I Wish I Was a Single Gal Again," that
laments the drudgery of the housewife but ends on the happy
note of thanks for not being an old maid.
***
GREER IN a recent letter wrote to McKinney: "Every few
days I get a letter from someone who attended the meeting
at Gatlinburg, wanting to know if in some way the customs of
pioneer life, and especially its music, could not be linked up
with our parks. You had a real idea that night, and if we can
keep after it, we ought to be able to render some worth while
service. There is an opportunity here to preserve for future
posterity some of the finest things in the life of America."
   How this will be worked out practically remains to be seen.
Now the "gospel" is being spread. In the West the cowboy
ballads are being preserved and sung in the National Parks and
therefore it is equally appropriate for similar work to be done
here.
   "It would be quite easy, of course," McKinney said, "to
hold a song program each year, but that is not the thing I 
mean. I mean to preserve and develop these things, the whole
culture of the mountains, in a permanent way, with possibly a
student of these ballads and customs, such as Prof. Greer, employed
to train, foster and teach and to gather these treasures.
For they are not in one place. Prof. Greer has told me that he
will pick up different versions and different stanzas of the same
traditional ballad in various places.
   "I feel sure that the idea has enough value and enough
genuine appeal to enlist the interest of some individuals, organizations, 
and the government to keep alive this magical music of
the mountains in its native home."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.