RELATIONSHIP OF AMERICAN FOLK LORE TO AMERICAN DEMOCRACY - 2- 

5. One of the major conflicts of present- day society lies in 
the defeat of the individual's aspiration toward creative 
expression by mass-industry , by commercialized and slicked-
up art of all sorts. The materials and ideas of folklore, 
folk-song, etc., provide the easiest avenue of expression 
for individual ego-expression . Soldiers' songs are notably 
profane about war and its discomforts, for example ; but intelligent 
officers have never discouraged them because they 
realized that the men were merely blowing off steam and 
singing a song , instead of , perhaps, shooting an officer 
in the back. 

6. Not even Hollywood, the radio , the educational system and 
the public library have succeeded in selling  " Culture" to 
the people. There is a strong resistance, and a healthy 
one , on the part of most Americans, particularly the average
American male, toward being " cultivated ". This represents a 
profound suspicion on his part of European ways, high - brow 
talk , long-hair music and poetry. To make these people feel 
that they are interested to defend all democratic culture 
and to keep potentially Fascist forces in America from 
realizing on the culture resentment described above, they 
must be approached on their own terms and I profoundly 
believe these terms are ultimately better known to the 
folklorist than to any one else in the nation. 

7. As I pointed out above, the whole basis of folk-lore is 
democratic and the people know this instinctively. Besides, 
however, all of the material worth considering in American 
folk-lore treats in one way and another of democratic
feelings, yearnings, striving, struggles which have always 
been part of the lives of all people. The people have 
developed a language for telling the story of democracy 
which is beyond the reach of pamphleteers and propagandists. 
Let the people feel that they are telling themselves that 
democracy is worth defending and building and making their 
own. Don't tell the people that democracy has brought them 
this or that and that democracy represents this or that 
high ideal invented by philosophers and worked our by 
technicians with large language. Let the people tell their 
own story to themselves in their own way .This should be 
the basis, the leaning of any cultural program at this time.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.