Chorus:
          Way out in Idaho, way out in Idaho,
          A-workin' on the narrow-gauge, way out in Idaho

2 I was roaming around in Denver one luckless rainy day
   When Kilpatrick's man, Catcher, stepped up to me and did say,
   "I'll lay you down five dollars as quickly as I can
   And you'll hurry up and catch the train, she's starting for Cheyenne."

3 He laid me down five dollars, like many another man,
   And I started for the depot as happy as a clam ;
   When I got to Pocatello, my troubles began to grow,
  A-wading through the sagebrush in frost and rain and snow.

4 When I got to American Falls, it was there I met Fat Jack,
   He said he kept a hotel in a dirty canvas shack,
  " We hear you are a stranger and perhaps your funds are low,
  Well, yonder stands my hotel tent, best in Idaho."

5 I followed my conductor into his hotel tent,
   And for one square and hearty meal I paid him my last cent ;
   But Jack's a jolly fellow, and you'll always find him so
   A-workin' on the narrow-gauge way out in Idaho.

6 They put me to work next morning with a cranky cuss called Bill,
   And they gave me a ten-pound hammer to strike upon a drill ;
   They said if I didn't like it I could take my shirt and go,
   And they'd keep my blanket for my board way out in Idaho.

7 It filled my heart with pity as I walked along the track
   To see so many old bummers with their turkeys on their backs ;
   They said the work was heavy and the grub they couldn't go,
   Around Kilpatrick's tables way out in Idaho.

8 But now I'm well and happy, down in the harvest camps,
   And there I will continue till I make a few more stamps ;
   I'll go down to New Mexico and I'll marry the girl I know,
   And I'll buy me a horse and buggy and go back to Idaho.

MUSIC----As I Went Out for a Ramble

                                AS I WENT OUT FOR A RAMBLE

    I As I went out for a ramble
      It's I stopped in a little town
      It's I fell in love her more than life,
      And her eyes they were dark brown.

   2 This girl I love so dearly,
       It's I loved her more than life,
       But she was nothing but a young flirt
      So she never could be my wife.

  3  It's as I walking one evening,
      It's I walked around the park,
      It's I found her in the arms of another boy,
      God knows it broke my heart



 

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.