                                                                              6. 
                                                                                                                      Nebraska
                                                                                                                      August 8, 1942
entirely too much idleness in many of our own Federal Offices. Some of the Army personnel, for example, spend half their time just fooling around. I see it,
myself, as my work takes me in and out of many offices during the course of a
few days. The certain Army office I mention is the limit........some of its
personnel spend half their time deciding who is going out on the street next
for a coke or whose turn it is to go out on the street shopping. They spend
too much time playing around and collecting gadgets for their desks. It's a
shame the way they do, and just because it's the Army, they get away with it.
If you don't believe it, just go to the street floor of a certain building any
time during the afternoon and you will find it crowded with all kinds of the
personnel from upstairs, and they don't have their refreshments and hurry back to the job, either."
                August 5 - The following comment was overheard in the Omaha Post
Office.....two middle-aged men were talking: "There's too much delay and red
tape in our form of Government. It's wonderful in peace time, but I'm
wondering if it's so good in war, and especially in a war such as we are in now.
The saboteurs should have been shot right now instead of all this messing around."
             August 6 - The next was overheard at a luncheon counter....two business
men were talking, and one said: "The war is much worse than people are realizing
and by January 1st, we are going to see a different world. My God, I wish we
could get going before it's too late. The other gentlmen replied that "we would
get going when we are able, but evidently we are not strong enough yet", to which
the first gentleman replied in turn, "that's what I'm afraid of, and I'm wondering
when in H.....we will be,........our forces are too scattered for concentrated
strength at any one place."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.