(4) 
Wisconsin
August 8, 1942

I hear they pay the guys in concentration camps a buck and a half a day.  I
guess they do some work for it, but mind you, they pay them while they're
in a concentration camp.  Milwaukee, August 4

Say, I heard that they're going to make a survey of all cars, and make us
haul people to work.  Milwaukee, August 5

Them Japs they've got in camps, why they earn more than our soldiers, and they
don't do nothin' but set.  Milwaukee, August 6

Washington just doesn't know what it's all about.  First they argue about
whether we should have cargo planes, and then on the March of Time an airplane
company head said they've been in mass production for months.  Why
don't they get some people in Washington who know what's going on?
Milwaukee, August 7

They don't seem to know what they're doing at the Eline plant (Milwaukee
Ordnance Company).  They're going around in circles.  If the hiring for
all war plants is as inefficient as this one, they'll never get any supplies
to the army.  Milwaukee, August 4

It's a damn waste, that's what it is, using oak out there at the Eline plant
instead of cheaper wood.  They don't need solid oak in a plant like that.
Milwaukee, August 5

Sure, they've got three fires going all the time, burning scrap wood.  They
won't let us take the scrap home.  They burn it themselves.  Milwaukee,
Aug. 5

They burn some pieces as big as two feet long. (At Eline plant).
Milwaukee, August 7

I've heard that construction at Camp McCoy is very wasteful.  Carpenters
aren't attempting to make efficient use of lumber.  Instead of cutting two
foot lengths from short pieces, they're cutting two-footers and smaller
pieces from 10 and 12 foot planks.  Much good usable lumber is wasted, and
emergency transportation of lumber by truck is made necessary.
Milwaukee, August 7

I've heard that a building in the Camp McCoy area, not on any highway or side
track requiring specific placement of the building, was found, after construction,
to be two feet from the place it was to have been set.  An army inspector
came around, and finding the building out of line, ordered bulldozers
into action, and, the building was pushed over so as to destroy it.  The
wreckage was burned, and a new building started on the proper site.  No 
effort was made to move the building.  Milwaukee, August 7

Washington is withholding true information on the status of the war.
Milwaukee, August 8

After the election we'll be told the truth about the war. 
Milwaukee, August 7

Congressmen and senators in Washington are playing politics.  They're more

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.