THREE RESIDENT SCHOOLS FOR
AGRICULTURAL WORKERS

Ignorance is a menace to democracy. Poverty means lack of educational
opportunity. Where poverty is greatest, ignorance gets enthroned,
not stupidity, mind you, but ignorance of the rights and methods by which
an American may help himself.

Poverty in America is greatest in the cotton fields of the South,
the fruit garden of California, the factory farms of Texas and Colorado.

UCAPAWA has selected the three most important agricultural sections
in the country to conduct a program for workers' education - California, the
Rocky Mountain States, and the South.

The California School for Field Workers has recently concluded
a most successful four-weeks term in Chino, for twenty-one students selected
by field workers' locals - some organized during the 20,000 cotton pickers' 
strike in San Joaquin Valley last Fall.

For the first time, agricultural workers have gone back to the
classrooms to learn and teach; the background of their conditions, organizational
problems in different crops, collective bargaining, the proper use
of governmental agencies and how to run their own organizations. Through
simple courses, forums, lectures, skits and movies invaluable practical knowledge
is acquired, so that the Joads may be better equipped to help themselves.

A School for Beet Field Workers

The plight of a hundred thousand workers in the beet fields is an
old story in the annals of American agriculture. Labor provisions in the
Sugar Act of 1937 have given these workers certain gains; wage hearings,
the ban of child labor, minimum wages fixed by the Secretary of Agriculture.

There is a great need for educational work among the sugar beet
workers in the Rocky Mountain States. UCAPAWA will conduct a resident
school in Denver, Colorado. Thirty members of field locals from six states
will attend this project for fifteen days.

The curriculum for this school includes a study of the structure
of UCAPAWA, functions of locals and committees, elements of parliamentary
procedure and workshop activities.

Talks on health, sports, housing and current events are included
and visual education made use of whenever possible.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.