Rural Community Planning

Note.

Since the writing of the attached proposal in June 1937 conditions
under which it may be tested have become favorable for early action.
The following reasons have brought the writer to the conclusion that the time is ripe for the examination of all aspects of the matter to allow consideration in ample time prior to the relief programming:

1. New laws regulating agriculture affect the South tremendously and inadvertently intensify the tendencies towards dead levels of 
cultural uniformity. This can be counteracted by the operation
 of the program embraced in the proposal which primarily opens up cultural opportunities in terms of the "new regionalism".

2. The Department of Agriculture, more than any other force in 
decades, had been and is now instrumental in the introducing changes 
in regard to agricultural economy, the principal economy of the
South. This implies a self imposed trust to the Department of 
Agriculture: that of reintegration of Southern agrarian culture into the national pattern.

This item, the neglect of which is past decades has led to the 
present feeling, cannot be superimposed but depend on local initiative.
On the other hand, it cannot get started unless facilities 
are provided. The attached proposal visualizes a five year program in form of maintenance of offices which the Department needs now
for its work. Thus the proposal avoids obvious Federal stimulation which in the South cannot but be interpreted as the paternalistic 
relation of a central body to a cultural tributary of "backward"
province. 

3. The present line-up in the South is not conductive to Federal 
projects. The proposal. which is based on the recognition of the existence of traditional culture patterns indigenous to each region, 
makes States and regional projects not only feasible but provides
the basis of cooperation of the region with the Federal agencies.

4. There is at present reasonable probability that extensive relief
measures will be considered early by Congress. The reason for this relative high number of failure to reach objectives of work-relief 
projects lies in the lack of time in which detailed programs can
be worked out prior to the start of expenditures. This in many cases has led to such absurdities as the start of construction work prior 
to the start of building plans. Early consideration therefore is 
advisable if this program is made part of the anticipated relief
expenditures.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.