K--2

xixcon't--Child ballads certainly not communal compositions. but all
that is required now is a starting point of origin. communal composition
of the sort described is a fact.
xx. custom still known in even civilized countries. fishermen of Faroe.
girls in Russian cigarrette factories. satirical rhymes.
childrens games indicate "communal authorship" not uncommon among ourselves
must not be frightened by common understanding of "author" as someone 
with pen in hand.
Relationship of Extant Ballads to Communal Composition
a) refrain, certainly not product of single author, indicates ballads meant
for community singing. as ballads are further removed from singing
group tend more and more to lose refrain.
xxi. ceased to be essential. some retain feature, some occur with and
without, others composed when refrain was no longer necessary.
b) recurrent commonplaces, stock stanzas.
c) incremental repetition.(The Cruel Brother)
xxii. we are lead back by these characteristics to singing
throng, although we cannot made the connection complete without referring
to other nationalities.
The Minstrel in the Ballads -- minstrel ancient figure, but ballads
taken down in recent times have not come from minstrels--were property of
the peoplefree from irresponsible professionalism characteristic of
that class--.
xiii. "The Cruel Brother" from Child's Irish version of 1860 to David
Herd's transcript of 1776, no minstrel connection.
"Johnnie Armstrong",Goldsmith in 1735 was sung into tears by an old
dairymaid. Printed 1658 as "A Northern Ballet".
Similar examples numerous enough to show that for last two centuries
Child's ballads have not been sung or transmitted by professional
minstrels. Why should the conditions between 1660 and 1300 be different
than those between 1900 and 1600?
The minstrel's connection with the medievalspielmannsdichtung, which
represent a different order of mind, is a place of negative evidence.
xxiv. sometimes minstrels did transmit ballads(Hunting of Cheviot, from
Richard Sheale, not composed by him because of contrast to rest of his 
poetry) and ballads were composed by them (The Boy and the Mantle,29;
Crow and Pie,lll)but these ballads are strikingly different from those of
the folk.
although extant E. and S. ballads linked with communal composition, probably
most of them composed by individuals. Composer, not artist in our
sense but handles subject belonging to the fold in traditional manner
without selfconsciousness(he does what every neighbor could do as
well), improvises orally with his audience about him, strong emotional
link even if audience keeps quiet which is improbable,
xxv. draws on traditional commonplaces, audience joins in on traditional
verses, incremental repetition , refrain---Grimms composing throng to
the life! The Hangman's Tree. Imaging its first performance.
xxvi. "Audience is silent for first two stanzas and until
first line of the third is sung. After that they join in the song."
Survival of archaic type, still common over all Europe.
xxvii. Such a description of ballad authorship as improvisation
in presence of a sympathetic throng cannot be proved as the origin of

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.