- 5 -

i. Group relations and attitudes. Dominant and nondominant
groups - cleavages (economic, social and religious) -
new cleavages as a result of fascist and racialist
propaganda - patterns of tolerance (fixed notions and
myths, old country prejudices, awareness of causes,
forces working for understanding).

j. Folkways and expression. Customs and beliefs - folk
arts and folk music - legends and proverbs.

k. Second generation problems.

2. General form of materials.

a. Published studies. Thirteen, including: The Albanian
Struggle in the Old World and New; Italians of New
York; Armenians of Massachusetts; Immigrant Settlements
in Connecticut; Swedes and Finns in New Jersey.

b. Unpublished manuscripts. These include: Scandinavians of
the Northwest (3 manuscripts); Portuguese in New England;
Greeks of Florida; Pennsylvania Germans; Barre Community;
Foreign Language Press of New York; Foreign Language Press
of New England; etc.

c. Field data. Questionnaires, interviews, life histories,
check lists, statistics, bibliographies, photographs.

d. Documents. Letters, diaries, journals, public records
(federal, state, municipal, etc.), church archives, newspaper
files.

The above material is largely in the offices of the state WPA
projects. While the bulk of this material would not have great
value in a scholarly sense, it would be of much use for the
present proposed work. The collection of further specific
material will be an essential function of the program.

B. Utilization

The object is to: (1) inform defense and other governmental
agencies, (2) inform the public generally, (3) inform the
nationality groups. The work will include the following functions.

1. Provide memoranda on groups, communities, and regions for
government agencies. It would be possible on short notice,
to submit information on questions concerning a given group 
or region. This would call for interpretations which could
be made only through a knowledge of backgrounds, problemn,
and influences.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.