June 27, 1942

Dear Mr. Lomax :

The gloves are not mine.  The publications had not vanished
into the air, Métraux found them and sent them to me.  Miss
Dunham's thesis is in a safe place on my book shelves, I don't
intend "to tear it to pieces", on the contrary if I kept it so long
it was in the hope to find some time to take notes on the technical
part.  If she may be wrong in some of her interpretations because
she is not an anthropologist, nor a sociologist, or even a folklorist,
she still is a dancer, so when she comes to her specialty she
knows certainly more than you or I.

I tried vainly to reach Mr. Herzog, I don't know how long
he may be gone and as to Mr. Courlander I have never met him and
ignore where he lives.

I have carefully weighed the problems involved in my working
in the Creole areas of the South.  I would be very much interested
to go there, if my expenses were covered.  This preliminary
survey should run along many lines : language (extension of the
dialect, local variants, modern trends, degrees of bilingualism,
influence of English), music (romances, survivals of popular French
songs, game songs, craddle songs if any, sung tales, work songs,
dance songs, satirical and laudative songs, magic and religious
songs, musical instruments, choirs and music societies), literature 
(myths if any, legends, tales, fables, riddles, proverbs, formulas,
plays if any), special customs and beliefs.  You should be prepared
to send later on a man with a recording machine or to come yourself.
Also if I found something interesting in the way of customs I might
call for a good photographer to take a motion picture, but this 
would be rather unexpected.

Just now I have no time at all because I am following
education courses at Columbia, but all this will be over on
August the 14th.  Don't you ever come to New York?  I don't like
very much your Washington full of savages in civilized garbs, where
I cannot go to a restaurant or to a theater without endangering my
life (I have not forgotten the charred chicken I was obliged to
swallow after having waited, was it one hour ?  No, let us say thirty
minutes).  However, I may come back in August for a few days,
after all our business as anthropologists is to try to understand
the ways and life of peoples of different culture ...

Sincerely,

Suzanne Camhain




Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.