September 29, 1943

Mr. John Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Mr. Lomax:

    We have had a number of enthusiastic reactions to the booklet,
75 Years of Freedom, from folklorisits to whom copies were sent. I
was sorry, therefore, to hear that you had drawn such unfavorable
inferences from Sterling Brown's talk. The book was not edited in
this office, and I had nothing to do with the preparation of the copy.
Sterling Brown assures me that he did not have access to the records
when he submitted his manuscript to the Library, so the song excerpts
must have been inserted by Alan or Mrs. Schwartz. The recording of
the Festival of Music which I have played back shows that only Stanzaz
2, 3, and 4 of the song were played during Mr. Brown's talk. Why the
text as printed was not made to conform to the record as played I
haven't the slightest idea. But whoever is responsible for the omission
of the "county farm" line, it was not a deliberate falsification, and
I am sure that it does not give the impression that all Negroes in the
South wear chains.

    I remember the Bessie Smith death certificate, and I remember
your controversy with Mr. Brown. The Library invited Mr. Brown to
speak on Negro blues as a Negro scholar and his opinions, like those of
the other speakers, are his own responsibility. All that the booklet purports
to do is to report the talks as given.
  
    Thank you for forwarding those two inquiries. I enclose a copy of
my letter to Harriett Johnson.

    I read with pleasure Miss Terrill's article in the latest Publication
of the Texas Folklore Society. How is The Adventures of a Ballad Hunter
going?

    We are deeply troubled over your report of your condition and trust
that your concern is not entirely justified.

    With best wishes to both of you,
    Faithfully,
   
    B. A. Botkin
    Assistant in Charge
    Archive of American Folk Song
BAB/k
ENC.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.