- 3 -

long.  It all seems ridiculous there should be so much
delay.  The mental anguish caused that mother during
this long delay is terrible, and I know many who are
feeling that same way about it.  Something is wrong,
or those missing could be accounted for before five
months' time."  (Nebraska)

19.  "You remember the McGee boys -- They were in the
Phillipines and the government reported that only the
youngest was missing.  But you can't depend on the
government reports and I just know all three of them
are dead -- I feel so sorry for their mother I don't
know what to do -- after raising them and all."  (New
Mexico).

E.  We are treating Japanese wards too well (?)

20.  "The government ain't tellin us nothing about it but
this whole country is going to be filled with japs --
and the government is a feedin' them better than our
own soldiers."  (Texas)

F.  Concerning Mr. Davis.

21.  "I guess they've got Elmer Davis throttled at last.
I had a lot of confidence in him but he is a sad disappointment."
(Indiana)

22.  "Well, Roosevelt pulled another smart one.  He kicked
Elmer Davis 'upstairs' in order to get him off the
air and shut him up.  I guess the administration was
afraid of what Davis might say."  (Indiana)

G.  Navy men who talk.

23.  "Navy Commander just returned from Pearl Harbor said,
'Enlisted men in Navy just don't talk.  Officers on
the other hand release more information than is proper."
(Washington)

H.  General

24.  "The next comment came from a Judge of the State Supreme
Court in Lincoln, and it was considered worth passing
along in this report, because it was a splendid point
of view; He said, 'Our constitution gives us our freedom
of press, freedom of speech and freedom of religion,
but in time of a crisis, these freedoms should yield to
the Government.'  My friend, who was also present and
heard the Judge's remark, said: 'I never thought of it
in just that light, but how right the Judge is in that
thought, because we accept and exercise these freedoms
and quickly challenge the right of any one to take them
away, yet without our Government they would be no good,
therefore, we should consider its safety first.  That's
just why all these conflicting statements coming out of

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.