-4-
Adventures

ballads, most of them Westerns, "Jesse James," "Poor Dying Cowboy", etc., etc.
And I had been in Northwest Colorado, a summer or two at the time and learned
a lot of cowboy songs from the sheep-herders and wild horse wranglers.
"Anyway, Tom and I got you to singing right off, almost as soon as
you got inside the door, and my mother, who was a Quakeress, and my sister, all
sat listening. You were pretty timid about it, but evidently you saw we meant
it when we said we wanted more, and that we weren't being polite.
"I fairly rushed to Carl Sandburg, who was a fellow newspaperman in
town, and told him you were living on the North Shore and he must hear you. He sang
a lot, collected songs, and would go with Alfred MacArthur, Otto McFeely and
myself to the sand dunes and sing hobo songs, all kinds of folk songs over weekends,
fooling around, taking it easy.
"I don't know whether Carl had heard of your songs at that time. It
seems to me that he had but I am sure. Anyway we had you and Tom over again,
and Carl out-- one evening, I think-- and you and Carl cut loose, I remember. It
was that night that you sang "The Buffalo Skinners" and Carl rocked his granite
head to and fro and shut hiseyes and raised his eyebrows and made whistling little
'ohs' and he listened and when you were done, he said, "That's a novel-- a whole
novel--a big novel--it's more than a song,"
"I remember how Alfred MacArthur kindled when he came out not long after
and heard you sing that same song. He had knocked around a lot, was a successful
businessman and publisher, a hard-fisted Scot and like Tom Peete Cross the scholar,
and Carl and me, the newspapermen, couldn't sing a note in the conventional way,
didn't know anything about music,--none of us did, or gave a damn for it, as such.
But what we used to talk about was that you had what we took to be pitch, you
could hit the sharp, often piercingly right note that gave the song character,
made it descriptive, made it a picture of somebody, orsome mood. We could see the
characters who were singing--the buffalo-skinners killing old Crego. the Negro

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.