Jailhouse Blues

L .B. Sings: Thirty days in the workhouse, six long months in jail
Thirty days in the workhouse, six long months in jail
Now they got me in trouble, no one to go my bail.

L. B. Speaks: This' po' man was beggin' to get outta jail. His wife
had tole him that night, She says, "Daddy, please doncha
leave home." He poked out his mouth an' went on anyhow.
An' 'fo' day nex' mornin' he was locked up in jail an' had
thirty days an' six months hung up over his head 'fo'
he could git back home to his sweet mama. An' atter he
sit down there in the jailhouse he 'gin to think at night.
He had lots of friends, but wouldn' no friends come around
to see him. He 'gin to cryin'

L. B. Sings: "When a man git in trouble, ev'ybody turns him down,
When a man git in trouble, ev'ybody turns him down,
Now I b'lieve to my soul that I'm prison bound."

L. B. Speaks: He sit down an' cried all night long thinkin' 'bout
what his wife had tole him. If he had listened at his
wife, he figgered he wouldn' be there.

L. B. Sings: "Had-a done like my baby tole me, wouldn' be here today,
Had-a done like my baby tole me, wouldn' be here today,
I would not been in trouhble, six long months to stay."

L. B. Speaks: The ol' jailhouse got hanted to the man. When you in jail,
look like cold chills runs all over you. it kills a man to
stay there if it's not but a day. The man begin to think
about his wife. He run up to the jailer when he come up
there to lock de do' an' feed the men. He run up to the
jailer beggin' for mercy:

L. B. Sings: "Now, please, Mister Jailer, unlock de do' for me,
Aw. please, Mister Jailer, unlock de do' for me.,
The jailhouse is full of blues an' they done come down on me."

L. B. Speaks: They done sent him out on do road gang. He worked hard
an' his time was almos' out. But, anyhow, he was crazy to
git home to his wife. He run up to do man an' beg him to
let him go home.

L. B. Sings: "I'm a hard-workin' pris-ner, sent here without a trial,
I'm a hard-workin' pris-ner, sent here without a trial,
Now my heart is achin' to stay here this great, long while."

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.