RUMORS IN DETROIT, MICHIGAN
Reported by Bert M. Grim
On Saturday, October 10, at approximately 1 p.m.
a customer of a small establishment remarked
to a sales clerk that America was losing this war
fast; that all the talk about our cooperation with
England was unfounded; that the English and
Americans were not cooperating; that the public
was not given half the facts regarding our defeats.
He stated that thru letters from friends and
relatives who went overseas and in positions in
Washington claim that this was mostly due to the
difference between our higher civil officials 
and army officers. These officers who were approximately
10,000 strong in Washington and about
70% of them arm-chair-pencil-pushers who never
saw any actual service knew little or nothing 
regarding how the war should be won or otherwise.
These 70% being in position to dictate to industry
and higher ranking army officers has created an
ill will and lack of morale between these two all-important
bodies. Therefore hampering the old
combat men from performing their duties as they
should be in time of war.
The claim is that this 70% is past clothing clerks,
grocery store managers, etc., who merely got their
army rating thru their college degree only.

RUMORS IN DETROIT, MICHIGAN
Reported by Bert M. Grim
10-8-42
A member of a club at a luncheon in the Fisher
Building stated that he had been given good information
that there was absolutely no tire
shortage necessary; that we have plenty of tires
and rubber to last five years if the government
would quit playing politics with the large rubber
companies and allow the synthetic rubber to be
produced.
He stated that one could buy all the tires if the
right parties were contacted and the gas rationing
was merely a bluff and would never be put into
effect in Michigan, and he said that one had to but
look at the traffic which is just as heavy now 
as it had ever been and no one even the officials
themselves were paying any attention to the government's
request to conserve on tires and rubber.
This man was a small manufacturer and failed after
war was declared due to the fact that he could
not get materials. He seemed to be a good citizen
with possibly a little bitterness thru his recent
experience.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.