Inside Germany
Reports

Friends of German Freedom

Because we believe that the situation inside Germany
is the key to the present situation in Europe, and
indeed throughout the world, we are bringing our
readers another report from a group different from
that with which Mr. Weiskopf has connections.
The following extracts are from reports released
by the Friends of German Freedom. This committee,
in turn, receive their information from a German
group active in New York, who have direct communications
with Germany, and whose news is
sought by the British Foreign Office, as well as
other national intelligence services.

Behind the Lines on the Western
Front

The town of Aachen, with a population
of 160,000, situated scarcely
five miles from both the Dutch and
Belgian frontiers, has for a long
time been the seat of extensive military
operations. In fact the population
in this area can only assume
from the tremendous concentration of
troops and artillery that have been
arriving there in the past ten days,
that an invasion of Holland is anticipated.
The reports that follow
were sent from Aachen during the
third week of the war.

Evacuation Completely Disorganized:
Many weeks before the launching
of the Polish campaign the population
of Aachen and the neighboring
countryside were informed that they
would be evacuated in case of war
(see earlier reports). In spite of all
the elaborate preparations, to date,
aside from the old people, mothers
with young children and people on
some farms which were requisitioned
for anti-aircraft posts, nobody has
been evacuated. Time and again
orders were issued - trucks would be
there the following day, everyone
must pack his belongings and be
ready to leave at a moment's notice.
Time and again, the people packed,
with their possessions stacked about
them, waited, but no trucks came. It
was always explained that the trucks
could not come because of military
movements. Finally, the authorities
have stopped promising transportation
at any particular time, merely
issued blanket instructions to the
population to be constantly in readiness
to leave. The people have begun
to believe that they never will be
evacuated, meanwhile any half-way
normal life is impossible. As one
wounded war veteran said that if this
went on a few days longer half the
population would have to be evacuated
to the mad house.

The reason for the disorganization
is easily understandable. Troops,
tanks and guns are pouring into this
area at such a rate that the roads are
completely impassable. At the same
time evacuation of the civilian population
has become a military necessity
as well as a humane measure.
Unless they get the people out, they
have no place to quarter the troops.
Every tiny cottage has five or six
soldiers billeted in it and the people
have no place to go.

Such evacuation as has taken place
has made the people wild. No one
knows where he is being taken or
whether he will ever see his relatives
again. In one family, the mother and
small children were sent one place,
the children over eight somewhere
else. The father, a disabled war veteran,
was told to remain behind and
then later was shipped off to a third
destination and none knew where the
others are.

The German Soldiers Cheered on to
Battle!

Immediately before the soldiers
march to the front the company commander
reads the following warning
to his men: "Cowardice of any sort
in the face of the enemy is to be
punished by death. But, even worse
than the soldier who shows cowardice
before the enemy is the soldier
who grumbles in his own company,
spreads dissatisfaction, tries to stimulate
criticism of his offers or undermines
the fighting strength of the
troops by his pessimism. It was because
of just such things that the
German Front went to pieces once
before and it must not happen again.
Whoever grumbles or weakens the
fighting force of Germany by unsoldierly
behavior will be court
martialled and in such cases there
are only two decisions that can be
handed down by the court: acquittal
or the firing squad.

The Enemy at Home

Special courts are already being
set up under Himmler, leader of the
SS (Blackshirts), the Gestapo, and
since the war, of the entire police
system. Similarly to military courts,
these courts pronounce only one sentence,
the death sentence. It is not
known whether these courts are already
functioning.

The old war law which prescribes
death for a deserter from the army is
now taken to apply to deserters from
labor, deemed of importance to the
conduct of the war. Any worker who
deserts his factory may be condemned
to death for desertion. The case is already
known of two workers in Hamburg
who left their place of work
and in spite of repeated requests from
the Labor Front, refused to return,
and were then condemned to death
and shot.

Many arrests have taken place in
Berlin, because leaflets were found
protesting against the war.

Women Social Workers Used as
Spies: Because of the scarcity of men,
women attached to the National Socialist
Welfare Organization, have
been requisitioned to act as spies and
go into the homes in Bremen to find
out who is listening to foreign radio
broadcasts in spite of the repeated
prohibitions.

Strikes in Armament Factories:
In the Carlswerk near Cologne, one
of the largest armaments factories in
the Rhineland, the new regulations
about working hours, rationing of
food, the introduction of military
law for workers, etc., led to bitter
quarrels with the supervisors. The
management tried vainly to put a
stop to the trouble and finally the SS
came and arrested a large number of
workers.

8

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.