September 1, 1938,
Charlevoix, Michigan.
Dr. Harold Spivacke,
Library of Congress.
Dear Dr. Spivacke,
The past week, spent on Beaver island in Lake Michigan, 
where there is a large colony of Irish fishermen, has
been, as you will judge from the enclosed list most interesting.  
Mr. Green, in my experience, is the most prodigious 
ballad singer so far encountered.  He sang about fifty
whole ballads for me, most of them of Irish broadside vintage, 
and he knew at least fifty more. The only reason I
left the island was the press of work ahead of me on thus
field trip and the fact that Mr. Green was, temporarially,
tired and a little bored with recording. I left him, however,
in the hands of a former WPA worker, and a competent field
worker, Mrs. Woods, who promises to  write the texts of
the ballads that yet to remein hidden in his cavernous memery.
Beaver Island is, perhaps, the most isolated and the most
purely Irish colony in the United [Ste] States.  Besides the
Irish, there are, perhaps, a hundred Indians who do the dirty
work and live to themselves pretty largely, one or two Poles
one or two French and a couple of Germans.  These latter however, 
are entirely submerged in the Irish Sea and when they
lift their heads it is not long before a green wave playfully
slaps them down under again.  The people, particularly the 
older generation, live in the vivid merory of Ireland and they
curse the English landlords with the [a] venom of native Irishmen.
This, even despite the fact that there are few [native born Iri]
of them who were actually born in Ireland. From Green and his
friends I was able to obtain a great many ballads that originated 
on the Lakes and at least three quarters of them are
about sailors and ships [are?]  were much sung by the [a] sailors.
But not one chantey!  Dr. I.H Walton of the University of
Michigan, drpve a hundred and fifty miles[t] to accomppny me to
the island and to introduce me to the islanders.  He has been
working on the folk-lore of the lake region for many years
and accumulated a superb collection of Lake songs that
Michigan Press will bring out soon. We must make it possible
for him to obtain copies of these songs sufficient for the 
transcription of the tunes as cheaply as possible, because
of this favor and for the additional reason that he is the
leading spirit in Michigan States Folk Lore Society. I
told him that it would be possible for him to reserve the
records from use for a period of two years (although he is anxious 
to free them as soon as his obligations to the University 
press are satisfied) with a privilege of an extension
of two additional years if he deems that wise or necessary.
He has furnished me with the names of [the] all of his informants along
my route.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.