July 16, 1937

Dr. George Simpson
Plainsance
Haiti

Dear Dr. Simpson:

     After a long and ungrateful silence, many thanks for the
pictures. They seem to have turned out splendidly, and it is
pleasant to see Lila and her mama again.

     I am anxious to hear how your work is going forward and
whether you have found your novelist friend of much assistance
and whether you have managed to be comfortable in your little
cay or not. Plaisance remains for me a brilliant and a little
unpleasant draam. I did not know until I got back to Port-au-
Prince just how sick I had been. It seems that I had been inhabited
by several millions of benignant (what a bitter irony)
malaria germs for several woeks before I came to the mountains
of the North and that they had concealed themselves behind influensic
and dysenteric symptoms during that whole time. Even
though I cleared up the malaria itself with a couple of weeks
of quinine, I was scarcely well again while I was in Haiti.

     As perhaps you know, I spent my last month on the island
near Leogane and there I did some work with rara and Petro I am
fairly satisfied with. I came away, however, fully satisfied
that one would have to remain in one community for several months
to be able to get an adequate picture of even the dance activity.
If you ever travel South, I suggest that you stop and call on
Tanice and Ti Cousin in Carrefour Deux Forts, the first village
on the road South of Leogane. Tanice is interested in Erzulie
and Ti Cousin is one of the most interesting men I have ever met.
He would be well worth your trouble.

     I hope that someday I can see you sans malaria. Perhaps
you will be able to come to the Library to see me when you return
to the states. In the meantime if there is anything I can 
do for you at this distance, please let me know.

     Sincerely yours,

P.S. The records are turning out rather splendidly. Please
give my best regards to Pere Toussaint and ask him to remember me
to Pere Kodada. 

[*[Arch Am JA]*]

[*Haiti*]`

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.