[*Possible directions for "rumor spotters"*]
We are interested in all war related rumors. Rumors are war
related if they refer to such things as cost of living, e.g., rationing,
price ceilings, wage stabilization, farm prices, war bonds; to
production, materials, labor, management, priorities; to transportation,
civilian, mobilization, salvage campaigns; to housing conditions,
race relations, morale at home, day-care of children programs; as well
as to selective service, volunteering, treatment at camps, troop
movement, the Army, Navy, our Allies, the Enemy, progress of the war.

For our purposes:

      Rumor is something told by one person to another

            (a) it is stated as a fact (not an opinion)

            (b) it comes from sources not generally available 
                 (a letter from a son at camp, told by
                 someone in a position to know; not read in
                 the general press, not heard over radio)

            (c) it has a specific reference, perhaps to
                 an incident, a person, a well-defined
                 locality, a particular set of circumstances
                 (not "the British are yellow," but: under
                 such circumstances, cowardice was displayed;
                 so-and-so is yellow)

All three qualities must be present. Frequently when an opinion is
expressed, if the opinion Ie challenged, it will be justified by a
"fact" which will be the rumor we are interested in. References to
Negro-White friction need not be rumor, but stories of Eleanor Clube
in particular cities or with regard to particular maids clearly are.
       
          Rumors may be true, partially true, or false. It is an interesting 
part of this study to discover what proportion of rumors
current are false, though falsity is not what distinguishes rumor from
non-rumor.

           Rumors may be collected directly through overhearing then as
they are spontaneously given, or indirectly through the reports of
others. In getting reports from key people, it is better to sensitize
them first. Don't simply ask: "What rumors have you heard?" If you
want to secure the cooperation of others, arrange in advance so that
they know of your interest, make sure they know precisely what you
mean by rumor, and arrange for them to keep a record of the rumors as
they hear them.

          Each rumor should be recorded as soon after hearing it as
possible. It should be quoted in full detail, including the comments
that led up to it if it was not spontaneously offered. If a rumor
is heard more than once, it should be reported more than once. It 
should be possible to get a check on the prevalence of certain rumors
simply by going through the reports and counting the number of times
they occur.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.