4 I went to her and asked her
As plain as words could be,
"Have you fell in love with another boy
And turned your back on me?"

5 She threw her arms around me
And in these words she said,
"I love you, dear, with all of my heart,
God knows, I'd rather be dead.

6 "But your parents, they're against me;
They talk of me all the time,
And you are nothing but a hobo,
God knows you'll never be mine."

7 It's I turned away and left her,
It's I went on down the track;
And every step that I would take,
She seemed to say, "Come back."

8 Next morning I caught a freight train,
It's I went way down the line,
It's I said, "I'll go and ask her
If she'll try me one more time."

9 Now, boys, all take warning
Froma friend that's tried and true.
Don't fall in love with such a young girl,
Her love will prove untrue.

10 God knows I've been a rambler,
It's I rambled all around;
But if she ever proves true to me
I'll marry and settle down.

MINER'S SONGS

"I'm sleepy," he said. "I've been walking all night. Can't sleep when
the pain hits me. Have to keep going to keep up the circulation."
The fingers of both of his hands were curled and yellow like the feet of
a chicken and the flesh of his arms was pulpy like dry, rotten wood.
"Got this way in the mines," he said. "We was cleaning out an old hole,
getting it pumped dry, and pulling out the old machinery. I was foreman
and we did a record job. Nobody has equaled our record since, but they
wouldn't give us no stove to dry our clothes at. I asked the boss for one, but
he said, 'No, I guess you'll get along.'
"We'd take our clothes off wet at night, and when we'd come to put 'em
on in the morning they would be frozen. Well, a little while of that and I
couldn't turn my head. Three of the other men later died of consumption,
and if I didn't die right away, I been dying by inches ever since. Look at
those hands."
They were glarled like chicken's feet.
"The doctor said I ought to sue the company, but I said, 'Aw, hell, no,
I'll be all right.' I just had a stiff neck, then, but later on, when it hit my
arms, I went to a lawyer. What do you suppose? The man that owned the
company had moved to Minnesota and died. And that boss had told lies
about us, said that we were lazy. How could he say that when we'd made a
record for them? And before he died, a feller told me, that boss confessed
to what he had done.
"So nowadays I have to walk. It keeps up the circulation."


Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.