- 7 -

Armed Forces -- excessive casualties

Michigan -- The majority of boats coming into New York have
half or more of their crew injured or dead because of the
submarine warfare.

New York -- A shipload of dead soldiers, frozen and naked
arrived in port from the Pacific. According to different
accounts the number ran from 500 to 5,000.

North Carolina -- People are not swimming in the ocean this
year because so many people have bumped into the bodies of
drowned sailors.

Ohio -- Our forces are losing 50% of all troop transports,
but the government is keeping these losses a secret.

     These are very frequent along the Atlantic Seaboard,
decline in frequency in the middle west and far west. A
large proportion of those from the Atlantic Seaboard and New
England deal with the washing up of bodies in great numbers
or the bringing in of shiploads of dead.

Theater Tickets, Local Bread, etc. Found on Enemy subs.

Louisiana -- Submarines captured near Morgan City, Louisiana
had bread from New Orleans bakeries aboard as well as stubs
from a theater in New Orleans.

Massachusetts -- A German submarine was captured off
Massachusetts. Aboard were found ticket stubs to a theater
in Gloucester.

Florida -- A German sub was recently captured and aboard were
found towels and souvenirs from a hotel in Miami.

     These stories are widespread in the south. The basic
story is an old one having currency during the last war.

Fifth Column Activity -- supplying the enemy

North Carolina -- Gardens are run by people of German descent,
and German submarines have been putting in there for refuelling
and provisioning.

Massachusetts -- A pleasure yacht was stopped off New England
by an enemy sub. Two women from the Yacht were taken aboard.
The captain of the yacht was then given $400.00 to buy
supplies for the submarine. When the supplies were delivered
the women were returned.

Washington, D.C. -- Enemy submarines have been supplied by
an elderly and respected German doctor operating off Maine.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.