MEMORANDUM

To the Acting Chief
Division of Music
March 15, 1938.

With reference to the attached bills and memoranda:

1) Verbal authorization was secured from [Mr. Bond] The Superintendent in both cases.

2) In the case of the Capital Radio Wholesalers it was ascertained that his dealer was the only one in Washington who carried the particular type of equipment necessary and the purchase was authorized verbally by [Mr. Bond] The Superintendent before the order was placed. The mistake I seem to have made was in ordering the material myself instead of letting the order come through the Superintendent's office. At the time, however, I did not understand that this was the wrong proceedure. No one , before that time, had ever informed me that such procedure was incorrect and I had been accustomed to having the machine repaired in the field on my own initiative.

3) In the case of the bill from Mr. Fred Kohl. The superintendent authorized me verbally to call Mr. Kohl in for repair work on the Archive's recording equipment when I had told him that Mr. Kohl had estimated his charges would be in the neighborhood of three dollars. As the repair work progressed, however, the equipment, which has seen several years of hard service in the field, developed more and more defects and it was only after several consulting technicians had volunteered their suggestions and after some ten or twelve nights of work by Mr. Kohl that the equipment was finally repaired. I submit that it was impossible for either Mr. Kohl or myself to foresee that these difficulties would arise and that Mr. Kohl has presented a very reasonable bill , since in point of fact he spent twice as much  time on the equipment as he estimates in his bill.

Alan Lomax
Alan Lomax
Assistant in charge
Archive of American Folk Song

[I regret that the whole incident occurred, but so much is clear:--The archive of American Folk Song has needs with which the Library is not acquainted and these needs will not be satisfied until some special provision is made for them.]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.