Spivacke, Harold
The Library of Congress
Washington
Division of music
June 6, 1941

Mr. Alan Lomax
General Delivery
New Braunfels, Texas

Dear Alan:

I sent you another airmail letter to Mexico City which may not
have reached you. For this reason I am enclosing our copy of this
letter which I will ask you to please return to me after reading.

The Senate hearings were very friendly I have been informed.
The Committee has not reported as yet so keep your fingers crossed until
I give you permission to form them into a fist. I hesitated to
write you bad news while you were on vacation but on reconsideration,
it seemed the only fair thing to do. But let me repeat, the battle
is still going on so I may have good news for you any moment.

Lincoln Kirstein's recording man turns out to be one Doyle who
operated our machine for Roy Mitchell during this past year and seems
therefore to have had some experience. We have, however, outlined an
itinerary for him and told him to stick to the professional folklorists
in Latin America. This should give us some good records.

Your trip to Brazil looks better every day. We shall have funds
sufficient to keep you there for almost a year if necessary so that
the time element need not worry you. I had lunch with Bill Berrien
who just returned from an extended trip and is one of the most
respected Americans in Brazil. He says that he feels the Brazilians
will turn the whole country out for you. But he also felt that you
should have some training in Portuguese before you go down there because
they seem to be sensitive about Americans coming down without
any knowledge of their language. He is very anxious to have you come
to this summer school in Laramie, Wyoming and suggested that he believes
he can obtain for you extra financial assistance. It occurs
to me that we might even combine this with some recordings in Wyoming -
a gap in our collection - so that the financial problem might be quite
easy. The school opens on June 23 but Berrien says that you could
arrive as late as the first week in July. Please send me airmail your
reactions to all this so that I can start the ball rolling.

Regards!

Sincerely,
Harold
Harold Spivacke
Chief, Division of Music
HS/mr

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.