The cameraman catches Mr. Wallace while delivering an
address in the offices of the Associacion Mexicana de Turismo.

Mr. WALLACE HAILED AS NO. I EMISSARY
OF PAN-AMERICAN TRAVEL

On his recent trip to Mexico to attend the installation
ceremonies of Mexico's new President, Mr.
Henry A. Wallace, American Vice-President
Elect was the guest of honor at a special reception
held in the offices of the Mexican Tourist Association
(A.M.T.) at which were gathered all the representative

men in Mexico interested in the development of tourist
business and increased means of transportation between
the two countries.  Upon being introduced to
the assembly Mr. Wallace received a tremendous
ovation, in common with the immense popularity he
won for himself everywhere in Mexico.
   In addressing the assembly, Mr. Wallace stressed
the great importance of tourist travel between the two
countries as the finest and most practical means of
strengthening the ties of Pan-Americanism.  He warmly
congratulated the Mexican Government for its policy
of effectively encouraging this tourist movement, at
the same time preserving intact its monuments of the
past as well as its old traditions and customs.  Touching
upon the need for increased means of communication,
he said:
   "I have felt at times that the only way to understand
the heart of another people was to study their
language and literature, but I can readily discern as
the result of my own experience that travel  comes
first.  And so I put among the very first things on my
list of those forces that create Pan-Americanism, the
building of highways of communication."
   He concluded his remarks by praising the Federal
Mexican Government as well as the various business
leaders of Mexico for their sustained efforts in bringing
about increased and improved means of transportation
throughout the country.  And in connection
with new plans now under way, aimed at increasing
tourist travel, he added:  "And you, in pushing
these tourist values in the fine way which I know
your leaders contemplate, will play a great part in
bringing about a contribution of importance to Mexico
and the United States towards that greater thing--
the Pan-Americanism of both countries.
   Mr. Wallace was unanimously hailed as America's
No. 1 Emissary of Pan-American travel, due to
the special interest he has taken in bringing about a
closer contact and a great friendship between the
peoples of the Pan-American nations.

MEXICAN TRAVEL NOTES

SOMETHING NEW IN JACALA
   Pemex is soon to inaugurate what uniquely will be the
first "resort service station" in America, now under construction
at Jacala, an important point in the mountains on
the route of the Pan American Highway to Mexico City.  This
new station with its unusual facilities, which will be described
in detail in an article to appear in next month's bulletin,
will prove an important and noteworthy addition to the
many conveniences Pemex is establishing for the benefit of
the motorist.

MEXICAN TRAVEL RECEIVES SPECIAL MENTION
   In the November issue of Travel Trade, the outstanding
magazine devoted to the travel industry, is a special and
large section devoted to Mexico, and which should prove of
particular interest to those planning a trip "south of the
border" this winter.

MEXOLINA IS MEETING WITH ENTHUSIASTIC APPROVAL
   Mexolina, the new high-octane gas recently perfected
and placed on the market by Pemex, is everywhere receiving
fulsome praise by motorists for its performance and economy.
It was recently approved by the A.A.A., which has
officially recognized its good quality.

TWO NEW AND UNUSUAL SERVICE STATIONS
   In Patzcuaro and in Uruapan, two beautiful towns in the
State of Michoacan which are popular with motorist visitors
to Mexico, Pemex has recently inaugurated two new and
unusual service stations.  Beauty was the keyword in the
design of these stations, which reflect the architecture typical
of the region.

AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST
   Pemex Travel Club wishes to take this opportunity to
extend to all its good members and friends a Merry Christmas
and a very Happy and Prosperous New Year--or, as we
say it in Spanish, Feliz Navidad y un Prospero Ano Nuevo.




Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.