October 29, 1941

Mr. John A. Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

Dear Father:

On receiving your letter from Austin the other day, I 
figured you'd already started, so I sent two letters, one care 
of Gretchen in San Antonio and the other care of Railroad Smith.  
I'll try to repeat as much of what I said as I can remember, and 
add to that.

I suggested that you look up O'Neill Ford, Dave's protégé, 
who is a practicing architect in San Antonio, and who tells me 
that he knows a Negro blues singer there of sterling ability.  
It sounds very good.  Perhaps you won't hear from Irene Whitfield.  
In that case I can make the following suggestions for the Cajun 
country if you go there:

Julien Hofpauir and family in New Iberia
Joe Segura and family near New Iberia
Sam and Jesse Stafford (who gave us both French and 
English songs) in Crowley
Joseph Johns and Cleveland Benoit in Jennings (These 
young fellows sing some remarkable Negro Cajun songs.)

In the same town we recorded a group of remarkable ring 
shouts sung by Austin Coleman, Washington Brown, and Samson 
Brown.  I think if you could look into this further you could 
get some remarkable new material.

Irene Whitfield is married and living in Lafayette.  She 
could probably lead you to some good singers.

I'm sorry to hear the recording isn't good.  Why don't 
you take the machine to the Dallas News radio station and get one 
of their engineers to tell you what's wrong?  They can probably 
be more helpful than Jerry at this distance.

We have sent Brownie McNeil a lot of records to record 
corridos along the border, and I have suggested that he help 
Frank Goodwyn record the stuff around Kingsville.  You might 
check with Brownie McNeil to make sure that everything is straight 
there.  Perhaps Goodwyn would prefer to work with you anyway.  I 
didn't send a converter because I didn't think you would want to 
bother with it.  However, we can, if you wire, since we have not 
sent Mrs. Tartt's to her yet.

Much love, 
Alan

ALjs

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.