Dr. Lyman Bryson     - 2 -           November 3, 1942 

cultures. This, I believe, is due to the fact that little serious work 
has been done in the assessment of the cultural contribution of these
minority groups and their assimilation into our national life. Mrs. Jakobson's 
study would point the way for educators and other social workers 
interested in these crucial problems, and would, I believe, result in a 
publication that would vindicated "the American way" of handling minority 
problems. 

2) In order to reach a minority group with informational material
and with propaganda, a very nice sense of the tastes and emotional attitudes 
of the groups is necessary. Mrs. Jakobson, as she visits the three areas of 
her studies, can provide very valuable suggestions for our informational 
policy as regards the Czech groups, can report on groups attitudes in regard
to the war. She has commented that the Czech war production workers 
in the New York area make little connection between their "rather dull" 
job, their strong anti-Axis feelings, and their own rich community life. 
This is a gap which she can advise us how to bridge. 

3) She will be able to study the war songs and war humor current 
among the Czechs, evaluate its usefulness as morale building material, and 
actually work out with Czech song and joke writers, with Czech folk singers 
and folk story-tellers material which will be useful for the war effort. 

It seems to me, therefore, that in view of Mrs. Jakobson's 
unusual qualifications, in view of the extreme importance of the whole 
assimilation problem for the war effort, and for post-war reconstruction, 
and in view of the actual day-to-day help Mrs. Jakobson can be to this 
office, to the Bureau of Intelligence, and to the Foreign Language Section
of this Bureau, her project might be very seriously considered by 
both the Librarian and yourself. 

AL:mcc

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.