- 8 - 

to the war effort. Where the rumors report, even though in somewhat exaggerated
form, bad housing conditions, it might be wiser to try to improve the housing conditions,
where possible, rather than to try to correct the exaggerations in the rumors.
While housing conditions may be difficult to remedy at the present time, rumors frequently
reveal dislocations in the social structure which may be corrected. Points
of friction in special segments of the community, suspicions and distrust which are
developing are frequently indicated by rumor analysis. All of these can be readily
improved by the development of improved approaches to democracy within the community.
This is something which can be done; we do not need a high priority rating to secure
the materials needed for the establishment of democracy. 
        Rumors can never really be eliminated until the public has been thoroughly educated
to critical thinking and a more careful evaluation of information that they hear.
Even though rumors are to be regarded as perfectly natural phenomena during wartime
in this country, and we can never expect completely to eliminate all rumors, it may
be desirable to try direct attacks upon some rumors in the community. These direct
attacks should be considered as but one phase of the total educational program of the
local rumor project. For purposes of this guide, we will go into some detail concerning
direct attack on rumor, not because we feel that this is the most important approach
to rumor control, but because special informational programs in special fields are outlined
elsewhere and techniques for this type of program are pretty well known as compared
with the techniques involved in direct rumor attack. 
        The analysis developed by the analytical staff should be organized with the
requirements of the educational program in mind. This calls for a very close coordination
of analytical and educational directors. Both should have clearly in mind the
possibilities and requirements of the total educational programs and the general intensive
campaigns as well as the precise sort of thing that goes into direct counteraction
programs. By direct counteraction, we refer to the sort of regular publicity release

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.