AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LEARNED SOCIETIES
MEMBER OF THE
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ACADEMIES
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
1219 SIXTEENTH STREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
October 8, 1942.
Dear Dr. Herzog:
     I have just had a talk with Mrs. Svatava Jakobson, Alan Lomax and
Charles Seeger about a program for collecting some Czech folksongs in the
metropolitan area of New York, in Pennsylvania and in Texas. Mrs. Jakobson's
plans are as yet a bit hazy but it seems to me 'that she is qualified to do a
splendid piece of work which would be worth while not only from the point of
view of folklore but also from that of the war.
     We are thinking of asking the Library of Congress to sponsor a program
lasting for a year devoted to the collection and study of material from a number
of Czech units in the areas I mentioned. We think that we can get the cooperation
of the University of Texas. I wonder what we can count on from Columbia University.
As yet I have no idea what the thing will cost but I do feel sure that the cooperation
of Columbia and Texas would be a big talking point in our efforts to get money
from one of the foundations. I assume of course that you would give Mrs. Jakobson
your moral support. Could you provide her with any equipment or other facilities
for her work in the vicinity of New York?
     There is also the question of the recordings which you will doubtless 
want yourself. Lomax tells me that you may find it difficult to get aluminum.
Do you suppose Columbia University would be able to re-record Mrs. Jakobson's
discs or would we have to have them done at the Library of Congress or somewhere
else? I doubt very much that the Library of Congress will be able to provide
a duplicate set. If not we should probably ask the foundation to do it but of
course we want to keep the budget of the whole enterprise as small as possible.
     I shall be very grateful for any suggestions you have to offer either as
to the probable part that Columbia can assume or the general planning of the whole
job. Mrs. Jakobson will doubtless consult with you before the plan of work is
finally decided upon.
DG
Donald Good[rich]child
Secretary for Grants-in-Aid
Dr. George Herzog,
Department of Anthropology,
Columbia University,
New York, N. Y.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.