Frances M. Foster, Editor
Oscar W. Heimlich, Associate Editor
Sylvia N. Semsker, Secretary
Editorial Board: Paul R. Hanna, Chairman, Stanford University
Lyman Bryson, Teachers College, Columbia University 
C.L. Cushman, American Council on Education
William S. Gray, University of Chicago
Harold C. Hand, University of Maryland
Ruth Henderson, State Board of Education, Richmond, Va. 
James E. Mendenhall, Stephens College
Jesse H. Newlon, Teachers College, Columbia University
Paul C. Reed, Board of Education, Rochester, N.Y. 
Claire Zyve, New York University

Yes, soon I hope. (?)

Building America
A cooperative, non-profit of the Society for Curriculum Study, consisting of a series of illustrated studies of modern American problems, for use by educational institutions and the general public.

Editorial Offices
546 West 114th Street
New York, N.Y.

MOnument 2-0650

May 1, 1942

Dr. John Lomax
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

My dear Dr. Lomax: 

We have been working on an issue of BUILDING AMERICA entitled "America Singing," in which we are treating folk songs and popular songs very briefly. 

May we have your permission to quote from Our Singing Country, and American Ballards and Folk Songs? We have been referred to you direct by the publishers. 

I am attaching herewith a copy of the section in which all of the quotations appear. Mention of your own work and and the work that your son is doing at the Library  of Congress will also be made in another part of the issue, but there we will not be using quotations. Your two books will be listed in our Bibliography.

I am sending you herewith a copy of the "Theater" issue which appeared last year and which approximates as closely in field as we have yet done the one which we are just finishing. From this you will get some idea of what our publication is like.

The material must go to press at once, so I shall appreciate as early a reply as you can make conveniently to our request. 

Sincerely yours,
Frances M Foster
Frances M Foster
Editor

FMF
sns

P.S. We have had a couple of very nice contacts with your son in Washington, and your daughter in New York, and only regret that we were unable to see you also. 







Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.