Ruby Terrill Lomax
The House in The Woods
7456 San Benito Way
Dallas, Texas

They left Sunday af ernoon in the cold, with you rug over Margaret's knees. 

We have had no further word from Alan. Tuesday we had a telegram
from Bess, suggesting we listen to We, the People. The Almanacs were presented,
and Bess introduced herself as guitar player: "I am Bess Lomax; I 
am twenty years old, a graduate of Bryn Mawr; and I play the guitar," all in
a "Take it easy when you hear the siren blow ^ [?] ! to the tune of the Midnight
Special. I am glad they have turned to patriotic themes; the Almanacs' 
records that I have heard are rather pinkish, not to say revolutionistic;
they were made, of course, before Bess joined them: One member was introduced
as "Pete Bowers", but he had the voice and banjo-picking-manner of Peter
Seeger. Perhaps Peter wants to make his musical career uninfluenced by his 
father's reputation. I may be mistaken about the identity. As for Bess, I do
hope your friend gets in a few licks on her. Your father has been insisting
that I go to New York and see what is happening to Bess; whether she has
comfortable quarters. But I think that would be a big mistake; she would resent
it as an evidence of distrust of her judgement, however sweet and polite she
might be in receiving me. I feel as if we rather missed our chance last
summer when the Peters were squiring her around and I did not insist on meeting
them. I should have arranged to have them meet us for dinner. But I believe,
somehow, that Bess has the right principles at base, and I am not discouraged.
I hope she doesn't have to go through the mental torture that 
Alan suffered, but I don't think her theories have ever been so extreme.
We were pleased at the number of Christmas cards that we forwarded to her,
evidently from the little girls that she knew in camp last summer. That
seemed to be a very wholesome atmosphere.

Mohling moved down to the hotel and I didn't see her again;
tried to see her off on the train, but the football was so tracficky that
Mohling telephoned for me please not to try to come down. Perhaps she thought
I might make her miss her train. Her radio interview was very successful; 
altogether she made seven talks o Chinese Relief, besides taking in many
of the science meetings.

Well, I'll be g ing now. Keep us informed of your comings and 
goings. Thank Chris for the aspirins; I have something to remember him by
every day of the year,- if extra incentive wee needed.

John Alan enjoyed your letter too; he was in here a while ago, 
picked up the sheet from the chair, and when I told him to read the letter to 
me, he held the sheet in front of him and began to jabber. He seemed to read
it better upside down. We had a letter from Mrs. Callaway, a second, saying 
that she had brought an East Texas colored family back with her to help with
the work; pleased with them so far. Perhaps you wee here when her first one came
saying that Rebecca has a daughter and that her Army nephew spent Christmas with 
her. I must go. Your father has gone to town for a YMCA workout. He has been
working again on his Adventures, I hope it comes along. He thinks he will go by
train to do some recording in Oklahoma and West Texas when the weather clears.

Goodby again. A big hug around. Tell Patsy and Susan I want to 
see how good housekeepers they get to be.

Bushels of love--
Deanie

It was a real joy to have you around -
and the children were angels -

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.