Page 2.

"From discussions with all of the most qualified people in Birmingham
it is their advice, and we agree, it is best not to leave for the
south Alabama until at least several tentative engagements have
been arranged through correspondence - furthermore, we need money
to afford us some appeal from the raging terror which is existent
in Alabama, and which though you are not here, you will to recognize 
in terms of my interpretation."

Wisconsin Enthuses:

"We visited the Furmans in Winnebago, and they invited us all in
to meet the family, get washed and have breakfast with them. We 
borrowed their car to drive to Green Lake to the Bible Institute
to visit Rev. Robert Eads. When we got there we found they were
at a conference at which the Conscription bill was condemned 
and telegrams sent to the President. (By the way, the Conscription
Bill seems to be universally unpopular here)."

"We just got to the Veteran's Home. The theatre is full; our
stage is set; and we start the show. The soldiers aren't very 
demonstrative but people we spoke to said they liked it.  Anyway,
the meal was one of the best we've had in a long while!"

"We reach Campbell and visit one of our contacts, Euwin Bondlender,
a farmer. He was completely friendly, refused to take any money
for milk and told us we could camp any place at all on his farm.
After we were through, Mr. Bondlender took us to a pea-vining
party, which these farmers have once a year to celebrate the pea
harvest. We gave a puppet show, as a result of which we gathered
16 signatures on the EPM petitions and $1.60. There were about
35 people there. When we suggested a Virginia Reel, they had
never heard of it, and came over to watch the new dance from 
New York."

"We've got a dollar left and very little food. Only cooked prunes
for breakfast. Send us some money and films."

"Oh yes, I mustn't forget it. We got a write-up in the Milwaukee 
Evening Post, with the headline: "Puppeteers advance the cause
of Peace" Immortality  at last!"

Iowa Group Successful

"We have next week pretty well mapped out with a good chance for
a show in several communities, including a YWCA camp for the 
industrial and a cooperative."

"It was in Des Moines that we had trouble with the car - it needed
a complete overhauling of the valves. I'm sending the bill
with this letter. We did manage to get the money together but
it has left our finances in a critical condition. We are considering 
working as farm hands occasionally. "

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.