-2-

be fine if the series could be arranged for and released by that time.
I am at your service from now on, with no other large projects on hand,
and can work at it as fast as you can make the means of working available
to me.

Also, whether or not we can get the series out that speedily, I should
very much like to have you come down to Atlanta f or the convention, and
explain the work of the Archive to the thousands of English teachers there
assembled.  Any printed or mimeographed material for distribution to these
schoolmarms would be good to bring along.  They like to take something home
[*the broadsides
would be fine
for this.*]
with them.  And seriously, it's a damn good opportunity to make them
conscious of what you and America have got to offer, for educational
use.  There is, as you know, just as much chance of folksong going wrong in
the schools as there is among the commercial boys; Maybe more so: educators
are a pretty ignorant and at the same time over-verbal lot, and can get the
simplest things tangled up with great ease.  About the Atlanta convention,
there will be a section meeting sponsored by my committee, for which meeting
I am planning an informal round-table discussion o f the import of American
traditional songs, etc. to teachers of English.  Alton Morris is one of the
discussers who is definitely coming to Atlant a, Reed Smith is coming for
another program and I think will join us in that meeting, and some of my
committee (of unknown {to me} ability to interpret to teachers) will be there.
How about you being one of the discussers?  I'd like a lot to have you there
to get in a few good licks with the rest of us.  And, sir, would you care
to be a member of my committee?  It's set up to run for at least a couple more
years, and I believe can do some good work of the kind you want to see done.
If you'll accept my invitation, Ill see that you get appointed at once.

Again, about the Atlanta convention.  I am planning to ask the commercial
recording companies, Victor, Columbia, Decca, and Keystone - to exhibit
some of their folksong recordings at the convention.  A continuous exhibit,
preferably with their representatives to play the pieces and to pass out
lists of what they have in stock.  If this exhibit is to be any good, and is
not to mislead the teachers, we'll have to have a goodly batch of recordings
from the Archive to overbalance the commercials, as well as a representative from
the Archive to talk to people about them and its se rvices.  That's another
place where I think you can do everybody a service by b e ing there and supervisin
the exhibit.  The Council has agreed to arrange for space for the exhibit, and
for a couple of good phonographs.  This suggestion in relation to the Archive
is, I think, valid whether or not we can get the series a sponsored and released
by that time - all the better if it is, all the more necessary if it isn't.

I have written to my friend who has the Delaney songbook collection, and have
urged him to send it to the Archive.  He'll probably do it;  he is William Slater
Brown, who used to write for the New Republic.  He is probably not so much interested in
a "highly decorative", floral acknowledgement;  I imagine a note from you would
be more in orde r.

I hope you'll be able to come through this way soon.

Cordially yours,

Fletcher Collins, Jr.

[*Please address me:
?    ?    ?*]

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.