Mr. Cornelius DuBois  -2-   September 1, 1942

3. Rumor study offers another approach to the analysis
of the needs for information and the evaluation of
existing programs. Rumors are concerned with aspects
 of people's knowledge and understanding of different
aspects of the war program, and the general domestic
scenes, and a systematic study could lead to a better 
understanding of the results of present programs and
the possible need for extensions of programs.

It is suggested that a systematic rumor study could be
developed within the framework of the Bureau somewhat as follows:

1. Rumors could be collected by field staffs under the
guidance of Special Services Division. There could 
be the study of (a) any rumor, and (b) study of
special lists of rumors which may be prepared, for
example, based on Enemy Sources analyses.

2. Rumor content could then be analyzed by Special
Services Division in terms of content theme, geo-
graphic dispersion, frequency of occurrence, im-
plications for the war effort, and emotional tone.

3. Rumor themes and typical illustrations could be
referred to Sources Division and Media Division for
analysis. It could be referred to the most appro-
priate divisions as needed for evaluation of
validity. There could be special Media analyses.
There might be Sources analyses as follows:

U.S. Government Sources Analysis
U.S. Government sources (including the Congressional
Record) can be profitably utilized in rumor study,
after the analysis of rumor content, to relate gov-
ernment information output to rumor. These factors
may be noted and analyzed:

a. Sources which may give rise to rumors or
help circulate already existing rumors.

b. Sources which tend to remove a rumor or
the raison d'etre of a rumor. Factors in-
volved here are (1) factual and policy con-
tent of official statements and (2) the
informational character of the source. The
discrepancy between the phraseology of a 
rumor and the phraseology of official infor-
mation may suggest corrective information.

c. Sources acknowledging the existence of a
rumor and explicitly confirming or denying it.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.