Easter Wine

The young author of Christ in Concrete
gives us an earlier glimpse of the characters
in his already famous first novel.
Pietro Di Donato

A VERY late Sunday night papa quietly tried
to get in, only to find mama on the other side of
the door.

"'Ziata, please let me enter," he whispered.
"Come, or the neighbors will hear."

"Back to your precious 'American Springchicken'!"

"What stuff . . ! I swear on my beautiful
mother's tomb I was with Anilio and Anthony
the Red-head - Please, 'Ziata, I am tired. . . "

"Ahh, those two prizes - one accomplished more
than the other!"

"Open or I shall lose this gentle patience . . . !"

"I should let you into the house of my innocent
children? - After you have cast yourself among
the legs of wanton women? Never! Go! Soil not
this home! Ah, Gesu - Guiseppe e' Mari, what
have I done to suffer such a shameless man?"

"Wife - wife, what hag, what malicious carrion
has been pumping your cabbage with lies - Come,
I have been playing cards and pool and am sleepy
-Come, this father of family must rest and go
the Job in the morning - Or must I take down
the door?!"

"Casanova, Romeo, go and play! I myself shall
don over-alls and lay bricks for my children - 
Go, you are not needed!"

And that night he slept sitting on the stairway
sweated of dancing, snoring neatly in his double-
breasted coat, porkpie fedora, and two-toned high
buttoned boots, while mama sat up in the rocker
in the kitchen under the gas lamp, weeping and
loving him furiously.

A few weeks before Easter an Irish couple
named Farrell moved next door. They behaved
very politely, and within a few days turned out
to be the biggest drunks in the neighborhood: the
skinny little mister Farrell throwing garbage at
missus Farrell and she cursing him dirty names
and begging the neighbors to help her. She was
big and fat with a red-blue beefy face and a
croaking husky voice. She soon made a habit of
knocking on our door and staying around mama
in the kitchen, talking and talking until she had
gobbled some spaghetti, drunk many glasses of
wine, to leave with a gushing "Thank youse!"

Papa had come home from work. He told me to
find the candle and go to our cellar-bin with him.

"Annunziata, I have a volition to draw a gallon
of the new muscatel wine for Easter."

Mama said she thought he ought to keep his
promise of letting it stay until Easter morning.

In our bin, I held the lighted candle while papa
sucked out the first rush of muscatel from the
slender red rubber hose that he had stuck in the
bung-hole of the barrel. When we brought up the
gallon of sweet golden wine to the kitchen, we
found missus Farrell there.

Papa had no intention of drinking the new
wine until the big Easter dinner, but missus Farrell
had seen the wine. Mama nodded to papa to
offer missus Farrell some. Papa carefully filled
three glasses from the gallon. He gave one to
missus Farrell, one to mama, and took the third
for himself.

He smelled the wine. "Salute!" he said. And as
he put the glass to his lips missus Farrell cried
hoarsely:

"Yes! Let's drink it before we die!"

A cloud came over papa's face. His hand shook
and he spilled some of his wine.

Mama had sipped a little bit. She hesitated. She
slowly put her glass down upon the table and
looked at papa.

"Ah," said missus Farrell, "this is better than
the juice I drank this afternoon at a friend of
my friend's funeral." Quickly a few maudlin tears
escaped her.

Mama could not stop looking at papa.

"Oh missus, you shoulda seen how lovely the
body was laid out-"

Papa's face was getting darker. Mama looking
at him was getting more pale, and his eyes gazing
into hers, were burning.

Missus Farrell placed her thick hand on papa's 
shoulder and croaked:

"Mister, Gawd forbid, but when any of you die
- this chapel was beautiful, so beautiful!"

Papa's glass slipped from his hand. When it
crashed into pieces on the floor mama almost
screamed. Papa moved away from missus Farrell,
and told her in a strange voice that she could take
the gallon of muscatel for an Easter present.
When papa shut the door after missus Farrell,
mama made the sign of the cross.

"Annunziata," said Papa quietly, "never let
that creature in again."

Mama looked at papa all during supper, and
neither of them ate much. (Continued on page 22)

7

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.