LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
WASHINGTON

DIVISION OF MUSIC

46 W. 96th,
New York City.

Dear Dr. Spivacke ,

I met a very much suprised Dr. Herzog at Columbia
this morning, a Dr. Herzog who told me that I had made
a great mistake in coming to school to take his course
this term, that I should have come next term, should 
have come next year and for a whole year. Such a neurotic
little academic man you never saw before. It seems that
the catalogue was wrong, that he doesn't give his course
in folk music this term, but [merely] primitive music,
and that primitive music follows folk music as he has his
course arranged. He and I are going to have a conference
tommorrow morning, however, and he is going to try
to arrange some way out of this terrible dilemma for
me.

Wednesday I spent with the gentleman from the
French Broadcasting Company and discovered that he want[ed]s
more variety than he [to] led me to believe in Washington.
His needs can be satisfied if you will send me the
[acetate] exhibition acetate records which are all together
in a group on the shelf above the recording
machine along with the records made by Fred [Crariere]
Carriere in Michigan. Mr. Carriere [sang about] filled
about fifteen blanks between numbers 190 and220 in the
recent Michigan series.  Mr. Henderson can find these
records easily enough or, if he is not there, they
can be found in the [boxes tin] last of the tin boxes
(beyond 1700) in the Archive. I will give him only
one of these and insist that NBC give us a master
duplicate of the record he chooses so that we can consider
that one playing as having lost us nothing. The
other masters [from] I will return without any playing
at all.   ...  Mr. Berger, the gentleman in question, 
will be our very good friend in Paris and I think it
will do us no harm to render him every service we can.
He is talking about a possible recording trip to Africa. 
Why not ship all my stuff to me via American
Express at one time. Should get here by Wednesday or
Thursday.

I am enclosing a letter I received this morning
from BBC and which I will have longdistanced you about
I hope before you receive this. Other letters for your
[p] approval and Miss Roger's typewriter.

My friend Pollock in Detroit, whom I had asked to 
look at the machine, reports it in good condition
and

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.