Ballad Folk-Lore Of The Mountains As Part Of National Park"

mountain culture in which the ballads would be sung and enacted 
by the mountaineers.
     A sort of amphitheater might be built in a mountain setting
where the ballads would not only be sung, but where their
long, droning stories would be acted out. Possibly for a week 
each year these mountaineers could gather and offer such a 
national attraction, unique and valuable.
     McKinney spoke to Prof. Greer of his though, then wrote
to him, then last week-end went to hear the mountain music
festival at White Top, Va., and en route home stopped for more
than a day at Boone and visited with Greer.
     Greer, perhaps the best versed scholar in ballads of these
mountaineers and a mountaineer by birth himself with an ability
to sing these folk songs in their native manner, was enthusiastic 
about the idea.
     They have talked. Both have broached the idea to others.
Last Sunday the Asheville Citizen-Times carried a lengthy interview
with Greer on the proposition.
     McKinney has written a number of people, including George
Folsom Granberry, New York musical leader, who approved it
thoroly. The proposal so far is only an idea. McKinney plans
to communicate with the National Park Service to see what 
hook-up can be made with their future recreation plans. Arno
B. Cammerer, associated director of National Parks, has already
expressed his interest in McKinney's idea, and at the Appalachian
Trail Conference had urged the preservation in every way
possible of handicraft, customs, and culture of the mountain
people as a unique attraction to the Smokies.
     "Ford at Dearborn," McKinney says, "is preserving the
material evidences of American culture; the government is the 
park is preserving its natural beauty. Why should not the human

{{column break}}

history and life also be preserved in music and customs?"

TYPICAL of the Anglo-Saxon heritage that has been so uniquely 
encysted and kept in the Smokies are these ballads. Prof.
Greer and his wife have done an enormous work in collecting
them and setting them down. Mrs. Greer is adept at playing 
on the dulcimer, odd, antique instrument still used in the mountains,
and she accompanies her husband in the singing of these
sometimes interminable epics of love, daring, and sorrow.
     The ballads go back to early English times, no one knows
how far. Generations have not only preserved, but have embellished
and lengthened them. The greater part of them are sorrowful, 
rhythmic, mournful echoes of the sternness of the mountaineer's
life, as it was that of medieval peoples. Yet they are
complacent, resigned, not bitter, but sorrowful.
     Here is an instance Prof. Greer has suggested of  possible
typical dramatic offering from the mountains. Custom brings
these people together at bean picking time. All day they pick
in a social fashion, much after the custom of he hop-gathering
in Wales, and at night the maids string the beans while the
youths break them. And during this occupation they sing, working
to the contrapuntal melody of their ballads.
          "I'se got a girl on the Sourwood mountain,
                  "She's so good and kind.
          "She's broke the heart of many a poor fellow
                  "But she ain't broke this one of mine."
     Verse after verse of the beloved Sourwood Mountain they
sing. Or "Black Jack Davie," grim story of a woman who left
her loyal master to go with adventurous Black Jack Davie and
          (Turn to Page 4, This Section)

{{image caption: PROF. I. G. GREER}}

{{handwritten: 931 by T.S. McKinnley)

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.