6.

One of the wonsis brought in a white dish containing several
long necklaces of vari-colored beads, strung according to a certain secret
and sacred pattern. These necklaces were to belong, after they had been baptized,
to the several initiate wonsis---all women---who stood about
dressed entirely in white and helped Theoline carry forward the ceremony.
Narvil chanted again and baptized the beads (54 B1). Chirstian was
momentarially visited by a loi, that is she fell to her knees and wrung her hands
and wept softly, moaning and turning her head from side to side. The Magnificat
was chanted again. Insense came drifting in from the altar room of the Araca
gods. Theoline lifted the gauze from the trays. Narvil led the Lord's Prayer,
sprinkling the cakes and wine, with a young girl standing beside him with a white
wax candle in her hands. I heard him say--"Li fini", it's done--- and after
a little he had disappeared and I saw him no more that afternoon.

In the meantime Theoline has divided the head of the newly baptized tambour into
four segments with corn-flour and Madame Degras has put a little pile of flour
in each segment. Then she comes running out of the altar room
and begins the first vaudoo song of the afternoon in her strong old voice./ (54 B2) The
flags are to be shaken out. Dodo (father of my boy, Polines), the
gros negre of Le Roux picks up the sabre and salutes the flags.
He is La Place, the formal protector
and special deputy of the mombo. The sabre is his sign of authority and with it
he salutes the chief loi as they arrive to feast, "just like a soldier salutes
his general." The kola, liquer and rum bottles are picked up and put in the
trays along with the other food, and Theoline has made a circle of flour at the
dorsill for Papa Dumballa. The wonsi canzo have their necks strung with the
necklaces while Madame Degras shakes the ason (the sacred gourd rattle covered
with beads) and continues the song. Saul (Dodo's oldest son who inherits
his father's position in the community as gros negre and La Place) dances
outside under the tonnel, saluting the flags with the rusty old dress sabre.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.