-59-

whites outnumbered Negroes more than 2 to 1. Most of the Negroes are concentrated in the western portion of the county. In the southwest corner, along
the Tennessee River, they form 65 per cent of the population. In the southeast
corner their numbers are few, and there are sections in which none are 
to be found. The same is true of the northeastern section. Across the center 
of the country from east to west there is a uniform population of approximately 
30 per cent Negro. Eighty-two per cent of the total population, and 
80 per cent of the Negro population are rural.

The age distribution of rural Negros in the country shows the effect 
of migration. The proportion of the male and female population between 25 
and 45 years of age is notably below the expected age distribution. 

In 1930 there were 9,811 white families in Madison County, and 4,512 
Negro families. Of the Negro families, 1040 or 23.0 per cent owned their 
homes. The proportion of ownership among white families was only slightly 
higher, being 28.7 per cent, suggesting the conditions of severest direct competition. The median value of owned non-farm homes was $3,437 for native white families and less than $1000 for Negro families. Median monthly rental of non-farm homes was less than $10,000 for both white and Negro families.

In this area, the Negro rural family is actually smaller than the 
white family, the median family size being 3.46 for Negroes and 4.10 for native 
whites. Over half of the Negro families (54.0 per cent) and only 43.1 
per cent of the white families had no children under 10 years of age. The 
proportion of families with three or more children (17.9 per cent) is about 
the same for both races. The relatively small size of the Negro families 
seems to be due to a more active migration of individuals in the productive 
and reproductive ages, and to a higher death rate. There is little difference 
in the birth rates for Negroes and whites. [*]end*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.