BJ TAPE 18, p. 37

[*MR. BEST & HIS NEGRO SON - INCL. FUNNY STORY:  COUSIN LEOLA
THROWS CHAMBER POT ON MR. BEST*]
[*(HAWDON, GA)*]    [*(13)*]

        It's a man there in Hawdon, he had, ah, he had a grown son.
Aw, a white man, but his son was grown colored.  [Ah,] You know, an' we worked on his
place.   He was just about the color of you.  Name [Cawzin. Cawzin]
Cawzin.   Cawzin knew that Ol' Man Be't (Best) was his so-- was
his father.  Ol' Man Be't knew Cawzin knowed it.   An' he had
Cawzin for his overseer.   You know, just to raise up -- Just to,
just to put him over 'em, see?   But he was grown.  An' when he
married -- that was his second wife, an' he married 'er -- he
tol' 'er that was his son.   But b-- Cawzin mother been dead for
a long time.   I met a man l-lil' 'fore I lef' home that know, know
Cawzin.   Th-they, Cawzin's got two daughters up here.   One of
'em can go for white, an' the other'n cain't!   Hu, hu, hu!   You
know, 'cause Cawzin married a dark-skinned woman, named Miss
Emma.
        An', ah, so, OI' Man Best, he owned Cawzin.   He's jus' a 
funny ol' man; he done married -- that was his second, yeah,
second wife.   An' his, ah, an' he owned part of ah Rochelle,
Georgia, Ol' Man Best did.   See?   An' he hired Cawzin for his
overseer.   Aft' Cawzin got up, big boy?  An' married?  He'd been
see-- He'd been takin' care a Cawzin all his life.   See?   When
Cawzin mother died, he buried 'er.   An' everything.   An' all.
But yet an' still, he with his other wife, what had died, then.
       He had one daughter an' her name was Esther an' she knew
Cawzin was her brother.  That's correct.   Yessir.   She knewed it.
An' she brought her hsband down from Rochelle -- 'Cause, see,
she stay up there, ah, his son-in-law an' his daughter stayed
at Rochelle t' tend to his part a the work up there.   An' she
come down there; she know Cawzin her brother.  I was -- an', an'
she wouldn't let Gertrude an' Penny eat off.  An' she make
Gertrude an' Penny eat right with her two chillun.   Gertrude an'

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.