2.
ers of that little goat track various baskets, calabashes and trays with
maiz moulin, les sucres, l'ceuil de olive, brown sugar (coarse, the first
distillation of homprocessed cane), a few bananas, four or five 
handfulls of black beans, six smoked herring and three salted haddock.
In the yard behind her her daughter squatted over a little flame inn the
palm-leaf cookhouse and stirred a little blackened iron pot.  Beans.
Beans.  All around the little white hut with its plam-thatched roof the
cane thrust in fifteen feet high, and the cotton, seven and eight.  At the
side a runt of a black pig ran grunting and squealing round and round its
peg on a three foot tether.  It had no belly so far as I could observe.
This morning and old man looked into my face suddenly and I walked on quickly
although I felt like screaming.  His nose and upper lip was completely 
eaten away with syhpilis.  The population is eighty-five to ninety percent
sphylitic and yaws is almost as common as malaria or hook-worm.  An old woman
sat scratching her side through the rent in her old tattered dress, a rent
that exposed her withered old black skin from armpit to hip-bone.  Right at 
the waterfront there is a market or rather an open dirt place where the
women who have walked across the mountains and plains all day long with
their baskets on their heads and their babies on their arms squat in the 
dirt all day, with their wares spread out before them, the tails of their
blue denim dresses pulled up between their thighs.  I went into that part of
town as far as I could and then came home, but nowI am harder and can stand
more.  What presses me now most of all is not the poverty or misery but the
rush and abundance of life.  Human beings seem like flies here, somehow, and
their noise and their interest in riches and sweets seems the same.  If one
saw a fly with a withered foot like a knife-blade, one would not be particularly 
concerned; and if the fly has great soft eyes, why be more concerned?
...All burdens here are carried on the head, mostly by women, with beautiful
strong legs as hard as the legs of horses or goats, sometimes as wiry.  They 
swing along through the streets, their rumps wagging behind them, their
bellies round and hard before them, with anything from a truss of hay
to a tray of tin pots and pans and asorted gimcracks riding idly on their
foreheads; their hands swing idly by their sides and they are content to 
gossip for a half an hour with fifty pounds or so wrinkling their foreheads
on horizontal lines.  The other beast of burden is the little grey
ass, beaten into insensibility, with completely vacant and impossibe ly
grey faces and the same empty eyes as the insane man I saw strolling about
the asylum the other day, his thin arms above his head, in his long
bony palms five or six pebbles that he was laboriously carrying from one
part of the yard to another.  He had the face a beard of n Abbysinian, 
a sharp chin and a hooked nose, beautiful and eyes that were wells of sorrow.
But the rumps of the little grey asses are red from the the chafing of
the bands that go round under their tails and hold the saddle to their
their backs, where the hair is worn off down to the hide.  Bundles
of hay hide their existence from the world from ears to tail and atop sits
a Negro woman who beats them wherever they show, like the prisoners
here are beaten in the jails, although with greater consideration and
with a smaller clubk, asses being scarcer. .  You might be thinking by now 
that these are very lazy people, who sleep all day in the sun.  I have yet to
see a man or woman asleep in the sun.  These aren't Mexicans, they are Africans
nd the sun likes them.  They are at work from can't to can't and all
night Saturday and all day Sunday they go about their business of love and
of the dance just as vigorously.  You mustn't be frightened by this picture;
although I confess that I am somewhat.  Most of the day, however, I am simply
prublind and crawling with the beauty of this world.  The flat color here,
the brilliant juggling pattern of red and blue and green and yellow and then

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.