BJ TAPE 34, p. 13

[* STORY: UNCLE NEHEMIAH SAMSON STEALS WATERMELONS*]

crazy an' like for nobody ta, ta even go through his field,
hardly.   You know.  'Cause he, 'cause he, that didn't work with
'im.   He just a hateful ol' thing.   An' so, Nehni (NEHEMIAH), my
Uncle Nehni came by there once, one day ah, from work.
          It's big watermelon patch this man had.   Oh. . .an it's kinda
on the hillside?   An' them watermelons was layin' out there; they
was lookin' some good.   In those days, when ya ha' a great big
watermelon, ya wanna, ya wanna save it for seed melon.   You know,
for, to plant next year offa that watermelon.   Ya mark it with a
cross mark on it.   That mean for nobody not to pull it because
it's a seed melon, ya see.   An' they save that.  An', an' let it
get ripe until it git comletely ripe until it will almost fall
off the b-- you know, the vine.   Vine dies.   An' let the vine
die on it, at the stem?   An den, den the seeds are cured, ya see.
But ya pull it before, before the vine completely die, when the stem. . .
well, the seed is not cured.   That's why a lot a watermelons don't,
don't make well,  'cause the seed wasn' cured when it was pulled.
           But ah anyway, this, this, this big watermelon -- they was jus'
a lot of 'em in the field.   He had one marked, a great big one,
marked.   An' so, Nehni say he gonna git it that night.   An ah,
Mama an' them was sittin' up there that night.   Mama was sewin'.
You know, know, they was piecin' up quilts.   You know, puttin the
pieces together an' makin' quilts.   Jus'-- They wasn't quiltin'; they was
piecin' up quilts.   An' they sit up there laughin' an' talkin'.
           Nehni ate supper.   Said, "Well," said, "I'm goin' to git me
a big watermelon tonight.   Say, Uncle tol'  'im -- They tease 'im
about the ol' man how hateful he was.  They got this seed watermelon.
Say, [he wanna, he wanna]  "He won't, he won't, plant none
offa that."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.