1) So come all you farmers' men that are both stout and bold,
If you do as I have done you never will catch any cold,
For when my master goes abroad for to view the fields so gay,
I go up to the door with my rap-tap-tap, oh let it be night or day.
2) So it's soon as my master's back was turned I went toddling out of the barn,
I went up to the door with my rap-tap-tap, I'm sure I thought no harm,
"O no harm at all," my mistress said, and she asked me to go in,
I told her I was very cold, so she gave to me some gin.
3) I took it and drank it all out but not a word did I say,
I thought I could come at the rap-tap-tap, so upstairs we went straightway,
And there we laid and sport and played for half-an-hour or more,
My mistress was so fond of the sport I thought she'd never give o'er.
4) "O you've won my heart forever, Jack, your master's no man for me,
He can't comea at his rap-tap-tap not half so well as thee,
5) So my master goes to market, as masters always do,
Left me to mind the bsuiness, as servants ought to do,
And when my maser do come home he asked what I had done,
I told him I'd minded his business just as well as if he was at home.
6) He gave to me some beer to drink, but not a word did I say,
He didnot know I'd been at the rap-tap-tap, so home I went straightway.

There you are! Have you heard that before?
Lomax: Gosh no. Do you think that happened very much on these old time farms?
Cox: Yes. Course it did. Yes. Some of them, likely enough.
Lomax: Was there ever a case of it round here you lived?
Cox: Well, I never heard much about it. They have catched these old
farmers. Made 'em pay. I heard talk about -- there was an old farmer
used to go after some old woman there, and they wanted to catch him.
They were going to make him pay so much money. And the old lady told her
husband what she was going to do. He used to go there; and when
he got there, she said, "You got to put a shovelful of coal on, see, the
fire. They want to catch him at his house. Put a shovelful of coal on
the fire so the smoke went up all black. Course, the old fellow went
again, as usual, and she
soon as he see the smoke go up the chimney, see, he catch the old fellow
there.
Lomax: And theymade him pay up a good deal?
Cox: Why, he wouldn't be against paying. He wont want his own people,
his wife an' that to know he went anywhere else. Pay up and let that go.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.