O'Donell:
1) My name is Pat O'Donell from the country Donegal,
I am, you know, a deadly foe to traitors one and all.
For the shooting of James Carey I was tried in London Town,
And upon the cursed gallows there my life will be trod down.

2) As I sailed on board the ship Melrose in August '83,
On the voyage to Cape Town he has made known to me.
When I knew that he was Carey, we had angry words and blows,
And he strove to take my life away on board the ship Melrose.

3) I stood upon my own defence to fight before I die,
A pocket pistol I pulled forth and at him I let fly,
I fired at him a second time, which pierced him through the heart,
And I gave a third one which made him soon depart.

4) Then Mrs Carey came running to the cabin where he lay,
When she saw him lying in a pool of blood it filled her with dismay,
"O why did you shoot my husband?" Mrs Carey cried.
"I shot him in self defence, kind Madam," I replied.

5) The captain got me arrested, in strong irons I was bound,
He handed me as a prisoner when we landed in Keir town.
I was brought back to England, my trial next to stand,
And the prosecutor of the Crown was Carey's wife and son.

6) As I was standing at the bar and guilty found at last,
The jury found me guilty, and the judge my sentence passed.
"For the shooting of James Carey," the solemn judge replies,
"On the 14th of September, Pat O'Donell, you must die."

7) So now farewell to Donegal, the spot where I was born.
And not forgetting the nice days when I sailed round in scorn.
Likewise Erin's lovely Isle, her woods and valleys green,
For never more on Erin's shore O'Donell will be seen.

8) But if I were a free man and to live another year,
Then traitors and informers I'd make them shake with fear,
St. Patrick drove the serpants from the saintly Irish ground,
I'd make them fly before me like the hare before the hound.

9) So now to finish and conclude I have no more to say.
I hear the death bells tolling now. Good Christians for my pray.
Ask of the blessed Virgin when on bended knee you fall,
For to pray for Pat O'Donell from the County Donegal.
- - - - - - - - - - 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.