BJ:  9-25  P.4

like he was talkin'.   An' so, that sort of tol' me, you got no business
fishin' on Sunday nohow.  Ha, that fish talkin' !  But I stopped;
I didn't fish [no] any more; I just watched them fish.  An' they didn' catch
nothin' that sounded like that.  An' so, one of the boys caught
a great, big ol' -- fish?  [(BJ says it was a stingeree, 
during transcription)]  Somethin' was on his hook.  An' he was pullin' at
it.  An' he had to take his time to pull it; it was so large.  An'
so finally he -- I seed the thing when it weighed (?) over in the
water, 'cause I was up there; I could see down there good.  I seen
the thing.  I said, " Turn it loose; let it alone; you gotta cow!  A
cow!  Oh, God, you gotta cow.  Turn 'im loose, ha, ha!"  They didn't
pay me no mind; they pull it on up.  It was a great, big, um, stingeree.
That thing was as wide as -- oh, I don' know how wide!  It was a
great, big thing.  An', uh, they brought 'im on up, y'know.  An'
put'im on its back, y'know.  An' got the hook out.  Oww, that knife,
that thing would just glitter against the sun.  Ohh, that was a 
big thin! I was scared that day. He looked just like a cow, y'know,
comin'up outta the water. Those eyes, that tongue, ow. An' I
didn't know but that was the worst Sunday I ever had in my life.
Fishin' -- 'Cause I figure all those things happen 'cause I fishin'
on Sunday...But I had a good time down there, I tell you.  I would
go fishin' by myself, a lot a' times.  But one day, I went down
there -- I had a dawg, followed me everywhere, an' he was a won'erful
dawg -- an' I went down there one day fishin', an' there's this place
was high, high.  An  [there's] this trestle, y'know, people what don'
(bother ?) they take off their shoes .  An' them railroad people,
when they go down there to work, they got spikes on their shoes.  My
hook got hung down there.  I wanted to fish more; I didn't wanna go
back home; I didn't have another hook.  So I went down [there] that ladder.  Lord,
y'know,  God will really take care  a' me.  I went down that ladder.
An' the tide was comin' in, brother.  I'm tellin' ya.  I went down
there an' I got my hook unhung.  My dawg was lookin' at me like he
wanted to jump down there in a minute.  An' I was goin' up that
ladder.  Sumpin' tried to make look  back when I got near the top.
But I wouldn't look back.  I begin to feel funny and curious, but I
went up, you know.  It was a tall -- a long kinda thing.  I got on
up to the top an' the dawg he jus' smelt me, he jus' whine, he jus'

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.