The Foggy Dew: 
1) As I was an old bachelor I followed a roving trade, 
And all the harm that ever I done, I courted a servant maid. 
I courted her one summer season, and part of the winter, too, 
And many a time I rolled my love all over the foggy dew. (repeat last 2 lines) 

2) One night as I lay in my bed a-taking my balmy sleep, 
This pretty fair maid came into me and how bitterly she did weep. 
She wept, she morned, she tore her hair, crying!Alas, what shall I do ? 
This night I resolve to sleep with you, for fear of the foggy dew. 

3) Now all the first part of the night, how we did sport and play. 
And all the latter part of the night shein my arms did lay. 
And when the broad daylight did appear, she cried, "I am undone." 
"O hold your tongue, you silly girl, for the foggy dew is gone." 

4) Supposing you should have one child 'twould make you laugh and smile, 
Supposing you should have another, 'tould make you think awhile. 
Supposing you should have another, another, another one, too, 
It would make you leave off your foolish young tricks, and think of the foggy dew. 

5) I loved that girl with all my heart, loved her as I loved my life, 
And in the other part of the year I made her my lawful wife. 
I never told her of her faults, yet never intend to do, 
Yet many a time as she winks and smiles, I think of the foggy dew. 

Lomax: Harry, where did you learn this one ? 
Cox: I learnt it from an old bloke who's dead now. Goffin his name was. 
He used to sing it; often heard him. He used to sing it, several 
different times in the pub. I learnt it off him. I learned that off him. 
Kennedy: Ted Goffin ? 
Cox: Yeah. Ted Goffin. 
Kennedy: I've heard of him. 
Cox: O yeah. Old Fred Booker, he sung in the New York trade. He's 
in the book here. Ned Moran, his name's in the book. New York trade. 
Lomax: Harry, it seems to me, listening to these old songs, that you 
fellows had more fun with the girls in those old days than we do now. 
Cox: (laughs): They used to come in somewhere. 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.