Reverend Roe.  Reel 4.  P. 4

cross-roads, they used to call it Blackbun, and strung him up there 
on the tree.
A:  How old was this boy?
R:  He wasn't more than thirteen or fourteen years old.
A:  Well, what did the white people say about that -- you must have 
heard them talk about it -- what did they say they did that for?
R:  To keep the nigger down.  He didn't know he couldn't play with 
the white children.  That's about all.
A:  And tell me, Reverend, what did the Negroes say among themselves 
about this kind of a thing?
R:  Well, they get among themselves and talk about how bad it was, but 
they said God would make a way some day.  About all we could say.
A:  Didn't this boy's father want to go and do something about this?
R:  Oh yeah, but they'd a watch him; why, if he'd a just grunted, they 
would have given him the same medicine if they'd a heard him grunt.  
After they do that, then they'd come and get you - come to the 
colored people's house, you know, and tell you, "I come after your 
wife to work for me, to wash for me today," and if she didn't feel 
like it, why, she had to go.  It was that way with most of all of 
the renters and things like that, you know.  Now after you got a 
place of your own, maybe, they wouldn't be quite as bad.  But I 
tell you, you sure had to walk straight.  It was all right as long 
as you worked for the white folks and didn't bother no white person, 
didn't do nothing against them.  but if they come after you to work 
for them, you have to go.
A:  I don't see how'd you ever get off to your field, Reverend, if it 
happened to you once in your life - if you'd seen those things, I 
don't see how'd you ever get shut of the feeling.
R:  Well, as you say, it goes with you a long time and it's deep-
seated, but when a man comes to be a real Christian, why then, he'll 
get out of it.  You know, it'll all leave you.  The Bible tells you

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.