22

A. LOMAX
Did they have this bilingual program over where you are
where they have French teaching in grammar school?
RAMBLER #2
Oh yeah.
A. LOMAX
Is that helping at all?
RAMBLER
Yes sir, they're teaching quite a bit of French.  I took two
years of it in High School but got away from it, you know.
Of course, I was raised speaking French like Edwin.  My mama
couldn't speak English at all, from Gadon, Louisiana.  I
think it's nothing to be ashamed about, I'm proud of mine
'cos I speak it ever chance I get but long time ago they
didn't want you to speak it in the schools, so you kind of
got away from it but it's coming back.
RAMBLER #3
The Cajun language, up to the time when I started school,
when I first was a youngster, I started talking the Cajun
language, 'cause my mother and dad talked you see.  But then
when it came time for me to start school, my mother forbid
to talk French anymore, because of the fact that if you
couldn't say your words at school you'd be reprimanded, it
wasn't quite right.  So from then on, I lost the use of the
Cajun language, altough I can understand it, anybody that
talks to me, I understand what they're saying.  But for me
to converse, I'd have a little difficulty, but I can
understand anybody that talks to me.  But my kid, I've only
got one boy, but he doesn't talk Cajun and his children are
being raised where they're not talking French at all, so
it's getting that way all over.
RAMBLER
When I started school, I could'nt speak a word of English,
not one word.  I couldn't say "yes" in English.  None of us.
We was raise all French and when I started school I kept the
French because that's all we was taught.  I can still speak
French.  And when I was in Venezuela working the oilfield
then, at the same time I had a fellow from Canada and we got
along good.  They was Frenchman, I could understand them
real good and they could understand me.
A. LOMAX

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.