pity for me, but when you return to your ship, your pity will fade and your suspicion
awaken. The Russians might come and conclude an agreement with us, you will think.
You will of course know that this is impossible, that we would treat the Russians as
we have treated you. But to this knowledge will cling a tiny particle of fear that we
might perhaps ally ourselves with your enemies after all, and for the sake of this tiny
particle of fear, and for the sake of the slight uncertainty in your heart, you will have
the bombs dropped. Even if they are senseless, even if you hit the innocent, and so we
shall die.
WOOD: You are my friend, Bonstetten. I cannot kill a friend!
BONSTETTEN: One kills easily when one does not see the victim, and you will not
see me die.
WOOD: You say that as if it is something easy, to die!
BONSTETTEN: Every necessity is easy. One must only accept it. And the most necessary,
the most natural presence on this planet is death. It is everywhere, at all times.
The heat is too great, the radiation is too intense. Even the sea is radioactive. Everywhere
there are worms which burrow under our skin and into our intestines, bacteria
which poisons our blood, viruses which destroy our cells. The continents are full of
impassible swamps, everywhere boiling seas of oil and volcanoes, stinking giant animals.
We do not fear your bombs, for we live in the midst of death and have had to
learn to fear it no more.
    Silence.
WOOD: You are unassailable in the fortress of your poverty and your closeness to
death.
BONSTETTEN: Go now.
WOOD: Bonstetten. I admire you. You are right and I am wrong. I admit it.
BONSTETTEN: That is nice of you.
WOOD: What you told me about your poverty and your dangerous life touches me
deeply.
BONSTETTEN: That is good of you.
WOOD: If I weren't Foreign Minister of the Free United States of Earth, I would stay
with you.
BONSTETTEN: That is noble of you.
WOOD: But naturally I cannot just leave the Earth in the lurch.
BONSTETTEN: This is of course obvious.
WOOD: It is tragic that I am not free in this respect.
BONSTETTEN: You must not be sad.
WOOD: The bombs shall not be dropped.
BONSTETTEN: We will not talk about it any more.
WOOD: My word of honor.
BONSTETTEN: Farewell.

MANNERHEIM: The eleventh recording. The space ship Vega is flying back to Earth:

The Mission of the Vega                                                                                         147

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.