[* Time code: Tape:  Roll 43  Hicks                                                      p.1*]
Jack's tale continued

[*(FR:)*]  . . .a rooster here.  Jack said "a rooster, what does it do? A     
rooster just crows, don't it?"  Said "No.  It lays gold coins. 
All you have to say is "Come, gold, come' and the rooster, just
gold will start shootin' out of it.  It's a sight to see, Jack!"
He didn't demonstrate her or nothin' and said "Now Jack, take your
rooster home, and don't stop at the boys like you did with the
tablecloth.  You mind me now."  Jack said "I won't have nothin' to
do with them no more."  He got down there, and tried to sneak past
the boys, but they spotted him carrying that rooster and got to
pestering him.  And Jack, he flew mad directly and told 'em what
the rooster could do.  He got him in the house and he said "Come,
gold, come" it was a sight seein' them gold coins comin' out of
that rooster!  The boys didn't believe him, and he finally gave in 
to show 'em.   He was gettin' tired of bein' aggravated with them
and shouldn't have done it. . .he realized it but, directly, Jack
he stayed on up there, the night.  They offered to feed him, and
he got sleepy and went on to bed.  They slipped another rooster in
its place that looked like it.  Jack went on home the next mornin'
carrying the other rooster, not the one the man gave him.  He got
in, his mother was there, and "I see Jack, you didn't stop the
northwest wind again!  It's still a blowin'."  Jack said, "I don't
need to!  I met the old man, this time he gave me a rooster that
lays gold coins!"  She said "Aw shucks!  I'll believe it when I see
it!"  He said, "Alright, I'll demonstrate it"  He set the rooster
down and said "Come, gold, come" and nothin' did happen, the rooster
just set there and crowed and cackled and all kinds of rackets,
"cockadoodledoo" and didn't do nothin',  And they just killed it

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.