Lomax: Have you had any dreams where someone was trying to hurt
you or kill you or beat you or stab you or hang or poison or
choke you?
Jean: Good God! The other night I dreamt. . . . I was in hospital.
The nurse tried to give me tablets and I said, "Don't give me
anymore." O my, what a dream. I dreamt I come to a place and
went in and sat down and it seemed to be very eerie, this place,
and I thought there was always something coming. Some danger was
there, unforeseen danger - but I couldn't see it for a while.
First when it did appear, it appeared like a nun, and then after
that it come that it wasn't a nun at all, and I thought this nun
was beside me and this was my unforeseen danger that I couldn't
make out in my dream. And when it actually come right to me I
thought the nun was the devil, and he attacked me. And I thought
he cut all my back with his teeth - tore it down. But I thought
I got away and got out of this unholy place. I thought I got out.
And when I did get out I ran into nuns, and I thought I said to
them, "God bless me, go back to that place and do something about
it,"
     And they said to me, "What was it." And I explained. I said,
In that place is the devil himself. Ye could do something. Take a 
priest there. You could try something. That place is unholy -
but thank God I'm out."
     Andthen it come to me I was on a boat, a great big boat --
     no, nothing nice about it - a dirty, big, ugly-looking boat
in the water. I went on this boat, and it was a rough sea. What
a dream! I was tortured in the boat. I thought I fell over the
side and there was a rope given to me to help me out of the
water. All the time board this boat it was nothing but hig seas,
wild seas, and sea coming in over the boat; and I fell over the
side and got pulled up the rope. What a torture I gaed through!
That was the way it ended - on the rough seas. I thought I was
fighting for death and life, getting up this rope!
Lomax: Do you remember any dream that frigtened you when you
were young?
Jean: No, I can't remember. I was too young. Only thing I
remember was I used to wake up and scream and say there was a
man on the roof, a man looking down at me, trying to get me.
But I took these things for sometime because they had to get thr
doctor for me.
Lomax: Remember another dream you had?
Jean: I've had lots of dreams, wicked dreams. If I go to bed, I
dream all night. Some of them's not very pleasant dreams. But I
swear that was something the nurse gave me. I had a terrible
headache and I said, "Give me something for my headache." And

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.