- 13 -

   And you've no idea how that man conducted the work about this place. You've no conception. I don't know what I'd give if he'd come and do it today. Just have no idea....... Well, he had... but it's too long a story to tell you... He - you know I knew he was famous and I told you about this Andy Matthew that took the girl Annie Kelman away from the ball, this good foreman I had. You remember that wee bit of a story..... That was the one about the ball when I was telling you about Meldrum..... 
   Well, there's a friend of mine - he had me go twenty-one miles and it was stormy. It came on snow and he came across to me..... He died just the other day - Saturday, he was buried. This chap I'm telling you about now. And his father had a nice farm over there but he wouldn't give this boy the horse to go away driving twenty miles and this lad was courting a banker's daughter down at Stricken,  and he came to me and he said ...... I was at the school with him and he wanted me to drive him and I said "I've only a three-year old Scheldt. I said I'm just not going, oh, but michty..... His father wouldn't give him the Scheldt. Well, well, what could you do. We got on no bad going to the dance and he was a great....... but you know they danced at that time and the dance was some figure We'd Quadrilles and Lancers and Highland Schottische. And this bloke's collar would get kind of flat. He went and gave his face a bit wipe and put on a new collar, and the second go the collar would usually stand up, you know. Him being so savage with his dancing and sweat so much and to keep his swallow-tail from getting creased he had two tails pinned up his back. Two tails of his dress-coat pinned up his back and I saw that and I had the terriblest job getting him into this hall. He went off to look for his girl. Well, and the parents, he forgot about them, and wasn't I pleased with myself for managing this and that

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.