Reverend Roe. Reel 12, P. 1
All the people over there that call themselves conjurors, you know,
and they was wating on that woman, and they chargeher $50.00, and
they told me, you know, about how the owman's acting and all thatk, and
by what they told me I knew just what was the matter with her, but I
just fixed up one of the old remedies my mother used to make, you know.
I put it in a fine bottle and I told them, "Now, you just this over
there and giveher a dose of it tonight, give her half of it tonight
when you get there and at midnight you givecher the other half."  And
they went over there and give it to her, and she got up the next morning
and she had be n down there, they'd been working down there two
or three weeks, and they took that woman's money, they taken her money.
And they all came back to where I was staying, in fact, I was staying
in one of the women's houses.  And I was out in the morning when they
come back with Indians, and I walked up, I wanted to hear what they
say, you know, and they was talking about themoney, about the $50.00.
Well, they began to talk about me and seen me that they
wasn't convinced that I wasn't a kind of their fellow cause I come
from Louisiana, you know.  So I listened at em here and there.  I
just walked in as though I'd just been there, you kn ow, and I says,
"Well, what is up?"  They say, "Oh yeah, she got and went and drank
it."  You know, as though they went and picked it out you know, as
though I had $50.00, you know.  They can't look at one another.  I
say, "Quit your showing to."
A:  What?
R:  I said, "Put it here on the table."  The little table in there.
Put it here on the table, there was four of em in there, and I took
and give em $5 a piece, and I took and put the other in my pocket
(laughter).  I cured the woman.
A:  And they were afraid of you.
R:  Oh yeah, they thought I was a great conjuror.  And that's one of


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.