3)  Nowwhen you saw great Bonyparte, you feel upon your bending knees
     And begged your father's life of him; he granted it right manfully.
     It was then he raised an army, and o'er the frozen river did go,
     He said, "I'll conquer Moscow, then go my bonny bunch of roses-o."
4)  He took three hundred thousand men, likewise a king to join his throng,
     He was so well provided, enough to sweep the world along.
     And when he came near Moscow, nearly overpowered by driven snow,
     All Moscow was a-blazing, then he lost his bonny bunch of roses-o.
5)  (Harry mistakes next verse and [xxx] repeats last one) Then:
5)  Now some that speaks so handsome, old England is the hart of oak,
     England, Ireland and Scotland, there unity has ne'er been broke.
     Now son, look at your father, in St. Helen's his body now lays low,
     And you'll soon follow after, so beware of the bonny bunch of roses-o.
6)  O mother, adieu for ever, now I am on my dying bed,
     If I'd lived, I should have been clever, ; now I have drooped down
                                                                 my youthful head.
     And while our bones do moulder, and the weeping willows o'er us grow.
     The deeds of bold Napoleon will sting the bonny bunch of roses-o.
---
Lomax:  The Bonny Bunch of Roses means what?
Cox:  I never coudl follow it. I thought it meant something to do
with the Russians. Moscow comes in. That's the song, but I can't make
it out.
Lomax:  And this ballad is a record of a conversation between young
Napoleon and his mother?
Cox:  Yes, it was -- that's in the last one. His father - they took
him to St. Helens, Said he'd soon follow after, and he did. He fought 
at Waterloo.
Lomax:  What kind of man was Napoleon, anyway? Was he a pretty good
sort?
Cox:  Well, I don't consider him bad. She begged the father's life
and he granted it. He couldn't have been so bad as all that, or he
wouldn't have heard that.
Lomax:  Of course, he was the enemy of Engand, wasn't he?
Cox:  Yes, he was going to sweep everything..
Lomax:  It was Nelson that stopped him.
Cox:  Yes, and that's where Nelson's song came in, "The Hero of the Nile."
Lomax:  Was that song about Napoleon popular when you were a young boy?
Was it much sung?
Cox:  That's a song I knew all my life. You heard some of it.
Do you want one or two of these funny old things? I'm getting a bit full
of water.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.