17

min d that way. Whenever I see him git up early in the mornin an git his git-tar
I knowed he had sumpin on his mind he was gonna git out. Uh-huh. Thass
the way he did. He'd git that git-tar an set right down until he got that in
the right tempo that he wanted an what tune he wanted. An then he'll never
forgit it. H e'll play it complete, jes go head on an play it cause he have
it. I've seen him change a song two three times bout a tune, you know, like
this tune he had, he'd lay the git-tar down for a while. Then h e'd go back
an git it again. He'd say, "Which one you like the best? I want you to hear
this when I play it an see which tune yo u like the best." I'd tell him which
one I like the best an he'd say, "Well I kina like this un". But I'd say, "Naw.
Maybe you like it cause thass the way you put it toget her but I think the
audience an other peo[p]les might like this best." An he'd leave it like that.
Huh -huh. (warm chuckle) Uh-huh! Lots of time he'd tell peoples, " I made it
this way but I put it to a tune [baby] Baby like." H e always called me Baby.
Always. I don't know why but thass what he always called me. When he first
started comin to see me he called me Little Girl. (Warm affectionate lazy
sensual chuckling) But you know everybody mostly called me Baby. People called
me that so much till they call me by my name I wouldn't know it. It wouldn't
stay in my mind people called me Baby so much till I jes answer to that name.
. . .He was jes sixteen years older than me. No, well I didn't consider
it bein much. (laughs) I didn't care. Hah-hah-hah! A lot of peoples said, "Ou
he's much older than you." I said, "Maybe he is but it don't seem like it.
I don't care. I don't care bout the oldness." I never think of that. Mmm-mmm.
Age is one thing I never think of. I never give it a thought one way or the
other. I can have jes as much fun wit the oldest oldest one as I can with the
youngest one. Always. Well I tell You: Old people are like [c]hil'ren. Thass why
I think I can have so much fun with them. The old ones. I I mean they jes like
chil'rens. In a way you have to handle me like chil'rens. I mean I love old

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.