-105-

accompanied by a change in the general life of the community. As the community
becomes less agricultural in its activities its inhabitants are becoming more
urban in their interests and outlook. An example of the change of sentiment
regarding farming is the experience of one farmer who has lived in the county
all his life. He has been cultivating a 100 acre farm, and although he has
six children he had to hire two outsiders to help him. The children, who
are young, are not as useful in this type of agriculture as on a cotton farm.
His net income for 1937 was $28.00

Farming is not very profitable. Laborers on farms represent the
largest occupational class in Davidson County agriculture. In 1929 there
were 224 Negroes classified as farm laborers. In 1935 the number had increased
to 252, which was still negligible. Farm laborers as a whole do not
confine their labor to one farm. At irregular intervals throughout the
year they are employed by different farmers and farm owners as the need for
additional help arises. This applies not only to laborers unattached to
farms, but to farm hands who by kinship or residence are somehow connected
with a farm. With the general decline in farming activities, and the increase
in the surplus farm labor supply, there in increased competition among
farm hands for employment, lower wages and more uncertain working conditions.

Industry, which employs the majority of the Negroes in the county,
like farming, is not providing as many jobs as formerly. An analysis of
occupations in 1929 and 1935 shows a decrease in the number of Negroes gainfully
employed. Jobs which pay the most are declining the fastest. Services
to the public, in which some Negroes were engaged, have also been
affected by this general trend. At the same time occupations at the bottom
of the economic scale have been absorbing displaced workers from the upper
occupational brackets. Unskilled factory and building construction workers

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.