T3275
TAPE 22: Middleton, Teasdale. 20.4.50.
The Durham Jail: Thomas Paine
1) Now ye all have heard of Durham Jail; it won't you much suprise
To see the prisoners in the yard when on their exercise,
The yard is built all round with walls, so oval and so strong,
Whoever goes there they'll have to stay be time so short of long
Chorus:
For there's no good luck in Durham Jail,
There's no good luck at all.
What is rye breadand skilly for but just to make you small.
2) For half-an-hour you walk about, from half past nine till ten,
You're not allowed to talk or shout or wink at other men.
Four officers do stand and watch and that they pick a 
For if you talk they'll seize your nose and pull your ears
3) The first month is the worst of all, your feelings they will try
There's nothing there but great lumps of wood on which you have to lie;
Then after that you get a bed, and it's as hard as stone,
At night you dare not make a turn for fear you break a bone.
4) And if you be thin when you go in, well, they can make you thinner,
For if you                 they're sure to stop your dinner.
Then when you go to Durham Jail they'll find you with employ,
And dress you up so stylishly in a suit of corduroy.
5) They'll fetch you a cap without a peak and never ask your size,
Just like your suit of cordoroy that comes down over your eyes,
The boots you get is often tens, the smallest size is nine,
They're large enough for anyone to go hurdling on the Tyne.
- - - - - - - - - - -
Come All Ye Gallant Poachers:
1) Come all ye gallant poacher lads whoever that you are,
Who ramble out on a moonlit night with your dog, gun and snare,
And all you that want your miner lamps, it's you that's got the blame,
For what you say both night and day, you're killing all the game.
2) So the keeper he went out one night, as you shall understand,
He thought he saw a poacher lad with a gun in his hand.
He thought he saw a paocher lad, skulking beneath the wall,
'Twas on the Squire's high preserve, close down by yonder Hall.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.