Professor S. T .M. Newman
 University of  Edinburgh




STMN/JFBB

REID SCHOOL OF MUSIC
PARK PLACE
EDINBURGH
Telephone 41001 Exten. 46
22nd October, 1951.


Alan Lomax, Esq.,
c/O B.B.C.,
Broadcasting House,
Queen Margaret Drive,
GLASGOW, W.2.

Dear Mr. Lomax,

     I have been owing you a letter for a long time,
but unfortunately once I had  managed to fix up the detail of the
carrying out of the copying of your tapes by the Phonetics Dept.,
according to the kind offer which you made  to us, I had to turn
to my own work - which, in September/October is exceptionally heavy
as it involves the Autumn Degree Examinations, all the final details
(contracts and printing etc.) for the series of University Orchestral 
and Chamber Concerts for which I am responsible, and the whole
paraphernalia of getting a busy Faculty of Music under way for a 
new session.  In the midst of it all, my secretary was off through
illness and I myself at one time had to go off to London, so I trust
you will forgive my long silence and will not interpretate it as 
any discourtesy.  I can understand from your letter to Professor
McIntosh (of which you sent me a copy) that you are puzzled that
you have had no acknowledgement from Edinburgh University after the
copying of your tapes had been completed.  I was at the time able
to do no more than to see that Mr. Anthony got your original tapes
back to you with the least possible delay and inconvenience to
yourself.

     The University Committee of the School of Scottish
Studies has not yet had its first meeting of the new session, when
I shall be able to report to them officially what has been done during
this long Vacation but, in the meantime, I write for myself and my
colleagues to assure you that I am most grateful to you for allowing
us to copy your records with a view to adding a substantial part,
if not indeed all, to our archives in due course as we have the 
opportunity to transfer from tape to disc.

     I note that you do not wish to place any
restriction on this material for our inter purposes of scholarship
and research but naturally desire that you should be consulted
if at any time during the next ten years or so there should be any
suggestion on our part of using any of these recordings for publication/

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.