[*11*]
[*75*]
Uncle tried to flirt with girl he saw on the side walk.  He said:
"Don't you think it is rather late for you to be out?"  Talked a
while.  Then she walked and he walked behind her.  When they got
to the grave yard, the gate just opened and she walked in.  He
started running.  The minute I saw a spirit, a fear came over me.
There is nobody can convince me there is no spooks.  I've seen to many.
One mansion--nobody would live in it and they would give it to
anyone who wanted to live in it.  They claimed nobody could stay
in later than 12 o'clock.  At this time all the lights would go
out and you would be left in the dark.  At 12 o'clock someone would
knock on the door.  A fellow said he would go in, he didn't care
nothing about spooks.  It was claimed you could kill a spirit
shooting it with a silver bullet.  This guy brought along sweet potatoes.
At 12 o'clock there was a knock on the door.  "Who's there?"
"One ghost, knocking at the door."  He would answer:  "One man
eating sweet potatoes in front of the fire place, dooley doo.".
Heard the door kind of open.  "I don't want nobody in here with
me, dooley doo."  He said, "Don't open this door.  "One ghost is
in the inside now, doodley doo."  He said, "Will one ghost have no
sweet potatoes, doodley doo."  "One ghost has jumped out of the
window, doodley doo."

When I was a kid I had a little gun.  They used to catch me every day and beat me up.  Used to fight all the time with my uncle and once I beat him and then I was the tough guy of the neighborhood.  Was a tough little Creole around, Manuel Percy, and we were pals together.  We met an Italian one day who wanted to fight me.  I rushed into this kid and he knocked me in the ditch.  Manuel now in New York—is a shrewd gambler.  He asked me to be a witness in Chicago against some guys who beat him up.  We still was tough and wanted to kill several guys.  A swell looking guy.

Stavin' Chain didn't amount to very much.  There was just a song
around him.  He was a very low class guy, belonged to the honky
tonk gang.  Just a lady's man.  Was an ugly, gawky fellow.  Nothing
to make nobody think about him the second time.  Stavin' Chain
don't mean a thing.  They named him that for a nick name.

1908--Went back to New Orleans.  Fellow by the name of Pete Lala
operated saloon on Moray and Eberville.  This was a pretty good
district.  Fellow from uptown by the name of Chicken Dick.  I was 
a pool player at the time.  Pensacola Kid was playing Buster Brown
pool.  They asked me to keep the game.  They were playing for $10
a game.  Chicken Dick a big roughneck, had a way of yelling.  He 
started yelling when I was keeping the game.  I had the
rack in my hand and I got close to the table.  "What you doing? 
Keeping the game?  I'm going to keep the game."  Pushed me around.
Hauled off and hit me and I fell on the other fellows and they
shoved me over the table and I fell with my hands on some balls.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.