121 West Third Street
New York 12, New York
December 11, 1961

A. Dan Killian, Jr., Esq.
Attorney at Law
Killian and Killian
117 N. E. First Avenue #1105
Miami 32, Florida

Re: Mr. Nat Rahmings

Dear Mr. Killian:

In reply to your letter of November 29, 1961 in regard to the
Nat Rahmings recordings, your letter came as a very unpleasant
surprise for reasons that will take me a few moments to explain.

Publishing authentic folk songs on commercial recordings is a
fairly recent and marginal affair. I began with albums for the
Library of Congress in 1941 and the whole cost at that time had
to be paid by the Government because there was then no market
except among institutions of learning for such records. Since
then - always operating with the thin margin of security -
editors such as Moses Asch of Folkways and myself have continued
to see to it that authentic recordings were made available, but
the work has never been financially remunerative. We do our job
for love and make our livings in other ways.

The case of these recordings for Prestige is typical. The company
paid a little bit more than the normal advance on royalty,
that is $300.00 per long playing record. Out of this, I had to
pay all the performers involved on about fifteen separate cuts.
I also had secretarial expenses which were considerable because
the editing of a record out of a large collection of field recordings,
preparation of notes, etc., always turns into the
longest job. Furthermore, the field recording time, itself,
travel expenses, renting of equipment and purchase of tape are
considerable items.

In order to make a record of this kind interesting to a public
which is slightly larger than the devoted fans in the field, I
always try to have a great deal of variety. In this case, on
the same records where Mr. Rahmings plays an accompanying part
are recordings from the Georgia Sea islands and some four or
five places in Virginia. This way of planning means that, on
the records where Mr. Rahmings plays a part, there are three or
four choruses, one containing fifty voices, and also involved
are several weeks of my time. I do this sort of thing because
it is part of my obligation as one of the senior folklorists of
the country to produce always better material and material which
is otherwise unavailable to the scholars and enthusiasts who are
interested. My fee per record in the Prestige case is $100.00.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.