T3458
TAPE 89E - DAVEY STEWART.
Lomax: You had your own cart in Ireland did you, your own wagon?
Davy: O I had my own wagon.
Lomax: Did you sleep in that?
Davy: Oh yes . Had two beds in that.  Me and the wife had the top
bed and down below the bed for the girls.
Lomax: I didn't hear about your wife.  How did you meet her?
Davy: The first time I saw her, I met her with a man in Dublin,
along with my sister.  He was staying with them - he come from
Scotland, too.  His name was McPhee.  And my sister left Dublin with
her wagon and she travelled down to Limerick.  And when she
travelled to Limerick on the road, like, stayed here and stayed
there.  We come to Limerick on the road, like, stayed here and stayed
there, - We come to Limerick and stayed at the Fair Green, just outside
the town.  All Irish wagons there and camps there, fiddles
there, - eveything.  And me and this Curly McPhee went away on our
own.  He had a set of pipes and I had an accordion.  We went away
travelling together - but still we was both strangers in Ireland.
So we was away to see Killarney and made our way to a place called
Cork, the City of Cork.  We stayed there about a month and we did
very well in Cork, and we used to play queues, we'd go off all day
and play queues, meet at night, go to a lodging house, get a good
cup of tea and away to the pictures.  Come back, maybe we'd travel
away up to Tralee, that was way in Kerry.  Go to Tralee, come to
lots of Irish towns, stay in lodging houses there.  I come to this
place called Mallow.  That was the first time I met my wife.  I was
staying at her mother's house, she had what we call a big boarding
house there.  She kept about thirty factory men.  Her mother was old
Mary Duggan, and she was a widow-woman, her husband was an Englishman.
He belonged to Dorchester.  His name was Judd.  So the girl
used to come up at night and I would sit and play to the old men
in the lodging house, some of them.  I would sit and play the
accordion and the girl would sit and watch me playing.  We got on
the crack, me and her, and I said, "Come away on the road with me."
Well, she says, - she didn't belong to the travelling class at all
though, my wife.  But away and camped at Limerick, and after
camping there awhile, we got married.
Lomax: She just ran off with you?
Davy: Ran off with me....
Lomax: But did her parents approve of it? Were they mad?
Davy: Well, her mother come to me at a place when I was at a big
fair called.. - it's in Kerry - Lestol, and I was playing the fair.
Got a good few quid, you know, because she was a good collector,
and her never being on the road before; she was a very quick and


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.