27
"Don't get mad at the nurse. I told her to take it out. I want the pillow 
out from under my head." An said jes like that he was gone. That aws the 
last thing he said an went jes like that. Now you know he had to be -- 
Lizybeth, his pulse couldn't-a been narmal then. By no means, I mean they 
all talk an talk an talk an tole me that that mornin but I don't believe 
it.
     He tole em all goodbye. Yeah. Well you know his pulse couldn't-a 
been narmal, girl. The boy what called me for him that evenin. He left 
there at four-thirty. He was goin off duty. An he say he always make 
it round to see how he felt. An he say Huddie said, "Well come here, 
lemme shake yo handx cause I won't see you no mo." An he say, "What 
you mean? I'll be in tomorrow. I'm not off tomorrow." An Huddie say, "Well 
I won't see you." Now thass jes the way he say he tole him. An Dr. Black 
an Dr. Fink an the other doctor -- there's three doctor[']s on the ward 
-- he tole them all that, an shook their hand an said, "Well I won't 
see yall in the mornin." Now if that wadn't enough to know that he 
felt that he was gone ... Thass why he called me over there. Thass why. 
Sho. He didn't tell me but he kep shakin his head -- like that. I 
said, "What is it, BabY?" He looked like he was jes about to bust into 
tears. An I said, "What is it? Do you want me to stay heah with you or 
do you want me to git a special nurse heah wit you or what?" He say, 
"No. I don't want either one. I'm doin all right. The doctor say I'm 
all right but I jes wanted to see you." An I say, "But it's jes fifteen 
minutes I been heah. Why do you want me to go now?" He say, "Now don't 
worry me bout it. Cause I always tell you. Don't worry me bout it. You 
jes go." I said, "all right." But I knowed in [mysefl th] myself that it 
was somethin strange. But I noticed how well he was talkin. He was talkin 
much better than he had been for a long time. He couldn't do nothin but

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.