Leogane, Haiti,
Feb. 7, 1937.

On the plain of the Cul-de-Sac, East of Port-au-Prince, I
had heard and made occasional records of the chaille-o-pieds*
bands who march about the country-side at night during mardi
gras season, dancing, singing, and making the night loud with
the rhythmic grunting of their vaxines (straight bamboo pipes
of various sizes and lengths, blown and sounding for all the
world like so many tubas). But I had been told that the vaxines
and their music were recent importations from Leogane, that
they had come in two or three years ago with the cane -workers
shipped up from Leogane by the Haitian American Sugar
Company. 

On the first day of the three days of mardi gras proper I drove
down to Leogane to record the mardi gras band there and 
to here the chaille-o-pieds songs at their source. The streets
were full of dancing crowds following the bands as they made
their business pilgrimge from house to house. The lieutenant
of the guard arranged things so that I could set up the recording
machine on the front por ch of the police station and the
bands were called before the microphone one after another. A
press of people behind each pair of drums-- kata, the little
fellow, about a span high and two hands across, double
ended, hanging about the neck close to the heart and beaten
with two sticks; boula, three feet high, shaped exactly
like the mama drum of the vaudoo dance, but of lighter construction
for carrying, with its head tied rather than staked
down, and with a "voix" more blatant and metallic. A little
boy, ten or twelve years old, bearing a huge crown of red and
green paper flower and furbelos, wearing a green satine
jerkin covered with imitation rhinestones and knee-trousers
to match. Here was the roi, the solo dancer, and how he
could dance! An angular dance of knees and elbows and precision---
the oizo, the most difficult of all the Haitian
dances I have seen, a dance for a specially trained
person. The owner of the costumes and the real director of
the band stayed in the background. Out in front was the major,
the man who, in the expression of the country, "drives the 
band," who takes the contributions among his
audiences in his little paper-covered basket. 
The mait' chanson was followed by a group of women 
who helped him raise the sing and keep it going and behind
and all about was the crowd who sang and danced and fought
and drank. 

*Chaille means stamp. Chaille-o-pieds, then means foot-
stampers.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.