I was only there for the time being. When they went away with me 
to different parts of the country in boarding houses, then I 
always got a bed to myself. Even if it was only a mattress or a 
couple of blankets on the ground, the floor, like. From then 
on I always had a bed of my own. Never worried about nothing. I 
never saw them doing anything out of the way. Unless it was 
when I was asleep, and I don't think that could be very well 
done without waking you up. I never remember that part of it. 
Well, then he went away with a circus, a show, Harry Linton's, 
and he asked him for a job. So Harry Linton said, "I cam give 
you a job playing the banjo" -( see, me father can read music)" 
"I'll fit you in the band somewhere." 
So that's when my life began. Harry Linton, all the show. 
When I was left alone in the house, it used to get me very badly. 
Once I was left alone, and the woman downstairs said, "Will you 
go to bed now, dear ?" 
I says, "Must I go to bed ?" 
"Well, you must. Your father and step-mother is gone down to 
the show." 
I'd sit and cry all night and keep crying and keep crying. Then 
I askedmy father one nihgt. "Would you let me go to the Harry 
Linton show ?" 
"No," he said, "You can't go near them people at all." 
Neither he didn't. I cried in the room all day and cried and kept 
crying. So one night I got away down to Harry Linton's and I 
was delighted looking at the show people up on the stage. I said 
I'd love to be able to do that. I think I got it from that music, 
and watching the dancing. I never trained at dancing, never. 

Lomax: When was your first public performance, Margaret ? 

Barry: Singing. That was in McCroon in the County Cork. The 
first song I ever sung was "Two Eyes of Blue," and I know all the 
three verses of it yet as good as the first day. And the only 
thing wrong was that I had only the one song, and people asked, 
"Give us another song." 

Lomax: Were you with the banjo then ? 

Barry: No, no banjo. I never know what it was to have a banjo 
of my own. I sang, "Two Eyes of Blue" up and down McCroon, up 
one street and down another street, and got money for it. I was 
a little bit nervous. I was nearly 14. 

Lomax: Then what happened after that ? 

Barry: I left me father, I was by myself at 14. I lived in 
lodgings from place to place. 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.