BJ TAPE 26, p. 16

that.  An' if he done anything like just stayed off to do [or] anything, why, he
would try to keep me from knowin' anything.  So I feel like he
recognized me; he appreciated me.  I does; I really feel that.  An'
that's why I say I won't be able to git another husband.  Another
one jus' like 'im.  In some ways, I would never git another'n' jus'
like 'im.
An' jus' like he, I had, we have money ?  An' he, ah, give
me, he give me his money to buy anything I want with.  He didn' look
ta, for nothin' in the house unlessen I jus' sen' him at something.
An' he don't go at nothin' 'cause he wanna pay a whole lot for it,
ya know, an' I can strangle money, ya know.  An' so, but, anyway ,
he, if he has to go to a store, I'm sick, or either gone somewhere,
he'd go an' git things.  But he give me that money.  An' I don't care
whats, all, or how less it is or how much it is or what happen, he
never say,  "What did ya do with it?  How much ya spent for this,"
or "How much ya spent for that?"  An' that's another way I don't 
think I git another husban'.  'Cause he don't look for -- he say
all he look for's sumpin' to eat an' sumpin' to wear.
     An' I bought 'is clothes.  Except suits.  If he [wanted to] wanna
buy 'im a suit, he'd go have that fixed up.  An' ah, but, an'
work shoes, I bought them.  But other things, suits an' 'is Sunday
shoes, like that.  But his shirts an' his underclo'es an' his work
clo'es, I kept them ahead myse'f.. Sometime he don't know he got a 
brand new pair a pants to put on, an' like that.  Look around.
"Oh!  Got those new britches there."  He done put 'em on an' gone,
see?  I bought 'em 'myse'f.
     I bought for my boys until they married.  An' I can, I can go to
the store an' buy for 'em now 'cause I got their measures jus'
like I had my husband's on.  I didn' know how to buy.  (?)  An' I
know about what they, you know, like for color, you know?  I know

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.