19

back home an I had to carry him to the hospital. His appendix burst befo
we could get him to the hospital. The doctor said that was what made his
feet an hands numb then. We walked from 52nd Street down to Gansvoort.
He said he wanted to see couldn't he git that numbness out of his feet.
I guess he had a pain in his side then but he never said nothin about it.
You know anything have to be very bad the matter with him for him to speak
of it. It was awfully bad on him when he said anything about it. H e was
settin up on the table makin those records. H e stopped playing which you
know he never stopped playin in the middle of a song. I mean [*astring*] a
strang can break an he'll keep on till he git that piece out. He said,
"Come here Baby." Jes that way. "Come here, Baby. Take my git-tar." So
then I went to him an Miss Barnicle came up. We got the git-tar an we
helped him off the table. I said, "What is it?" He said, "I feel like I'm
blind or sumpin. I feel faint an sick." We stopped then, stopped makin
records an we caught the El. Sixth Avenue El was runnin then. We caught
the El an started home. We got about 26th Street an he jes couldn't ride
no mo. We got off an then walked from there home. I guess the jarrin of that
train must have been hurtin his side then. But he never said it. So we
carried him on an he went on an laid down an I give him some medicine which
I shouldn't have did. You know? You should never give no kina purgative.
But he thought maybe we had for breakfast might a ptomaine-poisoned
him. An I said, "Well it couldn't cause we had the same thing an if you'd
a been sick from it I would too." So then I set around there with him an
give him this medicine an everthing till about four o'clock that mornin.
I didn't go to bed till long about that time. The minute I got in bed he
jumped outa bed on the other side an said, "Oh somethin has busted inside of
me." An I said, "No Baby it can't be." He said, "Yes it is. Git the doctor
or do sumpin." An he said, "Naw, don't git no doctor. Maybe I'll be all
right." An he go back in bed an laid down. H e never said another word,
Lizybeth. An I called him an called him an tried to git him woken an he

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.