Lomax: In the old days it used to be very rough didn't it?
Alf: It did indeed. In the old days when thry used to have a 
Gulliver along with them - like a hobby horse head with all circles,
like a crinoline with ribbons, - and if you didn't by any means
give the hobby horse anything, the Gulliver brought the person to 
the hobby horse, and if they wouldn't give nothing, took 'em in
the middle of the street, the hobby horse waiting for 'em, and
give 'em the tail.
Lomax: The tail was all bedraggled. . . .
Alf: With dirt and everything else, and they'd slap them in the 
face, and it didn't matter if it was the best clothes was ever on
a person, they'd still get it. Because in they days, the old chaps
didn't care for nothing, and they used to go in and have their
wallop as they calls it, and half a gallon here, and a little bit of
bread and cheese there, and one thing and another, and they was
half tight before they went. And there's no doubt about it,
carrying those hobby horses you've got to have something to drink.
But they was a little bit too far fetched. They used to go about
in the places, to Dunster, used to go in one place, have their
half gallon first given to them, which is the recognized thing,
bread and cheese and pickle; hobby horse had to pay for another
half gllon. Used to go to another place - the same thing applied.
But they had to be at Dunster before 12 o'clock. Well, that
didn't satisfy them. When they got to Duuster they wanted another
wallop up there. So out come the cider. Then the bully started.
Always the thing was to ring the bell and ask for permission to
come in on top of the steps. Well, naturally enough, the squires
and their forefathered and all come out and seed the hobby horse.
"Yes, carry on the old trandition." Used to go in then and say,
"Do you want the children to have a little bit of display?"
"Yes, by all means," And we used to do it. Now, years and years
ago when the old squire - that's the squire's grandfather that is
at the present time - when the hobby horse was going up Dunster
street - they had some horses coming down. At that time there
wasn't no charabancs or cars about, so this here chap with the 
horses, he tried to force 'em past the hobby horse. Well, the
horses wouldn't have it, and it wound up with the horses going
over the top of the bank. And there was a summonsing case over it.
Well, he blamed the driver. He said, "Look 'ere, there's no fault 
of the hobby horse whatsoever because when you're passing a horse
of any description - as a matter of fact they take the hobby horse
up to the bank so the horse won't see the colour of the ribbons.
Lomax: The horses think that's a real horse do they?
Alf: The whole thing is - with the ribbons all colors -- if it's
pne colour they wouldn't take no notice of it - but being so many
ribbons, they wonder what it is. And there's an old chap in the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.