[notes] Elkis, sorry, haven't had time to answer.  Call it the Lomax prize without 1st name attached.  I'll invest a guinea for the lot year see how she goes [end notes]

109 Balgrayhill Rd.,
Glasgow, N.1

Burns Night

Dear Alan Lomax,

Congratulations on your recent programmes.  
They have aroused a great deal of interest up here in Glasgow, 
and a surprising number of people have been listening to them.
     The boys up at Allan Glen's School, where I teach 
were most impressed and very keen about the first two programmes. 
 This I should say is in big part due to the influence 
of the 'Ballads & Blues' group, which has been giving school concerts 
for some time now and is already in its third year - Peggy 
Seeger met some of them when she was up.
       I, myself run the group, and, to encourage their
 interest in folk-song I have been giving prizes each year to the
 best all-rounders.  The interest however is now general among
 all the boys, and I am thinking of extending the range of the 
Competition to the whole school (pop. 700).  There will be six classes
 of songs for open competition, first and second prizes in each class:
1. Songs in Gaelic
2. Songs in Scots
3. Glasgow Songs
4. Songs in English (Irish, Australian, etc.)
5. American ballads and/or blues
6. American skiffle
       In addition there will be a special class in Original
 Composition (folk-style).  In other words a kind of folk-song
 Mod in miniature.
The 'Original Composition' class, incidentally, is not just a nominal 
one.  One of the best boys (who works on a farm at week-ends) has
 written a bothy ballad from his own experience.  Hamish Henderson
 recorded it for the School of Scottish Studies in Edinburgh and is 
waiting to include it in his next broadcast - Including Hamish 
and his mouth-music in the second programme was a nice
 gesture, by the way.  That's the sort of thing that helps art and
 artists to flourish.
      Anyway, to get back to the competition, I want to raise
 the level of its importance this year and would like to award
 at least one name-prize.  How do you fancy being the donor 
of this prize?  It would be named the Alan Lomax Award

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.