Six feet four. I didn't take the hard fright - but I stopped
dead in my tracks. And the very words froze in my mouth that I
was diddling at the time. It was tall and very thin, and its
shoulders were bowed, but ye could see no face. A long, long
black coat and everything upon it was dark, andthe same kind of
hat a priest wears. It seemed to be as if it was in a terrible
sorrow. I got a bit of a fright at first - I wanted to turn on
my heel and fly backwards - but then I couldn't do that as my
girl was only 14, and the love for my child wouldn't let me be a 
coward to turn and run back, because I knew she would be coming
round the road any minute, and it would be a terrible  thing.
So somehow I said, - and I'll tell ye just what I said and how I
said it, "May God stand between ye and you whatever you are. I
haven't done you any harm." And I didn't fly. I walked down the
road that I was going for my daughter, and the thing absolutely
kept down the road, the whole way down with me - walked with me
down the road. It never came closer, it never looked at me. But
when I came to the shrubbery it completely disappeared from my
side. And I can tell you I didn't give it time to get through
that door. If it had come into the shrubbery with me, I believe
I would have collapsed. But no, it left me at the shrubbery. And
when I went in the house, I didn't say nothing, I didn't want to 
fear my sister-in-law, because her husband was away, and of course,
I never let on. So she up andshe told me, "Do you know that an
hour ago when Lizzie come round to me, she got a fear?"
     Well, my daughter up and tells me the very same thing. She had
the same experience that I had. So she says, "O Ma, believe me,
it's quite true. I wasna seeing things."
Well did I know that it was true because I'd saw it. I never said
nothing. When we came up she said, "This is where it left me." --
It was the same place it left me. I says, "We're not going to see
it again, anyway, because both of us is here, and it's not
appearing again. Just go round to your bed and forget about it."
We went round and told my mother, and my brother's son died a few
days behind that. I take it it was a warning we got.
Lomax: Do you happen to remember any dreams you had that impressed
you very much?
Jean: I have a brooch - it's an old clan brooch - an old silver
brooch. My mother thought the world of this brooch. It wasna of
any value. But she'd a great faith in it. And before my mother
died, she asked me to take this brooch and look after it. When
she was dead  - the very day she was buried - that very night I
dreamt -- and I saw it that real as if we was actually going
through it -- She opened the door and come in. She was looking
for something and she was turning everything upside down. I
thought I said, "O Mother, what are you looking for?" She said,
"My brooch." And I said, "O leave the brooch alone, because it's
safe and nothing'll come over it." But I thought she was very very
sad looking. And that dream did really impress me.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.