Reverend Roe.  Reel 14.  P. 2

right.  I never cause any suspicion in any way; I never take nothing that didn't belong to me, and I never thought of no sex relation outside of my own people.  I'd never come in my mind, and I've even been in the plays with the women, you know, and I'd show em how to go through with the different plays and everything like that, and nothing like that never come in my mind, never thought of it.

A:  But when you were a young man coming up didn't you court a lot of girls in your neighborhood?

R:  Oh yes.  All the girls liked me.  I was (laughter), I was kinda of exception there, you know.  On one occasion I wooed a girl I knowed once, and she shouted (laughter).  And I went out to a party one night, a dance, we called em parties then, you know, and I stayed around there and talked, I didn't do much dancing, and I got ready to come home, I sit down and talked to a girl and she asked me didn't I go back there that way, and I'd say yes.  She say, "Well, you going back home with me."  And I said, "Tilly, didn't you have company here?"  And she said yes.  Well, I wouldn't want to do that, and she couldn't have persuaded me to say I would, so when we started home, we all started off together, and she just walked up side of me, and so this other young man walked on the other side, and I told her to go on with the company, but she just wouldn't do it, and she wouldn't let him go, persuade him to go home, and I just walked on away from em and she caught up with me.  So I just had to go on by with her (laughter), talk with her.  And that same girl, when I left home, I stayed a year and when I got back, she heard I was there, and she come through the door-creek bottom there and waded water up to her waist, they said and carried her clothes on her head, to come up to the other side so she could get to see me, and she'd taken pneumonia from it and died, yessir.

And you know all the girls thought lots of me, and I was very nice to em.  I was engaged to marry to a girl there before I left home but I

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.