1365 5
either the mama or the daddy was right there and you'd
better be sure not to touch her.  You had to walk side by
side (laughs), and then most of the time I wouldn't try to
take none of them girls for a walk 'cause you couldn't talk
to them 'cause they wouldn't hear anything you said anyway.
A. LOMAX
It must have been really tough to get together with a girl
in those days.
CANRAY
And then I remember in my life when I was young, like they
was having a dance, like if you had some daughters or your
wife or something like that.  If they had a dance like this
house over there, and somebody didn't come and invite you to
go the dance then you better not show up.  You wasn't
welcome, they was gonna tell you right away.  Nobody didn't
call you over here and you had to go.  Oh they used to be
very, pretty clever.
A. LOMAX
Each little family had its own friends and they didn't want
anybody else fooling around with their women.
CANRAY
That's right.  That's the way it was.
A. LOMAX
And they'd fight over them, wouldn't they?
CANRAY
Oh yeah.  They would fight for little or nothing. I think
they was stupid to my idea, 'cause sometime them people,
just like-you see when my daddy and Amede and them was
playing, you had. . .any tune you played, you had to play it
twice.  Well, the lady you was dancing with had to dance
them two tunes with you.  Like if they played a waltz, they
was gonna play the waltz again, and then this lady had to
dance with you.  You know sometime, some of them ladies,
some of them girls would go and dance this round with this
guy who don't dance so good and whenever they play it again
with somebody else, they was gonna fight over that.  Oh
yeah.  Oh yeah, and then they better not, in  them times 
there, like if i go and invite this lady there and she tells
me she don't want to dance, she better not go dance with
somebody else this time, that was gonna be a fight.  Every 
time.
A. LOMAX

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.