Jean: I suppose she hadn't. . . .My mother has told me what
happened. My father actually took her away - he made her go
with him. He just feared her. She was only sixteen and he'd had
his eye upon her for sometime. And he even came and stayed with
them. And then the rest of the boys were jealous, you see. And
then she went away to shop one morning and he got her going; and
he threatened her and said if she went back he would tell lies
on her. Of course, she started to greet - she was that young -
and he threatened her, and she went away with him andthey were
married in Aberdeen.
Lomax: He frightened her?
Jean: He said he would go back and tell lies on her, you see.
Lomax: What kind of lies?
Jean: Lies, I suppose. . . He could tell lies that would maybe make
people look down on her. He only did that because he was a lot
older, you see. But then he did it, because he liked her.
Lomax: And afterwards, she didn't mind.
Jean: Of course, I suppose she didna mind, because as far as
I've been told. . . . I know it's true because I've spoken to men
that's been in my father's company and spoken to women that has
lived in the company, and I know what other women have said, that
it wasna hard for my mother to like him. But everywoman has
said, "Jeannie, many's the time I would have gone away with
your father. He was a bonny man." So I know that it wasna
hard for her to like him.
Lomax: So it was your mother that looked after everything in
your family. She was the responsible one. The one that took
care of the children?
Jean: Yes, you see, my father. . . As I said, he had a big weakness
and he couldna help it, and he couldna live without his drink.
Well, he would say to my mother, "I'm going to such a place, maybe
for a fortnight." My mother was lucky, she said, if she saw him
six weeks together. She had to look after her family.
Lomax: How didshe earn a living?
Jean: She canvassed herself. My mother always lookit for herself.
And she's the gift of the gab, and that was a great thing. She
could speak --- and she was a very nice looking woman. She was
much liked among everybody, too.
Lomax: She had how many children by your father?
Jean: Five, and two to her second husband. I'm the last of the
first family.
Lomax: Girls or boys?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.