she gave me this stuff to drink, and she said, "That's for your
head.". . . .What a wicked dream! I said, "I don't want no more of
that drug. It was worse than being ill. . . ."
Lomax: Have you ever dreamed about murder - people killing each
other, shooting, stabbing or fighting?
Jean: No. I just dreamed sometime back I thought I was into a 
strange place. And there was a young man come in - I thought he
was quite young - very nice-looking, and he had a gun in his
hand, and I thought he was desperate. I thought he meant to kill
somebody though they never did him any harm. I thought he took
it upon me. Running frae him. Hiding from him, and he was shooting
at me. O God. I thought when he finally did get me I knocked the
gun oot his hand. Then he took a knife and cut me with the knife,
and my hands was pouring with blood, with me fighting with him,
and him cutting me with this knife. When I woke up, the sweat was
breaking off me, and I couldna get to sleep again. There's a lot
of dreams I've always made something out of them. . . .
Lomax: Did you have any dreams or visions when you were sick?
Jean: Yes. I had a vision, and I'll never forget it to the day
I die. I was twenty past, and seriously ill. I was giving up.
One foot in the grave and the other out of it. My vision that I
saw - the only thing I do remember through the three days I was
unconscious -- I was 36 hours in fits and 3 days unconscious.
They didn't expect me to pull round, but as I'd been pretty
strong and not had any illness before, it was on my side. I had
a son and had fits through having the child, caused through
childbirth. I felt no pain, - I certainly felt nothing -- but
just before I came out of the fits and coming to myself, I
thought I was going away with another man. But the man wasn't
an ordinary man. I thought it was the Lord, I actually saw, and
until the day I die I'll always remember it. And like a lot more
people I was never that bad, never cruel to anybody or hurt
anybody, - but I didna believe too much in the Lord at that time.
But still, I didn't disbelieve. But I had an experience at that
time which opened my eyes. I dreamed that I was going away with
the Lord and we went up a steep brae - very steep brae. But he
went up to the very top of this brae, and I can even remember how
he was dressed. The robe he had on was pure-white, snow-white,
and very, very fine, and his hair was hanging down. And I thought
he went up to the top of this brae and it come to me that I was
only on the middle of the brae. Where he was, the sun was shining.
It was very pretty. But where I was it was turning duller. He
never spoke to me but was just beckoning to me to try to come to
him. Always putting out his hand for me to come to him like that.
And I thought I was tempted. And I thought the man was taking me
away from my husband. If I was dying, it was quite true. And I
thought I was going away with him but I stood in the middle of the
brae & he went right up to the top. And he beckoned me to come to 
him several times, and I was going to go up. . . . . . . .
- - - - - - - -

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.