Cox: They used to go and take 'em. . .They'd press you, they'd press
you away on this foting ground                  there. Press you away. What they
called the press-gang used to come and take 'em. An' I think -- I've
heard my mother talk about - they did to that. That sort o' died outright,
when she was right young. They'd press you away into the war,
you see; come and take you ift they wanted to. What they called
pressin' on you. Come and take who they like.
Lomax: Just pick a labourer out of the fields and go off with him?
Cox: Mmm. That was then. Course they don't do it now. I don't know
what war. I don't know all the song about it. An' there's one thing --
I don't know one song, an' you don't know a song not without a woman
being mentioned in it. There ain't one can sing a song in a hundred
without a woman being mentioned in it. I only know one.
Lomax: What's that one?
Cox: I only know one - Bala -- Balaclave I call it. I don't know
what - that's what it is.
Kennedy: The Balaclave Charge?
Cox: Yeah. That's the one. That's the other one I know without a
woman being in it. I don't know another one without. They all got women
in them.
Kennedy: . . .He's got stocks of sea battles, haven't you, Harry? You've
got no end of sea. . . .
Cox: Yeah. I know some funny songs, some of 'em.
Lomax: What are they, Harry?
Cox: Oh, all sorst of funny ones. You didn't er. . .  Blackberry Fold.
You ain't got that one, you haven't.
Lomax: No. . .  Kennedy: Blackberry Fold.
Cox: Yeah. Have you heard it?
Kennedy: I've heard of it, Harry.
Lomax: Sounds good. Sounds like a right righteous song. Go ahead,
let's try it.
Cox: Well, I'll just. . .just get it started off and you'll hear what
I mean. What ? No. (pause)
Blackberry Fold:
1) It's of a young squire in Bristol did dwell
And ladies of honour they loved him well,
But it was in vain, in vain it was said,
That he was in love with the bonny milk maid.
2) The squire and his sisters all sat in the hall,
And as they sat talking they heard someone call.
As they were singing the sweet morning sound,
Pretty Betsy, the milkmaid, came tripping along.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.