General Musical Questionnaire
(To be filled out, if possible, on all persons with whom you discuss music in the community.)
What kind of music do you like best?  Spirituals.  Why? The people prays them.
What kind of instrument or instruments do you like the best?  Piano (Used to play the blues. Would like to own one.) The Drums as rhythm background.
What are your favorite songs?
Gospel Books  1. Leave You in the Hands of the Lord
Gospel Books  2. You Got to Stand Your Test in Judgement
Hally  3. Jonah — strip toyah song
Halley-e  4.  Standing at the Station
5.  Don’t Let Nobody Turn You Round
6. Good Evening Everybody — Theme
7. Blind Barnabas (G.S.)
8. Stand By Me
9.
10.
What kinds of songs do you know? (Spirituals [checkmarked], jazz songs [crossed off], blues [checkmarked] , singing games [checkmarked], 
sentimental songs [crossed off], work songs [checkmarked] (Used to sing corn songs — now practices gospel songs at work.)
Do you play a musical instrument?  Yes  What?  Piano — by ear
Did you ever take music lessons?  No   What kind?
If you once played, but don't play now, what was the instrument?  Piano
Why did you stop?  After I joined the church — couldn’t play church songs
Do you like to dance?   No   Why or why not?
If you once danced, but do not do so now, why did you stop?  Quit after joining church — ‘cause if they’d caught me, they’d turnt me out.
What are your favorite dance pieces?
1.  Didn’t care — any of them
2.
3.
4.
5.
Chicken Scratch, Waltz,
Stock Time    x(Polka)
Charlestown      x(Scho Hische)
Ball The Jack    Square Dance
Black Bottom    Tom Cattin’ (Girls go clean to floor)
Fox Trot
Two Step  Buzzard — Lope Dip
Camel Walks —
Lindberg.
What songs did you know when you were a child?  
Go to Sleep Baby, Swing Low Sweet Chariot, Boll Weevil (Vera Hall’s version)
What songs do you want sung at your funeral?  Stand By Me
What songs do you think are wrong to sing?  Haven’t quoted the bible enough to find out. Just goin’ by what the preacher say. He say it’s wrong to sing the blues. Don’t know why.
Do you listen to symphonic music and opera on the radio?  Doesn’t know
What bands do you listen to on the radio?  Likes them — but doesn’t know the names
Who is your favorite musician?  Joe Williams — best guitar, Aaron Davis — piano.
Do you like singing in a group?  Yes   What kinds of singing
[All checkmarked]  (Choir singing,
Jazz Orchestra, quartets, hill billy songs, "Old Black Joe," and "Swanee River," 
Long meter hymns, Rally spirituals.)
Which do you prefer, Negro or white music and why? Both sides — person 
can learn from both sides —

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.