5.

The group that, after all sectional loyalty had thrown into the balance, was the most popular was the chaille-o band.  Despite the fact that Revoli has repeatedly insisted that h older brother Saeel furnishes the best mardi gras music in the w plaine of the Cul de SAc, last night as he heard the chaille o coming down the road he admitted that "li passer toute."  I entirely agree with him.  There is something about the melodies that accompany the sensual puffing and clicking the bamboo vaxines that puts the rest of mardi gras in the shade.  There are three vaxines.  One is an iron pipe, which car so to speak the melody, ---Condi pi pi, condi pi pi, condi pi pi nans trou stick the prick, stick the prick, stick the prick in the hole; the second is a bamboo pipe of about the same length (that is two feet, more ore less) says ---trou rougue, trou rouge, trou rouge--- the third which carries the base (a big fellow two and a half feet long and with a mouth that swallows your face when you set in to blow it)--- says simply ---trou---ou, trou---ou, trou---ou.  The singing is male and very exciting, in fact that coffee porters all over the Southern part of the island use the same tunes and the same accompaniment to encourage them in their work--- that and clarin.  But that's another long story.  

One links arms behind the major and his drummers, shuffles along with bent knees ONE two ONE two, and suddenly one is hunting one's enemy in the jungle; the major flings his arms out from his side crouches like a great bird about to fly and goes racing off through tall grass and you race after him hiding, running with your spear, ready to throw.  The drum beats or the puffing of the vaxine's measure your heartbeats.  There the enemy comes, his lights and his generals announcing him and his drums speaking against our drums.  One sings louder and suddenly the major flies away to one side and the enemy is gone from one's eyes.  One locks arms tighter and sings triumphantly and there is the enemy again.  This time we march triumphantly through his whole army and pull along with the magic of our rhythm and singing some of his weaker-headed adherents.  Then we wheel off by ourselves in the darkness behind a hut and dance a dance of triumph.  The singing stops (the tune has been carried for perhaps as long as fifteen or twenty minutes) but never the vaxines.  Presently some voice rises up with a new tune, continues serenely to conquer the arguments, the shouts and the babble of our disorganized little army until we are all singing again and off on another march.

An hour and a half of this and I was ready to go home.  But when I woke again at seven the next morning I could still hear the drums going from all over the plain.  This was only practice, advance notice of what is to come on mardi gras, -a little exercise. 

Well, here is my first impression of mardi gras and rara.  It is obvious of course that I know next to nothing about it.  But I have a month to learn about the details of the institution and nowadays when I am able to speak and understand Creole to some extent I have a chance to gather better material.  (The very first thing I shall do, of course, is to buy a better tape measure for measuring the dimensions of instruments, but I really need a Leica (as this overwritten letter so well testifies) to supplement my measurements.  Is there any chance that you could help me get a camera?  I need a Leica with an angle view finder because these people will not pose for pictures.  I should appreciate your help in talking to Strunk, et. al..

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.