18

peoples an chil'rens. When I was at home all of the older peoples called me
they chile cause if I knew any families my age I'd always spend the week-ends
with em an they all jes crazy bout me. I think I do by them jes like I
would chil'rens. Read to em an tell funny jokes an stories an things like
that. Oh God I could be so good to old people. (Warm, affectionate laugh)
I don't know. I always was thataway. I jes loves[old] old peoples. No, I never
knowed a grandmother or grandfather.

. . .I think this thing really had been a-workin ever since he got
sick -- was it in '42? When he was in Bellevue that time. Because they said
that it had been workin on him at least seven years. It's jes that it takes
a long time to git a person down. Then they jes named it as artharitis.
He was very sick. He couldn't move a hand an a foot -- jes like he was
this last time. Yeah. He couldn't move nary hand an nary feet. He was jist
in the shape that he was this last sickness. When he died. H e couldn't move
a hand or nothin. I mean he was that way for a whole week an it jist went
away kina. So they jist said it was artharitis. But thn it [*eve*] evidently
had kep a goin cause Huddie was the type that long as he could play his
git-tar he jist never thought about nothin else. Then after he went to
California -- he was there in '44 an '45 -- '45 I guess it was when he got
sick then. He jis never was himself no mo after that. Then after he come
home in '46 or '47 -- '47 I think it was -- when he go t so he couldn't move
his toes. Well that went on an went on I guess about two years. With his
feet crippled like that. That was in '46 when he first kep the cane all the
time. That copper cane he carried. Thass when his feet was numb.
Now I tell you: Thass what happened to him when he first had his
pendix took out. That was long time ago when we were livin on 52nd Street.
An we come down to Miss Barnicle's. That was when Miss Barnicle carried him
over to the school to make those records. An then his feet was kina numb,
his same feet an hands. He got very sick makin those records. We brought him

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.