Reverend Roe.  Reel 13.  P. 4

On one occasion, when they was about to break up the Baptist Church, the Christian Church, the Cameliegh ? Carmelite? -- they were about to break it up, and so the Carmelite preacher met me down there.  He come to my church, and when I got through with him, why, (laughter) he hushed; he didn't bother me and he soon left there.  And so they had me to come down.  I didn't go to the church to preach, but I went down to the Baptist deacon's house, and I taught them the doctrine and made them see it.  And that saved the church.  He was teaching on the generational baptismal and claimed, you know, that you wasn't saved until you went in the water and come out, and the Holy Spirit come to you after you come out.  You had to be baptized in the water to be saved.  He was teaching that doctrine.  And I talked to him, you know; the Bible said God shall give us all to be gotten, that whosoever shall lead and who shall have a everlasting life.  I said faith is the thing that saves you.  I said faith in God will make you willing to obey God's commandment, and when you become will to obey God's commandments, then on the ground of that faith He saves you, and then you don't go to be baptized to be saved; you got to be baptized because you are saved.  And to prove it, you know, I just spoke of the life of Abraham and the old Elias, see.  He never did offer the ( ?), but he was perfectly willing to do so, and because he considered in his mind to do that act, why, the Lord taken it as it was done and blessed him as though he had did it.  And the Bible says he offered up his son.

Well, I said, now when you become willing, you see, to take on Christ by baptism, on the ground of your faith, He saves you.  And then I showed them the fact if that was not so then the Gospel didn't meet man's condition.  A man might be lost in the desert where he might never be found, and if he wanted to be saved, how could he without no preacher there to baptize him?  He couldn't.  But the Gospel is fixed

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.