T-3454
TAPE '' 88. DAVIE STEWART.
This song I'm going to sing to ye is about Aberdeenshire, about
a small little village called Tarvis. It's a ploughman's song.
And, of course, I think you'll like it. . .
1) Come a' to me ye gay young lads and listen unto me,
I'll tell to ye a story without a word o' lie,
It happened since a term-time to Tarvis we did go,
To hae a spree and get some fun, the truth I'll let ye know.
2) My name I needna mention, it's hardly worth my while,
I dinna mean to ruin mysel' or spend my time in jail.
I canna work your horses or I canna hold the plough,
Or cuttin' bindin' harvest; but I can feed a cow.
3) Tarvis we for treckle (treacle) came as we were on the brose,
Some were there for beets an sheen (boots and shoes) and ithers there for clothes,
There were a few there that I did know and a few there knowed me,
But there were a lad among the lave (rest) he tried to bully me.
4) We're off to Master Phillips to have a little fun,
When I got snowy snairy (very chummy) with the maiden of the inn,
She was a lovely maiden, a maiden so she be,
Twa rosy cheeks, twa rolling eyes, a lovely maid was she.
5) Drunk as we were merry men and drunk we thought no shame,
Twas there I left a tavrin to steer my course for hame,
There I lost my comrades and on them I did cry,
But at that very moment a lad in blue passed by.
6) He told me very quickly that if I wouldn't hold my tongue
He'd take me into custody and that before long.
He took me by the arm and he dragged me toward the inn,
Right modestly we did fight but it didn't end in fun.
7) Surely I'm a prodigal or a villain to thebone,
To tear the coat right off his back and it no being his own,
When a shower o' sense came up my back and up the wynde I drew
(threw a big punch)
Right modestly we did fight, but I didn't like the blue.
8) Surely the folk in Tarvis think me aye disgrace,
When I pulled up to Aberdeen for to plead my case,
And when I heard my sentence I heard them like a shot,
Thirty bob I had to pay for my fine and fifteen for his coat.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.