[*B Jones*]
18228 Plummer Street
Northridge, California
May, 1963
Dear Alan - 
The first, and perhaps lasting, impression one gets of the 
footage is of dignity. This, even more than the fact that
at a fair number of points the footage is artistically
breath-taking, in the full sense of that term, and in other 
places so accurate & detailed in recording dance patterns that
it may establish a precedent in folklore research. As you've
guessed, I'm delighted.
There's nothing- absolutely nothing - phony or even slightly
off: no arty backgrounds - just tar black; no costumes - but
proud people dressed in modern clothes with shoes shined. The
faces are, without exception, beautiful & at points the photography
is equal to them: the lighting & clarity of Karsh - every pore
showing, but lacking Karsh's empty, success- admiration.
There's one close-up of the five of them that [may] I've never seen
equaled in still photography.  A close-up 
silhouette with a backlight creating a thread of light with jus
the lips moving, etc. etc. 
Added to this, the camera reveals [the] dances patterns far more
clearly than the naked eye. I was totally unprepared for this: 
I had expected loss, not enormous gain. But it not only shows
the most direct detail, but reveals patterns I simply had not seen. 
An obvious example was Mabel. Her dance turns out to be straight
1947 jitterbug & all close-ups of her footwork will have to be cut. 
What made her stand out was that, for the first time, I could see
exactly what the shout was - movement, timing, etc. - and Mabel's 
dance, which hitherto had passed as simply exuberance, is not the 
shout souped-up. 
With the buzzard lupe, the camera reveals a
sophisticated syntax or grammar of movement, and that this is not
pure improvization is seen in its repetition in all four re-takes we 
filmed. In a clap scene in Yonder Comes Day, it's possible to see 
the interweaving patterns.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.