go away back home in the bus, and I'm fresh the next morning.
You see, 'tis a hard life in one way, but when you think about
the years thats gone by, it's been a very happy life to me. I
wouldn't give up the road for anybody in the world. Because it's
a good life and a hard life, as I say, but I think it's a very
good life and a hard life, as I say, but I think it's a very
good life and open-air life to be a traveller or a tinker. My
father and mother was that before me, and I think I'll be that
till I die.
Lomax: Tell me about your ancestors - about the Stewarts. Your
family are all Stewarts? You have relatives all over the place.
Davy: Yes I have. The Stewarts - there's different classes of
Stewarts. There's Stewarts of Appen, Stewarts of Skye, Stewarts
of Inverness, but we're called the Buchan Stewarts, Aberdeen
Stewrats --the oldest one of the Stewarts would be old Donald
Stewart. Well I remember him as a wee boy. He used to go about
with his little white pony and cart, selling dishes, gathering
rags, and he wore a long white beard. He was a great piper, old
Donald. And then there was other brothers - every one's all dead
now. Old Jock, the oldest of the family died about two years
ago in Blairgowrie. All my cousins are in Blairgowrie. But
originally the Stewarts come from Struan. My father's father
was the old piper Jimmy Stewart, he come up from Lord Struan,
Scotland. That was the story I heard when I was a boy. And his
father - old piper Jimmy's father, was a shepherd or something.
But as far as I heard my people talking, and my uncles and aunts
all talking about the Stewarts, they're really far back long all
travellers. Jock Stewart died two years ago at the age of 84 and
his wife, they called her Nancy Capbell, she belonged to Argyllshire -
both had the Gaelic, and old Nancy, my aunt, she's a nice
old woman. She lived at Blairgowrie a long time. Her sons are
there now - they're all married - Alex Stewart, the piper, John
Stewart, and the other one went away about two years ago to
Canada. And everyone could play pipes or voilin or accordion
and singers.
Lomax: When these old-time travelling Stewarts got married, did
theybget married in a church? Or did they just jmp the broomstick -
have their own kind of marriage.
Davy: Well, not so much in the church. Mostly by a minister in
the house, their own house. They put the banns in, and when the
banns was putten in, supposed about a week to wait, they would
circle it up for a marriage, have the long table ready with
everything on it - then the minister would come and they'd get
married, and then they'd have the pipes playing. Pipes and 
accordions and singing and have a good drink and dancing all round.
But I've seen old tinkers and travellers getting married in a 
camp - maybe say about 60 to a 100 tinkers gathered. The marriage
would be held on the green - the camping place. The minister was 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.