BJ TAPE 34, p. 15

          But that white man laughed that next day when he got in 
that watermelon patch an' s-- ha, ha, he got in there an' see 
somebody -- Just know they had -- See, he had 'em 'mong the watermelons.
But he marked them.   He marked 'em for siddermons, ya see?
Um-hum.   He marked 'em for siddermons, [but still,] too ya know, he know
they wa -- not ta bother them.   Save them big siddermons ya know.  'Cause 
all white an' colored makes preserves.   Siddermon makes good 
preserves.  Huh!  An' siddermons is all in fruitcake, you know, you'll 
find it.
          He had a hard, he had a hard way to go with that watermelon, 
huh!  Furthermore, like, like my papa tol' 'im, he had no right to 
go nohow.   He had plen'y a watermelons.   Jus' wan-- Just' wan'ed 
to git him 'cause he was so hateful.   Tha's all, ha, ha!  Tha's 
all.   But he was so hateful.   Hum, um-hum!   I declare.  
People don't think . . .

[*STORY:  [NEHMIA] NEHEMIA BREAKS HIS GUITAR IN VAIN*]
          An' one time, Nehni -- uh, that's my uncle; the same Nehni -- 
him, him an' ah, some man or nother, they had a [fight] fu-- argument
 at a party.   Ya know, he's a gitar picker, too.   An' my 
papa's a gitar picker, too.   They're brothers, ya know.  An' so, 
at this big party that night, him an' this man had a argument.   I
don' know what it's about, but they didn' like one another nohow.
          An' so, Nehni, he played an' played.   An' so, finally, this 
man had left.   You know.  An' 'way 'fore Nehni did, 'cause they's 
kinda scared a ol' Nehni, ya know, he wa' kinda tough.   An' so, 
Pop-- ah, Nehni was comin' on back home.   He 'cided he'd come back 
home through.   Wouldn't come around the road; he'd come through 
the field, which was the nearest way home.
          He come on down through the field an' he got 'way over 
there in the, in the, the field, not very far from home, either.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.