-65-

The families vary the pattern of the plantation by using more
stoves, kerosene lighting; and two or three had electricity. Little attempt
is made to beautify the homes, even in those instances where homes have been
improved. Most of the homes present an unattractive spectacle. The rough
unpainted houses, erected with no view to beauty of design, are old and present
a general impression of decay. Where additions have been made to
allow more space, a room has been attached, apparently with only the thought
of accommodating more people. If there is a one-room log structure occupied
by a family it is, as a rule, not demolished to give place to a new house,
but is enlarged by the attachment of another room of rough boards. The 
plot upon which it stands is neglected, worn bare and hard.

Most of the houses employ all of the space for the needs of the
family. The walls are often bare or have the tattered remains of newspapers
or wall paper applied to them. Some are plastered with fresh newspapers;
now and then with wall paper. Furniture consists of a few unrelated worn
pieces, scuffed and scarred from long usage. Some of the more prosperous
farmers have obtained, with little taste, cheaper suites of furniture. These
families are few even among the larger owners, who live in singularly bare
houses. Pictures, books and decorations are rare. Three of the families had
pianos. The victrola is popular. The radio would probably be more generally
used if electricity were available. Second-hand cars of cheaper model are
occasionally purchased. Of the nineteen automobiles owned, 17 were valued
at less than $500. Two were models new enough to be valued between $500 and
$1000.

Thirty-nine families of the 201 families or about 15 per cent had
in their homes books other than those used by children in school. Twenty
families got a daily paper regularly; 10 subscribed to weekly papers, and

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.