Lomax: Was he a traveller as well, McPherson ?
Davy: McPherson's mother was a tinker - but I couldn't tell
you was he a tinker or no, but I know his mother was a tinker.
It's in the book of his history. Because Hamish was telling me
that not very long ago.
Lomax: Tell me, how young were you when you had your first
childish sweetheart. When you first took a fancy to a little
girl. Do you remember the first little girl you ever did take
a shine to ?
Davy: Well, when I was young, I didna run much in love with girls.
Lomax: When you were a little tiny boy, six or seven - you
don't remember anything like that ?
Davy: There was a little girl at school when I was at school at
Aberdeen. This little girl used to come out and maybe she had
a bag of swets, and gave me one or two sweets, and I would play
with her and chase her and ruffle up her hair, and she'd fall
and cry, and I'd lift her up. The girl was Bella Robbie, but as
she grew older I went away travelling the country. This little
girl belonged to Aberdeen, she was a town girl, and I lost track
of her altogether. I mixed among my own clan.
Lomax: When you all were running around in the glens and burns
together when you were young children - didn't you have any
sweethearts among your cousins ?
Davy:No, I never did.
Lomax: Did any of the other boys ?
Davy: Some of the boys had little girls to play with, but I'd
be away on my own. I like to be along a country roas myself
always. I was always fond of climbing trees, looking for birds
eggs, trying to get the young one's nests, rabbits. I was never
fond of running after the girls like that, no.
Lomax: What was the first real sweetheart you ever had. What
was the youngest?
DavyL The sweetheart ? Well, I used to court a girl in Musselborough -
that's south of Edinburgh - when I was in the army.
The '14 war. I wasn't very old -- about eighteen.
Lomax: Tell me about her.
Davy: I met her one night I was down in Edinburgh, me and a
cousin of mine. He's dead now, too. He was Big Tom Stewart,
a piper. He was a lot older than me, and of course, Tom was a
married man at home, and I was a piper in the band. The pipemajor
was old Charlie Grant of the Gordons, the 4th Reserve of
the Gordons. And our camp was at Dreghorn Camp, out of Edinburgh.
And we used to go down to Edinburgh on Saturday night and have a 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.