9
should have somethin that we want, that where the trouble comes.  Thass
the reason there is sooooo many grass widows in the world today they're
always reachin after somethin that they want.  Not what they need.  Anybody
that want to find anything that's any good to them the Scripture
said, "First seek ye the kingdom of God in his righteousness.  All these
thin gs shall be added unto you."  Regardless of what it is.  If you want
a husband.  If a man wants a wife when he git the kingdom he got it.
Jes like you go out to the place to wash.  Carryin your clothes to wash
em.  You've got everything tied up in that bundle whether anybody know
anything what's in there or no.  You'll find that when you open the
bundle everything's in theah.  That need to be washed.  Everything.  In
that bundle.  So everything you find, everything you need there is in
the kingdom.  That's all.  Jes seek th e kingdom of God an his righteousness
you'll find everything you need.  If you want a home it's in there.
If you want money it's in theah.  If you want peace you'll find it.
Jesus picked it up and said, "The world ain't nothin but trial an
tribulation but in Him ye shall find peace."  That's reason why I'm not
so much worried bout this tomic bomb they're makin now.  If you find
Jesus, understand, you'll be aaaalllll fixed up to dodge this tomic
bomb.  Throw em anywhere they please, you're not oneasy.  Cause as sho as
you're settin heah an I'm sittin heah you can trust God for His grace.
H e gon be wid you.  He said he would be with you in six trials an the
seventh. . . . . . . . . . . (?) Thass what I pen d on.
     Paul an Silas when they were bound in jail.  They couldn't even
g it a lawyer or nobody to peal their case.  Nobody to go on their bond.
Paul said to Silas, "You jes sing an I'll pray."  I don't know what he 
sang but I imagine it were related to the prayer that they sent up to
God.  When they got through -- they started bout twelve o'clock at night.
Thass reason I believe in twelve o'clock prayers.  Because there's
somethin bout twelve o'clock that causes prayin.  It was tole that God

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.