T3321
TAPE 72. MARGARET BARRY.
The Boston Burglar: Music
1) I was born in Boston City, boys, a place you all know well,
Brought up by honest parents, the truth to you I'll tell.
Brought up by honest parents and reared most  tenderly,
Till I became a sporting blade at the age of twenty-three.

2) My character it was broken and I was sent to jail,
My friends did join together to get me out on bail.
But the jury found me guilty, and the clerk he wrote it down,
And the judge he passed out my sentence, saying, "You're bound
                                                                             for Charles Town."

3) To see my old aged father standing at the bar,
Likewise my dear old mother, a-tearing of her hair,
A-tearing of her old grey locks and the tears came tumbling 
                                                                                    down,
"My son, my son, what have you done that you're bound for 
                                                                       Charles Town ?"

4) There is a girl in Boston, a girl that I know well,
And if ever I get my liberty, her company I'll shun.
From rambling or gambling or drinking of strong rum,
Now all you gallant highwaymen, hear to what I will say,
Never go out rambling at night, before the break of day,
For if you do, you surely will rue, your life will be like 
                                                                               mine,
You'll be sent to Dunblin for 7 long years to a place called 
                                                                       Charles Town."
- - - - - - - - - - - - -
Gra Machree:
1) Last night I had a happy dream, though restless where I be,
I thought again brave Irishmen would set old Ireland free.
And all excited I became when I heard the cannons roar, 
O Gra Machree, I long to see old Ireland free once more.

2) In truth we have brave Irishmen, as everyone must own,
The hero O'Connell true, Lord Edward and Wolf Tone,
And also Robert Emmett, until death he'd never give o'er,
O Gra Machree, I'd long to see old Ireland free once more. 

3) Now we can't forget the former years that lives in memory still
Or the boys of "98 who fought on Vinegar Hill,
With Father Murphy by their side, and his green flag waving 
                                                                                        o'er,
O Gra Machree....

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.