Reverend Roe.  Reel 3.  P. 1
I went to Louisiana to another Revival, and I preached there at a 
church, and it was called I believe, Protestant Methodist, and the 
whole church -- the chairs had become down. Yes sir, and well that 
happened about the church there now.
A: Well, what did you tell that made them change over?
R: I just preached the Gospel; I didn't say anything about the Baptists., 
I just preached the Gospel That's the only Work that God give us.
A: You didn't argue with them about doctrinal points?
R: No sir, I didn't argue with them. I just preached the Gospel; 
of course I preached the doctrinal sermons, and I was very particular 
at making everything plain as I could. And I found this: a man can
be too highly educated to preach to some folks; they can't understand 
it, you know. And I think the Lord culd use me best for those people 
because I was a little nearer to them, I'm not ahigly educated man. 
They could und rstand me; they could understandmy language.
A: Well, what do you think Christianity boils down to in the essence; 
it's not something complicated anyway, is it?
R No, no, it's nothing complicated. Christianity, when you boil it 
down, is nothing but love.
A: That's what I think.
R: That's all. Love. -- cause God is love. And whenever I can other 
Christians like, I'm trying to shape myself into His likeness, and the 
more I love, the more I become like God, and I believe that I must 
love all. I must love all, especially the household of Faith -- I 
mean all Christians. I believe that all Christians are one. 
I heard a man some time ago say that God scattered the races, and that 
we couldn't bring them together., and I just wanted to say to him they 
had gotten together on a central program and to stop them, He had 
either to scatter them or kill them, and He scattered them, but then 
He got another race after that, the children race and out of that race

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.