-60-

In 1930 there were 4,406 white and 2,772 Negro farm operators in Madison County.  In 1935 the number of white farm operators had increased while the number of Negro farm operators had fallen below the 1920 level.  An explanation of this lies in the increased migration of Negroes away from the county, the enforced and voluntary surrender of the land under the stress of hard times, and an increasing tenancy status for white workers and owners.  Both of these trends reflect again the serious competition of white and Negro farmers.

In 1930 Huntsville had a population of 11,554 persons, of whom 3,825 or 33.1 per cent were Negroes.  It is more industrial than most southern towns of this size.  Two of the large cotton mills have well developed communities of workers almost wholly dependent upon the mills for support.  The largest of these, Lincoln Mills, has as complete settlement: the mills, the mill-workers' homes, a church, a school, and a community center.  There are, however, no Negroes living in this community.  The mills employ a few Negroes, but only for such menial jobs as cleaning around the plants.

The racial rivalry has appeared even in the mills.  One Negro who had been working at the Merrimac Mills for fifteen years detailed the present work of Negroes as scrubbing the floors and washing the spittoons.  When he first went to work at the mill Negroes were employed occasionally on the pickers.  He said, "They worked them off the machines and put them on the yard."  Most of the work done by Negroes in the town of Huntsville is in the field of domestic service and unskilled labor.  There are few families with more than five persons, and the median family is 2.5.  Although Huntsville exerts an important influence on Madison County, the county remains predominantly rural.  There is no other town of sufficient size to be classified as urban.  In fact, only 17.9 per cent of the total county population is urban.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.