Q: TWELVE GATES TO THE CITY - where's did you hear that?
A: I heard about that on a record. I forget who - it was a quartet. 
Q: How about SAMSON and DEILAH ? 
A: I heard Will ie Johnson play that.
Q: Whendid you make up your arrangement?
A: Thatwas a good time ago.
Q: I was wondering why you  didn't record that for PERFECT.
A: Well, because I hadn't gotten hold of it.
Q: When you came up to N.Y.C. did you make any records?
A: The last time I didn't.
Q: There was a record company called Lenox.
A: I never did play for them.
Q: Tell me about coming to N.Y.C.
A: xxxxxxxxx I got to New York the first place I lived- got put up to live - was Marrimak, New York.  1940.
Q: When  did you come down to the city.
A: I came later on in the year- the same year I came here.
Q: Where did you live.
A: 169th Street for 18 years.
Q: Did you play on the streets.
A: Yeh, its a problem. Reason its a problem you see - we weren't allowed to play out on the streets. Sometime the police chase me and I'd take a chance and try to play again.
Q: Did you play out on the streets with other people?
A: No.
Q: What about McKinnley Peebles?
A: Me and him we played most times. We used to   go to Brookln sometimes, New Jersey sometimes, out in the streets.
Q: When did you get that property in N.J.
A: The first piece of property I got in New Jerseywas tweleve months after I got here.
Q: What about guitars?
A: I bbought a good guitar when I came here. It was a  Symplimatic Gretsch.
Q: What about the old guitars?
A: There ain't no use to talk about them. They were stole off me as fast as I could get them.
Q: Did  you ever gave a National?
A: I I had a National steel - three of them. I liked them   but one thing aboutk them- they were heavy to carry.
Q: How about the old Stella's
A: I never did care too much about a Stella.
Q: and a Martin
A: I owned about three of them before I came to New York. Around thanh the highest I paid for one of them Martin's was #36 - it was the size of my J-200.
Q: How did you begin to teach a new studen?
A: Just like I taught you!
Q: Did you ever find it hard teaching?
A: No, I never found it hard. The hardest I had was getting them to me. 
Q: How do you feel about the times now?
A: Just like I think about the times that passed.There was a time in this time. This here is the time in this time.
Q: Is life better for you now?
A: I don't know whether life is any better . I had the same life as the times that passed. 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.