BJ TAPE 26, p.11

Many good things.  An' so, an' so that's the way hit goes a-that
way.  An' so, an' .... that's the way hit goes in that way.
     So, an', an', an' just well to do, to turn it just like
it is so it won't come, ah, come damnation against ya in the
Judgment.  'Cause it's comin', every word He said, every hour a 
thought!  In every word, in every hour a thought, is comin' before
ya.  Is, is gonna be before ya.  That, that's why the tongue --
See, the same tongue that used to curse an' sing blues an', an' no
doubt say all kinda, do all kinda things, an' meant it; you know,
done it definite, was joy in doin' it, that same tongue, He can
change it, you know? To do His word.
[*(SEPARATING WORDS FROM ACTIONS & GOOD WORDS FROM BAD SPEAKERS)*]
TL:  If people do good things and say good things and also bad
at the same time, how do you reckon you decide whether that person's
good or bad?
BJ:  Well, it don't matter about the person.  That's the thing
about that.  It, ah, ah, now, [now, now] you decide within this.  Jus' say
for an intro (an instance), ah, there sometimes be's ah, ah,
drunk-drunken peoples, [out there] I say drunk.  They, they ain't doin'
no harm but they drinks an' they clowns an' they balls an' do all
kinda things, ya know.  All right.  [Then you set down] They be sittin' off sometime an'
talk to 'em.  An' right there through they talks, sometime I git
some of the greatest ideas!  You know?  'Cause they sayin' some
wise, considerable, great things.  You see?  Although it come out
a their mouth, [from] ah, a brutish mouth.  An' soon as they go, I look
back an' git my Bible an' look at it.  Ya see?
     Now, that mean this:  It's up to you 'bout listenin' at the
right part, ya see?  Ya know, when you [was] playin' these, ah, r-
records?  Ah, ah, blues?  There was some thing in, in those blues
is definitely true.  Definitely true.  That's up to you, you know, 
to accept the right parts see?, of it.  So that's the way it is, ah, 'bout

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.