4
my dress an said, "When you finish the dance I wanna see you." I 
said, "All right." I jes couldn't finish dancin, my heart jes went to 
beatin. Ha-ha! So -- he cut this piece short. You know, very short. 
So when I went back to him I said, "Do you know who I am?" He say, "I 
jes saw you dancin an I liked you an I wanna talk with you." I said, 
"You know me." I said, "Member Sandy Promise?" He said, "Yeah." I said, 
"Member the two lil twins?" He said, "The lil-bitta things that were 
there?" I said, "Yeah. I'm one of them." He said, "What one?" I said, 
"Martha." So oh! he groaned an got so bad said, "i jes can't 
believe it." So he started talkin to me from right then, he said, "Well, 
I'm goin to play for another party after I leave heah. If you'd like 
to go, I'd like to take you." Oh God, that was gainst the rule.X I said, 
"Naw. I can't go. I have to go back." He said, "Well, I'll come down 
an see you sometime next week." I said, "Okay." H e went on jes like 
that. Thass the way he left me an thass the way I left him. I went on 
back an I didn't see him. I jes didn't see him no mo. For probably 
about three years.It was longer than that. Much longer that that. 
We were in Shreveport. He come by the house. Somebody had done tole him 
where we lived. He had b een to the penitentiary. I had heard about it 
but it jus didn't worry me. You know. H e came to the house. I 
hadn't come from work. He passed me comin from the house. He had done 
lef his git-tar there. I come in. Mary said, "Guess who been heah?" 
I said, "I know." She said, "Who?" I said, "Huddie." She said, "How'd 
you know?" I said, "I saw him when he passed me. An I looked back an 
saw jist the glimpse of him. I saw the back of his head pass me. I jis 
knew the side of his face. I jes knowed his head." H e didn't know me 
again. It had been that long since he had seed me. Nooo. He hadn't 
seed me since I was at that dance.
Then he came back that evenin. I had done got ready. I was sittin 
on the porch. She said he was g oin take me up to the West End theah to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.