Pont Beudet, Haiti,
January 4, 1936.

Since December 31 I have seen five dances here in Pont Beudet.
This is a season of fete. Ever since Christmas
the drums have been going all over Haiti and a man would not have
to walk many miles from his home, wherever he lived, to find the
tambours or the manoumbas or the charopiers booming, clucking,
or groaning each according to his nature. It
is my affair here to describe the dances and their signifgance insofar
as I understand them now.

December 31st we had to stop recording at eleven thirty because
at twelve the singers and Circeron had to be at the hounfort to
bring in the New year. Cecile, Revolie, Dodo, Andre, and
I followed the Doctor past the sheds where the insane were singing
and talking through the lonely hours, down a little muddy path,
through an opening in the fence so narrow that both the Dr. and
I had to try several methods before we could squeeze our stiff
Northern bodies past the posts, across a miry flat where several
white thatched huts of the natives leaned against the moonlight,
to the tunnel where the drums were waiting for the mombo.
Presently she came, tall, black, statlier and somehow straighter
than the other woman although God knows their hed burdens have made 
them straight as palm trees, barefooted, dressed in a white
cotton dress supported by several petticoats that
fell half way down her calf, a white turban on her head, and paying
very little attention to me, --- a slight hesitation, no more. Then the
hounfort. A native house but with a floor. A long room with two
doors to the left as one entered, each leading to a chapel an altar.
The first room for the assembly ten by twenty, the others eight
by nine. (The other hounfort I have visited, one belonging to the
petro sect at La Selle is somewhat the same, except that there is
only one inner chapel room, slightly larger.) Cecile, the Dr., 
and I lined up against the far wall in chairs, the others, possibly
fiftenn in all (and during the evening all told I saw only
twnety-five individuals in the hounfort) stood about talking and
laughing until well after midnight. The drummers were knocking in
the pegs of their drums. The mombo and her assistant were in no
hurry about lighting the candles on the altars from the oil lamp
that is kept burning always on the floor of the assembly room. The
doors were kept shut or partially so during the lighting of the
candles, in one of which four young women who are being prepared
for baptism participated. At last, however, the mombo began to dance.
She whirled slowly about the rooms a few times, swaying and bowing,
her feet as precise as a premiere ballerina. She made libation before
kata, segond and mama, at the door, along the wall opposite the
drums. Then she kissed the ground three times before each drum.
Presently after she had danced for ten minutes, and she is by far the
most graceful and charming dancer I had so far seen, the others began.
Each one in turn kissed the ground before the drums, the others singing
the drums beating the Jean Vallou rhythm, and then bowed and kissed
the ground before the mombo's feet. There was the usual
stately and warm handshaking, curtsying, twirling, and embracing.
A few of us went into the chapel room on the left side and kissed
the ground before the three candles before the altar, touching first
our hearts and then the earth with our index fingers. A kiss before
another candle on the ground at the right wall, and before a square
basin of water at the rear. (this is Damballa)



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.