29
cause he tole me Never have it did. They all whenever you have some 
kina rare disease like that that nobody else has they wanna try to find 
a way to cure the next person which they should do. But I couldn't let 
em do [it.] a topsy on him an he didn't want it. I never would-a been 
satisfied. Uh--uh. I never would-a been satisfied. Huddie didn't want 
nothin to [disfig] disfigure his looks. Thass why I tried to dress him an 
fix him jes like I thought he would like to be. I had his full dress[s] 
suit on him, shoes an everything. I had him full dressed. Tux an dress 
shirt. I had his whole outfit on, shoes an everything. I took them from 
the house an gave em to the undertaker. I know he'd be glad to know how 
well he looked cause he really looked like he was sleep...Wherever 
anyone touched him you could see it on his flesh. When we got home with 
him. Yeah. It looked like bruised places. Every touch where peoples 
touched him. You know I done that all time, whenever I'd go to the 
coffin I'd pat him on his face. An you could see my whole finger marks 
on him. You know, the older he was embalmed I guess thass why. They have 
a new way of doin it cause he was jes as limber. You know, they used 
to be very stiff, jes like frozen. But he was jes as limber. I caught 
his hand an lift it up; it was jes as limber as it could be. Even when 
we carried him down home the same thing. He had a very good funeral here 
in New York. I was very well satisfied. An at home it was much bigger. 
You know cause everybody knew him there. All the schools they all was 
there. They let the school an everything out. We had the funeral out to 
Longwood at Shiloh Church where his mother an father's buried. He was 
buried right side of his father an mother. The lot was already paid for 
from the church. Everybody belongs to that church pays for their own. 
They have the cemetery right at the church door. The Baptist Church. 
I sure was satisfied at the way he was put away an everything. In New 
York his brothers from the church performed a ceremony with palm branches.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.