C/o Poste Restante
Kingston, Jamaica
B.W.I.
June 7, 1936
Dear Alan,
Your letter has just been forwarded to me from New York.  That
big old cow that is living in my apartment just sent me nearly thirty
letters that she has accumulated since I left there April 9.  I could 
kill her dead.
Nothing would give me greater pleasure than to have you here with
me.  There is plenty for your machine to do.  We have the money for the 
records, and so why not?  If you can find the money for transportation
the rest is easy.  get all you can, however.
Congratulations on your scholastic acheivements!!! I would feel
most disappointed if you didnt feel a little cocky about making Phi
Beta Kappa.  Only a man with ice water in his veins could be that cool.
Now tot tell you what I think of you.  You are an enthusiastic
youngster with lots of charm and future.  I am for you 100%.Feel close 
enough to you to cuss you out if I feel that way, but still have a
world of enthusiasm for you and faith in you capabilities.  Young as 
hell, but you'll get over that.
[*We need a movie camera with film. 
get it + I'll pay for it.*]
 I shall be in Jamaica perhaps six weeks longer. Boy, there are
things here to see and to hear! The upper class is worse that Nassau
in trying to hide things but I have found a way to get around them
and make 'em like it. One grows. Already since yesterday when your
letter came I have made an opening for you here. Bring along your full
dress. You can get into certain folk-lore things here by flattering
the upper class into showing you where it is. I am having great success
that way. When we get out into the country parts we can pull it off
and go native. After Jamaica, Haiti!! No fooling! I have already made
good contacts there.
Now as to how to find me. On Wed. June 10 I go up to Morant Bay
for two weeks. Dr. Stephenson there has found me some material and I 
go to collect. After that I plan to go to the most primitive part of
Jamaica, Accompong Town, the habitat of the Maroons. A letter in care
of Dr. Amos I. Foster will reach me at Ballaclava. He is the medical
officer there and everybody knows him. There is the nearest point of
contact to Accompong Town. But always you can reach me Poste Restante
(General Delivery to you) Kingston. I wont get it of course until I
get back to town, but I'll surely get it some time. Dr. S.H. Pottinger
63 Duke St. always knows where I am. As to sleeping places, I am at
present stopping with a white family from America. (California) Rev. and
Mrs. Gerald D. Hargis. 85 Constant Spring Road. If I am not in town you
can go there and they will put you up. Or see, Barrister Herbert Lindo
127 Tower St. is his office and he will look after you.. But of course
I prefer to know exactly and be down at the boat to meet you.
Maybe there are a lot of things I should say, but I am counting
on seeing you and then what I have forgotten for the moment can be hashed 
over.  Kindest regards to your family.
Most sincerely, Zora

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.