121 West Third Street
New York 12, New York
May 9, 1963
Dear John:
It is nice to hear from you and to know that things are going
well.  I hope you understand that you can discuss your and the 
group's problems with my sister as if she were myself.  She is a
very honorable woman who knows a great deal about how to help
singers, and you can trust her with many problems.
Remember that, by sticking to the old ways of dancing and singin
and speaking, you and your friends will always have something
that no one else can ever match you in.  Watch this carefully.
Do not permit anyone to make you "go modern."  You must think
about this carefully; you must watch it carefully; and you must
help the weaker and younger people in the troupe to stick to the
good old ways and to use the good old ways to build the new
routines you may occasionally have to use.  You and Henry with
Bessie's help can keep the group in line.
When you are not sure what you should do about contracts, you
can consult my sister or just send me the papers and I will
give you the best advice I can.
About the talking between songs; I think that it's important
to keep this fairly short.  Have short stories told, or a few
words of explanation given.  Why don't you try doing some of the
talking yourself?  Be sure not to be handkerchief-head about
anything.  Speak to all audiences as if you were talking to an
all-Negro audience at home that you knew and trusted completely,
not the way you would talk to white folks at home.  In other
words, don't bow and scrape and be timid.
As soon as I know of any work for you all in this direction I will
let you know.  My strong advice to you is not to hang around on
the Coast when your work there is done, but to go straight back
home and wait there until you are called to do something else.
I hope you don't mind my writing you in this way, but you seem
to want some advice, so I'm giving you the best advice I can.
Your friend,
Alan Lomax
AL:dh

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.