postpone them for a later letter, so as to get this off to you before you give up on me entirely. This has been a wild winter; I have been on educational closed-circuit TV twice and done several teachers workshops for various school systems; read a small paper at the Western Folk Lore Society where I met Roger Abrahams, a very nice and obviously extremely bright guy; am working with Wilgus on a folk music festival for UCLA in May -- Pete is coming out to it -- fortunately Wilgus is very efficient and my contributions have needed to be minimal since he and Ed Pearl are set up to do all the work. I have decided to accept the Valley State offer and will be working there full time next fall; I have a strong suspicion that this will just mean I'm working harder rather than the other way about since I find I cannot quite give up my UCLA guitar teaching in one jolt and will probably keep one or two classes for them. Fortunately, with the guitar business, I don't have to do much preparation but it still uses an evening a week per class. . . However, Dr. Carpenter took me over and showed me the new building we will be in next fall; I am to occupy (along with Fred Katz, the jazz man) an enormous room for an office which will have a permanent tape recorder, record player installation, a big table in the middle of the room with easy chairs, and my classes will all be scheduled there so I don't have to stagger around with all my records, etc. etc. all over campus. I can hardly wait.
By the way, I do have a whole other tape of that old gentleman Mr. Stone which I haven't even transcribed. I'll send the best bits of it when I have it done. Sharon Stone, his grand-daughter is off in the Peace Corps and I am sure should be consulted for permission if you really want to use some of his stuff. I will start trying to track her down and/or Mr. Stone; I suspect you should have some kind of document from one or the other of them before you print any of his stories. Let me know if there is any kind of form you have to have signed or anything; in the meantime I'll try to find out where they are.  Certainly my permission is available right now; he's quite a marvellous old character, isn't he?
Give much love and all to Anne and Toni, and tell Anne I will write her soon; I have some new Nick stories for her. He is in his usual great and curious shape. Corey is all involved in shaking the dust of high school behind her forever and starting college (though she won't be there physically till next fall). The Hawes girls have made their mark on Samoni by virtue of being unwilling leaders of a crusade to eliminate a dance they thought chauvinistic from a modern dance program. The ensuing hullabaloo brought the administration landing four-square on the small of Corey's back; the performance was cancelled (leaving the other members of the dance club in varying degrees of rage with both Corey and Naomi) and the Negro kids at school calling each other horrible names, depending on whether they backed C and N (in which case they were called "super-sensitive" and miscellaneous remarks passed about black Muslims) or whether they didn't (in which case they were accused by the other Negro kids of trying to "pass" and buddying up to the whites).  Poor old Corey has really been over the bumps (she took the brunt because she is president of the dance club) and I expect the whole thing has been educational but it has surely tied up the household for the past two weeks.
Well, I must stop. Love to one and all, 
Besd

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.