9.

Cox: Well, he was goin' to. . .Well, he swore about, he had a good 
mind to stuck him in the water. But he got it the next fortnight. 
There was somethin' comin' on, they dropped there for a 
- fortnight. He reckoned he had a good mind to drown him. Pay him 
that little lot, an' all his family. 

Lomax: How many people did he have? 

Cox: On the farm? On Mack's farm? 

Lomax: No. How many people did he have in the family? 

Cox: What, our lot? At that time? Oh, that was when. . .We were 
- I were at home - seven or eight of 'em at home then. They used to 
go away as they got old enough. . .soon as they got old enough 
- soon as they left school, they were packed off. Little bundle 
under their arm. They had to go somewhere - couldn't keep 'em. 
That's how they were kept going. One went one time, one went 
another - went to service somewhere, about a shillin' a week, 
somethin' like that. 

Lomax: A shilling a week?! 

Cox: Eighteen pence, some of 'em got. When they first started off. 
(laughs) An' they left school at thirteen. That was when. . .you 
left then, you see. Now they go till they're fifteen or sixteen. 

Lomax: You mean, your father would give them a little bundle of 
clothes, and. . . 

Cox: Oh, the old lady 'd rig 'em out, but they'd have to go without 
a lot of things. An' they'd get a little, they'd get some work, or 
somewhere to go An' that's the only way they could do, you see. 
They got. . .You can't keep 'em like that, not that time o' day, 
like you do now. I mean, you could keep anybody. . .It's different, 
'cause they're gettin' more money. 

Lomax: But your father would just have to shoo them out of the 
house, would he? 

Cox: He'd. . .They'd get a job somewhere, some pub or other. He 
never forced no one, like, that. . .He never forced any of them 
away. Course, they knew what they had to do. They had to try an' 
earn their own living, when they got old enough. Same as he had to 
do when he. . .I mean, he done his best until they got as old as 
that, an' then they had to try to so the best theirselves. (laughs) 

[*End of Tape 90*] 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.