Fisk, 14. 10. WILL STARK.
river, and they'd stand out there, makin two or three heaps.
And this fellow rode in front, they called him Charlie Farrow, his name
was Charlie, he says. He s ys, "Go on there, Charlie; go on there,
Charlie." Hesays, "Aye, aye, sir." And the other says, "Catch him,
Jim." And theothe one says, "Yessir, I'm [h]gonna catch him." And they
just skipped along and them other fellos says, "Catch him, catch up
with him." Snd when they got really behind, "Go on, go on up there,
Old So-andso." And when the ladies come ab ut, he say, "You ain't
cught him yet." "I'm catch him though." (laughter) He say, [Q]”go on,
Charlie." He say, "Aye, sir." He say, "[S]Come on there." He say,
"Aye, sir." That's what they say.
And he drove em just like drivin cattle. I'd stand out and look at 
em; I'd go out on the boat and run out  nd look at em. I asked my
father, I say, "Paw, did you ever be a roustabout?" He say, "No,
son, I never carried a stock of seed and a row of bale cotton in my
life." I say I didn't blame him. He say, " Well, it ain't bad.
Them boys what [wi]stant with that driver, or whatever you call him,
the ma e, they called him the mate -- and them old niggers what
was in say he ain't gonna hurt none of them. There'snothing on him
what hurt them.
They used to ship meat in great big boxes. Well, they had chain bars
what carried that on, and they'd   ut that boxe on the chain bar, and
it had a hand-stick, you know, too. And three or four of em at each
end and they'd put it ojn the shoulder and carried it. He'd tell
em, "Come on there, come on there." They just l[ookin] rockin with
em. And sometimes he'd holler "Come on there." And they'd all
running 
and they'd strike a little truck and[d] say, "Aye, sir."--Like
them runn n; didn't walk it...-them old roustabuts. But when a new
fellow got on it, they'd work him to death, and if he go it down the
river, they'd put him off and quit him off on the wrong side of the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.