Reverend Roe.  Reel 14.  P. 5
[*The blacksmith & the devil*]
had a shop near his home, and he shoed horses, you know, and welded
plows and things.  And for a while he didn't have any customers; he
got out of money, and he didn't have anything much for his people.
So he was standing out in front of the shop one day, and say, he says,
"I wish the Devil had me."  And so he went back into his shop the next
day, and [then] said he was a-working, and the Devil come in and told him,
"I come after you."  And he told the Devil, he says, "I can't go with
you."  "So why you said you wished I had you?"  And he told him, he
says, "Well I [in't] aint ready to go now."  And he the Devil [still] says, "Wel, now,
I'll tell you what I'll do.  I'll give you four wishes, and whatever
you wish'll come to pass.  And then after so long a time, why you to
can go home with me."
And he said all right, and so the Devil told him to make his first
wish, and he said he wished that he had plenty of money, just all the
money that he needed for everything.  And the Devil [had] give him a
pocketbook, and every time he'd want money, he'd wish for it and it
would come in that pocketbook.  And then he said to the Devil, "I
wants it to be so that no one can ever take any money out of this
pocketbook but me."  He granted him that wish.
And he went on and he had a plenty.  He bought fine homes, fine horses
and carriages, and they lived happy for seven years.
And [then] in the seventh year, the Devil come back, and told him, he
says, "You know, you told me that when you had lived happy for seven
years you'd be ready to go home with me."  He said, "Yes, Mr. Devil,"
he says, "But I've got to shoe this horse," and said, "you know, you
promised me that you would come and whatever I had to do you'd help
me do it."  He said, "All right.  What you want me to do?"  He said,
"I want you to blow the bellows for me."  Now he just are.
So the Devil went to blow in the bellows, and that was one of the
wishes


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.