[*Memorial to Flora MacDonald near
Hodigarry, Isle of Skye.*]

ENGLISH CUSTOMS & CEREMONIES
RURAL
The Horn Dances
   The Horn Dance which takes place at 
AbbotsBromley, Staffordshire on the Monday after 
September 4th, is a curious survival.  After the 
cruel forest laws of the Norman Kings, the death of 
King John brought a new era to England.  The people 
of Abbots Bromley were granted their Charter De 
Foresta which gave them back their land to do with 
as they pleased, and the dance was a natural expression 
of their thankfulness.  The six deer skulls 
complete with antlers and mounted on short poles, the 
bows and arrows and the hobby horse are kept in the 
church tower and brought out once a year for this 
symbolic dance.

ENGLISH CUSTOMS & CEREMONIES
RURAL
The Tichbourne Dole
   The Tichbourne Dole is given regularly 
every year on Lady Day, March 25th, in accordance 
with the dying wish of Lady Mabella, as it has been 
since her death in the reign of Henry 1.  When she 
was dying she begged her husband to set aside a place 
of land to provide an annual dole of bread.  His reply 
was to take a burning faggot and tell her she might 
have as much land for the purpose as she could walk 
round while the flame still burned.  In spite of her 
weakness, she managed to crawl over 23 acres before the 
flame went out.  The land is still known as the Crawls.
(ii) The Distribution:  Sir Anthony Tichbourne helping 
the oldest recipient to draw his dole.

HARRIS TWEED
The ancient custom of "waulk[??]
finishing of the tweed by w[??]
girls is hard work.  Nowad[??]
this work is done mechan[??]
Photos taken on the isl[??]
in the Outer Hebrides [??]
CAMERA PRESS (Pix-Ne[??]

HARRIS TWEED
The ancient custom of "Waulking", the
finishing of the tweed by women and
girls is hard work.  Nowadays most of
this work is done mechanically.
Photos taken on the island of Harris,
in the Outer Hebrides.
CAMERA PRESS (Pix-NY) LONDON

   The Hills of Donegal reach their peak 
in Errigal, 2,466 feet, from whose slopes, 
on all sides, lovely alternations of loughs 
and rugged landscape are seen, as in this 
picture looking across Altan Lough to Aghla 
More.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.