BJ TAPE 9, p. 31

[*GOOD STORIES OF B.J. FOSTER CHILDREN*]

they might cut the fool instead.  And white men standin' there
watchin' them like this one would think they were just happy and
they weren't happy at all.  You know what I'm talkin' about?
BJ:  Well, ah, they might not a-been happy at all, then sometimes
ya are.  Ya been used to it so long, ya know how ta -- I had a lil'
girl stayed with me once in Miami and her peoples had treated her
so bad; she gived away from one house to the other.  An' the lil'
chil' made me feel so bad.  But she sing the blues, but she made
me feel bad.  I felt so bad for her 'cause I knew her treatment.
She have been, ah, outdo's an' put, put out all night long an'
all kinda things' stayed out until they come it'd be the almost day;
she still sittin' out.  An' they have treated her read bad.  She
only ten years old at that time.
     So they wanted me to keep her, which I wanted to keep her.
AL:  How did this all come about?
BJ:  Well, she, she was just give away.  Her -- She was, ah, well
she didn't have no, no ah, she had a father.  Her father would
carry her about to diffrunt peoples to keep her, you know?  So.
AL:  But her mother'd run off and left her,
BJ:  Her mother, ah, no. . .Her mother wanted to keep her, in a way,
but after all, sumpin' happened, [she] they couldn't.  Her mother was the
wrong mother. [for] The mother [to] was the mother, to the mother.  See?
That's what I'm sayin'.  What I mean by that is, that this boy's
father -- This boy's mother was dead.  An' he stayed with his father.
His father was married to a young filly [Philly ?)] girl, see?
An' it was said that she had this chil' for him, which that was
her step son.  An' that caused a big flaw an' so they jus' kinda. . .
So he kept the chil'.  See?  An' so hit was his child.  Regardless
of who had 'im borned him, it was his child.  Just like him.  An'
he looked so. . .

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.