Roll 57 Frank Proffitt 2

(Frank) girl he was courtin' named Laura Foster. And there's a lot of
speculation as to what led him and his emotions to get away from him and
commit this crime. And some people to this day don't believe he done it.
I'm inclined to think that the evidence was all circumstantial, and if he
was held in a trial now, today, he wouldn't have been convicted. Anyway,
they think he was mixed up with the liquor, and promiscuous activity from
one girl to another and caught the... Pauline Foster came into the area in
March of 1866 and he caught a certain well known disease from here, called
syphillis. And then transmitted it to Laura Foster and then from Laura he
transmitted it to Anne Milton, and who knows who else. And anyway, he was
gettin' around there pretty good, seemed like, and when Anne Milton found
out that she had got the disease from Tom, and that he'd been seein' Laura,
it was a mixture of jealousy, and rage over the disease -- more of jealousy
I think , than it was any other emotion ....Way Tom was, I guess he was the
kind of fellow that was easily led. There's one speculation she might have 
said she'd have no more to do with him unless he helped to conspire with
her to murder Laura Foster, or she may have done it herself, there's no
way to ever know for sure. But in my opinion, it was those two main things
over there that led up to it. He could 've got Laura with..uh..pregnant,
and he promised to marry her, that's the way he got her off in the Bates
Place, that's where he killed her, it's called the Bates Place, he had
sent her a letter -- or I could say somebody else had sent her a letter,
-- and he said he'd meet her there and they were gonna get hitched up.
When they met, on a Friday, May 28, 1866, Tom came on another road, a differ
ent road than Laura did. She was ridin' her father's mare, she slipped
off that mornin' with a little bundle of clothes to go meet Tom. When she
arrived at about 5 miles away, at the Bates Place up in Wilkes County, just
across the Wilkes County line, Tom was waitin' there for her. That the way

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.