Lay My Burden Down
A Folk History of Slavery
Edited by B.A. Botkin
Foreward by Jerrold Hirsch
A Brown Thrasher Book

One of the classic works of American
folklore, Lay My Burden Down records
the voices of former slaes as they 
relate tall tales, stories of "hants"
(ghosts), legends of animals and men;
as they recall life in bondage, the war
that freed them, and the long struggle
for equality that began with Reconstruction.
During the 1930s, B. A. Botkin
directed the slave narrative program
of the Federal Writers' Project, which
recorded over two thousand interviews
with ex-slaves who ranged in
age from 75 to 105.  For Lay My Burden 
Down, Botkin brought together
nearly three hundred of those narratives
to create a rich, unvarnished 
portrait of lives lived half slave, half
free.

"Here are people - old and wise - 
talking over their lives, the little
incidents - sights and sounds, tastes
and smells - and the larger recollections
of the feeling of living in slavery,
being sold at public auction,
being selected to breed more slaves,
of working from can to can't ('They
worked . . . from can to can't, from
the time they could see until the time
they couldn't)" - Saturday Review.

"Lay My Burden Down is no series of
atrocities and certainly no idyll. . . .
The workaday world comes clear; the
tanning, knitting, carding, spinning,
cloth-dyeing, shoemaking,
blacksmithing, plowing, hoeing, clearing
of new land, the cultivating of
tobacco, cotton, rice, and indigo, and
the cooking of the famed diet of
Dixie. . . . And suddenly across this
world will flash the bright colors of
melodrama - quarrels, fights, and
murders" - The Nation.

"The tales and stories make Lay My
Burden Down that rarity in the modern
world, a book that is to be
savored best when read aloud" - New
York Times Book Review.

B. A. Botkin, who died in 1975, was
one of the preeminent folklorists in
America, the editor of many collections
of folk tales, and for many years
a guiding force in the American Folklore
Society.

16 photographs
May, 328 pages, 6 x 9 inches
ISBN 0-8203-1030-1 (paper) $14.95t

When Roots Die
Endangered Traditions on the
Sea Islands
Patricia Jones-Jackson
Foreword by Charles Joyner
A Brown Thrasher Book

"A remarkable book about the life 
and language of the Sea Islands"
- National Geographic

When Roots Die celebrates and preserves
the venerable Gullah culture of
the sea islands of the South Carolina
and Georgia coast. Entering into communities
long sheltered from the
world by a blazing sun and salt 
marshes, Patricia Jones-Jackson captures
the cadence of the storyteller

lost in the adventures of "Ber Rabbit,"
records voices lifted in song or
prayer, and describes folkways and
beliefs that have endured, through
ocean voyage and human bondage,
for more than two hundred years.

"Jones-Jackson's sketches of her 
Wadmalaw Island friends and informants
are uniformly rewarding. In a 
series of gilt-edged portraits, she
introduces us to Gullah-speaking men
and women whom the twentieth century
is crowding out. . . . At the end
of this short book, the reader wishes
there were more. More tales from the 
lips of Ted Williams; more sermons from the
allusive genius of the Reverend 
Renty Pickney, who has memorized
the Bible;  more interviews with
fisherman like Daniel Dent, who can
call porpoises for miles around"
- Theodore Rosengarten, Natural History.

"Jones-Jackson's greatest contribution
is her consideration of language.
Although, as she insists, written 
accounts cannot properly capture the
vividness and vitality of linguistic
expression in a culture that is still
basically oral, she comes as close as
may be possible to accomplishing that
task" - North Carolina HIstorical
Review.

"When Roots Die brings the reader
into intimate association with the
inner workings of Sea Island African-
American life" - South Carolina Historical
Magazine.

Patricia Jones-Jackson, as associate
professor of English at Howard University,
died in 1986 while on assignment
for the National Geographic
Society on Johns Island, South Carolina.
Charles Joyner, author of Down
by the Riverside: A South Carolina
Slave Community, is Burroughs Distinguished
Professor of Southern History 
and Culture at the University of 
South Carolina, Coastal College.

Illustrated
February, 224 pages, 6 x 9 1/4 inches
ISBN 0-8203-1121-9 (paper), $12.95t

12 Brown Thrasher Books

[*University of Georgia Press - Spring Catalogue*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.