24     THE AMERICAN MERCURY 
in general nullified Haitian sovereignty.
The Haitian army was dissolved
and in its place a constabulary
was "organized and officered
by Americans, appointed by the President
of Haiti, upon nomination of
the President of the United States."
The Haitian customs, which supplied
the bulk of the government income,
were taken over by the United States 
through the appointment of a General
Receiver empowered to "collect, 
receive and apply all customs
duties on imports and exports. . . ."
The President of the United States
also nominated a Financial Advisor
who was attached to the Haitian
Ministry of Finance and who, in
effect, was to control the ministry.
In 1917, the United States granted
a loan to Haiti under terms which
extended the life of the 1916 treaty to
1934, eight years beyond its original
expiration date. During the life of
this treaty Haiti was governed by
dictatorships, despite the existence
of a constitution guaranteeing some 
rights to the people. In 1935, following
the expiration of the Treaty of
1917 and the end of military occupation,
President Stenio Vincente rendered
the situation a little less farcical
by drawing up a new constitution 
recognizing his dictatorship and prolonging
his tenure in office.  The
constitution was approved by a plebiscite
held after all opposition had
been terrorized, imprisoned or driven
into exile.  American interests were
helpful here too, because Vincente
had already acted to continue the effects 

of the Treaty of 1917 by placing
Haitian revenues and finances in the
hands of a Fiscal Agency appointed
by the President of the United States.
Article 14 of the new charter sets
forth the contradictory principle upon
which the present Haitian state is
formed:  "The government of Haiti
is republican and democratic. It functions
through the executive power 
directed by a president possessed with
the public power, under the authority
of which function the various organs
of the state and which is assisted by
the legislative and judiciary
branches."  In other words, the president
has sole power; the legislature
and courts are merely his "assistants." 
Article 31 enunciates the principle 
that "the president of the Republic
personifies the Nation."
Vincente, utilizing all of the weapons
of dictatorship, remained in power
until 1941. A large part of his personal
fortune was deposited in Belgium.
The Nazis froze all bank deposits
there in 1941, but Vincente's holdings
were freed after a suspiciously short
period, a fact which strongly suggested
the possibility of a deal between
Vincente and the Nazis.
With American backing, Elie Lescot,
Haitian Minister in Washington,
succeeded Vincente. The election proceedings 
were characteristic.  Those
Haitians who attempted to support a
candidate other than Lescot were
beaten and tortured. Deputies were
warned by the police that if they did
not support Lescot they would be
punished by him at his convenience. 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.