Mr. Lomax - page 2 

drums and houses of worship, songs sung to accompany the
sacrifice of animals, songs sung when the verver are placed
on the ground, and the like.  While in the plain I suggest
that you get kanzo songs also.  Another entire category in
the religious field are those for the twins and which accompany
the ceremonies for twins;  and I suggest that you
get songs that accompany the cycle of rituals for the dead.
May I also suggest that songs that have distincly European
flavor, and particularly Catholic elements, not go unrecorded,
since one of the most impressive aspects of Haitian religion
to me is the syncretism between African and Catholic practices.

Dr. George Simpson of Temple University, who has
been working with me on a post-Doctoral Fellowship of the
Social Science Research Council, will arrive at Port-au-Prince
about February 15th and will be in the city a few
days before he proceeds to northern Haiti, where he plans
to settle down and do a study which will check my own made
in the central part of the island.  Before he left here
yesterday I showed him your letter, and I am sure he would
be delighted to cooperate with you to the fullest extent.
He has with him the page proof of my report on our Haitian
field trip, which may be of value to you as indicating in 
a systematic form the general outlines of the cultural
matrix of Haitian peasant life in which the songs that interest
you are lodged.  I have also suggested to him that 
it might be mutually advantageous to you both were you to
plan to spend some time toward the end of your stay in Haiti
with him in the North.  He has procured the services of
M. Cineas as an interpreter, and I can conceive of no one
who would be better fitted to give you entree and make it
possible for you to obtain valid materials of the kind you
are after.  Simpson will be at the Hotel Oloffson while in
Port-au-Prince.  I do hope it will be possible for you to
get in touch with him.

And if by any chance you should get Mirebalais--
for it would be a great pleasure for me to know that some
adequate recordings had been made of some of the songs of
that valley--I hope you will get in touch with the people
I mention in the preface to my book, give them my warmest
regards, and tell them that it would be a great gratification
to me were they to get their best singers for you. 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.