Port-au-Prince, December 25, 1936.
Records 12-17.

At the eastern end of Grand Rue, past the Geniarme Post
and past the market is the section where
the biggest of the mardi gras bands begin their marches.
Revoli Polinice brought me there Christmas night to the
house of his cousin, (master of the second biggest of the
mascaron bands), where more than a month before the mardi
gras season the drummers were already beginning to practice.

On this night, however, I was to be shown another phase of
Haitian music. Past a few wretched hovels, of the sort that
the major portion of the population of Port-au-Prince inhabits,
we trned a wretched corner and emerged into a little
golden alley-way between a towering hedge of candelebra
cactus and a Haitian cay (house). It was six feet wide, this
front yrad and high-road and golden, indeed the whole scene
was orangey from the light of a [bycycle tire] burning bycycle
tire that hung among the cacti.

Two or three barefooted couples were dancing about in the
roadway, slowly and dreamily. And from the other end of
the little dance-floor came drifting the sentimental
nd melancholy music of the little manoumbas orchestra,
composed of four instruments and the four voices of their
players. There was the trios, a six stringed guitar, [with]
three pairs of [strings] similar strings, each pair lying close
together and sounding as one (as in the twelve stringed guitar).
The trois (plated by
Dieudonne C. Vital) and the voices carried the melody. Antoine
Minault sat on the the manoumbas he played. The
manoumbas is a rectangular box about a foot and a quarter
high, two and a half long and less than a foot wide. In one of the
vertical faces there is cit a square hole across which has been
set a bar of iron. In this bar five iron tongues of varying
length and thickness are screwed parallel to the vertical face
of the box. The player sits on the box, reaches between his
legs with his right hand and plucks the reeds, reaches round
his thigh with his left and [beats] thumps the box like a drum.
This instrument, I am told, is from Santo Domingo and has been
imported into the Cul-de-Sac from Santo Domingo by way of
Lascahobas and Hinee.
My informants tell me that it has only been known
here for three years and yet I found it in [L'] Acquin in the
extreme South.

The other instruments in this orchestra were the cha-chas---
two gourd rattles with little rocks in their bellies, and
the batons--two bones, clicked together (usually instead of
bones, pieces of hard-wood are used).

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.