BJ TAPE 3, p. 60

BJ:     Um-hum.
AL:     ...that was about all they...
BJ:     Yeah.                             They had plenty to eat. Um-hum!
[*SUNDAY (YOUTH)*]
An' then, sumpin' around 'em. An' some folks used to walk to
church, on a Sunday mornin' like this, [Sunday] ya know.  Walk this mornin'
early, by the time we got [there] up, they done walk so many miles.
You know, two and three miles; some further than that, accordin'
to which church they wanna go ta.   An' some ride, in wagons, ya
know, an' like that.  They could git -- always git -- them, you
know, the wagon to go to church.  You know? You get a wagonload of
people goin' to church on Sunday.  An' they would --An' they went.

[*OLD-TIME VS. MODERN CHRISTIAN ATTITUDES*]
An' they went for more than what the folks go for now.  They didn' go
for foolishness like people do for now.  They went, an' there's
more better Christians, "cause them ol' womens, and the mens too, they used
to meet one another in the street an', oh Lawd, they has the
best time, an' now, some of 'em, they meet one another, they
shun 'em to let 'em keep 'em from speakin'.  And yit they say
they're Christian, ya see?  There's a different in it, a whole
lot diffrunt.   An' way back then it is now.   A lot diffrunt.
         An' they didn't talk -- An' they had sumpin' against ya,
they would tell ya.   And, an' in the -- I, I prefer that today.
Ya know.  'Cause ya jus' can't res' good, ya know, if sumpin'--
I cain't.   Sumpin' in me against you, I wanna tell ya.   You know,
an', an' right from me, I can tell ya then, but wanna tell ya.
When the time, come, in a nice way, 'cause it better do that than
lay down with evil.   Jus' power of evil in ya heart. [will pull ya] Suppose you die?
You in bad shape! An' what Jesus [say] said, not to lay down with,
with, you know, in anger, ya see.  Not to sleep, not to lay down
an' sleep in anger.  You don't know how you gonna wake up in the

Handwritten in margin in red ink: OLD-TIME VS. MODERN CHRISTIAN ATTITUDES
SUNDAY YOUTH (CIRCLED)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.