15

had to be a certain point and the viscosity had to run real
fast, in other words the viscosity had to be real good and
the mud heavy enough to keep it from blowing out all over
the heathing shale.  And they start digging deeper wells,
you know they start going deeper.
A. LOMAX
The job of the guy who runs a chain around. . .
EDWIN
Oh that was very dangerous.  But, you see, they didn't have
no chain at first.  We had a star post.  In olden days they
had a star post.  The rotary had a hole in it and the star
post stuck in the edge of the whatcha-call-it with a star.
Every time the pipe got tight it would turn the star half a 
notch.  And they'd use that.  Now that was dangerous.  That
come off sometime and fly up and maybe hurt somebody.  Then
later on, they come out with the chain.  They put a spinning
chain, they call it.  What they'd do, there was a man
handling the cat head, and they'd wrap the chain up, they
raise the chain up and they'd spin the pipe tight.  And then
they had the cathead with a pair of tongs just like a monkey
wrench with a stilson, and they'd give it one lick and it
was tight.  But we've had on several holes that we went out
there when they used to have a light drill stem where we'd
twist off.  And then we had what you call "fission", you had
to fish, twist a pipe.
A. LOMAX
Did you ever see anybody killed?
EDWIN
Yes sir, yes sir.  We had one man killed like that (?), no
he didn't killed this one, I seen one killed, but this man
here, he was going in a hole so fast, you had what you
called a floating boulder.  When you goin' in a hole you
can't see, but we happened to know where that floating
boulder was.  When you come out the hole, it would float in
place of the hole, it would stop the hole up and this man
just forgot about it and he hit that pipe and the drill stem
was light, it broke about five feet off of that pipe at the
top, it flew out and hit the man  back of the shoulder and 
sliced all of his ribs off.  Now he lived, he lived to be an
old man, but all his ribs was gone on that side and that
pipe was just as sharp as a knife.  Well, I seen one killed
by a star post, one of them same things we had, a cathead.
They called it a cat head.
A. LOMAX

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.