[*3*]
[*67*]

He said: "Don't you hit him in here; he will sue the building."

Everything was in both our names, even the office. That night he
came back but I got there early and changed the lock. I said if
he comes in I'm going to take something and kill him.

At that time knew an actress, Billy Young, who was down on her
luck.  I told her to come down to the office every day and I would
try to give her something to do. One day she showed me her shoes
when it was raining--very thin soles--I didn't want to go too far.
I had planned to buy her some shoes, but I thought a half sole would
do.

After Harrison was gone, she seemed to know something about this
stuff. She had noticed the people would come to the office and
didn't want to cross the sill. She thought something was funny
because there used to be a lot of people around. We pulled up the
rug and there were four different colors of powder there--gray,
white, brown pink. This was some hoodoo business that Harrison
had done. There wasn't a piece of stationery that didn't have
some powder on. It was thrown all around in different places.
Was in the woodwork of the desk.

Billy was writing a letter to some of her boy friends and by
writing the letter, she had her hands on her face, thinking.
When she took her hands down, her face broke out. There was
another girl, Gypsy. She drank some water from a paper cup--
had an electric water cooler--this was before this thing was found.
After drinking the water, her lips got big as bumpers on a
box car.

I was kind of getting wise--wanted to go and see this hoodoo guy
whose name was Newby. One of these times, saw a book he had. Said
if anybody caught him with the book, he would go to jail--this
book looked like an encyclopedia. He said: "None of this stuff
ever fails." Every time I went over where he was, I wanted to
leave. I wanted to see this guy again, but he had moved.

(1929)

Harrison Smith had said I would lose everything I had. He had the
telephone cut off and for love or money I couldn't get it back.
I couldn't get a phone, that was the most peculiar thing I ever
heard and I still can't understand why. Lincoln stolen again.

Had a bus in storage; had about $600 of work to be done. They
did what they claim was $110 of work and they sent me a letter
on it. I said when the work is done I would get the bus. Went
back later on; firm had sold the bus for storage and I couldn't 
beat that case in court.

Went to see a woman named Mme. Moran--attended seance. Asked me
for $100 and got it. Pretty soon I was bringing big bags of food
there; then I was eating there and her husband didn't feel so good
about this. I was in a stupor. I just wasn't to myself in a 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.