1366 6

in the field there, they was around there:  "Do you're work!
You don't have no business be singing and all that.  You're
not thinking about what you're doing".  They had a lot of
things in those days which I guess there's a lot of people
that never could understand anything about life or anything.
Just like when I was coming up, if I go in the hear some old
people talkin' about stuff, you wouldn't go and ask them old
people what it meant, they would whip the hell out of you.
And that's the way it was all over, so everybody would go to
work.  Whenever you was working, you was working.  But they
always did have, ever since I known anything, they always
did have a little fun sometimes on the weekend somewhere.
Oh yeah.  Somebody would go and play a few songs, and like
when I was about-about fifteen years old, well they would
call us children. Well, some people, they had some people
that didn't know much about playing music, but sometime they
would blow a harmonica, like on Sunday evening we'd meet
somewhere and they'd say there was gonna be a dance for the
children, you know, I was fourteen, fifteen years old, you
go there and dance in the evening and have fun.  They would
play harmonica and maybe an old accordion.  But they
wouldn't get no good musicians to do that.
A. LOMAX
In those days, to go back to the problems between people,
you didn't dare answer a white man back, did you?
CANRAY
No, no.  You wasn't supposed to do that. Noooo. . .
A. LOMAX
He said something and you said yes.
CANRAY
Yeah, and then they had some of them. . .
A. LOMAX
You weren't supposed to disagree with the white man.
CANRAY
No, no.  No.  They was always right.  (laughs) And the next
darn thing, they had some of 'em-I seen. . .(speaks over
A.L.'s conversation with cameraman)  I seen they had some of
them uh. . .they had some the (unintelligible) like if they
meet a black man. . .
A. LOMAX

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.