Stories will be 
children's room of
      -----V----
Say" I saw it in The Daily Press"

ant in the air corps next Sunday at Columbus.
He is the son of Mrs. Ferd Rogers of New York City,
formerly of Clarksdale and has many friends here 
who will extend good wishes.

Autumn Styles emphasize WPB Regulations
Left, dark brown daytime frock with tassel trim;
center, gray wool with cross-stitching;
right, emerald green and black dress

Sartorial signs emphasizing the new regulations of the War Production Board 
were presented at a recent fashion show. The clothes modeled were a
happy solution of priority difficulties, and will please women with their lines  
as well as they will please the government with their conservation of fabrics.
The three frocks shown above are excellent examples of what the well-dressed 
woman will be wearing when autumn comes. At left is a dark brown frock made
of only 21/4 yards of wool. It has inserts of henna on the three-quarter length sleeves
and on the skirt, and there are dark brown tassels at the high neck and henna ones on the inserts. The gray woolen frock, center, also features three-quarter sleeves and a high neck.
It is a chemise - inspired style worn without a girdle, and cross stitching in red trims sleeves 
sand front. A minimum of yardage went into the making of the last dress of black
and emerald green wool. The sleeves are long, and the skirt is made in black with
a blocked effect which graduates into a front panel on the front of the 
bodice, which also goes around the high neck.

ed by Mrs. C.H.Bell, who will accompany her to Pine Bluff, where they will be the guests of 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank McNally. If you have guests, it is a 
former empl
Oil Co. in Clarksdale has made friends who will be interested
in hearing from him. He enlisted in February and has not yet
had a furlough. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. W.E. Orr at Lula.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. White 2269 Jefferson, yesterday drove to Clarksdale 
Miss. to be guests at a dinner party last night given by Mr. and Mrs.
Oscar Carr. From Clarksdale they will drive today to Chattanooga 
to be guests of Mrs. White's sister, Mrs. J.M. Dockery for the remainder
of the summer at her home on Lookout Mountain.
Mrs. R.M. Edwards, mother of Mrs. White, accompanied Mr. and Mrs. White.
Commercial Appe
Miss Mary Elizabeth Fite, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Fite of this city,
is a patient in the Baptist Hospital at Jackson
having recently undergone an emergency operation.
Her friends here will be interested to know that she is getting along nicely.
Dr. Lawrence Lowrey, president of Blue Mountain College, was a visitor in Clarksdale yesterday
and was the guest

Dance to the Music of Jan Garber 
and His Orchestra on the beautiful Plantation Roof

Stars Sparkle Over Peabody
The South's finest Supper Club-Memphis

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.