Fisk 25, 1.

Holiness Church.  Testimony by two women.

Precious ones, I'm glad tonight, to be back at the house for prayer.  Now I'm glad tonight for everyone.  But my soul is glad for Jesus.  I thank the Lord for our precious holy ministers of God and for our mother missionaries.  Thankful for the most high in vision.  Truly I'm glad for everyone.  Amen.  But I'm glad for Jesus most.  For He keeps me free from sin every day of my life.  Amen.  And have no mind.  Amen.  To do the things that's wrong.  I thank God for picking me up out of sin and shame.  Placing me on this king's highway to holiness and putting the will and mind in me to work righteousness, down here in this sin trying world.  For men and women, girls and boys here, you can't help but sin.  Amen.  But truly now I can report victory over sin and shame.  Amen.  Cause He's my keeper each day.  Amen.  I thank the Lord tonight.  Amen.  That he baptized my soul with the Holy Ghost and the Son.  I'm praying that He will continue for me.  That I may continue in the path of righteousness in the Lord take up and continue to pray for me.  Amen.  I want to say I thank the Lord for my pastor -- he isn't present, but I thank the Lord for him.  Amen.  Rev. J Fuller's my pastor.  Amen.  In Memphis.  And I'm glad for him.  Amen.  I'm glad for all tonight.  I want the saints of God to pray much for me, that the Lord will ever carry me on.  Cause truly I means the same thing.  For I know there ain't no going back.  Amen.  I lift up holy hands to God and be the humblest servant of the Lord.  Amen.  Cause these are evil days.  Put my strength in the Lord.  Amen.

* * * * *

Christian friends, I thank the Lord tonight for my being here.  I thank the Lord for what He is to me.  I thank the Lord He came to my soul eight years ago and saved me, sanctified me and baptized with the Holy Ghost and gave me a mind to run to Him.  I thank the Lord, for this thing

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.