2.
X Cox: (laughs)

Lomax: That's like that Up with the rigs and down with the jigs.

Cox: Yeah.  Oh, that was a song, you see, all that carry in with
the first start of it.  When he went to London - he went off to London,
he got neither shoes nor stockings hanging on his leg, an' away he
went, trudgin' to London.  This all happened when [w] he were there,
yousee.  That's what he found when he got there.  (pause) Like there
was an old bloke, there, old Neave, he come from - come from just
nigh there.  He'd heard that old song.  He say, "That's pretty true,"
he say.  "You go up to London," he say, "ye want to have wit[h] about
you," he says, "you do want wit."  He want to catch a train, a
certain train there somewhere, an' - an' the bloke that was there - 
I don' know where it was - it were at the station there or [?]
something, - an' he said, "You can't get that train."  "I - I must
have him" - he was a rummy little old fellow - he said, "I - I got
to get it", he said.  "I must get it."  He said, "You won't get it."
He said, "If I go an' stroll through here, I'll get it."  Well, he
locked the door, an' - an', "I never got it," he said.  He locked
the door, and he couldn't get out, an' he didn't know another way
to git there, an' the train went out an' left him.  "An' I didn't
get it," he say.  "You want wit," he say, "bout there."  (pause)

Lomax: Do people come up to London from your town very often, 
Harry?

Cox: Well, they do - they have done more o' latter years.  They
git, you know, trips up here, bus loads, an' - an', well that
sort o; way.  They have outin's.  They come from different parts, 
an' sometimes they come to London; you know, different places.
Loads of 'em.  But I - I never travelled about like that.

Lomax: Have you been to London before this?

Cox: Been [whree] where?

Lomax: Have you been here before?

Cox: Been here?

Lomax: Yes.

Cox: Ye-e-es!

Lomax: Lots of times?

Cox: Not here.

Lomax: [Not here] No, but I mean in London.

Cox: I've, well, I've been in London.  I've been to Broadcasting

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.