-101-

dren, said:

You ought to talk to my youngest son. That's a bad one.
He got three men to his credit. I mean he done killed
three. He just totes a gun for the sport of it. The
first man he killed in defense of his-self. Seems like
he got caught with this man's woman and the man pulled
a gun; but my boy got to his'n first and just pumped
lead all into that "nigger". They let him go 'cause
the other man pulled the gun first. Then he got to
messing about gambling, and one night they was down at
the barber shop. He was all lit up with this firewater
and got into a fight. Niggers knew he'd killed one man
and they was scared. Come running for me -- said, "Mr.
Bob, your boy down there totin' a gun everywhere." Well,
I was scared myself. He wasn't going to kill me long
as he knew what he was doing, but if he was lit up with
firewater he wouldn't know me either. By the time I got
there he had killed two "niggers". He didn't mean to
kill both, but one ran up in front of him, and he got
hit by accident.

Birth statistics indicate that the Negro population is reproducing
itself three times as fast as the white population. The birth rate per 1,000
population is 15.9 per cent for Negroes as compared to 5.6 per cent for the
white group. (1) But a high infant mortality rate checks the rapid growth of
the Negro population. The median size Negro family is 3.94 persons while the
median size white family has 3.97 persons. (2)

The population is augmenting itself slowly, but increasing rapidly
as a result of infiltrations from areas to the south. Cotton picking seasons
draw migrating city workers into the cotton fields, and the proximity to the
city is an ever present temptation to the young people to try their fortunes
there. The new patterns introduced to the rural areas, and to which migrating
rural youth in the city are exposed, are most often those encountered on a lowly
plane.

(1) Report of Shelby County Health Department, Unpublished
(2) United States Census, 1930

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.