[7/]
[71]

hit the notes up in the air with those mutes.  It gave the instrument a different flavor.  He (Oliver) mad his first recording with Erskine Tate.  Recorded for Brunswick

7) Before Freddie Keppard, there was Manuel Perez.  He was like Buddy Bolden.  They played strictly rag time. Perez was classified as the best trumpet player in New Orleans before Keppard.  Perez is a Creole; had a little band.

Spasm bands--those are any bands that are bad bands. 

In New Orleans there was a lot of ad libbing in ragtime.  They would do it, not because they had a regular routine was doing it, but because one guy would get tired of playing and let another guy do it.  They would take one from the other.  In New Orleans, they started the band by stomping first.  The guys would say:  "What's the matter with you--keep on stomping your foot?  Let's knock off and go." They would hit their foot again and stop the tune.

Drums would play in a syncopated form.  Not the same type of drum as today, much harder to play.  Played the same rhythm on the drum all the way through.  I played drums until 1929.   I had to teach every drummer that came in my band.  I played trombone, trumpet, piano, guitar, could direct, sing.  Did a lot of kidding and joking.  Clown bands a creation of my own. 

[1917] Manuel Perez, Con'd.  He went to Chicago and had a band there-- "Manuel Perez and his Creole Band."  Had a hot five combination.  Lorenzo Tio was clarinet player.  This was in 1917 or a little before Eddie Atkins trombone player.  Perez was considered best in New Orleans.  Played everything and was a very good musician.  Don't know if he recorded.  Understand he is still living in New Orleans.  Don't know if he is still living.  Wonderful disposition, swell fellow.  Played for swell affairs--strictly decent affairs.  Perez played strictly ragtime. 

If musicians wrote tunes, they kept them for their own private material which they would play on the streets when two bands would meet on the street and have a battle of music. 

Ragtime is kind of syncopated and only certain tunes can be played in that idea.  Jazz can be applied to any kind of tune.  Four-beat came into existence only in 1923. 

Billy M[e]arrera was a New Orleans boy who played jazz. Good bass fiddle

[H]Musicians didn't like to leave New Orleans.  Used to say:  "this is the best town in the world.  What's the use for me to go any other place?"

[(] Keppard and Perez came fromgood families.  Don't know about Bolden.  He came from uptown section of town.  Kind of loose section. 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.