[*1365*]
[*7*]
an accordion player, somebody beatin' their triangle or
sometimes just an accordian player.  They would be in a 
buggy, in a horse and buggy.  They had a bunch of Mardi Gras
in the back.  That was for the serious too. . .(?).  Long time
ago this neighborhood, they had the next neighborhood, and
sometimes they would happen to meet on the road there and
they would start some, some trouble, fightin'.  And that's
the reason they always had a-the captain had a white flag.
And then it was almost illegal for a captain have a red
flag.  Anytime they was gonna have somebody with a red flag,
if he needed another bunch.  They wasn't gonna ask no
questions, they wasn't gonna stop fightin'.  What it was all
about,, like I'm the captain, you need the other bunch, you
need the captain both them captain.  And they always had one
in the back too.  They had one, he didn't have no flag or
nothin', but he would keep his Mardi Gras in shape from the
back and the captain was in front like they come here where
the Mardi Gras would have been stopped about that second
post over there.  And the captain was gonna get there.  The
musician is not to fall apart from the captain.  So he come
and sees if you want to see the Mardi Gras, and they better
stay over there too.  So he kept the flag up, and like I
say, oh yeah, we want to let him dance in the front yard.
Well, he wave his flag, then they stop runnin' and they
would start singin' and then the musician play and they
would dance a little bit, and they would go on to the next
house, like the next house that they wasn't gonna go for it,
the captain go over there and check with the people.
Whenever they see the captain waving his flag, well that's
the time  for them to go.  If he kept it up, if he leave this
house and he have his flag up, they wouldn't sing or do
nothin', they would keep on goin'.
They had all kinds of ways, like they always dressed in
costume, .  In them times, like if I was in this neighborhood
and I was runnin' Mardi Gras, when they was, when we was
gonna get around here, you know, people knew my horse.  So I
would trade the horse with another guy and most of the time
they would use some of the men wearin' dresses.  Well, he
wouldn't take his wife's dress.  He would go somewheres else
and borrow an old dress from somebody else so they didn't
recognize who he was.  And that was pretty serious.  You was
supposed to keep that mask on.  Oh yeah.  Unless you had
trouble or something.  Or sometimes some of them people,
they would run half a day or not all day, they had something
to do; well, whenever they leave from that they go and tell
the captain:  "Well, I'm leaving".  And to make sure he
wasn't going with that mask, he had to give that mask to the
captain.  At night these other captains give him his mask.
A. LOMAX
What would they play when they came to the house?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.