Fisk, 13.   8. STARK

If they have got help from the white people here -- The Government send
in here for the po' people that not able to eat, they got to go to the white people to
get it. 

I remember here in '31, I believe, they sent a carload of meat here to
give the peoples that didn't have no work to do and didn't nothin to go upon -- they
kept it here until it spoiled, and had to burn it up, before they gave
it to them.  And the Government furnished flour and things here and they
even written on the sacks - Not to be Sold, To be Given Out.  They wouldn't give it
to em' they sold it to em.  (horror in the sad voice)
And our people, us colored people, we try to do what - uh - in the sight of um, we
try to do what satisfy them - we get along better, if we've in a tight.  Some fellow say, "I wouldn't
do such-and-such athing."  I say, "I wouldn't either if I didn't have
a family."  "I wouldn't work for what you work for a man like you."  "I wouldn't
either but, "I said, "I can do without something but them
little children can't do it & it wouldn't [beno ?]  manhood in me to walk off and leave
them little children. 
                              (end of section?)

While the shot and shell was screaming,
Upon the battle field -
The boys in blue was fighting
Noble flag [his?] shield.
Came a cry from our brave captain,
"Look, boys, our flag is down.
Move on [and seize it] the field & save it from disgrace."
"I will," a loud voice said
"I'll bring it back or die,
And place it in the thickets of the fray
Saved the flag, but he give his young life,
All for his country's sake.
They brought him back and softly heard him say --
[*cho*]
"Just bring the news to mother;
You knows how dear I love her.
And tell her not to wait for me --
[For?] I'm not comin home.
She knows there is no other,
Can take the place of mother.
And kiss her on the sweet lips for me,
And break the news to her."
From afar a noted general
Had witnessed this brave deed.
"Who save our flag, speak up, lads


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.