321

of vodun theology, and an important device in stabilizing the details of
belief.  The attributes of the gods which follow are the result of extended
discussions with folk who possessed all degrees of knowledge of the details
of the cult, and who were all active participants in it.

Legba, guardian of the crossroads, the highway, and the barriere,
the entrance to every house, yard or garden, is one of the most important
vodun deities.  He is generally conceived as a limping old man, clad in
tatters, but in his several manifestations has more specific characteristics.
This Legba Pie Casse is described as having paralyzed legs with arms held
stiff and crooked before him, and Legba Avardra is spoken of as a vagabond who
continually wanders the principal highways.  Legba must first be summoned
before any ceremony may begin, and when it was asked how LEgba could be
expected to come when called simultaneously to three or four or twenty or fifty
places, the parallel given was that of the multiple manifestations of which
God, or Christ, or a saint, is capable.  Legba, identified with St. Anthony,
has Tuesday as his sacred day, and the plum-tree is reserved for him.  He
"eats" a varicolored type of cock known as poule singa, marked like a guinea
fowl, and in this differs from other gods, who must indicate through a possessed
devotee or a diviner what specific offering among the things they favor
is wanted on the occasion of each sacrifice.  Though in southern Haiti the
smallest chick from each hatching is reserved for Legba, and at least once
during his lifetime a man puts aside a bullock or a male goat as a sacrifice
for this god, these customs do not prevail in Mirebalais.  Here, when an offering
to the gods is in prospect, Legba is included among the loa to whom a
certain animal is promised, and, as in the case with other deities, this animal
is thereafter under his protection.  But this is the nearest approach to any
special offerings for this god.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.