5. 

three - there's...I've got five sisters livin' now as far as I 
know.  (pause)

Lomax: And, Harry - what, er, where were you in the bunch?  Were
you oldest, or...?

Cox: Where was I?  A young - I, I, I was the last one - there was 
three more behind me.  (pause) Yeah.  I think there was three - 
three more younger.

Lomax: Did your mother - did you mother give you all a lot of
time, or was she too busy?  Did she...?

Cox: We were looked after, fairly.

Lomax: I mean, did she rock you when you were babies?

Cox: That I don't remember...No - I don't...I think we were, you
know, kind o' roughed that way.  They didn't have the fancies theu
have today, not with children.  Cartin' o' 'em about.  That's one
thing about it; you never got them on bike - biking up an' down.
the road, same as you do now, 'cause there weren't a bike on the
road.  Never see a bike.  Yet a car - 
Never see a motor car, nor yet a bike; nobody had one, then.

Lomax: Well, how did your mother raise you?  Did she raise you by 
punishing you, or by persuading you, Harry? Did you get licked...?

Cox: No; I - we were - we never were - not used bad.  Never was
hit.  None o' us.

Lomax: Never were hit at all?

Cox: No; they never had - never had any trouble with us all.
Never did know [eh] when I was hit at.  Never were knocked about
nohow.

Lomax: Of course, you and your little brothers probably had a
good many scraps?

Cox: Oh well, we used to fall out among ourselves; you know how
we used to do.  We used to get wrong like that.  But we never were
knocked about by parents.

Lomax: Wasn't your old man...Didn't your old man ever slap you,
or...?

Cox: No, never.  I used to be a...I used to go along with him
everywhere.  I was his boy.  When I was about that there height,
you might say, I used to go along with him.  We had a boat on 
Barton Broad.  I used to go along with him onto Barton Broad after
fish.  Little old customer.  He used to have a net.  (pause) You'd
drop your net in, you know, an' have a haul.  You'd - you used to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.