Reverend Roe.  Reel 15.  P. 4

And so the old cat walked up and went to licking it, and licked all the blood off a her feet and her legs.  And the old man come in, why, she was all right.  He looked at her feet, and they's clean.  He said, "Well, you the best wife I ever had," he says, "I'll always keep you for my wife; you're obedient."  And so when he went off the next day, the old cat told her, "Now, you go in there and look em over, until you find a switch.  And if you find that switch and stir that blood," he says, "You'll find your sisters."

So she went in; she took that switch and stirred in the blood, and both of her sisters come up alive.  And the old cat says, "Now, you hid em," and says, "Now, you put em in this bag here," and says, "When the old gray horse come in," says, "you tell him you want to send a present to your momma," and say, "You just lay up on the old gray horse, and you turn the head back behind, and every time the old gray horse move to stop, you tell them to go to talking low in the sack, and he'll think it's you on behind him, and he'll keep going."

And so she did that and sent her sisters back home, and she and the old cat went back and had a fine time again.  But they still didn't have nothing to eat.  All the bread was gone then, but they just had em enough to have a pone a piece.  And she give one of the girls a pone of bread and told her to go out and try her fortune.

So she went out, and she got to a creek, and it was dark nearly, and so she ate the bread and drink some water.  She got up and went across the field, and she seen a light.  And she went running and she got to the light and she went.  And an old bachelor lived there, and she rapped on his door.  He told her to come in; she come in.  And he told her he was glad she come in, that he needed a wife.  He said, "I want you to stay here, and you don't have nothing to do here but just keep the house clean."  And says, "I have to go away every month to Georgia," and says, "You just stay here until I come back."  He says,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.