My Country, 'Tis of Thy People You're Dying
By BUFFY SAINTE-MARIE          (c) 1966 Gypsy Boy Music, Inc
(Intro. Ad Lib)

Now that your big eyes are finally opened, Now that you're wond'ring "How must they
feel?" Meaning them that you've chased 'cross A-meri-ca's movie screens, Now that you're wond'ring "How
can it be real?" That the ones you've called col-or-ful, no-ble and proud in your school prop - a - 
gan-da, they starve in their splendor!  You've asked for my com-ment, I simp-ly will rend-er:
My coun-try, 'tis of thy peo-ple you're dy - ing.
(In tempo - Moderately)

Verse 1: Now that our long houses breed su-per-stition, You force us to send our todd-lers away To your*
 ...schools where they're taught to despise their traditions; forbid 
them their languages then further say
That American history really began when Columbus set said out of Europe! And stress
That the nation of leeches that's conquered this land are the biggest and bravest and boldest and best!
And yet where in the history books is the tale of the genocide basic to this country's birth?
Of the preachers who lied? How the Bill of Rights failed? How a nation of patriots returned to their earth?
And where will it tell of the Liberty Bell as it rang with a thud over Kinsua mud?
And of brave Uncle Sam in A- las-ka this year?  My country, 'tis of thy peo-ple you're dy-ing.

(* Repeat as needed for each verse)
2. Hear how the bargain was made for the west
   With her shivering children, in zero degrees
   "Blankets for your land" so the treaties attest;
   Now blankets for land is a bargain indeed --
   But the blankets were those Uncle Sam had 
      collected
   From smallpox-diseased dying soldiers that day, 
   And the tribes were wiped out and the history 
      books censored!
   100 years of your statesmen have felt it's 
         better this way; 
   Yet a few of the conquered have somehow survived 
   Their blood runs the redder though genes have 
      been paled;
   From the Grand Canyon's caverns to Craven's 
      sad hills
   The wounded, the losers, the robbed sing their 
      tale;
   From Los Angeles County to up-state New York
   The white nation fattens while others grow lean.  
   Oh, the tricked and evicted, they know what I 
      mean:
   My country, 'tis of thy people you're dying!

3.  The past is just crumbled, the future just threatens 
   Our life-blood's shut up in your chemical tanks 
   And now here you come, bill of sale in your hand, 
   And surprise in your eyes that we're lacking in
      thanks
   For the blessings of civilization you've brought us 
   The lessons you've taught us, the ruin you've 
      wrought us!
   Oh, see what our trust in America's brought us!
   My country, 'tis of thy people you're dying!

4.  Now that our own chosen way is a novelty 
   Hands on our hearts, we salute you your victory,
   Choke on your blue-white-and scarlet hypocrisy, 
   Pitying your blindness, that you've never seen 
   That the eagles of war whose wings lent you glory 
   Were never no more than carrion crows; 
   Pushed the wrens from their nest, stole their eggs, 
      changed their story.
   The mockingbird sings it - it's all that she knows; 
   "Oh what can I do?" say a powerless few, 
   With a lump in your throat and a tear in your eye; 
   Can't you see that their poverty's profiting you? 
   My country, 'tis of thy people you're dying!
                                                         BROADSIDE #70

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.