-4-

[*63*]

a levee called levee camp people.  There is nothing 
to do on a levee except when the city is in danger. 

Roustabouts would never dream of striking on river 
boats.  They were just like in slavery.  And on the 
[other boats] ocean going vessels they were getting big money.  Longshoremen 
didn't get as much as screwmen.  I never heard 
of those guys quitting

[*1905*] 
I had developed to be a good pool player.  Dugan 
had played all the top notchers and he was interested 
in me.  He taught me how to play.  In New Orleans 
the good pool players was Buster Brown, Bama and 
Robert Braux.  In 1905 came back to New Orleans and 
beat all of them.

"Alabama Bound" had become famous all up and down 
the Coast. 

Any time I got broke, in a sporting house I would go. 
You usually get up five or six o'clock in the afternoon, 
or even eight or eight-thirty.  Not due to work 
until nine o'clock.  Worked for Hilma Burt (W). Tom 
Anderson's old lady. He was the most powerful politician 
in the entire South.  He owned two saloons; Hilma 
Burt's house next door to one saloon;  other was on 
Rampart and Canal St.  Played for Josie Arlington and 
Lulu White.

Big houses all in same block.  All stone mansions, 
from three to seven parlors, fifteen to twenty-five 
women all clad in evening gowns and diamonds galore.  
No poor man could get in. 

Worked for Willie Piazza (C).  Famous house, but not 
so big, about fifteen women.  May Wilson worked there, 
a good singer of everything including blues. 

Also worked for Antonio Gonzales and Gypsy Shaffer 
who was the biggest money spending landlady.  Worked, 
too, for Emma Johnson's Circus House - place where 
you got everything from soup to nuts.  Circus house 
made money by trickery, by naked dances. Put a screen 
around the players to satisfy guests, but I put a 
knife through the screen.  Did a lot of other uncultured 
things there that probably couldn't be mentioned. 
Done right in the eyes of everybody.

The minute a party was in, a button was pushed. Girls 
came right in the parlor looking like queens. 
      "Why, hello, boys. Where you from?" 
I hit the piano and by the end of the first piece, 
there was everybody there.  By the time I played the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.