Fisk, 23, 3.

hundred dollars. They'd all git together. All those big gamblers git 
together and the make the little gamblers, just the dollar gamblers, they
would gamble...You can't git enough dough. Five dollars throw down.
You'd pay five dollars and beat um. And those big gamblers there, thoes
big gamblers all behind them, you know. And if they don't like it,
sometimes them niggers git killed. Someone git killed.

A: Well, how'd you happen to get in your trouble, Alec?

R: Well, my trouble up there didn't start from this.

A: How'd it happen? What was it about?

R: Well, nothing. I'd never been in trouble before. But he come in
here, he come here and work. You know, to pass off. Some way I'd
git up one morning and got into the lake fishing. Had my Winchester
and shotgun. Killed alligators like they did do. I say I went
hunting today and I'm going away tomorrow. He didn't do nothing.
You don't tell, I'm telling you. He say, "I been to war and everyplace
on the coast. I been to war and I seen Germany, and when they turn
you loose, they turn you loose for keeps." And he laughed. Well, I
couldn't git a ticket for that kind of talk, I just kinda talk foolish,
that's all. You know the bed-go and I been to war and everything.
Come out of the thick and the razor, Had to my roll. Got in the 
door, sit back, hold my head and just go to bed. I believe going 
out there, I didn't know. He come in there and say, "Bully, bully,
why don't you come out from there because he didn't want nothing.
And you hurt the show." I say, "Well, he gonna get a timetable and
go." And I say, "I'll prove I cut sometime and they come over."
And I kept my head down, let um shoot all they wants. So just as I
had my head down, they thought
they had me like a bo'sun. Just caught, you know (laughter). Shot
the bed down, and I fell down, he fell down. And killed, just like
I killed. Say, I never got mad til I got up off there. When I got

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.