- 6 -
ones to the side..... just go across the floor like a
streak and they would get a hold of her- mind me to tell
you about a foreman I had one time, it's an awful good
story ......
Well, well, I'll never get my story told.  9  This Leslie
Marr....... [and I could see this chap's face growing grimmer
and grimmer.....(cough)].... and that way of sniggling away
with the girls...... they tried terrible to get their girls
in the dark and I came round just about that corner there
and this was the first pair that was going home, you see,
and I stopped this lad just for a bit of fun to myself.
"Have you a spunk"- you know what a spunk is, it's a matchbox -
I crackit it and lookit at him to see who he was and to see
the girl.  He knew what I did it for - and said "you
buggar".  Well, I came round the house and I'd a lamp and
I never had more fun in my life.  I wouldna let the girls
out without the man coming up to claim her, you see.  The
girls would come out the house..... (he's off mic.).....
"Who's going home with you?"   "Oh, it was.......(blank)
"Your lady's here"... I said, "Your lady's here", and he
would come up.  He didn't like to and I said "Your lady's
here" and the lads would burst out around the back there.
They'd be in fits and I'd an awful good man, this foreman,
this Eddie Matthew and he..... Ay, the thing's pretty well
through and I'm telling you another story..... The thing
was pretty well through when it came to me.... Oh, mercy,
I beg your pardon.... (He's gone back on the mic. now)
.... Well, he was sitting there - you should have told me
before..... I said to this Annie Cockman, and I said "Who's
going home with you?" and I said "It's Andy Matthew".
Pretty terrible shy, he said. He was one of the best men
ever I had, this man Andy Matthew, and when I called him up,
oh he came up at once with his head up.  He wouldna hae
cared a bit but he thought that it was the funniest thing

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.