6
Thass where the g ood part come in.  Such a deep thought!
     (Imagination and deep thought are wonderful things.)
     Oh!  What you talkin about?  (he sniffs)  You can jes
think about that person, that you all are together, an everything
jes happen while you think about it. . .Thass the reason I said,
A man don't all the time have to get no d ose connection with a
woman to feel good.  Jes the thoughts, an the care that he have fur
huh, the thoughts of what he could do if he ever git a chance,
will take care of everything.  Thass reason I say, A body don't have
to do everything that they want to.  (he laughs gently)  Jes think
about it so deep, an Oh God!  It'll take care of everything.  Stan
an look at it, an you'll swallow, (gentle laughter) take a long
breath!  You see, it jes thrills.  You can jis git a thrill out of
lookin at it sometime.  An if yo u don't be where you can see it,
yo u git a thrill thinkin about it.  Yeah.  Can't a man in the worl
say anything to you if you ain't thinkin about him.  If
yo u're thinkin about somebody else, he migh t jes as well go on
bout his business.  Thass right.  Cause if you're with him, you're
jes with him cause he's a human.  Thass all.  Not because you care
so much about him.  Ai n't no joy you're gonna git out of him.  He
may be jes a -hasslin and a-hasslin, talkin ever sweet ki nd of
thing on earth, an you thinkin bout who you could enjoy.  That jis
t ake all the spirit away from you.  He may be doin somethin, but
you won't be doin nothin.  Thass the reason I don't understan how
some women can be wid so many men.  How can they love one
person, you understan, an be wi d so many.  You can't do that.
Cause the mind, the whole heart and mind, is with that one individual.
An you know that thing'll take care of n ature, too, you know it?
You take a man that you love.  He may be gone twelve monts.  You can
jes count the time that you an him have been together, for enjoyment,


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.