being left, and them away and getting drunk and forgetting to
come back. Maybe laying down at the roadside with too much drink;
and men coming to the camping places when they knew the men
wasn't there, and the women having to fight for themselves
and things like that. You had to watch. You couldna go about
in those days in one or two families only. There had to be a 
crowd of ye.
Lomax: Who would be after you?
Jean: Well, it wasn't "after you." Maybe it was farms. In those
days farmershadn't a lot of mechanical instruments for doing the
work, and they had a lot of farm-servants, which was really very
mischievous. Well, here was a camp of maybe half a dozen fine
looking lassies and women, and it was a temptation to them, you
see. They stopped at nothing and would come in the midst of them.
Lomax: See what they could get hold of?
Jean: And some of them, if they couldna get them in fair play
they'd try bad. So that meant you had to have something to
protect yourself.
Lomax: You'd carry a stick or something?
Jean: Dogs and things like that.
Lomax: And the farm-servants thought because you were travelling
women that you werent' too respectable?
Jean: No, they didna think that. No, no. They just thought -
they're there - and we'll have fun for ourselves. Some of them
wasn't brave, they was only out to have fun for themselves. Some
of them was very rude.
Lomax: I bet they got some terrible cussings.
Jean: They just did get that!
Lomax: And sometimes they got caught and got terribly beat up?
Jean: Oh they did. They were needing it. These country yokels as
we called them, they were very stupid, and there was always a 
leader of them. They were alright if they weren't at a bar. But
if they went to a bar and then got a dram coming in, "Oh God,
we'll gae amongst them all here. Come on." That was the way
they talked. A lot of fighting out here.
Lomax: You-all didn't always win, did you? There were times
when you were out-numbered?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.