fortunately they seemed to be nice and sensitive guys and liked
the music/ So -- we will just have to see what actually happened.
Incidentally, a fascinating side-light; they kept insisting
on re-takes without live sound because one of the cameras they
wanted to use was extremely noisy.  So we would take it once with
two cameras and live sound; then they would play back the music
and take close-in shots with three cameras with the singers supposed-
ly singing with the music coming over the loudspeakers.  I told
everybody very clearly and plainly that this would not work and
it never did; but the interesting thing is that the entire group
would get started with themselves and gradually work around until
they were singing in exact syncopation with their own recording --
I suppose we will just have to move the film along to get it back
into sync.  But this actually happened on all six songs, so it was
certainly no accident -- on Yonder Come Day, for example, Bessie
would be singing "oh day" while the recorded chorus was singing
"yonder come day" -- the clapping was exactly to the off-beat
as well -- quite fascinating and a perfectly indescribable sound.
     Well, having spent two days on this after teaching all
week after the UCLA Festival I am in a state of total exhaustion
and still have to make the Monterrey festival next week-end.  If
we didn't need the money I sure wouldn't go; I have had all the 
festivals (which I never like much anyway) I want for some time.
Our summer business is still somewhat obscured, though I suspect
you will see the girls at some point and Corey for a  few days.
We love you and Toni and Anne very much; I hope the new house
is as nice as Anne says and that things are reasonably well for
all.  Love always,
Bess
P.S.  The camera men were talking about another session, after
these films are processed, for cover shots and possibly a ten
minute film of children's games and dances, which I had wanted
to include in this session.  The singers will be around for
another three weeks, so this might be possible.  Do you have
any reactions?  It seems to me that of all the saleable stuff
in the world, anything for children is the most saleable in
20th century America.
P.P.S.  Bary Olivier was down for the UCLA festival from San
Francisco and presented me with two excellent pictures of you;
I didn't ask him if he'd sent you copies, though I suppose he
has.  They are very good and should make good publicity pictures;
if you'd like to see them I'll send them along.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.