town at the bridge there, and we'll make our tea; andthe few
shillings I get through the day I'll gie to ye, and you can go
through a' the shops and try and get someham cuttings and do
the best you can, because I'd like a drop of soup on Sunday.
"Alright," she says. So the woman goes away and she's hawking
the houses all day with her basket and she's getting a few
shillings here and a few shillings there, and selling something
at the door - gets a bit of clothes for the children, wee frocks
and things, and boys clothes, and shegets a good lot of food -
some big houses give her bits ofcold roast and some's given her
tea and sugar and bits of butter. Now the woman comes down to
the bridge that night to wait for her man. But, och, she waited
there for about two hours - she couldna see him. She says, "Well,
it's getting dark and it's awfu' grim. I'll not stay longer here.
I'll go hame. I ken what happened," she says. "He must have
gone to some of the pubs and some of the gentlemen at the pubs
would give him a few drinks. I'll get awa'. He kens the way hame
himself." So she toddles awa' hame up the hill, and the old
woman at the camp says to her, "Where is Johnny?"
"Och," she says, "I left him at the toon playing awa'. I couldn't
be bothered to wait any longer, He'd keep you all nicht standing
on the road waiting for him. I'll awa' hame mesel'."
     Well, she maked the bairns supper - put on a kettle, and
they had a good supper that night. And they were waiting for
the man to come home.
     Now the woman goes to town next day and she's looking for her
husband and getting no place. She went to the police station.
"No. I saw the man playing alright on Saturday up and down the 
main streets and getting money from the shops." one policeman
says. "I saw him playing the hotels. He's a good piper that man."
And she says, "My Geordie's a good piper. He goes to all the
hieland gatherings playing - he gets a lot of prizes. Them
hieland toffs likes the pipes. And you never saw him?"
"Well," the policeman says, "He must have got a few drinks and. . ."
"Och, he hasn't come hame yet." But she went awa' hame to the 
camp and Geordie hadna come. . . .Now the scene turns. . .twenty
years later. . .
Anne: The same town?
Davy: No, the woman went away, she never got her husband. Till
twenty years after that - the girl was a pink of a girl now, and 
the boy was a young man - the girl was married, of course,
the woman's daughter and the wee boy, they were both married
now, twenty years after. The boy would be 23, the girl 26. Now,
she was camping through the country here and camping there - and
twenty years passes by and shecomes back to the same place. This
time now, she's getting old - her hair grey, like. And she looks
a long time at the son and she looks a long time at the lassie
and she says, "Well, well. Your father went away frae the camp

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.