Reverend Roe.  Reel 3.  P. 5
was preaching here some time ago one night, and I don't know, I just
got lifted up, and the people come up there and sit me down on the stool.
I hadn't been preaching there unusually long, but the people begun to
shout, you know and going.  And I've seen on some occasions when they
stops the preacher, when the people just get shouting and going, and
they just stops the preacher and sit him on down so they could keep it
quiet or they'd hurt one another.
But I believe this emotionalism, some call it, now I don't know about
that, when the Holy Spirit came down on the Disciples, they began to
calls, they's gotten up on the table, they said they's drunk, they drunk
on the wine, drunk on the wine (laughter) and they wasn't have any
saloons.  So they's something to it, there's something to it.  I  believe
the spirit of God gets on, and there's another thing about it;
you may doubt some things and be afraid of some things; when that
spirit gets on you, it makes you bold.  You just go on and say it,
that's all.  And you know this, it was so with the Disciples; it was
so with Daniel; it was so with the Hebrew children.  That's something
got on, and the faith of God held them up, and they talked and they
stood up.  They put their lives there in the fiery furnace, it didn't
change them.  Their face was so firm in the God they believedin until
the lion didn't bother them, the fire didn't burn them -- yes, sir, so
there must be something to it.
A:  Well, there is something to it.
R:  I know one thing; it brought me a long ways.  I know I have nothing
behind me to help, I didn't have no college education.  What little I
had, I just picked it up along, weren't much schooling, you know I 
couldn't have learned much.
He told my father - I was the best scholar he ever had and that's all
he'd done was to teach school.  That's what he told me father.  When
I learned to read, I could read.  I'd just pick up any book and read--

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.