of June.  They have received an invite from Newport offering their
fare and expenses plus a set per diem, but that's not till the end of
July.  We could probably find low-pay work out here, such as Idyll-
wild, but I wonder if this wouldn't be too much like marking time.
I rather feel they should save up their bus fare and go home and take
up the Newport possibility from there.  Ed thinks he might be able
to get them one or two small jobs on the way home -- one-night stand
things -- which would reimburse them for their bus expenses at least.
Please let them or we know what you think about Newport so that Ed
can start lining things up one way or the other; I don't know enough
about the importance of a Newport exposure to advise them.  Financially,
it certainly wouldn't mean much.
     By the way, the Newport letter was a classic; Alan Hjerpe,
who is working as Ed's assistant now is sending you a copy.  Bessie
brought it in to him holding it between finger and 
thumb and kind of dropped it on his desk, remarking that it was a 
kind of fancy letter and maybe he ought to look at it for her.
In addition to the most poly-syllabic letter I ever read in my life
if contained an analysis of the Newport Festival corporate structure
and addressed Bessie as "one who shares with us a deep interest in
the perpetuation of our folk traditions".  Alan, who is a duck, very witty,
charming, intelligent, absolutely unruffle-able and non-beat
(I do believe he may make some kind of sense out of the Ash Grove
if Ed can only hang on to him) was crowing with laughter over it.
I remarked to him that they only mentioned a vague
per diem and transportation and I wasn't sure how that would
go over with Bessie and he said, "Why I'm sure that's just the type
of recompense she had envisioned!"
     Last thing, honey.  I mentioned your neuritis to my friend
Boots, who is the physical therapist.  She has trained
under a woman named Dr. Rood out here who is head of the USC physical
therapy department and who has developed a new theory of therapy
which is being used out here a good bit -- with enormous VA hospital
here is doing an experimental program with it on arthritis, UCLA
is using it with children with cerebral palsy, etc.  Boots is working
with Butch now on his arthritis and getting very good results.
Anyway, having heard Boots sound off on traction (which she disapproves
of for most type of things), I mentioned your business and, after
my somewhat vague description, she said it sounded to her like a cervi-
cal disc and neuritis stemming from that.  She said it might be worth
your while to look into the Albany phsical therapy school (at the
University?) which is Rood-oriented, because the treatment is less
drastic, less immobilizing, less painful and gets
more lasting results that the conventional one.  Boots will be in New
York the end of May and I will tell her to look you up, if you would
like to talk to her; she is dynamic and somewhat bossy
and quite possibly you may not like her but she does talk horse-sense
about the way muscles work and even Butch is very impressed with her.
(I mention this because Butch as you know is the last man in the world
to be impressed by this kind of thing and in fact he doesn't like her
very much but she does respect her.  Personally, I get on with her very
well and she is most generous and warm-hearted -- viz Bessie.)
Anyway, having received oceans after Naomi's burn, I hestitate to do any more but
make a tentative suggestion that you might want to look into this; if
you do, I will try to get more definite information.  Boots says that
Rood theory is not highly regarded by the Rusk Rehabilitation people;

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.