BJ TAPE 7C, p.22

chillins (chitterlings) are so full of worms that...That proves
the hawgs are full of worms.  He's wormy.  [So you] See?  But we give 'em Jerusalem
an', and then, you know, [it'll] you keep 'em clean out.  An'
they love Jerusalem weeds, ya know?  If the hawg runnin, out, 
why, they git it theyselves, ya know.  But if they ---But like they
gonna kill a hawg?  They do jus' like peoples -- Like they would
a chicken.  They, they gonna kill the chicken, they put him up.
If he runnin' out.  They put 'im up an' keep 'I'm up three or 
four days.  A chicken, oh, in three days, he's clean.  An' but, you
take a hawg, you know, you take a 'im an'...But they'll put
'im up an' then they'll give 'im Jerusalem an' they give 'im corn.
Not, not very much swill, ya know.  'Cause swill makes a hawg
meat sof' an' [easy] easy to spoil.  An' ah, an' so, you can tell -- 
I can tell, you know when I have fresh meat that way.  You know,
when kill a hawg?  You can tell it that they...An' meat will soon
spoil if you raise it [on] off nothing but, what they call slop, but I
mean it's swill.  [All kinda,] All, an' ah', all kinda ol' stuff that way.  But
when, when you gonna fatten one an' gonna get 'is meat hard, you
given him corn.  Ah, plen'y a corn an' clean 'im out with, with
Jerusalem.  An', [an'] then, then you, you got some good meat that you
can smoke an hit'll stand an'...We never had to carry our meat
nowhere.  Jus' smoke it right there at home.  The sausages an'
everything.  An' that'll give the meat a good flavor, a good
tas', ya know, 'cause it's perfect cleaned out.
An' chickens the same way.  When, when they gonna kill a 
chicken, they ah, take 'im in and give 'im Epsom salts, jus' a
lil' bit, in the water.  An' den ah dis ah, ah red oak bark?
Offa them red oak tress?  Take a lil' bit.  I got a whole big
box home now.  I keep it 'cause it's good for so many things,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.