-67-

a steady migration toward the towns from the rural districts. Since the
depression migration toward the town has been accelerated. Direct relief in
food and clothing may be obtained easier where there are organizations functioning
for such distributions.

In the town sanitary conveniences are occasionally available in
the Negro homes. The lack of conveniences is especially noted in rental
houses constructed for low income workers. These houses are not wired for
electricity, and have no provisions for bath. Of 137 of these Negro homes
in Huntsville, 33 used electricity. Thirty-three families had running water
indoors and four of these had running hot water. About 76 per cent of the
families were without bath tubs, although it could be noted in some cases that
resources were not up to the actual standards of the family. Several owners
had built houses providing for a bathroom to be equipped later from savings.

More of the town families owned such things as books and musical
instruments. For example, in the small sample of 137 families there were
15 pianos; most of the homes had some books, - chiefly religious and school
books, with a few homes having fiction in their bookcases. About 30 per cent
read the daily papers regularly, and 15 per cent read the Negro weekly papers.
These families live within narrow limits of cash earnings. The average weekly
cost of food with reference to the size of the family was $3.40, and this
ranged from $2.00 for a single person to $5.00 for a family of six.

Huntsville, being an industrial town with a Negro population of
3,000, has its Negro professional class made up of the families of two physicians,
a lawyer, a druggist, an undertaker, and a number of school teachers.
The professional men are located near the little cluster of Negro businesses.
The section in which they are located is not the entirely segregated Negro
area sometimes found. At one end there is a white drugstore, well equipped

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.