6) They all took a bumper and they drunk success to trade, 
It's twice unto this cabin boy; she's neither man nor maid.
But if this war should rise again our sailors to destroy,
And the ships some able-seamen send our handsome cabin boy. 

7) It was through the Bay of Biscay our gallant ship did plough, 
And that night the sailors they kept up a blooming row. 
They took their bundles from their hammocks and the rest they did 
destroy,
And it was all through the groaning of the handsome cabin boy.

Lomax: It ended with her having a baby, I guess.

Jean: Yes, that's right. They all took their bundles and left because 
of the groaning of the handsome cabin boy.

Lomax: Where did you learn that song?

Jean: My mother, too.

Lomax: Did she explain the story to you? What did she tell you about 
it?

Jean: Well, she told us just the same as you hear it sung. She said 
it was really a girl al the time, but she wanted to travel by sea, her
mind was det on travelling by sea. And of course, she dressed herself
up as a boy, cut off her hair, and went on as a cabin boy. Course, the
captain, he must have found out. Then it happened. 

Lomax: She was a pretty wild girl wasn't she? 

Jean: Well, she must have been. But she could have been a good girl
because she had nothing to do with anybody but the Captain.

Lomax: But did your mother think these songs were kind of wicked
or sinful or bad, or did she not think so?

Jean: No. They werena wicked. These two love songs - I wouldna say they were wicked. 

Lomax: And your momma didn't think so either? She sang them to you 
young children without any ....

Jean: Well there was nthing in them that was really bad.

Lomax: Nothing more than normal. 

Jean: No - nothing but what was natural. 

Lomax: When you were a little girl you all knew where babies came from? 

Jean: No I couldna say that. I'd be telling a lie if I did. I'm 
fourty-five myself - and children at school could learn me yet!

Lomax: But when you were a little girl did you understand what the songs were about?

Jean: O well - I wouldn't say I understood right, but I mean, I knew 
what she was speaking about.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.