with two nurses, and she says, "I'm not going to be in this thing-
it's your turn next."  The villains.

Lomax:  Well, Jimmy, I notice that an
awful lot are about girls that fell in love with the ploughboy.
You know, they prefer a farmer or a ploughboy to a rich man.

McBeth:  It's a very complicated sppech.  I don't know how it is,
but they prefer a ploughman boy to a very rich man.  They were
brought up in the country with him...

Lomax:  But you were going to explain why they preferred a farmer....

McBeth:  Because they were in the kitchen with him.  They got
their meatin the kitchen in those days.  Some farms had no bothies.
The farmer, when they engaged the men to six months work, they fed
them in the kitchen, and there was a kitchen girl there, a servant-
girl there, engaged for the six months, and she was dishing out the
food to them, and one ploughman of the nine that was getting fed
in the kitchen would fall in love with her and the word was... he'd
try her on, and sometimes he succeeded.  She would cast off wiles
at times - shove 'em off.  But they used to take lights and go to 
the girls chamber at night and slep all night with them.
Sometimes they were catched at that game.

Lomax:  What happened then?

McBeth:  The she got her ticket, her paper, sometimes without
acopper.  Gave them the sack without a copper.  They had to work a
whole six months.  They hardly got any money at all, in six months-
four pounds....

Lomax:  Good God Almighty!

McBeth:  That's a blooming fact - that's the truth.

Lomax:  That's an injustice, That's slavery.

McBeth:  Thirty years ago they did that.  Thirty years ago they 
stopped that.  It was in my time that. Anybody in Banffshire - all
around the North of Scotland.

Lomax:  And wouldn't letthem have a man either!

McBeth:  No - they'd take them back for that.  If they were catched
they were sacked without a copper.  Sometimes they'd go to jail
along with it.  Then the farmer he started to correspond with her.
Some farmers got in with a girl, too, and he would start and
carry on with her...

Lomax:  Well, how would you go about courting a girl like that.  
What would you say to her?

McBeth:  You'd say, "What about a walk out?" or "What about a
dance?" if there was a dance on.  They'd call it a ball.  If it

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.