(3)

HAITI'S ECONOMIC BONDAGE     23 

after primary processing. It has been
estimated that in twenty years the
Haitian peasants sold a million tons of
raw cotton to foreign processers for
the sum of $32,000,000. During that
same period, Haiti imported 750,000
tons of cotton goods at a cost of
some $80,000,000.
In short, Haiti's history for the
past thirty years has been characterized
by exploitation for which the
United States is solely responsible.

III

Haiti's economic bondage dates from
the time of the Marines' landing in
July of 1915. Prior to 1915, a minority
of a few thousand mulattoes, the
gentry of the republic, dominated the
political scene. With French, German
and American investors constantly
jockeying for economic privileges,
and consequently supporting opposing
political factions within the ruling
class, Haiti was in constant turmoil,
with periodic upheavals deposing one
president after another.
In 1914, the government of President
Zamor was overthrown after the
news leaked out that he had been
negotiating with the American minister
for a treaty giving the United 
States control of Haitian customs. 
Zamor's successor, President Theodore, 
was refused recognition by the
United States, and Admiral William
B. Caperton, commander of our naval
forces in the Caribbean, backed a successful
revolt against Theodore by
General Sam. Five months later the 

General's government was overthrown
and he was killed.  It was on
the same day that a regiment of
American marines and bluejackets
landed from an American warship 
and took over the capital.
The Admiral then sent a message to
the Secretary of the Navy in which
he set the tone for future American 
preference in the matter of Haitian
presidential candidates. Caperton said 
of Senator Dartiguenave, who was 
later elected president:  "Has never
been connected with any revolution,
is of good ability, and anxious for
Haiti's regeneration, realizes that
Haiti must agree to terms laid down
by the United States . . . says he
will use all his influence with Haitian
congress to have such terms agreed
upon by Haiti.  If elected, must be
sustained by American protection."
The American military occupation
of Haiti thus begun was not to end
until 1934.
Following the "election" of an
"amenable" president, the United
States took over financial control of
Haiti by means of a ten-year treaty
proclaimed on May 3, 1916.  This
provided that the United States was
to "aid the Haitian government in
the proper and efficient development
of its agricultural, mineral and commercial
resources and in the establishment
of the finances of Haiti on a 
firm and solid basis." Other articles 
of the treaty forbade Haiti from borrowing
money without the consent of
the United States, made it impossible
for her to modify her customs and 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.