3) Molly you were my                , my joy and heart's delight,
Oftimes I think of you when waking through the night,
You're the pride of this country, the rose of them all,
And soon I'll follow you, my own Molly Bawn.
- - - - - - - - - - - -
Breaks in to the Banks of the Roses. . . .
1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .clay
Rather than be married-o to any runaway
By the lovely, sweet banks of the roses.

2) O then I am no runaway and soon I'll let them know,
That I can take a bottle or can leave it alone,
And the man that doesn't like me can keep his daughter at home,
And young Johnny will go roving with another.

3) And if ever I get married 'twill be in the month of May
When the leaves they are green and the meadows they are gay,
And me and me true love can sit and sport and play
By the lovely sweet banks of the roses.
By the banks of the roses me love and I sat down,
And I took out me violin to play me love a tune,
In the middle of the tune o she sighed and she said,
"Arah Johnny, lovely Johnny, woule ye leave me?"
- - - - - - - - - - -
As I Roved Out:   Music
1) As I roved out one bright May morning, one May morning early, (2)
I met a maid upon the way, she was her mama's darling,
With me roo-rum-ra, fal-the-diddle-a,
Star-vee-um-pl-a-didle-di-dee-o.

2) Her shoes were black and her stockings white and her hair shines like the silver (2)
She has two nice bright sparkling eyes and her hair hangs o'er her shoulders. (Cho.)

3) What age are you, my pretty fair maid, what age are you my darling?
She answered me, quite modestly, I'm sixteen years next Monday morning."

4) And will you come to me mamma's house when the moon shines bright and clearly?
Oh open the door and let me in and dadda shall not hear us.

5) And when will you return again or when will we get married?
When cockle shells make silver bels that's the time we'll marry.
- - - - - - - - -
Seamus then repeats song, singing only verses, 1,2,3,5.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.