Tape:  #221 cont.   2

a whole lot of musical instruments, they didn't have any enormous
complex choral tradition as they did in Germany.  But there were
these spots where there was singing in harmony, in Southern England,
 in Cornwall, in Wales, and in the western part of Britain.
There was singing in harmony and that tradition which flowered in
the music of Bach.  That choral tradition which sort of. . .north
central European has been capitalized in this particular sacred harp
tradition and in nowhere alse, and this is very old. . . this way of
singing harmony is very old; and it is exciting that it is multi-melodic--
multi-melodic--and each of the part is an old fashion
powerful west European song like "Barbara Allan" and like the
"Captain Kid" and like "Soldier's joy".  And it's in the passion
for melodies that is so important in the British-American tradition
is alive here.  And I suppose the sacred harp work is one of the 
great collection of west European melodies and that includes things
that came out of the reformation and three or four hundred years
since that.  And then it's set to the poetry of the great religious
poets:  Isaac Watson, John Wesley, and Daniel Reed and many others,
who came along after them and who. . .we have to remember that
these reformation people were not just casual religious rebels;
they were political as well, they were fighters for freedom.  They
were fighters for the kind of democracy that were represented in
the sacred harp meetings where everybody has a vote, where everybody
gets to sing, where everybody gets included where nobody
cannot be anybody else.  The west European fellowship community
superbly representativeness in the. . .Well the other big thing
of course is the relation of the single individual to all eternity.
You know I think the most extraordinary thing that happened to our
ancestors when they landed here was the fact that the authority of
the established church was broken.  And it was almost more important
than the political revolution.  Every man had his. . . every job
was at his own bottom--spiritually as well as politically and
economically.  Every man had his own personal relationships: to
God, to heaven, to community, to morality; he was responsible for

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.