[*1901*] [*60*]
Went to Biloxi. Very sad at being put out.  Saw drama at Grand Theater by Baldwin Melville Stock Company.  Remember a part "Give me back my dead daughter's child."  That started me crying. She didn't want to put me out, I guess, only to curb me so this wouldn't happen again.

Went to Biloxi to my god-mother's.   From there to Moss Point.  Worked for three weeks there and returned to Biloxi.  Then went to Meridian, Miss.  Became ill with typhoid.  Returned to Biloxi on stretchers.  Had a diet of milk and whiskey for six months.  That is why I hate whiskey now but I still drink milk.

Returned to New Orleans after I was well.  Also made Pensacola and Mobile.  Went around playing pool and piano.  Playing piano fooled them on pool.  Learned in Biloxi to play pool.  Returned to New Orleans feeling quite a man.  Began hanging out with larger boys.  You can be a real man only if you take half a pint of whiskey, throw it up to your mouth and drink the whole thing straight down.  Was knocked out for three days straight (lay under the bed and at home + they never found him) That ended me up entirely with whiskey at that time.

[*1903*]
Played in sporting houses in Gulf Port, Biloxi. Met Skinny Head Pete, Florida Sam.  They was the best ones but they wouldn't work.  Were kept up by women.  From time to time the girls got after me.  Two or three girls fell in love with me.  I didn't pay much attention because I was interested in playing pool.  It was dangerous in these places.  Owner of the Flat Top in Biloxi was hit on the head with a pool ball, has been a little demented ever since. 

Played for Mattie Bailey, a sporting house woman.  Her place was for white people.  Always carried a "38" special pistol.  Often closed up for her because it was so dangerous.  Talk got around that there was something between Mattie Bailey and myself because I was always last man out.  I was threatened one night with lynching.  She was white and they thought she was intimate with me.  Decided this was a good time to leave.  Went back to New Orleans.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.