hung for stealing a horse; so she was sentenced to
death. She appealed; Cobald spoke for her, and there
were petitions and one thing and another, and 
eventually she was sent to Australia, and that's
where she died. There's a record of her death in
Australia. Anyway, she comes from our river, she
was a Suffolk girl; and a clergyman once wrote the
whole story -- you can still find it in the library, --
a long, rambling story. But that's only one of the
smuggling stories of Suffolk.
Lomax: You were telling me about how they used to hang their
bags outside the Dog and Duck.
Robts: The Button Oyster? Yes, well, the fisherman used
to do that. You see there used to be fifty or sixty
fishing boats belonged there, and used to get a rail
round the Buck Quay, as we call it - it's only a 
little landing place; and everyone of theose bags
used to be hung on the rail, and the fishermen went
inside. Well now, some of those bags had smuggled
goods in, see, and some didn't, and when the excise
men came down there, it meant sorting out the bags
of something like crews of fifty or sixty boats if
they were going to start at all, or else leave the
lot, you see. So the crews used to go inside the Buck
in all innocence and start drinking beer - used to have
pubs open all day then, - and there they used to stop.
And the exciseman used to come in and say, "It that
your bag hanging out there?" Well, you never knew
whose bag it was, nobody owned anything, and if anything 
was found they disowned it, you see. So they
never got any further with that. It was after that
they built the cottages now, which block our view to
the river.
Lomax: How long ago was all this, Bob?
Robts: Not so very long ago. Eighty years ago, fifty years ago.
Course, as times got on, you see, the smuggling became
less and less, until it died out, so they think, altogether.
Lomax: You're not implying that it still goes on down there,
are you?
Robts: O, I shouldn't think so, no. Nobody in Suffolk would
ever smuggle anything. They're not brought up to it.
But still, the thing is they always had the opportunity
there. One time of day, the Excisemen used to catch
them, or try to catch them, by burying themselves in

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.