Monday
Dear Alan,
     Herewith a clunk of family mail for you sent first
by John; send on as you think best.  He included a letter from you
(which I will get off to Shirley) -- I had been afraid you were
being deluged with free medical advice; please ignore that which
I passed on in my last letter.  It's all a kind of hex protec-
tive device anyway.
     Well, we made the movie yesterday; I have absolutely no
idea in the slightest how, or even whether, it came out.  I had
always heard that movies were made in a state of total screaming
confusion; this was no exception except that it was very quiet.
All decisions were made in low-voiced colloquy between the various
camera men (three); they occasionally forgot to direct the singers
and then the lights would go on and the sound would signal in and
the cameras would whirr and the singers would just stand there. 
Ted Carpenter, at a great disadvantage because of operating with
borrowed equipment, borrowed money and volunteer crew (all profes-
sionals and, I am told, very good), sort of wandered around and
asked me what I thought should happen next every once in a while.
So -- I went and got a jug along about two-thirty and the party
loosened up slightly but I still have not the vaguest notion what
actually came through those cameras.
     Anyway, we took various types of pictures of Adam in the
Garden, the Buzzard Lope, Yonder Come Day, Moses, Don't Let King
Pharoah Overtake You Before This Time Another Year, and Down
in the Mire.  There was supposed to be a long shot of every-
thing, and I tipped off the head cameraman what was probably going
to happen and who would likely do what, and I just hope he did some-
thing about it.  The singers were not in the best of condition;
Bessie's knee was still giving her trouble, Emma turned out to be
running a fever with a sore throat and various neck and back aches.
We lubricated her extensively with anacin, gin, coffee and something
horrible Bessie rubbed on; Bessie suggested gargling with alum but
I was able to steer her off of that.  They took a perfect revenge
on us by tearing into Yonder Come Day with real passion at the
exact second the two cameras had run out of film (we were
taking a cover shot with eighty feet in one camera and two hundred
in another and they were only supposed to do one verse.  Bessie got
that demonic face on and went for at least five minutes with the
whole group shouting and everyone in the studio cross-clapping --
the real great point of the day.
     Ted phoned later to say that, after two Scotches, he
was sufficiently satisfied with what had happened to go ahead and
borrow some more money from some fund for some other purpose that
he has his hands on and get the film processed.  He would like
very much, I am sure, to do the cutting himself but is offering
it to you for your decision first, being an honorable and sensitive
person.  He explained to me that he did not know any of the crew that
was sent over and had been afraid to throw his weight around to any
extent because they were perfectly within their rights to fold up
their fantastic equipment and go home -- they were lousing up their
Sunday for no particular reason that seemed good to them except that

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.