[*1366*]
[*5*]
CANRAY
I don't know.  'Cause you see, in them times we didn't have
no right to vote.  They didn't want us to vote.  You know
the black people couldn't vote.  And it all started
changing, oh, I'd say about 1950.  That's when we started
votin'.  Before that, you didn't have no black people
votin', uh-uh.
A. LOMAX
And Canray, You know, I'm from the white side, I was born in
the South and I know that my father and all of his friends
like the conditions that they lived under.  They thought
they were happy.
CANRAY
They thought they was happy.  Just like in Mississippi.  In
Mississippi, over there, they in a bad condition and they
think it can't be changed.  Uh-uhhhh. . . not around
Mississippi.  They had a bunch of people from around Basile,
Lake Charles and all about there and NAACP, they went down
there, tried to talk to them people.  They was gettin' shot
guns and everything.  Ran 'em off.  "We livin' all right.
Y'all gonna start some trouble here with us.  And they in a 
bad shape, I know some parts for sure.
A. LOMAX
You all had some trouble here when you stood for the first
time, didn't you?
CANRAY
No, no, no.  It wasn't too bad.  Oh they had a lot of
talkin'.  Just like one time in Basile there, they got a 
black church, black Catholic church and a white.  So they
decided they was gonna get a group of blacks to go to the
white church, see what was gonna happen.  And Lord, they had
two men that started raisin' hell after Mass.  What actually
happened, the priest threw them out of church, sure enough.
And "Y'all ain't comin' to this church, that's for
everybody".  And you take where Alphonse and them was at.
well, Whenever they would go to receive the sacrament, well
the white would go first, 'cause everybody go to the same
church where Alphones go'd.  And the white would go first,
and after that, the black would go when the white was
through receivin' sacrament.  So they had a priest that one
time said "It ain't gonna work like that".  He said "A
Catholic is a Catholic and there no such thing as you all
got to be in the back.  So Alphonse and them decided they
was gonna go, oh they had started a big mess there.  I think

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.