20

wouldn't wake up.  He didn't look like he was sleep but he jes had his eyes
closed.  So bout six o'clock I came out then to go see could I git a
doctor.  An I met th e man on the street, the onliest somebody we knew
there.  He said, "Where in the world is you goin this time o mornin? You
look so bad."  I said, "Well Huddie is very sick an I'm goin o ut chere to
try to git a doctor."  H e said, "Well you go back up I'll call one."  An the
doctor came.  An I went on upstairs.  An you know like the policeman have
to come. . . ?  Well I didn't know that then cause we jes had came here so
the doctor came an the doctor was there about a hour befo the cop came.
But they wouldn't move him.  So then the cop came an we got him an carried
him on to the hospital in the ambulance.  They rushed him jes as fast
as they could carry him to the operatin room.  The doctor had sat right
there an hour waitin for the police.  We was right at the 54th Street
police station.  I jes don't know.  It was jes that long he was settin there.
If you want one for anything you can't fine one.
       See, pendix do sometime kina make you have that dead side cause thass
-- I had the same thing when I had my pendix out.  They rushed him right on
in the operation room [?] fo we got him there good.  They carried him
in the operation room bout 10:30 an they didn't bring him down till three
in the afternoon.  They said he was the hardest person to put to sleep that
they every tried.  They said he had such a strong constitution.  I waited right
there till they brought him down an put him in the bed.  Then I went home.
That next mornin I went back there at nine o'clock an stayed all day with
him.  He stayed in about ten or fifteen days.  But he got well of that so
fast.  Then he never again that nobody knowed about.  He never said nothin
about bein sick till he had that artharitis.  In '43.  I guess that was the
first of the multiple schlorosis coming on.  Thass what I think.  Cause
he really didn't say anything else about bein sick till he went to Calif.
in '44.  In '45 he got sick then.  Then he came home but he wasn't as pe art
as he always been.  An thass why I thought it musta been langerin on from

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.