T3358
2nd half of tape
TAPE 106- TRWORCHY - (Cont.)
Shall I pass you? Right, carry on.  He let me go and I went
down the lane and into my house, and my brother was there by
himself now.  My house had been full upstairs and downstairs - 
he had opened the door to let the miners in for fear the mob
of police after them.
Lomax: They had the valley barricaded off did they?
Tom: No - it was only a matter of the police guarding there
on the front squares, and if they saw anybody walking and if
they were suspicious of him they would question him.  This was in
1926.
Lomax: You were all trying to have a union there.
Tom: We were.  We had a union.  We had a general manager there
and he sent some letters round to the Coal Co. - We were
under them then - it wash't nationalised.  This man thought he'd
have the sympathy of the workmen.  He was general manager over
a few pits.  I remember one fellow telling me 'What do you think
of it,?"  "I think nothing of it.' I said. "Have you had
a letter ?" "Yes" I said, "And do you know what I'm going to do
with it?" And I did it, too.  Now very little we knew that this
man was for going to work.  Now we were in our crofts getting our
coal then - just behind the houses where we were living.  Now this
fellow and another chap were working the next place to us, and
it happened this night.  I knew their place wasn't up to
scratch because you've got to start a place of your own and
the mouth has got to be - Good timber - owing to the
fact you don't go in until you get the real thickness -
about ten or fifteen yards.  Well now it was running thin, and
when it came to rain that place fell in and they were buried
inside.  So of course we didn't know less than that chap was
a genuine feller, and the consequence was in about two days
he went to work - now he was a blackleg you see.  If I knew
that he was going to work - I'd have left the bugger in.  But
there was another feller that was honest enough - we knew him
well - .
Lomax: Tell me - they didn't want the union in, did they?"
Tom; They thought it was bravado then.  These men that
thought - now we have the influence on everybody now, and they
were trying to please the big houses - this man W.P. Thomas -
and of course, by him and this Jones trying to get the
influence on other people - it was a feather in his cap.
There was a - Old George Slack - he couldn't find
enough coal to boil a bloody egg - he worked with us - and he
was more of a hindrance than a help - and I'll tell you, he
was stinking in his feet.  I always stood the other side if



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.