Fisk, 9. 4.

So the preacher kept aworryin her, aworryin, aworryin, aworryin, you
know. He didn't tell her he wanted her. He say, "That's all right.
That's all right." "Well, you go to do something. I get tired of
Reverend worrying me all the time." Finally he say, "All right. We'll
break him up.  All right." So this boy sent her off the her mother's,
and told the preacher that he had to go off that Sunday night. They
used to have service that Sunday night. Say, "Reverend," say, "I'm
got to go off tonight and I can't be at service." Say, "Will you come 
over here and stay here with my wife?  Will you come here Sunday night,
come stay with my wife til I come back because she's scared?"
Say, "Why, sho, young man, I'll be glad to." Say, "You know I wo ld."
Say preacher, "Don't you know I couldn't afford to turn you down?"
Say, "If you got to go off on business and like that, I'll be glad to
be of service til you come back, to be with your wife."
So the preacher hurried up and went to church, and he got up before the
people and say, says, "NOw I got something to tell you all I had happen
to me today." Say, "I didn't know, but I feel how high I am.  I didn't
know that I was [so] trusted that well. I didn't know I was thought of
as a gentleman."  Said, "Now somebody here whom I always put up with
says he's got to go off now on some special business and his wife set home by
herself and he asked me to come back and stay with her until he come
back.  And if you [will] all will excuse me now, I would like to go and
keep the girl company because I know she's afraid there all by herself."
"All right,"  they say, "Go ahead, Reverend, go right ahead, go ahead."
He grabbed his whip and off to the house he went.
Thepreacher went on up there and he knocked on the door. Said, "Come
on in, Reverend." The husband put on his wife's gown and nightcap.
"Do you want me to light the lamp, Reverend?" "No, no, no, no.  Don't
light the lamp."  So he snuggled off in the corner there the way they
do. Snuggled in, took the boy in his arms, pulled him over to him,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.