Reverend Roe - Reel 3 - P. 2

     Christ. And that Christ, He set up His kingdom in the world, and His kingdom 
     was made up of all of those that we could get out of those different nations 
     that He had scattered. And those who make up the church must be one -- the 
     Bible teaches that -- it's a spiritual house and all of us is material in that 
     building. That's all. And if we aren't united in love it would be like two 
     bricks laid on top of each other with no mortar to hold them together. It
     takes love. Without love, there can be no spiritual building.
A: When did you find that out, Reverend?
R: Well, (laughter)...
A: When did this feeling come down? I mean, when did you really realize it?
[*Knowledge from reading the Gospel*] 
R: Well, from praying and reading the Word. I laid on my back - I didn't have 
     lamps, didn't have no lights then -- I'd get pine knots and I'd put my pine
     knot in the fire and lay down on my back, you know, and hold that book up, 
     you know, so the light would shine up against it. That's the way I studied 
     my Bible. For many a night I lay there until the chickens would be crowing 
     for day. I'd read that Bible. And then I found this: a man didn't learn so 
     much studying, I mean reading the Bible. He had to study it. And I began 
     then to go back and study and study and pray. And, you know, since I had no 
     teacher to teach me, I just had to pray, and I know things come to me that I 
     didn't know. And they come from somewhere; it must have come from God-- No 
     other source which could have come but from God.
[* Holy Spirit talks through the Bible*] 
     I believe this: I read what God promise the Holy Spirit, and it said that He 
     would bring "all things new to your memory, whatever I have said unto you."
     That what He said this Holy Spirit would do to the Disciples. 
     Well, then I realized I had to make God talk to me in His Word, because I 
     believe when I read His Word it's just God talking to me. And then when I 
     get into a pulpit He promised to bring it back to me.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.