BJ TAPE 17, p. 22

Miz Liela -- the other woman name Miz Liela -- I wasn't there
that day.  An' they went down there.  The next day, I was there.
You see?  Ah, to, to her sister's house.  They was all talkin' about
it; I done heard it all good by then.  The baby was over there.
An' the baby was the devil, you see.  But not -- me not knowin;
where the baby come from, only I jus' figure God jus' give 'er the
devil.  Ya know, 'cause we didn't know where babies come from
then, ya know.  An' so, but anyway, she had the devil over there.
         An' then they had. . .They was talkin' about what must they
do with this baby.  An' she had -- I think the baby was around
4 or 5 days old. [*(SOUND FADES FROM HERE ON)*] Anyhow, he wasn't ah, he wasn't he wasn't 8
day old.  'Cause they, they sent 'im away from there aroun' 8 day
old, I think it was, see?  But anyway, ah, they talkin' about
what must they do with 'im.  An' they had a smokehouse out in the
back, made of, ah, lawgs (logs).  You know how ya make a [log]
lawg cabin.  Had a smokehouse out there.  An' that woman raised
up there in that bed an' tol' 'em to take 'im out there in that
smokehouse an' set the smokehouse on fire. . .She sho' did.
         An' so, an' um, an' when she did, that's when they said
this thing spoke.  Sumpthin' spoke with it, or sumpthin'.  Say
he say, "I'm gonna live seven years.  When I die, you [gonna] will die."
He never said anything else.  He lived 7 years.
         Eight years or more later, we was down here in Fitzgerald.
You know, I tell ya bout when we was at Thurman?  Where this
white man was pickin' at me at?  Right there where we was at,
the same white folks I [tol'] tell ya I had to go in their house every
day an' eat.  If I didn't I thought I would jus' be hongry; anyhow,
[I had a] that was my habit.  But Miz Young, she was readin' it in the paper
one [night] day.  I was up there;  when there to git me sumpin' to eat!

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.