3) It happened in the Phoenix Park all in the month of May,
Lord Cavendish and Burke came out for to see the polo play.
James Carey gave the signal, and his handkerchief he waved,
So he gave full information against our Fenian blade.

5) It was in Kellmane prison the invincibles were hung,
And Mrs Carey she stood there all in mourning for her son.
She threw her shawl and said to all, "Though he fills a limepit grave,
My son was no informer, boys, against our Fenian blades."
- - - - - - - - - -
The Shooting of James Carey:
1) My name it is Pat O'Donnell and I come from Donegal,
I am, as you know, a dangerous foe to traitors one and all,
For the shooting of James Carey I am tried in London town,
And now upon the gallows high my life I must lay down.

2) I sailed on board the ship Melrose in August '83,
And on the voyage to Cape Town he was made known to me.
When I found that he was Carey we had angry words and blows,
And the villian he strove for to take my life on board of the ship Melrose.

3) I stood up to defend myself, to fight before I die,
A pocket pistol I drew forth and at him I let fly.
I fired the second volley and I caught him round the heart,
And there upon the cabin floor his life it did depart.

4) O Mrs Carey came in then to the cabin where he lay,
Seeing her husband in his gore it filled her with dismay,
"O'Donnell, you've shot my husband." Mrs Carey loud did cry,
"I did, kind Madam, in self-defence, to fight before I die."

5) Brave Irishmen and all of you who are gathered them around,
Who'll come around the prison all up in London town,
Will you think upon old Ireland and Donegal's bright sky,
Remember Pat O'Donell who for our cause did die.
- - - - - - - - - - -
The Manchester Martyrs:
1) It happened in Manchester in '67's glorious year,
When Irish boys did meet there on our cause - have no fear,
There were boys who fought for the North and some fought for the South,
But they said one thing, they'd have to do - the rebels would be let out.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.