            the shingle. They used to bury their own men in the 
            shingle with just their heads showing.
Lomax: Good God!
Robts:  You see, and when the smugglers ran the stuff up on
            the beach, then they used to push themselves up out
            of the shingles and tried to arrest them if they could,
            That's when John Lough killed an exciseman. An exciseman
            came up out of the shignles and tried to arrest
            John Lough and John Lough stuck a knife in him, so he
            went back in the shingle, and that's where they buried
            him. John Lough said he come up out of there and that's
            where he'll go back. So he knifed him on the North-Weir
            there by Alford Haven.
Lomax: Were all these boats that they used down there sailing-barges,
             Bob?
Robts:   No, they were luggers and brigs. Will Lord was reputed
             to smuggle in a brig. He had the biggest ship, see, and 
             a fast one, and he was a particularly daring skipper,
             because he knew the shoals off there, the Cutler and 
             the Whiting Bank, the Ridge, the Cork, - and many a time
             even with a Revenue cutter chasing him, he'd say, "Well,
             there's a foot to spare here as long as the tide holds,"
             you see, and he'd go over, and the other one wouldn't
             dare go, you see. Broken water, looks as though the
             ship must wreck herself, but he'd know there was just
             water over it, so he'd go. Well now, the customs officer,
             he's responsible for the ship and welfare of the crew.
             It's a big responsibility for him to take a risk like
             that, you see. It's hell or bust with the other man, so
             he used to haul around. Well, once that man had taken a 
             short cut, he couldn't be caught. In the river he used
             to go.
                See, life in rural England, particularly down in
             Suffolk in those days, was not easy - it was a hard life.
             There was a lot of fighting and work and smuggling,
             andone thing and another. If you couldn't stick it
             you cleared off. Some went to America.
Lomax:  Well, it doesn't look like a hard country, Bob. Why
              is it, why was it hard?
Robts:    It was hard insofar as their was no transport, everything
              was done under oars, sail or float, and life,
              as you might say, was laborious, put it that way. There
              was no comfort in the place. Land to farm in Suffolk,
              you know, is heavy, heavy land. You try to dig my

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.