10
sent a angel from heaven to onlock the jailhouse door.  When the guard
came down the next mornin, found the jailhouse door open he took a sword
to kill himself.  Paul spoke an said, "Do thyself no harm for we all are
h ere."
Eliz:  Why were Paul and Silas in jail?
Rev. D:  Cause of the preachin of the gospel.
Eliz:  Who was it that didn't want them to preach the gospel?
Rev. D:  It was the Romans.  Might-nigh anywhere they went they was hindered
from preachin the gospel.  They didn't want them to say nothin bout the
name of Jesus.  They didn't want to hear that.  Put em in jail.  Paul was
rested again one time for the same thing.  They didn't put him in jail but
they sent him across the island in a ship.  Wouldn't put him in jail in
the country where he come from.  Put him in jail way cross the -- cross
the -- water.  Carried him off in a place where he didn't know nobody.
Put him out there.  He called Timothy an tole Timothy to bring him his
books.  He wanted to read cause he realized he was goin to wind up.  He
was goin on his last go-round.  Last thing he tole Timothy, he says,
"Timothy, you're goin meet death with Christian words.  Ain't nobody goin
like it, but you jes preach the word.  You're g on go hongry sometime but
you jes preach the word."  He let Timothy know them th at "I'm on my way
to Nero's choppin block.  For preachin God's word."  An the wind-up of 
Paul -- Paul spoke of greater things than Our Lord at this particular
time -- said, "I am now ready to be offered up.  I have fought a good fight.
I have kep the faith.  I have run a race with patience.  Now I am ready to
be offered up."  Didn't say "I'm willin; didn't say "I think I'm ready"
but he said "I am ready. . .to be offered up.  Yall kill me now.  I'm
ready."  Took that po ole boy out theah an chopped his head off.  Jes like
you chop off a chicken's head with a axe.  The old mean people took Paul
out theah an chopped his head off.  Chopped his head off.  On Nero's choppin
block.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.