Reverend Roe.  Reel 13.  P. 3.

that because why should I stir up violence and cause a lot of trouble; it wouldn't do any good; it wouldn't do the colored people any good, and it wouldn't do the white folks any good.  But if I could make the white folks friends to me, I could help my folks and them, too.  I preach a Gospel to them that will make the colored people live the right kind of life, you know, and be humble, and so on.  And then I preach a Gospel that'll make the white man treat him right.

A:  Well, you don't preach that there are inequalities among the races do you ?

R:  Oh no, I don't do that, I don't do that.  I just preach, I just preach according, you know, to the condition, you know.  I know those things is existing.  I know it shouldn't be, but it is, and I try to teach both out of it.  Since you in it, you have no way to get out of it; you can't fight.  The only thing you can do is to beat the other fellow living; live a good life.  And I teach them that if you live the right kind of life right here, the white folks will treat you better than some of their white folks.  And they will.  You know, it takes a life, and it will win anywhere; a good life is well spoken of anywhere.  Well, I teach that same thing to the white folks if they come around, you know.  And I think I can make them see the necessity, you know, of treating the colored people better, and then I teach them the fact that whatsoever you sow, you reap.  I put a little here and there, and then a little hope of reward in there, and it'll have effect on a good many of em.

I have preached in places where people had been awful mean, and by my preaching and my life there, it changed em a whole lot, and they was a lot better.  And they would be nice to me; they would honor me.  I've had them even, the white deacons of other churches, invite me in their homes and give me a meal and sit down and talk with me.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.