101.

is all right.  Recall a big confusion about something and he 
took over for the common class.  Naturally some of the 
colored folks like that and the jealous ones didn't.  You 
get some pretty fair-minded white folks; they don't pay no 
attention much to what nobody has unless you like some Negro 
woman come up in town all dressed up in a fine car and the 
white folks stop and look.

They tells me that Thomas started off paddling fish and all 
the white folks knew him then and they know what he's got now 
cause he goes in the bank.  They know what he has.  A man by 
the name of Procman looks after Thomas' business.  He does 
right by the white folks and they let him have.  You know one 
thing, Negroes do dress and white folks don't like that.  Used 
to be old Syrian policeman who just don't like to see Negroes 
dressed up or nothing like that.  He wasn't nothing though.

The population of Clarksdale is around about 13,000 and 
about half or more are Negroes.  We found out that on the 
average, there's about seven Negroes living in a house.  
Government had homes inspected to see if they were any good.  
Some of these people rent for $2.50; you get three rooms, small 
back and front yard, electric lights if you put them in yourself 
and most have toilets outdoors, and some of them use oil and 
have grates.  For a real good house, if a white man rents it he 
can get anywhere from $30.00 to $50.00 a month if he has all the 
housing conveniences.  Then take a Negro - for the same house he 
couldn't rent it for over $15.00.

When it comes to working in service, they do just about the 
same here as they do elsewhere - wash, iron, cook, and that's 
what some of them do.  For all the work you got to do, what 
they pay you is no money.  Lots of times you got to even pay 
car-fare out of what they give you.  If white people ain't out 
"playing society" they come and get you.  I'm telling you what 
I know.  Frankly, some of these Negroes really get a bad deal.  
Negroes could really do better but there's no co-operation.  
But if Negroes got together and wouldn't go to work for these 
white people for such low wages, they would be better off.  
However, if somebody around here said that, before he could 
get it out of his mouth, the white man knows about it.

They got a few light kids around.  Most of them nice.  Kids 
don't let their color go to their heads.  As far as I know, I 
think they are very nice.  For one while around here you could 
really see that white folks are funny folks.  One day a boy by 
the name of Woodrow Campbell, a dark young fellow was walking 
down the street with some light Negro girls.  A policeman 
called him up and told him not to be seen again, and to stop.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.