Jen: Very clever. Very handsome. Everybody liked him. He was
loved by everyone. Very. very intelligent, very clever. Always
ready to help me. And when his father was taken away to hospital,
he thought he was master, he was the only man at home.
Lomax: It took you a long time to get over that, I guess.
Jean: Oh, a long, long time. Never got over it. And I just had
the boy and the girl.
Lomax: What's the first dream that you ever did have?
What you remember. The dreams you had when you were a little girl.
What about nightmares?
Jean: O I had plenty of nightmares. I've been told when I was
little I used to take very bad dreams. I used to get up and
scream through the night. I went into things like fits. I can't
remember what they were about. Just I'd be frightened. But I'll
tell you what I did dream - a thing that happened in a few hours
after it. There's some people alive that could tell the same
tale.  And I got a bad fear that night. In Aberdeen we'd only
two rooms, and my room didn't have a door, more like a cotton,
and I was about sixteen. My people always lay with the gas very
low down. One night - well, it wasn't a nightmare, it was the
actual truth I dreamed - it really happened the next day! The
lady next door was a cousin of my mother's and she had twin boys
of nine months old. One was dead and she's one left. What a fat
child it was! Terrible fat. And I dreamt that this child died,
and I went up and saw the child and this child had died very
sudden. And I thought when I looked at the child - it was so fat,
you know - and it had bangles on its arm - tight bangles andthe
fat was coming over it was so fat. And I thought I looked at the
child in the coffin and saw the mark on its arms. Then I saw the
coffin closed and the coffin getting carried off on top of
a cart. Well, I was up with a sweat. I was out and into the
kitchen quick enough. And my step-father got up and made me a 
cup of tea, and he said, "It's only a dream." "I know," I said,
"But it was that real. I saw it that real. I saw it not only in
a dream but I saw that coffin real." He got me quietened down,
but I couldna sleep. The next morning my mother says to me,
"What was your dream?" and I told her.
     Then the door opened and then, this woman that lived next
door - her daughter came in, and I give her a cup of tea and
she sat down. Then after she'd sat down she said, "What's the
right time?" and I told her it was just about half past eight.
"O" she said, "I'm going away for the doctor in a wee while."
I looked at her and daid, "What for?" She said the doctor to
the bairn. And I said, "The young bairn?" and looked over to
my mother when she said the young bairn -- and this was that I
hd through the night. So she drunk her tea and went away and

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.