BJ TAPE 18, p. 5

should - they - we was readin' (?). . .Ah, we knows that he shouldn't a-been doin',
a co'se.   But everybody don't have the same feelin' towards them.
Some have had it 'cause [an'] some have, [have, you know], haven't got
enough, uh, you know, thought to think,  "Well, God'll fix it after a while."
An' some of 'em wanta to fix it right then, theyself.   Ya know?  An'
an-an-anybody that way.   Then they [feel] that way just like any nation,
any peoples, any where:   They, they feel like some of 'em, [the] some
peoples feel like they can let it go.   You know, whatsoever it
is, an' let it be.   An' some feel like, "I wan-- I wanna fix it
myself."   You see.  That's all.   "I'd rather fix it myself than, than wait."  They
don' wanna wa-wait on what the Lawd gonna do.   Because they got
that much Satan in 'em. . .
AL:      Bessie, have you ever known any of these kind of desparate-mined
people?
BJ:      No, I jus' heard people say, you know, "What I had a good
mind to do," an' all that kind of stuff.   I never sya nothin'
about that, go out an' try to kill nobody.  You know, in that way.
You know, since I was upper-size (grown up), ya see.

[*EXCELLENT STORY:  (1901)
NEGRO GOES BERSERK, KILLS WHITE FAMILY*] 
         Now, this, ah, time, what I tell ya about, "Fasten ya do's?"
an' shuttin' [Fasten] ya do's at night?   An' how I'd go on home an' look un'neath
my beds an' things?   Well, that came from, from 'way back.   From
Mama's time, when Mama was a lil' girl an' my Uncle Gene -- I
tell you my Uncle Gene what married them, all them women?   Uncle
Gene hadn't married anybody then; Mama would tell us about it.   An'
that's why -- She tol' us about this story what -- That wa'n' a
story; this true thing that happened in Buenavista, Georgia.  That's
when she was a lil' girl, see?   Mama said she was around 12 years
old, then.   But anyway, this man, was, a colored man and his

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.