-62-


have sought to escape Negro competition and, as a result, have never been 
very hospitable to Negro farmers. The proportions of the Negro population 
in such counties have therefore been comparatively low. With only a slight 
advantage, the masses of small white farmers have not been far removed in 
economic level from the Negro farmers. Modifications appear in the traditional 
practices of plantation landlords in the Delta, as a result of 
smaller resources and a smaller assumption of direct responsibility for the 
tenants. There is freer competition of white and Negro tenants. More day 
labor is encouraged because it carries less responsibility for the support 
of the tenant. The Negro tenants are both less dependent on a planter and 
more insecure, but at the same time they have been forced to develop more 
initiative.

Cotton is planted in North Alabama near the middle of April, and 
chopping begins about the first of May. About the middle of August harvesting 
the crop begins, and is completed by the 25th of December. Most farmers 
attempt to complete harvesting cotton in November. Trends in methods of 
cotton cultivation are toward increased elimination of labor. In close drill 
and cross-check planting the number of choppers is reduced. In reopening, 
the old type of picking is giving way before what is termed "sledding." 
Sledding allows plucking of balls rapidly and use of a different type of gin 
from that used in areas where cotton is "picked."  Plowing with machinery 
has steadily spread on farms large enough to make the use of tractors and 
other such aids profitable.

[*[*]In this county "furnishing" is a combination of cash advance for 
food and household supplies with credit orders for clothing, medical attention 
and other needs, on such requests of tenants as the landlords recognize. The 
amounts a tenant is allowed depends chiefly upon his reputation as a cotton

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.