1365 3
Oh, no.  They didn't have nothin' like that.  So he went
around-But Sidney was the type of man, like you would get
him to go play a dance somewhere, before he would play the
dance he would go (unintelligible) let's say like they was
havin' a dance in (French name).  He would get his musicians
there and they would go and walk around somewhere and play,
you know, in the street.  Let the people know you were
there.  He would do that all the time.  They went all around
Elton, they pass among the people.  I remember that day, he
had the guy on the guitar and the rub board.  Well, that's
what they call the band then, and he would get a bunch of 
people in.  On the double note and triple note, he's the
best I ever heard.
A. LOMAX
Tell me, your father used to run the Mardi Gras, didn't he?
CANRAY
Oh, long time ago he would play-oh they wasn't gonna have a 
Mardi Gras unless he'd be their to play.
A. LOMAX
And that was the Black Mardi Gras, wasn't it?
CANRAY
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
A. LOMAX
In the old days you didn't mix it.  You had a Black Mardi
Gras and a White Mardi Gras.
CANRAY
And then, to top it off. . like you see where I was born and
raised, you see they had to make the Mardi Gras at a house
somewhere.  Like where I was born and raised, and where
Bois-sec stay, that was-they had the Mardi Gras where I was
born and raised, Bois-sec and them had their own Mardi Gras
and they had Soileau had their own Mardi Gras. All the
little communities, they had so many people living in towns
you wouldn't imagine.  That's how they started with that
Zydewco-I remember, I done went when I was old enough to go
to them house dance.  They would let us dance, they had so
many people.  Well, all the ladies get in their and they
stayed in there, but so far as us young men we had our time
to dance.  So many could go in amd dance a while and they
come out, then somebody else go in there and dance.  Oh
yeah, they didn't have no club, no nothing like that, it was
just house dances.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.