pulled the blinds back across the window. But still I persisted 
all the time, pulling back the black screen, and they kept 
chatting away. 
After my mother was buried and everything was over, my father 
came back to the house. And all the pictures, furniture, baby 
grand-piano, Irish harp, Victrola, - didn't mean nothing to me. 
Nor the bay grand piano, although I often kept "tumple-tumple" 
away till I got down so may keys. There was a little seat, and 
I put down so many keys on the paino. . . Then me father looked 
around and watched me and said to himself, "Well, I'LL sell out." 
But I didn't understand then. Then he sold the whole lot, 
- pianos, harp, £2 for the harp, £10 for the piano, whatever he got 
for the few furniture. He even sold the very blankets and sheets 
the whole equipment, bed and all. Then me mother's aunt come up. 
"Timmy," she says, "Are ye leaving ?" 
He says, "I am, Biddy." 
"Well, if ye are," she says, "I'm taking these. You're not selling 
them." She took my uncle's photo first, then the violin. He was 
looking at me grandfather with the uillean pipes. Robert Thomson 
and Jack Thomson and Bill Thomson. There was no one in these 
pictures, only the two musicians. That was Matty and me grandftaher 
Robert. I remember all the pictures. Well, she swept the 
whole lot. And me father packed the bajo in the case. That banjo 
was bought by me mother for me father and she paid £22 for that 
banjo for him. You see, my father was learning the violin first, 
- all her brothers learned the violin, and they learned him how 
to read music. And someway and another, he just took to the taste 
of the banjo, and when he did he played away and played away. 
Now he just packed the bajo in the case. Off we goes, and he takes 
me by the hand. And the first place we went to was Kentirk in the 
Conty Galway. In a picture scene, he got himself a wee job - £3 
a week. And up in a place called Greenand - over the bridge from 
Kentirk, there's a little village, a little row of houses up that 
way, and a little row of houses all painted white, and we 
stopped in one of these boarding houses. . . So, me father played 
for the silent pictures - there was no talking then. He wasn't 
the only one in the band. There was a saxaphone player, a piano 
player and himself, all three. So I tried one night, "Father," I 
says, "Would you bear me down to the pictures?" 
He says, "No, no, no girl dear. You can't go to the pcitures. No, 
no, you can't go down to them places, you wouldn't be allowed." 
So I kept crying and crying away till I got to the pictures, and 
when I did it was, "Bye-bye blackbird" and "Who Stole My Heart 
Away." I can't even remember the rest of the tunes. But I watched 
and they were playing. And my father said to the man that was 
playing the saxaphone, "You sound the Last Post there - it'll be 
nicer." Then everything was finished. £3 was a lot of money 
at that time. Well, he paid £1 a week board and lodging, and then 
I went to school for a little bit. Someway and another I wasn't 
interested in this sort of school, and I just missed it. I'd go 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.