[* To B.J. & J. D. *]

215 West 98 Street #12-E 
New York 25, New York
March 10, 1964

Dear Friends:

The good news is beginning now slowly to come in.  The result of
your concert in Menniapolis was an offer from an important local
booker for a three-week tour for you in October or November of
1964.  I am no negotiating this.  Also, a manager in New England
has asked for you for two festivals a week apart at the
end of March and the beginning of April at $700 per festival for
six people, plus transportation.  He is going to try to get
dates between the two festivals.  Dena and I will be writing
you about both these details soon.

Two of your songs have been included in the Newport Festival
album that Vanguard is putting out, and there will be a little
money from that.  By the way, Peter should be receiving a
tape in John's care.  It contains one of these songs, "My God
Is a Rock in the Weary Land," which Peter led at the Festival.

Bessie says that John has moved, so if 504 Arnold Road is not
the correct address, please send me the new one.  As you can
see from the above address, we have moved the office.

That is all for now but I will be writing again soon with more
news.  Much love [to] [y]ou both,

Alan Lomax
AL:dh

P. S.  Bessie, I have enclosed a sample form of an affidavit.
This is the same kind of form made up by lawyers when they are
trying to prove someone's age for Social Security or any other
reason. The point is to find someone who actually remembers
when you were born.  The next best is a cousin or someone else
you were brought up with who always remembers your having been
who you claim you are and the age you claim you are.  Anyone can
type up the correct for, with about three carbon copies.  It
must be signed in front of a notary or justice of the peace.
Forgive me for forgetting your birthday, but belated best wishes
from all of us, anyhow.  Little Reece is always excited when I
play your records.  "That's my Nana Bessie!" he tells everyone.
I'm working harder than ever, but enjoy being a "mother."  Plan
to visit a while if you are in New England this spring, please. 

[* over *]




Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.