36.

of the people is lowly expanding.   George Johnson, a sixty-three
year old Delta plantation Negro, who has been on this plantation all
of his life as a sharecrooper, now has a radio.   He has learned to
read and expresses rather articulately the effect of literacy on
traditional religious notions.   He says:   

     There ain't nothing I can do about this unfair life here,
but I got my God.   My kind of God allows for all things to be 
right, and you can't get around that.
     You know one thing, I have a different opinion of church 
than I used to have.   I don't believe that God is a personality.
I just don't.   There ain't many that believe that.
     Most of them see God all up in the sky with the stars, way
up yonder, nobody knows where.   I used to see him as a grey-
haired old man.   Yes, sir I've learned enough to know that
God is spirit, and that people is always in the presence of 
it.   People long time ago, took things they thought rather
than what they knew.   I know just like Jesus knew that God 
is spirit.   The mind is God.   Man has God with him all the
time.   It's the mind that's God.
     Yes sir, thoughts is what a man has to guide him and give 
him the way.   The mind is the part of God that man possesses.
That's the best way I can see.   I can sit here in this room,
covered round by these walls, and with my mind I can go and
can see, think, and move myself in mind from all of this.
And live and not feel so oppressed.   Yet in the physical,
I'm still right here in this room.   You can do that, now
can't you.   The mind is your guiding light.  It's your
standard and there's coming a time when the way going to be 
open.
     Now I learned all this like I told you.   I just been to  
the sixth grade, but I ain;t stopped learning yet.   Yes sir,
I learned all this in a book called The Miracle Power.
The mind is the only thing that gives you real comfort, and 
makes you want to do things, and tells you what's right and 
what's wrong.   Let me tell you God is that part that is 
within you.
     If you look at me, you might think I ain't got much sense,
but I done tried hard to learn things that can be proved.
There ain't no such thing as seeing a ghost.   God is the
Spirit.   I been having some books here that explains the
stars, and I know that God isn't a grey-haired old man
sitting up there.  16. 
 

16.      Personal Document

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.