Reference: 11/AL 1st August 1951

Dear Dr. MacIntosh

Word has reached me from London that John Lorne Campbell
and Francis Collinson are somewhat disturbed about my
collection of Scots folk-song. Let me assure you that
if I had been able to find a local source for the
material necessary to represent Scotland in the recorded
library of world folk music I am preparing, I would never
have come this way to do any serious work. As it is,
the Scottish trip has put me a couple of months behind schedule.

For instance, for your information, I invited John Lorne
Campbell to act as editor of the British Album in the
series last fall, before I ever came to Great Britain
but he declined. I have been concerned myself about
the disposition of the now almost 15 hours of Hebridean
and Scottish songs I have on tape. Acoustically, the
collection is excellent; there are some valuable items
on it, no rarities, I believe, but things which certainly
should go into any Scottish archives. I would be delighted
for your people to copy the whole collection and I am also
offering the entire material to the BBC recorded programmes
library. They will undoubtedly wish some of it but as a
scholar I would naturally hope that Scottish folklorists
would find all or part of my collection useful.

I expect that Schiffner in Paris might want to copy some
of the tapes and that eventually I will give the collection
to the library of Congress in Washington where most of my
work is on deposit. But since it was your skilful Gaelic
specialist, Calum MacLean, who guided me to the Hebridean
sources, it is to you that I feel most indebted and it is
to you that I first offer.

I shall be in Scotland during August (c/o BBC Glasgow)
and hope that during that time you can arrange to take off
copies of the songs, if you wish to have them. I will
send a list if you are interested.

Cordially yours,
(Alan Lomax)
Dr. Angus MacIntosh
The University
EDINBURGH MMP

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.