[6]
[20]
[*Beginning*]
4) Tick Chambers, non-reading trumpet player.

5) John Robichaux, Creole.  Strictly all reading bunch.  One
of the best bands in the country at the time.  Better than
Buddy Bolden.  Instruments same as Happy Galloway combination.

6) Freddie Keppard--1907.  He thought my playing was different
than anybody else's; he liked it.  I wrote the Indian Blues and 
he was crazy about it.  This tune enticed him to play like I did.
Keppard born in New Orleans.  He wasn't well known because he
wasn't in the district.  In a year he had a big reputation.  The 
women were swelling his head.  He had the most wonderful ear I
ever heard.  Had a beautiful tone, marvelous execution.  No end
to his ideas, could play one chorus eight or ten different ways.
He had formed a little band.  This was just before the Tuxedo
organized.  Freddie Keppard had plenty of cheap notoriety.  Bolden
was as popular as Freddie in a year's time.

After the killing of Billy Phillips, the Tuxedo Band was cut down
and a piano was put in.  The piano player was Buddy Christian.
Keppard made a big hit in the Tuxedo.

1908--Freddie Keppard went to Memphis and this was the first time
they played the blues in Memphis.  Keppard made records with Erskine
Tate and Charley Cook between 1923 and 1924.  (Tate and Cook are
not good jazz men--just like Paul Whiteman.  Good men but they don't
know much.)

1914--Freddie Keppard was still around New Orleans.  At this time,
Bill Johnson had taken over Freddie.

1923--[*1923-25*] Freddie was tops.  You could hear at this time only Keppard
and King Oliver.  King had a band and worked at Royal Garden.
Keppard started playing with Charley Cook at the Dreamland.  This 
was in Chicago around 1923 and 1924.  Oliver and Keppard were rivals--
the two best trumpeters in the world.  Buddy Petti was a good
player--better than King Oliver but not better than Keppard.  Freddie 
was in a class by himself.  He liked to drink a lot and talk big. 
A lot of people misunderstood and thought he was egotistical.  He
died in Chicago around about 1930 or 1931.  He had become very fat,
almost as wide as he was tall.  He could make the highest notes
clear as a whistle; first to start the high note business.  There
was no limit to how he could go.  Louis Armstrong is not in his 
class.  Keppard used only a metal mute.  There was no mutes but one.

Keppard was a Creole boy, about my color.  Always had a Creole
accent.  Women would hang around him all day long.  He did things
in a king of big way.  I presume he made a lot of money.  He was
a good spender and wore plenty nice clothes.  Occasionally he had
a nasty disposition.

King Oliver was the cause of mutes to come into existence.  He would

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.