TAPE: Roll 43, continued

Hicks     p.2

rooster back...just beat their heads in and beat them plum to death!
And then knock the house down!" And that club started actin' on them
fellers...the old man and the boys and then started knockin' one side
of the cabin down, had the roof about knocked off. And the old man,
he hollered at Jack and said "Wait! Here, stop that club! Jack,
please! We'll give your rooster and tablecloth back, here it is!"
And they gave it to him, and he started on home. He got in the next
day. His mother was there, she was 'bout froze to death and 'bout to
starve. But he just said, "Spread, tablecloth, spread" and all kind [of]
good eatin's and said "Come, gold, come" and all kinds of gold and
went out and bought lumber and nails and hammer and fixed up the hou[se]
the cracks in the wall and everything. And had the club to knock up
all the firewood they needed, didn't have to chop up no wood. They
were livin' high on the hog there, and the last time I was down there
they was doin' well. (laughter and applause) I told that in public.

AL: The magical thing that happened in the Appalachians was that with t[he]
passage of time, the people that lived here have made their choicesx[?]
out of the many-twined traditions of the British Isles...from Wales,
from Ireland, from Scotland, from all the Shires of England, ...and
put together a new British culture here, a British-American culture
...that was part of these hills, that grew out of the necessities of 
living here. The people [are] acted[ually] as [just] editors for the traditio[n]
of the whole of British folklore. They didn't keep everything, they
didn't sing all the ballads. They chose "Barbara Allen," and
"Fair Ellender (??)" and they chose [all] the Jack tales out of all
the British folk tales. And they made a lore that represented them
and represented the necessities, the emotional necessities of life

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.