The Claudy Banks: 

1) 'Twas on one summer's evening all in the month of May, 
Down by a flowery garden where Betsy did stray, 
I overheard a damsel in sorrow did complain 
All for her absent lover that ploughs the raging main. 

2) I stepped up to this fair maid and put her in surprize, 
She owned she did not know me, I being all in disguise, 
I said "My charming creature, my joy and heart's delight, 
How far have you to travel this dark and rainy night ?" 

3) "Away, kind sir, to the Claudy Banks if you will please to show, 
Pity a poor girl distracted for there I have to go, 
I am in search of a young man, and Johnny is his name 
And on the banks of Claudy I'm told he does remain." 

4) "Ig Johnny he was here this night, he would keep me from all harm, 
He's a-cruising the wide ocean in tempest andin storm, 
He's a-cruisin' the wide ocean for honour or for gain," 
"But I'm told his ship got wrecked all on the coast of Spain." 

5) When Betsy heard this dreadful news she fell into despair, 
In a-wringing of her hands and a-tearing of her hair, 
Since Johnny has gone and left me, no man on earth I'll take, 
Down in some lonesome valley I'll wander for his sake. 

6) Young Johnny hearing her say so, he could no longer stand, 
He fell into her arms, crying, "Betsy, I'm that man. 
I am that faithful young man, and whom you thought was slain, 
And since we met on Claudy Banks we'll never part again." 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

The Seasons: 

1) Come all jolly ploughmen and help me to sing, 
I will sing in the praise of you all, 
If a man he don't labour, how can he get bread ? 
I will sing and make merry with all. 

2) It was of two young brethren, of two brethren born, 
It was of two young brethren born, 
One he was a shepherd and a tender of sheep, 
The other a planter of corn. 

3) We will rile it, we will tile it through mud and through clay, 
We will plough up deeper and low, 
Then after comes the seedsman his corn for to sow, 
Andthe harrows to rake it in rows. 

4) There is April, there is May, there is June and July, 
What a pleasure it is for to see the corn grow, 
In August we will reap it,, we will cut, sheave and bind it, 
And o down with our scythes for to mow. 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.