-4-

something you have to burn midnight oil on, don't care what kind of teacher 
you get.  

The first band in Clarksdale was organized by Charlie Banks and myself.  
The band Handy came to teach was the second band.  We had twelve pieces 
in the first band and the band Handy directed had 20 pieces.  There was a band 
in Arkansas, at Helena, that used to come here and play and Charlie Banks and 
I decided we would organize one of our own.  The music played was nearly all 
marches and waltzes, mostly march music.  After Handy came here he began to 
teach them overtures and classical music.  About all a country brass band 
could do was to play for marches.  We could play for the societies like the 
Masons and the Sir Kinghts and Daughters, and for political campaigns.  We 
would march around and go up there in town and play on some main corner for 
about a half hour.  The white people of the town gave us our first uniforms.  
We had twenty pieces and the uniforms cost $10.00 a suit.  [That was thirty-five 
years ago, and] I told Handy last [summer] time I saw him, "Fess, you wouldn't believe me 
if I told you that I've still got my old suit yet."  He said, "I don't believe 
it."  I said, "Wait until you come down home and I'll show you."

We had a ten piece orchestra that played for dances.  We played for 
both white and colored but mostly for white.  The white dances would pay you 
$5.00 a man and expenses.  Colored dances were given as what we called "script" 
dances -- so much at the door.  In the orchestra we had a violin, 2nd violin, 
bass violin, viola, clarinet, flute, coronet, trombone, drum, piano.  We didn't 
have a saxophone.  We do all that with the clarinet.  Between the trombone and 
clarinet we'd take up all the saxophone part.  In those days a saxophone was 
just an ornament.  Many times we didn't have a piano.  Going around in these 
country places we'd use a guitar or a banjo.  I played for many a dance with

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.