[*Letter to C.S. from AL in Haiti*]
Pont Beudet, Haiti,
Jan 16, 1936.
Box A-32, Port-au-Prince.
Dear Mr. Seeger,
I can still see you standing in your door-way on P street , lean and
friendly, asking me to write often and I can remember my earnest resolve
to write.  [you often] And so nearly a month has sifted away from me
and my resoltuion has turned into a piece of wishful thinking like
most other resolutions.  If I had had an idea then what I was promising
you, I8d never have promised, because since I have been in Haiti I have
encountered my first real difficulties and my first real problem[s] as
a collector.  You can imagine what they are I suppose.  The first one, in
point of time the first and in point of importance the least signifigant,
was to get permission to make records in Haiti.  After Seabrook
and other yellow jounalists, after the visit of a couple of purported
American ethnologists who later turned out to be gun-smugglers, the
Haitian government has naturally been chary of people with little notebooks
and other recording devices.  [The second] It took a lot of influence
and a lot of friendly, charming and intelligent Haitins almost two weeks
to get me started here.  The second problem came second, but it is still
with me.  I am just beginning to struggle out from beneath its cloud and
do  some intelligent work.  The second was the  sensual and signifigant
impact of a completely new world where two new languages were spoken and
where [on top of that] several cosmoses of folk-material whirled  about my head
until my poor brain [was] whirled again.  You see, this is the first place
I have ever visited where there were two classes, each of which had its
language and its culture, completed seperated and distinct.  The 
working class, the peasants who [live] sit flat on their buttocks on the
soil,so to speak, are all informants, so far as the folk-lorist is concerned,
especially if he has a lot of radical notions about folklore
not being old , necessarially, or cut to fit any special pattern,
or the sole possession of a few adepts, but the property of whatever person
it has by the tongue. That makes every single peasant I meet here
an informant and most of the population is peasant. So I have been buried
snowed under.I wish I had the virtue of the single-track mind, but I am
interested in everything I hear. And as for songs, mon dieu; Tin Pan
Alley thought [it was fertile] itself fertile, but I can fill a couple of hundred
discs without stirring my stump from this one little community. (I
would, by the way, have stirred it long ago, but Thompson has delayed
shipping discs to me for almost three weeks and I am to get tomorrow(I
pray God) what I should have received before Christmas. ) Let last night's
experience explain why I have thought for weeks that I would [go] stifle
under the crush of new material.  It is typical of twenty nights out of
my month here.
Polines  put his flat straw cady on the shelf for the first time since I
have been with him. Polines is my servat and interpreter, my brother and
friend and , although he does not know it, poor fellow, is acting at
present as special assistant to the folk-song archive of the Library of
Congress. Polines has worked for Americans before and he wears as the
symbol of the riches of the United States and the generosity of former
[masters] bosses a  greying [and] but still shiny flat straw hat, called cady
in the Southwest. But last night he put it aside and donned [a soft straw]
the broad-brimmed, high crowned soft straw hat of the country people.
It was the first sign of Mardi Gras. We walked between the cane patches
to LeRoux, a quarter of a mile away listening to the drums and joining in
the refrains of the songs all the way, [because the drums carry for] so far
do the two sounds carry  in the still night. We found a crowd of fifty
men in front of Andre's door,watching [the drums] baka.  Baka is the great
tambour of the mardi gras, the same size as the mama drum of the voodoo




Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.