2

fixed ourselves an prepared ourselves to meet God because we realized
the sun was goin down.  When He was speakin these words He let the
people know that he was travellin through.  He realized that people had
to believe in Him.  An we find this man that were blind sittin by the
wayside.  An there was a lot of people didn't believe in Him  bein
Jesus Christ, the son of the living God.  An this blind man which was
somethin that he had to work on to prove that He was the son of the
livin God.  He called the blind man to Him an spit  on the ground --

Mrs. Davis:  Yeah.

Spit in the clay, nointed his eyes an tole him to go to the pool an
wash.  They looked on him that had been a man sittin by the wayside an beg,
they was amazed at him.  An as he was travelin through, nobody believed
it.  They wanted to know somethin bout it, but they was fraid to ask him.
Some stopped him an said, "Ain't you the man that set by the wayside?"
He said, "I once have been."  "Then WHY we find you alone, travelin by 
yourself?"  He said, "I once been blind but now I see."
     I oftun think of the old pote-writer that sung this song:
     "Amazin grace, how sweet it sound
      It saved a wretch like me.
      I once was lost but now I'm found
      Was blind but now I see."
It seemed to me like this h ere might have come from this here
man that sot by the wayside.  He said, "I once was blind but now I see."
Then they couldn't be satisfied that twas a statement that he made unto
them.  They hunted all over Jerusalem until they found his father and 
mother.  They wanted to know somethin about this man.  They said, "Well,
we have no mo to do with him.  He's come to be a grown man now.  Ask him.
He's of age.  We're not able to tell nothin about him."  So they want to 
know sumpin about "What man that you come in contact with?"  He said,
"It was a man came through called Jesus.  We call him Jesus.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.