BJ TAPE 27, p. 26
he sure have had some times, since then, a good while after that.
Oh, go'ness alive, he, he, you ought to see how he bought up an'
built up. He was -- His wife was runnin' [a] this beauty parlor at 
that time, then she built the beauty parlor over an' they fixed
they house over, put two more rooms on it an' just done everything,
to the main house (?). Just like me an' that girl said, "George
Life got that money. Just as sho' as you bo'n." He seed that
hole, ya see? I covered it with brushes, but he -- I seed 
him slide an' look around at me. But, but he didn't know what I had
done, but he went back to see                       just what we was doin'.
An' you, we went out there, me, me an' Coretha went out
there, an' I said, "Lookit here." And all, and all that same stuff
that I had been diggin', a heap a that stuff, the charcoal stuff, was
a hole, left wide open. Great, big, deep hole in the ground.
Ya git down there, ya couldn't see out! Yessir. An' I said, 
"If this ain't sumpin'!"
So I didn't never go back. I didn't no more, but. . .You know,
ta, ta, ta bother with it no mo'.
[*BJ & MAMA FIND DEAD MONEY, 
BUT GEORGE IS TOO SCARED TO 
GET IT--TRUE GHOST STORY*]
So? One day I an' mama [my husband] was goin' out through the
place. Mama tol' me what -- said the peoples done -- I knows, 
they had tol' me about some money bein' out there in this ol' 
graveyard, ya know, out there. But I said, "Well, we'll look an'
see." So. I went on out there that day an' we tried it. An'
as we was goin', ah, we were led to this place up on the, 'way up
on the edge of the woods. An' so we found the spot. 
This same David an' them that was here now in New Yawk, I tryin' to git
they address. Hah, David. An' ah, an', this Clyde [Clive], what's comin' now?
[up?] An' my husband. They gonna get it. Huh!. . .Yeah, they gonna
go get it. Huh, huh! After we tol' 'em where it was an' showed 'em. 
So David, he got his, ah. . .


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.