twenty years ago and he was never seen or heard tell. " She
started to cry andthe tears come to her eyes. She said, "I'll
awa' down to town." Down to town she goes, and she was awa'
down at the town all the day and she was hawking away, got a 
good few shillings, and she smoked a pipe, this old woman - 
every tinker woman mostly smokes a pipe. Anyway, she says,
"I'd better get a wee drappie for myself going up the road."
She goes to the pub and gets a bottle of stout. She wasn't a
drunkard, she just took a bottle of stout. She was tired being
away all day hawking. She was coming out of the town, coming
up this same way home up the hill. "Och," she says, "I'll have
a sit-down here." A big basket on her back. "I'll light up my
pipe and have a smoke before I go to camp."
     Now she'd another half mile to go to get to the camp. Now
she'd sat down upon a big flat stone, and there was a moor, a 
moorish place. There was no houses there, just bracken and 
heather. She was sitting there and she was looking in her
pocket - every tinker woman wears a big pocket with the pearl
buttons round it. She put her hand in the pocket and got her
tobacco - fills her pipe. "Begod," she says, "I forget any
matches. It's a long way from the toon noo. Oh," she says, "I
canna get a match."
     At the back of her there's a wee house and there's a light
in the window and smoke coming out of the chimney. A white-washed,
thatched cottage. "God," she says, "I never saw this
cottage before." She stood up and had a look all around. "AM
I on theright road?" Oh yes - she was on the right road right
enough. But she says, "I never passed no house here this
morning. I never saw a house here before. Och, however, I'll
go and get a light for my pipe." from the woman's peat fire."
So she knocked at the door. And she heard music inside. There
was fiddles and accordions, people dancing and singing. Oh some
lovely music, some grand singers! "They must be holding a party
here - somebody's surely getting married. Maybe it's one of
those new machines that's out. These gramaphones." And she
knocked at the door and an old woman opened the door. An old
highland woman. And she'd long hair, big teeth and a big stick
in her hand. And she spoke in the hieland twang.
"What do ye want?" she says, "What do ye want here?"
The woman says, "I was away hawking down the town but I forgot
to get matches. I cann light me pipe."
"Come to the fire and get a light to your pipe."
So the woman puts her basket down outside and goes into the
door, and gets a long bit of stick and puts it in the fire, and
there was a big pot on the fire - boiling. It was an old-fashioned
fire with an iron bar from the wall and the pot was hanging
from that. The big turf fire was burning peats. And she
happened to be lighting her pipe with this bit of stick when
the door opens from the room next, and inside comes a young boy
and a young man laughing and skylarking, like. And they went
to the pot where the woman was standing, and these two was

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.