[*29*]
against the tent.  And I didn't do nothin but that.  Nothin but
that.  And I'd get down on my knees when I put six more in it.
It was ram-rod.  You had to knock the plate out, take the rod,
turn the revolver over and shove the catridges out.  You see,
but I was young and crazy, see.  See, God taken care of me,
cos I should've been dead forty years ago, see.  But I was a 
good marksman, you know, and I had been shootin dice --now
alot of people would hear me say this, now which alot of
people have heard.  You might have heard it-- A man gon take
fifty dollars from me and he drawed his pistol, and I drawed
mine, and we shot, and the bullets hit and fell in the middle
of the table.  (laughter)  That's hard to believe, ain't it?

A.L.:
            Yep! sure is.

W.B.: 
            But that's true.  He shot when I shot and the
bullets met, just like that, and fell in the middle of the
table.

A.L.:
            Nobody got hurt, huh?

W.B.:
            Nobody got hurt.  But we got all the money cos
the crap house was clear(laughs).  Wasn't nobody left.

A.L.:  
            What about robbery on those camps?  Didn't they
have some bad men that came in there and tried to rob
everybody?

W.B.:
            No, no.  They didn't never come in the camps to
try take nobody, you know, for to try to rob nobody?  Because
there was always some (nitter?).  What I mean about (nitter?),
like we be shootin twelve fifty-five and twenty-five dollars
and fifty dollars, like that.  There be somebody out there
tryin to get a shot for a dollar and fifty-five cents, see.
Well they couldn't get in us game.  But, all of em had guns,
every man in the camp had a gun, see.  Every man in the camp
had a gun.

A.L.:
            There was no law in those camps, then, huh?

W.B.:
            No!  Wasn't no law.  The law wouldn't even. . .
--like I was tellin you about Last Chance, the law would come
up on top of the. . .
            
            -END OF REEL-

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.