Fisk, 8.  6.  M. C. ORR                                                     [*Tall Tales*]
There was some animals and there been nothing for drinking and the
rabbit got up and said, "The ugliest man in the house get up and
get some water."  The bear jumped up and say, "I come here for meeting;
I didn't come here for foolishness."
                                 THE BIG MOSQUITOES
Once I went visiting my granddaddy, and the mosquitoes was plenty bad
down there.  He sent me one mornn to tie up the cow and calf.  And that
evening when I went back down there, the mosquitoes hadn't left the 
cow and she was sitting up [xx] there on the stump, rining the bell
for the calf.
                             THE MAN WHO WALKED ON THE WATER
I had an uncle who was going to walk on the water once like Christ.
He had a fellow to go and [xx] put some planks on the river about an inch
in the water.  Then some little boy watched the fellows and moved one
of the planks off the board.  So he went down there that day, and he
started across and he got up there where they left the plank board,
just as he stepped on the missing plank, he went under.  He went under
and he come up, and a bog fat sister stood on the bank -- "Save
him, Lawd.  Save him, Lawd."  So he come up and he come back up;
she say, "Save him, Lawd; Save him, La d."  And the third time he come
up, she says, "Save him, Lawd."  And he says, "Save me, Hell, who in
 hell put that other plank away from me?" (laughter)

                                             DOCTOR STORY
There was once a doctor had a colored fellow working for him.  Anything 
the doctor did, the colored fellow wanted to do.  So he just did so 
much the doctor just got tired of him, and had a patient out in the
 country, and he went out there one day, and he carried the colored 
fellow with him.  So he told the people out there, "Now I'm gonna 
coming out there tomorrow, and I'm gonna bring the colored fellow with 
me.  So you all have a brand-new slobber jar here and then your

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.