Jean: Oh, he was wild and crazy. I've seen him. . . .My mother
was well-known. There was a bar at the side of the house and 
a bar here. Usually at this time - he was past fifteen - but he
was a man, you know - he'd go to the bar. He'd just take my
mother's money. It was nothing for him to lift a man weighing
twelve or thirteen stone - and lift him up and put him out
through a glass door. He was always lucky. He had to go away
from Aberdeenshire to Perthshire because he got himself in that
much trouble fighting. He stayed in Perthshire a long time
through that. But he was lucky. He was always tried in the 
Juvenile Court and they fined him half as much.
Lomax: Don't you think there must be something eating a fellow
like that, bothering him at bottom that makes him so touchy?
Jean: Could hav been. I think it's just born in him.
Lomax: Maybe it's something to do with the fact that he didn't
have a father.
Jean: He was only seven when my father died.
Lomax: I guess it wasn't easy in your family.
Jean: The other one was nine past and the other eleven past
when he died.
Lomax: So they had to shift for themselves.
Jean: They helped my mother a lot. Of course, she had her wagon
and things, and theboys just helped her along. No doubt she'd
a very fiery temper, and she's give them a right ticking off.
Many's the time she had to!
Lomax: What did she go after them with? Did she ever lick you?
Jean: I'll tell you God's honest truth. I had avery good upbringing,
but if I did wrong, I'd get a licking. She didna lift
her hands to you any time or every time, but if she did give you
a licking, you felt it. She made it tell.
Lomax: What would she spank you with?
Jean: O she'd spank you with the first thing that come to her
hand. But I didna often get a licking.
Lomax: Would she lay her tongue onmyou, too?
Jean: No - she wouldna bide her tongue. When she lost her head,
you got a right leather. But ye didna forget it in a hurry. You
didna go outside and get some imperence and carry on again. If you
got a leather, you didna forget it, man. I thought it was the best
way to learn to be respectable to people older than myself. And
yet she was very good to us.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.