-2-

c - Fifty (50%) Percent of any and all net sums actually received by the Publisher from the mechanical rights, electrical transcription and reproducing rights, motion picture synchronization and television rights and all other rights (except public performing rights) therein, including the use thereof in song lyric folios, magazines or other special editions sold by licensees of the Publisher in the United States and Canada. 

d - The Composer shall receive his public performance royalties throughout the world directly from his own affiliated performing rights society and shall have no claim whatsoever against the PUblisher for any royalties received by the Publisher as a distribution from any performing rights society which makes a payment directly to writers, authors, and/or composers. 

e - Fifty (50%) percent of any and all net sums actually received by the Publisher from sales and uses of the musical composition in countries outside the United States and Canada. 

f - The Publisher shall not be required to pay any royalties on professional or complimentary copies or any copies which are distributed gratuitously to performing artists or orchestra leaders or for advertising or exploitation purposes, or any copies sold but not paid, or for any copies sold and returned to the publisher. 

4 - The Publisher may publish and sell the musical compositions and at such times and places as it may deem proper, at its sole election. The title of the above musical composition may be changed at any time at the option of the Publisher. 

5 - Whenever the term "Composer" is used herein, it shall be deemed to mean all of the persons named herein below, and all royalties herein provided to be paid to the Composer shall be paid jointly to the following persons if there be more than one, and shall be divided among them as stipulated below:
Name
Peter Davis
Share
100%

6 - The Publisher agrees that within forty-five (45) days after the last days of June and December of each year, it will prepare and furnish statements to the Composers hereunder, and each such statement shall be accompanied by a check or checks in payment of all sums to be due thereby.

7 - The Composer hereby authorizes and empowers the Publisher to renew, pursuant to law, for and in the name of the Composer, if living, the copyright of said musical composition, and to execute and deliver in the name of the Composer a formal assignment of each renewal copyright to the Publisher, for its own use and benefit subject to the payment of the same royalties as hereinbefore provided. 

8- Any legal action brought by the Publisher against any alleged infringer of said composition shall be initiated and prosecuted at its sole expense, and of any recovery made by it as a result thereof, after deduction of the expense of the litigation, a sum equal to Fifty (50%) percent shall be paid to the Composer. 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.