Reverend Roe.  Reel 14.  P. 1

I hadn't always been as I am now.  When I was a young man, I would fight anybody that bothered me, anything, man or animal!  I just didn't care.  And I never bothered anybody; I never give anybody any cause to bother me.  I had several fights with white boys in a place where it was dangerous even to insult one.  But I was always in the right, and I never was bothered about it.  I'd defend myself because I believed I had a right to, but I never imposed on no one else.

A:  Well, weren't you afraid the whites would gang up on you?

R:  I didn't think much about that, I didn't think about that.  I just felt whatever come, I'd take care of it as it come.  It was just in my mind; I was just brave and wasn't afraid of nothing.  I don't know just -- I can't understand myself as I've gotten older and looked back on the danger through which I came, the way they killed our people.  I remember once in driving my wagon along at night, and the man's foot would almost touch my head, I'd look up, he'd be hanging over my, and that didn't scare me.  I said, "Well, they won't do me that way."  I don't know what I had that i-dea, but I believed in God, that I did because if I didn't I'd a been scared out of my wits.  So I kept myself in that position, you know, that I could always demand respect of both white and colored, and everybody always spoke well of me.  I never bothered nobody, and because I'd fight, they just said I didn't have good sense, and they just wouldn't bother me.

And then the white boys, you know, I'd run with them, I'd run with the white boys, we'd wrestle, we'd box together, and there wasn't man, white or black, in our country round there, but what he could wrestle or be a boxer.  I was just the best man, and they all just knew it, and they felt whichever side had my protection, why, they had something.  And some of those white boys would take up for me just was quick as they would for one another.  And even the white women there would speak up for me.  I just lived amongst them, and I lived a gentleman; I lived

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.