[*File Bessie Jones*]

CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, NORTHRIDGE
Northridge, California 91324

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
Area Code (213) 885-3331

August 1, 1973

Mr. Art Brown, President
Radim Films, Inc.,
1034 Lake Street
Oak Park, Illinois 60301

Dear Mr. Brown:

Enclosed are the two copies of the contract you sent covering the two Sea Island
films: Buck Dancer and Bright Star Shining in Glory. They have been signed
both by my brother, Alan Lomax, and myself, and I have retained a xerox for my
own files. You will notice that in the original contract only one film is 
specified and it is mis-titled. I have corrected the titles and initialed the
correction in both copies; I hope this is proper legal procedure.

I have further signed the necessary releases for your company to have prints
struck by the film laboratory where the films were originally stored some eight
to ten years ago: Consolidated Film Industries, 959 Seward Street, Hollywood,
California 90038. I hope this arrangement is satisfactory to you; I suppose
if you prefer to deal with another laboratory, transfer might still be arranged.

The materials now held by CFI are as follows:
Buck Dancer: 1 reel 16mm A&B B&W NEG ACTION
1 reel 16mm NEG TRK
1 REEL 16MM FINE GRAIN

Bright Star: 1 reel 16mm B&W DUPE NEG ACTION
1 reel 35-32mm NEG TRK
1 reel 16mm POS TRK

CFI technicians inform me that there should be additional materials in their vaults
but that they were withdrawn some years back. I have begun an inquiry as to their
whereabouts but am not especially hopeful of results, since the people involved with
that film at the time are now scattered. I'd therefore authorize you to go ahead
and order CFI to make a dup degative from the 16mm fine grain in the case of Buck 
Dancer (as well as a first draw for checking) and subtract the costs from any royalties
that be accrue. Bright Star was reduced to 16mm from a 35mm original; we're
currently looking for those reels, especially the fine grain print for backup purposes.
In the meantime, it seems you might as well go ahead and order prints from 
what CFI has on hand.

I am inexperienced both with the technical details and financial considerations in
the film business. I hope I have made the situation clear and that the arrangements
suggested are suitable from your end. Please let me hear if you want things handled 
any other way. 
Cordially, 
Bess Lomax Hawes
Bess Lomax Hawes

[*By the way, need I say how
delighted I am that you are
distributing the film?*]

cc: Alan Lomax: Edmund Carpenter

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.