Strachan: McPherson -- he was supposed to get a reprieve, this
man. He was just a robber, this man; but he wasna supposed to
be bad to the poor. He didna rob the poor; he may have robbit
the rich and stole their cattle and all that blooming kind of
caper. And then they were going to hang him in Banff, and he
was going to be hanged; he was fighting you see, andhe had his
back against the wall, and some old wife, she dropped a blanket
over him and that fairly tethered him. And then - I beleieved
it when I was young - and I'm nae sure I have doubts about it
yet - it was said to be at the Banff folk to keep their time
a quarter fast for a hundred years after that. They put their
clock on and hanged him when the reprieve was coming over the 
Devron.
Lomax: They put the clock on?
Strachan: A quarter of an hour, and then. . . .
Lomax: And then they kept them like that?
Strachan: Well, they said that they had to keep them - the
powers, the government wouldnae let them put them back after that.
It was said to be a kind of a ban in Banff - that was the story
about McPherson. They hanged him owre quick, you see. He was
going to get a reprive but the folk -- the gentry would have had
death on him, but the poor people liked him because he was supposed
to have been good to them, and he was a fiddler as well as a fighter.
Lomax: He was! How does that come in ?
Stracham: Well, hat's that verse that I sang to you. . .
"Some come here to see me hung and some to buy my fiddle,
But afore that I will part wi' her I'll break her through the middle.
Release my hands from out my bonds and gie to me my sword,
And there's nae a man in all Scotland but I'll have him at a word.
- - - - - - - - - - -
Binnorie
1) There ware two sisters lived in a glen,
Binnorie, o Binnorie,
And the bonnie miller laddie came a-courting of them,
By the bonnie mill dams o' Binnorie.

2) O sister, o sister will ye take a walk?
Round by the dams o' Binnorie,
For to hear the blackbird whistle o'er his note,
By the bonnie mill dams o'BInnorie.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.