[*8*]

W.B. :
. . .made a ring around it.  When he said, "Now,
well, nobody supposed to go to work this morning,"  He said,
"Well, nobody supposed to go to work this morning", he said,
"Oh, y'all come up." He said, "Now y'all can work if you 
wanna, or you can quit, I ain't gonna pay ya another nickel."
He said, "I got to call him a man", he said, "I got to call
him a man, because he had more guts than every one of you put
together". He said, "Now, I done paid him", he said, "you all 
can quit, and I ain't gonna pay you nothin", which he paid--
later.  But I did that. . .
A.L. :
You read a poem about that, didn't you? Didn't
you tell us a poem, a song that you made about that?
TRANSCRIPTION DISCONTINUED HERE--
PICKED UP AGAIN AFTER W. BROWN'S POEM)
A. L. :
What kind of a  agruement would they get in 
about the mules?, I don't understand.
W. B. :
Well, like --you got some mules, allright?
You got em in your (corral?), I got some mules, he got some
mules, and he got some mules, and he got some mules.  The
(corral?) boss may get slack.   And leave the gate open, leave
the gap down.   Well, they all get out on the levee.  Well, then
when they see 'em, they get up all a the mules, see . . and you 
come, and say, "Well, this is my mule". He goes in, "No, it's
my mule" --like that, you see.  Well them big fine mules, what
they had, you see, they cost 'em 250, three hundred, four and
five hundred dollars for that big, see.  And that's what would
make the (unintelligble), see.  Like the Mercy Man come
around, he knowd about it.  The Mercy Man come around. . .
A. L. :
Who was the Mercy Man?
W. B. :       
The man come 'round to see that you didn't
work a mule with a sore shoulder.
Bill Gordon:
That's the one if a scab was on the mule, and
you didn't get his collar off, he go 'round an check about
it, then he come back and find out who it was, he make 'im
eat that scab off of it.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.