"Oh well," he says. Calum knew he wasn't sleeping - just
playing a dodge on him. "Och well, said Calum, "If he's sleeping
I wish him a happy sleep, poor man. If he's not sleeping, that
he may be sleep there till I call again." So he walked out of the
door and he says to the woman, "Good evening."
And she says, "When will you be back again ?"
"I'll be back," he says, "in three weeks." But he stepped on. And
do you know how long he kept the man sleeping ? Three weeks till
he called again. So when he called in he knew very well the man 
was sleeping and he didn't waken. So he said, "Did the man rise
yet ?"
"O," she says, "He did not," she says. So St. Calum," she says,
He didn't rise yet. And I don't know if he's alive or not."
"Oh," he says, "He's alive alright and I think it's time for him
to get up now," he says. So when he went up and shook him. "Get up
now," he says, my goodman. And the longest day you're living in
this world, never pretend you're sleeping and you're not sleeping.
There's a warning to ye. Get outto do your work now."
      So the man jumped out of bed, catched his spade and away out
to the field to join his work, and his cleaning the sleep out
of his eyes....
- - - - - - - - - - - -
One thing he cursed was any person who would put on one shoe and
lace it without putting on the other. Because when the enemy was
after him, he happened to put on one shoe and sock and lace it,
and he hadn't the other on when he was invaded and then he had
to run like that with one shoe on and the other off, and he was
caught....

      There was another thing. He told anyone that'd be cutting
turf to never cut out a bank without leaving three steps at the
end of it, because when he was on the race from the enemy after
him, he had great difficulties getting up on the banks. He was
nearly catched - but he wasn't catched1/2 He tried to get up but he
fell back.
- - - - - - - - - -
The faries were very busy up at Glen Finn not very long ago
they tell me. But they were good to the fiddler. Yes, there was
one man who lived in Glen Finn, he was a fiddler, and he had only
the one tune. And at the time fiddlers were very scarce - it's
not like now - and if a man at the time culd play ever a tune
at all, he was appreciated, no matter how he done it. But ther
was a wedding took place and they sent for this man, and there
was a big ccowd to be there. But he picked up courage and got
the fiddle in order, and the poor man went away. Away he went to
the wedding, and indeed his courage wasn't good because he had
only the one tune and he knew he had a big crowd and he didn't
know how he wasn going to come out. B
      But he was going along on a very lonely part of the road

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.