SOUTHWESTERN AT MEMPHIS
A College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
FOUNDED IN 1848
MEMPHIS, 12 TENNESSEE
DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH February 23, 1963
Dear Mr. Lomax:
Since I wrote you I have been to see Ollie Gilbert
several times. I made her your offer of a dollar a song, and
she laughed at me; said that Jimmie Driftwood made thousands out
of a song and she saw no reason to give away and treasures -- she
had given away too many already. People in Mountain View tell
me that it is her son, who is described as 24-carat heel, boot-legger,
and swindler in general and with whom she lives, who puts
these ideas in her head, and I believe such is the case. I am
acquainted with him and can well believe anything that may be
charged to him. His father Oscar, you know, was a moonshiner
and murderer. Both are or were picturesque fellows, and I liked
them, but they are capable of driving hard bargains. Ollie is 
friendly and is willing to talk to me at length--for hours anytime
I come by, but when I mention singing she begins to fell dizzy
or gets a spell with her heart. I will keep trying. By the way,
she says she knows only one or two bawdy songs.

Item #2: Gus Cannon. The enclosed stories tell the circumstances
of Gus pretty well. I would add that I discovered Gus
in poverty and when it was apparent that he was being fleeced
out of his share of the royalties on "Walk Right In" I told Gus's
story to the Commercial Appeal, which got into action too late to
prevent a swindle. This song has made tens of thousands of dollars
--maybe hundreds of thousands--for someone; a couple of slickers
came into town and give Gus a check for $500 (which he has not
yet been able to cash and of which he seems to have lost control)
plus one-fourth of the royalties to which he is entitled. The contract
he signed with them gives each of them one-fourth of future
royalties and apparently all past profits. The contract
should be broken.  The contract with the man from Atlantic ties
up Gus for five years and proposes an album, which I am helping 
Gus put together, and offers 4% profits. Is that the customary
deal? I am only interested in getting a break fro him.  By the
way, he is the one we should have brought into the picture on your
visit here when you were attempting to put a jug band together.
I didn’t know of him then. He is a link between Uncle Remis & Handy.
He is a master of the jug as well as the five-string banjo.
Item #3: I have written you before in regard to your advice
to me to get an Ampex or other respectable recorded. Can you give
me the address of a reliable firm from whom I might get a second-hand
machine?
I have other things to write about but no time today.  Things
are becoming lively down this way.

Yours,
 John Quincy Wolf
John Quincy Wolf


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.