BJ TAPE 7C, p. 29

plain as day, jus' as plain as anything.  In a dream.  Like I and her went
across this field.  An' she got to -- She went to the edge of
the woods an' I was standing in the (field?), right almost where
I was standing when I seed it.  She said, "You, you git that an'
take it."
     And I taken it.  An' that's true.  An' so [it] I'm jus' showin' ya
that all these things is handed down, ya know, to peoples.  'Cause
they say [that they had knowed] the dead knows what the livin' doin'.
An' so, anyway, that sure happened to me.  An' ah, an' I
taken it.  But, jus' show ya then, that there's something in
the ground, is always good for ya, if ya jus' only know, ya see?
    But that is, nothing can save you when God git ready for you to
come in.  So that go for the doctors an' everything else, ya see.
Even after they take all the scales an' learn all the things,
when Jesus call, his medicine got to set aside.  'Cause the right
man stepped in.  And ya got to go.  'Cause [I've had...Noth-] an' that. . .ain' nothin'
in this world can keep ya livin' always but Him.  Hah!  Ya see?
     But see, ya see back in Genesis over there, where [it mean] He made
all these diffrunt things for us to have.  Then it said, [it] 'd made
these -- you know, the ah, the ah, the ah, the animals and the
fowls an' everything?  You know, for, for. . .?  An' all.  An' it
said, an' then 'e made these herbs an' the, the trees.  Put the
[sweetin'] sweetenin' in every thing an' put the [sourin'] sourenin' in everything, Himself,
ya see?  An' 'e said, "That's made for, for," you know, "For man,
to help them, for his body."  Ya see.  He said, "Mah spirit reCEIVE
your soul," see?  You, you see?  "But the herbs of the earth
will heal -- will he'p your body."  Not heal it, help it.  See?
An' so, an' 'cause God did the healing.  An' He made these herbs
for, for peoples to know.  Tha's, tha's why [they] He handed down to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.