2489A3
2489A5
anyhow. This tune was practically wrote in L.A. and Frisco at the 
time Rib and I was working for the Mayor's son in Oakland in a cabaret 
there on the main street. That was after I broke up my place in 
San Francisco, which was around the early part of 1919 - or 1918 
rather.  So the tune came out and it was quite famous, in fact I 
helped to make the tune famous, myself. Later "The Wolverine Blues" 
was supposed to be published. The fact of it is that I never seen 
a publication on it from the Spilses - Morton - And Spilses music 
company, but I noticed this - when the Melrose taken it over that 
Spilses' name appeared or Spilses - Morton - and Spilses on the "Wolverine 
Blues". They wrote a few of the words - that's all they did write of it. 
I demanded that the tune be changed over under my name from the Melrose 
Music Co.
Q. When did you get your idea for the "Wolverine Blues?"
M. I first wrote the Wolverine Blues in the city of Detroit, Mich.
A. Yes, but what about the idea for the tune?
M. The music? The melody? I don't know. It's one of those things just 
roam around in my head. Sometimes I just get at the piano and something 
will just bob up in my head and out it comes in my fingers. That's 
just about how the idea came. Although I tried to use a trumpet strain, 
which was the first strain - you be able to remember one of these new 
tunes that come out now - its Flat Foot Floogie or that other one - 
one of them's got part of the "Wolverine Blues in it. (scats it) 
I just want to make that for the trumpet strain - and the next 
strain I'd made that for a trombode strain and, of course, for the trio 
I made a harmony strain and then I made a clarinet strain in there and 
it proven very effective.And, of course, the last strain I planned to 
put all the instruments together in all to make the piano sould like a 
band as much as possible. Then of course, I blasted away on the last 
strain which we could call a triple fortay. When you playing jazz

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.