Reverend Roe.  Reel 4.  P. 5
to pray for them that's as spiteful as usuall and say all amount
of evil against you for my name's sake. Rejoice, and be exceedingly 
glad, for greater your reward in Heaven.
The only thing that we can hope for is that that is to come. We have
no way of bettering our condition, we no way, we couldn't fight
and do it. We can only fight and destroy a lot of our people; we
might kill a lot of the white folk, but we couldn't hope to win.
And yet we must fight in a legal way; we must do everything we can
to help ourselves, and since that is a good many of the white folks
now are sympathizing with us, knowing that we've been mistreated,
they helping us in a way, and our salvation depends on the amount of
help that we can get from the better class of white folks. And I
believe that the Lord is working, the Lord is working for us. So
many of the boys that's really been to the South now have changed,
and they treat us nice. I sometimes go to get on the car, and i walk
up to the steps and there's some white boys and sometimes a white man
that says, "Get on; you got to go to the back." That's common sense,
ain't it? I just get on first and walk on back, and they get on and
they sit in front. Now that's just good common sense, ain't it?
A: Well, sitting in the back is not good common sense.
R: No, no, that's prejudice, and we have never be able, brother,
to see our fathers facing peace as long as we hold that prejudice in
our hearts. Yeah, Blessed is the pure in heart, for they shall see
God -- that was my subject Sunday morning -- and it can't be pure as
long as malice and hatred and all that stuff is in it. It takes a 
heart that is full of love, love for humanity. How could I say
that I love God when I hate the being that He made in His own image?
And God love me, and made me in His image. Why then, if He made me
and He made you, and we all come from one parents, there's  no reason
why that we should love one another.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.