Reverend Roe.  Peel 4 - p. 5.
to pray for them that's do spitefully use you and say all manner of
evil against you for my name's sake. Rejoice, and be exceedingly
glad, for great is your reward in Heaven.

(Matthew 5, 11-12.
"Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and presecute you, and
shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my name's
sake.
"Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad; for great is your reward in heaven;
for so persecutrd they the prophets which were before you.")

[*Fight legally.*]
The only thing that we can hope for is that that is to come. We have
no way of bettering out condition. We have no way. We couldn't fight
and do it. We can only fight and destroy a lot of our people; we
might kill a lot of white folks, but then we couldn't hope to win.
And yet we must fight in a legal way. We must do everything we can 
to help ourselves and since there is a good many of the white folks
now are sympathizing with us, knowing that we've been mistreated --
they helping us in a way and our salvation depdns on the amount of
help that we can get from the better class of white folks. And I
believe the Lord is working, the Lord is working for us.
[*Whites now more courteous*]
So many of the boys that's reared up in the South now have changed,
and they treat us nice. I sometimes go to get on the car, and I walk
up to the steps and there's a lot of white boys and sometimes a white
man that says, "Get on; you got to go to the back." That's common
sense, ain't it? I just get on first, pay my fare, and walk on back,
and they get on and they sits in front. Now that's just good common
sense, ain't it?
A: Well, sitting in the back isn't good common sense.
[*Blessed are the pure in heart*]
R: Aw naw, naw! That's prejudice, and we have never been able, brother,
to see our Father's face in peace as long as we hold that prejudice
in our hearts. Yeah. Blessed is the pure in heart, for they shall
see God -- that was my subject Sunday morning -- a pure heart. And it
can't be pure as long as malice and hatred and all that stuff is in it. 
It takes a heart that is full of love, love for humanity. How

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.