T3453
TAPE 89B - DAVY STEWART.
Lomax: You lived in the bothies at times?
Davy: Oh yes. I've been a farm servant myself. To tell you the
truth I can't plough, because I remember one time when I was
young I went to a job at Aberdeen. 'Course, I wasn't very old -
and father was living in Aberdeen at that time - I'd be about 12
years old. And I went away on my own, and I kenned this farmer
because he knew my father, and he asked me to work at the hay.
So I worked a week at the hay with him, and after that I went to
do odd jobs at feeding the cattle and one thing and another. But
one day he showed me the way to plough. I'll never forget it. He
was showing me, - he did two rows himself. He said, "Mind ye
keep always farther on the left side - press your handles down -
don't let them go too far in the ground."
     Ye see, on a plough there's what you call the slane (?), thats
in below the plough - and you've got to keep that mostly on the
left of the plough, don't let her go up at all. But I did a wee
bit -about twenty yards, I was gong alright, and all of a
sudden I went about 20 feet up in the air. The plough hit a stone
and went right into the ground and I was flung about 5 or 6 feet
away - bashed all my sides on the handle of the plough, and by
God, I didn't plough after that! I remember quite well.
Lomax: Did you live in the bothies with the men?
Davy: Aye, I lived in the bothies among them. In the bothies
at night after supper, we'd have the fiddle out, or maybe somebody
would sing a song or two and I would get the accordian out
of my chest and we'd have a tune and a song, and after that we'd
have the gramaphone on and listen to that.
Lomax: Did the lassies ever come out and join you?
Davy: Oh yes. The lassies used to come in laughing, and we'd
play for a dance and sing bothies, and a couple of servant-girls,
maybe from other houses round about. Oh the bothy life's a fine
life! I was potato gathering not long ago - potato lifting and
dressing potatoes at Ramsey and Dundee, and stocking the neaps.
Lomax: What kind of accomodation did they have for living in
the bothies?
Davy: O the bothies has got beds, good beds now. Not like the
old-fashioned times with a candle and a paraffin lamp. Bothies
now has got electric lights andn hot and cold water.
Lomax: In the old days, how did they sleep?
Davy: They slept on a boxed-in bed that was made of wood. Built
into the wall.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.