Hon. J.W. Bradford       Levee [??????]
p-2

grubbing and ditching, and generally carried 2 to 4 teams and wagons. 
During the mowing season it also generally operated several mowing 
machines.
     The name "Boat Road Gang" was applied to this force because 
it was originally organized for the purpose of cutting lanes from 
the river to the levee and along the riverside of the levee so that 
boats would have ready access to and along the levee to assist in 
flood fighting, much of which was then done from boats.
     The personnel of the mechanic's force consisted of a foreman, 
helper, and a complement of from 20 to 30 laborers. It was equipped 
with house moving and pile driving machinery, carpenter and ditching 
tools, wheelbarrows, and other hand implements. This force generally 
carried from 2 to 5 wagons, and during the weed cutting 
season several mowing machines.
     All these forces were housed under canvas and moved when and 
where needed. They were kept organized throughout the year.
     To supplement the work done by these outfits local labor 
forces were often organized to do such work as ditching, mowing 
and clearing logs, timber and bushes from the levee and right-of-way. 
These forces were sometimes worked by the day under a foreman hired 
by the Levee Board and sometimes were employed by contract.
     As a consequence of the extension of the levee lines and the 
closer confinement of the river to its channel the flood plane was 
progressively raised and it became necessary to make frequent 
upward grade revisions. To keep pace with the increased size of the 
levee and to make its construction economically justified better 
dirt moving equipment was devised; thus through a process of evolution 
this equipment has successively passed from shovel and wheelbarrow, 
slip scraper, horse drawn elevating 
grader and wagon and finally [????] large draglines and [?] 
to 25 cubic [?] motorized wag[?]
[?]day

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.