he cant tell you anything else, 'cos he aint read no book. 

We didn't have no name for these songs - A gang of us get to
working and we just start singing. There's 35 of us in a ditch and one
guy'll start humming and we'll start doing that, till you get to thinking, and
every guy in that ditch has got different troubles. One guy wants to
bury his mother, but the foreman says "I need you here"... and I had to leave
home 'cos the white man wanted my woman, and there's another guy who worked 
a whole year and he's still owing money, and he knows that the cotton he sowed 
was enough to pay all that money - he know for himself that  he's working 
for something that he don't owe, but he can't tell his boss that...... So
there's three of us together. Me, the woman I loved, and she loved me I 
believe and the white man jumped off his horse one day and said "You've got till
sundown to leave her, and if I catch you with this woman I'll kill you" Cos
he liked this girl. And I went to her mother and said I got to leave....

Lomax: Is that all you said?

Bill: Is you going to talk yourself into a graveyard?

            All these guys with headaches, different headaches, but we didn't know 

no words and we kept on humming till we finally got to the place where
we got the words - that's the blues, the real blues. 

       There's no two men who'll sing the blues alike. 

(On his Uncle)  He'll walk out and it'll be clear as crystal and there'll be 
stars all over, but he can stick his nose in the air and know its going to 
rain - He  keeps up with the rain. I don't keep up with these things - I don't 
care when it rains. 

(On the country)  I would rather live in a small town. On 47th street, you have
a thousand negroes live in these buildings, and you ask somebody "D'you know 
Rose Broonzy" and he'll say, "No, I don't know Rose Broonzy" and no-body
knows her and yet I've been living there 14 years ! People in the country, they'll 
speak to you - regardless if they hate you. "D'you go fishing"? "Yes, I went 
fishing - I caught one", But if a city man catch a fish, you won't know it, 
and if he cooks it he'll shut the door so you wont smell it......

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.