Reverend Roe.  Reel 12- p.2.
the reasons that I lost all confidence in anybody that they could do
those things, you know.  Now every one of those people come to me, try
to get me to learn them something.  I didn't know anything about conjur,
in fact, I never have believed in it.
A: Guess back to your growing-up time, there were lots of peoples in
the country that believed it.
[*Conjuring*]
R: Oh yes, they just have a whole lot of different stuff they'd sew
around the house there, stuff they'd put out fur um, and all like a
that, you know, but I never have believed in it.  They never could
make me believe in no foolisheness like that; I just couldn't, I
couldn't see no reason in it.  I believe that if a person could put
some kind of a poison in you or something on you, why then could
hurt you.
[*Mother 
cures a case 
of strychnine poisoning.*]
Minn[ie]y McGilb, a one-eyed fellow there, was courting a woman and there
was a old fellow there he had a wife, and that was his sweetheart, and
she was washing Old Man Minny's clothes, and he got some strychnine
and just put it all in them clothes, and when [he got him s?] Old Man Minny went
over there and taken a bath and put those clothes on and started home
-when he 'gin yo get hot, you know; that stuff would get to working,
I guess, through the pores of his skin, and by the time he got over there
to our house--it was a mile or two--hot summertime--he had just almost
gone crazy and he was a-trotting.  And my mother seen him looking peculiar
and she told my borther to go over there to the road and meet
him.  And he wen over there, and they brought him over to our house,
and they stripped him.  I don't know how she knew it, but she had 'em
to strip him, and she fixed something and bathed him in, and he stayed
there that day and next morning he was all right.  And she told him
what had been done.
A: She must have been a wonderful woman, your mother.
R: Yessir.  She told him what happened, that somebody had put strychnine

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.