remarked during one of their reels that that was a[?]go [?une] and she
could pat to that. So we started clapping and pretty soon the whole
crowd was clapping, I think somewhat to the pipers' astonishment,
particularly [w]since Bessie, indomitable and unswerving to the last,
was patting double-claps on the off-beats!

I have been having a hell of a summer, chewed up into little
fragments by all kinds of unexpected arrivals and departures, and I
am horribly tired. I have gotten very little done - about one third --
on Bessie's tapes, but am putting on a big push to finish the whole
thing before she leaves, and the children and I start for Texas.
I saw a few of Hedy's transcriptions; they are more scientific than
mine and undoubtedly much more accurate. She is also faster than I am;
my hearing, I think, has been dulled by the four- [?]quarness [then] that
I have to resort to in dealing with large groups, and she picks up
subtleties that I have to count out laboriously with little effort.
However, her finished results may be too technical; it's awfully hard
to make a judgment -- for all I know, mine may be too simple.
I do have a few specific questions before I come into the final
[business of] copying stage:
1. Do you want the songs chorded? Most of them, I think, are better
unaccompanied, but you may want this for book-selling reasons.
2. How about key? Bessie sings most of them in E, E flat or F
(that I've done so far). I would assume that you would want them transposed; 
I rather hate to put them up into soprano range (which is easiest
to read) because the low pitch is so much more characteristic of Negro
singing -- however, I don't want to get into [?] many ledger lines,
are [also] hard to read. For example, a song she sings in E, I would 
feel would be best written out in A for a nice average low pitch (plus
better guitar, if that's a consideration); for easiest sight-reading,
however, it should be put into C. Also, by the way, shall I indicated
the key she originally sings it in up at the top somewhere.
3. I th[?] [?] using three tempo indications -- metronome markings,
a descriptive [?] and total time for singing one verse in seconds.
So few people have a metronome that I feel the stop-watch time might
be more helpful. Do you agree on this.
4. Shall I include clapping indications? I myself would like to
write out her most common clap patterns and put them in the introduction,
just using [o] a few songs to illustrate the effect.

Incidentally, Hedy was singing a version of Lady Margaret
which reminded Bessie of a song she call[e]s Nero, which turns out to
be a [some] version of Little Musgrove; she has forgetten the first verse
but says her mama knows it. She doesn't think she recorded it for you;
would you like me to take a tape just for the record[?] -- we just have
a Wollensak but it would at least get it down?

I'm kind of too sleepy to think of all the other things I meant
to ask. I do hope that the job will go smoothly enough that you can
get over to Texas; we will miss you an awful lot if you don't.

Love from all and do
write soon -- at least about what Bessie should do,
Bess

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.