BJ TAPE 26, p.37

AL:  She could have caused him to be killed.
BJ:  Git killed!  If he hadn't a - got away from there somehow.  I
don't know who got 'im away 'cause we was just upset; we was
scared, anyway, 'cause they might think we was tryin' to he'[p] git
'im away or whatnot.  Ya see?  But he had done got away.  'Cause
he asked 'er, he said. "What would you do?"  Said, "If I stay here,"
said, "She keep pickin' at me."  Had a habit a layin' in the bed, all
kinda funny ways, you know.  An' when he come through.  See?
[*STORY: WHITE WOMAN WANTS NEGRO-NEGRO WINS OUT*]
There one here on the Island, did the same way.  Every time
the boy would go up the stairs, she'd go upstairs an' order her
meal.  Ya see?  You know, bedside meals.  She'd order her meals.
An' that, an' that, if some of the rest of 'em bring it, then
she, she'd speak to them an', an' wonder how come Frank couldn't bring
it.  Why Frank didn't bring it.  Well, they all go to askin' 'im,
said, "Why she want you to bring it all the time?"
Frank said, "I don't know."  An' so, but Frank done told us,
said, "That woman is too fresh for me.  Everytime she, she go up
there, an' she lay on the bed, an' want me to bring 'er meal."  You
know.  An' said, "I don't like the way she do it."  He just'talked --
He was kinda funny-talkin' person, didn't have much to say, you know,
like.  But didn't understand what he meant, ya know?
An' so?  Rocked on there.  Frank got, Frank told, ah, ah, who
was it?  The man that, that was there -- Leonard.  He, he was a 
cook from Atlanta; he was a man.  He said, "Come on, go wit' me."
Said, "You go on go up, now."  You know, he went up first, ya know.
Said, "You go on up there.  An' you jus', jus' tip up there.  An', 
an' see how she gonna act.  An' hear how she gonna talk.  An' so
I'm gonna carry a meal in there."
All right.  An' Leonard, he, he tipped on up there. An'
Leonard (Frank) was already up there, see?  An', an' one of the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.