Reverend Roe - Reel 2 - P. 6

Well, when they refused to ordain me, I went to this church that I had the
dream about. They ordained me. I went on and taken my church, and I moved
that church down where I planted that tree. And that church growed and before
the people knew what I was doing there I had a church equal to nearly any
church in the city. Yes, sir, there was something that led me, you know.
A: What did you think the dream meant? What did those little clear pools of water
mean, did you think?
R: I think that meant my ministry of life - sometimes things would be clear and
sometimes muddy; I believe that was what it meant. And it's been like that.
A: And why do you think you went down in the south part of town?
[*The church succeeds*]
R: Well, my dream. Yeah and because I dreamed that and set a tree out down
there. Well, I didn't have that in mind when I went, but after I went and
the church began to grow, you know, and thrive, then it come to me about that
tree and I said, "Well, that was the Lord leading me down there, I guess."
And so I built the church down there, and I just had a fine time there until
I got ready to go -- I was called to another church and left. Other ministers
came behind me and they said it was a mighty good church. So, before I went,
I come back for to Sherman, a preacher had split the Bethlehem church, taken
this little church off from it, you know, and that was why they would recognize
the call, when they called me. So, after I had built that church they called
the preacher and they fell out with him, he'd taken sick, and they sent him
out of the pulpit right on the street, on the cot, when he was able to go --
the deacons did.
Soon after there they lost the church and this church that I built there and
they bought and they own it now. And it's a good church, thriving and well.
Yes.
A: Well, after all, it proves that the Lord was leading you.
R: And every place I've gone since then, I've built a church -- coming along
fine.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.