BJ TAPE 18, p. 7

ready for work.  An' yet he had to go on down to the lots an' git
everything, you know, see that all the plows bein' right an'
everything, you know, whatsoever there is to be done.   He was kinda over
the all of 'em to see what to be done an' [everything] all, see.
         An' so this guy, he jus' didn't like it, ah, Mama said.   But
they didn't know that he hate him that bad.   An' ah, as bad as
he did.   So, anyway, he had a dawg, this colored man did.   An' ah,
his dawg was a suck-aig dawg.   You know, suck aigs? (eggs)   Go out
people's house an' break up the nest an'. . .An' so these white
peoples really liketed him.   His name was Hamp. I jus' thought
of his name now; his name was Hamp.   An' um, Mama said that this
man's, ah, the white peoples put poison in the aig, you know, so, it mighta
been a 'possum; it mighta been anything, ah, you know, ah, that was
stealin' the aigs, see. They wasn't thinkin' a no people, 'cause
all the[y did] aigs they want, they could have. They even had chickens, ya see?
An' they could have the aigs. An' so...They was very, ah, Mama said
they was very nice old peoples. An' um, hit's a man an' his wife
an' his wife's mother. See. That's what stayed in the house,
the white people.
         So Mama said that this, ah, dawg got hold a some a them
aigs, see?   That was Hamp's dawg, this colored man's dawg.   And the
dawg died.   Hamp found out the dawg was poisoned, ya know?   You
know how they determine by the mouth an' the green stuff; they
know he poison'.   So that, [that] it wasn't fer from that house.   So
they, they was talkin' about it.   [So Hampx] Said "Hamp," said, [said, ah,]
"I will git you another dawg."   Said, "I didn't know what dog it 
was, eaten' the aigs."  An said, "Didn't know it was him."
That was his huntin' dawg.
         Hamp didn't even take that in, ya see?   He got mad about
it.   An' so he set that same -- He tol' 'em, see, she had give

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.