mascaron, from what Polines tells me, is danced by everyone during
Mardi Gras, when you can't tell the good people from the bad (  or the
poor from the rich, within limits)  and by the vagabonbs and the poor
all the year round.
Presently Polines led me gently away from the drum-talk to show me
another of his treasures. We had not walked twenty yards when we
came round the corner of a shanty and  saw four or five couples
dancing a slow one-step in the alley-way between a high cactus fence
and the house. Hanging to the fence was an old bycycle tire, burning
slow and orange, throwing agolden flare across the dancers and the
wall og the shanty.  I wish I could tell how beautiful this scene was,
how melancholy, how restrained and graceful.  The music was click,
chatter, tinkle and deep throbbing thump-thump.  That is, a tall youth 
stood slender and swaying in the moonlight and nonchalantly clicked
two long white bones together, another  stood shaking the cha-chas,
a third sat and played the melody on a three stringed guitar, while
the fourth sat on a box and with his hands between his legs
plucked  the iron tongues of the manoumbas.  The trois and the manoumbas
were in melodic counterpoint and all the instruments  had a seperte
rhythm.  The whole was gentle and sedate and seductive.  Around
the corner of the house, literally in the next yard, Africa was wiggling
and throbbing in a characature of the orgasm, the clapping of hips;
here in the orange  light of the bicyle tire, in the shadows of the
frizzly cactus fence, the upper crust gently stroked the breasts of love.
And intricacy of the rhythms moved on seperateand sure as if the
two dances were taking place on different planets. The manoumbas is
a musical triumph.  It combines the virtues of the tambour, 

in the left hand, with  fathom deep melody of the slapped bass fiddle in
the right hand.  The one I saw was about two feet high, a foot wide and
three and a half long. Behind the eight iron tongues (  an inch wide and
set in an iron bar with screws was a circular mouth, which opened to receive
the tones and coughed them up in a way to make me want to gently
revolve my hips just as everyone else was doing. While I listened (about 
forty-five minutes)  the manoumbas player changed three times, the guitar 
player once, the bone clicker about thrice and the cha -cha shaker four
times. One of the men played both the guitar and the manoumbas. He was
not so well dressed as the others, was recognized by everyone as the
best musician in the crowd and two songs of his composition were
played.  Later I saw him dancing the congo under the shed. Everyone
in this group wore shoes, all the men shirts and most of them
very clean whire suits.  Polines was their friend and relative. He tends to 
make too many speeches . I shall have to continue to restrain him.
The musicians playedmarches, blues, meringues, bals.  Some of the
rhythms were Cuban or Mexican, one definite guapango, one had
Spanish words.  The performers sang most of the time, gently, not
at all in the shrill and vigorous fashion of the girls across the yard.
Later I returned to the tambours under the shed and watched another
half hour, during which the lad who had been playing the tamborin 
shifted to the position of wuntah. Things became livelier at once.
A inky buck in an undershirt danced  the most complicated dance I have
so far seen, his right shoulder going up as his left hip
went down, and then the other side, some fine angular postures. A marvellous
shimmy. The men can shake their bellies as well as the women, but when it
comes to hip-rolling, they're out. Later , coming home, Polines and I resolved
to speak no more English.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.