I do think Ed is doing the best job he can for the group; he
is still sloppy in his methods, but this situation is
rapidly improving with the addition of Alan Hjerpe to his
staff. Alan is methodical, calm and very sensible. He is
currently working on the housing problem (the singers are
housed at the moment at Ed Pearl's in Malibu, but this presents
all kinds of transportation problems). Ed will take
care of housing and food, but putting up five for three weeks
is something of a problem; private homes can't take so many
and they do not want to separate. Public housing, hotels and
such, present discrimination problems; we are working on two
good leads, though and Alan should have it under control today,
hopefully.

Concerning your kind invitation about putting up
a Hawes or two, you may be taken up on it faster than you
had anticipated; it is always rash to throw invitations
around. Corey and Naomi will be arriving in New York the
end of June (I'll get them to add an exact itinerary). They
will be with their Scout troop and will stay the first three
days in a large lump at the Scout headquarters in New Rochelle
where they can get free lodging. Then the Europe contingent
will depart leaving Corey and one Scout leader, Helen Schneider
in New York. They plan to look around the city for about
a week, possible; then Helen will leave for Pennsylvania
where she has relatives and fly home from there. Corey's
plans include a trip to Boston to see Butch's parents
and Anne Cary and then a bus trip home, stopping in Amarillo
where, hopefully, Shirley can pick her up and let her stay
for a week in Lubbock. This should put Corey home around
the first of August; she plans to teach a little guitar and
loaf till September when she hopes to start at Berkeley.
She hasn't heard yet whether she's accepted there and so has
applied at San Francisco State just to be on the safe side,
but really hopes for Berkeley. Anyway, do you think you
could put her up during the latter art of her New York stay?
She will not be too much of a bother, since
she and Helen have much sight-seeing they have planned (Helen
knows no-one in New York and so they have made some joint
arrangements; but Helen is a nice girl and fun to be with,
very enthusiastic and energetic.) Maybe you or Toni or Anne
could write us about your new place; I hesitate to feel we
are crowding you -- you've been so jammed up for so long
that perhaps you are looking forward to a summer free of outsiders.

How are your beautiful daughter and your gorgeous wife?
We look at the summer pictures often -- did I write you how
great they are? -- the one of Naomi, in particular, is the
only good one we have ever had of her. I hop little Annie
is happier; I haven't written her nearly as often as I should.
Tell her I will improve my conduct. As for Toni, I am ashamed;
give her my love and a big hug from us all.

Lovingly always,

Bess

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.