THE FACE ON THE BARROOM FLOOR

A Story

BY NELSON ALGREN

A LONG generation ago, back in the
twisted twenties when Chicago
was still a dangerous city,
a mild-mannered youth called Fancy
used to tend bar in a dingy speakeasy
on the wrong side of Van Buren
Street. He pleased the women of the
third-rate burlesques, as well as those
of the curtained brothels, by mixing
flattery with easy credit. When asked
for a shot on the cuff he would answer
reflectively, "I wouldn't want
such a good-lookin' girl like you to
be goin' down State Street thirsty," 
and would pay for the drink himself.
To this lopsided shambles, where
the lighting was so dim that all faces
looked alike, no police ever came. For
Brother B., whose speakeasy it was,
avoided police attention by locking
the doors and drawing the shutters
whenever a fight began. So although
there were frequent brawls, they were 
never accompanied by the sort of excitement
which might attract passersby: 
only the steady thudding of the
fans overhead and the desperate scuffle
of shoes would be heard when two
thieves fought along the floor.

Suddenly it would be done, and the
half-muted babble of voices would
rise over the fans' steady thudding. 
Brother B. would be pulling up the
shutters and the mild-mannered youth
would be unlocking the doors. And
everyone, victor and vanquished,
would be having a shot on the house.
The juke would begin again and
everyone would feel that something
had at last been achieved that day.
"Let's see what them damned rumdums
are up to at Brother B.'s tonight," 
the peep-show cuties would
say after the last show. "I'd rather see
a fight than a floor-show any time.
Maybe there'll be a good fight tonight."
If a man were hurt so seriously
that he could not rise even to drink,
and if no one else volunteered to take
charge of him, Brother B. would personally
pour a shot down his throat,
hoist him like a potato sack over his
shoulder and carry him out the rear entrance.
There, secretly beneath the
curved steel of the El, beneath the
endless ties, Brother B. would deposit
the fellow, upright and gently,
in the alley entrance of Greek Steve's 

NELSON ALGREN has had stories reprinted in the O'Brien and O. Henry anthologies.
The Neon Wilderness, a collection which includes this story, will be published soon. 

26

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.