-11-

Oh, and this Morrison that I had.  I had Marr Hardy 
here.  He was body servant to John Brown when Queen Victoria
and John Brown were in ITaly.  And when the Queen and John 
Brown were in Italy - John Brown, you know, was the great 
servant, and led her through the moutains with a Highland......
Well, well, he had more say with Queen Victoria than anybody 
and the whole country was a wee bit disgusted......  But he 
was a bit of a marvel and a bit of a master and she was ill 
one time and they got him down to London, and he put her on 
to the garran and she got better shortly  (It's a Highland 
pony)

Well, well, this Marr Hardy was gamekeeper here and 
he was the only man ever known to give John Brown back-chat 
at Balmoral, and when the Queen and this gentry -  I've told 
you about them that I had before - they used to give Marr 
Hardy more things than he was maybe fit to swallow.  They 
sometimes thought they would get him to tell them something 
about Queen Victoria, but he never did.  I don't believe 
he'd anything to tell, but I know nothing about it.  But 
that was all brought up in Parliament and, by God, the folk 
who don't have it and would not have the Queen..... She 
nursed him when he was ill and they thought the Queen shouldn't 
nurse John Brown.  Bloody good of her, I thought......
Time I was a kid........
And this Marr Hardy was playing the fiddle.... I had 
Morrison, foreman, here.  He was the greatest man that ever 
went in shoe-leather on the face of the earth.  I never saw 
a man like him.  It would take a long story to tell you..... 
The way that I engaged him, but I had him here..... and he 
was.....what do you call it?.....well, he had the "Meal 
and Ale" to supervise and he said to me.........I told him 
to see that we had this thing to manage, and he said to me 
"Ach - the night of the "Meal and Ale"...... "Ach" he said
"I never did a thing of that kind before - go and help yourself -

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.