Cox: They ought to come andhave a go. They ought to go now; they want
to get a good old frosty weather, an' go and help somebody to pull some
sugar beet, and see how they like it.                          that's all the
                        have had. Had mittens on, of course, and had lumps of old
rime, you know, a roll of it in the middle of your hand - a little ball,
you know, had to knock 'em out you know, an'
keep rolling, all ice. Still, you aren't cold. Not unless you get a wet
mitten on; you're all right, you know. It all roll up in there. That's
what theywant to do. Well, they wouldn't be any good there.
Lomax: No, of course not.
Cox: You know what, they wouldn't know the right end of it. They wouldn't
know. I can -- I can give you another toast ifyou like. (laughs.)
Here's luck to the man who wear a ragged coat
An' Haven't got a patch to mend it.
But damn and bugger the man who ha' got plenty o' Money
An' yet ha' it and don't spend it.
An' then there's another one. . .
Here's luck to the bee that stung Adam's ass and set the whole
world a-jog.
Kennedy: And set the wolrd a-jogging?
Cox: Yeah. That started all in motion, you see; once that got stung,
everything. . . . .(laughs.)
Kennedy: What's the one you were telling me before ? "The world's as
round as a wheel" is it?
Cox: Yeah. "The sting of death we all must feel."
Lomax: Give it, give it, Harry. Give it good and proper, so we can
get it down on the machine.
Kennedy: The whole toast. How does it go, Harry? That one.
Cox: What, that one? Oh well.
All the world's as round as a wheel,
The sting of death we all must feel.
Here's health to the living and peace to the dead.
Let's hope that no one in London will ever want for bread.
- - - - - - - - - -
The Bonny Bunch of Roses.
1) By the dangers of the ocean one morning in the month of June,
The feathered warbled songsters their charming notes so sweet did tune,
There I espied a female, a-seeming in grief and woe,
Conversing with young Bonyparte concerning the bonny bunch of roses-o.

2) Now up spoke bold Napoleon as he took his mother by the hand,
"O mother, pray do have patience until I'm able to take command.
I will raise a terrible army, and through tremendous dangers go,
In spite of all the universe, I will gain the bonny bunch of roses-o.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.