"He'll soon go down to Fyvie and I'll take you down".  Man, 
I got my name up with the men that way.  There was Strachan 
driving his men to the balls. That spread over all the 
place - you've no idea.  It just did me a wee bit of good.  
But I was terribly pleased to do it.  It wasn't for that 
point that I was doing it at all, and I let them out........ 
we got some straw...... what they call a puddock this thing 
was.  That was the thing we dragged big stone with.  And 
I took the men down decently and I would have gone back for 
them but they couldn't tell me if they'd be coming back.  
Might get a girl and be walking her home and they might not, 
and I didn't for them, but I would have gone if they'd 
told me they'd be there.  And next day this chap - I forget 
what he was doing - this Jimmy Mell,  and I said "How do you 
like the ball?"  If I had taken him down I might not have
asked him "Oh"he said, "The Castle servants were at it and 
they were far above the farm servants and, Oh, yon Castle 
servants, they're foll".... (Foll means proud, but a better 
word than proud)  "Yon castle servants were foll men - that 
means stinking so-and-sos - Well" he said "I went up to a 
gey good looking ane and I asked her to dance and if you had 
seen this farm servant mimicing this quean you'd...... 
He twisted his mouth and he says ....... She looked at him and 
said "No thanks" and the man could just do her to here, and I 
said "What did you do?" He said "I just stood to one side of 
her and saw that nobody danced with her that time, onywey" 
and I said "What happened?" and he said "Any time yon counter-
lopers come - that means the trace-men you see - come up and
afore he went in to put her and I said "You wouldn't have 
danced with that buggar, she has a timmer leg - a wooden leg - 
a timmer leg" and I said "What did the man do?"  He walked away 
He didn't let her get a dance.  There's nae man on the face 
of the earth that could have done that but a farm servant.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.