8) We had a bit bailey, he comes from Kincaird, 
A little wee manny, some scarce of a beard. 
But for coortin' the lassies he would be prepared, 
For sortin' the stots ( cows ) at the Fornit. ( He was too busy courting to look after the cattle.) 

9) We had a bit of a daughter ( of the house ), the flo'or of the glen, 
She plays a piano and files (courts) with the men. 
She runs in the close to get keppit again ( caught by the lad
With the ploughman lads of the Fornit. 

10) At the kirk on a Sunday she wears a long veil, 
A yaird of her dress ahin her dae trail, 
And her hair is tied up like my horse's tail, 
To charm all the lads at the Fornit. 

11) Wi' the hairst being back and the weather awfu' bad, 
He turns us a' out to the pick and the spade, 
He tore off his jacket, the auld man he gin mad, 
And he danced and he raved at the Fornit. 

I learned it off a ploughman myself. I used to hear Willie 
Kemp singing it on the records. Used to go up to Old Meldrum 
and swap songs with him. 

One time there was a first, second and third horseman; there 
was a bailey, a little bailey, a cattleman and oraman ( did 
everything ), then the grieve, (foreman). The bailey looked 
after the grain. The little bailey helpit the bailey. Then 
there was the kitchie-deem, the servant girl. Then the 
milking girls. All these people were feed, and they couldn't 
break the bargain. If you did, he [you] could put you in jail. 

The Hash o' Bengoch: 
1) Sax month come Merkestine ( the month of May ) I feed in Turran toon, 
They said I was the brawest chiel in a' the country roon, 
Chorus: With a ring dum day, a high doo a day, 
Ring a cum diddle come a dandy o, 
or: Ring [cum] ding diddle come dandy-o. 

2) We've got a gallant kitchie-deem, her name is Jessie roun, 
It would fairly take a saddle girth her middle to gang round. 

3) It was auld Willie feed me, Robbie never spokem 
To come an' ca' the second pair at the Hash o' Bengoch.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.