Lomax:  Did you ever sing a lullabye to your child - not a song?

Barry:  Yes I did. Thatnwould be like a lament, too. Not just singing
any words, but ) she hums). Many a time I sung that to my own
youngster. But I didn't make any songs out of it.

Lomax:  Did you ever hear a lullabye or a song for children that
has words to it? Maybe for bouncing a baby on your knee.

Barry:  Well, I used to hear a song called "Go to Sleep, My Baby."
but it's a very old-fashioned. But the trouble is I haven't got it -
Ionly heard it a long time ago. In the cradle, when they used to be
made of a little wooden afair, like, very common, with a couple of
little rockers underneath it, made by the men in those days. Oh yes
(Break in tape here)
I'll tell you, in the wild days - of course, I did get schooling.
I was 14 years of age when I finished my schooling in the County
Cork. When I left school, my ambition was -- I was always singing
from night to early morning - nobody never trained me how to sing -
no, not the slightest. But I was always anxious for a man for singig,
and if I was coming home from school or along the road back home, I
would never mind if I saw nothing to eat. I'd be singing away and 
please myself, and then I'd come back and eat. Me first adventure
was - me father lived in a little house in Little Island - not a 
great one, but a shelter and the rent was very very small, only
two and six a week. I decided for myself I didn't get very much
pocket money, because money in those days wasn't very great. A pound
was a lot in those days, and if you had a couple, you'd be a millionaire.
But I never had very much. I might get a penny or twopence,
but I decided to go out and sing somewhere and I'd make some money
for myself. So me first adventure is thatwhen I left Little Island
I walked the half ways from there to McCrough, County Cork, and got
a lift the remainder of the way. When I went to McCrough, I was
standing there, well dressed enough, and I said I should sing  -
some song anyway. But being shy, like, and being very young - What
I did you will never believe. But, I got me back out against the
street, and instead of singing out twards the people, I had me face
in towards the street, and I should have been singing facing the
people that way, instead of having my face against the wall. And I
started to sing  a little bit - the first verse - "Little Brown Road
Winding Over the Hills" - "Two Eyes of Blue". Now I'd only the two
songs and I was making every attamept at singing, and if I saw anyone
passing by, I'd just d that, and sing another little bit. But
by that time I'd got courage and I sagn, "Two Eyes of Blue," still
smiling through at me" and "Oft in the stilly night." I knew
several airs of songs, but I hadn't the words. As soon as I sang the 
song I sort of got courage, and I sang ghe song so loud. I kept on
going  - and the song was getting better and I was getting better, and 
al l the people from both sides of the street came out as I was

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.