3) It tasted more sweeter than the gold he had wasted, 
More sweeter than honey, andgave more content, 
But the thought of his babies lamenting their father 
Brought tears to his eyes, which made him lament. 

4) The night fast approaching to the woods he resorted, 
With woodbine and ivy his bed for to make, 
There he dreamt about sighing, lamenting and crying, 
Go home to your family and rambling forsake. 

5) On the fifth of November, I've a reason to remember, 
When first he arrived home to his family and wife, 
They stood so surprised when first he arrived, 
To know such a stranger once more in their sight. 

6) His children came around him with their prittle-prattling stories,
With their prittle-prattling stories to drive care away, 
Now they are united, like birds of one feather, 
Like bees in one hive, contented they'll be. 

7) So now he is a-living in his cottage so contented, 
With woodbine and roses growing all round the door, 
He's as happy as those that have thousands of riches, 
Contented he'll stay and go a-rambling no more. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
The Brsk Young Ploughboy. 

1) 'Twas of a brisk young ploughboy, come listen to this refrain, 
And join with me in chorus and sing the ploughboy's praise, 
My song is of the ploughboy's paise and unto you I'll relate the same, 
He whistles, sings and drives his plough, the brave ploughboy. 

2) So earlye in the morning the ploughboy he is seen, 
All hastening to his stable his horses for to clean, 
Their manes and tails he does comb straight; with chaff and corn he does them bait, 
And hell endeavour to plough straight, the brave ploughboy. 

3) When he goes out in the morning to harrow, plough or sow, 
And with a gentle toss my boys, he'll give his corn a throw, 
O this I'll have you understand [it comes from the ploughboy], 
Is just to fill the reaper's hand, 
Likewise I'll have you understand it comes from the ploughboy. 

4)Now seed time being over, the fields look fresh and gay, 
There's merry lads to mow the grass while damsels make the hay, 
The small birds sing on every tree, the cuckoo joins sweet harmony, 
All welcome here as you may see, the brave ploughboy.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.