And by the hobby horse doing its work and driving 'em from the 
shores, they had us to the castle and appreciated us for the work we
had done, and which is to be carried out on the first of May evry
year. Then after that, you work back the lower Dunster road - thrugh
the old yarn market - which is a very old place - the old Round House -
Well, that's hundreds of years old, which at the time the battles
was fought -- in Dunster castle they were supposed to be sheltering
in the roof. So therefore you can always reckon to take the course
back to Dunster, and when you've worked all Dunster completely back
into Ockham, Ockham back into Minehead. Well, that's your first day
of May. Will, as you get back into Minehead, you work Minehead on the
2nd. Then you go out round the surrounding districts, Perkham and 
Aphurst. Then you go all round that route.
     Well, it comes to the last night when you've got to do the Booter.
Boy: Oh, you catch somebody and then turn 'em round and somebody
catc es hold of their legs and body and arms and then you hit 'em on
the back ten times, and you say . . .'A-one-un, a two-un. . .up to ten. . .
WHOO!
Lomax: Tell them about the time you had trouble with the hobby horse.
Boy: How did you find out the hobby horse was burning.
Alf: Well, I was inside and the wind was blowing across my face and
the cigarette was in front me face. And I says to the chaps outside,
"Here, hang on a bit, old chaps, this  hobby horse is on fire."
And they says, "What?" I says, "Yes, ti is. I must take this hobby
horse off me - if I don't I shall be on fire."
So we tried tofind the culprit, but of no avail. But it just shows
you how things can hapen. Say you was taking that hobby horse to a 
carnival, which they asked me last year to do. Well, the first thing
anyone'd do is to chuck a cigarette down on it and you're afire.
Lomax: You mean someone actually did this on purpose? People are
that mean are they?
Alf: O they'd do anything. In fact, here's one of me confederates here
as belongs to the hobby horse same as I do myself - and he was playing
the drum at the same time when I sang out to him that I was on fire.
And they took the hobby horse off me, and that's it - we found the 
smoking ribbons inside.
Lomax: What would you have done if you'd go hold of that man?
Alf: What we intend to do as this? Well, I don't know what we would
have done to him - the temper we was in. We was trying to keep the 
old things up and properly done, and everybody wished to see it, but
when you get someone to do a trick like that, well, I thought it was
a filthy trick. Well eventually we got over it and carried on and
finished up - down to the town where we had our old Booter, the
finishing up after we done the chair racket. Three cheers for the old
hobby horse - which we always do.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.