- 14 -
RICHARD AND MIHI FARINA 
SOUTHERN FESTIVAL OF SONG
By Judith Addams
The town of Damopolis, Alabama, is the target of a
project by the Southern Students Organizing Committee 
aimed at teaching the young Negroes there
the things they are not finding in their present
school curricula. Aside from the basic tenets of
civil and human rights, you might be surprised to
learn that these subjects include algebra, typing,
and English. Along with learning these things
the students work with or against the power structure, 
depending on the immediate aims. To raise
money for the Project, a touring folk song program 
has been organized to give workshops and
benefit concerts. It came to Austin, Texas, on
April 19th.
Len Chandler, Bernice Reagon, Pete Seeger,Mable
Hillary, Eleanor Walden, and the Rev. Pearly
Brown were on the program. This group, with the
exception of Pete, is touring the South in a
series of one-nighters (the tour was organized
by Anne Romaine). They are going through all
the discomforts and miseries this kind of a 
tour entails: cars breaking down, meals consisting 
of hot dogs grabbed on the run, performances 
in cowbarns transformed into concert halls.
Eleanor had laryngitis when they reached Austin
and was thinking about going to the doctor, but
decided to make a couple of hours of sleep serve
instead.
There was a workshop in the afternoon, which took
the form of a discussion of the general history
of music. Ballads were sung and discussed. Len
sang parts of his long "Wicked Wiers", some
lines of which are hilarious: "Please get another
bottle of suntan oil, Len, I need another jar" 
-- where Len broke off to say, "Honest to God,
I wouldn't have written it if she hadn't said
it:" ("She" being Len's wife, Nancy.) The ballads 
moved into work songs and spirituals, and
Bernice began to sing "No More Auction Block
For Me". It made everybody's goose pimples
rise to hear her sing it. Rev. Brown started
a song "Goodbye, Goodbye, if I never see you
anymore" and Bernice echoed the second "Goodbye" 
like an angel floating in. (Cont. ) 

As we were sending our copy for
this issue to the printers the
news reported the death of Richard 
Farina in a motorcycle accident 
in California. He was 29
years old. The accident occurred 
the night of April 30 near
Carmel where Dick and his wife
Mimi (Joan Baez' sister) had
been living for the past three
years. He was killed instantly
when thrown from a motorcycle
driven by a friend, William
Hind,29, of Pacific Grove.
Highway patrolmen said the vehicle 
apparently had been travelling 
at a "terrific" speed
when it skidded off the road,
sailed over a 5-foot bank and
plunged through two fences.
His death came only a few
hours after the publication
of his first novel "Been Down
So Long It Looks Like Up To Me."
He had appeared at an autograph
party in Carmel marking the publication 
of the novel that afternoon.
Richard Farina seemed just at
the beginning of a brilliant career. 
Within the past year he
had written a score of excellent 
contemporary songs; his and
Mimi's performance at Newport
last summer was a highlight of
the folk festival; he and Mimi
had released two highly-acclaimed 
Vanguard L-P' s -- "Celebrations 
For a Grey Day" and "Reflections 
In A Crystal Wind."
The photograph of Mimi and Dick
Farina on this page was taken
by Diana Davies as they performed 
last year at a Village Gate
(N.Y.) Broadside Hoot.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.