2
I was off playin uh my dad taken that an' he saved it up an' bought the planation for
us an' a nice home. An' from then on we lived pretty good.
Alan: How much would they pay you?
Well we play we play uh play nite, picnics they call em, a 3-day picnic at leas' they 
[*The 3 day picnics*]
called em, that'd be uh Thurs., Fri., an Sat. Well we play Thurs. nite, Fri. nite, Sat.
nite, Sun. mornin' everybody go home because go to church on Sun. an' uh
Alan: Play during the day?
[*The tunes*]
       Yeah --all day too - practically all day too but they would uh pay us uh 50 dollars
for those 3 nites. 50 dollars apiece me an' Louie. Well then gen'lly th-uh the
white people that come out there to hear us they'd always th'ow us a little change. S
Sometimes we make uh 15-20 dollars apiece - of nites uh - each nite. Just uh tips
what they call it here.  But we call it just give - freely give.
Alan: What were the tunes? Hunh?
Alan: What were some of the tunes?         Bill: Well we had diffent tunes we'd play uh
waltz uh we'd play "Over the Waves" an' uh an' uh "Missourri Waltz" an' uh things like
that an' uh then uh other uh ragtime numbers we'd play uh wuch as ole "Sally Gooden"
an'- an' uh an' "Oh the Road to Texas" an' that was a fas dance number an' things like
that that's what we'd play an' "Uncle Bud" an' diffent songs like that. In them days
that's what we played for our for 'em to dance uh 2-step an one-steps they call' em.
Alan: They weren' doing the regular square dance with figures?
       Well yeah- yeah we'd play those "Sally Gooden" an' uh different things like that  If
for th- those kinda dances and "On the Road to Texas" and stuff like that.
                                        . . . . . . . . . . . . .
[*Fights at the dances*]
Man when out if he get drunk or somethin' they take him home - but I never seed em just
really stomp an fis'-fight an' I've seed em kill one or somethin like that  XXXXXX XX' - 
 if uh one of those uh bad guy get aroun' an' - he wanna beat up a lot of Negroes an'
things like that an' uh he wanna beat up the wrong Negro just like if a Negro didn'
belong - belong to his place wha he come from an' he wanna beat up a Negro that uh - 
come from another man's place why then that cause a killin' scrape among th-uh - among
them see.
Alan: How did it happen you didn't play for more Negro dances, Bill -

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.