5
his appetite failed him.  Couldn't eat.  For being troubled over this
matter.  So -- they tell me they heard of somebody by the name of Daniel
Said, "Let us go down an see bout it."  Went down there cryin, you know.
Daniel wanted to know what was  the matter.  Said, "We bout to be overthrown
Bout to be destroyed of the whole city heah because of the king's dream.
An we don't want to lose ouwah life for just the dream of one man.  Yet
we know he have power to make way wid us. We don't wan na be destroyed on
account of his dream.  The dream must be found an interpretated."  They
went down an got Daniel.  "By you bein a man of God," so th e scholars
said to Daniel, "we need you now.  We are in trouble."  So ole Daniel went
up there an begin to talk wid the king.  Wanted to know what was troublin
the king.  The King said, "I had a dream an I want it to be interpertated."
An he said, "If you'll tell me your dream I'll be able to interpertate it."
(great emotion) He said, "I had it but it g ot away from me."
Mrs. D:  (who has been soft, si lky and sweet before is now emotional)
Oh yeah!
Rev. D:  They tell me that Daniel kina waited wid him a little while.  Then
he said, "I'll tell you, Kind, there's one thin g I wanna ast you a
privilege, low me a privilege to do."  Say, "If you just give me a few
days to pray a little bit then I will be able to interpertate your dream.
If you just pray a while, God will always come to your rescue.
Mrs. D:  Oh yes!
Rev. D:  Thass one thing I like about God.  If you just pray a little while I don't care
where your trouble come God will always hear your prayer.
Mrs. D:  Oh yes!
Rev. D:  God will always give you a chance.  God will always touch somebody's
heart will give you a chance.  Thass what I like about him.  H e's the
greatest of lawyers of all the entire world.  If you're on your way to
the chair even to be lectricuted if you'll jes whisper a little bit to
him when all the lawyers can't do me good God will always step in in time

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.