Reverend Roe - Reel 1 - P. 2

claim, you know - the hogs -- you know, we had wild hogs there -- and if you
gave some, you put in the bottom, why, you had a claim, you know and so he
bought Mr. Hasty's claim. He paid him $300 for his claim, and we had plenty
meat from them. I remember the first time I just had all the good ham meat
and biscuits I wanted (laughter). One day my father sent me down in the
bottom to split rail timbers, you know, to fix the fence. And my sister just
cut a whole lot of that good old ham and cooked a lot of biscuits and gave me
a great big bucketful to carry along with me. There was a cool spring of
water down in the bottom and I ate more ham and biscuits then I split rails.
(Laughter) That was one of the happiest days of my life.
[*Hog claim.*]
[*First time he ate all the meat he wanted.*]
A: How old about were you then, Reverend?
R: I don't remember exactly, but I suppose I was about fifteen years old, yes,
sir, about fifteen years old.
A: And there had been times before, I guess, when you had been hungry -- plenty.
R: Oh, yes, there had been times when we didn't have anything to eat but beans
and cornbread and bacon and not too much of that. And lots of times I was
hongry, but we just had to work. 
[*Hungry*]
A: What did your Mom and Poppa say at times like that? Weren't they sad and--?
R: Oh, yes, they would say to us children, "Work hard and it will be better
after a while."
A: They had seen really hard times under slavery, I guess.
R: Oh yes, we had to work all the time, pretty well. If we weren't working
on his farm, we had to work for some of the white folks around. We didn't
have no time to stop and rest, and have pleasure like the other children,
I mean - the white children; we just had to work all the time, and we'd
have to go and tend the farm, whilst the children, you know, went to school,
and that helped me some because when the white children would come back from
school I'd get with um and I'd read their books, you know. And I learned
some that way, but the white folks were very careful about that; they didn't
[*Had to work all the time as children*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.