TAPE:  Roll 43 B
Stan and Ray Hicks  3
it out with.  We all never seed one, but you put your (Unint.) in here
and it'd come out shorts.  And then your flack(?) come out and then your
bran come out.  And my step-granddad, you know, he'd always come in and
bother dad for somethin' to eat.  Come, you know. . .he's blind, couldn't
see much, so, dad would give him the shorts out of the flack(?) you know,
which was good, made good bread.  And he got to botherin' so bad poor
dad, you know, he got so aggravated he just  stepped up the bran.
Granddad took home the bran and it just growed(?) up, it wouldn't bake.
He come back and he said "Robie, Robie, I'll tell ya, that weren't no
no good, it weren't."  So we've worked that way, I mean, years and 
years, days after days.  So then my wife would pick up chestnuts, and
we picked up many a bushel of them, and sell them for $5 a bushel.
And we came across the mountain (unint.) where the store is at, down,
you probably passed it, Will Majors'(?) old store.  And then I'd take
two sacks, and I'd put part of the stuff in the front and part in the
back.  I'd carry the heavy stuff, and she'd carry the light.  So it was
hard times, what we growed up with, in then at that time.  We had to
dig our ground up.  Had eye-hoes(?) that we dug the ground up with.
And dad'd have a yoke or two of cattle.  We'd break the littler(?) ones
first.  We'd break a (unint.) by itself and then another one, and then
we'd put 'em together. . . put these steers together, and that made a 
team. . And then we they got up pretty good, dad would have to sell 'em,
you know, and would sell a yoke for $25, that's the whole chattel.
I was havin' to haul a rock one day, and the sull(?), you know (unint.),
and he'd make up mud, in the bucket, and they'd pack it around their
nose and put his knee on 'em to hold their head down and then smother
'em til it'd come up.  So he went to the house to get a bucket, to make

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.