Eatonville,
Monday, June 22, 1935.

Dear Family,
     The party plans to leave here this morning for Lake Okeechobee.,
There Zora will organize some primitive Negro dancing for our camera
and recording machine, while Miss Barnicle and I call on Mr. Henson,
commissioner for Seminole Indians.   I feel sure that he will be able
to get me some Seminole Indian singers; for he is supposed to be closer 
to strange, proud Seminoles than any white man alive.  In return for 
his favors I may make some dialect records that he can use in his own work.
     Our four days here have been profitable, although in no such degree
as the week at St. Simons.  This village is the first incorporated 
Negro town in the United States.  Along about eighteen eighty, the Negroes
won the election in Maitland, Florida, and elected a Negro mayor.  The
white folks gently suggested that they better get their own town so they 
could run everything to suit themselves.  Two or three white men got
together and gave the land, the Negroes largely moved out of Maitland 
(which is only a mile away) and settled down in their own little place with
two Negro police and a Negro mayor to govern them.  The white people of 
this part of the country have left them to themselves pretty much for the
past fifty years.  Most of its inhabitants (pop. 350) either work in the 
orange groves or in the kitchens of the rich white folks who vacation 
in Winter park.  Most of them have been North.  Most of them have at least
a sixth grade education.  In view of their closeness to white communities 
and white people and in spite of their sophistication, there are still
lots of folk-songs and folk-tales in the air.  And it is a friendly place
where croquet, coon-can, murder, orange picking, and love affairs are 
part of the routine and are so accepted.  It is the most irreligious 
Negro community that I know of.  Hardly anyone goes to church on Sunday.  Not
that I, having gone, can blame them much-- the preaching is so bad.  Which
is largely the reason the church members themselves don't go.
     Yesterday which established the low in recordings so far, I went down
to the Methodist Church, struggling along with the machine myself in the broiling 
midafternoon sun.  The minister had a great bellied frock coat on
that reached almost to his knees and a black Stetson hat sat on the back of
his head.  He had a deep base voice, like the roar of the sea-elephant.  I
expected great things.  When the sermon began, I turned on my machine.
And what did the old fool preacher do?   He read a philosophical, theological
discussion of the relation between general providence and special providence.
The groaned and howled and moaned and mumbled his way through this heavy
seadof words for a half hour and then abruptly stoped.  Even though his congregation 
had not sung one song or said one amen in the course of his talk, 
the old fool rocked back and forth from heel to toe, thumbs in the armholes
of his vest, and cackled with peasure at his own performance.  When I played
the records back, the congregation stood around and screamed with laughter,
as was only proper and right.  The poor old man, who had told us that he
wanted to be eddicated in his first appearance before the world, paced in
and out the church door nervously and ashamed, and then fled to his own house.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.