[*File BJ*]

Vanguard Recording Soc., Inc.
154 West 14th Street
New York 11, N. Y.

Gentlemen:

In return for good and valuable consideration paid by you we hereby give you the
exclusive right to record all musical selections and performances to be given by
us at the Newport Folk Festival at Newport, Rhode Island on July 26, 27 and 28
and any postponed dates, together with the right to use our name, likeness and
biographical material for advertising, trade and other purposes, and to manufacture, sell and distribute phonograph records and any other reproductions of all or parts of such performances.  This release will also extend to any person or corporation 
to whom you may assign, in the usual course of business, your rights to manufacture or sell any album or other reproduction made of the above performances.

You agree that we may be permitted to record selections used by you hereunder for
any other person, firm or corporation, without restriction by you.

We agree that each record shall be subject to your approval as satisfactory for manufacture 
and sale, and that all recordings and the performances therein shall be
entirely your property.  We hereby warrant and represent that we are free to give you 
this right and that no prior agreement or performances interfere therewith.

For each performance by our group, you shall pay us the sum of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) 
per song up to two (2) songs and One hundred Dollars ($100.00) per song selected 
thereafter or at the rate of A. F. of M. union scale if applicable, whichever is higher, 
on or before the date of release.  It is also agreed that you shall pay us a copyright 
royalty rate of two cents (2₵) per selection used.  Accompaniments by any of us for 
other solo performers shall be paid at the rate of A. F. of M. union scale, on or 
before the date of release.

Very truly yours,

Bessie Jones-John Davis & The Sea Island Singers 
Bessie Jones
John Davis
Date

ABOVE AGREED TO:
Maynard Solomon
Maynard Solomon, Vanguard Recording Soc., Inc.
[*Received in Vanguard offices 7/14/63*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.