Reverend Roe. Reel 15. P.2
went up to Heaven. He got to the door, and he knocked at the door,
and Peter met him and said, "Who is this." "This is Jack, the blacksmith.
I know you here about me down there, how good I was to people,
andhow I give to the hungry, and how I built churches, and so on."
And he says, "Yeah, but Jack, yo can't get in here." He said, "You
had too much dealings with the Devil.
Well, Jack came, went over, and wandered around; he coldn't get in.
So he went down to Hell. And when he got down there, he knocked on
the door, and the Devil told him, "Who is there?" And he said, "This
is Jack, the blacksmith." He said, "What you want here?" He said,
"I ain't got no yome, no place to stay." "Well, you can't get in
here." So he crawled up on a limb, and bolted the door, and told him,
said, "If Jack get in here, he'll ruin Hell." And Jack,says, "Wel l,
do som thing for me." And so, they say, the Devil lit a lantern,
and [had] handed it over the walls to Jack, and told Jack to go and never come
back there any more. And so that's the Jack-O*Lantern, you see him
gong around now (laughter).
A: You learned that from the old folks.
R: Yes, I learned that from the old folks. You want me to tell another
one?
Wel l, he said, there was an old woman one time who had threedaughters,
and she didn't have nothing but a bushel of meal; she didn't have anything
to eat. And she had to strike her hay, and so an old horse that
was coming there one nght was eating her hay. And so she told her
daughter to watch it. And she stood out to the haystack with a pole
until the old gray horse come up, and he went to eating hay, and she
hauled off and hit him with the stick, and the stick took to the horse
and the hands took to the stick, and the old horse carried her away
down some ruin, open the door way down under the ground. She got on
under there; he told her; he turned to a man, told her, "Now, I been

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.