Notes with regard to the letter of Mr Lomax from the Library of Congress.

Since Mr Lomax is makin g a trip to Duluth it would be well for him to stop
in Superior,Wis. across the bay.

In Superior he should visit the Tyomies Society 603 Tower Ave and consult
with the following people who will be able to help him especially on the
question of modern Finnish Poetry and Song.

Jack Vainionpaa Manager of the Co-operative Unity Alliance.He is a composer
of parody and comic song known among the Finns as "Kuppletti"

There are many composers of these songs among the Finnish people and they
are extensively used in Finnish affairs,entertainments,meetings etc.Through
Mr Vainionpaa,Mr Lomax could contact Mr Merisuo and Dr Hartman of Duluth.
Mr Merisuo is a noted singer of the "Kupletti" and Mr Hartman is well known
among the Finns for his recitation of Finnish poetry.

While in Superior Mr Lomax should consult Mr Matt Wiitala editor in chief
of the Tyomies regarding access to the library of the Tyomies which contains
rare books and publications published by the Finnish people in America
extending back to the turn of the century.

Regarding Finnish folklore,religion,charms and ritual,these of course could
best be secured by consulting old Finnish settlers of a number of communities.
In addition to the epic Kalevela there is a great deal of interesting material
with respect to the various religious sects and their ways as well as stories
of old witchcraft.

Regarding,education and culture or more specifically folkways,the Finnish
population is very interesting.Finnish communities are generally known for
their halls and community centers.There is hardly a community of Finns in
Minnesota where there is not a hall among them and an intense community
spirit.At their meetings and affairs there is a general method that they
follow which is more or less common.Meetings are generally very democratic
and decisions are arrived at by common consent,by the chairman calling for
objection to a proposal.Voting takes place only if there is objection from
some quarter.Programs at the community affairs are usually composed of music,
song,play[s] and an address from someone among them.A common thing about Finnish
affairs or entertainments be they big or small is that there is always a poem
recited fitting to the occassion.

Dr Hartman of Duluth refered to before is noted throughout the northwest for
his able [recitation] public recitation of Finnish poetry.

In addition to the classic poets of the Finnish people the most recited poet
in northern Minnesota is the late Michael Rutanen the lumberjack poet who
spent many years in the northern woods of Minnesota.His work has been published
by the Tyomies and there are very few Finns  among the working people who do
not know of him.There are very few hallsin Minnesota where his poetry has
not been publicly heard.

I hope that this will be helpful to Mr Lomax in his valubale work.

W A Harju

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.