Reverend Roe.  Reel 9.  P. 1
Others just lives a sinful life.
[*Different types of preachers*]
You know, [he] it's said that we have some college called preachers, some church-called preachers, and some God-called preachers.  [Therefore] Say for an instance, a man goes to college, and he thinks that preaching is a fine occupation, and he just goes a-preaching.  Another fellow can singand pray well in the church and folks begin to tell him, you know, "Man, you ought to preach.  [They's all] I believe the Lord call you to preach," and finally he decides [to preach and] to do so he goes a-preaching, but they never succeed. 
But when God calls a preacher, generally it's a man that don't really want to go.
Now when I began preaching -- I had felt before, you know, that I 
was called to preach, but I just didn't want to preach.  And I 
was in Aida, Oklahoma, and I don't know why, but it just come down on me, 
[*Evidence that God had worked him for the ministry.*]
all at once, and I just couldn't rest.  I left Aida and went to Oklahoma City, and when I went to the train, the station, to buy my ticket the fellow said to me, "Preacher, where are you going?"  I said, "Oh,  I'm just going over to Oklahoma City."  When I got on, the porter spoke to me, said, "Preacher, ya going on?"  And finally the conductor come along, and he called me Preacher.
I went on to Oklahoma City, and I was a stranger there.  When I got on off the train, I seen a colored man and a white man talking, and I meant to ask him about a place where I could find me a room, and when I got to them, they was talking on the Scriptures and [lets me in] They ask me in.  
And I began talking and [then] I seems to have interested them so until they both just hushed and let me have it.  And when I had finished, the white fellow said to me, "I want you to go out with me Sunday."  He says, "I have a lot of colored people out there where I'm preaching, and they told me when I found a man that was preaching the truth for me to bring him out there."  And I says, "Well, I'm not a preacher."  He says, "Well, you're a Jonah, then."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.