Martin D. Shickman, M.D.
9400 Brighton Way Suite 201
Beverly Hills, California
Crestview 6-4139

July 6, 1963

Allen Lomax
121 West 3rd Street
New York 12, New York

Re: John Davis

Dear Mr. Lomax:
As you already know I attended John Davis during his recent tour through
Los Angeles for an acute respiratory illness.  You are also aware of the
fact that I uncovered some positive evidence implicating pre-existing
heart disease in this man.  After seeing him on several occasions it was
my firm feeling that his symptoms were generated by the respiratory infection
alone and that his pre-existing heart condition has not disabled him at
all up to this point.  Following the resolution of his respiratory symptoms
he was able to pick up his activities with the same gusto and endurance
that was characteristic prior to the respiratory infection.   Because of
this I felt that it would be cruel and medically unwise to present him
with the medical facts of cardiac enlargement and a leaking valve.  At
this point, the management of such a patient become somewhat philosophical
and should not become bound by rigid medical requirements.  It is my feeling
that any person with heart disease should be limited only by symptoms and
not by a label.  Because of John's personality I also felt that it would be
more morbid to discuss the cardiac findings with him than to allow him to
go on uninformed.  As a cardiologist I see many people with heart disease
and my philosophy is the same with all of them.  I restrict the patient
only to the extent that his heart disease restricts that individual.  In
many instances, of course, I discuss the situation more freely with them
than I have with John.  With John I have, in fact, told him nothing.  I
have, however, discussed it completely with Bess and have also written a
letter to Dr. Towson back on the Island.  As long as John can go about his
work and his recreation without symptoms, I feel that he should be
permitted to continue to do so.
 
I am enclosing a copy of the medical report on John Davis.  The cardiograms
and the chest x-ray I am retaining here in this office.  Should they be
required by anybody in the country who may have occasion to evaluate John,
I'll be very happy to transmit them quickly.  Since you will be traveling
they might as well stay here rather than send them to any other city.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.