[*14*]

W.B.:
Aw, everybody and everybody.  You couldn't hear
your ears.  And some of 'em could sing so good, 'till the
mules would go to hollerin.   People don't believe that, but
that's true.   People could sing so good--(Boss?) Williams
could start to singin --when his old lady quit him-- he could
start to singin and the mules would go to hollerin.

A.L.:
What would the mules do?!

W.B.:
     They'd just holler.  Just holler:  "Ahhhh!, ah!,
ah. --like it was twelve o'clock or something. (laughs)

Joe Savage:
And behind that plow or haul a little line,
they'll take you and the wagon both and go, or the plow, or
wherever the hell you goin'. (laughs)

Walter Brown:
Yes indeed!,  I drove three --Emma near,
Ada swingin, Martha stickin.  I did never put a bit in their
mouth.  When I hitch that bulled hook in that wheeler tongue,
they'd take off.  If they hit a root, I'd say, "Get down", and
they'd get down 'till the harness stand up on they back.  And
when that loader break out, I tell 'em, "Hey" -they'd stop,
right there.  But I didn't never put a bit in they mouth, and
you couldn't hook em up in the wrong place.  Not to save your
life, you couldn't hook em up in the wrong place to save your
life.  They knew where they worked, and there many a day I'd
hung their lines up on behind the --I'd take 'em and ravel
em, like, you know, lace em up on their harness and never
take em down.  And I rode one, I didn't never lead the other
ones, they followed.  I worked 'em four years, and didn't
nobody do nothin' for em but me.  And they knew me just like
they knew one another.

Joe Savage:
Well, I tell ya. . . .

W.B.:
And I was young.

J.S.:
Back in 1947, when I first came out of the 
army, I got in trouble right there, Rosedale and they caught
me down here in Greenville.  I stayed in Greenville jail down
there, that old county jail, and got in, messed in with some
bad youngsters, and seven of us broke that jail.  We sawed our
way out of that, took us three nights and days to saw out of
that jail.  And I was the last one they caught.  I was gone, oh
five, ten years before they caught me.  They caught me up in

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.