Lomax: When I was a little boy we sang it . . . . .sings American Froggie.
pause and break. . . . . . . .
Mrs Cronin sings, in Gaelic, "FAIRY SONG."
Lomax: That's one of the most beatifl songs I heard, Mrs Cronin.
What's it for?
Cronin: Wel, I'll tell you the meaning of it. Well, it's like - you'd
sing it for a child. If you were a person. . . . .with a child to get
him to go to sleep, and you should sing someting to the child, of course.
Lomax: Sort of a lullabye thing, wasn't it?
Cronin: The very thing. But this woman, it eems, was taken away by
the fairies, so it was said, and they took her into the fort and she
was minding their child instead of her own. Her people thought she was
dead. But she saw a woman down at the stream washing clothes, and she
went out and she took the baby, and she sang for the baby. do you know, 
so that the woman that was washing the clothes would hear and understand.
And gave her directions in the song, of course, when it was Irish,
maybe that the fairies wouldn't understand it at all.
Lomax: I see, so you don't think fairies understand Irish? Is that
the idea?
Cronin: Well, I wouldn't knw which. But she took her chance. And she
knew the woman would understand, and she made it plain to the woman to
see what she was doing, and to tell her husband to come and take her
away. That was the meaning - that's how the song started, and it was
carried out.
Lomax: And ever since, you Irish mothers have been singing that
same lullabye. And scaring the children half to death, too!
Dance for your daddy-o,
Dance for yur mummy-o,
Dance for your daddy-o,
My own pretty child. (Repeat whole verse.)
I'll buy my child a saucepan,
I'll buy my child a spoon,
I'll buy my child a writing desk
And he may go to school.
Dance for your daddy-o,
Dance for your mummy-o,
Dance for your daddy-o,
Yon pretty child. (2)

Cronin: That reminded me of something else, too. It was like this: -
Music
Cucanandy-nandy-cucanandy-o,
Cucanandy-nandy-cucanandy-o,
Cucanandy-nandy-cucuanandy-o,
(Gaelic line)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.