4) Up stepped a dashing lady and by my side did keep,
Her cheeks were all dabbed with paint, just like we mark our sheep,
Saying, "Here's a shilling for thee, lad, and she offered one for me,
I'm a young man from the counteree, but you won't old soldier me.

Joe: Yes, I was born at Blaxhall, that's where I was born; in
Suffolk, see.
Lomax: And what's been your trade?
Joe: A stockman - seeing after sheep and pigs and that like.
Been stockman all me life. Never done nothing else. Seeing after
sheep, pigs, bullocksx-- I've handled hundreds of bullocks, sheep
too, in my time. I got eighteenpence a week when I first started
work. Threepence a day. Eighteen pence a week - that's what the
wages was then.
Lomax: How could you live on 18 pence a week?
Joe: Well, there. . .I had to live on it. . .My father got eleven
shillings a week, horseman, and I got threepence a day. And I got
eight and six on April 1st. Later on, I got two shillings a week
when I'd been there a longer time. And that's how they used to pay
me.
Lomax: Tell me about your father a little bit.
Joe: He was a horseman. He was a horseman all his life. Never
done nothing else. Well, he done, you know, his rounds and such
as that, but he was on the land all of his life. He never done
nothing else.
Lomax: Did he used to sing these old songs, Joe?
Joe: He was no singer. He could only sings bits of songs, you see.
He used to pick them up.
Lomax: Where did you learn these texts? At the beer house?
Joe: Yeah. Learned 'em ina 11 parts of Kent and Devonshire. Used to 
pick 'em up. . .(mumbles) and they learnt 'em off him. He used to 
go across nights, see, and we used to sing songs, one against another,
to ourselves, see.
Lomax: They're wonderful old songs, you know, What did he do?
Joe: He was a horseman, he was.
Lomax: What sort of fellow was he. Describe him.
Joe: Well, he was a tallish man.
Lomax: Now he's dead?
Joe: Yes, he's been dead for about two years.
Lomax: Do any of his people still have the songs, do you suppose?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.