four
We had to take it down on our backs. We had a horse, too, but still
and all, we had to carry it in the winter time on our backs.
Lomax: And at what other occasions did you have singing besides at
the waulking; at what other times did songs come into life?
Mary Gillis: Concerts. . . . . .ceilidhes. . .
Sandy McNeil: No, there were no concerts.
Mary Gillis: Ceilidhes, ceilidhes. I used to go to Annie there, and 
her mother would start up, and she would ask my mother to join in --
to go up, and I would go with her and Mary would go with her, and she
would say, "Don't you children come with me, just go home. I'm just
going to Mrs. Johnson for a cup of tea and a week talk and a wee
ceilidhe." (GAELIC CHATTER.)
Lomax: Did you have other kinds of work songs besides the waulking
songs? What other kinds of work songs?
Annie Johnson: Whist! Whatever the occasion we had songs -- milking
songs, -- well, in the barns. . .
(SANDY MACNEIL AND MARY JOHNSON SING.)
Mary Gillis: That's she was going to milk the cow and she was
saying, "My dear, my dear," to the cow, "You'll give me the milk
and you'll not give it to anybody but myself." That's the way of 
the song.
Lomax: Does the song help the milk to come, do you think?
Annie Johnson: Yes, yes. She would put her two feet like that at a
certain distance.
Lomax: Can you tell if the cow's really listening to you?
Annie Johnson: Yes, she's listening to you.
Mary McLOUD OR MRS SANDY MACNEIL SINGS IN GAELIC. . .
Lomax: And did you have other kinds of work songs besides milking 
songs. Tell me the different kinds that you had. Mary, do you
remember any other kinds?
(HERE THEY SING. . . )
Mary Gillis: I used to rock you in the cradle like that and cry when
you'd say I was going too fast with the cradle ---- and you were rolled
out once, and I tried to lift you up, but I couldn't lift you up, you
were that heavy, and mother came and scolded me and put you back


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.