BJ TAPE 42, p. 35

[*MacNorra, cont.*]
fixed up his property for
BJ: Oh, yeah; oh, yeah.  He had already fixed it up.  It was already
fixed up.  Everything belong to Melissa if she livin'
today.  I know Uncle Keezer died                           .  I don't know
whether Melissa dead or not.  An' all the chillun.  Ya see, everything
back there                  MacNorra place.  An' it b'long to them
boys.  There's nobody take it from 'em.  You can't take it from
'em.  He had it well fixed, everything.  An' the boys, lef' out
from there, you know, one by one; an' Bessie, she's up in
there.   Ah, when I left, she was ah, [away] in Waynesboro I believe.  But
she married a kinda light brown-skinned fella called, ah, Emmett;
I think his name was Emmett.  Anyhow, he was up in                 
                An, ah, but anyway, uh, the boys, they
ah, drifted away an' I met one a the boys in Miama an' [they know it,] didn' know im,
see?  Ah, ah, Henry MacNorra tried ta, ta take me out, 
ya know.  I told [him] Mama I couldn't go.  He asked Mama about 
takin' me out first, was down in Millen, ya know.  Talkin' to Mama about
[could I come] comin', ah, go up to the Society with 'im.  Ya know, we was
in a Society.  An' ah I tol' Mama
I ain't goin' up there with that boy!  Ha, ha, ha!  An' that
tickle Mama!  But you know, when, when, when he, ah, it , it hurt
his feelin's                                            around here.  Ya know,
it hurt his feelin's see? 'Cause he was part colored.  An'
                              he couldn't he'p himself to be what he was.  An'
an' don't say                  .  But I wa' ready               !  But I
didn't tell 'im.  
     That night I went [,I went up] up to the, to the Society meetin', I walked
in the do' first.  An' he, ha, ha, ha!  An' he walk in
I didn't feel good a bit.  But I got over                               about it
Us went out there; we had a won'erful time.

(MacNorra, cont)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.