Bessie Jones

AGREEMENT
This agreement, made this 14th day of November, 1961 by and
between Alan Lomax of 121 West Third Street, New York 12, New York,
and Bessie Jones of Post Office Box 22, St. Simons Island, Georgia: 

1.     Alan Lomax and Antoinette Lomax, his wife, have recorded
approximately sixty tapes of songs and reminiscences with the
full agreement of Bessie Jones with the intention of creating a
book about the life of Bessie Jones from her reminiscenses and
songs and to distribute said songs, and this purpose is one to
which both parties agree.
2.     Bessie Jones is to receive one-half of all royalties accruing
from any book-length story of her life based by Alan Lomax and/or
Antoinette Lomax on her recorded material.  If her material becomes
part of a collection of such life histories, she is to receive a
like share in proportion to her story's contribution to the total.
3.     Bessie Jones is to receive one-half of all royalties accruing
from the published collection of her songs in book form.
4.     Bessie Jones is to receive two-thirds of the writer's share on
all her songs for which copyright and normal commercial purlication
is obtainable.  Alan Lomax is to arrange for copyright and protect
these songs for Bessie Jones, and is to obtain maximal income for
her through recordings and other means.
5.     Bessie Jones agrees that Alan Lomax is to act as her sole agent
in regard to creating the books and the published values mentioned
above for a period of five years from the present date.  She agrees
not record the same or similar material for the purpose of such
publication without written permission of Alan Lomax during this
period, unless, however, if, after two years, the announced purposes
of this agreement have not been accomplished, the rights pertaining
to this material will revert to Bessie Jones, although the tapes
will remain in Alan Lomax's hands for research purposes.
6.     It is agreed and completely understood by both parties that
this agreement is a form of working partnership entered into freely
and will full agreement by both parties.  Bessie Jones has contributed
the material on the recorded tapes.  Alan Lomax and Antoinette
Lomax have spent time and money in making them.  It will now be
Alan Lomax's responsibility to see to it that these projects are
brought to fruitful end as soon as practical.  The first and most
important of these projects is to transcribe and protect the songs
through a legitimate publisher. 
7.     Bessie Jones acknowledges the financial help and support
provided by Alan Lomax during the summer and fall of 1961.  In
addition, she acknowledges the receipt of One Hundred Fifty Dollars
made out of pocket by Alan Lomax as an advance against possible

(PAGE ONE OF TWO PAGES, JONES-LOMAX AGREEMENT OF NOV. 14, 1961)



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.