BJ TAPE 43, p. 24

If you did, you'd be lookin' like this thing here, see?  An'
like Miss Iselin say.  Miss Iselin said they's pink folks, ha, ha, ha!
We mean pink folks an' sorta rosey folks.  An' sorta, y-ya
know, kinda like yella-rose, she said, an' some kinda red-rose.
She said, "That's what we are.  We ain't white."  An', ah, 'cause
you not white, even after ya die.  You turn dark, ya see.  Ya
see what I mean?  They jus' ain't no such thing.  'Cause my blood
is red an' your blood is red, see.  An' if, if my skin was lighter,
you  could see I got, I got blue veins as well as you have.  You can see that
[tell] by the blue by they bein' darker than my skin is, see.  Everyone,
'cause that blood run through that (that veins an make it
dark. ?)  Ya see, everyone have the same thing.
     But comin' down to the, [to] the world:  The world today is
whipped up on the big fish eatin' up the lil' ones, the whole
world.  But before then, it wasn't, you see?  All right.  God meant
for these things to happen, if He didn', He wouldn't a-let it happen.
Dese had to happen for us to have, ah, dese tribulations an' trials.
Hit's come to you; it come to me; come to everybody under Heaven,
I don't care how rich or, a person is, he have had some body to
try to throw 'im, some where, some way, some how.  Hit may not ah,
it may, may be 'way back yonder.  I may have a desire to do it,
but anyhow, it's in there.  It come in there.
When, um, uh, I'll read it; for me to read
it.  When, ah, when Naaman, ah, was sick.  An' those days, when
ya have a black spot -- ah, a white spot -- come on your skin,
you must undoubtedly been dark an' brown an' red, see?  When them
white spots, light spots like that, come into your skin, they
say you sick.  You is a sinner.  [Now] An' they used to put 'em in
places an' let 'em stay 7 days.  You know, in dark places.  Not
nobody even touch 'em, for 7 days, you know.  An' then have 'em

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.