HAITI'S ECONOMIC BONDAGE     21 

economic bankruptcy, chained to a
primitive agriculture colonialism and
exploited by foreign interests and a
small native ruling group. There has
been little opportunity for independent
political thinking to develop.
Public education has been almost entirely
neglected, with the result that
80 per cent of the population is illiterate.
According to Senator Hudicourt,
85 per cent of school-age children
do not attend school.
From 1916 to 1934, an American-imposed
treaty dictated that Haitian
government income be disbursed
along the following lines: The first
legal expenditure was for payment of
the salaries and expenses of the General
Receiver (who was appointed by
the President of the United States to
supervise Haitian customs) and his
staff.  Then came payment on the
debt to the American banks. These
debt payments, according to the most
recent figures, ate up about 25 per
 cent of the total national revenue.
Next was the cost of the police, the
Guarde d'Haiti.  Only after these
costs were met could appropriations
be made for public works and services.
At this point very little remained of
the country's revenue. 
Since 1934 this pattern of government
expenditure has continued with
only minor modifications. The General
Receiver was replaced by an
American-appointed Fiscal Agency,
which in turn had its functions taken
over by an Administrative Council for
the National Bank of Haiti. By agreement
with the United States, three 

members of this six-man council,
which controls government finance,
are Americans designated by the
President of the United States.
At the same time the burden of 
taxes on the Haitian people has steadily 
mounted. The United States Tariff 
Commission states in a repot in
1946:  "Largely as a result of the
government's heavy use of import
duties for revenue, the national tax
structure tends to be regressive, the
burden falling most heavily on those
with low incomes."
Since Haitian presidents have been
able to hold power only by grace of
United States sponsorship and protection, 
they have been more representative
of American than of Haitian
interests. With the passage of time
Haitian governments have grown increasingly 
corrupt. A great portion 
of the blame for this corruption must
necessarily fall upon the private American
interests who customarily bribe
and subvert Haitian officials in exchange
for special privileges.
Private enterprises in Haiti, like government
finances, are almost wholly
dominated by Americans.  To quote
from a report by the United States
Tariff Commission: ". . . at the present
time there are only a few plantations
(sugar cane, sisal and banana), 
all operated by United States companies."
In addition to these plantations,
American companies hold monopolies
on electric light and power,
the railroad system, fruit and sugar
exports, loading and unloading facilities
on the quays, and indeed on 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.