- 2 -

So the man got up.  He told him, wait and give him a chance to
the door, said, I ain't even got a pocket knife and you got a gun and a
sword.  That's what the man told Nero.  So Nero sort of laid down, you 
know, to give him a chance for his life;  he was going to fight him.
Sure enough, the man comes gaining on Nero, really gaining, because Nero
at first had been beating the man.  Nero asked the man (he was beating
him then) : How do you like my sheets, how do you like my fine little maid
that laid in your arms asleep?  He was beating him.  And the man turn on
him, turn on Nero, begin to get the best of Nero.  He told him, says:
So well I like your fine feather bed, so well I like your sheet ; much
better (he got the gun to kill him then, see) I like your fine little
maid that laid in my arms asleep.

That time the boy, who was seeing it all, the boy come out and
grabbed the gun and killed the man, saved Nero.  So, I don't know
how all the verses of it go in there, but I know that part of it.  All right-

[T?] I     If it's the truth you've brought to me
I ain't got but one daughter in the whole round world
Her wedding that you shall be, shall be,
Her wedding that you shall be.

I     But if it's a lie you've brought to me
A rope and a gallows and a burying suit
And hanging that you shall be, shall be 
And hanging that you shall be.

II     Oh wait, I think I hear Nero a-coming
I reckon I better o, uh go
I reckon I better go.

I     Oh no, lie still and keep me warm,
It's noting but my father's boys
In the woods a-blowing up sheep, up sheep
In the woods a-blowing up sheep.

III     Rise up, rise up and put on your clothes
And fight me for your life
I wouldn't have it to say I slaid you naked
For laying in the bed with my wife, my wife
For laying in the bed with my wife.

I     Oh wait and give me a chance to the door,
I ain't got even to a pocket knife
And you've got a gun and a sword , and a sword
And you've got a gun and a sword. ("w" pronounced in "sword")

III     Well how did you like my fine feather bed
How did you like my sheet,
How did you like my fine little maid
That lied in your arms asleep, asleep
That lied in your arms asleep?

III     So well I likted your fine feather bed
So well I like your sheets,
Much better I likted your fine little maid
That lied in my arms asleep, asleep,
That lied in my arms aslee.



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.