Reverend Roe.  Reel 10.  P. 4
wouldn't just want to socialize, you know, with the other races. I
wouldn't want to intermarry, I wouldn't want to sit down; care about eating and drinking and like
that; I wouldn't care anything about that. The only thing I want is
a equal opportunity. I think when it comes to my labor, my labor is
worth as much as any man's labor, I should get as much for it.
[*Negroes should have good ?*]
I think then too that if we are gong to zone the city and have a place
for each group to live, I think we ought to have some choice places
as well as these -- according to our number, you know we shuld have
equal opportunities. 
A: Do you think the unions are gonna help this thing?
R: In the wages I think It will help some, yessir. But the union
won't do us much good, you know, in finding a place to live.
A: What about the thing that I'm struck by when I come back here is
that as soon as I go up inot a Negro neighborhood, I go up into mud.
R: Well, that's true now; they don't give the same amount of attention
in our settlements to us as they do the white folks. They fix the streets, and their [islands?] and
things, and then they tell me that it don't cost them like it do us.
[*Bad gravel in the street*]
Now I had this street fixed, and I had to pay at that time -- it was
cheaper than it is now-- I paid 25¢ a [?] foot to have this street
gravelled from Bank to Carol, and I had to get the money for every
foot of it before the city would put the gravel down, and when I
collected all of the money and carried it up there and give it to em, why,
in a bout a month or two afterwards, they gravelled the street, but
they didn't put the gravel on there that hey promised to. They made it
somewhat better, but there was more sand & clay than there was gravel and a
deal of it washed away, and out street is not what we thought it
would be. But it's better than it was.
A: Does the preacher have to function as the leader of the group in more
ways than ministrial? Does he have to front for the group in white
matters most of the time?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.