A. Dan Killian, Jr., Esq.
December 11, 1961

I can understand why Mr. Rahmings is concerned and also why you
feel you should take up his case. Groups like the Kingston
Trio and the Limelighters have recently made folk song into an
extremely well paying proposition; however, so far as I know, no
album of field recordings has sold more than a few hundred copies,
some of then enabling the company to pay for the cost and come
out in the clear and feel that it has made a contribution to
knowledge and culture. Some day such recordings will, I hope,
sell at least as well as chamber music.

It is, however, extremely unlikely that these records, sung in
dialects which the general public simply does not understand and
involving all sorts of exotic sounds, will be a commercial success.

I have not used either of the songs that Nat Rahmings sang as a
leader, "Bimini Gal" and "Walk on the Bay." Indeed, I would be
glad to return the original tapes to you if you would like them
because, for various reasons, they are not publishable; however,
Mr. Rahmings did appear on several songs and it was the Musicians
Union scale for an accompaniast that I sent him recently.
This fee is considerably more than I paid some of the musicians
in this complex record, and it was more because I felt that
Mr. Rahmings made a sincere and artistic contribution to the
session. I stopped the check the other day because I did not
feel it advisable to pay a check which had been defaced.

The recording session occured after the whole group of us had
been involved in making an educational film for Williamsburg,
Virginia. It seemed a shame, since the group would never be
together again, not to make some tapes in the hope that they
would be published; and we worked together as a group in that
sort of comradely spirit. It took me almost two years to find
a proper market for the recordings, although when I returned to
New York from Williamsburg I played them for the big record companies
and they were simply turned down. I waited and tried
again, and finally felt that I ought to take the moderate offer
of Prestige in order for the recordings not to become valueless,
as such things do in time.

The letter of assurance I gave to Mr. Rahmings about not publishing
without his consent was only one among scores of such
informal agreements I have made over many years with folk
musicians in many parts of the world. Later, when I did find a
market for their material and paid them - modestly, as I could -
I have always had the most gratified replies. Nat Rahmings
is the first person in my twenty-five years of field recording
and publishing authentic, non-commercial recordings who has
ever misunderstood and protested.

Mr. Rahmins' check and his letter went out at the same time
as a sizeable number of letters and payments to other individuals
and groups involved. All the other people have signed and
returned their little notes of consent. The leaders of the songs,
who to some extent shape and arrange this traditional public

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.