Tape:  36     R. Hicks & Friends

And he told me about courtin' one time.   You know, we got to talkin'
about it, and him and his buddy, you know, George Presnell that was
his buddy he went around with.  They come back in this country summers
and there's an old log house, and pretty cold, you know, and all, and
George put his pants off, you know, they made 'em out of khaki cloth,
you know, and then they dyed 'em, and they had a drawstring around
'em, you know, and they had 'em dyed, and Dad said they stayed all
night here at this house to torture(?) these girls.  George stuck his'n
in a crack, you know, where the wind was blowin' in, and the cows
was arunnin' out around the house, and he stuck the seat of 'em, you
know, through this crack, and this cow chewed the seat of the, George's
pants.  And he got up the next mornin' and put 'em on . . .
green grass . . .                                                 just all green and all,
and he said he'd help George work 'round, he'd walk right close behind
him, to get him out of the house, you know, never eat no breakfast 'r
nothin', started home,  . . .               this church, walk these girls to
church  . . .                                          wanted to go to church, and George,
he sat down, you know, to hide the seat of his britches where the cow
chewed  . . .            Dad said to come on, said "come on, boys, and go
back with us," you know, them big long dresses, been acourtin', you
know.    And Dad said, "George just  . . .          up and sat there."   He
took him by the hand, you know and just hoisted him up and wanted to
see what'd happened.   They turned him loose.   And Dad said that  . . .
patch of woods, and  George walked into the woods and he  . . .
'til they got him back home.   And Dad said, "we'll have to put him
in the bed", you know.  Just had one suit of clothes, all he had, and
Dad said when, when you growed up, when you put 'em in the bed and keep

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.