Rev. Davis II -- Reel 4
Song:  I'm Feelin Just Like Goin Home
Sermon:  At this time, friends, we're gonna haste on very briefly. I'm befo
you again, one mo time in life, to let you know that we are glad to be here
an at this time, as we face yo u, an you face us, we hope that you will be
glad to accept the things which God have placed here for the good of us.
Now we wanna talk to you from a subject, this time:  Time Will Pick Up
Everything.  Usin for a text from the Book of Kings:  An she rose at midnight
took my son from beside me, an laid her dean son into my bosom, an put
my son in huh bosom, while my handmaid slept.  I'll use the first
subject:  Time Will Pick Up Everything.  It mak es no diff'rence bout
wh at's done, you may g o head an tell a thin g that's not truth to git
out of it, an git out of it easy, an nobody know how you got out.  But Time
Will Pick Up Everything.  We ought to be mindful how we do anything, cause
Time Will Pick Up Everything.  An when it picks it up, it'll show you 
as it picks it up.  The Bible tells me heah that that which is done in the
dark shall be brought into the light.  Makes no diff'rence how it's don e an
wh ere it's done at, God has declared it shall be shown in judg ment.
Master tells me heah gain, "An these shall go away into everlasting
punishment."  I'm tellin you right now, Time Will Pick Up Everything.
This particular time there was two women h ad got together.  One of em was 
a travellin woman.  Where she come by her traveliin no doubt she come by it
by some of huh disobedience in the way she treat huh fellowman.  An huh
fr iends -- people that were friends to huh -- You know we got people in
the world don't care how they treat one another g ardless to how good a 
friend you is.  You can jes as good a friend to me as yo u can an I
don't know how to treat you.  Then -- it makes y ou feel bad.  So--this
woman, she happen t o be a woman out a place to stay.  Stumble up on a woman --
I wann say to you women it's a fine t hing to have a feeling for a woman.
It i s still finer to know who you're havin feelin for.  As m uch as God

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.