up and they've got to report immediately, because they're
fully trained men -- and that's what he was. And we left
Aberdeen, - he had a house in Aberdeen - and we went over to
Blairgowrie, that's in Pethshire, and I was just about five,
and we were just new there when the 1914 war broke out. I'll
never forget it - it was early in the morning - he went away
about five in the morning to get the train from Blairgowrie for
Galway, because he had to report and was told he had to leave
in the morning early. We were left, and that was only time
I was ever hungry in my life. Because we were so small, and
the older ones had left us and went away - they went away on
their own and had been looking after their self, and only the
small ones was left. Not only me - there were many families.
The men had to go away and the women went down to see their
men away; and one thing and another, the older ones had taken
tail and been looking after themselves. But we'd been left and 
our people were very long coming back, and before they come
back, I was greeting with hunger. Because the older ones went
away with the money, and we was left, and had no sense. We
were left - yes, camping, and couldn't do anything for ourselves.
So that's the only time I ever remember being hungry. Me and
another little girl was making snacks out of berries.
Lomax: Did you enjoy camping out when you were a little girl?
Jean: Oh yes, I loved camping out. It was freedom away from
school. We got away from school for about five months. We always
got granted that. No school, and freedom to run around. If you
were living in a house in Aberdeen, you couldna walk across the
floor for the people in the house sometimes. You'd always to 
take your shoes or boots off at night.
Lomax: But out on the road you sat around the campfire at night
and heard stories and songs?
Jean: Oh yes. The people went out and did their work, and then
come home, and you had your supper. You'd always plenty to eat,
and then after that there was work maybe had to be done - dishes
to be washed after your supper. I'll tell you a thing that was
very common among them. Telling stories at night. Used to keep
on a big fire. Gather a big bundle of sticks and keep on the
fire - gather all round the fire. And children from other places
would come - farther down camps - and somebody in the crowd
was a right good story teller, and they had to tell stories.
Lomax: What would they tell stories about?
Jean: All kinds of stories. Old-fashioned stories. Old as the 
hills of Jerusalem. Mostly about their adventures when they had
been younger. Strange happenings and things. and maybe the women

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.