2) We had not been a-sailing scarce forty leagues from shore
    Before we saw a big French ship, right up to us she bore.
    She hailed us in our French colours, saying, "Where and whence did you came?"
    "We are just come down from Liverpool, and the Dolphin in our name."
3) "Are you a man-of-war, sir, or pray what may you be?
    "I am no man-of-war, sir, but a pirate you'll quickly see.
    Come haul down your for'ard and let your jibs come, too,
    Or else the contents of the broadside fire we will instantlye sink you.
    Come haul down your French colours and hoist the red, white & blue,
    Or else the contents of the broadside fire we will instantlye sink you.
4) Now our captain, he'd been asked, my boys, and quickly answered nigh,
    Cheer up, sheer up, my bonny lads, we'll show them Liverpool play.
    If it had not been for my own brother, the battle would never been tried,
    Let every man stand true to his guns and we'll give to them a broadside.
5) Now our broadside it was given, which made all hands to wonder,
    To see our topyard gallant sheets come rattling down like thunder, 
    We shot him from our quarterdeck till no longer they could stay,
    Our guns was smart and we played our part and we showed them Liverpool play.
6) Nowthis French ship was taken, to Liverpool docks they moored,
    They                                          and all the girls on shore,
    Come haul down those French colours, hoist up the red, white & blue,
    We'll drink success to the bosun and all the saucy crew.
-------------
Young Man from the Counteree:
1) It was down in Northamptonshire I heard of various news,
    All the shams and fancies of mighty London twon.
    So I took it into my head one day I'd tramp that place to see,
    I'm a young man from the counteree but I'm far too wide awake.
2, As I gazed in a shop window at a handsome chain and golden locket,
    A London chap behind me stood - shoved his hand into my pocket.
    Says I, "Young man your hand is in the wrong place, and your manners rather free,
    I'm a young man from the counteree, but you won't pickpocket me.
3) Another chap stepped up to me and swore that he would nick it,
    He said, "Young man I've pawned my watch and I want to sell the ticket,
    So I kept a sharp watch on his game and soon I showed he,
    I'm a young man from the counteree but you cannot ticket me.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.