Revereend Roe.  Reel 9.  P. 1
Other's just lives a sinful life.
Yo know, [He] its said that we have some college called preachers, some 
[*Different types of preachers*]
church-called preachers, and some God-called preachers.  Say for instance, a
man goes to college, and he thinks that preaching is a fine occupation,
and he just goes a-preaching.  Another fellow can sing and pray well
in the church and folks begin to tell him, you know, "Man, you
ought to preach.  [They's all] I believe the lord call you to preach," and finally he
decides [to preach and] to do so he goes a-preaching, but they never succeed.
But when God calls a preacher, generally, it's a man that don't really
want to go.
Now when I began preaching -- I had felt before, you know, that I
was called to preach, but I just didn't want to preach.  And I was 
[*Evidence that God had marked him for the Ministry*]
in Aida, Oklahoma, and I don't know why, but it just come down on me,
all at once, and I just couldn't rest. I left Aida and went to Okla-
homa City, and when I went to the train, the station, to buy my ticket
the fellow said to me, "Preacher, where are you going?"  I said, "Oh,
I'm just going over to Oklahoma City."  When I got on, the porter
spoke to me, said, "Preacher, you going [on] off?"  And finally the conductor
come along, and he called me Preacher.
I went to Oklahoma City, and I was a stranger there.  When I got on
off the train, I seen a colored man and a white man talking, and I
went to ask him about a place where I could find me a room, and when
I got to them, they was talking on the Scriptures and [lets me in] they ask me in.
And I began talking and [then] it seems to have interested them so until
they both just hushed and let me have it  And when I had finished,
the white fellow said to me, "I want you to go out with me Sunday."
He says, "I have a lot of colored people out there where I'm preaching,
and they told me when I found a man that was preaching the truth for
me to bring him out there"  And I says, "Well, I'm not a preacher,"
He says, "Wel you're a Jonah, then."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.