P. S.  Concerning management of the group, both Ed and I have
tried working with John instead of Bessie on business details.
He is shy or uncommunicative or suspicious or something and I
have not felt I have quite gained his confidence.  Mabel seems
to have the clear business head and to be sufficiently tough
to say what she feels rather than brood over it, as John seems
to do (as well as Bessie).  On the other hand, John seems the
natural one to handle the business;  I do not think either her or
xxxxxxxx Henry think much of females and business -- perhaps 
this is why I didn't feel I was getting through to him very well.
As far as keeping to their tradition, I feel a little strange
about directing them because I am not absolutely positive what
is traditional and what is not, especially in the movement xxxx
end of things.  Their worst tendency when they were at the Ash
Grove was xxxxxxxxxx gradual change toward doing things as
a homogeneous unit -- clapping the same, swaying back and forth
together, xxxxxxx that sort of thing which was, I think, xxxxx
influenced by the gospel groups they saw.  I spoke with them
about this at the time; do you think John is the clearest on
this kind of problem?  I have not been able x at all to figure
out who xxxxxx has the artistic respect of the group (within
themselves, I mean -- who is the leader).  Certainly, John talked
with me asking for criticism and suggestions of the type you have
given them, and I think xxxxxxxxxx a supportive letter from you
would be very helpful.

P.P.S.  Just talked to Ted Carpenter who says he sent you
a letter including a proposed contract; he called to say that
he hoped you were not the type of person to take offense easily --
he had re-read his carbon and says the tone of his letter was
somewhat peremptory, though he had not intended it to come out
that way.  I said I would write and explain; he is xxxxxxxxxx 
by no means a bad guy -- a slighly bitter and weary guy, is the
main thing, and I think he may have groaned slightly internally
over what had seemed a simple and pleasant project turning into
a more com plicated deal than he had envisioned.  This is possibly
what came through in his letter -- I don't know.

He read me the contract over the phone; the Foundation
that he mentions is a complicated set-up created by the State
College to by-pass handling all their accounts through Sacramento.
Each College has one -- they run the bookstore, the cafeterias
and provide backing for various cultural projects of some size
on the campuses.  Moneys left over go to scholarship funds,xxx
faculty research grants and so on.

Ted and I will be seeing the group tomorrow and talking
the whole thing over with them; I am sure, from brief discussions
that they will not do anything without your xxxx personal okay.
If you want, I will go ahead and show the contract to the firm
you wrote me about; I do not mean to push this off on you, but
neither Bessie nor Ted seemed to want to proceed without being
sure of your opinion, so write back soon, even if you just say
it looks okay but show it to the guy you already wrote me about.
You are big papa number one, and I think in this instance in
particular they want your reaction, and so, I believe, does Ted
who does not want people suddenly popping up and xxxxxxxx making
difficulties after he has laid out his dough.



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.