Lomax: With straw in?
Davy: Aye, and it wasna very wholesome that, because clocks and
beasts used to gather in the wood, and the bothies were damp, and
the farmer wouldna repair them. Some of them were very lousy. Maybe
get a blanket off another bed when a man left. But nowadays,
bothies is all different. Even the milking now is different, all
analyzed, and you've got to have the proper things for doing the
milking with, and all bothies now is electric lights as I told
ye, and hot and cold water, and they've always got a chest, big
chest to hold their clothes. But they've good beds now. All farm
servants is well-paid nowadays. Better than old times. You'd work
the whole six months round for maybe 10 pound or 12 pound. You got your
food in the house. That's in Aberdeenshire.
Lomax: Were the farmers strict with the farmservants? Were they
hard on them? Did they beat them or. . . . .?
Davy: Oh no. No, no.
Lomax: I guess you've seen a lot of hungry people in your time
wandering around Ireland have you?
Davy: Well, I have, I've seena lot of poverty. I've been hungry
myself going along the roads. But I'd always get it. They're very
good people in Ireland for giving you tea. Both me and my wife
went ta a house in Ireland and once they see the accordian on
your back they say, "Keep them for the night now, can't you? Put
them up somehow now, then he'll play the old gadget for an old set
dance. Course there was me telling the woman of the house I was
travelling farther away, but they wouldn't have it anyway. They
entertain at nights. Get a barrel of porter and they're very happy.
Lomax: I suppose the people sometimes had songs of their own that
they sang?
Davy: Some of them are very good singers in Ireland. Good songs that
I couldn't sing at all, some of the real, old-fashioned Irish airs.
Beautiful airs. Oh aye, there's some good singers in Ireland. But
they always like a Scotchmab to play the highland songs. It's the
hieland songs they always ask, - they don't like to hear their own
songs.
Lomax: Where did you meet the best singers in Ireland?
Davy: The County Clare. Some fine singers in Clare.
Lomax: Come-all-ye singers?
Davy: They sing the old fashioned Irish songs. Old Irish ballads.
Ancient. Taken away hundreds of years ago. Same as the Scots. An
Irishman or woman singing has always got this queer air - lovely
air.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.