1928  Goes to Gulf of Mexico to work at Caxambas, Florida, clearing land
and cooking for a twenty-two man crew.  Returns to Miami, then goes to
Lake Okeechobee, Florida, to farm.

1929-1930  Meets George Jones.  They marry and follow the crops from
Florida to Connecticut on contract. Visits Brunswick and St. Simons several
times, seeing both George's uncle and the Davis family.

1932  "Born again" and baptized in Okeechobee.

1933  Settles on St. Simons Island with George Jones. Mother moves to St.
Simons and provides a permanent home for them, although they continue
to follow the crops.  When on St. Simons, Bessie works as a maid and cook.
Joins Lydia Parrish's Spiritual Singers Society of Coastal Georgia, which
sings in people's homes and at The Cloister Hotel.

25 August 1935  Birth of second child, George l.., on St Simons Island.

26 December 1937  Birth of third child, Joseph, in Brunswick, Georgia.

1939-45  Continues to work farm contracts and also works as a maid,
cook, and children's nurse for some of the many wealthy white people of
Georgia in both private homes and hotels.  Jet Sampson dies at the age of
105 in 1941.

6 May 1945  George Jones dies in Tampa, Florida.

1945-54  Founds the Harlem Church of God in Christ (in the Harlem
section of St. Simons Island) with Elder Andrew Hunter.

1954-60  There is disagreement among those involved about when the
events of these years occurred. Some sources report that Bessie met Alan
Lomax in 1954. Bessie herself says it was 1955. Lomax reports that he first
met Bessie in 1959. At some time during this period, Alan Lomax visited
the Georgia Sea Islands to "collect" from active members of the Spiritual
Singers Society, whom he claims to have first met in a visit to the Island in
1935 in the company of Zora Neale Hurston.
Lomax records a number of tracks for his Southern Fork Heritage and
Southern Journey series (see Discography).  He returns (in 1960?) to again 
record and asks the Singers to participate in his latest project, a film 
entitled The Music of Williamsburg.  Bessie and other Singers travel to Williamsburg
for filming and also record the final group of songs for Southern
Journey. Bessie, asked to sing a lullaby for a group of people, realizes the
potential of the situation and begins her personal mission, telling the
people how her grandfather's family were slaves in Virginia and what the
true meaning of the songs is as taught to her in her childhood. She greatly
impresses Lomax.

1960-63  Goes to New York at the request of Lomax. He tries to get her
to learn the guitar; she refuses. He begins to interview her and to book her
on the folk-music circuit in clubs, concerts, and festivals.  Bessie travels
alone for two years.
Sometime during this period, Peter Seeger hears Bessie and includes
her in a concert at Carnegie Hall.
Bessie goes to Los Angeles to sing at The Ashgrove. She tells the
manager about the other Singers, and he sends for them. She is joined by 


This photograph appeared, unidentified, on the cover of Georgia Sea Islands, Vol
I. Prestige 2000]  The picture was probably taken during the filming in 1960 (see
Chronology).  All photos courtesy of John Stewart unless otherwise identified.

John Davis, Henry Morrison, Emma Ramsey, and Mabel Hillary. Bessie
has previously renamed the group The Georgia Sea Island Singers. Although
Lomax initially objects, thinking such a large group cannot be
booked, he capitulates on hearing the tapes and asks them to return to
New York.  In 1963 he make the film entitled The Georgia Sea Island
Singers.
When at home, Bessie continues to sing with the Spiritual Singers 
Society at Alfred Jones's Altama Plantation, at The Cloister, and in private
homes  Bessie becomes leader of the group after John Davis resigns.

1964  The Georgia Sea Island Singers make numerous campus, concert, 
and festival appearances, including the Newport Folk Festival of 1964, and
spend a year in California. During the summer of 1964, Bessie works on
her book, Step It Down, with Bess Lomax Hawes while giving a workshop in
Santa Monica, California.

1964-69  Bessie Burke, a good friend of Bessie's, begins to travel with the
Singers. Appearances include the Montreal World's Fair (Expo '67). While
at home, Bessie and others have a prayer band that travels during the Civil
Rights movement. They march with Martin Luther King in Beulah, Mississippi.

1969  Bessie asks Doug Quimby, whose wife Frankie was formerly married
to Bessie's son, Joseph, to travel with her for a concert. Doug is also
from Southwest Georgia, having settled in Brunswick in 1963. Personnel

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.