hitching their skirts up above their knees, walking
or rather swaggering thighs wide apart, knees slightly
flexed, occasionally falling against one another and embracing
pasionately with hard kisses on the nape of the neck.  Now old
Ciceron was having his problems and triumphing over them in his
corner.  Saul, who is big and heavy and black, with the arms and
back of a boxer, the John Henry type, was drunk for the first time
in his life.  He fancies himself a drummer and he is a good one.
And he had come in tonight to try himself out against old Ciceron.
Well, you take Ciceron and you find him thin and wizened, with
a little weak-chinned monkey face out on the end of a scrawny
neck, little withered arms , and hands that are like the feet of
a chicken from forty years of drummings.  He looks old and weak
and when he comes in a room he sits down in a corner and leans against
the back of his chair all bowed over and chrunched up.  There again
was this great gorilla, Saul.  The issue of the contest looked easy.
Saul so huge and powerful, Ciceron, like a starved hound dog.  Both
had mama drums, tied to their right legs with a loop
of rope.  A small drum-stick like an old fashioned putter in
the left hand of each and the right free for the  big thivk
sound the mama is capable of.  Saul  leans back against the wall,
and when one tries to find his eyes  one can se only little red
empty slits with black hollows behind.  Arms akimbo, bent over the
drum, with his head thrown back, he makes the drum roar and growl
like an animal.  At each accented roar the bodies of the women dancers
jerk up from the Jean Valou posture as if strings were attched to their
navels.  Presently beside  thin old Ciceron has stood up.  The roar
as if from a billion bees comes out from beneath the drumstick,
then whoom, whoom, cannon, shots, the room is exploding, the dancers
re thrown agisnt each other, are tossed about from wall yo wall as
if the room was a cabin of a ship at sea.  Old Circeronis leaning
over his drum now like an old brown cricket and with each 
whoomhis breath comes out of that thin chest, hah! hah! hah!  Then one
sees what Ciceron is, at last, not a man at all, but a pair of drum
sticks made out of black mahogany.  Before one has wondered where

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.