Dear Alan and Toni,

First, how are you two? And second, why don't 
you write and let your loving kin know where you are and what you're
planning? I got about fourth hand word the other day that you don't
think you can get to Texas. We will be awfully disappointed if you
don't; for one thing, I wanted to meet Toni, for another I wanted you
two to see the three young Haweses and tell me simultaneously how nice
they are and what I should do about all their various troubles -- for
a last thing, I wanted to go over the Bessie Jones transcriptions
with you.

Bessie is here in L.A. singing at the Ash Grove
until August 6th; then she returns to San Diego for two weeks at a
coffee house there where she will be singing with Guy Carawan. After
that, she doesn't know what she should do; and she asked me to [write]
ask you whether you want her to go back to Georgia or on to New York.
I would suggest that you drop her a line right away; she is, I think,
beginning to feel a little nervous about her future plans. You can
write her care of us or at the Ash Grove, 8[?]62 Melrose Avenue, Los
Angeles.

Also, Hedy's husband called today and asked me to
send you Hedy's address. She left for New York a week ago, having
brought Bessie [?] from San Diego; arrangements or communication had
apparently broke down and Ed Pearl hadn't expected her for another
week. So here sat poor Bessie, with Hedy dashing off to New York the
following day, not knowing anybody and no work. Anyhow, we put her
up and entertained her as well as my hectic schedule would permit and
I think she feels all right now. She is staying currently with friends
of mine so as to be nearer the Ash Grove; transportation from here
every night would have been totally impossible -- it's about a forty
minute drive through traffic. Her address in case you want to write
her there is c/o Mr. and Mrs. Alan Hjerpe
843 South Berenda
Los Angeles
[*Bessie Jones*]
They are nice people, very warm and loving and Bessie has already
introduced them to collard green and fried corn. Hedy's address,
to get back to where I started this paragraph is
c/o Frieda Brown
98 Riverside Drive
New York, New York
[*Hedy went*]
I rather gathered that she wants to hear from you soon too, to know
when you'll be hitting New York again.

I went down to Bessie's opening at the Grove last
night after teaching my class and therefore missed her first set but
heard her give the last of the evening. She is on a kind of mad program
with three Scots bagpipers and one Scots drummer who play so
loud they make your teeth ache, and a small very fresh and lively bunch
of blue-grass boys called the Crown Junction Stompers. Actually it's
so goofy, it's a lot of fun and the first night audience was very enthusiastic.
Bessie talked a bit too much and stayed on about two songs
too long but got the response and some good audience singing, led by
a group of young gospel singers who had come in to catch her show and
stayed to back her. She was sitting with me during the bagpipers and

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.