way up the town and he was too late. Four or five minutes late - 
or early - it was early - he'd have been in time, this page - it
was a page putting away with the reprieve. He'd have been savd by
five or ten minutes, but when he went up, they'd him by the neck
and hunged. And he says, "Henceforth, that clock shall tell lies."
And it beats up ten minutes ever since. That's the clock of the
plain stones - not with the clock with the church, but the clock
with the plain stones. He says, "Henceforth onward," he says,
"that clock shall tell lies." And it always beats up the ten
minutes yet.
Lomax: You mean still to this day?
McBeath: Yes, the clocks there. The clock still goes - it's the
plain stones - the big building with the big spire. You'll see it
yet. And there's an old gun - a Waterloo or -- down yonder.
Lomax: How do people in Banff feel about this song?
- - - - - - - -
McBeath: O he was a great fiddler - in fact he played all over
the country. A great fiddler; and while he was getting arrested
he broke his fiddle. When he was getting hung. When he was going
up to be hung before the pople he played this tune - a strathspey
tune. The same tune that originated the song  - a tune of some kind - 
a strathspey. He broke the fiddle over his knee and throwed the
fiddle from him amongst the people, but they gathered the fiddle
and joined it up again and put it in the museum - it's in the 
museum to this day - the same fiddle - you'll see it in some
of the museums - Banff museum it is.
Hamish: I think, Jimmy, there's only one point in that story ye
havna got right. McPherson offered his fiddle when he was being
hanged to any man that could play a tune well on it, and one or
two came up and tried out the  tune, but he was disatisfied with
it, and when the second man or the third came up, he just took
the fiddle and broke it over the man's head and so - and turned
himself off the cart.
Lomax: To be hanged then?
Hamish: Aye, he was hanged then.
Lomax: You mean when he brke the fiddle he jumped off the cart
and was hung.
Hamish: That's right - he broke the fiddle over the man's head
and himself he turned the cart away. Hanged himself, in point of fact.
- - - - - -
VAN DIEMEN's Land - Jimmie McBeath
1) Come all ye gallant poachers and countrymen beware,
If you gom a-poaching take your dog, your gun, your snare,
For the hares and hasty pigeons, they run at their own command,
So beware of the wolves and tigers, boys, going to Van Diemans Land.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.