Reverend Roe  -  Reel  3  -  P.  1

R:  (cont'd) I went to Louisiana to run a Revival, and I preached there at a church,
and it was called, I believe, a Protestant Methodist, and the whole church
[*changes Meth to Baptists*]
 changed and become Baptist.  Yes sir, and that's a Baptist church there now.
A: Well, what did you tell that made them change over?
R: I Just preached the Gospel. I didn't say anything about the Baptists. I
   just preached the Gospel. That's the only weapon that God give us.
A: You didn't argue with them about doctrinal points?
R: No sir,  I didn't argue with them.  I just preached the Gospel.  Of course
[*Man can be too highly educated to preach.*]
I preached the doctrinal sermons, and I was very particular in making every-
thing plain as I could.  And  I've found this:  a man can be too highly 
educated to preach to some folks;  they can't understand it,  you know;  and I
think the Lord could use me best for those people because I was a little nearer
to them, than the highly educated man.  They could understand me; they could
understand my language better.
A: Well, what do you think that Christianity boils down to in the essence; it's
not something complicated anyway, is it?
R: No, no, it's nothing complicated.  Christianity is - uh - when you boil it 
down, is nothing but love.
A: That's what I think.
[*Essence of Christianity is love*]
R: That's all.  Love.   -- cause God is love. And whenever I began a Christians
life, I tried to shape myself into His likeness, and the more I love, the more
I become like God. And I believe that I must love all. I must love all,
especially of the household of Faith. I mean all Christians. I believe that
all Christians are one. I heard a man some time ago say that God scattered
the races, and that we couldn't bring them together, and I just wanted to say
[*God scattered the people*]
to him they had gotten together on a sinful program and to stop them, He had
either to scatter them or kill them, and He scattered them, but then He got
another race after that,  a chosen race and out of that race was born the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.