BJ TAPE 26, p. 50
(BESSIE & GEORGE'S OWN GARDEN PATCH)
they own place, ya see?  (SEE EARLIER TAPES ON BONDED FOREIGN
WORKERS) 'Cause they sent for them over here an' they come over
here by groups.  They used to send, get 'em, ya know?  By big
groups of 'em.  An' they, ah, stayed in their own -- in camps.
But they still come to our churches an' be wit' us, ya know,
through nights an' days. . .They're friendly with us, but they
stayed in their own camp.  You know.  'Cause they was, 'cause they 
was responsible for 'em.  Ya see?  The Govemint was 'sponsible
'cause they sent for 'em to come here.  An' they would have work
for them to do.  If they didn't give ah, some a the peoples work
to do, they'd come in there.  I won't say "us" because we always
worked for somebody that have fields, ya see?  An' when they
git up, we he'p somebody else.  An' then, if not that, we have
our own lil' field.  An' so, therefore, ya know, it didn't worry
us.  That's why I say I got along good in Hoover days.  It didn't
worry me, that I had sumpin' to go upon, and a way to go.  I stay
with somebody, not just runnin' here an' yonder, ya see.
     Some folks just stayin' somewhere or other, rentin', like
in Belle Glade an' an' some part a the Peeoka, they rentin'
'em houses, thousands of 'em, an' then they go where they can
find work, ya see?  An' but, jus' like, if you got a farm, an'
you got -- if it ain't but 7 or 8 acres.  Well, me an' ah, me an'
my husband stay 'er there.  And we tend that for you.  Ya see?  An' then,
 an' then after, then after we git through with yous, if there's
anything else we can do, we still can go an' he'p others.
     Then we
go out in the open places where they ain't nothin' there, that
some Lightening, used to do the same thing, used to go out in
open places?, where there ain't nothin' at.  An' cut down bushes
or. . .'Cause they ain't nothin' but bushes to cut down.  An' plant

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.