9) He went up to the King's Ha' door, she knocked and she went in,
Says, "There's one of your chancellors rob-bed me and he's 
                                                                 robbed me right & clean."

10)"Has he robbed you of your mantle, has he robbed you o' your ring?
Has he robbed you o' your maidenhead, and another ye canna find?"

11)"If he be a married man, a-han-ged he will be,
But if he be a single man, he shall marry thee."

12)  Noo this couple they've got married, she lives in Huntley toon,
She's the Earl o' Airlie's daughter and he's the blacksmith's son.
---
Lomax:  When would that be sung in the old days?
Strachan:  O I'd never suggest that a man would sing that in the
kitchen.  It would be sung in the bothy more, where there was a lot
of men.  You see, there's a verse that comes in... "If I be a
shepherd's daughter..."  He was a bit disgusted, you see, when he
had to marry her, and something he'd said before the shepherd's
daughter had fallen in love with him...
   "If I be a shepherd's daughter, you might have let me be,
    For I'm sure the road was long and broad to let you pass by me."

The Brave Ploughman Laddie - John Strachan (1.45)
1) Cold winter's storm is noo awa' and summer's come again,
And the cold dry winds of March month have driven away the rain.
Have driven away the dreaery rain, likewise the frost and snow,
So our foreman in the morning he is ordered out to sow.

2) So on we drive until the sun anint yon hill is hide,
And syne we 'lowed our horses tired and homeward we do ride,
And homeward we do ride, full keen to get our horses fed,
We camb them weel baith back and heel, and their manes and tail
                                                                                             we reid.

3)  When that is done, we supper get, and after that we hie
Awa' to see the pretty girls a-milking of their kye,
Each one to see his sweetheart and prie her cherry mou',
Then tak' her da' an hoor or twa; shake hands and bid adieu.

4) So now I mean to end my song, and I will end wi' this,
May the ploughman get mair wages, it is my earnest wish.
It is my heartfelt wish, I say, it is the ploughman's due,
For he sustains baith rich and pair by the handling o' the plough.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.