2487B2
to run after this fellow that hit him.
Q.  When were the first hot arrangements written, Jelly?
M. Well, the first hot arrangements that were in existence - and I've
played all the popular tunes that ever came out in the country,
including the marches - was about the year of 1912 in St. Louis, after
I got off William Mc Cabe's ministrel show in 1912 in January, I thinks,
I finally was able to pick up a little job.  (Ifirst went to work at
a club there.  A fellow by the name of George Reynolds was playing
piano.  At that time I kinda figured I was a pretty good singer
which it was way out the way - but I figgered it anyhow - and I
had a way I would never playin any city until I heard all there was 
there play.  The fact was I had been in St. Louis, time and time
again, but they had a lot of newcomers such as Walter Farmington.
Hamilton and different fellows like that.  So I taken a job singing, and 
when I taken the job singing, I tried to correct George Reynolds, the
pianist that was playing for me.  Instead of him trying to stand
correction, He wasn't an able musician and he couldn't read at all.
He criticized me and demanded that I should play for my ownself.
I was a bit angry so I told him I could play for my ownself and I would.
After I played, he became very much elated.  Then they had a lot of
music around there - he couldn't read it, but they just had it, I
guess, for the singer to have the words.  Daddy White was one - thats
the fact.  They bought the music to learn the words.  And let somebody
else play the tune - maybe Andie Mathews, then they would copy it.
So Daddy White was there with me and another fellow named Red.
Wasn't no women entertainers - and myslef.
     And it seemed to be George Reynolds main object to crush me.  And
I needed a job very bad and my intention was to stop him from trying to
crush me.  So after I played for a while they brought the music round
and I started playing the music and then they start to try to test me.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.