laughing and  giggling, paying no attention to the old tinker
woman. They were laughing and jumping and singing. And all the 
lovely music was coming through the other room. And the old
tinker woman said to the woman of the house, "I doubt ye've got
a party here, missus, or somebody home from abroad."
"Take your pipe, lady, and get out of the door as quickly as
possible. Hurry up and get outside."
"Well," the woman says, "Give me time to get my pipe lighted. I
canna get it to go." So, she's having to dawdle, you see, blow
through the pipe. So she but the old bit of stick in the fire
and (Davy sucks att pipe).
The woman said, "Get outside. Hurry up now. Go on.". . .When
the door opens and in come -- NO -- she heard the pipes playing
in the house. "God," she says to the woman. "You've got a piper
in there!"
The old woman says, "Get outside, hurry up."
But the tinker woman wouldn't heed her, and she was listening
to the strains of the pipes. O, and this piper was playing the
loveliest tunes you heard in your life! "God," she says, "I've
heard that playing before. OHO - it must be my Johnny that's 
playing!"
     Just then the door opened and a wee piper came out - he was
only that size - a wee, wee mannie. And she looks. The same face 
The same dress - a young man but only half that size. She looks
at him. "O Johnny dear, O Johnny dear," she says. She grabbed
hold of him and she runs to the door, and the old woman tried to 
make a grab for her by the shawl, but she was out of the door in
time. And when she got out of the door, the house vanished, and
the man was standing normal size, same as me, a tall man with the
pipes.
Anne: Was he still young?
Davy: Still young? "My God," he says. He looks at her a long
time. "Who are you, missus?" he says. "Granny," he called her.
"O Johnny dear," she says. "I'm your ain Mary." - Mary Campbell
was her own name.
"Mary? Who's Mary?" he says. "My wife at the camp there. I
left her up there last night. I was playing last night doon the
toon here."
"Do you know how long ago, you were playing at the town?" she
says. "Twenty years ago," she says.
"Awa' woman," he says. "Hold your tongue."
"I'm tellin' ye," she says. "Ye ken where ye were?"
"Who are you?" he says.
"I'm Mary."
"Go awa'. You're not my Mary. You're an old grey-haired woman.
Don't make a fool of me. Keep away."
"I'm your Mary," she says. "You were among the fairies for
twenty years," and she said, "If it hadn't been for me there

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.