Reverend Gary Davis, Interview December 1968, TAPE FOUR
-----------------
I told you about how I came about playing guitar? I made me one at of
a tin can.
Q: When was that?
A: When I was a boy, about ten years old.
Q: How did you make the guitar?
A: I drove me a hole in each end on the pie-pan, ran me up a stick threw
there, -- that's the way I made it.
Q: When did you start playing parties?
A: After I get a little older.
Q: Did anybody show  you how to play guitar?
A: No! I learned all by myself.
Q: Where was this in? 
A: In South Carolina.
Q: What day were you born?
A: On the last day of April, which is on the thirtieth.
Q: When did you move out of Lawrence County?
A: After I get grown. I was about 20 years old when I started.
Q: Did you got to a school to learn how to read braille?
A: I went to Spartenberg, South Carolina. The Blind Institution.
Q: How old were you than?
A: I was grown than. About 19 years old.
Q: Was there anybody else in your family that was interested in music?
A: I had an uncle who played.
Q: Did he play well?
A: Long about them days what they called playing well wasn't what I could
call playing well today.
Q: Didhe ever show you anything?
A: No he never showed me nothing. Nobody ever showed me anything.
I worked it out myself.
Q: Who were some of the other guitar-players at that time that you know?
A: Well, some I couldn't name. So many of them.
Q: Could you tell me about the "old-times" - these meatless and wheatless days?
A: Well, them days at that time seemed to be good days. Wasn't as much killing
going on as they do now.
Q: How was it for a blind musician?
A: Those that were experienced of music or the music that they played 
was alright. I never knew anyone but myself who practised guitar, a blind
person.
Q: How did the people take to a blind musician?
A: I can only tell what happened to me. The white people would always
come around - and a nickel was something - and give me a nickel to play a song
Q: How did the black people take to you?
A: Well, some of them promised like they do now.
Q: Would the white people have you play at parties and dances?
A: After I get them grown, about 19 years old I played parties.
Q: By yourself or with other musicians?
A: By myself.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.