two girls by themselves. So he called in and say down. He asked
them could he get stopping till morning - that he was cold and
tired, and that he had a good bit to go and would like to have
daylight with him in the morning, and that he'd have better
courage to go.
"Well, no," says the girl, "ye can't stop because there's no man
about the house, only me and me sister, and ye can't stop.
If there was a man about, of course, you could stay right enough.
It'd make no difference. But it wouldn't look nice for us two
to keep a man here. What would the people say the morrow ?"
"Och, well," he says, "I don't care what the people says," he
says. "I'll do ye no harm."
"Well," she says, "We can't keep ye - and I don't like to keep
any man."
" Well," he says, "Indeed I'll not go till the morning no matter
what you say. I'll keep in the shelter of the house. I'm going
to do ye no harm. So ye go to your bed."
    So, seeing that they couldn't get him out they both studied
on a plan. One of them went out and got a bale of hay, grass, -
an armful. And she says to him, "Are you any good at twisting
the grass ropes, you know ?" she says. "Did ever ye twist ropes ?"
"Oh, I did," he says.
"Well, did you know," she says, "we have a lock of rope to twist.
I would like to get another rope made while you're here. I'll let
them out and you can twist them."
      So he had the fiddle at the same time hung on the button
of his big coat, and he didn't hand up the fiddle. So he catched
the draw-hook and he started to twist the ropes, and she said,
"Twist on, twist n now," she says, "till you go out to the street.
I would like to make a good long one."
     So he twisted away and away and away until he went out of the
door backways, and when she got him out she just closed the door.
She gave the door the quickest shove you ever seen just when she
got him out. So he was stuck then. So he catched the fiddle and
just played a tune. And you know the name of the tune ? He just
made the tune on a minute - "The Girl That was Smarter than a
Fiddler !"
              - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.