3) Then away he ran with all his speed, to rouse the watchers all,
Well-knowing that an army was ready at his call.
He says, "I'll trap the miner lad whoever that he be,
I'll send him off to Durham Jail to sup skilly-skilly.
The BONNY MOORHEN:
1) A                                     pray lend an ear,
An account of the battle you quickly shall hear,
'Twas fought by the miners, oh well do you ken,
While claiming their right to the bonny moorhen.
2) Now this bonny moorhen as she plainly appeared,
Belonged to the miners some hundreds of years.
Andthe miners of Waddle, they're all gallant men,
They'll fight till they die for the bonny moorhen.
3) Now the miners of Waddle they walk in their clogs
They suit him to climb o'er mountains and bogs,
When the bonny moorhen she moves up in the air,
They'll bring her down neatly I'll vow and declare.
4) Now the miners of Waddle, they're braw to the game,
They level the ground, make sure of the hame,
When the trap is gang open they'll pull out the same,
They're sure to take off with a leg or a wing.
5) Now times being hard and providence being dear,
The miners were straving, from what we do hear,
They had nowt to depend on, so weel you may ken,
But to make what they could of the bonny moorhen.
6) Now the fat men of Auckland and Durham the same,
Lay claim to the moorhen and likewise to the game,
They sent word to the miners they'd have them to ken,
They would stop them from shooting the bonny moorhen.
7) Now this word was carried with all due speed,
Which made the poor miners to hang down their heads,
They sent thrm an asnwer they'd have them to ken,
They'd fight till they die for the bonny moorhen.
8) When the word it reached the gentlemen's ears,
An army was fitted and it quickly appeared,
Lads                                         and gamekeepers too,
Were all ordered to Waddle to fight their way through.
9) Now a captain was wanted at the head of the clan,
He swore a great oath and was chose for the man.
His legs was too small and not fit for the stocks,
And his coat not being hard for to suffer the knocks.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.