22     THE AMERICAN MERCURY 

most enterprises vital to Haiti's economy.
In 1939, for example, during the
Vincente presidency, the Electric
Light Company, an American concern,
extended its monopoly for a 
period of fifty years. Five senators
and deputies admitted later that they
had been offered bribes to vote for
the extension but claimed that they
had refused them. One deputy admitted
in writing that he had received
money, excusing himself by
saying that he had turned it over to
the church in his native city of Cayes.
Again, six weeks after the Treaty of
Chapultepec, which provided that no
American republic should grant monopolies
to foreign companies, the
Lescot government gave the Standard
Fruit Company a ten-year monopoly
on the export of Haitian
fruits. As part of the deal, Lescot
guaranteed to protect the company
against loss due to crop failures, falling
world prices and other unpredictables; 
all losses were to be borne by the
Haitian planters.
In addition to selling monopolies
the Haitian politicians keep the prices
of their products low in order to make
the monopolies they sell more profitable
to the purchaser.  Bananas are
the major product in the Standard
Fruit monopoly; in Haiti they cost
half of what they do in Jamaica, the
nearby English colony.  At a time
when a ton of sugar cane sold for
$3.00 to $3.40 in Cuba, Puerto Rico
and the Dominican Republic, the
Haitian price was fixed by President 

Lescot at $1.80 per ton. As an additional
measure to keep costs low,
President Lescot, whose salary was
$36,000, decreed that the wages of
agricultural workers be fixed at 30 
cents a day, whereas in Cuba, Puerto
Rico and the Dominican Republic,
the wage for sugar-cane cutters ranged
from 70 cents a day upward. These
price-fixing decrees directly affected
the overwhelming majority of the
Haitians, most of whom live on small
individually-owned farms.
The Haitian standard of living is,
as might be expected, miserably low.
The United States Tariff Commission
reported in 1945: "Nine-tenths of
the people live on a basis of practical
self-sufficiency." At present, according
to available statistics, the average
individual's purchasing power is $7
per year.
With virtually no domestic market
to strive for, and with the foreign
market largely in the hands of monopolies
which buy at prices far below
those prevailing in the world market,
Haitian agriculture cannot rise above
a primitive, marginal level. Similarly,
any development of native middle-class
industry is severely inhibited
from the start. Yet Haiti possesses 
many raw materials, among them
lumber, iron, sulphur, copper, silver,
gold, gypsum, kaolin and limestone.
Recently, large aluminum deposits
were discovered. These resources are
at present undeveloped, while production
is concentrated on coffee,
cotton, sugar, sisal, bananas and cacao,
products which are shipped abroad 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.