Roll 62 Stan in his workshop 1

AL: We're in one of the sanctum sanctorums of mountain culture, in the workshop
of Stanley Hicks, a real mountain man -- a hunter, a rambler, a moonshine maker,
a banjo maker, banjo player, and a great craftsman. He's gonna show us his
life and tell us about the thing he makes.

Stan: I used to do a lot of hunting, right here is a lot of the stuff, you know.
I rambled around very much, drunk a lot of moonshine, I have some right back in
here, whiskey. And I do a lot of craft work and stuff, used to be pretty rough.
You know, in these mountains you had to be if you lived. If you didn't, you
didn't survive...if you come in all tame you know, you didn't survive. You
had to be pretty rough. So, I make a lot of this stuff.

AL: Livin' out here, each family all by itself -- a man had to take care of
himself, all alone.

Stan: Yeah, you had to take care of yourself, there was nobody else to look for
you, you looked for yourself. If you didn't, you was up against it. Everybody
looked after themselve, you had to do that to live, survive.

In the last few years you've sort of settled down and learn to do all these
mountain crafts.

Stan: Yeah, for the last 20 years, I've made a few banjos off and on ever since
I was 15 years old. I have one back here that my dad help me make. I was 15
years old when I made this one, and it'll still play all right! He would use
this stick of firewood. It was burnt in the chimney and he give me a neck out.
And this is a squirrel hide, and this, this is ground hog hide. You see the
shot holes in it where I shot it with my dad's shot gun. The holes...you can
 see 'em if you look close, it's squirrel hide, I shot it with an old 12 gauge
shot gu you know. He help me do this. And this tall piece here that you're
looking at, that's a washing tub. I'll turn it over very slow, if you can look
in here, that's a place of washing tub. We'd cut out the bend to get the hook,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.