THE DEPRESSION
A Gospel Song From Deut. 28: 14-24 Mal. 3:5-10
Revised and Published by CHAS. HAFFER. JR.
Noted Gospel Song Writer, Author, and Bible Lecturer
Greenville, Mississippi

1- There's a depression in this land can't no man understand,
It has reached every nationality all over the distant land.
It has reached the rich, it has reached the poor.
Its serves at every man's door
And we won't get over this depression until we obey God's command

CHORUS
God is calling, God is calling
He is calling and understands
And we won't get over this depression
Until we obey God's commands

2- Some have no food neither clothing, have nowhere to lay their
head
And have rambled this wide world over have'nt realized God is head
Times may get better, things may get normal again
If you get over this depression. you've got to obey God's command.

3-Some people lived in the country they broke up and moved to town
They became so disccontented because no rest was found
So they moved back out in the country and tried farming again
But we won't get over this depression until we obey Gods command

4- The earth yielded its increase, supply exceeded demand
Prices began to decrease because of so much on hand
People couldnt meet obligations property had to be sold
While thousands of banking Institutions were forced to close their
doors

5- The government cut off the cotton, the drouth cut off the grain
The wheat crops were all reduced because we could'nd get much rain
God is our creator, I'm sure He is the plan
But we wont get over this depression until we obey God's command

6- Was it not for the gov'ment I don't know what the people would
do.
For they are in much distress and can hardly make it through
Now jobs are not plentiful, starvation is in the land.
But we wont get over this depression 'til we obey God's command.

7- Women leaving their husbands, and husbands their wives
Parents leaving their children and children parents, likewise
You'd as well to go back home for this is not time to roam,
You won't get over this depression 'till you obey God's command

PRICE:  10c   2 for 15c   3 for 20c   4 for 25c

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.