-2-
They were playing a lot of honky-tonk tunes.
A few songs like "You're Welcome as the Flowers
in May," "Bird in a Gilded Cage", "Old Oaken 
Bucket." The honky-tonk tunes didn't have any
names. Words like: "You gals better get out
and walk, cause he's gonna start his dirty talk."
Only they didn't say "gals". A lot of them were
dirty songs.
"Winding Ball" was composed in 1902. Was very
famous about that time.
Took popular tunes and made them dirty tunes.
Most everything was sentimental. They just had
a few honky-tonk players around. Played the mouth
organ and Jews harp a lot. Played mostly piano 
and guitar. Big combination was mandolin, guitar
and bass violin.
[*1904.*] On the Gulf Coast. Made McHenry, Hattiesburg,
Jackson, Vicksburg, Greenwood, Greenville.
Decided to go to St. Louis for the piano playing
contest at the World's Fair. Girls willing to
finance me. I was a half-hand big-shot, what you
call. Tony Jackson was supposed to go there so I
didn't go. But Tony Jackson didn't go and the contest
was won by Alfred Wilson.
[*insert back up a ways*]  You found harmonicas, Jews harps on the street corners.
They would sing spasmodic blues. Play for
a while, pick a while and every now and then say a 
word.
Never did no manual labor. Helped my god-father
for sport to do caulking; worked on a strawberry
farm for a day.
I was a pretty good runner when there was riots.
Put me in jail for nothing in New Orleans.
[*1907*] [*Lynching*] In Greenwood, came to work on a stock show. Came
in right on a lynching. Some man wanted to horse-whip
a colored boy. He wouldn't stand this and he
shot him. So they lynched the colored boy. Nobody
was very scared, no running around. Some fellows
told me where to go and how to get there. There was
nobody on the streets. I was told the story of the
lynching at the place where I stayed. There didn't
seem to be very much tension there. It seemed like
an even break. He killed a man who wanted to whip

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.