              garden up -- you'll know what farming's like in
              Suffolk. Heavy, clay soil, you see, and not till
              you get further in do you get any light land. Chaps
              got accustomed to working from dawn till dusk, and
              they didn't get much for it, and then, if the
              people in London didn't like to buy what they grew,
              well they got nothing. They either had to eat it
              themselves or make a bit extra by doing a bit of
              smuggling.
Lomax:  The most extraordinary thing I ever heard of was
              this story you told me about suicides in your part
              of the world. I never heard anything like it in my
              life, except among the Eskimaux. It's absolutely
              unique.
Robts:    It's quite common in out of the way places in that
              part of England. You see, as I just told you, they
              lived an active life, a laborious life, sailing,
              fishing, farming, smuggling, scrapping, sometimes
              they used to go in for a little bit of piracy.
Lomax:   How's that?
Robts:     Well there were a lot of valuable ships, you know,
               used to go across to -- coming up Channel -- used
              to go across to the Flemish ports, and remember,
              Holland was a rich country in those days. Ships used
              to come from abroad with cargoes worth thousands and
              thousands of pounds, and you know a crew of desperate
              men would go out and get hold of her and bring her in.
              They didn't have to work a lot longer; it was worth the
              gamble. But anyway, in later, well in my time, you can
              picture yourself as a man who's had that sort of East
              coast energy -- people down there are very energetic.
              You may not think so to look at them, or to talk to,
              but once they start on a job, they're like Suffolk
              Punch horses, you know, they keep on and on and on
              and on. Hours don't mean anything, they'll work
              through the night without a wink -- once you get'm
              to start, - once they think they'll do it. But when
              a chap gets so old he starts to get ill, and he can't
              do this, he can't pull up a trawl, he can't get on a 
              horse, he can't pull this and heave that, well, all
              the others are doing it, he gets fed up, you see.
              He's not going to just sort of lie down and die what
              the Norwegians call a cow's death. He couldn't do this --
              couldn't do that -- so to tell (hell) with this. He wants to
              cut his throat or hang himself, do himself in -- just
              didn't want to wait till old age came. There was

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.