[*B2*]
121 West Third Street
New York 12, New York
January 9, 1964

David H. Preus, Esq.
Bowen, Bowen, Preus, Farrell, & Adams
1630 Rand Tower
Minneapolis 2, Minnesota 

Dear Mr. Preus:

I hope you realize that all complications relating to the Sea 
Island Singers are due to the fact that they are genuine non-
professionals. They are not on tour but are leaving their jobs 
to travel two days by bus and are arriving without money in 
their pockets in your city. I am acting as their friend and 
unpaid manager and my whole interest is in making sure that they 
are reasonably comfortable, well-paid and a cohesive group of 
people. They are the last carriers of an important American 
cultural tradition and every effort should be made to keep them 
happy and singing well together. My understanding and my agreement
for the group about this concert is as follows:

1) Fee for the evening concert, $500.00. Please have five 
checks for $100.00 each made out to the following names: 
Bessie Jones, John Davis, Henry Morrison, Mabel Hillery
and Emma Ramsay. 

2) Transportation. Please send five round-trip bus tickets 
Brunswick, Georgia-Minneapolis, to John Davis, 504 Arnold 
Road, St. Simons Island, Georgia, the group manager. They 
have no money to buy these tickets nor have I.

3) Please arrange for their accommodations and subsistence during 
the period they are in Minneapolis. I am sure that Jon 
Pankake and his friends will be glad to put them up. They 
will be happier in the homes of friendly people than at a 
hotel. They are not fussy about this matter; in fact, they 
will be delighted with everything that happens to them.

4) This is an addendum covering recent letters from the people 
connected with this festival. An extra children's concert 
has been suggested for Bessie Jones alone with proposed fee 
of $75.00 I would like the whole group to participate for 
a fee of $150.00 to be divided equally between them. 

5) Participation in a workshop has been proposed from which they 
would get the total of $1.00 donations at the door. This is 
also agreeable with the stipulation that the money be divided 
equally between all five members of the group by the person
in charge.

Items 4 and 5 are not a necessary part of the agreement covering 
the appearance of the Sea Island Singers at the Main Concert on 
February 8.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.