Walter Brown /2

WB:And, I said, "Mother," I said, "I ain't done have Mr. Joe's pistol." 
Mr. Joe passed back by the house. He said, "Did he tell you where it was at?" She 
said no, saying, "He ain't got it." I said, "Mr. Joe, let me go home with 
you." I said, "Let me go home with you." He said, "Come on." I said, "Now where you 
say you put your pistol at?" He said, "I put it right under the sheets. And put 
my pillow over it. And it's gone." I said, "Well, you know what you do?" He said, 
"What?"  I said, "Now you know I ain't been through your house, don't you."  He said,
"No, you ain't been there." I said, "You take that cover piece by piece, I mean the 
spread and the quilt, and turn them piece by piece back to the sheet." He turned them; 
he did it that way. He said, "I don't need to be doing that but I'm gonna do it 
because you're asking. I know you ain't been here. And the sooner he put it on top of 
the first sheet, he put it on top of the first quilt. He turned it back; he looked 
at it. He said, "Son. I'm sorry." I said, "I am too."
AL:You were pretty rude.
WB.And I was plenty mad. He said, "Well now, let's go down there and tell your Mama 
that I accused you wrong." I said, "No, don't tell her. You tell me." I said, 
"You know what I should do right now?" He said, "What?" I had a 32 bird gun. I pulled 
it out. I said, "I should put one of these right between your eyes. I should put 
one of these right between your eyes, Mr. Joe. You call on Mamm to whip me just like 
I was a mule that had balked and wouldn't pull. I ought to kill you." He went back 
down there and he told Mama. He said, "I'm sorry that I told you a story on your son." 
He said, "I overlooked it. Every time I turned the cover back looking for it, I turned 
the pistol back too. Then Son told me he ought to of killed me." And Mama said, 
"Well I tell you what you do. You stay out of his way till he come out from under 
that because he will kill you."
AL:Did Mama apologize to you?
WB:Oh my mama didn't, but she growled at him.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.