The first time I hrard that song it was sung by a
traveler named Mathieson, who kept a big rag-store in
Peterhead, a big metal merchant.  I used to go out hawking
for him, like -- wealthy people.  His cousin was J. Mathieson,
the fighting Scot. There's lots of these Mathiesons, high-
class travellers, with big stores in Elgin, Buckie, etc..  He
was a good singer and a great fight promoter.  Had two thumbs
on each hand - we used to cally him Thumby Williamson.  He's
been to America and all over.  I could not tell you whether
he's dead or alive. but he's gone away to America.  All the
travelling people in Scotland knows it.  I've sung it often
with Jimmy Mcbeath.  Jimmy had it, too.  It's a true song -- it's
really the way it goes with you on the road.
The Hash of Drumdelgie:
1) There's a farm toon in Carnie, it's kent far and wide,
It's called the Hash of Drumdelgie on bonny Devron's side.
It's five o'clock we early rise and hurry doon the stair,
To get our horse corn and fed and likewise stracht their hair.
2) A half an hout to the stable, to the kitchie we all go,
To get started to our breakfast'm it's generally brose.
We hardly get time to finish, and gin our pints a tie, (boot laces)
When the grive he cried, "Hallo, my lads, you'll be nae langer nie."
3) At sax o'clock the mull's put on to gie us all stracht work,
And twal o' us to workit her till ye could ring o' sarks, (they're sweating)
At acht o'clock the mull's taen off we hurry doon the stair,
To gate some quarter through the fan till daylight does appear
4) The clouds begin to gently let the sky begin to clear,
The grive he says, /O-ho, my lads, ye'll be no longer here.
Sax o' ye will gang to the ploo an' sax to carry the neaps,
And the ousens they'll be after ye when they get on their theats.
(all this has to do with ploughing.)
5) The pettin' on o' the harnesses an' drawin' out the yoke,
The dreft hung on so very thick that we were like to choke. (snow fell)
The dreft hung on so very thick the ploo she would not go,
The n the cairting didcommence among the frost and snow.
6) Drumdelgie keeps a Sunday-squele, he thinks it is but recht,
To teach the young and innocent the way for they do recht.
But fare-ye-weel, Drumdelgie toon, I'll bid ye all adieu,
I'll leave ye as I found you, a maist uncilvil crew...



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.