Time Code:
Tape:  Roll 52 [Stan and] Ray Hicks
(Ray) to smell of it and to know what to eat for their sickness.  They were
created to smell and know their medicines of the timber.  Now thru the
wintertime, they eat bugs for medicine.  They eat bugs off of maple and
gaylac.  So God created it for everything to know pretty close, the way
it was created to do here, to live, to survive, if it'll try to keep on
the line of it.  That's the way it comes along now in life.  You ain't
dead, you live on -- on and on.  (tchncal)  Now we won't die, we'll live
on and on, til He sees fit to do away with it, we live on and on. . . . . .
     Read the story of Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett.  Now David Crockett,
he said he grinned a coon to death.  "I started grinnin' that bear and he'd
grin at me.  And directly it turned right and started out thru the wood and
I come on home. . . . .!"  . . . . . . .Yeah, he grinned a coon to death!  David
Crockett said in his history, the book I read when I was a little boy in
school, free school, he said he grinned the coon to death, had his picture
with that coon-skin cap on and the tail hangin' back here and that was
interesting for a kid you know.  And he grinned the coon to death, it died,
just started grinnin' at it.  And he tried it on a grizzly bear, and he
attacked him, a grizzly, and he killed it.  And another one, he was here
with the Indians, and he come along a hikin', like they hiked, they knowed.
Now Daniel Boone could track a man, now I learnt that.  Now I could take
that tree over there, in the mid hours of the night and not get lost.
I could go out where that tree is, which would show me north.  I got to
know now, when I go in, and my country which is northeast.  Now east, that's 
right in thru there.  Ths is west, that's north, and that's south.  Now
look here at your tree.  I rub that moss, there's west, and here comes back
to north, that moss, well I go that way if I need to.  Well here now is a 
comin' around north, and back thru here is south now, look at here the
difference your bark.
(end of Roll 52)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.