Calum: Oh well, it all depended on the restrictions at
home. If you had strict paremts they would want you at home
at 10 o'clock, but -- after you got to be 18 or 20, well,
you could make your own time, so to speak. They were getting
out of that control by that time.

Lomax: Did the songs have a lot to do with courting ? I mean,
were there a lot of songs which were sung at courting parties
or sung by girls to boys or boys to girls.....because most of
them are about love, you know.

Calum: Oh yes. Well, these were....I don't know if any fellow
in cold blood would start singing a song to his sweetheart.
They would sing them in companies --- of course, she could
take what she liked out of the song. She could feel that it
was being sung to her if.....And that was the way it went,
I think.

Lomax: And what about with the girls...I mean...

Calum: Oh well, the same thing happened there. They would
sing at Ceilidhes and the like of that.

Lomax: And the girls and boys were both very shy at this
time, weren't they ? They would get embarrassed very easily.
Do you remember any times like that ?

Calum: No, I don't.

Lomax: When there was courtship talk, was it very poetic ?
Was it poetic like the songs are, or was it very --- were
people very restrained in their actual conversations ?

Calum: You're trying to make me give my own experience !

Lomax: No, not necessarily at all, Calum. I'm just interested.
Because the songs are very poetic, you know, and very romantic.

Calum: Yes, but it would depend on the person, you see.
Some people are poetic in their ways, and some aren't. And I
suppose that woud all depend on the person. Because even
among us there were just as many duds as there were poetical
persons, artistic persons.

Lomax: Calum, what would you say was the main feeling in the
music, that --- the main feeling that the music has for you
that's different from other music that you hear --- of the
feeling of your own stuff for you ?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.