WITCHES
By H. L. Davis

The old ranch grandma climbed out of bed,
And tottered to the chuck room, and she said:

"You young harvest hands, you're mighty fiery-gaited;
You're as high-lived a bunch as ever congregated.
You get drunk, and you yell around after dark,
You pester all the kitchen girls a tryin' to spark.
I want to warn you now before you mouth another bite---
There's witches a bewitchin' us every blamed night!
They bewitched my son, and they rode him with a quirt
From here to Camas Valley in his undershirt!
They rode him all alather, and they spattered him with mud,
And they dug him with their toenailes till his ribs run blood;
When they wanted him to gallop, they twisted on his private!
He says he never knew how he managed to survive it!"

Well, as long as she believes him, that's all right.
Anybody's liable to get a little tight.
Any drunk''ll get his shirt muddied and tore,
And be a little vague how his reuben got sore.

She came over to the bunkhouse and she said,
"Take Keer!
There's mighty deathly doin's a goin' on here!
We've made the witches mad and they're castin' down a spell
That's a liable to kill us to a fare-you-well!
Why, a witch has cast a spell around this bunkhouse, damn her,
And she's killed my purple grapevine as dead as a hammer!"

Which, as long as she believes it, seems O. K.
Most harvest hands, just before they hit the hay,
Get caught short and have to take a squirt.
You can't traipse to the privy in nothin' but your shirt.
What do you do then? Why, generally, this:
Get in against the grapevine and take a piss.
And, with all the harvest hands' urine there spilled,
Most anybody's grapevine might get killed.

She came out after dark, where we was unhitchin',
And she said,
"Them witches is a ha'ntin' and a witchin'.
Lordy knows what spell they're a castin' on the wheat!
Most likely they'll bewitch it so it ain' fit to eat!
I'll swan to God, if a witch ain't turned
And witched the evenin's cream so it can't be churned!
There's young Pheemy Halfpapp's been a poundin' and a bangin'
Till she's all out of breath, with her front hair hangin',

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.