Ain't You Got a Right to the Tree of Life?
The People of Johns Island, South Carolina - Their Faces,
Their Words, and Their Songs
Revised and Expanded Edition
Recorded and Edited by Guy and Candi Carawan
With Photographs by Robert Yellin and Others, a Preface by
Charles Joyner, and an Afterword by Bernice Johnson Reagon
A Brown Thrasher Book

Ain't You Got a Right to the Tree of 
Life? presents an oral record of sea
island life, a community's recollection
of its history. With memories reaching
back to the turn of the century,
and voices alive with the demands of 
the present, the people of Johns
Island speak of their world.
First published in 1966, the book
recorded the thoughts and feelings,
the trepidation and jubilation of
blacks just beginning to experience
the tremors of the civil rights movement.
The islanders tell how they
"came up" - rough days of sharecropping
and "living out the creek," of
medicine cooked from herbs and
houses made of logs, daubed with
pinestraw and mud. They speak of 
the Moving Star Hall praise house,
where "shouts" held long into the
night lifted spirits weighed down by
poverty and daily injustices. They talk
about the beginnings of citizenship
schools, small gatherings where
islanders learned to read and write,
learned about politics and the power 
of their vote.
Bringing the story of Johns Island
up to 1988, this new edition chronicles
the distance traveled since the
sixties. The voices of a younger generation
now blend with with the songs and 
stories of an older day; citizenship
schools, catalysts of change throughout
the South, have created an active,
vocal community; and islanders, who
once quietly reached for their rights,
now study property law and tax
codes, determined to protect their
land from resort developers who

would in a moment clear away a heritage
of strength and beauty, a history
of sadness and great joy.

Reviews of the first edition:

"The authors have richly captured
not only the traditional warmth, folk
wisdom and spirit of the Johns Islanders,
but also the courage with which 
they prepare to meet the future"
-New York Times Book Review.

"A wonderful book" - Langston
Hughes.

Educators, collectors, and authors,
Guy and Candie Carawan have been
based at the Highlander Research and
Community Education Center in Tennessee 
for more than twenty-five
years. In addition, Guy, a multi-instrumentalist
and singer of folk
material, has performed nationally
and internationally for over thirty
years. The authors of three books,
Voices from the Mountains, We Shall
Overcome, and Freedom Is a Constant
Struggle, the Carawans have compiled
original and documentary musical
recordings and have served as consultants
to public television's production
of "Eyes on the Prize" and "History of
the Song 'We Shall Overcome.'" They
first worked on Johns Island as part
of the literacy program, living in the
community from 1963 to 1965, and
have returned there regularly ever
since.

140 photographs and 1 map
May, 256 pages, 8 1/2 x 11 inches
ISBN 0-8203-1132-4, $29.95t

Robert Yellin

Brown Thrasher Books 13

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.