Oct 10-1961-
Route #3, Box 122
Heber Springs, Arkanas
Dear Alan: the girl I finely found who had time to type
for me would only type one letter at that time. and as
you asked me to have the letter to Kramer typed. I did
and will [had] hand write yours.-altho had meant to have
it typed also. But she only got part of the address and said
her time was gone. I know it is a real job to read some
hand writing. I got some letters I can hardly read at all
had thought when I retired from out side work and
come home to stay again. Would have a typist here at home,
my Granddaughter. But I only was home one week before
she married and moved away. Am very happy for you
that you are married. hope you will both be very happy
and have a long life togeather.
Does she like folk songs. Alan I am very gratefull to
you for all you have done for me. I rec the second letter
and the check of 143.64 this past week-thanks again
and thanks too for being kind enough to ans my many questions
I shall of course do as you advise about recording
many more songs at this time. have had 2 or 3 letters asking
me if I would like to recorde some of my songs for some
small or privatly owned co. out around Memphis tenn. but
Just said in ans. I was not ready at this time to release
any more tapes. and would let them know later if I
decided to do so. Yes I am as far as my health is concerned
able to travel any where. and  sing up a storm if that is
what is wanted. but [so far] have been untill the last two
months working. but now that I am retired at last shall
try to go when I am asked to sing if the price 
is right. I have made a few trips out to Memphis to sing
but of course that is near home. but have always traveled
when and where I pleased the last 2 years and alone. Made
one trip out to Denver Colo alone. I have I think maybe found
one or two very old songs-Little Mathie Grove, and
Jonah and the whale. [and] but want to do a little more

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.