4.
Lomax: Did they most have diseases? Or were they. . .
Cox: In towns, that's a. . . in a country place, you was all right
That was all right in the country, but I don't. . . .Town, I wouldn't
have trust them. (pause)
Lomax: Harry, try that one about the Wilds of Australia. . .
Cox: As I walked out by the Oxborough Banks
Where the maids of Australia do play their wild pranks,
Beneath a green shaded bower I sat myself down,
Where the birds sang so gaily, enchanted all round,
In the forests the native Australia,
In the forest the native Australia,
Where the maidens are handsome and gay.

Now she dived in the water without fear or dread,
Her beautiful limbs she exceedin' did spread;
Her hair hung in ringlets, her colour was black;
"Sir," said she, "you will see how I float on me back,
In a stream in me native Australia,
On a stream in me native Australia,
Where the maidens are handsome and gay."

Now being exhausted she swam to the brink:
"Assistance, kind sir, or I surely shall sink."
As quick as the lightnin', I took hold of her hand,
And I entered the bush of Australia,
Then I entered the bush of Australia,
Just as the sun went down.

Now we frolicked together in the highest of glee,
In the finest Australia you ever did see.
The sun it went down and the clouds did resign,
Then I left that fair maid of Australia.
I left the fair maid of Australia,
Then I left that fair maid of Australia,
Just as the sun went down.

Now six months bein' over an' nine bein' come,
This pretty fair maiden brought forth a fine sun.
Oh, where was his father? he could not be found,
And she cursed the hour that she laid on the ground,
In her native the (?) plains of Australia,
In her native the plains of Australia,
Where the maidens are handsome and gay.

Lomax: Where did that song come from Charlie, do you know?
Cox: It comes from - it must come from. . .I dunno. . that must have
drifted from foreign here. I don't know how it come.
Lomax: Did you hear of people who went to Australia? Did they find
conditions like that? Did you meet anybody?
Cox: I don't know. . .I never did know much about people that. . .The
people gone there, but I don't know how the song came to be made (?)
at all.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.