choice.  That's what their teachers decided and that's what the young people have 
to decide.  And there are a lot of young people here in the Cajun country now 
who have been following that precept.  Who, who have been sitting at the feet of 
the great old time Cajun musicians and learning just how to do it.  And we have, 
I want to hear Mike Doucet who is the leader of per, perhaps the most popular 
and best known and, and one of the most beautiful of all the, of all the young 
[people's orchestras] [? plays all over] here, the, his band is going to, goes to Paris, goes to New
DOUCET  [UNCLEAR]
LOMAX  And Mike is going to tell us how he developed his musicianship
and what's going on with the young musicians.
DOUCET  [UNCLEAR]  Well I guess I, I'm really fortunate for coming around
on Cajun music when I did.  It must have been about 1969 or '70 when we got,
we knew Doug [Kirshald] was playing out there in Macon but somehow that didn't settle
for us right here.  And so it was our intention in those days, our group, 
[Beausoleil], to go and learn from the older musicians.
In those days, in the early '70s, there was hardly any young people who
were playing it.  They were playing Cajun music.  It was mostly a Nashville influence. 
And they were also playing accordian music.  They weren't that many fiddle 
music.  And to me that was a great problem because our music, the Arcadian music 
had always been string music.  And I have nothing against the accordian but 
after the accordian came into prominance after the late '50s again, then the role 
of the fiddle got to be second, or [FRENCH].
So it was my intention to go out and find some people.  I live around this
area.  This is around Scott.  And I knew people like Hector [Dujon] and Doc [Gidre], 
who had played.  And, and but that was their own style.  And then all of
a sudden coming to light with Dewey [Balfor] living out there in Basile, that was
a completely different style that they didn't have here.  So what I did is like
put in my mind that if I'm going to play this music I'm going to have to learn
it.  And the thing about it is I couldn't learn from one person because I had
to learn all the styles.  And amazing thing about Cajun music is it, Arcadians are
people that came from France.  The ingredient that I found most intriguing, most 
exotic about it that I felt the deepest down in me was the blues.
And that, that led me to one of the greatest musicians that I've ever known,
Canray Fontenot from [Welsh], you know.  Canray Fontenot, he was there at the
right time in the right place.  He comes from a family of musicians.  His father,
[Norcadon], as he was called, was a first class accordian player, the same
league as [Armaday] [UNCLEAR].  But with [UNCLEAR], he had strong values and virtues.
And it was his idea that when he died he didn't want to leave anything here, 
pictures nor music.  So when he died he just, Canray was the only one that carried 
that sound on to us.  Canray portrays in his style, I guess something that
nobody else does because he can play Louisiana blues, Louisiana jazz, Louisiana
French, Cajun French, Caribbean French, all of that in one song through his fingers.  
So with studying from Canray a little bit, like I [UNCLEAR] a little bit
of that.  Another. . .
LOMAX  What kind of a person do you think, feel he is?  Canray. I mean
how does he feel to you?  You've been with him a lot.
DOUCET  Canray is one of the strongest individuals I think I've found that,
that just he's a, he's a mentor to me.  He's someone who, who, how you say,
I mean it sounds corny but he passes time in space.  He can go back to any century
[or any time] [in the future and] just be there at the righ time.  And the way I described it, I 
mean when he plays he plays exact.  He plays what's right.  You can't describe 
how he plays.  But whatever he does it's perfect and to the point.  The way he c
[??? it right.] [???sa second he]
Another person that I studied with who is an incredible person right now,
in 1983 he's 90 years old, is Dennis McGee, who lives in Unice.  He was one of
the first Cajun fiddlers to record as a Cajun duet, two fiddles with a, both [Sadie 
Korville] and [Adolf Thrusez].  Dennis plays the older style that hardly anybody
plays.  He plays a lot of reels and contradances, cotillians.  And the thing 
about Dennis, he was one of the first to record in 1928.  And now he plays the 
same style, the same scratches, the same way.  And he's one of my best friends. 
And he and Gladys, it's a pleasure to go over there.
Another person I've studied for is lesser known but not in, in skill.  And
he's Mr. Varice Cunnard, who wss originally an O'Connor, and they changed it
to Cunnard because he just speaks French now.  And he was to me like the [Stephan
Kopelli] of Cajun music.  He lives in Lake Arthur.  He has his own Cypressy mill 
which he operates.  And his style is a string band style.  It's a lot like I

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.