2) Now she dived in the water without fear or dread,
Her beautiful limbs she exceeding did spread,
Her hair hung in ringles, the colour was black,
"Sir," said she, "You will see how I float on my back,
On the strams in my native Australia, (2)
Where the maidens are handsome and gay.

3) Now, being exhausted, she swam to the brink,
"Assistance, kind sir, or I surely shall sink."
As quick as the lightning I took hold of her hand,
My foot slipped and we fell on the sand,
And I entered the bush of Australia, (2)
Just as the sun went down.

4) Now we frolicked together in the highest of glee
In the finest Australia you ever did see,
The sun it went down and the clouds did resign
Then I left the fair maid of Australia, (3)
Just as the sun went down.

5) Now six months being over and nine being come,
This pretty fair maiden bought forth a fine son,
O where was his father? He could not be found.
And she cursed the gour that she laid on the ground,
In her native the pains of Australia, (2)
Where the maidens are handsome and gay.

Lomax: Where did that song come from, do you know?
Cox: I don't know. It must have drifted from foreign here.
Lomax: Did you hear of people who went to Australia? Did they
find conditions like that?
Cox: I never did know much about people who went there.
Lomax: Do you think it's a true song?
Cox: Yes, I do think so. I think that's right. It happened
there. He puled her out of the water, and that's what happened.
Fell on the sand.
Lomax: It's a beauty - beauty. Oh yes, and Firelock Stile. Tell
me about it.
Cox: Well I can't tell you very little about it. I learnt it
from my father; he's the only one I've heard sing it. Nobody
else knew it. How we came to get it K don't know.
1) So come all young men, come losten awhile,
I'll tell you what happened at FirelockStile
When a stump of a nal catched hold of her clothes,
She fell down and she did expose
Her rumstum-tooral-looral-addity,
Rumpatum-tooral-looral-day.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.