anything where a hook is concerned.  more'n I do anything.  (laughs)

Lomax:  Take delight in what, Harry? 

Cox:  Eh?

Lomax:   What do you say you take delight in?

Cox:  Anything where there's a hook, an' choppin' or cuttin' o' 
wood, or anything...

Lomax:  Uh huh.

Cox:  I used to like that.  Well, I have.  I ha' been through all 
sorts o' things an'  I enjoyed myself an' I always took delight in 
all I ha' done, an' if you don't do that, you'll never git 
nowhere.  An' I used to think I could, er, I was good as the next.
I never was afraid of anything.  (laughs) Not on a job.  (laughs)  
That's the life I had.

Lomax: Well, tell me a little bit about your people, Harry.  Where 
they -  you know...What their names were.  What do you know about [?[ the history of your family?

Cox:  Well, my father, he was bred an' born at Barton, an' was always 
told his father - I dunno where he come from.  They say he was born 
in a cave somewhere.

Lomax:  A cave?!

Cox:  A cave...if you know what a cave is.  Somewhere  -  I dunno 
where.  I never did - I never could trace him.  I - I knew him, but 
not a lot.

Lomax:  Where was he born in a cave?

Cox:  Er, well...

Lomax:  Was he a gypsy?

Cox:  It was somewhere away somewhere, so I have had people tell 
me.  But that o' course, I don't know.  (pause) 

Lomax:  Was he a gypsy?

Cox:  No.  Not that I know of.  He was -  he was a singer an' a dancer, 
he went to a proper dancin' school when he was young, an' he could 
dance, my old grandfather could.  He was a real tap dancer.  They 
trained 'em, that time o' day.  He went in for that.  He was a 
singer - all these old songs, a lot, they come there from him.  
(pause)  An' he was - he was a dancer an' all.

Lomax: Was he much of a hand to work on a farm?

Cox: Yes, he -  yes, he was a farm worker same as I am.  Yes, he 
still done that.  (pause)

Lomax: And then your father was a...

Cox:  My father, he - sort of - took up a different life.  He got 
sick of farm work when he was  - he took off to sea, when he was 
a young man....An' he done a good many year there.  (pause)  An' on 
the water, on thw wherry, we call him.  He done a lot on there.  An' 
then of course as he got  ?] older...I didn't know nothin' about 
him, not when he done that.  He give up that as he got older an' 
come onto the land which -  that's where he began.  on the land, an' 
he finished on it.  (pause) My mother, she used to have to work...
to find us things to have -  wear an' that sort o' thing.

Lomax: You mean...

Cox: She done a lot, else we sha'  n' t ha'  been where we are now.

Lomax: You mean, because your father didn't always send money home?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.