T-3280
TAPE 27. A.L. LLOYD.

Lomax: Where did your father get his songs?
Lloyd; He was born, and spent most of his childhood in
Lincolnshire, in Barton on Humber, and he learned a lot of songs
there, but he was a fellow who moved around a lot.  It's hard to
say which of his sngs [songs] actually came from East Anglia and which
didn't.  I think most of them came from East Anglia because most
of his childhood his parents spent moving around in Suffolk; and
then he worked in trawlers with fellows from Lincolnshire and
Yorkshire.
Lomax: What was his grandfather?
Lloyd: He was a farm labourer, and most of his young days he
spent as a trawler hand.  Then he came to London and got married
to my mother and he was a dock worker in London.  Then he had an
accident.  With his compensation money he bought himself a poultry
farm in Sussex, and one or two of the songs came into the family
from Sussex in a rather curious way.  My mother, she was very
interested in singing and she knew songs like Barbara Allen, and
The Bailiff's Daughter, those, but she liked to sing them rather
straight.  She was a London girl, and for a time she worked as
a housemaid for some millionaires, and they gave her a sense of
culture, and so she always liked to be rather fine if she could.
This was rather serious in our family because if my father had
visitors in, especially if he got a little tight, he'd like to
sing, and my mother was always afraid of him singing, because
it seem so common, and she used to tamp him down a bit.  Well,
this has some bearing on what I'm going to say about the Sussex
songs.  My father's poultry farm was in a place called Cross Bush,
in the Arundel district, and there are a number of gipsies around
the neighbourhood, and they used to come up the streets selling
feather dusters and stuff like that and singing, and my mother
hated gipsies -- they represented all that she felt was most
reprehensible.  And so, she knew a lot of their songs and used
to reproduce them in good gipsy manner to make fun of them.  She
used to like to do this.  And she did it really with very little
parody, and so there's a lot of songs.  Of course, that all
happened when I was 4 or 5 - and I never learned any of these
songs directly from the sources because I was too young.  But
a lot of them stayed in the family because when my mother
wanted to have a game, she used to sing like the gipsies.
Lomax: Do you think you got your singing style from your mother's
imitation of the gipsies?
Lloyd: O no, much more from my father.  Most of the gipsy songs
are wilder, and most of them are religious - not like ordinary
hymns at all - like "Christ Did Me Ransome -"  a sort of ballad
about the life of Jesus Christ - the betrayal from when he
was arrested in the Garden onwards.




Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.