Lomax: Tell me about the singing.  Was the singing important
to you when you were young?
Tom: Oh dear yes.  We went through the stages - learning to sing.
Lomax: id you learn to sing by notes there?
Tom: Yes I've got the book now.
Lomax: Tell me about the dust and the dust disease.
Tom: I've got it. We had plenty of dust - and when I was
drinking - and I remember old - they used to have a
tank, and in that tank there was stove dust.  We was pumping this
and the spray - you couldn't see a thing with the dust - Well
we didn't feel it at the time.  But we always used to say it
would [would] be better if they watered the level - to damp it - than
to spray it about the place - because we were breathing that
stuff in.  But when I felt it was in the [?], When you
go in the morning - it's so warm the roof is sweating.  Now
we used to throw the stuff where the cutter was cutting
very fine, and about 80% of the men that was working in that
seam is out with pneumaconiccis  pneumococci] and about 20% of them
died with it.  Well I went up to the Dare Pit and worked there
five years - and I felt I couldn't rest in my bed at night - 
Wheezie in the chest.  I was coughing and I was determined to
see a doctor.  So I went to see Doctor Williams and he said "Oh
it's bronchitis you've got - but by the way - have you
had an X-ray?  I'd advise you to get an X-ray.  So I went up
to hospital and went to the surgery on Friday.  And
Doctor Morris was coming out of his car.  "Come here Williams"
he says "You're finished working underground." "Well that's
bad news," says I.  Now it so happened that this was on a
Friday night.  On Saturday I went in and worked my shift and
carried all my hods out.  And that was on the 20.th of January
1946.  And I maintain this.  Once you've got that on your lungs
you'll never get rid of it - Never, because it's similar
to consumption.
Lomax: Well I don't understand why people go down and work
in those places when they know they're going to get it.
Tom: It amounts to this.  Years ago they didn't know of such
a thing.  It's only the last ten years.
Lomax: You mean people didn't know about it at all?
Tom: No, they were ignorant.
Lomax: Men died but they didn't know what of.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.