Lomax: Do people come up to London from your  town very often, Harry?

Cox: Well they do - they have done more of latter years. They get, you
know, trips up here, bus loads, an' -an' well, that sort o' way. They
have outings. They come from different parts, and sometimes they come
to London - you know, different places. Loads of 'em. But I -- I never
travelled about like that.

Lomax: Have you been to London before this?

Cox: Been where?

Lomax: Have you been here before?   Cox: Been here?

Lomax: Yes.   Cox: Ye-e-es!   Lomax: Lots of times?

Cox: Not here.    Lomax: No, but I mean in London.

Cox: I've, well, I've been in London. I've been to Broadcasting
House. I've been there three times. An' I don't know how many times I
come this here way during the war time - to London, but not about here.
I've been to Liverpool Street Station, across the other way to Scotland.
I don't know half about London now. I had a spell or two in here, in
this other place here. I come -- I come be train when I came there
before. Once I came by car right through. Oh, I can't - I dunno much
about --- I can find my way to that. I found the way here. (Laughs)

Lomax: Do you think it's better to live in the country in small towns,
than in big towns, Harry? I mean, for folks in general, do you think
it's more healthy and more. . .

Cox: I should very much think so.

Lomax: Do you notice a difference among the people?

Cox: I don't. I think if you're in a country place, where it's
more open, I think that is the best. There's one thing about here, anywhere
there's a high building, - now about here, when the sun's shining,
you don't see - you hardly see it. What do you see? You get out in
the open, like in a field -- an' - oh, the lovely sunshine coming
down onto a man. Lovely. You can lie down and have a nap. an' nobody
to come nigh you. You can lay down there and go to sleep, and nobody'll
never wake you up, because there ain't nobody nigh you for a mile,
perhaps. That won't do, to lie down there. You'd soon have somebody
down on top of you.

Lomax: Do you think people live happier in the country, out where
you are, than they do in town?

Cox: Well, they are -- they're happier there what have lived there
all their lives. They're like people are here. They wouldn't be any good
there. An' other people that's here, they wouldn't come up here and
stop. But they -- they like their own part best. That's what it appear
to me. Us have had one or  two drift away.

Lomax: You've done farming work most of your life, haven't you, Harry?
Course, most people in the city don't realize that there are so
many different jobs to do on a farm, you know, Harry. They think, well,
you go out and plough, and that's about all there is to it. You could
tell them a thing or two.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.