Reverent Row.  Reel 12- p.3.
nine in his clothes.  So we just said it must have been true (laughter).
And it was running that fellow crazy. He was just running like somebody 
mad.
Well now I believe if people, if there's something put on you or get in
you can hurt you, why, that's poison. That's no conjur. But say
somebody put something down, why, I don't believe nothing like that.
A: Well, Reverend, haven't members of your congregation come to you
to get you to help them lay ghosts that were bothering them, spirits
and things? Not conjur, but just supernatural things, haven't they 
ever come to you for help like that?
R: No, not for nothing like that I never had any of um come to me,
mostly for some kind of sickness that or if they conjured or something 
like that and I always get that out of them; I talk that out of
them because I don't believe it, you know. And I tell you it's a very
foolish thing.
And there was an old man there in a white fellow's house on a farm, and
they wanted to git him out, they wanted some renter, you know, and he
wanted to get the old man out and he wouldn't move, so there's a fellow
told him, "I move him." He said, "Well, I give you $5 to get him out."
And he went and got him some flour, and he went all around that house
that night and just put a trail of that flour all the way around his
house and wenton back home. And the next morning that old fellow got
up, and he looked out the door and seen it, and looked out the window
and seen it, all around his house. And he got him some clothes and
got um in his arms and he taken a-running, start off the porch, jumped
over it and they couldn't, a sheriff couldn't got him back in that
house (laughter). He thought somebody had conjured him. Well, that was
down in Red River, in Red River bottom--he believed in it, you know.
But our people don't believe in the so much new like they used to. No,
they don't. Hust a few of em. And then another thing,

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.