[*2*]

farmer say it with a different accent.  I can't think of a 
good example of that right now.

TEACHER #1
I was teaching my French 2 and 3 class the use of the verbs
"connaitre" and "savoir", to know and to be acquainted with,
and they just didn't understand the verb "savoir", "Je sais
qu'il va pleuvoir" - I know it's going to rain.  I told them:
"What would a Cajun say?"  A Cajun would say "Je connais ca
va meuille" (sp?).  I said if you said that distinctly,
maybe not in downtown Paris, where we consider the majority
of the people are very rude and no offense to (french
phrase), they might not know what you're saying.  But to the
majority of intelligent French people who listened politely
and understood what you were saying, they would know you're
saying "It's fixing to rain".  Just like a Cajun down here
who is reasonably intelligent, who listened without judging,
would hear "Je crois qu'il va pleuvoir" and finally would
figure out the man is saying "It's going to rain".  It's all
the same thing.  It's Cajun French, it's not Cajun Russian,
Cajun German or Cajun Spanish.

TEACHER #2
For too many years there has been an attitude of Cajun
French being another language and several of the books Barry
talked about the other day, again stressing that idea that
this was a different dialect, that it's not able to be
written and I think for years we've been going about it the
wrong way because the thing we've got to stress is that
there are so many more similarities than there are 
differences.  That's what's important.  And we need to start
with that base, give the kids that base, something they can
go home and use immediately, a survival vocabulary, and then
let them turn around and learn that a "tricot" or a 
"chandaille" is also a "pull-over"; and that a "barseuse" is
also a "rocking chair", and that a "stationment" is also a
"parking", you know; and that you can have your child "bebe
sitte" instead of "soigne", you know.  They can learn those
words and they'll probably get a good laugh out of it if
they ever get a chance to go to France, but we have
perfectly good words for those that a Frenchman will
understand.

TEACHER #1
The point is that we have to make Cajuns understand that
their language is perfectly acceptable, that they have to
continue using it, that it should not be consigned to the
backseat or the back porch because it is not as good as
standard French.  Standard French is that French which is
understood by the people to whom it is spoken, and as such
Cajun French has a place of honor here in Louisiana.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.