Reverend Roe.  Reel 2, P. 4 
humble feeling about me, and I'm never anxious to go ahead of nobody
and things.  Just when my time comes, I just get up and address the
camp, and if that feeling comes over me, why, that's just all right.
Now, I've had some very hard times tin my ministry because after I
began preaching I'd go wherever I read.  I'm a place for suffereing
for the Gospel I'd go, I'd walk.  I  had walked as high as twelve
miles on Sunday morning and preached all day and wouldn't get a meal,
and sometimes I would have to stay all night.  And I have gone through
the feeling  put here to call and cat along with it.  And after
I'd take that call and eat it to kinda satisfy my stomach.
A:  The folks wouldn't even give you anything to eat?  They didn't
want you, or they were too poor, or what? 
R:  I think they were mostly too poor, and they had --  Of course a 
lot of people who worked on white folkkk'ses farms had to get all their 
food from the white folksand on some cases they didn't allow them to
feed nobody, and that might have been the reason, you know;  I didn't 
ask.  I o nly went there to serve and I did that, and would have to
walk back sometimes, hungry.  That had happened to me more than once.
Lots of times.  But it didn't stop me, I would still go  ;  anywhere 
that I know the poeple needed the Gospel I'd go.  I remember going
to a chruch one day -- when I got there , there was a man up a tree,
ringing a bell, when I got/out there (I started early), and I went on up
to that church.  Had a lot of children there and he got on up there 
for Sunday school, and after Sunday school, why I talked to the chi ldren
a little and just about the service, and he told me ,he says,
"Why, I don't know nothing about service.  Why, Mister, I gamble.
When I leave here, I just go down to gambble, but I just don't
want the children to be without Sunday school here.  I know their
folks who are going to be good Christians around there.  I visited
some of their homes and talked to them.  I dodn't think about going 



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.