TIME OF THE YEAR TO HAVE THE FROLIC

Summer is the best time of the year for getting together; there
are community gatherings of every variety and at least three weeks
of revival. People are planting in the summer - yet, it's lazy
time with long yellow afternoons free for fun. 

Round about now, everybody is trying their best to get the last of
the corn and cotton cut of the field, for it is getting right cold
and they have been at this since September. This is no time for 
frolicing; the folk want to start syrup making and get ready for winter. 

In the summertime, there are always places to keep cool, but in the 
wintertime, there is no place on the outside to diip warm and not too
many places onthe inside. 

So summertime is the time for frolicing, time for watermelon eating and time
for peach picking, time for dancing and time for churching, and 
there is always time for singing and playing. 

SATURDAY NIGHT (OR AFTERNOON) FROLIC

The Folk Frolic will start off with a Saturday night Jamboree at
the Community Center. This is wherea all the people go to have 
their social meetings - sewing circles, church meetings, Mason
meetings, and the like. The buildi[i]ng is one big room with a low
ceiling and it seats about 500 people. 

If it is nice weather, I want to plan to use a hill nearby as the 
setting, with the audience on the hill and the performers in the
hollow. This location is very beautiful with a river on one side 
of the hill and a cane mill nea by. I won't be using any mike equipment 
or a platform stage if I can help it. If I use the hillside
as the location, the Jamboree will be in the afternoon instead of 
the evening so I can avoid the problem of getting lighting equipment. 

I prefer to use the hill as the location, but I must consult the 
Almanac before I make a definite decision. 

The program will go from the traditional to the modern. The evening
will start off with the blues and bottle neck guitar playing; then the 
White fiddlers will have a play, followed by old men singing prison
songs. Then we'll have work songs, game songs, ring plays, and the 
limber jack contest, candy pulling songs ( with real candy), quilting
songs (with real quilts), and patching songs ( with real patches being
patched to worn overalls). Then, we'll start the dancing (this will
not be a contest but an "all join in" kind of thing). We'll go from
the old dancing to the new with rock and roll. The night will end
with an old song that the whole crowd canssing and march to. 

SUNDAY SINGING

All the churches will gather in the First Baptist Church Sunday early
in the afternoon. There will be a short preachment to get the community

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.