9.
Lomax: And what did you - did you do a lot of singing in those pubs. . .
Wills: Yes. Somebody was singin' every Saturday night, an' harder
than that sometimes, wasn't it? And 'cordeons, somebody or nother 'd
have 'cordeon, another a tambourine, an' that's all we had, see.
We didn't have nothing else.
Lomax: And there was some mighty funny times happened, didn't they?
Wills: What?
Lomax: Some mighty funny experiences happened, didn't they?
Wills: Oh, yeah. Yeh. We had plenty to eat though, that was one thing.
We had plenty of bread an' cheese, my laddie.
Lomax: And that didn't -er. . . .But you didn't eat any, you just kept
on drinkin' that cider, didn't you?
Wills: Sure, I did. When I was. . .I left school when I was thirteen
years old, an' went on a farm to work, an' I had five pints o'
cider a day, like the men.
Lomax: Good gracious. And you're not a big fellow, either, you're. . .
Wills: Five pints. . .We did. All of us had five pints o' cider, all o'
us, all the nine of us, while we was there. 'Ere, and if you'd a
drink it, and go and put your. . .The man's livin' now, the farmer's
living now, and he's. . . .
Lomax: Sit down there, Charlie, sit down.
Wills: Now wait a minute, look I'm goin' to show you. . .
Lomax: Yes, but get your glass and sit down, and. . .
Wills: Our flagon is like that, see an' the strap come off - You've
seen the flagons, ain't ee?
Lomax: Yes.
Wills: Strap come off.                                   Well. . . .
Lomax: Sit down and tell me.
Wills: Well, if that there flagon was there, outside the cellar door,
he wouldn't, he wouldn't fill him, not touch him. But if he were
turned up on his end, I don't care, many a time he's a-passed, not
knowin' whose flagon it was - he'd fill the flagon, an' he would go
on. But if he weren't turned up on his end, mind, on the brimstone,
you know, the. . . .wasn't turned up on his end, you didn't have any cider
Lomax: What was. . .On the round stone, was that a special stone you ha(?)
to turn it up on?
Wills: No. One of the old millstones, you know, where they'd grind - 
used to grind the barley meal an' flour an'. . . 
Lomax: So you worked sort of half drunk all the time, didn't you?
You were sort of half high all the time you were at work?
Wills: No! No.
Lomax: No? Didn't it make you feel pleasant? Didn't it make you feel
rather lovely?
Wills: It was too early in the morning for that move. I
remember I an' five old chaps empty all our flagons before dinner - 
'fore breakfast, an' carry them in again.
Lomax: When was that?
Wills: Oh, it was not long before I turned nineteen year old, oh,
eighteen or nineteen year, like that.
Lomax: Well, weren't you kind of drunk by that time?
Wills: No! Drunk! Had too much to eat then, they days. An' the bread

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.