going along the road with a set of pipes. I'm a poor man, wife
along wi' me. Two wee girls with me. We'll go to a certain
farm to get lodgings. The man says, "It's a bad night - I'll
put you in the barn."
     Through the night -- there's no such a thing that day as
telephones -- they used to yoke up the farmer's trap and pony,
and get to the barn maybe twelve or one in the morning. You'd
be sleeping and they'd come in through the night. And they
wouldn't put a knife in you. On no. They'd just give you a  tap
on the head with some big rock, or put a patch on your mouth,
stick it, and it woudn't come off. You  couldn't pull it off.
Put you to sleep with chloroform. No, no, - not in those days - 
but put you to sleep somehow, anyway. And you just conked out.
They took your body and sold your body to the doctors.
Anne: A lot of money?
Davy: Well in those days a young body would get as high as
20 pound - old bodies 5 pound or 6 pound each.
Anne: Body snatchers!
Davy: Now I'll tell you a story about a poor woman and her son.
(BREAK HERE). . . .trap, and go maybe 10 or 12 miles - it wasn't
far away from a big city to get the doctor to come out of the 
college. Well, he came out in a sort of mail-coachm four horses,
to hold the dead, see. Maybe three doctors and a driver. And
they used to wear long black hats, tall hats, and a big black
cloak and white breast.
Lomax: What did the coach look like?
Davy: A black coach. More like a hearse. Wooden sides on it.
You couldn't see through it. The door opened at the back.
Anne: If everyone knew that berklers drove that black coach. . . . .
Davy: Thw townspeople or people round about didn't know.
Anne: What did they think it was?
Davy: They thought it was some dead person's coffin or something.
If it wasn't for the berklers kidnapping people. . . .It
was for medical purposes.
Anne: I just thought they dug up these recently buried people
up from the ground.
Davy: No, you understand - that's what we call body-snatching.
Used to lift the bodies out of the graves. Different thing
altogether. Unclaimed bodies. They'd die in the poor-house,
flung in the paupers grave and covered over. The doctors lifted
them and away with them. Any person. Certain diseases that
anybody died with, and they couldn't find out - well, anybody
that dies with that disease, they wanted the fresh body to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.