[*Tape 90 Checked - Shirley*]
[*T3342*]

Harry Cox - Lomax flat, London = December 2, 1953.

Cox: What, you want to know where I was born?

Lomax: Yeah. (pause)

Cox: Well, I was - I was bred an' born at Barton Tower.  That's 
where I served all my young days. (pause) Then we moved about the - 
to different parts.  I grew up...big enough to do a little...Then I 
began [?} my line o' life...followed the father's footsteps.  
(laughs) After I got - so I could do anything at all, in particular 
I went in for stock feeding.  I took delight in feedin' the cattle - 
I fed, oh, thirty years or more..  Sometimes I done....seven months 
at a stretch - Sundays and all, no rest.  Never had a holiday.  
Nowhere to go.  All I used to do then of a night when I got home, I 
used to git around the old fire an' music (?) time away an' a song 
or two to pass the time away an' cheer yourself up,  and that was all 
the            we had...[?] Well, then, when you got through that 
muddle, the next job you'd come into, there'd be the hoin' to do...
You'd have another two or three months o' hoin' - the roots - kale 
an' that.  Happy enough, get into a gang, have a club, gallon or two 
o' beer, and so we used to go on  - happy as the birds in the woods.  
Didn't know o' nothin' else, we were all alike, used to make 
ourselves at home, jog along through that part of the year.  When 
you got through, then you know the next job what was comin' up.  You'd 
want to get your scythe ready.  There'd be the hay an' the corn, 
be a-mowin' all day long.  Ha' past five mornin', an' eight of a night

Lomax:  What time of the year was that. Harry?

Cox: Harvest [?] time.  There was hay to mow - used to have to mow 
the hay an' all, that time o' day.   Harvest time used to mow all the 
barley.  There was no tyin' up, no bindin' up like they do now.  Used 
to tie all the corn - the wheat - by hand.  It used to be all done 
by hand, you used to tie all day long.  There was no       come                                                                             
an' picked it up like you do now, didn't think nothin' o' it.  You 
used to take delight in it.  I - I liked tyin' up corn, that I did.  
I could tie it up as quick as a lot o' people.  I was never afraid 
of nobody on that job.  It was not a bad job at all.  I could do that 
as quick as lightnin' .  Done acres an' acres.  'Course, they used -  
they used to mow all -  all the wheat an' all that part o' the time.
My father mowed; they used to take so much a acre.  Got sixteen -  
'bout sixteen shillin's the acre; more if you tied it an' stand it 
up.  I never was in that.  I - I didn't know nothin' about that job 
at all.  Anyway, I kept knockin' along, one way an' another, an' 
that's how we jogged along.  I took delight in the job; so I do now. 
I like farm work very well, and I don't care what it is.  I like 
mowin'.  I been a-mowin' - I done a lot o' mowin' this year-
rushes.  I take delight in it,  and' [?} I always did like it.  I like an 
old scythe, I was happy as anything when I get an old scythe,  Or - 
oh, I don't mind tyin' up faggots - wood-cuttin', tyin' up faggots, 
I take delight in anything o' that.  I like...in that job.  Either 
mowin', or tyin' up faggots, o' any kind.  I take delight in

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.