T3323
All talk

TAPE 73A:  MARGARET BARRY.
. . .The race-courses. Someway and another, when I was following
up the races, but I never played the banjo because I'd sing one song,
play one tune, then I'd be running away to the bookies. I don't know
why I'm so fond of horses, must be blood somewhere. Soon as I go to
a race course and see them galloping, I'm half-drunk. When I
saw all the horses packed in the van, I wanted to go and brush them
down. So there I was looking at them for hours, and I would have
stopped there all night. At any race-course.
Lomax: Why do you think you're so lucky on races?
Barry: I follow them up. I read their form and follow them from time
to time. When they first go out they may be carrying a big weight,
maybe 9 or 10 stone. I follow them. Then the next time, they cut
down in weight and they win more easier. Only natural.
Lomax: Do you always win?
Barry: I do. I'm very, very lucky. Generally I'm always second or
first. Always. . . 
     When I was young me father owned a banjo which me mother bought
him - 22.10.0 second hand, and me father was a teacher. But he didn't
give me very much teaching. He only showed me one chord on the banjo
and that was C, and after that I was on my own. I never actually owned
the banjo. It was me fathers banjo and he wouldn't let me handle it.
I don't know why. Perhaps he thought I might break it. But I was
indeed mad about it. Every time I got me fathers back turned, I used
to steal in and get hold of the banjo, take it out of the case.
Lomax: He could play a lot, could he?
Barry: Yes, me father was a good banjo player. He learnt the fiddle
first because me mother's brothers had been professional violinists
and he teached my father. But mother used to play the breakdowns on
the banjo, and me father took to it straightaway. So mother said,
"You're anxious about the banjo?"
"Well," he says, "I am. I'd play it much better than the violin. So
he started off then and went on terrible well.
Lomax: Tell me briefly about your family.
Barry: Grandmother came from Spain. She landed in Cork as a young
girl and she met me grandfather there. He was Robert Thomson. They
aren't traveling people. Her name was Cleary in Spain. Clery's a name

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.