7) I've lived a life o' stout and strife,
I died by treachery,
For it is my life to live in leave
Or live in slavery. (Cho.)
- - - -
Lomax:  Jimmy, tell me the history of that song. When did it start?
What were its origins. Tell me the story.
McBeath: . . . .He was an [m] outlaw. He robbed from the rich and gave
to the poor, this McPherson. He was an outlaw - a great swordsman.
He was born in Speyside; his mother wad a gipsy and he turned out
to be an outlaw; and he stole sheep and cattle and gave them to
the poor. And they couldna get near him, you see; he kept them
away with his sword, and this woman was washing blankets, and
droped a blanket atop his head - a wet blanket - and afore he
could get the blanket on the richt, they collared him. The Laird 
of Grant and all these lairds and farmers they collared him and 
handcuffed him, and he was tried before the sheriff of Bannf. O
they don't like it. They don't like it yet. I've seen fights there
I was asked to sing that, you see, that McPherson song, and I
didn't know - I forgot that it took place here, and they throwed
oranges and rotten onions at me. They didn't like it. That wasin
1700
1700 on the 15th of December he was arrested. He was arrested
in the town of Keith with a blanket - a woman washing blankets
above the -- where they kept the cattle at the stables, and
they couldna get near him ye see. At that time Bannf had independence,
at that time - they could hang a man - a sheriff could sentence
ye to death at that time. They'd empowered the sheriff themselves,
but they lost that, and it was a good four or five years until
they got back the rights; they lost the rights after that. But they
got back the rights about 6 years ago - back to what it was afore,
and he was tried and executed in the open. He was a great fiddler
and could play a violin and he was hung in the open on a cart - he
took off in a cart at thw top of Gallow Hill - there's a street
there as ye come down past it - doon by as ye come in by Banff - 
well, down to your right - that street they call the Gallow Hill.
He was hung in a field betwen two carst and a tree. But they hung
him between two carts and dropped him in the hole. That's the way
for an outlaw.
Lomax: Well, what's this about the reprieve?
McBeath: The reprieve -- he would have been saved by ten
minutes, but this Peter Brown's right hand man turned king's
evidence and went up and shifted the clock - the hands; put the
hands up to ten o'clcok. It was ten minutes to tne and he waz
going to be hung at ten o'clock in the morning; so they put
the hands up to ten O'clcok and he was hung. And the reprieve
was coming from Aberdeen on horseback and his horse dropped dead
at the Brig of Banff at the  top of yon bridge - the same bridge -
that's about 400
that's about 400 years old yon bridge it would be. He ran all the

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.