[*31*]
"I sure did, I want somebody hold him up", I got that far
from my hand.  When he said, "Get em up!", when I got up, I'd
be runnin that far. .(laughs).  Oh!, them boys used to jerk me
awhile, but didn't I never got held up, and I went to all
them camps.  But, I just crazy.  I said, now, it could be more
than them two there.  See I could say -- if they didn't know
I wanna do something to somebody they wouldn't say "Get em
up", they'd shoot me -take my money, see.  They used to pay
off this Saturday night --you see you'd pay off two weeks,
a lotta times, alot of em pay off every two weeks-- Saturday
night ain't payday, well, they give you a drag.  You want a
ten dollar drag, a five dollar drag, like that, well, they
give you cash money.  I used to give em drags, myself.  Of
course, when they'd pay em off, I'd be right there with my
tab with me a table with a light on it.  Come on, pay me my
money.  They'd come on an give it to me.  And ah, (shakes his
head) we used to have some fun in the levee camps.  You'd come
to town and go back to the levee camp, alot of people would
have a fresh cold.  See them tents keep you warm. . and they
keep you cool and warm.  You can put a floor in it, you put
baseboard around it, screen it up.  Just same as a house -
that's right.  You got tables. . --if you want to cook, you
don't wanna cook in your tent, you can have your tent
outside.  You can cook over boulders, if you wanna.
A.L.:
     Did most people have their wives along with
them?
W.S.H.:
      Sure!
Walter Brown:
     Alot of em.
W.S.H.:
     Alot of em.  They cook for the mens.
(pause for passing vehicle)
A.L.:
     I heard that some of those levee camp women
were pretty tough too.
W. Brown:
     That's right.  Now let me tell you 'bout
Crowley.  I went to Crowley -it was down in 1938- and I
started to stackin rice at (Do Re?) Rice Mill.  First time I'd
ever been down there among all them Creoles and Frenchman.
And you couldn't understand nothin they said unless they
wanted you to.  They said, "Di di-di-d, Di di-di-d".  That was
all they would say and they liked to gamble.  They had a 
little house- a little place with one room, and one door.  And
I went in there, and I couldn't lose for nothin!  Everything. .

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.