4)  To work these old horses I think it's no sin,
I've gone with their hair and I've gone wth their skin,
And then said the bobby, "I'll have you to know
I can fine you five pounds for encroachingthe law."

5)  "Why then," said Old Thacker, "Just as you please"
And drove his old horses syne just at his ease.
Then the summons was served the very next day
Thacker sat scheming what he had to say.

6)  O I'll do the bobby, that's if I can,
For he don't ken a horse from an old frying-pan.
O I'll take the old Dobbin instead of old Jack
[H]For he ne'er has skin or hair on his back.

7)  The magistrate summoned at Thacker's command,
Came down to see Dobbin that was close at hand.
They chastised the bobby and told him so plain
For bundling such p[r]etty cases, insane he m[i]ust be.

8)  Then Thacker well pleased, he turned away,
And coldly unto the bobby did say,
"If ye'll call at out house, your belly I'll fill,
And if you be dry I'll stand ye a gill."

Browned Off:
1)  I used to be a civvy chap as decent as can be,
I used to think a working lad had a man's right to be free.
And then one day they made a lousy soldier out of me,
And told me I had got to save democracy.
Chorus:
O I was browned off, browned off, browened off as can be,
Browned off, browned off, an easy mark, that's me.
But when this war is over and again I'm free
There'll be no more trips around the world for me.

2)  They stuck me in a convict suit, they made me cut my hair,
They took me civvy shoes away, they gave me another pair,
Instead od grub they gave me slush and plenty of fresh air,
And this was all to help to save democracy.

3)  Now every day I'm on parade long before the dawn,
Every day I curse the bloody day that I was born.
For I'm just a browned off soldier anyone can see,
They brown me off to help save democracy.

4)  The colonel kicks the major and the major has a go,
He kicks the poor old captain who then kicks the NCO,
And as the kicks get harder, the poor private, you can see,
Gets kicked to bloody hell to save democracy.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.