Our Station Will Be Changed After While
A Song Of Consolation From The Following Scriptures: Heb. 11:13; 1 Thes. 4:16-17
Revised And Published By
CHAS. HAFFER, Jr.
Noted Song Writer And Bible Lecturer
1503 O'HEA STREET
PHONE 990-J
GREENVILLE, MISS.

We are pilgrims and strangers living in a strange land
Among mean deceitful people, throw rocks and hide their hands,
We are often mistreated persecuted and reviled;
But our station will changed after while.
Our station will be changed after while, our station is going be
    changed after while

(CHORUS)

When the Lord Himself shall come, and declare His work is done,
    Then our station will be changed after while.

We are wanting and destitute like the ancient prophets of old
Who wandered about in caves and dens, seeking to save their souls
To obtain a better ressurection, and in faith they died.
Their stations will be changed after while.

We are often thrown in prison, and tried before unjust law
They bear false witness against us and rebuke us without a cause,
Hated for His name sake, rejected and dispised,
Our station shall be changed after while.

But the Lord will visit the earth again, just as the Bible says
He will rid the world of sin, judge the quick and dead.
The trump of God shall sound, the dead in Christ shall rise.
Our station shall be changed after while.

When He comes to the world for judgement, every eye shall see
Saints pull off dull mortal put on imortality-then in a moments time
In the twinkling of an eye. Our station will be changed after while

The Lord Himself shall descend, from Heaven with a shout,
Then the graves will open, dead saints will come out,
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, with Moses and Elias.
Our stations will be changed after while.

When the Son of Man shall come in His glory and all the holy
     angels with Him,
He'll judge the world in righteousness, the wicked will be condemed
And go into everlasting punishment; but the righteous into eternal
     life.
Our station will be changed after while.

Prices:
10c
2 for 15c
3 for 20c
4 for 25c

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.