BJ TAPE 16, p. 60

[WI] will sell [it].   Now, you make this proposition:  That you will
promise me that you be there, every day, see?  So the hands
will stay there.  Well, that's a great help to you, and to the
man, ah, the peoples that own the beans, and to the peoples that
are in the field.  You can get a sandwich out there -- 40 cent
and 50 cents a sandwich.   [You know] It's no -- there nothin', nothin' to it.
Ya see?  'Cause you, 'cause you're makin' it in a few minutes,
right down the road there.  See?  An', therefore, your peoples makes
good that way.   Peoples makes good sellin'.  They have -- I have
bought water, how many?   I've stood flat for it an' bought a
quarter's worth a water.  See?  You buy 5 cents a glass.   'Cause
it be such a small glass an' it'll take that much to fill it.  You
know?  An' all like that.  So that's jus' [the way]. . .that's jus' the
way ya do that.  They makes their money.
         An' ya see some, then, got the trucks standin' still.  An' ya
git to the end, ya run to the truck.  If not that, ya got children,
ya send them out to the trucks.  They can buy ya this an' bring it down
to the field, in the rows.  'S a consolation to sit out there an'
to drink co-old -- they have it cold -- cold soda.   All right,
soda water then was 10 cents, see?   An' now, ya couldn't git none
now less than 15 cents.  Out in the field.  Fish sandwich, ya
could smell that fish all across the field, jus' cooked. . .You
 buy; you wanna buy some of it if you eats.  An' so it's jus' a consolation
to be there.  It's fun an' jus'. . .everything, ya know?
         An' ah, [den] then ah, you have, uh, dey have some there with great
big pans an' great big, ah, pan-- ah, things that, trays.   On they
haids, walkin' down through the field.  Callin' out:  "Barbecue.
Fresh fish.  Po'k chops."  Hit's up there an' you just smell it.
An' they got it all fixed up with all kinda good sauces an'

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.