beautiful. You must have had men who were mad about you.
Bary: No. I never got anybody to say that yet. I'll tell you one
thing. It's a very remarkable thing to tell you - I often met women,
even I met women in Newry many and many a time - and they asked
me, telling me like, that I should be nice, you know, and should
do myself up. And I said, why? Why should I do myself up? I say,
Aren't I alright the way I am - with the singing and all that kind
of thing andplaying the banjo? And then they said to me, "Do you
know you're nice, like?" But I never got any men to say that, you
see. I got women, alright, but I never got any men to say such
things. Several women said to me, "You know, you're grand, and you
should keep tasteful and dressed up and all that kind of thing?" and
said, "You look nice" and "Get your teeth in." And I said, "Why is
that, now? Why should I get my teeth in?"
Lomax: When did you lose your teeth, Margaret?
Barry: You know, that'sit, you see. I can't even remember back.
You see, they decayed from time to time, and then the pain came on.
They pained and pained, you see, and I had to go and get them out
from time to time. Well, then, I had four in the front and they
were very poor ones indeed, and then the dentist told me, he says, 
"You'll be as well without them." So, you see, I was going to get
two setsof teehnin, you see, free, and I never looked about it.
And that was in Newton, Hamilton, and the dentist was Mr. Call, you
see, and he said, "I'll make your teeth in six weeks," he said,
"If you'll get them out." So you see, I was so much interested in
singing, you see, that's what happened to me. I didn't go at the
certain time this man wanted me down, and also the doctor. He told
me he was going to give me the anasthetic and remove the remainder
of my teeth, andthen I says to him, "Tomorrow morning." Yes, sayd
he, "Tomorrow morning." he says, "And come down at 9 o'clock" he
says "and fasted, unless it's a cup of tea. Just a cup of tea."
he says "and no food." And he says, "I'll give you the anasthetic,"
he says.
- - - - - - - - - -
Lomax: Margaret, tell me how you met your husband. When did you
meet him first? Tell me about how you got married and about your
marriage.
Barry: He's tall, you know, about five feet elevn in height; andhis
fair hair and very nice set of teeth, with plain features, you know.
Like, he's not extra good-looking person - just a normal type of 
person, and he's not even musical himself, but a hard worker, works
at labour and farming and all that kind of thing which is quite
useful anyway. And like, nice class of features - common class of 
person. He's not a god-looking person an anything like that. But
just, -- he had the ways of life and his life is different to mine.
But however, the meeting of him is a very strange thing. I sung
my way from town to town along, you see, and then I was happy and 
all that kind of thin; and well, I just wanted to get into a home,
you know, some house like, You see, I was taking up and going from

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.