24
man. You know a man is heavy to lift. I would lift him jes like I'd lift 
Anne. I put him in the bathtub, Lizybeth, an pick him up out of that bathtub 
an set him up an dressed him an put him right back in that chair. Not 
feelin it. Not one bit. I jes don't see how I did it. I mean I jes kep 
him like a baby, jes like this (cradles her arms) an lifted him an put him 
in the bathtub an take him out of that bathtub an dress him. Look how small 
I am, an liftin a big man like that. (she laughs) I don't know how I done 
it to save my life but jis the will I had to do it, I guess. But I did. I 
lift him that way for the five months I had him there in that wheelchair. 
I'd take him out of that wheelchair an put him in the bed an take him out 
of the bed an put him in the wheelchair an bathe him an feed him an everything. 
He hated it wuss than anything [then] when he got so he couldn't 
feed hissef. Huddie was very funny: He always wanted to do things fur hissef. 
He didn't want people to do too much for him. When he got so he 
couldn't feed himself that really [. He wasn't able to use] blowed him. 
He wadn't able to use his hands. That worried him a lot. He said, "I've got 
to the place where I can't do nothin fur mysef." I said, "Well don't worry 
bout it. Thass what I'm heah for. I like to do it." He say, "Well, long 
as you hold out you're doin it so well, you don't act like you're tired --" 
I say, "I'm not tired." I wadn't. Uh-uh! I wadn't lyin tuh him. I wadn't 
tired a bit. Fo I carried him to the hospital the last time, for three 
whole weeks I don't member jes layin down [for an hour at a time] an takin 
a hour's sleep. I mean I was awake all the time. An when I was in the bed 
I wasn't sleepy. Not at all. I jes couldn't sleep. Cause I figured every 
minute I had to do sumpin for him. Either he'd move or if I heard him 
breath hard I heard it. He asked me, say, "Ain't you sleepy?" I say, "No, 
I'm not sleepy." The doctor thought maybe it would be better for me to let 
him sleep alone. But you see he couldn't turn hissef an I know he couldn't 
turn hissef. Well you see I'd prob'ly got in the next room an went to

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.