4.
Perhaps you have wondered why I have aid so little, and that indefinite
and vague, about Haiti.  I have simply had to censo[r]
my letters.  I am being watched here.  A misstep and I would land in t[he]
nearest jail and go home on the quickest boat.  It is not impossible
that I shall be spied upon during my whole stay here.  All visitors
especially americans, are suspect because of the way Haiti            has
done up in yellow journalism.  The authorities live in fear of dre[ad]
that someone will write another book about the Haitian Voodoo cult.
who expresses an opinion about the government or even about his per
political belief is likely to be deported.  A communist is next
Devil.  I have been able to do absolutely nothing since my arri[val]
in the way of recording Haitian music.  In fact I have spent
eight days in negociations with the officials of this place
know about how well I love to negotiate.  There are two classes
Haiti.  The rich and their hangers-on; these people are generally mulato
conkey joes or high browns;  they have all the money, all the food, all th[e]
priveledge, and feel free to treat the poor black peasant much more roug[h-]
ly and pay him far worse wages than any Southern cracker ever dared do.
I saw a conkey joe slap a young Negro man this morning,
right out in the public thoroughfare, with a pop that reechoed for fifte[en]
yards.  The poor people are black, eighty percent illiterate, living close
to the earth like lizards, in mortal terror of the gendarmerie.  The upper
classes never have and never will do anything for this toiling {fecund] mass.
Naturally they are nervous.  There is brewing now in this corrupt little
republic, whose fiscal affairs are straight for the first time in its his-
tory because they are administered by and for the benefit of the National
City Bank of New York City which demands only a legitimate profit on
money lent and doesn't simply run off with the whole treasury at once as
the Haitians are accustomed to doing, there is brewing the prettiest 
little Fascist revolution you ever saw.  It has the support of the in-
telligencia, the efficient gendarmerie, and most of the efficient people
in Port-au-Prince.  I have been stumbling along half-blind in a nest of lies
unaware most of the time that I was being watched.  The only person I have
said too much too is Polines and my the Lord help me if the police ever
get him in the Haitian third degree room where not rubber hoses but good
substantial clubs are used and heads are unashamedly broken.  Zora is har[d]
enough to fathom all by herself and as uncertain and potentially viol[ent]
as she can be.  At first I was completely dependent on her and on top of t[hat]
was afraid she was in love with me.  Nothing has happened so far and now I
have made some friends of my own and am not so completely dependent on her
as I was at first.  But God I'll be glad when I breathe my last breath of
Port-au-Prince air and get out into the country where there is a little
more physical danger involved, but where the issue is simpler--- do the
people trust and like you or not? .. . I think my account is exaggerated,
but I am writing only what I am told and I want to impress upon you the
necessity of not talking [about?] what I have written you and of being care
ful about your letters, when and if you write.  Please tell Harold and
other friends to tone their letters down to the most lily white
contrive.
After almost four fours hours [of] writing I               bett[er]
I really am sure inside      that   
me once, quoting an[d]
among those quali

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.