true, and add that I wanted to try again in the studio of the national
radio station, which was not. I am afrad that I have gone too far in
my bluff about wanting all Haitian music, high low, written or orally
transmitted, sophisticated or folk. Dr. Leon seems now perfectly willing
to let me do whatever I like, but perhaps he would not have been if I ha[d]
not bluffed. Well, the event will show an at last I have made some
fast friends by grinning. They are nice people, anyhow, and I really
would like to please them although they bore me considerably. 
Passed the afternoon with mon cher polines transcribing and cataloguing
the records (seven so far) and learning a good deal of Creole in the 
process and the names of the drums used in the mascaron and the
voodoo dances. The notes are in another place. Then after dinner, during
which I wached the refined activity of the couple of conkey Joe families
that frequent this hotel, the first real French middle class people it
has been my opportunity to see (the boy is bronze nd fair to behold
with a thin and sensual mouth, satyresque), Polines and I went to the
concert of the musique palais on the champ de Mars. We sat on the ground
and listened to the proper, well-directed, band blare and flaunt it
its dazzling uniforms for almost fifteen minutes, which was almost more
than we could stand, -- in fact Polines didn't want to go at all -- and then
we set off singing through the streets to the danse congo. Five or six
radios going very loud. The further west we got the poorer the houses,
the raggeder the people, until at last we went in between some little
shacks to my man polines' present domicile with his cousin, exchanged
courtesies with two slim and handsome Negro women with red head-rags
and then the drum pulled us on deeper into the moonlight behind the house,
by the rickety and odorous back-house (strangely, not unpleasant) to
a little thacthed shed set up on poles, open on all sides where, by
the leaping flame of one little kerosene lamp (tin, the flame not more
than an inch ad a quarter high) the tambours were speaking and the vagabonds
and whores were dancing. Three young girls, black, kinky-headed,
barefooted, with bandanas tight around their hipswere dancing, and singin[g]
in strong husky voices, at the top of their lungs. Mascaron. An old
fellow in an undershirt gone ochre and a shapelss panama was going 
vigorously at the kata with two sticks. He never relinquished his
place during the whole of the time I watched. He sat, his rhythm following
that of the wuntah who stood leaning over the gros tambour. Another
boy stood boy beating the tambourin (about fiteen inches across,
four deep) on the downstroke, rubbing with his thumb on the upstroke.
The girls danced together, a screwing motion of the hips that went on
until the orgasm was caricatured. The bandanas were kept pulled down
across the buttocks, the knot just at the vulva.
Several times I saw a girl take the knot in her hand and make it flop
and thrust like a penis. This was the girl who danced more vigorously
than any of the others. The men did no singing, some whistled the
melody, they danced raher spasmodically toward each other or
singly, only very occasionally with a girl. The girls alone or in
pairs. I wondered at the time if their was anything of homosexuality
in their relation and later, when I questionned Polines, he said,
"Them is bad girl, fuck each odder with dey finger." The men at the danc[e]
all of whom were ragged and one of wom I noticed wearing the patchowrk
shirt that is supposed to indicate a pentinentdisciple of voodoo,
Polines said were vagabonds or very poor. . The better dressed men merely
stood and watched and even Polines only danced a littleand that to
show off before me. The dance was held by Polines cousin (white
duck suit, cafe au-lait, felt hat) so the peoples have fun, but evidently
neither he nor is family nor his intimates participated. The

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.