other - dancing and deportment taught them by the greatest marvel
that ever was, a man, we called him Dancey Morrisson, and wasn't 
it a fine thing for that, going to set, and three or four of the
best men of the district sitting at the other side, and suddenly
wouod be announced "Lancers !" and there'd be four of them bolt
for this girl, and the best ain got her, just as if he was able to
shove the others against the side - he would just go across the
floor like a streak. Get a-hold of her. Remind me to tell you
about a foreman I had at one time. There's an awfu&' good story
there. O there were all kinds of dances - quadrilles and lancers
and rory amours, and all dances, and by jove, you'd seen something.
They were all proper dances. This Leslie Mearns, he's dancing wi'
Jeannie, and I could see Meldrum's face growing grimmer and grimmer
and grimmer all the time. And he had a way of sniggling away with
her, with girls, -- they tried terribly to get their girls in the
dark ... Leslie, he got some girl, - Meldrum'll never know who she
was. They proceeded to go out on the road, and Meldrum, he sneaked
along behind 'em, and tailed them well along the road; and then he
came alongside him and he just let biff at him and he nearly knocked
him over the dyke. And this lad ran right from the end of that
field there, yelling blue murder; - and I don't know where the girl
went, whether he got hold of her again or back - I don't know anything 
about it. But that was what happened with Meldrum. He'd have
knocked this other lad in smithereens. But Jeannie ? I don't know 
why he didna manage Jeannie, but he didnae. And then I was put on
to manage my father's farm. The man that looked after the farmer's
driving horses was called the Strapper; and I feed a far better
strapper to me father than he ever had to himself. But this man
missed his market. Do you know what I mean by that ? He was one of
the known men, the strapper, but he didna get feeing before noon --
he'd either asked a pound too much, or he just missed getting feed.
Well, he wouldna stay anyway, but why he hadna been staying, I can't
tell ye. He wasna staying at his farm, you see. Well, but I told
this man that if he got anything , he'd maybe get a permanent -- but I
didna promise him that - I said, "You'll get your tea everytime you
take around that horse." - and that was something at that time. You've
no idea how they were fed. Well, but anyway - the man - I think I
see him yet - he stood up and said - and he looked down on the
ground - this was in a square - and he gave his foot a scrape like
that and said, "O I don't think I would likeit." And I was kind of
in a rage, spending all my energies thinking he was a grand man. Well,
well. "Stewart," I said, "Please yourself. But I'm going to give ye
the best advice. That's last. There's the bonniest queen to make
your food and sit with you in the evenings that you ever saw in your
life, aye, or ever will see !" I said, "That's right, anyway." He 
come at once andhe married her. He wasna near as good-looking as
Meldrum, and he wasnae near as well spoken either - but he managed
Jeannie. But he was one of the good men, you seem and more famous
than Meldrum. He just had made a wee tickling name for himself, this
lad. That might be. But I was going to tell you about a man I had
here. Jimmy  Mill, a cocky, -well, he was just a wee bit proud of
himself......

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.