Fisk, 1. 1. 
                              Silent Grove Baptist Church, Clarksdale, Miss.
                              I Love the Lord, He Heard My Cry.
I love the Lord,
He heard my cry.
I'm hastening
To His throne. 
                                  Prayer.
Most Holy, Your Everlasting Thou and Eternal God. At your feet and in
Your praises, I always say time in the house of prayer. Thank God
praising now, My Master, time [on the] with bowed head and prayer. Thanking
Thee for Thy blessing that Thou hast bestowed upon us from the
rocking of a cradle up until this present time. My Master, we in glory,
beg Thee that Thou would be so p eased to come near us tonight. Will
Thou be so pleased to let us see Thou Spirit, if it be Thou holy weal. 
Lord Father, we ask that Thou would be so pleased to bless this lowly
congregation. If You be pleased, My Master, 6o give us more love for
one another. Be so pleased, My Father, to fill a wall of protection
around us. Guide us in long life's journey, I pray to Jesus' sake.
Master in Glory, we need You. We can't git along witout You. We need
You in our homes. We need in our daily occupation. We need You, My 
Master, walking along the roadside. Everywehere [everywhere] we go we need You.
Please, sir, don't deny us for Jesus' sake. You give me a kiss of Your
Divine Love. Cut loose myslef and put new song in my mouth. You establish
my going. Ever since that day I been rising 40 coming up the
roadise of the mountain I myself was going on anyhow. Please have
mercy., Oh, my Father, would You be so pleased to look upon us
tonight with an eye of pity. Smile on us. Move back the dark cloud
that hang heavy over our faces. Please let Your knidness shine in our 
midst. We're here Your chldren,and You's our Father. Please have
mercy tonight, I pray Thee. My Father, wo uld You be so pleased , bless
me, your servant, to go into the foreign land for My Master's singing
praise unto Thy Name. Please, sir, have mercy. I pray Jesus. Would

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.