10) Now this captain he had a black bitch of his own,
'Twas taught by his master, 'twas very well-known,
But the beggars and tinkers, she'd pulled off their bags,
Anf if that wouldna do she would tear them to rags.
11) Now this army set out straightway as we hear,
A squire in the front, the black bitch in the rear,
And they marched toward us and then made a halt,
Concerning the battle they began to consult.
12) Now they heard that the miners' grand army was strong,
And the captain that led them was full six feet long.
Which put the Squire in a bodily fear
And vowed a great oath that he wished for a tear, .
13) Up spake the gamekeeper, "Cheer up, never fear,
Straightway for Waddle a way we will clear.
In Durham or Auckland we'll never have said
That by a few miners our army was scared."
14) Now the battle was fought in Stanhope town,
Such a battle was never forgot in Stanhope before
And I hope such a battle may never be fought more.
15) They dismounted their riders straightway on the plain,
The quire's black bitch into battle was lead,
And them that went fastest got pushed out of turn,
And away went                      with their                     hanging down.
16) Now the bonny moorhen she's gone ower the plain,
When summer returns she's coming back here again,
And there's tippets and                        that no one can tell,
That ever ruffled the bonny moorhen.
17) Now the bonny moorhen she's got feathers anew,
And many fine colours, but none of them blue,
And the miners of Waddle, they're all gallant men,
They'll fight till they die for the bonny moorhen.
- - - - - - - - - -
Lomax: Where did the song come from?
Paine: Where did the song come from? It's a true song that. It
really was a battle.
Lomax: When did it happen?
Paine: It'd be - oh - a hundred years since that happened, but it's
a true song. They had the battle at Stanhope about the grouse. . . .
I learnt it from a newspaper. When I was a lad, just about getying
out of school, there used an old woman come around here every day
with a song paper a penny - a new song. . . . . . .

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.