Jean: Three sons and two daughters,
Lomax: Did your brothers take after your father?
Jean: They took after my father for drink.  But they've settled
down a good bit, now, except for the third one.  But the two
older ones has settled down - och, different altogether.  My
oldest brother wasn't so bad as theother two was, but now my
second brother, he went off a wee bit.  I didn't say he was off
it long, mind, but he doesna drink to the extent he used to
drink.  You could hear them coming hame if youmcouldna see them!
My mother didn't drink or smoke.
Lomax: What kind of fellow is your youngest brother?
Jean: He's dead.  My third brother.  He had a lot of good points.
He would give his last to anybody.  If he saw a child, or a
young boy and girl that was knocking about fatherless or motherless,
he would give them a home.  He would share what he had
though he didn't have a penny.  I know that.  I liked him, too.
They called him the black sheep.  He was very affectionate-
natured, but he had a weakness, too; he couldn't help it.
He started early, and I suppose it killed him through time.
Lomax: Does he stay good-tempered when he's drunk?
Jean: Oh, he's good tempered as long as nobody crosses him, but
if anybody crosses him, o he gets cross, when anybody starts
him up.  But you get a good laugh at him, too.  Sometimes he
sings - and he does all the actions, when he sings.  And I've
seen them take such a hearty laugh at him when he's singing.
He imagines he's going through it.  If it's a desperate song -
ye canna help but laughing -- and he's seen me laughing with
the tears dropping to the floor, and he's said, "God help us.
I've sung so sweet I've made my sister greet."
Lomax: But he's a tough man when he gets in a scrap, though?
Jean: Oh yes.  He must have been or he would never have got a
name in Aberdeen of the "Iron Man." That was his by-name.  He
was very tough.  His nature was he'd have went till he died.  The
same when he was at school.  He was put down in class for his
carrying-on when he as a lad.  It was born in him.  He had very
good points, but he had that bad one.  A weakness for drink.
Terrible bad temper.  Stone-cold mad.  It didna matter how much
he got hurt and how much my mother spoke to him, it made no
difference.
Lomax: He's like some of the people in the ballads.  They were
wild and crazy, too.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.