Calum: Yes. 'Cause it is naturally barren.  There is no trees
or things there to make it beautiful, except just what nature
has made of the beaches and the little bays, and the like of
that.  But I think the whole attraction is really in the way
the people make a stranger welcome, if he tries to understand
their ways.  It's the understanding between people of the place
and the stranger who goes there.
Lomax: And do you find this quite unique, this Barra feeling?
Calum: I shouldn't think so.  I think that in most of the
Highlands you've got the same thing, perhaps not so much
nowadays as perhaps fifty years ago.  Of course, the Highlands
were known for their hospitality to strangers, but that is
dying out now --- the change of times....
Lomax: It's a very sad thing, that it is.
Calum: Yes, yes.  But of course, that is the trend of things
nowadays.  See, you get all kinds of strangers, of course.
Lomax: How about among themselves? Is there the same warmth
that there is among strangers?
Calum: There used to be, at any rate.  I don't know that it's
so evident now as it used to be.  At one time they worked in a
community, as you might say.  The best idea of communism, as
you might call it.  They all helped each other.
Lomax: Tell me how. In what way?
Calum: Well, say, at the time of peat-cutting, you would call
on half a dozen of your neighbours and you'd say to them, "I'm
going peat-cutting tomorrow, will you come and help me?"
And they would say "Yes, we'd be delighted." and they would go.
Well perhaps next week it was their turn.  They would call on
you, and you would also go to them.  And you got your peats
cut in one day, you see, and the next person had the [z]same
experience. And you got on that way. And the same with many
other things.
Lomax: Other jobs ...
Calum: Yes.  At the harvest time, of course, when they were
cutting the corn everybody was busy, but if anybody was behind
the others, they wouldn't think anything of going and giving
them a hand for a day and the like of that.  Also, -- well, all
the little things like that in the life of a community.  When I
was a young boy, if my shoes needed mending, I would just go
to a neighbour's and I would say, say to them, "Well, my shoes
are needing mending." And he would say, "Have you got any leathers"

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.