From The Ash Grove
8162 Melrose Avenue
Hollywood 46, California
OL. 3-2070

October 17, 1963

Dear Alan,

I have had several things for Bessie an the group which, were they on the coast, 
would have been profitable and attractive.  However, there is nowhere near enough 
to be able to guarantee them anything approaching a living wage. My agency 
brochure is being printed only this week, more or less in time to get things for 
next semester, possibly centered around the Easter week U.C.L.A. Folk Music 
Festival.  I suppose we must presume that nothing substantial will be here until 
that time.

Around the festival, Bessie can count on performing on the way out here for two 
concerts in Tucson; perhaps a Detroit engagement; an Ash Grove engagement; several 
small college concerts; the U.C.L.A. festival; and, in all probability, timing
things right, the Monterey and Berkeley festivals followed by Newport and whatever 
else goes on in the east. Make her understand that everything will begin 
around the beginning of February, unless the t.v. thing or something else unexpected 
turns up.

About the TV deal we discussed on the phone: Charles Polachek spoke to the
program directors of CBS & NBC.  Although they will keep his conversation with 
Charlie in the back of their minds, the limited success of the ABC show does
not warrant a bandwagon.  If they do decide to take a more serious look at things 
and sort of give folk music a try, we will probably get first crack at showing 
our stuff.

However, if JOAN BAEZ WILL PERFORM on the show, according to both networks, we 
are practically assured of having a show whenever we want it. I have made Joan 
aware of the situation; through Manny Greenhill, mostly in the form of letters
from Charles Polachek, Phil Melnick, and myself.  I can really pressure her no 
more until she makes a move to meet with me personally to go into all the 
possibilities and problems of the situation.  Do you know her well enough to 
call her or something? If so, please do.

The above problem does not mean, on the other hand, that there is no possibility 
of getting a show without her.  Whether or not there is enough of a possibility 
to justify spending the money on a decent pilot remains to be discussed.  We 
all would welcome your participating in such a decision.

In the meantime, Charles, Phil, my assistant for many years, and I are 
meeting twice a week and discussing all sorts of things, both about a show, 
with and without Baez, and various other broad media projects. I suggest that 
we all do everything we can, in the most optimistic frame of mind, up to the 
point of laying out $5,00.00 to make a pilot. If the thing does happen,it will 
need quick action and we should be prepared to function quickly.

[*?*] Have you contacted Ewan both about the scripts and the possibility of his coming 
over here?  This would seem a logical first step. Agree?

I've decided to come to New York for the week of Nov 5 through 10th, and would 
like to meet with you then, as often as possible for you. Please write before 
then, especially if you'd like me to discuss something with my friends first.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.