Rosseau, Domenica,
July 1, 1962,

Dear Johnny and family,
I guess you know something of our perigrinations by now. We
started work in Trinidad on Apr 23 and recorded continuously
for about three weeks. The heat was terrible and the country
tremendously stimulating. I [had] found the going difficult, because
I was exhausted from the 18 months that had gone before.
However, in a about a month we rounded out a picture of Trinidad.
Then CBS called to say they were going to make a TV film
on my favorite singers in Georgia and they would pay me well
plus expenses if I would come. I decided it would be foolish not to
go for just one week, and flew away, leaving Tony pretty mad
and lonesome. [The] I hope you saw the movie--on Accent, June 14--
it was a tough job and I ended up fellin I w uld never want to
work in TV the way it is, but the picture should have been good.
When I got to New York I was told that the review committee for
my next fellowship---a huge lot of govt money-was coming to town
to look me and my working group over on June 11. I had to stay.
Where they found that committee or how, I will never understand,
but they stripped me. Six hours of questions. I doubt if I made it.
Flew back to Trinidad[a], worried about Tony, because she had gone
to Martinique and communication is difficult. Rushed through
my work there and found Tony having a ball on the beach. The
island of Martinique is pe haps the prettiest and most civilized
of the Antilles, but anger, bitterness and suspicion flourish there.
We worked well there and recorded nice things, but at great
expense of money and intrigue. Then fell into this island of
mountains and jungle and folklore. This is the virgin land of the
antilles, sparsely populated, ---beautiful jungle-covered mountains
with a few lovely villages on the narrow beaches, next the ever
blue sea. Accomodations limited, but naturalness and music unlimited
Well, we worked everynight this last week and recorded[a] about
two hundred fine pieces and are leaving this morning for St Kitts.
The pace is really hard this trip. I don't think Anne could take
it. I fold about every two days. Tony works like a beaver and I
couldn't get on without her. But a part of [the] my job, always present
and demandin is being the commissary and transport man, as well

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.