152     Report of the Librarian of Congress

for the fiscal year ending 30 June 1937

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS EXPEDITION TO HAITI, 1936-37

(From the report of Mr. Alan Lomax)

On December 10, 1936, I was sent to Haiti to make a field-recording
study of Haitian folk music.  I returned to Washington the latter
part of April with 58 ten-inch and 236 twelve-inch aluminum discs
on which Elizabeth Lomax and I had recorded some 1,500 Haitian
songs and drum rhythms.  These records, along with 350 feet of
motion picture film of Haitian dances and with the notes pertaining
to the songs and dances, have become part of the Archive of American
Folk Song.
For the Haitian peasant, singing and dancing are integral parts
of everyday existence.  He calls his voodoo gods, wheedles favors
from them and dismisses them with ceremonial drumming, dancing
and singing.  To find a group of men in the field with their hoes is
to discover a gay festival of music and, when a Haitian tells a fold
tale, the crux of the plot is likely to be a little song learned from 
his grandfather.
As one might expect in a country where communication has been
and is so difficult, each little cluster of houses produces and preserves
its own folk songs.  And along with the new songs that grow up 
with tropic luxuriance in every hamlet and for every occasion worthy
of a dance, the Haitian sings many airs that he maintains were
brought over from Africa by his ancestors.  The 1,500-odd tunes,
therefore, that we recorded in four localities (Plaisance, Pont Beudet,
Port-au-Prince and Leogane) will serve to give an inkling of the
rich realism of Haitian folk music.  The important types of songs
represented in the collection are Voodoo, Rada, Petro, Zandor, Congo,
Rara, Mardi Gras, Romance, Combite and Conte.
For their kind efforts in our behalf and for the interest they took
in the success of the Library's Haitian collection, I am especially
indebted to Dr. Rulx Leon, Dr. S. H. Raiser, Miss Zora Hurston
and His Excellancy Estenio Vincent.  But it is to Revolie Polinice,
who cooked, carried, fought and talked for us during the whole four
months that I shall be eternally grateful.

[* Congo
Conte
Combite
Mardi Gras
Rada
Rara
Romance
Zandor *]



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.