BJ     R. 10/24     T. 2,    p. 26
[*22*]
make no difference 'cause that[ there sour]'s the silo takes care it, ya 
know.  So tha's the difference; tha's the modern -- tha's jus' 
coming down to -- [used to be] different what it used to be.  
But they            , they have corn up there, for the dairies, 
an' all up in upper New York it's the same way -- fiel's of 
corn for the dairies to eat.   We didn' hustle no corn neither pull 
it, 'cause they jus' let it stay out there for the dairies.  Great
big fiels of the pretties' kind of corn.  I jus' eat corn 'till I -- 
I love corn, you know, for, ah green corn.   I eat corn 'till it 
was a pity.   I like to fry it; I like fried corn better than I do 
any other kind.   An' we jus' have the biggest time. . .
           But at home, we raise it to plant.   An' for the stock, too, 
ya know.   'Cause, see, you put it in your crib, y'know, an' then 
the time of the year come up for it -- to [shell] shuck it, to plant -- we 
go out there and pick out the choice ears.   You know, where there 
wa'n't no bugs in, no rats an' none of that.  'Course bugs hardly 
ever git in our corn 'cause on account a how they always -- when the put 
the corn in the crib, they sprinkle salt in there, a little bit of 
salt, an' that keep the bugs out.   You know, everybody jus' 
do it.   But mos' the time they have plenty for 'em.   They ha' 
plenty a corn year around for the mules an' for the hogs an' 
everything else, chickens an' so on.   Cows eat the shuck.  Jus' 
something good for 'em, all of it, everything is good.   An' 
nowadays I see they savin' the stalks for different things; gettin' 
the juice out the stalks and he'p 'em make syrup.   You know, an' 
all like that; makes different things. . .An' so, jus' different 
ways. . .There's sumpin' good in all, all those things.
[*AGRICULTURE "AT HOME"*]
[*black eyed peas*]
           Back at my home where (I am) now, they don't raise cotton an' corn 
like they used to.   Jus' ha' small patches of cotton there, y'know.  
But they raise peanuts. . .Yeah, they raise some sort a peanuts.  
But they wasn't raisin' 'em like that when I was little.   Jus' a 
few peanuts be down between the corn, an' now an' then have a 
reg'lar peanut patch.   But that was just for yourselves, y'know, 
for the house.   'Cause they turn the hawgs lose into the corn 
fiel' an' let them root those peanuts up.  Um-hum, an' all like 
that.  Then you have peas planted down between your rows, too, 
blackeyed peas, [these same]'cause we save peas, [(REFERRING TO PEAS ON TABLE AT
TIME OF RECORDING)] 'cause we tie peas up in the bags an' keep 
'em at home.   You know, the year 'round.  Blackeyed peas an' these

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.