T3456
TAPE 89D: DAVIE STEWART.
Tramps and Hawkers:
1) O come all ye tramps andhawker lads that gather at the blaw, (oatmeal)
That tramps the country roun' and roun', come listen one and a',
I'll tell to you a rovin' tale an' places I have seen.
Far up into the snowy north or south by Gretna Green.
2) I've seen the high Ben Nevis that gangs towerin' to the moon,
I've been roun' by Crief an' Cormerie (Callaner) and by the bonny Doon,
Dunrobin Castle by the way, I nearly had forgot,
Far up into the snowy (stormy) north stands the house of John of Groats.
or: I've been by Nethy's silvery tide and places ill to ken,
Far up into the stormy north lies Ochord's fairy glen.
3) Sometimes noo I lachs to myself when I'm dodgin' along the road,
Wi' a bag o' meal slung o'er my back an' my face as broun's a toad,
Wi' lumps o' cheese an' tattyscones an' breid and brazy ham,
Nae thinkin' whar I'm comin' from, nor thinkin' whaur I'm ga'in.
4) I'm happy in the summertime beneath the dark blue sky,
Nae thinkin' in the mornin' at nicht where I'm going to lie.
Bothies or byres or barns or out among the hay,
And if the weather does keep fine (premit) I'm happy all the day.
5) Loch Catherine or Loch Lomond, they've a' been seen by me,
The Dee, the Don, the Devron, that flows to the sea.
Dunrobin Castle, by the way, I nearly had forgot,
Aye, the reckles (old ruin) stanes of Cairnely maerks the/ts house of John O'Groa
6) I been by bonnie Galloway an'moften roun' Stenra,
My business leads me everywhere, I travel near and far.
I've got that rovin' notion, I wouldna like to loss,
It's all for my daily fare an' as much'll pay my doss.
7) I think I'll gang to Paddy's land, I'm making up my mind
For Scotland's greatly altered noo, I canna raise the wind.
If I can trust in providence and if providence should prove true,
I'll sing to you an Irish song when I come back to you.
(the news of old Eerin's Isle)

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.