find out what happened.
Anne: Did they do that to children as well?
Davy: I'll tell ye a story. This happened in Morayshire - that's
away North. Elgin. One time, a long time ago, seventy or 80
years ago, there was an old woman. Well, she come from the 
travelling class but she wasna really a tinker. She was a big
stout woman, a widow-woman - her husband was dead. She says
to her wee boy one day, a boy about 12 years old. "I think
I'll get a load of stock and put it in the basket, and we'll
go away for a week or a fortnight hawking around the country.
I'll lock the door of the house and come back." She was a big,
stout woman.
     So she goes away, and she's doing well. First day they were
going here and going there. They didn't have no camp up. She'd
go more to farms and get lodgins for her and the boy into
barns at night, sleep in the barns. So, comes one night it come
on to rain, and she went up to this house - big farm - and the
woman brought some stuff from her at the farm - and she asked
her where she's going the night. "Well, I've no place to go
at all tongiht," she says, "because I've a house in Elgin, me
and the wee boy here. I'm a widow-woman."
"O, I see," the woman says. A
And she says, "Could you put us up in the barn for thenight,
me and the laddie?"
"O?" she says, "I'll do that. You'll have a fine, comfortable
sleep in the barn."
Just then, now, the man comes, the farmer - a big, tall man,
red-headed, a big son with him, and he's keeping his eye on
the woman and the wee boy. So the woman didn't know about
the berklers.
"Begod anyway, get the supper noo in the farmhouse." And the
man says, "Come on now. I'll show you to the barn." So he took
an old-fashioned lantern with a candle in it, and he takes them
to the barn. And it was lashing with rain that night. So the
woman was in the big barn in the straw, and she puts the lantern
down and she got the straw and made her bed, with the big corn
sack she made a fine, soft bed. But the wee boy was a boy who
looked through a thing - looked here and looked there - looked
at the cattle and themold-fashioned sliding door and pulls up
the slide and goes away to an old  turnip shed. And he was looking
all round there and he looks in an old  box and sees a great big
long wooden thing, about 3 1/2 or 4 feet long, and thick all
round the edges of it, with a big handle on it. Blood on it.
And he thought I was sort of for the cows or killing the pigs --
but he wen and told his mother. And there were clothes in that
box belongings to the people - old socks, shirts, full of blood, -
women's skirts and boots.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.