Providence News; 1964: The Georgia Sea Island Singers, an outstanding hit at
this year's festival....

San Francisco Sunday Chronicle; 1962; Dean Wallace: No description can do 
justice to these singers; they have to be heard to be enjoyed. There are a
pair of tremendous solo singers named Bessie Jones and John Davis, backed by
a miscellaneous group of fishermen and boatyard workers who could hold their
own against any professional ensemble in the business.

The Pasadena Art Museum; Mrs. Eve Eshelman, Director; ;963: I am personally
very grateful to you for coming to the Pasadena Art Museum. Everything that
we had heard about your group before was surpassed by the reaction that I
had from the people who heard you in performance.

UCLA Campus Newspaper; 1963: Among the traditional folk singers appearing
at the Folk Music Festival, Bessie Jones is the most impressive. Her style
is the simplest and most direct. She always sings without accompaniment.
Charles Seeger, eminent UCLA musicologist participating in the festival,
called her style the most typical of the American tradition present at the
Festival.

Charleston News and Courier; 1964; Alan Lomax's description of the first 
concert given by the Georgia Sea Island Singers to their own people:
An audience of farmers and rural workers sat rapt in pleasure as the famous
Georgia Sea Island Singers performed the music of their great-grandfathers. 
An electric current of discovery ran through the hall, the thrill of a
people finding that they were carriers of a worthy tradition, that what they
knew was of interest to the whole wide world.

In an interview with Pat Watters of the Atlanta Journal and Constitution, 
Bessie Jones says of her concert in Carnegie Hall: Carnegie Hall was
bigger than a hotel, all right. But there was nothing but heads out there.
That's all right with me; As long as they peoples, I ain't afraid. Long
as they don't change their faced. I know I'm scared when a snake jumps/
Something like that. But people, that's all I know.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.