16

jes don't do thing s. They do it in they way.

. . .There will never be another Huddie, I'll tell you that. Everybody
liked him. I mean everybody was just crazy about him. He was just
nice to peoples -- you know. When he was home the house was full all
the time. I mean all the time.

(Did you ever get tired of having so many people around?)

Mmmm-m mm! Never. I liked it cause I knowed he liked it an seemed like
I j es liked it cause he liked it. I didn't care. Jes anything to make
him happy I always felt very good about that. Sometime I'd git kina tired
of stayin up but I'd sleep the next day. People stayed with us until
late in the night. Stay till mornin. When he was playin at the Vanguard
he'd come home at three an most everbody would follow him home that knew
him. They'd stay up there then till day. I don't see how he last at it
so well cause you know he didn't sleep much during the day. Somebody
would be there with him most all the time, an he'd come home at three
o'clock. He'd git up in the mornin jes like he always did. H e never would
go back to sleep. Bout eight or nine o'clock. Unless I jes made him
[lie there] lay there. I think it really needed sleep but he always had
something on his mind. He wanted to git his git-tar an play.

(Did he play a lot when you all would just be there by yourselves?)

Oh yeah yeah. I'd jes lay there an went to sleep through it an he'd play
right on. I loved to hear him. I play his records a lot now still. H is
music was jes him thass all. I mean it's jes like him, completely. I mean
he really loved it too. It wadn't because he -- I mean when me an him was
there he'd play jes as if he was playin to the biggest audience. H e was
music. That was all he tought about. He thought about music a lot. I
really think he did. At least he said he did. He said he dreamed about it
all time. Uh-huh. Thass the way he made the biggest of his songs, you
know. H'd jes dream about these things. He'd make em at night in his

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.