15
My nieces was out there. Thass why I didn't worry bout him there. 
I knowed they would see after him.
    
I lik ed it up h ere in a way an in a way I didn't, Lizybeth. 
I'm jes gon tell you the truth. I got where I wanted to stay on account 
of Huddie's work. If it hadn't been for Huddie an the way we had to 
live I could h a ve gone back home long, long ago. It wadn't jes the 
place here I don't think. It was jes my thinkin about bein home with 
the peoples. Everybody's very friendly wit me. I haven't had no 
trouble in that. But I mean their friendliness isn't the way people 
are friendly at home. It's jes closer feelins of family-like. I don't 
know. Everybody down ther it jes seems is one. I mean they not like 
they is here. To my idys it isn't. Now it may be jest the way I think. 
The peoples are not -- they jest not as friendly here anyway, 
Lizybeth. By  no means, In a way, it's jes the way we have to live here.
     
I could live here now but I don't see a thing in the world to live 
here for since Huddie's gone. I mean nothin.  Nothin at all. All of my 
friends is jist like they used to be but still an all I still feel a 
little lonely. I think I could git shut of that if I was there. I jes 
don't see no cause to stay here at all for nothin. Unless I jist got 
around an got very interested in something. But so far I haven't been 
going places. I haven't been going anywhere mostly, but staying home.
     
Huddie had multiple schlorosis. So many [?] peoples got it wrong. 
I mean they even had it bone infection. Doctor Condon asked me, "How 
in the world did that git out?" I said, "I don't know." (laughs) 
I said, "I don't know Dr. Condon, how it go tout. I saw it myself in 
the papers. I know I didn't tell nobody that." I knowed what it was. 
Alan an Pete got on the telephone an called those peoples up, you know. 
They called most of the reporters an they tole em the real name cause 
I was listening at em both. But they jest had to -- I don't know -- they

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.