BJ TAPE 41, p. 36

     She couldn't move when she wanna move.  Just couldn't go.
Stay right there.  That ol' house was fallin' down on 'er.  She
had a place in the country an' that house went down.  She wouldn't,
couldn't go anywhere; stayed in Fairview.  Well. . .Right there
where she stayed at, in Fairview.
     So Jeesh, she tol' me, said [manys a,] Mae Lizzie they, she, they remember
she bringin' a jar ta her house, fruit jar.  One mornin' before,
you know, sunrise.  But -- Now they know this by this woman tellin'
'em, these peoples tellin' 'em.  An' the other people.  They went
to mo' people beside the seven sisters.  But anyway, they all described
about the same way.  But the seven sisters tol' 'em straight.
An' ah, more than any th' rest of 'em.  Said she brought a fruit
jar there one mornin' about sunrise an' ah, tol' her to keep this
there until she come back.  Like I would run by here, say, "I'm
goin' to work."  Say, "Keep this up until I come for it."  You
know?  I'm a friend to ya; ya ain't thinkin' nothin'.  She set the
jar on the shelf.  Ya see, anything she sit down -- they know this
after that; they didn't know it before then -- she sit in with
a BIM.  You know, like I hit it down there, an' leave.  Well, she
didn' come back in 3 days.  When she come back for the jar, she
come 'fore day.  You know, 'fore sunrise.  An' come at the jar an'
got right in the yard an' throwed it down an' bust it.  An' run.
Look like they's a-thought sumptin' right then.  It's crazy!
I'd a-did -- never -- they, they laughed at 'er.  "Lizzie, Mae
Lizzie do the crazie(st) things."  They walkin' over all this
mess is done; nobody know nothin'.  They thought nothin' about
it.  An' they wen' on.
      So the next thing she brought there, then, was a axe.  Want
'em to keep the axe for 'er until she come back.  Say, "I'll put
it there."  Ah, Miss Melton started to take it.  Said, "No, no."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.