[*8*]

can read them.  And of course he can read them because
they're all words that he's seen before.  He probably can't
read the front page of "Le Monde" or "Le Figaro", because
most of the vocabulary is not part of his everyday usage.
But when I have a dialoge that has to do with sitting down
at the table and eating some (french names for Cajun food),
it's all words that he knows and it gives him a sense of
satisfaction-well hey, this isn't such a high fangled,
falutin' language after all.
TEACHER #1
I teach with a woman who speaks very fluent Cajun French.
As a matter of fact when I was teaching my Cajun French
lessons from town to town I would ask her "how do you say
this word?"  She'd say "we say it such and such" and I'd say
"Oh yeah, I can remember that, thanks" and I'd write it
down.  She tells me "I can't read French".  WHich is totally
stupid.  The woman is perfectly bilingual.  She speaks Cajun
French or good French almost better than I do, it's just
that she has never seen it written down and had someone read
a couple of lines to her to make her understand that she can
read French.  That's all it takes, for someone who speak
good French, who can read and write English to actually see
French-don't you agree?  From a teacher's standpoint?  I
cna't understand why there are so many people around her who
claim that they cannot speak French because nobody has ever
showed it to them and said "You can read this.  Look, this is
it.  Read it with me.  See?  You're reading French."
A. LOMAX
O.k., we're thinking of using a cutaway, how much. . .
TEACHER #2
Huh?  Five after one.
TEACHER #1
Fried catfish?  We eat fried catfish when we go to North
Louisiana.  Fried catfish is not a delicatesse down here to
us because we're so accustomed to the North Louisiana
catfish.
TEACHER #2
There's some good stuff though, there's a special-$2.99 for
all you can eat at "Coq of the Bayou."  Have you ever had
it?
TEACHER #1
"Coq of the Bayou?"  Where is that?  (laughter)  In Henderson?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.