Davie: From the age of eight. I was away more. There wasn't much
at school, see. But still, I'm a good scholar to the present day.
Mostly people learning me here and there while I was young - mostly
with the newspapers at night, reading newspapers, Dick Turpin
books and all this. Old stories of Jack the Ripper and Buchan of
Edinburgh and Thomas Ross of Edinburgh, and all that carry-on.
I used to read it terrible. But now I can't read much because I'm
bad of sight a little bit.
Lomax: And where have you done most of your travelling? Have you
travelled all over Scotland?
Davie: Well mostly around Aberdeenshire and up as far as ------------
not much round Glasgow until I got older. Way down through Ayrshire
and Glasgow, with another cousin of mine, James Hutchinson. He'd
be Davie Hutchin of Aberdeen's brother. He was older again than
his cousin Blind Robin.
Lomax: What about Ireland? When did you first go to Ireland?
Davie: Went to Ireland in 1932. Yes. '32. Went across there with
my nephew - he's Peter Stewart. He's a good accordian player.
Him and his wife come over on a holiday to Aberdeen to see Granny, -
that's my mother. And his wife was an Irish woman. She belonged
to the County Donegal. And he was going away and asked me to come
with him to Ireland, and I stayed there and met in with my sister,
Susan, and her husband, mold Jock the Piper they called him. Jock
Hutchin. And her boys all played the accordian. And I didn't know
much Irish music then. But her boys was all born and reared in
Ireland and they used to go along with Teddy Fury, the banjo-player
from Dublin, and the Irish tunes come into my head, and I used
to play nothing but Irish tunes and songs to Ireland. And now I
lost mostly all Scots ones since I went to Ireland.
Lomax: And how long did you stay there?
Davy: I was there for about sixteen years.
Lomax: What did you do?
Davy: Just hawking. Going to fottball matches and hawking, playing
the accordian, camping here and camping there. Had a wagon of my
own and three or four ponies. Big Irish travels, and dealing and 
swapping with Irish tinkers then, and I learnt a lot of Irish
music and a good few Irish songs. And I think Irish songs is very
good and I like Irish music very well, specially the uillean pipes
or the violin or the guitar and banjo - mostly the uillean pipes
or a fiddle. I'll play a few jigs and hornpipes myself, and sing a 
few Irish songs. I mix them with the Scottish songs now as I'm
back in Scotland a good few years. But when you leave a country and 
go to another country, you seem to forget about your Scotch music.
You lost some songs that I sang in Scotland -- bothy ballads, like
The Mucin' O'Geordie's byre and all this. I've lost some of 
the words of that now - I've been in Ireland so long getting
the Irish ones, you see, and I used to very well sing "The Moss
of Borrowdale, but I've lost that altogether. Unless I hear somebody
sing it, and it'll come back to my head again. --------------------


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.