[*Before 1652 A (Steno. notes)*]
[*56*]
Jellyroll - No. 1
When I was a kid, around seven or eight years old, 
the first type of music I played in the line of rag-time 
was small compositions that played mostly for pleasure
 and drinks, and it was one of the frequent customs to 
serenade at late hours from twelve to two in the morning 
by knocking at some one's door, and of course they always
 knew me and of course would be playing and they would alway
s welcome as serenaders.

There is plenty of liquor in all homes in New 
Orleans. Then the family and all the surrounding friends 
who would know or hear about it would come to join in and 
make a great festival. Lot of these surprise parties were 
for some of the relations in the houses, for birthday parties
 or even for friends a few doors away. It would be
 very often in cases of birthday parties there would be 
arrangements made for refreshments and delicacies.

[*{*]They played "Hot Time in the Old Town Tonight", 
[*{*]"Wearing My Heart for You", "Bird in a Gilded Cage", 
[*{*]"Old Oaken Bucket," "Mr. Johnson Turn Me Loose."

The orchestras were composed of mandolin, Spanish
 guitar, and bass fiddle. The bass fiddle was bowed. 
Many of these combinations were played in different
 honky-tonks and back rooms, which are some of the first 
cabarets in America. There would be two rooms when there
 was a back room. There was a bar in there where men put 
their feet up on the railes and drank what they wanted.
 Plenty of them were very troublesome and had to be thrown
 out on their heads from time to time. 

Of course, the second room which is called the back 
room would be fitted with a few tables and it would be 
very dark. Women could go in there and children were 
allowed to get canned beer, whiskey or anything else. 
They could not go into the saloon part. 

Each night many parties would go into the back 
rooms, men and women to enjoy themselves. As a rule 
children were very seldom seen later than seven o'clock, 
but canned beer was a popular thing, since it was only
 ten cents. 

There was no special entertainment. There would be
 little three-piece organizations and sometimes two-piece
 organizations, consisting in the three-pieces of bass-violin,
 mandolin and guitar. They would go around and 
play and pass the hat for collections. Sometimes they 
would have two-piece mandolin and guitar. They played

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.