When the people began to organize in the first part of the 19th
century, they took the old tunes and composed new words to them.
In 1848 the movement of the people's charter was very strong in
Scotalnd, cheifly around Glasgow and Paisley, and a lot of the
industrial areas, and among the miners in Lanarkshire. The version
that's most familiar to the working-class in Scotland is: -

Saw'd ye the cotton spinners, saw ye them going awa?
Saw ye the cotton spinners marching doon the Broomilaw?
Some of them had shoes and stockings, some of them had nane ava,
Some of them had shoes and stsockings marching doon the Broomilaw.

A little later in the 19th century at the time of the Boer War,
new words were put to the same tune when the 42nd Regiment - the
Black Watch - was being sent out to South Africa.

Wha saw the 42nd? Wha saw them gaeing awa'?
Wha saw the 42nd sailing doon the broomilaw?
Some of them had tartan trousers, some of them had nane ava,
Some of them had tartan trousers sailing doon the broomilaw.

And in the first World War at the time when Scottish regiments were
being sent out to fight in the trenches in France, new words again
were put, which are maybe not sing-able in some companies. . . .

Ya, ya, ye hieland bastards, ya, ya, ye big Scotch whore,
Ya, ya, ye kilted bugger marching through the shit-house door. . . .

When the allied armies got to Egypt and went to the cinema, at the
end of the show they saw on the screen the face of King Farouk, and
the orchestra or a recording played the tune. It was inevitable
that sooner or later words would be put to that tune, which,
according to tradition was compsed by Verdi after "Aida" was givem
in Cairo for the first time in the days of the Cadiv Ismail. Anyway,
Australian soldiers in one of those cinemas began singing. . . .

"King Farouk, King Farouk, hang your bollocks on a hook. . . ."

That was the start of "King Farouk." I came out to Egypt myself
beginning of 1942. I heard a few scattered fragments, and seeing that
I was going to sing for various people in my own unit, I wrote 5 or
6 stanzas, and sang them, and they were a considerable success. A
little later on, I cyclostyled them and handed them out to various
friends. That was during the war in Africa. I went on collecting
variants of my own verses, and new verses, right the way through
Egypt, Libya, Tunisia. Sicily, and up through Italy as far as the
Alps. Finally, when the war finished, I put together a complete
version of the ballad. Here is a selection. .  . . .

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.