5.
Lomax: Do you think it's a true song?
Cox: Yes, I do think so. . . .I think that's right.
Lomax: That the girls played around. . . 
Cox: See, they. . .It happened there. . .See, he pulled her out of the
water, you see, that's why it happened. . .They're all the same. (pause)
Lomax: That's a beauty, a beauty. (Cox laughs) (pause) Oh yes, and
the Firelock Stile. (pause)
Cox: You want Firelock Stile?
Lomax: Yeah. . .Tell me about it now.
Cox: Well, I can't tell you very little about it. I don't know. . .I
learnt if off old - my father. He, he's the only one I've heard sing
it. . . .Never heard nobody knew it. How he came to get it, I don't know.
He did get 'em. . .(pause) (laughs) I don't know no meanin' of it, no
more than that. Would you like it all then? (pause)

So come all you young men, come listen a while,
I'll tell you what happened at Firelock Stile;
Well, a stump of an elm catched hold of her clo'es,
She fell down and she did expose her old
Rump a tum too roo loo ra-laddity
Rump a tum too roo loo ral day.

A gay young buck was standing by,
The sight of her quim a-dazzled his eye.
She said, "Young man, I feel amazed
To see a young gentlemen stand and gaze
On my rump a tum, etc.

She said, "Young man, if you mean what you say,
Twenty bright guineas in gold for to pay,
Twenty bright guineas in gold for to pay,
And then, young man, you may fiddle away
On my rump a tum, etc."

But very soon he gave consent,
And into the woods together they went,
While he performed and she pretuned
They boy in the boot, he kept time to the tune
On her rump a tum etc.

The six weeks bein' over, as I've been told,
She gave him some fire to keep him from cold,
To keep him from cold, by night an' by day,
An' he cursed the young damsel that learnt him to play
On her rump a tum, etc.

Now all young men come listen a while, 
I've told you what happened at Firelock Stile,
Or else like me you'll rue the day
You go into the woods for to learn for to play
On her rump a tum, etc.

Lomax: That's a beauty, that day.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.