-109-

but draws no fast line in commercial and other economic relations.  Occasionally 
there are white neighbors within the Negro community, but this is not 
the general pattern of residence.  Stores owned by whites are located within 
the community.  These stores, however, do not just happen to be there; they 
have been located there because the Negro represented a market.  In some 
villages Negro merchants have taken advantage of the opportunity to become 
small merchants and have opened small stores, restaurants, beer taverns, shoe 
repair shops and other businesses which cater to personal needs.

Outside the village pattern Negroes and whites may both live side 
by side and under quite amicable relationships.  These relationships, however, 
tend to preserve the racial etiquette. An example is Mrs. Howard, a 
Negro woman, and Mrs. Leftwich, white, who are near neighbors in the open 
county.  The white neighbor was having company for dinner and she wanted to 
serve chicken.  Mrs. Howard said:

She always sends them down here for me to kill 'cause she 
just can't do it.  She is a very nice lady, sends me dinner 
most every day.  The children do little things for her like 
drawing water.  She has a right nice house up there, but she 
hasn't any water up there 'cept rain water.  The children 
carry all the drinking water for her.

The village Negro and white families are adjusted to the presence 
of one another.  The extent of their adjustment is suggested in the frequent 
comment that "We get along all right with the white folks."  The younger 
white and Negro children may play together, usually in the Negro neighborhoods.  
As they get older they are friendly in greetings but have no extended 
association.

The villages have their churches and schools.  As the most common 
and strongest institutions the churches are frequently pastored by ministers 
who have several charges and live in the city.  There are occasional social

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.