-74-

The current expenditures do not include capital outlay for new
buildings, alteration of old buildings, school buses and other equipment.
For these purposes Madison County spent $3.57 per white pupil enrolled and
$.05 per Negro pupil enrolled. The entire capital outlay for the county for
all Negro schools in 1936-37 was $200.

The result of the neglect of the Negro pupil is plentifully apparent.
The most striking feature of the schools visited in Madison county was the
inadequacy of the equipment. Center School is by no means the worst of the
Madison County schools. It is, in fact, a two-teacher school, which gives
it a dignity not possessed by the 36 one-teacher schools of the county.
Center School is very poorly constructed, resembling what is commonly called
a "lean-to." Its two rooms are equipped with benches which stretch the width
of the room. There are no desks, not even for the teacher. The pupils use
worn books as supports when writing. A small strip of blackboard is tacked
on the wall. There is no eraser, and but one piece of crayon.

The grade distribution ranged from the second to the eighth grade,
but this seemed a very nominal classification. In course of visiting the
rural schools and giving certain tests, it developed that the pupils were
seriously retarded in actual understanding of the simplest symbols. Many
pupils could not read the simplest words, some could not write legibly.

Madison County is poorer than the Delta Counties, in its agricultural
phases at least. The Negroes have developed more institutions
of their own, and use them more freely; they are less dependent on a single
occupation. They have purchased more farms than would be possible in the
Delta; several own very large tracts of land. These they operate
with less outside control. More of the rural Negroes are affected by unemployment,
and more of them know the insecurity of wage labor. These farmers have

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.