3.

as well as the vaudoo name for the saint; but a good half of the population
even here in Pont Beudet, close to Port-au-Prince, the center of Haitian
culture, in daily contact with the literature staff of the Haitian Asylum for
the Insane, with schools and a church nearby, know these pictures only by as
dieties in the vaudoo pantheon. St. Antoine as Papa Legba, god of the cross
roads, he who opens the gate to let the other loi enter and to whom the first
songs of every bamboche or ceremony are /usually addressed, master of all the animals,
chief of all the loi. St. Patrick as Papa Dumballs, master of the snakes
and of the rainbow. Mater Dolorosa as Maitresse Erzulie, the rich and jealous
goddess of love, for whom many men reserve their Tuesday's and Thursday's
bed in return for benefits believed to be received. And so it goes with most
of the loi. So far as I know no friend of mine here has ever walked the four 
miles to mass in Croix des Bouquets, but I understand that all the initiates
of the canzo ceremonyare supposed to make a pilgrimage to all the
principal shrines /and chapels of the region. In other words Catholicism is merely the official 
religion of Haiti and its symbolism has merely been adapted to conform
to the ideology of the various African cults that managed to survive in Haiti.
I should like to add at this point that what I have seen of vaudoo in 
Haiti makes me a little impatient with such accounts as Seabrook's and Craig's.
Very strange and rather horrible things do happen here at times,
but these things taken out of their /context -- a simple country people
amusing themselves and reverencing the powers that they believe they see
walking the earth every day/form a garish and distorted picture so far from the
truth that it is better that these men should never have written about vaudoo.
Beyond these general remarks, however, it is best for me leave
remarks about vaudoo to writers who have much more (because they have made
vaudoo their special interest) than I have.
George Narvil, organist and choirmaster from the church st Croix des
Bouquets, a distinguished old fellow with a long white beard comes walking

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.