5
his friends' house.  I think it was his cousins. H e was workin in
Mooringsport then.  Workin at the Gulf Refinery.  I know he drove the
truck once in a while cause he came down there in the truck.  So he came 
back.  I had got dressed an everything an was settin on the porch. H e
walked right by me.  Said "Good evenin" an kep right on, knocked on the
door an my sister answered it.  He said, "She haven't got heah 
yet?" (laughs)  My sister said, "Well thass huh settin theah on the 
porch."  He came out an said, "Well everytime I see you you jes look
diff'rent.  I jes don't know you again." So he asked me if I wanted to 
go with him.  So we went then an stayed to this dance till late.  So
we went  out an come back that night.  An that time I didn't see him
an y more.  Oh for long, long many years.  I heard where he had gone.
I don't know who tole me bout it.  Everybody in the country knew him.
They jes say, "Lawd, Huddie's gone back to the pen again !" Everybody
was crazy about Huddie, you know.  Everybody was jist crazy about him.
That he went to the pen didn't make no diff'rence.  Naw naw. Uh-uh.
If they heerd he was anywhere ar ound they'd have a fit.  They jist 
liked his music an him.

(How can you account for that, Martha?)

What baby? They liked him but still he'd g it in trouble?  Well see
peoples are jealous.  You know, jes like heah how peoples they take on
over Huddie.  You know, some mens can't stand that.  They jes can't take
it.  Yeah.  Thass right.  They're like kids or sumpin.  They're jealous.
An it makes em awful mad for they womens to make up to another man.
Thass what was all his trouble.  They just couldn't bear it.  H e jes
wadn't gon stand for nobody to slap him in the face an take it.  So
thass the way he git in his troubles -- jes by womens crazy about him.
But fur as him bein a mean man he wasn't.  He was gentle.  But
he jes wouldn't stan fur nobody to punch him in the face.  He was strong

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.