3. 

of a circle  between his toes. The knees are x slightly bent and the
space between his legs is a closed diamond the angularity of which is
further accentuated by his hunched shoulders and elbows. This creature has xxx
appeared from nowhere like a great brown moth tht one suddenly notices on
the wall at night, softly curling and uncurling its antennae. The boy, leaping
and at the same time maintaining the diamond shape between his thighs, xxx
makes a diddle-diddle-dum rhythm on the ground with his heels. Again. Then
one heel is lifted and brought round zx before the ankle just above the instep
and describes three short taut acrs and after thumps back behind the other 
heel.  The xx hips and thighs shimmyslightly, not in the loose female fashion,
bxt no, the motion is lean and hard and the result of tight rather than
relaxed muscles. This whole evolution is repeated several times. Then the boy
shuffles round and round the open circle of watching men past the drum, past
me sitting against the wall of Andre's cay. The crouching posture is maintained
and the same rhytm is beaten out with the heels.  Then with is back to me
and his narrow buttocks almost in my lap he swims forward with this shoulders
one at a time , as baka barks, the drummers hands come down together. zxx,
Whap, whap, whap, whap,whap,whap, whap and a shimmy of the xxxxx whole back,
every muscle alive and taut. After this evolution is serveral times repeated
he turns, repeatsc the first steps with his hand toward me.  I give him two
cents and he disappears into the crowd. Another song.
Ever since I slept with you last night I have felt strange
in the pit of my stomach.
A great man pushes his hat over his eyes and shuffles out into the ring
in the same posture, throws his belly forward and letting his arms hang
loosely xx kicks sidewise with one foot after the other, like a great
clumsy bear. Shimmies, the swimming movement of the shoulders. He is given
a package of cigarettes, which he divides with the drummers, the major and
the director of the band. Bon, Andre has given the rara players all that
he intends to tonight and the drums, the majorxx , blowing his little whistle
and holding his cande high inxx the night  begin to move away through
the darkness. The crowd grown by now  into seventy -five or a hundred men
and a few women , singing, capering, arguing  and rejoicing follows. The drums
take their position before the next house and the general, leans close to the
keyhole and blows and blows his little whistle, while the drums and the singers
make a terrific fuss.  Five minutes and the door stays obstinately shut,
probably because the owners have only a little money and they are saving that
for mardi gras week itself.  So it is with the next and the next house in the
LeRoux habitation until the mardi gras band comes to Dodo's house.(1)  Dodo 
is the gros ne' of Le Roux(  a group or thirty or forty families and as
many houses). His house has a tin roof  and a front porch. he has two horses,
severl wives twenty children. A woman's arm comes out through the a crack
bwteen the door and the jamb and puts a cent in the hand of the major. The dxx
door slams and the band with drumsx, flickers away down the road to Vielle Pont,
the crowd singing and stumbling along in the dark. I left them there to rejoin
them again some four hours later about midnight at Vielle Pont.
The mardi gras band I am describing xxzorganised is organized , financed and
directed by Saul(Sadel) Polines, half brother to Revoli. Out of his yearly income
of perhaps hundred and fifty dollars he saves enough to pay the first
(1) The use of the terms-- zxzx rara and mardi gras may be a little confusing.
Mardi gras season begins the middle of January and culminates in three days
of steady dancing on the X 7,8,9 of February. Rara pracice begins directly
thereafter and culminates in holy week just before Easter. The same bands
generally paticipate in both seasons, but the dances and the rhythms are different.
It so happened that the first dances I saw on the night I am giving an
account of were rara dances. Later the dances were proper mardi gras.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.