BJ TAPE, 7A, p. 125
[*STORY:  THE FLA. CRACKER WHO PRAYED FOR RAIN*]

BJ;  This is a story that was told in Florida this was about, -- oh, I guess it's
around, in 1919.  It was, around in that time when this story
was told. An' hit was true.  Then Wahchoola[(?)], that's down
in Florida, they call it Wahchoola, Florida.  At that time, ya
know, they didn't even allow colored peoples ya know to even stop there
to git gas or nothin'.  Just a few [workmen] was workin' in the town, [certain] some
time [of] in the day, ya know, ah, early, an go out, such as the fillin'
stations an' ah. . .So they ah, they would um, they was watchin' how
the peoples was treatin' the peoples down there at that time, ya
know.  And, quite natchully, ya know, a lot of 'em 'cided they not. . .they
don't care.  Don't make any diffrence, ya see.  Don't want me
there, I don't has to be there, see?  An' um, an' so ah, as they
always has been sort of a Christ-line spirit with, with colored
people, ya know that?
     An' so this man said he was workin' at this garage.  An' ah,
at that time the weather got dry.  An' hit had been dry a long time.
No water, n-- much, had, had a time.  An' the, an' all the fields
dryin' out an' all the cattles, ya know, they needed water.  They
had to haul water from diffrunt places, an' really it was tough
down there, sho' enough.
     An' so he was workin' there in the day, you know.  An' he'd
go[o] out, know, they had leave, get out from there at night, ya
know.  An' ah, jus' a few around -- Some, some in the lil' ol' hotels
an' the big bo'din' houses. . .jus' a few colored men [an women] was workin'
around there.  And a few colored women.  But they didn' live there
an' peoples comin' through there, they wouldn't let 'em stop for,
for nothin'.  ['Cause] You know, they. . .they was mean, they was terrible.
     An' so this man said that this white man said that he
needed some rain.  An' so he said he was gonna pray for rain, ya


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.