The blues they just begin to orginate themselves in 1910.
Q: Did you ever hear of W.C.Handy?
A: No, I ain't never heard of them.
Q: I was always wondering where the bluescame from.
A: I ain't never found out where they originated from.
Q: When you were travelling did you notice that there were different
quitar styles in different towns?
A: That's quite natural. 'cause I  had a different style myself.
Q: How did you get your style?
A: From my own origination.
Q: There was a lot of people who copied you?
A: Yeh, the first one of the other I didn't keep up with their names.
Q: What made you leave Durham, North Carolina and come up North.
A: I didn't have no people there. All my people were gone. My mother
was dead, my brother got killed, wasn't nodoby there but me.
I started to travel about.
Q: Tell me about the first days in New York City?
A: The first time I was in New York City I Jimmy Long brought me here
and I was playing for the Perfect Company.
Q: Tell me about that.
A: Well you see, I wasn't waked up to the understanding about records.
The "man" ate me up.
Q: Who was Jimmy Long? Where was he from?
A: He lived in Burlington, North Carolina. He was a white man.
He carried me to New York the first time I went. It was me, Fuller and
Bull CityRed.
Q: Who was Bull City Red?
A: He  name was George Washington but we called him Bull City Red.
He played the guitar and sometimes he tried to play washboard. He sings
I SAW THE LIGHT FROM HEAVENCOME DOWN on my record.
Q: Tell me about the recording sessions? How they ran them?
A: It was just like you put it out , it would be like.Well you had to go
over each song as much as twice.
Q: How much did they pay you?
A: They didn't give us nothing of what we should have got.$40. Bull City
Red $35.
Q: Did you get mad at that?
A: No! It was nothing me ge ting mad at 'cause I wasn't waked up to it. 
Q: What type of songs did you record?
A: I couldn't tell you all about that . I made ten christian songs and two
set of blues: Mountain Jack Blues and Ice Pick Blues

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.