6.
It's of a young squire in Bristol did dwell,
An' ladies of honour they loved him well,
But it was in vain, in vain; it was said
That he was in love with the bonny milk maid.

The squire an' his sisters all sat in the hall,
An' as they sat talkin' they heard someone call;
As they were singin' the sweet mornin' song,
Pretty Betsy, the milk maid, came trippin' along.

"Do you want any milk, sir?" Pretty Betsy did say.
"Oh yes," said the squire, "step in pretty maid.
It is your fine body I much so adore,
Such a love as I never endured before."

"Oh no, sir," said Betsy, "how can you say so;
In love with the milk maid, an' in such poor clo'es.
For there are fine bodies, well built up for you,
Not wed a poor milk maid from the side of a cow."

Then the ring from his fingers he then instantly drew,
An' right in the middle, he broke it quite through.
One part he gave to her, as I have been told,
An' they both walked together down Blackberry Fold.

As they were a-walkin' this young squire did say,
"There is one thing, I warn you, my pretty maid,
If ever I force you in this open field,
The first time I force you, I will cause you to yield."

"Oh no, sir," said Betsy, "pray let me go free.
I will have you now play no such games upon me.
I love my sweet virtue as I love my dear life."
An' out of her bosom drew a long dagger knife.

Then out of her bosom this dagger she drew,
An' into his body she pierced it quite through,
Then home to her master with tears in her eyes,
Sayin', "I've wounded the squire, I'm afraid he will die."

A carriage was fetched an' the squire sent home,
A doctor was sent for to heal up his wound.
His wound being dressed an' in bed he did lay,
"Oh Betsy, oh Betsy," 'twas all he did say.

Now Betsy was sent for an' shivering went on
"I'm sorry," said Betsy, "for what I have done."
"The wound that yougave me was all my own fault,
So don't let such things still remain in your thought."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.