Tape:  #221 cont.    4

in the square dance and in the religious music, particularly in
the sacred harp, it sums them all up.   It combines them all.    And
that takes a long time; it took a hundred and fifty years and it
was a work of tremendous genious by the people who did it.   And you
feel it all shimmering in the magnificent works that we have heard
here, and the result is we have an American music that matches the 
best thing of Eastern Europe.  It is wild and splendid and full-bodied
and multi-parted and multi-dimensional as the music of Ukraine, or
of Marcedonia, where I suppose. . .or the music of the Corsics, where
I suppose the greatest of all polyphonic choruses--choral music
resides.   And I think the sound that we recorded today will simply
knock the hearts off the Russians when they hear it.   And seeing
their faces. . .these people look like a bunch of north Russian peasants
singing their religious songs, and these songs are not really
different, you know.   There is that too which is so incredible and
the whole thing could have boiled itself up and all this--reformation
and Scotch-Irish and Cornwall and Lord knows what else has produced
for us a music that is a match of any polyphonic music in the world.
That is what sacred harp is for American culture, and I think that
some day, not too far off we will have thousands of Americans singing
it--hundreds of thousands. . .

Do you think so?

Yes, I do.   But look at what happened to Blue grass;   after all
the banjo was only hangging on the wall forty years ago;nobody played
the banjo-- the banjo now is an everyday American time, being
beautifully played. The thing is it is harder to learn how to sing
with. . .it will take longer with this.
        I guess I have a hope, but at the same time I have a certain
fear, that in being accepted, this could also be taken over somewhat
as bluegrass has been.

Yea?

Somewhat taken over, but bluegrass has certainly not lost its
appeal.
        But among these documents that we have, what you are. . .break

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.