nagea 60 cycles

Tape 12        Vieux Port. VIII
small            1) Libert, Libert-o   ,                             conte told by Vitalis Victor.
                            Begins with song  as above. The story is about a girl
                     who didn't want to love anyone. her mother agrees--whatever 
                     is your wish is my wish. Then she changed her mind and she
                     married Libert , but the king got interested in her.  Whilst
                     lying next to his wife, Libert someone calling...
                               
                             Libert, Libert-o

                     Then Libert opened the door and he turned into a mule. He placed
                     his f ront and back legs in position and then he farted. His 
                     wife said, "Aye aye aye."
                             Libert, Libert-o.
                     Now Libert is turned into a mule, he can't answer. He can only
                     say...
                                   Um-um---
                     Libert farted again and then he fell down on the pitch (road).
                     And he begins to sing....
                         la.  Aye- yi-yi Congo     gilon,
                                          Jubilant            (Victor then improvises 
                           The wife is dancing with her husband...t e mother does not know...
                      she opens her dress... my husband (obviously copulation is occurring)
                      ... O O my darling wife...Madam is groaning...It feels like he's using
                      his four hooves..>My mother did not want you to be my husband...

                      (This is the song-story whic h the old man sung when I ased him for 
                      the most beautiful song he knew.)
New Index             Contact...Derek Lewis, fisherman, town counciler, union organise
Tape 12            Oleon...July 21...Contact Jean Pierre Horace...
Small                1) Introduction...by Jean Pierre...he's asking for order...
                         2) Bien et bonjour, Jean Pierre Horace and nine men... abew
Ampex               Bien et bonjour, mait XX maitreesse
50 cycles            Aller au XXXchalet
                                (repeated by chorus)
                                        la ro didans si moin
                           Entree XXXXXXXX XXXZ charmeau
                                                    villagers
                                             The  XXXXXX are going to a castle to pay their respects
                            to t e lord of the manor on the occasion of t e wedding his
                            daughter( there is a speed change in the middle)  we have worked very
                             hard for you, XXXXXXX and only death would part us.....

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.