File Bessie Jones

April 24, 1963

Dear Bess,
You'll have to forgive me for not writing you promptly about the
transcriptions.  Victor and I looked over them and they looked
very good, but I'll have to postpone my comments until another
day.  I have been working very hard and am not very well and
right now there is a tremendous demand on my time so that I can
never finish anything.  I suppose you know that situation.

What I have to get to is Bessie Jones' immediate problem.  Attached
are the contracts which she sent me for inspection.  I
don't feel, on the whole, that these are very adequate documents.
If Ed keeps managing her, it seems to me that he should have
better contracts for her than letters saying that she is involved
in such-and-such a date because she is carrying five people all
over the country and messes can be involved, as you know.

Second, it seems to me that the fees that Ed is now paying her
are too low for five people, and the lowest one is for their
week's engagement at Ed's own club.  I told him over the 'phone
in a mild sort of way what I thought about this, and I only hope
that we can increase the size golden egg without killing the
goose.  Also, their fee for their appearance at the UCLA Folk
Festival is low for five people, when they are going to occupy
such an important part of the program.  As I see it, they are
going to make about $4,000 for a total of almost three months
away from home. which is an average of $800 apiece.  If you
subtract $250.00 for just their transportation, that leaves them
$600 clear for three months, which is $200 a month, and not very
high pay.  Bessie has got to learn how to think this way.

There are a couple of minor points.  First is about the movie.
Their $1,000 fee should not represent outright sale to the 
University.  They should retain their rights in the film if 
it is used for any kind of theatrical or television distribution.
No artist should ever sell anything outright when he
is being paid wages for his time.  The final point is about
recording at the Festival.  I think there will be albums coming
out of these affairs and they should have a regular royalty agreement
for their participation in the albums, completely apart from 
their participation in the festivals.  I think this is agreed,
but it must be spelled out before they are recorded.

Ed tells me that he is going to make up to them for giving them
a low weekly salary at the Ash Grove by furnishing lodging between
May 19 and June 11.  This ought to be checked.

Bess, you cannot overemphasize with this group the importance
of their sticking exactly to the music and movement model that
they have had established for them in their community, and you
should really raise hell if they depart from it in the least bit.
As you work with them, they are going to constantly uncover new

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.