Lomax: Didn't do any good though, I guess, did it?
Robts:   Well, they just shifted their quarters and ran it
             in somewhere else -- it didn't do any good, no. You
             know, there's -- you've heard of the tale of 
             Margaret Catchpole have you?
Lomax: No.
Robts:  O, she was a famous woman up our river. She was a 
            maid-servant in a farm two reaches up, and she worked
            for a man called Cobald. Well, she had a boy friend
            you'd call 'im nowadays, by the name of Will Lord.
            Now Will Lord was a sailorman and a boat builder. He
            built boats and he sailed them, and he was a smart
            chap at sea. Well, he took to smuggling because of 
            the money in it. He smuggled for an Ipswich merchant.
            Well, Will Lord, when he came to Pinmill, he used to
            go and see Margaret Catchpole - who lived at Nacton
            Heath, opposite, opposite Pinmill, near enough, you
            know. Well, he used to have supper there and knew her
            folks, and when the time was ripe to run the cargo
            further up the river, a man named John Lough, who was
            a murderous character and quite ruthless, used to give
            her the tip, because he used to keep watch from the 
            Button Oyster at Pinmill. There was a little place
            further up the river called the Cat House - it still
            is called the Cat House, because when the smugglers'
            ships that was in Pinmill, and it was not safe to run
            the cargo further up towards Ipswich, there was no
            cat in the window, but when it was safe and no excise
            men about, they put a cardboard cut, I dare say, of a 
            cat against the lamp in the window, you see. Well then
            they used to muster from Pinmill on the next flood,
            provided the cat was still in the window, and sail on
            and land the stuff on the Hard, which we now call the
            Strand, and run it up country, very often in the care
            of a man named Cullum, who was once engaged in a 
            pretty fierce skirmish right up as far as Brandon,
            which is well inland.
               But Will Lord and John Lough and Margaret Catchpole 
            made history around us. In the Jolly Sailor at
            Alford, you'll still see the notice for the arrest of 
            Margaret Catchpole, offering a reward, and that's
            because when she wanted to join Will Lord in London, -
            Will Lord had gone to London, -- she stole a horse
            from her employer's stable, and rode to London to join
            him at Aldgate. But she was caught, and horse-stealing
            then was a crime for which you hung. The horse was a 
            thing of much greater value than it is now. You were

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.