      Otherwise this has been an interesting four days.  Zora had found 
about here a young giant of a Negro, named Gabriel Brown, whom I judge
to be the most accomplished guitar player I have so far heard, especially
with a knife.  He doesn't have the fire or the passion of Lead Belly, but
his tricks and turns and titillations on the guitar are something marvelous.
He is a sweet persona and quite young.  I have written to Mr. Satherley
about him.  We have recorded a few worksongs, a few spirituals and some 
game songs.  One version of Casey Jones and of Frankie, but otherwise no
ballads.  These two make three ballads for the trip when the version of 
Railroad Bill we recorded in Frederica is counted.  Lots of John Henry
all over the place.
     The machine does beautiful work, now that I have learned how to handle
and cater to its few idiosyncrasies.  Miss Barnicle, Zora, and I make a 
reasonable happy combination although at times I have to act as a buffer
between the two ladies.  But Zora is worth a lot to both of us, since
she can really tell us and really does tell us about the people we come
in contact with.
     Miss Barnicle is spending her July, August and September salaries on
this trip.  For the past ten days I have been living off her bounty, I
along with the car, the recording machine, and our guide, Miss Hurston.
Since we are doing such good work, since we are working so hard and successfully,
since you and I and the Library are going to get the credit and the 
results of the expedition, I think I ought to pay at least my share of the
expenses.  We are living very cheaply.  Zora arranges it so that we have 
no outlay for liquor or tips in this country.  But I do need money.  I don't
know how you expected me to be able to cash a check, or why you wanted us
to spend our time trying to case a check when we need all our nervous energy
for the job we have to do.  Please in the future send me money orders or 
cash in a registered letter.  I haven't been able to go to the post office or
the telegraph office as yet to see whether you have sent the money as I
wired, but I hope you have; because Miss Barnicle is fast running out of
cash what with bearing all the expenses...  Before I forget it.  I have 
advised Miss Barnicle to ask Mr. Thompson to bill you for the hundred records
she had sent to Brunswick and to save her money to have whatever copies 
she needs made for her work.  I trust you will see the reasonableness of 
this and write from your end.
     Mabe you and Miss Terrill can meet the three of us at Tallehassee at
the end of July and we can work the penitentiary together. I do not 
believe we'll be through our work in the lower part of this state much before 
that time.  The charming six year old Negro girl is watching me write
this says "They call me Cooter, 'cause I go round and find a big ol' 
gopher name cooter."  My love to all my dear family,

                                                                      Alan
Next address:  West Palm Beach, Fla.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.