The Princess Royal: Jumbo Brightwell. 

1) On the 14th of February when they sailed from the land 
In the bold Princess Royal bound for Newfoundland, 
With forty bright seamen for our ship's company, 

2) Now we hadn't been a-sailing scarce a day two or three, 
When a man at our mast said strange sails he did see, 
Come a-bearing down upon us for the see what we were, 
And on her mizzen black colours she wore. 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

The Barley Straw - Harry Cox. 

1) So it's of a jolly old farmer lived in the west counteree, 
He had the finest daughter that ever my eyes did see, 
Tis of a rich old squire was living there close by, 
And he vowed he wouldn't be easy until he had a try. 

2) So he dressed himself as a tinker and travelled on his way, 
Until he came to the farmer's house was standing there closy by, 
"O have you got any kettles, any pots or pans to mend ? 
Or have you got any lodgings, my being a single man ?" 
"Oh no," replied this pretty fair maid, not thinking any harm, 
[3)] "O you can stay with us all night, if you sleep in our old barn." 

3) So after tea was over she went to make his bed, 
The tinker following after, which stole her maidenhead, 
The tinker being nimble, jumped up and barred the door, 
And she slept all night in the tinker's arms amongst the barley-straw. 

4) "Now since I've slept with you all night don't think me none the worse." 
He put his hand in his pocket and pulled out a heavy purse. 
"Here's £50 I will give you to pay the nurse's fee, 
And if ever I come this way again, fair maid I will marry thee." 

5) So now you cannot marry me, pray tell to me your name, 
Likewise your occupation, and whence and where you came ?" 
He whispered softly in her ear, "O call me Davie Shaw, 
And if I ever come this way again, remember the barley-straw." 

6) Now six months being over and nine months being come, 
This pretty little fair maid was the mother of a son. 
The old man cried, "O daughter, dear, who has done you this harm ?" 
"I'm afraid it was the old tinker that slept in our old barn." 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.