Banjo Strummer's Album
To Get National Hearing
By K. W. Cook

    Gus Cannon, 79-year-old banjo-playing Negro of 1510
Rozelle whose song "Walk Right In" ranks third in na-
tional popularity, signed a contract last night to make a
12-song album which will be distributed nationally by At-
lantic Records of New York.
    Ray Meaders, talent scout for 
Atlantic, said the album will in-
clude Mr. Cannon's original ver-
sion of "Walk Right In," which
was written about 1913.
    "We hope to get other songs
he's written on the album, too,"
Mr. Meaders said. "In any case,
it'll be a folk song album contain-
ing all the old numbers Mr. Can-
non can remember."
    The album will be produced
by Stax Record Co., of 926 East
McLemore and appear under the 
Stax label. The company made 
tapes Sunday night during a two-
hour audition by Mr. Cannon at
its studios.

Gus Cannon (photo)
-Staff Photo

    Jim Stewart, president of Stax, declined to predict
sales of the proposed album but said, "It has great
potential. We think it'll sell but we're going to have 
to do it right."
    Mr. Stewart became interested in Mr. Cannon's music
after a story about the banjo player appeared in The
Commercial Appeal.
    Mr. Cannon sold his rights to "Walk Right In" last
week for $500 and one-fourth of the royalties. However,
Mr. Meaders said he believed the agreement applied only
to the arrangement which is currently on record.
    After Mr. Stewart read the newspaper story about
Mr. Cannon Saturday, he telephoned Atlantic Records
which sent Mr. Meaders to Memphis to see if the banjo
player could sing.

    "He is one of the last of the old time banjo players,"
Mr. Meaders said. "Whenever a record company hears
about one, it's always eager to sign a contract with him."
    The contract with Mr. Cannon includes an option
clause for other records if his first album becomes
a hit.

Cou-Appeal
Feb. 19, 1963

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.