Jean: O yea, certainly they did.  That was the worst times for it.
In the old days - they always had a man picked out that was suited
for their daughter, and usually, if he had a good background or
money, he had a good chance.  Didna matter what kind of face he had.
Lomax: These songs - they represent the real way that women feel
about love, don't they?
Jean: Yes. It's the right way.
Lomax: I mean, this is the way you feel...Nobody could get
in the way of your true love, could they?
Jean: No indeed they would not.  I would take nobody that I didna
want.
Lomax: Actually your parents did try to interfere, didn't they?
Jean: Yes, oh yes.
 Lomax: Tell me about how it happened.  You knew your husband all
your life, didn't you?
Jean: O yes. I went to school with him.  First school we ever went
to was in Blairgowrie, both me and him.  I was five and he was six,
and of course, I knew him all my days after that, although we
had been years out of each other's company.
Lomax: Did you like him when he was a little boy?
Jean: No. I couldn't say that I did.  And I couldn't say that I
had any love for him as I grew up.  Of course, we was never
together - but he was always in the same part of the country that
I was in - but we did finally stay in each other's company and
that was when the courtship started, and we courted for a month,
and then our parents kicked up a row.  Well, they didn't want me to
take my husband, and his people didn't want him to take me.  You see,
because, well, our people were the same people, and thought we
shouldna get married - sort of second cousins, you see.  Well, they
just started a little bit of trouble -- got up among them --- and
we run away, and we got married in Aberdeen.  We went right in to
Aberdeen and went to an Aunt and Uncle of his, and put in the
[xxxx] and were married in St. Mary's Cathedral in Huntley Street,
Aberdeen,
Lomax: And you were very happy weren't you?
Jean: Yes, apart from having plenty of trouble and missing
things. -- it was something that he coulna help anymore than I
could help my ilness.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.