always telling me that I'm not playing this thing right
because there's one way to play and that's his way to play
it. It's a certain bow technique that makes the strings
sing and only Dennis McGee and Sady Courville can do that.

A. LOMAX

And it's also because they're very rare in the fact that
they played with this great black musician Amadie. I mean
that wasn't something that happened all the time, was it?

M. DOUCET
[*1B20*]
Well, it was, I guess it was just the formation of music.
What we know as Cajun music now was made by Amadie Ardoim, 
Dennis McGee, Sady Courville, Ernest Fruge, Angela Lejeune, 
who were lucky to record in that old time. It's not the
music of Joe Falcon. I call this music "North of I-10", or 
"North of Highway 90". It's a different of music than you
heard around around Lafayette or Rayne. It's a kind of
music of the prairies. It's music from Acadians but it's 
also from Des Sauvages and also from French peoples who came
to thsi area and it's also very important that it's
influenced by Amadie Ardoin who might have had a black 
pigment to his skin but his soul was definitely white if
that could be, his soul was definitely - it surpassed any 
colors and I think that's what Dennis and Sady showed us, is
not to be prejudiced about anybody's - but just to look inside
of them - and see what they have. Like Dennis has explained
to me before that Amadie was the best singer he ever heard, 
he could hit notes and when he sang he could see all the way 
down his throat. And I think they were really good friend
and I think that means a lot to us nowadays.

A. LOMAX

One of the rare cases I ever heard about in the South where
two great musicians - that happened too with Bill Monroe, you
know, he learned from a black man in his group. In their
days you think they really went around and played together, 
from what you can make out? 

M. DOUCET

Well, they did. It was like that team.  Like Dennis said
Amadie could play for whites with Dennis because Dennis
could take care of him, and if they had to play for a black
dance after that then Amadie would take care of Dennis. So
it was a perfectly brother relationship.

A. LOMAX  .

So you think that Cajun music is really an intertwining of
Black and White?



Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.