- 15 -
"I'm up now and I'll easy put the men through their work.
I'll easy do all the necessary things." "You should go
back to your bed and sleep till you be rested, and half
comfortable." I never saw a man going into the bed and
wrap himself into the blankets with a sigh of contentment
like what he did.
     No, I went to the Market and I said to this chap "I'm
going to........" And I fee-ed this man Morrison. That's
the date of that. And I said to this Matthew man "I'm
going to fee a man to......" That meant, you see, that
he would lose my horse......"Lord" he says. This man
says "What are you going to do that for?" . ."I thought he'd
be a decent tractable lad if he'd half do it....."
     Well, I went to the market and I could have fee-ed a 
dozen second horseman, but whenever I mentioned the horse
- "To hell with yourself", just at once, "To hell with
yourself". And I came no speed, you see, but I was sticking
in to my work and thinking I would do it and maybe get a wee
tick of fun as well. . . . . 
     Well, well. . . . . . this man that missed his market - one of 
the greatest men of the whole district, Morrison . . . . . And he
had had a nip or two. . . . . . Comes in about to me, and he says
to me "Craigie" - people always called you by the name of the
farm - he called me "Craigie" this man did. He said "You
wouldn't fee me"and I said "There's no man on earth that
would fee you so ready".  But I said "I haven't a job for
you". "What job have you?" "Oh" I said, "second horseman".
"Couldn't I be second horseman?" "Michty" I said "I'd be
delighted," but I said "I've begun with this feeing shelter
I can't louse your shelter if I'm working the farm and working
the horses." "But" I said "If you're emptying turnips at the 
shed there, and I think your horse will stand, you can come and 
louse my shelter, without all your bloody preliminaries and 
all your capers that you will ha'e". Oh Lord, he would do that.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.