[*349-1200
night - Audio Vis - 349 - 0175*]
[*?i91200*]
SAN FERNANDO VALLEY STATE COLLEGE
1811 NORDHOFF STREET  NORTHRIDGE, CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

April 29, 1963

Alan Lomax, Esq.,
121 West 3rd Street
New York, New York.

Dear Mr. Lomax:

The Anthropology Department here has established a film-making unit for the production 
of experimental films, especially ones dealing with primitive art and music.
The College itself has first-rate studios, some equipment, and, most important of
all, access to professional, volunteer talent from nearby Hollywood. The result
has been a slow, but steady, stream of completed films which win awards but to
date have never cleared expenses.  Financing is irregular: bits from various College 
budgets, trades, etc., but mostly out of our own pockets.

We would like to film the Georgia Sea Island group on May 11th and 12th; specifically, 
it's proposed to use three 35 mm cameras, with b & w film, in a sound
studio.  The three cameramen are each Academy Award winners; the sound technician 
is first-rate; the lighting man is one of the best in the industry.  What I'm saying
is that the chances are good that we can get technically competent results,
something rarely achieved  in most folk music films.

We have no budget.  No one will or can be paid now.  I'm going to carry personally
the cost of film and processing; beyond that I have no immediate suggestions.
Foundations have backed previous efforts by us in this regard and I'm sure, if we
get good footage, there will be no problem with this film.  Such grants, when
made to this College, are addressed to the San Fernando Valley State College
Foundation; we complete the film with 50% royalties paid to the singers and the remaining 
50% kept by the foundation.  No salaries or royalties are paid to any of 
the film-makers, save those covering lab fees, A&B roll cutting, and track mixing.

This is a highly unprofessional way to make films, but what are the alternatives?
I see my own role here as simply that of an anthropologist anxious to preserve
data and to preserve it with sufficient technical skill so that it can some day 
be disseminated.  The financial side doesn't interest me.  I'm not indifferent to 
money, but I can make it easier other ways and I think it just complicates things
when the question comes up in efforts such as this.  So our group long ago decided 
not to ask for or accept any royalties.  Of course, a lot of this is irrelevant; 
such films rarely make money.  However, we aren't interested in making
films with any thoughts in mind about returns, audiences or distributors; such factors 
just muck up a good subject.

[*5/9 - Ret'd. New Contract*]

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.