2488B1  Beginning
- was a foremost Columbia star - that is, a blues singing star and
her husband was a very good pianist.  He used to assist me a lot of 
times in Chicago and I knew him very well.  So Bridstop, she didn't
like the idea that I had checked up on her and caught her stealing, so
she decided to try to do a little undercover work.  And she did some under-
cover work - sent for Hageman.  I believe at that time Hageman was in
New York City.  But instead of Hageman coming by himself (-?) came along
with him.  I walked into the place like I used to do every day to get
my meals - at the Cadillac, the place I was working.  I walked in - I seen
somebody strolling across to the piano and I happened to glance around
and I say "that looks like Hageman to me."  I say, "Hageman?" He say,
"Wo's talking?" Say, "Jelly Roll."  Say, "O, gee, I'm glad to see you."
"I'm glad to see you, too."  I'd always throw a lotta words his way,
so he's glad to see me, naturally I say, "What are you doing here."  He
say, "I'm gonna work here."  "Where at?"  "Right here where I'm playing 
the piano."  I say, "You mean at the Cadillac?"  I say, "You don't mean
you're working here?"  "Yeah, I'm working here."  I say, "That's strange, 
I been working here all the time and they didn't tell me a thing
about it."  I said, "All right, don't worry about it."
     So he was very sorry to know that he had came to take my job and,
of course, I knew nothing about it.  So the boss happened to be there -
Murray - and I asked him what kinda tricks he was pulling.  So he said,
"Well, I was hard to get along with, not realizing that I was right and
the party was wrong in stealing the money and "he just sent and got somebody
as good as me."  I told him - okay, that I would close the joint in two 
weeks.  Well, it might not a been two weeks, but it wasn't any more than
two weeks and a half that it was (really?) closed.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.