[*Scotland*]

Palais du Chaillot
ATP
Paris, 6, France,
Oct 10, 1950.

Dear Dr. Campbell,

I believe you will know me from my various publications in 
the field of American folk song. So, without further introduction,
I would like to invite your help in a project of interest to all 
folk song specialists...
A world library of folk and primitive music...
The Columbia Record Company of New York has asked me to assemble 
material for this librarry for them--- one long playing 12 inch record
--about one hour of music from every nation or region--- and all the
material authentic folk song, recorded wherever possible in the 
field from country singers and players... I haven't yet seen Brailoiu 
but I plan to work with him so that our two plans will dovetail and 
supplement one another.
As you know, one of my big problems is to find good records 
made in the British Isles. I have written BBC and Miss Karpeles already. 
Do you know of other sources? What is the scope of your own collection? 
Would you be willing to help to edit the British record?
Practical details: Each album will have an editor or co-eeitors, 
authroities in the field, who will be paid a modest honorarium in 
dollars. Regular royalties will be paid the archives furnishing the 
material so that singers can receive a recompense or the money can
be used for further collecting. That will de at the descetion of the 
archive.  In connection with the British record, sales should be quite
good.
Actually the conditions of this publication are, for the 
scientist and folk-music enthusiast practically ideal. Columbia does 
a fine technical job. They are leaving it up to me and to my colleagues 
such as Seeger, Herzog, Schiffner, etc., about what should be included. 
I think that in two or three years a musical library of the peoples of 
the world might be a reality--- and out of that will come the use of
long-playing master records to preserve all our best things from decay.
Well, I'm an optimist, but one must be when one sets out on
a long job... Would you be so kind as to give me a hand and write me
right away because I'm just at the beginning of the long pull.
Yours sincerely,
Alan Lomax

P.S..  I have brought to Europe with me a machine to make master 
copies. It can be done here. At BBC London. I can even 
go into the field for supplementary material where necessary, 
although I don't have much money.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.