[*T3337*]

TAPE 84. BLAXHALL SHIP TAVERN. SUFFOLK.

The Bonny Buch of Roses-o
1) By the dangers of the ocean one morning the middle of the month of June,
    The [feathering wongsters] feathered warbling songsters sang so charminglye of 
                                                                                                               grief and woe.
    There I espied a female, seeminglye in grief and woe,
    Conversing with young Bonyparte concerning the bonny bunch of roses-o.
2) "O now," said young Napoleon, as he grasped his mother by the hand.
    "Mother, do have patience until I am able to take command.
    I will raise a terrible army and through tremendous danger I will go,
    And in spite of all that unity I willgain that-a bonny bunch of roses-o."
3) Now he took five hundred thousand men [and likxx] likewise a king [was on] to 
                                                                                                   join his throng,
    For he was so well provided, enough to sweep this world along.
    But when he came near Moscow, he was overpowered by the driven snow,
    And Moscow got ablaze then and he lost that-a bonny bunch of roses-o.
4) No, mother, with my great adventurers, England is the heart of oak,
    England, Ireland and Scotland, their unity has never been broke.
    But son, look at your father; in St. Helena his body lays low,
    And you will follow after, so be aware of the bonny bunch of roses-o.
5) Now, mother, adieu forever, and now I'm on my dying bed.
    If I lived I should have been clever, but now I've lost my youthful head.
    And while our bones will moulder and weeping willows o'er it grow,
    For the days of old Napoleon he will sting that-a bonny bunch of roses-o. 

Barman: Order please, ladies and gentlmen. I will now call on 
our friend Jack French to oblige with a small ditty.

The Good Ship Dolphin:
1) It was on the 14th of July in Liverpool we did lie,
    Lie waiting for fresh orders and our anchor for to weigh.
    Bound out for the coast of Africa when our orders they run so,
    We're bound to sink or destroy, my boys, wherever we may go.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.