BJ TAPE 20, p. 72
(WOMEN IN CH. OF GOD IN CHRIST)
we got some men that'll pull 'em down!  'Cause when they come
down, those head officials come down, like Elder Miller an'
diffrunt ones?  An 'they come down an' ketch 'em there, they
put 'em to the side.  Yes, they will, 'cause it's right to do
right.  An' it ain't right for one part to carry it one way an'
some carry it another way, but to go straight through with the
whole auxilliary.  You know?  From, from Africa to Maine, anywhere
in the world.  There's supposed to be one place so when you go
there you know where you are, you see?  An' all these diffrunt
lil' names that come out, an' sayin' they Church of God in Christ,
they are Church of God in Christ.  But this name come out; they
 thought in this way, this auxilliary thought in this way that
they would pull off, you know, an' have some of their own.  But long
as you have that "in" out there, that "Church of God in Christ,"
you in that band.  'Cause they ain't given to nobody but Elder
Mason.  See.  God hand it down to him.  An' ya cain't be misled,
nowhere, 't all, at all, however; ya cain't be misled in it.  Because the
"in" in it is complete.  An' anybody under Heaven, don't care where
they at, they ain' in church a God in Christ, they in nothin'.
You know what I mean?  I don't mean in, in the Church that I'm
in.  I mean any church you be, anywhere you at, if you ain't in
God an' in Christ, you're out a everything, you see?  An' that 
why, that's why Elder Mason -- the Lord handed down to Elder
Mason, it (come as the lamb ? - cover the land ?), see?
TL:  Bessie, do you think that this "by your side but separate
from you" goes for the male-female relationships?  You know, the
way that the men act toward the women and the women toward the
men in marriage?  In most families you know?  You know, the
women shouldn't lead and don't lead, as a matter of fact, in
in marriage.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.