2. Mardi gras, Leogane

In Leogane, however, two of the bands followed vaxines
as well as tambours, four of the bamboo pipes. Two about
four feet long, one about a feet and a half and the other
a foot and a half long. The two great vaxines were about four
inches in diameter and grunts so deep that they could hardly
be recorded at all.

The songs of the mascaron and chaille-o-pieds bands
are consistently vulgar, the most ribald songs I have ever heard,
with a ribaldry by the side of which all sailor songs, soldier
songs, work songs, etc., seen adolescent bawdry. The
Haitians as a group are the frankest people in sexual matters
I have ever met. They have no fears about their bodies. Men and
women bathe by in the ditches beside all the public highways.
No one thinks that the processes of excretion are things
to be ashamed of and hidden. Sex is a normal appetite with
certain unpleasant economic responsibilities attached. But women
here are as shy as animals and anything like promiscuity except
on the part of certain professionals who are concentrated in
the cities is simply unheard of. Illegitimate children are the
rule rather than the exception since marriage is too expensive
a luxury to be indulged in by many. In mardi gras
and rara seasons, therefore, the people enjoy themselves just as
we do in our night clubs, by making gestures of wickedness. They
go about the streets shouting bawdy songs at the tops of their
voices and dancing the mascaron, which mimics all the movements
of courtship and sexual intercourse; but the spirit of the
season is not one of passion but of a coarse gaiety that seems
at times frankly satirical. 

The singing, itself, was as fine as I have heard in Haiti.

112 a and B
baka
The boula drummer begins the song by himself, then the crowd
of 150 joins in. The drums start and then the vaxines. The microphone
is moved before the microphone for a moment. By this time
the mait' chanson has taken over the task of leading the song.
The microphone is moved directly in front of him, Then
raised to get more perspective of the crowd. The drums come back
into the record strongly. The baka
drummer is rubbing his drum with his thumb to make up for the
absence of the bass, or great tambourine which is a part of
most such bands and is always rubbed. Vaxines. The mait'chanson
sings song solo. The drummer speaks or rather chants the words.
A)
Morris-o, Morris-o, (2)
Wo-------,
M'a pare un bois pou' yo,
Pou' Morris qui touer bruler,
A'a pare un bois pou' yo, wo---
(repeated by crowd, by crowd and leader with variations),

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.