[*12*]
[*76*]

I hit him with a pool ball and he jumped up like a rubber ball.
Had some balls waiting and aimed again and hit him. Jumped on
him and hit him with balls and cue. That gave me a name. "Don't 
fool with him; he like to kill Chicken Dick."

Eloise Blackinstein and Louise Aberdeen's place was a rendezvous
for all the big sports. Had beautiful furniture. Met Pensacola
Kid in there. He was a musician. Tony (Jackson) was around. Knew
lots more songs than I did. Guys used to say: "Get off that piano
stool, you hurting that piano's feelings."

Lemon Pool -- Couple of guys play together. Try to hustle someone out
of money. Say very encouraging things to guy you want to beat.
Raise the bet that way. Get someone to put up rest of the money.
When the game breaks up, you leave and meet each other at another
pool room.

Went to Texas to play pool. Used to fix the guys so they would
think they were in hard luck. Other guys couldn't get good shots.
Was doing a lot of winning and they slipped up a guy on me, Joe
Jackson, a shark backed by Lucius Lomax, a rich guy in Houston who
owned the pool room. He didn't want me to clip all his trade. I
shot left handed as well as right. There was a guy betting against 
me who worked for the Chief of Police. I was shooting left handed
and after a while I changed right handed. I made it very tough for
him. I beat Joe. After I beat him a couple of times, this guy
pulled out a pistol. Said I was robbing him of his money. He
was shooting. Somehow or other I got under the pool table. That 
stopped me for a while playing pool.

Later on I got a tailor shop. Got the tenderloin trade. I was
playing at Thelma Denton's and Joseph Sassa's. This district
was called the Reservation -- strictly white trade in these two houses.

Anna May Fritz was going with this tough guy that did the shooting
(in Lomax' sal[l]oon). Anna May and I stopping at the same place.
Anna May was a personal friend of Rosie Brown, a personal friend of
mine. The tough guy got wind of the fact that I was trying to stop
Rosie Brown from going with Anna May. (At this time I thought it
was important to have a big desk to be a business man. Had a cigar
in my mouth and feet on the desk.) Anna May and I had an argument.
I slapped Rosie in the face and said I would murder her if she didn't 
do what I said. Tough guy came in and threatened me. I had a pistol 
in the drawer. I told him not to come any further. "Don't
cross me no more. I heard you say the Chief can get you out, but
you can't get out of where I will put you because I'm going to
put you in the ground."

There two prominent pimps around.. One of them -- very good looking,
called Black Dude. Other was Jesse MacBeth. They seemed to be
very successful -- they were friendly with me. Fellow by the name

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.