I've been referring to songs of a stanzaic structure in which the
same basic melody is repeated for each verse.  In her ring shouts
(e.g. Drive Old Satan Away) I tried another system which perhaps
should be explained more fully on the music copy itself.  On these
I transcribed again the base tune and then added a sort of compendium
of variant phrases which I hope will make sense to a reader when he
looks at the structure of the accompanying text.  If you don't like 
either or both of these systems, let me know and I can change them.

    4)  Concerning vocal rhythm, I suspect you will feel
I have been too complicated.  I have tried to
simplify matters by using the two eighth note system instead of the
[* use grace [mofer] all the way through - unobtrusive dotted lines*] dotted eighth and sixteenth (both of which are really incorrect
methods of writing the gapped tripletrhythm she uses so much).   If
there is any question of publication, some indication should be made
of this, as I believe the jazz convention is to write this with
the dotted eight-sixteenth business; I started out this way but dis-
carded it because I don't believe anybody but a jazz player could
read it with any ease.  I suspect you will not like the frequency [*over*]
with which I have used the jumped beat -- (two notes tied across
the bar line).  I will take most of them out if you want but they
do add enormously, I think.  I've experimented with the girls on
reading these and find if they read it first ignoring
the note before the bar line, they can easily get it in the second
time around.  Again, if you are considering doing a book of
Bessie, I could easily write some sort of introduction outlining
with counts her most characteristic rhythms, which I think would
clarify the matter for average readers.  I transcribed some of her
clapping and foot-tapping patterns in some detail; they are interesting
and fun to try and my feeling is that even if people don't get them
exactly, they will add enormously to the effect of the songs.

    5)  Concerning the text transcriptions, I have made a 
few changes and some of the texts, I think, should be re-aligned.
Since I am not clear on what you want to do with these songs, I have
hesitated to do any text editing, but there are a few cases where
I think something should be done.  Going to Chattanooga has me
stuck, for example; it is obviously originally a guitar piece in
blues form, but she sings it each time with the various melodic
phrases repeated a different number of times to different sections
of the text.  It seems to me probably a twelve bar blues in its origi-
nal state; but she lengthens it to sixteen; condenses it to eight
and adds a couple of beats here and there wherever she feels like it.
Musically, I could write the tune in two lines, indicating that the
various phrases are repeated two or three times as the singer
wishes, but showing how this fits the text is remarkably difficult.
For publication, I would suggest re-editing her text; for scientific
interest, it should probably be transcribed as is; in the latter case
since I have been unable to figure how to boil it down, be prepared for
several pages of music.  In connection with the ring shouts, if you 
don't think my system of a catalogue of variant phrases would work,
it seems to me the texts will have to be systematized so that a
single melodic verse structure can be written out.

    I am sorry the copying looks so amateurish; I am just 
not good at that sort of thing and have few hopes for myself in future.
I am also not satisfied with the descriptive phrases at the headings;
perhaps as I go on I will hit on some better ideas.

    I am sure I will think of 70 or 80 other things but will

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.