REVEREND GARY DAVIS   INTERVIEW, SEPTEMBER 4, 1962

-------------------------------------------------------------

Q: How long did you know Blind Boy Fuller?
A: I known him quite a bit. I met his wife first. She xxx had gotten away from her. She come to my house & I met her in the streets the first time. Lookin' for him. I taken her home with me to my mother's house. She had been out all night long and hadn't slept yet.Given her my bed so she could lay down and sleep.Next day she she happened to stumble up upon him, you know. He had got away from her and she didn't know where he was.She was awful fond of him. She was crazy about him.She never wanted to get too far from him.I can't talk too much about it because you woman known how it is, even if you ain't married , when you come across somebody that you love you like to keep them close to yoy.
So, she's out hunting for him, and she stopped at my house, and got up next morning, give her breakfast, and she happened    to run up upon him in North Durham somewhere, playing   guitar.
Q: Where you singing blues than.
A: Oh yeh, I was a "blues cat" than. What I mean by a "blues cat" is that I played blues, and blues and blues again and again.
Q: Where were you playing?
A: I would go to parties, dances and things like that. Chittlin' struts- all that kind of stuff.
Q: You still play some of that music now?
A: No, I don't care nothing about that now. I done got to old for that. I have a gal now and (when) we both got aquainted xxx with one another so we  both feel in lxxing with one another. He used to come around me When I first run across him he didn't know how to play but one piece and  hat was with a knife.He wantedto take some of my training . I sit down and he'dcome up to my house everyday and sit down and play. I taught him how to play. 
Finally last, we got together  ith this  white man- Jimmy Long- want somebody to come to New York and make records.We got together. The first trip we all went together. I and him and Bull City Red. That's when we made records together. 
He put out the song about "The Stuff Is Here" and nother one about ""The little red rooster said to the little red hen to meet him down at the barn at half-past ten".Another song- "sure as you're born Ida, Somebody's been playing with that thing". That's  what he played.
I couldn't hardly think of all that we played together.Most   of anything he come to know about was Buddy Moss' , songs. So they re-arranged and had him play over them. So that's how he got started off.
I just pit out two set of blues. They were Mountain Jack Blues and Ice Pick Blues. 

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.