[*?*]

The Erie Canal
We were 40 miles from Albany
Forget it I never shall
What a terrible time we had one night - on the Eire Canal

O the Er-i-e was a risin' and the gin was gettin' low
And I scarcely think we'll get a drink
Till we get to Buffalo-o-o; till we get to Buffalo.

Out captain he came up on deck
With a spy-glass in his hand
And the fog it was to 'tarnal thick
That he couldn't spy the land.

Two days out of Syracuse the vessel struck a shoal
And we like to all be foundered - on some Lackawana coal

We hollered to the captain - on the towpath- treading dirt
He jumped on board and stopped the leak
With his old red-flannel shirt.

Our cook she was a grand old gal - she had a ragged dress
We histed her upon a pole - us a signal of distress.

The cpatain he got married - and the cook she went to jail
And I'm the only son- of - a- gun that's left to tell the tale.

GOOD OLD MOUNTAIN DEW

There's an old hollow tree - down the road there from me
Where-I lay down a dollar to two -I go round the bend and I come back again
There's a jug full of good old mountain dew.

CHORUS: Oh, they call it that good old mountain dew.
And them that refuse it are few
If you set down your mug, I'll fill up your jug
With that good old Mountain dew.

My uncle Nort is sawed off and short
He measures about four foot-two
But he thinks he's a g'int - when you give him a pint
Of that good old mountain dew.
Well my Aunt June bought some brand new perfume
But to her surprise when she got it in her eyes
It was nothing but that good old mountain dew.
Well the preacher rode by - with his head histed high
Said his wife had been down with the flu
And he thought that I ort, just to sell him a quart
Of that good old mountain dew.
My brother Bill has a still on the hill
Where he runs me off a gallon or two
And the buzzards in the sky - get so drunk they can't fly
Erom smelling that good old Mountain Dew.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.