"TIME CHANGES EVERYTHING"
A Spiritual Song Of Praise And Condemnation
Taken From The Following Scriptures:  Eccl. 3:1-8; Ps. 30:5; Dan. 5:1-8; Is. 53:5; Matt. 5:14
Gal. 3:23-25
Composed Published By
CHAS. HAFFER, Jr.
Noted Song Writer and Bible Lecturer

1503 O'HEA STREET
PHONE 990-J
GREENVILLE, MISS.

There was once a time when we were under the law
Which were types and shadows pointing to the cross
On which the Lamb was slain, to take away our shame,
But time changes every thing.
Back there we offered pigeons and doves, and the blood of bullocks and cows,
But thanks to God Almighty, we don't do that now.
To us Christ is revealed, and with His stripes we are healed
You see, time changes every thing.

CHORUS
Time changes everything none of us know what the future brings.
Today we are glad; while tomorrow we'll be sad;
You see, time, it changes everything.

(2)
There was a time when we worshipped in temples and synagogues
And had to go to Jerusalem to feel the presence of God.
The High Priests then would pray to take our sins away,
But time changes everything.
The law being merely a shadow of better things to come,
For God so loved the world, he gave his only Son.
And if you, His word obey, He'll save you right away
You see time changes everything.

(3)
There was a time our people all, were slaves,
Were not permitted to worship God,
Nor enter in his praises.
Now that we are free to serve Him as we please
You see, time changes everything.
We were not permitted to go to school, nor learn to read or write
But were to forever remain fools and never see the light,
But prayers of our fathers and mother, broke the slavery chain
You see, time changes everything.

(4)
Some of us can remember forty years ago we rode horse drawn vehicles
Over muddy and dusty roads.
Now, all of this is changed, and we are riding in airplanes.
You see, time changes everything.
We used to have to walk for miles to grocery stores,
And then would come back wagging with very heavy loads
Now, we can sit at home and order from the telephone,
You see, time changes everything.

(5)
Churches were not plentiful; they were few and far apart.
Faithful Christian ministers prayed for revivals to start.
They would come from all across the fields; but now they've lost their zeal
You see, time changes everything.
The woods were filled with seekers; going to their praying ground,
And they would come out telling what a Saviour they had found,
But in this modern day, they say we don't have to pray
You see, time changes everything.

(6)
I remember the time, when we were boys and girls,
Our mothers and fathers who were Christians lived separate from the world,
As a city on a hill, they did the master's will,
But time changes everything.
The people of this generation say we back there were fools,
And that to get salvation just follow the golden rule. 
They say nothing about new birth, come on and join the church.
You see, time, changes everything.

(7)
Now, don't forget Belshazzer; Babalyon's drunken king,
Made a great feast one night, in hopes some joy to bring,
But the writing on the wall told of his downfall
You see, time changes everything.
His knees smoted together; his countenance was changed,
It was a terrible sight, Belshazzer died that night.
He called for all the astrologers, in an attempt to read the hand
You see, time changes everything.

Price 10c each   2 for 15c   3 for 20c   4 for 25c
Agents Wanted Everywhere--Write for terms and conditions

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.