BJ  TAPE  18,  p.  22

an' all that kinda thing.
         I never had no troubles wi' no peoples like that 'cause I
jus' don' wanna stay around, if I know it.   I hear 'em talk a,
a this plantation an' this'n done this an' that'n's, bad;  I'm ready
to go.  You know?  An' then I wouldn't be in the. . .
AL:    Well,  what would they say, for instance, about a bad plantation?
BJ:     Well, jus' like I hear talk [about] a somebody beatin' up their
hands an', an' you know, all that kinda stuff.   I don't work there.
I ain't never did it.   An' I never wanted to do it.   An' all that
kinda stuff.   An' you better be in before night an' all that 
kind[astuff]. . .I don't do that.

[*STORY:  ONE WH. MAN LIBERATES NEGROES 
FROM BONDAGE OF ANOTHER  (S.C.) (1960?)*]  
         This ah, ah, it's a place in Carolina now, ah, the peoples
I worked with before I came up here?   An' they are Waters.  An'
they way that they is a place down below them, s-- there in
Carolina, now  --  ah, they come from Wahleigh, uh, Wahleigh, South
Carolina.  (NOTE: MAY BE WALLACE, BUT PRONOUNCED AS SPELLED HERE)
Rah -- ?  Yeah, Wahleigh, South Carolina.  An' ah -- not
Rahleigh, see, Wahleigh, see; it's South Carolina.   An' so she
said that they is a place down below [there] them -- 'way down, out in
the country, 'bout 10 or 12 miles in the country -- says them
peoples have some colored folks out there, an' say that they're, 
said that they, said they would go an' buy the clof (cloth) for
'em, you know, over town.   Whole bolt a homespun, ol' gingham
or sumpin', you know.   All them, all of 'em, the maw an' the paws,
I mean the chilluns an' all.   Papa, make the [man,] make the man's
shirts out the same thing an' the chilrun's dresses out the
same thing.   You know?   'Way wuss than slaves.   An' they work
'em jus' like they want[ed] to an' then they give 'em, ah, then
they go to town, like 'bout once or twice a year, on Fo'th a
July [an'] or Christmas, you know.   Like that way.  They they 'round

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.