4)  O Wullie's got a breeder (brother), he's wrang among the feet,
To see him lowpin' through the close he would files make ye greet.

5)  Our foreman's like a constable, he niver fa's asleep,
Up and doon the land drills (furrows), he never slacks a theat. (plow)

6)  Oor third comes frae Foggylawn, he's a graw chiel,
His horse and his harness are aye looking weel.

7)  Our thirds like. . . .(verse 5 repeated. A mistake.)

8)  If you want to find the author, the composer of this song,
You'll find him in a herring boat at the pier of Foggylawn.

"I heard the ploughmen sing it; also Jimmy Mcbeath."

Nicky Tams:
1)  When I was only ten years old I left the parish squile, (school)
My father feed me to the Mains to chaw his milk and meal. (legs)
I first put on my narrow breeks to hide my spinnel trams (spindly
And buckled round kidnappin' knees, a pair o' nicky tams.
(leather straps to keep trousers up and tight under knees.)

2)  At first I got on for bailey loon and sine I got on for third,
And sine of course I had to get the horseman's grip and word.
A loaf of breed to be my piece or a bottle for drinkin' drams,
Aye, ye canna g through the calf-hoos door without your nicky  tams

3)  The fairmer that I'm wi' the noo, he's wealthy but he's mean,
Though corn is cheap, his horse is thin and his harness fairly deen. (almost done)
He gars us load our cairt's fu', his conscience has nae whams, (qualms)
When breist staps break there's nothing like a pair of nicky-tams. (can be used fr extra straps.)

4)  I'm courtin bonny Annie noo, Jock Thompson's kitchie-deem,
For she is five and forty and I am seventeen.
She clorts (piles up) a muckle piece to me with different kinds of jams,
And tells me ilky nicht that she admires my nicky tams.

5)  I started oot aye Sunday, the kirky for to gang,
My collar it was uncou' techt, my breeks were nane too long,
I had my Bible in my pooch, likewise my book of psalms,
When Annie roars "Ye muckle gape (fool), take off your nicky-tams.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.