Of course, we had everything on our side: a production that could,
without significant loss, be done under studio conditions. How 
someone like Ray Birdwhistel can ever get real-life situations filmed
with sufficient clarity, I can't even guess. What we obtained could 
only be had with studio lighting, several 35mm cameras on heavy dollies,
& b&w film. If someone like Kurath wants[d] to do a Newtonian analysis
of these dances, fragmenting and examining, - it's all there: one could 
produce a score from it. And for teaching purposes, in folklore classes, 
a 1/2 hr. silent film of selected sequences could convince even the most
skeptical student that vision & vocal are inseparable in the syntax of
these song-dance patterns. 

I must admit, however, that this sort of thing doesn't interest me, 
though I once published a book on the subject. I'm sure that several 
films, all different but equally good, can be made from this footage.
The film that interestss me would be one that aimed at dignity & beauty &
intensity - 8-10 minutes, not color as I first mentioned, but as is,
b&w, designed to leave people feeling a little bigger, & maybe a little 
more human. In short, a classic. All you need is a heart. And $15,000.

Since everything continues to be on a volunteer basis, all I can be
sure of is that the footage will not reach you nearly as soon as you
would like, but that it will be sent as soon as we possibly can. It 
may be put in sync with the sound track this weekend so we can can get the yellow edge
numbers on it. It may also have to undergo special cleaning. About
four rolls had a little dirt on them. It turned out the film was
stolen from M-G-M -  the theft I don't mind, but if I'd known at the
time, I'd never have paid that much - and was actually short ends probably
rewound in haste in a dirty room. What I'm saying is that what we save
in money, we lose in time. 

Cordially,
Ted Carpenter

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.