BJ   R. 10/24,   S. 2, p. 16

between the straw and the bark -- in her house.  When I lef' 
there, she had plen'y. potatoes.  An' Catherine had a bed -- 
a bank -- in her yard, 'cause, see, she had her yard fenced 
in.   An' so I picked up potatoes for that man.   Well, they claim 
that was him.   But they didn' know who it was, ya know.  "Tha's 
him."   An' "This' him."  An' "Tha's him."  Everybody [I'a 'd wanna] who it was 
talkin', they gi' me all about it, [that was the] different things that was at me, 
you see.  He, he!  An' so, it went on.

[*MEN GOSSIPING*]
              An' so I lef' that day and wouldn' pay her no mind.  One 
day I went down to the station to get my mail, at Wes' Green, there.  
An' this was kinda drizzlin' rain, a lil' bit.   I generally 
always had a prayin' ground, up off in the woods, to pray an' 
talk to myself.   'Cause around there then you couldn't always get 
a chance to talk to yourself; somebody at the house all the time, 
an' in an' out and so on.  And I mus' have a space to myself, 
all the time, all my life comin' up.  I would go off in the woods 
jes' to sit down an' talk to myself an' pray to myself.  An' so 

anyhow, this day I had been to the woods. an' after 
the woods an' I went on down to the station.  An' I come up on
back to the house.   I got back up there -- I just got back up 
there -- I'd usually be singin' or whistlin' or sumpin', but I 
didn'.   I walked up to the house there, it was rainin' ya know, 
an' the woods mens wa'n' workin'.  The mens that haul lawgs
 (logs) an' [skeet] skate lawgs an' you know, bring in  the things to 
the mill.  An' a lot of the mensaround there wa'n' workin.  
An' they was about eight mens in that house, Miss Alice' house, sittin' 
'round talkin'; all of em grinnin', jus' come in the ho' to talk.  
An' ah, different ages.   They was sittin' in there, sittin' 
around talkin'.   An' when I got there, I listened.   You could 
hear through the walls of the house.   An' they was in there 
suggestin'.  One [said]  [was] tellin' 'em, "I thought sure you had. . .Man, that wasn' 
you?"   "Well, I thought that you. . ."   "Well, I thought that you 
liked her?"  "Well, who is she goin' with?"  "Who. . . ?"    Miss 
Alice's just sittin' there.   I peeped through the crack.   Ha, ha!  
I peeped through the cracks.  Miss Alice just settin' there, 
lookin' right in the fire, there.   Just sittin' there.   And they 
had this conversation which they said they 'cuse this one, "It's 
ol' [Mister] Scott."   Scott wa'n' there, ya know.  "Must be Scott."

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.