All talk
T3322
TAPE 73...MARGARET BARRY.

Lomax: Did your momma ever discipline you ?

Barry: O indeed she did. She was lying in the bed - ill at that
time. Sick. I used to be running down the stairs out to the
street - Peter Street, and she'd shout at me, and I'd run at
the stairs, and she'd say, "Come over and get the comb. I'll
comb your hair."  Combing and fine combing. And she'd get hold
of me like  that, and tear me over the bed. And I'd start to cry,
and she would hold me there and hold me there and bend me head
down until she'd combed the life out of it . And me father come 
back and asked her how she was doing, how was she feeling, ;  and,
"I'm alright. that young girl running out in the street. You'll
do something with her."
      I remember coming up the stairs. These houses wasn't exactly
a normal house - they was tenements. A room here and a room
there right up a big building. All different people living in
different rooms... I remember one girl, O'Leary, Tessie O'leary,
and someway and another I never cared much about her you know.
She wasn't too good a girl. Me mother says to me one day, "Who
are you keeping company with ?"  I said, "That Tessie O'Leary."
"I'll give you that  queer girl. You'll have to keep away from
her."  But I didn't understand.

Lomax: What do you mean she was a queer girl ?

Barry:  She musn't have been too good a girl. She probably run
about too much. I was only young and she was a nice slip of a
girl, about 13 1/2 - and i was very, very young. that's it. My
mother was very strict. But I always remember, she always told
me, "Never, never be out after hours."

Lomax: What happened after your mother died ?

Barry: After my mother died, she was buried in the graveyard
outside the city. And we all attended the funeral. I was in a cab.
Them horsey-coaches, like. And I hadn't much sense at the time.

Lomax: You weren't so sad ? Do you remember coming home from the
funeral ?

Barry: I do. I was with a couple of old women in the coach, and
I was with them, and these two old women was gossiping inside,
talking away among themselves, and I was looking out the window.
and all excited. At that time the coaches had little windows, and
you could pull them back and forth - little blinds, youmknow,
and I pulled it back, looking out of the window. And these old 


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.