Edwin M. Pearl
ASHGROVE ENTERPRISES
8162 MELROSE AVENUE  HOLLYWOOD 46, CALIF.  OL. 3-2070

Mar 20, 1964

Dear Alan:

What with the festival only five days away, I'm finding sleep pretty difficult; 
so here it is 6:00 AM and I'm finally catching up on a hundred neglected
letters and jobs.

The Agency has a letter from Oxford Ohio (a small, womens college) which is
interested in hiring The Sea Islanders on a MONDAY night in Oct, Nov, or
Dec.  They are interested in a Monday night because they are a very small school
have limited funds, and because it apparently will NOT be a public event. 

We've written tham that we will attempt to help them with a low fee, if we
manage to get other work in the area.  I presume they anticipated this, which
is why they gave us three months to work with.

So, first of all, what would be a minimum fee for the group (aside from commissions)
for a convenient Monday night, assuming they are within 50 miles of
Oxford, anyway.  I'm assuming they will come pick them up or give bus fare.

Secondly, do you have anything cooking for them up north during any of the
fall months?  Could you have anything for them?  Where do we go from here?

Please answer fairly soon, even if you don't have anything right now.  I
don't want to lose the contact and something else just might turn up from
the agency office which would fit in.

Here's the festival brochure and an agency brochure.  I'm not sure you ever saw
one.  The festival has been added to by the Stoneman Family, Eck Robertson,
a couple of local rythm and blues groups, and much other good local talent.
I'm absolutely determined to make this the best festival exver done, and
potentially the most popular, so, I'm doing everything myself, from housing to
programming to publicity to no women.  How's that for a sacrifice?

Too bad you won't be here.

[* Ed *]

Hey, I almost forgot.  I've been asked to produce (or hire the talent, anyway)
for a one day festival in Hartford, Conn. for the Hartt School of Music at the
University of Hartford.  They want it on June 27th or, if it rains, on June 28.
They didn't say what they would do if it rained both days.  I thought that
You personally might be free for one day, and also Bessie and the group.
Again, how much for each?  Any other suggestions?  Please answer on this one
pretty soon, too.  Also, please don't tell anyone about this until I have a 
contract.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.