MEDICAL EVALUATION

Re: Mr. John Davis

Mr. John Davis was first seen on June 6, 1963 with a history of having had a cough which was severe and persistent for the previous 10 days. It was particularly troublesome at night when it became aggravated by his lying down. Chest pain was diffuse ans was associated with cough. There was no pieuritic pain and no anginal pain. No sputum or hemoptysis appeared with the cough. In addition he had a moderately severe and persistent right sided headache which was present for the previous 8 to 10 days. Most of all, his friends were all impressed by how depressed Mr. Davis looked. He gave no history of significant antecedent disease. During the 1930's he recalled having severe persistent headaches but not trouble by this since. And apart from minor colds, and a wrist fracture several years ago he recalled no other medical experiences.

Physical examination:The patient was observed to be an elderly but well developed, negro male who seemed markedly depressed but not acutely ill.

Temperature : 188 orally.     B.P.: 180/90.     Pulse: 72, full and regular.
HEENT: There was a purulent rhinopharyngitis with a post nasal drip.
Chest: Not remarkable.
Neck: Not remarkable.
Lungs: An occasional coarse rhonochus was present which cleared on coughing.
Heart: The left border of cardiac dullness was enlarged to the left anterior axillary line. No palpable thrills were present. The rhythm was regular sinus with A2 + P2. A grade 3 (maximum intensity of 4) high pitched, blowing, aortic diastollic murmur was present which radiated toward the apex of the heart. There were no significant systolic murmurs and no radiation of any murmur to the neck.
Abdomen: Liver and spleen not palpable.
Extremities: No edema or venous distention.
Neurologic: The occular fundi manifested grade 2 changed but otherwise the neurologic examination was physlologic.
EKG: The EKG showed left ventricular hypertrophy with anterolateral ischenic changed and/or secondary T wave changed related to the hypertrophy.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.