Barry: I didn' have enough sense, you see. Then, someway or
another, I got the grips, you see, that I was afraid to go alone
any more, that's what was worrying me. So I looked at all the
house, and looked at the rooms. I thought it quite comdortable,
you know, and I says, "Well, I'd better settle down here and marry --
would I be better, like ?" Cause if I went around the country and
that, you wouldn't know, like, I might meet with somebody serious
or something, and maybe if I did meet anybody, something might
happen - that's the job, you see. And I was trying to protect
myself and look after myself - that's it. And then I said to
myself, I'll think it over, and I said to him, I said, "Why
didn't he ask me himself ?" And he said, "He didn't like." That's
all the words I ever got. "he didn't like." Well then, I wasn't
going to the pctures with this person - I never went to a dance
hall, I didn't even walk up the road. I sat in the house, you
know, and washed up and cleaned up the place, and all that kind
of thing. There it was you see, I had no sense. When I married him --
we got married -- and everything was fixed up quite comdortable
enough. You see, the thing is, when I got older, when I got a few
years married, someway or another I thought to myself, I shouldn't
have given him that. Because, you see, I'm too fond of music and
singing. And that is why I should never never have married anybody.
I should never have stopped singing - because that was my life.
Singing life. Because I could continue to my music, singing, music
and singing....
Lomax: Margaret, I can't understand that a grown-up woman like you,
who's passionate and understands so much about love and the passion
in the human heart - you couldn't sing it...how you seem never to
have experience it yourself.
Barry: The thing is I never was really in love. Only with one
thing- that was singing and musc.
Lomax: Women love men. They don't love things.
Barry: Well, that's it, you see. I'm sure that you've travelled
a lot of the country - you yet never met anyone like me, that could
say I never loved any man -- only the one thing that I'm in love
with - and that's music. Do you know, when my banjo got broke, I
cried for a full month. And when you start to cry over an
instrument or music, I think that's it. You can ask anybody. I'm
telling you straight, truthful, from me heart and mind, the soul
and the body. I cried over my banjo when it was broke. And do you
know, that anyone criticising music -- says "that's bad, that's
something not good" or " she's hateful " or "I don't like the ay
she sings that" -- well, that's one thing that I do not like is to
interfere or say anything about music. Because many people, they

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.