loved him to death. Mama the same way. Everybody over the country jes
thought they was the wonderfulest couple. An they were too. They had
thirteen chil'ren. Eight of us lived. It was thirteen of us -- I know
I heard Mama say that. We jes love each other. We're jes a close
fam'ly. We'll jes die bout each other. Thass why I think I'm goin
back there. I jes can't bear to be away from them. I think all of us
goin back really. You know, we miss each other so much. I mean you
don't find fam'lys like that. I guess thass jes the way we were all
raised together. 

    When Huddie wrote me to come and marry him I sent him a telegram
on back. Thass what I did. The man came there. I've forgotten now
his name -- some connection with Macmillan -- publishers. But this man
he came up on the job where I was an tole them that they had made
arrangements for me to come here. So he wanted to git a story to put
in the papers. It must have been the Times man. So then I got started
out to come here. The train was late or sumpin but I got there a long
time befo they. They said they was lookin fur me. They said they
didn't know jist where. Huddie was so excited. Cause he didn't know
where I was an he didn't know if I knowed what to do. But in the
meantime when they didn't show  up I went to send them a telegram.
I thought maybe they were there at Wilton an couldn't git out. It
was snowin so then. After I sent the telegram I came back an sit down.
They was a man I knew after, that lived in our house in New York, 
but it was a long, long time befo I knew he was the same man that
got my bags an things. While I was setting there Mr. Lomax went in a
telephone booth to call somewhere. Huddie was out there waitin for
him next do. When I saw him I went out there where he was. He turned 
around jes in time to see me befo he went in that telephone booth.
By the time we got near-bout the do somebody brought Huddie in.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.