Lomax:  But as you go around through your town, people would
              turn out when one person and another did themselves
              in?
Robts:    Yes. Providing it wasn't very far away. An old barge
              skipper was takling to me, sitting on a fence at the
              end of the meadow, and talking about old times in
              the place, and he said, "See that house over there?
              That's where my father cut his throat." So I thought
              that was very interesting, you see, and he said,"You
              see that cottage over there. My uncle hung himself at
              the back of that." So I said, "What are you gonna (going to)
              do?" He said, "No, I'm not going to do either,"
              he said, "because I'm on the way out now." And so he
              was; and a month later he was gone. Had his last sail
              with me. . .Was an interesting part of the world.
Lomax:   I should think so. And what was this story about
              the kidnapping that you told me, Bob. One of the 
              most fascinating stories I ever heard.
Robts:    O that was at Pinmill.
Lomax:   When did it happen?
Robts:    O before the war. Can't remember the date. But Lord
              Nuffield came down there, - you know he bought a lot
              of land there. He bought Woolstone Park and Orwell
              Park, and gave 'em to the Universities. As a matter of
              fact, he did a great service because they were
              beautiful parks, full of, at that time, deer and oak
              trees, really beautiful places. Well now, no one can
              buy them and put up jerry-built houses and hoardings
              and advertisements and all that sort of thing. They're
              there for good -- you can't buy an inch of it. So
              consequently he paid a number of visits to that part
              of the world. Some of the local lads, I'm not so
              sure they were local -- they thought, well, here's a 
              chap down here with a lot of money, and here's our
              boat off there. If we got him aboard there it'd cost
              him a lot of money to get ashore. So they asked him
              if he'd like to go off afloat, and to the best of my
              knwoledge, he was hustled into a boat whether he wanted
              to or not, in the real old style. He was rowed off
              there at nightime, dumped aboard a boat and battened
              down below decks. So, by way of explanation, they told
              him that it was going to cost a lot of money before he
              went ashore, and what was he prepared to pay? But he

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.