March 26, 1972

Dear Alan:

I am enclosing a note for your signature addressed to the fellow out
here that Ted turned the Georgia Sea Island films over to, so that he
will be able to give them to me to send on to Media Center. I wish I 
could find a more aggressive firm to handle them, but so far none has
turned up, according to Ted, who will take them on. I am also, by the
way, sending Ted an identical note; so if there is any confusion, check
with him. I have to have permission from both of you.

I am also enclosing the contract that the Media Center people sent me.
This should be signed with appropriate qualifications either by you or
by me. I'd just as soon you would, and handle the royalty distributions
(which will be minuscule anyway) to the Sea Islanders. However, I will
do the deed and sign the thing if you don't want to be bothered. I do
wish, however, you would look the contract over and make any suggestions
for control you think advisable. I feel not terribly bright these days
and may overlook some obvious problem.

I am hassling away at the Bessie book publicity problem; currently the
most exciting bit of news is that I have a personal line through to
Maya Angelou, I think. Her endorsement or favorable review would be
extremely effective, I believe. Have you read her autobiography, by 
the way -- I Know Why the Caged Bird Signs? It's a remarkable piece 
of work & I recommend it highly: out in paperback, available at your
local book store.

Shirley called a week ago finally; I had been getting worried. Apparently 
she has been having dizzy spells & so was unable to leave Galveston
as she couldn't see to drive. So instead she has been spending a relaxing 
two weeks nursing Krishna, Susan and Annette, all of whom were
down with the flu. I urged her to blow town as soon as she could, headed
either for Lubbock or back here, and get some medical attention besides 
resting up. Nick and I are leaving for Baja tomorrow morning, so if I 
haven't heard from her when we get back on Thursday, I'll give her a
call.

Things keep banging along here. I still have no perspective at all, but 
eventually the light will dawn, I suppose and I will start knowing what
I want to do. At the moment I am very bored with everything I have to
do except for lecturing, which continues to be occasionally interesting
and even generates an idea or two from time to time.

Much love always, 
Ben

P.S. The reason so many films are included in the list to Korn is
that Ted strung together a lot of outs and various combinations of 
the footage and stuck them together for future research uses. He
feels all of it should be on deposit at Berkeley (or in one single
place at least), but really only Buck Dancer and Bright Star Shining
in Glory are distributable.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.