Newark Jazz Festival (1960s); photo by Rick Stafford


things she had learned.  She was in Williamsburg, Virginia, where
she had gone to make a film under the direction of Alan Lomax, 
the well known folklorist.  After signing a contract to make a film 
entitled "The Music of Williamsburg," he decided to use some
singers from St. Simons Island, Georgia--a group that included
Bessie.3  During the course of the filming, Bessie and others were 
asked one evening to dress in costumes and sing at a birthday party.
As she tells it in her autobiography For the Ancestors: 

We went there to sing together, but God works in mysterious ways. Before
we started they asked me to sing this lullaby for the baby's birthday; I think
Lomax had told them how much I like children, I don't know.  But when I
got up, I said I was glad to do it because this is where my grandfather was
brought up at, and that gave me a head to speak right there.  When I said
that, they stopped the beer right there, and everything, and I was getting
ready to sing to the child, but wasn't nobody saying nothing. Then something
told me, "You got to tell them everything in your mind." It was at the
Queen's house.  The waitress and manager just stood there 'cause nobody
wasn't taking anything. They were looking straight at me.4

For the first time in public, Bessie began to tell some of the stories
that had been told to her by her grandparents.  She had accepted
the "call to teach."  One of the men present asked Bessie her
grandmother's name before marriage, but she had no answer for
him.  The next day her questioner (or one of the other men?) took
her to see the plantation records and other relics of slavery relating 
to her grandparents, including the jailhouse where one of Jet's
brothers had tried to burn himself to death rather than submit to
being beaten.

And in that book they had the history of our grandfathers and great-grandfathers,
if only we knew which one to ask for.  .  .  .  I ain't got nowhere 
to run 'cause everything out there, I came up with it.  And the Lord blessed
me not to forget these things and keep them up among people who weren't
studying it. White people know our background, but they're going to try to
hold it back and keep us back as long as they possibly can.5

This central experience, the culmination of a circular set of
historical events which brought Jet to inland Georgia, Bessie to St.
Simons, and then to Williamsburg, is what Bessie believed in and
taught--which John Stewart, her co-author, has called "humanity's
transcendence over history."6  Guided by the spirit, imbued with
knowledge, Bessie recognized the moment of her opportunity,
committed herself, and altered the course of her life and the lives
of the many she has touched.
Bessie's teachings were rich and varied and are now contained
in the works that she consciously left us, particularly those that date
from after her "call."  As Stewart says in his introduction--and as I
can personally attest--after Bessie chose someone to help her attain
her goals, what she gave was incalculably more than what she asked

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.