c/o The BBC
Queen Margaret Drive,
Glasgow, W.2.

25th September, 1951

Dear Sorley,

Unfortunately, I got all the records packed today 
without sending you yours, but I'll do that from London.

Meantime, about the notes.  They should cover, where 
you can, the type of song, how it is performed in relation 
to other Gaelic music, the history of the song, if known, 
its function, if known, its appeal to the Gaelic folk group, 
how it is set in the context of Gaelic culture, its poetic 
and aesthetic qualities.

This sounds like a large order, but if you would regard 
the thirty minutes of music as an unfolding programme of 
Gaelic songs, related to each other in the way the culture 
is inter-related, and use the songs as a way to tell the 
story of Hebridean folklore, so far as this record covers it, 
you'll be hitting the right level.  Be sure of your facts, 
but write as eloquently as you please.  You're writing to 
the world audience, sophisticated but uninformed about this 
world.  For instance, you should begin by saying that songs 
are now found largely in rocky islands a hundred miles 
approximately from North to South, fifty miles off the coast 
of Scotland, where so many thousand people still live.  There 
are so many thousand people who still speak Gaelic, and the 
tradition of the folklore goes back so many hundred years with 
bards, but a basis of work song, folk medicine, etc., connected 
with the oldest lore in Europe.

This is just a suggested way to begin.  Don't worry about 
the job, for God's sake, because, as the best poet in the 
language in Scotland, you will speak with real authority about 
this world that no one else will have.  I'm sure I'll like 
whatever you choose to write, and all I'll do is to add a few 
lines perhaps at the end of your essay about the circumstances 
of the recording and the way the singers impressed me.

I'll be back in Scotland for the week-end of the 7th 
October, and will see you then to finish up the whole literary 
part of the job.  I'll bring the tapes along and we can check 
the texts finally then.

With all best regards,
(Alan Lomax)
Mr. Sorley McLean,
54 Queen Street, Edinburgh.
EHS

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.