-12-
I never did a thing of that kind before.  I had nothing
to do with it".  I was not in a rage against the man,
but I was a kind of a wee bittie angry "Look here", I 
said, "Damn you, it's terrible of you to speak like that".
I said "Mighty God, the like of you, a man like what you
are, and speaking about.......A blooming "Meal and Ale"....."
I said "I'll easy do it, but it's your job.  It's your work
and it's far better to come from you than from me" but
somebody came in about a mitt or a mutchkin, they called
it at that time, and I was just going to make a start when
he came up.  He wasn't a bit rude, but I was standing below
a lamp and going to announce the first dance and he just
grabbed this programme out my hand, his nip just made him 
right, and he said "I'll manage now".  Do you know that
man had on, as I said, good heavy boots.  He could do every
step of the advance and retires of the Quadrilles and the 
Lancers......  He would twirl that foot no opposite his
head but from his shoulder, and he says to me "I canna play
this fiddle for watching that man of yours."  I never saw a 
man like that in my life.  And the Highland men when I was 
a boy, I just thought they went over Lochnagar in three 
strides, you know.  Ay.... I said "He was in a country where
there was a lot of souple men"  I said "but that's a boy who
would gi'e you a turn....."  It's too long a story to tell
you.....

No, this is no the one that married Jeanie at all.

The foreman at that time wakened the servants of the
house at five o'clock.  That man struck that stone at the
door.  There wasn't all those flags at that time.  But
there was one stone.  His foot went on like that, the clock
of the kitchen rang five.  He came in at the half-hour and
the clock struck one tick.  That man's foot hit the stone.
..... Now that's what we call a stenchman.  That was one
of the heavies, if you like..... and he was a good ane....

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.