35. 
A one room school teacher adds:
You really ought to go. I would be going myself, but now
I gets tired at things like that. Well, I'll tell you-it's 
costing a dime to get in. You buys a ticket, which tells you
which a way you'll be going: To Heaven or to Hell. No you
can't go to both of them, I guess you got to do what the
ticket says. Well, if you gets a ticket to Heaven, they
serves you ice cream and cake, and you just sits around, and
talks and maybe play games. However if you gets a ticket to
Hell, they serves you hot cocoa, and red hot spaghetti, and
they dance, play cards, checks, and do most anything. 14. 

The fact that more plantation families belong to the burial
association than to the church may be regarded as significant. Eighty
families were on the church membership roll, while eighty six families
belonged to the burial association. A sociological import lies in the
fact that the burial association is a secular institution. Sue Sampson's
account may be considered as an indication of the present trend.

I really think it's better to belong to it than the church.
I have to abide by the laws. Members have to be particular
about one another's wives and husbands. Well you see, you
can give a person laws when he's going to the church but the
lodge is the thing, when it comes to compelling you to stick
to your laws. You're compelled to meet, and you pays your
dues. You just feel compelled to do that. 

Now I can tell you in just about a summary way, what the
lodge mean to me. The other night, a old sad looking woman
pinched me, and I was so mad that I almost wanted to kill her.
I just hate for anybody to pinch me. I felt like cursing 
and killing her. If she just hadn't been a lodge member and just
a church member to me, I probably would have, but I couldn't 
do a thing cause she was a member of the lodge. So I just
smiled and acted kind of nice. 15.

With the increasing participation in urban life, the mental horizon

14. Personal Document
15. Ibid.


Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.