Fisk, 22. 7.  
[*had them old songs in service, then we used to know um, but
them old songs went out of service [??? ????  ????? the way (over)  & that made us [?????] the old songs but yet and still we can't pick up the chords part of um.*]  
A:  Did they ever sing  "Rock Daniel" like a reel? Just for dancing
outside the church?
W:  Unh-unh.  I never heard it.
[*A:  Now sing me a little bit of that jubilee chariot song.*]
[*W:  Did doing that yesterday - I don't believe
I could go way out on the.  You know I done forgot all of them old song.
Use to could sing um.  When they*]

Interview About the Secular Songs.  Alex Robertson.

R:  Then I know the words.  I knew a lot of the old-time "coon" songs,
I reckon.  I practiced them.  I could sit down here all day and I
could think of them fast "Coon" songs.  But they getting old and just
coming t'rough the radio, and they could knock.  Why I composed a
song -- what was that song? -- not "Next to the Blue Ridge Mountain"
by "Lay Your Little Hands in Mine".  Yeah, I composed all that.
A:  Did you ever play for any square dances, Alec?
R:  Oh, yessir.
A:  Now, look -- these records aren't going on the radio.  They're just
going down in books, and I want you to sing me just a few little
snatches of the tunes that they used to sing for square dances.
R:  Yeah.  I don't believe I want to play it, because I tell you, it's
just not my profession - all that square dance business and any composition
you see, I know it would be for me.  Say, will they be
broadcast?
A:  No.  They won't be broadcast.  These songs all won't be broadcast.
They're just going to be put away in History.  It's just old-time
history that I'm getting.
R:  I see. I see.
A:  If I were making records to broadcast, I'd have to get
a whole band and all.
R:  I see. A book?
A:  Yeah.
R:  Oh, well, that's a different thing.  I'll give you those.
A"  Yes.  I just want you to sing the tune so I can write the music out.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.