2nd R. of 10/12/61; Song 12, P. 2  [*38*]

Song -- GO ON I'LL GO WITH YOU

TL:  Gee whizz, Bessie, that's pretty!  I didn't remember that one.
BJ:  You don't remember?
TL:  No.  What does it mean.
BJ:  It's a time when He told the disciples, I mean Moses and Nora (Noah)
to go and tell the people, you know, about their sins and (forgive?)
them for their sins.  And so Nora, and they asked Him if anybody go
and tell 'em what they said, the folks, some of 'um wouldn't believe.
"If I go and tell 'um, they ain' goin' b'lieve me."  You
see, they sayin' that they wanted Him to go.  Say, "You go on, I'm
goin' with you, "see?  But He didn't walk with them, but in the
spirit, he was with 'em.  They'd jus' open their mouth, why, he'd
be there; he'd speak for ya.  That's why I said now, a lot of
peoples, they take texts down and study 'em and all that kinda 
stuff.  They done that theyself, just go ahead on [they'd be apt to] if you got to go and
teach [an'] or preach an' jus' then let the Lord speak for you, or through 
you, when you get there.  [Then He'll] Let Him gi' you the lesson.  Sometimes
I walk up on the stand to, to -- we don't get in no pulpit 'cause
we don't have no preacher women -- but sometime when I go up to
teach a lesson, I don't have no more idea what I'm goin' teach 
at than I have right now, see?  Never, don' never have no idea.
In fact, the Bible -- sometime I have my mind made up before I
leave home what I'm goin' to do an' get there, it jus' goes all away,
completely away, same as if I never had it on my min', well the Lawd puts you to 
sumpin' else that He want you to tell the people.  So that's what
that meant then:  Just go on an' let Him do the teachin', an then
hit'll be taught right.  You see?  But you take up your se'f and
study your se'f, that what they all education, you know, education,
religion, see.
TL:  Did you ever get stuck?  Did you ever get up in front of
people and find out you really didn't have anything to say?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.