5.

The plan of the hounfort is the customary one in this part of Haiti. (See
diagram A on the foregoing page.) The one door of the house opens into the
largest of the three rooms (2) and there most of the ceremony goes forward, the
mombo and the initiates (wonsi) making especial trips into the altar rooms (3,4)
occasionally. In the center of the reception room the cakes and other gifts for
the loi were set forth as sown in diagram B, page 4. The trays were set on
chairs and the whole was covered with mosquito netting. the rafters were wrapped
with red, pink, blue, orange, yellow, and light blue crepe paper. Hanging from
one of them in the northwest corner of the room (nearest the sea) was a model
three masted sailing vessel, painted green and covered this day with red, yellow 
and blue kerchiefs of the type that the woman tie round their heads -- this is
the special altar to Papa Agwe, master of the sea. 
From the walls at various points about the room hung colored baskets of crepe
paper flowers. There was one new decorative feature the room was not accustomed
to--- an R.C.A. velocity microphone that hung down from the rafters
directly over the trays of food that had been prepared for the loi.

the three drums stood in the north-west corner of the room, one a new tambour that
had never been used at a vaudoo ceremony and was yet unbaptized was covered
with a gingham dress. Ciceron Marseille, master of the drummers in this
part of the Cul de Sac, and a sort of holy man brought out the new mama tambour
---the largest of the three vaudoo drums and held it whil Narvil began to
intone. (see 54 A 1) Then he prayed and baptized the drum, sprinkling it
with a little water skaken over the gingham from a spring of locust. The name the
drum is given is a matter of no consequence, according to my informants and I
was too busy with the recorder to hear what name he pronounced over the mama
tambour that day. We intoned the Magnificat (54 A2) and
then lead the company again in prayer as he gave the drum yet another
name. (54 A3) Ciceron stripped off the gingham covering, drove in the pegs
of the drum and took it outside.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.