28


whisper. You know, when you was there he couldn't do nothin but whisper.
He was talkin out then. Talkin very strong. I didn't have to try to hear
what he said. I could understand every word that he said.
        I started not to answer the man when he knocked on the do that night.
Because I knew that everbody knowed that Huddie was gone away. You know.
I jes thought it was somebody knockin, you know, cause they figured
Huddie wasn't theah. An somethin -- I don't know, my mind jes changed
all of a sudden. I jes got up at once an went to the do. I said, "What
is it?" He said, "It's a telegram, honey." I jes [open] figured that was
what it was. I jes opened the do an grabbed the telegram an ran on down
to  [Tine] Tiny's. I mean I didn't even open it. I didn't have time to open
it cause I knowed what it was.
    Now I know in mysef those peoples knowed Huddie was dyin long enough
to have sent for me. What I mean, they sent the telegram sayin "Come at
once." What need of me goin theah then, that time of mornin?  I mean nothin
but to go theah an they tell me that an I come back home! (she is indignant
in tone) Why didn't they wait ill the next day to tell me that? Well
they wanted to git a topsy. That's what they wanted me to sign for. That
was the reason they wanted me there that night. I wouldn't a done it fur
nothin in the world. No sir! Huddie didn't never want one. You know, we
had a friend had one once an Huddie didn't like it. He always said he
didn't want one. Because see they shaved this man's hair off. An Huddie
was the kind of a man he didn't wanna git disfigured no way, you know.
So he said, "I don't care if [you] I live longer than you, or you live longer
than me, don't let em give me a topsy. Don't let em do it cause I don't
want my hair shaved off. I don't wanna be disfigured." He thought it
might [disfug] disfigure his face. Yeah. Which it did make this man look
very bad. Uh-huh. So I tole em, "No sir. I'm sorry I jist can't do it

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.