.Strachan:.......I was sitting beside him, At least, he came 
and sat at my knee, That was William Dothy's brother; and I said to 
him, "Gin ever this man be going to sing ? Lord, " I said, "You 
should stop it,"  "Oh, it can't be as bad as that."  "O my goodness, 
it's terrible.  I said, "You've no idea - and he sat till he 
couldn't stand it longer, and there were gie fine ladies there - 
and this was his song...I canna do it, but I'll try a verse or two.....

1) A merchant's son there lived in Hull
A beggar wench...... "Oh -- I've no the tune....."

1) A merchant's son there lived in Hull,
A beggar wench in the North did dwell,
He mounted on his gallant steed
And away for pleasure he rode with spped.
Lal the dill,
Lal-lal-thedilly.

2) And as he rode he chanced to see
A beggar wench in a low degree.
He took pity on her and he mauned a kiss,
And he says,  "My dear, yu've a pretty face."

3) "If you'll consent wi' me to lie,
I shall with gold you satisfy."
With a merry smile, she gave consent,
So doon a little toon they went.

XX) ....And it went on...and Adam Dothy...

Lomax:  Well, what else happened in it - don't you remember ?

Strachan: O bits of it. - If I tried it and tried it...

Lomax: What else happened in the song ?

Strachan:   O in the song.  Well it went on, and xhe slept with the 
girl and she bolted with his clothes and all his guineas and 
everything through the night; and he rose up without any clothes, 
and he had to get his horse and get a rig of some kind - andthe 
last verse is something like this...

And as he rode he often swore
He'd never lie with a beggar more...

And This Adam Dothy - he sat and I felt him fidgeting and just ---
and then he sprang up and "rough enough, rough enough!" he says.  
Then the foreman was in a rage and thought they werema good enough.  
O  Yu've no idea the songs they would sing.  O not very often before 
women, but oftimes before a farm servant girl.  But half the time 
they didn't care much.  But half the time there was real decent 
girls, you see.

Hamish: Do you ken the Ball Of Kerrymuir ?

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.