21
then on. He was kina alowed down a little. From then on his feet got
crippled an that last from then on until he got very crippled -- that
was befo he went to France. See when he went to France he was very crippled
then. An that hand give away on him there. He got so he couldn't use that
hand good in France. His right hand. The one what he pick the git-tar with.
Then when he come back from that he wadn't feelin too well then. I had to
carry him to the doctor. Then when we got ready to go on this tour -- you
know when we went to Oklahoma through on that tour -- well he was walkin
very bad then. But I jes drug him all the way. You know, that was a hard
tour to make. He played all through Missouri an everywhere. Texas an
everywhere. Then when we come back, we got back that Saturday night and
the next Sunday mornin I called Doctor Fabian an he took him on in the 
hospital. They kep him there two weeks. Then they told me I could bring him
home. Well, I knowed right then they couldn't do nothin for him. They couldn't
hep it any. They ast me if I wanted to bring him home, and well they'd jes
have to keep him there. So I told em no, I'd ruther him home, wadn't no
need of stayin up there. So then I brought him home an kep him there. Kep
him there five months. I never did git tired one way or the other. Never did.
I never felt it or nothin. Until after he died. I carried him down South
an come on back an then that's when I had my let-down an I was really
sick. But up to that I never did git tired, Lizybeth, never. But the hardest
thing to me was tryin to keep that face that I thought it was all right.
They said Huddie might jes died at any time. But they was surprised at him
livin as long as he did. They jes don't see how he made it that far. Uh-huh.
They said he was jes a man with such a constitution till he jes stood it.
He always jes figured he'd be all right so he could go on playin again. That 
was the onliest thing on his mind. He believed that would go away. An then
again maybe he didn't either. Maybe he jes wanted me to feel good. After he 
stayed there in the house so long an jes knew he was gittin worse I think he
jes wanted to make me feel good about it. That was '49. Dec. 6. '49.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.