Professor S.T.M. Newman
University of Edinburgh




STMN/JFBB

REID SCHOOL OF MUSIC
PARK PLACE
EDINBURGH
Telephone  41001 Exten. 46

25th October, 1951.



File

Alan Lomas, Esq.,
c/o B.B.C.,
Broadcasting House
Queen Margaret Drive,
GLASGOW, W.2.

Dear Mr. Lomax,

You might wonder why you have not heard from me
about your request that you might have a copy of the song recorded 
by Mrs. MacLeod of Lewis, of which you heard a copy which we passed 
a copy to the Celtic Department at Glasgow University.

        I am afraid that it is by no means easy to
comply with your request that you should be allowed to have a copy
of that disc dubbed on your tape for the purpose of your using some
part of it for inclusion in your published records.  Derek Thomson
made it clear to you that he was agreeable if you received the 
unambiguous approval of the School of Scottish Studies at Edinburgh
University, but this is a matter which needs referring to the full
Commitee which is responsible to the University Court, as it raises
all sorts of problems.  For instance, Mrs. MacLeod recorded the
song merely for the purposes of its being included in the archives
at Edinburgh University, and without any thought of that performance
being used as a recorded performance for publication.  Before there
could be any question of its being used for publication, Mrs.
MacLeod's permission would have to be sought, and that would have
to be done by us.  On the other hand, the recording was made by
those who were employed by the University at the University's
expense, and the University cannot just casually give permission
for copies to be made for commercial purposes.  There are problems
as to whether we can become party to remuneration to singers of
what  has been recorded on a quite different basis and, in short,
matters of policy arise here which none us us individually working
in the Scottish School of Studies have the power to solve without
reference to the full Committee.

   I may say that it surprised us very much to find
in the course of copying your tapes in the Phonetics Department
at Edinburgh that you already have on one of your tapes copies
taken (presumably acoustically) of two other Lewis songs recorded
for Edinburgh University and of which copies were passed to the
Celtic/

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.