T - 3271 
TAPE 17. . THE COPPER FAMILY. A BBC DUB recordings by Brian George. 
3/3/51. 
6666666666

The Honest Laborer: 
1) 'Twas of an honest laborer as I've heard people say, 
He goes out in the morning and he works hard all the day, 
Ans he's got seven children and most of them are small, 
He has nothing but hard labour to maintain them all. 

2) A gentleman one evning walking out to take the air 
He met with this poor labouring man and solemnly declared, 
"I think you are that thresher man." Said he, "Yes, sir, that's true. 
"How do you get your living the same as you do ?" 

3) Sometimes I do reap and sometimes I do mow, 
At other times to hedging and to ditching I do go, 
There's nothing comes amiss to me from the harrow to the plough, 
That's how I get my iving, by the sweat of my brow. 

4) When I go home at night just as tired as I be, 
I take my youngest child and I dance him on my knee, 
The others they come round me with their prittle-prattling toys, 
And that's the only comfort a working man enjoys. 

5) My wife and I are whimming and we join both in one yoke, 
We live like two turtle doves and not one word provoke, 
Although the times are very hard and we are very poor, 
We can scarcely keep the raving wolf away from the door. 

6) "Well done, you honest labourer, you speak well of your wife, 
I hope you will live happy all the days of your life, 
Here's forty acres of good land which I will give to thee, 
Which will help to maintain your sweet wife and family." 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Spencer the Rover: 
1) These words were composed by Spencer the Rover 
Who travelled Great Britain and most parts of Wales, 
He had been so reduced which caused great confusion, 
And that was the reason he went on the roam. 

2) In Yorkshire near Rotherham, he had been on his rambles, 
Being weary of travelling he sat down to rest, 
At the foot of tonder mountain there runs a clear fountain, 
With bread and cold water he himself did refresh.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.