Box 128-B
Port-au-Prince,  Haiti.
Nov. 25 , 1936.
Dear [?] Alan,
 I found your letter this A.M. in the box and it was swell!
Am I glad you are coming!
 Now, no book is going to do you any good with the creole
language because it is not a written language. You will just
have to bring what French you know along and scuffle around
the best way you can, old boy, old boy, old boy.  Also you 
will not have time to do all the reading you ask for. If you 
must read one single book, read H.P. Davis: BLACK DEMOCRACY.
It is considered by the Haitians to be the best history of Haiti.
Bring a passport or your birth certificate along to save
time with the American Consul here. He is a swell guy, but
rules are rules. There is another Texan  here and he is grand!
The Haitians say that Seabrook is an awful liar. But you 
will not be walking in his footsteps anyway, so that is a 
discussion that we can put off till way late.
There is no danger of tropical diseases here.  It is a high
altitude, healthful place. Much cooler than Jamaica. It is very
delightful and healthy place. Any way there are very good doctors
of every nationality here if you should get sick. No danger
unless you just go hunting up germs to pal around with.
There are several types of songs here, but all based on 
drum rhythms.  Various types of drumming too with truly great 
performers. Every part of Haiti has its own songs and dances
and they are all distinct and full of spirit. I have found no
work songs like the ones in the south, but there is such a 
variety of ceremonial songs and rhythms that it more than 
makes up for it. Haiti had done well for herself in music
creation. The Christmas season is the best time of the year
for hearing typical songs and music. The church music is catholic
and nearly what has been handed to them.  But the songs to 
other ceremonies are rich and worthy of the files of the 
Library of Congress.
You will want letters to: Dr. Roux Leon, Directeur General
du Service National d'Hygiene, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
Col. Andre, Garde d'Haiti, Port-au-Prince   
Col. Calixte, Le ler Colonel, Garde d'Haiti. (He is the
head of the national guard)
You will please have the Library in you letters of introduction ask permission for you to
record some songs and not use the general term folk-lore or
magic practices. Seabrook and those who have followed him have
disgusted the Haitian government with voodoo hunters.  You do 
not need it with the great wealth of material at hand. The music 
is certainly worthwhile.  I hope that your father and the Library 
will trust my judgment in this matter.
 [*If the 
letters are 
not specific 
they may think 
you are 
another 
sensation 
seeker.*]
I jave been here ten weeks, now. I got scared when I first 
got off the boat and forgot all my French, but being here is

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.