Lomas: Did they express this pleasure in any way?

Calum: Oh yes, -- well, the greatest pleasure that anybody
can get is the completion of his work, -- and then, when they
saw a beautiful piece of cloth or tweed after it had been made,
well, that was their reward for the labour they had put in to
it.

Lomax: The object of having the tweed was to make good strong
clothes for the[m] men...

Calum: For the men, yes.  At that time, the men practically
wore all -- all the cloth that the men wore were made by the
women, by their wives and mothers; and even the fishermen,
they always had to get blue cloth, and that blue cloth that
was made for the fishermen, it was so thick that they never
wore an overcoat with it, as no rain would go through it.  It
was waulked for a whole night.  You know when cloth is made it
has to be shrunk -- what they call waulking.  Well, for ordinary
blankets and the like of that, an hour or so's waulking would
be sufficient, but for the fishermen's blue cloth, it was a
whole night.  They would start the waulking perhaps at six in 
the evening, and wouldn't be finished till ten at night, with
songs going all the time while they were shrinking
it.  And well, when that was shrunk to that extent, nothing
would go through it.

Lomax: And they were proud of the way it felt?

Calum: Oh yes.  They had pride in their work.  The better it
was, the more pride they could take in it.  And then, of course,
the praise of the neighbours, if it was forthcoming was
payment for all their labours.

Lomax: How would you describe Barra to someone who had never
seen it, Calum?

Calum: Well, to a stranger, when you're going there, it seems
a very barren island.  Seventyfive percent rocks, you might say.
I'm sure that's how you felt about it when you approached it.
And you get there -- there are certainly very lovely sandy
beaches there and the like of that, but the vegeation in some
parts is meagre. But I think the great attraction in Barra
is the warmth of the heart of the people when you get to know
it, because if you gt to know then, they'll take you to their
hearts, and it's that, I think it's that makes the place
likeable to strangers....Much more than the island itself,
because if you take away the people, I think it would feel very
cold.

Lomax: Yes, I think so.

Transcribed and reviewed by volunteers participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.