CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
Center for Radiophysics and Space Research 
SPACE SCIENCES BUILDING 
Ithaca, New York  14853 
Telephone (607) 256-4971 
Laboratory for Planetary Studies 
June 6, 1977 
Mr. Alan Lomax 
215 West 98th Street 
Apartment 12E 
New York NY  10025 
Dear Alan: 
I am extremely pleased that you will be able to lend us the bene- 
fit of your considerable experience and expertise in ethnomusicology in 
the production of the Voyager record. 
Voyager I and Voyager II are unmanned deep space probes which will 
be launched from Cape Canaveral in August and September, 1977. Their 
mission is to examine close-up the major planets, Jupiter, Saturn, and 
Uranus, their 20 some odd moons, and the rings of Saturn and Uranus. 
After these fly-by observations are performed, the two spacecraft will 
be ejected from the solar system, becoming mankind's third and fourth 
interstellar space vehicles. The first two such vehicles, Pioneers 10 
and 11, were launched some six years ago and contain a 6 x 9 inch gold 
anodized aluminium plaque on which is etched some simple scientific in- 
formation about the location of the Earth and the solar system in the 
Milky Way Galaxy, and the moment in the ten billion year history of our 
Galaxy when the spacecraft was launched. There are also drawings of a 
man and woman.  The plaques were a sort of message in a bottle, cast 
into the cosmic ocean, in case at some remote epoch in the future an 
extraterrestrial civilization were to come upon Pioneer 10 or 11 and 
wonder something about its origin. 
Voyager permits us to continue on the Pioneer 10 and 11 experience, 
but in a much richer way. When NASA asked me to chair a committee to 
decide what should be the nature of the Voyager cosmic greeting card, 
it soon became clear that much more information could be conveyed in the 
same space on a metal mother of a phonograph record than on a plaque of 
the same size. Since this is the 100th anniversary of Edison's invention 
of the phonograph, a record seems particularly apt. NASA will be launching 
on each Voyager a bonded pair of copper mothers containing the equivalent 
of four sides of a 12-inch 33-1/3 rpm long playing record. One of these 
sides will contain digital scientific information — largely diagrams 
and pictures; a range of human voices, including some especially prepared 
at the United Nations and one special greeting by Kurt Waldheim, the U.N. 
Secretary General; and a selection of non-musical, non-vocal sounds of 
Mr. Alan Lomax 
June 6, 1977 
Page 2 
the Earth. The other three sides are devoted entirely to music -- 
music representative of all of humanity and music which represents 
the best of humanity. We believe that public availability of a two- 
record album identical in content with the flight record will stimulate 
listeners to examine our civilization and culture and consider how we 
wish to be represented to the Cosmos. In addition, it may be for many 
people a first exposure to some of the diversity and quality of human 
music. 
Under its protective cover the flight record will have a probable 
lifetime of a billion years. It is unlikely that many other artifacts 
of humanity will survive for so prodigious a period of time; it is clear, 
for example, that most of the present continents will be ground down and 
dissipated by then. Inclusion of the musical selections on the Voyager 
record ensures for them a kind of immortality which could not be achieved 
in any other way. 
We would like you to be a member of the final musical selection 
committee and are very pleased that we will have access to some selec- 
tions from your unique collection of ethnic music. In each case we will 
need a release from the copyright holder. We feel we have an obligation 
In return for your important assistance to prominently acknowledge that 
assistance. We will be sure to include your name and affiliation in the 
draft of any NASA press release about the record.  (We expect such releases 
around the time of launch in late August.) I would also like to invite you 
to prepare a few paragraphs for the commercial record liner or booklet, 
and — if there is a book on the Voyager record — to consider preparing 
all or part of a chapter on the rationale and significance of the particular 
selection of ethnic music which we will have made. I am enclosing a small 
token of my esteem. 
With all good wishes, 
Cordially, 
Carl Sagan 
Chairman 
Voyager Record Committee 
CS/sja 
ENCL/