American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_070 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Roeder, Bea: IAW-BR-F031690; IAW-BR-F031890; IAW-BR-FO31990 
f)W -Rid-T ©3AG 50 
h`_4 
Dtir• s• ae 
SAINT JOSEPH'S TABLE 
Pueblo, Colorado 
March 14, 1990 
Fieldtrip to Zoelsmann's Bakery 
912 Abriendo Ave. 
Owner: Chuck Martinelli 
ph. (719) 543-0407 
Event: 
Italian-American women assembled at 8 a.m. 
to make the 
traditional bread for the Saint Joseph's table. 
I 
Present: Bessie  Ingo and two of her sisters, RoGP na7,pio and Ann 
Masarotti; Bessie's daughter, Rose Roderick; Annabelle Di Iorio, 
Rose Dazzio's daughter; Josephine Martellaro, a woman of Slovenian 
mother and Yugoslav father but married to an Italian American and 
the hostess for this year's Saint Joseph's table; and Josephine's 
sister-in-law, Jennie Rodasta. 
Bea Roeder, State Folklorist for 
Eastern Colorado, arrived about 8:30; Myron Wood, photographer, 
came about 9:00. 
Patty Ann C., Ann's granddaughter, stopped by on 
her lunch break. 
Location: the bakery is a small, old stucco building which from 
the street appears to be one story, but the land slopes away from 
the street and there is a dirt parking area behind which gives 
access to the kitchen and storage areas on the lower level. 
Bakery sells breads, sweet rolls, cookies, a few pies, soda pop, 
pop corn, honey, and includes a small delicatessen with cheeses 
(including goat's cheese), green chiles, 4 kinds of Italian green 
and black olives, 
Italian sausage, 
and a variety of 
salami, 
pepperoni, etc. 
A hand-lettered sign advertised "Dutch lunch," 
$2.00 apiece for four or more persons. 
Bread-making. 
The women gathered in the kitchen. 
They had 
completed one batch of dough and were working on the second when 
I arrived. 
Here is Rose Dazzio's recipe: 
30 lbs. hard flour - Hungarian 
30 eggs, beaten 
1 1/2 c. sugar 
1 1/2 c. Crisco, melted (she adds 1 1/2 c. water to this) 
1/2 lb. baker's yeast (to be dissolved in 3 c. water with the 
sugar) 
1 qt. milk, scalded and cooled. 
Rose puts this milk in a gallon 
pitcher and fills the pitcher with water. 
2 1/2 T baking powder 
2 1/2 T cream of tartar 
2 1/2 T salt 
3 T vanilla 
The dry ingredients are poured into the huge baker's mixing bowl 
and fluffed with the pastry hook. 
Yeast mixture, most of the 
Crisco, eggs, and milk-and-water mixture are added and mixed until 
the dough is quite stiff . "
It has to be hard or it won't hold the 
design," Bessie warned. 
More water may be added as needed. 
Wnen? "We used to have to do all this by hand, " Josephine pointed out. 
It is clear that it is only recently , 
perhaps just this year, that 
they have had access to the bakery. 
The dough was transferred to 
a large tin tub and covered with three blankets to keep it warm 
(the bakery was cool when they came in; outside temp. 21 degrees 
and the flour (90 pounds) had been in Josephine 's car overnight. 
Between batches of dough, the ladies had greased round cake pans 
with Crisco shortening , then lined the bottoms with paper, which 
was greased again. 
They make three-pound loaves 
each of the apostles," and 
(lily?) on a stem (Joseph's 
leaf Tike a 
n 
ges bending 
t ree slashes ), "trinity2" (3 
of Jesus, complete with hair, beard, and ears on Rose 's sketch.. 
Annabelle (?) walked in after the second batch of dough had been 
made, bringing the beautiful color photo of a St. Joseph's table 
V/ done at Rose 'G hnmP about i2 years 
go . The women gathered around 
the photo and started pointing out individual items, refreshing 
their memories and checking to be sure Josephine was arranging.for 
all the necessary items . Most of this conversation is on tape and 
Myron Wood took several photos of the group. 
There must be 13 wreathes , "one for 
at least one staff, 
cross, •f —ower 
-flowering.-,staff?), 
  a long loaf iwth 
out and down ; a "moon" ( 
oval loaf with 
balls pressed together), and the face 
While the other women talked, Bessie kept an eye on the dough. 
When it was ready Annabelle (?) helped her punch it down . It takes 
a lot of strength to punch a 30-pound batch of dough! 
We joked 
about taking out any anger and relieving stress: 
"Who are you 
thinking of when you punch it?" 
Shaping and cutting the loaves was a major operation. 
Chuck 
Martinelli came down when Bessie pronounced the dough ready. 
He 
turned on his rolling machine, pulled out his scales at the women's 
request, and quickly lopped off 3-lb. sections of dough, tossing 
them to the women to be worked into rounded loaves. 
After they had 
shaped the loaves, he put them through the rolling machine , 
setting 
it to first flatten and then roll each piece of dough. 
The women 
then worked the dough into longer , thinner rolls, 29-30" long. 
When a loaf had rough edges, a little shortening was added to help 
smooth it out. 
"Where are my combs?" demanded Rose. 
She had brought two black 
pocket combs ; 
Bessie brought a longer purple comb that her daughter 
says she has used for about 26 years to prick a diamond design into 
the St. Joseph 's bread. After four passes with the comb (two rows 
of pricks on top and one on each side), the bread is ready to be 
cut. 
A sharp knife was needed to cut into the dough, again in a 
diamond pattern (about 1" diamonds ). 
The women had three or four 
knives among them. 
One knife was too dull to cut the dough; Bessie 
took it and deftly honed it against the blade of the knife she was 
using--much to the amazement of several of us. 
Then Bessie and 
Rose pressed the ends of the loaves to flatten them. 
On one end 
they cut f 
ive " 
f 
ingers , 
" 
then lapped this "hand" over the other end 
to form a wreath. 
Toothpicks were broken in half and used to 
fasten the fingers in place during rising and baking. 
At this point the wreath was transferred to the baking pan. 
To my 
amazement, each just fit into the pan; there was good reason for 
weighing out three pounds of dough per loaf! 
Now there were some 
complaints that Chuck hadn't left them a piece of dough to make the 
ribbons from. 
Small snake-like rolls of dough were rolled out and 
twisted to make the ribbon; then the "ribbon" was wrapped around 
the joint in the wreath. 
A bow was added and toothpicked into 
place. 
They made 13 wreathes, complete with "hand," ribbon, cind bow, and 
one braided circle from the first batch. 
(Bessie 
told me that the 
brae e w a 
wou 
a mai ed to someone who could not attend, or 
at least that was what they had done in past years.) 
Bessie spoke of "proofing" the dough. 
When the first batch was 
ready, Chuck came down, arranged the pans with the loaves which 
had risen least on the top shelves, those that had risen most on 
the bottom, and then wheeled the tray into a steamer--"the sauna"-
-to hasten rising. 
The second batch of dough was ready soon after they finished with 
the first. 
A young man, employee of the bakery, came down to help. 
He was much more meticulous and cautious than Chuck, so weighing 
out the dough was slower. 
He fixed an improperly aligned pin in 
the rolling machine and carefully pushed each lump of dough into 
the roller, causing several of us to worry about his getting his 
fingers caught. 
Bessie commented that the already-shaped batch was 
ready to proof, and he began to transfer the pans of bread that had 
not yet risen much to the steam chamber. 
Chuch came down and 
demanded, sternly, "What are you doing that for? 
Just roll in the 
whole tray." 
Bessie protested that some didn't need much more. 
After a cursory glance at the breads, Chuck said curtly, "The ones 
on top will rise fastest," and shuffled the breads accordingly. 
The young employee dutifully rolled the tray into the steamer. 
Chuck left, the young man offered pop to the tired women, and then 
he too disappeared. 
From the second batch the fashioned a variety of shapes, including 
a fish from a forty-year o 
aper (heavy paper) pattemrnade 
by Rose's husband, who died ma b 
ago, 
The dougH__for the 
fish was rolle a out 
" t ick, then a liner-paper cut from the red 
pattern. 
Rose was pinning the liner-pattern to the dough with 
toothpicks, when someone recalled that they'd better move it to the 
baking tray first. 
She moved the dough, repinned the liner, and 
then I had to leave, but I presume she then cut the dough around 
the pattern. 
While they were working, one woman commented that she felt sorry 
for the young man, and that she wouldn't want to work for a man of 
Chuck's 
temperament. 
It 
seemed 
clear 
that 
Chuck 
was 
an 
intimidating figure; from the few times I saw him, he seemed an 
efficient 
but 
curt 
boss, 
sizing up a situation 
quickly and 
demanding the most effective use of time. 
He gave no considera-
tion to anyone's feelings. 
At this juncture a crisis loomed. 
The breads from the first batch 
had risen nicely and were ready to go into the oven--but Chuck had 
left, perhaps for lunch, and no one at the bakery knew how to 
operate the ovens! 
I'll find out when I go back whether he made 
it back in time to rescue the loaves or whether the morning's work 
was wasted. 
There were some very tired and frustrated women by the 
time I left. 
The oven was an old one and the temperature control 
lacked whatever marker had originally indicated what temperature 
it was set for; there was no way for anyone who did not know the 
appliance to figure out what temperature it was set at, or how to 
adjust it. 
It was clear that Bessie and Rose were the experts. 
Other women 
learned from them and began to 
imitate their work. 
It was 
interesting to watch the different approaches. 
One watched and 
then imitated with considerable dexterity. 
Another wanted verbal 
instructions: "How do you know where to start the diamond?" 
Two 
women quickly adapted to pricking the dough with the comb, but were 
reluctant to start cutting. Bessie and her sister Rose's skills and 
speed were much in evidence. 
Josephine at one point commented, 
"I'm supervising." 
No one shirked, but it was clearly a learning 
experience for Jennie, Annabelle, and ( 
to a lesser extent) Rose and 
Josephine. 
SA W  - 
g 
k- 031$54 
Saint Joseph's Table 
Pueblo, Colorado 
March 18, 1990 
Fieldworker: Bea Roeder, 10 Ridge Road, Colo. Springs, CO 80904 
Location: Josephine and Tony Martellaro's home 
30949 County Farm Lane 
Pueblo, CO 81006 
(719) 543-0407 
I picked Myron Wood, the photographer, up at 10 a.m. and we drove 
to Josephine's home, south of the Arkansas River and east of the 
little town of Blende. 
Interestingly, we missed a turn at 30th 
Lane and found ourselves on 30 1/4 Lane! 
County Farm is a dirt 
road that winds down and around a hill into a little valley; the 
Martellaros' is the only house on the road in that valley. 
They 
have a fairly large home with horse corrals and pastures behind 
it; two foals, two yearlings, and several grown horses were in 
evidence. 
Josephine later remarked on how proud she was of her 
youngest daughter, Lisa, for baking cookies for her brothers and 
sisters last Christmas: "She and Debbie were always out with their 
father and the horses." 
A small house--possibly for children's 
play, or at least the small door suggests that--and a substantial 
outbuilding stood about 15 feet behind the kitchen door. 
Tony greeted us with "And who are you?" 
After brief introductions 
he waved us toward the kitchen door with a "Go on in; Josephine's 
in there somewhere." 
We found their daughter Lisa talking on the 
kitchen phone and soon a smiling, composed Josephine appeared. 
She 
offered us a cup of coffee or punch, asking if the punch was too 
sweet and did it need to be diluted (yes). 
Everything was ready 
for the occasion. 
In the kitchen--clean and orderly despite the 
recent cooking binge--was a huge yellow styrofoam punch container 
with spigot, labelled "McDonald's" and rented for the occasion; two 
gallon electric coffee pots, and stacks of paper cups for the punch 
and styrofoam cups for the coffee waited on the kitchen table; 
three huge trays of cookies graced the kitchen counter (see photo). 
Cookies included pizzels (sp.?) and krumkakes (a crepe-like version 
of them (multi-colored cookies Josephine holds 
in one of the 
photos), wine cookies, honey balls (Tony's mother's recipe, though 
I gather she is now deceased), Slovenian (?) krumkakes, fig-filled 
coude edi (sp??), chocolate bissotti, and many others. 
Photos will show the Saint Joseph's table. 
Daughter Debbie has 
sketched a diagram of it, with items numbered and keyed to a list 
to tell what each is; Josephine sent this to me and they are 
enclosed. 
Josephine took pictures of things on the table in little 
groups of two or three on Saturday; these may be of help also. 
It 
was 
ready 
in 
all 
its 
shining glory; 
Tony had 
installed two 
spotlights to illuminate it. 
The two photos on the table are of 
the two family members for whom Josephine and Debbie promised to 
make the table, if they recovered from their respective illnesses: 
illnesses: Tony Martellaro (husband and father), who a year ago was 
suffering from such severe rheumatoid arthritis that he could 
hardly move, and as a result was in a state of severe depression; 
and 
Brittany 
Carleo, 
Debbie's 
daughter 
and 
Josephine's 
granddaughter, who suffered from severe eczema all over her face, 
arms, and body ( 
"they had to keep a leotard on her to keep her from 
scratching until she bled"). 
It turned out that Brittany had 
severe and multiple food allergies; a specialist tested her for 
allergies, limited her diet ("about all we could give her was corn 
chips"), and she improved. 
Tony is now mobile and active, though 
he still has arthritis. 
The painting of St. Joseph and Child on the St. Joseph's table was 
painted by Josephine herself. 
She is artistic and a number of her 
paintings adorn the living room walls, many of them religious in 
nature--the Last Supper, Jesus, Mary. 
A yarn "picture" of a room 
with a cat on a window ledge and a chair from which an afghan 
practically flowed out of the frame also caught my eye; it was very 
well done. 
Josephine told me that her daughters are artistic also, 
some in sewing, some in cooking or painting. 
She showed me a 
rabbit doll one had made, and Debbie and Chris's handiwork was in 
evidence on the Table. 
A large glass bowl on the St. Joseph's table puzzled me at first, 
but as guests began to drop dollar and five-dollar bills into it, 
its function became clear. 
The money donated will go to two 
charities that Josephine has designated. 
The living room had been practically emptied of furniture to 
accommodate the table and anticipated traffic; only a sofa and some 
small tables remained. 
One table, placed between the two large 
windows, 
held a bouquet 
of 
flowers 
and 
some 
xeroxed 
flyers 
explaining the St. 
Joseph's table tradition (one is enclosed). 
The living room carpet was covered with heavy plastic to protect 
it from the unaccustomed traffic. 
Today is a gray, blustery day, 
with rain or snow forecast, though none had fallen at their place 
by the time we left. 
An extra table was set up beside the St. 
Joseph's table to accommodate extra breads and a large basket of 
fruit. 
A third table, beside a window, displayed a large, flat 
white bakery cake with "St. Joseph" inscribed on it and blue trim 
and flowers. 
Myron and I 
were the first non-family arrivals. 
Daughter Jeannette 
lives with her husband, Pete Jensen, in Casper, Wyoming; they had 
driven down Friday--Friday afternoon, because snow and wind had 
closed the roads until about 1, and they had rough going for a 
couple of hours. 
Jeannette says she tries to come down about once 
every other month; the other siblings live closer and often visit 
their parents. 
There are six children in the family: four girls 
(Jeannette is the oldest, Chris, Debbie, and newly-wed Lisa) and 
two boys (Anthony, who was at his home making spaghetti sauce for 
tomorrow, and Frank, the youngest child--in his teens or maybe 20.) 
Jeannette commented she was eleven or twelve when her brother was 
born; her grandmother had held a St. Joseph's table in honor of 
that occasion, but she didn't remember it. 
The phone rang often. 
Josephine commented that she had been up 
until 2 or 3 the previous night(s?) getting everything ready, and 
that her phone has been ringing constantly. 
About 12:15 a few 
guests began to trickle in, mostly family and friends. 
Two arrived 
in wheel chairs; one middle-aged woman walked slowly and with 
obvious pain. 
About half of the guests looked distinctly Italian. 
Josephine or another family member greeted each new arrival, 
sometimes in the kitchen, usually in the living room. 
Daughter Debbie arrived with the finoccio (sp.? --sweet anise): 
large white bulbous stalk and feathery greens. 
She had called to 
say she wanted it to be blessed and would be coming soon, so even 
though Father Bouchard arrived about 
12:30, 
the blessing was 
delayed until 1:15. 
About 1:10 a cameraman and reporter from 
Pueblo's channel 5 showed up, interviewed Debbie, and videotaped 
a few shots of the table, the crowd, and the priest's blessing. 
When Debbie and two other people carried in the finoccio, it was 
clear that only one sample of it could possibly fit on the already 
crowded table. 
The rest they stored under the table--which gave 
us a peek at the many boxes of food stored there, ready to be 
distributed to the "saints" tomorrow. 
The boxes were the size of 
large cake boxes. 
✓✓ 
Here is a partial list of some of the people who contributed to 
the table. 
I skip the bread-bakers who were already mentioned in 
Wednesday's notes from Zoelsmann's bakery. 
--Daughter Debbie Carleo (1510 Carteret, Pueblo, CO 81004, ph. 564-
8227): decorated fish (which was baked at the Sirloin House on a 
tray donated by Pizza Hut); made the onion "mums" that border it; 
ordered finoccio from California from Andrew's produce ("Dad used 
to grow finoccio, but it doesn't grow as big in Colorado as in 
California"); with Jennie made the palm trees of carrots and snow 
peas or green pepper; and did a great deal of cooking and baking, 
including a jelly roll just to the left of the fish. 
"Every minute 
I was off work I was baking," she commented. 
--Daughter Chris made the lambs (at least three graced the table) 
and probably other things as well. 
I haven't met Chris yet. 
She 
lives in Colorado Springs. 
--Daughter Lisa made Slovenian cookies, snarkels (sp. ?). 
--Jennie Rodasta l made the apple-slice swan, dipping slices in 
lemon juice to preserve color, just before they came over today. 
Jennie is Josephine's sister-in-law. 
She is new to Pueblo; used 
to live in Denver, just moved to Pueblo about six months ago. 
1Please send photos: 1350 30th Lane, Pueblo, CO 81006, ph. 
(719) 948-9316 
--Dominick Giadone donated the St. Joseph's cake (bakery-made) and 
three of the large bouquets of flowers. 
I believe he also built 
the scaffolding for the table. 
--Josephine Gaggliano (Tony's first cousin; I 
believe Tony's father 
was her grandmother's or her mother's brother) made the ribbon 
roses on the 
second-highest shelf and lent her fig-decorated 
chalice. 
I believe the heart-shape 
A f;r—reaa 
--d,- 
T- --o's. 
--Josephine Martellaro carved Jesus's face (bread toward left rear 
of table), painted St. Joseph, and probably did a great deal of the 
cooking. 
She worked tirelessly for long hours over a long period 
of time, in addition to a full-time job, in order to take care of 
all the details associated with presenting the St. Joseph's table. 
How appropriate that she shares the saint's name! 
--Scaplo Gardens grew the wheat (which was ordered a month ago) 
and provided four lilies and the candles. 
Other items on the table: popcorn balls in many colors that act as 
"fillers", vegetable omelets, bacalao (cod), fried parsnips (?), 
palm leaves, asparagus, sprouted wheat. 
One bread includes an 
improvization: sugar-coated almonds instead of colored eggs. 
As for length of preparations, Debbie said they didn't get "final 
information" on how to do the St. Joseph's table until the day of 
the Super Bowl. 
(The Denver Broncos made it to the Super Bowl this 
year, and with the possible exception of a few skiiers, nearly 
everyone in Colorado watched the Broncos go down in humiliating 
defeat. 
This was generally a social occasion; groups of friends 
and family gathered all over the state to enjoy or bemoan the 
televised game. 
There is a nice if unintentional symbolism, 
however, 
in measuring preparations from Super Bowl to a super 
table--or supper table, since I couldn't help but think of the Last 
Supper when, the next day, I watched the 13 Apostles or Saints 
eating 
together.) 
Info 
on what 
to 
do 
came 
from 
Josephine 
Gaggliano, articles they read, and previous experience at other St. 
Joseph's Day tables. 
They have been cooking for this one ever 
since the Super Bowl. 
They don't know how many to expect, but do plan to give all left-
overs to the soup kitchen; 
"feeding the poor" 
is part of the 
tradition. 
Trays of cookies cover a bed in one bedroom; the 
basement is full of food. 
A much-honored guest was "Auntie." 
She arrived in a wheel chair, 
which proved to be very difficult to maneuver on the plastic-
covered floor. 
Her chair was pushed into the center of the room, 
and everyone greeted her warmly. 
At one juncture I noticed that 
Frank, sitting on or near the sofa, had taken her hand and was 
holding it while he talked to her--a tender, 
loving gesture I 
seldom see among adolescent boys. 
Josephine kept encouraging people to sign her guest book, so she 
should have a good record of attendance that day: 
People who came 
in exclaimed at the beauty of the table. 
Friends and family had 
a chance to greet the hosts, visit with each other, and enjoy some 
cookies and punch or coffee. 
I heard some conversation in Italian-
-with Auntie, for example--but many of the visitors Sunday were not 
Italian. 
• 
•P cW — 99, —O3 4590 
St. Joseph 's Table 
Pueblo, Colorado 
March 19, 1990 
Fieldworkers : Bea Roeder , folklorist 
Myron Wood , photographer 
Location : Josephine and Tony Martellaro's home 
St. Joseph 's Day dawned bright and warm--a wonderful gift from the 
saint to his namesake , Josephine , who had twelve long tables 
stacked outside her house , waiting for Colorado 's fickle weather 
to determine whether they would be set up inside (in the basement) 
or outside on the lawn. 
Myron Wood and I stopped to take a few pictures of the setting 
before going on to the Martellaro 's. 
Every time Myron got ready 
to take a photo , a car headed for the St. Joseph's table (there 
was nowhere else to go on that dead-end road ) passed, raising a 
cloud of dust . We clearly were not the only early arrivals! 
By the time we arrived , the tables outside were set up and covered 
with paper tablecloths ; 
dishes, cups , and plasticware were stacked 
at one end of each table (a breeze was blowing, pleasant but brisk 
enough that paper plates and napkins would blow away if anyone had 
attempted to set the table ). 
People were going in to greet the 
hosts, see the table , and then gather in little conversational 
groups, inside and out. 
In the living room, a long table was set up for the 13 special 
guests chosen to be saints . Place names declared the name of the 
saint each guest represented : 
Saint Anne , 
Elizabeth, etc. 
The only 
tape recording I did on St . Joseph's Day was of the priest's 
blessing and of asking each person at the table for their name, 
the name of the saint they represented, and, if they were willing 
to explain, why they represented that saint. 
Tape : 
begins with s short segment of Josephine seating her honored 
guests. 
The priest's blessing follows (transcribed from tape; 
Josephine sent me a slightly different written version): 
"We honor you, Saint Joseph, on your Feast Day. 
We 
praise you , Husband of the blessed Mother Mary , and the 
Father Protector of the blessed home in Nazareth. 
We 
ask you this day to be the Patron Protector of our homes 
as well. 
We commemorate your feast with this St. Joseph's bread, symbol 
of sustenance which you gave to the Holy Family. 
May God the 
divine parent fill this bread with richness of taste and with 
the light of His grace. 
As we honor you today, St. Joseph, 
you who steadfastly trusted that in your dreams and intui-
tions you are being guided by the Hand of God, may we who 
share this bread with saints, be fed with wisdom and insight. 
May we be nourished by a more abundant trust in God . May this 
bread provide us with the same gifts that you, Joseph, gave 
to Mary: the gifts of strength and understanding; the gifts 
of passion and love. 
May we nourish and rejoice in one 
another; may we delight in your saints; may we delight in the 
favors which you have prayed for; may we look to you as a 
Protector of the Christ Child from all dangers, and may you 
grant us peace. 
St. 
Joseph, you who are the patron saint of the universal 
church, and of every Christian home, watch over our domestic 
church with your persevering and loving care. 
May your bread 
and  
 (log??), created in your honor, be not only the 
cause of celebration, but may it also be a nourishment for us 
before, and all 
. throughout life's journey. 
May your 
intercession sustain us, so that at the end of our days, we 
may be blessed with a happy death. 
St. Joseph, we give you 
honor, and we ask this blessing in the name of the Father, and 
of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. 
Amen. 
Father Bouchard, at the previous day's blessing, had read from the 
Gospel according to Matthew the story of Joseph's learning that his 
betrothed was already with child, and of his determination to 
discretely end the betrothal, until he was advised in a dream that 
the child was holy and that he should marry Mary. 
The prayer 
quoted above he read from a book. 
During conversation awaiting the serving of the meal, I spoke to 
Rose Roderick, who plans to have an Italian wedding June 9th for 
her daughter, Phyllis, and Don Montoya. 
Her fianc6 is Mexican, 
but they will have an Italian wedding at St. Joseph's church at 
1:00. 
She is willing to have the American Folklife Center document 
the wedding if you wish to do so. 
The wedding will be followed by 
a dinner at the American Legion Hall in Blende--a family dinner at 
five, followed by a reception and dance at 6 until 11. 
They'll 
have catered Italian food and cookies, and the wedding cake. 
There 
will be a (bridal) shower April 29. 
The honored guests and the saints they represent were: 
Lisa Bottini (daughter) - St. Agnes, saint of youth. 
Ana Cuchiara - St. Anne - namesake 
Naich Cordo - St. Jude 
Christine Spadafora (daughter)- St. Teresa 
Katie Granato 
- St. Katherine 
Sam Pisciotta 
- St. Christopher. 
"There's an old saying that 
he carried the world on his shoulders ... I carry a lot of trouble, " 
he told me, laughing. 
He tells a little of the origin of the feast 
in Sicily. 
Ann Purkett 
Santa Rita 
Brittany Carleo (granddaughter)--not a saint, but honoree. 
Roxy Carleo (Debbie's father-in-law) Baby Jesus. 
Charles Juinta, St. Joseph 
Josephine Croshal 
(Grandma to Jeannette and Debbie, 
etc: 
Josephine's mother) 
Mother Mary 
Tony Martellaro--not a saint. 
"I'm the one that has the 
0
-
horns." 
"We're going to save you, another man at the table says, 
maybe Charles. "That's why they set me at the table here, hoping 
it will rub off, I guess." 
Jeannette Jensen - St. Felicitas. 
It has something to do with 
not being able to have children. 
Frank Croshal 
(Jeannette's 
uncle; 
Tony's 
brother-in-law; 
Josephine's brother). 
St. James - "I was assigned" 
Virginia Stefanich - St. Lucy. 
Frank's sister. 
eyes. 
Rose Payne 
Santa Barbara "it's a long story" as to why. 
She is Italian, born and raised in Pueblo--this area of Pueblo. 
Jennie Lercara - St. Elizabeth 
I count 13 saints plus Mary, Jesus, Tony, and Brittany. 
The day was a lovely spring day, but on the cool side; a few people 
hesitated to eat outside. 
Two who decided it was too cold out were 
Bessie Ingo and her sister Rose. 
They sat at the kitchen counter 
with a third woman (perhaps Ann Maserotti?), thus forcing Josie to 
serve each of the many dishes to them separately. 
Serving was a major operation. 
In addition to the 17 people at 
the table of honor in the living room and two in the kitchen, there 
were about 100-120 people seated at the tables outside, 10 to a 
table. 
The basement was set up as the serving kitchen, and a crew 
of three or more hard-working servers heated, cut, 
and served 
family style: one dish of each food went to every table. 
The order 
may be prescribed too. 
Salad and the bacalao were served early, 
as was the salmon. 
Plate after plate of vegetable omelettes, 
pasta, batter-fried parsnips, and all the other dishes were served. 
A caraffe of wine was available on each table, plus coffee and 
punch. 
I sat at a table with Pete Santerelli and his sister Lil, whose 
parents are from Lucca, Sicily, 
south of Palermo. 
He is the 
National Secretary of the Columbian Federation, and an excellent 
person for summer fieldworkers to talk to. 
He knows the Italian 
community in Pueblo well 
and, 
because of 
his work with the 
Columbian 
Federation, 
has 
connections 
with 
Italian-Americans 
throughout the nation. 
Pete said that the largest concentratipn 
of Sicilians in Colorado are clustered in -'Pueblo. 
We had a short 
with Lil and Bob Van Alstyne about "Goat Hill," a hill 
near the Arkansas River which is an Italian community and was named 
because people used to raise goats there. 
Bob is Pete's niece's 
husband. 
He brought a videocamera and took extensive footage of 
the feast; you may want to contact him also (719) 542-8151). 
Other people whose names I caught and who might be interesting to 
contact later are: 
Mr. Ginetta 
Dr. Angelo (reddish-blonde hair) 
Frank Garneto, who worked for 20 years at CF & I and gardened a 10 
acre plot. 
Myron Wood found him very interesting to talk to. 
A few odds and ends of information: 
The monument across from the library is the second oldest monument 
to Columbus in the country (the oldest is in Detroit). 
In 1947, a St. Joseph's Day table was given for men home safely 
from World War II. 
The major immigration period was from 1908-1920's. 
Lil feels this is a dying tradition: "our children work and they 
don't care" enough to maintain the table. 
News of the existence of the table is largely by word-of-mouth. 
Lots of women help, and they talk about it; word spreads. 
We left about 2:00, stopped by St. Therese's Parish to see another 
St. Joseph's table. Myron spotted a motto engraved on the church: 
"Let your heaven be working for good on this earth." 
We also stopped by the Columbus monument and the library where 
Myron's 10,000 prints are housed. 
I left Myron at his home at 3:45 
p.m. 
Round trip: 120 miles. 
13 
city. 
First, using a reprint of one of the old WPA guidebooks, we headed 
for the oldest part of city and looked for the Columbus statue. 
We quickly 
located the statue and walked around the area for a few minutes. 
We then 
drove around other parts of the city. 
Pueblo's streets are laid out oddly 
with three intersecting grids of streets. 
Later, we had a decent dinner at 
one of the oldest family-run Italian restaurants. 
March 9 
 
After another brief drive around Pueblo, John and I 
met with Kerry 
Kramer at 10:30 at her home at 332 Michigan Avenue. 
I 
had contacted Kerry 
as a result of the recommendation of Texas-baocd folklorist Paula Manini. 
Kerry, though not a native of Pueblo, knows the city well by virtue of her 
work here as a city planner and museum director. 
She's also married to an 
Italian-American whose family has been in Pueblo for at least two 
generations. 
At any rate, hopeful of some euployment with us down the line 
(she's presently out of work), she'd agreed to mcct with us today and show 
us around the city. 
After the usual introductions, John and I 
briefed Kerry on the status 
of the project and the purpose of this trip. 
She then began to answer our 
questions about Pueblo's Italian community. 
Among other things, she 
mentioned: 
--Many  Italians are involved in the St. Joseph's table tradition, a 
devotion that involves the preparation of a large quantity of symbolic foods 
that are displayed on elaborate home altars, then served to ncedy members of 
the conmunity; St. Joseph's Day is March 19. 
Though this devotion seems 
mainly to be centered in private homes, in recent years the Catholic Church 
has become more involved. 
For example, the church that Kerry's mother-in-
law attends--The Shrine of St. Teresa--has a St. Joseph's table. 
--Columbus Day is a 
major event in Pueblo. 
Perhaps the most striking 
characteristic of the local observance is that it functions as a political 
event. 
On Columbus Day, all the state's Democratic politicians come to 
town. 
(Pueblo is a labor town, and, therefore, heavily Democratic.) 
There 
is no parade on Columbus Day. 
--There is a chapter of the Knights of Columbus in Pueblo and it pushed 
for the renovation of the Columbus Park area where the statue of Columbus 
stands. 
--There is also a Dante Society which has tried to preserve the Italian 
language. 
It provides scholarships for the study of Italian at the 
University of Southern Colorado. 
--With regard to Italian-run businesses, there used to be a lot of 
Italian businesses on Union Avenue, but there are not as many now. 
Battaglia's Barbershop has been in business for many years. 
--The Occhiata family is one of the oldest Italian families in Pueblo. 
--Italian families have long been involved with truck gardening and 
other agricultural pursuits in the area east of the city known as "the 
mesa." 
The small communities located here are Blende and Vineland. 
Kerry 
thinks Italians in this area had fornos at one time; perhaps some are still 
in existence. 
The Prutch family has a 
vineyard in this vicinity. 
13 
city. 
First, using a reprint of one of the old WPA guidebooks, we headed 
for the oldest part of city and looked for the Columbus statue. 
We quickly 
located the statue and walked around the area for a few minutes. 
We then 
drove around other parts of the city. 
Pueblo's streets are laid out oddly 
with three intersecting grids of streets. 
Later, we had a decent dinner at 
one of the oldest family-run Italian restaurants. 
March 9 
After another brief drive around Pueblo, John and I 
met with Kerry 
Kramer at 10:30 at her home at 332 Michigan Avenue. 
I 
had contacted Kerry 
as a result of the recommendation of Texas-based folklorist Paula Manini. 
Kerry, though not a native of Pueblo, knows the city well by virtue of her 
work here as a city planner and museum director. 
She's also married to an 
Italian-American whose family has been in Pueblo for at least two 
generations. 
At any rate, hopeful of some employment with us down the line 
(she's presently out of work), she'd agreed to meet with us today and show 
us around the city. 
After the usual introductions, John and I briefed Kerry on the status 
of the project and the purpose of this trip. 
She then began to answer our 
questions about Pueblo's Italian community. 
Among other things, she 
mentioned: 
--Many  Italians are involved in the St. Joseph's table tradition, a 
devotion that involves the preparation of a lame quantity of symbolic foods 
that are displayed on elaborate home altars, then served to needy members of 
the community; St. Joseph's Day is March 19. 
Though this devotion seems 
mainly to be centered in private homes, in recent years the Catholic Church 
has become more involved. 
For example, the church that Kerry's mother-in-
law attends--The Shrine of St. Teresa--has a St. Joseph's table. 
--Columbus Day is a 
major event in Pueblo. 
Perhaps the most striking 
characteristic of the local observance is that it functions as a political 
event. 
On Columbus Day, all the state's Democratic politicians come to 
town. 
(Pueblo is a labor town, and, therefore, heavily Democratic.) 
There 
is no parade on Columbus Day. 
--'There is a chapter of the Knights of Columbus in Pueblo and it pushed 
for the renovation of the Columbus Park area where the statue of Columbus 
stands. 
-There is also a Dante Society which has tried to preserve the Italian 
language. 
It provides scholarships for the study of Italian at the 
University of Southern Colorado. 
--With regard to Italian-run businesses, there used to be a lot of 
Italian businesses on Union Avenue, but there are not as many now. 
Battaglia's Barbershop has been in business for many years. 
--The Occhiata family is one of the oldest Italian families in Pueblo. 
--Italian families have long been involved with truck gardening and 
other agricultural pursuits in the area east of the city known as "the 
mesa." 
The small communities located here are Blende and Vineland. 
Kerry 
thinks Italians in this area had fornos at one time; perhaps some are still 
in existence. 
The Prutch family has a 
vineyard in this vicinity. 
14 
Since Kerry was talking about Pueblo's neighborhoods, we suggested that 
we drive around together and have a look. 
She agreed and, with me behind 
the wheel, we struck off to the part of town known as Bessemer. 
Kerry 
explained that many houses in the area were built by the big steel company 
(CF & 
I). 
She said that, in addition to Italians, a lot of Slovenians live 
in the area. 
(The local term for Slovenian is "Bo-john"). 
As we drove 
slowly through the neighborhood in the vicinity of Elm Street, we noticed 
that most of the small, single-story homes had tiny backyards with shed-
like buildings at the back edge of the property. 
Kerry explained that these 
structures were u>c3d mainly as summer kitchens. 
As we came to the corner of Mesa and Abriendo Streets, we spied La 
Tronica's Restaurant, with a small sign stating "since 1943." 
In keeping 
with true neighborhood bars and restaurants we've seen elsewhere (like the 
Matador Restaurant), this restaurant's signage was very discrcet and 
uninviting. 
As we drove down Northern Avenue (the main artery for the Bessemer 
neighborhood), we passed Ianne's Pizzeria. 
Kerry said this place was run by 
an Italian-American family. 
Further down Northern Avenue, as we were passing Collette's Catering 
and Carry-Out, Kerry explained that the people who ruin the business know 
about the St. Joseph's table tradition. 
We immediately decided to stop and 
ask them about the tradition. 
It was nearly noon by this time and people we coming into to the shop 
for take-out lunches of Italian food. 
The front of the place is quite 
small, just a narrow rectangular area in front of a long counter. 
Behind 
the counter was a food preparation area and behind this was another room 
containing cooking and storage facilities. 
Anyway, John, Kerry, and I 
trooped in. 
A young man came over to wait on us, and we explained our 
interest in the St. Joseph's table tradition. 
He began to talk with us 
about the tradition, explaining the basic elements. 
After about ten minutes 
of this, he said his mother (Mrs. JoAnna Collette) could provide much more 
information and called her over. 
We introduced ourselves again and 
explained about our project. 
Despite the flow of customers entering and 
leaving the shop, Mrs. Collette seemed very happy to talk with us and 
launched into a lengthy and detailed description of the St. Joseph's table 
tradition. 
She explained that involvement in the tradition is not a matter 
of course. 
one becomes involved only if the intervention of St. Joseph is 
sought. 
For example, Mrs. Collette organized her first St. Joseph's table 
when she sought the saint's intervention with the health of her son, who 
suffered from petit mal seizures. 
In addition to making a number of 
symbolic foods (breads in certain shapes, for example) and arranging them on 
a large altar, another important component of the devotion is the 
participation of needy members of the community--others who can benefit from 
assistance from the saint. 
As Mrs. Collette explained, the person who 
sponsors the table can invite up to 13 people in need of help. 
If less than 
13 are invited, the total number has to be an odd number. 
She explained 
15 
that the invitees symbolize the participants at Christ's last supper. 
Another element of the tradition is hosting an open house for anyone who 
wishes to come to the home and view the "table." 
Apparently, this is quite 
popular since she said she has had as many as 2000 people come to her home 
for one table. 
In discussing change in the St. Joseph's table tradition over the 
years, Mrs. Collette remarked that the devotion has mainly been family-based 
in Pueblo but, in recent years, the church has become involved and tables 
have been erected in church buildings. 
She also noted that some who have 
elected to participate in the tradition have not adhered to some of the 
finer points of the ritual, especially in the area of the symbolism of 
certain foods and the particular ways they are prepared. 
When I 
mentioned 
Mrs. Ingo, Mrs. Collette said she (Mrs. Ingo) was a person who did adhere to 
the traditional rules and would be a good person to talk with about the 
tradition. 
Mrs. Collette also discussed how foodstuffs and decorations are 
obtained for a 
St. Joseph's table. 
One method is to "beg" for contributions 
of food or money. 
The other method is for the host family to foot the 
entire bill. 
In cases where there is a surplus of donated money and/or 
food, this surplus is donated to the needy. 
Mrs. Collette clearly enjoyed talking with us about the elements of 
this tradition. 
Even though she was very busy serving customers, she 
invited us to come through the shop to the back room. 
We agreed and upon 
entering this area, took seats around a large stainless steel food 
preparation table. 
JoAnna's husband Al and a daughter (whose name I 
have 
forgotten) came in and spoke with us from time to time. 
Al and Joanna 
served us a lame Italian meal from assorted pots that simmered around us. 
This was a natural opportunity to ask about family food traditions, and the 
conversation moved onto this topic. 
JoAnna explained that all the food they 
serve is based on family recipes. 
When we asked about home wine-making, Al 
quickly produced a gallon-size jug and poured us glasses of red wine. 
He 
explained that he makes wine, but that this particular wine had been 
produced by JoAnna's father, Frank Nigro (sp?). 
Al and Joanna explained that catering is the part of their business 
that brings in the most income. 
Joanna casually remarked that they are 
catering a dinner for 300-400 tonight. 
When I said that that seemed like a 
big affair, she dismissed this saying that, since they had done much larger 
events, this one was nothing to get excited about. 
Their business has 
catered the annual Columbus Day dinner on at least one occasion, and this is 
one of the biggest events they've handled. 
Weddings are standard events, 
particularly Italian weddings. 
Al and Joanna told the story of how they got into the catering 
business. 
Apparently, the caterer who had been hired to provide food for a 
relative's wedding cancelled at the last minute and Al and Joanna were 
enlisted to save the day. 
They did well, people were pleased, and they 
16 
decided to go into the business. 
One motivating factor was that this 
enterprise would permit them to involve their children. 
At present, six of 
their seven children work in the business. 
When we asked about sources of supply for Italian dishes, they said 
some Italian products are obtained in Pueblo from Joe Gagliano, who has an 
import-export business on East Evans Street. 
Still on the topic of Italian 
foods, they noted that Joe Vazelli (sp?) makes ricotta cheese from the milk 
of goats he keeps. 
After about an hour, we left Al and JoAnna. 
As usual, we were quite 
full of good Italian food, an occupational hazard, as we explained to Kerry. 
For the record, Al and JoAnna's address is: 
Collette's Catering and Carry-Out Service 
1614 W. Northern Avenue 
Pueblo, CO 
81004 
543-2467 
We drove back to Kerry's house and I called Mrs. Ingo from there to 
confirm our appointment. 
I spoke with her for 10 or 15 minutes and 
explained the project again. 
This time she seemed much more receptive and 
apparently believed that I 
was who I said I 
was. 
She remarked that she 
often got odd calls and, because of this, had to protect herself from those 
who would take advantage of her. 
I commiserated with her, saying I could 
imagine that a call from someone at the Library of Congress was a 
mite 
unusual. 
I asked a few questions about Mrs. Ingo's involvement with the St. 
Joseph's table tradition and she began to describe details of the devotion. 
She also mentioned that she and her late husband had been involved in truck 
gardening for many years; many people in her area still pursue this line of 
work. 
At any rate, it appeared that I 
had broken the ice with Mrs. Ingo 
since she asked me to come right over. 
I agreed, left Kerry's house, and 
drove to Blende via Route 50. 
(John and Kerry decided to resume the tour of 
Pueblo and did not, therefore, accompany me.) 
I located Mrs. Ingo's house without much difficulty. 
It's a neat two-
story white house with blue trim that's set back 100 feet or so from the 
highway. 
I 
went to the side (kitchen) door, where Mrs. Ingo greeted me and 
apologized about the initial distrust she had expressed over the phone. 
I 
told her I 
understood, saying if she were my mother I'd want her to be 
suspicious of strangers, too. 
Mrs. Bessie Ingo is a short, stout woman in her 70s. 
She invited me to 
sit down with her at the table in her very tidy kitchen. 
She had assembled 
a number of photos and newspaper clippings about St. Joseph's Day and we 
began taking about them. 
One clipping was a large article from the local 
newspaper (Pueblo Chieftan, March 18, 1989, section C, p. 1) that discussed 
Mrs. Ingo's participation in the devotion last year. 
Apparently, it is 
quite common for the newspaper to have one or more feature stories of the 
17 
tradition every year. 
The photos she showed me were excellent 8x10 color shots of a St. 
Joseph's table Mrs. Ingo had prepared a few years ago. 
(The photos were 
taken by a local professional photographer.) 
I 
was amazed by the quantity 
and variety of the foods shown in the photo and asked Mrs. Ingo to describe 
some of them. 
As she explained, one may include any type of food on the 
table except meat. 
It is traditional to bake bread formed into certain 
shapes. 
Some of these designs have specific names, including: 
St. Joseph's 
cane, Palm of St. Joseph, trinity, and the moon. 
She said knowledge of the 
preparation of these special breads is not common today, adding: 
"No one 
knows how to make bread except my sister and I." 
Cod fish is a usual part of a St. Joseph's table feast, and, according 
to Mrs. Ingo, it is commonly prepared in one of two ways: 
(1) sweet and 
sour cod (cod fried in olive oil and flaked, mixed with sweet and sour 
dressing, and served with green olives), (2) plain cod (put in a batter and 
then rolled in bread crumbs). 
Other foods Mrs. Ingo prepares include: 
parsnips, peas, carrots, 
artichokes, apples, cucumbers, fancy pastry with fig filling, cannoli with 
ricotta filling, and spaghetti. 
Over the years Mrs. Ingo has sponsored 4 or 5 
tables. 
Her description 
of the tradition mirrored the one given by Mrs. Callette Parlier today. 
She 
referred to the sick or nccdy people from the community who are invited to 
partake of the feast as "apostles." 
Although Mrs. Ingo isn't sponsoring her own table this year, she is 
helping a friend prepare a table. 
They will begin work on this next week. 
It is easy to see why others would call on Mrs. Ingo for assistance 
with food preparation. 
In addition to knowing the details of the St. 
Joseph's table tradition, she worked as a cook for the local school system 
for 25 years (she's now retired), and she has also been a professional cake 
decorator for many years. 
(She showed me a large album of photos of 
wedding, anniversary, and birthday cakes she has decorated over the years.) 
She also showed me a cookbook titled St. Joseph Women's Cookbook, 
published in 1978 by Blende's St. Joseph's Church. 
Mrs. Ingo said she 
thought the book was out-of-print, but that a reprint edition was in the 
works. 
For information about the cookbook I can contact: 
St. Joseph Church 
1145 S. Aspen 
Pueblo, CO 
81006 
Bessie Musso Ingo was born in this neighborhood (about a block from her 
present address), called St. Charles Mesa. 
Her father grew up in northern 
Italy and her mother grew up in Sicily. 
They met in Pueblo and got married 
18 
here. 
Bessie is the 4th of 11 children. 
Her father was involved in "garden 
farming" and raised radishes, spinach, and cauliflower. 
Her brother, 
Charlie Musso, is the head of Pueblo's Columbus Day Committee. 
As we were talking, Mrs. Ingo's granddaughter, Beth Ingo Acosta, came 
into the house with her twin babies. 
I explained who I 
was, what the 
project was about, and told her we had been talking about the St. Joseph's 
table tradition, among other things. 
"Would you be interested in a 
videotape of the table my grandmother prepared last year?" she asked. 
I 
said I certainly would be, and, with that, she went next door, to her 
mother's house, and fetched the tape. 
She said I could borrow the tape to 
make a copy. 
For the record, this tape was made in 1989 by Beth's mother: 
Dorothy Ingo 
27767 Highway 50 East 
Pueblo. CO 
81006 
(719) 948-3724 
Mrs. Ingo explained that when her husband was alive they planted 14 
acres of land located directly behind the house. 
This land has now been 
sold and most has been used for house lots. 
She said many local Italian-
Americans are still involved in truck gardening, especially in the town of 
Vineland which is just down the road (east). 
Some of these families have 
very large farms and grow corn and sugar beets. 
Two families still involved 
in truck farming are the Thomas family (name changed from Tomaso) and the 
Deniesio (sp?) family. 
Mrs. Ingo said there's a 
woman in Vineland who makes goat cheese 
(ricotta), but she couldn't recall her name. 
Mrs. Ingo does a lot of crocheting and she showed me several samples of 
her work, including a large afghan she is making for a relative. 
(I could 
not detect any elements of Italian traditionally in any of these products.) 
When I asked about the presence of fornos in the area, she said there 
used to be quite a few in the past (I think she said she once had one 
herself), but few remain. 
She said she believes there's still one down the 
road, about a block west of her house on the same side of the road. 
She 
said it's in the yard of a house across the street from the Paradise 
(changed from Paradiso) family's place. 
I took photographs of some of Mrs. Ingo's photos of her St. Joseph 
table before I left. 
I departed at about 3:30, two hours or so after I 
had 
arrived. 
On the way back to Pueblo, I passed DeLucca's Grocery and spotted 
a sign in the window advertizing "goat cheese." 
I drove back to Kerry's house and gave Kerry and John a report of my 
visit with Mrs. Ingo. 
John and Kerry had toured the city for a 
while, then 
John visited the local library and examined materials concerning Columbus 
Day and the Italian community. 
19 
John and I left town at 4:30 and drove south to Trinidad. 
Along the 
way, we stopped at the memorial (erected by the U.M.W.) dedicated to the 
victims of the Ludlow massacre. 
Arriving in Trinidad, we checked into the Holiday Inn, then went into 
town and had an awful meal of Mexican food at a restaurant on Main Street. 
After we .ate, we strolled around the downtown area and noticed that the 
place is nearly deserted. 
Although the business district is quite large, 
almost all of the stores were unoccupied. 
A lot of teenagers were cruising 
around in cars and trucks, but, aside from this, little seemed to be going 
on in Trinidad. 
We went back to the motel, where I tried to phone Silvio 
Caputo of Trinidad who, we were told, had done research on Italian 
involvement in the local mining industry. 
No one answered at Caputo's. 
March 10 
We checked out of the motel this morning and then drove around Trinidad 
again. 
The town looked about as dead today as it did last night. 
We didn't 
spot any architecture or any other other evidence of Italian presence. 
Altogether, we weren't impressed. 
I 
must say, the place gives me the 
creeps. 
Having seen evidence of an active Italian community in Pueblo, John 
and I 
were beginning to form the view that Pueblo would be a fine site for 
fieldwork. 
At any rate, we didn't tarry in Trinidad. 
We decided to drive west along Route 12 and take a look at the string 
of former mining communities along this road, including Cokedale, Segundo, 
Weston, and Stonewall. 
I 
photographed the ruins of extensive coke ovens at 
Cokedale, and we drove through this small community and looked at dwellings 
that were undoubtedly inhabited by miners in the past. 
We stopped in at the 
post office, located in the old mining company store, and asked about 
Italian families in the area. 
The postmistress told us that there were 
several Italian families in this comamity of less than 200. 
We drove on, crossed a mountain range at Cuchara Pass, and stopped in 
La Veta for lunch. 
Then we went on to Fort Garland and San Luis, where we 
stopped at a small craft shop. 
By now, we had left the general territory of 
Italian settlement, so, after a short stop in Alamosa, we headed north to 
Canon City, where we checked in at a roadside motel. 
According to former 
state folklorist David Brose and others with whom we've spoken, there are a 
number of Italians in Canon City and nearby Florence. 
We went to Merlino's Belvedere Restaurant in Canon City (1330 Elm 
Avenue), a large family-run business that is obviously an local favorite. 
The design of the place was quite unconventional and it was clear that 
various additions had been made over the years. 
Inside, the restaurant was 
divided up into various dining rooms and "grottos." 
There was a hoard of 
waiters and waitresses and, to my eye, most of them appeared to be local 
high school students, none of whom appeared to be Italian. 
After the 
waitress took our order, I asked if we could se the manager. 
She replied 
that he was out on an errand at the moment, but she would bring him over