"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr15
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942
AFS 6412B
Cut B1
Alan Manne: — particularly affected by this war scare or anything because, well, it was just a natural
evolution of things from the [Lendly sect (?)] or the destroyer, the destroyer deal, the Atlantic patrol.
But after that, I seemed to take a greater interest in the program. I bought my defense stamps a little
more fervently perhaps. I couldn't join any of the auxiliary forces because I wasn't eighteen, but for
the past week or so I've been taking these defense courses and the danger today seems to me to
be to perhaps a little bit more real than it was just a little bit after Pearl Harbor. What with all these
submarines plying off our coasts.
Interviewer: Of course you've said yourself you're too young to be immediately affected by the
prospect of the draft ??? Well, how about your family? Do you have brothers and sisters?
Alan Manne: No I don't.
Cut B2
Alan Manne: I happen to know some people very well who expressed that sort of viewpoint.
Interviewer: Do you think they still feel that way?
Alan Manne: Yes [laughs]. Some of them.
Interviewer: ??? sort of shift —
Cut B3
Alan Manne: Well, to tell you the truth I haven't observed it.
Interviewer: Suppose you were to try to explain [disc skips].
Alan Manne: Well, perhaps it's best exemplified by this one boy I'm thinking of. He's a senior here
right now. I think he will be twenty or he has been twenty, at any rate, he's very definitely eligible
for the draft. He has always been a kind of a good time Charlie as far back I can remember and I've
known him for quite a long time. Well . . . he hadn't been making out so well in school in previous
terms. Perhaps this is no measure of it, but he hadn't been making out so well in school in previous
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr15
terms. And last term he [laughs] did just a little bit worse. It was the “oh what the heck” attitude. He
just didn't give a darn.
Interviewer: Well, what do you think they're going to do —
Alan Manne: Because . . .
Interviewer: — because he can't go through with an attitude like that.
Cut B4
Interviewer: You're on.
Alan Manne: Well, let's see —
Interviewer: Hold it a minute.
Alan Manne: Dear Mr. President, my name is Alan Manne. I'm a college student in New York City. I'll
try to give you my own personal reaction to the entrance of the United States into the world war.
Before Pearl Harbor, I don't think that I was an isolationist at all. As a matter of fact, I noted one
time that I was in the twenty, only twenty percent of the people who desired a declaration of war be
made. And for that reason I don't think that I was particularly shocked, as a matter of fact I guess
I was pretty calm after Pearl Harbor. Later, however, I think I began to get a little more interested
in the program. I kept buying defense stamps fairly regularly as much as I could afford, and I took
a course in civilian defense. However, because I only am, I'm only sixteen I couldn't get into any of
these auxiliary services of civilian protection.