"Man-on-the-Street", Madison, Wisconsin, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr11
"Man-on-the-Street", Madison, Wisconsin, December 9, 1941
AFS 6367B
Announcer: We present at this time, two days after the attack upon Hawaii by Japan, a group of
personal reactions by citizens residing in Madison, Wisconsin. The first is by an unmarried music
teacher.
Music Teacher: I personally feel mortified and ashamed that we as a nation have been so taken
in. It's high time we put idealism in our pockets and start dealing with vandal nations in the way
they have invited us to do. We can't do otherwise. We better not use up our resources just keeping
them out of our backyard. I'm in favor of making aggressor nations feel the destruction that they are
causing others.
Announcer: The next speaker is a former college professor of literature.
Professor: What impresses me most of all is the very drastic and unanswerable way in which
our great national debate has been so suddenly brought to a close. For my part, as an active
interventionist, I should not have preferred this particular way of ending this debate. I feel that my
active interventionism has not been active enough. We are now agreed on two things: that idealism
is not enough and that national and international affairs are vitally related. There is but one world
and we are in it.
Announcer: An unmarried secretary presents her opinion.
Secretary: I must say that I think we have been kicked into doing a thing that we should have done
long, long ago and everybody knows it. The matter of disciplining the unspeakable Jap.
I taught country school in my youth where the principal problem was discipline and it was a matter
we had to deal with without any outside help beyond a stout hickory stick or the stove poker.
I remember trying to placate the measly little bully who just upset the whole school, and I also
remember that it never worked. Sooner or later came the showdown. We've been doing the same
thing nationally. We have said, “Now Jappy, you be a nice boy and we'll give you a gun which you can
shoot real bullets with, but don't shoot that nice little Chink, he's a good kid. Just go out and play with
the target, but be a good boy, just be a good boy. Everybody'll love you, we'll give you more presents,
we'll give you airplanes, and oil and stuff.” And now, dear little Jappy has kicked teacher in the shins
and something must be done about it.
"Man-on-the-Street", Madison, Wisconsin, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr11
So, I'm all for doing a complete and entire job and at the same time it wouldn't be a bad idea to
polish off Adolf. After all, he's been holding Jappy's coat all along. And I certainly was burned up
when Miss Rankin gave all her male colleagues an opportunity to say “just like a woman.” Because
there's a lot of us who haven't had sheltered lives. We've been out and met life in a hard way and we
are as resolute and military as our British sisters.
Announcer: A University of Wisconsin student, nineteen years old, a pre-medic major from New York
City.
Pre-Medic Student: Japan must either have militaristic power beyond our imagination or else an ego
incomparable to any in history. Because of the slow progress Japan has made in China, a country
practically protecting itself with pre-medieval arms, I think that it is the latter. But we shall see. What
I can't understand is the total lack of unpreparedness in Pearl Harbor, the greatest United States
territorial naval base. How possibly could such a supposedly impregnable spot be caught completely
unawares? The heads of Pearl Harbor have some tall explaining to do.