"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr06
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941
AFS 6362A
Cut A1
Luis Andrew: My name is Luis Andrew. I am a shoemaker in New York. I heard Mr. President's speech
and I think this is a very fine speech. I think this time it's going to start again to give the freedom of
the humanity. That means that no more aggression going to be on the future. This is going to be
very historic moment for the American people. And I think not only the American people going to be
satisfied, but the whole world. The whole world was suffering for so many years from aggression of
the big sharks. The same way as the laborer is afraid of the boss when he's losing his job, the same
thing today happening: one of the small people — they're losing their freedom. But, I think that the
United States and England and the rest Allies are going to help the humanity for the future and they
going to live in peace forever.
Cut A2
Edward J. Huddy: My name is Edward J. Huddy, I am employed as a telephone operator for the city of
New York. I listened to President Roosevelt's speech and I thought it was a very fine speech. I really
believe that he sincerely means to end this aggression against democracy and the whole country is
behind him. I served overseas in the last war and know that war is a terrible thing. And I hope it don't
last long and I hope that everybody will cooperate with the president and do everything they can to
make it a short, quick war and that we will be victorious in the end.
Cut A3
Postal Clerk Carrier: I am a substitute postal clerk carrier, employed in the New York City postal
department. I am full of great joys and happiness after I listened to our great president's speech.
It has made me feel like a new man, felt that the burden that overshadowed our present crisis has
come to an end. And action will now talk the loudest. We will do to our upmost to damn all that
fascism and Nazism and imperialism that large Japanese Empire who has endeavored in the past
few year to destroy the things that people stand for, I want to win. And I see the future — I see only
but happiness in the future. I know this will be a terrible struggle, but I know the goodness of man,
backed by the fineness of our president, and the great preservation of our people, will conquer in
the end all that is evil. And thank God we have a great man above us who is our president.
Cut A4
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr06
Building Trades Worker: I am employed in the building trades in New York City and I was very happy
to hear our beloved president make the speech he did today. I feel that the time has come that we
have to get after this fellow over in Japan and destroy Hitlerism and fascism and all that sort of thing.
I think we're a little late, I think we ought to started it when Mussolini invaded Ethiopia, in fact. But,
it's not too late to give this fellow the licking and it won't be very long till he finds out that he won't
tread on us, an old standards of an old flag we had when we were born. And I'm only wishing that
I was young enough to go, but I have two sons and I know they'll both volunteer if it's necessary, to
lick that fella.