UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  RICHARD TAFFE
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  SEPTEMBER 17, 1987
R = RICHARD
I = DAVID
LFP-DT-R006
TAPE BEGINS WITH INFORMANT IN MID-SENTENCE: 
The uh, idea was that we knew it was going to be fishable.  We knew it was going to be 
swimmable.  We knew we had to capitalize on the use of the river on it's total recreational 
aspects.  We have no paid staff.  We have no money, uh, but we were conscious of this.  So we 
got a uh, another group where the flag caster outfit here, and the bass masters over here, or the 
Boy Scouts, or somebody else to run fishing derbies.  And their average now three a year.  That 
brought in a whole bunch of other people in different types of boats, which have not yet been 
economically exploited.  We all know that someday it is going to be tour boats on the river.  
There's going to be party boats.  There's going to be canoes.  There's going to be row boats.  
There's going to be fishing.  Uh, this is a matter of the planners to put into the right places.  And 
one of Mogan's, still left over, not yet accomplished, and probably not too well-known plans, 
he'd like to see somebody building boats that can be used on the river in Lowell.  Uh, why not if 
your going to use them here.  Well we have tried to generate some interest in this, and the little 
canal beside Lucy Larcom Park, for example, three of four times when we had groups in such as 
Up With People, or I knew I had a whole bunch of explorer pose from Boy Scouts around, we 
have dumped our two Boston Whalers in the canal and had the super styles type races, or that 
sort of thing in there.  Uh, there's a little landing built beside that Public Works Department.  
Again, cooperative things in something that is absolutely illegal.  Uh, the Regatta Field is owned 
by three elements of the state, okay.  Division of Environmental Quality, the Public Work 
Department, and the Highway Department I guess.  Because ultimately it was going to be the XX
for the crossing of the river for the escape, way back, long since short down, of the link between 
Route 3 and Route 93 by way of Route 113.  That got shot down years ago, but the land had been
acquired by a variety of state agencies.  In the northwest corner of that whole area use to be the 
Army Reserve and Navy Reserve training centers, which have long since gone down the line.  
But the land was there at what Little Spear was located.  It was the only privately owned land 
there.
R:  How do you get the grass mowed there?  Or the Brook cleaned out?  Or how do you use it?  
[I:  Uh hmm.]  This is long before they had a water front director at the Heritage State Park with 
an office in the boat house.  This was way back.  And we just called it Regatta Field.  And the 
city cleaned it up and picked up the liter and mowed the grass.  It can't be done.  You got to get 
permits from all three state agencies.  No, cooperative agencies, if it isn't hurting anybody.  The 
other side of the river is owned by the railroad at the high "S" bridge so called.  There's a beach 
there from which we put off fireworks every fourth of July.  Uh, it can't be done.  You can't clear 
the brush done there and make a beach and put a [UNCLEAR]  over there.  Little side lights 
again.  Now that railroad had not been a passenger railroad except from the Gallagher Terminal 
now called to Boston for years.  In our first year we got Boston and Miane Railroad to put a 
railroad train up and gave all the kids a ride up the river and back again with a tape recorder to 
tell them what we plan to do with the river about fishing and swimming, and boating and so 
forth.  And they had a marvelous time.  Parked it down by City Hall and run the damn thing out 
the tracks and back in again.  Kids had never had a train ride and adults hadn't had a train ride for
years.  Uh, they had a magnificent day.  Well one of the other things that led to was bringing in 
the Constitutional train, The Freedom Train.  [I:  Oh yes.]  The Freedom Train.  We parked that 
there for a week one time.  [I:  Oh.]  
R:  Back to the river and the fishing.  We since found a way to get the water skiiers over there, 
the power boat people love to come over there.  Of course now, the uh, (--)  I got lost in one 
place where you asked about getting the ethnic group and how the evolution in do ethnic 
background and so forth.  The first couple of years we put up a beer tent and let the Boy Scouts 
and the [unclear] Club and the Red Cross and the Exchange Club run the cash flow and the 
proceeds to be divided among them.  That should have been and seemed to be successful, but all 
of a sudden all of the beer disappeared.  And some of the people climbed the poles and 
unscrewed the lights, and there was a little problem, and it rained.  The other end of the field we 
had the ethnic tent and we needed to fill it completely with ethnicity and with dance, or 
entertainment.  And including our Native Americans who felt a little left out about this time.  Uh,
we brought them into the act, and very nicely I might add.  We got the crowd out there and old 
dummy me, I put a helicopter above the starting line of the Women's H crew races and they had a
false start.  And that upsets the coach something awful.  He took a very dim view of us putting 
people on his river.  I hate to say it, but he wasn't at all thrilled about the carnival noise and the 
crowd noises along the river while he was trying to run races.  We did keep all power boats at his
[UNCLEAR], including a Press Boat that logically follows most crew races with photography 
and so forth.  But that got to be a major frighten, he took the boats to New Hampshire and 
withdrew completely.  It took us some years to get those boats back, which had been donated.  
This is part of the story.  [I:  Yeah.]  He took all the boats up to New Hampshire and created 
another boating club and the University said, "well they're not ours".  It was a club not a faculty 
operation.  And we said yeah, but one said Demoulas, and one said Spear House, and one said 
this.  Those were donated to the, what is now the University of Lowell for the use of the 
University students.  Not a private group of rowers.  And we got them back and in the meanwhile
we got some other boats.  In the meanwhile we had to let the state say "Yeah boy you got a 
success story going in Lowell, and lets build the first of our several boat houses in Lowell."  And 
that of course became the Bellgarde Boat House, one half of which is used by the University of 
Lowell, the other half by the Regatta Festival, and one office used by the water front Director's 
State Heritage Park.  Now I haven't quite figured that out.  The state doesn't run any program in 
there.  
I:  Who's the director of the water fronts?
R:  Uh, it's a new name and I've forgotten it.  It was within weeks he just come aboard.  He's 
working for the, uh, Richard Scott, the new State Heritage Park guy has got a boat water front.  
Whether it is male or female, I forgot.  I don't know.  The guy who had had it is now gone back 
some place out in the Midwest to do, uh, (--)  I forgot what he is going to do.  He took another 
job.  [I:  Yeah.]  He left during this summer.  But that led us to (--)  We got this nice Vanaburg 
Espinard and now the Regatta is saying again under the cooperative bit (--)  And if you look at 
that Regatta or Vanaburg Espinard you'll find three sound outlets along the way.  The Condue 
would surrender.  We got the university to design a sound system which would have then cost 
5,000 bucks, which would have put speakers on every pole from the Spear House to the bridge, 
lighted the bridge, gone under the river to the highest bridge for the ten thousand people to stay 
on that side of the river in the good night of concerts when we got the fireworks Fourth of July 
bit.   And we lost them.  I don't know whatever happen to them, but Jack Costello then working, 
the new member of the Lowell Sun Staff, now the editor of the Lowell Sun, the son of the owner.
A group from the university designed a great package where you wouldn't have to leave them up.
You could hook them up and plug them in along that [UNCLEAR] and then we were working 
then, because we had the Pops, we had David Mugar from Channel 7 and Star Market fame, who
was not on electronic control of the howitzer and the bells for the 18-12 overture when the 
Boston Pops play them.  He was testing his stuff out with us.  And we had some contacts with the
Military.  And Speronis knew how to do a great job of arm twisting on the adjutant general.  It 
takes 18 rounds to fire the 18-12  overture with howitzers.  [UNCLEAR] picked up 90 rounds.  
[LAUGHING]  Supplement the fireworks and we got, the Gucci family came up with the 
fireworks.  And course, this coincidentally was the time when the uh, USA and one of the major 
tv shows was using the Gucci family as an example of fireworks in the US of A and he had just 
won the International Fireworks Festival over in France.  And uh, it couldn't have been a better 
year for us, because we got [unclear] four times as many fireworks as Boston got that year. 
Because they were showing off for the tv crews and its a yard stick that has cost us a money and 
agony.  Because we can't go down hill from that big year.  [LAUGHING]  We have to come up 
with the best fireworks you ever saw on the Fourth of July, and we do.  How is another story of 
financial manipulation between the National Park and the State Park and the City of Lowell and 
the Regatta Festival.  But we have had great fireworks every year, and great concerts, but we uh, 
(--) course the Minstrel died and then again cooperative ventures.  One year we were going to 
use the Minstrel and the Pops and the weather report said cold, drizzly, and so forth.  And the 
concert was going to be on a Sunday evening.  And Saturday night at seven we knew we were in 
deep trouble.  And Kapon Sound was out with the telescoping sound system, and we used him in 
one of his first big contracts.  He's now got five elements all over the country.  He does the Popes
and the Innaugurations and he's a big sound man now.  But Jim Walwick was out with his sound 
learning how (--) not learning it was a knew business at the time, and we were very grateful.  
And David Mugar was out there with his stuff, but the Pops said we will not play if the 
temperature is above 68 degrees.  I mean below 68 degrees.  And it's now Saturday night at 
seven o'clock and we on Sunday night opened the concert with a plywood roof on that stage, and 
canvas down to the seven foot level and plastic below the seven foot level.  And electric heaters 
inside that thing.  And when the Minstrel got to the end of the 18-12 overture, and the fireworks 
started, and the cannons were going off, and the Stars and Stripes Forever started down the sides 
were rolled down, and that was the first time the 25,000 people there saw the band.  Okay, except
for the 100 people that were inside the canvas.  It can't be done.  Now how do you go and get the 
electrical, and the plywood, and the canvas on a Saturday night and Sunday morning.  This is 
cooperation.  When people want to cooperate in this town the resources are there.  That's the one 
thing that Speronis has got me to learn.  If you want to run a parade you ask for the first team not
the second team leftovers.  If you want to run a concert, you get the first team.  And that's the 
message he was sending.  Attitudely, things were changing.  People were saying "how can I get 
involved?"  The first year with the mayor's letter and all we sent out, everybody wanted to get a 
business flowed in, or help in this way, or contribute that.  It was easy. 
Then it got to be a routine thing.  Even though we came up with a knew theme each year, ran a 
better parade each year, uh, whatever we were doing each year there were spin-offs.  The Greek 
Festival started.  The Franco-American Week got to be better.  The Italians came up with a better 
deal.  The Polish came up with a, uh, (--) all of these things, we didn't invent them, we just made 
it easier for them to run.  We found it that you couldn't go to the well, to the city too often by (--) 
and ask for all these resources, rubbish barrels, rope, and barricades, and street signs.  Uh, but if 
we got the auto dealers out with a knew show with a catalyst around, which we could build an 
ethnic festival in the fall.  And if we close Market Street and have the detour traffic up Shattuck 
Street and down Middle, it can't be.  Yes it can be done.  Jim Campbell went out there and did it. 
And if you had to put up bales of hay for what is now a world famous bike race, you got out at 
three o'clock in the morning and Speronis brings down a sandwich filled of Manhattans, and Jim 
Campbell, and Dick [Taye?], and a bunch of nuts get out there and hook up the ropes.  You don't 
have to do that now, because the Sun pulls its own volunteers out.  If you're going to run a road 
race the road race sponsorships are now available.  If you're going to run for Muscular Dystrophy
had nothing going for it in those years.  It averages over $50,000 a year in this city now.  Why?  
Because the road race and the kids fair, and participation in the parking at the big concert.  
The Toys for Tots was a nice gleam, and a Marine Corp Reserve spin-off from South Weymouth, 
but is now a (--)  Next week the uh, Kawanis Club, which has been running it for the last ten 
years in Lowell.  And we'll go out and buy probably $15,000 worth of new toys.  We don't have 
time to paint or fix old toys.  We give new toys out.  And the Regatta helps with that.  The park 
will buy the film and I got the camera and we'll shoot the kiddies pictures as they visit with Santa
Claus, who will be a Kawanian who happens to be the right size.  He's a fireman and a Red Cross
Safety Services Director.  He will dress up in a Santa, which the Park Service made with their 
delightful elderly ladies who sew things for the colonial, uh, victorian costume, same group.  Uh,
Sandy sent out and got the Claus last year, cause our Santa Claus died.  You've seen these posters
around of the Four Elements of Lowell, the people and so forth.  The one with the people on it 
has got a guy with a beard.  That was our Santa Claus and unfortunately the poor lad died on us.  
And so we had to create last year a knew Santa Claus.  We have one, a great suit, a great beard.  
But again the Kawanians were able to give 4,000 kids and make a flat statement "No kid who 
needs one will not have a toy under his Christmas tree whatever age"  Getting the South Asians 
involved there was easy.  They loved it.  They had really come around.  How do you get the 
South Asians involved?  By recognizing that they are working people.  When they go to a knew 
car show, they are saying you are going to buy a van and we're going to ride to work with you 
until we get enough money to buy him a van.  So the auto dealers loved them and the 
International Institute came aboard because that is were Kathy Flynn works, who's Larry Flynn's 
wife and this work (--) everything is nothing is gone by itself.  
My parallel lines are getting closer to that ball of wax as we go along.  [LAUGHING]
I:  One of the things that I wanted to ask you today, one of the things that has been real apparent 
to us, it's very interesting to us.  There is some feasting noise in which (--) Lowell is a very 
compacted town and you know as I said there are all these different groups that have structured 
their lives here and they come from many different cultures, uh, and they all use their community
space in different ways, uh, and about that you have different groups coming in at different times
trying to make a space for themselves in the city and these changes that have taken place over the
years, some neighborhoods have changed, some groups have moved out, some have moved in.  
I'd just be curious from whatever kinds of observations you've made in your years here with the 
Sun and the kind of changes you've seen over the years.
R:  I've heard about that sort of evaluation in the city before I got here.  Pure coincidence, back 
in the early 1967 time frame, I was briefed by a gentlemen who had worked here and was 
[UNCLEAR]
And he told me to look for that sort of thing, and it was easy enough to describe "the Acre" and 
recognize it was, depends on were you sat, a slum or a neighborhood through which each wave 
of immigrants or refugees had past.  And stayed long enough to earn their way out of the Acre, or
to be pushed out into a welfare attitude in another housing development, the single parent family,
the under employed, the unemployed, and so forth.  Which has happened over three cycles I 
guess and the Irish moving in first, then the Greeks coming in after them, and then the Black 
Hispanic things and now the South Asians.   Your in the fourth evolution of the Acre so called.  
This has had major impact on church groups. Franco-American church in one direction has 
probably got more South Asians from the northern canal, or the north common that it originally 
was built.  St. Patrick's is obviously that way.  Uh, the Greek Churches maintained there 
neighborhoods in there with their several parishes.  They didn't move their churches so the 
people stayed as close there to it as they could.  But tremendous numbers then as their economics
let them move to Christian Hill, or to the Highlands, or Belvidere and so forth.  And like all of 
them, once they left the ghetto like atmosphere that they came into to, because that's where they 
could find housing, or that's where their friends and family lived, they were able to move out.  
And that, of course, accounts from the majority of the Highlands, Belvidere, and Christian Hill.  
I don't notice any big difference except for perhaps for capital income in Pawtucketville and 
Centraville then I do in the Acre.  The people in there, there are a majority Franco-American in 
some of those neighborhoods have been there two or three generations, or more.  But they don't 
consider themselves as a cloistered community as do the Acre group, which ever group happens 
to be living in it.  Uh, the objective way back was to get enough education to get out of town or 
you couldn't find a well paying job to get out of town.  Or you couldn't borrow money to build a 
business unless you had the money already.  This was a big factor when I got here I know.  
I think the wage scales were set by a guy was a Ogre, or either a genius depending on where you 
sit.  [UNCLEAR]  Where the belief of many perhaps with some justification was that you sat at 
Union Bank Board Room, or the Lowell Sun Board Room, or the Yorick Club Board Room, and 
you decided what the wage structure was going to be, and the [unclear] economically of the 
entire community from bank tellers to school teachers by way of nurses.  Uh, those three 
hospitals has to be dragged up as did the banks as the economy progressed.  The uh, 
neighborhoods that I (--)  I have not been conscious of the movement of the Polish 
neighborhood.   I have been conscious of the political strength the Portuguese neighborhood 
when somebody tried to build a connector through from the end of the connector around to 
where the auditorium is and pick up French Street Extension to get traffic out of Kearney Square.
But the neighborhood is still there, Back Central Street.  That part of Back Central Street, which 
is Portuguese, not that part Back Central Street which is Black.  The "Hispanic Neighborhood" 
EG Puerto Rican, I never been able to find a leadership of Puerto Ricans that didn't concentrate 
on a very small population center or neighborhood.  It could have been Back Central Street, or 
could be Upper Gorham Street, it could be Lower Gorham Street, it could be uh, the Northern 
Canal Block, it can be the uh, North Common area, one of the housing areas.  Those seem to be 
mostly [UNCLEAR] towards the housing neighborhood.  But it was a perpetuation of the 
welfare attitude.  Those within themselves were always were going to be poor and under 
employed, or unemployed.  Or they must be under employed, or unemployed, or not good 
because I wouldn't go through their neighborhoods.  Now that hasn't changed as much as it 
should have.  With all of this interaction between the churches and the schools and the ethnic 
groups, in variety of audiences, whether it be the coral festival or some school program or 
university program, I still have seen as recently as this last July Folks Festival, responsible, well 
healed, local professionals.  I can think of a lawyer, particularly, where is Doc Polland leading 
that New Orleans funeral band with all these thousands of people.  Well he's going to North 
Commonia, words to that effect.  I wouldn't go to North Common for anybody.  Forgetting that 
there is ten thousand people there waiting for him, who had come in by train and bus and from 
all over the country, all over the region.  That's why there's a big question "were there more outer
townsmen at North Common that night than there were locals at the Folk Festival?"  I don't 
know.  But I know that the protection at North Common with law enforcement people was 
greater than I have seen at any single event in this city and least needed.  There was no trouble at 
North Common.  Now was it the visibility, was it the type of event we were running, was it an 
attitudal change that we've got to keep our act clean because (--) or was it all a block away which
is the major drug trading center of the city.  I don't know.  But I know that there were 
[UNCLEAR] law enforcement agencies there who were prepared for any sort of trouble and got 
none.  They could not believe that they got none, but they didn't.  There was a big Juristrictional 
question involved in their mind.  Juristriction is a National Park policeman from Washington on a
horse have in the North Common in Lowell city property.  Had to be decided before this thing 
happened.  Because of the potential for trouble.  And there already has been proposals, some of 
which have been based on that, maybe the North Common isn't the nicest part of town yet, so 
why don't we move that part of the program to the South Common next year?  Instead of saying 
"Well we spent a million dollars on the South Common, fixing it up for this sort of thing, it's got 
better parking area, and it's right off the end of the connector, its easier to find, maybe we should 
move it for that reason, not because the North Common is an unsavory neighborhood.  I don't 
know.  But how are you going to get the Black and Hispanics involved more unless you stay in 
the neighborhood.  But in the meanwhile, there is a Hispanic Festival on the North Common now
every year, which was not even thought of ten years ago.  But I know that a lot of people 
attended it this year as apposed to the only two caucasians, my wife and I the first year they ran 
it, much to the surprise of, and not only well of course (--) we haven't been able to separate the 
Black professional from the Black unemployed mentally.  Uh, it's still around.  It's being 
discussed in this question of school bussing, neighborhood schools.  And Mogan still has not 
been able to take the entire ethnic communities and say you all work, and love, and play together.
They're coming and they'll be led perhaps by the South Asians, but there's trauma within there.  
There's a lot of difference in a Vietnamese and a Cambodian and Laous and a Tye.  The 
community doesn't yet know that.
Only a few people realize you just don't call a South Asian and ask him to interpret.  They don't 
speak the same language.  But it's happened, it's happening every day.  "Oh, we got a South 
Asian" great "where is she from?" "Well she's going to interpret for (--)"  No, no, no.  I mean 
Mexicans can't talk to a Panamanian.  And people in Brazil still speak French, but that's (--) 
[LAUGHING] 
The geography mentally still has not changed.  If you live here you must be rich, EG Belvidere.  
But Lower Belvidere has got some bad problem areas.  But depends where you are sitting.  
[PHONE RINGING IN BACKGROUND]  Immaculate Conception Church probably has got 
more Hispanics going to church now then they have the rich Irish.  Uh, this is strange but true.  
I:  We really been struck by the role that the Hispanic community seems to play [UNCLEAR]  
There seems to be a flash point.
R:  Good word.  Depends who's looking for what.  Uh, if the guy wants to emerge as a political 
[TAPED STOPPED]
TAPE BEGINNING AGAIN WITH INTERVIEWER IN MID-SENTENCE:  I'd like for you to 
talk to me about the role of the Hispanic Community.
R:  It's been commented on by the cities power structure many times that no leadership has yet 
emerged from within the Hispanic Community that goes beyond the single purpose of that 
individual or his immediate friends.  Now whether that be business or whether that be education, 
or whether that be housing, that seems to have been true.  Uh, they are not a homogeneous group 
of Hispanics, they are Mexicans, Cubans, and Puerto Ricans, and whatever, Columbians.  Uh, 
each has had it's own axe to grind, whether it's one that's aim through the Coalition For A Better 
Acre, to do something over there for the people, housing or whatever.  Or whether it is somebody
to build, or buy something in another neighborhood, or to start a business.  Uh, you keep finding 
a person who looks like he or she will emerge as a leader, and within a very short period of time. 
And this is true over the last 18 years I have been watching it. They run into a "where's my piece 
of the pie?" almost instantly.  There's nothing that ties them together except the fact that they are 
Hispanic.  Uh, somebody at the university did a good study on that and the name that comes to 
mind is a Wayne, maintenance guy, not the guy who did the study.  
I:  You crossed one distraction on a Columbian [UNCLEAR]
R:  Well this guy was an associate professor, or something who was trying to get people to stop 
using the word Hispanic, because of what you are describing, the inability of them to come up 
with a single leader who says I am a Hispanic Leader.  One who emerged one time was actually a
Black lawyer who was involved in the affirmative action program at the university, is practicing 
lawyer and still teaching at the university, uh, has an office downtown Lowell.  She is at the 
academic and professional level, but cause she is not Hispanic.  The guy that deals with City Hall
on buying housing or getting grants from insurance companies and whatever, is invisible except 
to a very small group of political figures or bankers.  Now, he may have political concerns or 
aspirations, I don't know.  Uh, but unfortunately, and I use that word advisory, there hasn't been, 
whether it be through the Boy Scouts, or a Parent/Teacher Organization, or the Girls Club, or the 
YWCA, or the Athletic Programs (--)
SIDE TWO OF TAPE
SIDE TWO BEGINS WITH INFORMANT IN MID-SENTENCE:  It's an opinion on to help run
an event.  Otherwise I head for the golf course, or that swimming pool.  I'm serious, or I go 
upstairs and write for myself, which I seldom find time to do.  The uh, (--)  I have been involved 
with, well as I said at the outset, 200 and some odd different organizations in this community 
over the past 14 years.  And if there are hispanic leaders, I should have met them by now.  They 
should have come and seen, or ask to been involved with something which I've been involved.  
Because I have seen every [strata?] of this community from the top to the bottom literally.  I have
tried to force Cub packs into Shaunessey Terrace, and Boy Scout Troups into the Acre, and 
explorer poles into the Girls Club.  Some place along the way I should have run into somebody 
pretending to be a leader.  I've met some people who have said they represented a significant 
group of.  They disappear.  And within a year.  Where?  I don't know.  Maybe they are not being 
allowed to surface.   But I have not seen that in the South Asian community.  There was a guy 
here and a girl there and they are obviously representing their community.  And it doesn't make 
any difference whether you're Vietnamese or Cambodian.  Uh, they are elected or appointed to, 
Cambodian Mutual Aid Society or whatever it is, or City Planning Board.  They have been 
recognized as representatives of.  Why haven't I not seen that in the Hispanics?  I don't know.  
Uh, I don't think Pat Mogan knows, I don't think John Duff knows, I don't think Bill Hogan 
knows, or the bankers know.  I don't know whether to trust, or whether they are in fact so 
diversified by ethnic heritage or neighborhood, I don't know.  I can't judge. 
Certainly cannot argue that they can't go to work.  I have found a, I guess the word is, fraudulent 
approach by some of them.  Puerto Ricans particularly.  Puerto Ricans are American Citizens.  
Puerto Ricans by law have to go through, in Puerto Rico, the first seven grades, learning English.
Why can they be knowing how to speak English when they get here.  Why can't they understand 
enough English to not need a training program.  A, uh, English is a second language program.  I 
can understand that on a Columbian, or a Panamanian, or an Equadorian, but the Puerto Rican 
should be able to converse enough to buy food, and shop, and get a job in English.  If he has 
been to school.  If he hasn't been to school, he's been truant.  Because they're another 
Commonwealth of the United States, they have citizenship, they don't need as many benefits as 
some of them would pretend.  Now maybe they're milking the federal cow a little longer than 
they should, but this is not the time.  With unemployment down to what it is now an under 
employed person just got to open the Sun.  The Sun's Classified job wanted advertising, and this 
use to be tracked at the Chamber of Commerce for five years I know it was tracked, has gone up 
an average of 117% a year.  You want a job you could have one by noon tomorrow in this town 
and beyond entry level when there paying $7.00 - $8.00 to deliver pizza's.  This is not a question 
of I can't afford to work for minimum wage any more.  Or I need training before I can work 
minimum wage plus a buck and a half.  There's plenty of work around this area at very diversed 
skill levels.  And god knows we've had a skilled training program and a job training program, or 
all kinds of those things, including now, at the training center on Jackson Street and it's 
predecessor and nab people who have been working on it, the National [UNCLEAR] for 
business, and a variety of other programs.  The schools have got job placement programs, the 
university's got job placement programs.  You can't find people to fill jobs around this town now. 
Virtually, every store in town, every business in town has got an application out for jobs.
Though the Hispanics, I think have missed the boat if they try to [unclear] around this "I am an 
underprivileged deprived personage".  I'm not arguing the exception.  Yes, the pregnant mother 
of two with a drug related program needs help.  I'm not [UNCLEAR].  But the help is here.  The 
ability to get that help.  But why hasn't there been somebody strong enough to say "this is a 
Hispanic neighborhood, we are going to clean the streets, we are going to help out".  All I have 
heard is the reverse.  "They done all of this magnificent bricks and mortar stuff in the 
downtown".  When are they going to do the neighborhoods?  Well Campbell and Tully have been
saying that for years.  As soon as we get an economic base under this 2 1/2 process, where our 
taxes can stay down, go down, or not be increased as they have been for years now.  Because of 
the tremendous income coming from this economic boom that is going on, and the real estate 
boom, and the job market.  Obviously, they have benefited, they the neighborhoods, far greater 
than some of them are willing to admit.  Yes there is a lot of work to be down in the 
neighborhoods.  But why does the city still go back and clean up a street?  Why do the Boy 
Scout groups, or the Church groups have to go out and clean up every weekend after an event in 
the community?  Because people will not throw the liter away.  There is a pride factor involved 
there.  Pride in their houses.  You can go through any of the worst blighted neighborhoods and 
every now and then, like a soar thumb stands this beautiful building that looks great.  And the 
next three, obviously, have been destroyed by the occupants.  Well that doesn't lead itself to 
investment, or to sympathy from the Public Works Department that has to pick up after them.  If 
they can't get their liter out in time and on the right places to be picked up, then shame on them.  
There is no reason the city should be around towing cars.  I'm not blaming the Hispanics for the 
abandoned vehicle bit.  They may be Irish for all I know.  But none the less there is a belief, an 
attitude, that has not permeated that particular group as much as it has some of the other groups.
I:  One of the things that mostly interests us is that the way that people slice up the city.  And if 
you ask people, "what are the neighborhoods in the city?"  Every one you talk to gives you a 
different comment.  [R:  That's interesting.]  You hear comments from [UNCLEAR]
R:  It's interesting, uh, yeah I think that, uh, based on the people with whom I talk, uh, you do 
have that, you got the Highlands and Belvidere thinking, and you got the Centraville and 
Pawtucketville thinking, and you got the Acre and Back Central Street, and the Lower Highlands
and the Lower Belvidere.  Now, those are basically the neighborhoods.  Uh, most people in the 
city wouldn't know Swede Village except there's a sign on the Lowell Connector that says Swede
Village that way.  I don't know if there's any Swedes left in Sweden but that uh, is true I think (--)
That's a New England bit though, I don't think there is a community in New England that isn't 
provincial to the extent of neighborhoods.  Boston has got neighborhoods, uh, Worcester has got 
neighborhoods, Natick, any town.  There is 13 "villages" in Newton, Mass.  And they're each 
their own entity.  Believe me there's a lot of difference between Chestnut Hill and West Newton.  
Uh, (--)
I:  What are the boundaries as you see them of these neighborhoods here in Lowell?  What 
makes them?  What separates them?
R:  A very nebulous line.  [I:  Yeah.]  Yeah, I don't think there is any particular street that can be 
used in deciding that Belvidere is Rogers Street.  Or that the Christian Hill starts at X Avenue and
goes to the junior high or whatever.  I have no knowledge of what would be the boundaries 
between Centraville and Pawtucketville.  Uh, I don't know where there break off point is to be 
honest with you.  Uh, the Highlands has always been a confusion to me.  Is the Wang Tower in 
the Highlands or is Saint Marguerite's Church the center of the Highlands?  But if so, uh, was 
Hale Howard in the Highlands?  Uh ha.  No that wasn't Hale Howard that was two streets to slum
area you see.  But you get up into, uh, Couples Square, your in the Highlands.  How far you in 
any direction you go before you go out of the Highlands is the South Campus of the University 
in the Highlands, or is it in another unamed (--)  Is the City Incinerator Landfill, is that in the 
Highlands?  Yes it's in the Highlands if you are going to impose the trash to energy plan it's in the
Highlands.  It wouldn't if you asked somebody who lived a long generation in the Highlands 
where he lived.  He would never identify it as "I live next to the incinerator."  That's an attitudely
thing isn't.  I didn't put it in its context.  
I:  What I would love to do, I don't know if it would be possible, if the Sun said they would be 
willing to put a blank map of the city and ask people to just write in neighborhoods and just see 
what kind of responses you would have.  Wouldn't that be fascinating?
R:  With the streets in so they could have an identification bit.  That would be somewhat like that
test that the educators gave and discovered that 46% of the kids couldn't identify the United 
States on the map of the world.  Uh, you would (--) it's a great test.  I'll bet you he'd get them to 
do it.  That would be a good (--)  Well whether the Sun did it, or whether the elementary school 
at the 6th grade level and local community civics, Geography, uh,(--) This would be a great 
school project because you're right, there would be (--) The centers would be easily identified, 
whatever crossroad, church, or square that came up.  But the boundaries of those, where does 
Back Central Street end and where does Lower Belvidere start?  Automobile Road, is that in the 
Belvidere section of the city.  It's the same street.  Uh, yes, that would be interesting.  That would
be a great school project as one of the parks outreach projects as a matter of fact, identifying it.  
Cause I know that, and we talked about it in a meeting I went to yesterday, there is still a 
tremendous reluctance to accept the present on the part of the old timer.  All right.  A lady back in
town after an absence of many years talking with her aged peers, deciding she couldn't find a 
neighborhood anymore, because somebody told us out where Joe's Drug Store was next door to 
the old thing, which is long since gone, I understand that reasoning, because I had a meeting at 
the Park Visitors Center recently.  I had a knowledgeable, long time resident of Tewksbury, 
coming in.  He wanted to know how to get there, which first of all surprised me in this late stage 
of procedings.  And he says "Well I come down Merrimack Street and where do I go?"  And I 
said "Well you turn left at Dutton Street and go down to the National Park parking lot."  And he 
says, "is that at the YMCA?"  Now the YMCA was torn down, what 15 years ago.  [I:  Hmm.]  
Has not been in downtown Lowell since.  And I realized that the guy across the street moved out 
of Back Central Street 24 years ago.  And except for his wedding, subsequently, well his second 
wedding in his lifetime, he has not been downtown since.  He would not go downtown.  His 
mother lived in the Highlands.  He started in his first marriage, out to here, boom, he had to go to
Passtemps.  His kids have never seen City Hall.  His youngest kid is a senior in high school.  
I:  You have a real interesting advantage point here.  Being in Chelmsford.  How would you 
characterize the relationship of Chelmsford to Lowell?
R:  Again, as we have said, I am not [UNCLEAR]  I still within a week am asked "Well what are 
you doing living in Chelmsford, you spend most of your time living in Lowell?"  They cannot 
conceive in something called Greater Lowell.  And "why did you move to Chelmsford, you're 
going to work in Lowell?"  and I said because I was going to work in a paper that covered 24 
towns at the time and I looked at 100 houses in Belvidere and in the Highlands, and my wife said
do we have to rebuild somebody elses house, can we have a new one.  And I bought one here.  
But I am still resented by many Lowellians.  You don't live in Lowell, you live in Chelmsford.  
And I say what's that got to do with it.  "Well how can you speak to these problems in Lowell?"  
You know that brings up a whole new bit, again, it depends on where you are sitting.  There was 
created a briefing team.  Cause having spent so much time in Washington I realized it is terribly 
difficult to bring a visitor around to 14 different places to meet one guy for 15 minutes and talk.  
Particularly when you're trying to get a total picture.  So, when I was doing some consulting 
work for the chamber I decided to create a briefing team, you see.  So in comes people from 
Europe, or Asia, or wherever.  275 of them from 33 countries and 14 states in one twelve month 
period.  [I:  Hmm.]  Uh, came in.  Some from business offices, mostly from government offices, 
ID, or somebody from Washington would send them up here.  The Foreign Service Institute for 
example, and uh, great bunches of people, and I've been involved in briefing them down there.  It
was easy to set up the same thing here.  But instead of running around the City Hall, Lowell 
Plan, University, and so forth and so on, Chamber of Commerce, and Doctor Wang's Office, or 
whatever.  Bring them all to the Spear House for lunch.  Take them on a Milling Canal Tour, get 
off the boat, it aren't on the tour I know, but we can do it.  Get off the boat at the Spear House 
[LAUGHING] and go across the street and eat lunch.  Then go out to the Wang Plant to go see 
the industry thing there, while you're discussing industry, and then go back downtown.  It takes a 
great day, it does it well.  But at the meeting we would bring in the City Manager and the 
President of the University, and the Vice President of Wang and the Chamber of Commerce 
President, and the Lowell Plan Executive of LDFC, uh, the Mayor, greetings of somebody from 
John Green to Xenophon Speronis, and the Regatta.  It depends what their interest area was.  And
whether there were 2 or 22 people.  Get it all down in one two hour wack, working, and you 
bring the press in (--) and you get everything taken care of in that one lunch period.  Sometimes 
finding somebody to pay for that lunch can be a real problem, but we solved that.  Send them a 
bill in Washington sometime.  But the opening question is "how the hell did you do it in 
Lowell?"  It is a very difficult question to answer.  And it takes all of these people going through,
essentially, what we have been talking about, we are here to do it.  Why did he build a hotel 
here?  Why did the state put this money here?  Why did the Feds perpetuate this thing? Why 
were the feds even favorably consider extending the Lowell Historic Preservation Commission 
for another seven years and nine million bucks.  What's the justification if it was all done within 
the original?
R:  What in name of God are you going to do with the Boott Mill when you get it done.  Uh, 
what are you going to do (--) Uh, what's this Mogan Cultural Center?  And already involved Pat 
Mogan, and activities are thinking.  Already creditors going to people that were really in the tale 
end of some of these things, and no offense but why not.  I mean we have gone through seven 
mayors in this 14 years I think, and we know them all and they have been great people.  We have
gone through three presidents at the University.  We have gone through three executives at the 
Chambers of Commerce, We have gone through three people at the Lowell Plan, two at the 
LHPC, we gone through three superintendents at the National Park, and three supervisors of the 
State Heritage Park, and so forth.  I mean nothing is new, it's just slightly warmed over.  Uh, I 
mean that's true in the city, in recognizing it's own bit.  If you look at that slide show at the uh, 
Industrial Revolution, there's pictures of big festivals out there in the Franco-American 
community.  There's pictures of trolley rides (--) the walk around the Northern Canal walkway.  
Kids diving in (--)  Things haven't changed.  It's the same thing.  We still have our auto races, our
boat races, our road races, our fireworks, and our concerts.  But you could not have conceived of 
a theater successfully operating in this town ten years ago.  Uh, Merrimack Regional Repertory 
Theater, no way could it survived.  We have an opera company, it needs a little push, because for 
years it was night at the opera type of thing, with one grant from a small foundation, but the 
concept was there, the cultural capabilities were there.  But now the University has got their own 
nice little entertainment and cultural package of shows, and concerts, and so forth, very well 
done.  They are raising money, but would anybody have conceived of a foundation at the 
university and soliciting money from in the street 10 years ago, 15 years ago?  No.  That's in the 
millions of dollars now.  Fuund raising.  Fund raising in the early 70's was essentially the 
churches, the school scholarship type things, and the United Fund.  The United Fund's record for 
that one particular year I think of, in the old YWCA meeting, which was at the parking lot at 
John Street and Lowell Five's parking lot now.  Uh, $777,000.  Big amount.  [UNCLEAR]  says 
"if you guys think you are going to raise it, go for it, but I don't think you are going to hit it."  
R:  The (--) forgetting the United Fund, the last time I counted on going on Merrimack Street 
right now for the hospitals, the Civic, Religious, Ethnic, and Cultural Groups in the city of 
Lowell, is 6.3 million.  And nobody cares, because they know that the money is there.  Golf 
tournaments that use to be run for $50 is now run for $150.  Uh, fashion shows that use to be $10
tickets are now $100 tickets.  Uh, Banquets, and testimonials of one type or another, [few words 
unclear] about the $50, $7500 tickets.  Political parties that use to be $5, $10, $50, $75 the 
money is out there.  But again, back to our Hispanic friends, if they capitalize, they did make a 
couple of bucks in the Folk Festival, but it again a little non entity group, unfortunately, that 
could have been (--) There is no reason in the world that they cannot do better than they are 
doing.
I:  What do you see in the future as far as [REST OF QUESTION UNCLEAR]?
R:  Greater Lowell has evolved.  There is an affiliate Chamber of Commerce and can be 
resurrected some of, little dormant at the moment, in all of the continuous towns.  In Dracut, 
Tyngsboro, Westford, Chelmsford, Billerica, Tewksbury, growing.  Tremendous industrial 
growth.  Tremendous population growth as compared.  Lowell and Chelmsford went up 127% in 
five years back in the 70's because people are moving in because the jobs are here.  There 
difference is under that staying put instead of trying to move out.  When I got here the majority 
of people living in the bedroom communities in and around Lowell were working along 128.  
Now they are working along 495 or the Greater Lowell Community.  Greater Lowell 
Communities total assets in their banks, and I have lost count because of merges and accusations,
is about 3 1/2 billion dollars in the last seven or eight years increased.  That's tremendous 
growth.  Population is beginning to stabilize.  High school kid level has gone down, but the 
elementary kid level is going up.  The young yuppy is having it's first kid at an older age.  But it 
is growing.
R:  Culturally, tourism wise, yes there is more people going into there Westford Apple Blossom 
Festival, because it is on the calender, they are use to it.  There are people actually going around 
the Billerica Square to see where they put there time capsule.  There are people playing golf at 
Troll Brook, because it is in Golf Magazine as one of the prettiest golf courses in Mass. that 
weren't going before.  There are people coming to the Chelmsford Parade, because we have 
made a point of never trying to compete with Chelmsford on the Fourth of July on a parade.  
Because you can't kick a winning horse.  Why run a parade in Lowell when you got a better 
parade than you can do in Chelmsford.  Run the Chelmsford parades at other times.  So it's 
growing every year.  Uh, but unconversally, the Elks are not stupid enough to try to duplicate the 
Regatta Fireworks on the Fourth of July.  We got the best fireworks.  So go to the Chelmsford 
parade, jump into the swimming pool, and then go watch the concert and fireworks in 
Chelmsford, I mean Lowell.  That's the way it works. 
R:  Tourism.  I don't think there would have been daring on the part of the people that own the 
Nashoba Ski thing [UNCLEAR].  [UNCLEAR] would no more have invested the money he has 
put into making that a full scale ski operation if he didn't realize the economic value to the 
Greater Lowell Community, and conversely, when the tourism center which will formally reopen
again a couple of weeks from now, that putting out the list of things happening.  Skiing at 
Nashoba Valley will be on his list.  Apple picking in Westford, and strawberry picking in 
Chelmsford, and golfing in Tewksbury will show up.  Uh, it has to.  
I:  [UNCLEAR]  We don't want to impose, and keep bumping into your golf game.
R:  I got to play in a championship playoff tonight.  Yeah.
I:  Well thank you very much.
R:  I didn't run out of tape?  Well good for you.
[LAUGHING]
END OF TAPE