American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_07_104 
Documentation/Audiology - 
Taylor, David: IAW-DT-AO01 (manuscript); IAW-DT-A006; IAW-DT-AO10 
_- 
__ 
-- 
•• 
•9'1.G•d 
j 'fj ,,..-C 
Q ✓i 2. •.0 
1. 
Catalog of September 17, 1989, interview with Jim Burr and his son Scott at 
the A. Conrotto Winery, Gilroy, California. 
Interviewers: 
David Taylor, John Alexander Williams, Douglas DeNatale, and 
Paola Tavarelli. 
(Italian-Americans in the West Project) 
Accession number: 
IAW-DT-A006 (tape 1 of 2) 
opening announcement by David Taylor 
Jim Burr describes building in which interview group is standing: 
"This is 
what they call a gravity-flow winery, which a lot of the old Italians built 
oh, probably in the twenties, basically because they would have the high-speed 
pumps, back then. 
So, what would happen is that this is set up to save a lot 
of work. 
Because if you looked at some of the old pictures you'd see the old 
two-man pump they used to use. 
That was a lot of work, huh? 
So this was 
really a modern convenience when they built this type of a winery. 
And, 
course, this building here is in what they call a bonded area, bonded by the 
federal government to hold alcohol. 
Now there is a plat map on which it can 
show you, that shows you the outline of the whole building, dimensions of the 
building and everything like that." 
the machine used to crush grapes: 
"Outside, that little red machine out there 
is what they call the crusher. 
And that was made by Rebiso [sp?] and Company 
in San Francisco approximately, I'd say, about 1935, 1936, he brought that 
down here. 
And that's where everything starts right there." 
the wine-making process: 
"What they do is bring the grapes in from the 
fields, and I usually bring them in too. 
Bring them up, they're dumped in 
there. 
Now that machine has a de-stemmer which will take the stems off the 
grape. 
They'll go down into the tray, it's pumped overhead into this pipe up 
here, across and it's dropped down into one of these tanks up here. 
Now there 
are fermenting tanks up here only, right up here. 
It's got, you see the 
markings on the wall back there? 
That tell you how many gallons one of these 
fermenting tanks will hold . . . . Once the grapes are put in here it takes 
approximately seven days for them to ferment. 
Now, reds we ferment to what 
they call to zero. 
We take all the sugar out of our reds, there's not 
supposed to me any left . . . . 
Once they're finished fermenting we come 
over here to where this trough is you see over here. 
In front of the 
fermenting tank there's a valve that's at the bottom of the tank. 
We'll open 
that valve. 
We will draw the juice off. 
We'll run down this trough, drop 
down into a settling tank, which is half-way down the hill here. 
Once that's 
gone down, all the juice is gone down, we used to bring this press down, lie 
it in front of the tank, take the conveyor here which is made by Rebiso and 
Company also, we will set that on top of the pomice in there. 
Somebody will 
get it. 
[laughs] 
Depends who is lowest on the seniority that day in the 
winery. 
[laughter] . . . . Get in there. 
You take a shovel and a rake. 
You'll load that up. 
That will drop into that conveyor which will drop it 
into the press and the press will squeeze it. 
And that juice will also go 
down into the settling tank down below there. 
When its settled over night, to 
Z__ 
let the hard stuff drop out, and then we draw that off and put it into a 
storage tank down below. 
Then it will sit there oh probably a month 
approximately before we rack it the first time. 
(Scott: 
Two weeks to a 
month.) 
Two weeks to a month and then we'll rack the wine again. 
Put it in 
another tank. 
Clean the old tank out and then stay, oh, reds, probably six 
months and it's racked again. 
Then again that it just kind of stays and moved 
around until it's sold. 
"pomice": 
this is the aggregate of the grape skins, all the seed, and a few 
stems; the pomice is what's left have the juice has been squeezed. 
Usually 
the pomice is returned to the soil, but some big wineries will use it to make 
high-proof alcohol. 
"racking" is the process of taking the solids out of the wine; the solids 
settle out of the wine on end up at the bottom of the tank. 
Therefore, the 
wine is kept clearer by moving it to smaller and smaller tanks. 
There is a 
valve near the bottom of the tank that allows the wine to be drained off above 
the level of accumulated solids. 
According to Jim, Anselmo Conrotto used to rack "by the moon." 
"Now, when by 
grandfather was alive, he would only let us rack by the moon. 
What would 
happen, he would always state, and I think it's true, a lot of times, that 
your solids at a certain time of your moon are really hard. 
They wouldn't 
move. 
You could draw that liquid off with no problem. 
Another period during 
the moon cycle that solid would be more liquified and so you start to draw off 
your pumps it would start to move and mix back in the wine a little bit where 
you have some more into the wine. 
And, plus, when you drew it out it was more 
liquidy form and you had more liquid in it. 
And that was always his theory: 
rack by the moon, the quarter moon changing." 
Anselmo also planted his garden and pruned grape vines by the moon. 
"He used 
to say, 'Bugs move when they can see.' 
When you have a full moon, it's light, 
the bugs really get out and really move around. 
When it's dark they can't 
move as much so they couldn't find the seed if he's planting a garden or 
something like that, you know." 
(Jim) 
Jim describes equipment in the fermentation area (upper part of the building). 
The conveyor --it brings the pomice up. 
("A guy will sit down there with a 
shovel, load it into that hopper on the bottom and your set screw will bring 
it up and drop it down here. 
And its got a little motor on top here and it's 
chain-driven.") 
A small crusher --for crushing small lots of grapes. 
(This 
was used for crushing the Symphony grapes a few days ago.) 
Tanks of various  
sizes. 
Different tank capacities are needed to accommodate different 
quantities of grapes that are harvested. 
The tanks in this area are open on 
the top. 
Tanks in the Conrotto Winery are different from modern tanks. 
Jim: 
"This is 
the old style. 
If you go to some of the new wineries they have those cone 
cylinders like for fermenting. 
And they're pumped from the bottom. 
The juice 
from the bottom is pumped over onto the top. 
That's much easier. 
This way, 
what we have to do is, we get up on top of these tanks with these ugly looking 
poles here. 
See this long thing here? 
And you walk across the top and you 
punch this down and the cap is circulated down and let the juice come back up 
over the top of it. 
And you just walk across and do it this way." 
Scott: 
3 
"That gives the juice the skin contact and that's where you get your color of 
red wines." 
Scott elaborates: 
"There's a big argument in the wine industry now on which 
way is better, the pump-over method or punching method. 
So, no matter who you 
talk to you're going to get a different theory. 
The pump-over method, if 
you're not careful, you'll get a very light wine. 
Because if you don't watch 
you're employees they hold the hose in one spot [and] you're not going to get 
the whole cap to come over." 
This results in a light-colored wine, not a 
full-colored wine. 
In order to punch down the cap, workers walk across the top of the tanks on 
boards (planks). 
Fermentation tanks: 
4 cement, 3 
wood, and 3 stainless steel in the winery. 
The press is mobile; it is moved to each fermentation tank. 
"Must"--the stems and juice that result from the crushing of grapes. 
It is 
pumped with a "must pump" into the press. 
Selling bulk wine. 
Jim: 
"There was a lot of white wine sold bulk up until, 
ah, 
'67, 
'68. 
And we used to sell wine to the restaurants. 
They'd order, 
well, red and maybe once in a white a case of white would go in." 
The white 
wine that was sold was made from the juice of red grapes with skins removed. 
When making white wines, the skins are removed from the juice as soon as 
possible. 
The longer the skins remain with the juice the more tanins build 
up. 
(This is a taste that is generally not desirable in white wines.) 
According to Scott, "some wine-makers are not even crushing them, just 
pressing them, so you have no skin contact at all. 
It depends upon how you 
want to work it." 
Lattice-like objects that are placed in fermentation tanks to separate the 
juice from the skins. 
They are made of wood or stainless steel. 
They're 
called "baskets." 
They are fastened on top of blocks resting on the bottom of 
the tanks. 
Jim points out an old scale. 
Scale used to calculate weight of grapes sold to 
the winery by other growers. 
One grower who sells to the winery is Louie Angelino [sp?] who lives on the 
east side of Gilroy (New Avenue). 
He grows grapes mainly as a hobby. 
Discussion of sugar content in grapes. 
Amount of sugar determines the alcohol 
content of the wine. 
Jim points out barrels used for cream sherry made in the winery. 
Jim indicates doorways that lead to the tops of large storage tanks in the 
lower level of the building. 
This allows workers to get at bung holes on top 
of the tanks. 
The wine in pumped in through these holes. 
The storage tanks are approximately 22 feet tall. 
I 
Since the winery is built into the side of a hill, the first floor is roughly 
level with the tops of the storage tanks. 
The fact that the winery is built into a hill helps maintain a relatively cool 
and constant temperature: 
"It keeps the cellar temperature fairly, 
reasonably, within a few degrees all year round. 
In the summer months it's 
nice and cool and in the winter months it's still cool but it's not as cold." 
(Scott) 
Jim describes old redwood fermenting tanks on first level that are no longer 
used; fermenting tanks have to be inspected annually to be sure they don't 
leak; wooden tanks more prone to leakage than cement tanks, of course 
Comparison of winery set-up today with the set-up in the past, when Jim first 
visited: 
"Oh, basically it's all still the same, except for moving some of 
the tanks that used to sit in here the winery's still the same . . . . The 
stainless [tanks], we've brought those in over a period of time, probably in 
the last, oh, those stainless about five, six years. 
The biggest one we 
bought about two years ago. 
We took that old redwood old and put that one in 
there." 
(Jim) 
The upper level is called the "fermentation room." 
The lower level is call the "storage area." 
More on the construction of the winery: 
"And like he says, it's carved 
against a hill. 
They carved all this out against the hill for the natural 
coolness. 
And, you know, if you take a hot day and you walk down there your 
ten or twelve degrees cooler down there, down below." 
The idea for building the winery into a hill was brought over from Italy by 
Anselmo Conrotto: 
"He brought that from Italy, he came over with it. 
He came 
from small villages on the hill. 
And they used to work the hill. 
That's 
where you grew all the crops. 
And when he left home, now we're talking about 
Chinto's father, cause of the hailstorms that killed the crops they had grown 
on the hill and they had no food. 
So his father kicked him out of the house 
at sixteen years of age. 
And he says, 'Hey, you've got to go and find work, 
uh, you're old enough now. 
Taking up space. 
So he had a sister that was 
married here. 
And she says, 'Come on over, a lot of work, a lot of work 
here.' But he was always a fruit grower and grapes, you know, the winery was 
not main, it was a main thing, he was always doing crops and of course wine 
was part of his main operation." (Jim) 
Jim and Scott can't think of any other local wineries built on the gravity 
principal (i.e., built into a hill). 
Italians who operated wineries in Gilroy in the past: 
Bertero, Scagliotti, 
Giretti, Gichino (sp?), Papani. 
These and other wineries who didn't use gravity-fed arrangements relied on 
pumps. 
Scott: 
"Now, with motorized pumps it's easy." 
Man-powered pumps used in the past. 
Jim: 
"They were made out of wood. 
And 
s 
one guy stood over there and the other guy stood over here, you know, and he'd 
go pull his way and I'd pull back my way, huh." 
Scott: 
"You had a piston 
continuously moving to move the wine." 
Jim reasserts that the Conrotto Winery is the only gravity-feed winery in the 
area and as far as he knows it's the only one that has ever been in the area. 
Other local wineries that were built "on the flat" (i.e., not on a hillside) 
tried to keep inside temperatures low by using insulation and shade trees. 
Modern wineries have other methods. 
Scott: 
"Modern-day wineries are all air-
conditioned and all the tanks are all stainless steel now and they're all 
jacketed. 
With the jacket you have a cooling system around them so you can 
regulate the wine in the tank from 30 degrees on up to 80 degrees for red 
wines. 
So, that why you see, now, tank farms, you see the tank outside with 
white jackets on them. 
I mean, the heat is not a problem nowadays." 
attitudes about temperature and wine-making in the past: 
"But the guys in the 
old days, they just had them out there and they really didn't worry about the 
temperature." 
the natural stabilization of the wine used in the past; stabilization 
eliminates tartrates in the wine; chemicals commonly used for stabilization 
today; the chemicals used for stabilization (sounds like "bentonite"); at the 
Conrotto Winery natural stabilization is used for red wines, but a chemical is 
used to stabilize white wines 
Jim describes small electric pump in the fermentation room 
In Anselmo's time, everything was done by gravity; electric pumps were not 
used; Jim describes use of wooden troughs 
[the interview group walks down wooden stairway connecting the fermentation 
room to the storage area below] 
Jim describes a cement settling tank; wine sets in this tank for one day to 
allow for heavy residue to settle to the bottom, then the wine is pumped out 
into a storage tank 
Jim describes hidden space where wine was made during Prohibition: 
"This used 
to be part, well you can see on this wall right here where this concrete has 
been knocked out. 
This was one big fermenting tank during Prohibition, okay. 
And I shoed you inside the tank there there's a pipe. 
Okay, that pipe runs 
into the big white house up there. 
Underneath the big white house is where 
they had the winery tanks. 
What they used to do is they'd ferment down here 
at the same time you had your prune crops coming in. 
So you notice this top 
shelf up here? 
They'd dry the prunes on top up here. 
If anybody came around 
[and] wanted to know what was going on. 
And then if you saw the slats right 
here, this is where the door was to get inside here. 
Above your heads lined 
up with where the wood was [where] they'd be drying prunes and things like 
that. 
So the guy could get in here, clean this out, take care of all that. 
[end of side 1 of IAW-DT-A006, interview continued on side 2] 
Jim continues to discuss alcohol-making during Prohibition: 
"This was just 
c 
underneath the prunes. 
And then also what they did at one time is when 
ade this tank smaller. 
Around the corner they had a little still set up 
ere. 
And it wasn't until, oh, maybe three or four years ago that we 
d the bricks that the still sat on and cemented that little area in and 
the plywood up where you can't see where the little hole was where the 
went out on the side over there. 
It's still there. 
If we pulled the 
d off you could see the hole in the wall there for the smoke." 
ade grappa in the still "and I guess they made a little alcohol and 
like that, always fooling around." 
iew groups walks down to the bottom of the stairs to the storage area 
scribes large barrel called a "puncheon" 
ons purchased by Italians when just as Prohibition came in; Jim: 
"Now, 
appened, when Prohibition came, around 1918, there used to be a 
ative winery on the Main Street of Gilroy. 
And that's where all the 
s sold their grapes or sold their wine to that. 
That sold it out to the 
ield. 
Of course, that was known, everybody knew where that was. 
The 
is knew where that was. 
So that had to close down when Prohibition was 
to start up. 
So, what they did is all the Italians ran down and bought 
e little puncheons and all the tanks they could use to stick underneath 
se, around the house, from them. 
Cause they had no use for them. 
They 
'Hey, it's over. 
We're not going to be making wine anymore.' 
And we 
some of those puncheons in here that was pre-1918. 
They're still 
sed. 
Now, the bigger ones, that one back there is 4940 gallons on 
That came from San Francisco." 
assembled large wooden tanks inside the winery: 
"The cooper would go 
a lot. 
Set that tank up. 
Put it all together. 
Put water into it. 
it. 
Be sure it didn't leak. 
Go around. 
Mark all the staves. 
Take it 
Bring it down here. 
And then bring it in here and re-set it up. 
ee with no leakage, uh. 
Like that." 
(Jim) 
tanks in the Conrotto Winery are of different sizes: 
10,000 gallons 
.inted out by Jim); tanks were set up very close together ("you couldn't 
t your hand between them") in order to make good use of space 
lly, the tanks in the winery were set up on top of dirt floors; later 
floors were added when the capacity of the winery was increased 
height, the winery had a capacity of 134,000 gallons (Jim) 
plains how large storage tanks are maintained, that is how leaks are 
d 
the old tanks have been removed, says Jim: 
"We've taken a lot of 
out. 
We've removed a lot of them. 
A lot of them have gotten old and 
ient. 
Some of the old white wine tanks we weren't using because we've 
stainless for the white wines and taken out of the wood now." 
ns in the winery have a capacity of 160-195 gallons 
present capacity of winery is approximately 105,000 gallons 
Jim describes a relatively new machine imported from Italy that's called a 
"pad filter"; wine is pumped through this machine to filter it; earlier 
devices used for this purpose (screen filters; diamacious (sp?) earth 
filters); pad filter used for white and red wines 
Jim describes small wine barrels; the barrels have tags on them describing the 
types of wine inside 
Jim observes that white wine (Symphony) picked a few days earlier is now 
fermenting [sound of "bubbler" heard] 
[interview groups moved to rear-most part of lower area]; this area was 
formerly used for washing barrels; in 1986, this area was placed "under the 
bond" thus permitting alcohol to be stored here 
water heaters used to heat water for cleaning bottles; wooden frames used for 
shipping boxes of "case goods" (empty glass bottles) 
Jim describes old barrel roller (a kind of hand-cart) used to roll barrel off 
a truck 
there are gaps between boards in the roof of the winery; Jim explains that 
this is for "natural ventilation--to let the heat out" 
the lower level of the winery is called the storage room 
construction of the winery: 
"The winery is built, you notice on the outside, 
of wood. 
And when they built it brick and wood were the same price. 
And he 
just happened to have a friend who was in the lumber business and he gave him 
the job of supplying it. 
So we don't have a brick one, we have a wood one. 
And that's the only reason why." 
(Jim) 
the winery was built "prior to 1928"; after Prohibition was repealed, a wall 
was knocked down and the winery was expanded 
since 1928 was during Prohibition, Anselmo Conrotto use the building to store 
crops; he dried prunes; "He used to have a lot of prunes. 
He had a lot of 
crops they used to grow and they used to put crops down here, store crops. 
'Cause you dried everything yourself back then. 
Your prunes were cut outside. 
You had your trays you used. 
You'd sulfur it outside. 
And then when the rain 
or something forced you, you'd run them back inside. 
Put them in. 
Then you 
ran them back outside like that. 
So, they always needed a lot of space back 
then. 
So they just had this building and kept building onto it. 
I think they 
had a few barrels they used to stick around corners and like things that, you 
know, back then 'cause the basement got too full." 
(Jim) 
Scott describes bottling area and bottling process [sound of bottles clinking 
together] (filling, corking, topping (with plastic or foil tops), and 
labeling); filled cases are placed in the storage room at rear of winery; one 
or two people work at the bottling operation 
bottling operation in the past: 
"Pre to this, we used to put a hose inside 
the 180 gallon puncheons. 
Used to line your gallon jugs, 'cause mostly they 
was all gallon jugs you sold back then. 
I'm talking about in the '40s or the 
'50s. 
And a guy used to take his hose and go along and stick it into a gallon 
jug, fill up that jug and move down to the next hose [jug?] and that's how 
they filled it back then. 
Just siphon it out of the barrel." 
(Jim) 
using smaller containers to "break-down" (empty) the contents of a tank; 5 
gallon demijohns are sometimes used for topping tanks after some volume is 
lost due to evaporation (the government allowance for evaporation is 3%) 
calculation of federal tax on wine in the winery; claiming losses due to 
earthquakes or other causes 
Jim remembers seeing the large storage tanks (10,000 gallon capacity) rocking 
due to an earthquake: 
"I've been in here and seen these tanks rocking back 
and forth, too. 
And I'll tell you, you start walking out the door fast." 
[sound of microphone being moved] 
in the past, only one type of wine was sold at the winery: 
"Basically, when 
they started this winery, they made only one type of wine--red wine. 
It was 
burgundy, huh. 
That was all they sold. 
What they do is ferment it up there, 
red wine. 
[Run it down] on this side here into your big tanks . . . they're 
marked 10,000, 15,000 gallon tanks. 
You make your big stuff, new, 15,000 
gallon tanks. 
It was put into storage. 
It would sit there, get its racking 
back and forth between another 15,000 gallon tank. 
On the second year, you'd 
start breaking it down to maybe to one of the 10,000 gallon tanks and a 5,000 
gallon tank. 
By the third year, it would be sold, either by barrels or back 
in the old jug days, that way. 
Then it was taken from a 5,000 [and] broken 
down into two 2,500. 
2,500 was broken down and filtered into some of the 
smaller tanks. 
That's all they did back then, until, oh, probably the 
seventies when we got more involved in doing the varietals where you're 
keeping different wines in different tanks. 
So everyone of these tanks was 
just used for burgundy up until that time." 
(Jim) 
around 1986, the rear wall of the winery was cut through in order to create 
opening to storage area addition (this area was formerly used for fruit 
storage and, as noted earlier, was not included in the bonded area of the 
winery); the storage is about 15 ft. x 25 ft. 
Jim explains process of accounting for sales so proper tax can be paid; the 
current rate of taxation is 17 cents per gallon; the government requires a 
bond from an insurance company that guarantees it will be paid for wine sales 
John Williams as if Jim knows anything about taxation in the days before 
Prohibition, but Jim says he doesn't 
in 1952, tax stamps were eliminated; wineries used to be required to affix the 
stamps to bottles or cases of wine they sold; sometimes people washed off used 
stamps and reused them 
Jim describes miscellaneous equipment: 
scales, capsules, troughs 
[end of IAW-DT-A006, interview continued on IAW-DT-A007] 
S 
Catalog of September 17, 1989, interview with Jim Burr and his son Scott at 
the A. Conrotto Winery, Gilroy, California. 
Interviewers: 
David Taylor, John Alexander Williams, Douglas DeNatale, and 
Paola Tavarelli. 
(Italian-Americans in the West Project) 
Accession number: 
IAW-DT-A007 (tape 2 of 2) 
[interview group is back upstairs in the fermentation room of the winery; 
David begins to ask questions] 
Scott Burr was born July 16, 1969, in San Jose, California. 
The family lived 
there for two months and then moved to "the ranch" in Gilroy; when he was 
about 5 years old the family moved to a house in town (i.e., in Gilroy) 
playing at the ranch: 
"And my dad worked at the ranch all the time. 
And 
naturally grandpa was here and grandma was here and the ranch was hexes. 
It 
was a fun place to play during my younger years before school and after 
school. 
I enjoyed being up in here." 
(Scott) 
Jim explains how he and his wife Jean happened to move to the ranch in Gilroy 
from Los Gatos--they were asked to house-set for Jean's grandparents while 
they took a trip to Europe 
Jim was born June 18, 1943, in Washington, D.C. 
His father was assigned to 
electronics school in Washington. 
Jim moved to Florida with his family when 
he was 6 months old and lived on the east coast during the war years. 
Jim 
mainly grew up in Santa Cruz, California (30 miles west of Gilroy). 
He met 
Jean in junior college. 
After they were married, Jim worked for Standard Oil 
Co. 
On vacations, he came to Gilroy to help with grape crushing and other 
activities at the winery. 
Around 1973 he came to work at the winery on a 
full-time basis. 
In 1983 Jim and his brother-in-law took over the winery from 
Chinto Conrotto (Jean's father), who "basically retired." 
Jim and Jean were 
married February 8, 1969. 
Jim's first impressions of the winery: 
"Oh, it was exciting, uh. 
You know, 
coming down, seeing them in there, slopping around the stuff. 
Crushing those 
grapes up, you know. 
Going to town. 
Of course, it was, you know, a lot of 
hard work and they needed help, [they needed] a lot of people to come down. 
And there used to be a lot of guys working and everything was done more 
physically . . . . Oh, its always been exciting, you know, to see the 
different aspects of what's going on." 
most of the men who came to work at the winery weren't relatives, although 
some relatives did help out occasionally; all of the workers were Italians, 
however 
one man's job was to wash the barrels; another man lived on the premises and 
was the night watchman, he also washed bottles and cleaned tanks 
there used to be a hotel in Gilroy that was called "the Italian Hotel"; one of 
the winery workers lived there; "There used to be what they call the Italian 
/v 
Hotel. 
And, of course, they'd just rent you out a room, you know, down there, 
and fed you boarding house-style. 
That's where all the Italians would go 
because that's where their comrades were living also . . . . It was on 
Monterey . . . I can't remember if it burned down or if they took it down . 
. . But it was right by the tracks and [of] course what happened is the train 
ran into Gilroy and at the station there. 
And most of the hotels were close 
to the travelers in those days. 
They'd get off and go right to their hotel, 
huh." 
Doug asks Jim what it was like to marry into an Italian family. 
Jim replies: 
"It was a lot different. 
You never expect some of this stuff that goes on. 
You know, the first time she says, 'Well, we have to meet, there's different 
branches of relatives, you know . . 
.' 
And then, of course, you have to meet 
them all, huh, when you're first married. 
And then you sit down. 
Of course I 
was sued to sitting down for lunch and eating lunch and get up, uh. 
And, 
shit, some of these lunches used to last for hours, huh. 
And they kept 
bringing you food and food and food. 
And you never stopped eating. 
And it 
was all good food, don't get me wrong. 
It was all good food, but, I mean, it 
was just too much at one time. 
And they love to play cards, sit around and 
play their pedro [pronounced: 
PEED-row] games. 
I don't know sometimes how 
those guys could figure it out, whose got [what] in the other guy's hands. 
But they can do it, huh. 
And of course [if] you're not Italian they just love 
to jump on your case. 
That's the best thing they can find, uh . . . . But 
it's been a good life. 
It's been exciting." 
Jim recalls when Scott visited the winery when he was little: 
"Scott used to 
come down as a kid and bother the workers before I was working here. 
Chinto 
used to get a little mad and yell at Jeannie, his daughter, and say, 'Keep 
that boy up to the house, huh. 
These guys are doing no work down here. 
They're telling stories to Scott.' 
You know, he's four or five years old." 
Jim's decision to take over the winery: 
"We'd been into it and Chinto was 
getting tired, you know. 
My brother-in-law and sister-in-law liked the 
winery, liked wine and stuff like that . . . . They're not as involved as 
heavily as we are because he has another job. 
But they get down as often as 
they can, get in here, get in the grapes and mess around during the crush 
season or something else, what's going on." 
(Jim) 
Jim doesn't consult with Chinto too often: 
"After 20 years we kind of know 
what's basically going on. 
He had to show me in the beginning different 
forms, different way you filled out books, how you sent them in. 
And you just 
kind of pick up different things. 
In fact, Jeannie's grandfather [Anselmo 
Conrotto] was alive up until 1980, so I had a lot of time with him. 
And he'd 
come over and watch and see what was going on and yell a little bit. 
Say we 
were doing it wrong all the time. 
But he was a good, hard worker. 
And he'd 
come in, no matter, up in his eighties and get in here and sweep around a 
little bit, make sure the wine was always right . . . . Oh, he never stopped 
to have coffee. 
No, no, no, you don't do that when he was around. 
He had to 
work, huh. 
Keep those brooms, do something, huh. 
You never sit down. 
Don't 
read the paper on the job, huh. 
There was always something to be doing. 
He 
didn't believe in resting or coffee breaks." 
(Jim) 
Scott's recollection of the winery: 
"Mostly [I remember] the crush seasons. 
Because that was exciting, I mean the trucks, I mean flatbed trucks loaded 
•r 
full of grapes coming in. 
I'd always sit to the side and just watch them. 
It 
was just, it was an exciting process. 
Sitting around watching them being 
smashed to smithereens. 
I mean, they went in there whole and came out juice. 
And I mostly remember that. 
I mostly remember Temloti [sp?]. 
Since he was a 
little old than most of the guys, he took the easiest job. 
His job was 
shoveling the stems which was a nice, easy job. 
And I remember him quite a 
bit. 
He seemed to watch over me, you know. 
He made sure I stayed out of 
harm's way. 
I remember everyone in here on top of the tanks punching and 
doing the day-to-day operations. 
And one of my favorite earliest memories is 
that I wanted to be here when they filtered the wine. 
The old filter was huge 
and there was just tons of valves and all that excited me. 
The valves and I 
don't even understand all, how they work, I mean, we can change, move the wine 
backwards and forwards and sideways and I thought that was neat. 
And they 
were sitting there opening valves and closing them. 
And it was totally, it 
was interesting. 
And that's why, actually, I, I liked it and I stuck around 
with it. 
I tried out other jobs as I got older and I found this is what I 
want to do." 
(Scott) 
Scott's first chores at the winery were clean-up jobs, such as sweeping, 
raking leaves, and pulling leaves. 
As he got older he helped with the crush, 
punched the tanks, cleaning barrels, and sulfuring barrels. 
He has 
participated in all winery operations with the exception of paperwork. 
("I 
stay away from the paperwork. 
I'll have to learn it one of these days.") 
Scott is also involved in decisions about when to pick grapes and the proper 
taste of wines: 
"I'm involved in that. 
We'll argue about that. 
Not argue, 
we'll talk . . . . Decisions are not unilateral here. 
It's got to be a group 
decision." 
Jim says: 
"He has his ideas and he bring them in. 
You know, sometimes if we 
think they can work out we'll try them. 
And if not maybe we'll postpone them 
for down the road, maybe later. 
See what happens. 
See what develops in the 
market, too." 
Scott took on a project to make his own blush wine at the winery. 
Jim's daughter is not keenly interested in the winery, but she does help out. 
She is 16 and-a-half years old. 
[Jim's friend Mike enters the winery] 
Scott explains his decision to take up wine-making (he is presently at student 
in the enology program at Fresno State): 
"I tried other jobs in town. 
I 
tried construction work. 
I worked in stores. 
And I decided that I liked 
being out here. 
I liked, you know, having responsibility in the wine. 
I 
enjoyed making the wine. 
I enjoy drinking the wine. 
And so I started looking 
into what schools offer it as a degree. 
And, to my surprise, there are only 
two schools: 
[University of California at] Davis and Fresno State. 
And I 
started looking in about my sophomore or junior year in high school, ah, how, 
what I needed to transfer, and getting information about the two schools. 
And 
I found out the first two years of college you don't even touch the wine-
making aspect. 
So I decided that first off I take, go to junior college. 
And 
then I looked at Davis, and Davis is really into research. 
Their idea is to 
come up with new clones of grapes, better ways of refining agents and just, 
12 
they want to know exactly what's in the wine. 
What every compound [is]. 
They 
break down the glucose, the maltic [sp?] acid, the tartric [sp?] acid. 
And 
Fresno State, as I toured their thing, it was really hands-on. 
I mean it was 
a winery. 
You did day-to-day operations and I figured that would be more 
beneficial to me here . . . . And I just liked the hands-on process more. 
My 
goal is not to be a scientist and research the grapes. 
I'd rather be here and 
make the wine. 
And that's why I'm down at Fresno State." 
Scott begin studying at Fresno State this year. 
He has been there first the 
first of August. 
There are about 12 students in Scott's class and they are 
all involved with every aspect of wine-making. 
Scott will be at Fresno State 
for at least 2-1/2 more years. 
wine-making knowledge that Scott received from family members: 
"I know 
everything from the old world methods. 
I mean, this has been handed down to 
my grandfather, my great-grandfather and keeps on going down the ladder. 
And 
there are a lot of new techniques I'm learning, you know, but the basic 
principles are all still the same. 
There's just techniques. 
Most people 
don't use the wood tanks now, they all go into stainless steel with jacketing, 
to cold wine fermentation, that technique's really nice. 
It's very expensive 
though. 
And we'd have to remodel our whole winery to do that. 
But I'll know 
it in case when we do have the opportunity to purchase that I have that 
knowledge behind me. 
But then I'll also have the knowledge to run this 
winery. 
So I think a blend of the two will make a better person." 
Scott's plan is to work a few years somewhere else and then come back to take 
over the family winery. 
some of Scott's classmates own vineyards and a couple are from winery 
families. 
stages of development in Scott's course of study at Fresno State; different 
classes and exercises. 
learning about wine-tasting at Fresno State 
the vocabulary for wine tastes; how Scott's grandfather (Chinto Conrotto) 
describes tastes 
wine-making projects that Scott would like to undertake include fermenting 
grapes inside their skins (a new process that's just starting in California) 
Scott doesn't think too many changes will be made to the structure of the 
Conrotto Winery, although "way, way in the future" he'd like to add more 
stainless steel tanks (they won't leak and they're easier to clean) 
attitudes about drinking wine: 
"I actually have different feelings toward 
drinking as a youngster. 
I never, I mean I grew up around alcohol. 
I was 
exposed to it from an early age. 
I was never impressed with people who went 
out and got drunk. 
That's not, I mean alcohol was meant to be enjoyed with 
dinner. 
I mean I drink wine with dinner and I enjoy it with dinner. 
So, I 
mean, I think we should adopt the European system of not having a drinking 
age. 
People, it will take many years to come about, you know to change, but I 
personally think you'll see a decease in the number of, maybe not alcoholics, 
J 3 
I can't say that, but in kids going out and drinking and driving. 
I Mean, I 
saw it in high school. 
It was the thing to go out and drink . . . . That's 
not what I want to do. 
I want to sit there and enjoy the wine." 
(Scott) 
Scott says wine taken in moderation is healthful; all his relatives lived into 
their nineties; "and it's not just my family, longevity has been around with 
Italians" 
[end of interview] 
I 
Catalog of July 25, 1989, interview with John Royal of San Pedro, California. 
Interview by Douglas DeNatale for the Italian-Americans in the West Project. 
Catalog by David Taylor, July 1991. 
Accession number: 
IAW-DD-AO10 
--opening announcement (interviewer gives date and name of informant) 
--when John's father came to America, the family name was Riale, not Royal; 
John's father's name was Archile Riale [sp?]; his brothers convinced him to 
"Americanize" his name to Archie Royal 
--John's father was from the province of Reggio Amelia [sp?], he was born in 
mountain town of Valvona [sp?]; it's in the mountains near Genoa 
--when Archie was a kid he worked as a sheepherder for his father, then got a 
job in the marble quarries in Carrara; his father didn't want him to work in 
the quarries, so he encouraged Archie to join his brother (i.e., Archie's 
brother) in Pueblo, Colorado 
--Archie arrived in Pueblo in 1913 and found his brother there; his brother 
eventually returned to Italy and never came back to the United States; 
therefore, Archie was the only member of the family to remain in the U.S. 
--John not sure what brought Archie's brother to Pueblo; he had been there 7-
8 years before Archie joined him; probably he came over to work and send money 
back to the family in Italy 
--John recalls that his father used to talk about coming through Ellis Island; 
story about Archie traveling from New York to Pueblo by train and living on a 
bag of fruit he bought in New York; he arrived in Pueblo on the Fourth of 
July; the symbolism of his arrival on this American holiday was not lost on 
him [John's secretary brings in cups of coffee for John and Doug] 
--Archie's work in the marble quarries; "Yeah, he was just a kid. 
And the job 
he got, he was scaling the cliffs by rope and knocking off the loose chips of 
marble so it wouldn't fall down and kill the workers. 
And they had to 
communicate with him by flags, you know. 
And he'd swing from one cliff to the 
other and on the ledges and that. 
And his dad saw, found him the next spring 
what he was doing done there, and his dad fainted. 
He said, 'My god,' you 
know, 'you're going to kill yourself.' 
He said, 'Well, I don't want to go 
back up in the mountains and freeze, you know, in the winter time and ah herd 
sheep.' 
So his old man said, 'Well, if you don't want to come back and do 
that then go to America and find your brother.'" 
--the living conditions in Pueblo when Archie arrived; the conditions were 
bad; most of the men were bachelors and they lived in tents or shacks; mining 
companies controlled the towns; "It was like slave labor conditions, it was 
very, very bad" 
--Archie was involved in early efforts to form the mine workers' union; he was 
involved in 18-month strike in and around Pueblo and Trinidad, Colorado; the 
Ludlow Massacre occurred at this time; "And he went through that whole thing 
for about eighteen months. 
That's where they burnt down the company camp and 
killed thirteen women and kids and all that. 
So, he went through that whole 
era and it was very, very bad time. 
They had the militia on them, the 
Pinkertons, the guards, the sheriffs, the rangers. 
And these people, I guess, 
in many cases they just shot them on sight. 
And, you know, there was cases of 
lynching and dragging people through town with a rope behind a horse. 
And it 
was a real bad, bad time." 
--Archie worked in the coal mines, the moved to California in 1928 
--as a result of his involvement with organized labor, Archie came to hate 
symbols of authority (sheriffs, rangers, Pinkertons, etc.) because he had such 
brutal memories of them 
--illegal acts committed by striking miners out of desperation (during 
Colorado strike); "basically it was like a war" 
--John has book called Out of the Depths that is about Colorado miners' strike 
--Archie told John about discrimination he experienced as a kid; getting beat 
up because he was a foreigner; other ethnic groups were represented in the 
mines in addition to Italians 
--Archie worked in several mines (John's mother has a record of them at home); 
one mine was Victor Mining and Fuel Company; Archie and others worked in mines 
throughout southern Colorado; he may also have worked in Arizona and in 
Helper, Utah; "when they needed work they went where mines were hiring" 
--Archie told John that when you got a job in a mine they'd hold back 30 days 
of pay in order to keep miners from quitting early 
--Archie has a homestead near Mount Harris, Colorado, up in Wolf Creek Canyon; 
Klu Klux Klan tried to drive Italians out of the area; "they weren't going to 
tolerate any Italian people and/or Catholics in the area and they were going 
to burn them out"; Archie said most of the KKK members were local businessmen 
--foreigners were discriminated against, it was tough to survive; it was 
difficult for them to turn to local authorities because some probably 
supported discriminatory attitudes 
--Archie became very militant in support of the unions; he was a big strong 
man and other Italian miners looked up to him; his nickname was "Jumbo" 
because he had lifted the largest single piece of coal into a coal car; he had 
phenomenal strength; he was known as Jumbo in San Pedro, too 
--Archie became a "totally dedicated man of labor"; he "supported the union's 
activities to organize the working people and help them get a bigger piece of 
bread" 
--Archie arrived in Pueblo in 1913; the Ludlow Massacre was in 1917 or 1919 
(John is not sure of exact date) 
--Archie was involved in the first efforts to organize miners' union 
--after Archie got married, he obtained a 160 acre homestead near Mount 
Harris, CO; wife's family was living in the area; Archie did some farming, but 
also worked in the coal mines when they were open; life was tough because 
wages were low and working conditions in the mines were bad 
--Archie probably had to leave Colorado because "he got black-balled for his 
union activities" and "they had the law on him all the time"; consequently, he 
finally came to California; he originally planned to go to Canada, but family 
came to California because wife's sister lived in Wilmington, CA, and family 
went to visit 
--Archie and family arrived in Wilmington on Christmas Eve 1928; family 
included John's mother, father, three sisters and John (John was sic years old 
at the time); John was born in Colorado; 
Archie got a job working on a 
breakwater, the started working on the waterfront (as a longshoreman?); 
Archie's brother-in-law convinced him to stay in the area instead of moving to 
Canada 
--in 1933 and '34, Archie involved in another big strike in connection with 
the establishment of the longshoremen's and warehousemen's union under Harry 
Bridges 
--Archie went to jail following a big fight on the waterfront; he saw the 
birth of the International Longshoremen's Union; he saw improvements come to 
longshoring; he retired with a pension from the union in the 1960s; "He had 
the satisfaction of knowing that he probably done some good for the guys on 
the waterfront as well as the guys that followed" 
--John was born June 24, 1922; John's grandmother and aunt were midwives at 
his birth; there was no official record of John's birth; John had to go back 
to Colorado in order to establish official record of his birth; he learned 
that when he was two years old he was baptized in Steamboat Springs, CO, and 
given the name Giovanni Giuseppe Riale; in 1940, the family's name was 
officially changed to Royal (though the family had gone by the name Royal for 
many years); in retrospect, John wishes they had kept their original surname 
(Riale) because it's bothersome to have to explain to people that he is 
Italian with a name like Royal 
--John was about 11 years old when the longshoremen's union was being 
organized; John has clear memories of this period; recalls the time when his 
father and other men were in the Royal's wine cellar planning an attack on 
scabs who were in a "bull pen" provided by the steam ship companies; they were 
also making weapons (black jacks and billy clubs) 
--companies brought in scab laborers when longshoremen when on strike; scabs 
lived in a "bull pen"; the whole thing "got real nasty" and was a repeat of 
what Archie had been through in Colorado 
--story of striking longshoremen raiding the bull pen at night [fully told]; a 
neighbor (Dick Parker) was shot and killed by a detective 
--on the morning after the raid, police came and arrested Archie and took him 
to jail [very fully told]: 
"About four or five big touring cars pulled up at 
the house and they come and knocked on the door and I remember I was sleeping 
on a cot in the front room there and ah my mother went to open the door and 
they just knocked her down and come charging, about ten of them I guess, come 
charging right through the house. 
Went in the bedroom and grabbed my old man 
who was in bed. 
And they didn't even give him a chance, I guess, to dress up. 
He had long underwear on and they just handcuffed him and drug him out and 
threw him in the touring car and away they went. 
And it took us a couple of 
days to find out that they had him in Lincoln Heights Jail in Los Angeles. 
And he told me at that time, ah, that in the cell. 
He didn't talk much about 
it but they didn't have any facilities. 
They had a hole in the corner that 
you used as a toilet and I guess they had him shackled to a pad eye there, you 
know. 
And, ah, he never did tell me what really happened there, but I imagine 
that they probably worked him over pretty good for a couple days and nights. 
And then he finally got out. 
But some guys during that strike disappeared. 
They never did find them." 
--Archie stayed active in organized labor and helped form the longshoremen's 
union on the West Coast 
--the scene along San Pedro's waterfront when John was a boy; John used to 
sell newspapers in this area 
--John used to carry his father's lunch to him when he worked on Terminal 
Island; before the union was formed, men had to stayed on the ship until it 
was unloaded; in those days, men were "hired off the dock like animals"; they 
worked around the clock (there was no such thing as an eight-hour day); men 
were fired if they took too long at the toilet 
--the old procedure for hiring longshoremen; there used to be a blackball 
system 
--there was a lot of local sympathy for longshoremen when the strike was on; 
local people helped them with food and credit; a soup kitchen was formed; 
seamen went on strike with the longshoremen; single strikers ate in soup 
kitchens while married men were given food to take home to their families 
--Archie and other strikers went out to Santa Cruz Island in a fishing boat 
and shot wild goats and sheep and then brought them back to San Pedro; the 
meat was cut up in the soup kitchen 
--Archie "got a good indoctrination, a good lesson, I guess, in the labor 
movement and the, and the abuses the employers could, you know, put upon 
working people. 
Today, one finds it hard to imagine some of the things that 
really happened did happen." 
--John's career: 
he went into the Merchant Marines during World War II and 
then went into commercial fishing after the war; he was a navigator on tuna 
boats; in the 1940s, also fished for sardines out of San Francisco and 
Monterey and Moss Landing and San Pedro; fished for tuna off Mexico 
--John joined fishermen's union; at that time members were mainly Yugoslays; 
another union was made up mainly of Italian fishermen; the Yugoslays were the 
"distant water fishermen"; John got a job on the Yugoslav boats as a navigator 
and joined their union; he started to attend union meeting and began to voice 
his opinions about abuses; eventually, other members encouraged him to run for 
union offices; he has been in office since 1957 
--John's union activities; the fish canners were "just like" the mining 
companies; fishermen often became indebted to canneries because of loans made 
for boats and equipment; fishermen obligated to sell fish to canneries; 
canneries told fishermen that they shouldn't join the union 
--canneries "put fear into fishermen" about joining the union; vote to form 
the union lost by a very small margin 
--canneries financed fishing boats; canneries had different levels of 
ownership; sometimes they owned the whole boat, sometimes a partial ownership 
--the canneries dictated the price of fish to the fishermen; the fishermen 
"were captivated victims, really" 
--fishermen often went to canneries to obtain financing to purchase new and 
used boats; the fishermen "had a yoke around their neck from then on" 
--the union discovered that the canneries were cheating fishermen on the 
weight of fish--the scales were adjusted to show a lower weight; the union 
took the canneries to court over this issue; as a result, John was blackballed 
from the fishing industry 
--the practices of the canneries were reminiscent of the practices of the coal 
mine companies: 
"It was a repeat of what my dad told me happened in the coal 
mines." 
John took action to correct things: 
"And so I told the guys we had 
to get together. 
And he did. 
And we assessed ourselves and we put a union 
man on the scales to watch the company man. 
And when we did that we found 
that the fish boats increased their carrying capacity by anywhere from 15 to 
25 percent per load. 
So then they took us to court--me included--and they 
said we were a bunch of Communists and it was restraint of trade and 
collusion. 
And it was real bad." 
--the judge ordered the canneries to open their books to the union's lawyers 
for 10 days; because of the number of boats involved, a thorough accounting 
was not possible, but a spot check revealed that over 10 million dollars worth 
of fish had been stolen from fishermen over the years 
--consequently, the canneries dropped their law suits against the union 
[End of side one of tape IAW-DD-A010, interview continued on side 2.] 
--John spent two years working for the acceptance of a single fishermen's 
union in San Pedro, but the vote was not favorable 
--because of his involvement with the union, John became a persona non grata, 
and couldn't find work on fishing boats, even though he was an experienced 
navigator and had many other skills besides; "the men liked me but the owners 
were scared to hire me because of the pressure behind the scenes, I guess, 
from the canners." 
--John found work as an "extra" in the longshoring trade; eventually he got 
into the longshoremen's union; he was elected to the executive board of the 
union 
--the longshoremen's union got into a jurisdictional dispute with another 
union; in July of 1950, the International Fishermen's and Allied Workers' 
Union merged with the longshoremen's union; local union people went to see 
harry Bridges in San Francisco and told him they were being raided by the AFL-
CIO and were having trouble with the canners, too; Bridges and others 
convinced John to return to the fishermen's union and try to help the 
fishermen; John left the longshoremen's union and worked as an international 
representative to help the fishermen; subsequently, the members of the 
fishermen's union elected John to office; John has been with the fishermen's 
union ever since 
--improvements that have occurred since John rejoined the union include: 
a 
pension plan, a health and welfare plan, better conditions, better weights and 
measures ("we have a union man on the scales to police the unloading") 
--during the last few years the fishing industry has "died" because the 
canners moved overseas (American Samoa, Puerto Rico, etc.); one cannery 
remains on Terminal Island 
--the tuna industry started in San Pedro at the turn of the century 
--actually, there are two canneries in the area today: 
a mackerel cannery 
(founded by Starkist Tuna) that was purchased by the boat owners two years 
ago; another cannery--International Protein (formerly Pan-Pacific Canneries) 
cans tuna and mackerel, but mainly tuna; International Protein is the last 
tuna cannery in the United States 
--there used to be a dozen tuna canneries between San Pedro and Long Beach, 
and there used to be 4-5 in San Diego 
--when John's was active in the longshoremen's union, his home was one of the 
centers of union activity by Italian longshoremen; Archie "because a spokesman 
or a leader because of his militancy among that particular ethnic group"; some 
Mexican-Americans worked in local lumber yards, a few also were longshoremen; 
Finns, Norwegians, and Swedes were also union members 
--Italian longshoremen would often come to house to have meetings; sometimes 
meeting were held in the wine cellar; "There was always some activity going 
on, you know. 
Some was legal, some wasn't. 
It was a battle of survival, I 
guess, know." 
--Doug recalls that organization of textile workers in Patterson, N.J., 
sometimes took place at a bocce court 
--John remembers that his father and others "would find ways of camouflaging 
their meetings. 
Because the police would always come around, and the 
detectives they were coming around harassing them, you know. 
And they'd see 
them in groups, they'd bust them up, you know, or take them down and throw 
them in jail." 
--in order to camouflage union meetings, men would meet secretly in private 
homes, or in parks, as if they were having a picnic or a family; police used 
to follow Archie around and stake out his home; police used to look for 
excuses to harass union organizers 
--when the strike was in progress, Archie and others used whatever means was 
necessary to convince men not to break the strike 
--the strikers held on and won the strike 
--previous attempts by seamen and longshoremen to win strikes had not been 
successful 
--when longshoremen's strike was settled, Bridges refused to go back to work 
until the seaman were taken care of; the seamen never forgot this; 
consequently the seamen and the longshoremen became strong allies 
--reasons by Yugoslav fishermen fished further offshore than Italians; in the 
old country, Italians fished with lampara nets; a lot of the Yugoslays came 
through Canada, down to Bellingham, WA, and finally down to San Pedro in the 
early part of the 20th century; the Yugoslays developed the purse seine 
fishing technique; the Italians (who were in the minority at that time) fished 
with lampara nets and later went into purse seining 
--all local fishermen fished for sardines, mackerel, squid, etc., and for 
bluefin tuna (that came up the coast from Mexico in the summer months); the 
Yugoslays were the first to take purse seiners to Mexico to fish for tuna 
--in the old days, fishing boats carried fish to cool their catches; living 
conditions on board were not as good as they are today [examples given] 
--in fishing, "it's strange how the ethnic groups gravitated toward the same 
latitudes where they came from the in old country. 
All of the Norwegians and 
the Danes and the Swedes gravitated to Alaska and Canada and Seattle, 
Washington; cold climates. 
And ah, and ah the Italians gravitated from the 
east coast into ah San Francisco and Monterey and down here and in San Diego. 
And then the Portuguese came in from the old country and they were heavy, I 
guess, in Massachusetts, and then they came out here. 
Some to San Pedro, then 
they gravitated to San Diego 
[additional details on the ethnic composition 
of west coast fisheries] 
--the Portuguese fished with pole and line, they used poles with artificial 
lures to catch tuna; in 1957, the Portuguese began to convert their "bait 
boats" over to purse seining; Portuguese hired Italian and Yugoslav fishermen 
from San Pedro to teach them about purse seining; later, the Portuguese went 
on to build bigger and better purse seiners; the cost and size of big seiners 
today 
--changes in fishing technology: 
purse rope replaced by cable; the power 
block was invented by Mario Puretic [sp?]; John used to fish with Mario; the 
power block replaced muscle power for hauling nets; the process of hauling a 
net by hand [fully described]; John uses Yugoslav phrase that means "haul the 
net" 
--another improvement was the introduction of new refrigeration systems, 
including the brine system; the development of the hydraulic system was also a 
significant improvement 
--the development of new technology made the development of big fishing boats 
possible 
--introduction of nylon nets (which replaced cotton nets) was another 
improvement 
--the Portuguese are the long distance fishermen, even to a greater extent 
than the Yugoslays; the Italian fishermen preferred to stay closer to home, in 
general they were coastal fishermen 
--John was one of the first non-Yugoslays to fish on a Yugoslav boat; he was 
one of the first to break the ethnic barrier; before World War II, there were 
three ethnic groups in the fishing fleet--Japanese, Italians, and Yugoslays; 
after World War II very few Japanese returned to the fishery 
--one of the problems that John had in trying to organize the fishermen was 
that there was a strong enmity between Italians and Yugoslays because of the 
battle of Trieste 
--differences between Italians and Yugoslays with regard to religion; both 
were Catholic, but Italian men went to church with their families and Yugoslav 
men let their wives go to church alone 
--little by little Italians and Yugoslays got closer; the taboo about inter-
marriage was broken; after World War II relations got much better between the 
groups 
--today, fishing boats crews are ethnically mixed in many cases; in the past 
crews consisted of strictly one ethnic group 
--story about how John first got a job on a Yugoslav fishing boat [John speaks 
a phrase in Yugoslav]; some people in San Pedro have come to believe that John 
is of Yugoslav descent; names of some local Yugoslav families 
--sometimes John left crews when he didn't get along with other crew members 
--over the years inter-ethnic hatred has diminished substantially; in recent 
years, there has been a second migration of fishermen from Sicily; this second 
wave began about 20 years ago 
--today, there are two Yugoslav skippers in San Pedro; in the past, the 
skippers were predominantly Yugoslays; today, most skippers are Sicilians and 
Ischitans because of the second migration 
--the canneries exploited the ethnic rivalries of the fishermen; canneries 
helped the AFL-CIO; according to John, the AFL-CIO was a "company union"; the 
canners would favor boat owners that brought fishermen from the old country 
and got them to join the AFL-CIO 
--the Yugoslays were more militant than the Italians 
--John's family background motivated him to speak up about labor issues: 
"I 
learned about labor ever since I was old enough to sit at the kitchen table 
and have a bowl of soup with the old man as a kid. 
I was raised in a strong 
union home and labor house. 
But I never thought I'd wind up in labor movement 
as per se, but I guess water seeks it level and gravitates somehow." 
--John could compare his father's stories of conditions workers faced in the 
coal mines with current conditions fishermen faced: 
"I think a lot of the 
stuff I found here was a repeat of the stories my dad told me happened in the 
coal mines. 
And I got the idea of putting a union man on the fish scales 
because that's what they did in the coal mines. 
The coal miners put a union 
man on the scales because when they'd bring a car-load of coal out of the 
thing that weighed two thousand pounds, so then if they put four thousand 
pounds on the coal car it still weighed two thousand pounds. 
And they found 
that they put railroad ties under the scales so the scale would only come 
down, the load of coal would only come down to two thousand pounds and stop 
I got the idea of putting a union man on the fish scales against the 
canners at the time the boats were unloading from the story my old man told me 
about them putting a union man on the scales at the mines." 
--the values John learned in his family: 
"I've been raised and indoctrinated, 
I guess, as to being ah very cognizant of the rights of working people and 
objecting to the abuses and exploitation of working people . . . . Without me 
realizing I find myself getting up and raising hell and complaining about 
stuff 
" 
--John's ambitions when he was young: 
he wanted to go back to Colorado and 
get into cattle ranching; John used to go back to Colorado when he was a kid 
and visit his uncles and his cousins; he loved the Rockies 
--in the early days of fishing, employers exploited bad feelings between 
ethnic groups; they played one against the other; companies played favorites 
--the union has enabled the fishermen to obtain many benefits 
--the union still finds that companies try to cheat the fishing crews 
--in the past, the union threatened to tied up the boats if companies didn't 
make certain changes 
--the local fishing industry is dying; the fishing fleet now consists mainly 
of about 30 mackerel boats; John hopes for resurgence of sardine fishery 
--in recent years, John has been involved with state politics--monitoring 
legislature that relates to commercial fishing 
--John has served as a member of several international fishery commissions; he 
is the vice president of the Pacific Fishery Development Foundation; he was 
appointed to the L.A. Harbor Commission (the first member from labor); 
received a presidential appointment from President Nixon ; 
John is a life-
long Democrat, so he thinks he was appointed as the "token Democrat"; he feels 
he has the experience to service on these commissions, experience that 
political appointees do not have 
[end of IAW-DD-A010, interview continued on IAW-DD-A0P1] 
[IAW-DD-A011: the continuation of the July 25, 1989, interview with John Royal 
of San Pedro, California. 
The interviewer is Douglas DeNatale.] 
--enmity that arose from competition for fish was not something that was 
reserved for only for fishermen of different ethnic groups; competition also 
engendered bad feelings between fishermen of the same ethnic group 
--Yugoslays tends to fish further offshore than Italians 
--there is some optimism that the sardine fishery will make a come-back; John 
thinks the sardine quota should be raised; research is being conducted in 
order to provide Fish & Game Commission with facts that support raising of 
quota 
--in the past, sardines were always for human consumption while anchovies were 
made into fish meal, and feed for poultry and for fish raised in hatcheries 
--the resurgence of the sardine fishery "would be a tremendous shot in the arm 
for this fleet" 
--in the past, when the sardine fishery was in its hey-day, 750,000 tons a 
year were landed in California; fishing boats were loaded down with catches of 
sardines; over at Fish Harbor (Terminal Island), where the canneries used to 
be, "you could walk across the whole harbor from boat to boat there waiting 
for them to unload." 
--in the past, sardines were unloaded by hand; today, big suction pumps are 
used and can do the work in 40 minutes that it used to take men hours to do by 
hand 
--conflict between fishermen and biologists with regard to estimating the 
strength of fish stocks; "the biologists have always been ultra-conservative"; 
the fishermen's union has hired outside biologists to show that the Fish & 
Game Commission's estimates were way off 
--in the early '50s, when the sardine fishery began to decline, some 
attributed this to over-fishing; however, a respected biologist hypothesized 
that the decline was a result of cyclical migratory patterns 
--as the law now stands, a 1,000 ton quota on sardine is in effect; however, a 
15% by-catch of sardines is permitted with catches of mackerel; John would 
like to see a 35% by-catch allowance; if boats exceed the by-catch, they must 
dump the extra sardines overboard 
--recently, John was able to obtain $200,000 to continue sardine research 
--the size of the fishing fleet in San Pedro: in the past there used to be 150 
boats; now there are about 30 boats 
--when the sardine fishing season opened up in the San Pedro area, boats from 
further north (Monterey, San Francisco, Washington State) would come down and 
there would be 400 boats in San Pedro; "It was a hub of activity: 
ten of 
twelve canneries working day and night. 
15,000 cannery workers."; this was in 
the 1930s and 1940s and early 1950s 
--John thinks the current fleet is operated by Sicilian and Ischian fishermen 
who came during the second wave of immigration 
--not many Yugoslays coming over any more; there was a big influx of Yugoslays 
right after World War II; after they made money fishing, most Yugoslays got 
out of fishing and went into other types of business throughout the local 
economy 
--at one time, fishing was "strictly a father and son tradition" but many 
fathers began to encourage their sons to get education and go into other lines 
of work; fishermen didn't see a real future in fishing for their sons 
--many Italians have gone into the restaurant business; many of them come from 
fishing families 
--some Italians have gone into real estate and have "done very well"; Libby 
DiBernardo, Tony Marino, Frank Lauro, and Tony Califano have done well as real 
estate brokers 
--San Pedro's Italian community hangs together "more so than most 
communities"; however, one of the problems has been that Italians never had a 
club of their own 
--John used to be a member of the Mazzini Club; the club "disintegrated" as 
the old timers died off and young people went in other directions 
--the Mazzini Club was named after Giuseppe Mazzini, an Italian who worked to 
bring groups of Italians together in Italy 
--other local clubs: 
the Sons of Italy, the Colombo Club, the Italian-
American Club. 
John feels that one strong club would be better than several 
small clubs. 
He doesn't feel that current Italian clubs in San Pedro approach 
the strength of the local Yugoslav club; local Italians seem to be quite 
fragmented in comparison; "I still feel that if these guys would just get 
together and form a good Italian-American club, you know, and get rid of this 
difference between the dialects, you know." 
--John thinks solidity would give Italians the political clout and strength to 
preserve their culture and identity 
--the Mazzini Club used to rent the Knights of Columbus Hall; it didn't have 
its own facility 
--a few years ago, the Sons of Italy bought a building on 19th and Cabrillo 
that used to be the Yugoslav Women's Club 
--the D.B. Club; John is the current president; the D.B. Club is a social club 
that originated in Santa Barbara; "D.B." stands for "Dago Bastard"; "It's 
funny as hell. 
I think where it started was that ah, I guess, when these guys 
would go around and ah, ah, have their big dinner parties and that--they'll 
all good spenders--and I guess somebody said, "Here comes all them dago 
bastards again." 
--the San Pedro D.B. Club has a charter from the original club in Santa 
Barbara; there are events that members of both clubs attend (picnics, dances, 
etc.); the club holds a charity golf tournament 
--membership in the D.B. Club: 
"It's a mixture [of people], you know. 
First 
of all you have to be, through marriage, you know, in order to get in. 
Now 
they've got judges and they've got people in there you are neither Italian or 
Yugo-. 
They're everything, but they're not Italians or their wives are not 
Italian. 
But it's a fun club. 
It's a good club. 
They do a lot of good 
work." 
--John is the current president of the D.B. Club: 
"Like I told them when they 
installed me last January. 
I told them, I said, 
'I, I have mixed emotions,' I 
said, 'all my life I grew up and,' I said, 
'I got my nose broke fourteen times 
when somebody called me a dago bastard or a foreign extraction son-of-a-bitch 
or something like that,' I said. 
'And now,' I said, 
'I, I'm up here taking 
vows and ah, and I considered it a great honor to become the president of the 
Dago Bastards. 
I don't know how to rationalize it.' 
And they laughed like 
hell, you know." 
--activities of the D.B. Club: 
annual picnic held in August at the police 
pistol range; about 400 people attend the day-long event 
--the golf tournaments; last week-end a tournament was held in Ojai, CA; in 
September another one will be held in Las Vegas that's a rivalry between the 
Santa Barbara D.B. Club and the San Pedro D.B. Club; people come from all over 
to participate in the golf tournament; money raised through entry fees goes to 
various charities 
--the board of directors of the D.B. Club meets twice a month and a membership 
meeting is held once a month; the membership meeting is a dinner meeting 
--members wear special shirts with the "D.B." logo; if members come to 
meetings without their shirts they are fined 
--John's relatives in Colorado: 
his uncle (mother's brother) recently died at 
age 94; he has a cousin in Colorado by the name of Jimmy LaDon [sp?], he lives 
in Rifle [one word unclear] 
--John invites Doug to contact his mother and talk with her about the family's 
history; she lives on First Street in San Pedro; Mrs. Royal's father came from 
Italy and worked on the railroads until he got to Colorado, where he went to 
work in the coal mines; Mrs. Royal's brothers worked in the mines, too 
[end of IAW-DD-AO11; end of interview with John Royal]