UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  DIMITRIOS MATTHEOS
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  APRIL 1, 1988
M = MATTHEOS
T = TAYLOR
LFP-DT-R023-R024
[The testing of the recorder goes on for the first few minutes of the tape and covers the interview 
going on in the background]
T:  One, two, three  [talking in the background]  I want to start by saying that this is the first of 
April 1988.  And I am here with Dimitrios Mattheos
M:  Mattheos.
T:  Mattheos' home.  [Wilder] road or street?  In Lowell, Massachusetts and my name is David 
Taylor.  And I am conducting this interview in connection with the Lowell Folklife Project.  And 
we have been having a glass of Ozuo and talking a little bit about Dimitrios' [rest of the sentence 
is unclear].  Ask you to [    ] now so that we can put that on the tape.  Tell me for example the 
name of the community where you were born?
M:  I was born in Athens but I grew up on an island called Avion.  But first of all I would like to 
welcome you to my house and, uh, I said this is a Greek tradition that when you go to a house I 
show you my hospitality by offering you a glass of Ozuo.  And some pastries that have been 
made by [rest of sentence is unclear].  Umm, going back to the question [part of the sentence is 
unclear] it would take hours to come out and say the exact things that have happened and how I 
came to the United States.  But one very important point that I would like to make is that at the 
age of four I made my determination to come to United States.  When we sees us all other greek 
people at the times after the [civil war] in 1946, 47, and 48.  We received packages from the 
United States from various organizations of people and since that time I developed the idea that 
this is the country where I would like to live.  And I have tried unsuccessfully three times and I 
have failed.  I don't want to go into detail because it would [take to much time].  But the fourth 
time I came here through an advertisement in the newspaper.  So I was coming home from work 
while I was working as a demonstrator and coloring, I am a colorist in profession, hairdresser.  
Cosmetologist has it been called today.  I read in the newspaper that some, uh, they were looking
for hairdressers.  So I took the opportunity and, uh, I was picked up of course out of probably ten
dozens of people through my qualifications at the time I was only twenty-two years old.  Twenty-
three years old actually.  And that is how I came to United States.  And I didn't even know where 
Lowell was on the map.  The only thing I had heard was America and that was enough for me at 
the time. [laugh] And even if I was going to Alaska I would still accept it.  But, uh
T:  Well how did you happen to come to Lowell?  What brought you here as opposed to Alaska 
or any other part of the country?
M:  Well the person who helped sponsor me happened to come from Lowell, his name was 
George [Trosopolous], and, uh, I came and worked for a beauty shop with a contract, like a three 
years contract.  Which I found later was a [   ] living in Massachusetts.  But anyway I always 
appreciate and I always thank the effort of the individual that brought me to this new found, new 
land.  And I am grateful to him and I will always be, uh, we have to work hard my wife and I 
[phone rings in the background]
T:  Go ahead and get that we can stop if you need to.  [stop the tape]
M:  Well I mentioned my wife and I we have worked hard and we  started from practically 
nothing we just brought a few things with us and the only thing we had was three hundred and 
ninety dollars, I had spent ten dollars and bought a [suit].  We came with Anna Maria, a beautiful
ship, it took us eleven days to come.  And the first,uh, when we first came here we were so 
disappointed to the point that we sit down and we cried.  But I told her I said we are in the 
United States you know America is free and we don't have to worry for now we will find 
opportunity and we will work hard and we will make it like all the others did.  And soon enough 
we did.  I worked for this individual for two years with my wife and then we bought a house, we 
opened a business, but we have a family, we have three children, my son John who is sixteen 
years old today, my son Steven who is thirteen, and my daughter who is eight.  And to go back to
the beginning when we came here we came here to stay for two years.  
T:  Why only two years?
M:  Well we thought that we would make enough money and we could go back and, you know, 
and start a better life, a richer life.  We did not know we were only, I was only twenty-five years 
old at the time when this happened.  And, uh, we thought that, uh, you know, in two years we 
would be rich people.  But everybody else said we kicked the pocketbook into the sea because 
we didn't want to have trouble starting from the beginning with a lot of money.  It was hard.  So 
then five years just before, I wasn't even here five years, I applied for my citizenship I was so 
determined to be part of this.  That, uh, nobody could stop me any more.  I bought a house my 
house, then I bought another house.  I start this myself but the most important thing the feeling 
that I got when I came to Lowell was the Greek community.  And, uh, I was so impressed, I felt 
more being in Greece here as I was in Greece when I was living in my native country.  
T:  What was it about What made it that way?
M:  What made it that way, I will tell you.  If I wanted feta cheese I could find it instantly.  If a 
want olives, calamata olives, I could have it.  Ozuo, wine, anything pertaining to Greek food and 
the Greek community I have it.  I want my church.  The first thing that I did when I came here I 
joined my church.  I have never, I only missed general assembly once.  And that was the year 
that I had taken a vacation and went back to Greece.  That is the only general assembly that I 
have, I have a lot of faith I believe in, uh, the Orthodox faith, I have a strong belief in it, I have 
served my church in all capacities from the choir to the board of directors as an auditor, as a 
board member, as a secretary, and as a President I was elected.  School board, PTA, name it.  But
the force behind me is the, the appreciation that I have of my own to the forefathers that have 
founded this beautiful Greek colony, greek city, the Acropolis of America.  All this things that I 
have found here make me so strong and so proud that I will never stop working for what I have.  
And, uh, it is indeed very impressing to come to a country that doesn't speak your language and 
though you are free to have your language, to have your religion, to have your orchestra 
wherever you go you will find Greek music.  I just don't know how, how I can express myself 
that I feel more in Greece here than I ever did in Greece.
T:  Is it just the fact that you are in a different country or are there certain ways that people live 
life that are somehow more greek than they were, or more strongly evident than they were at 
home?
M:  I don't think that I felt that I was in a different country?  The hospitality of the American 
people number one, the American people are so naive.  They are so good.  They are so helpful 
and I am glad that I am here and I have been part of them and I became one of them because as I 
started to say, start telling you.  Just before five years being in this country I applied to become a 
citizen and I took the examination.  I was so determined I passed it the first time.  Bear in mind 
when I came here I could not speak one word of English.  I spoke German because I happened to
live in Germany for a couple of years.  And that did help me a lot.
T:  How did you learn English?
M:  How did I learn English?  Through my clientele, through the effort I read the paper every 
day two and three papers probably I like to do that.  And, uh, I tried to go to school, I went to 
school to Lowell High, I went to Adult Education but I was so frustrated with the things that 
were happening at the time that I stopped going.  Which I regret it now I wish I had stayed and I 
wish I had graduated from there.  But I will do that, in fact two weeks ago I went back and I 
asked for some information.  I will go and take the test so that I can get the diploma that I want 
to have.  That is one thing that I am determined to do and I will do it.  So
T:  Was it difficult starting your own business?  How did you go about that?
M:  Well it was difficult Yes it was.  First of all well I worked my people I worked for they did 
not like for me to leave them and open my own business.  And I started in my house, I did it all 
through the state, the board of registrations, for the state.  I had the license, obtained the license 
and we did it the right way.  We did not want to have any problems and, uh, we have been 
successful.  The people are grateful.  They, you know, we have we are professionals, I can call 
myself a good professional.  We have clientele, we have done anything that supposed to be done 
by a true American and I am grateful for it.
T:  What kind of services did you offer in your shop when it was first opened?
M:  Number one our hospitality was number one, uh, number one gun we had nothing else to do 
to give them ourselves we could not speak the language, we could not do anything else but 
pleasing the people with our hands.  And that was enough because nobody wants to go to 
hairdresser and hear about somebody elses problems.  A person comes here to me just to get the 
hair done and pay and go.  And that is what we have been doing and we are very satisfied and 
very happy.  And we can proudly say that we can have a decent family American life.  
T:  Now what year was it that you first came to this country?
M:  I came here June sixth on 1970.
T:  O.K. And when were you born?  I meant to ask you that to.
M:  I was born in Athens and as I said I was born right after the Second World War in 1945.  And
then my parents took me back to the island of Avia, which I went to school there.  And, uh,  when
I finished school at the age of thirteen and a half in fact I only took, uh, through half year of 
Junior High School.  Because I had to work to survive.  And I had to support my family but, uh, I
just could not I was working as a barber and I just could not see myself being just a barber.  So I 
want to become a hairdresser and with the objection of everybody at the time it was a crime to 
become a hairdresser.  
T:  Why?  Why?
M:  Because this at the time wasn't so well known or as a managed profession.  It was like a 
girls, a woman's profession and they thought, you know, that it wasn't appropriate for me to 
become a hairdresser.  So members of my family they thought that I should not be a hairdresser.  
So that probably gave me the strength to become one.  And I did exactly what I wanted to do and
I am more successful then them now and I am glad that I did it.  [David laughs]  The same thing 
applies to coming to the United States.  When they hear that you are going to United States they 
all told me why what do you want to go to the United States don't you read the paper every day 
they are all gangsters there.  You know, they kill themselves in the streets.  And that is what you 
see, you know,in the papers, but be reminded United States is a melting pot it consist out of two 
hundred a fifty million people and you are bound to have problems in an open society, in a 
democracy like ours.  There is no way you can have control if you don't have the gun on the top 
of the heads, uh, the peoples heads you are bound to have irregularities.  And that is what you 
call democracy.  So and soon enough the first night that we went through we were sitting in the 
back of the car taking my boss, he had died God rest his soul, Stuart his name was, Stuart 
[Gazus], as we were traveling through Merrimack Street that second night in fact we were in 
Lowell I hear pow, pow, pow, a policeman was, uh, going after a thief that had broken into a 
store.  And I look at my wife and I said [   ] that was my brother he said.  You go to the United 
States and they all have guns and they kill each other.  My mind was, went over to him thinking I
said, gee all ready.  But I said no there are so many people I don't see any reason why this would 
be an incident.  And this is a incident since that time I have never not such a thing again.  I have 
been here for eighteen years this year.  Everything is
T:  Before I go to trips or some place I have never been I always have an image in my mind of 
what it will be like based on what little knowledge I have.  Did you have a picture in your mind 
about what it would be like in this country before you came?
M:  Yes, I had a picture in my mind that life it is much more easier.  You can get a better job.  
You can  First of all I am not the immigrant that came here to seek work to survive.  I was a 
professional.  There is a different picture for those immigrants that came those years, I am 
talking about the eighteen hundreds and the beginning of the nineteenth century, I am not one of 
those immigrants and a lot of those immigrants that think I am today.  I am not the same like they
used to, our forefathers, our forefathers came here and they had to work hard.  But they also did 
not have anything to offer, they had no profession, they had  nothing.  I came here as a 
professional and that is a big asset when you come to United States.  Because nobody wants to 
use their hands they all want, uh, their big, uh, diplomas and they just don't want to do anything.  
So anybody who can have a trade this is the place to be.  That is the way that I feel.
T:  When you came I am trying to think of the reception that you received from the Greek 
community.  Were there others who were coming here from Greece at that time?   Or was it not 
that common?
M:  Oh yes at that time it was a wave of immigrants coming.  (T:  Really?)  Yes, in the 1960's 
and up until in fact this is something that is good to know.  I think when I got my visa this 
preference six was, my visa was approved by the State Department on September, on October 19
on 1969.  October 20th the [     ] closed.  For one day I missed the [  ] open.  So that means that if
Mr. [  ] that I found after, who was the congressman, did not cooperate with the immigration to 
get my visa going  I probably would have missed the [   ].  Since then preference six has been 
very tight.
T:  What does that mean preference six?
M:  Preference six it relates to the immigration's laws as to who is eligible to come to the United 
States.  In preference six,preference one is for example is husband and wife, preference two is 
husband, father and son or daughter, preference three is parents, preference four is like, uh, 
doctors and others, other related professions.  The profession that I am it was under the 
preference six.  Which is any professional that you have to have a permission from the Labor 
Department.  Something that it is not, if somebody wants to bring somebody to his job it has to 
go through the Labor Department and the Labor Department you have to apply through the 
papers and see that you cannot get the person you are looking at.  Being a colorist I had come 
under this special sixth preference that is how I came.
T:  I see.
M:  It is very tricky. And I have done a lot of, uh, since then of course I have learned a lot 
because being involved with the immigration in various situations.  I have signed petitions for 
my in-laws and I have learned a lot more about our immigration laws.  In fact when I went to 
Athens, that is another point that I want to bring up, the councilor asked me if ever a war breaks 
between the countries are you willing to go serve in the U.S. Army?  And my answer was yes.  
That yes gave me opportunity when I came here and another thing I had to go and register 
myself.  I have, I am registered in the local twenty as we call it here in Lowell.  I went to the 
National Institute with him three months after my arrival.  And I registered myself and they gave 
me a card.  And I am registered of the local twenty.  How you call that? [says it in Greek] 
Reserve Army?  No. Selective Army.
T:  Selective Service?
M:  Selective Service I am one of that I have a card.  So a year later we my wife and I we travel.  
I took the car and I travel to Chicago, travel from here to Chicago, she has a cousin there.  We 
went through Niagara Falls, we went to Toronto, then coming back from Windsor to Detroit, it 
was the time that they were all the defectors.  The defectors  from the Vietnam War so I had my 
passport, my green card that I had but immigration did not let me go into the country yet in 
Windsor.  From Windsor to Detroit.  I passed the bridge as I went to Detroit, sorry we can't let 
you in.  I said what a  You know, I couldn't even speak that much English, you don't have any 
cards or anything.  I said I have my passport, my green card, no we want to have a card from the 
Army.  I said the Army, I served in the Greek Army, that is as much as I could understand, you 
know  Any way as my wife was going through the papers in her pocket book he said here this is 
what I want, he saw the selective card.  That is what I want. [both laugh]  Just go.  So I came into
the country [  ].  Oh what an experience.  
T:  Were your children born in Greece or here?
M:  No, my children, well we had our life planned.  First we opened the business, we bought the 
house, we opened the business.  Then the next thing is to have a family.  No, I am sorry when we
bought the house my son was born, oh this is a story. [laughs] I want to open a business is this 
house that I have and I could not because there is the codes, the zoning wasn't for business.  It is 
Industrial so I went to the city hall before I buy the house and I applied for with [    ] he went to 
the board of appeals as you know Is this something that you would like to hear.  (T: Yeah.  Yeah) 
When we went to the board of appeals I got a lawyer to get the permit too.  So I paid fifty bucks 
for the hundred fifty dollars for the lawyer to represent me and they turned me down.  My wife 
was expecting, it was,uh, in the eighth month to have the first child.  So they denied the 
permission, the permit to open a business in this house well I thought that my wife since she 
would be home with her kid she could have a few customers and make up ends, means.  So they 
denied my permit and I said to myself O.K. so we left we were so disappointed  I still bought the 
house, I still put the down payment.  In fact all the banks in Lowell they denied me a mortgage 
because I did not have credit, I had bought everything cash.  I had saved five thousand two 
hundred dollars and to buy a house I needed five hundred three hundred dollars.  I did not have 
the hundred dollars, so they denied me the application.  So the real estate took me over to [    ] to 
get the money because she knew somebody there.  So Salem, Mass.  I got the loan, I got to 
convince them.  I did not go [   ].  They gave it to me with fifty-two hundred dollars which we 
had saved, we did not go nowhere we worked.  Save that is it, eat, and sleep.  I worked in a 
factory Sundays and Mondays also.  At Pandells down on Market Street.
T:  What was the name of it?
M:  Pandell, they used to make plastics.  I used to work there for  That is the money that we 
saved.  I use to work twenty six hours in two days.  I am telling you.  But anyway we bought the 
house the following month I take my wife I said lets go we go to the board of appeals.  She was 
ready to have the baby, big, huge, she was huge.  [laughs] I said lets go we go they call my name 
so I said, uh gentlemen with my broken English, here I am again and I am appealing to you to 
give me the permit.  Somebody comes, oh no you aren't going to give you any permit, you know,
this area is congested.  I said I am holding you people responsible for the life and the future of 
my family and my child, I said [wife's name] come here, but it is coming into life I said.  [wife's 
name] comes along.  Now there are five members board, she comes there like, you know, and I 
said I am holding you responsible for the welfare of this child.  And this effective today you are 
the ones, you can make it or break it.  You want to give to me the key to success and have my 
family live in dignity be it.  You don't want it thank you very much and I turned around and I 
started leaving.  Wait, wait a minute, wait a minute.  I hear a voice from one of the guys, wait a 
minute sir.  I said I am not here to play a game I am going directly to the welfare office.  And we 
walked, I don't want any help from you I want you to give me the opportunity to work on my 
own I said.  They took a vote and it was a unanimous vote. [both laugh]  
T:  That is great.
M:  So a unanimous vote.  I was happy.  My son came along we didn't even have a refrigerator, 
we had no stove, nothing.  I got an electric iron.  I couldn't afford to buy anything.  So we put the
kid's food outside, outdoors.  And it was March, it was cold, this time of the year, March 27th I 
believe.  In fact sixteen years ago.  So dog went over and took the food and ran away.  I was so 
mad I just didn't know what to do.  I was working hard, I had to make the payments for the 
house, the baby came along, I had no insurance.  So I went down to the electric light and I said 
well I want to buy a refrigerator, I have a house.  Oh we would be glad this boy there he helped 
me.  The next day, you know, they brought me the refrigerator.  Now I need a stove, I see a stove 
for sale.  I don't want to buy anything, you know, and pay interest.  I see a stove that sells in 
Sears, I went over I payed, I put the hundred dollars down payment.  I knew, I found somebody 
that I knew that working at Sears and she helped me, she was working in the office.  She helped 
me to get credit and allowed me to buy on three months like I didn't have to pay any interest.  I 
bought the stove here and we were the happiest people.  We had stove and we had refrigerator.  
Now we start our life, now I have time to serve the community.  I got involved with the church, 
the school, I see the school the value of the school.  
T:  This is the Greek School?
M:  The Greek School.  The Greek School to me is like the light that guides the ship into the, uh, 
away from any ship crossing into the How do you call it?  Into the  Cross into like an island.  
That is the way I see it.  Number one I am proud of, uh,  being Greek.  Because of the history, we
all know that the world, our democracy today is based on the ideals of this magnificent people.  
And to see an [edifice] the one that, uh, and the only one in New England that I have learned.  
The only daily school of Greek in New England, that gives me goose bumps.  And I want to be 
part of it.  So I offer my services, whatever I could do for the school.  I served as a president of 
the PTA for three years.  I have been the force behind of creating the seventh and eighth grade.  I 
went from the PTA all the way up to the board of directors, the school board, the general 
assembly.  We passed it all at all times.  And now it materializes.  It took five years after I left to 
materialize, that I payed dearly.  But I am glad it is better late then ever.  I heard that this would 
materialize and it will make the school now Junior High School.  (T:  Um)  That is, I am so 
proud of it.  People called me last night to tell me thank you about this.
T:  Now when will that, uh, take place?
M:  It will take place in September.  (T:  Really.  Wow)  Yes, they called me last night to tell me 
about it.
T:  What happened in the past then after six years where would the students go to school?
M:  Well I went through this experience and I know.  We are a family orientated people and some
how we like to see that our children grow into a close environment.  One thing that I have found 
in the United States is that there is a lot of lax.  Lax of interest of the part of parent.  I have met a 
lot of good excellent American Parents.  My kids play in the publics, uh, schools and they play 
soccer.  In fact my youngest son, my second son this is the fourth year in the travel team of the 
city of Lowell, soccer.  He played, uh, baseball on the league.  My oldest son did the same thing 
to, the baseball.  I have been on the fields year round.  I have met a lot of great Parents, and I 
mean great great, fine individuals.  Especially with the soccer.  I just, uh, I can name a few even. 
The mayor, Mr. Martin's son, another person Khoulaharis' grandson who is a school committee 
member.  He happened to play, he is the same age as my son Steven.  I really met the best people
in those fields.  
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
T:  Now we were talking about, uh, your involvement with school, and PTA, and your children's, 
uh, education.
M:  Yes, well as, uh, the years gone by and my family grew.  Before my kids even, uh, start going
to school, of course I was involved with the community.  I was in the choir, I was in the board.  I 
tried, in fact I was so determined to get into the board of  the church, I tried for three years in a 
row.  I wasn't known, people did not know me, who I was.  So I was put my name in the board 
and as I was working hard and people were knowing me more they were voting.  I elevated my 
way through the hard way.  And the year that I was elected to the board I was elected second 
with votes.  But, uh, it took good work and good will.  Whatever they told me I did.  Even 
though there weren't to many people from Greece involved with the board.  I managed to, to go 
through the understanding and the new ways, and the way they did things here.  And I just did 
what I was told to.  People respected me for that.  And I was behind the force of having plays, 
Greek plays.  We had four Greek plays, I played in four different.  I have video  
T:  Who sponsored the plays?
M:  From the school all of the teachers who Mrs. [   ], Mrs. [   ], who is a tremendous force to the
Greek community.  I think her talent as a teacher, as far greater than anybody's imagination.  This
woman she can take nothing out of a kid that doesn't do anything and make him into a student. 
[snaps his finger]  She is a good teacher.  So she was behind the force of creating, uh, this groups
and I was in with it while I was a President of the PTA.  And we had plays, we made beautiful 
plays.  In fact one of those plays is two hours one of the big successes in Greece.  [says a phrase 
in Greek]  What is this called, one stupid and a half it is called.  It is a funny story.  Which we 
played in the theatre in, uh, Dracut.  And it was a big success.  We played one in Little Theatre, 
we played another one on the other college, another one in the Speare House, four of them.  So, 
uh, not only I appreciated everything that I had to do with the school, you know.  And with those 
theatres we made some money and while I was the President of the PTA I also served at the time,
same time was the board of directors, and the secretary of the church.  All three and the school 
board.  So I had to convey with all of them.  But it was the greatest experience I ever had in my 
life.  I never regretted that I served the community as I did, I served for seven years.  So, uh, with
that at the time that was the force behind the teaching the language the way I can speak it.  And 
because those meetings that I attended they were people, well educated lawyers, and, uh, 
teachers, and administrators, and I had to push myself and learn.  I didn't want to go, it would be 
embarrassing for me to go and get up and speak about a subject and, uh, to talk about nonsense.  
To me I wanted to go there and precise say exactly what I wanted to say and have them 
understand.  And I was proud after because I was looking around and I see the support.
T:  During the, uh, period of time that served the school what was the condition of the enrollment
in terms of the numbers of students?  Say the same, up, down?
M:  This is a very, very important subject.  Well as the years go by and even in the public schools
you can see the ups and downs of the enrollment.  But at that time two years after I was involved 
it seems that, uh, the population, uh, birth was down, and there are many reasons to that 
predominant Greek to predominant American, predominant American to predominant Greek the 
moves that the waves came to Lowell and it goes into up and down, the enrollment.  And what I 
have found I have got so We have done so much work that, you know, it is incredible, this is very
much my subject to talk about.  One time we had hundred and forty-two students and some 
people in the general assembly out of our community even though they are strong in their beliefs,
and they are strong with the Greek heritage, and everything they have served on the board, and 
they have served in the community they stood up and they wanted to close the school.  And me 
now I never forget the moment I stood up like a Golieth and David, and I stood up like a David 
and I pushed myself up and I said this will never happen we will bring more students, we will 
upgrade the school and the school will survive.  Any way it was a big uprise they wanted it to 
close, some people wanted it they said it is, you know, no good to the community any more, we 
don't get the children, I fought it to the board, I managed to confuse the people, we should allow 
others, just because we were not allowing others churches to use the school at the time.  
T:  Oh really.
M:  Yeah.
T:  It was only the
M:  It was only the Holy Trinity.  This school cannot survive, and what is our purpose.  The way 
I see it even an outsider, if somebody wants to come and learn Greek I think I would feel proud 
to teach that person the language, the language of the Holy Gospel.  These people they use Greek
language two thousand years ago and we will forbid anybody who wants to learn not to learn it.  
I think that would be the biggest crime you could do, you know.  After all it is so beautiful to 
know another language, any language and especially Greek.  So two years on the board it took 
me to convince some people that we should allow others.  And this happened, it worked out.  
One of the board members made the motion and at the time I seconded it so it passed.  Since then
we are getting more children and out of the community.  We tried to keep as smart as we can to 
our own people.  Don't misunderstand me, we do not want to get anybody that will destroy the 
image of this group.  That is very obvious.  But within limitations if we have space for a student 
we take it and we have the student that applies.  At least that is what we did at the time.  So in 
two years time we brought that school up to hundred and ninety-nine students.  And the school 
goes between a hundred and sixty and two hundred students.  A hundred and eighty, one year is  
A lot of people are moving back to Greece we have a, it is like, uh, those are statistics that every 
year we have six, seven students that we lose.  Some people go back to Greece, some people 
move to other parts of the country. You know, it But what has a substantial, uh, value is that the 
people that they live in Lowell, our forefathers and their children they are so proud of this.  And 
that gives me a special, special feeling about it.  You will have some people that they just, uh, for
some reason personal or, bitterness that they had with the administration, or the school, with the 
church that.  [unclear]  But these people if you ask them down deep in their hearts I don't think 
they believe it.  Even though they say we will close it.  But they still, I will never forget the 
moment I was having a drink at the Athenian Corner with this, deceased now, Bill Hollis, Bill 
Hollis is his name, he was, uh, more Greek than me.  And he was born here, but he did not like 
the school he wanted to close the school.  I said  He said that damn school is going to cost the 
church so much He came over and we were dancing and he says even though he said we have 
different ideas he called me DP.  He says you DP, you are like my brother and I love you, even 
though we deferred on the ideas.  He wanted to close the school and I was against it.  But still I 
still love you he says, you are my brother.  We drank Ouzo, we were dancing one night, anyway 
he died from [     ] God bless him.  So the next thing I came with the idea that, uh, this, Aids.  My
kids are now, my sons are now at the school.  One is three years ahead of the other and as the 
years go closer to the graduation, see I said it would be nice if we had a [     ]  day.  So as I said 
from the beginning I worked, we worked hard, we went all the way, and at the end that was the 
night that I resigned as the President of the church, I was the President.  They gave me such a 
hard time the parents did not cooperate, the board I had   The mentality of the board was so old it
had to be changed.  Here I was a guy from Greece, the youngest even elected President, 
thirty-seven years old, thirty-five, thirty-eight.  No thirty-seven I was.  And you see people that 
they were seventy, most of them were over sixty years old.  They resent the fact that I was, that is
the only bitterness that I have.  But I can see their point too.  I can see why they resent, it is only 
natural.  But they torpedoed the [   ] way that never materialized.  And that prompted me drop the
keys and say here you are not people. [sentence is unclear]  Your people you go back to your 
forefathers that they fought themselves for the little things.  I don't want to be part of it.  So I 
dropped the case and I resigned.  But the enthusiasm had never stopped me of working for the 
community.  I think I can produce, and I can produce more now, I do more work now then I did 
when I was on the board.  
T:  I would like to for the time being leave the issue of the school and talk about one of those 
areas of contribution that you have made which, uh, led me to meet you really.  And that is the 
video taping that you do at different events in the Greek community.  And could I first ask you to
tell me how you first came in contact with video equipment and when that was?
M:  Well I am a great believer of, uh, looking back into the history.  I like history.  This, this is, 
uh, exceptionally very important to me and as my kids were born, my son was born in 
seventy-two, I have been taking pictures.  I took movies the [   ].  I have about a thousand 
movies.  And as the videos came along I thought that this is cheaper although I paid the price 
initially.  I paid a lot of money in the beginning.  I think I was the first one that even obtained a 
video because I wanted to capture the moments of my children's life.  I have a video half an hour 
after my daughter was born.  Right in the incubator there.  Is that the incubator?  And I am 
writing a story and every so often I put a little more and I write the story of my daughter.  Which 
she was born in 1980.  So but at the same time while I have the equipment we had, uh, Easter 
services at the church, I filmed them.  Good Friday, Holy Saturday, [   ], uh, the Patriarch came 
here to Lowell.  I video taped it I have it, I have an exclusive interview with the Patriarch.  In 
fact for twenty minutes him and I, at the Speare House questions and answers.  And it is very 
impressive it is in Greek though.  The reason why he came here, the same thing you do here I did
it.  But I don't have the professional knowledge about all of this.  What I do I do it on my own.  I 
have about [ ] programs, programs on the school, programs on the church, the plays that we 
have.  Anything, uh, the forty years of the, uh, Archbishop being a priest ordained at the Holy 
Trinity.  Bear in mind that Holy Trinity is the first Byzantine structure ever built in United States.
That alone give me great pleasure to be a part of this community.  It is a Byzantine church.  
Which Byzantine it is a unique structure so all this and my family, and my children, and the 
community made me, gave me strength to go out and have all these memories on video.  I have 
got a lot of videos.  You know, I can't say that I do a great job because I am not a professional.  
As the years go by I improve myself a little bit.  But I have got enough.
T:  Now when did you obtain your first?
M:  1979.  
T:  And what kind of equipment was that?
M:  Well this, uh, is a portable Quazar.  It is a big  It is about twenty-two pounds that I carry all 
the time with camera that I put on the shoulder.  Of course now it is over dated.  I just use it for 
play back the tapes in here.
T:  Is it a VHS or Beta?
M:  It is a VHS.  I have it right there, you can see it, yeah, VHS.  And now I borrow from some 
of my friends.  I borrow their camera.  I want to go buy.  But I was told that they will come out 
with like a professional one and that is what I am waiting for.  They have one now, one [    ] they 
have got one now.  But they will come out with [      ].  Pitch black you could tape.  I taped with 
one [    ] and I went through [rest of sentence is unclear].  And it has a button and you put the 
light in the back.  Push the button and it brings you light on the back, one light.  This is eight 
[    ] here.  
T:  Now the birth of your daughter was that, you were talking?
M:  Lowell General Hospital.
T:  Was that the first time that you used the camera?
M:  No.  No, no.  I used the camera in other occasions, birthdays with my kids, my other sons, 
the school, the church I have used it in many other  Just 1979 using video I have others, other 
memories with, uh, [     ].  But the video is 1979 that I bought it.  
T:  Now how you mentioned teaching and learning, teaching yourself essentially, uh, how to 
improve your technique.  What types of things have you learned?  And how have your 
productions become better?
M:  Well every time I looked at, uh, my video tapes I describe what another mistake.  And that 
what  It is live and learn.  In video you got to know a few things  I have found through my 
experience.  You have got to have a subject first, and know how you want the subject to be on 
your screen.  When you determine that then you start shooting.  But being nonprofessional,  
being an amateur, you panic, you panic, you want to get everything.  I found out that there is no 
way with one camera you can get everything.  And that is where most of us do mistakes.  We are 
to anxious to get everything in.  And I still do mistakes even now, I don't say  I have improved 
but I have not perfect.  I don't think I will ever be, I would like to go to learn.  Go to some place, 
a school or something to teach me.  But as I get the perspectives from the videos that I have tried 
to help some people buy.  And I look at the perspectives and I read them I learn a few things 
about it.  When it is fading, when it is this, when it is that all this problems that you can develop 
during filming.  How do you correct them and put the date, put this?  I have been learning.  
T:  Now when you went to video tape the Greek Independence Day activities how did you plan 
that before the day began?
M:  Well first of all I know how the program works.  And if you are referring to this years.  
Because I have March 25th for the last eight or nine years.  If you are referring to this years I 
happened to be the coordinator of the event.  And I had to give orders and know what we would 
do first and what would follow.  I had a program, coordinated I gave it to the teachers, then I 
gave it to the main speaker.  I pick up the main speaker.  I was, uh, [coughs], excuse me, through 
the council of churches I was appointed to, me and a member of the council of churches.  I was 
appointed to direct this program which I did and, I think it worked out fine.  As best as could be 
expected.  You have to deal with so many people  and so many elements it is a lot of preparation. 
You have to go to the police station to get the permit, you have to go to the city hall to get all this
invitations out, you saw this year we had dignitaries from Greece.  I brought them here, I 
happened to be in Boston and I brought them here.  And I have an idea of how the program is 
about to go.  We start from the school, we are marching to the church, there we have the [    ] in 
the church, bear in mind that Holy Trinity is the metropolis.  The churches.  So this always starts 
at the Holy Trinity.  And, uh, of course all this years of being involved and I have never missed 
one.  Even though it was Friday.  I felt obligated to my children that this is a very important day 
of their life.  And there are two things they have been taught that through the course of their life. 
In the school, the Greek school that they go and in the house remember March 25th is as we call 
it in Greek [says it in Greek] which means is the salutations of the Holy Mother.  Nine months 
later Jesus Christ was born.  That is a big holiday.  And that is the Greek people they are feasting,
they don't eat meat they eat fish that day.  [says the name of the fish in Greek] as we call it.  Fish 
with onions so that.  And then on March twenty-fifth 1821 Greece was liberated, or they start 
liberate one of the Bishops, [name of bishop-three names] took, shock up the world by picking 
up the flag, the Greek flag, and say here I am, here we are.  Life or death for us.  [unclear]  And 
we owe to those heroes of the 1821 our lives, what we are today.  And probably our civilization.  
Because the way the Turks were doing it at the time, four hundred years since the 1451 when 
they took over the Constantinople.  The Greeks were under the [      ]  Empire.  And, uh, we have 
one thing to go back to this, it is not hateness I don't call it hateness.  I call them history.  History 
is taught me through my life, through the schools, and through my life, my living experience that
we should honor this date as the greatest date of our lives.  And it is the greatest date.  To be 
liberated, to be free.  You people don't know, and you probably take it for grated what it means to
be free.  Freedom is something else, there is nothing you can buy it.  No monetary value you can 
put against freedom.  And we are so lucky that we are free and that is what makes America so 
great.  Because we have freedom.  So that is why I am so vivantly involved and I am so proud to 
continue this great value of freedom, and do anything I want, anything I must do.  I close my 
business Friday, half a day.  I was so proud I had three of my children parading.  Two of them 
were holding the flags, the American flags.  Last year my son, one of my sons was carrying the 
Greek flag.  This year was only fair to exchange the other kid took the Greek flag and my son 
took the American flag.
T:  Oh, O.K.  O.K.
M:  I have pictures I will show you after, you know.  And, uh, I was so proud.  I don't think to 
many parents have the opportunity to have three children the same day in the same parade.  And 
being Dancing in the front of the city hall, my daughter danced in the front of the city hall.  That 
is a history for me.  Some day this little girl will look back and see that her father who had  How 
come my father thought about these things?  You know, it is amazing.
T:  Can you tell me the meaning of other parts of the, uh, activities on Greek Independence Day? 
Lets see we all assembled in the parking lot of the school and marched to the church.
M:  We went through the service.  The [   ].  Which is part of the religion aspect of the day.  Then
we marched out to go to the city hall.  We stopped at two monuments.  We have two Greek 
monuments in the city of Lowell.  Well those monuments we have a lot of boys that they have 
voted for our country, for the American country that they were killed in the wars.  In the Korean 
Wars, and then the Second World War, well we have those monuments and the mothers club is 
always, uh, laying a wreath in memory of those deceased.  Which I think it is, uh, is so to me, 
you know, it gives me goose bumps.  To know that these heroes that died for their country they 
are, once at least a year they are being remembered.  They have been remembered.  So don't
T:  Do both monuments have the same meaning?
M:  Yes, the same meaning it is about the deceased  In one says [ term in Greek]  term in memory
in Greek.  The second monument was, established, put there about five years ago, the last one.  
So it has a lot of meanings and it brings a lot of memories that day.  After all it is a national day, 
one year I went to New York for it.  To see parade there.  And in the North East Lowell as I was 
told by, in fact, uh, last Friday at the March 25th program I have a friend of mine who was 
working for the National [    ] from New York, he came here he covered the event.  And that will 
go in the National now, it is going to be put in the paper.  He came over, he took pictures, he 
made a nice write up.  It was very impressive.  He says I am so proud that up here in Lowell, in 
the Greater Lowell area of ninety thousand people you have done more that I ever seen in my life
and Boston doesn't  do anything.  And he was referring to the Boston Diocese and everything, 
which he was right.  But you have to have it within.  And you have to be interested to do these 
things.  To wanting to do it.  And thank God that we are in Lowell and we can do all these things.
T:  Tell me about the, uh, Greek Parliamentarian that you met in Boston and what his name is and
how he happened to come here last Friday?
M:  Well as, uh, I have been receiving an invitation every year on the occasion of March 25th, I 
have received an invitation to go to the State House.  The invitation [   ] by his Excellency the 
Governor who happened to be of Greek decent as you know Mr. Dukakis he is running for 
President this year.  And also his Greek colleagues that there are a lot of Greek boys, Greek 
decent, and for some reason being a supporter or being in the community I have received an 
invitation, I have always received one.  And I honor those people, by my presence.  So I went 
there and after they have the reception this person that I know very well he says I want to 
introduce you to this, uh, gentleman who is from Greece and he is a from the House of 
Representatives of the Common Market, from Greece.  Well nice meeting you and all this, well 
the next thing I was invited to go to the 57 Restaurant, in Boston, to have dinner with him.  Well 
I accept the invitation we went there in fact I called my wife and I cancelled all of my 
appointments.  I said I am sorry I can't be here.  So cancelled the appointments.  And I did it was 
an opportunity I felt obligated like, you know, here is the guy that comes from over seas I like to 
show him a little unity, a little something, from here.  We went down we sat, we ate, we had a 
few drinks, yeah.  I said as we were chatting even though his philosophy and mine is different, 
the first, I don't belong in the party that he belongs, but I have an open mind.  We were 
discussing various problems of the country, the European community, I have been in Europe, 
almost in every country, I travel.  France, Belgium, Italy, Yugoslavia, I have travelled there.  And,
uh, I said Mr. George I said, George is his first name, Mr. Saridakis is his name, George 
Saridakis.  Uh, you haven't seen Greece I said until you come to Lowell.  He said what do you 
mean?  I said you want to see a little Greece I offer you an invitation, I said, to come Friday, that 
was Wednesday, tomorrow is the 25th program in Lowell.  Well you will see so much blue and 
white that your eyes will blow out.  He said you think so.  He said I have seen a lot.  I said yes 
you have but nothing like you will see in Lowell.  And I said I mean it.  He looked at me, he 
thought that I was just kidding.  I said you want to see a little Greece come.  I invite you I happen
to be involved with that program and I want you to be there.  He said if I come can I say 
something, can I speak.  Of course you will speak, you will be the dignitary of the day.  I will 
make sure that you will get up, in fact that is why I want you to be there to speak on behalf of the
Greek Government.  So the next day I gave him my phone number.  He says I am going to call 
you because I don't know my schedule.  Anyway I greeted him I said I hope I can see you, was 
Thursday.  The following night I was invited to go again to the same place they had a gathering 
of all the New England Federation of the Greek Organizations.  And I received an invitation to 
go and listen to what he had to say.  He came here for a purpose to speak about the common 
market.  And inform the people of what is going on there.  
END OF TAPE
UNIVERSITY OF LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
LOWELL HISTORY COLLECTION
LOWELL FOLKLIFE CENTER
Informant:  Dimotrios Mattheos
Conducted By:  David Taylor
Date:  April 1, 1988
M:  Dimitrious Mattheos
T:  David Taylor
LFP-DT-R025-R026
M:  That is my son holding the flag.  (T:  Yes)  Right in back of the school.
T:  Holding the American flag.
M:  Yes, right here.  And the monument and that is my other son holding the other American flag.
Two.
T:  Oh, o.k. right.
M:  Well what more could I have done in this community?  (T:  Um, um)  What else?  To have 
two children being involved in the parade.  See at the same time.  Not to many people have the 
opportunity to do that.  
T:  Now you were holding a video camera and your little thirty-five millimeter?
M:  Some of the pictures I took, yeah.  
T:  Oh, that is great.
M:  That is my daughter. 
T:  Oh, yes I remember her now because she had her headdress was somewhat different.
M:  Yes, yes.  These are my two sons.  Right here.  [David laughs at a picture]  This costume is 
hand made and it is brought over from Greece, from Crete, and it has eleven pieces.  It is eleven 
piece this costume.  Look at this, another piece here, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eleven
pieces.  
T:  Now is your home community on Crete?
M:  My wife comes from Crete.
T:  Oh, what town on Crete?
M:  She comes from, uh, [Hynia], one of the
T:  I have been to [Hynia].
M:  You have been to [Hynia]?  
T:  Ya, three years ago I was there.
M:  She comes from [Castale] in fact.  [Castale] is another, uh, city besides [Hynia].  But she 
comes from Providence of [Hynia].  And, uh, right in this house we have started a cretian 
organization.  That is another thing that I have done.  Myself and a priest that was here from 
Crete.  We start the Cretian organization of the Merrimack Valley.  It is called [Acrotily].  That is 
where the, Greek big men, one of the big Greek men, [    ], has been buried, [Acrotily].  And that 
is where we took the name of it.  [Acrotily] means, uh, how do you call it?  I can't recall.  [    ] 
means [Acrotily].  [comment unclear].  Yes.
T:  Now tell me about your sons costumes.  What part of the country do they represent?
M:  You see this is, looking at this costumes o.k., this is [    ].  This is the original mainland 
costume that they wore on the mainland.
T:  The white skirt, and the
M:  The white skirt, and the red vest
T:  Red sash
M:  It is elaborate, you know.
T:  Ya, ya.
M:  Now going on to the other one, this is from the islands.  The [   ] islands.  My other, my 
second son that wears.
T:  Um, um.
M:  This costume is been made from money, that when I was a President of the PTA of the 
school I received a grant of a thousand dollars.  And I gather three individuals, the grant said that
you have to gather people that they will donate their time.  It is not to be paid, only for the 
material.  And I send to Greece, to the library of Greece, to send me a book which I have it here.  
You can see it.  (T:  Um, um)  And we took the pictures from the book and built, made here, 
twelve costumes.  Nine for nine girls, and three boys' costumes.  We make three islanders like 
because it was very difficult for us to make the Cretian.  The Cretian it is very difficult to make.
T:  Why?
M:  It has the pleats in the back.  (T:  Oh yes)  It is so difficult all this the back.  Very difficult, 
there isn't anybody here that can do it.  
T:  Who were the people who made the costumes?
M:  Well there were three, two individuals that they know how to, to make cloths, seamstress.  
That they had interest in the community too.  But at the end it was so much work that these 
people could not do it for nothing.  So I had to go back to the PTA and ask for them to 
appropriate money to pay.  And which they did.  At the end there is twelve costumes has costed 
us, beside the thousand dollars grant that we received another fifteen hundred dollars.  I myself 
and one of the seamstress we went to this textile, George's Textile, and hand picked every piece 
of this project.  I have spent there two days picking up every material.  And I have no knowledge 
of, uh, being a tailor, you know.  But going through the research of the book from the library that
I received.  We pinpoint what we wanted to get and we got the best material.  And that is what 
we have got.  We have got a beautiful thing there.  Thanks to the Commission that, uh, we 
received the grant.
T:  Oh, yes, uh, uh.  Now who owns these costumes?
M:  These costumes are owned by the Hellenic American School.  And they are donated from the
PTA to the Hellenic American School.  And I have made a piece of paper that says it is to be used
whenever the community needs to be used.  Any time, anybody can borrow it and bring it back.  
T:  Where are they kept?
M:  They are kept at the Hellenic American School. 
T:  Oh, yes, uh.
M:  We have, uh, we have in fact about a hundred and fifty costumes.  It is not only just those we
have got  During the course of the existence of the school we have, uh, a lot of people that, uh, 
use it their kids grown up they leave it to the school, they donate it to the school.  We have quite 
a, a few.
T:  Now represented here we see your younger son wearing something from the [     ].
M:  Yes.  
T:  And your daughter from Crete.
M:  Crete.
T:  And your older son from
M:  From the mainland.
T:  From the mainland.
M:  Yes.  [sentence unclear]
T:  The other costumes that I saw do they represent other parts of the country?
M:  Yes.  Every, every part of the country has it's own identity.  It is either by the clothing, or by 
the different costumes, you know, Greece, uh, it is a very, very unique place to be.  You go from 
one city to the other and they have a different, uh, life.  Uh, the dialect even in the language you 
can see the difference, you know, from one part to the other.  Their costumes, a lot of this 
beautiful cloths that these people used to wear then they come in and they stole actually the 
westerners they have stolen this beauty and they make it into a fashion.  Because you can see, 
you know, what fashion cloths they are.  Very impressive.  You have to see the book that I have 
to appreciate what I am saying.  Of course you see it live at March 25th.  At the program.  It is 
only the best and it is very expensive and not to many people they can do that any more.  Not to 
many that they do the original.  That is why they are very expensive.  I requested for one suit like
this now right now for my daughter they want sixty thousand [drakmas].  Which is, uh, sixty 
thousand [drakmas], for that suit it is about, uh, over four hundred dollars.  And it is all hand 
made though.  You can say that it is worth it, but I mean how much is worth it.  
T:  Yeah, yeah.
M:  For a little kid.  
T:  Talking about different kinds of customs and traditions, uh, costume being an important one 
here, um.  I wanted to ask about others that, uh, may or may not be maintained here in Lowell.  
How about music?  Is Greek music, uh, continued here?
M:  Definitely.  There is no Greek house that doesn't have Greek music.  And, uh, even though 
some how even myself have fallen into the, the wave of, uh, young Americanization, 
Americanizations.  And I would like some day money to put the Greek program where there are 
two or three programs in Greek, some day money.  And instead the kids come and put the 
television first.  That irritates me.  I go in and I put the radio, and I put it loud.  Oh shut off the 
radio.  I said nope you hear that radio today and someday you hear the program.  Of course you 
hear it, church music, you hear the news about, uh, the Greek community.  I like them to be part 
of it.  Uh, the biggest, the biggest and most impressive tradition of the Greek people it is Easter.  
Easter is the most sacred life of the Orthodox Faith.  You know, that Holy Week is, it is really 
magnificent if you go to church.  You will find that, you know, you [live] this, uh, sacrifice of 
Jesus from Holy Monday all the way through the Easter Sunday.  Every night we have, uh, 
[litony].  Every night we have a different subject on Jesus' path of life.  From life to death.  And 
really it is very impressive.
T:  So what will happen Monday then?
M:  Monday it is, it starts the Holy Week.  Every night we have, uh, a church about an hour and a
half, church.  And it is all about, uh, Jesus' life, and as I said all the way to the Crucifixion.  And 
then of course the reason, uh, Good Saturday that Jesus has risen.  And it is so joyous that, uh,  
During the week we use, uh, yellow candles and then at Saturday night we have white.  And we 
say [a phrase in Greek].  The priest comes out and says [same phrase in Greek].  Jesus has risen.  
And everybody is chanting and it is beautiful chant.  I don't know if you have even heard it.  
T:  No I haven't.
M:  [he sings the chanting]  This is a beautiful hymn and everybody singing.  It is really the best 
and, uh, the Greek people, the Orthodox People.  It is the most sacred time of the year, Easter.  
And beside the religion aspect, it is customary, you know, with the lamb.  They put on the 
skewer, many years we make.  As we call, uh, with all the intestines of the lamb.  We make [says 
the name of the dish in Greek].  And this is, uh, one of the Greek traditions, [says a name in 
Greek], the night before, uh, Easter.  The intestines they make them into a nice delicacy.  
T:  Is this something that happens in your home?
M:  Here to.  Oh ya, here it, uh  When you come back from the church and you break the eggs, 
we have the red eggs, under the Orthodox faith you can only color eggs only Good Thursday.  
You don't do it during the week, and the color is red which represents happiness, red.  And, uh, 
you know, as we say we have two eggs and we say Jesus has risen, [phrase in Greek], and break 
the eggs. You know, it is a tradition.  If it breaks that shows, you know, that you are happy.  So it 
is a great tradition.  And, uh, I am proud of being one, of part of it.  
T:  [unclear]
M:  Especially her in Lowell that I really found it, I found it in its best.  I found it here in its best.
Going back to school.  When we wanted to have this, uh, community center, we gathered, in fact 
I second the motion.  That night when we first gathered, fifty people.  To build a community 
center in Lowell.  I was so happy to see that this would happen.  And it took a few years before 
we happened to materialize.  And we build it as you know.  But now I am working on another 
subject.  That I foresee that will be the, the salvation of the school.  And what do you think that 
is?  During the existence of the church and the school as you know, I do not know if you are 
familiar or not.  The school and the Holy Trinity had started in 1908.  From that date to now it 
has been, there have been so many changes.  They started with, uh, two years of the school and 
they made it four and fifth, and sixth, now we have seventh and eighth.  Imagine all this years it 
took to elevate the school.  And we have the ups and downs.  But what I thought and I introduced
it last, I introduced when I was involved with the church and since I resigned it didn't work out, 
they let it go.  But last year I brought it back again.  It is going to be the creation of a Alumni of 
Hellenic American School.  I am not an Alumni but I am proud of being the originator of that.  
And it is happening, we had meeting, we are gathering information, we sent out information.  We
have got all the people that they have graduated.  I went through, I looked through the records.  
But most of the people, a lot of the people are dead now.  You know, and we like to have accurate
records.  So what we did?  We sent out to the community an application.  Whoever you know 
that have attended the Hellenic American School, even graduated or just attended, still you are 
eligible to become part of the organization.  And I feel down deep that in the long run, and as the 
years come along and immigration has slowed down from Greece.  And we don't see immigrants 
coming to this country, and as I have noted right now over seventy percent of the students 
participating in the Greek school they have parents form Greece.  Greek from Greece.  I feel that 
since this has slowed down, we are not going to have any more immigrants our children have to 
support this.  And if we don't create something for them to develop this image about their 
heritage and being part of the Hellenic American School Alumni then we might not have the 
chance to have enough students to support it.  (T:  Yeah)  So therefore I felt that these kids would
be obligated like I have when I came here from what I have seen, from what I lived through.  
That they should hold on to this great edifice and support it and probably appreciate what values 
they have received from this school.  And this is why I have started the Alumni.
T:  I think that that is a great idea.
M:  It is working and we will have October fifteenth in fact this year we will have an Alumni 
reunion.  Can you imagine to see four generations, five generations together.  
T:  Magnificent, yeah.
M:  Isn't it.  So that will be the best, the next best thing that I have accomplished in the 
community.  
T:  That is great.
M:  And I am proud to be part of it.  
T:  Are your ears getting tired?
?Yeah.
T:  My name is David Taylor and I am talking to your dad about all kinds of things and some of 
them have to do with you and your school and we are making a tape recording as you can see 
that I am going to take back with me to Washington to the Library of Congress.  You know what 
else, I am going to come to your school on Monday and teach a class.  I think it is going to be the
fifth and sixth grade that I will talk to.  But you might see me there.  
M:  Do you want Mary Ellen to say something about the Greek School?
?:  No.
T:  Could you just tell me your name?  Maybe your dad just told me but I would like to have 
your voice on there to.
?:  No.
T:  No, o.k.  You can sit and listen with us if you want or you can go and play whatever you 
would rather do.
M:  You want to stay here or do you?
?:  I want to stay.
T:  O.K.  I wanted to ask a little more about Easter.  And the types of, uh, activities that you carry
on here in the home.  You were telling me about the eggs, and about the food made with the 
sheep intestines.  Are there other types of activities that you will carry on here?
M:  Well, uh, we will receive the communion.  We fast that week and, uh, we all go and receive 
the communion.  Everybody ask for forgiveness, and, uh, that day we go to receive the 
communion, that is where we start and then we invite our relatives into our home.  And we have, 
uh, Easter as a family.  Easter is a family affair.  It is not just to stay alone.  Friends, family, my 
house is always full of people and, uh, we are very family oriented.  We have got a lot of people 
here for Easter.  My wife is, uh, cooking constantly all the Greek food.  She makes, uh, all the 
traditional foods that, uh, are to be needed to be served.
T:  What would  Can you tell me what?
M:  Well she, number one is the lamb, o.k., uh, number two is the eggs, very important, [    ] 
wine, another item, [    ] another item which is an Easter delicacy.  Various, uh, sweets that she 
makes, she bakes.  [    ], [masooka], sugar, uh, sugar, little sugar cookies they call them.  (T:  Oh 
yeah, yeah)  And most significant we make the Easter bread.  She makes the Easter bread which 
she adds a red egg on the top.  And that is the bread that we eat for that day.  You can make it 
sweet and eat it with, uh, coffee or you can make it just like a bread and eat it as a bread.  You 
know those are the traditional, uh, Greek, uh, food that, you know, we serve that day.
T:  When people come here to your home apart from eating are there other activities?
M:  Yes when they come in that day everybody says [phrase in Greek] wherever you meet a 
Greek in the city or ever or even at the phone, if somebody calls you at the phone you pick up the
phone you don't say good morning you just say [same phrase in Greek].  [same phrase in Greek] 
means Jesus has risen.  And then the answer is [another phrase in Greek], truly risen.  That is the 
word of the day.  And as I recall it back to when I was in Greece it was for forty days, 
T:  How many ?
M:  Fifty days after. 
T:  Really?
M: Yeah.  Until the Pentecostal.  The date of the Pentecostal after Christmas.  [phrase in Greek] 
to somebody in Greek that is the yes and good-bye.  It is, uh, it is a very deep feeling about 
Easter that the Greek people, uh, have.  And it goes back to
T:  Tell me if we can get back to the, uh, subject of your taping again, your filming.  What you 
intend to do with all of the  tapes that you have accumulated?
M:  Oh that is a very, this is, uh, a very important question.  In, uh, other then having a library for
my own use for my kids, but someday they, I hope and I pray that my kids will be useful to this 
community, and to this society, to this country.  And I hope that some day those children will be 
somewhere in the society that will be part of the force.  And I hope that they will be good 
citizens.  That is my best hope to become a sound and normal good citizens.  And I strive for it, I 
strive to educate.  I don't care if I work three jobs to send my kids to be educated.  They have 
been pretty good kids, uh, my second son finished valedictorian in the school in both languages.  
Which is very rare.  He is all the way straight he is not only one subject, all the way straight.  
And I hope that he will materialize and become something that someday I will be proud of.  And 
hopefully those materials that I use, those tapes that I use they can be used for his own benefit, 
for my daughters benefit.  Other than that I also have in mind that since we create these Alumni 
Association, and since the community has grown and  we have the Cultural Center and hopefully
we have, uh, part of the library for our community.  I like to donate whatever paraphernalia I 
have, uh, gathered all this years and be able to donate this toward the generations to come to see 
what this community has to give them to show them from the past.  I don't intend to make any 
money, and I just be glad to see that they will take it and it will be in good use.  That will give 
me deep, great pleasure. 
T:  Have people in the community, uh, requested copies of tapes from you?
M:  Many times, a lot of people have, uh, asked me.  Every time I tape, I film they all want 
copies.  [laugh]  But I reserve, sometimes I have to be hesitant and not.  Because they are friends 
and they are asking you for this.  I reserve my giving anything out for the simple reason, I want 
this project to be part of the community.  And everybody would have a [    ] of it, see it.  After all 
I want everybody to have it and see it.  That is my intention.  To leave the memories of the past, 
but since I have that in mind with the Alumni and the library of the school I think it would be 
more appropriate to do like a little business for the Alumni.  To create an interest, you want to get
a copy of the Alumni of the Greek school for that year, o.k. just help the Alumni some how.  
Verbally or materially, or otherwise.  And ask the Alumni because after all, you know, it is theirs.
They will give you one or they will sell you one if they decide to sell it, I don't know what they 
will do.  But my intention is to give all of this to the Alumni Association.  
T:  Do you ever show, uh, the tapes to?
M:  Yes.
T:  How does that happen, what sort of?
M:  In fact we just now, that is another subject that is good to go in  We just got a, I was behind 
that, to get a big screen T.V.  We got the forty-five inch T.V. last Christmas through the PTA of 
the school.  At the last minute I made the motion that we appropriate two thousand dollars to buy
this.  I told them why and anyway and last week we bought the VCR so now we have got a  
complete set.  Last week Sunday I went there and I saw them, celebration from March 25th.  Oh 
and they were all  And other times I have gone Father, the church priest have asked me in the 
past to go and show the children.  On the television we used to have there.  And I took my video 
and I show them.  The kids they go crazy when they see themselves, you know.  In the classroom
or they go into the cafeteria.  Sneaking in and filming once in a while.  Some parts of the schools
life.  And, uh, they all delight it.  And now with the screen we can have the [    ].  I took, on day I 
took the [    ].  And I watched a film last year.  Now Sunday this coming Sunday we will have 
something again but not from my library but something else that was  Now if we have a library 
of sort of pictures of what I have ten twenty years from now they will be worth a lot of, uh, 
value.  (T:  Yes, yeah)  So everybody would like to go and see it now it is risen and now maybe 
the interest may not be as great.  But I hope down the road something will come out of this.  
T:  Do you think that the fact that you have made these films and that you have quite a few of 
them now that people have seen has that changed people view of their activities?
M:  Well what I have found is that a lot of people are getting into that now.  A lot of people they 
want to have a piece of history and they buy their own equipment.  Since, uh, this year in fact I 
myself went to Cuomos in New Hampshire and I brought three different individuals, they bought
videos.
T:  You mean you helped them buy?
M:  I helped them buy because I know, you know, what to buy and what to do.  And I took them 
there myself and I bought them.  In fact  last week when I bought one with somebody.
T:  Do you think that the filming and the, the videos that people see is changing at all the 
meaning of the Greek Independence Day or other activities for them?
M:  I don't think that it has changed anything.  It has enhanced it, it enhances the meaning of that 
because everybody wants to tape something and take home and show it to their relatives, show it 
to the grandmothers, the grandfathers, their friends, everybody is so eager to have something.  
And everybody participates.  It creates more interest.  In my opinion.  Indeed it has created more 
interest, many people they ask me do you have that film from that year.  The graduation of this.  I
said yeah.  I want to have one.  I don't have one and I want the graduation of 83.  All the other 
graduations I have from the school.  Well it might not be as a total community effort because it is
only the Holy Trinity effort but what I have.  But well Holy Trinity to me is a community.  You 
know, I just can't go over to every church  I have taken from other churches too.  but I mean I 
just can't go every time they have a I am not in this business for it 
T:  How many events all together do you think you have made videos of?
M:  Oh I have made quite a few of a  As I have said the Archbishop Ordination where he was 
ordained four years ago when he was here.  Seventy-five years of the Holy Trinity, seventy fifth 
Anniversary.  [    ] the Patriach visitation to Lowell.  Any United States, the first stop was Lowell
at the time I was part of it.  Uh, March 25th programs from the school, numerous.  Inside the 
school classrooms, I have in side the church, Christmas, vespers, Easters,  In fact with that video 
that I have we put even a video in the church that, Easter day when we have a lot of people or 
Good Friday we put videos down stairs in the hall and everybody was watching upstairs.  
[sentence is unclear]  I put a video outside of the church, a television outside you have no idea 
how many, we have three or four thousand people come on that Good Friday night.  (T:  You 
mean)  Outside on the street so that they can see the service because the church is full.  One year 
I did when I was involved with the board.  
T:  You mean it is showing what you are filming at the moment?
M:  Yes, I had the camera on the alter and the church I was working with the camera wherever  
You see I know the service and at the appropriate time I use the camera which ever way I want it.
I show the people, the priest, the icons at the appropriate time, the chanters, and the people on the
outside that they could not get into the church at least they see something from the church.  That 
was the idea.
T:  That is great.
M:  It worked. [David laughs]  A lot of people they say, gee we are going to church, you know, to
see a video on television.  [laughing]  Well if you come to church sure enough you will be inside.
[both laugh]  
T:  But at least they saw something.
M:  At least they saw something.  You know, they had too
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
M:  Small school education  See that is his first day, that is my other son.  
T:  Oh yes.  Are these some of his friends?
M:  This year, this year.  Yes his friends and relatives.  We have about fifty people.
T:  Wow.
M:  Yeah, yeah.  
T:  [laughs]  Blowing out the candles?
M:  Yes, that is sixteen, sweet sixteen.  That is John.
T:  What would you do on a birthday in Greece?  Anything like this?
M:  Not as elaborate.  You see the Greek people in Greece do not celebrate  In fact right now I 
think they have started.  They celebrate more the name dates.  What is name date?  Name date is 
the day that you have been named  All of us been named out of a saint.  And once a year we 
celebrate the name day of this saint.  And for instance my name is Dimitrious, Saint Dimitrious is
celebrated October 26th.  That day we celebrate and this way nobody knows your age.  [laughs]  
T:  Is that more important than your own birthday?
M:  Yes, yes.  Your name day is more important out of the Greek tradition.  And as I have said it 
has changed now there too.  There is more and more they celebrate birthdays, but they also 
celebrate name days.  Which the house at that day you have is open to everybody.  People come 
and greet you wishing you happy name day.  Which is a nice tradition, you know, that makes you
see your people, your friends.  You know, if you don't have your house open on these occasions 
when are you going to see your people?  When are you going to see the community?  What is 
community?  Community is to commune amongst its other.  That is Isn't that the termination of 
the word?  So if you don't allow people to come to your house, or you don't visit their houses 
then you are isolated.  And unfortunately that is what is happening here now.  There is so, 
everybody is so strange.  You see a person wounded in the street and you are afraid to go touch.  
But you can, there are two points why you don't touch the person, the legality of it.  You go to 
help someone and they might sue you.  Well those things, help comes before any legality.  When 
you see somebody is wounded you run to help him and you don't think about the legality.  But I 
guess the society is different and, uh, it is a melting pot and we have to accept things the way 
they are or otherwise how are we going to continue life?  That is the way it is.
T:  We were talking about naming and name dates a moment ago, uh, are there traditions, Greek 
traditions about how a name for a child is chosen?
M:  Yes, there is.  As a rule it is that the first two children are named out of the father's side.  Lets
say my first son is born a boy, my first child is born a boy, it will name out of my father.  And 
then the second, it is debatable sometimes but usually it goes into the fathers side.  If it is a girl it 
becomes the mother or the father.  If it is a boy, another boy, then it could go anyway.  It doesn't 
have to be.
T:  Did you follow those traditions with your children?
M:  Yes, yeah.  
T:  What are your children's names?
M:  Well, uh, my son is John George he has two names, my older son.  Then my second son is 
[Estafious].  He happened to be born two days before saint [Estafious'] name.  And I have a 
brother who is [Estafious] and  I always liked his name.  And I asked my wife do you have any 
preference, do you want to use a name, she says no why don't we devote him to Saint [Estafious] 
he is a healthy boy.  Thank Saint [Estafious] that it is happening, he was born give him, good 
idea.  So we gave him the name, I liked it.  Of course in English it is Steven.  But he was 
baptized as Saint [Estafious].  And Mary Ellen, so Mary Ellen well we took, we liked the name 
and we took both grandmothers and we combined them.  Mary Ellen one name, Maria [Ellane].  
She was baptized as Maria [Ellane] two names.  And in English it is one word Mary Ellen.  And 
for us it has worked out fine.  
T:  Now I noticed, uh, last night people were calling you Jimmy at the Council meeting.
M:  Yeah, well, uh, this is sort of that Father [Ted] is using for me.  
T:  Like a nick name for you?
M:  Like a nick name, Jimmy is the equivalent to Dimitrious.  James.  See James is a good one to
Dimitrious.  And, uh, well I truly like to have to hear my name.  When my kids call me dad I 
don't like, I resent it.  
T:  What would you prefer they call you?
M:  [Baba] which is in Greek.  Or father.  I think dad it is flat, I just don't like it.  I would rather 
hear it the way it is.
T:  We were just talking about your name did you hear us?  We were talking about how names 
are chosen, are those traditions ones that, uh, people of Greek background in Lowell continue to 
follow?  Or have they gotten away from naming traditions?
M:  Well in getting the name, well it is indeed a disturbing.  And, uh, it is disturbing to hear and 
to see that we are alternating our traditions.  Uh, Greeks usually use Saints names, that is matter 
of life, it is not only tradition it is a role it is a must.  It used to be a must, now they just blending 
into the society of ours here now and they alternate all of these things.  Uh, naturally when you 
have a mixed marriage you getting into a different culture.  And last year our church alone, 96 
percent mixed marriages.  It happened last year.  It is a matter of, uh, changing times.  You can't 
tell your son or your daughter put your nationality before your love.  You can't just do that these 
people they have grown up here that is their life, that is their country.  We try to do as much as 
we can to mix with themselves and find out, uh, the other half from their own background.  For 
many reasons most of the divorces and most of the problems are of mixed marriages today.  They
are not from [   ] marriage.  Majority of the divorces come from, uh, the mixed marriages.  I have
attended, uh, I was one year in, 1980, I was delegate to the, uh, Convention.  The Lady Congress 
Convention that we have every two years.  The North and South America, the Archdiocese has, 
North and South America.  It was held down in, uh, Atlanta, Georgia.  So I was a delegate from 
Lowell.  And, uh, I hear some statistics at the time.  The majority of the divorces are really of 
mixed marriages.  And you can see why, one wants to go to the Orthodox even though they both 
agree that they will be married in the church, but when the kid comes along the wife says we will
go to my church.  Or she doesn't want to go to any church.  She might be Atheist.  And that is 
where you get the friction, the problems.  And they end up in a divorce.  And that is sad because 
the kids are left.  You know, without
T:  What do you think the implications are, changes, of changes like that and others that society, 
uh, brings to Ethnic communities like the Greek community in Lowell?  What do you think the, 
uh, future holds then?
M:  Well in my opinion it will get worse.  And as the years go by  I will give you an example.  
The Orthodox, the Greek Orthodox faith of America has been so strong and it has been 
recognized by the fact that tradition and ethnicity are the three, the two elements with 
Orthodoxity together that have made the success of the Greek Orthodox people of America.  
Now you as you know it is called Greek Orthodox North and South America.  If you take the 
word Greek and you just make it Orthodox what do you think you are going to have?  You will 
have the religious aspect alone, Orthodox, but the tradition that goes together will not be there.  
And what is tradition?  Tradition is a way of living, past and present.  Now you take all this away
from, from this strong element which is called Greek Orthodox.  In as much I would like to see 
Orthodox from all kinds of, uh, backgrounds myself.  If you ask myself.  When I go to church I 
don't carry a [   ].  [   ] or if it is an Orthodox, [  ], or [    ], or a Greek Orthodox.  To me that 
church is the same it is Orthodox.  But the identity of my church and myself is on the Greek.  So 
if you lose the identity you have lost anything you have.  So therefore I think religion and 
tradition are two united things.  And marriages separate the only thing you have to lose you do 
you will lose you are going to gain, if you separate the two things.  Take the way of the school in 
the community.  Holy Trinity has been so strong and it has grown so much.  Do you know why?  
Because of what it serves, it gives.  It gives the school.  All the young immigrants, all the 
immigrants who have come to the Lowell area what do you think they will go first?  What are 
they looking for?  They are looking for a school, they find it, they become members.  That is 
why Holy Trinity is the biggest community.  Do you know that Holy Trinity is one of the nine 
most largest communities of the United States?  One of the nine.  We have fifteen hundred payed
up members almost.  (T:  Wow)  Just about, fourteen hundred and something.  And, you know, if 
you take away the word Greek you lose the [    ] for this organization, half of this feeling.  I think
that is my opinion.  Because tradition and religion are both [    ] during the course of its 
existence.  You know, yes, we all know that Orthodox faith goes back to Jesus.  It is a 
continuation of Jesus' life.  It is not like the TV evangelist that they come up and they develop a 
religion, a group of people, that they go on the tube and preach.  Yes, it is, what they preach is 
part of Jesus' life.  But Orthodoxy is a continuation, it has never stopped during the course of 
those years.  It is still part of If you go into Jerusalem who do you think is guarding the tomb of 
Jesus Christ?  Greek monks.  You see in Greek letters.  That is something that you should hear it 
from the Patriach.  If you see movies on television or so they show it.  Greek monks, they are 
protecting, it is under the jurisdiction of the Patriach of Jerusalem.  So that is how you tie both 
religion and, uh, of course you know Christianity has split.  Some time, I believe it was in the 
sixth century.  The [    ] of the church who will be the leader.  The Eastern and the Western 
church, which is the Catholic.  It is a long story. 
T:  Yes.  Well I have come to, uh, the end of the questions that I wanted to ask you.  Are there 
other things that you would like to talk about that I perhaps have not asked you tonight?
M:  Uh, in what respect?  I think we have covered the school, we covered the community, we 
covered the costumes.  I am proud of being a Greek American.  And I am proud and lucky indeed
that my luck brought me to this area.  And I am not saying because I am a successful individual, 
as a business, I thank God that I  My success really is that I have three healthy children and my 
family that is healthy.  That is my success.  Moneys and all the others are secondary.  The minute
you have your health you can do everything else.  You can buy everything, you can work, you 
can do, as long as you have your health and that is my success.  And I have accomplished what I 
could never feel that I would have accomplished in my life I have accomplished in Lowell.  Not 
material things.  Believe me I don't have this kind of money that I would brag about my money.  
No, I have a good family, I have good respect and this is number one.  I want to disown by the 
thing and not by the pound.  And my goal in my life is I came to United States which I am glad  I
did and to an area that I could never dreamed that I would be.  I hope that God will lead my 
children the same way that He lead me to be what I am.  And, be proud, have them be proud of 
their heritage, and their ancestry, and, uh, being Orthodox.  And hopefully someday this children 
will tell their children about what I have done for them and impress them so much that their 
children will become what they are, this is my hope.  And I am grateful that I am a Greek 
American, and a Lowellian.  
T:  Well that is very well put and I think a good place to stop for now.  O.K.
M:  And I appreciate it very much.
T:  Well I appreciate you taking the time to tell me so much about yourself and I am a virtual 
stranger to you and I know it is sometimes hard to talk so openly about, uh, things that are so 
close to us.  But I want to thank you and let you know in my sincere interest in what you have 
had to tell me tonight.  
M:  Well it is indeed, uh, my pleasure to be part of, uh, of having me be part of your program.  
And hopefully this will be something that will be helpful to all of us.
T:  Absolutely.  O.K.  Well thank you very much Dimitrious.
M:  And, uh, if your department for some reason, uh, will expand to video taping and you like to 
have some of this material and send it to that worthy cause I would be very glad to let you copy 
some of this and have it used for your, uh, you know, for the library.
T:  Very good.
M:  If that ever expands to that extent be free to ask me. 
T:  O.K. we may well do that.  I know we sometimes collect copies of tapes that others have 
made.  Although we don't use that equipment ourselves.  So let me talk to my colleague Doug 
about that.
Whatever is need for some, some scenes from 
T:  I understand.
M:  It is a lot of work I know I haven't done this film yet.  But I would to have a film that is 
consisting of many events. 
T:  That is exciting.
M:  An hour or two.  You know a little bit of everything.  That will be something.
T:  O.K. well perhaps we can talk about that.
M:  Hopefully, you know, we can do it.
T:  O.K. Well let me turn his off now.
END OF TAPE