American Folklife Center, ibrary of Co

afc1991032_02_036
Report - Cultural Conservation Proje

field crip (8
types" of commmition

fa
wt

Club,
ub is made
+ but not

dow

selves through buildings and the\-uses. One of the clearest examp
an investigation fo the n. Tn the Spanish villages, which

mm Las Vegas (villages, we learn from history and novels, that

razed beyond repair), villages such as Maes, Trujillo, San

the evening of the day of the church's patron esint. Even in aban-

\d villages, churchgoers fr Miguel and Harding Counties attend the

ice where fires are lit outside the church and the image of the patron

hand and his wife, and the wreh at Bueyeres, where only 2

med of the Vesperes tradition after our first visit to

the front of the church. Iwas quite curious about th

n we arrived at Gallegos during feld trip end met up
legos church, I asked a twas then that Raymond

surrounding the gate that led into the G:

the folk traditions of certain ethnic communities, a closer the
of buildings and history also provided a clue to ho
again from the experience of tvo consecutive field trip
last trip in the field, we visited Davson, largely at my urgtn
n thie i ard that the tom still had annual picnics
from my e'vhose father had grom up and vorked there
ended up examining the cemetery and identifying the ethnicity of the town b
reading the markers --- Greek, Italian, Slavik

ed sone old square buildings exactly alike that looked abandoned. "Boy

sone historic workers" housing in Clayton. Upon close? inspection,
4 (save one occupied one at the end of the row} These vere all a pale
of the road, however, were more of these houses, which were occupied,

hed shutters and sone even had whole additions, The ele

following day, T met Mrs. Jeanne Newlon, of a
(606) 377-6153, Dalhart, Texas area code). Mrs. Newton Lives on the Land

mebody like that, from Davson to Clayton after the mining disaster

houses now in Clayton sone "re
lorist and the architectural ht Why were th

Way are some used today, and others not? How do
rated their hoes and created their om personal style?

using ga desirable culture to preserve?

Wile the Dawson homes provide an example of how architecture can Link co

Not only 1s Jeanne Nev/on' y a dty-faraing one, but many Spanish vil~

expensive process. S0, in Mosquero, where Mrs, Byrd and Mrs. Trujitio clain

could be aultiple reasons for this), is t+ understandable that they are dry

Wednesday afternoon, fugust, Boyd and I drove into

people in i host we'd seen), and because it was Lunchtine and
in the cafe, chatting with the omer ¥ Trujillo and her friend,
kitchen and’ doo walls on either side -- between. Mrs. Trujillo's
husband ran the her father (In-Law?) before him, and throughout
the afternoon, Boyd renained the only man who entered the cafe (which was set
save for a young boy who came in with Mrs. Trujillo's newly narried 17 or 18

and only one vonsa entered the entire afternoon.

jocunent architecture and folklife, I vould be

building is pr the divies
ace "teeeTeory — ist_in Mosquero

parade, night
Faces and str

the event, which

het

He

sold

froma tru

1k of

2 Sa

Jur

d Ben
of food
ot h
full of

+ feafood and other

abo

jeal of time wand

Teo

SANTOS

Ang,

SCULPTURE:

Contemporary Woodcarving from New Mexico

by Laurie Beth Kalb
Curator, Craft and Folk Art Museum

This catalogue is sponsored by
the Folk Art Council of the Craft and Folk Art Museum

and
the Ethnic Arts Council of Los Angeles.

ry
mS 1968, Craft and Yl Ar ascum. Los Angeles

CRAFT & FOLK ART MUSEUM

(ened by a woman fran PR
for a nationally broadc

‘Thank you again
thirkga go well in Washington and’ th
sane of the heat.

verf,

Ge
Beth Kalb

Curator

THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

Thank you for the catalog for Santos. Statues, and Sculpture. The
publication is very handsome snd I look forward to reading it. If the
Guhibie ts half as nice, Iam sure it 18 successful. I hope that the

Hispanic part of the Los Angeles conmmnity appreciates it

I am also happy that some of the photographs we made in New Mexico have
been of value, and flattered at the acknoviedgement, I often reflect on cur
Pleasant and instructive trips in that state, Good luck in your continuing

Folklife Special ye

\

Me, Laurie Beth Kalb
Caator

Graft and Folk Are Museu
SB14 Wilshire Boulevard

Los Angeles, California 90036

Museum of International Folk Art

of Congress
D.c. 20540

ischhauer:

last, we are pleased to send you this
aurie Kalb's report on last year's cu
conservation project in northeastern New Mexico.
know, this project combined the fields of folk
and hii anning. We feel tl
‘oject was valuable in ays: 1) in raisi
thodological qi : ng folklorists and
preservationis laboration efforts and 2) in
helping to establish folklife resources as worthy of study
by preservationi

inued interest in the

I} youre, Utlt
Sioa ware at

a unitof the Museum of New Mexico * Box 2087 * Santa Fe, New Mexico 87504-2087 * 505-827-8350

URPOS

rom the beginning of August

Museum of International Folk A

New Mexico State His
te “intangil

ation surve:

ic Preservation

mid-September the

© in Santa Fe joined with ¢
(sHPo)
elements of cu:

and

office in an

@ to the federally mandated goal of “cultur

Report cull

states

Which faced Boyd arct
specialist hired by the Museum

and folklife fiel

architectui

(carl Fleischhauer,

the SHE:

New Mexico Trav
particul.

of Internal

of North:

in the

ve bibliograp

ny and soi

Having read carl

ife in Historic

nsive inven’

architectural s

Fleischhauer's

etheastern
jously anticipated
is survey.
Plains?",

‘Thoughts

longer
casestudies often associated with folklife--where perhaps
one performance or craft-related activity is examined for
depth of insight-- Boyd tried earnestly but in vain to place
our survey on the methodological line.

‘Though Boyd's longer survey was to be comprehensive,
a ing an overview of all historic buildings in the
region, our folklife/architectural history survey could not
be. In six weeks it would have been impossible to document
an area of nearly 10,000 square miles, which includes six
counties. On the other hand, narrowing down the study area

one or a few settlement areas or building types did not
necessar in-depth approach or results. Boyd
expressed erns forthrightly: of the buil
that we will x in this area are abandoned, their
significant--can we s does that
just relegate it to

ether,

There Folkl:
component: that should theoretica:

building survey--identify po!

survey wil

recommendations ure inventories of all possible

folkways in the jovd was right ned with where

and how to find

n I was sy e s varying ens over the

largeness of oui the short amount of time we had for

of a longer historic building:
underpopulation of the area, I was not so
nS concerning the existence of
and folklife (which

ble" cultural resources)

yymes and th
small groups,

was certain that wherever we found a group of people-

general store, working a ranch or even stopped by a roadside
in a pickup as well as at a holiday event--we would surely
find folklore and folklife. and probably, where we found
people in the northeast sector, we would find folklore and
folklife attached to the abandoned buildings. Described in
such abundance, these crumbling adobes and stone buildings

had to be part of the cultural landscape. The r

remained, however: how \d the people?

1 hoping to tap folk
specialist came on to the project,
history of the northeast sector,
definition of folk ma

variation over space

He suggested we look for the

or occupational g

nches, mixed
mestead: e n ng towns. We
ately deleted mining towns as many of them were behind
tes and the popu: disperse: om what we
of the area at the end
ival, we went to test this

sance trips during which we travel
ed at least 30 towns and
ger, Raton, Clayton and
opologist Robert
"big communities" as opposed to other
villages or "little
socially on the lar E to con
t our folk group breakdown mewhat arbitrary,
nd example,
ttle and that Anglo cattle ranchers also raised sheep.
ther, both Anglo ran
homesteaded. Despite, howev
fic community
by ethnicity
d and I agreed th

We had to look at

ish villages that th

along Route 65/104, and had

considered part of the Roy Mission, and the group of Anglo

towns and ranches that lie south
and had town esentatives at arge comm

Clayton County Fair, the Fi ivestock

and an annual Labor Day R

often consider themselves more "Texan" than "New
though, our reasons for area breakdown had
th architecture. We seemed to have ide:

Robert Redfield found for communities in the Yucatan (Robert
Redfield, The Folk Culture of the Yucatan,1941), but we
moved farther and farther away from identifying a connection
between architectural history and folklife.

‘True, we did question the social uses of cert:
buildings, pa: arly churches in the Spanish villages
east of Las Vegas. We learned, for example, of the
continuity (or revival? we heard conflicting reports) of
traditional (older than 50 years) Hispano-Catholic
funciones, or yesperes services held on the evening of the
day of the church's patron sa: even in abandoned
villages churchgoers from San Miguel and Harding Counties
attend the service where fires are lit outside the church
and the image of the patron saint is carried around them
After the service, the parishioners gather for a meal to
which they've all “covered dish." But we
fon only through interviewing Raymond
g Ranch in Gallegos, about
to the front of the Bueyeros
our survey, we did not learn about
ng by examining its form,
it by studying
piles of ash

Still, as the Bueyeros church, a lovely stone str
pitched roof, wooden c thick stone buttresses and
Gothic windows had already been nominated to the National

gister of Hist hoped that we were fulfill
one goal for this survey: that of documenting a cult!

value, “the contribution made by an historic property to an

ongoing society or cultur “for an histori:

y that may not have bee! gnized at the time the
ing was nominated" (Guideline

Traditional Cultural Value in His!

August 1, 1: 5). Iwas thrilled that Boyd and I were
examini osely folk traditions and issues of cultural

value, but these emphases togethe

ntuitively-selected" sample areas of study left me
somewhat cold about formal and technical aspects of the

region's architecture.

over this lack was somewhat abated during the
when we finally settled down to

selected" areas. We

from the road were large and colorful enot
our stopping. These are called Hillside and Santa
lara cemetery respectively, one Protestant and the other
Lic, with ai
and the Cathol:
jed with egg carton v
and astro turf coveri
gardens (See k
of Harding County
of Las Vega emed
ppealing f yy. (After, all

mained intuitive. In fact, T fou
y purpose during the survey was to

0 collect

was absolutely fine. But as

e kept asking about the

particular probing about homesteading, we were directed to

what Mosquerites alternately refer to as “lower Mosqu
0 Canyon," where old hi s lie. When
fe closed at five, I suggested to Boyd that we go
n to the Canyon to get more of an idea of what the
Llagers meant when they described a homestead and

the buildings wh: aimed were still

description of this Canyon is taken from my field

As we drove out of "town," or the place where current
Mosqueroites live, we drove down into the canyon. We
passed some broken corrals and some lush green trees
Which grew up around the creek, and a gorgeous

pocket of water, which Boyd said Erma referred to as a
Swimming hole. “About 8-15 miles down into the canyon,
we arrived at a spread-out series of old stone houses,
outbuildings, jacalitos and two mobile hones

ger especially at two settlements.
isted of a one story stone house with a
d roof, one outbuilding in stone behind it and
‘and a jacal or jacal
al log construction
4 like it might have hi
Across the road was a

place was not boarded
omestead

ted in the lat
e bottle, he placed
pressed

nt to the right was a

ted onto the wooden

with a wil

two windows and two doors on the
Boyd and I were curious why one room had

y since we had seen so

throughout New Mexico. Outside, around the fro

house, stones were arranged to demarcate sone sort
of front yard space. To the rear and right side rear
of the house were old wooden corrals and a wire fenced
in area. From the "front yard" of the house you could
See no roads, not even the one that drove up to it.
Of to the right were mountains converging in a canyon
and the light of the early ev:
Off in the distance a coyote was how:
was exquisite. (Kalb, field notes,

In Mosquero Canyon, Boyd and T
documenting tangible and intangible cu’

maintained an ongoing continuity between past and present

ough subsequent interviewing in the v of Mosquero

we learned that the stone and log res were part, of
homesteads. Further, the reason a couple of these
homesteads, particulary those of the Garcias and the
Cordovas, were not boarded up was because they were still
used, perhaps not for everyday use but definitely as a part
of everyday life. Used as grazing land and headquarters for
running cattle and as areas for ng, recreation and
eunions (all representing patterns of “adaptive
" of older “traditional” buildings), we found the
houses in the Canyon to represent for the people of Mosquero
a deeply felt sense of place and belonging.
With this thematic and synthesizing relationship between
past and present in mind, Boyd and I seemed freer to pursue
information for our separate disciplinary and institutional
realms. Boyé could explore matters of building form,
materials, construc nd techi nd I could look £
s of use, traditions and dome
However, we both
and valu e aspects
settlement and finally interested in all the aspects
Aldings themselves. We found it difficult to

We also becane deeply atta:

responsible for and intrigued by another
challenge of our survey n ral
a in order to
complement the methods of an historic buil
ct items of folklife and group them into
, or expressive categories. For this task,
je the genres between the His
9 Mosquero and the more easterly Anglo cattle
we attended such "folk" events

tion and Rodeo. However, certain genres did

make a presence in some areas and not in others. The

following is a brief list of some of the "intangibles"

other than buildi came up

fe Remedies, mostly of "the Spanish Dagger
variety described by J. Frank Dobie in The
Rattlesnakes (1965,1982) where the dagger points
of a yucca are jabbed into the flesh all about the
wound to let the poison out, with kerosene then
applied. (Dobie 1982, p. 27 - noted by Boyd Pratt)

The ability of lccal animals, notably roadrunners (the

state animal), and horny toads (chameleons in

spanish) to kill rattlesnakes. The horny toads are

believed to kill rattlesnakes by cutting throu:
the snakes’ skin with their horns when it

swallows them.

und, being hanged and escap:

hunting is done nea
th of Clayton

Hunting small game and stuf fii

Barbecue in a pi

Also cooking beans in a pit

Description of Wagon Mound Bean Day Celebration

hives. (L. Kalb field notes, 8/21/
ng fruit and vegetables. Judging
County Fa:

Baking,

Tudging baked go

Rites of Passage

lessings

Weddings. Tradition ic wedd

ing processions
were led by two

ng wns in the air.
This practice is sometimes still observed. The
celebration continues to include a

and a big evel
s. At least

ng dance afterwards.

uin of a morada

Roadside shrines

rests in front

t another time,

Family photo a:
Process of pas:

mple,

one

ch was stolen and

haded place in fron
the awnii

place under

of the
ng of

refused to allow this

ee

ets it!

the "bankers" tried to move the

12

Country western

Ranchero

gh I was skeptical at first of listing intangible
attributes of culture in inventory form, for fear of
ing out" folklife of the area rather than "fleshini

, i.e. adding context and depth to historic

buildings, I ultimately found this item-oriented approach to

folklife/historic preservation survey quite effective,

unction with our study of folk process.

ng the six week project, of @: a took
two different forms. First, our visits squero
Geveloped into an "in-depth" study of a small place where
tried to address the theme of a present relating to the
ast, through dings and homestead sites.
ure of this study derived naturally from a
Boyd and I had for the issue and the place, and
d in-depth visit we paid to the village wit!
hauer, folklife and media specialist

ican Folklife Center at the Library of con

jer town of Clayton and some of its
on the other hand, took a more wide
Clayton, we visited public places si
Post offices and schools, and documented
y fairs, a livestock auc!
jough we Were invited and wanted to vii
nches, we ended up not having the
: Our visits to the Clayton area were fewer an
jose to Mosquero, and the population we encot

to researching them, the

folklife of the entire area. In

listing intangible cultural attributes for

found that many cut across the division of Hispano C

ranchhands and Anglo

foodways in general, and Black Jack Ketchum stories,
ope hunting and cooking barbecue in a pit in

Pe could be found in Nosquero as well as in

Clayton. Rodeos and county fairs took place in Har

County as well as in Union County. All were traditions

racticed today and all were traditions that had been in

tence for more than 50 years. Now what of the

the folklife component of the p:
ed for mapping a region's v

chitectural forms and applied it to the mapping of

tangible cultural attributes, yet in doing so we h

neglected to map and des:

mented the floor plans of Dawson industrial houses,
both criginal and adapted versions, which were moved to
Clayton after the mine company town closed. We drew sketches
of a few of the homestead settlements we visited in Mosquero
b 1g materials used for

c ( than 50 years old) homes and

churches throughout the Spanish villages along route 65/104.

We even snapped a few pictures of a mobile home wi
added on and covered w . Still, I am le!
many questions for this survey Jing the 5
architectural history a <life. These questions,

however, are now

We narrowed down our co

Northeast (I believe we

informed intuition" and attempted methodologically to
integrate folklife research into an historic preservation
survey. Having successfully used material folk cultur
methods of mapping for documenting intangible attributes of
culture, we were also able to record historic structures.
But only after we found a way to integrate folklife field
research into the historic buildings overview did we find
ourselves ready to apply material folk culture methods of

mapping to material folk culture--i.e. vernacular housing.

he end of the survey and after a few discussions with
carl Fleischhauer of the American Folklife Center during his
visit here, issues of vernacular process and building
meretism (the mixing of styles and forms) became clear,
The following questicns arose. While, for example, the e
houses in Mosquero Canyon, the vertical log structures
astered with adobe called jacales, represented verna
building types from the Rio Grande, the later symmetrical
two windows two doors stone houses did not (although their
lat viga roofs did). Though the settlement was cle
as, Pachecos, Vigils and Cordovas sti
own property there), the sett first glance seened to

re br icular building type (i.e. the jaca

traditions from n New Me: The stone
om somewhere
else, pe: na, Texas, Colorado and Kansas, the
same states which share the 5-State livestock auction in
Clayton and the same states which experienced pioneer
homesteading in the late nin n century. Further,
although most of the Catholic churches in and around
Mosquero were made of stone (instead of the adobe used in
the north-central part ), we found an adobs
constructed church as far ea: ayden which lies along
Route 18), But in Haya -chgoers were German rather
han Hispanic (we drew our evi e names on the

Another vexing question that came up had to do with mobile
homes. One of the homestead owners from Mosquero jokingly
referred to the jacales in the canyon as “early mobile

homes.

took hold of more than one property. The vertical log

When people first came to homestead, they often

houses could be dismantled and moved readily. The vertical

log construction, however, was never really meant to be

seen. As soon as the structure was built, it was the
woman's job to plast and the interior with
mud (and in some cases pulverized stone). ‘This 150 year old
dition seems analagous to a more modern custom. Th
aluminum mobile home we documented in Mosquero that was
covered over with s was almost invisible to the
observer, save for two sides sticking out beyond the rest of
walls. When we went to visit the owner
Jeischhauer and I were given the impression
want the aluminum sides to be seen. In an.
r had with Erma, she discussed the
importance of moving out of the house one's parents give a
uple at marriage a 4 ace. A mobile
ome would efi c den
ering up the mobile home c
symbol of independent stability. Dewn in Mosquero Canyon,
one might wonder whether the jacal at one time ser

similar fun

between
and folklii More work,
now needs to be done. Land titles of the area and
mesteading must be re: and building
We need to find pat the
of the region and 1: to former and
es. These are tasks I must now
ural geographer and the architectural
historian and simply hope that we can continue

exciting synthesis in the future.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE WORK
During our visits to the northeast, we were welcomed by
administrators and teachers from two schools. Timothy
Raftery, Superintendant of the Mosquero Public School,
not only
offered high enthusiasm and support for our projet
Aiscussed curriculum with Mr. Raftery, during which time he
emphasized the listing of a new course specifically on New
Mexico history. Also, Raftery mentioned that his new bride,
a native of Santa Rosa, ran a bilingual program in the
1 where students learned Spanish as well as English
(Raftery claimed that about 85% of the school's
was Hispanic). Further, Sonia, Raftery's wife,
own keen interest in folklore, having done a paper
tales of La Llorona. After a somewhat lengthy discussion
the Mosquero School curriculum and the Northeast Sector
erview, we all seemed eager to communicate the contents
local tradition) of our survey to the schoolchildren,
thought it would be interesting to define folklore for the
dren and then perhaps let them share with us some of the
e they know--both from the viejos and their own forms
fared communication. Both Raftery and Boyd thought this
The only tery requested was that
of the children, we offer som back
em--what about 2 Boyd and I thought this
an excellent idea, and rea e best way to articulate
schoolchildren, especially if it has to do

their own neighborhood. Raftery o} a subscription to

the Mosquero school newspaper, which extends its focus

pool to general conmunity lige, Boyd gave Raftery a
{bution for this gift and the next week when we saw the

ftery family at the Harding County Fair, Sonia interviewed

the acquaintance of a Mrs. Joanne Butt who was busy
g preserves in the County Fairgrounds barn. As I

graphed and interviewed Mrs. Butt, she began to

interview me and became intrigued by our survey. Mrs. Butt

nen explained that she was the Clayton County hom
economics teacher and that since I was interested in folk
art, I might like to visit her school. There was lots of
Works Project Administration furniture and crafts still
being used in the school and in fact she thought the school
itself might have been built during the WPA.

At the end of the day, Boyd and I followed Mrs. Butt in her
pickup to Clayton County High School, where indeed some
beautiful examples of WPA chairs and desks, tables and
bookshelves were in use in offices. Edges of some furniture
were chipping away, but in general the objects were in very
good condition. An interesting mural covered a wall in the
school cafeteria (post-WPA) and supposedly some more
excellent examples of furniture remained in the library

ately that room was locked).

which consisted of three huge rooms and one
This area had more WPA tables
as some pieces of silverwork and
y that Mrs. Butt had put away in the closet. Not
to keep the material fron a who wanted to see
how to take care
She valued these obj b y and didn't want

em to disappear, or to det . In fact, Mrs. Butt

valued a group of placemats at she used her own

method to preserve them. SI

and had them fra

ough I were somewhat befuddled by Mrs. But}
reservation techniques, we admired her concern for
preservation. When we asked if anyone had taken
what appeared to be a wealth of Wi

Butt nei a few names of conce!
sometimes Zh hildren how to repair broken

furniture. Kk t's devotion to

preserving these objects and Boyd suggested we talk to.a
museum conservator about preservation advice. As Mrs. Butt
had mentioned the past existence of an artist-in-the-school
working in Clayton, the thought occurred to me that perhaps
the school could also benefit by a preservationist-in-
the-school, someone who worked with teachers and students
teaching them re £ identify their own local

traditions and material folk culture.

Because of such strong interest from both schools (Mrs.

introduced us to the Clayton High School principal and

administrators, who encouraged by ou
e of our
haps to create a

jews in the sc

lat we need more time to work up a slide lecture
ing that the folklife component of the
now needs more help from the architectural historian
nd I believe that the best

the museum's. continued goal of conmunity outreac!
creation of a product developed from a New M
Archive, and in turn the development of a model f:
surveys and, possibly, exhibits. If this plan is
I hope for

me in Spring 198

VAL MATER:

So far, 154 s1 project have been

index is included in th rt. I expect four

1s of slides to come in and will index them if they
arrive and there is time before my proje:

of the six cassettes I recorded on the
two I have yet to log need to be
e recorded when the battery was dying and

jer too slow or too fast. TI have been

yes are very important oral histories and documents of

Boyd, Carl and I recorded
gra tape recorder, which
I have copied three of these
eposited them in the Museum
1k Art Library along with the previous
I will take the other tapes to Philadelphia to
copy, and send them back to Judy Sellars, museum librarian.

is unfortunate that no prior arrangement was made for

of tapes during the

Judy are approximately 25 typed pages,
single-spaced, of field notes from all five of my trips.
have sent a copy of notes from four of my £4
Folklife Center. I am more than
there was no mention of copyrigh'
a copy of my master's paper on
to the Museum Library.

Northeast Sector overview
color Slides -- Ektachrome 400
by Laurie Kalb
Submitted to the Museum of International
Folk Art Library, September, 1985

August 9, 1985
1 Methodist Church - stone, pitched roof - Johnson Mesa
= Highwai ; in front Of Methodist Church - Johnson
Mesa
= Methodist church, in field -
= Log Cabin (angular view) ~ horizontal
construction, poor notiching, pit

- Log cabin (angular view) - horizont:
construction, poor notching, pitch
windows

(frontal view) - horizontal

road ties?),
n (gable)  horizont:
door - rear lean-to addition ~ vertical
ction (railroad ties?

August 10,

9 - WPA fence surrounding adobe school and storehouse o1
barn - Catholic church (with German Catholic
parishioners, as evidenced by names on
gravestones to the rear left). School, church
shingle rooves.

Hayden Catholic Church of the Holy Trinity (sunday
une) = Adobe construction, single roof. stil

used, priest out of Roy. Used by descendants

lic Church of the Holy Trinity (sunday
(angular view) adobe construction,
of, Gothic windows. Cemetery off to re
One gravestone seems to be a concrete niche with a
glass window. We couldn't make out what was
inside.

Hayden School - side facing church (right side if

facing the road) Rear extension is one room:
Adobe construction, shingle ro:

Bueyeros Catholic Church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in June). Still used, priest out of Roy. (with
Hispanic parishioners, as evidenced by such nares
as Garcia, Archuleta and Maes on the gravestones
in the cemetery to the rear and right of the
church) Stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola.

- Bueyeros Catholic church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in June) - stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola
Why was Fiesta in August?

August 10, 1985 continued

Bueyeros Catholic Church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in June) (right rear view). Stone, pitched roof,
wooden cuopla. Note heavy stone buttressing along
the nave wal

camposanto - Bueyeros? to rear of church? to the

ight?

Grave in (Bueyeros?) Camposanto. Note metal army
memorial in right foreground. Grave to the right
of church

Gravestone of Manuel and Adelaida Archuleta in
Bueyeros Camposanto. Note burial arrangement -
Head to head? Feet to fect?
et westone, with rose engraved on top.
Bueyeros Camposanto

2 concrete slabs arranged in a cross. Held up by
stones. Bueyeros Camposan'

Bunny Rabbit in front of Bueyeros Catholic church.

13, 1985

General store and possible home as well. (frontal
view) - Maes

General store and possible home as well. (rear and
side view) - Maes

2rstory barn - first floor adobe, second floor sto

Maes
Adobe House and Barn with Rock Water Table - Maes
of Lean-to Addition of Adobe House and Barn
Rock Water Table ~ Maes
use” where Wade Lewis, ranchhand, lives? - Maes
Old House perpendicular to Lewis! "bunkhouse"?
Apostol Santiago Church - i oed, Sacristy to
‘the left. Camposan' Picket fence
in front
Apostol Santiago Church - Maes (see 29, above)
Apostol Santiago Church - Maes (right Side view) Roof
and cupola beginning to det
crumbling left front buttress,
= Maes. Note adobe brick’ construction
crumbling left front buttress, Apostol Sani
= Maes. Note adobe brick construction.
Interior Nave with church furniture, Apostol
Church - Maes
Interior Nave with church furniture, Apostol Santiago
Church - Maes
Interior trapezoidal apse with church furniture,
Apostol Santiago Church - Maes
Gravestone of Maes family member, in back of Apostol
Santiago Church - Maes
Gravestone behind Apostol Santiago Church - Maes
3 room L-shaped house with two rooms in back (frontal
view) - Maes

3 room L-shaped house with two rooms in back (
de view) - Mae:

Corral, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Naes

Corral, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Maes

Cattle skin on fence gate - leaving Maes

, 1985

Corral made of tires ~ Highway 54/18 - between Logan
‘and tucuncari

casa Blanca Motel - Logan

Casa Blanca Motel Mexico history on

(frontal view)
horse mane
y 39? between Logan and

mailbox - Cowboy and horse (left hand view)
(See 47, above, and also note brand mark on
horse's'left rear) - Highway 392 between Logan
and Gallegos
mailbox - Cowboy and horse (right hand
(See 47 and 48 above) - Highway 39? between.
Logan and Gallegos
mailbox - Horse with brand on left rear -
ta Ranch along Highway 397 between Loga

mailbox of horse in front of gate
Alamocita Ranch - Highway 39? between Logan and
Gallegos
Interior of Gallegos catholic Church of Inmaculate
(December 8). - Gallegos. Fiesta
lebrated on Assumption (August 15). Still used,
it of Roy. Gallegos family grave
fence in center. San Jose or
Exquisite plaster images

Gravestone from Gallegos camposanto. (Where was the
Gallegos camposanto? On what side of the church?)
Facade of Erma's Coffee Shop - Main St., Art Pacheco's
ys in picture.
Erma's Coffee Shop - Mosquero. (See #54)
e - Bueyeros. Mrs. Garcia, (Erma Trujillo's
‘aunt), her granddaughter and Boyd Pratt.

August 15, 1985

57 - Choosing preserves for judging. Bai
County fairgrounds. Union Cour
58 - (Assistants) presenting preserves to judges. (note
the age difference between assistants and judges,
Assistants in this case were young married owmen
jdges were older homemakers) Barn on Clayton
County Fairgrounds. Union County

(assistants) holding up jar of beets to be judged.
Barn on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union County
Fair ~ Clayton.

+ Joanne Butt and other judge juding beets. Barn
on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union County Fair
layton
Joanne Butt and other judge judging beets -
Clayton (see #60)
+ Joanne Butt and other judge judging pears (2)
Barn on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union County
Fair - Clayton
aging loaf breads in barn on Clayton County
Fairgrounds. Union Cou
aging loaf cakes in Clayton County F
at Union County Fair - Clayton

(see #64 above)

(See $64 and 65 above)

Judging cookies in Clayton County Fairgrounds barn at
Union County Fair ~ Clayton

barn, Union County

Fair - Clayton

(see #69 above)

Arrangements of Beans and Vegetables
Fairgrounds barn at Uni

Arrangement of beans in Clayton
barn at Union County = Clayton

gudging (2) vegetables in barn at Clayton
Fairgrounds. Union County Fair ~ Clayton

Arrangement of prize-winning onions in Clayton County
Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair - Cl

Judging Baked Goods (2) in Clayton County Fa:
barn, Union County Fair - Clayton

4-H Club’ Display of Fashions in Clayton County
Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair -

4-H Club Display of international Foods in Clayton
County Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair -
Clayton

Setting up a County Extension Homemakers’ Display of
How to Make Beef Jerky. (Recipes were typed,
xeroxed and passed out) in Clayton County
Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair - Clayton

Display of How to Make Beef Jerky - Clayton (See #78
above)

county Extension Homemakers' Club Display in Clayton
County Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair ~
Clayton

(See #80 above)

‘Third Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton

Blue Ribbon Quilt (first prize) by
Union County Fair - Clayton

Second Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton

August 21, 1985

85 - Santa Clara Cemetery (Catholic) -Wagon Mound. Fence
‘of volcanic rock surrounding white cross.
86 - Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound. (See #85)
Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.
Note depiction of stone house, vertical log barn
‘and cow on stone. Also, French name.
Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery ~ Wagon Mound.
(see #87)
Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cem = Wagon Mound.
(xear view) ‘World war I palaque
Egg Carton Vase with Plastic Flowers in front of
‘Tombstone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.
Egg Carton Vasé with Plastic Flowers, Santa Clara
Cemetery - Wagon Noi (See #90)
Grave covered with Astro Turf, Santa Clara Cenet:
Wagon Mound.
Grave covered with Astro Turf, Santa Clara Cemet
Wagon Mound,
Grave covered with Astro Turf, Santa Clara Ceneter
Wagon Mound. (Compare with #92 and 93)
Ledoux grave adorned with painted cinder
Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound
mbstone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon

Fraker Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery (section
toward the road) - Wagon Mound. Fine:
depiction of covered wagon and cattle.

"vanguard of the Plains" Santa Fe Trail,
1868.

Fraker Grave, Santa Clara Cemetery ~ Wagon Mound.
Mrs. Fraker's grave to the right of
Fraker's (Note difference in size and
construction). "Wagon Mound" formation in
background

Jacal at Joe Cordova's place, Canyon de Mosqu
(front side) is this one L-shaped structure or
two jacals stuck together? Note the thickness
and the mud and log layers of the roof. (Spiegel
Catalog paper used to wallpaper the interior
ceiling - CF photographed this).

Jacal at Joe Cordova's place, with Boyd Pratt
measuring? - Canyon de Mosquero (See #99)

Joe Cordova's stone house - Canyon de Mosquero. Note
roof over left door. Underlying symmetry of
facade - 2 doors, 2 windows. (This house is
about 100 feet tO the right of the Cordova
jacal.)

Left Rear and 2 Stone Storehouses at Cordova's place -
Canyon de Mosquero. (See #101)

Rear and Storehouse of Joe Cordova's place - Canyon de
Mosquero (See $101 and 102)

Adobe "Chicken Coop" at Cordova's Place - Canyon de
Mosquero (across the road from houses)

Interior of Adobe "Chicken Coop" at Joe Cordova's
place - de Mosquero, Structure for hens
(wnat is this called?) and ladder
De
oe Cordova's "Chicken Coop," with Wooden.
Canyon de Mosquero. (See #104 and 105)
Rear of Joe Cordova's "Chicken Coop,” with Wooden
Wagon = Canyon de Mosquero. (See #104, 105 and
106)
Cowhide on fence gate, along road to the left of Joe
Cordova's place ~ de Mosquer:
road to the
Place -'canyon de Monquero.

a Bull, by Andy
= Mosquero.
Cowboy Riding a Bull, by Andy
#210)
Riding a Bull,
~ Mosquero
and His Wax Sculpture on "The Bench"
eral store - Mosquero (See
2).
© and His Wax Sculpture on "The Bench"
‘of his general store - Mosquero

store
on the front

(See #113 and
Front (gable?) of San

d-shaped Leading above
fe Church - Mosquero

hand churchyard of Sai
josquero (See #116)
‘rujilio on "The Bench” infront of his general
fet - Nosquero
"The Bench" in front of Andy
Main street -
antonio The Benc!

the Bench’

1 Bench" ~

Mosquero (See #121 & 122)
antonio Trujillo and Boyd Pratt on "The Bench" -
Mosquero (See #121 - 123)
and Boyd Pratt in front of General
Store, Main Sfreet - Mosquero

August
130
B1
132

143
144

August

Underside of “the Bench" in front of Andy Trujillo's
General Store, Main Street - Mosquero
nderside of "The Bench" - Mosquero (See #126)

nderside of ™ nch" - Mosquero (See 126 - 128)
3, 1985

jorse Compet ng County Fair - Roy.

Pet. show tan County Fair - Roy.

Pet Show Contestant, Harding County Fair - Roy (See
#31).

Pet show Contestant, Harding County Fair - Roy (See
#131 and 132).

Judges’ Booth and Judges? at pen where Pet Show is
held, Harding County Fair

Judges’ Booth and Judges" at pen where Pet Show is
held, Harding County Fai (See #134)

Winner of ‘children's Pet Show, his pet and his
mother, Harding County Fair ~ Ro}
#131-133)

Girls sitting on fence watching the Children's Pet
Show, Harding County Fair - Roy

Women Eyeing Produce Display chool Gym, Harding
County Fair - Roy (Grai

Produce Contestant and Young B¢

School Gym,
9)

‘and Boyd Pratt discussing produce,
Roy School Gym, Harding County Fair - Roy. (See
#139 and 140

Owassa Heimann, County Agricultural Extension agent
for Union County (and Harding?) and two other
yomen judging baked goods, Roy Schoo:

‘Sabinoso.
Old Post Office - Sabinoso (See #143).

25, 1985

Unpainted Relief carving of Chimayo Santuario
intitled" Gallery Piece, by Jose Gallegos
Feria Artesana - Albuquerque.
Pola Lopez de Jaramillo. Feria

ng of Nicho, by Pola Lopez de Jaramillo. Feria
‘Artesana - Aibuquerque. (See #146)

unpainted carving of animals in processio:
(religious?) "Untitled" Gallery Piece by Jose
Garcia. Feria Artesana - Albuquerque.

Unpainted Relief Carving of “The Last Supper.
Artist? Gallery Piece, Feria Artesana -
Albuquerque.

Gallery Piece, Feria

Artesana - Al
into Nino de Atocha, bj ya. Gallery Piece,
Feria Artesana ~ Ai
san Miguel and t
Ortega. Gallery Feria Artesana ~
Albuquerque.
. de los Dolores, by allery Piece
this is the first
object Felix has done with wooden stilts for the
frame of the skirt.
de los Dolores, by Felix Lopez.

Feria Artesana - Albuquerque

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

ahlborn, Richard Cc. Penitente Moradas of Abiquiu

(Washington thsonian Institution Press, US
Government. Pr: Office, 1968).

Bedichek, Roy. Adven! a Texas Naturalist.
city, N¥: Doubleday, 1974).

Bronner, Simon J., and Stephen P. Poyser, Approaches
‘Study of Material Aspects of American Folk Culture.
vol. 12, Numbers 2 and 3, 197

Bunting, Bainbridge. Early 1 Now 0.
(Albuquerque: ‘Universit 1976) -

of Earth and Timbers Made: New Mexico
‘eeuure (Albuguerque: University of New Nexico

Taos Adobes: Spanish Colonial and
cture of os Valley. (santa
re Burgwin Researc!

Center, 1964).

cabeza de vaca, Fabiola ed Them Cactus (Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico 1954)

carlson, Alvan Ward. “New Mexico's Sheep Industry, 1850-1900
Its Role in the History of the Teri New Mexico
Historical Review XLTV:1 (1969), 25-49.

Daudet, Lula Collins
‘and_a Silver Spoon (Aram

Deetz, James. In smal} Things Forgotten:

Garly Anerican Life. (Garden City,
977)

Dobie, J. Frank, Rattlesnakes. (Austin: University of
Breas 1965,1982).

and Folklife, An
d London: University of

Handbook of American Folklore.
(eloonington: Indian University Press, 1983).

Ellis, George F. The Bel) Ranch As I Knew It. (Kansas city,
Wiissouri: The Lowell Press, 1973).

Evans, Max. ‘The Hi Lo Country (Albuguergue: University of
4 Wexico Press, 1983).

Fife, Austin and Alta and Henry Glassie, eds. Forms Upon the
Frontier, Folklife and Folk arts in the United st
(Logan: Utah State University Press, 1969).

Foote, Cheryl J. "Mission Teacher of the Southwest. Ali
Blake of Trenentina, New Mexico" Journal of Presbyterial
History (forthcoming, as of October 1982).

Foust, Juana. Prairie Chronicle (New York: Putnam, 1932).

Glassie, Henry. Folk Housing in Middle Virginia: A
Analysis of Histori facts. (Knoxville:
University of Tennessee Press, 1975).

Passing the Time in Balleymenone, Culture
History of An Olster Communi (Philadelphia:
University of Pennsylvania Press, 1982).

Patterns in the Material Folk Culture of the
United States (Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 1968).

Goldstein, Kenneth S. A Guide for Field Workers in Folklore.
(Hatboro, Pennsylvania: Folklore Associates, Inc

ural Values
ion Review, Hist Preserv:
, Draft, August 1,

Jabbour, Alan and Howard W. Marshall. Folklife
Preservation," New Direc
Publication No. 45, (Washington,
Conservation and Recreation service, 1980),

Jackson, J. B., ed. The Essential Landscape (Santa Fe:
Museum of New Mexico Press, 1985).

. The Necessity of Ruins and Other Topics
(amherst: The University of Massachusetts Press,
1980).

Kniffen, Fred. "The Western Cattle Complex: Notes on
Differentiation and Diffusion," Western Folklore Vol.
12, July 1953: 179-185.

Lagzell, Ruleen. "Life on a Homestead: Memories of Minnie

A. "crisp," New Mexico Historical Review Vol. 54: 1
(i979), 59-65

Loomis, Ormond, H. Cultural Conservation: The Protection of

Ciltural Heritage in the United States (Washington,
D.c.: iibrary of Congress, 1983)

Marshall, Howard Wight and John Michael Vlach. "Towards a
Folklife Approach to American Dialects," Americal
Speech 48 (1973): 3-4, 163-191.

Meinig, Donald W., ed. 7
Landscapes (iew
Press, 1979).
Southwest
Change 1600-1970

The Saga of Coe Ridge (Knoxville:
Press, 1970).

(October 1982).
New Mexico Writers' Project. New Mexico:

tate (Albuquerque: University of New Wexico
Press, 1945).

Parrish, William J. “The German Jew and the Conmercial
Revolution in Territorial New Mexico, 1850-1900." New
Mexico Historical Review. Vol. 22,

"Sheep Husbandry in New Mexico,
1902-1903" Intro. pp. 201-213; Conclusion. pp.
New Mexico Historical Review.

Pearce, T.M., ed. New Mexico Place Names: A Geographical

(Albuquerque: University of New Mexico

Sf Western
‘Of New Nexico Press,

‘Sacred Heart Parish (Bueyeros) and St. Joseph's Parish
(Mosquero) 1900-1950" from Father D, Raun, St. Joseph's

Sauer, Carl 0. Selected Essays 1963-1975 (Berkeley:

island Foundation, 1981), particularly Chapter 4 "The
American Historical Geographer

Simmons, Marc. Following The Santa Fe Trail: A Guide for

Modern Travelers. (Santa Fe: Ancient City Press,
1984)

‘Traditional Attributes Conservation: A Substitute for
Preservation Tax Incentive for the Pacific Territories
August 1984

i-Fu, Segmented Worlds and Self. Group Life and
dividual Consciousness. (Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press, 1982).

Vogt, Evon 2. Modern Homesteaders. The Life of a Twentieth

Century Frontier community (Cambridge
Bress of Havard Univ ess, 19)

Wallner, Judy ed. Tillie: An American Life. Autobiography
jorsheim Printing Company,

Waybourn, Marilu and Vernetta Mickey. Meet Me at the
County (Farmington, ‘San Juan
1984).

Webb, Walter Prescott, 5 (New York: Gi
co., 1931)

Weigle, Marta, ed. wi combe and Samuel Larcombe
Hispanic’ arts _at ‘the Southwest (Santa
Fe: Ancient City Press,

Westphal, Victor, The Public “in New Mexico 1854-1891
(Albuquerque: “University of New Mexico Press, 1965).

Welsch, Roger L. "The Meaning of Folk Ai : The Sod

House Example," Keystone Folkloz y Vol. 21,
no. 2, 1976-17: 34-49.

williams, Jerry L. and Paul B. HeAll

Mexico in Maps (2:
Press, 1973).

Zelinsky, Wilbur. ‘The Cultural Geography of the United
States (Englewood cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
i973).

This bibliography represents a synthesis of the sources Boyd
and I discussed during our survey, many of which were listed
on the bibliography Boyd prepared prior to our fieldwork.

Tt also includes sources for folklife and related subjects
which I thought would complement our project

Wr. Carl Fleischhai
Foiklife Specialist
American Folklife Cente
ibrary of Congress
iasnington, 0.C

Dear Carl

1 finally had.@ chance to read through your very thorough field notes from thi
summer's visit, They really were helpful, contributing new insights and data t
ne comon project. I especially appreciated your schenatic plans of variot
fieldwork’ sites. jiuch thanks.

important to articulate and it's good to have your point of view
Rather it vas set after her marriage, in her and Pat's new hone where they

details you recorded about ranching (p. 4, par. 4, entry for 8/29)

Hen ek FeB9" FSH" Ea cb FRSA Uke” FAH EBUeR

AB EBDePL ERE HRP NE Eade,

e they use fields. It would be 0 compare the European her!

of these ranchers and consider the regional and ethnic history of the use

fields, pastures and even gardens. Wore ci geography would add to our
dy.” T'm eager to see what Jerry Willi up with

Another observation of yours which caught my eye appeared in your description o
our visit with Margarito and Trinidad Garcia (p. 3, par. 6, entry for 8/30)
Margarito outlined how many cattle d raise per Section, you were unce
whether this rancher meant "now" or "then" when referring to the Canyon. This
s--space and place--representing different periods of
‘nating phenomenon to docunent in the West--where enough room
for new buildings to be built next to old ones rather than just old ones
estored (although that's present Then, folklore as a Tink (synchronic
and diachronic) linking the two--the past
A adline was set for my article on J women and
need to listen to the tapes fron our ve you had
a chance to make copies?

In a couple of weeks, I will also contact Vides and some black-:
whites. Did you suggest I send both?

At some point, I'd be real interested to look at the John Collier and Russel]
Lee photographs taken during the FSA. There might be something of relevance,
How's your book project comin

Also, in the next little while I plan to try and collect release forms for the
Santo tapes fron sunmer 1984. Could I make copies at the LC or could you make
then for me?

Novenber 23

touch soon. When the Northeast tapes
Folklore Departaent at Penn

y the way, has Tom Carter's report cone in yet n eager to

Also, thanks for sending me the copy of Dillon Bustin's article
along with your review. I'm finally going to have a chance to sit

Avenue Hos 4m
phia, Pedbsyivania 19183

carl Fleischhaver
Foiklife Specialist

erican Folklife Center
Library of Congress
jashington,

INAL Ri
{IHEAST SECTOR OVERVIEW
Laurie Kalb
September 1985

to mid-September 1985,
ned with ¢

n survey, and to seek methodological approaches
to the federally mandated goal of “cultural conservation
Fleischhauer, New Mexico Travel Report, Septembi
brary of
faced Boyd
a longer ten month
comprehensive sur
buildings,
Museum of
dialogue that wot
2k ai folklife field survey methods for
amplifying the documentation
urie Kalb,
jortheas
dew, August 9, 1 s later in the fall,
it is expected that J vill geographer from
-worker in Boyd supplement this
(and we, his ding data on homesteading in

who began his archite survey back in June an
piled an extensive biblio on the history,
architecture, geography and some folklife of the region,

eagerly yet cautiously anticipated the inclusion of a

folklife component in his survey. (Boyd Pratt, "Is There
Folklife on the High Plains?", August 5, 1985). Having read
Jeischhauer's "Thoughts on Folklife study in Historic

on Surveys" (April 2, 1985) and pondered the

methodological on betwee prehensive
inventories," ¥ sually associated with SHPO
architectural surv here words like "all" and "ever
confidence for the purpose torying,
" studies, or case-studies often associated

with folklife- where perhaps one performance or

related activity is examined for depth of insig

but in vain to place our survey

attempting an ov
In six 4 have been impossible to document
of y 10,000 square miles, which includes six
n the other hand, our study a!
lding types did not
or results. after all,

e buildings that we

ther, Boyd wondered,

building survey
worthy of recordatio
uture inventories of
ikways in the area, Bo

etic to Boyd's vi

on of the area; I was no
daunted by cerning the existence of
folklife. Considering folklore and folklife (wh
encompass a lot of "intangible" cultural resources)
alternatively as "items of expressive behavior"--i.e
ballads, legends, nursery rhymes and the like, or as
"artistic communication in small groups" I understo
it to be a communicative process resulting from human
interaction. I was certain that wherever we found a group of
people--in a general store, working a ranch or even stopped
by a roadside in a pickup as well as at a holiday event,
© we would surely find folklore and folklife. Ai
probably, where we found people 1@ northeast sector, we
would find folklore and folklife attached to the abandoned
buildings. Described in such abundance, these crumbling
jes and stone buildings had to be part of the cultural
landscape. The problem still remained, however. How to

fe of the area when the folklife
came on to the project, Boyd rese:
the northeast sector and applied Hen!

folk materia

erns in the Material

astern United States, 1968), to fol

look for the folklife of the area through the mapping
regions associated with certain ethnic or occupational
groups.* The tentative ethnic and occupational groups

"This method of mapping folk traditions is popular among
scholars interested in regionalism, particularly among those
1g dialects. This form of vi pression would be
useful to document along with arch: re, especially now
when the question of bilingual education looms large among
minority groups such as southwestern chicanos who are

interested in conserving their language.

included Hispanic she
ranches, mixed ethnic honesteading conmun

towns. We inmediately deleted mining town

were gated up and the populations too di from what
we had decided would be a "sampling" of the area and at the
end of the first week I arrived on the project, we went to
test out this division.

SULTS

After two “reconnaissance” trips during which we travelled
600 miles each time and visited at least 30 towns and
Allages (four of these towns--Springer, Raton, Clayton and
uncari could be considered what ai Robert
Redfield might call "Big Com other
Allages or "Little communities" which \ded economically
and socially on the larger ones), we found that our folk
group breakdown was somewh st We found, in fac
at many Hispanic sheeperders often ru

Anglo cattle ranchers also raised sheep. Ful both

Anglo ranchers and Hispanic sheepherders homesteaded.

Despite, however, our early misconcep’

munity breakdowns, the division of commun:
and occupation seme: further, both Boyd and I
approach to disse
We had to look at
ified decision o:
where to settle into our s'
exaggeration to say that certain people in the northeastern

se les from their nearest neighbor.

As, however, Boyd and I settled on two rather than three
communities to focus on--these being the group of spanish
illages that thrust east of Las Vegas, ones that lie
largely along rte 65/104 with Hispano Catholic churches that
are still considered’part of the Roy Mission, and the a}

of Anglo towns and ranches that lie south of Clayton, along
rte 18, with town representatives attending such large
community events as the Clay! nty Fair, Five States
Livestock Auction and annual Labor Day Rodeo and who often

themselves
s for area breakd:
architecture. We seemed to have identified clusters of
communities by such acceptable folklore methods as sot
1) and religious affiliati
city-village dependency similar to what an!
Robert Redfield found for communities in the Yucatan
(Robert Redfield, The Folk Culture of the Yucatan), but we
moved farther and farther away from identifying a connection

folk

urches in the Spanish villa
east of Las Vegas, where we learned of the continuity (or
val? we heard conflicting reports) ional
50 years) Hispano-Catho’ S, OF
--services held on the evening of the day of the
yt (even in abandoned villages
Miguel and Harding Counties attend th
outside the church and the image
ied around them. After the
oners gather for a meal to which they've
‘buted a "covered dish") but we learned of this
through my questioning Raymond Gutierrez, ranch
the Oberg Ranch in Gallegos, about four piles of
ened ashes we had seen the week before laid out
Lle1 ront of the Bueyeros Church. At t!
t in our survey, we did not learn about the function of
this building by examining its form, construction or us
We learned about it only by studying other "tangible"
cultural attributes.

Still, as the Bueyeros church (a lovely stone structure with
pitched roof, wooden cupola, thick stone buttresses and
Gothic windows) had already been nom: for the National
Register, I hoped that we were fulfilling one sort of goal
for this survey-that of documenting a cultural value-"the

ntribution made by an historic property to an ongoing

society or cultural system-for an historic property that may

not have been recognized at the time the buildi:

nated (

cultural Value c Preservation Review, Augus

1985, p.5). I was thrilled that Boyd and I were examining

so closely folk traditions and issues of cultural value, but

these emphases together with our "intuitively-selected”

sample areas of study left me somewhat cold about formal and
nical aspects of the region's architecture.

My concern over this lack was somewhat abated during the

third week of our project when we finally settled down to

ely-selected" areas. After

from the road were large and colorful enough to warrant our
oping (They were called Hillside and Santa Clara cemetery
vely, estant and the other Catholic, with
ated entrances to each directly faci: sh other and the
Catholic cemetery imaginatively decorated and adorned, with
n vases filled with plastic flowers and astro turf
the graves, like personal folk gardens: Kalb
field notes (8/21/85), we headed on to Mosquero, the cou!
seat of Harding County and the village anong those eas
Las Vegas that seemed the most populated and the most
ppealing for our survey (After, all we'd had an enjoyable
lunch in Erma's cafe the week before, the o1
ind along rte 65/104, an Erma
Mary Byrd seemed able a
insights into the villa
itself was another clue to definable boundaries of the
region).

our field ap ss I found myself
wondering if my purpose during the survey was to demonstrate

folklife field techniques as well as to collect the "stuff"

of folklife, which was absolutely fine-but as we kept asking

it the history of age, in particular probing
1t homesteading, we were directed to what Mosquerites
alternately refer to as "lower Mosquero” or "Mosquero

Canyon," where old homesteading sites lie. When

aps
go down to the Canyon
they described a h
ugged Life’
they claimed were sti

of this Canyon is taken from my field

en corrals and beyond some lush green

up around the creek, beyond a gorgeous pocket

about 8-15 miles into a spread-out series

houses, outbuildings, "jacalitos" and two

We stopped to linger especially at two settlements--one
stone house with a pitched
beyond and one
jacalito" (vertical log 1 wil
looked like it r have had an extension
had some fascinating iron farming implements laying

around intact, i.e. a wagon and hayrick

The place was not boarded up, yet not really

it were a homesteadi ya found a tiny brown bottle

in the road in bac! found to be dated
je late 19th C. After Boyd showed me the bottle,
4 1 back, exactly where it had been
Beside
guard and
took a photograph. This was th

ond sett lene: dat was a much more modes:

house, which was simply a one-room rectangular

doors next to each other, especially

many throughout New Mexico. Outside,
ar of the house, stones were arranged to
demarcate some sort of front yard space. To the rear and
right side rear of the house, were old wooden corrals and
wire fenced in area. From the "front yard" of the house,
you could see no roads, not even the one that drove up to
t. Off to the right were mountains converging in a canyon
and the light of the early evening made them look blue. off
in the distanc was howling. The setting was
exquisite. (Kalb, field notes, 8/22/85).

The point of the ab is to illu:
that it was there, in Mosquero Canyon, that
found our synthesis. Rather than delega
folklife to holiday events o:
to abandoned buildings, we had disc:

angible and
that maintained an ongoing continuity bets

present. Through subsequent interviewing "in town,"

in the
age of Mosquero, we learned that the stone and log
structures were built on homesteads and further that the
eason a couple places, par se of the
Garcias and the as, were not boarded up was because
they were still used--per not for everyday use but
definitely as a part of everyday Life. Besides being used
as and headquarters for running cattle and as
creation and family reunions (all
£ “adaptive re-use" of older
buildings), we found the houses in the canyon

for the people of Mosquero a deep:

of place and belonging.

With this thematic and synthesizing relationship between
past and present in mind, Boyd and I seemed freer to pursue
information for our separate disciplinary and institutional

zealms-he on matters of building ‘orn, materials,

construction and technique and patterns of use a:
traditions and done: seociated with the buildings
jowever, we bot 6 fascinated by attitudes and
values attached to all these aspects of etlement and
terested in all the aspects of the buildings
themselves, We found it difficult to part ways. We also

became deeply attached to the people.

INTANGIBLES I

and intrigued by anc
‘that of defining intangible cultural
attributes in a somewhat systematic way,in order to
ng invento:
up them
empt
tangible cultural
task, I did not divide the genres

villages surrounding Mosque

“eangibles" other than buildings) I came up wi

stly of “the s! variety

ank Dobie e Rattlesnakes, where

sof a
e wound (Dobie, Pp.
}, to let the poison out,

applied.

e ability of local animals,
animal), and horny toads,
kill rattlesnakes. The horny toad:
ttlesnakes by cutting through the snakes" skin wit!
their horns, when it swallows them.

silver in the ing hanged and e:

ck Jack Ketchum, the northeastern outlaw. He is believed
ve entered Pat's city Bar in Mosquero, and shot
and killed the bar owner. Two bullet holes still

evident in the w the bar

Saturday night Dan

MOIFA archives)
junting small game and stuffing it.
Barbecue in Also cooking beans (description

raditionally, (Catholic) wedding processions

ze led by two men firing shotguns in the air. This

practice is sometimes still observed.
es to include a
dance afterwards.
als. At least in Mosquero, the entire town attends.

Religion

Fiestas (Vesperes, funcionnes)
Sn s (as evidenced by the

weddings

Roadside shrines (Descan:

lanations for why Mosquero has its name.

Mosquero means fly. One explanation for
cause the buffaloe the canyoi
like flies when loo on then £
of Mosquero.
The town "Liar's bench" wh:
store called “ nk" fxom the Spanish
€ the Bench s:
local childré
the members of
a source for playi
for informal social interaction and “the sizing up
ders. one
stolen and at anoth . "bankers" tried to move
ye bench from its unshaded place in front of the
general store to a place under the awning of Erma's

cafe. Exma refised to allow this).

Family Folklore
Photographs in the family general

‘amily photo albuns

Sagebrush Brooms
WPA F re and Crafts

ings of co

wag
Breeding Pens

on fences

Though T was © fir g intangible
attributes of c ventory fear o}

"€lattening out” folklife of the n "Eleshing

it out", i.e. adding context and storic

ngs, T ended up finding this ted approach to
our folklife/historic preservation survey quite effective,

(if used ion with our study of folk process).

During our s project, our survey of each different

area took two ent forms. Our vis

developed into an "in-depth" study of a small place where we
tried to address the theme of a present relating to the
hrough buildings and homestead s: . depth
is study seemed
fascination Boyd and I had for the issue and the place and
from a second in-depth visit we paid to the village with
folklife and media specialist from. the
n Folklife Center at the Library of Congress). our
to the larger center of Clayton and some of its
ive. In Clayton,
d only public places such as ¢ res, post
offices and schools and documented large folk events such as
k auction and a rodeo. Although we
to visit private ranc

those to »

item-oriented method
at es for the entire area offered a chance to “paint
our area of study with a broad bush," so to speak, to offer
view of Lklife of the entire area. For,
cultural attributes for northeast, I
hat many cut across the division of Hispano Cathol
\ds and Anglo cattlemen. Legends, re: on and
foodways in general, and Black Jack Ketchum stories,
eelope hunting and cooking barbecue in a pit
particular, could be found in Mosquero as well as in Clayton
and £1 y were all traditions practiced today an
were all traditions that had all been in existence for more
than 50 years. Further, rodeos and county fairs took place
in Harding County as well as in Union County. Now what of

SUNMAL

x the folklife component of the larger Northeast Sector

ew, it seems that we al cu:
used for mapping a region's vernacular arch:

forms and applied it to the mapping of intangible cult

attributes, yet in doing so, we had neglected to map out

vernacular building forms--or had w

We had documented the floor plans of Dawson indus
houses which were moved from Clayton after the mine closed
up, both the original and adapted versions, we had drawn out
a few of the homestead settlements we visited in Mosquero

nyon and we had recorded the building materials used for
onstructing historic (more than 50 years old) homes and
churches througho! - 65/104 (the Spanish villages).
We had even snapped a few pictures of a mobile home with
rooms added en and covered with stucco. 11, 1 am left

uestions for this survey the syn
ral history and folklif

however, are more informed.

Tt seems that we narrowed down our comprehensive drive
‘through east (I believe we drove down every public
ad during our two "reconnaissa: ps!) to
varying degrees of "in-depth" studies of two areas. We used
an approach of “informed intuition" and attempted
methodologically to integrate folklife an historic
ation survey. Having successfully used folk material
nods of mapping for documenting intangible
s of culture, we were also able to record historic
But only after we had found a way to integrate
Klife into the historic buildings overview did we find

selves ready to apply folk material cutlure methods of

mapping to folk material culture--i.e. vernacular housii

By the end survey and after having had a few
discussions with Carl Fleischhauer during his visit here,
issues of process and building syncretism (the
mixing of sty forms) becane clear. The following
questions . While, for example, the early houses in

squero Canyon, the vertigal log structures plastered with

4 jacales, represented vernacular buildin
Grande, the later symmetrical
e houses did not, although their flat
the settlement was clearly Hispanic (
S, Pachecos, Vigils and Cordovas still own prope:
), the settlers at first glance seemed to have bro
a particular building type (i.e. the jacal) with them an
abandoned it to something, (perhaps?) more indigenous to the
area. On the other hand, maybe the stone symmetrical house
type came into the area from somewhere else. Where wou!
one look for other examples of the stone symmetrical house
type? Clearly not in north central New Mexico but perhaps
Oklahoma, Texas, Colorado and Kansas-the same states
ch share the 5-State livestock auction in Clay
s which experienced pioneer homesteading in th
enth cent her, although most
jurches in and aro wero were m:
(instead of the adobe used i central part of the
state), we found an adobe constructed church as far east as
ch lies along rte. 18), although the churchgoers
spanic were German (as evidenced by the names

westones and oral repor

Another vexing question that seemed to come up had to do

with mobile homes. One of the homestead owners from
Gly referred to the jacales in the canyon as
le homes." Wh je first came to homestead,
han one property. The
vertigal log houses could be picked up and moved fairly
easily. The vertical log con! r, was never
really meant to be seen, as the structure was
built, it was the woman's job to plaster the exterior and
x with mud (and in some cases pulverized stove)
year old tradition seems analagous to a more modern
The aluminum mobile home we documented in Mosquero
had been covered over with stucco was almost invisible
to the observer save for two sides sticking out beyond the
of the exterior walls. Carl Fleischhauer and I were

he impression when we went to visit the owner Erma

aluminum sides ¢
had had with Erma,

Down in Mosquero Canyon, one might question

at one time served a similar funct:

ove ns jes that seem to me
a synthesis and
life. More work, however, now needs to be done--ie.
researching land titles of the area and the history of
honesteading as well as do ng the building types. If
we coi to follow the methodolos: ry Glassie, we
eed to find pa ‘These are tasks I must now leave
geographer and the arch ral historian
that we can continue work on this exciting

I have identified 154 s: our project,
them and had the index typed. I still expect four
more rolls of slides to come in and will index them

y arrive and there is time before my project e

I hi four cassettes I recorded o:
museum's Sony. The two I have yet to log need to
balanced. They were recorded when the battery was dying
their speed is either too slow or too fast. I have beer

ng in earnest to find someone who can do this as
tapes are very important oral hist

current community values

During Carl Fleischhauer's visit, Boyd, Carl and I recorded
ten reel to reel tapes with the Nagra, which amounts to 5

hours of tape. I have copied ti tapes (and

logged one) and deposited them in the Folk Art Library along

with the previous cassettes. I will take the other tapes to

Phidalephia to copy and send them back y Sellars at

logging such a a c
Who should they belong to anyway?

Also deposited with Judy are approximately 25 typed pages,
single-spaced, of field notes from all five of my trips.
have sent a copy of notes from four of my five tiips to
American Folklife Center. I am more than happy to do
nis, but there was no mention of copyright. Finally, I have
donated a copy of my master's paper, on contemporary santero
Enrigue Rendon, to the Museum Library. Thank you, MOI

TIONS FY

During our visits to th
administrators and teachers £1
erintendant of the Mosque
ected us to nearby housing at
offered high enthusiasm and support for

We discussed curriculum with Mr. Raftery, during

he emphasized the listing urse specifica:

New Mexico history. Also, Raftery mentioned that his new
tive of Santa Rosa, was running a bilingual
the school, where the students were learn

Spanish as well as English granmar (Raftery claimed that

about 85% of the school's population was Hispanic).

urther, Sonia, - fe, was very interested in
olklore. She herself a paper on tales of La
Liorona. after 1 iscussion of the
Mosquero School st Sector
overview, we all seemed eager to communicate the contents
ey to the schoolchildr
Tu youl r g to define folklore for the

h us some of the

folklore they know--both from the viejos and their own forms

of shared communication. ‘Both Raftery and Boyd thought this
was a good idea. The only thing Raftery requested was that
if we ask something of the children, we might offer
something to them--what about a slide show! Boyd and I

thought this was an excellent idea, and really the best way
schoolchildren, especially if i
has to do with their own neighborhood. Anyway, Raftery
offered us a subscription to the Mosquero school newspaper,
which seems to extend its focus from the school to general
community life, Boyd gave Raftery a contribution for this
and the next week when we saw Raftery and his family at the
Harding County Fair, his wife Sonia interviewed us to write

p our project in the school newspaper

During our visit to the Clayton County Fair, on August 15, I
made the acquaintance of Joanne Butt who was busy
udging preserves in the County Fairgrou1
graphed and intervi
interview me and became intrigued bi
then expla at she was the C:
that sinc folk
ave a visit to her school. There was
and crafts being used in
ht the school itself might have
WPA. At the end of the day, Boyd and
I followed Mrs. Butt in her pickup to the Clayton County

Bigh School, where there were indeed some beautiful examples

of WPA chairs and desks, tables and be
dst the active offices. Edges of t
be chipping avay, but in general the objects were in very
good condition
the school cafeteria (post WPA) and supposedly some more
excellent examples of furniture in the library but
unfortunately the room was locked. At the end of the to
rs. Butt took us into the home ec area, which consisted of
three huge rooms and one whole section of the building.
there were more WPA tables and chairs there as well as s
pieces of silvervork and embroidery that Mrs. Butt had
shed away in the closet. Not intending to keep the
aterial from anyone who wanted to see it, Mrs. Butt was
simply concerned with how to take care of it. She valued
and didn't want them to disappear
te. In fact, Mrs. Butt valued a group of

concern for
preservation. When we asked if anyone had taken stock of
what appeared to be a wealth of WPA crafts in the school,
Mrs. Butt mentioned a few names of concerned parties (These
names are in my field notes) and that the shop
teacher sometimes taught the kids prepare broken
furniture. I was struck by Mrs. Butt's devotion to
preserving these objects and Boyd suggested we talk to a

wuseum conservator about preservation advice. As Mrs. Bui

the thought

rred to me that perhaps the school could also benefil
a preservationist-in-the-school, someone who worked with
teachers and students teaching to care for and iden

their own local traditions and

Because of such strong interest from both sc
introduced us to the Clayton High School
who all seem
e nature of our survey, it se
bes: e lecture and perhaps

g a process of ng £ fe interviews in the
schools. Both Boyd and I intend to continue working with
this material for papers in our own disciplines but the real
tality of this material lies in the combined process of
study we are trying to create. A slide lecture for

schoolchildren would continue our efforts at cohesion, as

well as work up papers for publication and perhaps

aventually develop i

Realizing that we need more time to work up a slide lec!
and also discovering that the folklife component of the
project now needs more help from the architectural historian

and cultural geographer--to answer some historical and

chnical questions, Bi believe
arry out this idea of a slide lecture

is done and the data more compl

proposal for continued fol © this project

s follows. Once the architecture and geography fieldwo

nd research is done, I would come back, take approximate

five day trip out in the field, docume:
could have been uncovered

make themselves evident rese:
snd then spend another fi putting together

ze, and end with a ¥ vering our s;

future

Anlborn, Richard c.

Bronner, Simon J
dy of Mater
Klore Forun

Bunting, Bainb y Nex:

New Mexico Press, 197

Adobes: and

ure of Valley. (santa Fi
Museun of New Mexico Press and Fort Burgwin Resear
Center, 1964).

(Albuquerque:

Deetz, James

ma Handbook
(Bloomington: Indian

Ellis, George F (Kansas City,
Missou: Press, 1973)

Evans, Max. The Hi Lo Country (Albuquerque: University c
New Mexico Press, 1983)

Fife, Austin and Alta and Henry Glassie, eds. Forms Upon the

Foote, Cheryl J. "Mission Teacher of the
Blake of Trementina, New Mexico” J
History (forthcoming,

Foust, Juana. le (New York: Putnam, 1932)

Glassie

Patterns in the the
States

Kenneth S
ro, Pennsy!

; Bratt, 1, 1985.

Landscape (Santa Fe:

Nenories of Minnie
a. crisp" New Mexico jew Vol. 54: 2
(i978), 59-65

Marshall, Howard Wigh 5
‘Approach to American Dialects'

Meinig, Donald w

(New York, London and

Saga of Coe Ridge (Knoxv
University of Tennessee Press

fe (Albuquerque

C. The Pure Exp
yymbolic inthe F

(Albuquerque:

Joseph's Parish
Raun, St. Joseph's

(Berkeley: Turtle
ularly Chapter

lds and self
ness. (¥

Weigle, Marta, ith Claudia Larcombe and Samuel
thnohistory in the Sout

y Press, 1983);

August 9, 1985

Methodist church - stone, pitched roof - Johnson Mesa
Highway ; in front of Methodist Church - Johnson
Mesa
Methodist Church, in field - Johnson Mesa
fzontal log
ing, pitched roof, no

= horizontal log
3, pitched roof, no

pad ties?), with door and w:
gable) ~ horizontal log ¢
= Fear lean-to addition ~ vertical
road ties?)

ce surrounding adobe school and storehouse
= catholic Church (with German Catholic
shioners, as evidenced by names on
rear left). School, church and storehouse -
1 adobe construction with shingle

lic homesteaders.
Hayden Catholic Church of the
June! 98 few) adobe tion, shingle

Hayden Schcol - side facing church (right side

facing the road) Rear extension is one room.
‘cons! on, shingle roof.

lic Church of the Sacred Heart (Friday

‘Still used, priest out of Roy. (with

as evidenced by such names

as Garcia, Archuleta and Maes on the gravestones
the cemetery to the rear and right of the

church) Stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola.

Bueyeros Catholic Church of the’ Sacred Heart (Friday
in June) ~ stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola

Why was Fiesta in August?

ene sing alon'
ame ight? —_
creme? aa archuleta in
Coe nd Adelaida Ar =
Gr stone of Manuel &! a Ee aide Nerang
cravectyeros camposan :

Note metal army

Camposantta. Grave to the rid

Held up bY

floor stone -

arn Wien og adobe House 4m Bar!

macs

nt Maes (right |
to deteriorate
Rpostol S

interior Nave wit
ch ~ 6

posto) santiage

ah ky with two

r ‘com L-shaped house with two room:
41 al, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Maes
42 - Corral, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Maes
43 - Cattle skin on fence gate - leaving Maes

August 14, 1985

44- Corral made of tires - Highway 54/18 - between Logan

Gasa Blanca Motel with mural of New Mexico history
ie wall ~

"mailbox ~ cow horse

mus #1

€ mop = Highway 39? between Logan and

(grontal view

y and horse (left hand view)
fe, and also note brand mark on
sleft rear) - Highway 39? between Logan
Gallegos
mailbox - Cowboy and (right hi
e 47 and 48 above) hway 38? between

Gallegos

"Folk Art” mai
Alamoci' nch ~ Highway
Gallegos

horse in front of gate to
39

gos Cath:

Concepcion (December 8)
Still used,

quisite plaster images
om Gallegos camposanto. (whe

two boys

Facade of &i

Post Office - Bucy
jaunt), her gran

15, 198!

ng preserves for
y fairgrounds.
) presenting preserves to
difference between assistants and judges.
nts in this case were young married owmen
x homemakers) Barn on Clayton

(Assistants) holding up pe judged
Barn on Clayton ¢
Fair - Claytoi
Joanne Butt and other ju: ding beets. Barn
Fairgrounds. Union County Fair

Joanne Butt and other judge judging beets -
Clayton (see #60)
. Joanne Butt and other judge judg:
Barn on Clayton County Fairgrounds.
Fair - Clayton
Judging leaf breads in barn on Clayton Count
grounds. Union County
Judging loaf cakes in Cla
‘at Union County Fair
(see #64 above)
(See $64 and 65 above)
judging cookies
Union County Fa:
(see 467 above)
ing up vegetables for
in Clayton
Fair - Clayt

Arrangement
Q les in barn at Clayton c
Union County Fair - Clayt
rize-winning onions in Clayton County
rn, Union County Fair ~
g Baked Goods {?) in Clayton County
Unio: y Fair - Clayton
4-H Club’Display of Fashions in
Union Cour

up a county on Homemakers:
How to Nake Beef Jerky. (Recipes were
xeroxed and passed out) Clayton County
ds barn, Fair ~ Cla
How to Make Jerky - Clayton (See #78
above)

prize) by
union county Fair - Clayton
Second Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton

85
n Mound

Mound. (See #85)
Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery ~ Wag
Notes depiction of stone house, vertical
Also
Mound.

Monnet Grave: s ¥ Mound.
Egg Carton Vase

mbstone ,
19g Carton Vase

rved Tombst:

Fraker Gravestone, Santa Clar

road)
f the Plaini

nker Grave, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound
Mrs. Franker's grave to the ri
constru Mound” formation in
Jacal at Joe Cordova's place, Canyon de Mosquero
(front side) one Te ure or
two jacals s' ckness
and the A
catalog paper used to wa
ceiling = CF photographe:
Lat Joe Co! n
Reasuring? - Canyon de Hosquero
rdova's stone house - Canyon de
‘oof over left door. Un metry of
rs, (This house is
t6 the right of the cordova

Storehouses at Cordova's place -
yon de Mosquero. (See #101)
‘Storehouse of Joe Cordova's place - Canyon de
Mosquero (See #101 and 102)
"Chicken Coop" at Cordova's Place - Canyon de
fosquero (across the road fron houses)

road to the left of Jce
mn de Mosqui
road to the left of Joe
de Monguero.

re = Mosquero (See

Wax Sculpture on
general store - Mosquer:

the General
‘The carvings

(See #1
ple?) of

Transom Light w.
door of holic Cl = Mosquero (See
#il6)
fn of the Blessed Virgin Mother, in the

ard of San Jose Catholic Churc!

Yt of his general

front of Andy
Street - Mosque:
"The Bi
1 Stor

Antonio Tru "the Bench’

yosquero
“The Bench’

"The Bench"
(See #121 - 12
id Boyd Pratt in front of General
= Mosquero

126 - Underside of "The Bench
General Store, Nai

127 - underside of "The Bene

28 - Underside of "The s (See 126

1.
1 Contestai
a 132
gudges’ Boot!
held
gudges*
nel

mother, Harding County Fair
#131-133)
ding County Fa

oduce Contestant and Young Bo
Display, Roy School Gym,

Santuario.
jose Gallegos

Artesana - Albuquerque
Painting of Nicho, by Pola Lopez de Jaramil:
Artesana - Albuquerque. (See #146)

Unpainted Relief
Artist? Gallery Piece, Feria Artesa
Albuquerque.

Museum of International Folk Art

Charters

Cerny

a unitof the Museum of New Mexico * Box 2087 * Santa Fe, New Mexico 87504-2087 * 505-827-8350

rom the beginning of August to mid-September 1985, the
Museum of International Folk Art in Santa Fe joined with the
New Mexico State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) in an
effort to incorporate "intangible" elements of culture into
an historic preservation survey, and to seek methodological
approaches to the federally mandated goal of “cultura:

conservation." (Carl

1
4 Boyd Pratt, architectur orian, longer
ten month contract from the SHPO,
Museum of Int
gue that would
life field survey methods for
aurie Kalb,
Northeast Sector
1 Pe later in
s expecte 1 cultural
from UNM and cont

his research by pr

, who began his architectural survey in June 1985,

theastern
yet cautiously anticipated the
clusion of a folklif nent vey. (
=.
1985). Having read carl F:

eservation Surveys" (Apri

case-studies often associated with fol

one performance or craft-related activit:
depth of insight
our survey on the methodological line.

Though Boyd's longer survey was
our folklife/a:

region, chitect

be. In six weeks it would have
on tt

ly 10,000 square
counties. other hand,

that we will encoun

ered
nde!
of

esidents long sinc

away. A structure may be abi

the fiel

timing

th

other events
folky

1 and 2)
theoretic

e Folklife...?

enent that should

c building s
9:
for fu

the area--Boyd was

largeness of our

the

area, the

klife compo!
and the
by his

©

jent of a lon

underpopulation

fe Lele’

cull

tempting an overview of all hist

narrowing 4:

Life--where pi

Boyd tried earnestly but in vain to place

be comprehen:
 buildii

1 history survey could not

been impossible to document

miles, which includes six

m the study area

ding types did not

to nearby

ned, and yet

a way of life, or does that

archaeoet!

and short duration of the
eady missed the 4th

will we mi

anti

ly do the same thing as the

identity poss

survey will be
es of all poss:

ly concerned with where

raditions.

rns over the
had for
dings

t

ng
oft
historic bui

of the area, T was not

ning the existence of

and £

tu

altern: y as “items of expressive behavior"--ballads,

legend hymes and the as “artistic

communication in small groups," I understood it to be a

communicative process resulting from human interaction.

was certain that wherever we found a group of people--in a

general store, working a ranch or even stopped by a roadside
up as well as at a holiday event~-we would surely

e and folklife. And probably, where we found

people in the northeast sector, we would find folklore and

e attached to the abandoned buildings. Described in
abundance, these crumbling adobes and stone buildings

cultural landscape. The problem st:

the people?

that which *

the mapping
in ethnic or occupatio:

oa

g towns.

led would be a " he area a
he first week after my arrival, we went to tes

particular division of folk groups.

snaissance trips during which we travelled
es each time and visited at least 30 towns and
s. Four of these towns--Springer, Raton, Clayton and
considered what anthropologist Robert
g communities" as opposed to other
Liages or "little communities" which depended economically
and socially on the . We were forced to conclude
arbitrary,
finding, for example, that many Hispanic sheepherders often
run cattle and that Anglo cattle ranchers also raised sheep.
nic sheepherders
ever, our early misconcep
the division

that our somewhat “blitzkrieg”
approach to dissecting the area was the correct way to
begin. We S ty of tow
where to settle
sector live $0 miles fron their nearest

neighbor

ately Boyd a settled on two
sh villages that tl

19 Route 65/104, and had Hispano Catholic churc

considered part of th ™ 7 the group of Anglo

towns and ranches th south of Cl 1g Route 18,
and had town representatives at su ity events
ayton County Fair, the Five States Livestock
and an annual Labor Day Rodeo. These people near
Clayton often consider themselves more "D
exican". Here, though, our reasons £
ttle to do with architecture. We seemed to have
ers of communit:
social networks,
a city-village dependency

Robert Redf: communities in the Yucatan (Robert
Redfield, 2 of the Yucatan,1941), but we
moved farther and £ avay from identifying a connection
between architectural history and folklife.

on the social uses of certai
icularly churches in the Spanish vil
of Las Vegas. We learned, for example, of the
revival? we heard conflicting reports) of
Hispano-Catholic
ones ervices held on the evening of the
ay of the e, even in abandoned
and Hardin
@ are 1it outside the church

and the image of the patr s carried around them,

of ashes outside.

s church, a lovely stone structure with
thick stone buttresses and
yen no the National
I hoped that we w 1gilling

one goal fo! 5 su menting a cultural

value, "the contribution made by an historic propé

ongoing society - “for an histo:
at may not have been dat the time
was nominated” (Guidel consideration

lue in Historic Preservation Revies

thrilled that Boyd and I were
ng and issues of cultural

together with our

nintuitively-selected" sample areas of study left me

1d about formal and technical aspects of the

ing the
y settled down to
sted" areas. We
where two cemeteries
the road were large and
stopping. These are calli
‘lara cemetery respectively, one Pro
lic, with h
flowers
Kalb field notes (8/21/85) n headed on
the county
g those Las Ve: at seemed the most
(after, a

lo and her

hich

Our field approach remained intuitive.
g if my purpose during the survey was to

folklife field techniques as well as to collect

of folklife, which was absolutely fine. But as

asking about the history of the village,

probing about homesteading, we were directed to

lternately refer to as “lower Mosquero" or
" where old homesteading sites lie. When
at five, I suggested to Boyd that we go
an idea of what the
vs meant when they describ: omestead and

s which they claimed wer 1 stai The

description of this Canyon is taken from

As we drove out of "town," or the place where current
Mosqueroites live, we drove down into the canyon. We
passed some broken corrals and some lush green trees
which grew up around the creek, and a gorgeous

pocket of water, which Boyd said Erma referred to as a
swinming hole. ‘About 8-15 miles down into the canyon,
we arrived at uit series of old stone houses,

acalitos and two mobile hones.

stone house with a
4 e outbuil nd it and

(vertical log constiu
looked like it might have had an exten:
side. Across the road was a stone
had Some... iron farming implene

act, ie. a wagon and hayrick.

The place was not boarded up, yet not real
mod : We were curious as to whom

the road in bac he house, which he
din the late 19th c, After Boyd

it back, exactly wh

pressed into ¢ 5 Beside this

ie right was a cattle guard and a cow
post. I took a

such display we had

was simp]:
ctangular stru h a window on each gable
and two windows ai joors on the front.... Both
ous why one room had
to each Nother, especially since we had sean so many
‘oughout New Me: Gutside, around the front of
je house, stones were arranged to demarcate some sort
of front yard space. To the rear and right side rear
of the house were old wooden corrals and a wire fenced
in area. From the "front yard" of the house you cou
see no roads, not even the one that drove up to it
f to the right were mountains converging in a
and the light of the early evening made t)
Off in the distance a coyote was howling. The setting
was exquisite. (Kalb, field notes, 8/22/85)

In Mosquero Canyon, Boyd and I discovered a source for
tural attribu:
inuity between past and present

equent interviewing in the village of Mosquero

and log structures were pa
homesteads the reason a couple of these
homesteads, particulary those of the Garcias and

Cordovas, were not boarded up was because they were still
used, perhaps not for everyday use but definitely as a part
of everyday life. Used as grazing land and headquarters for
running cattle and as areas for hunting, recreation and

reunions (all represent tterns of “adaptive

e-use" of older "traditional" buildings),,we found the

es in the Canyon to represent for the peo} Mosquero
a deeply felt sense of place and belonging.
With this thematic and synthesizing relationship between
present in mind, Boyd and I seemed freer to pursue
information for our separate disciplinary and institutional
realms. Boyd could explore matters of building form,
materials, cons ‘hnigue and I could look for
mestic life associated

1a ourselves

ttlement and fin
buildings themselves. We found it difficult

We also became deeply 0 ne people.

Still, feeling responsible for and intrigued by another

challenge of our survey--to define intangible cul

attributes in a somewhat systematic way, ino!
ment the methods of an historic buildings

lect itens of folklife and grou
nres", or expressive categories.

I dié not divide the genres between the Hispani:

surrounding Mosquero and the more easterly Angi

towns where we al events as a

Livestock Auction and R However, cei

make a pres @ areas and not in

following is a some of the ".

(as well as "tangibles' than bi

with

variety described by J. Frank Dobie in The
Rattlesnakes (1965,1982) where the dagger points
of a yucca are jabbed into the flesh all about the
wound to let the poison out, with kerosene then
applied. (Dobie 1982, p. 27 - noted by Boyd Pratt)
ability of local animals, notably roadrunners (the
state animal), and horny toads (chameleons in
Spanish) to kill rattlesnakes. The horny toads are
believed to kill rattlesnakes by

the snakes! skin with th ns when

swallows them.

easure Tales

being hanged and escaping

and shot

eved to have been hung

Hunting. Antelope hunt canyon

and on ranches south of Clayton (providing the
hunter has a
Saturday night Da

Hunting small game an
rbecue in a pit. Also cooking beans in a p:

Description of Wagon Mound Bean Day Celebration

in MOIFA Archives. (L. Kalb field notes, 8/21/8

ning fruit and vegetables. Judging preserves at

anations for wh ru ts name. In English,

Mosquero means fly. One explanation for this name
is that the buff. anyon?) below

looked flies when m the villat

8 bench" which rests in front of the
general store. It is called "the Bank" from the
Spanish word for bench one of the 5
sitters has earned the title of "Bank Presi

ench seems to repre purce for playing

fon and "the sizing up" of outsiders, one
Halloween, for example, the bench was stolen
time, the "bankers" tried to move the
m its unshaded place in front of the
e under the awning of

Erma's cafe. low th

Family Folklore

raphs-in the
al store.
albus

ssing on land and homes to the younger

on-the question of “who gets it?".

ation (W.:

ings of cowboy scenes

Tools

Country western
Thou

I was skeptical st of listing intangible
attributes of culture in inventory form, for fear of
"Elattening out" folklife of the area rather than "fleshi

it out", i.e. adding context and depth to historic
buildings, Z ult: nd this item-oriented approach to
our folklife/his preservation survey quite effective,

if used in conju 2 ly of folk process.

of each area took

nt forms rv to Mosquero
developed into an "in-dept! small place where we
tried to address the theme of a

past, through buil

the place, and f:
depth visit we paid to age with Cai

phauer, folklife and med! st from the

center at the Library of

town of Clayton and some of its
surrounding towns, on the other hand, took a more wide
ranging approacl c 7 te places suc!
as general stores, , and documented
arge folk events s

and a rodeo. Although we

rivate ranches, we ended up not having the t:

this. Our visits to the Clayton area were fewer and sh

than those to Mosqu 14 the population we encounti
clayton was larg

Because of th e in the types of areas we studied

and the c researching them, the
item-or. sting intangible cultural
attributes for the e fered a chance to paint our

area of study with a broad brush, so to speak, to offer

folklife of the entire area. In
listing intangible cultural attributes for the northeast, I
found that many cut across the division of Hispano Catholic
ranchhands and Anglo cattlemen. Legends, recreation and
foodways in general, and Black Jack Ketchum stories,
antelope hunting and cooking barbecue in a pit in
lar, could be found in Mosquero as well as in
Rodeos and county fairs took place in Harding

county as well as in Union County. All were trad!

practiced today and all were traditions that had been in
Now what 0}

ent of the project, we took an
roach used for ing a region's vernacular
chitectural forms and applied it to the mapping of
ble cultural attributes, yet in doing so we had

rnacular buil

industrial hou:
n closed. We drew sketches
we visited in
Canyon, and we reco: for
construc historic (more than 50 years old) homes and
churches throughout the Spanish villages along route 65/104.
We even snapped a few pictures of a mobile home with r
led on and covered with stucco. still, I am left
questions for this survey regarding the synthesis
tectural history and folklife. These questions,

ever, are nos informed.

We narrowed down our comprehensive drive through
Northeast (I believe we drove down eve!
two "reconnaissance" field

studies of two areas

intuition" and attempted methodologically to
integrate folklife research into an historic preservation
survey. Having successfully used material folk culture
methods of mapping for documenting intangible attributes of
culture, we were also able to record historic structures.
But only after we found a way to integrate folklife fiel
research into the historic buildings overview did we find
ourselves ready to apply material folk culture methods of

mapping to material folk culture--i.e. vernacular

By the end of the survey and after a few discussi:
carl Fleischhauer of the American Folklife Center dui

visit here, issues of vernacular process and building
syncretism (the mixing of styles and forms) became clear

The following questions arose. While, for example, the e:
houses in Mosquero Canyon, the vertical log structures
plastered with adobe called jacales, represented vernacular
building types from the Rio Gr:

flat viga roofs did).

Hispanic (the Ga: 0s, Vigils a1

own ers at first glance seemed to

of buildings which doesn't appear part of their own
traditions fr th central New Mexico. The st
ymmetrical house type came into the area from somewhere
se, perhaps from Oklahoma, Texas, Ci
same states which share the 5-State livestock auction in
Clayton and the same states which experienced pioneer
jomesteading in the late nineteenth century. Further,
although most of the Catholic churches in and aro
Nosquero were made of stone (instead of the adobe used in
the north-central part of the state), we found an adobe
constructed church as far east as Hayden which lies along
Route 18). But in Hayden, the churchgoers were German rat
than Hispanic (we drew our evidence from the names on the

Another vexing question that came up had to do with mobile
homes. One of the homestead owners from Mosquero jokingly
referred to the jacales in the canyon as "early mobile

" When people first came to homestead, often

homes
took hold of more than one property. The vertical log
houses could be dismantled and moved readily. The vertical
log construction, however, was never really meant to be
seen. As soon as the structure was built, it was the
woman's job to plaster the exterior and the interior with
mud (and in some cases pulverized stone). “This 150 year old
tradition seems analagous to a more modern m. The
aluminum mobile home we documented in Mosquero that was
covered over with stucco was almost invisible
the exterior Ba 4 ma,
Trujillo, Ca: 9 he impression
that she did n In an
she discussed the
couple at marriage and acquiring one's : A mobile
e would be the first step toward this

the mobile home could be an eff

betwee!
and folklife research. More work,
however, now needs to be done. Land titles of the area and
story of homesteading must be researched and building
We need to find patterns in the
ef the region and link them to former and
folklife practices. These are tasks I must now

leave for the cultural geographer and the architectural

istorian and simply hope that we can continue work on this

ing synthesis in the future.

NDATIONS FOR FUTURE WORK
ng our visits to the northeast, we were welcomed by
administrators and teachers from two schools. Timothy
Raftery, Superintendant of the Mosquero Public School,
not only directed us to nearby housing accommodations, he
offered high enthusiasm and support for our project. We
@iscussed curriculum with Mr. R
emphasized the listing of a new course specif
Mexico history. Also, Raftery mentioned that h
a native of Santa Rosa, ran a bilingual program in the
school where students learned Spanish as well as English
grammar. (Raftery claimed that about 85% of the school's
population was Further, Sonia, Raftery's wife,
had her own keen interest in folklore, having done a paper
yn tales of La Llorona. After a somewhat lengthy discussion
of the Mosquero School curriculum and the Northeast Sector
Overview, we all seemed eager to communicate the contents
(4.e, local tradition) of our survey to the nildren:
ought it would be interesting to define folklore for the
children and then perhaps let them share with us some of the
folklore they know--both from the viejos and their own forms
of shared conmunication. Both Raftery and Boyd thought this
was a good idea. The only thing Raftery requ
if we ask something of the child: x something back
to them--what about a slide show? Boyd and I thought th:
was an excellent idea, and really the best way to articulate
folklore for schoolchildren, especially if it has to do with
their own neighborhood. Raftery offered us a subscription to
the Mosquero school newspaper, which extends its focus from
the school to general community life, Boyd gave Raftery a

contribution for this gift and the next week when we saw the

Raftery family. at the Harding County Fair, Sonia interviewed

for us to an article she w

the school newspape!

During our visit to the Clayton County Fair
made the acquaintance of a Mrs. Joanne Butt
judging preserves in the County Fairgrounds

photographed and interviewed Mrs. Butt, she b

interview me and became intrigued by our survey. Mrs. Butt
then explained that she was the Clayton County home
economics teacher and that since I was interested in folk
art, I might like to visit her school. There was lots of
Works Project Administration furniture and crafts still
being used in the school and in fact she thought the school
itself might have been built during the WPA.

end of the day, Boyd and I followed Mrs. Butt in her
pickup to Clayton y High School, where indeed some
beautiful examples of WPA chairs and desks, tables and
bookshelves were in use in offices. Edges of some furniture
1 the objects were in vi
ting mural covered a wall in the
school cafeteria (post-WPA) and supposedly some more
excellent examples ture remained in the libra:

(unfortunately that

, Mrs. Butt took us into the home
which consisted of three huge rooms and one
‘This area had more WPA tables
of silvervork and
put away in the closet. Ni
‘from anyone who wanted to see
it, Mrs. Butt simply concerned herself with how to take care
of it. She valued these objects of history and didn't want
them to disappear, or to deteriorate. In fact, Mrs. Butt

valued a group of placemats so highly she used her own
method to preserve them. She cut up their embroidered
and had them framed.

joya. and I were somewhat
on techniques, we a
yn. When we ask
to be a wealth of WPA crafts in the school,
irs. Butt mentioned a few names of concerned parties (these
names are in my field notes) saying that the shop teacher
taught the children how to repair broken

was struck by Mrs. Butt's devotion to

preserving these objects and Boyd suggested we talk to.a
museum conservator about preservation advice. As Mrs. But!
had mentioned the past existence of an artist-in-the-school
working in Clayton, the thought occurred to me that perhaps
id also benefit by a preservationist-in-
the-school, someone who worked with teachers and students
teaching them to care for and identify their own local

traditions and material folk culture.

Because of such strong inti from both schools (Mrs. Butt

introduced us to the Clayton High School principal ané other
administrators, who all seemed encouraged by our project) in
the nature of our survey, it seems that these would be fine
places to present a slide lecture and perhaps to create a

ocess for conducting folklife interviews in the schools

that we need more time to work up a slide lecture

discovering

the data are more comple’

© benefits of this lecture would include a contribution to
e museum's continued goal of community outreach, the
creation of a product developed from a New Mexico Folklife
Archive, and in turn the development of a model for future
surveys and, P y, exhibits. If this plan is a
which is something both Boyd and I hope for, the most

convenient time would be some time in Spring 1986.

he project have been indexed

no prior arrangement was made for

rated bulk of tapes during the

y master's paper on
Lib)

Northeast Sector overview
Color Slides -- Ektachrome 400
by Laurie Kalb
Submitted to the Museum of International
Library, September, 1985

August 9, 1985
1 Methodist church - stone, pitched roof - Johnson Mesa
2 = Highway a on
Mesa
ist Church, in field - Johnson Mesa
bin (angular view) - horizontal log
onstruction, poor notiching, pitched roof
windows
cabin (angular view) - horizontal 10
construction, poor notching, pitched roof, no
windows
cabin (frontal view) - horizontal log
construction, poor notching, pitched roof
windows ~ side addition - vertical construction
road ties?), w id window.
(gable) = hor construction, one
e door - rear lean-to addition - vertical
tion (railroad ties?)

shingle rooves

Hayden Catholic Church Holy Trinity (Sunday in
June) - Adobe con:
used, c Used by descendants of
German Catholic honesteaders.

Hayden Catholi the Holy Trinity (sunday in
june) - (angular view) adobe construction, shingle
roof, Gothic windows. Cemetery off to rear right.
One gravestone seems to be a concrete niche with a
glass window. We couldn't make out what was
inside.

Hayden Soh: facing church (right side if
facing the roa tension is one room.
Adobe construction, shingle roof.

Bueyeros Catholic church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
n June). Still used, priest out of Roy. (wii
Hispanic parishioners, as evidenced by such nanes
as Garcia, Archuleta and Maes on the gravestones
in the cemetery to the rear and right of the
hureh) Stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola.

Bueyeros Catholic’ Church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in dune) - stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola
Why was Fiesta in August

August 10, 1985 continued

Bueyeros Catholic Church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in June) (right rear view). Stone, pitched roof,
wooden cuopla. Note heavy stone buttressing along
the nave wall.

Camposanto - Bueyeros? to rear of church? to the
right?

Grave in (Bueyeros?) Camposanto. Note metal army
memorial in right foreground. Grave to the right
westone of Nanuel and Adelaida Archuleta
Bueyeros Camposanto. Note burial arrangement -
Head to head? Feet to foot?

conerete gravestone, with rose engraved on top.
Bueyeros Camposanto?

2 concrete slabs arranged in a cross. Held up by
tones. Bueyeros Camposanto.

Bunny Rabbit in front of Bueyeros Catholic Church.

August 13, 1985

2

General store and - (frontal
view) - Maes
General store and possible home as well. (rear and
je view)
2estory bar adobe, second floor stone -
Adobe House and Barn with Rock Water Table - Maes
of Lean-to Addition of Adobe House and Barn with
Rock Water Table ~ i
hand, lives? - Maes
“bunkhouse”? =

Apostol Santiago Church - Maes, Stuccoed, Sacristy
Camposanto to the rear. Picket fen

Apostol Santiago church - Maes (see 29, above)
Apostol Santiago Church - Maes (right Side view) Roof

buttress, Apostol Santiago church
Note adobe brick construction.

crumbling left front buttress, Apostol Santiago Church
= Maes. Note adobe brick construction.

Interior Nave with church furniture, Apostol Santiago
Church - Maes

Interior Nave with church furniture, Apostol Santiago
Church - Maes

Interior trapezoidal apse with church furniture,
‘Apostol Santiago Church - Maes

Gravestone of Maes family member, in back of Apostol
Santiago Church ~ Maes

Gravestone behind Apostol Santiago Church - Maes

3 room L-shaped house with two rooms in back (frontal
view) ~ Maes

3 room L-shaped house with two rooms in back (right
side view) - Maes

corral, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Maes

Corral, next to 3 room L-shaped house - Maes

Cattle’ skin on fence gate - leaving Maes

198s

Corral made of tires - Highway 54/18 - between Logan
casa Blanca Motel - Logan
Casa Blanca Motel with mural of New Mexico history on
right side wall ~ Logan
"Polk Art" mailbox - cowboy and horse.
Cowboy made out of old car muffler;
made out of mop - Highway 3
Gallegos
Folk Art" mailbox - Cowboy and horse (left h
(See 47, above, and also note brand mark on
horse's left rear) - Highway 397. betwes
and Gallegos
k Art" mailbox - Cowboy and horse (right hand
ew) (See 47 and 48 above) - Highway 39? between
Logan and Gallegos
ik Art" mailbox = Horse with brand on left
Alamocita Ranch along Highway 39? between
and Gallegos
1k Art" mailbox of horse in front of gate to
Alanocita Ranch - Highway 397
Gallegos
Interior of Gallegos catholic Church of Immaculate
Concepcion (December 8). - Gallegos
elebrated on Assumption (August 15).
priest out of Roy. Gallegos family grave
Surrounded by white fence in center. San Jose or
San Antonio on grave. Exquisite plaster images
Gravestone from Gallegos camposanto, (where was the
Gallegos camposanto? On what side of the church?)
Facade of Erma's Coffee Shop - Main St., Art Pai
‘two boys in pictui
Facade of Erma's Coff = (See #54)
(Zima Trujillo's
aunt),

August 15, 1985

57 - Choosing preserves for judging. Barn on Clayt!
County fairgrounds. Union County Fair - Clayton.

58 - (Assistants) presenting preserves to judges. (note
the age difference between assistants and judges.
Assistants in this case were young married owmen.
Judges were older homemakers) Barn on Clayton
County Fairgrounds. Union County Fair - Clayton

(Assistants) holding up jar of beets to be judged.
Barn on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union County
Fair - Clayton.

Mrs. Joanne Butt and other judge juding beets. Barn
on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union County Fair
= clayton

Joanne Butt and other judge judging beets -
Clayton (seo #60)
Joanne Butt and other judge judging pears (7)
Barn on Clayton Cot rounds. Union County

af breads in barn on Clayton County
grounds. Union County Fair ~ Clayton

udging loaf cakes i

(See #64 above)

(See #64 and 65 above)

Union county Fair ~
(See #67 above)
Setting up vegetables for judging
n Clayton n Union County
Arrangements of Beans and Vegetables in Clayton County
fairgrounds barn at Un:
Arrangement of beans in
‘nat Union County
Judging (?) vegetables in barn at Cl
Pairgrounds. Union County Fair -
Arrangement of prize-winning on
fairgrounds barn, Union County
Judging Baked Goods (7) in cl
barn, Union County Fair -
Club’ Display of Fashions
Fairgrounds barn,
Club Display of international
County Fairgrounds barn, Uni
Claytor
Setting up a County Extension Homemakers’ Display of
How to Make Beef Jerky. (Recipes were typed,
xeroxed and passed out) in Clayton County.
Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair - Clayton
Display of How to Make Beef Jerky - Clayton (See #78
above)
county Extension Homenakers' Club Display in Clayton
County Fairgrounds barn, Union County Fair ~
Clayton
(see #80 above)
Third Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton
Blue Ribbon Quilt (first prize)
Union County Fair - Clayton
Second Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton

August 21, 1985

- Santa Clara Cemetery (Catholic) -Wagon Mound. Fence
of volcanic rock surrounding white cross.

Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound. (See #85)

Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.
Note depiction of stone house, vertical log barn
and cow on stone. Also, French nano

Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.
(see #87)

Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.

World War T palaque.
with Plastic Flowers in front of
Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.

Egg Carton Vase with Plastic Flowers, Santa Clara
Cemetery = Wagon Mound. (See #90)

Grave covered with Astro Turf, Santa Clara Cemetery -
Wagon Mound.

Grave covered with Astro Turf, Santa Clara Cemetery -
Wagon Mound.

Grave covered with Astro Turf, Sa cemetery -
Wagon Nound. (Compare with #92 and 93)

Ledoux grave adorned w. n Santa
Clara Cemetery

Hand Carved Tombstone, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon

Fraker Gravestone, Santa Clara Cemetery (section
toward the road) - Wagon Mound. Finely carved
depiction of 01 cattle. Epitaph
“Vanguard of Santa Fe Trail, 185!
1868.

Fraker Grave, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon Mound.

Mrs. Fraker's grave to the right of Mr.

‘aker's (Note difference in size and
construction). "Wagon Mound” formation in
background

Jacal at Joe Cordova's place, Canyon de Mosquero
(front side) is this oné L-shaped structure or
two Jacals stuck together? Note the thickness
and the mud and log layers of the roof. (Spiegel

talog paper used to wallpaper the interior

ling - CF photographed this).
1 at Joe Cordova's place, with Boyd Pratt
measuring? - Canyon de Mosquero (See #99)

Joe Cordova's stone house - Canyon de Mosquero. Note

of over left door. Underlying symmetry of,
facade - 2 doors, 2'windows. (This house is
about 100 feet to the right of the Cordova
jacal.)

Left Rear and 2 Stone storehouses at Cordova's place -
Canyon de Mosquero. (See #101)

Rear and Storehouse of Joe Cordova's place - Canyon de
Mosquero (See #101 and 102)

Adobe "Chicken Coop" at Cordova's Place - Canyon de
Mosquero (across the road from houses)

Interior of Adobe “Chicken Coop" at Joe Cordova's
place = Canyon de Mosquero. Structure for he!
lay eggs in (what is this called?) and ladder
(See #104).
Rear of Joe Cordova's "Chicken Coop," with Wooden
Wagon - Canyon de Mosquero. (See #104 and 10:
Rear of Joe Cordova's "Chicken Coop, ‘h Wooden
Wagon - Canyon de Mosquero. (See #104, 105 and

fence gate, along road to the left of Joe
ace ~‘Canyon de Mosque:

de on fence gate, a he left of

Cordova's place ~’canyon de Monguero

1985

illo and His Wax Sculpture on "The Bench"
of his general store - Mosquero (See
10-112).
pture on "The Bench" in
= Mosquero (See

€ the General store on Main
Stret - Mosquero. ‘The carvings on the front
whittle marks by the people who
(See #113 and 114)
(gable?) of San Jose Catholic ch
Nosqu
Transom Light with Diamoné-shaped Leading above
door of San Jose Catholic Church - Mosquero (See
#116).
Stone Altar of the Blessed Virgin Mother, in the
right hand churchyard of San Jose Catholic Church

andy

Anton:
‘Trujillo's General Store, § = Mosquero.

Antonio Trujillo and Boyd “the Bench" in

1 Store, Main

Street

antonio Trujill yn “The Bench" ~
Mosquero (Sze #

Antonio Trujillo and Boyd Pratt on "The Bench" -
Mosquero (See #121 & 122)

Antonio Trujillo and Boyd Pratt on "The Bench” -
Mosquero (See #121 - 123)

Andy Trujillo and Boyd Pratt in front of General
Store, Wain Street - Mosquer

126 - Underside of "The Bench" in front of. rujillo's
General Store, Main Street - Mosquero.
127 - Underside of "The Bench" - Mosquero (See #126)
128 - Underside of "The Bench” - Mosquero (See 126 - 128)
August 23, 1985
Horse Competition, Harding Coun
Pet Show Contestant, Harding County Fair - Roy.
Pet show Contestant, Harding County Fair - Roy (See
).
Pet Show Contestant, Harding County Fair - Roy (Se
1 and 132).
Judges’ Booth and Judges? at pen where Pet Show is
hel ling County Fair - Roy.
8" Booth and Judges” at pen where Pet Show is
held, Harding County Fair - Roy (See #134)
s Pet Show, his pet and his
iarding County Fair ~ Roy (See

ing on fence watching the Children's
Harding County Fair - Roy.
eing Produce Display 001 Gym, Harding
County Fair - Roy
Produce Contestant and ing Produce
Display, Roy Schoo! Harding County Fair -
Roy. (See #139)
Produce Contesta! y (Grandson?) Eyeing Produce
Display, Roy School Gym, Harding County Fair
y. (See #139)
Produce Contestai ratt discussing produce,
Roy Schoo: County Fair - Roy. (See
#139 and 140)
owassa Heimann Agricultural Extension Agent
u (and Harding? two other
g baked goods, Roy School Gym,
Fair ~ Roy.
143 - Old Post Office - Sabinoso.
144 - Old Post Office - Sabinoso (see #143).

August 25, 1985

14s - ving ayo Santuario.
by Jose Gallegos.

146 - Painting of Nicho, by Jaramillo. Fer:

Painting of Nicho, by pez de Jaramillo.
Artesana - Albuquerque. (See #146)

Unpainted carving of animals in procession
(religious?) "Untitled" Gallery Piece by Jose
Garcia. Feria Artesana - Albuquerque.

Unpainted Relief Carving of “The Last Supper."
Artist? Gallery Piece, Feria Artesana -
Albuquerque.

Retablo by Charlie Carrillo. Gallery Piece, Feria
Artesana - Albuquergue
Santo Nino de Atocha, by Ida Montoya. Gallery Piece,
Feria Artesana - Al
San Miguel and the Dn Eulogio and Zoraida
ega. Galle: eria Artesana ~
Albuquerque

oper, Gallery Piece
‘this is the £1:

de los Dolores, by
Feria Artesana ~ Albuquerque.

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY

Ahlborn, Richard C. The Penitente Moradas of Abiquiu.
(Washington: smithsonian Institution Press, US
Government Printing Office, 1968).

Bedichek, Roy. Adventures with a Texas Naturalist. (Garden
NY: Doubleday, 1974)

Stephen P. Poyser, Approaches to the
Aspects of Anerican Folk culture,
12, Numbers 2 and 3, 1979.

Bainbridge. Early Architecture in New Mexico.
(Aipuquerque: ‘university of New Mexico Press, 1976).

: Of Barth and ‘Timbers Nade: New Mexico
Brchitecture (Albuguerque: University of New Mexic
Press, 1974)

Taos Adobes: Spanish Colonial and

Center, 1964).

Cabeza de Vaca, Fabiola.
University of New Mexico Press, 1954).

Carison, Alvan Ward. "New Mex
Its Role in the Histor
Historical Review XLIV:1

Daudet, Lula Collins and Ruth
ahd_a Silver Spoon ( 2 n 7 1980)

Deetz, James. In Small Things Forgotten: the archaeology of

arly Anerican Life. (Garden City, NY: Doubleday,
1977)

Dobie, J. Frank, Rattlesnakes. (Austin: University of Texas
Press 1965,1982).

Dorson, Richard g olk1ige, An
Introduction. go and London: University of

Chicago Press, 1972).

of American Folklore.
(sloomington: indian University Press, 1983)

lis, George F. The Bell Ranch As I Knew It. (Kansas Cit
Missouri: The Lowell Press, 1973).

Evans, Max. ‘The Hi Lo Country (Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press, 1983).

Fife, Austin and Alta and Henry Glassie, eds. Forms Upon the
Frontier. Folklife and Folk arts in the United states.
(Logan: Utah State University Press, 1963).

Foote, Cheryl J. "Mission Teacher of the Southwest. Alice
Blake of Trementina, New Mexico" Journal of Presbyterian
History (forthcoming, as of October 1982).

Foust, Juana. Prairie Chronicle (New York: Putnam, 1932).

Glassie, Henry. Folk Housing in Middle Virginia: A
Structural Analysis of Historic artifacts. (Knoxvilll
The University of Tennessee Press, cs

Passing the Time in Balleymenone, Culture

and History of An Olster community. (Philadelphia:
versity of Pennsylvania Press, 1982).

in the Material Folk Culture of the
versity of

Pennsylvania Press, 1968).

Goldstein, Kenneth S. A Guide for Field Workers in Folklore
(Hatboro, Pennsylvania: Folklore Associates, Ti
1964)

servation of Traditiona) Cultural Values
ic Preservation Review, Historic Preservation
ice, Braft, August 1, 1985.

Jabbour, Alan and Howard W. Marshall. Folklife and Cultural
Préservation," New Directions in Rural Preservation.
Publication 2 Heritage

1980), 43-50.

ckson, J. B., ed. The Essent iscape (Santa Fe:

Museum of New Mexico Press,

The Necessity of Ruins and other Topics.
(amherst: The University of Massachusetts Press,
980).

kniffen, Fred. "The Western Cattle Complex: Notes on
Differentiation and Diffusion," Western Folklore Vol.
12, July 1953: 179-185.

zzell, Ruleen. "Life on a Homestead: Memories of Minnie

X. crisp," New Mexico Historical Review Vol. 54: 1
(is79), 59-65.

Loomis, Ormond, H. Cultural Conservation: The Protection of
Cultural Heritage in_t ‘States (Washington,
rary of congress,

Marshall, Howard Wight and John Michael Vlach. "Towards a
Folklife Approach to American Dialects," American

Speech 48 (197 4, 163-191.

‘Oxford University

Southwest. Three Peoples in Geographical
GPaRGS IEOU=1970. (New York, To a Toront

Montell, Wil:
University of Tennessee Press, 1970)

cal Review, Women's Issue. Vol. 57: 4,
(october 1982).

New Mexico Writers' Project. New Mexico: A Guide To The
ity of New Mexico

1 New Mexico,
Vol. 35, mi

“Sheep Husbandry in New Nexico,
Conclusion. pp.
Mex

T.M., ed. New Mexico P
onary. (Albuquerque:
Press, 1965).

Poulsen, Richard C. The Pure Experience

"Sacred Heart Parish (Bueyeros) and St. Joseph's
(Mosquero) 1900-1950" from Father D. Raun,
Parish, Roy, NM.

Carl 0. Selected Essays 1963-1975 (Berkeley: Turtle
island Foundation, 1981), particularly Chapter 4 "The
American Historical Geographer."

Simmons, Marc. Following The Santa Fe Trail: A Guide for
Modern Travelers. (Santa Fe: Ancient City Press,

1984).

aditional Attributes Conservation: A Substitute for
Preservation Tax Incentive for the Pacific Territories.
August 1984.

Tuan, Yi-Fu, Segmented Worlds and Self. Group Life and
dividual Consei (Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press,

2. Modern Honesteaders. The Life of a Twentie!

Century Frontier community (cambr
Bress of Havaré Ui y Press,

Wallner, Judy ed. Tillie: An American Life
by Tillie Simon, (Roy,
1981).

Waybourn, Marilu and Vernetta Mickey.
100 Fairs
county Fair Association, 1984).

Webb, Walter Prescott, The Great Plains (New York: Ginn and

co., 1931)

Weigle, Marta, ed a be and Samuel Larcombe
nohistory in the Southwest (Sa
Fe: A Press, 1983).

Westphal, Victor, The Public Dom

(Albuquerque!

Williams, Jerry L. and Paul E. McAllister, eds. New
Mexico in Maps (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico
Press, 1973).

Zelinsky, Wilbur. The Cultural Geograp!

bibliography represents a synthesis of the sources Boy
discussed during our survey, many of which were lis
a the bibliography Boyd prepared’ p: fieldwork.
Tt also includes sour d related subjects
when I

effort to incorporate
elements of culture into an historic
preservation survey, and to seek methodological
mandated goal of "cultural conservation."
avel. Repo! ember 2,
United stat

New Mexico and I, folklife
y the Museun of International
architecture, folk art and folklife field survey methods £
the purposes of amplifying the documentation and
servat state's cultural heritage (Laur
of

will supplemen

iding data on homestead

who began ey b n June and
led an exte

architecture, geography and some folklife of the

eagerly yet cautiously anticipated the inclusion

folklife component in his survey. (Boyd Pra

Folklife on the High Plains?", August 5, 1985)

carl Fleischhauer's "Thoughts on Folklife study i

Surveys" (April 2, 1985) and pondered

methodological distinction between “comprehensive
inventories," which are usually associated with SHPO
tectural surveys--where words like "all" and "every"
are used with confidence for the purposes of inventorying,
and "in-depth" studies, or case-studies often associated

th folklife- where perhaps one performance or

craft-related activity is examined for depth of insight,

tried earnestly but in vain to place our survey on the
logical line.

Though Boyd's longer survey was to be comprehensive,
attempting an overview of all historic buildings in the
, our folklife/archit 1 history survey could not
be. In six weeks it would have been impossible to docum

‘an area of nearly 10,000 square miles, which includes six
coun Narrowing down, on the other hand, our study area
to one or a few settlement areas or building types did not
necessarily mean an in-depth approach or results. Aft
Boyd rightfully quandaried, "many of the buildings
will encounter in this area are abandoned, their
ce scattered to nearby towns or farth
structure may be abandoned, and yet sti
can we say that of a way of
just relegate it to the field of
Further, Boyd wondered,
July celebrations--what
significant to the folkways of the region?" (P
there Folklife?" p. 1 an Anticipating a folklife
component that "shoul etically do the same" thing as
longer historic survey--identify possible folk
4: worthy of recordation, evaluation and protecti
be

recommendations for future inventories of all possible

so that the ultimate goal of the survey will
folkways in the area, Boyd was concerned with where and how
to find these tradi

Though I was sympathetic to Boyd's varying concerns over the
largeness of our area, the short amount of time we had for

the folklife component of the longer historic buildings

survey and the underpopulation of the area, I was not so
daunted by his questions concerning the existence of
folklife. Considering folklore and folklife (which
encompass a lot of "intangible" cultural resources)
alternatively as "items of expressive behavior
ballads, legends, nursery rhymes and the like, or
“artistic communication in small groups" I under
it to be a communicative process resulting from human
I was certain that wherever we £ group of
store, working a ranch or even stopped
by a roadside in a pickup as well as at a holiday event,
hat we would surely find folklore and folklife. And
ably, where we found people in east sector, we
would find e and folklife at he abandoned
ibed in such abundance, these crumbling
dings had to be part of the cultural

mained, however. How to

tap folklife of the area when the folklife.
the project, Boyd researched the
theast sector and applied Henry Glassie's
ion 1k materia which “exhibits major
tion ov e time’

(Glassie, Patterns in the Material

aster ted States, 1968), to folk
for
associated w
‘The tent:

"This method of mapping folk traditions is popular among
scholars interested in regionalism, larly among those

dying dialects. This form of ver ession would be

useful & ment along with architecture, especially now

when the 2 large among

interested in conserving their language.

touns. We immediately deleted mining towns (many of them
were gated up and the populations too dispersed) from what
we had decided would be a "sampling" of the area and at the

nd of the first week I arrived on the project, we went to

afte sance" trips during which we travelled
600 miles each time and visited at least 30 towns and
illages (four of these towns:
Tucumcari could be considered what ai
Redfield might call "Big Communities" as opposed to other
illages or "Little nded economically
nd socially on the larger ones), we found that our folk
group breakdown was we in fact
at many Hisp that
lo cattle ranchers
anchers and Hispanic shepherd:
Despite, however, our early misconcep’
community breakdowns, th
and occupation seemed
agreed that our somewha

the area was the

into our study. Further,
exaggeration to say that c eople in the

sector live $0 miles from their nearest neig!

As, however, Boyd and I settled on two rather than three
communities to focus on--these being the group of Spanish
villages that thrust east of Las Vegas, ones that lie

jely along rte 65/104 with Hispano Catholic churches that

still considered’part of the Roy Mission, and the group

€ Anglo towns and ranches that lie south of Cla along
rte 18, with town representatives attending such large
community events as the Clayton County Fair, Five States
Livesto nan Day Rodeo and who often

consider thenselves more "Texan" than "New Mexicai

reas: area breakdown had less and less to do with

architecture. We seemed to have identified clusters of

communities by such acceptable folklore methods as social
tworks, ethnicity, and religio

city-village dependency similar

Robert Redfield found for c

(Robert Redfield, The Fol e Yucatan), but we

moved farther and farther away from identifying a connec!

ectural history and folklife.

he social uses of certain
y churches in the Spanish villages
(or

nal

years)

vesperes--services held on the e day of

church's patron saint (even in 4 villages
churchgoers from Sa and Harding Counties attend the
e church and the image
£ the Pi
service, the parishioners gather for a meal to whic
all ibuted a "covered dish") but we learned of thi
tradition through my questioning Raymond Gutierrez, ranch
ne Oberg Ranch in Gallegos, about four piles of
ashes we had seen the week before laid out

nt of the Bueyeros

this building by examining its form, constr
We learned about it only by studying other

cultural attributes

ill, as the Bueyeros church (a lovely stone structure with
Wooden cupola, thick stone buttresses and
chic windows) had already been nominated for the National
Register, I hoped that we were fulfill:
for this survey-that of documenting a cultural vali

an historic property to an

have been recosi

ominated (Guidelines for Co tion onal

cultural Value F August 1,
1985, p.5). I was

so closely folk traditions and issues of cultural value, but
hese emphases together with our “intuitively-selected”
sample areas of study left me somewhat cold about formal and
technical aspects of the region hitecture.

My concern over this lack was somewhat abated during the
nird week of our project when we finally settled down to
conduct surveys of our “in| vely-selected” areas. After
a brief visit to Wagon Mound, where two cemeteries visible

m the road were large and colorful enough to warrant ou:
stopping (They were called Hillside and Santa Clara cemetery

respectively, one Protest:
cemetery imaginatively decorated and adorned, w.
vases filled with plastic flowers and astro turf
g the graves, like personal folk gardens) (See Kalb
field notes (8/21/85), we headed on to Mosquero, the count;
seat of Harding County and the village among those east of

6 that seemed t populated and the most

appealing for our s er, all we'd had an enjoyable

unch in Erma's cafe the week before, the only cafe we could
65/104, and both Brma Trujillo and her friend
Byrd seemed able and willing to offer their historic
insights into the village and its surroundin,

elf was another clue to definable bound

purpose during the survey was
niques as well as to colle
h was absolutely fine-but as we kept asi
t the history of the village, in particular probing
© homesteading, we were directed to what Nosquerites
alternately refer to as “lower Mosquero” or "Mosquero

fon," where old homestesding sites lie. when

Pei
yn, to get more of an idea of what
villagers meant when they described a homestead and
\gged life" associated with many
still standing.

is taken from

, we drove down into the

beyond so!

old stone

le homes

ally at two settlements--one
ich consisted of a one story stone house with a pitched

roof, an outbuildin stone) beyond and one to the right

and a jacal or "jaca log ruc with

viga roof), that looked t might have had an extension

t left side. ad was a stone chicken coup,

which had some fascinating iron farming implements laying

‘The place was not boarded up, yet not really kept
modernized. as to whom it belonged, and if
placed it back, exactly wh t had been pressed into the
dirt road. Beside this settlement to the right was a cat:

guard and a cow hide planted onto the wooden fence post. I
took a photograph. This was the second such display we had

we stopped at was a much more
lar

eructure with a side on each side, and two windows

and two doors on the : Both Boyd and I were curious
why one room had two next to each
since we had seen so many throughout New Mexico.
around the front of the house, stones were ai
demarcate some sort of front yard space. To the rear and
right side rear of the house, were old wooden corrals and a
wire fenced in area. From the “front yard" of
you could see no roads, not even the one tha

Off to the rig me
and the light of the early evening made ther
in the distance a coyote was howling. The setting was
exquisite. (Kalb, field notes, 8/22/85)

is to illu
was there, in Mosquero Canyon,
found our synthesis. Rather than delegating a survey of
holiday events or attaching
lings, we had discov
ble and intangible cult
joing continu:
Through subsequent interviewing "in town,
Llage of Mosquero, we learned that the stone and log
uctures were built on homesteads and further that the
a couple of these places, particula ose of the
Cordovas, were not boarded up was because
used--perhaps not for everyday use but
part of everyday life. Besides being used
as grazi and headquarters for running cattle and as
reas for hunting, recreation and family reunions (all
representing patterns of “adaptive re-use" of older
uildings), we found the houses in the Canyon

to represent for the people of Mosquero a deeply felt sense

of place and belonging.

With this thematic and synthesizing relationship between
past and present in mind, Boyd and I seemed freer to pursue
information for our separate disciplinary and institutional

build m, materials,

struction technique and me on patterns of use ai

traditions and domestic life associa building!

However, we both found ourselves fascinated by at’
values attached to all these aspects of tht
in all the aspects of the bu:

We found it difficult to part ways

sponsible for an gued by another
t of def: e cultural
a somewhat systematic way,in order to
ods of an historic building inventory,
folklife an
"folklife genres", e categories.
create a list of so ion's intan
attriutes. For this task, I 1ot divide the genres
between the Hispanic villages surrounding Mosquero
le towns where we had att
a county fair, Livestock Auction
tain genres were present in some
areas and h following is a brief list o

(and "tani other than buildings) I came up with.

med y of

described by J. Frank Dobie in The Ratt

the dagger paints yucca are jal

all about Pp. 27 - noted by
Pratt), to let the

applied.

The ability of local animals, notably roadi
animal), and horny toads, chameleo!
kill rattlesnakes. The hor
attlesnakes by cutting through

their horns, when it swallows them.

Treasure Tales

Black Jack Ketchum, the northeastern outlaw. He is believed

to have entered Pat's
4 killed the bar owner

evident in the wood

confirm this story.

hung in Clay

unting. Antelope hunti
on ranches south of
permit)

Saturday night Da:

Rodeos

ounty Fai

Fishing (Trout)

Hunting small game and st
Barbecue in a pit. Also
of Wagon Mou
(L. Kalb

in Mosquero, and shot
ullet holes still
are said to

have been

ca

the hunter has a

e Kalb, field

dance afterwards.
At least in Mosquero, the
storic practice of midwife

aside shrines (Descansos)

House blessings

English,
because the buffaloe! e can wt looked
Like flies when look . om the village
of Mosquero.

town "liar's bench" which front of the gene:

tore. It is called "the from the Spanish
0. One of the Bench sitters has

Bank President". Apparently, the

members of "the Bank. e bench seems to
represent a source for playing and joking as well as
for informal social interaction and "

outsiders. One Halloween, for example,

stolen and at another time, the "bankers" tried to
he bench from its unshaded place in front of the
general store to a place under the awning of Erma's

cafe. Erma refused to allow this).

Family photo albuns

occupations

Cowboy Belts
Cowboy Hats
Couboy Boots

"Deugstore Cowboys"

Folk art

Wax Cowboy
quilts
sagebi

Fu

ush Brooms

e and Crags

vings of cowbo:

Ey

ibutes of culture in inve

ening out" folklife of

buildings, 1 ended

folk:

up finding

e/historic prese

vation survey

appro:
quite effectii

our ey of each different

Our visits to Mosquero

in-depth" study of a small place where we

d to address the theme of a present relating to the
past-through buildings and homestead sites (the in-depth
nature of this study seemed to derive naturally from a
fascination Boyd and I had for the issue and the place a
from a second in-depth visit we paid to the village with
carl Fleischhauer, folklife and media specialist from the
American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress). our
visits to the larger center of Clayton and si

surrounding towns remained more comprehensive. In Clayton,

we visited only public places such as general stores, post

offices and schools and documented large folk events such as
fairs, a livestock auction and a rodeo. Although we
Were invited and wanted to visit private ranches, we ended
up not having the time to arrange this. Our visits to the
Clayton area were fewer and shorter than those to Mosque!

land the population we encountered in Clayton larger

Because of the difference in “type” in the areas we studied
aches to researching them, the

oriented method of listing "intangible" cultural
ffered a chance to "paint
so to speak, to offer

a general overview of the folklife of the entire area. For,

our area of study with a broad bush,"
Listing intangible cultural attributes f theas!
across the div of Hispano Catholic
, recreation and
and Black Jack Ketchum stories,
e hunting and cooking barbecue in a pit in
r, could be found in Mosquero as well as in Clayton
further, they were all traditions pr: d today and
were all traditions that had all been in existence for more
han 50 years. Further, rodeos and county fairs took place
Harding County as well as in Union County. Now what of
architecture?

For the folklife component of the larger Northeast Sector

ew, it seems that we had taken a material re
pproach used for mapping a region's vernacular architecture
forms and applied it to the mapping of intangible cultural
attributes, yet in doing so, we had neglected to map out

vernacular building forms--or had we?

We had documented the floor plans of Dawson indust
houses which were moved from Clayton after the mine closed
up, both the original and adapted versions, we had drawn out
a few of the homestead settlements we visited in Mosqu
canyon and we had recorded the building materials used for
constructing historic (more than 50 years old) homes and
churches throughout rte. 65/104 (the Spanish villaces).
e had even snapped a few pictures of a mobile home with
ms added on and covered with Still, I am left
survey regarding the synthesis
Folklife. These questions,

econnaissance" field
varying degrees of "in-depth" studies of two areas. We used
approach of “informed intuition" and attempted
e folklife i ist
ess ful. folk material
@ methods of mapping for docum

of culture, we were also able to record historic

But only after we had found a way to integrate

did we fin
oursel t methods of

mapping to folk ma oultu: wlar housing.

By the end of the survey and after having had a few

discussions with Carl Fleischhauer during his visit here,
sues of vernacular process and building syncretism (the
xing of styles and forms) became clear. The following
jestions arose. While, for example, the early houses in

quero Canyon, the vertigal log structures plastered with

acales, represented vernacular building
Grande, the later symmetrical (two windows, two
doors) stone houses did not, althoug!
did. Though the settlement was clearly Hispanic (the
checos, Vigils and Cordovas still own property
the settlers at first glance seemed to have brought
(i.e. the jacal) with them and
ned it to something, (perhaps?) more indigenous to th
area. On the other hand, maybe the stone symmetrical house
type came into the area from somewhere else. Where would
look for other examples of symmetrical house
2 Clearly not in north central New Mexico but perhaps
Colorado and Kansas-the same states
te livestock auction in Clayton and the
ch experie: fn mesteading in the
enth century. Further, although most of the
Catholic churches in and around Mosquero were made of stone
(instead of the adobe used i

Hayden which lies along rte. 18), chgoers

jer than Hispanic were German (as evidenced by the names

westones and oral reports)

on that seemed to come
homes. One of the homestead
Mosquero jokingly referred to the jacales in
arly mobile homes." When people first
they often took hold of more than one proper:
vertigal log houses could be picked up and moved fairly
easily. The vertical log construction, however, was never
meant to be seen, for as soon as the structure was
was the woman's job to plaster the exterior and
mud (and in some cases pulverized stove).
tradition seems analagous to a more modern
nted in Mosquero
that had been covered over with stucco was almost invisible
to the observer save for two sides sticking out beyond the
walls. Carl Fleischhauer and I we

given the impression when we went to visit the owner E:

ujillo that she did not want ¢!

discussed the importance of movin

a

paren given them at marriage

place. A

independence.

obile hone would be the

Down in Mos

whether time se:

offer a tect

researching land titles of the area

1g as well as documenting

low the methodolo

need to find patterns ©

the cultu:

h

1 geographer an:

that we can ci
the future

I have identified 154 slide
type

indexed had the index

five rolls of slides to

four of the six casse

he two I have yet

‘They were recorded when

speed is either too slow or
in

one) and deposite

and send them b

pefore my pr:

with Erma, sh

and acqi

& step toward this

on, one might question

ural history and

eds to be done--ie.

and the history of
the building If

me

pes

cy of Henry Glassie,

asks I must now leave

s from

I

ject. ends.

ecorded on th

battery was dying

fast. I have been

an do this as the

and I recorded

amounts to

ke the other tapes to

Judy Sellars at

A. Te is ui that no prior arrangement was
for logging such a a concentrated bulk of tapes duri

e project. Who should they belong to anyway?

deposited w: 1y are approximately 25 typed pages,
le-spaced, of fi es from all five of my trips.

I have sent a copy of notes from four of my five trips to

the American Folklife Center. I am more than happy to do

this, but there was no mention of copyright. Fina

‘a copy of my master's paper, on co! rary santero

ue Rendon, to the Museum Library. Thank you, MOIFA!
NDATIONS FOR FUT!

ng our visits to the No , we were welcomed by
ators and te: hools. Timothy
uperintendant of the Mosquero Public School,
ered enthusiasm and support for our pro:
discussed
he emphasized the 1
New Mexico history. Also, Raftery
bride, a native of Santa ®
program in the school, w
well as English grammar
of the scho population was Hi:
Sonia, Rafte:

done a paper on tales of La

Llorona. After a lengthy discussion of the

quero School curriculum ai
overview, we all seemed eager
e. local tradition) of our survey
tit would be interesting to define folklore for t
kids and then perhaps let them share with us some of the
folklore they know--both from the viejos and their own forms
shared comm . Both Raftery and Boyd thought this
was idea. The onl requested was that
we ask something of the children, we might offer

something to them--what about a slide show! Boyd and I

thought this was an excellent idea, and really the best way

ro articulate folklore for schoolchildren
has to do with their own neighborhood.
offered us a subse: ol newspaper,
focus from the school to general
Raftery a contribution for this
saw Raftery and his family at the
g County Fair, his wife Sonia interviewed us to write

up our project in the school newspaper.

During our visit to the Clayton County Fa:
made the acquaintance of a Mrs. Joanne But
judging preserves in the County Fairgi
ograpned and i
interview me and became intrigued by our survey.
then explained that she was the Clayton County home
onomics teacher and that since I was interested in folk
I might like to have a visit to her school. There was
furniture and crafts still being used in the
fact she thought the school itself might have
the £ the day, Boyd and
yton Coun
e beautiful examples
of WPA chairs and desks, tables and bookshelves sitting
amidst the active offices s of the furniture seemed t
ping away, but in general the objects were in very
good condition. There was an interesting mural painted in
e school cafeteria (post WPA) and supposedly some more
lent examples of furniture i Library but
tunately the room was locked. At the end of the tour,
Mrs. Butt took us into the home ec area, which consisted of
ee huge rooms and one whole section of the building
WPA tables and chairs there as well as sone
hat Mrs. Butt had
stashed away in the closet ding to keep the
erial from anyone who wanted to see it, Mrs. Butt was
concerned with how to take care of it. she valu
these objects of nd didn't want them to disap
or to deteriorat , Mrs, Butt valued a grou

placemats so highly that she used her
preservation and cut up the corners that were embroidered

on and had them framed.

‘Though Boyd and I were somewhat befuddled by Mrs. Butt's
preservation techniques, we were admiring of her concern for
preservation. When we asked if anyone had taken stock of
what appeared to be a wealth of WPA crafts in the school,
Mrs. Butt mentioned a few names of concerned parties (These
names are in my field notes) and the fact that the shop
teacher sometimes taught the kids how to prepare broken
furniture. I was struck by Mrs. Butt's devotion to
preserving these objects and Boyd suggested we talk to
iseum conservator about preservation advice. As Mrs.
had mentioned the past existence of an
artist-in-the-school working in Clayton, the thought
cccurred to me that perhaps hol could also bent
servationist-in-the-school, 1e who worked with
students te:

nterest from both schools (Mrs.
principal and
iministrators, who all seened jed by our proje
e nature of our survey, it seems that these would be
places to begin developing a slide lecture and perhaps
a process of conducting folklife interviews in the
Both Boyd and I intend to continue working with
ial for papers in our own disciplines but the real
of this material lies in the combined process of
e are trying to create, A slide lecture for
schoolchildren would continue our efforts at cohesion, as
well as work up papers for publication and perhaps
eventually develop into some sort of exhibit.

that we need more time to work up a slide lecture

and also discovering that the folklife component of the
oject now needs more help from the architectural historian

and cultural geographer--to answer some historical and

questions.

¢ this idea of a slide

My proposal for

and research is

a five day trip

could have been

make themselves
then spend ani

continued goal
duct

klife work on this project is

geography fieldwork
back, take ap)

14 con: oximately
e field, document traditions that
nout the year or ones that

y own continued research,

eeing

trip delivering our speec!

gether a

development of a mode
If this plan is car
and I hope for, the most

would be some time ing 1986

ed out,

Bedichek, Roy. Adv

Bronner, nJ., and Stephen P. Poyser, Approaches to the
Material Aspects of American Folk Cul
Tklore Forum Vol. 12,

Bainbridge.
(Albuguerque:

(santa Fe:

juseum Of New Mexico Press and Fo!
Center, 1964)

Cabeza de Vaca, Fabiola. enc (Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico

Alvan ward. 1850-1900.

Role in New Mexice
istori

Deetz, James.

Ellis

Press, 1573).

Evans, Max. ‘The Hi Lo Country (Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Pri

y Glassie, eds. Forms Upon the
. rts in the United States.
togan: Utah State University Press, 1963).

Blake of Trementina,

History (forthcoming, as of

Foust, Juana. Prairie Chronicle

Glassie, Henry.

New Mexico"

he sou
October 191

York: Putnam, 1932)

Pennsylvania

1dstein, Kenneth S. A Gui
(Hatboro, Pennsylvi

1964)

B., ed. The £
of New Mexico Pres

‘Topics.

and John Vii

‘Approach to American Dialects’

Meinig, Donald W., ed. 7
andscapes (New York and Oxf
55, 1979)

cuthwest. 7

s:
70. (New Yoi

—thange 160
1971)

William Lynwood. The Sag
f Tennessee Press

Massachusetts Press,

Complex:

ion of ord:
Oxford Un

a_of Coe Ridge (Knoxville:
y

d Heart Parish (Bueyeros)

le To The

3

"sheep Husbandry in New Mexico,

PP. 201-213; Conclusion. pp. 56.
R

A Geographical
‘Of New Mexico

Joseph's Pa
ero) 1900-19: ‘St. Joseph's
Roy, Ni

This bibliog:

on the 7 prel Prior t
for folklife

Laurie Kalb
Ektachrome 400

Methodist ch , pitched roof - Johnson Mesa
Highway front Of Nethodist Church - Johnson
Nethodist , in field - Johnson
(angular view) - horizontal log
ruction, poor notiching, pitched roof, no

(angular view) - horizontal log
tion, poor notching, pitched roof, no
windows
view) - horizontal log
poor notching, pitched roof, no
ddition - vertical construction
jad ties?), with door and window.
le) = horizontal log construction, one
gable door - rear Jean-to addition ~ vertical
Construction (railroad ties?)

school and storehouse
h (with German Catholic
need by names on
the rear left). , church and
With shingle

lic homesteaders.
ly Trinity (Sunday in
ction, shingle

We couldn't make out what was

= side facing church (right side if
the road) Rear extension is one room.
shingle roof.
nurch of the Si Heart (Friday
priest out of Roy. (with
as evidenced by such names
Maes on the
in the cemetery to the rear and
church) Stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola.
ueyeros Catholic church of the Sacred Heart (Friday
in June) - stone, pitched roof, wooden cupola
y was Fiesta in August?

jugust 10, 1985 continued

15 = Bueyeros catholic, Churst of the Sacred Heart, (Friday
Soe cay (right rear view) Srey pitched roof,
in June luopla. ote heavy stone fureressing along

he nave walle

Sry CoC the

grave an (Bueyeros?) CaMpossnto, Note metal army
a An (BNeYR right foreground. rave te the Fight
of church?
Gravestone of } and Adelaida Archuleta £0
s sete burial arrangem

ged in a cross-
«  airont of Buey ros

ana possible home as well: (frontal

Sew) cre and possible home a5 We

(rear and
Side view) = Maes
pestaie barn ~ first floor at0her second floor ston
pact gouse and Barn vith Rook Yeti table - Maes
adobe ftean-to Maition of Adobe Gouse and Barn wi
‘qock Water Table - ¥aes
@ Wade Lewis, lives? - Maes

apostol Sa n - Maes. sed, sacristy to
the left. ant sear. Picket fence
in fro
1 Santiago church
Bago church

01 Rposto:
Piyaes. Note onstruction,

crumbling left fro! ck sgzestol santiago church
bling left te adobe Brick cone rete

tnterion Nave with church furnisure, posted Santia
Church - Maes

anterior Nave wien church furntrurey posto} Santiago
Church - Maes.

aes sa apse with church furnitl

rior i*Bantiago church = 2905

graveecene of Macs family members 'P pack of Apost
eer eiago Church - Maes

gravestone behind Apostol, SENeied> church - Maes

one, beng house with two rooms +P back (frontal

ow) = Maes
Cattle skin on fence gat

Corral made of tires - Highway 54/18 - between Logan

mural of New Mexico history on
ogan
3X ~ cowboy and horse. (frontal view)
made out of old car muffler; horse mane
tof mop - Highway 39? between Logan and

= Cowboy and horse (left hand view)
above, and also note brand mark on
left rear) - Highway 39? between Log

Ibox - Cowboy hand
view) a7 ghway 39? between
Logan and Ga:

Horse with bi
h along Highway

of horse in front of gate to
between Logan and

Interior of Gall c mma‘
Concep. Files
celebrated on As 5). still use

out of Roy. Gi family grave
white fence in center. San Jose
Exquisite plaste

from Gallegos camposanto

for judging. Bar
ct fairgrounds. Union Count!

(assistants) prese: ju
the age difference between assistan
Assistants in this case were young married owmen.
Judges were older homemakers) Barn on Clayton
County Fairgrounds. Union County Fair - Clay

and other judge judging
‘clayton (see #60)
Joanne Butt and other judge judging pears (7)
Barn on Clayton County Fairgrounds. Union Count:
Fair - clayton

Judging loaf breads in barn on Clayton County
Fairgrounds. Union County Fair - Clay

Judging loaf cakes in Clayton County Fairgroun
‘at Union County Fa:

(See #64 above)

(See #64 and 65 above)

Judging cookies

above)
es of Bean

(see #80 above)
‘d Prize Qu:

Union County Fair - Clayton
Blue Ribbon Quilt (first prize) by
Union County Fair - Clayton

Second Prize Quilt by
Union County Fair - Clayton

jet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cem
(see #87)
Monnet Gravestone, Santa Clara Cem
ld war I palaque.
with Plastic Flowers in

(See #50)
Santa Clara Cemetery -

Santa Clara Cemetery -

th Astro Turf

a Cemetery
= Wagon Mound,
Plains” Santa Fe Trail,

ave, Santa Clara Cemetery - Wagon M
Franker's grave to the right of Mr.
difference in
Wagon Mound’
background
1 at Joe Cordova's place, Canyon de Mosq
(front side) is this one
0 jacals stuck togethe: :
and the mi (Spiegel
used to wallpaper the interior
phed this).
Boyd Pratt
de Hosquero (

about 100 feet to the right
Jacal.)

Left Rear and 2 Stone st
Canyon de Mosquero,

£ Joe Cor

Adobe

place - Canyon de Mosqu
to lay eggs in (what is

of r Coop," with Woode:
Wagon - Canyon d «(See #104 a
joe Cordova's oop," with Woode:
= Canyon de Mosquero. (See #104, 105

fence gate, along road to the left of
Cordova's place -‘Canyon de Mosquero.

cowhide on fence gate, along road to the left of
rdova's place -'Canyon de Monquero.

Mosquero. ‘ on the
113 and
Front (gabl

San Jose Cathol:

Stone Altar of the Blessed Virgin Mother, in the
righ rd of San Jose Catholic C
Mosquero (See #116).
The Bench”
= Mosq

nd Boyd Pratt
ly Trujillo's Ge

“The Bench"
on "The
‘and Boyd Pratt on "The Bench" -
ee #121 - 123)

att in front of General
= Mosquero

05)
Joe

side of “The Bench
General store, Mai:

Underside of "The Be:

Underside of

on, Hard: ty Fair - Roy
Harding County Fair - Roy.
County Fair - Roy (See

County Fair - Roy (See

y Fair - Roy.

= Roy
Winner of Children Show, his pet
mother, Harding r= Roy
4131-133).
farding County
Display,
r = Roy (Grandson
Young Boy Ey.
Gym, Hardii

t and Boy (Grandson?) Eyein
y School Gym, Harding county
#139)

Owassa Heimann,
for Union’ count ng?) and th
women judging bake Roy School
arding County F
Post Office - Sabinoso
#243).

ed Relief Carvin
Gallery P:
by Pola Loz
by Pola Lopez de Jaramil
(See #146)
d carving of animals
(zeligious?) " led’
Garica. Feria Artesana - A.
unpainted Rélief Carving of
Artist? Gallery Piece,
Albuquerque.

MUSEUM of NEW MEXICO

‘THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

Dear Laurie --

Thanks for your letter. I apologize, but still have not gotten to copying
the tapes (altho I did get them unpacked). Maybe later this week (puff,
puff). I am willing to copy the other tapes too

Meanwhile, I have done up a bunch of courtesy prints to our
NM friends -- the xeroxes enclosed tell all. T am sending you
(and Boyd) @ few extra souvenir pictures to keep

he only picture that it would be nice for you to send forward is the
one of Enrique Sanchez--1 didn't send him a copy

Thanks for the kind wards on the fieldnotes. To AK further clarify
you remarks about fields and meadows: what I meant was that usage

Of the WORDS differed -- my hunch is that most of the "places" called
neadows KAKA in IM are the sorts of places that would be called

field in Nevada. Although maybe the arid/not-so-arid grass/no-grass
would play a bigger role than I thin ‘ut Les sTewart would call
places where hay grew in sumer (and cattle spent the winter) a "field."

Tragic news: Tom and Ann Carter's new baby died. This may delay his work

