American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Pinelands Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/023) 
afc1991023_17_161 
Documentation - 
Samuelson, Sue - 
Final Report 
The Landscape Experienced, 
Summary Statement for Phase II of the 
Pinelands Folklife Project 
Sue Samuelson 
In the early evening of a late summer's day I made my first 
foray south on Route 563, locally known as the Chatsworth Road. I 
was 
headed 
for Batsto and 
a meeting 
of 
the 
Pinelands 
Interpretation Committee coordinated by 
the National 
Park 
Service. Beside me on the car seat was a New Jersey road map and 
I kept checking my progress against the names contained on it: 
Hedger House, Chatsworth, Speedwell, Jenkins, and finally Green 
Bank. 
Then I veered to the west along Route 542. 
Not being 
familiar with the entrance to the park I sped past Batsto and 
upon encountering what appeared to be Pleasant Mills, I knew I 
had gone too far and reversed 
direction. At dusk I pulled into 
the visitor's parking lot and headed for the park's headquarters. 
A few hours later, after the meeting was over, I was amazed at 
how dark the area was. No bright freeway-style lamps on these 
country roads. Without even the moon to light the way, I groped 
along the Route 542, bravely offering to lead the way back to New 
Lisbon as Mary Hufford and I intended to spend the night at 
project's new headquarters at Lebanon State Forest. Although I 
was alert to 542's imminent intersection with 563, 
I still 
overshot the turn-off. A concerned motorist stopped alongside as 
I pulled off the road to consult with Mary, and assured us that 
the turn-off was just a few yards back. I finally located it and 
headed north through the moonless night, the only break in the 
gloom being an occasional house and the small cluster of 
buildings that was Chatsworth. 
1 
A few months and many miles later, the Chatsworth Road had 
become an old friend. Even on the darkest rainy night I could 
pinpoint my location at almost any point on the road. I 
especially remember the "feel" of a particular bend in the road 
just a few miles south of Chatsworth, an area that I begin to 
identify as being "almost home" (that is, 
almost to project 
headquarters). Other roads in the area also took on a certain 
familiarity. I remember drawing my cognitive maps for Nora, both 
at the beginning and halfway through the project, that had a 
great emphasis on roads. Maybe it was because I was so eager to 
be driving again after years of being in Philadelphia without a 
car, or maybe it was because I was nervous about this so-called 
wilderness and its sand roads, that I paid so much attention to 
the well-travelled routes through the pines. But I felt that I 
knew hundreds of miles of asphalt as well as I had known the 10 
blocks between my apartment and campus in Philly. The eight miles 
I drove every morning into New Lisbon to pick up the mail was as 
familiar as my front porch. The road to Philly, the White Horse 
Pike between Egg Harbor City and Hammonton, the Mt. Misery and 
Junction Roads between Browns Mills and New Lisbon, the Deep 
Hollow Road in Lebanon State forest, all of these were second 
nature. 
The attachment to the roads is only one sign of my 
continuing feeling off' attachment to the Pinelands landscape. 
Because of the investigative priorities of the project I paid a 
lot of attention to my personal experiences. While I knew it was 
crucial to get loads of native information, I 
also wanted to gain 
an idea of the process though which familiarity was obtained. By 
2 
doing something oneself, one always understand things better than 
if they are merely described. 
comments made by Pinelands 
residents, but had moved from 
Similarly, I found many insightful 
citizens who were not longtime 
the suburbs of cities. Still their 
commentary needed the counterpoint or elaboration provided by 
people whose roots went deep into the history of the region. The 
result was experience rich in family history, 
personal 
narratives, 
and tangible reminders of people's (and familys' and 
ethnic groups') presence, their experience of the landscape. 
I felt my fieldwork, especially early on, lacked some of the 
coherence of the other researchers. Because at least half of my 
time was taken up with administrative matters, I was not out into 
the field on any really regular basis. Sometimes I might do three 
solid days of interviews, and then spend a week on administrative 
tasks and catching up on logging. Although I had other demands on 
my time, early on I felt compelled to try and match the fulltime 
fieldworkers interview for interview, tape for tape. I think this 
competitiveness was felt by everyone and it's 
not even 
competition really but a feeling of wanting to share the load. 
Working with Elaine really helped to give some coherence to 
my work but 
I was also tracking down my own leads and in some 
ways felt I was scattered all over the place. I was eager to leap 
on any contact that an informant or other researcher would give 
me so for 
a few weeks I was literally north, south, east and 
west in the Pines: Jackson and Plumsted townships, Ft. Dix/Browns 
Mills, Marlton and Medford, Hammonton, Tuckerton, Dorchester. I 
never felt I had a real geographic center as the others did, 
3 
although 
I 
had 
been 
assigned 
to 
the 
Southampton/ Pemberton/Jackson/Plumsted areas. 
But Christine was 
doing a lot in Southampton, Mary in Pemberton, Rita in Jackson 
(and there's not much of Plumsted that's in the National Reserve 
that is not also part of Ft. Dix), so I never really thought like 
I had a center. But as Elaine's and my work in Egg Harbor and 
Hammonton begin to develop 
I eventually became secure in my 
knowledge of that area and indeed if I go back to do further 
research would like to concentrate on that corrdior between the 
Philadelphia and Atlantic City suburbs, both north and south of 
the AC Expressway, although the White Horse Pike (Route 30) 
is a 
far more interesting road. 
I feel three main patterns emerging out of my fieldwork. 
They focus on agriculture/foodways, 
sense 
of 
place/family 
history, and festivity. The vast majority of my informants were 
involved in agricultuyre in some way, 
from Mr. 
Piper, 
the 
cranberry and bluebrry farmer in Pemberton (and his buddy Mr. 
Bush, who raises turkeys, bluberries and Christmas trees), to the 
farm market owners such as the Putiris or the Moores in 
Vincentown, 
to the private individuals like the Zimmers or Mrs. 
Paolino whose own gardens and the gardens of farms of friends and 
family provide a tremendous resource that I believe illustrates 
the intricate connections between natural and cultural resources. 
The ground yields abundance; Mr. Moore told me that except for 
the grapes, bananas, lettuce and plums, 
almost everything at 
his Green Top Market is grown within ten miles. The crops are 
endless: 
flowers, 
spinach, 
asparagus, 
blueberries, 
raspberries, 
apples, pumpkins, squash, peaches. The markets themselves ar 
4 
fixtures along the roads and serve various functions as rest 
stops for shore bound (or returning) travellers, as outlets for 
seasonal decorations such as painted pumpkins or grave blankets, 
and as gathering places and places of employment for family and 
friends. 
For Mrs. 
Zimmer and Mrs. 
Paolino, 
the land's yield is 
experienced in less public fashion. The produce is contributed by 
friends and relatives and handed over to these women for 
processing. 
The result is well stocked freezers and cellar 
shelves lined with jellies, canned fruits and vegetables, stew 
mixes, purees, homemade wines, pickles, sauerkraut and the like. 
Women who do not care for the canning often take up the slack by 
baking or making pastas and trading them for vegetables. The 
processed foods then return to their donors as the Zimmers and 
others like them share and exchange with their families. The 
family networks are amazing. 
Such connections are also manifested in a great deal of 
attention paid to to the human dimension of the landscape. I 
expected a lot of "communing with nature," as my mother used to 
say from the deck of our family's vacation home in the Sierra 
Nevada. With some of the "woodsmen," hunters, collectors, and 
loggers that some of the other fieldworkers talked to, I did 
detect a great dezl of involvement with "natural" features of the 
landscape. But in my dealings with people like the Putiris or 
Zimmers or Mr. Piper, people who walked and drove through the 
fields and woods, there was a great deal of emphasis on what 
people had done. The Putiris were eager to show Elaine and I the 
now-abandoned family homstead and other family homes, businesses 
cemeteries and churches. They were fascinated by the ruins of 
Amatol, just a few thousand feet off the road, which was the site 
of a large World War I ammunitions plant. For the Putiris, 
the 
area, be it Elwood or Mullica Township or the Pines or south 
Jersey, was important because of who, not necessary what, was 
there. Their sense of history was keen and closely tied into the 
way they defined their own presence on the land. 
The Zim mers worked in much the same way. While Elaine's and 
my woods walk with them did involve a great deal of commentary on 
plants and animals, 
they often related our location to the 
family: this is brother Ted's land, this was Dad's root cellar, 
here is where some conservationists introduced new species. Even 
a more bonafide town dweller such as Pastor Sahl in Egg Harbor 
was keen on identifying a building that belonged to his 
grandfather. He walked the sidewalks as easily as the Zim mers did 
the woods and felt that he not only belonged there, but was part 
of the "there." 
I found the festivals I attended addressed these same issues 
but in somewhat different ways, primarily through the range of 
events that were offered for participation. Each week I combed 
the papers for 
township days 
trained all the 
mentions of fire company suppers, 
harvest fairs, 
and other public and semi-public occasions. I 
researchers to keep an eye out for roadside signs 
or storefront posters announcing various events. My weekends were 
full: apple festivals, crab -ins, turkey/roast beef/ham and oyster 
suppers, spaghetti nights, pancake breakfasts. Some were very 
elaborate affairs; 
Medford's apple festival had over 10,000 
attendees. A few hours later I was sharing hot dogs and beer with 
20 people on a Tuckerton marina as they tried to raise money for 
scholarship in marine ecology. 
The Renault Winery's harvest 
festival was enjoyable but isolating, people hardly seemed to 
know each other. In contrast, that same day I felt the sense of 
community, of involvement and concern, that surrounded the small 
apple festival at an Egg Harbor church. 
I sensed distinct 
boundaries of what still remained a continuum of private familky 
affairs (such as a Sunday dinner at the Zimmers) , to more open 
events (a church bazaar or fire house supper) which still relied 
heavily on the particpation of people who knew each other, to 
more dramatically open events (such as a pumpkin picking contest 
at at a Tabernacle farm and market). These sorts of gradations 
got me thinking more about something I call the context of the 
context, 
how the individual is situated within his family (both 
immediate and extended) and attached to the area in which he 
lives, but is also surrounded by other layers--church, ethnicity, 
occupation, recreation--and how all of this is affected by people 
from nearby but distinctively different areas, such as the Philly 
or New York suburbs and from the cities themselves. Everyone is 
wrapped in this layers of identification and each person's 
experiences overlap and affects the others, sometimes disrupting, 
sometimes complementing, like when two rocks are dropped into 
water and the concentric cicles from each meet the other. 
This metaphor is the one I am mainly relying on for the time 
being to coalesce my thoughts on the one space, many places 
concept. It is hard to understand how so many people can live in 
7 
such a huge area and be so different and yet share so much. It is 
an issue I have been grappling with ever since I read Dorson's 
JFI article on "American Folklore Vs. Folklore in America." How 
can 250 million people share anything? Even working with the 
smaller numbers of people in the Pines I still have trouble 
conceiving of themes or concerns that concern the residents to a 
nearly unanimous degree. 
But with my "pebble in the pond" 
illustration it is easier for me to understand how even widely 
separated phenomena can ultimately intersect, disturb or 
influence each other. 
Some second level 
observations involve aesthetics and 
insider/ outsider issues (see above for comments on necessity for 
ruins, sense of family through structures). I have long been 
interested in aesthetic responses to food, ever since a friend 
and I had a heated debate over whether a tuna casserole was art. 
In my Pinelands fieldwork I was exposed to many different kinds 
of food events which I felt compelled to describe in artistic 
terms. I had to be careful not to put words into my informants' 
mouths (no pun intended) but they too, particularly the women, 
were eager tp acknowledge the creativity they experienced in 
preparing the food items, be it canned goods, bread, a special 
dish, a meal, a church supper. While there was concern for 
rightness, along the lines of Jones's "feeling for form." There 
was also an acknowledgement of variation and ambiguity. Some 
women had recipes, others worked from memory. While alternative 
combinations were considered they were also evaluated with regard 
to certain systems of approrpiateness and traditional methods. 
I sensed some of this same aesthetic system occuring in the 
larger food events, such as fire company suppers and the VFW pig 
roast. The VFW brought in a special cook to prepare the pig the 
right way, and his skill was definitely artistic and artistic 
one. 
When you need a pig roasted, you call this man, no one can 
do it, or certainly not do it right. He was respectfully treated 
as a hero or an artist, but was somewhat special or outside the 
main stream of things. He was treated to drinks, introduced 
repeatedly, he even was a bit more dressed up than the others 
present. In conversations with people about the fire company 
suppers, there seemed to be buried in the discussions of all the 
work involved a tremendous appreciation not only for the labor 
but for the positive results it yielded. Of course, those most 
involved with the event knew about the mistakes and troubles but 
also took great pride in the resulting product--hundreds of well-
fed people who attended the event in an orderly fashion. 
The insider/oputsider question was one that really caught my 
attention in the aforementioned festival settings. Perhaps the 
most basic distinction is between Pineys , 
people living in the 
Pines, and people visiting the area. I had less contact than some 
of the other fieldworkers with people who freely admitted to a 
Piney identity. But in a way I was much more interested in what 
might be called semi-Pineys, 
people who shared many of the 
landscape-oriented activities of the region (familiarity with the 
woods, utilization of its resources for supplemental income, food 
or hobbies (such as hunting or wreath-making) but who possessed 
other interests more oriented towards "the outside," be it south 
Jersey or east coast or general American cultural experiences. I 
9 
don't know if I'm being too nit-picky or romantic here. Certainly 
some of the most bonafide 
stereotypic Pineys possess similar 
attitudes. It is an issue that I need to think about more. 
A little easier to conceptualize is the insider/outsider 
relationship between residents and visitors. I think the 
differences are more dramatic here than in other places I have 
been, partly because of naturally-occurring phenomana (such as 
the landscape) and partly because of very conscious manipulation 
on the part of the Pinelands Commission, the NPS, and local 
bodies such as garden clubs and historical societies. The human 
need to "belong" also finds satisfcation in being different, but 
doing so within a group identity. 
One of 
the mosty satisfyiung discussions of 
the 
insider/ outsider question that I had was in talking to Rev. Ruof 
and his wife in Egg Harbor. Because of their experiences in 
pastoring in Pennsylvania and Virginia, they were able to draw 
some interesting comparisons and conclusiona about life in south 
Jersey. But because of their status as clergy they were 
intimately involved as members of the community itself. They 
could really give some good insight into what was going on. 
In regards to policy I found several issues starting to nag 
at me. One relates to the designation of this huge area as "the 
Pinelands." People often commented on how they knew they were a 
part of this vague entity known as the Pinelands National Reserve 
but really felt that they were not part of the Pine Barrens or 
the Pines. They felt confused and distressed, not only because of 
what they considered unnecessarily intrusive regulations but 
because I think their identities seemed threatened. I often had 
/D 
an easier time of things if I said I was interested in studying 
life in south Jersey, and then later introducing more Pinelands-
related topics than if I just started out with the Pines 
orientation. 
(Carl and I have had some discussions about the 
ethics of this approach though.) From about the Mullica River 
south many of the people I taklked to just did not understand how 
they really could be considered in the Pines. The 
stereotypic 
concept of the Piney was 
people knew that wasn't 
attitudes probably need 
heavily oriented towards the woods and 
them. The policy implications of such 
not be addressed through changing the 
boundaries of the reserve but the Commission and NPS probably 
need to be made more aware of the sort of intellectual and 
emotional conflict that many areas residents feel. 
In some ways 
they can better understand a designation of the 
area being the 
Pinelands than they can conceive of themselves as "Pinelands 
residents" because that is just too close to being a Piney and 
they know they aren't one of those. 
I met a lot of people who had gripes about the land use 
restrictions imposed by the Commission. I had feel dealings with 
people in the core use area, but people outside of it seemed to 
be better able to understand restrictions there than in their own 
areas. Again, this relates to concepts of what's Piney enough to 
be considered worthy of protection. Many of people I worked with 
just didn't have that sense of close identification. 
I 
encountered many narratives about the effects of Commission 
regulations, 
such as old people committing suicide because they 
couldn't sell their land 
(and had intended to live off the 
11 
proceeds) , or of couples who couldn't get married because there 
wasn't enough land for a house. There were also some interesting 
"folk" explanations for why the Commission was created. But the 
main thread running throught it all was confusion, which created 
expressive behaviors for dealing with it. 
As a researcher I can state that the experience working in 
the Pines was one of the best I've ever had. I relished the idea 
of doing really in-depth fieldwork, something I had never had the 
chance to do before. As Carl Fleischhauer pointed out, 
these 
kinds of Center projects are great postdoctoral 
"appointments," 
requiring a firsthand experience of many of things only talked 
about in graduate school. 
With money so tight nowadays for 
grants, Center efforts are one of the few opportunities for young 
folklorists to gain intensive field experience, especiully in 
utilizing the documentary capabilties available through with the 
recording and photographic equipment. A new dimension to the 
situation is of course the use of the word processors. They have 
been a real boon and despite comments that the "free" time they 
produced is not rteally so free because it encourges the worker 
into doing more, the results for the project and the Center are 
terrific because a lot more can be done. 
There were problems, 
of course, 
some of which will be 
elaborated upon in my more administratively-oriented report but I 
feel two main issues surfaced relating to time and space. The 
time pressures were incredible; 
people felt they had to be 
working constantly. 
While I hardly expected any of 
the 
researchers to be a loafer, neither did I expect a dozen 
workaholics. Curiously, I don't think any of them really are such 
12 
a type. All prized their free time and ability to relax, it was 
just impossible to do so in this situation. The need to "get it 
all" I guess is a given in projects of this sort and I certainly 
understand the motivation for getting the most information and 
documentation as time, energy and money will allow, but I have 
serious reservations about the toll it takes on the physical and 
mental condition of the researchers. We had to force ourselves to 
relax and often took recreation together so as to feel less 
guilty (I think, anyway) about taking time off. If someone was 
working while another team member was relaxing the former (again, 
my interpretation) was often looking over his/her shoulder and 
worrying about what s/he was not doing. Vice versa, the worker 
often started worrying about whether s/he should be relaxing. A 
solution which might be tried is some kind of enforced 
relaxation--a fieldworker must take a half day or day off each 
week, must spend some evenings relaxing and not hunched over the 
Kaypro or light board. (Right, Sue. I have some nice moon acreage 
for sale too.) 
The payoffs in terms of renewed energy and 
intellectual sharpness would certainly compensate for whatever 
actual hours may be lost. 
The 
other 
issue 
conerns 
the 
space we used as 
our 
headquarters. While we were lucky to have as much as we did it 
still was not adequate. espfecially with the introduction of 
parttime workers. 
Several fieldworkers commented on the steady 
diminishment of "free space," such as the day room that gradually 
become the photography center with Kaypro, light board, etc. 
replacing the sofa and chairs. Ultimately it was only the kitchen 
13 
that could in any way be viewed as a social center. There were 
some problems with equipment scheduling too. With so many people 
involved future research needs to be evaluated in terms of the 
numbers of workers hired 
and the physical limitations of being 
able to accomodate their needs for space and equipment. 
In terms of future work--case studies, articles, exhibit--I 
have several areas that 
I am eager to pursue. 
For the 
present I envision writing several material culture-oriented 
articles: one on grave blankets (with Elaine) , a more elaborate 
one on cemeteries (gravemarkers, 
layout, 
deocration), 
certainly 
something on festivals and participation in them. I would also 
like 
to 
do 
an 
analysis 
of 
the 
role 
of 
clergy 
as 
insiders/outrsiders and informants. A more complex issue is one 
relatuing to the interconnecting system of food production and 
use in the Pinelands. I have lots of good contacts--farmers, farm 
market owners, restaurant owners, private cooks--that I think can 
be investigated in more detail. 
As far as the exhibit is concerned I would like to see a lot 
of emphasis on the agricultural aspects of the Pines, not just 
the infamous cranberries and blueberries, but also the truck 
farms and naturally-occuring items, such as tea berries, 
sassafras, rose hips and the like. I would like to do further 
investigation on local arts items such as grapevine wreaths or 
cemetery decorations. The Jersey Roots stand that just started 
near Vincentown might be a good source of information and 
networking. 
Finally, in terms of more indepth ethnographic case studies 
I particularly want to probe two main issues. One is the ethnic 
14 
component, 
particularly the Germans in Egg Harbor and the 
Italians in Hammonton. 
interrelationships with 
have utilized the same 
I am intrigued by their proxiomity and 
each other and how two differentps groups 
resources in vastly different ways. My 
work with the Putiris, the Zimmers, the Sahls, Mrs. Paolino, Rev. 
Ruof is just rudimentary compared to the information that I think 
could be gathered. Related to this is the issue of family history 
and sense of place. In Roots-like fashion I would like to dig 
deepoer, but with a special emphasis on the impact of 
tangible 
reminders ("visible proofs" to use Bronner's term) of presence on 
the land. 
15