UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  CECILIO HERNANDEZ
CONDUCTED BY:  MARIO MONTANO
DATE:
C = CECILIO
M = MARIO
LFP-MM-A021
M:  Like I said before, you know, I was interested in the CBA you know, for their history, but 
first of all you know, I just want to know a little bit about yourself.  I mean how you came to 
Lowell, and how you got in (--)
C:  Okay.  I came to Lowell about fourteen, fifteen years ago.  Um, I'm from Puerto Rico.  I'm 
from a family of five children.  And my older sister had lived in New York for awhile, and my 
other sister came to the United States as well.  And we had other families.  So we decided to 
move up here to Lowell at that time.  So we've been here since.  And I've been going to school.
M:  You're a graduate of Lowell High School?
C:  Graduate of Lowell High School and University of Lowell.  
M:  Umhm.  Okay.  Cecilio, what are the aims of the CBA?  I mean if you know, what are they 
trying to accomplish, or all of your trying to (--)
C:  Well um, maybe I should just give you a brief history of the CBA, (M:  Okay) and then I 
could probably answer that question better.  Back in 1982, the city wanted to bulldoze the 
triangle area of the Acre.  The triangle, or the Acre has been like the port of landing for all 
immigrant groups that have come to the city of Lowell.  You know, the French, the Irish, the 
Greek, and right now the latest group, you know the Hispanics and the Southeast Asian.  
Basically in '82 the city wanted to bulldoze this area.  And this has, this area holds the oldest 
stock of housing in the city.  And that meant that many people were going to be displays of their 
homes, even though these are apartments that are not in the greatest conditions, but nevertheless 
you know, the city has like a 0% affordable housing rate.  And there was no place for them to go.
So a group of people, and groups, agencies, got together and formed a coalition.  And you know, 
just battled the city on this project.  And um, we were able to put a plan forth.  And as you can 
see today their fruits of our battle back then.  You know, we, we were able to do thirty-eight units
of affordable housing, and twenty-four home ownership opportunities.  Um, the CBA has been in
existence for five years.  (M:  Umhm)  And we've done over sixty affordable housing units.  
Right now we're working to negotiate with HUD for the North Canal properties.  It's a 267 unit 
of affordable housings.  It's the largest affordable housing unit in the city of Lowell.  And it was, 
it was going to be foreclosed.  And the CBA organized tenants and we're able to get the partners 
to turn the deed over to HUD, and now we're negotiating.  And it's a different sound at City Hall 
now.  We have City Hall supporting us now.  New administration and they support us.  And that's
our next biggest project.  
     We have a program to help minority business owners, where we provide technical assistance 
to minority business owners and create new businesses.  And this came out of the lack of 
minority participation in the business community in the city of Lowell.  We do community 
organizing.  And you know, that's our backbone of the CBA, where we organized tenants [clears 
throat] because they're having code violations, or they're being threatened by the landlords, or 
whatever.  Um, so basically our goals are to give power to the powerless.  We, we don't think it's 
right that people get stepped on.  People have their rights.  Um, and we, what we do is we, we 
help them.  We provide different services.  One of our main concerns is affordable housing.  (M: 
Umhm)  And that's, you know, that's, that can be viewed by our projects.  Like I said before, 
we've done over sixty affordable housing units during the past five years.  Any kind of 
development, we want this community, Hispanic Community to be integrated into the main 
economic stream of the city of Lowell.  
M:  Umhm.  Concerning the relationships that all of you have with other communities in Lowell.
How do you fit in to (--)  I mean you mentioned right now the, the Acre.  You mention the 
triangle, then you mentioned the North Canal Properties.  I mean, you work all over Lowell now.
C:  Well the North Canal is part of the Acre too.  
M:  Okay.  So you focused most of your energies from the Acre?
C:  Right, on the Acre, because the reason why we do that is because most of the other 
neighborhoods in the city are, I guess I should say, stabled as far as economic and housing issues 
are concerned.  Um, certain parts of the Acre need this type of help as far as housing and 
economic development.  And that's why we were involved in the Acre.
M:  Okay.  Then how, what is the Acre, I mean the Coalition doing to fight drugs in the 
community?  Do all of you have focus on that?
C:  That's one of our projects that I, I forgot to mention.  That's part of our organizing strategies.  
Um, basically the drug issue, it's a real hard issue to deal with.  Especially when you don't have 
the support of the local police department.  Um, if they did more, perhaps it would be less of a 
problem.  But nevertheless what we're doing is we're, presently we're working with people from 
the Boston police.  [Clears throat]  Excuse me.  We have formed a tree phone, where people 
could call other people to call the police.  See, if I, if I called the police to notify that someone is 
selling drugs, and I was the only caller, they probably wouldn't get here.  But if they're receiving 
calls from you know, fifty to one hundred persons on the same complaint, you know, it will be 
sure that the police will get here.  Um, so we're, we're working on a drug and crime campaign, 
and, and we've been lucky that we have some support from some city councilors like Mr. Bud 
Caulfield, who's been very with us on, on this issue.  Um, you know, it's an issue that the city has
to look into, because the area, and it's considered the worst area for drugs.  And we're doing our 
best.  Now we're, we as staff have to watch ourselves, you know, we've been threatened.  All of 
us have been threatened.  (M:  By drug pushers?)  By drug pushers and dealers.  So um, the way 
we deal with this problem has to be, we have to be very careful how we do it, because you know,
I certainly, you know, I have a, I have a one year old baby, and a wife, and I like to come home to
them every day.  So um, you know, we have our own concerns as far as our own safety.  But 
there are programs, and there are things that can be done, which you know, will not have an 
effect on our safety at all.  So I mean it is, it is an issue that we've been dealing all along.  It's just
a very hard issue to deal with.  And um, with more support of the local police department, things 
would be easier and I think we may be able to do that with you know, we have new city 
councilors, and we have a new administration, and we have a lot of help now.
M:  So the uh, this also I noticed is the police don't patrol this area.   (C:  Exactly, yeah)  I mean 
that's what I've noticed.  So you don't have support from the Lowell Police Department.  You 
mentioned that you worked with the Boston Police Department.  
C:  Right.  We had called, and the people from, you know, professionals from, professionals that 
do this type of research,  and people from the Police Department in Boston.  Um, well one of the 
main problems is that we, for the longest time we've been going after the Police Department to 
have walking patrolmen in the area.  That's what we need.  Uh, what they do is they drive, you 
know, they drive by once in awhile.  It's not a constant drive through the neighborhood, which is 
should be, because it's done in other parts of the city of Lowell.  I'm sure that if there was not 
police presence in other parts of the city, the police department would be jammed with phone 
calls.  And I'm, I'm you know, I guarantee that police will respond to those people.  But since this
is a very poor neighborhood, it seems like that the area with the most problems as far as the 
drugs, there's you know, this is the area where we should have the main concentration.  And that 
may solve the problem.  
M:  Umhm.  And most of these drug pushers, are they sort of street peddlers, or they uh, (--)
C:  Well to tell you the truth most of the drug dealers don't live in the neighborhood.  They come 
to the neighborhood because, like I say, there's no police presence in the neighborhood.  It's 
easier to sell drugs here than it is to sell in other parts of the city.  There are a lot of them who 
live in the neighborhood, but the majority of them don't live in the neighborhood.  It's so easy to 
sell here.  The funny thing too is that the selling is done during the day.  In daylight, you know, 
and the police comes at night.  These guys are all set.  You know, they've done their job during 
the day.  Um, so that by itself tells, tells the cooperation of the local police, why this is being 
done right in the daylight.  And the other thing I should mention too, is that it's not Hispanics that
are only doing this.  We (--)  There's a difference between the way the Anglo community is doing
the drugs, and the way the Hispanics are doing it.  See, the Anglo people, they come in and bury 
it, they have their own homes.  They go down to their basement and do it.  Because they have a 
home, they have a good job.  Economically they're, and housing wise they're, they're better than 
the people in the neighborhood.  On the other hand the Hispanics who were doing the drugs, and 
selling the drugs, you know, they're doing it because they need the money.  You know, there's an 
economic, economic disadvantage.  So it's done differently.  Um, but you know, we, we walked 
through the neighborhood, and we drive from the neighborhood, and we see very dressy looking 
men, fancy cars.  Cars from other states, executive level people stop by the neighborhood and 
buy their drugs, and they leave.  So it's always blamed on the Hispanics, but you know, there are 
other communities in the city of Lowell that are, that are doing it too.  
M:  Okay.  And I want to know a little bit about a grant that all of you got for community 
gardens.  Could you get a grant?  I mean I was just informed about that all of you have gotten a 
grant to work for community gardens?
C:  Okay.  I think that's the Green Acre Project.  Um, basically what we, last year we had this 
team program, where we along with the YWCA, provided employment for youth in the 
neighborhood.  Um, this year what we want to do is, there's a strip of land along the canal here 
that is just sitting there.  And the city has given us the right to do a community garden in that 
area.  And this is going to be an effort of three different organizations in the city of Lowell.  Uh, 
Big Brother, Big Sister.  It will be the YWCA again, and the Coalition for Better Acre.  And it's 
going to be another team employment type of project.  And we see it as two different ways.  One,
is we're providing employment for teens.  Get them out of trouble.  The other this is that we'll 
provide one more beautification process to the neighborhood.  We'll have a community garden.  
And, and the teens are very excited about it.  Um, you know, I hear talk already about perhaps a 
business coming out of this, and which flows right along with our minority business project in 
the CBA.  So it is a very exciting project.  And again, it's another you know, concentration of 
three organizations working together for the better of the neighborhood.  
M:  Umhm.  I wanted to ask you about this garden.  Maybe you know, I don't know how much 
planning has gone into it, but I'm just curious about what type of vegetables, food you're going to
grow.  If it's going to be you know, like Puerto Rican, Caribbean, vegetables, or is it going to be 
mostly an American meal.
C:  Um, I think it will be a representation of the neighborhood people.  Um, I guess that's the best
way to put it.  As long as it can be grown here in the cold whether.  [Chuckles]  So uh (--)
M:  It depends on the region and climate.  
C:  Right.  Especially the vegetables.
M:  In Philadelphia people wanted to grow Caribbean, they have their gardens, but Caribbean 
you know, foods, and they couldn't.  Of course they could grow [unclear], they could grow 
potatoes, sweet potatoes.  All those that during the summer, you know, you plant them in April, 
or May, and you pick them up in July or August, and lettuce and other things.  But when it comes
to what they call [unclear], they couldn't.  
C:  Yeah.  Well this will be a summer project, and I believe it starts in May, or the end of April.  
Um, and I think they might be able to grow some of the stuff during the summertime.  I'm not 
fully involved with this project.  So I don't have much information.
M:  Who is the person that I can ask?
C:  Uh, there's three different persons.  The person on the CBA side is Diana Quinonez
M:  [Repeats]  Diana Quinonez?  Okay.  
C:  Umhm.  She's our community organizer.  Uh, the person on Big Brother, Big Sister, is Lori 
Barber.  (M:  Umhm.  Okay)  And the person on the YWCA is Andy Chandonnet.  (M:  Andy?)  
Chandonnet.  (M:  C H?)  C H A N D O N E T .  
M:  Okay.  And Diana is, works with the CBA [unclear].
C:  Yeah, right, right.
M:  So these are the projects that you have going now.  It's the Housing, the Drugs, the Gardens, 
and Community Organize. 
C:  The Economic Development of the Small Business Project.  (M:  Economic Development?)  
Right, and um (--)
M:  What kind of service do you provide in Economic Development?
C:  Well we provide, basically we'd like to see some of our housing stuff as part of economic 
development, because we improve in the economics of the, of the neighborhood.  We have a 
Minority Small Business Project, where we provide business technical assistance to minority 
business owners.  This project was granted in a grant from the state as a one time demonstration 
project.  And it was picked from over seventy different organizations who had sent in a proposal. 
And our goal with the project is to provide technical assistant, to maintain assistant businesses 
afloat.  the second goal of the project was to form an association of business owners.  Sort of like
a little Chamber of Commerce for the minority business owners.  And our third goal it to create 
more minority businesses.  I did a survey, a study um, I believe it was 19, early 19, winter of '86. 
And what I wanted to know was why there was a lack of minority participation in the 
neighborhood.  And um, some of the answers I got was, people don't know the laws that govern 
businesses, here in the United States.  They're from other countries, they have different laws.  
Um, lack of education.  There's been some problems as far as dealing with perhaps landlords as 
far as getting places where they can have their businesses.  Prejudice.  Lack of business 
knowledge.  One of the main problems has been lack of capital.  People have wonderful ideas, 
and ideas that will work, but they lack the capital to start their business.  And one of the things 
we want to due throughout the next two years with the small business project is develop a loan 
pool, where we can provide a small amount of loans to [unclear] to business owners, or people 
who are interested in starting their own business.  Anywhere from a thousand to five thousand 
dollars.  And that by itself makes it you know(--)  We say, well that's not a lot of money, but to a 
lot of people who have great ideas, and they could really do well in business, that is a lot of 
money, and something they lack.
     The other thing, another project that we work on is heritage.  Keeping the Hispanic Heritage 
going.  Um, back in '86 we here at the CBA organized Hispanics in the city.  And this is sort of 
like, it was sort of like a city wide issue on getting the Hispanic cable.  There was a French 
Channel on the cable company for the longest time, but there was no Hispanic, or Spanish 
Channel.  And basically this channel would help not only Hispanics, but many of, of the 
youngsters, and college people that are there taking Spanish.  And we organized, Diana Quinones
did a great job organizing people, and we picketed the Cable Company, and we held meetings 
with them for a long time and there was no response.  So we finally, you know, we brought like 
50 people down to the Cable Company.  We went into the offices and we spoke to the manager.  
We got them out and we had a great victory.  We were able to have a Spanish channel, and now 
we have a Spanish channel.  And after that this heritage thing came out.  People were interested 
in keeping our culture.  We have a lot of kids that are born here, a lot of Hispanics that are born 
here.  And they've become Americanized.  And they sort of lose their culture.  And I, I you know,
I, it's happened to me.  So I sort of agree with that.  So things like, things like programs to keep 
the culture going help a lot.  And last August, September, we brought a group called [Bragonis?],
it's a Puerto Rican touring theater group that came to Lowell.  And through their production it 
was sort of like a history of Puerto Rico.  Um, and we had, we got a grant from the Mass Arts 
Council of Arts and Humanities for this, and the Lowell Arts Council.  And that was very good.  
We, we got a lot, it was during the weekend and we got a lot of people to come to this.  And it 
was diverse groups as Anglos, Hispanics, other groups that came to see this, this program.  And 
that was very good.  So we have all these different projects that we work on.  
M:  You've done a lot here.  You know I came down in August for the Puerto Rican festival and I 
talked to Nieves.  And that also was very popular Hispania.  (C:  Yeah)  I mean their rule also 
was to voter registration at the beginning, right?  (C:  yeah)  I mean they were doing [few words 
unclear], or Angel was there also talking about it.  
C:  Yeah, they were part of the CBA at one point.  They're not now, but basically the CBA started
this whole Puerto Rican Festival stuff too.  We don't get the credit for it now, but you know, um, 
we were part of it at the beginning.
M:  Okay now, I mean can you sort of give me an overview of the organizations that are dealing 
with Hispanics here?  Okay, you mentioned the CBA?  But then you have, you branch out a lot.  
Like you have also the Puerto Rican Festival.  Did you say, you mentioned some other group 
now.  
C:  Yeah, there is the Onitas.  (M:  Onitas?) Inc., yeah.  And uh, they provide various services for 
the community ranging from educational to health. (M:  Umhm)  Um, [Phone rings-you hear 
recording from answering machine in background]
M:  Okay.  That's okay.  (C:  Um)  And then Onitas provides education and health.
C:  Anywhere from education to health.  I'm not fully aware of exactly every project they do, but 
um, [you hear voice leaving message on answering machine] there is also the Latin, the Latin 
American Association.
M:  Latin American Association?
C:  Yeah.  The President of the Association is Mario Espinosa, who is a Mexican.  Uh, he owns 
his insurance business, and he's also a Board member of the Coalition for a Better Acre.  
M:  What's the purpose of that [unclear]?
C:  It's sort of to keep the culture of Hispanics going, but as compared to the Puerto Rican 
Festival Group, was the Puerto Rican Festival Group is more Puerto Ricans.  The Latin American
Association is a diversed (M: diversed group) group of Hispanics, you know.  People from 
Columbia.  There's a big group of Columbians in the city of Lowell.  Uh, people from Mexico, 
Mexico.  Um, um, from South America, from Central America. 
M:  Okay, that's Latin American Association, Onita, the CBA.
C:  Um, basically that's about it as far as this organization.
M:  How about the role of the church?  The missionaries, the Oblates?  How are they (--) (C:  
The Oblates, yeah they um) I mean I noticed that they have a very tight organization.  I mean 
you know, they have (--)
C:  Yeah, but they do a lot of services for, for the Hispanics.   In fact uh, Brother Val LeClerc, 
who works here at the local Oblate Missionary Center, who's also a board member of the CBA, 
he deals a lot with a lot of Hispanics who have drug or alcoholic problems.  
M:  Drug and alcohol problems?  
C:  Yeah, and he's also the president of the Lowell House Inc.
M:  He's the president?
C:  Yes, of the Lowell House Inc., which is a group that provides counseling and services to 
recurring alcoholics, and people that have that problem.  Single mothers and stuff like that.  
M:  I noticed that, I've been to some of their meetings in [name unclear], like they have the 
liturgy committee.  I've been to prayer groups, women.  You know, just on the service of what I 
have seen, is that they are incredibly organized.  
C:  Yes they are.
M:  Now they want to go to community, but also they say that the type of organization, it's a 
model for the people to how to organize the community, and how to run meetings.  They have 
leadership workshops for the people.  You know, they give reports.  It's for people from the 
community [rest of comment in Spanish].  [Few comments in Spanish]
C:  Right.  Uh huh.
M:  And it's very difficult, I don't know, maybe you can correct me on this, but in Lowell I found 
out that it's very difficult to separate religion from social and cultural life among Hispanics.  I 
men for example, Mother's Day is going to be celebrated at the church, okay, but they have a 
mass for the mothers.  Afterwards a family picnic.  But it's sort of an interwine.  They have 
retreats. They talk about housing problems, you know, they have their Christmas events 
[unclear].
C:  Right.  Right.  Yeah.   And there's another, there's the Catholics and there's the Pentecostal 
Hispanic Churches, which, which is you know, a big group in the city of Lowell too.  And I (--)
M:  Can you give me some names of Reverends here?  
C:  Sure, Reverend Carlos Diaz.
M:  Okay, I have to call him.  I have his address.  Carlos Diaz.  
C:  Reverend [Demars?] Rosa
M:  I talked with Rosa. 
C:  [Unclear] Church.  The Reverend Jose Rivera.  
M:  Rivera, okay.  
C:  There's the Reverend [Rarimez?] Fernandez.  
M:  Okay, I have an appointment set up with him.  He's the Methodist, right?  
C:  Right.  Um, there is Reverend [unclear] DeLuna.  
M:  [Unclear] DeLuna, and he is what kind of a (--)
C:  Uh, he's the Pentecostal church.  Um, (M:  assemblies of God) Carlos Diaz is from the 
Assembly of God.  And there's Reverend me.  I'm also a Minister.  
M:  Which one?  You're a minister too of what um (--)
C:  I'm with Carlos.  I'm the assistant pastor at that church.  [knocking in background-recorder is 
turned off]
SIDE ONE ENDS
SIDE TWO IS BLANK
LFP-MM-A024
M:  Okay.  I just want to discuss a little bit more concerning the economic development goals of 
the CBA.  
C:  Okay.  Um, back around the winter of 1986 um, I was still a student at U Lowell.  And as part
of one of my classes I conducted a survey to get some information on minority businesses in the 
city of Lowell.  We noticed that there was a lack of participation of minority businesses in the 
minority community in the city of Lowell.  At one point there was like twenty-four businesses.  
And that number kept on dropping to a point where there were like eleven businesses left.  Um, 
um, and we did a study to find out why there was so few minority businesses in the city of 
Lowell.  Um, the national average for businesses, for Latino businesses is if there should be 
nineteen business (--)  There should be nineteen Hispanic businesses for every one thousand 
Latinos.  And by the same token there should be twenty eight Southeast Asian businesses for 
every one thousand Southeast Asian persons.  And Lowell had about 1.75 compared to a national
average.  So the small business project was started.  There was interest among our own board 
members for this project.  And we started working with about twenty-five minority business, and
we had a great impact on them. I main, at that point our main goal is to keep them afloat.  And 
we had other goals such as you know, developing new businesses, but at that time it was keeping 
those businesses afloat.  Um, this project is expanding into other areas where we now want to 
provide seminars in Spanish and Kmer, because for the first year most of my talks with 
businesses owners was the same.  You know, basically around the accounting, the tax issues.  
And I, you know, I kept on repeating the same stuff to every business owners.  At that point we 
decided that perhaps the seminar in both Spanish and Southeast Asian, and Kmer would help.  So
we're working on that now.  We're also [conversation is interrupted with people coming in and 
out], we're also working on a loan fund where we can provide a small amount of loan money to 
business owners.  Anywhere from a thousand to five thousand dollars.  And that too many 
people, you know to us that sounds like very small money, but to some people who have a good 
idea and they could do it, they could be successful, that's a lot of money.  And that we hope to 
have that.  We'll work on that too, along with our advisory committee.  We have an advisory 
committee in this project of professionals and community people. 
M:  You have an advisory board.  (C:  Right)  Can you give me an example of how this money 
can be used by an owner?  For instance, you said $1,000 to $5,000.  What would be one of their 
problems, how they can use this money.
C:  Well if it's an existing businesses, it may be that they need more inventory, they need, they 
may need some improvement to their business site.  They may need equipment.  They may want 
to improve you know, whatever system they have.  If it's for new businesses, it may be starting 
capital, which many people lack.  Like I said before, there's a lot of people who have great ideas, 
but they lack the money to start a business and they can't get loan from a bank to start a business.
Um, and anywhere from a $1,000 to $5,000 may make a big difference for, for people.  And you 
now, that may be the key behind another minority business starting in the city of Lowell.  And 
basically what we want to do is get all of these business you know, into the mainstream of 
economics of the city of Lowell.  We want them to be participants of the economic, economics of
the city, and in turn they help the community themselves.  Like we have, here in the Acre we 
have about five minority businesses.  And minority people buy there, all Hispanics buy there.  
Actually there's more than that, because there's a lot of Southeast Asian businesses in the Acre 
too.  But if these communities buy their products from there, you know, in turn they, you know, 
the owner is being helped because people in the community are buying that, but it's money that's 
being floated right in the community.  It's a circle, you know. 
M:  What kind of minority businesses do they have?  
C:  The majority of them are grocery stores.  Um, we have, we range from, anywhere from you 
know, barber shop, to car cleaning shop, to custom tailoring school.
M:  Custom?
C:  Custom tailoring school.  Grocery stores.  Auto Repair Shops.  There's a Southeast Asian 
restaurant.  Well there's a few of them, but one that we've helped.  And so it ranges from different
types of businesses.
M:  You mentioned here barber shop, you do have barber shops that are Hispanic?
C:  One Hispanic, right.  We um, at the beginning when he, when he was starting he was 
licensed, but he couldn't, he didn't know what the next step would be and he asked for help.  And 
we provided the assistance then.  He's been operating for a couple of years now. 
M:  Where is this barber shop at?
C:  Liberty Street.  8 Liberty Street.  
M:  Oh Liberty Street.  That's (--)  Okay.  Now can you give me an example of how you have 
helped a grocery store?
C:  Well certainly.  Um, when I first started working with the businesses, the first thing I found 
out is that none of them were registered with State or Federal.  Meaning that perhaps they weren't
paying their sales taxes.  Um, and that meant that that was the first things that we needed to do, 
get them straight.  Um, (--)
M:  Well it's because they, I mean, I mean this happens very often with many other groups, is that
they're not malicious about not paying their taxes.  
C:  I don't, no, I don't think they were doing it intentionally.  It's a matter of, these are people 
from other countries that come here to do business.  They don't know the laws of the United 
States.  They don't know the laws that govern business.  And you know, they, they come here 
with businesses, with business experiences, um, you know, which they achieved in their own 
country.  For example, Puerto Rico, um, or Cambodia.  It may, it might have been that they did 
not have to register with the government in Puerto Rico, or in Cambodia, but they do in here.  
And that's something that they were not aware of.  So that was the first thing that we had to do, 
you know, provide this information.  I ended up putting together a booklet on accounting and tax 
information.  Very simple booklet in Spanish, because I kept on repeating the same thing.  So 
that was the first thing we did is get them straight.  After that then we were helping them you 
know, setting up their own bookkeeping systems, instead of having everything in their shoe box. 
Um, getting them lined up with book keeping firms, or you know, telling them the importance of 
keeping records, because that's, you know, that's a requirement here.  Um, we're been able to 
connect them with other suppliers through our research.  There's a big problem because people 
have to get their products in Boston, these business owners have to get their products in Boston, 
or New York.  [Clears throat]  Excuse me.  And what we've done is we're tried to provide 
information of where they could more locally get some of the products.  Now most of the ethnic 
product, they do have to go to Boston, or New York.  But we're trying to, we're trying to work on
association, merchant association where perhaps something locally could be opened that will, a 
warehouse that will have both Hispanic and Southeast Asian products.  And that has many 
benefits to it.  One benefit is that people no longer have to travel to New York, or Boston to 
purchase the products.  In return the products will be cheaper.  Um, so that's you know, the 
cheaper price for their customers.  The other benefit of that is that having a warehouse will mean 
the creation of jobs, and that's all part of this economic development.  Now you know, from the 
beginning the CBA has been interested in economic development, but we've been involved a lot 
with housing issues and it was not until 1986, that we actually began to put an economic 
development plan with the small business project.  
M:  Okay, and now are any of you trying to deal with the problem of bringing in professions to, 
to Lowell?
C:  Um, we will like that, yeah, very much.  Um, but um, we can't(--)  Like we don't work 
outside of Lowell.  So if people come in here, and they need help, they're professionals, they 
need help, you know, we'll be glad to help them.  Um, and basically they, the way we've done it 
in the past, it that people need help and they get in touch with us through coming into the office, 
or through a phone call.  And so far it seems, it seems like the most, like professional people, 
they have enough experience to do things on their own, but I mean we're certainly glad to, to 
help.  
M:  But for instance, if you were to have a professional Hispanic CPA in Lowell, that would also 
help.  (C:  Right)  Like bring in a warehouse in here, fine, you know, at that level.  You know, 
you're talking about development, major income development.  Say you want a warehouse, a 
distribution center (--)
C:  We talk major economic development, (--)
M:  ... for food goods.  Like Goya, or I mean [Labienda?], the vegetables, or something I mean 
that would not only take care of Lowell I assume, but Lawrence, and Pittsburg, Worcester.  
C:  Right.  Umhm, umhm.  Yeah.  Um, yeah, I mean right now one of the things that we want to 
do for the association is provide some services for the whole group.  For example one CPA may 
be able to do all the book keeping for all the businesses. 
M:  And have workshops and to see what they're doing wrong, you know.  
C:  Right.  And that's one of the things that we want to do with the seminars, is provide seminars 
in different areas, ranging from bookkeeping to sales marketing.  Inventory control and all those 
things.  And those seminars will be done by professionals, minority professionals.  We want 
someone who, who is Hispanic to provide the services.  And you know, we're already working 
on, on the people that, that um, can provide these services, the seminars.  
M:  Okay, and then you mentioned to me the other time you were here about the drug problem.
C:  Well it's um, like, like I mentioned last time we met, that um, the Acre has been like the first 
[unclear] of the immigrant, immigrant group.  As it is now the Puerto Ricans, and Southeast 
Asians, and other Hispanic, or Latino groups are in the Acre as the newest group.  There's a drug 
problem, and something that we've been dealing, or we've been aware of since day one of the 
CBA.  Um, it's something that we have to be careful of how we deal with it, because we work 
here in the Acre and we have to be careful.  But right now we're working on, on getting, getting 
the community people involved with this through a drug and crime campaign.  Already a tree 
phone has been set up to deal with this, with this problem where people could (M:  You already 
set up a), a tree phone where people could um, if they see something going on people could call 
their neighbor.  That person will call the police and in turn all up his neighbor, and that neighbor 
will also call the police and call another neighbor.  Because um, because it may, it may take more
than one person calling the police department instead of just one person that may do the, the job. 
Um, so that's been set up.  We've been working with the Boston Police Department on this.
M:  The Boston Police Department?  (C:  Umhm)  In what ways have you been working with 
them?
C:  Well they, they've been providing a lot of information like the tree phone.  They, you know, 
they provide that information.  They provide brochures in Spanish and English that um, people 
understand um, things that other neighborhoods have done, and how it has worked.  At this point 
a lot of community people, you know, they're happier dealing with you know, a police 
department outside of Lowell because they have no confidence in the local police department, 
because of their lack of response to, to the neighborhood, you know.  Like I mentioned last time, 
a lot of the drug dealing that goes on here, it's done during the day.  And you know, you don't see 
any, any police cruisers around.  And what we want is um, patrolmen walking around in the 
Acre.  But so far that hasn't happened.  
M:  And the people, have they, that as a community responded to, to [unclear].  Yeah, they, they 
have.  And again I have to mention that is a very, it's a very serious issue.  And, and a lot of 
people are afraid, a lot of people are in fact, they're like slaves in their own home.  Buildings and 
apartments, they don't want to come out, because they're afraid.  So, we, we have gotten a lot of 
response from people, and it's, it's integrated group too.  It's not just Hispanics.  We're getting 
some Southeast Asian people to come to our meetings.  And um, you know, talk about the 
problem.  Um, but it's a serious issue, and you know, it's not something that you can just take 
lightly.  And especially for us, the staff here, we have to be careful, because we're, we're like 
sitting ducks here in the neighborhood.  
M:  And you also mentioned to me the Garden Project.
C:  Yeah, there's the Green Acre Project, which will get on the way at the end of March, 
beginning of April I believe.  Um, and it's a strip of land that's along I believe the Western Canal. 
Um, which the city has okayed for us to use as a garden.  And it's going to be a youth program, 
where youth, a youth group will be employed to work on this garden.  It will be a lot of 
community youth.  It's a three way program where the YWCA, Big Brother, Big Sister, and 
Coalition for a Better Acre will be involved in this project.  And it's a very exciting project and 
you know, already some of the youth were talking about perhaps developing a business out of 
this.  And like we discusses last time, as far as I know, it's supposed to be ethnic product, 
vegetables.  As long as they can be grown during the time.
M:  Okay.  You mentioned to me that you have to leave now?
C:  Yeah.  Umhm.
M:  Okay.  Okay.  Fine.  Well than you very much.
C:  Thanks.