"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr16
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6372A
John Henry Faulk: Well, Reverend Watts, how well prepared do you think the United States is to
conduct this war?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think that the United States is fairly well prepared, but not as well-
prepared as our leaders would like for us to have been to go into a war. We probably are better
prepared than our papers give us the information. Naturally, many secrets have got to be kept.
John Henry Faulk: Well what about the establishment of a price ceiling on the commodities that the
consumer uses every day? Are you in favor of that?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think something should be done to protect the average individual who
is got to go ahead and live on his income and that there should certainly not be any profiteering
done just because we're in war.
John Henry Faulk: Well, do I understand by that then you're in favor of price ceiling on goods?
Let's say that eggs couldn't cost over forty-five cents a dozen . . . the necessities of life can't be
exorbitantly priced?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I suppose that means that we should have to have a ceiling price.
John Henry Faulk: That would apply, you would apply the same principle to the munitions makers
and the men that are going to make a whole lot of money out of it, would you not?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think that should certainly apply to the man who makes lots of money
as well to the man that makes a small amount.
John Henry Faulk: Well, I should like to ask you, just what do you think we, why do you think we
should go to war or make war on Japan and Germany and Italy.
Reverend John Espey Watts: Well, I don't think we are making war on Japan or Germany or Italy. They
have, Japan definitely has, made war on us. We have to defend ourselves.
John Henry Faulk: Do you think that it's just a matter of defenses. Well, what about Germany and
Italy. Do you think it's a matter of defending ourselves or do you think their way of, their political life
should be obliterated?
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr16
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think they have a right to have their political life and the way they
want to have it. And we are not to dictate to them the kind of life that they have, but they should
not interfere with our political life. And if that means that we have to fight Germany and Italy for our
political life that's a sacred American right and we have almost as much right to fight for our political
viewpoints as we do our homes.
John Henry Faulk: Well . . . say we defeat Germany and the Axis powers, do you think we should allow
them to reestablish their Nazi government, the Fascist governments?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think Germany and Italy ought to be allowed to reestablish their
governments. I can't see any reason why a Nazi or fascist government shouldn't be allowed there,
but we should try to arrive at more of a peaceful understanding and a peaceful way of living
together. Something will have to be formulated some way in which we can live together.
John Henry Faulk: Well, do you think democracy and fascism can exist on the globe together,
peacefully?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I believe that they can if they are, if they are willing to work together.
We, as a democracy, can't be stiff-necked in our viewpoints and fascism can't be stiff-necked in their
viewpoints. We'll have to work together.
John Henry Faulk: Well, that brings me around to the point just what kind of government, I mean
what kind of peace do you think should be written? Say in the case we win?
Reverend John Espey Watts: A peace should be written that will look at the countries that we have
defeated as human beings and not as a bunch of people or a nation of people that we want to
enslave as our servants.
John Henry Faulk: There shouldn't be another Versailles Treaty?
Reverend John Espey Watts: Versailles should not be repeated.
John Henry Faulk: You believe that if we do win this war that there will be such a peace as that? What
kind of peace do you think we'll write?
Reverend John Espey Watts: If our country and our United States is allowed to have weight in peace
terms, I do not believe that Versailles Treaty would be repeated. I do not believe that the Versailles
Treaty would have been as it was if President Wilson had had the influence that he had wanted to
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr16
have. I think that President Roosevelt has already put as much emphasis upon peace as he has upon
war and he is looking towards the peace, I believe that will mean peace as much for other nations as
it does for our own.
John Henry Faulk: What do you think about Roosevelt as a leader of this thing?
Reverend John Espey Watts: My viewpoint we could not do better in having Roosevelt as a leader.
There isn't anyone else that could lead us any better.
John Henry Faulk: He is, in other words, a good leader, would you say?
Reverend John Espey Watts: I think he's a good leader and the best that we could find. He's well-
trained, and he has spent his life in government work and knows the government all the way
through.
John Henry Faulk: Thank you very much Reverend Watts.