American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_07_094 
Documentation/Audiologs - 
Frank, Russell: IAW-RF-AO01 to IAW-RF-A006; IAW-RF-AO32 to IAW-RF-AO64 
DOCUMENT[ IAW-RF-A001] 
DOCTYPE[ Audiocassette Log] 
Fieldworker[ Frank, Russell] 
Date[ 7/19/89] 
Informant/Event[ Terzoli, Nino] 
Coworker: 
Tapesize[ 60] 
Tapesides[ 2] 
Configuration[ A2] 
Site[ 1] 
Born March 16, 1960 in Sicily. Came to U.S. at age 4 (1964). 
Language: not Italian, Sicilian. "There's a big difference." 
Dad started fishing age 8. Nino was 18: dad made him finish high school. 
Never been back to Sicily, would love to go, has relatives there. 
One of five kids. Younger brother works in engine room (Robert), older 
(Eric) builds scaffolds. 
Most recent fishing trip to San Clemente, 55 mi. away. They go where the 
spotters tell them to go. Spotters have been used since mid-seventies. 
He's married with three kids. He'd want his boys to fish. "It's a good 
life. I wouldn't do anything else." 
Dad came to U.S. year or two before rest of family. Fished tuna few 
years, then bought his first boat, then bought a bigger boat with partners, 
then bought the Maria T (his mom's name) by himself. Boats usually named for 
family members. 
Trips overnight -- if they catch fish. Fish mackerel all year round, 
some bonita and tuna in summer. Mackerel goes to cannery. Not much stays in 
the U.S. Japan buys a lot. Maria T a 64-ft. purse-seiner. 
[QSicilian dialects sItalian languages sLinguistic attitudesQ 
9Social attitudes toward educations QCommercial fishing4 sFishermen4 
90ccupationss QDialect and idiomatic speech4 QSeining4 
9Family occupational traditions QFamily life4 QImmigration4 9SalvadoransQ 
QCanneries4 QFishing laws and regulations QSeafood4 QPastaQ 
QStarkist cannery4 QYugoslaviansQ QMealsQ QFoodwaysQ QWorking conditionsQ 
sFishing nets sFishing equipment and methodsQ QOccupational knowledges 
QItalian fishing techniques QFishermen's wivesQ QGender roles 
QPersonal narratives QNarrativesQ QSan Pedro (Calif.)Q 
QItalian dialect and idiomatic speechs sLanguages 
QDepletion of the fish supply4 QFishing4 QGuatemalanss Q] 
Family worries about their return: "No. You leave the house and it's 
I'll see you when I see you." Tough on the wives. "It takes a special kind 
of girl to be a fisherman's wife." 
Uncle a tuna fisherman in San Diego. 
Fishing in Sicily today: No power blocks or spotter planes. "They do it 
the old way ... When they catch a thousand pounds, they had a good day. We 
won't even look at a thousand pounds." Good day for Maria T is 60 ton. 
Description of set. Fish scooped in, suctioned out. Big fish still 
unloaded by hand. 
Maria T has 7-man crew. Most of her crew is Guatemalan and Salvadoran. 
Address: 1107 23rd St. Phone: 548-6984. 
Shrinking of the San Pedro fleet. In the old days, "you could almost 
walk from one side of the wharf to the other across the boats... It's not the 
fishing that's dying out, it's the markets." Cannery has no storage space, 
has to impose limit on fishermen. 
Future: "You can always find fish to kill. You gotta find the market, 
but fishing'll be here forever." 
Fish & Game: If you catch sardines, say, you have to dump 'em. Half will 
die. But sardines are plentiful again. 
Eating fish: ate it three times last week. Don't eat much mackerel, 
prefer rock cod. 
Wife's Italian-American, cooks some Italian. Dad "has to have his pasta. 
He's got to eat it at least one meal a day." 
Food on board boat. Accommodations. Recently rebuilt cabin. 
Story: caught 200 tons blue mackerel, but quota closed, had to dump 
them. "Supposedly there was no blue mackerel left." 
Not too many Slays left, except the few big tuna boats. 
Boat owners bought Starkist Cannery in 1987. Now called United Food 
Processing. Starkist tuna cannery now in Samoa. Pan-Pacific still packs 
tuna, last one in U.S. 
If out in the daytime, they'll catch rock cod with hook-and-line for 
their own meals. 
Description of set. 
Dangers: heavy equipment, bad weather, daydreaming. 
[side B] 
Net-mending. "Lacing? This is easy." Was 15 when he learned how. Dad 
wanted to keep him away, but he always wanted to be a fisherman. "It's tough 
life. It's not like, you work on a salary, you're gonna get your $2000, 
$2500 bucks a month. With us, we can go out and work every night, if we 
don't catch any fish we don't make any money." 
Story: Fishing anchovies outside Pt. Fermin. The St. George's set first: 
300 tons. Pulling net, got three-quarters in, started to list, boom bent 
over. 
Spotters: Two groups of 7-8-9-10 boats. Arguments: "That was my school 
of fish last night. What are you talking about? I saw them first..." Gets 
vehement when it's a matter of tuna, $1,000-$1,200/ton vs. mackerel, 
$150/ton. "Different story when someone snakes you out of a school of tuna." 
Worst fishing swordfish: "Always in bad weather, always away from home." 
on anchor 14 days in Monterey. "You're not making money that way." 
Wouldn't want to be a fisherman in Italy. Dad never been hungry since 
he's been here. Dad's dad fished. 
Nino's not an American citizen. Came from Sicily as a kid, didn't 
realize he wasn't automatically a citizen. Dad away fishing tuna during much 
of his childhood, never took care of paperwork. 
[helicopter going over] 
On being Italian: "It's hard to hold on to your roots when you're so far 
away." Speaks Italian, his wife wants him to teach the kids. Wife a member 
of Italian-American Club. "Every Italian that's got a little patch of dirt 
grows tomatoes and squash." He grows carnations. "I don't think you walk 
into my house and say, this is typical Dago." Front porch isn't painted red. 
Dad has his tomatoes, fruit trees. What's typical Italian: marble floors, 
tile everywhere. 
[fisherman just back from Alaska] 
Didn't go out looking for Italian girl. Wouldn't marry one if he had to 
do it again. Grew up with mom doing everything: "Most Italian men are 
spoiled because their wives and their mothers and their sisters would do 
everything for them ... Then it starts to bother them." 
He's one of six kids; mom did most of the parenting while his dad was 
away tuna fishing. 
[QFamily gardens4 QGardens4 QEthnic identification4 
QEthnicityQ QItalian language4 QChild rearing practices4 
QChildren and acculturation4 QAcculturation4 QHouse decoration (exterior)Q 
QDialect and idiomatic speechQ QIschia (Italy)Q QSicily (Italy)Q 
QEthnic relationsQ QEthnicityQ QItalian regionsQ QMarriage customsQ 
QRites of passage4 QMarriageQ QCustomsQ QWeddings4 QImmigration4 
QCitizenshipQ QLanguage use in families4 QFamily life4 
QItalian dialect and idiomatic speechQ QLanguage4 QEthnic epithetsQ 
QSocial conflictQ QSocial relationsQ Q] 
[guy back from Alaska talks about how he did] 
Differences between Ischia and Sicily: dialect, food. "Whenever he does 
something wrong I tell him because he's from Ischia. We use it to burn each 
other." Sicilians called Africans by Ischians. 
[more conversation with guy back from Alaska, says he brought back a 
fish "with Exxon written all over it"] 
His wedding: 500 people, "everybody tapping on the glasses...I guess 
it was a traditional Italian wedding... polkas for the old folks, rock and 
roll for the younger people." 
DOCUMENT[ IAW-RF-A002] 
DOCTYPE[ Audiocassette Log] 
Fieldworker[ Frank, Russell] 
Date[ 7/19/89] 
Informant/Event[ Terzoli, Vito] 
Coworker: 
Tapesize[ 60] 
Tapesides( 2] 
Configuration( A2] 
Site[ 1] 
Born 11/12/34. 
In Sicily they catch less fish, but get more money per pound. Use lights 
to find fish there, here sonar and spotters are used. Life here is 100 times 
better than in Sicily. 
Was on a tuna boat, gone 3-4 months at a time when his family first came 
over. Hard on everybody. Life more comfortable on the big tuna boats. 
Language: spoke no English when he came to U.S. Parents, siblings 
already here when he came. Father came 5-6 years before Vito did. Mother's 
father was a shoemaker. Father's father was a cop. Father and all sons were 
fishermen. Vito was 7 when he started. Went from quarter to half to full 
share. [4Fishing 4 4Commercial fishing 4 4Language acquisition 4 4Immigration 4 
4Sicily (Italy) 4 4Italian language 4 4Language 4 4Share system (fishing)4 
4Fishing 4 4] 
(helicopter noise] 
Quotas: blue mackerel fishery closed, but fishermen kept catching them and 
having to dump them. Last year, Vito was put on year probation because 
he was over five percent of total catch limit on sardines. You can't control 
what goes in your net. 
Fish and Game inspectors always on hand at cannery. But if it wasn't for 
them, "we'd catch all the fish in the ocean." When you've got fish in the 
net and they're dead, it's a shame to throw them away. Can't have even one 
barracuda on the boat. Reserved for sport fishermen and gill-netters. 
Likewise sea bass. [4Fishing laws and regulations4 4Fishermen4 4Occupations 4 
4Depleation of the fish supply4 4Fishing 4 4] 
Discouraged his sons "100 percent" from becoming fishermen. It's not how 
hard the work is, it's the hours you have to put in. "If you got a steady 
job on the beach, you're home with your kids, your wife every night." Sorry 
he chose to work instead of staying in school. Doesn't care about a family 
fishing tradition. Just wants his kids to have a better life. 
Went back to Italy 10 years ago. Mother-in-law said she's living like 
a king: "`Now at least we see a piece of bread over here."' Vito scoffs. 
Remembers eating meat once a year, at Christmas. 
Retirement: Not any time soon. Only 55. 
[4Visits to Italy4 
4Visits to the homeland 4 4Immigration 4 4Reunions 4 4] 
Luck: Don't put hatches upside down (or boat will sink). They never 
catch a fish on Saint Joseph's Day (March 19). Never start a trip on Friday. 
On Saint Joseph's you're supposed to light a fire in the middle of the 
street. "We still go out (on Saint Joseph's Day) but not with the feeling 
to catch a fish." 
Religion: goes to Mary Star once in a while. 
[QSt. Joseph's Days 
4Beliefs about lucks 4Beliefs 4Maritime beliefs QCatholicisms QReligions 
QChurchess QReligious customs QReligions QCustomss QBonfiresQ 4] 
Gardening: grows tomatoes and squash in backyard. Used to eat pasta once 
a day. "If I don't eat pasta once a day it wasn't a day." Second wife more 
American, down to twice a week. Bread's got to be on the table every meal. 
[QFamily gardens QGardenss 4Pasta4 QFoodwayss 4Boat namings QBoatss 
QNamingQ QBoat decorations QSiciliansQ 
QMary Star of the Sea Church (San Pedro, Calif.)Q QBreadQ QMealsQ 
QFoodwaysQ Q] 
Maria T named after first wife. Standard practice among Sicilian 
fishermen. 
Sicilian boats used to be prettily painted. Not here. 
Father still alive, 81 years old. Speaks no English. Stopped fishing 15 
years ago. Has two brothers in San Pedro, one in San Diego. Three of four 
are boat owners. The other is a merchant seaman. 
Best fisherman isn't necessarily the one who makes the most money. 
There's the luck factor. 
[QFamily occupational traditions 
QFamily lifer Q] 
[side 2] 
He and his two partners put down $2,500 to buy a boat, which burned up 
in fire: Anna Maria II. No insurance. Harbor Dept. paid for it. Sold his 
share. 
Maria T built 1967. He's a member of the co-op, one of 18 boat 
owners who bought the cannery. Two Slays, the rest Italian. 90 percent of 
boat owners are Sicilians. The 
rest are Ischians. 
He and his boys are blond and blue-eyed; nobody believes they're 
Sicilian. Mother's family from Poland. 
Most of his friends fishermen, most are Italian. 
Net-mending boring. 
Wife belongs to Italian-American Club. He doesn't. The women have more 
time, he says. 
[QSocial clubsQ QFiresQ QCanneriess QAgribusinessQ 
QFamily histories QUse of explosives in fishings 
4Fishing equipment and methodsQ 4Beliefs about fishQ QBeliefsQ QPolandQ 
QSicily (Italy)Q QGender roles Q] 
Fishing in Sicily: used explosives. "We were more stupid than the fish 
because we never figured out how much fish we killed." That's what's ruined 
the fishing industry in Italy. 
Full moon: the fish stay down deep and don't school up. Spotters can see 
them better when it's dark. Spotters get percentage of catch from all 10 
boats they serve. 
DOCUMENT[ IAW-RF-A003] 
DOCTYPE[ Audiocassette Log] 
Fieldworker[ Frank, Russell] 
Date[ 7/21/89] 
Informant/Event[ Taormina, Leonard] 
Coworker: 
Tapesize[ 60] 
Tapesides[ 2] 
Configuration[ A2] 
Site[ 1] 
How his boat got the name Coquetta, built 1949-50. 
He was a "tuna man" for many years. Sardines. WWII stint, Korea. Fished 
tuna for 15 years locally after war, then went south on big tuna boats out 
of San Diego. Retired 13-14 years. Still fishes with his brother. Brother 
died of heart attack while the three brothers were fishing; haven't fished 
much since. Another brother fell overboard and drowned: "That takes the 
grind out of us." 
Was deck boss in San Diego for Westgate Cannery, 25 years. Trips varied 
from one month to eight months on the Mary Lucille. Then gave it up. 
Swordfishing out of San Pedro. "We were not really high-liners, but it paid 
off." Fished Panama, Ecuador, Honduras. Six-month tours to Africa, fishing 
with helicopters on board. "Very interesting in life in fishing. I liked 
it." Job as deck boss was "to be sure gear was all good...I fished from 
knee-high til today." [gBoat namingg 9Boatsg gNamingg gCommercial fishingg 
gFishermeng 90ccupationsg gFishingg QWorld War II9 9Canneriesg 
gFishing netsg gFishing equipment and methodsg 9Panamag gEcuadorg gHondurasg 
9Sicily (Italy)9 QSamoag gTaormina (Italy)g 9Monterey (Calif.)g 9San Diego 
(Calif.)g 9San Pedro (Calif.)g g] 
Five brothers. He's the only one with a high school diploma. One brother 
cooks on the Tootur. Fishing slow now here, good in Samoa, where the 
canneries now are. 
Born in San Pedro, October 3, 1923. Five boys, four girls. Father 
immigrated to Boston, met mother, Mike and Joe born, moved to Monterey. 
"Fishin's s really changed today. Years ago it was all pullin gear and 
nets by hand. Now they have big power blocks and hydraulic things that pull 
all your gear and makes fishin very, very easy." 
Father's from Sicily, town of Taormina, probably. He has no desire to 
go there -- doesn't know anybody there. Has five albums of pictures at home, 
many of foreign fishing ports. Father was fisherman, in Italy and in San 
Pedro. Uncle Cosmo an old-time fisherman in Monterey. Has cousins who worked 
in Monterey canneries. Didn't grow up speaking Italian. Son Michael, 40, has 
fished, now works on harbor cruise ship. 
Comes down to dock every day to check boat -- it was broken into last 
year. "I'm down here seven days a week, 30 days a month, just browsin 
around." Helps Gerrard (Fiorentino), they cook together. Then goes home, 
tends his "victory garden." "I go to bed early in the evenings and I get up 
early -- get up at 4 o'clock, go down to coffee shop and see the boys and 
stuff like that, if there's any good fish to eat and there it is, always 
fresh, nothing stale. Good fish we eat." [QFamily histories4 
QPhotograph collections4 QCollections4 QMeals4 QFoodways4 
QTechnological change4 QLuncheons4 QChannel Islands (Calif.)Q 
QSanoma County (Calif.)Q Q] 
Lunch with Gerrard, 9-10 o'clock. "We eat so good that all the 
freeloaders come around... But they're our friends, we don't say nothin." 
Brings food to brother Mike, who's 79. Lives with sister and brother-in-law. 
Nephews in Sonoma County. 
Fishing slip been there at least 50 years. Used to be lumber dock. Now 
you see walkers and joggers and people picking up aluminum cans. Boats have 
grown from 2-man to 10 or 12 man crews, up to 25 men on the big tuna boats. 
Nets 800 fathoms long. Today would cost half million dollars. Built tuna net 
in Panama worth $72,000 20 years ago. 
Coquetta goes out for week at a time to Channel Islands. Used to do a 
lot of hook-and-line fishing for rock cod. Now depleted. No more swordfish 
either. Blames sport fishermen for catching fish before they spawn. Last 
year, saw no swordfish in nine days. $400-$500 for fuel per trip. Flags used 
on bamboo poles and buoys so you can go look for more fish after harpooning 
some. 
Maintenance. Painting, starting up once a week for half month. Coquetta 
been in family since 1949. A lot of people would like to have it, but they 
want it for nothing. 
On old timers coming down to the slip: "We chatter, who caught this, who 
caught that... If I wanted to go fishing I could get a job, but I'm 66, I'm 
not in it for the money." 
Father and brothers owned small boats. He always crewed on the big tuna 
boats, never owned one. No albacore these days. Big San Diego boats crying 
the blues. Foreign boats setting 40-50 miles of net. 
Tuna boat crews mostly Portuguese skippers, Portuguese & Italian crews, 
later Mexicans, Koreans, Africans. "I fished with every nationality there 
was." 
[QSports fishing 4 QEthnic relationsQ QEthnicityQ QSocial relationsQ 
QEthnicity and occupation4 QHook-and-line fishing4 
QFishing equipment and methodsQ QFishingQ QDepleation of the fish supplyQ 
QFishingQ QPortugese (people)9 QMexicansQ QKoreansQ QAfricans4 
QCrews (fishing) Q Q] 
Leisure: while traveling to fishing ground, usually spent working on 
gear. Brailers: big hoops, 7-8 ft. in diameter. "After you make your set, 
you pull your fish alongside with the skiffs, you sack up your fish real 
tight and you brail 'em down there, and scoop in the hoppers and they go 
down the chutes to your wells." Can hold as much as 3 tons at a time. Log 
fishing. 
He was deck boss many years. "Once the skipper says let the net go, we 
let a big skiff go and make a big circle, 800 fathoms, you know what I mean. 
It's my duty to make sure the net's coming back in the boat and all the fish 
is coming back too. If you're gonna start rippin and losin fish you'll make 
a bad name and I don't think I've had a bad name in all my years of 
fishing." 
Describes porpoise fishing -- using porpoise to find the tuna. Disputes 
that American fishermen killed porpoises. 
Favorite fish to eat: rock cod, mackerel, anchovies. Cooks with garlic, 
onions, parsley: "Italian style." Cholesterol problems. Eats pasta once or 
twice a week with Gerrard. [QMethods of locating fishQ 
QFishing equipment and methodsQ Q] 
Big fish stories: 20-30 ft. basking sharks. They carry tuna also. How 
to release fish you don't want without killing them. 
Satellite weather info; accidents at sea; singing on boats: cook named 
Pappy played guitar and accordion. "There's always somebody with a guitar 
on boat." Guys who were broke would sell them for 50 cents. Showed movies. 
Luck: not going out on Fridays. Story of why doughnuts have holes: 
jammed on spokes of ship's wheel. Telling dirty jokes on the bridge while 
looking for fish. 
[Woman on wharf asks if fishermen are catching any swordfish] [QJokesQ 
QTall talesQ QNarratives 4 QBeliefs about luck4 QBeliefs4 QGuitar4 
QAccordion4 QMusical instruments4 QMaritime beliefs4 Q] 
"If there were any swordfish I'd be out there right now, be on the mast 
all day, get some good breeze and eat at night time, get good sleep. I eat and I 
sleep at home but it's always good to get out there." 
Net-mending: "I don't say I'm the best. I can sew." Story of net and 
chain getting wrapped around prop off coast of Panama. "Any kind of net you 
can put together with your eyes closed, but the better it's put together, 
it'll fish better. You don't just choke it up. The net has to be built with 
a lot of slack, a lot of play. When you set you got to have a lot of play, 
that way you let the fish mill around, swim around. If it's choked up, 
they're gonna find an entrance, they're gonna get out of your net." 
Tuna boats: 100-150 sets per trip. Wear and tear on gear and men. "Skunk 
sets": no fish. Made many nets from scratch, "from nothing to something." 
Spent three weeks making net in Panama. Sewing is "lacing and tacking, 
that's all that is." More on need for slack. 
[QFishing netsQ 
QFishing equipment and methodsQ QLocal terms and sayingsQ QLanguageQ 
QBeliefs about luckQ QBeliefsQ QNicknamesQ QNamingQ Q] 
Fishing today: long trips hard on family. "Nowadays everyone has a 
wristwatch and a styrofoam coffee cup. I hate that." Risk of watch getting 
tangled in net. 
Tidiness of the Coquetta. 
[Guy comes by who wants to buy it.] 
His nickname is Lemons. Used to make lemonade in summers. Boat's cook 
nicknamed him Lemons. 
Coquetta built by John DiMeglio in 1949. 
What makes a good skiff. 
Coin under mast: There's coins under the mast of the Coquetta. 
DOCUMENT[ IAW-RF-A004] 
DOCTYPE[ Audiocassette Log] 
Fieldworker[ Frank, Russell] 
Date[ 7/21/89] 
Informant/Event[ Canetti, Joe] 
Coworker: 
Tapesize[ 60] 
Tapesides[ 2] 
Configuration[ A2] 
Site[ 1] 
Born January 30, 1930. Father came from Italy in 1910s (born 
1898). Mother came 1922-23. Met in San Pedro. From Ischia. Father came via 
Marseille and Algiers, where he worked construction. Related to Elias 
Canetti. [QFamily historiesQ QSocial attitudes toward the United States 4 
QEthnic identificationQ 4Ethnic epithetsQ QLanguageQ QImmigrationQ 
QIschia (Italy)9 QSan Pedro (Calif.)Q QDeath customs4 QRites of passageQ 
QDeathQ QCustoms4 Q] 
[friend stops by] 
Father was Italian, but he was always first an American. Wanted American 
flag on his casket. 
[friend: "I can call you a Dago and you can call me a Dago but if 
somebody else called me a Dago, then I'd get hot in the ass."] 
Father was always in grocery business. First store 16th and Mesa. When 
Joe was a baby he was put in a toilet paper box in the store. Sold groceries 
to the fishermen. Not strictly Italian food. There were no Italian 
restaurants til the 60s. Now there are seven. Cooks were cooking on the 
fishing boats. When the fishing got bad they opened restaurants. "Right now 
it's not fishing. Second generation Italians are all lawyers, doctors, dentists. 
Man I'm telling you, the Italians are all spread out throughout 
San Pedro now." Realtors, restaurants. 
Mother had three brothers in San Pedro, all in fishing business: Los 
Angeles Fish & Oyster (DiMassa). Mother died 1987 at age 87. Dad couldn't 
read or write; mom kept the books. Aunt and uncle never became American 
citizens, aunt was in a camp in the desert for six months. Nighttime 
blackouts in San Pedro during war. Joe's older brother and sister spoke 
Italian, but during WWII, the emphasis was on speaking English. Brother 
Frank an insurance man. The whole family worked in the grocery store. 
[QItalian restaurantsQ QStoresQ QFamily businesses 4 QBusinessesQ 
QFamily occupational traditionsQ QFamily lifeQ QCommercial fishingQ 
QWorld War IIQ QFishingQ QFamily compositionQ QRealtorsQ 
QLinguistic attitudes 4 QLanguageQ QImmigration storiesQ QImmigration 4 
QNarrativesQ QLos Angeles (Calif.)Q 
QCanetti's Seafood Grotto (San Pedro, Calif.)Q Q] 
[pause to turn fan off] 
In 1945, family store was on the dock, in what is now Ports 0' Call. 
Moved to the present location in 1949. Joe opened his own restaurant in 
1958. Took over dad's restaurant in 1962-63. Building owned by City of LA. 
On 30-day permit. Dream of franchising: Canetti's for Spaghetti. Makes a 
living off the fishermen, the longshoremen, the fish market guys. Boys 
taking over the business. 
Has three boys and four girls. Oldest son works on the barges, went to 
Piney Point merchant marine academy, in Seafarers International Union, works 
for Crowley (Nick). Named after Joe's dad. "The first son in the Italian 
family has to be named after the father." Daughter Joanne named after his 
mother. 
Meals: "Sunday was mostaccioli-macaroni day. Thursday was a macaroni 
day. Monday was a soup day." 
Fish Friday. Saturday steak. Sunday the big 
family visiting day. Adults played cards; kids went to the movies. [QMealsQ 
QVisitingQ QSocial conflictQ QSocial relationsQ QSeafoodQ QFoodwaysQ 
QChristmasQ QCalendar customsQ Q] 
Italian-Yugoslav conflict. Dad had shotgun in bedroom. 
[side B] 
Italians' porches were green. Slays white and blue. Dad had fruit trees: 
peaches, plums, oranges, tangerines. Dad moved out to San Jacinto after 
retiring. Planted string beans, fava beans, fruit trees. Italians put 
zucchini flowers in batter to make fritters. Wife makes ravioli from 
scratch. Holiday menu "would blow your brains: cracked crab, fresh oysters, 
steamed clams, linguini with pasta, pizza, shrimp, spaghetti with crab 
sauce, abalone." 50 people every Christmas Eve. Father insisted on eel. 
Always had jug of wine on the floor. Made his own. Bought a ton of grapes. 
Stomped the grapes. "All the Italians had cellars. They don't know what a 
cellar is today... In the Forties we had every Italian making wine here." 
[QFamily gardensQ QGardensQ QHoliday foodwaysQ QFoodwaysQ 
QSocial attitudes toward ethnic groupsQ Q] 
Holidays: Christmas Eve was the biggest. San Giovan Giuseppe events 
included climbing greased pole. Before the war were the days of "the real 
fiestas." San Gennaro, patron saint of Naples. Blood flows from his hands. 
Italians here donated money for San Giovan Giuseppe fiesta in Ischia. 
These days, the boys work Sundays, so the family gatherings are any day 
of the week. Used to close 1 p.m. Saturday and reopen Monday. Now, with 
competition from Denny's, etc. they need to be open Sunday. "The real 
Italian thing, it was, but it isn't today." Because everyone has to work 
more. People aren't moving out of San Pedro, though, because there's always 
work: fishing, longshoring, truck-driving. 
Italians in San Pedro still strong. Sicilians still speak Italian first, 
English second. In 1960, Sicilians came: hard workers. Go to Alaska to fish 
salmon in June for month and a half. Make $25,000 to $40,000 in that time. 
Two-man boats. Alaska license sells for $150,000. Ischians didn't go to 
Alaska. 95 percent of fishermen in San Pedro now Sicilians. Ischians have 
moved up and out, got out in the 60s. "They're a breed of their own and they 
work. They're not like the gangsters from New York." In the 60s, fishermen 
were sinking their boats to pick up the insurance. More Yugoslays than 
Italians, according to Joe. [QFamily gatherings QItalian language4 
QDialect and idiomatic speechQ QLanguage4 
QSocial attitudes toward ethnic groupsQ QBlessing of the FleetQ QSeining4 
QFishermen4 4OccupationsQ QEthnic relations4 QEthnicityQ QSocial relationsQ 
QSiciliansQ QIschiansQ QItalian dialect and idiomatic speechQ QLanguage4 Q] 
Christmas: The family visited 20 other households. Trani's shoe store 
on 7th street. Brothers make sandals. Johnny and Tony. Common names: John, 
Joseph, Vincent, Tony, Frank. 
Blessing of the Fleet: September/October It was different when there 
were 100 purse-seiners. 
He comes into restaurant every morning at 4:30 to make doughnuts, cakes. 
"Fishermen catch more fish in Canetti's than they catch out in the ocean." 
Info exchange. From 6 a.m. Saturday a.m. fresh fish markets open to the 
public. 
Document: IAW-RF-A032 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Genova, Joe; Palermo, Paul 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Joe Genova and Paul Palermo at Joe's house in 
Pueblo: 
Joe Genova's family background: His father was Giuseppe Genoa 
-- the "v" was added to the family name after they came to the U.S. 
He came in 1901, landing in New Orleans. Two of his brothers were 
already 
in 
Pueblo. 
He 
started 
farming 
in 
Vineland with his 
brothers, brought his wife over in 1905 from Lucca. His dad was 20; 
mom was 16 when she came. Their marriage was "prearranged." The 
family farmed in Italy. "Other than that, there was nothing. That's 
why they came over." 
The brothers 
came to 
Pueblo because one 
of them had a 
prearranged engagement to a girl in the Colletti family, who were 
farming in Vineland -- 15 miles east of Pueblo. They grew corn, 
"anything that would sell." The brothers pooled their money to buy 
land. But Joe's dad was "a city boy" who didn't take to farming. 
So he moved to Pueblo, on Mechanic St., got washed out by the 1921 
flood, then moved onto Currie which was "predominantly" Italian. 
The Italians lived below (north of) Northern Ave. (between Northern 
and Abriendo). 
The Slays lived above 
(south of) 
Northern and 
"across the bridge" were Slovenians 
(Bojons) 
and "down in the 
Grove." 
Joe's father ran a hotel in Canon City. "Then that went bust." 
Then in the late 20s and early 30s it was "catch as catch can" and 
"he went to bootlegging, just like all good Italians that needed 
a job. It's part of us, really." He kept his younger sons out of 
it, but Joe remembers "the Feds coming and searching the house a 
couple of times. He never did knuckle under to the Mob. I think 
that's why our home got searched so much." Then he went to work for 
the railroad, as a car repairman for the Denver and Rio Grande. His 
father made the liquor, but Joe doesn't know where. 
The Palermo family. Paul's dad came in 1902. He was 17. His 
folks sent him over to evade the draft. He came from Calabria. 
"They were awful poor" and every year the kids got hired out to the 
"padrone" and work his land, live in a hovel, eat a pot of beans 
for dinner. His first stop was in Pennsylvania, where his older 
brother already was. He worked in a coal mine 3-4 years and went 
IAW-RF-AO32 - 
2 
to night school so he could get his citizenship papers. He hopped 
a freight train to Chicago, went on to work in a gold mine in South 
Dakota, got his toe run over by an ore car, moved on to Grand 
Junction, where he worked in a brickyard, and on to Trinidad and 
the coal mines there. Then he moved to Pueblo, married, and got a 
job at CF&I as a crane operator. He left during "a hellacious 
strike" and got a job in the railroad roundhouse as a machinist's 
helper, and then as a machinist. 
Paul's Uncle Angelo went back and forth between Pueblo and 
Italy, 
"but 
my 
dad 
never had 
any 
desire 
to 
return 
to 
his 
birthplace." His dad's sisters remained in Italy. 
Joe on his folks not going back to Italy: 
"I didn't have 
anything over there, 
I didn't leave anything over there, 
and 
there's nothing for me to go back for either." 
Paul: Even during the Depression his dad tried to send money 
back to his family in Italy. 
Language: Paul says his dad was as fluent in English as he was 
in Italian and spoke without an accent. Many of the neighbors, 
after being here 30-40 years, "you would swear they just got off 
the boat yesterday." Joe remembers his parents going to night 
school two nights a week so they could learn English and get their 
citizenship papers. 
Joe describes his father as a good provider, but tough. 
When Joe was in high school, during the war, there was an 
announcement over the P.A. system that CF&I was hiring part-timers. 
Joe worked in the open hearth, which was "hotter than hell." 
Discrimination at CF&I: The neighborhood was "like the League 
of Nations," but a crane job opened at the open hearth and Joe and 
a Mexican guy applied 
-- 
they were working 
in 
"the 
cellar" 
shoveling out slag and dust -- the union had just come in in 1942, 
but "there was still a lot of favoritism going on out there." They 
were told, "as long as you kids' names end in a vowel, you're going 
to stay down in the cellar." Joe quit two-three weeks later and 
went to work at the roundhouse, as Paul's father's helper, seven 
days a week, graveyard. Joe was 17, and wouldn't put up with it. 
Then Joe and a couple of buddies hitchhiked out to California, 
picking peaches and prunes in San Jose, at 10 cents a box. They 
stayed with an uncle and lasted three weeks. From there they went 
to Los Angeles, where they went to work for an ice man. Then they 
came back to Pueblo and enlisted. 
There were a few Italians who were turn foremen in the open 
hearth. Italians comprised between 5 and 10 percent of the work 
force at CF&I. Hiring at the mill worked like this: "If you were 
Italian or were married to an Italian you got a job in the 40-
IAW-RF-AO32 - 
3 
inch." Likewise in the 10-inch if you were a Bojon. 
During the Depression kids would throw rocks at the firemen 
at the mill in the hope that the firemen would throw coal back. 
Slav-Italian marriages. Paul: The Italians were so clannish 
at one time that if you were a Sicilian you married a Sicilian --
or you had family problems. Joe doesn't remember anything of the 
kind. Paul's sister married a Sicilian and there were problems with 
his mother. 
Language again: Paul's father forbid the speaking of Italian 
at the table or around the kids. 
His grandmother only spoke 
Italian, but she and the grandkids couldn't understand each other. 
"I regret very much" not learning to speak Italian. Joe's mother 
was the same way, but his dad spoke Italian to the kids. 
[side B] 
Paul's nickname: he was born in 1928 and he was named after 
Charles Lindbergh. He was named Paul Lindbergh Palermo. Joe was 
born in 1926. They were friends before the war. 
Food during the Depression: pasta fazool, polenta, "a lot of 
stuff that stuck to your bones." Joe's family lived on a hill 
overlooking the railroad depot, Mesa Junction. It was also called 
Corona Park. 
Neighborhood was a "League of Nations." Paul: 
"I 
didn't know what discrimination was 'til I went to work in the 
mill." Joe's house got known as a place where guys down on their 
luck could get free food. Paul on food: "Everything from scratch." 
Except spaghetti, which was bought in 20-pound boxes. Hogs were 
slaughtered once a year. Jams, jellies, vegetables, meats, bread 
baked once a week. Joe calls his family's forno a "dutch oven." His 
after school job on Fridays was to load it up with wood. Mom lit 
the fire Saturday morning. With the leftover dough she made little 
loaves that she dipped in olive oil, salt and pepper and gave to 
the kids. 
[Joe shows his mother's 3-foot pasta rolling pin] 
Joe says his mom made the best noodles in town. 
Wine-making. Paul: "That's one of the things I used to dread 
yearly." Family bought 75 crates of grapes and Paul had to carry 
them down the basement steps. "Always had wine. Always had wine." 
His dad made his own press and grinder. The grindings were used to 
make "seconds." If the wine spoiled, they made vinegar out of it -
- or brought it to the bootlegger, who made whiskey out of it. 
Paul's dad made 150 gallons (two gallons per lug). 
Paul: Spaghetti on Sundays with wine. No water on the table. 
"You ate first, and then you drank." (They didn't want the kids to 
fill up on water and not eat.) Joe's dad had his gallon of wine 
IAW-RF-AO32 - 
4 
under his chair: 
"That's the difference between Calabresi and 
Sicilians." The kids could have a_glass with their meal. 
Breakfasts: oatmeal, cream of wheat, occasionally bacon and 
eggs, toast. Paul's dad would make, on his off days, coffee, with 
milk, egg and hard bread. Joe talks about trading his peanut butter 
sandwiches for his Mexican friend's burrito. 
After the war. Joe: "We torn down the oven, which was a big 
mistake." Didn't want mom to bake bread anymore -- "make it easy 
on her." He was working at the roundhouse, living at home, giving 
his check to the house, buying his mom a gas stove to replace the 
coal stove. After the war they could afford turkey and roasts, but 
they'd still have their spaghetti and meatballs. 
Paul: the old Italian families had to have plenty of food to 
satisfy everybody. "If you left there hungry, you insulted them." 
Sundays: You'd visit friends or families on the Mesa. Didn't 
go to the mountains much. Paul: What traveling they did was by 
train. The family was too big to all travel together. Even as 
railroad families riding free, it was too expensive. The furthest 
Joe's mom went was to Denver. Neither of them have been to Italy. 
Italianness today. Paul: "It's not Sunday unless I have my 
spaghetti and wine." He didn't try to instill a sense of Italian 
heritage in his kids, but his daughter teases her husband about 
having to change her name from exotic Palermo to boring Hunter. 
League of Nations 
Document: IAW-RF-AO33 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Genova, Joe; Palermo, Paul 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Joe Genova and Paul Palermo at Joe's house in Pueblo 
(tape 2 of 2) : 
Language: Joe's wife says their youngest son learned to speak 
Italian in high school, but Joe says he's learned a dialect he 
doesn't understand. Joe's mother would say, "You're in America now, 
you speak American." 
Sports: Played softball and football in the street and on 
sandlots. Swam in the Arkansas at 4th Street Dam. Played with kids 
of all different nationalities. 
[Joe's son comes in] 
Teasing. Joe: "Everyone was almost the same. They were all 
poor. 
If 
Yet, there was discrimination at the mill. Joe went back to 
the mill after his stint in California -- for one week. Then he 
went in the navy. After the war, he went back again. "If they would 
have sent me back to the open hearth, I probably would have quit." 
But he went back to merchant finishing. He worked in the mill 42 
years. "The mill was tough. It was hard work. You had to put it 
out. Either you put it out or you got canned." 
Merchant finishing: Description of what was made there. The 
process: ingots made in the open hearth (10 ton), then "bloomed" 
to billet size (heated and rolled hot). At one time there was no 
protective clothing except hard-toed boots. Now they wear hard hats 
and goggles. If CF&I hadn't modernized, they would have folded 20 
years ago. 
Injuries: the machinery worked fast and continuously and the 
workers had to pull the steel of with tongs in a small space. The 
floor was so hot they'd get blisters on their feet. Vapor-locking: 
when you can't sweat anymore. They worked a half-hour on, a half-
hour off (so they could cool off). 
"Hot steel. Red hot steel." 
Deaths. Joe saw a rod of hot steel wrap itself completely around 
someone. 
The work was inherently dangerous, 
but the company's 
IAW-RF-A033 - 
2 
attitude was, according to Paul, that it was easier to replace a 
person than a piece of machinery or one of the animals. "The old 
Rockefeller days, thank God I never knew them." 
The union. 
Came in in 1942. 
Its ineffective precursor, a 
response to the Ludlow Massacre was the Employees Representative 
Organization. The massacre was a result of the attempt to keep 
organized labor out of the mines. 
The company called 
in the 
National Guard, which opened fire on a tent city of miners and 
their families, killing 13-14 -- including women and children. 
1914. The massacre caused unrest at the steel plant in Pueblo. The 
E.R.O. was better than what they had before, but it was a company 
union. 
Strikes: The first one was in 1946. It lasted 30 days. Wages 
had been frozen during the war at $6.04 a day. There were strikes 
in '46, '47, '48, little one and two-day strikes. When Joe and Paul 
went to work it was a 5-day work week, 8 hours a day. During the 
Depression it was 10 and 12-hour shifts, 10 cents an hour. 
Paul was in the navy from 1946-48. Then went to work in the 
metallurgical 
lab. 
Description of the work. 
Worked there six 
months, then quit and tried to sell insurance. Returned to the mill 
in 1949. He was told he was too small. He went back every week. 
Finally, through a friend who was in the union, he got a job in the 
crane department. Out of 125 cranemen, there were two Bojons, three 
Italians and two Mexican. 
One of the Mexicans and one of the 
Italians were there because they were hired as scabs during the 
1919 strike. 
The electrical department was also 90-95 percent 
Anglo. Ditto the inspection department. 
The open hearth was "nothing but hot, 
hard, 
dirty work." 
Mexicans, blacks, Italians and Bojons would never get out of those 
laboring jobs. But if you were a "hillbilly who came in with horse 
shit on your boots," you were made a third helper. 1959 strike was 
to "get dignity on the job." 
[side B] 
Seniority system adopted and minorities began to get better 
jobs. But even today, says Paul, "there's damn few minority group 
members or Italians" who are superintendents. Not all of them have 
the education or the temperament. Joe tells a story about how angry 
he and the other workers got when a pencil-pusher was made foreman 
of the 25-inch mill. 
The company would try to promote union 
activists to management to co-opt them. The 1964 Civil Rights Act 
made Italians Anglos, because they weren't considered a minority. 
Before that Paul, says, "we were just lousy wops." The Act meant 
that Italians and Irish and other groups that had been passed over 
right along, would continue to be passed over in favor of Mexicans, 
Blacks and Indians. 
Joe: 
"There was a lot of hard feelings." 
Promotions to management meant a drop in pay because they'd no 
IAW-RF-A033 - 
3 
longer be eligible for incentive pay or overtime. 
Paul and Joe were main grievers in the union, Paul for the 
cranmen, electricians and millwrights, Joe for the 10, 11, 14, 20 
and 25-inch mills and merchant. There were 11 main grievancemen. 
Joe got active when his union representative wouldn't file a 
grievance for him. How the grievance process worked. Many were over 
violations 
of 
overtime 
agreements, 
disciplinary 
action 
and 
discharges. 
Most 
discharges 
were 
warranted, 
which 
made 
it 
unpleasant to fight them. 
The 1959 strike was 117 days. The company was trying to run 
the union out. 
Paul 
says, 
"we had to show our strength and 
solidarity." Paul worked as a picket captain , 8 hours a day, 5 
days a week. They were used to having strikes every year, then 
every two years, so knew to put money aside to get by. Joe would 
go fishing up the Arkansas and check to see if the strike was 
settled by looking for smoke coming out of the mill. 
The mill "was like family," says Joe. 
"The old man worked 
there for a while, the kid worked there, the brothers all worked 
in there, it was all pretty well generation, generation, down the 
line. Let's face it. It was the only place in town where you could 
make money." 
The mill in the 1960s. Air pollution. Women used to putting 
the clothes on the line, the wind changing, and having to wash them 
all over again. Open hearth shut down. Scrubbers put on the blast 
furnaces. Coke plant shut down. Now the air is clean. 
The layoffs. The union went along, favoring modernization and 
not wanting to see the company go out of business altogether. 
A 
lot of guys took early retirement. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO34 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Genova, Joe; Palermo, Paul 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Joe Genova and Paul Palermo at Genova's house in 
Pueblo. 
Joe retired in 1985. The layoffs. The company told the union: 
"'You either help us out or we shut it down.' So what do you do? 
You help 'em out. The union was never in business to shut plants 
down... It was a matter of survival." 
Paul retired in 1987. Joe was financial secretary at the time 
of his retirement. 
The social life of the union. Recreation night once a month: 
"some of the best eats you could get, along with booze and the 
whole works." Meeting, ping pong, shuffleboard, pool. Guys would 
go to a bar afterwards, get home late and the wives began to 
complain, so they eliminated the booze. Then the crowds started 
dwindling, older guys retiring, younger guys not interested. Hall 
built 1952. 
The meetings and socials used to be held above the old 
Minnequa Bank on Northern Ave. All the bars on Northern were full 
of steelworkers in those days. At Christmas, members decorated the 
hall. That stopped about 15 years ago. Used to rent a hall and give 
away 6,000 Xmas stockings a year. Everyone volunteered their time. 
Now, says Paul, the attitude is, "If you don't pay me for what I'm 
doing, I'm not going to do it." 
The taverns: there were people at Gus' from 3 to 6, from 10 
'tit they closed. Kozy Korner at Minnequa Gate, Klamm's Shell, 
Apple's, Dot's and Murray's. Paul: 
"Various groups would go to 
various places." But everyone went to Gus'. 
The guys from the 
different departments were clannish and hung around together. Gus' 
was popular because of the Dutch lunches and its schooners of beer. 
During the Depression, says Paul, when Gus had a grocery store, he 
"carried" a lot of guys. There were several stores that carried 
guys. 
Funny stories. The paymaster was named Benny Fisher. A Bonjon 
was called into the office to list his beneficiaries. He said he 
didn't want Benny Fisher to get his money. Joe: "We rolled a hell 
of a lot of steel" in Gus'. 
IAW-RF-A034 - 
2 
The Italian Open. 
Started 10 
years ago. 
Includes dinner 
(spaghetti and meatballs) and dancing. Held July 14. 
By the time he retired, 
Paul says he was happy to leave 
because things had changed so much. He still sees the old-timers -
- on the golf course or at the store. Joe: "I don't miss the work 
at all." But he misses the guys. 
The work: Everyday was a different challenge. Paul means the 
union work. He went out of the meal in 1964. He was financial 
secretary until 1969, then Joe replaced him. This was an elective 
position, and a full-time one. 
Joe has two sons. Neither ever worked in the mill. "I didn't 
want my kids to work in the mill." But he's not sure if the 
transition to white collar jobs is a good thing. The mill has 
gotten away from the family orientation used to have. "I think it's 
missed because now I think it's dog-eat-dog." The mill isn't the 
good place to work it once was, either. Before, "if you weren't 
afraid of molten metal, that was the place to work. Good paying 
jobs." So good, that teachers worked at the mill during the summer. 
Discrimination: Pauls' first taste was when he got out of the 
navy and tried to become an electrician's apprentice. 
(side B] 
Paul: brought up to be proud he was Italian. He tells a story 
about being in ROTC and saying he was Italian and being corrected: 
born in Pueblo, he's 100 percent American. 
Now Pueblo has three Italian councilmen. Paul and Joe concede 
that this means there's no longer any discrimination against 
Italian; they're just not all that crazy about a couple of the 
councilmen themselves. 
Document: IAW-RF-A035 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Masciotra, Freddie 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Fred Masciotra at Gus' Place 
Family background. His dad was born in Agnone, 20 miles from 
Naples, a farming town. He was the oldest in the family, was 14 
when he came to the states. He worked on the railroad for awhile, 
then he went to work for his in-laws in their grocery store. Then 
his first wife died and he started his own grocery business. He met 
his new father-in-law while working for the railroad; the second 
marriage was arranged. "My mother probably never saw my dad til she 
met him at the altar." Mother born in Denver in 1897; dad was 10 
years older. His dad worked in the mill in the daytime and in a bar 
at night. The county went dry in 1916, and his dad stored the bar 
in the upstairs of what is now Uncle Mike's house at Elm and 
Northern. When Prohibition ended in 1933, he wheeled the bar up Elm 
on roller skates to the present location of Gus' Place. The beer 
joint was up front and the grocery store in back. He would have 
stayed with groceries only but he carried so many guys during the 
Depression that he needed the bar business to make his money back. 
Uncle Mike stayed with them until he had his own family and moved 
over to Box Elder. His dad would go in with another guy on a box 
car of grapes. The store was open seven days a week. 
[pause to let someone in the back door] 
Gus went back to Italy in 1947. His dad had died in 1943 and 
his mom died the day he left to come back to the states. One of 
Gus' brothers would up in Argentina, as did many Italians, because 
of immigration quotas in the U.S. 
[another interruption] 
Gus bought the house on Elm in 1925. Fred tells a story about 
the shooting of Mr. 
Duffy, the black barber on the block. The 
neighborhood was mostly Italian, with Austrians across the street. 
After the war, they began getting good educations and good jobs and 
moving out to the suburbs and selling their houses to blacks and 
Mexicans. "I don't know anybody on this block anymore." A neighbor 
across the street came from the old country in 1961, worked at the 
mill, and then he too, moved out to the burbs. 
IAW-RF-A035 - 
2 
Saturday night was the big night at Gus'. All "your family 
people" would come in. "Now I hardly know anybody." The night crowd 
is younger. On selling out: Fred says it's unique and he doesn't 
know what he'd do if he sold out. His son Barry's got to have 
something to do, too. Gus said, you work a lot of hours but you're 
your own boss. Gus had a 4th grade education, but he was a smart 
guy and a lot of the Italians came to him for advice. Freddie's 
brother Harvey was going to Notre Dame to study law, but pulled out 
because he thought lawyers were dishonest. They wound up working 
together at the bar for a while, but he had a kidney disease during 
the war and he died in 1963. Fred has one sister left. He and his 
first wife have been divorced 20 years. They had three boys. He 
remarried, but discovered he was married to Gus'. They tried again 
a few years later, but the same thing happened, so now he lives 
alone in the house next door to "the beer joint." His middle son 
Ricky worked in the bar three-four years, became a mechanic. The 
oldest, 
Augie 
started 
at 
the 
dog 
track 
and 
became 
racing 
commissioner of Colorado, and now runs a track in Iowa. The mill 
work was dangerous, so Freddie figured he was better off in the 
bar. 
The grocery store sold "a lot of imported stuff." Fred was 
born 1926. 
[another interruption] 
The thriftiness of the old-timers. Gus would say, "Any fool 
can make money; it takes a smart guy to hold onto it." They'd get 
a box of spaghetti and eat that every day. He uses his cousin 
Angelo's family as an example of that thriftiness. 
Uncle Mike was 
the family wine maker. Fred tells a story about Red, the Bojon who 
worked in the grocery, helping Uncle Mike make wine and getting 
"bombed." His stupendous tolerance for alcohol. They'd all can 
peppers for the Dutch lunches. 
They got the peppers from the 
Dagnillos on the Mesa. 
[side B] 
The Dutch lunch at Gus' Place: In the old country, when the 
men would stop by for a glass of wine, his grandmother would give 
everyone cheese and salami. His dad started putting out a tray of 
lunch meat -- gratis -- at the bar he ran downtown. Called Dutch 
because everyone paid for their own. 
Fred told Barry, who was 
thinking about introducing hamburgers, 
to stay with the Dutch 
lunch, because the place is so renowned for it. His nephew says, 
"it don't taste good at home like it does here." 
The secret of Gus' success: "We always had the coldest beer 
in town." And the freshest. More about the clientele: the "rough 
types" weren't welcome, professional types were, kids also. Gus 
would cash the steelworkers' checks. Story about his dad carrying 
the money to the bank in his pockets and being so loaded down with 
IAW-RF-AO35 - 
3 
change that his suspenders broke. Gus always wore a white shirt. 
Fred started in the bar washing glasses during the war, wound 
up drawing beers, pouring shots. "A lot of good memories." Italians 
drink wine because it cuts the starch. 
Language: Parents spoke Italian when they didn't want the kids 
to know what they were saying. He went to St. Mary's School, which 
was mainly Austrians. He had a class in Slovenian: "I think I know 
more Bojon words than Italian words." Fred regrets not knowing 
Italian, which, along with Spanish, are "love languages." 
Sundays: Spaghetti at "high noon." Then the kids would go to 
the movies. Swimming and ball playing. His dad played cards across 
the streets on Sunday nights, and would come home with Hershey bars 
for the family. 
People who didn't have ice boxes sent their kids to Gus' with 
metal lard buckets for beer. 
Bocce was played two blocks to the north on Elm. Then they'd 
go over to Gus' to drink beer. Fred never played. 
Holidays: The family ate in shifts because somebody had to 
tend bar. They never closed, even on Christmas. People came over 
after church, went home for lunch, came back, home for dinner and 
back again in the evening. 
Delivered groceries six days a week. The grocery store closed 
in 1978 -- when Red retired. Carried olive oil in big cans. The 
family didn't have a forno. Breads were wrapped in cloth and stored 
in trunks to keep them fresh. 
Zoelsmann's Bakery's bread comes 
closest to what the forno-baked bread was like. Bessemer Mercantile 
sells a lot of macaroni and sausage. There was a Jewish butcher 
across the bridge. 
The steelworkers made more money than anybody in town. Then, 
in the last 10-15 years, all the mills began shutting down. 
The uniqueness of Gus' 
Place. Nothing like it in Colorado 
Springs or Denver. 
Document: IAW-RF-A036 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Masciotra, Fred 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
End of interview with Fred Masciotra at Gus' Place 
Music at Gus' Place. Dancing. One night, the musician didn't 
show and Gus found he made more money that night, so that was the 
end of the live music. A juke box was installed. Turkeys raffled 
off at Thanksgiving. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO37 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Bucciarelli, Domenick 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Domenick Bucciarelli at Gus' Place 
Domenick's dad was from northern Italy, the third of seven 
brothers, 11 years old when he came to the states. Entered via 
Ellis Island and was held there two weeks. Went to work as a water 
boy for the railroad out of Hartford, Connecticut. He came with 
other people from his village. He drifted out to Colorado to work 
in the mines and the coke ovens in Segundo. The superintendent 
asked if he had any relatives in Italy who wanted to come work for 
him because he was short of labor, so four of his brothers came 
over. The older brothers had remained behind to work the family 
property. The three younger ones came when his dad sent for them. 
He kept enough to live on and sent the rest to his family. He went 
back to Italy and married when he was 19. She stayed in Italy, and 
he went back and forth to see her for a time. 
From the coal mines he went to Portland, Colorado and worked 
for the Ideal Cement Plant as a powder man. He and his cousin were 
involved in a blasting accident. The cousin died, Domenick's dad 
spent eight months in a Denver hospital. He also built houses in 
Portland and sold them. Portland no longer stands. From Portland 
he moved to Pueblo and bought into a grocery store in Salt Creek 
with Frank Martino. Martino was killed by a burglar. The house, 
where Domenick still lives was built in 1939. Salt Creek was mostly 
Mexican. His dad was treated as mayor of Salt Creek. He developed 
the area's water system. Salt Creek used to be a beet dump site. 
His dad bought four acres from the sugar beet company, which is now 
leased as a salvage yard. In 1933, his dad obtained the first beer 
license in the county. The tavern was passed from brothers to 
brother, Domenick worked there then went to work at the ordnance 
depot. His brothers ran it until 1974. The tavern is still there, 
but it's leased. 
During the 1910s, the farmers would peddle from house to house 
out of their wagons, 
then stop at the store and saloon, 
buy 
sardines and a loaf of bread and drink beer and play cards. When 
it got dark they'd leave. Domenick was born Sept. 12, 
1916, the 
youngest of seven children. They were the only Italian family in 
Salt Creek. His dad traded groceries for sheep in Walsenburg. He 
did his own butchering -- to sell the meat to his Greek customers. 
IAW-RF-AO37 - 
2 
Relations with Mexican neighbors. During flu epidemic, dad 
toured the neighborhood with whiskey and turpentine and fix hot 
toddies and give rubdowns. 
The night of the 1921 flood they stayed at the Hotel Amarillo 
at the east gate of CF&I. The next morning, they walked back to 
Salt Creek to see what was left. Everything was still there, but 
it was under 6 inches of water. The CF&I reservoirs burst and 
washed out the railroad bridge, which landed in their backyard. The 
stockyards and the east side of town were all under water. The 
Arkansas flooded the town from the Union depot to 3rd St. "There 
was a lot of life lost and a lot of businesses." 
His father's health problems. When he recovered, 
he began 
buying up property. The kids walked to school in the Grove, then 
to Bessemer School. 
Domenick graduated from Central High. 
His 
mother spoke Spanish, Italian and English. The kids spoke Italian 
with their parents, English amongst themselves. Now, he says, "I've 
lost it." 
"We had our own garden. We raised our own chickens. We raised 
our own rabbits. We raised our own goats. We raised our own sheep. 
We raised our own beef. We had horses." Had a forno, Domenick would 
get up at 5 a.m. and knead 50 pounds of flour before school. His 
mom baked 12 loaves at a time. 
Domenick started taking care of the sheep and goats when he 
was 12-13 years old. Then he helped in the tavern, washing glasses, 
cleaning up. 
Wine making: The family made 250 gallons of wine every year. 
The grapes were from California; they came by train. 
"All this 
district here, Box Elder, E1 Dorado, Abriendo, Evans would order 
250, 300 boxes of grapes. A lug cost $1.25. It costs $19.75 now. 
They quit making wine when his dad passed away in 1976. His brother 
makes 10 gallons a year from his garden grapes. They mixed muscatel 
and zinfandel grapes to make light red wine. 
It was a 30-day 
process. There were parties after the grapes were squeezed. 
Christmas: His mom would cook codfish. After his folks died, 
he kept the tradition. His wife wasn't Italian, but she cooked the 
baccala and other Italian foods. Christmas also included kid goat 
and raviolis. His folks invited the extended family for Christmas, 
Easter, Thanksgiving. "Now they don't do that no more." 
St Joseph's Day and St. Joseph's tables. "The Sicilian people 
go in more for that." 
Sunday visiting. 
IAW-RF-A037 - 
3 
Growing up in Salt Creek. He used to play baseball with the 
Mexican kids. The Mexicans would have dance parties at their house. 
[side B] 
In 1928 there was a lot of bootlegging among the Italians and 
Austrians. On Thanksgiving that year, the feds raided and caught 
96 families, including the Bucciarellis. They caught his brother 
in the basement, poured out a 50-gallon keg of cherry wine and his 
bottles of home brew. His dad wasn't home, so they took his brother 
and mother to jail. His brother was 22, the youngest person caught 
in the raid. She stayed overnight in jail, then his dad bailed her 
out. She was fined $50. When the feds pulled up and came out all 
four doors of their car "like a bunch of chickens" he got scared 
and ran to the back of the store and tripped over empty pop 
bottles. They thought he was breaking whiskey barrels. He hid in 
a 50-gallon barrel. His brother spent 30 days in jail. Others spent 
three months to a year. 
Italian neighborhoods: Goat hill, the east side, St. Charles 
Mesa. "All them farmers were all Italians, until 20 years ago." 
Bigger plots were out in Vineland. They grew corn, pinto beans and 
garden vegetables. His dad had 168 acres on the Mesa. Domenick 
farmed for awhile, raising hay. The family still owns 320 acres 22 
miles southeast of Pueblo. It's leased as grazing land. 
CF&I: Three brothers worked there. Domenick went to the mill 
employment office for a year, but never got hired: he was too 
small. He worked as a night watchman, for the railroad, at the 
cemetery and then at the army depot, where he worked for 30 years. 
He started as 
an ammunition handler, 
then worked as a spray 
painter, a battery man, 
at which he spent 25 years. The depot 
employed 8,500 people at its height. Cutbacks began in 1955. Now 
there are 800 workers. There were a lot of Italians, a lot of 
Mexicans. 
Started coming to Gus' in 1936. He went to school with Gus' 
son Harvey. His brothers had a sausage factory before the war. Gus 
would buy from them -- and bought all their salami when they went 
out of business. He describes Gus as a very shrewd man, but a very 
good-hearted man. Gus' Place was a church before Gus bought it. 
"Freddie takes after his dad; he has his same traditions." The 
business 
has been handed 
from 
"father to 
son to 
son." 
Gus' 
popularity: "There's no trouble here. People bring their families." 
Civic leader types get together there for Friday lunch. 
Digression on Pueblo Industrial Park. 
Why the Italians came to Pueblo: they needed workers. In some 
cases, the companies would pay for the workers' transportation. 
Domenick says the Italians didn't get the good jobs because they 
IAW-RF-A037 - 
4 
didn't have the education, though his dad, with his third-grade 
education, had quite a head for figures. Sons tended to follow 
their fathers into the same professions, 
from steelworkers to 
doctors and lawyers. 
The Italian community isn't as close-knit as it was. People 
are more independent. Domenick lives with two of his brothers. He's 
a widower. One takes care of the garden. One does the washing and 
cooking. Domenick looks after the business. The brother who cooks 
"makes better chili than the Mexicans." Their dad was short and 
jolly. He liked to dance the polka. The tavern had a dance floor. 
The decision to live at Salt Creek: "When he discovered that 
spring, he said, 
'This is my home.'" Domenick talks awhile about 
the water system and property transactions. 
Document: IAW-RF-A038 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Bucciarelli, Domenick 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Domenick Bucciarelli at Gus' Place (2 of 2) 
More on the water service at Salt Creek. 
The Mafia in Pueblo. HIs dad told them to never get involved 
with them. 
"My dad had a saying: 
'Leave your family better off than I 
left you' ...I'm gonna leave my son better off than my dad left me." 
on his son -- a refrigeration and air conditioning man -- and his 
grandsons. 
There were a lot of Italians in Walsenburg and Trinidad --
goat farmers and cheese makers. The coal mines and the cement plant 
were "hard labor." CF&I had a quarry near Salida, where a couple 
of Domenick's brothers worked for a time and lived in a little 
company camp with store and boarding house. 
More of his dad sayings: "If you have an opportunity, grab it. 
Do better than I did." 
The churches: processions on Aug. 15, followed by two-three 
day festivals. John Dagnillo's mother furnishes the meatballs at 
the Mount Carmel 
Church Festival, 
the Assumption Church, 
St. 
Joseph's. Mount Carmel is the "mother church" in Pueblo. Cookies, 
pastries, raffles, beer sold -- for benefit of the parish. "People 
are not as giving as they used to be." 
He's never been to Italy. His dad kept going back until he 
finally brought his wife over. "Every time he went back there he 
made his wife pregnant." 
"Salt Creek is our breeding place and our home place, and 
probably our retirement place." 
"You can't find a better, congenial and a loving people like 
the Italians." 
The other side of Santa Fe was "Bojon town." Leechons (sp. ?) -
- Czechs or Slovaks -- lived on Minnequa Heights. 
IAW-RF-AO38 - 
2 
His parents called their home region in northern Italy, "the 
garden of the world." 
Document: IAW-RF-A039 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Montera, Ralph, Nettie and Pete 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Pete, Ralph and Nettie Montera at Ralph and Net 
tie's 
house in Pueblo (1 of 2) 
Pete and Ralph's dad was from Lucca, Sicily. He first went to 
Louisiana and worked in the sugar cane fields, didn't like it, had 
friends in Pueblo, so came west. The passage over was 30 days on 
the boat and "one rough deal." on the trains, 
they held out 
fistfuls of coins when they bought something because they didn't 
know the money. They landed in Galveston around 1892. Their father, 
two uncles and an aunt all came together. His first job was on the 
railroad, as a cook's helper. His name was Philip. Their uncles 
farmed in Alamoso, on the Mesa. "Another rough deal." Philip lived 
in the Grove until the 1921 flood. Their mother was Sicilian also, 
but she was only 3 when she came over. Her name was Josephine 
Pisciotta. Their parents married in 1914. 
Pete was born April 7, 
1922, Ralph on Aug. 11, 
1915. Ralph 
remembers watching horses, cows and buildings floating down the 
river during the 1921 flood. 
Nettie: "The Italians were looked down upon. It was hard for 
them to get a job in the mill and elsewhere." Philip worked at CF&I 
62 years -- all in the bolt mill. Pete: "He helped a lot of people 
get their jobs." He started around 1920. 
There were a lot of 
Italians working there at that time. Ralph: "This is the greatest 
mixture of people in the world, in this town." Before they went to 
work at the mill many guys worked at one of the five smelters that 
were in Pueblo. Ralph: "Most of them were trying to get the kids 
educated, which most of them didn't have in Europe. That was their 
main goal." Pete worked at the mill during the war because he had 
wrecked Ralph's car and was looking for a quick way to make money 
to repair it. He worked four days, relining the bricks of the blast 
furnace. Most guys would wear two pairs of pants, two pairs of 
socks. He was dressed lightly and "liked to burn up." He told the 
foreman it was too hot, who answered, "You stick with me you'll 
handle hotter stuff than that." To which Pete responded, "I'm not 
stickin' with you." He repaired the car, quit, joined the navy and 
never went back. 
The heat at the mill. They soaked planks for the guys to walk 
IAW-RF-AO39 - 
2 
on and even so, they would burst into flame. Ralph: "Me, I never 
put one minute in there." Pete: "Many people got educated because 
of these jobs." 
Pollution: Every now and then, the blast furnace gave off red 
dust and the women would pull their laundry off the line. The 
Monteras lived next to the pig iron machine, which could be heard 
all night long. Pete: "The old timers would say, you don't have to 
worry when the smoke is coming out of the stack; you better worry 
when it don't come out of the stack because then we're in trouble." 
Their dad never lost a day to injury. There were fewer injuries in 
the bolt mill than in the blast furnaces. Ralph says he doesn't 
remember seeing his dad much: he was gone when Ralph got up in the 
morning, and still at work when he went to sleep. This was a 12-
hour day, seven days a week. Ralph still has his father's lunch 
bucket -- or half of it. 
Company built a rec hall for employees and families. No such 
thing as vacations, though. No social events. When the war broke 
out the union came in and everything changed. Italians never got 
management jobs before then. Until the war, they made around $3 a 
day. There was a company store, company houses. Nettie lived in 
Berwyn, a mining camp. Nettie's aunt wrote an unpublished book 
about the Ludlow Massacre: she was there. The governor sent the 
militia down there -- "which was strictly illegal," according to 
Ralph. 
Philip was strict, had no hobbies, except his garden. He read 
Italian newspapers. He would read serial romances out of the paper 
to those who couldn't read. They also played Caruso records. Pete 
played saxophone in a music group. 
Nettie: 
"You played at my 
wedding." Pete: 
"Every Italian son had to play an accordion, 
preferably." 
Language: They spoke Italian at home. Their father went to 
school as soon as he arrived in the states to learn English. Their 
grandparents spoke no English. Ralph: "You either learned Italian 
or you didn't talk." Their grandfather and his two brothers were 
farmers. 
As soon as they got here they bought land, 
which is 
"typical Italian." They lived on the Mesa. When relatives came from 
Italy in later years Ralph would talk about the old country so 
accurately that they'd ask him when he had gone over there. But he 
never had; he just knew about it from listening to his grandfather. 
Italian songs were sung. 
Holidays: If their grandfather said Thanksgiving at his house, 
nobody begged off. "Everybody would be there." It's not the way 
now. Because the Italians aren't marrying Italians anymore. Ralph: 
"In them days, you didn't dare say you were going to marry outside 
the nationality." 
[side B] 
IAW-RF-AO39 - 
3 
They lived with his grandparents on the Mesa on weekends. They 
picked fruit in the summer, corn for popcorn in the winter. 
Wine making: Their grandfather made a lot of cherry wine from 
the cherries in his orchard. 
Pete and Ralph helped grind and 
squeeze. Everyone had two-three barrels of wine in their basement. 
They would gather at each other's houses and drink wine on Sundays, 
but you'd never see anyone drunk. They'd put on their best clothes, 
the women would get together and cook, the men would "shoot the 
bull, reminisce about the old days in the old country. The meal was 
spaghetti: "Macaroni was number one." For easter it was kid goat. 
Hog butchering: three or four farmers would get together. When you 
got water, 
everyone would come over and help you plant your 
cauliflower. "It was a community deal. Now it's just the opposite. 
Hog butchering was a big occasion with women rendering the lard, 
the men boning the meat for sausage. 
There'd be dancing and 
singing. Nobody had any money, but everybody was happy. Pete: "We 
were overalls and our patches had patches." 
Everyone had a forno. Ralph remembers eating pizza baked along 
with the bread when he was 6-7 years old. Pete: "It's easier to buy 
your bread today than to bake 
it. 
And that's the same with 
canning." 
The war brought on the big changes. Their younger brother went 
to college on the GI Bill. But Ralph had kids and "had to look for 
a job, not for college." They're proud at the number of Italian 
prominent in government and business in Pueblo. There were Italian 
prisoners at the air base, and the Italian families would invite 
them over for dinner. 
Bootlegging: 
Ralph: 
"This was bootlegging country." Pete: 
"They called Pueblo 'Little Chicago."' Nettie: "Every other family 
sold whiskey." Ralph: "It was Depression. There was no money." Some 
bootleggers bullied people into buying olive oil, whether they 
needed it or not. 
If bootleggers got in trouble, there'd be a 
forced collection to bail them out. 
Phil was one of the first members of the Columbus Lodge. They 
put on death benefits, sick benefits. 
Travel: None of them has been to Italy. Ralph told his dad he 
would pay for him and his parents to go and his dad said he had 
nothing back there and no desire to go back. There was no plumbing 
or gas in their home town until just a few years ago. Their younger 
brother has gone. Pete says he'd like to go over. In Italy, you 
farmed your kid out to someone else and they'd farm their kid out 
to you. The land was so hilly they'd use mules on the uphill side 
to keep the plow from sliding down the hill. 
More on their Grandfather: He would threaten to send them back 
IAW-RF-AO39 - 
4 
to Bellafranga -- the village he was from. When he smoked he used 
kitchen matches, would strike them across the dashboard, scratching 
it up. 
Smoked Toscani cigars. 
And sang. 
His favorite was Fra 
Diabolo. He like to pinch, also. When they'd water the crops, Ralph 
used to wonder how he knew when the water reached the end of the 
row. He found out one night when he went outside and found his 
grandfather sleeping with his hand in the row. He played cards at 
an Italian pool hall on Union and bring home cartons of gum for the 
grandkids. When he died, one of the grandkids put a package of gum 
in his pocket. Their uncle has 400-500 acres of land now, 
the 
acquisition of which began with their grandfather. 
Ralph 
and 
Pete 
are 
electricians. 
Their 
brother 
is 
an 
electrical engineer. Ralph's son is an electrician. Ralph said the 
fence around the mill reminded him of a prison, and he wanted no 
part of it. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO40 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Montera, Ralph, Nettie and Pete 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Pete, Ralph and Nettie Montera at Ralph and Nettie' s 
house in Pueblo (2 of 2) 
Ralph's 
electrician 
career. 
Now 
his 
son 
took 
over 
his 
business. When he worked for a large electrical contractor, out of 
600 employees, there were two Italians. 
Nettie's 
family: 
Her mother's maiden name was 
Lombardo. 
Father's side came around 1915. 
Her family was in Berwin and 
Trinidad. Raised goats, made cheese. Moved to Pueblo after the war. 
Her grandfather moved back to Italy after the war. Her dad and her 
uncles worked in the mines in Berwin. 
They had a band: 
tuba, 
cornet, piccolo, piano. They had ice cream socials on the Fourth 
of July. They lived there about five years, moved to Indiana, then 
back to Pueblo during her senior year in high school. The town was 
75-80 percent Italian. She remembers picnics and socials. 
[phone] 
Goat farming: the cheese was 18 cents a pound. "The people 
would think they were being robbed. Now they pay $4.95 a pound and 
don't blink." Nanny goats went for $1 each, skinned and dressed. 
Ricotta was given away. Nettie's uncle (who had lungs made of iron) 
would slit the goat's leg and blow them up to separate the skin 
from the meat, then peel the skin away like it was banana. How kid 
goat was prepared. Dish made from goat's intestines. The goats --
300-400 head -- were hand-milked at 3 a.m. Everyone was given a 
cup of coffee with a shot of whiskey in it to wake them up. This 
uncle, Tony Licara (sp?) was also a rodeo cowboy. Pete would be 
given cheese in payment for taking care of goats, then he'd sell 
the cheese to get money to buy clothes. 
Her dad went to work in a steel mill in Hammond, Indiana. Then 
he worked in the CF&I mill, in the casting foundry. Description of 
the work in the casting foundry. He put in close to 40 years. 
Ralph: 
"He 
was 
a worker, 
he 
never 
complained." 
HIs 
saying: 
"Everyday a holiday." If he made white wine he called it champagne. 
If Ralph's dad made white wine, he accused him of being too cheap 
to buy red grapes. 
IAW-RF-A040 - 
2 
Dad never got a promotion. Nobody did, in those days. Except 
one Italian who joined the Masons. Ralph: 
"Before the war, you 
didn't have a chance to go nowhere." 
Pete: "Had he (his father) 
been other than Italian, he would have been made superintendent." 
Getting citizenship papers. There was a judge biased against 
Italians, who made it tough on them. Everyone was in a hurry about 
it, and went to school to learn what they need to know. 
Nettie's 
parents 
spoke 
Italian 
between 
themselves. 
She 
understands 
it but doesn't speak 
it. 
When Nettie's aunt was 
visiting from Argentina she couldn't understand why there was so 
much grass and trees that weren't fruit trees: "Why don't you plant 
something to eat?" Nettie's dad would say: 
"How can you eat a 
flower?" 
How they met: 
Ralph lived next door to her grandmother. 
Married in 1942 during a three-day leave from the service. They 
lived with her folks for three months after the war, then boat the 
house they're in now. 
Italian-ness: 
Custom of putting shoes behind the door on 
Halloween. If you were good you got candy, if you were bad you got 
coal (rocks).  St. Lucy' s Dec. 
13, they cook wheat as a porridge 
with honey or sugar or oil and salt and pepper. "You pray to her 
for your eyes." The origin of the tradition: people were starving 
and she told people to pick whatever they found in the fields. 
Nettie cooks a big pot and brings it around to the neighbors. St. 
Joseph: 
they 
cook 
special 
macaroni 
and 
dried 
codfish 
and 
creampuffs. New Year's: drop doughnuts and sausage. Her daughters 
all wanted traditional Italian weddings with Italian cookies. Her 
granddaughter wants an Italian wedding. Italian weddings used to 
be Saturday-Sunday affairs. Almond candies thrown at the couple 
(the 
Corteses 
at 
Bessemer 
Mercantile 
still 
them. 
All 
the 
politicians come to Pueblo for the Columbus Day celebration. 
Ralph was one of the first Italians in the electricians union. 
Theirs was a neon lighting business. 
Their garden: they share the produce with the neighborhood. 
They leave it in a wheelbarrow and people help themselves. People 
who come to the state fair every year stop by and pick up some 
vegetables also. Nettie roasts, peels and freezes red peppers, 
string beans, squash. Pete: "Used to be everything was canned." 
Old-timers are gone, the younger ones are both working: it's easier 
to go to the store than to can. 
Nettie's dad played bocce every night in Hammond. In Pueblo, 
the old-timers played cards, briscola. Their grandfather played 
every Saturday. Bocce was played in viaduct by Gus' Place. Losers 
bought the drinks at Gus'. They went to Sunday in the building that 
became Gus'. Gus' brother Mike used to walk 10 miles a day before 
IAW-RF-AO40 - 
3 
he got run over. And he still walks, 
at age 94. Mike's son is 
married to Nettie's aunt. They live in Argentina. The Dutch lunch 
"would make your head swim." Have a couple of drinks and "here's 
one on the house." 
The Italians of Pueblo are all spread out now. Pete describes 
an Italian chicken soup they make in an Italian neighborhood he 
visited in Canada. Now everyone golfs, instead of playing bocce. 
Ralph: There were flour mills, macaroni factories, cigar making, 
a brewery -- Walter's. Ralph: "The city dad's, one by one they let 
' 
em get away." The new jobs at the industrial job are minimum wage. 
The packing house employed 800 people. Foundry. 
There a still a few Italian guys at the mill, but most "either 
got educated or went in business." A broom factory employed 500-
600 people. 
Bojons and Leechons. 
Nettie was born Aug. 29, 1918. 
IAW-RF-AO40 - 
3 
he got run over. And he still walks, at age 94. Mike's son is 
married to Nettie's aunt. They live in Argentina. The Dutch lunch 
"would make your head swim." Have a couple of drinks and "here's 
one on the house." 
The Italians of Pueblo are all spread out now. Pete describes 
an Italian chicken soup they make in an Italian neighborhood he 
visited in Canada. Now everyone golfs, instead of playing bocce. 
Ralph: There were flour mills, macaroni factories, cigar making, 
a brewery -- Walter's. Ralph: "The city dad's, one by one they let 
' 
em get away. " The new j 
obs at the industrial j 
ob are minimum wage. 
The packing house employed 800 people. Foundry. 
There a still a few Italian guys at the mill, but most "either 
got educated or went in business." A broom factory employed 500-
600 people. 
Bojons and Leechons. 
Nettie was born Aug. 29, 1918. 
Document: IAW-RF-A041 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Tony 
Coworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
The spelling of the family name, Martellaro, has changed. Tony 
born in 1930. Dad came over in 1913 from Lucca. His grandfather had 
come six times before that, beginning around 1905, to work in the 
sugar cane fields in Louisiana. On the sixth trip he brought his 
wife and three children. There were already friends and relatives 
in Pueblo. 
When his grandfather came to Pueblo he farmed on the Mesa. 
Farmed three years, then moved to Ordway, 50 miles east. Farmed 
there three years (1919-21). Heavy rains drowned their crops. They 
lost that farm and Moved back to Pueblo and farmed on 28th Lane, 
about a mile from where Tony lives now, on St. Charles Mesa (from 
St. 
Charles Creek to Blende). 
During the 40s St. 
Charles was 
considered "the most productive area in the world." And it was 60 
percent Italians. 
The biggest farm on the Mesa was the Taravella Farm, 38 acres. 
Most 
were 
between 
10 
and 
20 
acres. 
The 
farmers 
worked 
independently, but helped each other if help was needed. Not much 
hired help. 
Hog-butchering: His dad was the one who always stuck the hog -
- through the neck between the ribs and not the heart. They would 
hit them in the head with a sledge hammer and knock them out, then 
stick them with a 12-inch blade. The Slovenians made blood sausage. 
His grandmother made a dish with the blood, nuts and raisins. He 
can't remember the name of it. Then the pig would be put in a vat 
of boiling water. If the water was too hot the hair would stick and 
you couldn't scrape it off. They used a 55-gallon barrel. Five or 
six guys would start scraping. Dad would scrape the hog until it 
was as white as paper. His mom put the skin in spaghetti sauce. The 
skin would be pulled off in two-inch strips and rolled up and 
frozen. 
[doorbell] 
Goats: A slit would be made in a hind leg and a hand pump 
would be slipped in and tied up, then the forced air would separate 
the skin from the meat. His cousin Tony Licaro (sp?) would blow 
them up using his own lung power. 
IAW-RF-A041 - 
2 
Hog butchering: after skinning, the fat would be taken off. 
Pork chops and steaks cut; hind quarters and shoulders went for 
sausage. The meat was hand-ground. Mom scraped the intestines with 
a spoon,and used it for sausage casing. The lard was rendered and 
the sausages would be put in 5-gallon crocks with the lard and 
stored in the basement. "After they got the freezers they tossed 
the crocks out ... Now you find them in antique stores." Mom also 
cured bacon. The ears and the feet were pickled. "We use to lose 
the hair and the squeal and that was about it." You used to be able 
to buy pig-hair insulation. His truck had pig-hair seats -- which 
was better than foam rubber for air circulation. The stomach was 
cooked with rice. 
The family ate a lot of chicken. His dad said, "There's only 
one part of the chicken I like. That's between the tail and the 
beak." Chicken feet were used in spaghetti sauce or in soup. 
"Everybody had a few chickens and everybody had a few hogs, couple-
three cows..." All mostly for home use. Dad raised rabbits for sale 
for awhile, and chickens, too. The rabbits and chickens were sold 
through Joe Gagliano's store (Bessemer Mercantile). 
Hog-butchering: two or three of the neighbors would come over 
and there'd be a big supper. The butchering usually took place just 
before Christmas or just after. Families also got together for 
Christmas, New Year's Easter, baptisms. "They seem to have been a 
lot closer, years ago, than what we are now. When I was a kid, 
heck, I knew everybody that lived on the Mesa, practically, the 
whole Mesa. We knew practically everybody. Now, I don't even know 
my neighbor at the top of the hill. I have know idea who they are." 
In 
the 
evening, 
just before 
dark, 
people would visit their 
neighbors. People gathered in the kitchen. The women drank coffee, 
the men drank wine "because everybody made wine." The kids would 
be outside playing kick-the-can or hide-and-go-seek. 
His brother died on one of those nightly visits with the 
neighbors. As they were walking up to a house, a kid got hold of 
his dad's gun and inadvertently shot and killed him. After that, 
the get-togethers just about stopped. He was 14. Tony was 9. That 
was in 1939. 
One of the neighbors had a dairy and would make ice cream. 
The school was at 28th and Iris. 
Language: The neighbors spoke Italian among themselves. The 
kids spoke English. 
His grandmother was a storyteller. She had special stories for 
Christmas and Easter. Some would last a week, 45 minutes to an hour 
per telling. The stories were told in Italian. Even the kids who 
didn't speak Italians -- like Tony's youngest sisters -- seemed to 
understand the stories. His grandmother would act the stories out. 
IAW-RF-AO41 - 
3 
"She didn't move around too much, but she used her hands a lot." 
The stories were of kings and queens. 
"She was probably the 
happiest woman I know. She would sing, she was always singing." 
His mother always sang also -- until his brother got shot. 
They sang Italian songs. She became strict and stern after his 
brother died. 
His dad went the other way, 
becoming less of a 
disciplinarian. Mom would whack the kids with the flat of a bread 
knife. She worked in the fields, hoeing, irrigating, planting. She 
did more harvesting than his dad. They bought their first tractor 
in 1944. Mom pitched hay, also. "It broke daylight, they was out 
in the field." 
The kids would help their mom weed while dad irrigated or 
cultivated with the horses. Then he went to work behind the horses 
after his brother died. They had 25 acres and plowed them with a 
team of horses and a one-way plow. When his parents retired, they 
gave his sisters three acres apiece, he got six acres and took care 
of his parents until his dad had to go to a nursing home and his 
mother died. They divided the property around 25 years before they 
died. His dad kept six acres for himself to farm. 
How truck farming worked. 
The truckers were Tom Giadone, 
Gardamondo, Leonard DiGrado (sp?), Granado, Tortessi, Thomas. Six 
semi-loads a day would go out of the Mesa. 
There were a few 
peddlers who sold vegetables house to house in Pueblo. The growing 
season was April to September. 
In winter they'd sell carrots, 
turnips and onions that were bulked and stored in the ground. 
January was a month off, but when the thaw began you'd get ready 
to plow -- around the end of February. 
What winters were like (a couple of snows a year, which melted 
off fast). 
Document: IAW-RF-AO42 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Tony 
Coworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
The old ways began to die out in the late 50s. 
[phone] 
Bread: 
"We never had any store bought bread until I got 
married." Dad built the forno. They tore down an old one and built 
another. 
They 
roasted 
beef 
in 
the 
forno 
for 
his 
sister's 
wedding.Mom made 16-18 loaves of bread at a time, every week or so. 
The bread was stored covered in a barrel. Sometimes she baked pies 
in the barrel as well. The forno was heated with prunings from his 
grandfather's orchard. Mom tested the oven by throwing in a piece 
of crumbled newspaper. When it turned brown without burning, the 
oven was ready. She went to the coal stove when most of the kids 
left. The bread had a thick crust which he tries to duplicate, but 
can't. 
Sometimes she made sausage bread -- bread rolled with 
sausage in it. Also a pizza-like bread with spaghetti sauce and 
sausage. Tony's sons Frankie and Anthony make good pizza. Pizza 
originated in Greece, not Italy. Pizza came to Pueblo after the 
war. Ianne's on Northern was the first, followed by Sam and Ray's. 
Pasta: Mom bought from Bessemer Mercantile. 
She went from 
canning to freezing in the late 40s. Spaghetti was eaten two-three 
times a week. Then they cut back to once a week -- Sunday. Unless 
they were having roast chicken. During the winter the big Sunday 
meal was at mid-day. In the summer the big meal was in the evening. 
The day began with coffee and milk and crackers, then everyone 
worked in the field until 9:30-10, then came in for breakfast of 
fried potatoes, sausage or pork chops or steak and bread. Lunch was 
"whatever you could find." The evening meal was at 7-8 o'clock. 
Tony went to work in the mill in 1951. Dad quit truck farming 
in 1946 as a result of a disagreement with Giadone about a load of 
carrots. His dad fed them to the cows rather than re-bundle them. 
The following year they planted feed corn and sugar beets and 
buying and selling cattle. 
Tony 
farmed potatoes 
one year 
in 
Alamosa. Colorado had begun to lose out to California and Texas. 
Tony also tried onion farming, but it wasn't profitable. He worked 
for Fountain Sand for two years, then went to work for the mill in 
January 1951, got drafted in June and got out in June 1953. It was 
too late to farm so he went back to the mill until the following 
IAW-RF-AO42 - 
2 
March, but he wound up staying. He was making $60 a week which was 
good money. He was a craneman. Then he figured to work a couple of 
years to raise the money for a farm, but then he got married, the 
money got better and he stayed. Then he had too much seniority to 
quit so he stayed until 1986, having put in 35 years. "If I had to 
live my life over and do it again, I don't think I would work in 
the mill." He didn't have enough time to spend with his family 
because of the crazy shifts in the rail mill. Shifts changed almost 
daily and days off weekly. The union started in the 20s, was broken 
by the company in the 30s and came back in the 40s. It became a 
closed shop in 1952. "I made good money in the mill. That part I 
have no regret. I raised family, bought my farm, paid for my house, 
made good money." 
When he retired he was a hot saw operator. Before that he was 
a rigger. After 5 or 10 seconds trying to get a chain around a 
piece of steel your clothes would start to smoke and would burst 
into flame if you stayed too long. 
Deaths and injuries: a brick box fell on one guy; another was 
run over. No bad injuries in the rail mill. 
[side B] 
In the 50s, jobs were plentiful at the mill. He quit his job 
at Fountain Sand on a Friday, applied at the mill on Monday, took 
a physical Tuesday and went to work Wednesday. At the height, CF&I 
had 12,000 employees in Colorado and Wyoming. During the war, women 
were hired. Guys in the service accumulated seniority, so Tony left 
as a laborer and returned to become a craneman. In early days, the 
workers were Germans, then Irish, then Bojons, then Italians, then 
Mexicans and blacks, who got the worst jobs, which were laboring 
in the open hearth's checker chamber. 
"Cleaning the sewers": 
shoveling out the ashes in the open hearth. When Tony worked there 
there were three Italian and three Mexican straw bosses. The dust 
was bad, but they didn't have respirators until the late 50s. Even 
when they had respirators, they didn't use them because they didn't 
last very 
long. 
The 
open hearth was 
too hot 
and noisy 
for 
conversation. Lunch breaks were 20 minutes. He went to the rail 
mill in 1961. The open hearth was shut down in 1965. The older guys 
on the furnaces were Bojons and Italians, the rest Mexican and 
black. 
How the blast furnaces worked. From blast furnace to open 
hearth to rail mill: blooming mill, rougher, finisher, hot saw, 
cooling 
tables, 
rail 
turners, 
enders, 
drillers, 
inspection, 
shipping. 
Tony's jobs: laborer; number carrier, which entailed following 
each ingot through the mill; butt puller on the hot saw (there were 
three rails per ingot, with 36 inches leftover, which had to be cut 
off, grabbed with a tongs, and set aside for remilling; bloom mill 
IAW-RF-A042 - 
3 
hooker -- head roller was the top job --; rougher hooker; rigger; 
26 hooker; pullover man; intermediate man; rougher operator; guide 
setter; 36 manipulator man. You stayed in each job until somebody 
retired or moved up. There were 130 people in the rolling mill. In 
the rail mill there were only two Italians. There were more in the 
40-inch mill. There was little mobility from mill to mill. 
The 20, 
14 and 10-inch mills. You had to grab the hot rods 
with tongs and "if you missed it, man, you had that stuff flying 
around like spaghetti all over." One guy had a rod go right through 
his stomach. They cut it at both ends with a bolt cutters, brought 
him to the hospital and pulled it out and he lived and went back 
to work. The inches refer to the size of the roll. The rail mill 
was 36-inch. The 40-inch and the rail mill rolled ingots. The rail 
mill produced finished rail. The 40-inch rolled ingots which were 
passed along to the smaller mills. 
The guys from the different departments went to their own 
taverns. "Any mill you worked in was your family...I lived more 
with them guys than I did with my family." 
Document: IAW-RF-A043 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Tony 
Coworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Work in the rail mill. 
Breaks were spent in the riggers' 
shack. You worked for 45 minutes, then had an hour and a half off. 
The guys had their lunch, played cards. 
Nicknames: He was called Tony or Wop. Most were just called 
by their last name. One was called Needle Nose. Hook (after his 
nose). 
The 
rail 
mill 
tavern was 
the 
Main 
Gate. 
Some 
went 
to 
Jeannie's. Tony and his pal went out for beers a few times, but 
didn't want to get involved in buying -- and drinking -- round 
after round, so they quit going. "I figured my money come to hard 
for me to sit there and drink it." 
There were showers and locker rooms. The rail mill gave a 
half-hour of company time for cleanup. 
Union meetings and parties: Tony never attended, not being 
interested in drinking beer. He only had -- and still has -- one 
friend from work. 
Joke: When CF&I was taken over by Mellon-Evans. An Arab bought 
his son a plane. Another Arab bought his son a yacht. When Mr. 
Mellon asked his son what he wanted, the son said, "I just want a 
Mickey Mouse outfit." So he bought him CF&I. 
CF&I was self-sustaining, supplying its own coal, water, iron 
ore and lime. Then everything was sold off and only the mill in 
Pueblo remains. 
Tony got two weeks before the big four-month strike of 1959 
began, so he got to draw unemployment and farm with his dad. 
He lived a half-mile from his dad and worked with him when he 
got home from the mill or before he went to work, depending on the 
shift he was working. "When you worked for your father you didn't 
get paid. You worked for the family." His son now lives in his 
parents' house. It was built in 1929, of adobe and stucco, 
for 
$300. 
He has arthritis now and just "piddles around" on the farm. 
He bought the house the land he lives on now in 1965 and built the 
house in 1969. He had 20 years in at the mill and couldn't quit: 
IAW-RF-AO43 - 
2 
he was too close to retirement. 
Lodges: Most Italians belonged to the Christopher Columbus 
Lodge. His father had no time for that sort of thing. "During the 
summer they were always out in the field." 
Winters on the farm. 
There was no kitchen garden, 
just 
"whatever was out in the field. The only things planted for home 
use were carduna and finocchio. The only herbs they grew were basil 
and parsley. 
His kids' lives are easier than his was, "but I don't think 
they know how to enjoy themselves as much as they did then." 
Concerns about drugs, alcohol, crime. Most houses on the Mesa, the 
doors were never locked. His childhood was a safer time, a more 
content time. You worked harder, but life was less stressful. The 
evils of television. HIs wife restricts the kids' and grandkids' 
TV watching. 
Visiting: 
They spend a lot of time with their kids and 
grandchildren and his wife's brothers and sisters. The Martellaro 
family's potluck family reunions. 
Tavarelli and Tony go over a detailed map of the Mesa-Vineland 
area to identify the Italian family farms. 
[side B] 
More poring over map. 
[Tony's wife Josephine enters.] 
Names of neighboring Italian truck farmers: Leonard Degrado, 
Parlapiano, Naitch Cordo, Phil Panleo, Joe Panleo, Carl Panleo, 
Russ Panleo, 
Taravella, 
Spinuzzi, Cortese, 
Ingo, 
Pino, 
Patti, 
Masseroti, DiSanti. 
Vineland 
truck 
farmers; 
Pisciotta, 
Corsentino, 
Colletti, 
Thomas (DiTomaso), Cortese, Dionisio, Mauro (sp?). The Vineland 
farms were bigger than the Mesa farms and more specialized. Pete 
Pisciotta was "the popcorn king," selling to all the movie houses. 
Tony's grandmother and Pete Pisciotta's wife were sisters. His 
paternal grandfather and Cortese's wife were brother and sister. 
He's related to the Gaglianos on his mother's side. 
Document: IAW-RF-A044 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/29/90 
Informant/Event: Conatore, Charles and Rose 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Charles' parents came from farm country in Cosenza, Calabria. 
Rose's father came from Calabria also. Her mom was born in the 
states. His dad arrived in Philadelphia, went from there to St. 
Louis putting sewer lines in. From there he came to Pueblo. There 
he met Rose's dad and together they went to Washington and Oregon 
to work in the forests. Then he went to Carson City, Nevada. Then 
he came to Pueblo and got work as a muleskinner, hauling sand. And 
then he went to work for CF&I. 
Rose's father was 9 when he came over. He came with a cousin 
to Philadelphia. His name was Emilio Mendicello. Charles figures 
the fathers knew each other in Italy. 
When they first got to 
Pueblo, Charles' parents got jobs on the Mauro farm in Vineland. 
His mom got married at 15. They lived in "Little Italy" on the 800 
block of El Dorado. Then he got a job in the zinc smelter in 
Blende, 65 cents a day. 
The smelters: The coke ovens were larger versions of the brick 
bread ovens (forni) . Some of the farmers worked in the smelters 
also. 
Life in Little Italy: His mother, his paternal grandparents, 
his aunt and uncle all lived on El Dorado. His grandfather died at 
age 92; his dad was only 58. He went from the wire mill, to the 
rail mill to the 40-inch mill at CF&I. His grandfather worked for 
the railroad in the mill. Charles described his grandfather as "a 
little Italian farmer." His garden at 2128 Routt. Sons were Frank 
and Sam, daughter Suzy. 
Rose's dad's job at CF&I was in the cooper shop, making nail 
kegs. Charles: He could unload a boxcar full of staves in a day. 
Now it takes 5 or 6 kids two or three days. Her mother died at age 
38; Rose had to quit school to take care of the family. She got her 
high school diploma in 1972. "My children had college degrees and 
I didn't have a high school diploma. That got to me." Their son's 
a geologist, daughter's a teacher. 
Rose grew up on Abriendo. 
In 1951 they moved to Minnequa 
Heights, where they already had their grocery store. Charles did 
most 
of 
the 
work 
on 
their 
house 
himself. 
Their 
store 
sold 
groceries, beer, gas, and was also a post office substation. The 
IAW-RF-A044 - 
2 
millworkers would pick up cigarettes, cigars, cookies, pop, candy 
bars on their way into work. They lost a lot of business when the 
freeway was put in between the store and the mill. The trainmen 
would signal what they wanted with the train whistle. Gave credit 
to mill customers. They closed just before the layoffs at the mill. 
"Our guardian angel was right there," says Rose. When people paid 
their bills in full, Charles would give them a bag of fruit and 
candy for the kids. "I gave away more in one day than Safeway gave 
away in one year in them days." Their old customers still come back 
to visit. They closed the store in 1982. During strikes at the 
mill, says Rose, "we took care of all our customers." Charles: "I 
told them not to worry. Long as I had money left in the bank and 
I could buy groceries they could eat." 
The store is empty, but for Charles' woodworking tools. He's 
taken up carving since he retired. He's 73 now. Rose is going on 
71. He cuts the wood in the store, does the carving at the kitchen 
table. He uses basswood. 
Charles worked three months in the mill. He was asked to do 
a job for 15 minutes and it stretched to 45 minutes. 
[side B] 
Charles finishes telling story about why he quit the mill in 
1947. His grandfather started there around 1917-18-19. "In those 
days they were looking for workers. The family name was Canatoro. 
Rose's father was too short to get in the mill, so he went in under 
someone else's name. He started around 1915. 
The poverty of the families in Little Italy. 
The fathers 
weren't making much money at CF&I -- $2.92 a day -- but it was the 
best job they could get. Rose: "They used to walk to work and carry 
their lunch buckets." The Italians from Goat Hill walked up the 
railroad tracks in the mill. People were so poor, that if you were 
building a barn or a chicken coop, "the whole damn neighborhood was 
right there to help you." Everyone would eat together. 
People 
helped each other butcher hogs. Bread was baked outside in the 
forno. Charles' mom made 50 pounds of flour the night before. At 
2 a.m. she'd knead it. At 7:30, she'd make 15 loaves of bread, two-
three weeks worth. Charles would cut through backyards from school 
to get a slice of bread with butter or oil, vinegar, black pepper 
and salt. When the last of the bread started to get hard, his mom 
would put it 
in cooked cabbage or in a bowl of beans 
(pasta 
fazool). Their mothers made their own macaroni. THey also bought 
macaroni 
in 20-pound boxes from the factory down the street. 
Charles worked there as a 4-5-6 year-old kid making the boxes for 
a nickel a week. The factory was A. Faschino, on the 800 block of 
Box Elder at Fairview. 
Charles' 
next job was "junking" at the dump. 
He gave his 
mother the money he made and would hope to get some of it back to 
go to a movie on Sunday. His dad wouldn't let him go and when he 
IAW-RF-A044 - 
3 
complained he was told to stand in the corner. He got whippings for 
coming home late to supper from baseball games. 
Fighting: "In those days, when somebody chose you, you had to 
fight, whether you got your butt whipped or not. But if you fought 
you were top dog anyhow." In the winter they'd steal potatoes from 
home and roast them on a wood fire. 
His childhood jobs: Junking, cleaning ash pits (15 
cents a 
pit). Went to work for a grocery store owner who gave credit to all 
the Italians and all the Bojons across the bridge." Charles was 
still paying his dad room and board when he was 24 years old, 
making a dollar day in the CC camps. 
His grandfather had chickens, rabbits and two goats. Rose's 
family had chickens. Some of the other families in the neighborhood 
had 
cows. 
Charles: 
"Everybody 
and 
his 
mother had a garden, 
especially if you were Italian." Rose: "Everybody canned tomatoes, 
everybody roasted peppers, 
they made jelly." 
Pickles, 
relish, 
ketchup, eggplant, cauliflower, peaches, pears. 
Charles talking 
about going out to see his mother's cousins on the Mesa, shaking 
the plum trees into their wagon and making jelly out of them. The 
tomatoes were cooked outside in a tub on a wood fire. Some of it 
would be sun-dried into paste and put up in crocks. "Conserva." 
Everyone grew parsely, oregano, basil, mint, garlic. Herbs were 
dried, and the leaves would be put in jars. Long red chilis were 
dried and ground for sausage. 
The tomatoes were done in September. At the same time, the 
wine barrels would be rolled out and cured. In October, they'd get 
the grapes, crush them, and after three weeks of fermentation, run 
them through the juicer. 
Document: IAW-RF-A045 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/29/90 
Informant/Event: Conatore, Charles and Rose 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Wine making: His dad used to get the grapes from Gus Masciotra 
of Gus' Place. In 1936, Charles went to work for a produce market, 
delivering grapes -- muscatels and zinfandels from California. He 
remembers when grapes went for 65 cents a box. The last he checked, 
grapes were going for $9.25 a box. Rose said people stopped making 
wine when they put furnaces in their basements. People would get 
32 boxes of grapes: 28 of muscat and four zins for color. Gus would 
buy boxcar loads of grapes to sell to the Italians and "the Bojons 
across the bridge." 
Hog-sticking: Charles' dad made his knives in the mill. "He 
could stick a hog and never miss." He would stick hogs for a number 
of families. After the blood was drained, the hog would be hung by 
its hind legs and sawed down the middle, and then the women would 
scrape the hair off until it was "clean as that mirror." Then 
they'd cut the meat up and grind it. Then someone would cook it and 
the men would taste it and if it was pronounced satisfactory, the 
women would cook some more and serve it with spaghetti and wine. 
Rose: "Then people stopped butchering... Then the television came 
and there's the ruination of everything... Family's got smaller. 
People moved away." 
People don't 
even have chickens 
or pigs 
anymore. 
Charles describes a game they used to play as kids called 
"Shithouse." 
Another was called "Hands Down, 
Feet Still." On 
Halloween, they'd block the street with fences as a prank. They'd 
hide in the dump where they would catch frogs and sell them, 6 for 
a quarter. His dad used to take the money to pay bills. 
Of sandwiches for school, his mom would cut open a loaf of 
bread and fill them with roasted peppers. The "so-called American 
kids" would want to trade. 
American Legion Baseball. The team sponsor ran a root beer 
stand. After road trips they'd have root beer, half a loaf of bread 
from Zoelsmann's and roasted peppers. His mom would put up quarter-
inch strips of bell peppers in crocks. Eggplant also, with layers 
of oil, hot pepper and garlic. Caponato: mixture of celery, olives, 
peppers, onion, eggplant, tomato. Rose: 
"I don't can. I haven't 
canned since I moved up here." They don't have a garden either. 
IAW-RF-A045 - 
2 
Weddings and baptisms. Charles had four brothers and three 
sisters. They would throw candies and he would collect eight for 
all of them. On Easter they'd hide eggs in the city park for 
orphaned kids. 
Charles' mom was a good storyteller. So was Rose's dad. Not 
fairy tales, 
but stories about what life was like in the old 
country. 
The Danforth School. 
(Now Strack, 
after Mrs. 
Strack, 
who 
taught there for 38 years.) 
[break 
for 
looking at 
old photos; 
Charles reads 
from a 
newspaper story about Mrs. Strack] 
[side B] 
Language: Their parents spoke Italian when they didn't want 
the kids to understand or when their grandparents came to visit. 
Their parents wanted to learn English, 
though, 
so they spoke 
English with the kids. They were anxious to get their citizenship 
papers. 
Their kids. The traditions that have been kept in the family 
are baccala for Christmas, spaghetti and sauce, lupini beans for 
Christmas, Italian cookies. 
The day they opened the grocery, Rose's father told them, in 
rhyming Italian, "Those who eat too much can't eat no more. Those 
who eat a little at a time can always eat." The advice was to start 
slow and build up the business gradually. He told Rose, again in 
Italian, "Work with your husband. You both get on one end of the 
rope and pull together." Her mother would say, 
"Even the Queen 
needs a friend, not to solve her problems, but just somebody to 
listen to her." Meaning, we all have problems, don't keep them to 
yourself. Sayings their parents told them that they used on their 
kids: Charles remembers, "When you tell the truth you can forget 
it. When you lie you got to remember it until you die." 
How they began a grocery store. 
The plan was to start a 
produce business. Charles: "I knew fruit backwards." But he got a 
good deal on groceries. 
He and Rose's brother had worked for 
Occhiato, the Pepsi distributor. But when the price of Pepsi kept 
going up, he quit carrying it. "I used to have the coldest pop in 
the city of Pueblo." His was one of the few stores open on Sunday. 
Swimming in the CF&I reservoir. 
School days. More on Mrs. Strack. And on a kid named John 
Lanza, who used to skip school. 
IAW-RF-A045 - 
3 
Weddings: 
There were no invitations sent. 
The groom, 
his 
father and future father-in-law would go house to house inviting 
people in person. Charles' dad belonged to the IOOF (Oddfellows) 
lodge and used to cook for weddings. His specialties were rabbit, 
roasts. The meaning of the lodges has changed. Members used to help 
new immigrants get settled, find doctors, lawyers. Now it's more 
of a social club. 
Charles had no use for the steelworkers' union. Unlike his 
cousin Lindy (Paul Palermo). 
Charles' 
father 
and 
grandfather 
worked 
in 
different 
departments at CF&I. His grandfather laid tracks for the railroad. 
The day his father died, he told him, "You're my best boy." His dad 
would trade $6 and a quart of wine for a truckload of railroad ties 
for the cookstove. In winter, his mom made bread inside, eight 
loaves at a time. 
Document: IAW-RF-A046 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 6/29/90 
Informant/Event: Conatore, Charles and Rose 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Everybody started getting washing machines. Charles' family 
hired a woman to wash their clothes. His mom washed Monday, ironed 
on Tuesday, 
darned on Wednesday, 
baked bread on Thursday and 
cleaned house on Friday. "Let me tell you, people were more happy 
in them days than they are today." Rose: "The main thing is family. 
When you've got family you've got hordes of things to talk about, 
to remember, to cherish." 
Charles talks about going out shooting birds and rabbits when 
he was kid. The men would go rabbit hunting on the weekend. Or 
fishing: They'd come home with "tubs full" of perch. His dad would 
wrap rabbits in newspaper and have Charles deliver to people around 
the neighborhood. Mushroom hunting was big also. His mom boiled 
them with a silver dollar in the bottom of the pot. If it turned 
green you didn't eat the mushrooms. But his dad knew mushrooms. 
Pheasant and duck hunting, 
turkey shoots. 
Quail, 
turtle dove 
hunting, frogs. The kids would target shoot at spoons hung from a 
wire. Deer and elk-hunting. 
His dad built the shed for the alfalfa, chicken coop, goat 
shelter and rabbit hutches for his parents when they bought their 
house on Routt. Charles used to give his dad haircuts; his dad 
would put a silver dollar in his pocket. What kept him alive, he 
says, was a glass of wine in the afternoon and in the evening. 
The mill. You could tell when his dad was breaking in kids by 
how tired he was when he got home. He could load a boxcar full of 
staves by himself and not be tired. Rose: it was hard to get into 
the post office or into the mill if you didn't know somebody. No 
Italians could get in the postoffice before the war. Charles would 
pick up work at the mill everyday after school. 
His tonsillitis. Then he began putting on weight and went out 
for football. There was an abandoned house in Little Italy where 
they'd all go to smoke cigarettes. His friend's father, for whom 
he worked delivering groceries, accused him, unjustly of giving his 
kid cigarettes. 
His war experience as a gunner's mate at navy installation on 
Treasure Island in San Francisco Bay. 
IAW-RF-A046 - 
2 
The bocce players: his dad, Mike Occiato. The money went in 
the pot and if there was enough, they'd buy a keg of Tivoli beer. 
They'd party til 102 a.m. There was an accordion player and they'd 
sing Italian songs. They also played a numbers game that sounds a 
little like liar's dice. The bocce playing was usually Saturday or 
Sunday afternoon. 
His dad would buy long cigars and cut them in half. On lodge 
day, he'd take a sliver of oregano and hang it on his ear: he liked 
the smell. When he came home -- tipsy -- he'd play the jew's harp. 
Italian songs, beautifully. 
Rose's dad worked in the cooper's shop. Charles' grandfather 
worked on the railroad. 
HIs dad worked in the 40" mill. 
The 
neighborhood where he lives is called Minnequa Heights: Mexicans, 
Austrians and Italians. He moved there in 1936. The kids would make 
a ballfield themselves, clearing weeds with rakes and hoes. The 
freeway (I-25) was put in in 1955. 
[side B] 
Charles' boyhood jobs: cleaning ashpits . 
When he was 25, still 
giving his dad money for room and board, his dad told him to save 
$10 every week. When the war broke out he had $511 in the bank. He 
joined the navy. Saying goodbye to his friends as they shipped out. 
He and his buddy were put in different companies. He went to sea 
for six months. Stories about his navy days. When he was discharged 
he went out for drinks with his buddy and his father advised, 
"Don't mix 
'em up. 
If you're gonna drink beer, drink beer, 
if 
you're gonna drink wine, drink wine." 
He and Rose married in 1946. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO47 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/2/90 
Informant/Event: Carleo, Pete 
Coworker: Hardin, Jim 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
The blast furnace: 
"hot work." The guys wore sweatshirts, 
longjohns and an asbestos coat. 
Pete's oldest brother was born in Italy in 1900. 
His dad 
started in Niagara Falls, then headed west. His dad lost his first 
wife in 1913 after he had three kids. Remarried in Italy. He was 
from Salerno. He had 7 kids with his second wife. 
"The CF&I was the only big production thing there was in this 
little town at that time. His father farmed in Blende. His oldest 
brother, Jerry, worked in the mill. Pete went there in 1940 and 
worked in "the big yard" on construction. He went to the blast 
furnace in 1942 and stayed 10-15 years, became a "blower," or 
foreman, and retired in 1976. His brother Johnny was a switchman 
on the railroad in the mill. His brother Tony worked in the boiler 
shop. His brother Jimmy worked in the coke plant. Pete helped build 
a new furnace in 1942. The mill "was kind of rough at first, but 
I stayed with it anyhow." Changing shifts every week wore him out; 
he 
retired 
early. 
The 
place 
never 
closed, 
no 
Christmas, 
no 
holidays. Blast furnace takes four days to cool down. 
mill. 
The mill during the war. How the guys got their jobs at the 
His brother Jerry got hurt after 40 years, and was forced to 
retire. A friend of their was killed in a blast furnace explosion. 
A "top oiler" got killed in a fall. A third guy fell in an ore bin 
and died. Most of the injuries were burns. Safety improved laster 
on: leggings, hard-toed boots, hardhats, goggles. His wife worried 
every time he went to work. The guys in the blast furnace were 
close-knit. 
Discrimination against Italians. His wife thinks he was the 
first Italian to be a foreman in the blast furnace. 
Each department of the mill was divided into units and you 
built up seniority within your unit, which discouraged movement 
from unit to unit. 
Blast furnace jobs: 
foreman, 
stove tender, 
keeper, 
first helper, 
second helper, 
bin man, 
car man. 
Ten or 
twelve guys per shift. 
How people learned their jobs. 
Foreman 
called the blower because he blew the whistle. Above the foreman 
IAW-RF-A047 - 
2 
was the general 
foreman, 
the assistant superintendent and the 
superintendent. 
The furnace was tapped with a diamond drill. The slag went to 
the dump and the iron went to the open hearth. 
Noise from airing out the furnace. 
Breaks: 
there was no 
special lunch time. "You ate when you had a chance." For 15 or 20 
minutes in the "dog house." There was also a "comfort station" 
where they showered and changed clothes. Shifts were from 7 to 3, 
3 to 11 and 11 to 7. When the furnace wasn't working well there was 
no time for breaks. "Doubling over" (back-to-back shifts). Then you 
were home for eight hours and were back on your regular shift. 
They lived on Cypress on the south side before they moved to 
their present house. They wanted to live near the Catholic schools. 
Rosalie worked as librarian in the school. Since she retired she's 
been a "bingo fanatic." She was born in Houston. 
[side B] 
Their kids: his son's a graphic artist in Denver. The younger 
generation gets college-educated and leaves town. Few go to work 
in the mill. Pete took his son through one time and he said, "Pop, 
I don't know how you ever worked in a place like that." None of the 
children of the five brothers went to work in the mill. But, Pete 
said, "At one time, the mill was the only thing that paid any money 
so everybody wanted to go in the mill." One brother farmed on the 
Mesa for a while, then sold the place. Young guys coming off the 
farm weren't making much money, so they went to work in the mill. 
Pete started at $4-5 a day. But it didn't cost much to live. Now 
wages are at $10-12-15 an hour. 
The union came in 1942. His having a brother already working 
there had nothing to do with Pete getting hired. Most of the guys 
in the blast furnace were "Spanish and colored." Before the union 
came in "it was a little rough" moving up the ladder. Then it 
became strictly a matter of seniority. 
There weren't too many 
Italians in the blast furnace. There were a lot of Italians in the 
wire mill. 
Once he became foreman he compares his relationship with the 
workers to a father-son relationship. "You can't get too close to 
your men. You gotta get close to 'em because you gotta get along 
with them, 
but you can't be no palsy-walsy...If you get too 
friendly, he ain't going to listen to you." 
The taverns on Northern Ave. 
Off-days 
and 
vacations. 
They'd 
go 
to 
Houston 
to 
visit 
Rosalie's family. To conserve jobs they started giving guys 13-week 
vacations -- paid. He didn't socialize much with the other guys, 
IAW-RF-A047 - 
3 
even before he became foreman. 
Pete's not much of a mingler. 
Rosalie is. His brother ran a bar on 7th and Main for a while. 
Their neighborhood when they lived on Cypress 
(near Orman and 
Northern) 
was mixed, 
ethnically. 
Where they live now was all 
doctors. 
Pete tells a story that "partly s true and partly isn't true." 
When he became a foreman he asked his dad how he can make everybody 
happy. He said, 
"You can make some of the people happy when you 
enter the room and you make the other people happy when you leave 
the room." 
Growing up on the farm in Blende: they raised beans, carrots, 
radishes, "all that small stuff... garden stuff" on 15 acres. The 
kids worked in the fields and went to bed at dark. Pete didn't care 
for the work and vowed to go to work in the mill and "get rich." 
Once he was married he wanted to move back out there -- to live, 
not to farm -- but Rosalie didn't want to leave town. 
Butchered hogs every year, made sausage and ham, stored it in 
the basement in crock pots. Hogs were bought in the spring and 
butchered in the winter. Neighbors and relatives would all come 
over to help. Rosalie says they'd have steak only on holidays. Pete 
says not even then -- they ate spaghetti. 
Pete's mother had a 
forno. She'd make loaves out of 50 pounds of flour. She would put 
branches in and burn them, then put the bread in without using a 
thermometer or testing it in any way, but the bread always came out 
perfect. 
Winters on the farm: 
supplies laid in in the fall for the 
winter. The weather was cold, but there wasn't all that much snow. 
The house was heated with a coal stove. Social life. 
Language: his mother spoke to him in Italian and he answered 
in English. She spoke no English. His father spoke both. 
According to Rosalie, the old-time Italians didn't talk much 
or play with the kids much. Pete doesn't remember his dad hugging 
him at all. But he'd give him the back of his hand. He was strict. 
He died in 1957. His mother died in 1950. Dad quit farming and 
moved to town around 1950. 
-
T-IAW-RF-A048= 
Pete 
says 
the 
families 
were 
close, 
but 
not 
physically -- there was none of the hugging and kissing you see 
now. Rosalie's dad an a grocery store. He was strict, too. Her 
mother wasn't. 
She played more with her grandfather -- cards, 
mostly. Her father was "a good man, but he wasn't affectionate." 
She went to work in the store at age 12. Her cousin married Pete's 
brother, so she moved to Pueblo and met Pete. "So we was cousins 
married to two brothers. And now we don't speak to each other." 
When the union came in, 
the old-timers were used to their 
bosses being mean to them. The next generation wouldn't take it. 
The union got too strong, asking for more than the company could 
afford to give. 
[coffee break] 
Growing up in Blende, they came to Pueblo only to go to church 
or to deliver vegetables. "But there was the money problem. There 
was no money there." He went to work in the packing house in 1937 
at age 20. 
The blast furnace was 16-18 feet high, thick walls. Big and 
small bell on top that open and close for dumping in the ore. A 
scale car weighs the ore. The furnace had "peep sites" so you could 
see how it was working. A mud gun stops the hole after you tape the 
furnace. Now they use electric (arch) furnaces. The blast furnace 
made the iron and the open hearth made the steel. The molten iron 
ran down a ditch to a ladle. 
The big yard: a construction crew that went from department 
to department doing pick and shovel work. It was where the new guys 
started. 
Descriptions of the seamless tube mill and the rail mill. 
After saying the blast furnace was where it all started, Pete is 
asked if the blast furnace guys had special status. "You don't have 
no status. You just work." And he laughed. In fact, he said, the 
blast furnace was the lowest one. As a foreman, he wasn't affected 
by the big strikes of the 1950s. 
The blast furnace reunion. He goes "to get together, see the 
guys, how they look. Some got fat, some got skinny." He gets back 
to the theme of "walking the chalk line": being careful, 
as a 
foreman, not to antagonize the men and incur the union's wrath. 
There were 300-400 men in the blast furnace. He retired at age 59. 
He's 73 now 
(b. 
1916). 
Importance of foreman making decisions, 
right or wrong, because people want to be told what to do. 
[side B] 
Shift work. They changed every week. When he started out it 
was even tougher because his days off were split. Four crews on 
five days equals 20 shifts. But three shifts over seven days is 21 
shifts. They solved the problem of the extra shift by making each 
shift swing. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO49 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Catalano, Sam 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Sam's dad's from Calabria. His brother Dominic, b. 1884, came 
first, landed in Brooklyn, then to Hagerstown, Maryland. His dad, 
Frank, joined him around 1916. His mother's side from Cosenza, also 
in Calabria. She was born in Brazil. His maternal grandfather went 
to work for the Denver & Rio Grande Railroad when he came to 
Pueblo. He worked in the roundhouse as a hustler, taking engines 
to and from the roundhouse and the depot. A lot of Italian guys 
worked for the railroad, many in section gangs. The roundhouse was 
mainly Italian. The Denver & Rio Grande roundhouse on 4th St. was 
torn down around 1980. His dad worked for the blast furnace in the 
1920s, but he spent most of his working life working for a railroad 
section gang also. 
Sam's grandfather: "you couldn't find a better grandpa than 
he was." He had a big handlebar moustache, spoke English "good 
enough to get by," didn't smoke, drink or chase women. He worked 
seven days a week. Sam went down to the roundhouse as a kid and 
watched him shovel coal into the boilers. The roundhouse was "like 
a big family." He never missed a day of work and never made more 
than $4-5 a day. Sam started in the mill at 60 cents an hour, which 
was double what they were getting at the railroad. His grandfather 
lived at 903 Curry. Sam was born at 909 Curry and lived across the 
street at 831 Curry. Sam was born April 23, 1923. The neighborhood 
was mostly Italian with a few Mexicans. 
Baking bread: 
15-20 loaves at a time in the forno. Water 
heated for laundry outside also, clothes washed on a scrub board. 
They made 
their 
own 
tomato 
paste, 
canned 
tomatoes, 
peppers, 
eggplants. They grew a garden, "raised all the seasonings that they 
were used to using in their sauces in Italy. I still got 'em in my 
yard, some of 'em" (oregano and basil). 
The blast furnace reunion. 
The mill, 
the railroad, 
farming and trucking were the big 
industries for the Italians. 
Growing up on Curry: Most of the Mexicans were on Curry. E1 
Dorado was almost all Italian. There were six or seven grocery 
stores in the neighborhood, mostly run by Italians. "Today it's 7-
Eleven and Loaf'n'Jug." 
IAW-RF-A049 - 
2 
His mother, Elizabeth, b. July 7, 1902, made her own lasagna, 
ravioli, macaroni. "Italian families didn't need help from anybody" 
making tomato sauce and such. Where people helped each other was 
with the hog-butchering. 
From the hog they made 
lard, 
blood 
pudding. The hogs were bought out in the country. Everyone made 
their own wine, with California grapes bought from produce houses 
run by Italians. 
Cherries for cherry wine came from Penrose or 
Canon City. 
His folks would visit, or be visited by fellow Calabrians. 
They didn't mix much with other Italians. Calabrians came through 
New York, Sicilians through New Orleans. The Sicilians settled on 
Abriendo, E1 Dorado and on Goat Hill. When he was a kid he could 
understand Calabrese, but not Italian as spoken by Italians from 
other regions. The Italians attended Mount Carmel Church in the 
Grove. Some Calabrians spoke Calabrian mixed with Greek. 
Italian proverbs: "The way you make your bed, that's the way 
you're gonna sleep." Meaning, before you go steal something, think 
about the consequences. If his parents were angry they'd "put their 
hand between their teeth," meaning, "Wait til I get you. When you 
see them do that then you kind of stayed away from the house for 
a while til they cooled off." His upbringing wasn't that strict 
because "we were all good kids." 
Music and dancing. The August church festival included a big 
street dance and food for two-three nights. His parents didn't know 
how to dance and he never learned how to dance. "It was a slower 
life." 
Holidays: Gifts on Christmas. "We were all poor. It was during 
the Depression when I come up." July 4th was a big holiday for the 
kids because they got to eat ice cream. There was always plenty of 
macaroni, even during the Depression. On days when a family was 
planning to eat macaroni, they'd say, "So-and-so's going to put out 
the Italian flag today." Christmas Eve they ate anchovies in garlic 
and oil with white macaroni. They wouldn't leave the table until 
the next morning. 
[side B] 
Italian traditions began to wane during or just after the war. 
"It stopped for me in 1945 when my mother passed away." Very few 
guys made wine after the old-timers passed away. His wife fixes 
eggplant the way his mother did. 
He remembers going home from 
school for lunch and eating eggplant from a jar with bread. They 
still make their own macaroni, ravioli, meatballs and sauce. They 
went to see his uncle's grave in Hagerstown last year -- he died 
in 1952. Had a reputation as a cook, cooked in the railroad section 
gang. His brothers all cooked too. 
Sam cooks fried peppers and 
potatoes and onions. He made the macaroni and meatballs and sauce 
IAW-RF-AO49 - 
3 
for the blast furnace reunion. That's his main dish. 
The transition away from Italian food-making traditions was 
an easy one for his generation to make, but it would have been hard 
for his parents. Before the war he shaved with a straight razor. 
He started using a safety razor in the service and forgot how to 
use a straight razor. Just being away for those three years at that 
young age changed him also. "When you come back, you come back with 
your 
eyes 
open, 
where when 
I left 
I guess 
they were half-
closed... But you've never had a good piece of bread til you get one 
that's been baked outside in the oven, right on the hot brick." 
Pizza was a loaf of bread with tomatoes and anchovies and cheese 
mixed into the dough. What hasn't changed are the beer joints. 
There are very few people living in Sam's neighborhood that were 
living there when he was a kid. 
Sam went to work in the mill in 1939. He retired 1976. His dad 
and uncle worked there. They were hired before the Depression, when 
it was easy to get work. 
Sam got in through his cousin, John 
D'Amato who was a foreman in the blast furnace. He was 16, said he 
was 18, but the superintendent told him he was too small. Sam said 
if he couldn't do the job held quit. There were guys who'd been 
showing up at the employment office for more than two years and 
couldn't get hired -- including his uncle. Sam got teased by the 
older guys, but his name was the only one called the day he got his 
job. The superintendent never said he wasn't doing the job. After 
the war, Sam got his brother Charlie in. 
His dad was caught bootlegging in 1939. He was given eight 
months at a prison farm in Tucson. That's why he quit school and 
went to work. 
His dad had an uncle who "come from bootlegging 
people in Goat Hill." He got his dad started around 1932-33. Sam 
helped him make it in a room below their garage. The recipe: 100 
pounds of sugar, 
three pounds of yeast, a bucket-and-a-half of 
cracked corn. Put in 50-gallon barrel with water, ferment, then 
drain and put in copper still. The uncle "never spent a day in 
jail, but he done more bootlegging than anybody." Sam delivered 
door-to-door, sometimes by the shot. "You're not nervous about it 
until you get caught." The Italians got into it because "if there 
was a buck to be made, the wop was right there... It was to feed us 
kids. I'm not ashamed of my dad bootlegging. I admire the guy." He 
went back to work at the railroad when he came back from prison. 
During the raid, Sam was brought down to the station with his dad, 
but he was released because he was under age. His father's absence 
would have been rough on the family if Sam hadn't gone to work in 
the mill. He gave his check to his mother even after his dad got 
home, until 1942. He sent $100 a month home from the service. 
His dad worked in the blast furnace at the rip track. When he 
quit he was oiling slag pots. He quit in 1927 at the urging of his 
grandmother to bring his brother home. "Even if I had my choice now 
I'd still want to go in the blast furnace" because "we were one big 
IAW-RF-AO49 - 
4 
happy family." 
Document: IAW-RF-AO50 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Catalano, Sam 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
The blast furnace. "Even when I go out in my yard I like to 
work." He worked on loan from the blast furnace at the bolt mill, 
the open hearth, the rail mill, the casting foundry, the wire mill. 
The blast furnace as "one big happy family." There was plenty of 
"bench time" when you could sleep, "chew the rag," cook. They would 
barbecue meats right at the furnace. "When the furnace was running 
bad, you suffered." He feels bad the furnaces was shut down. CF&I 
shut down four-five months during the Depression. 
Teasing. The guys would steal the cap off a bald-headed guy. 
There were guys who could tell you jokes all day long without ever 
telling the same joke twice. Most were dirty jokes. The old-timers 
Sam worked with on the slag dump retired around 1964. After that, 
he quit going to the beer joints. 
Klamm's Shell, Marco's, The 
Buffalo, the Big Apple. The guys he drank with were mostly Mexican. 
Italians in the blast furnace were Charlie Montero, Pete Panipento, 
Jack Spinuzzi, Joe Spinuzzi, Frank Williams, Sam Carlo, Joe Harris 
(killed on the job), Pete Carleo, Henry Cerese (?), Sam Maddy (?), 
Mike Gagliardo. Everybody was held back as far as promotions were 
concerned, until the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Sam made foreman in 
1964, after 25 years. "The name just wasn't right... Before it was 
just the palefaces." 
[break] 
Photo album. 
Explanation of tar cars. 
Deaths on the job, 
injuries. Sam was burned in an explosion. 
The union. Sam joined in 1939. They voted the union in in 
1942. Before, if a foreman didn't like you, he could get rid of 
you, no questions asked, even if you were the best worker there. 
During the long strike, Sam dug his basement, went to work at a 
Denver packing plant. Sam tells a story of managers running a train 
during a strike and almost causing a disastrous crash by failing 
to switch tracks. The company settled quickly after that. 
Now, instead of making iron from scratch in the blast furnace, 
electric furnaces are used to melt scrap metal. 
The reunions: started by Kiko, who runs Hogan's Tavern. This 
year's was the eighth one. 
IAW-RF-AO50 - 
2 
Sam blames the city for not trying to save the blast furnaces 
from being dismantled. He compares them to the Statue of Liberty. 
"Them blast furnaces built Pueblo. If they closed the steel mill 
completely right now I believe Pueblo would be a ghost down, 
because there's nothing else in Pueblo." The ordnance depot is 
declining, the new jobs are $4 an hour jobs. "That blast furnace 
was Pueblo." 
Coal mining in Rockvale between Florence and Canon City. "I'd 
be willing to bet some wop owns it." They used to buy bread from 
a bakery with outdoor ovens in Florence. 
Zoelsmann's Bakery in 
Pueblo. 
"CF&I was a good-paying job. They didn't give you peanuts. 
Right today they're the best-paid guys 
in the whole city of 
Pueblo." He's known Joe Genova and Paul Palermo since they were 
kids. 
Document: IAW-RF-A051 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Biggi, Bruno; DiSalvo, Russell 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Biggi: His parents came from northern Italy, Miscoso, in 1913, 
because he heard they were hiring at the mill. They landed at Ellis 
Island and made their way to Pueblo. HIs mother was Maria and his 
father was Mateo. Other members of family worked in coal mines in 
Walsenburg. 
DiSalvo: His family from Alia, Sicily. His father's side came 
over on the ship Montebello in steerage. They were recruited to 
work in the sugar cane fields in Louisiana. His mother was 6 when 
her family came over in 1888-89. Her name was Tadaro. They married 
in 1901 in Fayetteville, LA. His dad was 26. His parents spoke to 
him in Italian and he spoke to them in English. In Louisiana they 
lived in company housing. They worked until they paid off the 
obligation to the company that brought them over, then they were 
free to go. His dad and uncles went to work on the railroad in 
Chicago. When they came to Pueblo they all went to work at the 
steel mill. 
His dad worked 12 hours a day for $1.80 a day. "I was in bed 
when he went to work and I was in bed when he came home. He did 
that seven days a week." They would walk to church from Goat Hill. 
His dad walked to the steel mill. They moved to Abriendo, where 
Russell went to live to take care of his mom after his father died. 
His dad worked at the open hearth, where they made the steel. His 
dad worked in the mason crew, building the furnaces. He was killed 
when a craneman swung a box into him in 1937. The company paid $7-
8,000 to the family. 
There were eight kids. 
Two were married, 
including Russell, who was working for the highway patrol. Russell 
worked at the steel mill in 1918 at age 14. He was born Aug. 21, 
1904. He worked there 18 years in the wire mill and steel fence 
department. Wages were $3.92 a day for eight hours. The eight-hour 
day came in after World War I. 
His dad rode a bicycle to work. On payday he'd get a bag of 
candy for the kids. "There was no money. There was no money around 
at all." In 1935 they formed the Colorado highway patrol. The pay 
was to be $125 a month. He retired in 1972. 
The company store: Colorado Supply. Bruno's family shopped at 
a local store when they lived on Box Elder. The company store sold 
appliances, grocery, clothing, baked goods. In Trinidad there was 
IAW-RF-AO51 - 
2 
company housing as well. 
Bruno's dad worked in the barbed wire shop in the wire mill. 
So did Bruno. 
It was easier to get hired if you had a relative 
there. Bruno started in 1937 and stayed 47 years. There were a lot 
of Italians in the wire mill. A dozen in the barbed wire shop. 
Russell was making $G a day as a foreman adjuster. But they weren't 
working full weeks a during the Depression. Nine-month strike in 
1920. The 1921 flood. The family had chickens, a goat, a garden. 
They didn't go hungry, but they didn't have much, either. 
[side B] 
The company devised an 
employees representative 
program 
following the Ludlow Massacre. The reps catered to management. The 
company had "full and complete control." 
In 1920, the whole mill 
was shut down for nine months by a strike. There was no picketing. 
The Ludlow Massacre. 
CF&I had 
its 
own police force. 
The 
workers had no electricity, 
only coal oil lamps. 
There was no 
electricity or plumbing on Goat Hill either. Bread was baked in a 
forno. A gunny sack dipped in water and wrapped around a long pole 
was used to skim off the ashes. 
No bitterness toward the Rockefellers after the massacre. He 
built a steelworkers "Y" with gym, bowling alley, sewing rooms, 
swimming pool, etc. at CF&I. The site's a parking lot now. 
The taverns. The different ethnic groups went to different 
taverns. No animosity among the various groups that worked at the 
mill. But the Ku Klux Klan was active in Pueblo. In 1924, Colorado 
elected a governor who was a Klansman. And there were Klansmen in 
the Pueblo city government and on the police force. Columbus Day 
parade in Pueblo. Tony DiPalma was the grand marshal. In 1924, the 
city wouldn't issue a permit for the parade. The parade took place 
anyway, with shotguns poking out the windows of all the cars. A 
cross was burned at Northern and Abriendo. Russell, who's Catholic 
and a Knight of Columbus and a friend, took down the cross, put out 
the fire and got shot at. He came to believe it was police officers 
who fired at them. There were Klansmen in the electric shop at the 
mill. Italians didn't move into management jobs in those days. 
World War II: No animosity toward Italians. Russell: Italians 
are proud of their heritage, but they're proud of being Americans 
also." Bruno speaks Italian. 
Russell speaks a little. He tells 
about a guy named Peroni who came from Italy in the 1950s and never 
learned to speak much English. 
Bruno's son is planning director for the City of Fort Collins. 
His daughter's an artist in Denver. Russell's three brothers worked 
IAW-RF -AO51 - 
3 
at CF&I. None of his three sons worked there. 
g,r AoSZ 
TIAW-RF-A052= 
Russell DiSalvoIs three brothers worked at the mill. 
Anthony retired from the mill. Joe settled in California after the 
war. Of Russell's three sons, 
one lived in California with his 
mother. One is an attorney in Pueblo, the other was a conductor on 
the Santa Fe Railroad and lives in Denver. 
His daughter is a 
teacher in Denver. Children of CF&I employees "wanted to get away 
from there as fast as they could." Parents wanted things to be 
better for their children than they had it themselves. 
CF&I employed 9,000 men during the war years and up until 
1975-80. Now there are 1600-1800. Between CF&I, the army depot, 
the state hospital, Walter's brewery Pueblo has lost 22,000 jobs 
and gained 2,500 new ones -- and wages have dropped. Russell talks 
about the decline in the value of CF&I stock. 
Bruno retired in 1980. The 1959 strike: he brought food to 
the picketers and the guys at the hall. He has spent time there 
since he retired. Storekeepers extended credit during both the 1920 
strike and later ones. Camaraderie: Russell says "we were all of 
the same bolt of cloth ... We all worked together as a team." "You 
always had a goal of trying to do as much today as you did 
yesterday." 
On being watched by efficiency experts. 
Steelworkers sent their kids to get a bucket of beer. During 
Prohibition Pueblo became known as Little Chicago because of all 
the bootlegging activity. Their families weren't involved. 
When Russell was eight he sold newspapers at the railroad 
depot making 20 cents a day. Then he bottled soda at the Coca Cola 
plant for 5 cents an hour, 12 hours a day. Brothels on Union Ave. 
Goat Hill. The grocery stores. Catholics went to Mt. Carmel 
Church. "Everybody got married there and they got baptized there." 
His neighborhood used to be an Italian stronghold; now the Italians 
have spread out. All the kids would gather under the street light 
on Goat Hill. Games: baseball, track, boxing. The men played bocce. 
People would help each other make wine, 
bring accordions and 
violins. Russell remembers stomping the grapes for wine. 
[side B] 
Wine making. 
The Grove was known as the Bucket of Blood. 
During Prohibition the Slays made beer. 
Russell still has the 
barrels and the press, but he hasn't made wine for 20 years. Bruno: 
You have to have a cool basement. 
Bruno usually has a small 
vegetable garden. Russell lives alone now, and doesn't bother about 
a garden anymore. 
Bruno makes his own macaroni. "Old-timers used to do that. 
We've kept that up." Russell: "The culture has changed." They tell 
their kids to be proud of who they are and never deny who they are. 
Russell tells a story about talking to his dad about wanting to be 
a millionaire at 26. His dad told him not to worry about money and 
he used the example of John 
D. 
Rockefeller who was a multi-
millionaire, but didn't have his health. This was said in a mixture 
of Italian and English. Their parents were strict. They were less 
strict with their kids. They don't remember beatings, just stern 
talkings-to. Russell remembers fighting and kicking when they tried 
to give him castor oil when he was five years old. More about 
neighborliness. After the thirties there was more time off for 
visiting and Sunday spaghetti or ravioli dinners. 
Neighborhoods: 
The Grove was Slovenian. 
East Northern was 
Austrian and Slay. His neighborhood and Goat Hill was Italians. 
Leechons (?) in Minnequa Heights. Russell tells a long story about 
the search for a murderer. There used to be Greek coffee houses and 
gambling dens and brothels on Northern Ave. "Pueblo was prosperous 
at one time." A politician told him if you can survive politically 
in Pueblo you can survive anyplace because of the city's ethnic 
mix. 
The difference between their young days and today. Russell: 
"There was no money. Today money is plentiful." 
[Russell pulls out a $100 bill to make the point that no one 
ever saw one when they were growing up.] 
He tells another long story about a guy he hired to do 
yardwork. 
TIAW-RF-A053= 
Family from Capracotta, Abruzzi. Grandfathers made 
charcoal for a living. They came to the U.S. having heard stories 
about how you could become wealthy here, "practically find gold in 
the 
streets." 
They 
landed 
at 
Ellis 
Island 
and 
worked 
in 
a 
silverware 
factory 
in 
Boston. 
They 
came 
in 
1903. 
They 
had 
"paisan's" in the area who had been out west and told them about 
the opportunities working for the railroads, the steel mills and 
the mines. When they got to Pueblo, their maternal grandfather went 
to work in the zinc smelter. Paternal grandfather went to work at 
CF&I. So did their dad, when he came over. They both worked in the 
wire mill, their dad for 51 years. 
Zinc smelter (called the Bessemer Smelter) . Zinc was in demand 
for coating of pots, pans, washtubs and wire. 
Dad started working in the slag dump, 
13 hours on the day 
shift, 11 hours on the night shift. Wages were $1.10 night shift, 
$1.13 day shift. 
There were three smelters in Pueblo. A lot of Italians worked 
at them. Jobs in the smelters and at the mill "were about equal -
- there was the same kinds of abuse in both places." Italians were 
looked down upon and called dagos, 
wops, 
black-hatters, 
Mafia 
members. Italians were thought to be not good enough for certain 
O
, F 
A-0-3 - 
/ 
jobs, got stuck with the menial jobs. Frances: "We had very Anglo-
orientated personnel managers." 
What changed things at the mill was unionization. Louis helped 
organize it. Initially some guys were afraid of reprisals if they 
joined. Louis wore his union button and "created quite a bit of 
resentment among my supervisors. They thought I was being pushy and 
I was, I was being pushy because I could see the inequities that 
were taking place and the way people were being treated." 
[pause] 
The smelters. No protective equipment led to diseases later 
in life. The Pueblo Smelter was in Blende. Eiler's was behind St. 
Mary's Church on Mesa. The zinc smelter was on Goat Hill. 
Grandpa DiTella boarded with an Italian family in Bessemer 
until his wife came. Grandpa Paglione worked in the wire mill, and 
later moved out to the Mesa and farmed. When he lived in town he 
lived in Bessemer. Paglione died in 1947, DiTella in 1933. Paglione 
was going to become a priest but decided "he had too much of the 
devil in him so he gave that up." The two grandfathers came to the 
U.S. together. "In the olden days they always fixed up marriages," 
so Paglione fixed up his son with DiTella's daughter. They were 
married at Mt. Carmel Church. She was 15. Dad was 18. They had 22 
kids; 15 died. Dad was Antonio, mom, Lucia. 
On the train west from New York, a fruit peddlar sold them a 
banana and their mom tried to eat it with the skin because she'd 
never seen a banana before. Frances remembers her parents talking 
about taking a horse and buggy from their village to Naples where 
they embarked on the voyage to America. Their mother met her sister 
for the first time since they were little girls on a bus in Italy 
in 1958. 
The Depression. Lived off their garden, chickens and the hog 
they slaughtered once a year. They lived at 1038 East Routt. Their 
dad was a carpenter and bricklayer, 
so they "always had a nice 
home." Louis now lives in Grandpa Paglione's house near the Indiana 
Gate. It's an old CF&I company house: 2328 East Evans. They know 
Charles "Chila" Conatore, who had the grocery store on Evans. 
Frances born May 30, 1929, youngest of four girls. Louis born 
April 18, 1917. He's the oldest. Frances went to Italy in 1959 and 
met a cousin coming through customs. They had never seen each 
other, but he said "your built just like our grandmother." 
She was named Francesca, and it got changed when she went to 
school. 
Louis was Luigi after his paternal great grandfather. 
Frances: 
"You were always given a Catholic saint name among the 
Italian families." Anglos couldn't pronounce their last name, so 
they 
went 
along 
with 
the 
pronunciation 
of 
the 
"G." 
Their 
grandfather Paglione was hired at the mill as Richard Polos. Louis 
talks about "identity loss" among the immigrants. They had the mill 
Ar A6S3 
change his name in 1937. Another man, Angelo DiSepio (sp?) 
was 
given the name Tony Frank, and used that name for 44 years. To 
Louis, the name changes were symptomatic of the prejudice to which 
the Italians were subjected. 
You couldn't date someone from a 
different 
ethnic 
group. 
There 
were 
certain 
dance halls 
they 
couldn't go to. Frances: When she was in high school from 1943 to 
1947 if you weren't an Anglo you couldn't be a cheerleader. The 
discrimination made Louis more determined to prove himself. 
Their grandfathers' 
generation were just grateful to have 
jobs. Some of the supervisors got kickbacks from them in the form 
of wine, eggs, chicken or money. Segregation: Bessemer was mostly 
Italian, East Bessemer was Slovenian, Salt Creek was Mexican. You 
didn't cross the bridge unless you wanted to get into a fight. The 
Grove was Slovenian, Goat Hill was Italian. The Anglos were in the 
Aberdeen area. Frances: "There was definitely a class distinction." 
[side B] 
The 
different 
ethnic 
groups 
organized 
themselves 
into 
different social clubs that would take care of their own. There 
were also "national churches" and ethnic grocery stores. There were 
4-5 Italian stores in Bessemer. Neighborhood stores survived by 
catering to their own ethnic group. Then there were "the bosses," 
some of whom were looking to feather their own nest. They sold 
citizenship papers for $25. Their parents went to school to get 
their citizenship. 
Their mother was very keen on the kids finishing high school. 
Their house was bilingual. The parents conversed mainly in Italian. 
The kids spoke to their grandparents in Italian. His grandmother 
came in 1921. Louis tells about his grandmother never having seen 
a can and not knowing how to open it. 
Louis still has his grandfather's wine press, but he doesn't 
make wine. He used to make a lot of rootbeer. Their dad would make 
150 barrels at a time. Frances: "My mother used to make about a ton 
of tomatoes and cook them outdoors in great big vats ... I hated the 
fall of the year" (because she had to wash all the bottles). Mom 
used to bake 30 loaves of bread a week in the forno. The fornos 
were outlawed in the city because of the smoke. Louis: "When they 
baked that bread 
in the outdoor oven you could smell 
it 
for 
blocks." The weekly round: Monday you washed clothes, Tuesday you 
ironed, Wednesday you baked... Twice a month their mom would make 
fried bread, which was as much of a dessert as they ever got. For 
breakfast they ate coffee and bread, spaghetti and vegetables for 
dinner. They bought spaghetti in 20-pound boxes, make sausage in 
the fall of the year and store it in crocks with melted lard poured 
over it. They had a fruit room in their house for canned goods. 
Their folks had a grocery store for a few years in the 1920s. 
Ar ,-z 
s 
3 -4 
Most of the home food production ended just prior to the war 
because the economy had begun to pick up following the National 
Recovery Act in 1936. Minimum wage established at 50 cents an hour. 
Company housing, built in 1902. Company store at Bay State 
and Evans. There was a company filling station, company dairy, 
company coal yard. The prices were fair, credit was extended during 
the 
Depression. 
They 
sold 
groceries, 
clothing, 
feed 
for 
the 
chickens and rabbits. Wherever CF&I had a mine there was a company 
store. Their dad worked in a mine in Florence for a short time. The 
guy he was working with got killed in a cave-in; he never went 
back. 
The Ludlow Massacre. During the 1919 strike at the mill, the 
state militia was brought to Pueblo. 65 people, including women 
and children were killed in the massacre. If someone dressed up, 
people would say, "Who do you think you are, Rockefeller?" 
Dad built a house in the Mesa and bicycled to work at the 
mill. He farmed 10 acres and his father farmed 10 acres. They grew 
garden vegetables. Grandfather had a reservoir where the kids would 
go boating in a washtub. The house Louis was raised in on the Mesa 
had two rooms. When they moved to town, Angelo DiSepio, the guy who 
sold them their house, became their boarder. Mom sold bread in the 
store. During a robbery she pulled out a revolver and scared the 
robber off. "She didn't take no guff from anybody." The farm didn't 
make enough money to support two families. When they moved to town 
they took in four boarders. Mom ran the store as well as the 
household. People on the Mesa were closer than folks in town. One 
guy owned a plow, 
another a harrow; 
if you needed a team you 
borrowed your neighbor's horse. Everyone helped each other with the 
hog-butchering. Lard rendered in cast iron kettles. The kids would 
throw apples in the hot lard. Brains, ear, tongue, blood, heart, 
liver and lungs of the hog were all used. 
Frances' happiest memories were sitting at the dinner table. 
Louis' happiest memories are of growing up on the farm. Frances 
was 9 when Louis left home and got married. But they've been a 
close-knit family. Grandpa Paglione told stories about being in 
the Austro-Italian War. When Frances went to Europe she knew her 
way around her home village from her grandmother's stories about 
it. 
Their mother carried a 100-pound sack of flour on her head. 
"She 
was 
a very 
rugged 
woman... strong-willed, 
strong-minded, 
opinionated." Frances gets mad at Italians who say "Eye-talians." 
Document: IAW-RF-AO54 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: Paglione, Louis; Paglione, Francis 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Ku Klux Klan: several local leaders belonged, but they don't 
remember any incidents involving persecution of Italians. 
Proverbs: Grandfather said 
(in Italian), 
"You do good and 
forget it, you do wrong and remember." Their grandmother said they 
were sick like a certain Italian clown when they said they were 
sick and couldn't go to school. They learned their prayers in 
Italian before 
they 
learned 
them 
in 
English. 
Grandma 
always 
counseled them to be honest and loyal. Their dad said, "if you go 
to work for somebody do a good day's work for them and if you can't 
do a good day's work for them, quit." 
He lost the sight in one eye 
in the wire mill. No workman's compensation. Wire punctured his 
eyeball. "It gave him a hard look. He looked like he was mad all 
the time." He had a bocce set. 
Frances had a store from 1984 to 1988 that sold Italian 
products: pasta machines, bocce sets. "Francesca's Italian General 
Store." Frozen pasta, Italian sandwiches, cheeses, sausage, salami. 
Now she manages her nephews' law offices. She worked at CF&I from 
1955 to 1984, was in charge of pensions. She started as a secretary 
in the insurance department. Sam Catalano asked her to be secretary 
of the blast furnace reunion committee. 
When Louis started in the wire mill there were 1,200 workers: 
wire-drawing, nail-making, galvanizing, cable-making, fence-making. 
CF&I had its own newspaper, The Blast. Frances: 
"It was a nice 
company to work for. They made a nice living for us." Louis got his 
job through his dad. He started in 1937. He worked alongside his 
dad. There were quite a few fathers and sons working side by side. 
Louis' son worked as a laborer than as a craneman at the mill. He 
told his mother, "Dad might have spent his life working there, but 
I'm not going to ... They might have killed dad, but they're not 
going to kill me out there." 
The constant heat for those who worked around the blast 
furnaces and the open hearths. The family still has their dad's 
lunch bucket. He used to take raw pork chops to work, out them in 
a wire grill and cook them. 
[their nephew comes in to say hello) 
IAW-RF-A054 - 
2 
Italians tended to get sent to the open hearth. Louis' father-
in-law and brother-in-law worked there. The thinking was that the 
Italian 
foremen 
in 
the 
open hearth would better be able 
to 
communicate with Italian workers. Camaraderie: Guys would help each 
other work on their houses. Department picnics, company picnics: 
nail-banging contests, shoe pile (everyone took off their shoes and 
threw them in a pile; the first one to finds his shoes won a prize 
(usually a watermelon). 
Taverns: Gus' Place was the great meeting place. MuggsyIs, 
Duck Inn, Cozy Corner were also popular. 
Louis tells a story about harassment during union organizing 
days. Guys were afraid to join, afraid they'd lose their jobs. Dad 
had been in the 
1919 
strike and been shot at. 
There was no 
violence, though, just a lot of taunting. 
[side B] 
Louis got a deferment during the war so he could stay at the 
mill and train new workers. 
CF&I's rec hall: 
bowling alley, 
swimming pool, 
gym, 
pool 
tables. sewing classes, theatre. library, classrooms. 
Long strikes in the 1950s. By then, Louis was management. He 
got 
called 
a turncoat. 
In 
retrospect, 
he's 
sorry 
he 
left 
production. He was on salary (no overtime) and the guys who worked 
for him made more money than he did. A lot of union guys got bought 
off with management jobs. The toughest thing he had to do was 
supervise his own dad. When he told his dad what to do he'd look 
at him "like he was going to give me a backhand." Finally, he got 
on a different shift. "Our relationship got back to father and son 
instead of boss and employee." 
Weekly shift change. If they tried to go to a system where you 
stuck with one shift all the time, the old guys would wind up on 
days, the next oldest would be on swing and the young guys would 
be on graveyard -- and they'd quit. 
Frances misses the whistle that you could hear all over town. 
You always knew what time it was. The 5 a.m. whistle woke the town 
up. 
Pranks. Louis had a practical joker in his department. Black 
soap in the showers. Shoelaces tied together or guys tied to a 
bench while they took naps. Louis' lunch bucket was nailed down 
once. 
Nicknames. Their dad was Paisano. 
Louis was "The Kid." A 
Mexican who had been a boxer was called Dempsey. Hobo was a popular 
nickname. 
IAW-RF-AO54 - 
3 
Pranks on new guys. Sending a guy to the machine shop for a 
bucket of steam. 
Joe Gagliano, who retired as vice-president and controller, 
was nicknamed Mussolini. 
Union used to meet above the Minnequa Bank. Their sister Rose 
works in data processing at CF&I. A total of seven family members 
worked at the mill. Louis worked there 43 years. Rose has worked 
there 43 years. Frances worked there 29 years. Louis never figured 
to work at the mill his whole life. He wanted to own a plumbing 
shop. 
But his boss when he was an apprentice called him 
"a 
goddamned rednecked wop," which soured him on the work. The boss 
told his dad he wanted Louis to come back to work. His dad said, 
"If I were Louis, you wouldn't be here today,. I would've killed 
you right on the spot." They became friends after that. By redneck, 
he meant Catholic. Frances thinks it might be a reference to their 
style of bowing their heads in prayer. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO55 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: Paglione, Louis; Paglione, Frances 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Louis enjoyed the work at the mill and the guys he worked 
with. They were a diverse lot, ethnically, but "worked together as 
a team." He was the second Italian to be named foreman in the wire 
mill. 
When he started there was no protective equipment. Now the 
company furnishes glove, pliers. There were a lot of injuries: 
burns, wire punctures. Metal inserts between inner and outer soles 
prevented nail punctures. Dad was having trouble opening a bundle 
of wire and a guy he worked with made a crack about him being a 
dumb paisano. His dad got mad, yanked on the wire and poked his eye 
out. Louis tells a story about a co-worker who died when he was 
crushed by a forklift truck. Frances: "If more women had gone into 
that mill and watched where their husbands worked they wouldn't 
have spent all their paychecks like they used to do." Women would 
wait in line on payday to take the checks. Back injuries. Louis: 
"A lot of sweat and blood." Many developed leg problems walking the 
concrete floors and doing a lot of lifting. During the war they 
worked 20-hour shifts. If you doubled over (worked 16 hours), the 
company bought you lunch and a drink. 
Louis' 
daughter has a copper cooking pot, 
coffee pot and 
saucepan that his grandmother brought from Italy in 1921. 
They 
fought over their grandfather ruby colored wine decanter and 
glasses. Frances still has linens and a crocheted bedspread brought 
from Italy. 
Christmas 
Eve 
celebrations: 
codfish 
(no 
meat 
til 
after 
midnight). Layers of cod, layers of onions, olives, served with 
spaghetti sauce or with raisins. Pizzelle. A lot of it stopped when 
their mother died. Grandma put up cherries in whiskey for Christmas 
and New Year's. Dec. 13, Santa Lucia's Day (their mother's saint's 
day), cooked wheat. Baskets made out of dough for Easter, with an 
egg baked into it. 
Food. Sicilian tomato sauce is thicker than theirs. Salads 
were eaten after main course. Family raised celery and artichokes, 
wrapped them in newspapers and buried them for use at Christmas. 
Sausage was hung up to harden and dry. Mom cooked lupini beans. In 
the time of Christ, lupini were sweet, then villains "took out 
after Christ," who hid behind the lupini bush, cursed it, and the 
IAW-RF-A055 - 
2 
beans became bitter. Gnocchi. Frances still makes them. Mom used 
to make pizza with cracklins, usually with just oil, salt and black 
pepper. Frances: "The happiest moments I remember were sitting at 
the supper table." The kids weren't allowed to drink a lot of water 
for fear they'd get too full and not eat their dinners. 
Used 
chicken fat instead of butter when they made cakes. Mom made lemon 
pies. One of their sisters wanted Grandpa's winepress to put dirt 
in it and plant flowers. 
After their mother died 
Document: IAW-RF-A056 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: DiIorio, Jim 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
His dad was a machinist in Italy and his first job at CF&I was 
as a machinist. He worked there 42 years. Name Carmine. Lived at 
1009 Elm - 2 blocks from Gus'. Mom was born in Brazil. "When you 
live in this town, years ago, that was the place. That was the 
place." 
Jim worked there one summer while he was going to school and 
also worked there after school. That was during World War II. He 
applied and started in the 14-inch mill as a helper, then as a 
puller off the straightener. "We'd pull em off and stack em and 
count em and bundle em. Then he worked in the "hot end, where you 
had to pick up the bars with tongs. It was so hot the men put tires 
on their legs and wear canvas gloves. Tongs got so hot you had to 
put your hands in cold water. Worked a half-hour on, half-hour off 
for eight hours. 
Never got burned or saw guys get burned. 
He 
graduated June 7, 
1947, went to work June 10 in the machine shop 
as 
a helper, 
then 
apprentice 
four 
years, 
then 
full-fledged 
machinist. You had to buy your own tools. "It was good to me. It 
bought me a house, raised my two children. " As many as 100 guys 
worked in the machine shop, now down to 20-25. "We kept the mills 
rolling. If something broke down we made the parts to repair it." 
About 5 of the guys in the machine shop were Italian. 
The machine shop, still standing, is about three quarters of 
a block long, brick, tin roof. He tells a story about a helper who 
had two fingers cut off on his last day. "You don't horse with that 
stuff. It'll cut you." Jim had two broken toes, was hit with a 
sledge hammer, got a tong stuck in his eyelid. "Fascinating to see, 
but you have to be on your toes." 
Changes: When he started, he worked afternoons one week, days 
the next. When his dad retired he was promoted to his dad's job. 
As a machinist, "my dad was tops." His dad taught him to do things 
that no one else knew how to do so he would be indispensable. Once 
he worked a 23-and-a-half hour day. Of his own skills, "I held my 
own." He was on call 24 hours a day. 
Nicknames: His dad's was Charlie. Others were Doc, Figgy. 
Strikes. He got work as a painter during the long strike. 
IAW-RF-A056 - 
2 
They adopted an Italian baby, now 35, an engineer. Jim can 
understand Italian, but can't speak it. 
His grandparents had a macaroni factory in Pueblo. Caracino's. 
Grandmother lived worth his family when his grandfather passed 
away. She spoke Italian all the time. They lived on the 900 block 
of Currie. 
Growing up. He remembers Sundays, at 1, all the men would come 
to play bocce. The steel balls were made in the mill. They played 
dime, 15 cents or quarter a game. At 4, they all went to Gus'. The 
younger guys played football and baseball. 
[side B] 
He, his dad and his uncle would stop at Gus' for a beer on the 
way home from work. Other popular taverns were Ziggy's, Muggsy's, 
Cozy Corner. The steelworkers would cash their paychecks at the 
taverns. 
The family used to shop at Elmer's on the 900 block of Elm, 
or at Gus' 
or Fazio's. The family butchered a hog, but didn't 
garden. Most of the men in the neighborhood worked in the mill. 
When he got married he brought home $59 a week. Their neighborhood, 
where they've been living since 1955, is called Highland Park. The 
neighborhood he grew up in started to change 20 years ago. His 
aunt, Josephine DiIorio still lives there. Now, the millworkers are 
scattered all over town. 
His dad: there were 11 kids. "I ain't gonna say we ate steak 
every night, but he kept us in shoes..." When Jim was born his 
mother put a blanket in a macaroni box and that was his bed. The 
kids were born at home, using midwives. Four of those kids are 
left. One of his brothers had a heart attack while working at the 
mill - in the wire mill. The other brother worked in the machine 
shop for a while, but "it wasn't his cup." One of his brothers-in-
law worked at the mill as a millwright in ore prep. He also had an 
uncle and a cousin who worked there. Jim's son was never interested 
in the mill. He went to college and became an engineer instead. 
Jim worked in the mill 40 years. Retired in 1987. He's been 
selling furniture part-time for 30 years. He doesn't miss the mill. 
He feels better since he retired. The pressure's off. He goes to 
the union hall once-twice a week, shoots pool, plays rummy. About 
15 guys hang out regularly at the hall. 
Retirees meet second 
Thursday of the month, 50-75 guys attend. 
During one of the strikes he worked at a flour mill. He hated 
it because of the bugs. "I never ate bread for two months." But he 
wouldn't cross the picket line. 
About 2,000 employees at CF&I today. Before, about 6,000. 
IAW-RF-AO56 - 
3 
Jim talks about building the blast furnace that's now being 
torn down. The tube mill retirees have a breakfast once a month. 
His nephew, a welder, is the only family member working at the mill 
now. 
Women worked in the mill during the war. There were three in 
the machine shop. He doesn't know of any working at the mill now. 
Jim born July 7, 1928. 
[looking at photo album] 
Document: IAW-RF-A057 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/6/90 
Informant/Event: DeCesaro, Gary 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Paternal grandfather came in the late 1890s via Ellis Island 
from Calabria. Name was originally DeCesare. His first job was as 
a gardener for Roselawn Cemetery. Lived on Elm Street. Dad was a 
pilot in World War II. He had "some college" - "that's why the 
heritage here is lost...I kind of feel they should have kept it 
together a little." 
Maternal grandfather was Occiato, who had the Pepsi bottling 
plant 
and 
liquor 
distributorship. 
His 
dad 
worked 
for 
his 
grandfather as a liquor salesman. 
Then he went into trucking. 
Grandfather was Dash. Gary grew up with Augie Masciotra, grandson 
of Gus, owner of Gus' Place. His great grandfather Mike worked in 
the mill for 30 years. 
Dad's brother worked in the wire mill. "Me, I never thought 
I would work there." He got drafted, spent time in Vietnam, came 
back, went to work at the mill part-time, figuring to go to school, 
and wound up staying. His first job was in the coke plant. Smoke 
and danger of getting burned. Started in 1969. After a month he 
went to the yard department for a year, from there to the boiler 
shop, spent a year there, went to the open hearth for three years, 
and when they closed the open hearth he went to the basic oxygen 
furnace. He was laid off quite a bit during the 1980s. Had to get 
part-time work. Others left town. Mill went from 6500 to 1500-1600. 
Some took early retirement. There was a big initial layoff in 1982 
- Gary was laid off for a year. He's put in 21 years and he's still 
the youngest guy in his department, "bottom end of the hold." 
Teeming crew served 
electric and basic oxygen 
furnaces. 
Consisted of two table crews, ladle crew, front end loader man, 
driver, craneman. Now three people run the whole pit, down from 12. 
They pour all 
the heats, 
put up all 
the ladles, 
do all 
the 
paperwork and do all the driving. Workload increased 200 percent 
and the money went down. The teeming crew pours the ingots. 
When 
they're busy, he work is exhausting. "You can't get away from the 
heat." They wear thermals, wool coats, leather leggings and gloves. 
Wear ear plugs because of the noise. "I'm sure I already have some 
hearing loss." Plans to stay nine more years. He's 39 now. Average 
age in his department is around 40. He guesses around five percent 
of the workers are Italian now. 
IAW-RF-AO57 - 
2 
He grew up in Bessemer. There was no bond among the Italians 
by then. The neighborhood was half Italian, half Hispanic. The 
bread-baking and sauce-making was gone. "After the war was over and 
all 
these 
guys 
came 
back, 
America 
just 
changed, 
just 
like 
that... Everybody 
was 
trying 
to 
progress... They 
did 
not 
look 
back ... If you asked a question they would answer it ... But talk 
about the old days, never." He remembers his grandmother canning. 
His mom made spaghetti and meatballs every Sunday. His father spoke 
Italian to his grandfather. Gary knows no Italian. His wife's not 
Italian. His dad died in 1970. Family remains fairly close. His 
brothers: one has his own business, one's a lawyer, one works for 
Pepsi. 
His sisters: 
one owns her own business, 
one works for 
department of social services in E1 Dorado. "And all of them have 
a college education except me." 
Even 
now, 
if 
the mill 
closed 
it would destroy Pueblo's 
economy. Unlike the newer businesses that have come to town, the 
mill pays decent money. 
The weekly shift change. 
When he's on graveyard, 
"I'm a 
wreck." The system doesn't change because the alternative is the 
guys with the least seniority working graveyard all the time. Guys 
are less likely to go to the taverns after work than they were 
before. Attitudes toward drinking and driving and responsibility 
have changed, plus there's less camaraderie at the mill. The work 
is harder physically and mentally than it used to be. It's safer, 
but just that week a guy fell off a crane. The arc furnace is "like 
working next to a bomb." There Ive been four major explosions in the 
last 10 years. 
The last time, a guy had steel embedded in his 
face., lost an ear, was burned on 60 percent of his body. He's 
still in therapy -- it was four or five months ago. 
The union. Has a tougher job now. Last strike was in 1959. 
Guys picked up part-time work, or went to the farms. The strikes 
weren't worth what they got out of it. He drives in via the Indiana 
Gate. They iiscd to walk in through the Northern Gate. 
Trinid,-)d "seemed more Italian." Not too much remains Italian 
about his c,..n life. "Maybe a little pride in the surname and that's 
about it... it w 
ou ld be nice to have a family tree... and I wish they 
would have 
il;:cd two languages." He does have a vegetable garden 
in the bac1l.-ird: broccoli, cauliflower, corn, tomatoes, peppers, 
garlic, oni.,ns. 
Town h,iL ;n I t changed much from the 1950s until now -- until the 
last couple of years. Now he sees unfamiliar faces, vagrants, had 
his garage broken into. The Italian markets were fading between 
when he was 10 and 17 years old. 
Holidl-iv, 
traditions: used to go to grandmother's house, now 
there's lcL:; and less. The families have gotten so big. His kids 
are 12, 
11, 
and 6. He sees his mom once a week. She's still "a 
IAW-RF-AO57 - 
3 
cook and a half." Cooks lasagna, 
spaghetti, ravioli, "bullets" 
(cavatielle :,n?). Spoiled by his mother's cooking, he doesn't eat 
Italian food in restaurants much. Sauces aren't as robust. His wife 
makes ravioli and spaghetti. His grandmother was a Bojon. 
Sport:. rlill used to have bowling, softball, golf leagues. 
TIAW-RF-A058= 
Sitting down to lunch at Lil Sciortino's house with 
her brother Lou, his wife Georgia, and their son. Salami, sausage, 
melon, 
Italian 
fried bread. 
Lou: 
"As my dad says, 
'Don't be 
bashful.'" Lil talks about how to eat the fried bread: with sugar 
or cinnamon, or as a salami sandwich. 
Grandparents 
came 
from 
Palermo 
and 
Lucca 
in 
Sicily. 
Grandmother Colletti (nee Marino) was from Agrigento. America was 
land of opportunity, Sicily was poor. Both families landed in New 
York. The Collettis wound up in Chicago. The Sciortinos wound up 
in 
Napoleonville, 
Louisiana, 
and 
that's 
where 
their 
great 
grandfather is buried. From Chicago, Grandpa Colletti worked on the 
railroad, moved to Kansas. Their mother born in Acheson, Kansas. 
Family moved to Denver, then Pueblo. Lived on Currie Street. Mom 
was 
12. 
Grandma 
Sciortino's 
father 
had 
a grocery 
store 
in 
Napoleonville, 
which 
is where their grandparents met. 
Grandpa 
Sciortino took over the store. The stores were on stilts. The store 
served Italians working in the sugar cane fields. 
Lil: 
"We are 
full-blooded Sicilians." Mother's father was supposed to be a 
priest, but he said "this is not for me." Grandma Sciortino was 
crippled, 
Grandpa had a garden, 
horse 
and wagon and peddled 
vegetables. 
Father born in Pueblo, then they went back to Napoloenville, 
then back again to Pueblo. Their Uncle Sam git a job at CF&I and 
was 
bread-winner 
of 
the 
family. 
Grandpa 
Salvatore 
Sciortino 
(nicknamed Toto) used to give the vegetables away, so he never made 
any money. 
He died at age 97, 
in 
1949. 
Their father went to 
California for two years. In Italian tradition it was youngest son 
who took care of the parents, 
so when their dad's brother got 
married, he came back from the coast, bought a house next door to 
house they're living in now on Elm Street. Their parents married 
in 1939. Lil: The Italian family... believed you took care of your 
family." Where their parents live now was a big garden. 
Aunt 
Josephine, their dad's older sister married Joe Vaccaro, "Pepe." 
He was working at the mill, then their dad got hired at the mill. 
He also worked in the CC camps, building dikes along the Arkansas 
River. He was in a boxcar sleeping when the train rounded a curve 
and he would have rolled out the door if one of his buddies hadn't 
grabbed him. His dad's cousins, the Abbotts, had a store and helped 
the other Italians during the Depression. They'd say, "You come in, 
there's always food for you here as long as we have the food. You 
can pay me back down the road." 
Lil: The Italians used to take care of each other, including 
boarding families that had no place to live. Midwives delivered 
babies at home. Their wet nurses also. The men would gather old 
railroad ties and use the wood for the fornos. They made 50 pounds 
at a time. When the children were sick, they were given wine. Dad 
made his own wine until 7-8 years ago. The wine was kept in a 
cellar in the old house. The new house is too warm. They still have 
the barrels. Dad threatened to get rid of them, but Lil said, "We 
are traditional Italians. You're not going to get rid of any of our 
things." The Italian women of the neighborhood would get together 
g 
2, 
to make biscotti for the Mt. Carmel Festival. Dad kept chickens. 
St. Joseph's Table: originated with the Sicilians. When the 
war started, the women promised to make a table and dedicate to 
God if their sons and husbands came back. The beauty of the tables. 
Lil: "Our mom wants to get a little modern and we don't allow her 
to get modern." St. Joseph's is a fast day. "We're traditional goat 
cheese people." But on that day, you can't eat goat cheese. Her mom 
would make bread balls and serve them with red sauce, sardines and 
finnochio, baked, with fried bread crumbs on top. 
[side B] 
Dad started in the mill around 1937-38 in the open hearth and 
worked his way up to foreman. Joe Galiano worked his way up to 
controller. At that time, Italians were discriminated against. Some 
guys translated their names into English to get promotions. Lil's 
glad her dad never did that. The Mason held the top jobs at the 
mill. 
Competition 
between 
Italians 
and 
Bojons. 
Bosses 
got 
kickbacks. 
Dad retired in 
1978. 
Lou started three-four months 
later. They had several uncles and relatives out there. Lil worked 
out there for a time. Her son works in the bar mill now. Dad was 
asked to join the Masons, but as a Catholic, he refused. Foremen 
were called "white hats." Dad went back to laboring during the 
layoffs, then was asked to be foreman again, but declined. He never 
missed a day's work. Lil remembers a snowy night when he left to 
work the graveyard shift. During the war they doubled over and were 
never home. Lou worked at the open hearth for a while, cleaning the 
tunnels underneath. Guys used to put wet gunny sacks in with them 
to keep from getting burned. They ran in, got a shovelful, and ran 
out. No one in the family got ever got hurt. The open hearth and 
the blast furnace and coke ovens were the worst places to work. 
Lou: 
"The 
art 
of 
steelmaking 
is 
gone. 
Now 
it's 
all 
done 
by 
computer." 
Dad was a private man; the family didn't meet his co-
workers. On payday he took Lil to the bakery and bought cupcakes. 
Mom took care of "the homefront." 
Lou says Lil and his older brother lived as they lived in 
Sicily. Then after the war things began to change. Their father 
didn't spoil them. "When I was little everybody talked Italian all 
the time." As the older folks passed on, they took the culture with 
them. But Lil says their family still lived -- and still lives -
- very Italian. "We will not deviate from that." They went from 
baking bread outside to inside around 1948-49. Mulberry trees and 
chicken coops outside, "it really looked Italian." Lil: 
"I think 
we lucked out because we have the value of old folks." Because they 
were raised with their grandparents. 
Mom canned bushels of tomatoes every year, 
dried herbs --
still does. Lil and Georgia still do it also. Georgia is Austrian. 
Lil: 
"When I talk about the things we used to do, we still do 
today." 
Their dad still make sausage at least twice a year, and 
gives some to the whole family. Lou: "His garden feeds everybody 
_ r- 
Ass' 3 
still." They eat horse beans (fava) with macaroni or fried with 
eggs, macaroni and peas. Lil: "We're pasta eaters, all the time." 
Every 
Sunday 
they 
have 
spaghetti 
unless 
it's 
a holiday 
or 
somebody's birthday. They make their own lasagna, ravioli. Their 
parents make spaghetti twice a month. Dad buys pork when the price 
is down. 
Italians started moving out when the highway went in, 
1955. 
Grandpa Colletti would not move. Elm Street people stayed. Aunt 
Josie moved her house from E1 Dorado to Elm. Inter-marriage among 
the families on Elm Street. Mom and dad and aunt and uncle were 
married in a double wedding. Lil: "In those days, you didn't marry 
out of your ethnic origins." Her children are half Yugoslav: Bo-
wops. Even 20 years ago, it was important to at least be Catholic. 
They used to walk down to Mt. Carmel Church through the tunnel 
and under the bridge on Sundays. Their parents were married there 
and so was Lil. 
She took her Italian name back after she was 
divorced. The streets were paved around 1955. They had their first 
car around 1952. Lou: "We were always five years after everybody. 
My dad didn't jump on stuff." They got their first TV around the 
same time. Mom baked bread until five years ago. Georgis still 
makes bread. 
St. Lucia Day they ate wheat for breakfast. Patron saint for 
vision. Dec. 13. St Joseph's was March 19. Dad planted his garden 
on St. Joseph's Day. Artichokes: they eat them with bread crumbs 
and goat cheese -- an old Sicilian recipe. They call their father 
"the Godfather." They still gather at their parents' house every 
Sunday. Lou: Now life's a lot faster. People are too busy to gather 
on Sunday. 
Lou remembers playing football and baseball 
in the 
street. 
A 
Document: IAW-RF-A059 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Sciortino, Lou; Sciortino, Lilly 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Lou talks about the richness of growing up in Bessemer. 
There's 
still 
a bond 
among the people who 
grew up 
in 
that 
neighborhood: the Elm Street gang. 
Lilly: 
"We're quite huggy." 
Godparents. 
Sundays: Mom makes macaroni. Mom & dad do "the rolling out." 
They gave Lou and Georgia and Lilly's daughter spaghetti machines. 
They still use the traditional pig's feet in the sauce. She also 
makes a rolled steak that's stuffed and goes in the sauce. Other 
sauce ingredients are hard-boiled egg, eggplant, a potato. 
Christmas Eve: fried potatoes, Italian sausage and codfish. 
And cardunas (top part of the artichoke, breaded and fried in oil). 
Georgia has adopted Italian ways -- except the olives. Overlap of 
Italian and Bojon traditions. The term Bojon confined to Pueblo. 
In Pueblo it's okay to call an Italian a Wop, but not a Dago. 
Christmas 
traditions: 
Italian 
cookies, 
chocolates, 
white 
cookies, 
fig 
cookies, 
pizzelle. 
Lilly, 
Georgia 
and 
Lilly's 
daughter, age 24, all make pizzelle also. Her daughter also makes 
macaroni and peas, 
"so she does a lot of the old Italian-style 
cooking." 
Easter. Lil: 
"We kind of party all the time because we get 
together every Sunday." Kid goat. There've been maybe five Easters 
in all their lives that they haven't had it. Have to be milk-fed. 
Dad butchers them himself. Mom makes Easter baskets out of Italian 
dough with egg in the middle. 
Sicilians more culturally conservative than Northern Italians. 
Northern Italian snobbery vis a vis the Sicilians. Parents speak 
Italian. Lou understood it when he was little. As the grandparents 
passed on, so did speaking the language. 
Sayings and customs: "Don't put off for tomorrow what you can 
do today." Horseshoes over the doors for good luck (and over the 
chicken coop. Whatever door you come in you have to leave by. 
Saying "Bread and butter" when you pass on opposite sides of a tree 
or a post. You have to eat when you go to an Italian home and when 
an Italian offers you wine you have to accept. When your pregnant, 
if you smell something cooking on the stove you have to taste it. 
IAW-RF-A059 - 
2 
If you couldn't taste you were supposed to put your hand under your 
arm (in your armpit?) or sit on your seat so if you were going to 
mark your child it'll be in a place that won't show. Mexicans do 
the same thing. Lou: "They come in my house, they eat." 
Their parents: 
dad had fourth grade education, 
mom went 
through high school. Older brother has doctorate in education. Lou 
has engineering degree, Lilly has a BA and a secondary teaching 
certificate. Lil: "Italian girls did not go away to college. You 
stayed home with your parents until you got married." Lou: "Women 
didn't work. Women stayed home." He still believes in that. When 
they had kids, Georgia stopped working. 
More food traditions: string bean stew, squid in the sauce. 
Swiss chard, scalotta (sp?: endive). "We still eat so many of the 
traditional old-type foods, in comparison to a lot of my friends." 
Their older brother in St. Louis is more modern. Lou: Others would 
say, "Italians eat greasy food." He doesn't deny it. But they also 
eat a lot of vegetables. Most meals are home cooked still. Lilly's 
daughter still eats and cooks all these foods also. 
Lilly has 
written down the recipes for her son, so that his wife can cook 
them when he gets married. Lou: We don't do it out of a sense of 
obligation, but because they like it. Lilly: "We're pleased who we 
are...I don't want to lose my traditions and I don't want my 
children to lose the traditions. I don't want another 50 years from 
now that we're not doing anything Italian." Pride in family success 
after a hard start in America. 
Dad as disciplinarian. Lilly: "We could only go to the end of 
the block to play kick the can ... He looked at you with those 
Italian eyes and you better straighten up." They were brought up 
to 
be 
respectful. 
Close-knit environment, 
family believed 
in 
morality. Dad never broke the law, never cheated. Lou's the same 
way, and he's teaching his kids to be that way also. Treat people 
the way you want to be treated. Keep your nose clean. Lou: And I 
say that to my children. 
CF&I: To their dad, it was "the ultimate." He tells Lil's son 
he's working in the best place. Now retired, he has a garden, 
fishes once in a while, doesn't play golf. Not a fun-oriented guy: 
You went to work and you took care of your family. 
Grandparents. Lou: His Grandpa Colletti wasn't too keen on 
children, but Grandma was. She'd sing to the kids and bounce them 
on her lap. Grandma Sciortino had polio, spoke Italian to the kids. 
The Elm Street kids were told by Mrs,. 
Strack at the Danforth 
School they were not to speak Italian: You're Americans now. 
(Georgia leaves with kids] 
Naming traditions: In Sicilian families, the first-born is 
named after the paternal grandfather. The first girl born is named 
IAW-RF-A059 - 
3 
for the maternal grandmother. The next ones are named after the 
maternal grandparents. There are a lot of Lous, Joes, Lils, Sams 
and Salvatores in the extended family. Confirmation name (Her's is 
Rosalie). But Lou's boys are Jeff and Tom. "I broke tradition in 
a sense...I thought they needed their own identity." But his oldest 
boy's baptismal 
(middle) 
name 
is 
Joseph, 
after Lou's 
father. 
Youngest's is Louis. 
"Maybe next time around they'll name their 
kids Joseph and Louis and it'll carry on." Lil's son is named after 
his dad, 
Lil's dad and her granddad: 
David Joseph John. 
Her 
daughter's name is Tammy, but was supposed to be Rosalie after her 
mom, but her mom fought it. Confirmation name is Rosalie. It still 
upsets Lil that she didn't name her Rosalie. And her daughter asks 
why she doesn't have an Italian name. 
Food: Bell pepper fried whole. 
(side B] 
On birthdays, mom makes cakes. 
Lil: Her parents live for 
their family. Importance of making their parents feel needed now 
that they're retired and the kids are grown. They're 75 and 72 
years old. They don't interfere in their kids' lives, but they give 
advice. Lou: Dad's "a man of great wisdom... If people live by what 
he says they can always make it in life." 
Dad's advice to Lou about working at the mill: Do your job, 
treat people the way you would like to be treated. Use good common 
sense. 
"I owe what I have done in life to those few words." Be 
square with people. 
Be honest. 
Do your best. 
Lou never really 
wanted to work at CF&I and during the time of the layoffs and the 
pay cuts, 
he didn't let his dissatisfaction interfere with his 
work. 
Lou's career at the mill: Worked at the rail mill, asked to 
start up continuous casting operation (seamless pipe). Now with 
central shops, in charge of carpenter shop, construction department 
and yard department. Assigns employees to jobs, coordinates their 
work. 
Most of the fathers in Bessemer worked at the mill. 
Some 
worked for the city. CF&I was the place to make money, to make a 
good living and have a good retirement. Lil says Lou's being modest 
about the respect in which he's held at the mill. Still quite a few 
Italians at the mill. Most are Mexican now, who are following the 
Italian pattern of starting at the bottom as laborers and working 
their way up. 
Lou's cousin has been at the mill 45 years, 
longer than 
anybody out there. He was a star football player in high school and 
might have gone to college on scholarship but his father wanted him 
to work at CF&I. 
IAW-RF-AO59 - 
4 
The work is demanding: You have to have the people there to 
keep the place 
running. 
Little 
flexibility when 
it 
comes 
to 
vacation or comp time. 
The place is hard to break away from. 
Camaraderie and animosity in the work place. Management and union 
officials don't fraternize much. Lou socializes with a few of the 
guys, 
occasionally: 
golf, 
basketball. 
He 
characterizes 
his 
management style as loose: he doesn't breathe down people's necks. 
Jokes are important because it gets monotonous out there. Lou 
tells a story 
about a prank that was pulled on him: 
a guy 
pretending to be the company VP tells him at quitting time that 
there's a truckload of lumber to unload. 
Lil: No women in management at CF&I. She was secretary to the 
public relations chief, then in railroad sales. 
"They have not 
grown with the times." Management is conservative. Joe Gagliano, 
the controller, is the only Italian in upper management. Lou: "I 
was passed over quite a bit in the promotion area when I felt I had 
the knowledge to do the job." 
Lil's son is a laborer, age 21, who's been working at the mill 
three months. 
Name's David Novak. 
She hopes he'll go back to 
college. 
Lou: "My dad was the kind of guy who whatever he was told to 
do he did it."  He's glad Lou followed in his footsteps, but Lou 
doesn't want to be there the rest of his life. Management says 
pensions are the company's largest liability and they're being 
cagey about the company's future. 
Document: IAW-RF-AO60 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Sciortino, Lil (tour of Elm Street neighborhood) 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Waking tour of Elm Street neighborhood (there's a lot of wind 
and traffic noise on the tape). 
700 Block: Empty lot where the kids used to play baseball. 
Lil's aunt's, Passanante's house, her parents' house, Passanante's 
store. Mother's father was mayor of Chicago between 1898 and 1906. 
800 Block: Califano house (826). 
Danforth (Strack) 
school. 
School reunion. Sciortino family reunion. 
Box Elder Street. Ashpits in backyards. El Dorado Street taken 
out when I-25 went in. "I just hate seeing that all the old things 
have to be gone. Why don't they just preserve some things. And yet 
they tear so many things down." 
Giant 
(fake) 
butterflies on the exterior walls of houses. 
Virgin Mary statues. 
Her grandparents lived at 914 Currie. Neighborhood boys used 
to raid their fruit trees. Forno was in the back. There were some 
blocks she Lind her brothers weren't allowed on -- blocks where they 
didn't know anybody. But her brothers were on a longer leash than 
she. Neighborhood's run down now. Forno at 915 Currie. 
[side :3] 
Sheei,y man (a horse and buggy junk man) . Ash pits used for 
trash burning. Pisciotta's grocery store on Abriendo. 
A  A o el( 
i 
TIAW-RF-A061= 
Father's side: Grandfather came when he was around 
10-12 years old, his parents came together, which was unusual. All 
of his dad's brothers and sisters were born in Colorado and Utah. 
They worked in the mines near Walsenburg. They had a goat ranch in 
Trinidad, 
sold cheese. 
Dad's side 
is 
Sicilian. 
Mom's side 
is 
Abruzzese. Parents got married, moved to Pueblo and dad got a job 
in 
the 
mill. 
Two 
of 
his 
brothers 
stayed 
in 
the 
mill 
until 
retirement. Vic's Uncle Sam was the first member of family to work 
at the mill. Vic born in 1950. Dad's first job was in the coke 
plant. "The weeding-out area" -- one of the hottest areas. If guys 
lasted there, they got moved to other areas. Most Italians wound 
up in the wire mill. Cultural similarities made for a more relaxed 
working relationship. Vic doesn't know of discrimination against 
his father or his uncles because they were Italian. All the jobs 
were manual labor. Strength wasn't as important as being a hard 
worker. Shovel and broom work. In those days a man was measured by 
how good a worker he was. Dad got Parkinson's disease, retired at 
41-42. 
Other uncles 
stayed 
into their 
60s. 
Uncle Sam was 
an 
easygoing guy; Uncle Leo complained about everything. The 50s and 
60 were tough because of layoffs and strikes. 
The family went 
Trinidad and did farm work during one of the strikes. They also 
hauled trash for jars of jellies, loaves of bread; house painting. 
Family lived on 1100 block of Routt. Eighty percent of the 
neighborhood was Italian. 
In the late 50s, 
Mrs. 
Ingo still had 
roosters in the backyard. His dad raised rabbits, 
continued to 
butcher goats in the backyard. Not too much communal canning. No 
forno in the yard, 
though Mom baked bread in a gas oven, 
made 
sauce, but bought the macaroni, except on special occasions. Corner 
stores run by Italians: Montera, DeLucca, Rossi. The Cortese, who 
run Bessemer Mercantile, are his wife's aunt and uncle. When he was 
young the Safeway went in on Orman and Northern. Corner stores were 
relegated to specialty item and last-minute purchase status. Many 
of the old Italian widows are still in the old neighborhood, but 
the kids have moved out. He doesn't remember seeing anybody play 
bocce. 
His grandfather made wine, 
but not his dad. 
Dad spoke 
Italian. Mom understood, but didn't speak. The kids weren't taught 
to speak Italian. Most of the dads were mill workers. 
Vic didn't expect to work in the mill. Went to college for a 
couple of years, studied electronics. CF&I was recruiting & offered 
him the opportunity to stay in town at better pay. 
Other guys 
didn't like the idea of shift work and the "greasiness" of it, but 
Vic was used to it. He started as electronic repairman in 1970. His 
uncles were still working in production jobs. His dad, retired by 
then, 
enjoyed 
hearing 
stories 
about 
automation 
and high-tech 
improvements. 
New guy pranks: sending guys looking for "sky hooks." There 
was also supposed to be a guy who could pick you up and guess your 
wright. Once you were hoisted on his back, the other guys would 
swat you on the butt with boards. Teasing. Vic was teased about 
being a longhair. Ethnic jokes. The same jokes would get told with 
O'F -Ao(.1 -'- 
nationality changed to match the person the joke was being told to. 
Circulating around the mill, he got to see how the jokes travelled 
from department to department. 
The mill beer joints, some run by Bojons and some by Italians. 
Bojon taverns tended to be on east side of the freeway, Italians 
on the west side. Socializing was not organized on ethic lines. 
Fishermen hung out together, hunters went around together. He grew 
up with Augie Maciotra, son of owner of Gus' Place. 
Seventy percent of mill workers have family ties to the mill. 
Late 70s, early 80s, older guys took early retirement, younger guys 
found other jobs. Most of the guys there now are age 35 to 45, 
native Puebloans, who had uncles or father in the mill. 
Vic started in electronics department, which was new, 10 guys. 
[side B] 
Unlike his uncles, who stayed in the same mill all the time, 
as an electronic repairman, Vic went wherever he was needed. Worked 
as a relief foreman, 
now he's a permanent supervisor in steel 
production. 
Shift work was rough, 
now he just works days. 
But 
without overtime, 
his pay is 
less. 
Now he's assistant general 
supervisor of maintenance. 
As a supervisor, he tries to "stay involved with my noise in 
the equipment as much as I can." He learned his job from the older 
guys, from reading manuals, going back to school to keep up with 
technology. 
The worst part of the job 
is 
personnel problems. 
Watching buildings being torn down that were once thriving makes 
him feel sentimental. Old time blast furnace guys didn't want to 
see the blast furnace torn down. Joke about skeleton found behind 
one of the lockers: the 1946 Bojon hide-and-seek champion. 
Traditions: As the place gets modernized, the older guys said, 
"We never did it this way." Resentment: partly born of pride in the 
way they used to do it, partly because modernization invariably 
meant a loss of jobs.  Stories about strong guys, guys who would eat 
a whole chicken for lunch, or guy with a huge "Paul Bunyan" sized 
denim lunch sack. Now with microwaves, guys don't barbecue meat at 
the furnaces anymore. 
Safety: More safety consciousness. But there are still "lost-
time accidents." Burns still common from molten steel. Explosion 
last spring: four or five guys went to the hospital, one guy hit 
in the face with molten steel still not working. 
Arc furnace 
explosions happen about once a year. 
Concern about CF&I staying open. His electronics skills would 
be transferrable to other industries if the place closed. His pride 
in working there. He took his son through when they had an open 
house. He thought it was noisy and dirty and wanted nothing to do 
,K F f4-0 6 /- 3 
with 
it. 
His 
daughter's been 
inside 
also. 
She's majoring 
in 
metallurgy in college, but she wouldn't want to work there either. 
Jeff's 18, his daughter's 20. Son wants to major in architecture. 
Shelly wants to get 
into civil 
engineering. 
He and his wife 
stressed the importance of education to their kids. 
Italian tradition: getting together as family, food, Italian 
music ("wedding music"). They still have "sucu" (sp? -- spaghetti 
and 
sauce) 
on 
Sunday. 
Big 
family get-togethers 
on 
holidays: 
Thanksgiving, Easter, Christmas. Still have goat at Easter. His 
wife's taught the kids to make sauce. Still make Italian cookies 
at holidays. Wife's family (the Martellaro family) still does St. 
Joseph's table. Her mom was a Martellaro, dad was Bojon. Family 
connections: Vic tells of his daughter going to a party and meeting 
a guy who turned out to be her cousin. 
They have a vegetable garden: zucchini, squash, green beans. 
Vic on the mine-mill connection. 
Document: IAW-RF-A062 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Frank, Russell 
Date: 7/10/90 
Informant/Event: Carpine, Joe: tour of coal mine. 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Recorded on golf cart 
as we head underground. 
Two most 
important things in mining: ventilation (the other doesn't get 
mentioned.) Mine started in 1985 but it's the same vein of coal 
that's been worked in the area since the turn of the century: the 
Brookside Seam. 
First mines on the seam started in 1870-1880. 
Ninety percent of the miners were Italian. 
Reinforcement of tunnel roof with roof bolts. Ground limestone 
thrown on coal to prevent coal dust from igniting in the event of 
the explosion. Nine guys work at the mine now. It would have taken 
40 to do the same work years back. When he and his uncle started 
their first mine in the 1950s they used a mule to pull the ore 
cars. His uncle's name is Budgie Fazino. One other active mine in 
the area; 80-90 guys work there. One mine left in Trinidad. There 
were 26 mines in the county when he started in the 1950s. One other 
Italian works at his mine. 
Both his grandfathers were coal miners. His dad started a coal 
mine in this same seam in 1934. He died in 1939 and his mother died 
in 1940, so he was raised by his aunt and uncle in Brookside. He 
was born 1935. His uncles were all coal miners up to World War II. 
Joe lives in Canon City. 
Fires aren't that common in coal mines, but if you have one, 
it'll travel toward the open air -- blocking your escape route. 
Some of the first mines were Cf&I mines (Colorado Fuel in those 
days, then Fuel & Iron -- started in the coal business.) 
[Carpine talks about the equipment: mining machine and shuttle 
car] 
Carpine grew up in Brookside, which was all Italian and all 
miners. His uncle's generation started in coal mining, then went 
into the service in World War II and when they came back, went into 
other lines of work. He just went to Rocky Mountain Italian Golf 
Association tournament, where 250 Italians played golf and bocce. 
Continuous mining machines cut the number of men needed to 
work a mine by two thirds. Carpine was around 10-11-12 when he 
first went underground. He loved it. He and his uncle used to dig 
IAW-RF-A062 - 
2 
for house coal in old mines on Saturdays. 
[noise of continuous mining machine] 
The machine is used in summer when they're after fine coal for 
power plants. In winter they blast and drill to get chunks out for 
home heating. Coal sold to local power company in Canon City and 
to the state for the prison in Canon City and to individuals. 
Growing up in Brookside: every time someone had a baby they 
community would 
add a room 
onto 
the 
house. 
They made wine, 
celebrated Catholic feast days. 
St. 
Anthony's Church is still 
there. Joe goes to mass there every week. Big picnics and fireworks 
displays on feast of St. Rocco. Stopped when the war started. The 
bread ovens are all gone, but he and his uncle are planning to 
build one. "Just to do it -- so the young people can see how it was 
done." 
Joe has three kids, all in their twenties. Son's a banker in 
Canon City, a daughter in Colorado Springs is a legal secretary 
and the youngest daughter is in college. His son 
worked with him 
summers when he was in school. 
"I worked the hell out of him so 
he'd go do something else beside coal mining." 
[side B] 
His uncle, Budgie Fazzino is retired. He still makes wine and 
grows a garden. Joe doesn't have a garden . His uncle raises enough 
of a garden for everyone. 
[more continuous mining machine noise, with Joe's voice over 
explaining hoa it works] 
The mine averages 150 tons per day. In 1982, Joe sold the mine 
and now manages it for the new owner. The headaches are worse now: 
the people who own the mine don't understand coal mining. 
There 
are two continuous miners. New, they cost $750,000. 
[now the noise is of driving in roof bolts] 
On learning to coal mine, Joe says he's self-taught. "No one 
can teach you to coal mine... You have to learn it on the job." 
Superstitions: If you brought a woman in the mine, everyone 
left. If yUu wee rats running out of the mine, you leave. If your 
light goes out it means your wife is stepping out on you. "I'm sure 
the old-tir, c: s had a lot more superstitions than I'm aware of. It's 
a different :orld." 
Words of advice from grandfather: Do it right or don't do it 
at all. 
"
1 Led to get chewed out all the time." When you're young 
you think yui're infallible. The injuries are called "greenhorn 
IAW-RF-AO62 - 
3 
bumps." 
They befall you when you take shortcuts. The old-timers 
were very particular; they took a lot of pride in their work. "I'm 
particular, I'm from the old school. I can't stand sloppy." His 
uncle did things that no guy around today could do: like shovel-
loading three-four truckloads of coal a day. 
His nickname was 
"Coke." "They all were strong because they had to be strong ... You 
had to be able to sit there and shovel coal all day long without 
stopping." 
Surface and mineral rights are owned by Joe's cousins in 
Florence. `I'l:ey get paid a royalty per ton. 
Coal shoveling contests. Competitiveness among coal miners. 
[underground lunchroom] 
Pranks: "I don't allow pranks in this mine." But the ones he 
knows about are: nailing lunch bucket down. 
Jokes 
?out guy who's lying down and eating his lunch: after 
half a day':; work he's too tired to stand up. Florence named after 
one of the town's founding fathers' daughter. After the big mines 
left, there were a lot of family mines. Very little coal mining in 
Italy. 
T IAW-RF-A063= 
[coal mine lunchroom chitchat] 
Talk of the mine's softball team leads to Joe talking about 
bocce in the old days in Brookside: "Man that was a rip-snorting 
deal. Hell they had kegs of beer, water tubs full of beer and 
they'd get over there playin' bocce and they'd all get smashed. 
Hollerin', boy they had a hell of a time. 
Italian songs sung during festivals. 
(The miners try to get 
Joe to sing one; nothing doing.) 
Canaries used in coal mines to check for oxygen deficiency. 
Fall-out shelter supplies were put in all the mines during the Cold 
War. 
Story of a guy who went underground while they were stripping 
above him and he got crushed to death -- late '40s, early '50s. 
Joe's grandfather had 10 children. Only one daughter stayed 
in the area: the rest dispersed. "The war is what done it." Kids 
went into the service and they never came back. 
CF&I sold its last coal mine in Trinidad in the early '80s. 
The mine was sealed with equipment inside. It would have cost them 
more to get it out than to leave it in. 
If the old-timers saw the way they mined coal today, they'd 
run out -- it would scare the hell out of them. A completely 
different 
world. 
Mechanized 
mining 
more 
dangerous 
than 
the 
conditions the old-timers worked under -- until roof bolts came in. 
What 
they 
talk about 
at 
lunch: 
fishing, 
hunting, 
cars, 
football, bowling. 
[group portrait] 
[side B] 
Coal mining today is 
for the big company. 
Joe's mine is 
surviving only -- it's not making any money. He and his uncle 
started their other mine in 1956 with their own money. They mined 
all summer by hand and didn't find any coal. At 400 feet they 
finally hit the coal. Coal was $3.15 a ton. Domestic coal was $5.50 
a ton. Today, domestic coal is $50-$60 a ton. Steam coal is $22-
$29 a ton. 
The permit for this mine cost $250,000. In 1956 it cost $50 
for a license. In 1956 it was just JOe and his uncle, then they 
hired two more of Joe's uncles, then hired other guys with the peak 
being a 14-man workforce. "We fought that mine every day we were 
there." They didn't make any money until the 1970s. 
TIAW-RF-A064= 
Prutch was changed from Puccio. 
His grandmother 
changed it. He's a Panapento on his mom's side. His grandfather 
came to Pueblo first, then arranged for his grandmother to come 
over. 
They farmed on the Mesa then moved to town. Worked as a 
gandydancer (maintenance man) 
for the Rio Grande railroad. 
His 
Grandfather Panapento worked for the C&W Railroad as a foreman. 
He's the one who told Jim to get a job with the railroad when he 
got out of the navy. He was hired by the Santa Fe. This is his 19th 
year. 
Most of the guys who worked in Pueblo were transferred to 
Denver. If the mill shuts down, it'll probably cost the railroads 
some jobs as well. The trains transport mostly coal, grain trains, 
scrap and coke for CF&I, empty box cars go to mill for wire. Jim 
works as engine foreman, brakeman, conductor. The jobs in the yard 
mainly consist of making trains up. 
The work is getting harder 
because of cutbacks to two-man crews. 
His dad worked 
in 
the 
roundhouse for a while, then to the Pueblo Army Depot. 
Grandpa Prutch lived on Abriendo and Grandpa Panapento lived 
on Routt, then moved to the south end of town (Highland Park). 
Panapento made Dago Red, canned tomatoes from his garden. Jim was 
born 1951. His grandfather stopped doing all those things when he 
moved out of the neighborhood around 1968. 
Crew 
consists 
of 
fieldman, 
foreman 
and 
pin-puller. 
He's 
married, but not to an Italian: "They're too possessive." He has 
five brothers and one sister. Only one is married to an Italian. 
His mom cooks Italian food every Sunday, 
"she's been cooking 
Italian food every Sunday ever since I've known the lady." He lives 
in the same duplex as his mom. All his brothers and their kids come 
every Sunday. His brothers work for an oil company in Denver, a 
couple 
for drug companies, 
one owns a garage. 
"I 
like being 
traditional." 
The road's the place to be if you want to make money. You get 
paid by the mile. They go to Denver or La Junta. 
Most of the Prutches farmed on the Mesa. His grandfather's 
sister married a Spera, and a lot of members of that family worked 
at the CF&I. 
Railroad men: "We got our own way about us." He used to jump 
trains when he was a kid. 
Traditional clothing: bib overalls, 
keys, 
lanterns 
(change 
from metal to plastic ones.