AFCCC-BANKS http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_banks
AFCCC-BANKS
The Maid of Glencoe
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
Ben Rice MacDonald of Glencoe As I went a strolling one evening of late [?] spring valley did the fields
decorate As carelessly wandered, where I did not know To the banks of the fountain that is right near
Glencoe. There gently [?] on the mountain at one A maiden as beautiful and as fair as the sun [?]
Says I, "My pretty fair miss, your beautiful smile And your comely fair features my heart has beguiled.
And if your kind affection on me will bestow We will bless the happy hour we met on Glencoe. "Kind
sir,"she gave answer,"your suit I disdain I once had a lover, MacDonald by name He went to the
wars some ten years ago And a maid I'll remain till he returns to Glencoe." Perhaps your MacDonald
regards not your name He may have got married to some foreign dame He may have got married
for all that you know And quite forgot the bonny lass he left on Glencoe. I Know my MacDonald from
his promises never will part For truth, love, and honor was found in hie heart. He soon will be back
when the Spaniards lies low He will return to my arms, he's the pride of Glencoe. He finding her
constant, he pulled off his glove He showed a ring as the pledge of true love She flew to his arms
while the tears down did flow Saying this is MacDonald returned to Glencoe.
?
Cheer up, my young flower, your troubles are o'er For while life remains with [uw?], we will part
never more. The rude storms of war behind us may blow But they never can reach us on the banks
of th Glencoe.
Text Robertson, Sidney [md] collector Graham, George Vinton [md] singer Asmussen, Ella [md]
transcriber of text Recorded at San Jose, California December 1938 UC-WPA Disk No. 7E-B1
The Maid of Glencoe In a meadow where the beauties of nature had won, I espied there a damsel as
blithe as the sun; I asked her her name and how far she do go. "Kind sir," she made answer, "as far
as Glencoe." I said, "Lovely damsel, your enchanting sweet smile, And your comely sweet features
does my heart beguile. If your kind affections on me you'll bestow, You'll bless the happy hour we
met at Glencoe." "Kind sir," she made answer, "your suit I disdain; I once had a lover, MacDonald by
name, He has went to the war some ten years ago, And a maid I'll remain 'til he returns to Glencoe."
"Perhaps your MacDonald regards not your name. He might 'ave got married to some foreign dame;
He might 'ave got married for what you do know, And quite 'ave forgotten the maid of Glencoe." "I
know my MacDonald for truth e'er we part, That both truth, love and honor abides in his heart. He
soon will the French and the Spaniards lay low, And return to my arms he, the pride of Glencoe."
He finding her constant, he pulled off his glove, And showed her a ring, 'twas the pledge of her love.
AFCCC-BANKS http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_banks
She flew to his arms while the tears they did flow Crying, "Are you MacDonald returned to Glencoe?"
"Cheer up, my sweet bride, your troubles are o'er; While life remains in us, we'll never part more, The
rude storms of war behind us we'll throw, And in peace and contentment we'll dwell at Glencoe." 7E
B1 Page 1. THE MAID OF GLENCOE
This is an old Scotch song. It's title is GLENCOE. I am singing this for the lady that comes out from the
University of Californy [md] she is making records of the old songs [md] and this is the song:
In a meadow where the beauties of nature had won , I espied there a damsel as blithe [?] as the sun;
I asked her her name and how [?] she do go " Kind sir " , she made answer, " as far as Glencoe. " I
said , " Lovely damsel your enchanting sweet smile And your comely sweet features does my heart
beguile. If your kind affection affections on me you'll bestow , You'll bless the happy hour we met at
Glencoe. " " Kind sir " , she made answer, " your suit [?] [disdain?] I once had a lover, MacDonald by
name . He has went to the war some ten years ago , And a maid I'll remain 'til he returns to Glencoe.
" " Perhaps your MacDonald regards not your name . He might 'ave got married to some foreign
dame ; He might 'ave got married for what you do know , And quite 'ave forgotten the maid of
Glencoe. " Page 2 THE MAID OF GLENCOE " I know my MacDonald for truth? e'er we part , That both
truthful truth , [love true?] and honor abides in his heart . He soon will the French and the Spaniards
lay low , And return to my arms he, the pride of Glencoe. " He finding her [?] [?] constant (defective)
He pulled off his glove and showed her a ring, 'Twas the pledge of her love . She flew to his arms
while the tears they did flow Crying, " Are you MacDonald returned to Glencoe? " " Cheer up, my
sweet bride, your troubles are o'er . While life remains in us, we'll never part more, The rude storms
of war , behind us we'll throw , And in peace and contentment we'll / dwell at Glencoe. "