American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Colorado Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/031) 
afcl991031_01_038 
Media Lessons - Barbara Orbach 
UUUU-L>\j— J_ t 
R5C0HDING- LOSS—INSTRUCTIONS (8/19/80) 
1. ) Mark taps box immediately (cassette—mark tape) with 
persoh/people interviewed, date, (casette—whether 
one or both sides), and code for project: 
C080-initials-Cr (cassette #) 
e.g. C080-3C-C1 
2. ) Nagra & full track mono 7i ips— 
Original reels should NOT be messed with excent 
for 2 times: recording, dubbing. 
Cassette used for listening. 
3. )Field notes=transcrintion (or sometimes a tame log) 
which acts as primary referrant 
4. )Taoe log—Index # (indicats if taken from counter on 
cassette machine) & outline/transcription 
5. ) Delta file—for embarrassing materials. 
log 
Notate in margin of 
C080-3C-£2 8/19/80 
MAPS 
1. ) Accumulate mans: 
A. ) County—available from State Dept, of Highways 
and Chamber of Commerce. 4 plus 9 supplements 
Supplements 
covering target area. show zoned ares, developed 
areas, town areas (e.g. supp. #9=Kremmling) 
B. ) Topographical ("Topos") 
C. ) Forest Service and Federal Highway Administration 
(general highway map). Undated continuously. 
D. ) Sanborn Insurance Maps— (e.g. for Breckenridge 
and Kremmling) Comniled ca. 1900 by Sanborn 
Insurance Co. for "developing towns'* — sent to 
chambers of commerce as promotional device. 
Color coded for type of structure, construction 
style and material 
2. ) Use maps to trace routes and visits completed during 
fieldwork period (magic marker) 
MEDIA LESSON #1 (8/19/20) 
THE NAGRA 
1. ) floor mike stand preferable—movable for capturing 
all vcices 
2. ) prefer electricity (save batteries) 
3. ) pistol grip mike holder good especially for outdoor 
recording. Also comes with adaptor thread for attaching 
to top of floor holder 
4. )SONY microphone—battery should be in only when recording. 
Windscreen available 
5-.) *Sennheiser microphone (best quality). Screw black holder 
on. Place battery nn end. "Ein"="on" (onlr when recording) 
look for red flash to check for on. 
3 mike patterns: 
1. circular (picks up all around) 
2. semi-directional (mostly speaker, also interviewer) 
—kidney shaped pattern 
3. shotgun (for outside—recording speaker only) 
Choose and attach to top of mike. Clamp mike in holder 
6. )Mike cable—attach one end to back of mike, other to 
machine. Careful not to bend cord, especially when coiling. 
7. ) Reels—empty on right (unscrew silver holders) 
Use Scotch 208 tape, inches /second. One way only! 
(tape last k hour). Lever at lower right opens gate. 
Thread tape through gates—straight—roll a bit by 
hand onto eimty rsel. Close gate. To carry—put screws 
back on. 
8. )Numbers on lower right knob indicate minutes of tape 
C080-E0-L-3 
NACRA—fcont. ) 
expended. 
cv' ^ . 
9. )Inside pocket—connect cable (looping with plenty of 
slack) To unplug, push button on left. 
10. )Inside pocket on right=power source ("external"= electicitv) 
switch 
11. ) Earphones—right hole 
12. ) Battery test (as long as red) 
13..) Kike level—look to meter, stay our of red 
14. )Playback—keep switbh to right if listening through earphones 
15. ) "diact" switch—for checking how recording is going 
16. )lf "external" power source—screw power cable into 
connection, right side pocket 
17. )Test (first stop on control switch) check meter (subtle 
indicator. Want peak to be towards middle of meter— 
check both voices of sneaker and interviewer. Ad.iust levels. 
18. ) Record (next stop on control switch) 
19. )CAUTION—DO MOT TOUCH CABLE OR MIKE (= interference) 
■ 
20. ) To rewind—open gate—turn to "playback" ("fast" if 
a lot to rewind) Rewind only when raady to dub. Avoid 
rewinding on battery at all costs. 
21. ) "Direet" switch—if hear echo in earphones, proves ifs 
recording 
22. ) When tape ends, remove and store in box, marking immediately 
23. ) To use counter—set at 30 
24. ) for forward or fast forward—close gate and use "playback" 
or "fast" 
25. ) To hear—switch to "playback" (&...?) 
26. ) Turn volume and meter controls down when not in use 
C060-30-L-H 
LSSSON (8/20/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
1. ) Photograph first: 3/4 shots (diagonals) and head on 
shots of the four walls. Beet single shot=3/4- view 
of front. 
2. ) Walk around and get a feel for the structure 
3. ) Concerned with form first, details second 
Essentials: 
floorplan, elevation (volume), verticals and horizontals. 
Enable one to sort the structure under donsideration for 
diffussion, provenance,etc. 
4. ) Details to note on log building: 
A. Cornering ("corner timbering", or "corner notching") 
"saddle notching"—corners don't fit flush, not all 
"locked" 
B. Type of logs 
C. Chinking—note material used. (Usually wood splits 
and a sealer—manure, mud) 
D. Look for foundation, corner stone 
E. Note whether it had been sided (usually logs finished 
evenly, door sticking out, corners finished flush) 
P. Sills—bottom logs. The four principle members 
upon which the building rises 
G. Plate—top framing member. The top bearing logs on 
the sides, the members that begin to carry the roof 
H. Rafters—support roof. Nctr how joined at plate 
"rafter footing" and especially how rafter couples 
join at peak (important element for identification, 
COOO-iSC-irv 
-2- 
Architecturs—8/20/80 
e.g. Bratisrii style couples butted flush at peak) 
I. Floor joists—principle member supporrting floorboards, 
run parallel to rafters between the sill and the next 
log. 
J. Ceiling joists—support ceiling boards. Usually 
ca. 15" apart. 
K. Note sab-flooring if possible, and flooring method 
L. Ceiling method, roofing 
("decking" is nailed onto the rafters, usually 
"shingling" laid on top of decking) 
M. Note partitioning or evidence of former partitions. 
Clues: placement of door frames, baseboards, hinge 
plates, irregularites in flooring 
N. Take nail samples, if possible. 
Cut nails —squared with tanering shape. Were cut 
out of long sheets of iron. 
Hewn logs—Method: 
"snap a line" with tautl.y-held, chalked string or^other. 
This creates a straight line guide on the log, which b 
is then chopped diagonally with a felling axt ("scored") 
to the chalked line. The broadaxe is then used to 
r 
peel'the diagonal chips creatdd by the felling axe 
without cutting through the grain of the wood. This 
produces the smooth, finished edge of a hewn log. 
UOO\J-OU-1j 
L5SS0N (8/21/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
Typology—based on main portion of structure, without additions 
"cabin"= "single pen house" Marshall} ; "single •'ell house 
[English term] . One room or volume—a 16 foot bay 
is standard in British and N. European building- 
Sometimes single pen houses feature partitions— 
simply note this as a detail if the structure was 
originally conceived as a single pen form. 
Usually a cabin is no more than ijt stories high 
(the uoper story usually serving as a sleeping-loft) 
"2 story cabin'—if two full stories and single pen = "stack^ouse" 
Structure of loers hewn inside and out is traditional of 
British/L-idwsstern log building 
"Toenailing"— nails driven diagonally downwards into log 
cornering 
C00y-B0-L'4 
LESSON (8/22/80) 
LENSES A TCP PHOTOS 
Camera lens: 
K i no 3 _t a ^.. 5 5 ram. ? 
Rollei= 35 mm.? 
preferable to have two, interchangeable lenses: 
telefoto—"85 mm., 200 mm. 
wide angle— 24 mm., 35 mm. 
85 mm. and 35 mm. are good combination. Some distortion 
with the wide angle, out can get in full-structure views. 
For detail shots (cornering, etc.)—85 mm. 
/irtues of two cameras—can shoot both slide and black and 
white. 
slides—cheaper for prints; useful for media demonstrations. 
Deteriorate rapidly—each projection cuts down 
on slide life. Not good for archival purposes. 
black and white—last longer for archival purposes. 
Print better for publication purposes. 
LESSON (8/23/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
Cornerstone and sills—noted because necessary ingredients 
in building. Method used helpful in tracking down 
the structure in historical-geographic terms 
e.g.~in cold new England, houses sit directly on the. 
ground because it keeps the house warmer. 
_In Piedmont, Ga. houses are set up on stones 
because in this moist,hot climate it allows 
more air to circulate 
-For barns it is important to have air circulating 
to keep the hay dry, and to set it off the ground 
in order to keep rodents out. 
"Bucks"—heavy sawn boards place;', /■■'.rtically inside doors 
and windows to lend support 
roofing arrangement: rafters—decking—shingling/covering; 
arrangement varies with ethnic origin. 
This feature hasn't been analysed yet. By late 19th 
century, roofing arrangements were almost all standard. 
Before that, there was considerable variation in the 
thickness or thinness of members, in the gapping, etc. 
'># 
CCS0-3C-L~^ 
LESSON (8/23/80) 
PHOTOSRAl'HY 
Cleaning lens—rub gently with lens pacer. Never blow on 
lens to remove dust. Never touch lens—susceptible 
to scratching. 
Filters—for e reryday, sharpening, increases clarity 
U.V. (ultraviolet)—haze filter. Screw in front of 
lens. 
Skylight filter 
Filters also protect lens from scratches, dust and 
fingerprints. 
Vivitar filters O.K. 
Shoot at slowest sneed possible to clear un "deoth of field" 
(subject and background both clear) 
usually shoot ca. 1/125 or 1/250. Find your own 
"jiggle soeed" 
"Hot shoe"—charged plate for flash 
Ethnographic photography=record photography 
UOOU-BC-L -el 
L3SS0N (8/24/80) 
PRIMARY R3S3ARCH 
County Courthouse 
Abstacts of property ownership and exchange—legal papers 
recording when nroperty changes hands 
Probated wills—records of exhhange of estate... Inventoried. 
Abstractors 
Private office—surveys and 'orks up legal documents for 
an exchange of property. Maps and records. 
County_3xtsnsion Agent 
Federal employee. Farmers' Home Administration—one in 
every county. 
Agricultural extension Agency (sometimes through universities) 
—helps ranchers ranch better.- Information and 
consultation services for agricultural work, e.g. 
branding information 
Arapaho National Forest Service (Frisco) 
Supervisor—possibly consult about ranch history. Received 
a grant"to do history of ranching in the National Forest? 
Churches 
Church records—not likely. Few records kept, not many rancher 
attended. 
Summit County Library 
Newspapers. Secondary research. 
COOO-BC-L-U) 
LESSON (8/26/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
" I house"—at least two rooms wide, two full stories high. 
Three bays broken up by two windows and a door, 
or "classic I-house: five bays (two windows on 
either side of the door) 
Term employed by Kniffen (?), possibly because 
a characteristic structure in midwestern states 
of Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa, or because plan 
resembles an "I". 
Little Dixie version: with narrow central hall. 
OUOW-JU-il'It 
LESSON (8/27/80) 
architecture; 
"buck"—both framing and sunoort. Can see nails actually- 
driven into the logs (e.g. along doors and windows) 
"framing"—simply decoration 
"summer beam"—supporting beams, usually in center going 
horizontally across the structure. Used 
to support the next story or the ceiling. 
Joists join with it. Provides weight distribution. 
Rare in houses from the last couple of 
centuries, especially in log houses. 
Sometimes used in floor system.