"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr32
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas,
January or February 1942
AFS 6432B Reverend Laws Sings "My Soul, Be on Thy Guard."
My soul, be on thy guard-Ten thousand foes a - rise; The
hosts of sin are press - ing hard To draw thee from the skies.
O watch and fight and pray, The bat - tle ne'er give o'er; Re
new it bold - ly ev - 'ry day, And help di - vine im - plore.
We're glad to say it this morning that we glad to have this opportunity to stand to talk this morning
that the whole entire world might hear the message that we have to be delivered from the holy
ghost. We are not glad to know that we are not in the educational world, and yet we do understand
that we are servants of the most high God.
In the midst of all of this [rumors (?)] of [warring times (?)] that's going on we have always had a hard
time. Before now, back you know, history, a long time ago, the world was in a uproar as it is today.
But we are saying that we are glad to know that we have in our midst the leader that we believe was
back yonder long time ago. And God. When Israel was under bondage, he observed a man who was
named Moses who led the children of Israel. We are saying this morning that we believe, and do
believe, from the depth of our heart that Mr. Roosevelt has been chosen from the foundation of the
world to lead us out of this crisis, this great war that we are under now.
We want to say that we'd be glad for Mr. Roosevelt to understand that we here in this part of the
world, in Austin, Texas, we're having a hard time. But we are not uneasy. The thing that we have
decided in our mind to follow on and take whatever you said for us to do we're willing to do it. We're
willing to suffer as you suffer.
We are saying to you this morning that God have always give us somebody that will lead us out.
We're saying this morning, that a long time ago when the world was in war they said they had to
have a prophet, Lord have mercy, that was able to tell somebody what route to take. We are saying
this morning, the only thing we ask from President Roosevelt this morning is not to be uneasy. We're
with you whatever you desire to do. The only thing we ask you to do is to pray. Lord have mercy, if
you'll just tell the world to pray. Everything will be all right. We don't need to worry about Hitler and
none of the rest of the kings is riding over yonder. God have declared that his way was right and I'm
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr32
saying to you this morning, don't be uneasy. The only thing we ask you to do is to do what the Lord
said do and he's [telling (?)] warning you through his prophets.
We remember a long time ago, back yonder when the three kings was called together in the battle.
They said they didn't have no water and the foundation, everything was going wrong. They said “I
wonder what we going to do.” They said, [“inquire of a (?)] prophet that would be able to tell you
which way to go.”
We are saying to you this morning if you'll just keep your hand in God's hand. I want you to
remember that God said, Lord have mercy, if you'll lift your way onto my way. Lord have mercy. Trust
in the Lord and do good. And he said that he didn't give you the desire of your heart. He's the same
God now that he was back yonder a long time ago. We realize that we down here poor [humble (?)]
creatures. We are not treated as other men. We're ostracized [on every hand (?)] but I want to tell you
one thing, whatever you say do we're willing to do it. The only thing that we ask you to do is this, the
only thing we ask you to do is to pray, the world ought to pray and I'm saying to you this morning, if
you'll just pray everything will be all right. Lord have mercy.