Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington,
DC (Transcription)
START 59 (4)
FW Do you wantch television.
INF I, personally, yes.
FW What's your favorite show?
INF Baseball. In fact,
FW Follow the Senators?
INF I do.
FW My wife does too. We're from Chicago. I follow the White Sox and my wife has already
left them.
#0031 p.4
INF Well in Washington on television mostly you see is Washington. That's about -- yeah.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW What do you think of Frank Howard?
INF I think he's -- as he says he's a streak hitter. And I think this will cool down. I don't
think he'll continue it. I think he'll have a pretty good average at the end of the season/
Yes.
FW What do you think his chances of taking a homerun leadership?
INF Sixty one or better?
FW No, not that --
INF Oh you mean for the season? I think it's very good.
FW He's way out front.
INF Yes, plus he's a strong boy.
FW Who would you say is the best all around player?for the Senators?
INF All around player on the Senators.
FW Defensive, offensive,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF Well I have to agree with the vote they took in Washington during the winter
<unintelligible text>. Paul Casanova is the best all around athlete, but so far this year he
hasn't you know, added up to his potential.
FW <gap> steals many bases.
INF That's for sure.
FW I remember that from when the White Sox played the Senators. Tried to steal--
INF Well he's a good defense and this year as he has been you know for the last year, but
he just hasn't started hitting yet. that's all.
FW Who do you think the steadiest pitcher is?
INF The steadiest?
FW The one that's going to win most games.
INF Pasquell. I think so. I think he's about the best. Joe Coleman I give him a chance. He's
very good.
#0031 p.5
FW Is this his first season, or second?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF Ah, Coleman's? Second full season
FW Think they'll finish higher than the cellar?
INF Yes. I think they're much better than the cellar team.
FW Do you have any ideas who's going to win the penant in the American league?
INF Ah, they have a pretty good race there. Ah, I have an idea who's going to win it. I
mean I think it's between Minnesota, Detroit and Baltimore. Between those teams.
FW Do you think Cleveland will pick it up?
INF No. Not Cleveland.
PV Most of the experts would agree with you. What else do you watch on TV? Besides
baseball.
INF I like some variety shows. Dean Martin, I like his show very much.
FW Are there any adventure stories or stories that you watch? Like Mannix.
INF Well, actually I don't sit down and look at TV often. You said do I watch TV, yes. But,
habitually sit there in front of the box, not I don't. I watch, I have watched Mannix. Just Not
to any great degree. And Big Valley I've seen that quite a few times and but
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW Can you remember a certain episode of Big Valley that struck you that you can tell
about? We are intersted in getting story lines that people found interesting. Could you tell
one of those that you recall?
INF Hmm, well only vaguely. I remember one wherethere was this adopted son of there's
was in a great quandary about who was his father. What his father was or something
like that. It seems some woman in some distant town from where they lived had some
information pertaining to this and ah it was a big tadoo about it. Finally it worked out pretty
well.
#0031 p.6
FW How about movies. Do you go to movies
INF Well, not very often. Last one I saw was Valley of the Dolls.
FW What was that about?
INF Well, the dolls themselves were dope tablets you know, pills like that. And ah these
girls were at various times wrapped u in them and they affected the dolls the pills affected
their lives very much, very much.
FW What happened to them?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF What happened to them? One finally committed suicide. One, I think, was going off hr
rocker at the end of the picture. And the other one straightened up and presumeably lived
happily ever after.
FW Do you remember what happened inbetween? The plot line or anything.
INF Well, one was ah ... the one that wound up going insane she was a famous movie
actress so most of it was through about her life and what she went through to start what
she went through while she was and her final collapse. Another one, she was sort of in
the show business but more or less as a model. She had made up her dress, had to be a
certain way and everything else. She wound up doing nudey pictures in France for some
guy. And she married some guy who was a promising singer and he had some disease so
he was institutionalized and she went overseas and started making these pictures. And
finally she came back and things didn't go to well for her and she's the one who finally
committed suicide. The other girl, she started out from a little town in Connecticut went to
New York and got this job with a legal firm and she got involved emotionally with one of
the partners of the firm and they had a set-to hire and a set-to there. He had a set-to with
the movie star. She finally, she found out about the movie star and her friend, her fellow,
and she started taking these pills too but she finally straighted up, packed up and went
back to Connecticut.
#0031 p.7
INF And she's the one, presumeably, did live happily ever after.
FW Is there one movie that you would call the best one you've ever seen?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF Well, saw quite a few I don't remember very well. Gone With the Wind was a very
good one. Shane was a very good one.
FW Yeah. I saw that one. That was quite a while ago. Did they revive is or --
INF Well, it was on TV not too long ago.
FW What was it about? I don't remember too much about it.
INF I don't remember too well either. It was a Western Picture. It was a you know, cowboy,
on that order. It all takes place in Western towns and fast with the gun and hard fighter,
nice guy all the way around. You know he was a good guy and other - people - were bad
guys. Like most Westerns, I mean, not a real thick plot.
Fw Ever have a pet?
INF As a boy we had dogs, yes.
FW What did you do with them?
INF What did we do with them? Nothing but play with them. No, my father took care of
them. Mother or father. And I just played with them. Ran in the swimming hole with the,
baseball like that.
FW Did they actually go in the water?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF Well yes. Dogs go in the water, sure.
FW Not too often, I don't recall seeing dogs in the water very often.
INF Oh yes, dogs go in the water. You get to laughing playing, old swimming hole out in
Maryland not far from the District line and they - we go out there and jump in the hole and
they splash in the water. You know, shake it all over you, <unintelligible text>.
#0031 p.8
FW That's very good. Were they mixed breed dogs?
INF One was a bull dog and the other was mostly a mongrel you know. Just a dog, that's
all.
FW Did they ever do anything amusing?
INF The most amusing thing - bull dog, you know, he was kind of big and mean and our
little mongrel - he was a I don't know what he was just a mongrel and he was a little thing.
He used to go out and pick all the fights in the neighborhood with the big dogs so the big
dog had to come along and rescue him.
Fw No kidding.
INF So help me. Go out and fight everything in the neighborhood and the big dog had to
come along and take him home.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW You had them both at the same time?
INF Yeah, at the same time
FW What did you call them?
INF Jack was the bull dog, Raymond was the little dog.
FW That's interesting. What did you study in school? Say elementary school, do you
remember?
INF Reading, arithmetic, well spelling, ah elementary school. I really don't know other than
that.
FW That's most of the basic subjects.
INF Writing of course. Penmenship.
FW What about when you got to high school?
INF High school I had English, biology, Latin, ah math, sociology, history, phys-ed.,
high school- that's about it. We had some chemistry. As you go from grade to grade you
change from biology to chemisty like.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW What do the kids, lets go back a little big, what do the kids do after school? After
school was out what would they do?
#0031 p.9
INF Not much. Just go home, change your clothes, get something to eat, go out and play.
FW What would they play?
INF Well, anything you know. Skip rope, ah, well, baseball um, tag, anything you know.
FW Did play any you know -- kids' games?
INF M umbly peg?
FW Did you play kids' games?
INF Yeah. 'Cause we used to have girls with us. We used to play dodge ball, as well as
skip rope. We used to -- anything you know. Just what girls do we did. If we play ball they
play ball.
FW There weren't certain games that girls would play and boys wouldn't?
INF Well, you see the girls would play hop-skotch, some thing like that.x/ And the boys
played more mumbly peg, but as far as skipping the rope and dodge ball and tag and
baseball -- well boys played more football than girls. The girls played baseball.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW What about when you were a teenager. What would you do afer school was out?
INF Ah, junior high you mean -- or high school?
FW High school. I guess you were too old for tag and that kind.
INF Yeah well, high school now the first year of high school I drilled.
FW Drilled?
INF Yeah cadet corps. Yeah and when I got home it was time to get the uniform off and hit
the books. You know, might have some chores to do, something to do around the house
and that Was it. That was it. Not too much ah training in the afternoons. You know the
drilling. You don't get home from drilling til around five something like that.
FW What was this cadet corp in connection with? Did you do regular drill or =
#0031 p.10
INF Well, Washington,D.C. has this new high school cadet corps, yeah, and they ah drill
the same as the -- it's sort of an ROTC. You've seen college ROTC. It's something like
that. You have uniforms. You have your captains, your lieutenants, your regular outfits
and everything , your flank sargents, and you take basic military training. You know your
formations your marching, your -- just regular basic military training.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
FW I was in a drill team in college, that's why I'm interested.
INF Yeah we started in tenth grade .
FW Did you do tricky stuff or was it just the straight?
INF This was strictly up to the ah outfit. If you were advanced enough in your learning to
try the tricky stuff you could try the tricky stuff, but it wasn't compulsary.
FW Did you ever do any of it?
INF With the rifle, yeah. With the rifle, yeah.
FW Did you ever have a teacher who hollered a lot? Grade school, high school --
INF No, if I say so myself, I was a pretty good student. I didn't need a lot of hollering. So I
got along with my teachers pretty well.
FW Was there one that hollered at the kids in general?
INF Oh we used to have a geography teacher that used to get vry disgusted with some of
the class. She would raise her voice, yes.
FW What was it usually about?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old black male, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6704
INF Misbehavior, failure to get your lessons or bringing the proper homework or things of
that nature. Something the child had done, not the teacher.
FW Was it fair/ Was it mostly fair, what she yelled about or do you think she was unjust?
INF Well, nine time s out of ten I wasn't involved in it. So I mean I couldn't say. I do know
that she treated me fair so I could imagine that she was treating them fairly as she could
before she hollered.
END M59 A(4)