"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr08
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941
AFS 6364B
Cut B1
Interviewer: ??? [muffled speaking]
Hotel St. Regis Employee: Oh I have to say —
Interviewer: ??? [muffled speaking]
Cut B2
Hotel St. Regis Employee: The one who addresses you now is a Puerto Rican by birth, working in
the room service of the Hotel St. Regis in 55h Street and 5th Avenue. I just want to say a few words
in connection with the declaration of war. While there were still going conversations between our
government and Japan toward a peace settlement between our two governments and especially
shortly after President Roosevelt had sent the last appeal to the Orient Empire, that is Emperor
Hirohito, the Japanese forces stab our country in the back with a most savage and criminal
bombardment over our possessions overseas.
Fortunately, our nation is united and with the tremendous might of our forces and our allies we will
fight through all sacrifices to a final victory for the sake of all free loving peoples of the world.
As a Spanish by blood and an American citizen by virtue of the Jones Act passed by Congress in the
year 1917, I rejoice this historical experience, that Costa Rica gave the radical gesture of patriotism in
declaring war against the aggressor being the first of our hemispheric solidarity. I agree very heavily
on the declaration of war against Japan. We all stand shoulder to shoulder to defend our democratic
principles for us and the entire world.
Cut B3
Housewife: I'm a housewife, in my sixtieth year and living in New York City. I'm very sorry the United
States has to get into this war.
Cut B4
College Student: I am a college student in New York City, nineteen years of age. I came to this
country from Greece, ten years ago. The president's speech, I think, hit the nail on the head. We have
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr08
been attacked and there can be but one outcome: destruction of the forces of tyranny which now
seek to oppress the world.
Cut B5
Student: I'm a student of New York City. I am eighteen years of age, that is, I was eighteen last
month. And seeing that the President, his opinions, were in favor of war means I might be a potential
soldier in the very near future. Personally, I am a pacifist, but times, circumstances, overrule your
personal opinions. I don't believe that the president had any other alternative, but to declare
war against Japan. And I realize that there's no further use for diplomacy. I believe that the entire
diplomatic move by Japan was just a stall for time. And the [hand says Mr. Ruler] has said that the
best thing to do now is to lick hell out of him.