American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_065 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Graham, Andrea: IAW-AG-F103189 to IAW-AG-F052890.B 
Document: IAW-AG-F103189 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 10/31/89 
Informant/Event: Nevada Day Single Jack Rock Drilling Contest 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F103189 
October 31, 1989 
Nevada Day Single Jack Rock Drilling Contest, Carson City, NV 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham and Blanton Owen 
October 31 is Nevada Day, the anniversary of the date in 
1864 when Nevada was admitted as a state in the Union. It is a 
state holiday, and schools and public offices are closed. 1989 is 
the 125th anniversary of statehood, and the festivities were even 
more elaborate than usual. There is always a big parade in Carson 
City, the capital, and this year it had 275 entries and took four 
hours to proceed down Main Street. 
Blanton and I had been to the events several times in the 
past few years, and were particularly interested in the annual 
Single-Jac 
Rock Drilling 
Contest, billed as the World 
ma
 
ionship and held since 1974 during Nevada Day. We 
Rew a 
driller named--Loui-s--Gibellini from Eux-e ra Tiac always there, and 
was the oldest contestant. We got to the site about 10 a.m., 
which was set up in the parking lot of the Carson Nugget Casino 
on Main Street, and saw Louis right away. We introduced ourselves 
and were immediately informed that he was 82 years old, and he 
just came for fun and because they always ask him to come. 
Louis said he had been particip-
atLing in the contest since 
its inception. He is also a regular participant in the drillnig 
Eo
—n
-l—e—st— h-eld in Tonopah in central Nevada every Memorial Day at 
an event called Jim Butler Days (named for the man who found gold 
in the area). This year they made him the grand marshal of their 
parade. A flyer handed out at the contest said 7z, 
state championship record from 1968 
13-
7-1. His main rival has 
been Fred Andreasen, who comes from an old Virginia City mining 
family and is in his forties now. He was at the contest, but did 
not compete this year. 
Louis made a point of telling us that he did his drilling 
and shar e 
g thin nld way, "like it wa-- dnnP a hundred years 
a 
, and Jexplained that the younger dxi lar-s us-ed"sciPntific 
methods". He heats his steels in an old fort-e 
d•harpens them 
on an anvil, 
Each driller must check in with the contest officials and 
IAW-AG-F103189 - 
2 
have their equipment checked. Drill bits are measured with 
calipers to see that they are the regulation 3/4 inch across, and 
hammers are checked to see that they weigh under the 4 1/2 pound 
limit. The officials then keep the tools until each contestant is 
called to drill. Louis checked several of the drills, showing how 
the bits are wider at the tip and explaining how the cutting edge 
is sharpened. Each driller is allowed 11 drills, and they vary in 
length from about six inches to about 18 inches. Each has a 
larger diameter grip at one end, and the drilling end is 
sharpened like a screwdriver. As the hole gets deeper, longer 
drills are used. 
Drilling is done on a large three-foot cube of granite, 
which is set on a platform about four feet high so the audience 
on bleachers can see. The driller has ten minutes to drill as 
deep a hole as he or she can. A very short drill is used to start 
the hole, or "collar" it, using a few blows of the hammer, and 
then successively longer drills are used. The driller has an 
assistant who runs water from a length of small diameter hose out 
of a bucket, to keep the dust down and wash away the rock 
particles. The drill is turned slightly after each blow of the 
hammer, and drillers average 60 to 80 blows per minute. 
Most of the contestants are young men, either mining 
students (there are usually several from the Mackay School of 
Mines at the University of Nevada, Reno) or mine workers. They 
come mostly from Nevada and Colorado, but there are always a few 
from Oregon, Utah or Idaho as well. There are a few women 
contestants, a trend Louis views favorably, and a few middle aged 
men, although Louis is by far the oldest, and a great favorite 
with the crowd. 
The deepest ever drilled was 14.3 inches by last year's 
winner. The best drillers were going eleven and twelve inches 
this year. 
Louis drilled at about 2:30 p.m., with Fred Andreasen 
helping with the water. He kept up a steady pace of about 76 hits 
per minute, but later told us he was not really exerting himself. 
He drilled about 4 1/2 inches, and was heartily cheered when he 
finished. Blanton took pictures of him setting up and drilling, 
as well as of several other drillers. There is a total of $4000 
in prize money for the contest, substantial enough for people to 
come long distances and compete very seriously. There are also 
first, second and third place trophies -- drilling hammers 
mounted on wood bases and painted gold, silver and bronze. 
We explained the project to Louis before the contest, and 
said we'd like to see him in Eureka next weekend. He said he 
would be at home during the day, and didn't open his bar until 
the afternoons. He is very friendly and outgoing, and actually 
worked in the mines about fifty years ago using hand tools. He 
IAW-AG-F103189 - 
3 
now runs Louie's Lounge in Eureka. 
We collected the drilling contest flyer and the Nevada Day 
program, which has a blurb on the contest, for the project. 
The-duelling contests hqve been held-%4:-ne 
ou 
-he--ea-r-1y 
1870s (no one knows when the first one was held) and are a 
 
classic example of occupational)  based cDnteets-ot -s-kii l and 
strdtgtth. Uncf•I"•Y6%nd har -rock mining got its start in Virginia 
City with the discovery of the Comstock Silver Lode in 1859. The 
gold mini 
ni 
efore that was all placer mining, done 
on the surface with sluices and pans in running water. 
The 
location and nature of the ores in Virginia City necessitated the 
development of a whole new s y e an 
ec nology of mining, and. 
VIIgi-nia City was the tars 
real industrial city west of the 
Mi sissippi. 
_ 
Miners worked-underground , drilling holes with hand steels just 
like in the contest , for dynamite to be placed in and blasted. 
The working lace of the mine could be at any angle, even 
overhead, and a pattern of drill holes was made so they could be 
blasted in sequence to get the rock out in the most efficient 
manner . Mini:s-g nerally worked it ra;rs, and a few feet pe • 
day 
was good progress 
singe.—once the ore was blasted it had tQ be 
muc 
, or shoveled into ore cars , and the tunnel 
­­had to be 
braced with timbers . Drilling was also done double jack, where 
one man held the steel and the other hit it with a sledgehammer. 
The two miners took turns , ensuring careful work by the striker. 
Document: IAW-AG-F110389 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/3/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev. preliminary tour 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F110389 
November 3, 1989 
Travel to Eureka and preliminary poking around 
Left Virginia City about 10 a.m. and drove to Eureka via US 
Highway 50 across the center of the state, through Fallon and 
Austin. Arrived about 2:30 and checked into the Eureka Motel. 
Took a short stroll around town. Noticed lots of rock 
buildings and walls, some falling down. Need to find out if they 
were built by Italians. There are lots of unoccupied store 
fronts. The Eureka Sentinel Museum, housed in the old newspaper 
building, was closed for the winter, but I will see if we can get 
in. It is supposed to be pretty good. Noticed Louie's Lounge was 
open, and had a sign advertising live country music on Saturday 
nights. 
Drove up above town to the west on the Ruby Hill Rd. and 
found several cemeteries. Two are surrounded by graded earth, 
mobile homes, and the county equipment yard -- I have read 
newspaper stories about how the county sold the land to mining 
companies, and the uproar it caused in town. The cemeteries had 
to be fenced and the fifty unit-trailer park has not 
materialized. Most of the names in the city and county cemeteries 
are English and Irish, a few Scandinavian and German, all the 
markers are quite old. there are lots of nice wooden and iron 
fences around the plots. Several nice stones with parting hands, 
upraised fingers, cherubs and other classic 19th century motifs. 
Continued on up to Ruby Hill, about another two miles, but 
stopped at a gate to the mill. There used to be a large town up 
there, but now apparently they are just leaching minerals from 
the old tailing piles. 
The Masonic cemetery also has mainly English and Irish 
names, and very similar carvings and fences. The Catholic 
cemetery is the largest of those seen so far and the best 
maintained. Lots of Italian names, some Basques (more recent), 
and some Irish as well. Many stones have crucifixes (some set 
into the stones under glass) or white carved angels and cherubs. 
There is a Gibellini family plot, and lots of Dameles (we 
interviewed rancher Benny Damele for another project in Lander 
County, to the west of Eureka. His parents are in this cemetery 
IAW-AG-F110389 - 
2 
and there are Dameles in town.) 
Need to come back to take 
photos and get names and dates of Italians -- several stones are 
in Italian and mention places of origin in Italy. 
Drove along the back streets on the east side of town. 
Numerous small frame buildings left , mixed in with newer brick 
homes . Two beautiful cut stone churches, Episcopal (still used) 
and Methodist (converted into a residence ). At the north end of 
town there are more stone and brick houses, some quite fancy and 
some in disrepair . At the far northeast corner of town several 
houses are built up against or into soft rock cliffs -- very 
reminiscent of the Delmue Ranch in Lincoln County, which was 
built by Swiss -Italians. 
Picked up Blanton at the Eureka airport, about six miles 
north of town , newly paved and lighted at night. Two other planes 
there. 
After dinner at the Owl Club, where we noticed a number of 
miner-types (ball caps, big muddy boots) and one cowboy , we went 
to Louie 's Lounge . The woman at the bar said he was upstairs, so 
we had a beer and waited to see if he came down . Her replacement 
later tried to get him on the intercom but there was no answer. 
Meanwhile , several more people came in, mine workers judging by 
the conversation , and we heard about a new refining process 
involving microbes that "eat dirt and shit gold ". Supposedly 
these naturally occurring organisms eat other minerals but leave 
the gold . A mine about 50 miles north of Eureka has tried the 
process in the lab and they say it works as a way of getting gold 
out of ore . The man in the bar has been working to build large 
tanks where the process will take place, and he was convinced 
that it will revolutionize the processing of ore. Tried to 
convince us to buy stock in the company, because once the process 
worked on a large scale the stock would shoot up. Also heard 
several stories about bar bets and tricks. 
Louis never showed, so we will call him in the morning. 
Silver was discovered in 1864  around Eirrpka__hy_p ospectors 
out o Austin , 70 miles to the west . However, It—was mixed 
with 
lead, and experiments with smelting processes to extract the 
ILI 
until 1869 . After that the town 
boomed , reaching a peak population of about 10 ,000 in the 1870s. 
The u•_ 
i 
mine 
re owne 
s 
es s and wor e  y 
nQrt ern European 
miners, but  the Prospect/Diamond mines to the  
south used Italian miners . iSss -Italian charcoal burners, or 
carr 
nari , were brought over to cut wood and burn it into 
charcoal for -The smelters . There were two large smelters, the 
Consolidated at the north end of town, and  the Richmond at the 
soutfi, plus numerous other smaller wor s. People say the hills 
fro 
50 mil s a 
dround the town were denuded of trees that had 
been cut to make charcoal . Production slowed way down by about 
IAW-AG-F110389 - 
3 
1880, and the Italians moved to town and became more integrated 
into social life. 
We collected a walking tour of Eureka, and a booklet on the 
architectural history of the town that was put out by the Nevada 
Historical Society. Both have good historical backgrounds on the 
town so I won't go into it further here. 
Document: IAW-AG-F110489 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/4/89 
Informant/Event: Gibellini, Louis; Fish Creek charcoal ovens 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F110489 
November 4, 1989 
Eureka, NV: Louis Gibellini, Fish Creek charcoal ovens 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham and Blanton Owen 
Had breakfast at the Owl Club, then stopped in Raine's 
Market and got a Eureka Sentinel -- not much of a paper, now 
published in Tonopah. The store is very well stocked with 
groceries, hardware, clothing, toys, stationery, etc. Great 
mounted hunting trophies on the walls (deer, elk, mountain goats, 
fish, etc.) and a nice old tin ceiling. 
Loaded up our equipment and pulled up in front of Louie's 
Lounge about 9:30. He was out front sweeping the sidewalk, so we 
reintroduced ourselves and he said he had time to talk, so we 
went upstairs. He showed us his practice drilling rock and the 
shop where he has an pld forge and anvil for sharpening his, 
tools.. Talked about his "old timer's" way of doing things, like 
they did a hundred years ago, and the new "scientific methods." 
Went into his apartment above the bar and taped an interview 
for about an hour and 20 minutes (IAW-BO-A001 and 002). Talked 
about drilling contests, his experience in mining, Italian food 
and music in the old days. Went outside so he could show us how 
he drilled (B. took photos of him and his tools). A guy came 
around the side of the bar and asked of he could get a drink --
Louis had left the door unlocked -- so we went down and Louis got 
him a drink. Louis said he was just the bar owner and swamper, 
and hates to tend bar. The guy had two drinks and rambled on 
about geology and the huge gold nuggets to be found in the Yuba 
River in California. 
The guy finally left, and we finished up about noon. 
Drove south trying to find old charcoal pits that were 
supposed to be in the Fish Creek Range. We were following 
directions in a book called Touring Nevada, and ended up too far 
south. Found a bunch of prospect holes in the mountains, headed 
back on a dirt road that eventually just ended, finally got going 
in the right direction. Stopped for a picnic lunch, and within a 
few hundred feet of when we started driving again, there was a 
small stone oven on the hillside, as described in the book. It 
IAW-AG-F110489 - 
2 
was about four feet high and four feet in diameter, and looked to 
me like the bread ovens I had seen on a western Nevada ranching 
valley with a large Italian population; certainly too small for a 
charcoal oven. Next to it was the remains of a charcoal pit, just 
a few rocks in a half circle and some charcoal lying around. The 
wood was stacked and covered with dirt, then the fire was kept 
smoldering to turn it into charcoal. 
Saw a few more charcoal pit sites as we continued over the 
Fish Creek Range (the tour book pointed out the location of the 
Coal Burners War massacre), then went north in the next valley 
and came out on Highway 50 about 30 miles west of Eureka. Got 
back to town about 4:30. 
We were having dinner at the Eureka Cafe (Chinese) when a 
woman named Connie Hicks came up and introduced herself. She had 
heard a talk we gave in Elko on vernacular architecture and 
remembered us. She lives in Elko, but it turned out her late 
husband was from Eureka and she had lived there for years. Her 
son Bill is still there (she introduced him), and is president of 
the local Masonic Lodge, which has a basement meeting room that 
has been fixed up. The family had met in Eureka for the last 
weekend of deer hunting season (her daughter from Gardnerville 
was there too, staying in the room next to us at the motel with 
kids and dogs). Bill offered to show us the Mason's hall the next 
afternoon, although later she said she could, and we agreed to 
meet there at 11 a.m. the next day. 
Document: IAW-AG-F110589 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/5/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev.: Catholic Cemetary, Masonic Lodge; 
Baile, Albert 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F110589 
Sunday, November 5, 1989 
Eureka: Catholic Cemetery, Masonic Lodge, Albert Biale 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham and Blanton Owen 
Tapes: IAW-AG-001 and 002 
Tried to have breakfast at the Alpine Lodge, but the waiter 
just shook his head when we asked for oatmeal or hot tea (we 
don't even know if he could talk) so we went back to the ever-
reliable Owl Club. After breakfast, we went to the Catholic 
cemetery about 9 a.m. Blanton took photos and I took notes on 
Italian names, dates, families and inscriptions in Italian. 
Damele: Theresa 1884-1961 
Stephen 1976-1946 
Pietrina 1857-1944 
Bernard 1879-1969 
Marian 1890-1973 
Peter L. 1891-1981 
LaRaine 1904-1989 (Benny's parents) 
Charles 1906-1984 
Juanita J. 1924-1978 
Peter Jayson 1927-1970 
Gibellini: Jennie Gibellini Soden 1900-1973 (Louis' sister?) 
Louis (father) 1864-1938 Eugenia Giblelini Tognetti 1873-
1935 
 
these-a-r-e-L©ui-s-L-parents 
John F. 1896-1981 with carved hammer and saw (Louis 
brother) 
Other names: 
Tirso Garro 1896-1957 
Lizzie Bonetti 1878-1961 (relative of Al Biale) 
John Biale 1871-1970 
Laura Biale 1876-1943 (Al Biale's 
parents) 
Clotilde Biale Vaccaro 1900-1932 
(Al's sister) 
Fred Minoletti 1914-1975 
Julia 1913-
Lester Bisoni 1921-1986 
Albert Biale 1882-1975 
Albina Marie Bisoni 1894-1968 Angelo John 1890-1960 
Pete Biale 1859-1919 
A.L. Tognoni d. 1905, age 50 native of Italy 
Bernard Caviglia 1856-1891 
IAW-AG-F110589 - 
2 
Ricordo . A.D. 1901 Novembre 2. Passato all' eterno riposo. 
Francesco Caviglio Di Anni 60. Nativo di Palo, Comune di 
Sassello , Provincia di Genoa, Italy. 
Ricordo . A.D. 1890 Joni 2.M. Passato al eterno riposo. Luvigi 
Rabagliatti, di anni 41, E.1. mese, E. 26 giorni. Nativo de 
Stella Provingia di Genova Italia. 
Teresa Sasserno 
d. 1904, age 44. A native of Dorno Lameliny 
Italy. 
Antonio Raccio died Eureka , NE July 9,1898 . Amai of Romagi, 
Provincia of Genova , Italy. 
G.B. Canepa died Oct. 11, 1907. native of Genoa, Italy . aged 56 
years. 
In memory of August Biggio . Born in Italy Oct . 19, 1848 . Died in 
San Francisco Nov. 5, 1899. 
In memoria del caro Bambino Amedeo Emanuele Biggio . Morto in 
Eureka it 22 Settembre 1896 eta 4 mesi 10 giorni. 
Joseph Oneto . A native of Italy, died in Hamilton 1891 age 41. 
In general, there are lots of Italian names, the older stones 
often mention the person was born in Italy . Also a number of 
Irish stones , and Basque, although they tend to be newer. A 
number of the graves , mostly Italian 
have wreaths made of— metal 
es,•sua 
he fence around the g.ye. 
o s of 
graves have metal fences , and all have some kind of stone of 
cement surround around the plot . The Boggio family plot also had 
two beaded wreaths, one black and one white , that appear to have 
had photos on the metal ovals in the center , although they are 
gone now. The newer graves usually have crosses , and two stones 
have metal crucifixes set into them and covered with glass. 
Several stones have nice white carved angels on top, and statues 
of the Virgin Mary decorate a number of graves, mostly newer. 
We left the graveyard and met Connie Hicks at 11 at the 
Masonic Hall on Main Street. She took us downstairs and showed us 
how they had fixed up the meetings rooms . They still have some 
old paraphernalia, furniture and photos . She also suggested a 
number of people to talk to , including Albert Biale (whom Louis 
had recommended as well ); Sue Gallagher , who runs the Eureka 
Sentinel Museum; Ed and Helen Melka, who live in a nice rock 
house on the north end of town with a great wagon wheel fence; 
their son Lawrence who lives at the old depot on the old road out 
of town; and Jerry Todd , the local banker . Connie's husband 
Ronald was from Eureka and died in 1987. We said we 'd send her a 
copy of the Eureka architectural history. 
IAW-AG-F110589 - 
3 
She did a research paper at Northern Nevada Community 
College in Elko on the first woman DA in the state, Edna Plummer, 
who was from Eureka. 
Connie took us by Albert Biale 's house and introduced us, 
and we arranged to come back at 1:30 to talk to him. We drove 
around town looking for stone buildings , saw a big hay truck with 
"J. D. Damele , Eureka, Nev ." on the side; then went to the odd 
fellows cemetery. 
Josephine F. Gibellini 
1980 -1962 
(Louis' wife) 
Angelo Florio 1877 -1952 
(Josephine Gibellini's father) 
Aimee Florio 1883-1933 
(Angelo 's wife) 
Biale, Marie Harris 1903 -1987 
Albert 1903-
Several stones have photos, but they are not Italian. 
Machacek plot had a great homemade steel fence, made by the 
family iron works company. Plaque on the gate reads "Built with 
love and family pride by Machacek Iron Works , Eureka, Nevada 
1989." 
Saw two stones with Hebrew writing for Therese and Minnie Berg, 
who died as children. 
Went to see Albert Biale from 1:30 to 3:30, taped an 
interview about his family, the store his father ran , he took 
over, and his son in law still runs . Bootleggers , stone masons, 
music, dances , Italian food , etc. He is a wonderful man, 86 years 
old and a little hard of hearing, but with an amazing memory for 
details and names. His description of how—thP bags of charcio_•Ll 
made a ringing noise is just one example of the kinds of 
r•etialc 
he provides . We'd like to go back and talk to him some more about 
s p
ecific questions . His wife died two years ago, and says he is 
still lonely, but he plans to stay in his house , which is built 
of stone and used to be the superintendent's home and office for 
the smelter across the street. 
He recommended that we talk to Estelle Gensoli, another 
native of Italian heritage . He also suggested Charlie Vaccaro, 
although his wife has had a stroke and he has to take care of 
her. 
Took photos of old stone ruins and brick and stone assay office n 
the northeast side of town . Buildings are partly built into the 
natural soft rocks . There was a quarry for volcanic rock called 
tufa, which is soft and easy to work with hand tools, and which 
is used all over town , although it is not good for foundations 
because it is so soft . There was also a brickyard in town, and 
there are some nice brick houses and commercial buildings left. 
Dinner at Jim & Lorraine 's, watching a TV drama about Bigfoot. 
Document : IAW-AG -F110689 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Graham, Andrea 
Date : 11/6/89 
Informant/Event : Eureka Sentinal Museum; Diamond Valley charcoal 
oven; Charcoal Burner 's Monument 
Coworker : Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F110689 
Monday, November 6, 1989 
Eureka Sentinel Museum; charcoal oven in Diamond Valley 
Fieldworkers : Andrea Graham and Blanton Owen 
Breakfast at the Eureka Cafe . Stopped at the courthouse to 
see what we could find out. Picked up the walking tour of town. 
Asked in the recorder 's office about Italians , and it turned out 
that the recorder himself, Mike Rebaleati , was Italian. His great 
grandfather Luigi Rabagletti arrived in 1880, and owned a hotel 
soon after he got to town (we saw his gravestone in the Catholic 
cemetery, written in Italian ). His grandfather had a blacksmith 
shop . Mike called the director of the Eureka Sentinel Museum, and 
she said we could go in , so he took us over (it sits diagonally 
above the courthouse). 
-4 
The back of the building has all the printing equipment from 
the original Eureka Sentinel newspaper , which was published there 
until the 1960s sometime . The front has some q>; e.•o ovhibi• 
or Fur-eka's -history 
including great photos, copies o 
Pw_Gnaper 
st.ories 
and artifacts donate 
iaen- s. There are 
several photos o various 1 carnat-ions of the Italian Benevolent 
Socie y, whic 
us 
o meet-wt— tne Colonnade Hotel; a good photo 
o 
a 
charc • 
— In-use; aulackra in (Northeastern Nevada 
Museum ); the Nostrosa orchestra (NENM ); the Consolidated Sme]-ter 
with Al RiaT 
rr•n-the—f-or-egr-ound- (Nevada Historical 
Society ); and Prospect and the Diamond Mine. We will check on 
getting copies of some from the Historical Society and the museum 
in Elko . A 
 number were taken by Louis Monaco , who had a photo 
studio in Eureka during its boom years ; there are also drawings 
by a V.B. 
onaco. 
ey are all copyrighted by R.B . Monaco, and 
Mike said he won 't let anyone else use them, but he lives in San 
Francisco. 
We went back to the courthouse and Mike gave us directions 
to a charcoal oven that sits on the west flank of the Diamond 
Range, north of Eureka . He also said Sue Gallagher, who runs the 
museum, lives near there and we could get better directions from 
her. We talked to him about the project a little, and looked at 
the rest of the courthouse -- the courtroom in very nice and 
still has all original furniture and fixtures. The building is of 
IAW-AG-F110689 - 
2 
brick, built in 1879, and one of the nicer courthouses in the 
state. 
Made a quick run out to the county  cemetery to photograph 
the  memorial_to th.Q five Ttnlians killed in the Charcoal Burners 
War. The pla_ue reads:"Giovanni Pedroni,_Marry 
lus Locatelli, 
Teodoro Zesta, Pompeo Pattini, Antonio Canonica. Charcoal burners 
maE.aacred August 18, 1879 by a sheriff's _2osse southeast of the 
 
Fizh Creek--RaM-Ch. Eureka Historical Society, 1983.
11 Al Biale had 
told us he remembered the spot where the men were buried, because 
his grandmother used to take him there when she put flowers on 
the graves. Another old-timer confirmed this, so that is where 
they put the plaque. 
We packed up and called Sue Gallagher, who said she'd be 
glad to talk to us. Drove out the old road, up the east side of 
Diamond Valley, which is primarily a hay-growing area. She lives 
at 11th street, about 11 miles north of town. Sue is in her 
thirties, relatively new to the area I think, and is hired by the 
county to run the museum, which is normally only open in the 
summer. She said she has been working with Al Biale for several 
summers to record his stories about Eureka. She will let him know 
the topic ahead of time, and he will make notes on what he 
remembers. It might be worth getting copies of this stuff. 
Sue mentioned several other good people to talk to, but each 
has some difficulty. Estelle Ginsoli she says won't talk to her 
because she has had a stroke and is unsure of her memory, 
although she has good information. Jake Borgna lives next to the 
museum, but is very shy and hard to talk to (he married a cousin 
of Benny Damele's, and Benny later offered to go with us if we 
want to talk to him.) Jake's wife died last month, and Sue thinks 
he may be in Las Vegas visiting family now. Charlie Vaccaro has 
"good and bad days", but he was also recommended by Al Biale. She 
says the Rebaleati family is good. She also said Robert Martin 
has good stories. His wife teaches school in town and they have a 
place in Diamond Valley, where he comes on weekends. Normally he 
is at the ranch in Antelope Valley, southwest of Eureka (go west 
on Highway 50, turn south at Antelope, to 7 miles to Ardans 
Ranch, go 7 miles more toward Martins ranch, and it is another 
seven miles past that). She suggested checking with his wife Ruth 
first, and she has good stories, too. Robert Martin's grandmother 
supposedly came to Eureka because she got off the train there by 
mistake, instead of at Eureka, California. 
Sue gave us specific directions to the charcoal oven, which 
you can see up on the mountain from the valley. We drove up there 
by going another mile on Lava Rd., turning west on 12th street, 
and going about 3 miles to the last ranch. Go through the yard 
past the barn, and turn left along the fence; at the end of the 
fence, take the right-bearing dirt road, and go about a mile up 
into the hills, always bearing right. There is a road that cuts 
IAW-AG-F110689 - 
3 
right across the face of the mountain; we parked at the bottom 
and walked the quarter mile to the oven, which has been fenced 
and marked by the Bureau of Land Management. 
The sign says that the kiln was built about 1869, and by 
1,881 
Fie 
surrourldng=area—.a; denuded of treeq. It took five-
acres of timber for one firing of the kiln, and one charge 
produced 1400 bushels of charcoal. The Swiss-Italian workers got 
27 cents per bushel from the smelter operators. 
The oven is about 25 feet in diameter and 35 to 40 feet 
high, built in a gully out of flat rocks mortared with mud. The 
walls are 18 to 20 inches thick, and it is very well built, and 
in excellent condition. The remains of a small square building 
are also nearby, and several rock retaining walls and what looks 
like a roadway are above and below the oven. There are supposed 
to be ruins of several other ovens in the area -- Sue Gallagher 
said her husband had found them when he was out hunting. We 
wondered why the charcoal burners built stone ovens sometimes, 
and in other places, like Fish Creek, just used pits? Did it have 
to do with availability of building materials, the quantity of 
timber to burn, regional origin of the workers, topography? We 
need to ask Al Biale, perhaps. 
The oven has three rows of holes on the inside that were 
used for poles to build ricks and raise the wood up so a fire 
could be built under it. The bottom row is at the level of the 
stone floor, and the other two are at one foot intervals above 
it. The holes are offset, and about 2 feet apart horizontally. 
There is a door on the downhill side, and a high door on the 
uphill side where the wood was loaded in. There were some old 
cans, bottles and china around the oven, but not much. There is 
also lots of charcoal scattered around below the oven. 
Blanton took pictures, and we drove back down to the valley 
and over to the airport at about 2 p.m.. Went up in the plane for 
ten minutes and took aerial shots of Eureka. Blanton dropped me 
off and flew home; I drove back along US 50, with a brief stop in 
Austin. Home about 6:30. 
Document: IAW-AG-F110989 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/9/89 
Informant/Event: Pradere, Victoria 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F110989 
Thursday, November 9, 1989 
Dayton, Nevada. Victoria Pradere. 
Fieldworker: Andrea Graham 
Tapes: IAW-AG-A003 and 004 
I had done a short phone interview with Victoria Pradere for 
an article for the Comstock Chronicle on Dayton's Santa Maria Day 
celebration in August. She remembered the celebration in the 
early days, the 1920s on, and talked about the Italian ranch 
families in the area. I called and explained the project, and she 
said I could come down that afternoon. 
I arrived about 2 p.m., and taped about an hour and a half 
interview with her, with contributions from her husband Camille. 
He is Basque, also a native of Dayton, and it the second marriage 
for both of them. 
Her father came to San Francisco from Italy, running away 
from Mussolini's men in the early days of his power around 1920. 
He eventually came to Nevada, and farmed near Sutro (to the east 
of Dayton) before sending for her mother, whom he had met once. 
He grew vegetables and fruits on a small plot in Dayton and sold 
them in Virginia City and Carson City. Later on, they ran a store 
that specialized in Italian food, some made locally and some 
imported via Reno. She used to help with the business end of the 
store, since neither of them was fluent in English. She was an 
only child, and still speaks Italian. In fact, when she started 
school she did not know any English. Other kids made fun of her, 
and she learned quickly, but the language seems to have been kept 
longer there than in Eureka, say, because the Italians were not 
such a minority. 
There were a lot of Italians in Dayton and most of the 
ranchers in the area were also Italian. They were primarily truck 
farmers. She talked a lot about food, gardens, sausage making, 
pasta making, cookies which she still makes, and which I sampled. 
In fact, the next day she was going over to her daughter's house 
in Carson City to start making ravioli for Thanksgiving. I need 
to do some work on foodways with her. 
I asked about Italian stonemasons, and her husband said all 
IAW-AG-F110989 - 
2 
the Italians could build with stone. He thought the buildings on 
the Ricci Ranch, just across the river, might be stone, and they 
may have a bake oven still standing. Almost all of the Italians 
have left the area, but the Joe Ricci family still ranches. There 
is also a woman in Dayton named Alda Spragia who was raised in 
Italy, and whose father had a ranch. Victoria says she will 
sometimes speak Italian with Alda at the senior center just to 
keep in practice. She and Camille have been to Europe several 
times, and she keeps in touch with her aunts there, one of whom 
just died. 
She is very talkative, and definitely worth a return visit. 
Dayton seems to have been one of the few areas in Nevada with a 
real Italian community, and for that reason I would like to do 
some more work there, as well as in the nearby ranching valleys 
of Mason Valley/Yerington and Fallon, which still have lots of 
Italian families and maintain their agricultural traditions. 
Document: IAW-AG-F111189 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/11/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev.; Gibellini, Louis 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Taylor, David; Williams, John 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F111189 
November 11, 1989 
Eureka, Nevada with Blanton Owen, David Taylor and John Williams 
Blanton and I met David Taylor and John Williams in Reno for 
breakfast, and after we reviewed our work to date, they decided 
they would like to go with us out to Eureka. They packed up and 
we went to Virginia City to get our stuff, leaving for Eureka 
about 11 a.m. Drove via Highway 50, took the old road over 
Carroll Summit, and had lunch at Carol's Country Kitchen in 
Austin at about 2 p.m. I called Debbie Bispo to ask how Benny 
Damele was -- she said he was doing fine, in good spirits, and 
would probably like visitors. We drove around Austin a little 
before going on to Eureka, where we arrived about 3:30. 
Checked into the Eureka Motel and then walked around the 
back streets, showing David and John some of the stone buildings. 
Climbed up the rocks on the northeast side of town and found what 
appeared to be the remains of several structures that were 
partially cut into the rock. Louis Gibellini later said there 
were houses up there. 
Then we stopped in Louie's 
daughter Janelle (SP?), who had 
we were there. She is a dynamo, 
pulling stories out of him. She 
come down from upstairs, and we 
half. Her husband Hank Dietrich 
Lounge for a beer and met his 
been sick in Salt Lake last time 
loves to talk, and is good at 
was born in 1937. She got him to 
visited for about an hour and a 
was there also. 
She showed us a.plaque from a drilling  contest in Gabbs in 
1970 where TLouis drilTed- 11 
32", a recor 
a 
s no 
r 
Pn 
years. She also talked about a 195 —dr; 1 
; 
ng contest--in, Virginia 
City that he won, and the belt buckle award he was presented by 
vice-president Nixon. 
David asked about Italian games he used to play, and Louis 
talked about making sleighs and skis to use in the winter. He 
mentioned bocce, and the "old Italians" playing a finger game. 
They used to get snow from a sheltered cave near Prospect, where 
they lived, and make ice cream on the Fourth of July. On 
Halloween once they reversed someone's buggy wheels, putting the 
large ones on the front and the small ones in back, and the guy 
IAW-AG-F111189 - 
2 
had to drive to town that way, which Louis found highly amusing. 
He also told of putting a rat trap where someone kept a key above 
the door, and having it snap on his fingers. He also talked about 
the big garden his family had every summer, and the food they put 
up for the winter. He was not very specific when asked about 
particular crops. Louis tends to talk in generalities, and 
doesn't have a lot of specific details when asked about life when 
he was growing up, although some specific stories are pretty 
good. 
Janelle got talking about A. C. Florio, her mother's father, 
who was a big land owner in the area. Louis still has his saddle, 
which he keeps in the garage and which they showed us. It has 
fancy silver work, a high cantle, moderate swells, and tapaderos 
on the stirrups -- not a typical buckaroo saddle. Janelle recalls 
him riding it in parades, holding an American flag braced in the 
stirrups, and how straight he sat. She says a man named Vincent 
Moderalli in Carson City (1264 Valley View Drive; 882-4347) knows 
about Florio and the saddle; his mother was A.C.'s sister. A.C. 
was apparently pretty big time in Eureka, and was hired as 
sheriff "the day he turned 21," as Janelle says. He also 
apparently once owned the Jackson House Hotel. 
We got talking about Prospect, and found out that the house 
Louis was born in is still standing. We asked if he would take us 
up there in the morning, and he said yes, so we said we'd pick 
him up at 9. 
Left the bar about 7:45, had dinner at the Owl Club. 
Document : IAW-AG-F111289 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Graham, Andrea 
Date : 11/12/89 
Informant/Event : Gibellini , Louis; Damele, Benny 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG -F111289 
November 12, 1989 
Prospect with Louis Gibellini; Benny Damele at Dry Creek; home to 
Reno. 
Tape : IAW-AG-AO05 
Had breakfast at the Eureka Cafe about 7:30, then went to 
the Catholic cemetery to re-shoot some photos and show David and 
John some Italian gravestones. Picked up Louis in front of the 
lounge at 9 a.m. and drove up to Prospect . Went just past the 
ballfield on the south end of town , then turned right up New York 
Canyon. drove maybe two miles, past some old mine workings, one 
of which Louis said used to have a boarding house and other 
structures , which are now gone. 
Prospect has one occupied building, where the 
caretaker/watchman stays looking after the property for a mining 
company, and about three old houses . There are also an ore bin 
and other mining structures an various states of repair . Blanton 
and David took photos and I hooked Louis up to the tape recorder 
and asked questions. He showed us the house where he was born and 
where his family, with six kids , lived . They used to live there 
in the winter, and moved over the hill , about one or two miles 
away, to the Windfall mine in the summer, where they and other 
Italian families raised gardens . He said there were a lot of 
other Italian families , aad a total of about 100 people ta 
Prospect . He pointed out mines on the hill above town, and 
d 
• scr 
bed the tunnels and shafts the miners used. 
The mountain is very steep , and the town a little less so. 
The remains of a stone foundation for the power plant can be 
seen, as can the site of a large wooden boarding house . He also 
pointed out where the school used to be on the lower side of 
town . Prospect is fairly typical of abandoned Nevada mining 
camps, with a few buildings and lots of ruins left. 
As we were leaving the caretaker drove up and came to see 
who we were . At first he said that no one was supposed to be 
there, but I explained that were interviewing Louis, who was born 
there, and then the two of them got talking about mutual 
acquaintances in the mining business and everything was fine. The 
caretaker knew where some of the old buildings used to be, and 
IAW-AG-F111289 - 
2 
had a collection of old stoves his predecessor had collected from 
miners' cabins on the mountain. The company he works for has been 
doing some test drilling and is waiting for results to see of 
there is anything worth open-pit mining. If there is, the little 
that's left of Prospect will be gone. Apparently the same thing 
happened at Windfall, and it is all gone. The caretaker also 
mentioned that there is a photo of Prospect in the Nevada Ghost 
Towns and Mining Camps book, which we have. 
I asked Louis on the drive back whether there were Indians 
around when he was growing up, but he couldn't remember any. Got 
back to Eureka about 11, and Louis  showed us his old homemade 
skis, which arP ahout 8 L/_ 
fAA+ i 
/ing ,•7i th old lace up boot toy 
nai"Ted in t 
 
o ro 
hi s 
feet. He .used to ski between Prospect and 
Windfall on them. Said there were other s is around, both 
storebought and homemade, but snowshoes were not used. We also 
showed David and John his forge and drills, and looked at the 
ce 
roc . } 
Bought lunch food at Raine's Market since all three 
restaurants were closed, and drove out of town to the Roberts 
Mountains turnoff for a picnic. Stopped at Dry Creek Ranch to see 
if Benny was around. Pam Eddy, who works for Benny with her 
husband Bob, was there and told us Benny and Bob were out putting 
in a new water tank across the highway. She said Benny had had 
surgery for colon cancer and was doing fine, had even been riding 
some. They have put in solar panels on one windmill, and have one 
for the house. Benny never used to have electricity. She said 
they still had the phone, but it hardly worked. 
She let us show David and John around the ranch, which has 
lots of nice stone buildings. We looked especially at the barn  
and  the gear and saddles he keeps t
-hpra.. Lots of potential 
exhibit material. Drove back to the highway, turned back east, 
and turned south in about half a mile along a dusty dirt road. 
Came to the first windmill but didn't see anyone so went on for a 
little in our supremely unsuitable rented Lincoln Continental 
until we saw two trucks coming out. Bob was in the first one, and 
Benny followed. He remembered us and seemed to be in fine form, 
with his usual understated and dry sense of humor. Said he had 
had surgery seven weeks ago and was getting chemotherapy, but it 
didn't make him sick. He is taking what he calls "buckaroo 
medicine" and will be getting some "Indian medicine" soon, too, 
in addition to the "white man's medicine." Said it can't hurt and 
he has known people it helped. We explained the project and asked 
if we could come back some time to talk to him some more, which 
he agreed to. They will be working cows next week, so I may stop 
by on the way back out to Eureka on Thursday. 
We worked with Benny about a year and a half ago while doing 
a,folklife survey of Lander County, and he was a lways grac ious, 
h 
riendly and fun to work with. He likes the old 
IAW-AG-F111289 - 
3 
ways and keeps them up on his ranch. His grandfather came from 
Italy to burn charcoal but soon got into ranching and Benny now 
rUns--the Ldncri 
-i-1S--fath 
a 
e ore 
lm. He is In 
1s 
a e 
s 
an 
never marrie . Benny is one of my favorite people and I am 
looking forward to doing more work with him. 
We went on back to Reno, stopping in Austin for gas where we 
saw another man we worked with on the Lander County project. Got 
to Virginia City about 6, and went on to Reno for dinner at Louis 
Basque Corner. 
Document: IAW-AG-F111389 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/13/89 
Informant/Event: Lincon County sites; Delmue Ranch; Delmue, Pete 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Taylor, David 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F111389 
November 13, 1989 
Lincoln County 
and the Delmue Ranch with Blanton Owen and David 
Taylor 
Tape: IAW-AG-A006 
John Williams flew home today, and David picked us up in 
Virginia City and took us to the Carson City airport, where 
Blanton keeps his plane. We took off about 10:35 and flew for 2 
1/2 hours via Tonopah, landed at Lincoln County airport in 
Panaca. Buzzed the high school and Carol, one of the 
superintendent's secretaries, brought a school district car for 
us to use. She mentioned several other people of Italian descent 
we could talk to. Had lunch at the Cathedral at the "Y", as the 
locals call the intersection where the road turns off the main 
highway to Panaca. 
Went up to Pioche, ten miles north, to see Pete and Marlene 
Delmue about 3 p.m. They showed us around their house, which they 
built themselves and are still working on. Pete just finished a 
big stone barbecue on the deck, decorated with three iron wheels 
in a classic bilaterally symmetric design. They have done a lot 
of landscaping, mostly with rocks, since I was last there two 
years ago. The house is built with logs from Idaho and Wyoming, 
and the rooms are paneled with quaking aspen, cedar, and old 
siding from a barn at the family ranch. The craftsmanship is 
excellent, and we couldn't help thinking that growing up on the 
Delmue Ranch must have affected Pete's aesthetic sense. In fact, 
a lot of the materials for his new house come from the ranch, 
from the barn siding to the rocks and rusted artifacts. 
Blanton rode with Pete out to the ranch, and we followed. It 
is built in among volcanic rocks, with some of the buildings 
built up against rocks and even carved out of the rocks. The main 
house is of locally_,quarried granite and sandstone, and was moved 
into on Christmas-day__1900 after.-_beingwbuilt by Joe Delmue, 
Pete's grandfather-who_came-from Biasca, -Switze"rland:"Pete`'s 
father was—named$.Albert, and.Pete.wgrew up-in-the..house. After he 
came back from the service he ranched in Eagle Valley to the 
north, then built two houses in Panaca before the one in Pioche. 
Pete does like the idea of government regulation or interference 
IAW-AG-F111389 - 
2 
of any kind, and has said that if anyone tried to put his house 
on the National Register he would bulldoze the whole place. He 
had unfavorable comments on a program to reintroduce some kind of 
fish into the stream that goes by the ranch, and which requires 
that he keep his cows away from it. Pete has a reputation for 
being cantankerous and gruff, but he has always been receptive 
and helpful with our work. Once he gets talking about the ranch 
and his family's history he can be quite voluble. His wife 
Marlene can out-talk just about anyone I have ever heard, but she 
is a good prompter for his stories. 
I hooked up the tape recorder and we walked around the ranch 
asking Pete about the various buildings. He talked about when 
each was built, and pointed out interesting features for the 
barns, sheds, smokehouse, etc. He has recently built a chute and 
loading dock out of old railroad rails for putting cattle onto 
trucks, and had some cattle in the corral that he was going to 
take to Cedar City, UT and sell the next day. Cedar City and St. 
George are the nearest towns (1 1/2 to 2 hours east) and Lincoln 
Countians do their major business there. 
We went into the house, which is currently occupied by Pete 
Tony and Jody Delmue, the son and daughter-in-law of Pete's 
brother Frank. Jody had been painting and talked to us about how 
they were planning to fix the place up. The house has one large 
central room with a fireplace on the rear wall, and two rooms off 
to each side; it sure is not like any vernacular house plan I 
have seen anywhere else. There is a room behind that was carved 
out of the rock, and a cellar off to the north. A frame or 
railroad tie kitchen (we are not sure which) was added later off 
the back. There are three drawers of old photos in the house, and 
we looked through them and picked out some to copy. Jody said we 
could bring them back in the morning. We also borrowed a small 
photo scrapbook from Pete. We told Jody that we wanted to come 
back with Tom to thoroughly document the ranch, and she said that 
was fine as long as we called ahead to arrange it. 
Left about 5 p.m., drove back to Panaca and then Caliente, 
where we were surprised to find the Hot Springs Motel full up. 
Apparently there are train crews doing work on the tracks and 
town has been bustling for several months. Got rooms at the 
Midway Motel, had dinner at the Brandin Iron. Blanton-and-1-made 
60 copy photos-from -about -7:30-to--9-p.m._ 
[See IAW-BO-B016 through IAW-BO-B019 and IAW-BO-F111389.B for 
more information on these copy photos -- cat.] 
Document: IAW-AG-F111489 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/14/89 
Informant/Event: Lincoln County sites 
Coworker: Taylor, David; Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-111489 
November 14, 1989 
Fieldwork in Lincoln County and return to Virginia City, with 
Blanton Owen and David Taylor. 
Had breakfast about 7:30 at the Brandin Iron, where Sandy Olson 
waited on us. Blanton had worked with her during a Lincoln County 
folklife survey two years ago, and got caught up on some local 
gossip. She told us some great stories about a series of Marlboro 
ads that were shot in the county this summer. She and her husband 
provided thirty horses they used, and the photography was done in 
Cathedral Gorge State Park and around a couple of the reservoirs 
on the eastern edge of the county. She said the Marlboro Man 
(they use another guy for the menthol ads and he is called the 
Menthol Man) was a regular guy, and had been discovered in 
Wyoming working in a feedlot. 
Drove up to Panaca and paid a call on Neldon Mathews, the 
school superintendent, who has been very helpful with Blanton's 
programs in the past. Introduced David and gave him some 
information on the project; also thanked him profusely for the 
use of the car. Drove out to the Delmue Ranch through Condor 
Canyon, which was the old route of the railroad and has 
spectacular cliffs and scenery. Pete had pointed out to Blanton 
the place where his grandfather got the rock for the ranch 
buildings, so we went there and found big boulders with drill 
marks. They used single-jack drills, like those used for mining, 
to make a line of holes that would split the rocks. One rock had 
Indian petroglyphs, and Blanton found a flake of obsidian from an 
arrowhead. 
Went to the ranch and returned the photos to Jody, who 
showed us the cellar and attic of the house. We also looked out 
behind the barn where there is an old sheep camp and lots of 
wagon and car parts. Noticed a design carved on a stone that was 
set at the top on the southeast column on the barn, which we had 
never noticed before. Kind of a spoked wheel; we need to ask Pete 
what it means. 
In general, the ranch looks more used than it did two years 
ago, and Jody and Pete Tony are working on the house. She wants 
IAW-AG-F111489 - 
2 
to make the attic into a master bedroom and put a balcony out 
through the roof. Pete and his brother still own the place, but 
they are cutting back on their herds. 
Drove next to Pioche, where we left the book of photos in 
the garage since the Delmues were away. Blanton and David took 
photos of the house, barbecue, landscaping, and a large arrowhead 
laid out in white stones on the bank in front of the house. Pete 
had some venison jerky drying in the garage, and quite a 
collection of antlers in there, too. 
We went into Pioche and had lunch at the Silver Cafe, then 
went up the street to say hello to Linda Cole, who helped Blanton 
with the county survey. She has gotten married to a Utah rancher, 
but still does nails at the beauty shop two days a week in 
Pioche. She gave us the name of a woman who was a Fogliani, the 
other major Italian ranching family in the county. Most of the 
Italians, according to Pete, worked in the mines, but they used 
to come out to the Delmue Place for their vacations and work hay. 
He seemed to think it reminded them of home. 
Drove back to Panaca, stopping for a quick look at Cathedral 
Gorge State Park which has spectacular rock formations. Hopped in 
the plane and left about 1:20, flew over the Delmue Ranch taking 
aerial photos and then headed west. Had to fight a headwind, so 
it took three hours to get back. Arrived about 4:20, went back to 
Virginia City, cooked spaghetti and had Italian wine David 
bought. 
We  will concentrate field work in Lincoln Count 
on the 
4-Delmue Ranch and family history, with perhaps a small foray into 
the Fogliani tamely. The architecture of the ranch is so unique 
and obviously old-world in origin, and in pretty much original 
condition, that it needs to be thoroughly documented. It also 
seems to have heavily influenced Pete, judging from the work he 
has put into his current house, and probably also his brother, 
whom we have not met but who built himself a house half-
underground. 
Document: IAW-AG-F111789 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/17/89 
Informant/Event: Austin, Nev.: cemetary; Dry Creek Ranch: Damele, 
Benny 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F111789 
Friday, November 17, 1989 
Virginia City to Eureka; Dry Creek Ranch/ Benny Damele. 
Fieldworker: Andrea Graham 
I left Virginia City about 7:30 a.m. and headed east across 
Highway 50. Stopped briefly at the Austin cemeteries to take 
photos of Italian stones, but there were very few. Mostly English 
and Irish names, quite a few born in Ireland. Got gas in Austin 
then drove on to Dry Creek, trying to time my arrival for after 
lunch, which is about 11:30 since Benny keeps daylight savings 
time year round. 
Passed Bob Eddy on the way out, and he said Benny was in the 
shop. Sure enough, he was rummaging around looking for wood to 
build a "cat house," a shelter up against the stone chimney that 
stays warm in the winter. The house will provide extra shelter 
and warmth, and Benny won't have to feel so guilty about leaving 
them out in the winter. 
He talked for an hour, leaning up against the truck and 
shuffling in the dirt. Lots of family history, theories about why 
the Italians became ranchers, other good people in town to talk 
to. The mos 
in eyes ing thing that came up was the tact that 
were a bunch of "Italian Ranches" on the west slope of the 
Diamond Aange--j-u 
r-eka- 
(On  the map there are a 
number of Italian names for creeks there: Pastorino_ Torre 
jTfn 
e i, Pedroli). The Italians raised fruits and vegetables 
which they sold in Eureka. He recalls fresh potatoes in Eureka on 
the Fourth of July. He says now in that country, "you can't raise 
an umbrella," and no one dares even plant potatoes before June 
15. Every little canyon had a farm, with gardens, orchards, and 
dairy cows for milk and cheese. I mentioned the charcoal oven we 
saw, and he said tfiey- Te Yea 
south of that, closer to town. He 
also mentioned Estelle Gensoli in Eureka, whose father had one of 
the farms, as a good person to talk to, and said she used to work 
for the newspaper and nosed into everything. 
In Eureka, Benny suggested talking to John Damele, his 
cousin. John is the son of Steve Damele, Benny's father's 
IAW-AG-F111789 - 
2 
brother . He has emphysema and is on oxygen, so is usually home. 
John's brother is Leo, who ranches up in Pine Valley south of 
Palisade , and his sister is Pietrina Etchegaray , who also lives 
in Eureka . They would all be good sources on Damele family 
history. 
Benny 's grandfather came to Eureka in 1879, and worked 
cutting wood for charcoal 
and later firewood after the smelters 
shut down . He had to quit in the 
ar 
win er o 1889 -90, and he 
and-his partner walked from the hills to the Hay Ranch in  
Diamond 
Valley, where they worked feedina for the rest of the winter. 
After that,, he sent for his wife and kids from Italy; they 
arrive 
•ri 1g9n and Benny's father Peter was born in 1891. They 
leased a ranch in Diamond Valley in 
1
-$95, and bought the Three 
Bar in 1898 for  7000, which Benny says they paid cash for within 
a year. They_had earned enouqh selling hay and raising work 
horses to afford it. There were four boys and three girls in the 
family. Steve and Tony were twins, and did most of the work 
hauling hay and breaking horses. Peter was Benny 's father, and 
his other brother was Bernard. John, Leo and Pietrina are Steve's 
kids . Benny says he can't keep track any more of all the kids and 
nieces and nephews, but there are a lot, many in California. 
He says most of the land between Dry Creek and Palisade used 
to be owned by Dameles , but•__only he, Leo and a younger Steve are 
left. T e o er Steve and Tony used to run the ranch at Tonkin, 
north of Three Bar . I think he also mentioned the Santa Fe Ranch, 
just south of Three Bar . When talking about other ranching 
families and all the visiting and intermarriage that went on, he 
said if it weren't for modern transportation they would have 
become like an Indian tribe . He said the families in Smokey 
Valley (he named five or six, mostly English ) were the same. 
There were big families , and they all intermarried. 
Later on, in the teens , Basques began coming in as 
sheepherders . There used to be lots of tramp sheepherders who 
went anywhere they wanted , so to keep them away the ranchers 
started herds of their own , and had to hire Basques to work them. 
His father had sheep for awhile, and formed a company with the 
Basques to run them, with a little help at lambing and shearing. 
Etchegaray and Etchevarry were two names mentioned. Two twin 
Basque brothers named Etchegaray came in, both with the same 
first name in Basque, which translated as John . The rancher said 
he couldn't tell them apart, so he just called one Fred; he later 
married Peitrina Damele, Benny 's cousin . Benny says the Basques 
were all around good stockmen , and they always got them to count 
cows , because if they could count the sheep accurately , cows were 
easy. 
Benny 's family was good friends with the Biales. Benny went 
to school with Albert 's son Arthur and still visits him often. 
John Biale worked hay for Benny's grandfather. The Biales were 
IAW-AG-F111789 - 
3 
highly thought of in town, and very involved in local goings-on, 
as you'd expect with storekeepers. Al's father John, or J.B., was 
apparently a great talker, as is Albert. Benny says their store 
was very well stocked, and he made a point of stopping there last 
when he went to town because if they weren't busy they'd talk for 
hours. John's brother was also named Albert, and both of them 
were very smart and talented. Albert was a blacksmith, could play 
the piano, etc., but he drank too much. He used to work at Dry 
Creek for Benny's father, and was a good worker, "could do things 
nobody else could do," as long as he kept off the liquor. The 
last few years of his life he did stop drinking, and Benny said 
he would go around and visit the older people and help them out, 
shovel snow or just check on them. 
Benny says he is not quite trustful of Louis Gibellini, and 
suspects him of embroidering his stories. He apparently doesn't 
have a good reputation in town, and is not really in on what's 
going on. Most of the Italians Benny knew of were farmers or 
ranchers. His theory is that many of them were living in 
e 
hills cutting wood 
and when the demand—dr-opped-they 3sustayed 
and took up 
 farming in whatever canpyn 
t-he_y_wexe in. 
Benny mentioned that the family who used to have the 
Ackerman Ranch were Swiss and made cheese, which they stored in 
the special cheese cellar and sold in Eureka and Austin. Everyone 
made sausage, hams, etc. The Dameles never made wine, and Benny 
says only his grandfather and him drink it very much at all. 
Benny and Bob will be working cows in the crested wheat 
tomorrow all day, so I said we would probably come by. Drove on 
to Eureka, arriving about 2:00. Checked into the Eureka Motel, 
told the owner about the project, and she mentioned some of the 
same names I had already heard. 
Tried calling some folks without having much luck. Estelle 
Gensoli had just got back from Reno last night and was tired. She 
chattered on and on -- if we can keep her on track she should 
have some good information. She will leave a message at the motel 
about getting together on Sunday -- apparently she has family in 
town and is worried about her little house getting too crowded. 
Then I tried John Damele, and talked to his wife. He was 
asleep and hasn't being feeling well lately, so I said I could 
try when I'm back in town in a couple of weeks. His wife is also 
Italian on both sides of her family, and her father, Peter 
Merialdo, was interviewed by the University of Nevada at Reno 
Oral History program, so I will have to look him up there. 
Document: IAW-AG-F111889 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/18/89 
Informant/Event: Dry Creek Ranch: Damele, Benny; Eddy, Bob; Eddy, 
Pam 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F111889 
Saturday, November 18, 1989 
Eureka and Dry Creek Ranch/Benny Damele, Bob Eddy, Pam Eddy 
Breakfast at the Owl Cafe. Tried to call Pietrina Damele 
Etchegaray in Eureka but no answer. Drove out of town on Highway 
50 south, took pictures of a "Loneliest Road" sign, Eureka 
historic marker, service club and church sign at the south 
entrance to town. Headed out to Dry Creek about 11 a.m., saw four 
cowboys working cows on the north side of the road at the Hay 
Ranch, about 14 miles out of Eureka. 
Saw dust near Benny's windmill on the south side of the road 
when I got to Dry Creek at noon, so I drove down there, about a 
mile off the road. Benny and Bob were "parting out" (separating 
out) some cows and calves from the bunch they had rounded up into 
the corral. These will be sold, some because they are too old or 
have something wrong with them, and some just to thin out the 
herd. They had a horse for me to ride, because cows are nervous 
around a person on foot but will not even notice one on 
horseback. I told them I had no experience, but they assured me 
I'd be all right, so I got my cameras and climbed on. Bob showed 
me how to make the horse stop, back up and turn. They told me to 
just sit anywhere and they could work around me. I took lots of 
pictures of them picking out cows and working them out of the 
herd and down to the end of the corral, where there was a 
separate holding pen. They try to get a mother cow and her calf 
together. I asked what they were looking for in deciding which 
cows to get rid of; Benny said dry cows (those that are not 
pregnant), any with pink eye, bad horns, old ones with bad teeth, 
etc. Benny wants to cut down the herd because it is so dry, and 
because he is unsure of his health. The cows will be sold in 
Fallon, and the calves have already been promised to a buyer in 
Elko. 
Benny showed me how he could make his horse move 
sideways,and as we were dismounting for lunch he took the halter 
off of his horse and showed me how he could make it work just 
using his legs. Benny loves to work with horses, he says it is 
his hobby. Later, when were moving the cows to the road, he said 
IAW-AG-F111889 - 
2 
he will work with them even while riding doing other things, just 
to keep them learning. 
Took a lunch break about 12:30. They had brought some 
leftover ribs, crackers, cheese, salami, apple juice and pudding. 
Benny always brings water in a plastic jug he has covered with 
hitched twine, to keep it cool. After lunch they took the parted-
out cows out of the corral and we moved them horseback up to the 
highway, about a mile away. We rode behind the 28 or so cows, 
with me in the middle acting like I'd been born riding a horse. 
My horse was good, and we were moving slow so I didn't have any 
trouble. When we got to the road, they 
opened a gate in the 
fence and moved the cows across the road, which they were 
reluctant to do without some shouting and running back and forth 
on the horses (them, not me). One old cow, though, refused to go, 
and they chased her up and down the road, waiting patiently for 
her to make up her own mind to go, for about 20 minutes, but with 
no luck. Finally Benny just left her, hoping she would go back 
through the gate and join the others at the corral. Benny then 
took the cows up to a pasture below the house, and Bob and I rode 
back to the corral. I noticed that my knees were sore, and he 
said that was the first part to go on a cowboy. When I got off I 
could hardly stand at first, my knees and ankles were so lsore. 
Benny and Bob had on cowboy boots, spurs, chinks (knee-lenqth 
chaps)  jeans, several shirt G any jack.Pts- and—wI d rags -- the 
classic northern Nevada buckaroo getup./ 
Bob loaded the horses into the truck and drove back to the 
house with me following. I passed Benny with the cows on the way 
into the ranch along the road. Got back about 3 p.m., and Bob got 
Pam and they went to load hay bales and take them to the cows 
still in the corral. I took a few pictures around the house, and 
them Blanton buzzed over and landed on the road below the house. 
I went to pick him up and we drove down to see how Benny was 
doing with the cows. Came back to the house, walked around and 
looked at the outside: there is an old stone building that was 
original, with walls two feet thick and a pole and dirt roof that 
has been raised and covered with tin. There is a stone living 
room added to the front by an Irish stonemason, and Benny 
remembers when that was done, so it is not too old. There is a 
tie addition on the back, and several frame additions that house 
a shed and storage rooms, and an underground rock cellar. 
Bob and Pam got back, and Pam fed the cats and dogs, of 
which there are lots. They also have several pet calves and 
leppies, and a pet burro named Tulip. We went inside and talked 
to Bob for awhile. He showed us their word processor, which runs 
on car batteries powered by a solar panel. The setup also runs a 
single light, since Benny does not have electricity. There are 
gas lamps, and kerosene lanterns, and they heat with a gas heater 
and the fireplace, which is where everyone gathers after work. 
Benny came in, we were offered red wine, and we sat talking as it 
IAW-AG-F111889 - 
3 
got dark , and Pam fixed dinner . We had spaghetti with tomato and 
meat sauce , bread and salad. Benny said they had liked the book 
and exhibit we did on Lander County last year, but there was just 
one mistake , which he admitted was his fault and not ours: when 
we were there , they had turkey for dinner, which we mentioned, 
and they had gotten all kinds of grief from their rancher friends 
about not eating beef. 
In fact , after dinner when we were 
talking they showed us a ranching newspaper that said on the 
front page, "Have a nice Thanksgiving, don't eat turkey." Benny 
never got to see the exhibit , but Bob saw it and so did Pam, and 
both said they liked it. We promised them photos from that and 
this project. 
Another topic of conversation was stonemasonry . This began 
when we asked about a dry stone wall built in Austin by Chuck 
Bispo, who used to work for Benny . Benny said he showed Chuck the 
basics of rock work when he lived at Dry Creek . He explained the 
difference between single -wall and double -wall construction. A 
wall built up against a bank, like the one Chuck built, only has 
to be single wall, that is, one smooth face . A house wall must be 
double , smooth on both sides, and with the rocks sloped in to the 
center so the wall will stand up by itself . Benny recalled 
helping collect stones when he was a kid . His job was to find 
"spalls ," small flat rocks used to wedge in between the larger 
ones to balance them . Benny remembers the font addition to the 
house being built by an Irish stonemason , who used mud as 
mortar. 
We had decided to leave the plane tied down for the night 
and pick it up on the way home from Eureka the next day. They 
offered to let us stay in a trailer outside, but my things were 
at the motel in Eureka so we couldn 't. Left about 7 p.m., already 
pitch dark , with millions of stars . The house has a great view 
over the valley and Antelope Peak . Benny, Bob and Pam were all 
very helpful and hospitable , and invited us back anytime, an 
offer that is hard to refuse. Benny likes the fact that we are 
inter,est,ed-dT-the_old ways that he treasures and follows, and he 
has a real interest in his history andTer•itage . I'm 
sure we 
cou 
spend a77 our time on this project with him and still not 
even scratch the surface of what he knows . That and the fact that 
he is so much fun makes this idea a real temptation. I want to 
talk to several other members of the Damele family, who were all 
in ranching , to get a fuller picture of their life in Eureka and 
Lander counties. 
Document: IAW-AG-F111989 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 11/19/89 
Informant/Event: Gibellini, Louis 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F111989 
Sunday, November 19, 1989 
Eureka, Nevada/Louis Gibellini 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham and Blanton Owen 
We were having breakfast at the Owl Cafe and saw Louis 
Gibellini as he was leaving. Said hello and asked if his 
granddaughter was coming in, and he said she was already there, 
but he didn't know if she had brought the old photos, so we said 
we'd stop by later on. After breakfast we climbed the rocks on 
the east side of town and Blanton took some overview shots of the 
town. 
Stopped at Louis' and talked with him and his daughter 
Janelle Dietrich. His granddaughter Jacque Campbell had brought 
old photos and newspaper clippings about Louis, which we looked 
at. Blanton copied about 12 of the photos, including a great one 
of the school kids and teacher at the Prospect school about 1912 
or 13, in which Louis identified nearly all the kid s . Lou is to ld 
a story about another teacher there who hauled him in and sat on 
his head because he had skipped school and was making faces in 
the windows. She hurt his neck and was fired, and he had to miss 
a year of school because of the injury. 
We got talking about food, and Janelle remembered her 
grandmother (Louis' mother) keeping vegetables buried in sand in 
the cellar during the winter. She said her grandmother used to 
make wine and grappa, with grapes from California. She had a 
little still in the cellar for making grappa or brandy with the 
residue from wine making. Janelle still makes elderberry wine, 
and they used to make chokecherry wine as well. Her grandmother 
also made several different kinds of cheese, which was stored in 
the cellar, and she made goat cheese, too. They had hogs and made 
hams, bacon, sausage. Jzn$l4,e---stia-l-itn ws h;,w-to ma ke r•ali, 
but hasn't in about three years, although she says she might make 
some - r Christmas thi—?ar uer g-randmother used to make them 
with brains, but she prefers beef, pork and chicken. She said she 
didn't have a recipe, but if she made some she would try to write 
down what she did. Her grandmother-wD-uld make thousands at a time 
and freeze them. She said Italians used to use pinenuts from the 
pinion trees in cooking, particularly in a kind of sweet bread 
that called for all kinds of nuts and fruits. They made 
IAW-AG-F111989 - 
2 
chokecherry and elderberry syrup for pancakes, and jam. 
Louis' mother was midwife for most of the women at Prospect 
when she lived there, and raised six kids of her own. His father 
was a miner, and died about a year after Janelle was born, so she 
never knew him. They found a reference to A.C. Florio, Louis' 
wife's father, in a history book entitled History of Nevada: A 
Narrative of the Conquest of a Frontier Land, edited by James 
Scrugham (former governor of Nevada) and published in 1935 by the 
American Historical Society, Inc., NY and Chicago, 3 vols. Page 
47 of vol. 3 said A.C. Florio was the largest individual taxpayer 
in eastern Nevada. He was born near Naples in 1877 and arrived in 
the US before he was 14, and came to his uncle's ranch in Eureka 
in 1890. By 1917 he ran 2,000 head of cattle and 10,000 sheep. 
His home ranch was at Duckwater (now an Indian reservation south 
of Eureka), and he owned the Hay Ranch west of town, and the 
Romano Ranch, in addition to a big home in Reno. He had two 
daughters, Josephine (Louis' mother) and Alice, who is still 
alive in Reno. 
We left there just after noon and headed west, stopping at 
the Bean Flat turnoff for a picnic lunch. Got to Dry Creek, left 
a note in the house, and Blanton took off just as two stock 
trucks drove up the road. Benny, Bob and Pam were bringing the 
horses and some calves up. They had separated the calves from 
their mothers to wean them, and had left the cows down in the 
corral. I asked if they were done, and Benny said they still had 
to bring another load of calves up to the corrals above the 
house, and do some work on them there, and then go back and feed 
the cows at the other corral. They needed to get done because 
Benny needs to go to Eureka for a chemotherapy treatment 
tomorrow. I thanked him again, and he said to come back anytime, 
even just to visit. I said goodbye to Bob and Pam when they drove 
up, and headed home about 2 p.m.; in VC by 5:30. 
Document: IAW-AG-F120789 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/7/89 
Informant/Event: Dry Creek Ranch: Damele, Benny 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Parks, Valerie; Carter, Tom 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F120789 
Thursday, December 7, 1989 
Benny Damele, Dry Creek Ranch, Lander Co. Nevada 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham, Blanton Owen, Tom Carter, Valerie 
Parks 
Took off from Las Vegas at 8 a.m., flew to Dry Creek Ranch, 
arrived 10:15, Blanton dropped me off and Benny Damele and Bob 
Eddy drove me back to the ranch while Blanton flew to Elko to 
pick up Tom. We had lunch -- macaroni and sausage casserole, 
beets, and applesauce cake -- with Pam Eddy. They talked about 
wild mushrooms 
that somet-i s--come- up -in-the-fall,-if 
the 
— exit er 
is right, and how they cook down a whnla pan  of them and eat them 
with olive oil and garlic. They also slice them and spread them 
around on tables to dry. Benny and Bob had already done their 
day's work with some yearling cows in a pasture by the house. Bob 
went out after lunch to check a windmill, and Benny and I sat by 
the fire talking. I hooked up the tape recorder and did an hour 
long interview about the ranch and its buildings, stonework, 
Italians in Eureka, and working with cows. Valerie arrived about 
11:45, and Pam showed her around while I finished the tape with 
Benny. 
Valerie was outside taking a nap on the lawn when we 
finished, so we walked down to look at the cows and horses below 
the house. He has some highland cows, with long hair (good for 
cold weather) and big horns, and some longhorns he got from Bill 
Bear in Elko. We also looked at some beautiful big Belgian and 
Suffolk draft horses they use to feed in the winter. The mule 
named Tulip and several dogs and cats followed us. We then went 
to the stable, looked at a new saddle for Link, made by a guy in 
Idaho and paid for ($2500) by Benny and Bob. Link will be coming 
back from college in Idaho, and doesn't plan on going back. 
Valerie got her camera and took pictures of the stable and stuff 
while the light was good. 
Benny was telling me about bad wrecks 
he has been in when Blanton and Tom flew in, about 12:30. They 
looked around the stable, and then we walked up to the corrals 
and the old log and mud house above the main house. Benny showed 
us the corrals, which he called "picket," not stockade. He 
explained that if a cow goes through, it just breaks one or two 
poles, and they can be easily and quickly replaced, so no cows 
IAW-AG-F120789 - 
2 
get out, whereas a board fence will take the rest of the day to 
fix. He also talked about breaking horses and roping and branding 
in the round corral, which has been there since the first owner 
in the late 1800s . Benny and Pam came up with some medicine, and 
Bob vaccinated a calf that was being held in the corral. 
On the way back down , Benny pointed out where the_g•arsien_was 
behind the house, and listed the v-egetables his mnfbpr used to 
grow -- beans, p-eas , sLquasih, onions , potatoes , radishes, carrots, 
lettuce , tomatoes . He mentioned picking dandelions in the spring, 
and his mother using 
 them to make ravioli . She was not Italian, 
and 
said she couldn 't even cook when she married, but her 
sister-in-law (Benny 's father 's brother 's wife) had come from 
Italy and she taught her to cook (and to speak a little Italian). 
We walked back down to the stable, and Valerie took some 
portraits of Benny and Bob. She then got another camera, and we 
went to the blacksmith shop while she took pictures. She and 
Benny have some friends in common in Tuscarora, where she lived 
for eight years . Talked about the time a friend took him flying 
in a helicopter after I told him about the photography work 
Valerie does . Then we went up to the house, and he showed me his 
father 's axe, and his , which he had talked about in the interview 
earlier . Looked at an old horse drawn wagon he is restoring, and 
how they used to be used to go to other ranches , or to town, or 
like a pickup around the ranch. 
Benny then took Tulip and the current pet calf down through 
the stable yard and fed them in a trough carved from an aspen 
log. We helped Blanton and Tom finish measuring up the stable, 
then went to the house . Were offered wine , as usual, and sat 
around for an hour or so talking as it got dark. Benny and 
Valerie got talking about herbs and plans for medicine; we talked 
about the history of the house while Tom made a sketch floor plan 
and he and Blanton did some measuring. Tom and Valerie got on 
real well with Benny , Bob and Pam , and they invited us to stay 
for dinner , an invitation we had to turn down because Blanton 
didn 't want to take off in pitch dark. Blanton and I rode down to 
the gate with Benny, and he showed us some quarried rocks and 
chunks from the bottom of old slag kettles from Eureka . Blanton 
took off and we drove to Eureka, where we picked him up at the 
airport and went into town . Tom and Valerie were both impressed 
with the ranch and Benny, and glad we started our trip there_ Tom 
i real interested in the ranch as a typical example of Great 
Basin architecture , and how 
enny an * is 
ami 
ma•e i ___eir 
pwn. Arrived in Eureka about 6 p.m., checked into the Sundown 
Lodge , had supper at the Owl Cafe and a nice visit. 
Document: IAW-AG-F120889 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/8/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev.: Biale, Albert 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Parks, Valerie; Carter, Tom 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F120889 
Friday, December 8, 1989 
Eureka, Nevada 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham, Blanton Owen, Tom Carter, Valerie 
Parks 
We all had breakfast at the Owl Cafe, where we said hello to 
Louis Gibellini. After breakfast we took a quick drive around 
town to show Tom and Valerie what we wanted them to look at. 
Blanton, Tom and Valerie took some photos while I went to see Al 
Biale. 
Tom wanted me to ask Al about several of the buildings in 
town. The tall brick building with a steep roof behind Al's old 
store was part of a boarding house his grandmother ran. It used 
to be twice as big, with a frame section extending west toward 
the main street. The store was originally a saloon, run by his 
mother's stepfather. There used to be rooms behind the saloon 
where people stayed, but the bar was eventually expanded to take 
up the whole building. His father then changed it into a store. 
T e stone house on the west side of the street with a •reat 
wagon whee 
enc 
- M 
was 
built by Abe Arigoni, an Dalian stonemason—and "concrete
—
man"; 
Al's uncle, also Albert Biale, did the carpentry work. The site 
used to be a brewery, and a frame building had been torn down, 
but the old cellar is still there. They made beer and soda water, 
and the brewery was called Bremenkampf and Regli. The Repettos 
also made wine back in the old cellar. Al thinks the building may 
have had two apartments; there are two more doors on the front 
that have been blocked up. 
I asked about the Italian Ranch, which Al said was now owned 
by Jim Bauman. There was apparently a main ranch and several 
other families who worked smaller ranches. Italian families there 
were the DiPaolis, John Venturino, Tony Tognoni, and Pete Edera. 
The ranch was later sold to the Hunter family, then Bauman. About 
a mile above the ranch was a pretty picnic area with trees and 
water where community groups such as the fire company would hold 
large events. Al's father worked on the Italian Ranch before he 
started the store. He was there during the bad winter of 1889-90, 
when he couldn't see the fences or trees because they were buried 
IAW-AG-F120889 - 
2 
under snow. 
The Italian Ranch raised all kinds of vegetables and sold 
them in town. Lettuce, spinach, green onions, peas, corn, string 
beans, potatoes, carrots, beets, turnips, cabbage. They also sold 
hay for the livestock in town. Al remembers them digging long 
furrows, burying cabbage heads upside down, and covering them 
with dirt and straw to keep them over the winter. They also cut 
ice in the winter and sold it to the breweries and saloons. The 
Pastorini family also cut ice on the Hay Ranch, west of Eureka. 
The main house on the Italian Ranch was frame, but has been torn 
down. Al recalls the houses being frame, but he thought some of 
the stables were stone. The people there now live in trailers. He 
remembers people making snowshoes out of wooden box boards that 
were tied onto the feet. 
I asked about Italian involvement in the Catholic Church, 
but did not get much information. Al said there was one Italian 
priest, but most have been Irish (the church is called St. 
Brandan's) and the current priest is Polish. At times there was 
no priest in town, and someone would some in once a month or so 
to hold services. 
Al's father worked at several different jobs when he first 
came to Eureka. He burned charcoal, worked on ranches, drove 
teams, and worked on a tunnel at the Diamond Mine. He was self-
educated, and used to read using an Italian-American dictionary. 
Al says he lost his accent. The store he opened really took of 
when sheep came into the area about 1912, and sheepherders needed 
supplies. He also owned the Pinto Creek Ranch for about ten 
years, and used to go out there every day. He raised potatoes for 
the store, and loved gardening. Al has written down some of his 
father's stories, and wants to write up his memories of the 
store. 
Al's wife was English, and cooked Cornish pasties. she also 
learned to cook italian food from his mother. 
After I left Al, I found the others at Louis' shed. We then 
went to the assay office, where Valerie took photos and Tom and 
Blanton measured the building, as well as the outside of the 
little brick house across the street. After lunch at 12:30 we 
went back to Al Biale's about 1:30; Valerie took photos, we 
talked to Al about the house and other things, and Tom did a 
rough floor plan and measured the outside. 
We first asked Al about the cement and stone building 
currently used by the Bureau of Land Management; Al said it was 
built by John Zunino in the mid-1920s. Al's house was built in 
the early 1870s, and was the superintendent of the Consolidated 
Smelter's house and office. It used to have a central hall, one 
large room on the right and two on the left (a bedroom and 
IAW-AG-F120889 - 
3 
washroom). Two more bedrooms and the kitchen were in a frame 
section on the back. Al and his wife moved in in 1926; they 
opened the hall into the right had room, moved the kitchen to the 
rear room on the right, closed in the porch, and added a 
bathroom. After the smelter shut down, the bookkeeper, named 
McTerney, continued to live there and keep records on lessees of 
the mines. He also served as county assessor. He sold the house 
to Al's aunt in 1918. 
The assay office was later a house, and Al recalled teachers 
staying there. The little brick house across the street belonged 
to Arch Harris, who was a barber and Al's wife's uncle. 
Tom asked about a representative miner's house, and Al 
suggested the frame house just below the gas station and store at 
the far south end of town. We also asked about a small stone 
house on the west side of town; Al couldn't remember who lived 
there, but said the frame house above it belonged to John 
Gibellini, Louis' brother. 
We went up and photographed the two houses, and Tom wanted 
to measure John Gibellini's house but no one was home. We stopped 
by at Louis, but he did not know who lived there. He recalled 
that two "Jew boys" had lived in the stone house, named Scott and 
Dave Morris. Janelle invited us into her trailer for coffee and 
cookies, and we visited and warmed up for half an hour or so. 
Valerie took some evening photos of the neon in town before 
we went to Louie's Lounge at 6:30 for drinks, dinner at the Owl 
at 7:15 (inundated by the basketball teams and cheerleaders from 
Lund, in town for a tournament), then back to Louie's to play the 
jukebox and visit until 10. 
Document: IAW-AG-F120989 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/9/89 
Informant/Event: Delmue Ranch 
Coworker : Owen, Blanton; Parks, Valerie; Carter, Tom 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG -F120989 
Saturday , December 9, 1989 
Delmue Rang , Lincoln County, NV 
FiZTffwo 
ers: Andrea Graham, Blanton Owen, Tom Carter, Valerie 
Parks 
We all had breakfast at the Owl Cafe at 7:30, than packed up 
and drove to the airport. Packed the plane as full as it ever has 
been with gear and people , and flew to the Lincoln County airport 
in Panaca, about an hour and ten minutes; flew over the Delmue 
Ranch first so Valerie could take some aerial shots . The school 
district had left a car for us , so we loaded up and stopped at 
the Cathedral Restaurant for coffee. When we came out the car 
would not start , but we managed to switch it for a big pickup. 
Drove around Panaca, which is a classic Mormon farming community, 
and stopped at the store 
or 
unch food Before driving to the 
ranch . Arrived just before noon , introduced Tom and Valerie to 
Jody Delmue, who is married to the son of one of the owners. 
Valerie took overall and detail photos of all the buildings 
on her own while Blanton and I showed Tom around . We measured the 
1880 barn, which is build up against a large rock , which forms 
the back wall . In really looking at the building , I note 
c e
d 
all 
kinds of
-- 
little details about how it was put together that I had 
never noticed before. Every time I go to the ranch, I see 
something new; the craftsmanship and imagination that went into 
the 
place are amazing an
- d
--u-n
- l
- q
-u
-e
-.
- - W-e--m-e
-a-s-u-re
- ff the whole thing and 
took pictures of some tramfn-g details. Tom said he had never seen 
a ranch quite like the Delmue place, which confirmed our 
feelings . The 1880 barn really looks alpine to me 
with 
one 
first floor -and frame upstairs, and a 
 air y steep_rDgf. The 
house also has definite old world antecedents . It is_not tvbical 
o 
evada_a-t-all, unlike Dry CrPek, but the fa• that we know it 
was built by an Italian-Swiss family makes it a valuable 
resDuTICe . 
Blanton , Tom and I looked at the inside of the house, and 
Tom did a rough plan, but Blanton and I had measured the main 
house earlier . 
We did draw and measure the vaulted cellar behind 
the house , and Jody took Tom and Blanton up into the attic while 
I helped Valerie get some interior shots of the big barn. Jody 
IAW-AG-F120989 - 
2 
was very sociable and talkative the latter part of the afternoon, 
and told some stories she had heard about how the house used to 
be used. 
After it got dark, about 4:30, Valerie came in and took 
several 4 by 5 photos of the interior -- the living room and the 
cellar. Left about 6:30, drove to Caliente where we stayed at the 
Hot Springs Motel and ate chicken fried steak at the Brandin' 
Iron. Took a relaxing hot springs bath and turned in about 10. 
Document: IAW-AG-F121089.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/10/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev.: Melka house; Damele, John and 
Roberta 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Parks, Valerie 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F121089 
Sunday, December 10, 1989 
Eureka, Nevada 
Fieldworkers: Andrea Graham, Blanton Owen, Valerie Parks 
Had breakfast at the Brandin' Iron in Caliente, then drove 
back to Panaca, loaded up the plane, and flew back to Eureka --
slower flight, about 1 1/2 hours, because of a headwind. Blanton 
dropped off Valerie and me, and took Tom back to Elko where his 
car was. Valerie and I had some lunch, then photographed the 
Catholic Church and a small stone house with several frame 
additions on the west side of town. The weather had turned quite 
cold overnight, in contrast to the very warm weather we had had 
all during November and December. 
Picked Blanton up at the airport at 1:30 and drove out to 
look at the Italian Ranch. The ranch sits in a natural hay meadow 
with plenty of water, so it is easy to see why they were so 
successful at growing things. There were very few old buildings 
left, so we did not stop, but drove on up to Newark Summit, to 
the east of Eureka in the Diamond Range. Drove back down and 
noticed another ranchstead north of the main place, with what 
appeared to be a small stone building. 
Drove back to Eureka and Valerie dropped us at the Melka's 
house while she went to take some more photos. The Melkas live in 
the stone house with the wagon wheel fence that Al Biale had said 
was built in 1926 by an Italian stonemason. We had stopped on 
Friday to ask if we could come back and measure the place, so we 
introduced ourselves and asked about the history of the house. Ed 
and Helen Melka have lived there since 1945, when he came to town 
to sink a shaft for a mining company at Ruby Hill. They are 
originally from Michigan. 
They said when they moved in the house was two apartments, 
and they moved several walls around and added a bathroom. Two of 
the three front doors were rocked up. The apartment on the left 
side was four rooms, arranged in a square, and the one on the 
right was three rooms going straight back. They also added a 
bedroom, since they had four kids. She showed me a bottle from 
IAW-AG-F121089.A - 
2 
the old brewery, which said "Bremenkampf & Regli, Eureka, Nev." 
Blanton and I measured the inside and outside of the house, 
and the cellar to the south , which is 45 feet deep and used to be 
part of the old brewery. 
Had Chinese food for dinner at the Eureka Cafe, and then 
Blanton and I went to see John Damele at 7, an interview I set up 
that afternoon . John in Benny's cousins the son of Benny 
father's older brother stau8, We talked to John and his wife 
Roberta, whose father Peter Merialdo was also Italian (he was 
interviewed in about 1973 for the University of Nevada at Reno 
Oral History Program ). We taped almost two hours of talk about 
his family history, the Tonkin Ranch he ran with his brothers 
until 1969, her family , and Italian food. She has a huge  
collection of recipes_-, and 
has written down the Italian cookIng 
she learned from her mother and grandmother. Bl;jnton_took -photos 
of several shP had written down when she was in eighth grade, and 
I copied several others . They also had a photo of--his 
grandparen 
and six of their seven kids, taken about 1900,  which 
c
pied. .,_  
Roberta grew up in town , but John was a cowboy all his life. 
They both went to college , however . Roberta is very knowledqeable 
alzout Italian--cook-
any, and ham seviaTa71- gau-gets-t-
hat--n-
i-ght he 
-good 
for an exhibit : a ravioli ro 
dge crimper and cutter, 
amd 
er 
ca  e a carzzaball• . 
She still cooks the old-time 
Genoese way , the way she learned from-ha-r-f-am-ily (although she 
has adapted come recipes for the microwave .) Finished up about 9 
p.m. 
Document: IAW-AG-F121089.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/10/89 
Informant/Event: Damele, Roberta Merialdo: recipes 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
Italian recipes from Roberta Merialdo Damele, Eureka, Nevada 
Collected Dec. 10, 1989 (see IAW-AG-F121089) 
Ravioli 
Filling: Saute 2 buds garlic in 1 T olive oil and 1/4 block 
butter; remove garlic. 
Saute one set brains in the oil/butter 
1 cooked stewing hen (or canned chicken) 
1 lb. can cooked spinach or 1 cup cooked chard 
Drain above and grind. 
Add cooked ground chicken and ground brains with oil. Add the 
following: 
1c. ground bread crumbs 
1 1/2 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 tsp. allspice 
1/4 tsp. sweet basil 
1/2 c. grated parmesan/romano cheese 
1 tsp. salt 
1/4 tsp. pepper 
4 lightly beaten eggs 
If necessary, add milk to make moist. Cover and refrigerate until 
ready to use. 
Pasta: 
In small bowl, beat 4 fresh eggs, 1 T. olive oil 
Sift 5 c. flour and 2 tsp. salt onto a board in a mound. Make a 
"well" in flour. Pour egg/oil mixture in well. Bring flour from 
sides and mix. Add 1 c. lukewarm water, mixing all into a ball. 
The more mixing, the finer the texture. Put into covered bowl to 
soften. Roll dough until very thin and elastic. 
Panforte Di Siena 
2 c. whole, unblanched almonds 
1 c. candied orange peel (coarsely chopped) 
1 c. candied lemon peel (finely chopped) 
1 tsp. grated fresh lemon peel 
1 tsp. cinnamon 
1/2 tsp. coriander 
1/4 tsp. each of cloves and allspice 
1/2 c. unsifted flour 
3/4 c. each of honey and sugar 
IAW-AG-F121089.B - 
2 
2 T. butter 
Mix almonds, candied fruits, lemon peel and spices in bowl. Stir 
flour into mix, coating each particle. Combine honey, sugar and 
butter in pan and bring to hard ball stage, stirring frequently. 
Puor hot syrup over almond mixture, blending thoroughly. Bake in 
300 degree oven for 45 minutes. Release sides of cake with a 
knife, let cool and invert on waxed paper, heavily dusted with 
powdered sugar. Keeps indefinitely stored in airtight container. 
Baking pan must be lined in paper, buttered thoroughly and 
floured.(For microwave, cook 35 minutes) 
Fritatta 
1 med. can spinach, drained 
2 T. olive oil 
1 clove garlic, minced 
salt, pepper 
1 1/2 tsp. sweet basil 
4 eggs 
1/4 c. parmesan cheese 
1/4 c. bread crumbs 
1/4 c. milk 
1 T dried parsley 
Cook garlic in oil in medium frying pan. Add other ingredients. 
Cook over med. heat for 3-5 minutes, then bake at 400 degrees for 
15 to 20 minutes. 
Focaccia: a flat yeast bread, sprinkled with salt and olive oil. 
Recipe in Ladies Home Journal, August 1989. John and Roberta 
Damele talked about a cook at the Eureka Senior Center who made 
this for awhile. 
Pane Dolce (from Roberta Damele's grandmother) 
Makes four loaves. Set oven for 350 degrees. 
2 qts lukewarm milk and 1/2 c. sugar 
4 T. yeast (dissolve in milk and sugar) 
Cream together: 
1 1/2 c. shortening or margarine 
2 1/2 c. sugar 
1 tsp. salt 
Add: 6 eggs 
2 T. cinnamon 
1 T. allspice 
1 T. vanilla 
Stir in flour to make soft dough (6-8 cups) 
Then add: 8 oz. each lemon peel and orange peel 
16 oz. citron 
OR 4 8-oz. pkgs mixed candied fruits 
IAW-AG-F121089.B - 
3 
3 lbs raisins 
2 c. walnuts 
2 c. pinenuts 
Let dough raise for 2-3 hours or until doubled. make into loaves, 
let rise again. If you make buns, bake at 400 for 25-20 minutes. 
Loaves bake for 1 hour. 
Document: IAW-AG-F121189 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/11/89 
Informant/Event: Eureka, Nev.: Melka house, Episcopal Church, 
Tonkin Ranch 
Coworker: Owen, Blanton; Parks, Valerie 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F121189 
Monday, December 11, 1989 
Eureka County, Nevada 
Had breakfast at the Owl Cafe, as usual. Valerie 
photographed the Melka house and the Episcopal Church, then drove 
us to the airport about 9:30. She went on back to Reno, and we 
spent the next hour trying to start the plane. It was about 25 
degrees, and the battery soon drained when we tried to start the 
usual way, so Blanton had to hand prop while I gave it gas. 
Finally got started a little after 11. Flew over the Three Bar 
Ranch, which Benny and John Damele's grandfather bought in 1895, 
and the Tonkin Ranch, which John Damele's father bought and John 
ran until he retired in 1969; took aerial photos of both. The 
Tonkin is surrounded by mining operations, but looks very nice. 
Numerous log buildings with dirt roofs, and a large pyramid-roof 
house. The Three Bar has two houses and the usual assortment of 
outbuildings; it sits in a flat area between two mountain ranges. 
The Tonkin sits down in a natural hay field. Also took photos of 
the Santa Fe Ranch, south of the Three Bar, and Benny's Dry Creek 
Ranch before heading home. Arrived about 1:15 in Carson City. 
r 
Document: IAW-AG-F121489 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 12/14/89 
Informant/Event: Yerington, Nev.: cemetary 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
IAW-AG-F121489 
Thursday, December 14, 1989 
Yerington, Nevada 
Left about 10 a.m. and drove to Yerington, about 60 miles 
southeast of Virginia City, in the center of Mason Valley, Lyon 
County. Spent about an hour and a half taking photos in the 
Catholic section of the cemetery. Most of the Italian graves are 
in the northeast corner of the cemetery. There are a lot of 
stones with photos, often of the person when he or she was young, 
and several wedding portraits. Lots of markers also mention the 
person's town and/or country of origin. 
The following are a sampling of names, dates and other 
information I took down while photographing. 
Aiazzi: 
Angelo 1911- 
Carlen (sic) Nevada 
Lena J. 1921-1986 
Lucca, Italy 
Maionchi: Sebostiono 
1888-1944 
Assunta 
1889-1981 
both from Lucca, italy 
Mencarini: 
Ettone 
1895-1968 
Gragano, Italy 
Amadeo (son) 1925 
Smith Valley, Nev. 
Amadeo (father) 1892-1983 
Gragano, Italy 
Paolina (mother) 1896-1981 
Rimordali 
Sancolombano, Italy. 
Wedding photo on main stone of Amadeo and 
Paolina. Also photo of a man, presumably Ettone. 
Borsini: 
David A. 
1882-1964 
Mary A. 1885-1969 
Lommori: 
Luigi 
1898-1967 
Lammori, Italy 
Marianna 
1896-1988 
Born in Argentina 
Antonio Menegotti 
1876-1928 
Alessandro Moriconi 
1896-1966 
Pargente Pardini 
1881-1947 
Liugi I. Podamia 
1861-1944 
born in Trikiana, Italy 
Angelo Pacctti 
d. 1920 
Native of Italy 
Giulio D. Tartini 
1899-1930 
Iragna, Switzerland 
Attilio Pesenti 
1903-1928 
photo 
Carlo Pesenti 
1898-1934 
photo 
Sciarani: Arnold 
1878-1960 
Personico, Switzerland 
Domenichina 
1893-1981 
Silvano D'Orba, Italy 
Paolo Masini 
1890-1929 
Sulla tomba the riposa in nostro caro Q.M.P. 
IAW-AG-F121489 - 
2 
Dini: 
Cleonice 
1896-1924 
photo 
Edward J. 1890-1965 
Rosaschi: Romeo 
1879-1976 
Somma, Italy 
Evelyn 
1903-1978 
California 
Giovanni Manzi 
1887-1936 
photo 
Qui riposa it nostro adorato padre e marito. 
Rosaschi: Ambro, Sr. 
1883-1956 
Sommo, Italy 
Belle 
1889-1957 
Yerington, Nev. 
Julio Giorgi 
1896-1979 
Lucca, Italy 
Carving of man on horse-drawn mowing machine. 
Giorgi: 
Ugo 
1898-1957 
Dina 
1898-1983 
Galantuomini: 
Martino 
1883-1956 
color photo 
Brigida 
1882-1955 
color photo 
Rosaschi: Zarra M. 1890-1953 
Parezzana, Italy 
Frank E. 1885-1976 
Somma, Italy 
photo of couple 
Moriconi: Ralph 
1910-1985 
Metato, Italy 
Teresa 
1912- 
Bodie, Calif. 
wedding photo in center with date Aug. 21, 1932 
Moriconi: Domenico 
1885-1969 
photo. 
Nato a Metato Comoune di Camaiore pro Lucca, Italy. 
Fortunata 
1886-1947 
photo 
Lucca, Italy 
Aleandro Moriconi 
1886-1965 
photo 
native of Camaiore, Italy 
Guiseppe Benassi 
1892-1962 
Camaiore, Lucca, Italy 
Chiantelli: 
Silvio 
1888-1964 
Vittoria 
1893-1973 
both natives of Bozzano, 
Italy 
Scossa: Martina 
1867-1935 
Switzerland 
Antone 
1851-1934 
Switzerland 
Quilici: 
Louise Scossa 
1904- 
Nevada 
Angelo 
1893-1977 
Lammari, Italy 
Mario D'Andrea 
1900-1975 
Switzerland 
Ricci: Joseph G. 1881-1948 
Lucca, Italy 
M. Teresa 
1885-1963 
Lucca, Italy 
Luigi Parenti 
1861-1937 
Bozzano, Italy 
Margaroli: 
Angelo 
1881-1946 
Giuseppina 
1887-1940 
small granite block between these two stones with an 
anvil and blacksmith tools carved on it. Angleo was a 
blacksmith and built many of the hay derricks in Mason 
Valley. 
Other Italian names in cemetery include Grulli, Fabri, Maionchi, 
Baldini, Tartini, Menesini, Tognetti, Viani, Domenicucci, 
Simonetti, Buonamici, Pardini and Spezzi. 
The cemetery is very well maintained, and quite large. Most of 
the graves have flowers, and some have statues. The Yerington 
cemetery has about the largest concentration of Italian names of 
any I have seen in Nevada, and the consistent use of photos is 
very striking. 
After lunch I drove to the Quilici Ranch south of town for 
I 
IAW-AG-F121489 - 
3 
an appointment with Louise Quilici. However, I met her son on the 
way out driving her to a hair appointment, which she had 
forgotten about when I called that morning. 
I rescheduled for 
Saturday morning, and drove home. Hade to make my way through a 
herd of cattle that was being driven up the road by three of four 
cowboys. 
I was reminded of how settled and agricultural Mason Valley 
is, especially compared with the ranching country of eastern 
Nevada. The Walker River flows through the valley, and the first 
white settlers in 1860 found the Paiute Indians already 
irrigating to encourage several natural root crops and grasses. 
The Anglos quickly expanded the system and brought in cattle and 
hay. The earliest settlers were of German or English heritage; 
Italians and Portuguese came later, often working as farm hands 
for several years before saving up enough to buy their own 
places. Because they bought existing ranches, there is little 
evidence of Italian influence on architecture (although at least 
two bread ovens remain). 
In the early days the valley was known for all kinds of row 
crops, vegetables and fruits. Farmers later specialized in 
potatoes, onions, garlic and alfalfa hay. The potatoes are almost 
all gone, although long half-underground potato cellars remain. 
Hay is now the major cash crop by far, and a substantial quantity 
of onions and garlic are also produced. Cattle and sheep are also 
raised, and the residents refer to themselves as ranchers rather 
than farmers. Italian names remain very prominent in local 
ranching and the business and political community. Just today I 
noticed Rosaschi Aerial Spraying, Grulli Towing, and Dini's 
casino/restaurant (owned by Joe Dini, Nevada State Assemblyman 
and Speaker of the House for the last several years). 
Document: IAW-AG-F052890.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Graham, Andrea 
Date: 5/28/90 
Informant/Event: Census information for Eureka County, Nevada, 
1880 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
1880 Census, Eureka County, Nevada 
Ruby Hill: no Italians, mostly English, Irish, Welsh. 
North Ruby Hill: Itlaian charcoal burner, Swiss teamster. 
New Town: Italian baker 
South Ruby Hill: Italian and Swiss woodchoppers and coalburners, 
but very few. 
Fish CreP 
wells• Italian nzaihurners; sheepherder. 
Antelope Valley: Swiss coalburners, including one named 
Gubileni. 
Williams Range: Swiss and Italian coalburners, including several 
named Delmue. 
Prospect Mountain: lots of different nationalities, including 
Mexican, Hessian, Danish, English. 
Willows Range: italian and Swiss charcoal burners, several 
Delmues. 
Fish Creek Mountains, Spring Valley, Secret Canyon, Cedar Creek: 
lots of Italian and Swiss coalburners. 
Eureka: Italian and Swiss saloonkeeper, hostler, photographer, 
crystallizer, refiner, teamster, fruit peddler, blacksmith, boots 
& shoe maker, boarding house, farm worker, restaurant, coal 
dealer, cook, tinsmith, knife grinder, miner, refinery worker, 
day laborer, farmer, banker, printer, storekeeper, bookkeeper, 
butcher, furnace worker. 
Alpha: Italian and Swiss coalburners 
Mineral Hill: Italian miners 
Pine Station: Italian miners and coalburners. 
I was looking in the census to see if there were any Italian 
stonemasons and found none in 1880. 
Document : IAW-AG-F052890.B 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Graham, Andrea 
Date : 5/28/90 
Informant/Event: Notes on Peter Merialdo oral history 
Coworker: 
Site: 4 
U 
Notes from Peter Merialdo Oral History, 
University of Nevada , Reno Oral History Program 
Peter B. Merialdo born 1899 in Eureka. 
Father Bernardo Merialdo , born 1857 in Genoa, Italy. Father 
arrived New York, took railroad to Palisade , then Eureka in 1878. 
,His older brother had been there since 1872 ; they came to burn 
charcoal. 
Mother Mary born 1864 in Naples , Italy, came to Eureka 1881. 
Mary married a man named Rebaleati , he died in 1884; she then 
married Merialdo , who had quit charcaarburn n
g-a_
n_d_gone_to work 
in the mines . Hey wo 
n- -raspect-Mountain In the Fou-rth-o-f 
July-Ii-ne , 
maamd 
S2 _ 
a r 
ay . In the earl  189Ds h_e•t i 
n t.o 
business in Eureka , run i 
na a ar and-b•• 
=g-house,.-_ The 
buss
—
'n
- e 
was closed in 1918 because of Prohibition . His mother 
was a "very, very good cook " and passed down her recipes to 
Peter 's sisters and his wife. 
Recalls sleigh riding in winter . There was a band called the 
Lobster Club Band, played for Fourth of July, New Year 's, Labor 
Day festivities , which also included parades, dances , drilling 
contests , baseball games. His father was president of the Italian 
Be• 
o 
y, they had a biq dance Oct. 12 each year.  The 
Society looked after sick people, families of men hurt or ki'•l Le
-
in the mines. 
Funeral customs : wreath on the door , sitting up woth the body, 
bad luck to count the wagons in the procession . Mentions Chinese 
funerals. 
The Ruby Hill mines produced until 1910; the Diamond and Windfall 
mines were smaller, but produced longer. 
Phil Paroni was the local butcher and grocer, used to play the 
accordion. 
After his parents closed the saloon they sold bread, made in a 
big fire-brock oven that held 70 or 75 loaves . His mother could 
hold her hand inside and judge the correct temperature, but his 
father tested with a piece of paper held inside on the end of a 
stick because he didn 't trust her method . They built a fire in 
the oven, removed the wood, swabbed it out, put bread in with a 
paddle. Cut a cross on the top of the loaf. Also baked fruitcakes 
IAW-AG-F052890.B - 
2 
for Christmas. Peter had an argument with his father over tearing 
the oven down--he wanted to keep it. It was built by the same man 
who built the rock buildings at the Stewart Indian School in 
Carson City. 
Peter was married in 1920, elected county Recorder in 1922. He 
had worked in the mines for a few months after finishing school, 
and then got a job in the Recorder's Office in 1919. 
Peter married Dolores Mann, born in Salt Lake City 1900, came to 
Eureka in 1912. They had two daughters.