"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr14
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942
AFS 6411A
Cut A1
David Helfeld: Yes, I think I . . . Well speaking from the viewpoint of a City College student it's very
obvious how the war has affected us. This term sixty-one percent of the students enrolled as tech
men, only thirty-nine percent in the various courses in liberal arts and science college. Obviously,
our society is tending toward a technocracy and very obviously those boys who are twenty will
either have to give up their studies or hurry them up. It seems to me that the degree is going to
be cheapened. And within two and a half years you're going to get the same diploma that took
you four years to get in the previous times. And it seems to me that these students in this college
are responding very finely to the war effort, the college's war effort and the total war effort of the
country. [Interviewer speaks softly in the background] Well, what do you want me to say?
David Helfeld: Dear Mr. President, my name is David Helfeld. I live 3604 31st Avenue, Long Island
City. I happen to have the honor to be the president of the student council, College of the City of New
York. I'm only nineteen now and I have a year before I graduate. Before I become twenty, I intend to
join the army. But there's just one thought I'd like to get across to you. It's a feeling which horrifies all
the boys at our college. And that is Negro discrimination in the army and in the navy. It seems to me
to be an example, a very horrible example, of fascism within democracy.
When we here at the college hear that there are Negro, that there are Negro, purely Negro regiments
and that Negroes are only allowed to do slop duty on the battle ships of our navy. It makes us feel
very bad. We here realize that there are three wars to be fought. The physical war against the fascist
nations — Germany, Italy, and Japan, and the war from within against anti-Semitism, Jim Crow, and
factors of that nature. We feel that as long as we have fascism at home it is rather futile to fight it
on the outside if we are not at the same time fighting it from within. I thank you for listening. [long
pause] Besides the two wars I've just mentioned I feel that there is a third war, a very important one,
namely the war to make a proper peace. Peace which will do away with all wars in the future.
Cut A2
Charles Atlas: My dear Mr. President, my name is Charles Atlas and I reside at 930 DeCalve Avenue
in Brooklyn. I was born in Canada and I've been a resident of the United States for the past twelve
years. The message I wish to convey is one that has been called to my attention by numerous friends
of mine who are at present active members of the United States Armed Services. Many of these
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr14
fellows have obtained furlough only to find that financial difficulties have prevented them from
visiting their friends and the people they love. I therefore deem it quite important that all members
of the Armed Forces of the United States should be granted free communication and free traveling
during furloughs. Furthermore, as an adjunct to this, I believe they should be given free mailing
privileges to keep in communications with one's home and friends, will heighten the morale of every
member of the Armed Services. Thank you.
Cut A3-A4: [blank]