American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project collection (AFC 1982/009) 
afcl982009_05_060 
Documentation - Field Notes - Gerri Johnson 
BI^UE RIDGE PARKWAY FOLKLIFE PROJECT 1978 
r 
Field Notes 
Gerri Johnson 
August 6 - 10i00 a.m. - Drove with AJ and PM in search of 
a Sunday morning service to attend. Headed out Route 89 
from Galax to the Parkway, south to Route 18, and then 
west on that secondary road. After passing several churches, 
we noticed some elderly people strolling into a modern red 
brick church house on our left, and since it was already 
10:45, we decided this was the service to attend. PM 
turned the car around, drove up a small incline, and parked. 
AJ suggested we hover around the entrance to request per¬ 
mission to go inside the church. A young couple with 
children walked up to us, but they were not members of the 
congregation although they assured us we would be welcome 
to participate in the morning worship. We entered and sat 
in a pew on the righthand side of the church towards the 
middle. 
The interior of the church is very plain. The pews 
were made from a light-colored wood, perhaps pine, as was 
the wainscotting that covered the lower half of the walls. 
There were no decorations on the white walls, only two rows 
of coat racks placed rather high on the left hand wall near 
the front of the church. The clear glass windows had no 
curtains or shades on them. The pulpit stood at the front 
with approximately ten rows of pews on each side facing it. 
The only decoration in the whole church, a carefully arranged 
vase of flowers, stood on a small table in front of the 
pulpit with a book and collection plate next to it. Two 
small stands were carefully placed on each side of the 
pulpit. 
The congregation numbered about sixty or seventy, 
and they informally divided themselves into the singers 
and non-singers. Most were elderly; there were only five 
children in the whole church and only two or three young 
couples. Those members who wished to sing came in through 
a door on the side and sat in the right hand side pew. 
Only one elderly man sat in the left side pew. Other 
2 
members who wished to chat entered through the back door 
and sat in the pews directly facing the front. The elders 
seemed to congregate at the lefthand front of the church. 
The women, some with white gloves on, smiled and greeted 
one another even while the singing was in progress. 
The singing of hymns began at 10:35. Elder Higgins 
sat in the front pew and selected the first few hymns from 
the gospel hymnbook. Members of the congregation then 
selected hymns by simply stating a number from the newer 
book. The third or fourth hymn selected followed the 
new text but was actually lined out by the members of the 
congregation. 
At approximately 11:00 a.m., Elder Higgins began the 
service. He started with a brief, somewhat informal 
introduction to the sermon for the day; then, the congre¬ 
gation sang a hymn while standing followed by a prayer. 
Elder Higgins then gave the Biblical text from which the 
sermon was taken. The explanation of the text involved 
the importance of works in illustrating faith. Two kinds 
of works were particularly emphasized--visiting widows and 
taking care of orphans. The sermon was preached in a very 
low key, relaxed fashion with Elder Higgins moving almost 
imperceptibly into chanting twice during the sermon. He 
included one homely anecdote at the end. 
At the end of the sermon, the handshaking began. First 
the entire congregation shakes hands with those closest to 
them, reaching over as many as two pews to clasp hands. 
Next the right side of the congregation began moving toward 
the front of the church to embrace Elder Higgins and the 
other elders who had mysteriously gathered at the front of 
the left side of the church. Row by row the people moved 
to the outside aisle and up past Higgins. Some merely shook 
his hand while others embraced him; some women wept. As 
they proceeded back to their seats, they shook the hands of 
each member of the congregation. The left hand side then 
proceeded to the front, shook hands, and returned to their 
seats. Elder Higgins ended the service by making some 
announcements concerning afternoon services at Crossroads 
3 
and mentioning those parishoners who were ill. 
After the service, we lingered outside. Mrs. Spencer 
came to speak to us and invited us to her home for lunch. 
Mrs. Jess Higgins also came to speak to us, and PM talked 
with one of the younger women, Mrs. Spencer's daughter, who 
happens to be visiting from Ohio. AJ and PM examined the 
Crab Creek Primitive Baptist Church history as it it outlined 
on a marker near the cemetery. 
We returned to Galax by way of Routes 624 and 622. 
Near Delhart I spotted a handmade "Delhart Carpentry" 
sign near a house with some interesting chairs on the 
porch. Again we turned around and pulled into the driveway. 
Mr. Paul Vaughan came out onto the porch and talked to us. 
His grandfather took the first furniture from this region 
to be sold in other markets. The rich Vaughans developed 
the furniture business in this area while his father was 
simply a carpenter and upholsterer by trade. Government 
regulations have worked against the small furniture-maker; 
it is just too difficult for him to turn out a bed or a 
chair that meets all the government standards. Vaughan 
does carpentry and construction work now, and he would 
like to do his upholstery work from beginning to end. 
As it is he can only pursue his craft in a fragmented way, 
repairing chairs every now and then. He has taught 
upholstery in the local high school, but he really believes 
that this is just not an area for upholstery work. He 
gave us the names of two men who used to make chairs in 
the Galax area. 
We returned to Galax for lunch, and at 1:45 headed 
for the Crossroads Primitive Baptist Church off Route 18. 
This Church seemed to be older and, in fact, the seed out 
of which the Crab Creek Church grew. The interior was 
much the same as the earlier Church; again the only 
decoration in the interior were the flowers on a small 
table in front of the pulpit. The wainscotting and the 
pews were of a darker wood and the doors were at the front 
and rear of the church instead of at the side. 
Only about 15 members were in attendance. This time 
about nine elders sat in a side pew^ar^gt^o _^f these 
4 
seemed to lead the singing. One elder did not sing at all. 
Elder Hashe entered the church after the singing had started, 
and, as expected, shook hands all around while the hymns were 
sung. This group did not use the newer gospel hymnal hut lined 
out all of the songs. The younger singer at times deferred 
to the older man in leading the songs although the younger 
singer had a stronger voice. 
Elder Hashe's sermon followed the same structure as 
Elder Higgins' had earlier in the day although he did not 
chant it. Elder Hashe is a generally more melancholic 
person and his voice had a mournful quality to it. At 
about 2:30 a member of the congregation suggested that it 
was about time to start. Elder Hashe gave a brief 
introduction of the sermon; then, the group sang a hymn 
while standing and followed that with a prayer. Elder 
Hashe kneeled behind the pulpit while he prayed. He read 
the Biblical verses for the day and followed that with an 
explanation of the text. Generally his sermon concerned the 
importance of tradition and handing down the right wisdom 
and values to the younger generation. Again the entire 
congregation shook hands all around; then, starting from 
the right hand side of the Church, each individual walked 
up to the front of the pulpit, shook hands and/or embraced 
Elder Hashe, shook hands with the elders assembled at the 
left side of the church and the other members of the 
congregation, and finally returned to their places. Elder 
Hashe mentioned the services to be held that evening and 
the following week, and the worship was completed. 
Before we could leave the church, members came up to 
greet PM, AJ, CF, and myself. Roy Truitt and his parents 
gave us a particularly warm welcome. We looked at the 
graveyard next to the church; the markers here seem to be 
older than those at the Crab Creek Church. There is also 
a small pavilion situated at the top of the hill near the 
graveyard. 
We drove back to Galax by way of Routes l4l4, 1412, 
1415, 1407, 629, and 626. 
5 
August _2 - 9 00 a.m. - Went to visit Roma Williams at the 
local Chamber of Commerce one block from our motel. She 
suggested that I contact Etoile Berry at the Rooftop of 
Virginia Craft Shop on Main Street. She also gave me the 
names of two county extension agents to contact: Tom Tabor 
for Carroll Countylocated in Hillsville, and Dick Cassell 
of Grayson County, located in Independence. Apparently they 
are listed in the telephone books at VPI Extension agents. 
For local storytellers, Ms. Williams suggested that I get 
in touch with Munsey Pool at The Gazette and Commonwealth 
Attorney, John Perry Alderman. The book Grayson County: A 
History in Words and Pictures by Bettye-Lou Fields is 
available at the Serendipity Bookstore. There is also a 
new museum being built (I later found out by funds from 
the Vaughans) on West Stuart Drive next to the library. 
Ms. Williams thought that the county agents would be the 
best source of information for farming practices in this 
region. She told me that the oldest Church in Galax is 
the Friends’ Church at Oldtown and Jefferson Streets. The 
events that are important in the community according to the 
Chamber are the Old Timey Days in June (Lib Stanford is 
a good source of information for this), the Hillsville Gun 
Show and Flea Market held on Labor Day Weekend, and the 
Lord's Acre Harvest Sale held the second week in October 
here in Galax. For the latter event, the Churches in the 
area get together and prepare crafts to sell on that one 
day; they organize apple-butter making, quiltings, and 
molasses grinding before the event and sell the products 
of their labor at a Church booth. The organization that 
works out the details for the event is called the United 
Workers for Christ. Mrs. Linda Litz, who works at the 
Galax Phone Company, is the secretary of the organization. 
Ms. Williams also told me about musicians in the area 
including Whitt Sizemore, James Lindsay, and Heath Higgins 
and the Peachbottom Band. Storytellers she mentioned 
include Mike Crabill, who is very ill, and Glen Pless. 
Ms. Williams had just had her family reunion this weekend, 
and we discussed that event for a few minutes. She said 
that the reunion run from the big event to the small 
6 
intimate gathering involving only the immediate members of 
the family. The Martin and Oshorne family recently had 
their reunion and hired buses to take the relatives on a 
tour of the old family homes in the region. The next big 
family gathering is the Cox Family Reunion; the person to 
contact regarding that is Jessie Cooley, who works at the 
Family Dollar Store. Ms. Williams gave me a copy of the 
Galax-Carroll-Grayson Virginia booklet the Chamber has 
prepared, and I bought their Bicentennial book. Both 
ladies were as helpful and informative as they could be. 
10:30 a.m. - Stopped by the United Inter-Mountain Telephone 
Company in Galax to attend to Folklife Center business and 
see Linda Litz. She told me that some 38 to 40 churches 
are involved in the Lord's Acre Sale,and she invited me to 
a meeting to be held that evening at the West Galax Methodist 
Church on West Stuart Drive at 7:30 p.m. Her phone number 
at home is 236-6395 and at work is 236-9911. 
11:00 a.m. - Stopped by Roy’s Diamond Center to talk with 
Roy Truitt and find out how to reach Elder Higgins. We 
talked somewhat about the Crossroads Church, which has 
some 40 members. Their regular meeting time is the third 
Saturday night and the third Sunday morning. He was very 
apologetic because some of the most steady members and best 
singers were missing the Sunday we attended. Elder Jess 
Higgins is Roy Truitt's cousin and an insurance salesman 
when he's not preaching. His home phone number is 236-5574, 
although Truitt told me he is difficult to get ahold of 
sometimes. 
11:00 a.m. - Went to Rooftop of Virginia to see Mrs. Etoile 
Berry, the crafts developer for the Rooftop of Virginia 
Community Action Programs. She is a native of the area and 
an eager and energetic promoter of what she considers 
native handicrafts. She is also more interested in 
developing crafts and craftsmen than she is in discovering 
traditional crafts. She talked to me at some length about 
several people she would like to see us help. Her first 
interest is Mrs. Edna Pierce of Galax who has preserved her 
husband's collection of woodcarvings in tact. The collection 
includes portraits of distinguished people, animals, and 
7 
other types of figures. Mrs. Pierce would like to sell 
the collection as a whole including the tools; in fact, 
she will not split it up. Mrs. Berry also showed me the 
drawings of Edna Newman, who has "been dead for 5 or 6 
years. The paintings include local scenes, landscapes 
that might have been copied from magazines, and floral 
scenes. The family sounds particularly interesting. 
They live in a three room house near the river bottom 
so that one has to walk the last fev^She home. They 
don't care about the public too much, but Mrs. Berry 
calls them "the salt of the earth." The husband has 
kept a diary of current events for the last thirty- 
five years. The daughter is a cook of some reknown, and 
recently there was an article about her in the local 
newspaper. 
Mrs. Berry also mentioned a potter of some fame in 
the area, Willie Cole. He made a replica of the pottery 
process that used to be common in this area when they 
used clay from the river bottom to make the pots. The 
replica is quite primitive because it was built when 
Willie's eyes were failing, but Mrs. Berry still has it 
in her attic. Willie can be reached through his daughter 
who works at the Sears office in the local shopping center. 
The only quilter Mrs. Berry mentioned is Ethel Ward (326-3052) 
who lives on Adams Street in Galax. Thelma Melton (236-5544) 
is a rug weaver of some repute (Kyle Creed also mentioned 
her name to Blanton Owen). She is a widow who lives near 
the Parkway of Route 612. She later described two ways to 
get to her home. First follow Route 9? to this side of the 
Oakland Schoolhouse, turn to the right and follow this 
road to 608, follow 608 to Route 612. Her mailbox marked 
Wade Melton is on the left. A second way to get to her 
house is to follow the Parkway towards Roanoke; between 
milepost 211 and 212 turn off to the left. Hers is the 
first house on the right. 
Mrs. Berry also mentioned a Mrs. Fletcher who sews, 
cans, and dries apples and beans. Later, however, she 
didn't remember the woman's name or address. 
8 
For local history, Mrs. Berry suggested calling the 
Grayson County Historical Society; Mr. Paul Cox of Baywood 
is a good contact. The Wytheville Community College also 
has an oral history program with a Mr. James Presgraves as 
its Director. She reiterated the notion that the molasses 
making is done by the Churches in the area, but she also 
added that Whitetop Factory is a good source for syrup 
making. 
Two women in the ar^are particularly prolific canners. 
Mrs. May (Herman) Willie has a big garden, can, and makes 
corn shucks (?). She lives on the new Route 58 toward 
Baywood; to reach her home turn left at the deep cut 
where 58 becomes a two lane road. Then drive up 150 yards 
until you see an entrance with two mailboxes, and she lives 
in a red brick ranch house. Her phone number is 326-8240. 
Mrs. Cleo (C. M.) Schuyler lives on Route 2 on the other 
side of the parkway. Her phone number is 326-5468. Mrs. 
Berry also mentioned a Mrs. Bessie (Gilmer) Bedsaul. 
Etoile Berry invited me to go with her tomorrow to 
the two other shops her organization has in the mountains. 
She also offered to take me to Mrs. Pierce's home and to 
Mrs. Newman's home next week. I'm not sure how much she 
is willing to help us or how much she views us as just 
another agency working in the region to help her with 
her projects. I did feel that she dodged my questions 
when I asked her about particular names of particular crafts¬ 
people. In any event, I agreed to meet her at 2:00 p.m. 
to view Mrs. Pierce's woodcarving collection, and put off 
any final decision as to whether to meet her tomorrow. 
Her home phone number is 236-2792. 
2:00 p.m.- Met Etoile Berry at the Craft shop, 
and she drove me by the home of Ethel Ward. We went to 
Mrs. Pierce's home, down Oldtown Road across the river 
to Oak Street. She lives at 103 Oak and her phone number 
is 236-2754. Mrs. Berry then drove me back to the motel; 
I picked up my own car and returned to Mrs. Pierce's. 
2:30 p.m. - Edna Pierce is a small, elderly woman who has 
been in poor health recently. She had to have her knees 
operated on and while she was recuperating, she fell out 
9 
of "bed and broke her hip. She would like to "place" her 
collection of woodcarvings in some appropriate place in 
part because she needs the money but also because she 
senses that she will not always be around to protect and 
care for it. 
The carvings are placed on special shelves in three 
rooms of the houses the bedroom, the living room, and the 
dining room. The raciest statues--those of nude women-- 
are in the bedroom where they're not likely to be seen by 
the casual visitor. The bulk of the collection is carefully 
arranged on one side of the beige living room. Five 
of the larger busts are lined up beneath the television set, 
two sit on top of it, and several more have been placed 
carved corner shelves made by Charlie for this purpose. 
Charlie started carving animals, actually a squirrel, 
in 195^' When the Pierces moved to Galax in 1956, he began 
to carve busts of famous people. He died in May, 1969, and 
Mrs. Pierce promised to keep the collection together. Since 
that day she seems to have dedicated her life to Charlie's 
memory and his woodcarvings. 
The collection consists of approximately 75 pieces. 
Some of the pieces ares Christ on the cross, 2 Popes, 
3 women in bikinis, a reclining bathing beauty, 2 donkeys 
(one carved in 1968), Indians, 3 boys with a dog including 
a dog trying to get a sandwich, dogs, lions, bears, squirrels, 
busts of Lincoln, Kruschev, Jackie Kennedy, and Sam Rayburn. 
Several of the carvings have other materials attached to 
them. The donkeys have plastic eyes and teeth set into the 
heads, while the elephant has a plastic tail. The bust of 
Truman includes a pair of wire eyeglasses carefully placed 
on the face. Mrs. Pierce's phone number is 236-275^- 
I left the Pierce home at 3!^5 and drove over to Ethel 
Ward's home on Adams and McArthur Streets in Galax. Much 
to my disappointment, she doesn't make many full size quilts 
anymore but concentrates on the quilted pillows and quilted 
wallcoverings. She showed me several nine-patch quilts she 
had made; they were quilted in a fan pattern which she draws 
on by attaching a piece of string to chalk and swinging 
it across the quilt in two or three inch intervals. The 
quilts are filled with polyester although they used to use 
cotton as their filler. Ms. Ward and I chatted for a few 
minutes before I left at approximately 4:45. 
That evening at 8»00, I slipped into the meeting of the 
United Workers for Christ at the West Galax Methodist 
Church. Approximately thirty-eight people were there, 
although not a majority of the churches in the organization 
were represented. They discussed the usual problems 
surrounding the Lord's Acre Day planned for October 14: 
where to park all the cars, the appropriate amount of space 
for each booth, a possible rain date, publicity, and prices. 
They decided that there would be no set prices except for 
the hamburgers and hot dogs sold by the concessions. In 
the past too many items have been sold before they reached 
the sale; thus, they hope by lifting the price ceiling 
more of the items will actually make it to the sale. The 
molasses, apple butter, and potatoes can all be sold for 
whatever the market can bear. The group decided that no 
used items can be sold at Lord's Acre, and that the items 
presented should really be the "First Fruits of the Lord." 
They asked that no sales take place during the thirty 
minute worship service beginning at 10:00. 
At the end of the meeting, Linda Litz introduced me 
and I gave a brief talk about our research. Several people 
came up and talked to me afterwards. Mrs. James (Ann) 
Jaypo and Pastor Mary Milner of 222 Calloway Street in 
Galax (236-5332) were black residents of area who attended. 
Ann Fayne of Oldtown Street in Galax (236-6229 home; 
236-6472 shop) told me about the quilters in her church. 
She mentioned Elsie Pagett who quilts in her own home. 
An elderly man, Mr. Gaylen Wine, of the Church of the 
Brethern at Woodlawn four miles west of Galax on 620 one 
mile from Interstate 77. told me about the quilters in his 
church. Mrs. Everett Sizemore of Hillsville (728-9228) 
is "mighty particular about her quilts," and Mrs. Mary 
Robinson and Mrs. Roscoe Martin (?) also quilt. I later 
talked with Mrs. Sizemore on the telephone and discovered 
that the church did not begin quilting until 1952 when 
they built a new church. Many women quilt, but only two 
or three are at every quilting. They won't begin meeting 
12 
until the end of Septemher. Mrs. Sizemore cans and dries 
food as well. She lives on Route 7^0 near Interstate 77* 
Take 77 west and turn off at the first road after you pass 
under one bridge. This will be Route 620. Turn right on 
620 and follow it to 7^0; the curve bears to the right, but 
turn to the left. Route 7^0 crosses under the Interstate. 
Take a right on the bank (?); Sizemore's house is the first 
on the left. 
Another quilter is Sandy Dills. 
Mrs. Ralph Ward (236-5359) gave me the names of some 
musicians. Kyle Creek was mentioned as was a blind 
guitarist named "Spud." She saw him and an unknown 
flat-footer at the Nutrition Center at the First Christian 
Church in Hillsville. Spud was playing a guitar and a harp 
at the same time. 
Mr. Clay Hame at Fries (744-2271) is in charge of the 
molasses making for the Fairview Church in Ivanhoe, and 
Fred Duncan (apparently the president of the United Workers 
for Christ) is the project leader for the Mount Vail 
Methodist Church. They make brooms, quilts, molasses, 
and apple butter beginning the last of September. He 
lives at 401 Long Street in Galax (236-3004) and canned 
300 quarts of beans this summer. 
Richard Hamlin started the Lord's Acre activity in 
this area in 1951• Barbara Catrin is also the project 
manager for the West Galax Methodist Church. Her father 
is an upholsterer and furniture maker. A good place to 
eat in the area is Shatley Springs, some 32 miles away at 
the Mouth of Wilson. 
August 8 - At 10:00 I started out on a brief survey of the 
area between here and Mabry Mill. Saw an interesting 
juxtaposition of a brick rambler and an I House at Orchard 
Gap about 20 miles from Mabry Mill. Stopped at the Mayberry 
General Store four miles from Mabry Mill at milepost 180 - 
181. Elva Phillips, a fiddler and guitarist from Martinsville 
(738/638-4364) Virginia 24112,was in the store peddling her 
group's latest record. She plays with the Pumpkin Vines, 
and Addie Wood considers her better than Campbell. 
13 
The Mayberry Trading Post was established in 1892, 
but Addie Wood has only had it for the last ten years. The 
store, and Addie herself, seem to be a center for community 
activity and organization. In the fall, she demonstrates 
the making of apple butter and molasses in the area next 
to the store. She sells some local crafts including quilts, 
half moon and stars bric-a-brac shelves, and arrowheads 
from Illinois. Local people stop in for a soda and a chat, 
while tourists ask directions or picnic on the tables out¬ 
side the store. Addie also sells the records of several 
local musicians and occasionally hires them to perform at 
her Sunday events. 
Addie gave me several leads. Mrs. Glenn Williams in 
Claudeville near the powerhouse between Stuart and Mount 
Airy braids rugs. Mrs. Callie Quesenberry of Galax also 
braids rugs but is not as good as Mrs. Williams. The best 
quilter is Crystal Cruise, who lives off Route 58 in Vesta. 
Clara Harrell from Meadows of Dan also quilts. She lives 
on Route 600 just off Route 58 towards Hillsville. Mr. 
L. S. Light, a broommaker and basketmaker who also rives 
boards and weaves chairbottoms, lives on Route 6l4 towards 
Bell's Spur. Addie had a basket she made on a shelf in the 
store. She said she wasn't very proud of it; she had figured 
out how to weave it by reading Foxfire. The molasses making 
and apple butter making events will be held in September and 
October. 
At approximately 12:30, I headed for Mabry Mill, had 
lunch, and looked over the craft shop. I talked with Mr. 
Little, who told me that most of his crafts were not local. 
He did mention the Whorley House (Park Service #103) which 
is near the Rocky Knob Cabins. He said he met Arthur 
Wheeling (362-5142 ?) who had lived in the house and whose 
mother was born there. The family had had the 
house built and paid for it with apples. Wheeling lives in 
Elliston, Virginia near Christiansburg Mountain. 
Little mentioned Mr. Jack Guy (704/297-2650) who runs 
the Northwest Trading Post eighty miles south of here. 
Mr. Guy is apparently very good at locating local craftsmen 
in the Beechcreek area. 
14 
After lunch, I headed hack to the Mayberry General 
Store, took some photos, and started towards Galax on 
Route 58. I stopped at the red brick rambler home of 
Clara Harrell to look at her quilts. She brought out 
four of them for me to see; three were appliqued 
and one was a nine patch with fan-shaped quilting. 
Mrs. Harrell seemed to be a rather unhappy woman. She 
told me that she and her husband had left the dairy farm 
because they could no longer run it, but this house would 
never be home. She also dries food on a special rack that 
fits over her furnace. (" 9513- 
Mrs. Harrell told me of several other quilters in the 
area. Claudia Wood also lives on Route 600 on the other 
side of Route 58. You take a right at the curve and her 
house is the first mailbox on the right. Jean Domingus 
lives on Route 58 towards Hillsville about one half mile 
from Mrs. Harrell. Her's is the first house on the left. 
I left Mrs. Harrell's at about 4:30, and while driving 
up Route 58 spotted an interesting house on Route 74? to the 
left on Route 58. It is an I house of log construction with 
double stone chimneys, doors on two stories, and a porch 
the length of the building. The clapboard on the side had 
been stripped away exposing the logs underneath. A farm 
on Routes 58 and 664 had an interesting log outbuilding. 
I stopped at Laurel Forks, took a number of photos of 
the interesting buildings there, and returned to Galax at 
6:00 p.m. 
August 9 - CF, AJ, BO, and I went to Clara Pierce's home 
to see her collection of woodcarvings. During the hour 
or so that we chatted, she told us the story of her 
husband's death and read to us an obituary she had written 
three years later. She has kept all the photos he used 
as models for his carving, enlargements of snapshots she 
took of him, and miscellaneous materials relating to his 
carving in a plastic shoebox on top of the stove in the 
room next to the living room. We were all impressed with 
her intense devotion to Charlie's memory and his collection; 
his presence could almost be felt in the room. AJ noticed 
that the Christ on the cross figure looked very much like 
Charlie. 
15 
CF stayed after the rest of the group left at 11:00 
a.m. to take some photos. He took several shots of the 
fgures as they are located in the living room and separate 
photos of the following: small Indian, seated dog, MacArthur 
bust, Jackie Kennedy, the first squirrel, pair of donkeys, 
the lion tamep lion, nude with black hair, three Roosevelts, 
and the unfinished Pope. He also took pictures of the tools 
her handwritten obituary, and several old photographs 
including Charlie with the terrier, Charlie at the workbench, 
Charlie with his art, and her at his grave. CF also made 
some interesting observations. The raised hand is a familiar 
motif for Charlie's work; the bikini has been painted on some 
of the nudes after the figure was carved, and the glasses 
have been shifted from Truman to Eisenhower. In conversation, 
CF learned that Mrs. Pierce was a Vaughan from the Providence 
community. 
At 1:00 AJ and I met Elder and Mrs. Higgins at the 
Steer Palace for lunch. Alan and Elder Higgins discussed 
the church, church music, and fox hunting. Apparently 
Elder Higgins is president of the fox hunting association 
and sees himself as their advocate in promoting legal 
changes to protect fox hunting. Higgins gave Alan several 
names of people to contact. Clinton Gold of Hillsville, 
is a Primitive Baptist singer and plays the autoharp. J. C. 
Pierce is a clockmaker and singer from the Coal Creek area 
of Galax, Route 3 to be exact. The Higgins themselves have 
a Sunday morning service at 8:00 a.m. on WB0B in Galax, 
1460 on the dial. The Fox hunting club of this region 
meets seven miles southeast of Galax. The Walker fox 
hound is the state dog of Virginia (American?). 
While Alan talked with Elder Higgins, I discussed 
general living conditions in the area with Mrs. Higgins 
and the Higgins' daughter, Pam Musser. Mrs. Higgins said 
that the reason so many women in the area can and dry 
fodd is simply to make ends meet. They work in factories 
all day for minimum wages, raise a big garden, and then 
can all the food they grow. According to Mrs. Higgins, 
women here look forty-five years old when their thirty 
because of the hard work. 
Alan and I sat on one side of the table and the 
Higginses sat on the other side: Elder Higgins, his wife, 
and daughter. The mother seems to be an intermediary 
between father and daughter. Pam, who is separated from 
her husband, wore blue jeans and her hair is bleached. 
She studied cosmetology although she can't get a job in 
the area because she dropped her studies to get married. 
She said that most of her friends have left because 
they can’t find work here, and any job that is available 
demands that you work "your ass off" for nothing. She 
talked about the Fiddler's Convention, of which her 
parents disapprove, and spoke of having to pay for the 
one mistake she made. Harold Mitchell, who is her next 
door neighbor, broadcasts the fiddler's convention for 
WBOB. Our lunch ended at 3:00 and I headed home to 
nurse my headache. 
August 11 - After packing up all of my gear for the move 
to Mt. Airy, I went to see Thelma Melton, the rug weaver. 
She lives at Route 2, Box 454, Galax, 24333. I arrived 
at her home at 12:30 and we talked for about an hour 
while she showed me around her home. She lives in an 
older saddlebag house and uses woven rugs on the floor. 
Her loom building is one she built especially for the old 
loom given to her by Jessie Cooley. She has been weaving 
since her husband died in 1969. and although the "poverty 
program" was involved in getting her started, she seems 
to have learned from an older man in the community. 
We had lunch and went into her loom building to do 
our recording. She seemed very shy, and actually turned 
from the microphone while we were talking. At about 3*00 
she said she had to leave to take her retarded brother 
back to her sister's home. She was gone for approximately 
one and one half hours and I took pictures during that 
time. She told me of some other weavers in the area, a 
Mazie Beamer, who lives nearby. You go up to the fork, 
turn to the right, and Mazie lives at the top of the hill. 
17 
Thelma helieves that her rugs are superior to Mazie's 
because her fringe on the end is longer. She uses white 
warp and threads it in two different ways to create an 
unusual pattern in her rugs. The rags, or "strings," are 
scraps of material used to bind clothing which she buys 
from a local factory. As she weaves her rugs onto the rug 
roll, she puts rags inbetween the rugs to keep them 
separate. I left Thelma's at approximately 500 and headed 
for Mt. Airy. Carl found a quilter in the vicinity, a 
Mamie Matthews on mailbox #324 Piper's Gap Road in Mt. 
Airy. A Mrs. Snow also made rugs. 
August 12, 1978 - JJ and I left for Doughton Park and the 
Brinegar Cabin craft shop. There I talked first with 
Hazel J. Mathis who was demonstrating the rug loom. She 
was, at first, quite friendly and told me how the weaving 
had started in the cabin. The park service asked the 
Chatham Manufacturing Company to put on a weaving demon¬ 
stration, and the company contacted several women who 
worked for them and asked them to do it. A Mrs. Struthers 
from the Cone (?) Craft Center at Blowing Rock taught the 
women to weave. Since then they have all taught one 
another. Chatham still fills their warp beams for them, 
although the company considers it something of a nuisance. 
The women, however, buy their strips of fabric from 
Chatham so apparently they feel some obligation to be 
helpful. Mrs. Mathis said that their weavers have made 
wall-to-wall carpet in three strips 12 feet by 36 inches 
wide. They had to put a fringe on it, she said, so I assume they 
don't know how to bind a woven carpet. They also have made 
runners for women at Roaring Gap. 
The rugs made at Brinegars differ in several ways from 
those woven traditionally. They are made from wool strips 
of varying colors, and woven with a brown wool warp. Basically 
they would be called hit and miss rugs. The warp beam is 
not divided in pens because the warp is put on at a factory. 
The loom itself is not an old four poster, but rather an 
old loom similar to Mrs. Melton's. 
18 
Next I talked to Mrs. Grace Laffoon, who immediately 
assumed that I wanted the names of her craftsmen. She said 
she would not give me their names hecause I might publish 
them in a hook and she would no longer he able to buy 
their crafts at a reasonable price. As soon as she made 
those remarks, Mrs. Mathis could no longer remember any 
details of her rugmaking. She lives in Elkin, and I 
would like to talk to her sometime when she is free of 
Mrs. Laffoon. She did tell me that Kyle Brinegar lives 
in North Wilkesboro, and might remember something about 
his mother's weaving. 
We finally headed towards Bluff's Lodge for lunch. 
I spotted a Dalton Snow banjo at the handicraft shop for 
the unbelievable price of $388. After lunch, we drove 
up Route 18 spotting a Union Primitive Baptist Church 
at Route 18 and 1193• There is also an attractive I House 
on 1193* We searched for Jennie Watson on Route 1193, but 
instead found Loretta J. Maxwell (372-4278) who said she 
has made an elaborate quilt with the popcorn stitch. Her 
son is Wiley Maxwell one of the Little River Boys. 
We also spotted a large, empty Georgian house on Route 
622 near Galax. Before we saw that house, we took a 
number of photos of the laundry hanging at an old 
Victorian mansion near Sparta. The laundry belonged to 
Mrs. Grace Bryant (372-8620) who was away canning at the 
time. The house belongs to Mr. Edwards who lives in 
Sparta near the hospital. 
' 
19 
August 13 - LE, JJ, and I arrived at the Galax Primitive 
Baptist Church on Painter and MacArthur Streets at 9*15* 
We met OF and John Nichols, who is the church caretaker, 
and helped CF set up the equipment. Nichols seemed to he 
very anxious and soon informed us that he had been the one 
to present the motion for our visit the previous evening. 
Apparently he felt he had supported us, and he wanted 
some reassurance that we would be very discreet in our 
picture-taking. He suggested that we sit in the fourth 
or fifth row on the lefthand side of the church instead of 
the front row as he had originally told us we could do. 
Church members were arriving for the service but 
sitting in their cars until Nichols went to the foyer and 
began ringing the church bell. At about 9*55 they began 
drifting in, the singers sitting in the first four rows 
on the lefthand side. Only a few elderly members sat in 
the sections reserved for male and female worshippers: the 
men on the left and the women on the right. Most of the 
congregation sat facing the pulpit and the rear of the 
church filling the building to three-fourths capacity. 
Approximately 150 to 200 people were in the building, 
although not all participated in the communion service or 
the footwashing. Many older members shook hands as they 
entered, and the socializing continued through the first 
one or two hymns. 
At 10:10 a.m. John Nichols started the singing by 
announcing the first hymn. The tunes chosen by the 
congregation were from the Primitive Baptist Hymn and 
Tune Book compiled by Elder John R. Daly: 
1. #212 - "Lone Pilgrim" 
2. #113 - "I'll Lay My Armor Down" 
(Elder Higgins is speakiftg in the background) 
3- #313 - "Melody" 
(John Nichols closed the window during the middle 
of this hymn. The congregation was not singing 
the tune in the book, 
4. #263 - "It Is Well With My Soul" 
5. #1?8 - "As on the Cross the Savior Hung" 
(This tune was not the one in the hymnal. ) 
20 
6. #6 - "Will He Send His Angels For Me" 
?. On the Back Cover - "The Land of Beulah" 
8. #188 - "Spring" 
Preacher James Dewey Nelson from High Point, North Carolina 
arrived at 10s37 and shook hands with the elders at the 
front of the church. His home church is the Walnut Cove 
Primitive Baptist Church in Walnut Cove, North Carolina. 
He is also a superintendent at the Marsh Kitchen Cabinet 
Company in High Point. Sixty-eight years old, he is getting 
ready to retire next year. 
Elder Higgins called Elder Nelson and Elder Horace E. 
Walker from Mount Olive Primitive Baptist Church to the 
pulpit. Walker's address is 1640 Sigmon Road, Roanoke, Va. 
24017. His phone number is 703/362-0340. The three preachers 
sat facing the congregation with Higgins in the middle and 
Nelson and Walker on each side of him. Higgins talked briefly 
with each man before coming oO the pulpit to begin his 
preliminary remarks. He began with a comment about the patch 
over his eye and included a Biblical saying that might have 
alluded to us. The congregation sang Hymn #291 while 
book. 
standing. The tune was not in the During the singing, 
Higgins embraced and shook the hands of the other elders. 
A prayer followed the hymn, and Higgins knelt behind the 
pulpit while he prayed. 
Elder Nelson, the oldest of the three preachers, gave 
his sermon first. It consisted of a brief introduction, 
rather informal and relaxed, a Biblical text, and an 
explanation of the text. His style is mournful as his voice 
moves to the upper registers and cracks at frequent intervals. 
The responses are from Elder Higgins. When Nelson finished, 
, Another 
he^Higgins^and Walker embraced one . The congregation 
sang humn #187, "Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me" while standing. 
Elder Walker preached next. He also gave a brief 
introduction, a Biblical text, and an explanation of the 
text. He is a chanting and pacing preacher. He began 
to chant slightly at the beginning of his remarks. Later 
he began to chant heavily while he moved from the pulpit 
to the left side facing the elders. He faced the left 
through most of his sermon, although toward the end, he 
21 
moved to the right side, faced the congregation, faced the 
elders on the left, and moved to the left. 
Elder Higgins did not begin to preach until approximately 
lli45. He gave an introduction, a Biblical text, and an 
explanation of the text. His emphasis on history, again, 
might have been because of our presence. The Bible, he 
said, was the book of authority for Lincoln, Washington, 
and other great men. He chanted part of his sermon, but 
at the end, stopped the chanting and became very informal 
and anecdotal. He made several announcements and concluded 
the service with the formulaic expression, the church doors 
are open. He t^n explained the procedure for the communion 
and footwashing. This part of the service ended at 12:00. 
The footwashing began at 12:15 with the singing of a 
hymn (?). The congregation sang a second hymn, #209, 
"Woodworth" while Higgins moved around the church greeting 
people. He particularly embraced the crippled boy who 
sat in the front of the church. The congregation had 
now divided itself by sex; the women all sat on the right 
and the men on the left. Higgins and Nelson sat in the 
front pew directly facing the pulpit while the elders of 
this church sat in folding chairs across the front also 
facing the pulpit. Many of the men sat in the side pews 
although none of the women did probably because the 
communion materials were being prepared by two women 
there. One man stood through the singing of both hymns. 
Higgins asked Horace Walker to introduce the foot¬ 
washing itself. Elder Nelson spoke first quoting Matthew 
26:26. The Communion materials were at the front on a 
small table with Higgins sitting on a chair on the left- 
hand side facing the congregation and Nelson standing to 
the right of the table while he read the scripture. 
Nelson led the prayer, and Higgins and Nelson broke the 
unleavened bread. Two elders took the silver trays, 
passed them to the elders at the front first, and then 
circulated the trays among the other members of the 
congregation. The tray was simply passed from one individual 
to the next after they took a morsel of bread. Those who 
served communion are the last to be served by two other 
elders seated at the front of the church. 
22 
After the bread had been served, Higgins read from 
the scripture, knelt, and prayed. Two different elders 
then circulated a silver tray filled with small glasses 
o wine. The elders were served first; the tray was passed 
from the outside aisle to the inside aisle by the individual 
members of the congregation. The elders returned to the 
front of the church, served the wine to the ministers, and 
were served themselves. 
This part of the communion was now complete, and the 
footwashing apparatus replaced the communion utensils on 
the front table. Two buckets with dippers and stacks of 
enameled basins were placed on a white cloth which covered 
the table. Elder Nelson explained the reasons for the 
footwashing, perhaps for our benefit. 
Elder Nelson removed his coat, and all the men 
followed his lead and removed their coats. Approximately 
half of the individuals in the congregation walked, up to 
the front, took a basin, filled it with a small amount of 
water, selected a church member, and washed his or her 
feet. Men chose men and women chose women. The elders 
and the sisters sometimes passed out the water and the 
towels. 
Each individual who participated in the footwashing 
first tied a long, white towel around his waist; one loose 
end was significantly longer than the other. He or she 
then knelt, sprinkled water on the partner's foot, wiped 
it, and did the same with the other foot. The two 
embraced and exchanged positions using the same towel and 
water basin. After both individuals had their feet 
washed, one person took the basin to an open window and 
tossed the water out onto the ground. 
Elder Higgins asked if everyone was satisfied, and 
the service ended with the congregation singing^hj^n 
#116, "New Concord." Again this tune was not in the Nichols 
and one other man stood during the singing, and some of 
the men put their coats back on. Finally, the group sang 
hymn #222 ending the service. 
Most of the group attended the dinner on the grounds 
following the service. The food was varied and abundant; 
several church members also seemed quite interested in 
our project. Mrs. Jane Ayers of 206^ Matther Street 
in Galax (236-5833) brought cooked leather britches to 
the dinner. Mr. J.C. Pierce of Route 3, Box 24? in 
Galax, Ya. 24333 (703/236-3016) is a musician and 
clockmaker who participated in the National Folk Festival 
approximately twenty years ago. We left the church 
grounds at 2:45 p.m. 
August 15, 1978 - Went to see Mrs. Berry at Rooftop of 
Virginia; she was busy preparing an order for the Mountain 
and couldn't spend much time with me. Talked to Karen 
Higgins, a receptionist at Rooftop, and she suggested I 
see several people while on my way to Piper's Gap. Uncle 
Willie, who is in his 70's, has a small cement block store 
on the right side of Route 97. Apparently he is quite a 
talker and a fixture in the community. Ms. Higgins also 
suggested we call Mr. Presgraves at the Wytheville Community 
College about his oral history program. 
Somewhat reluctantly, Mrs. Berry gave me several 
leads to pursue. Mrs. Ru§Us Easter, who it turns out is 
the Filers' babysitter, knows how to make the yo-yo's for 
the yo-yo quilt. She only makes yo-yo pillows, and has 
even given that up in favor of the more lucrative weaving 
of hotpads. She lives at 102 Laurel Street in Galax. Her 
phone is 236-4753* Mrs. Walter Taylor's son hooks rugs. 
They live in Fries. A Mrs. Charlie Moore of Fries is also 
a quilter, but I'm not certain what that means anymore. 
Karen Higgins' mother and aunts all quilt, but they turn 
out more pillows for the craft shop than actual quilts. 
Mrs. Wayne W. Higgins of Route 2, Box 219 in Galax is 
Karen's mother (236-6389)* Ms. Winnie Carico and Mrs. 
Harlie Cox are her aunts. All three women supposedly do 
quilts, pillows, and appliques. Both Mrs. Gertrude Wilson 
of Route 2 and Mrs. Lois Ramey make dolls. 
After some maneuvering, I found that two sisters from 
Fries do both applique and fancy crochet work. Their names 
are Ingo and Wingo (?) and their phone is 699-1173. Snake 
canes are make by Mr. J. I. McKnight, who is in his 90's, 
and lives at 112 Waught Street in Galax. 
24 
Later I talked with Nancy Montgomery, the bookkeeper 
at Rooftop, and she explained the development of the rug 
weaving program in the area. In 1965. apparently the 
Rooftop organization received funds to start a crafts 
training program for the elderly and/or poor. They 
started teaching classes in weaving and pottery, hut the 
classes were not well received and only a few people 
actually continued weaving after being taught. They had 
gathered up a few old looms, however, and some they gave 
to members of the community while others are still at the 
Rooftop. Finally the training classes stopped, and the 
Rooftop became primarily a craft sales outlet. People 
like Thelma Melton and Mazie Beamer actually learned to 
weave through local poverty training programs and 
perhaps even through a member of their community. 
August 14 - Drove with HM to the Laurel Glenn Regular 
Baptist Church at the intersection of Routes 1428 and 1422 
in Alleghany County. The church is especially interesting 
in that the door is not in the gable end but rather is 
under the eaves. The elders of the church are: Millard 
F. Pruitt of Sparta, N.C. (he lives on route 1428 one 
half mile from the church itself), Mack Andrews, Sparta, 
N.C., and Chancey Fields, 1130 South Main Street, Lot 12, 
Galax, Va. While Rusty measured and the Filers photographed, 
I walked to several nearby houses to see if I could get 
some information about the church. I talked to a black 
family, Mr. and Mrs. Sabe Choate, who live one half mile 
from the church on 1422 and own the small family cemetery 
on the left side of the church. The cemetery was established 
in 1917 "by Choate's grandfather who was a deacon in the 
Macedonia Baptist Church, the church the Choates still 
attend. The Macedonia Baptist Church is two and one half 
or three miles from the Choates across Route 21. Mr. Sabe 
Choate is a farmer and his wife quilts and cans (372-4876). 
The gate on the cemetery was made by Arthur Choate, 
a cousin to Sabe, who was a blacksmith. Their grandfather, 
Jeff Choate, was also a blacksmith, and one of his sons 
became a blacksmith while the other became a farmer. It 
was Sabe's father who carried on the farming tradition 
25 
with the grandfather's forty acres. The cemetery contains 
the remains of Grandfather and Grandmother Choate in the 
first two graves closest to the Choate home. They are not 
marked hy any monument. The Choates seemed to he somewhat 
shy, so I asked permission to photograph the cemetery and 
return to talk to Mrs. Choate at a later date, and left. 
After photographing the church, cemeteries, and Mr. 
Choate, who just happened to be driving by on his tractor, 
Rusty and I left the area via Routes 1428 and 1427- He 
photographed the Edwards House, which belongs to an Edwards 
who lives on 1426 near the Chestnut Grove Church, the first 
house on the right. We saw a sawmill operation at the 
crossroads of 142? and 1428; the men were working there, 
and I tried to get several photos of trucks hauling the 
logs out. We finally drove to Sparta where we met the 
Eilers and ate lunch at the Sparta Restaurant. The Eilers 
were intrigued with the old-timey masculine flavor of the 
Barber Shop two doors down, while I liked the feminine 
touch of the female owned restaurant. 
At approximately 2:00 Rusty and I headed South on 
Route 18 and down the road Jim and I had explored the 
previous Saturday. Who should be out in her garden but 
Ms. Jennie Watson (372-4504). I stopped by the side of 
the road to talk to her, and surprisingly, she seemed 
quite eager to speak to me. I asked her about the house, 
a classic I frame house, which she said was build by Lynn 
Richardson in 1906. She said the house wasn't very well 
built, but he had constructed a number of them in the 
area. Because she was such an old, feeble, and wizened 
lady, I didn't ask to see her house at that moment. Instead 
I asked if I could call her and come visit her sometime. 
She agreed, adding that I call her only to give her time 
to straighten up the place. 
Travelling down 1193. Rusty and I managed to get 
stuck in the most deeply rutted road I've ever seen. We 
finally maneuvered our way out and met the Eilers at an old 
log house on Route 1164 at 5*30- They photographed, and I 
tried to help Rusty measure until the rain began at 8:30 p.m. 
August 16 - Decided to travel down Route 97, or Piper's 
Gap Road to follow up on the leads given to me hy Mrs. 
Berry. Stopped at Uncle Willie's cement block store on 
the right side of the road, but it was closed. I then 
stopped at the Lil Country Store further on down the road 
run by two women, Nancy Parks and Christine Edwards. Mrs. 
Edwards, a talkative redhead, was most helpful in giving 
me directions and suggesting other people I might talk to. 
She had a whirigig on hand made by Jess Davis (236-3532) of 
Galax. It featured a black woman doing the laundry in a 
washtub; she moved up and down as the wind blew the blades. 
Ms. Edwards mother, an Inez Whittaker (?44-2558), also 
dries food, cans, quilts, churns, and makes cottage cheese. 
She lives on 64l near the Fries dam. Finally, Ms. Edwards 
told me how to find Ruth Newman, who she said was an unusual 
woman. Apparently Ruth had had some checks cashed as pay¬ 
ment for poems she had published. She was the valedictorian 
of her class, but has stayed home to take care of her 
parents. Ms. Edwards called a Mrs. Lois Higgins and gave 
me directions to her home, so that, from there, I could find 
Ruth's house. 
After visiting with the Higgins, I went across the 
street to see Mrs. Fannie Dotson, who had her wash on the 
line. She let me photograph it including even a close-up 
of her handmade underwear. She told me a lengthy story 
of the closepin bag her mother had used with the safety 
pin still in it as her mother had left it. Apparently 
her husband had misplaced the closepin bag and she thought 
he had thrown it out. She looked everywhere for it, and 
finally found it hidden in a corner. She was really happy 
to get it back. 
It was about 1:00 and the family was sitting down to 
dinner, but Mrs. Dotson seemed eager to continue our 
conversation. She reiterated the story of Ruth's brilliance, 
but guessed that Ruth had decided to stay home and take 
care of the old people. She could have been something, Mrs. 
Dotson said. She also described Ruth's home as "pitiful." 
Mrs. Dotson would like one of my photos; her address is 
Mrs. Lee Dotson, Route 3, Box 413, Galax, Ya. 
26 
I met Ruth Newman as she made her ususal trip to 
the mailbox at 1:30. She was a stocky, middle-aged woman 
with an old-fashioned hairdo and an old print dress who 
had a habit of nervously wiping her eyes. I tried to be 
cautious as I asked her if I could see her mother's 
paintings as take some photos as well. She agreed, and I 
waited as she visited her neighbors. 
After picking up her groceries at the Higgins' home, 
Ruth led me down the trail that leads to her home. We 
climbed over two fences and jumped across a creek to reach 
her three room house. 
Her father was sitting on the small front porch. He 
did not want me to go into the house, but told me to sit 
on the^porch. She invited me in, however, so I went in. 
As we talked, Mr. Newman kept shouting that it looked like 
rain, an apparent ploy to get me to leave. Finally he 
disappeared, and when I left, he was no where to be found. 
Ruth does seem to be a bright and relatively informed 
person. The house is filled with magazines. She has a 
typewriter in her bedroom and showed me the boxes of 
recipe cards she has written out by hand as well as the 
notebooks filled with recipes. They seem to be the only 
outlet she has for her writing in this environment. 
She proudly showed me the two poems she has published 
in magazines: one is in Ideals, Vol. 14, No. 4, September, 
1957. the other in The American Bard, Vol. 12, No. 8, 
October - December, 1954. She has also had recipe cards 
published, and showed me a form letter she received from 
President Carter. She was more aware of the activities 
in Washington than any other person I've ever talked to. 
The house was oppressive. The living room is dark 
and the ceiling held up by tree trunks. Beds fill the 
corners of two of the rooms, and papers and clothes are 
stacked everywhere. Pictures, including some by her 
mother, dot the walls. In the kitchen, she had leather 
britches drying behind the stove. 
Outside Ruth and her neighbor, Donna Bullion (236-8378) 
27 
showed me the root cellar and spring house they still use. 
I took some photos and promised to come hack to see 
Ruth or see her when she visits her Aunt in Galax. 
Her Aunt is Ethel Brewer (236-4203). At about 3:15 
I climbed back over the two fences and trudged the 
one-quarter mile back to the main highway, Route 97. 
Ruth's address is Route 3, Box 415, Galax, Va. 24333. 
Dulled in mind and spirit, I headed for the home of 
A.C. (Coy) Davis, a carver of some repute in the area. 
He lives beyond the Newmans at the top of the hill. Turn 
to the left down a gravel road. His is the first house 
on the right. His address is A. C. Davis, Route 3, Box 4ll, 
Galax, Va. Somewhat hard of hearing, Davis is retired from 
Vaughan-Basset and took up carving after his retirement. 
He showed me his workshop with some of his father's old 
blacksmith tools. I took some photos of his better 
carvings especially the wagon with a plastic team of horses 
pulling it, a dresser, candy dish, spoon, clock shelf, and 
chest of drawers. He had some handmade furniture scattered 
throughout the house as well. I left the Davis's at about 
4:30 and headed back to Galax. 
That evening I talked with Jessie Cooley on the 
telephone (236-2780). In 1969 she worked at a craft 
satellite shop in Fancy Gap. She taught Thelma Melton 
and Vera Robinson how to weave. The Rooftop had a craft 
training program, but it wasn't too useful. All of the 
Coal Creek weavers learned from Charlie Burcham, who had 
seen it done in his home. The Burchams purchased 
his wife's family loom; it had been in the Patterson family 
for a long time. 
August 17 - Began the day with phone calls to the local 
County Extension agents. They are: 
Carroll - Margaret Collins, Hillsville - 728-7611 
Grayson - Diana Shields, Independence - 773-7354 
Patrick - Emma Carter, Stuart - 703/694-3341 
Floyd - Angela Neilin , Flody - 703/745-4135 
Surry - Brenda Ross, Dobson - 386-8773 
Alleghany - Mrs. Helen Doshier, Sparta - 372-5597 
Wilkes - Donna Edsel, Wilkesboro - 667-5111 
I made an appointment to see Mrs. Margaret Collins on 
Wednesday, August 23 at the Midtowner. Later I called 
Ms. Brenda Ross, hut instead talked to Ann Tendall and 
made an appointment to meet her on September 7 or 8 at 
10s00 a.m. They are ]g^gy with the Surry County Fair and 
both agents will be in Exhibit Buildings on September 1 
or 2. I also plan to see Mrs. Doshier in Sparta on 
August 30 at 9:00 a.m. 
At noon, Rosanna Mullen and I went to see Roy Truitt 
to arrange the recording of the Crossroads Primitive 
Baptist Communion and Footwashing this coming Sunday. 
Again, Roy said that the congregation would discuss it and 
I should call him at 9 00 on Sunday night. The singing 
will start on Sunday at 10:15 and the service at 10:45* 
To get to the Crossroads Church, you take Route 58 east 
to the end of the four lane at Baywood. Follow the gravel 
road to the left and the Church is just below the schoolhouse 
Mr. and Mrs. Truitt (326-5625) will be there at 9 00 to 
let us into the Church. Although no specific commitments 
were made, I am sure Roy Truitt and the entire congregation 
believes they will have the same control over the materials 
the Galax Church wanted. 
Next we headed for the Galax Gazette to try to locate 
a family reunion. We were not very successful so returned 
to the motel. That afternoon I talked with Doris (Mrs. 
Allen) Funk, who is the desk clerk at the Midtowner. She 
mentioned several local people she thought I might be 
interested in: Eva Leonard does a lot of canning. She 
lives out Route 58, take the first street on the right which 
is the Fries Road, follow that for a mile until you come to 
a store, then ask for her. Eva (Mrs. Billie) Leonard and 
Nannie Mae Bartlett would be good contacts. Marsha Patton, 
who works on the desk part-time usually on Thursdays from 
11:30 until 7*00 a.m., has a grandmother who does a good 
deal of canning. Her phone number is 236-4192 (Marsha's). 
Later I called Mrs. Willey (326-8240) to get directions 
to her home. You take Route 58 east until the road ends, 
turn left onto a gravel road and right at a road with two 
29 
mailboxes. Hers is a red brick rambler at the end of the 
road. At about 2:30 p.m. I drove out to see her, getting 
lost only twice in the process. 
Mrs. Willey seems to be a precise and methodical woman 
if a bit reserved. She "demonstrated" some canning for me, 
gave me a tour of the house pointing out, in particular, her 
craft items. Her canned goods in the basement are impressive 
They are neatly arranged according to type and year on five 
or six sturdy white shelves. She also showed me how to 
pickle beans, make lye soap, and make corn husk flowers. 
After a tour of her garden, we had a light snack. 
She suggested that I talk to several people in the area. 
Mrs. Dallas Cox (236-5663) may know if the Methodist quilters 
are active in the area. Mrs. Hattie Truitt (236-4430) also 
might know something of quilting in the local churches. The 
Homemaker Club President is Mrs. R. E. Cockerham (236-5974), 
and she may be helpful to us. Mrs. Willey strongly urged 
us to attend the Friendship Independent Baptist Church 
for a gospel singing the first Saturday night of the month. 
This month it will be held on September 2 at 7 00 p.m. 
The Believers, The Gospel Tones, and a choir from out of 
state will be there. 
I made arrangements to talk with Mrs. Willey further 
the following week and left her house at 500. 
August 18 - In the morning, I tried to follow up on several 
leads by telephone. I contacted Mrs. Rufus Easter, who I 
found out is the Eilers babysitter,at 236-4753. Mrs. Easter 
never made yo-yo quilts but only yo-yo pillows. Now she 
seldom does that because there is a greater demand for the 
hotpads she makes for Rooftop. Here is a good example of 
a craft shop interfering with the traditional craft by 
encouraging the craftsman to make an easier, more marketable 
product. 
I also talked with Fred Duncan, who I had met at the 
Lord's Acre meeting (236-3004). He tolk me that the person 
to contact about quilting at the Mt. Vail United Methodist 
Church is Mrs. Don Sisk (236-4060). Mrs. Don Cooley (236-4008) 
knows the history of the group. The minister's phone number 
is 236-2024. 
At approximately 11:00 I started out with Wally MacNow 
to track down several leads he had. We travelled north 
on the Parkway until we reached Groundhog Mountain. A 
helpful telephone company man directed us further north 
on Route 608 to the home of Granny Barr. 
Mrs. Barr came out onto her porch to greet us. She 
had two pots of beans boiling on two separate wood stoves 
sitting on the porch. She invited us into her living room 
and began to talk, primarily about her illnesses and 
neighborhood feuds. She chews snuff, but doesn't can or 
quilt much anymore. Her family often gets together to 
play music and sing gospel songs, and Granny plays the 
banjo in the group. She very proudly got out her banjo 
for us, and later showed us the family photos. Although 
she wanted us to stay for lunch, we didn't feel there was 
much potential for future visits, so we took our leave at 
12:30. 
After lunch at Mabry Mill, we headed for the home of 
Dr. Cort Flint, the pastor of the Meadows of Dan Baptist 
Church. He seems to be an intelligent and perceptive man, 
not necessarily a part of the cultural traditions of the 
region, but a careful observer of life around him. He gave 
us a short lecture on the book sold all along the Parkway, 
The Man Who Moved The Mountains. The people here hate the 
book he said; it is an insult to all Primitive Baptists in 
the Blue Ridge. Names of actual residents are used in the 
narrative, and their descendents are not too happy about it. 
No wonder we've had so many problems with the Primitive 
Baptists in the Galax areal 
Dr. Flint gave us several excellent leads. Mrs. Silas 
Terman is a good quilter in the area. Mrs. Jesse (Clara) 
Sheiler is an excellent storyteller and makes afghans. He 
also mentioned Matt Burnett, who is a storyteller and makes 
carvings for the tourists. Jack Agee, at the Exxon gas 
station on the corner knows the area well. He told me 
again about Crystal Yates Cruise of Vesta who quilts and 
Mrs. Bob Childress. The Postmaster at Vesta will know how 
31 
to direct us to Mrs. Cruise's home. Rev. Rufus Wood 
who lives near the Post Office does carvings, while 
Rev. S.L. Bolt makes gun stocks. Mrs. Bolt (Ruth Jean) 
is also interesting. Lois Harris is a storyteller who 
focuses on stories about her father. Eunice McAlexander 
did a few paintings for the Flints; she lives on Route 
58, the first house on the right just past the Craft Shop. 
The Flints were extremely busy that afternoon. He 
was interrupted at least three times by phone calls, and 
Mrs. Flint was trying desperately to take the grandchildren 
swimming and make preparations for a family weekend at their 
nearby resort home. Wally and I expressed our thanks and 
left. 
Dr. Flint directed us to Mrs. Yates' craft shop across 
the street, and we went in to look over the merchandise. 
They have some excellent items including attractive, well- 
made quilts and white woven rag rugs. The rugs are from 
the Sothern Highland Craft Guild, and Mrs. Yates claimed 
that most of her quilts were make in another area. She 
is from Alabama and only summers in the area. Many of her 
crafts come from her hometown region. She seems to have 
a good eye for quftlity merchandise, and consequently, was 
a bit reluctant to give us any names. Finally she told 
me about Nora Glasgow of Ennice, N.C. who is quilting a 
log cabin top from Alabama for Mrs. Yates. 
She also told me about The Wormy Chestnut, a craft 
shop ten miles north of the Floyd cut-off. Apparently 
that store has some excellent craft items. 
Next we drove to Vesta, stopped at the Post Office, 
and asked the postmaster for Crystal Cruise's address. 
Who should be standing there talking with her friend who 
runs the post office but Crystal herself. She and her 
husband drove the few short blocks home while Wally and I 
followed in our car. Her husband never did come in to chat, 
but the three of us went into the Cruise's living room and 
had a lively discussion about quilts. 
The Cruises address is Box 209, Vesta 24177 (180/952-2061). 
Mrs. Cruise, a well-dressed former schoolteacher, seems 
talkative and opinionated about her quilts. Wally noticed 
32 
a certain vagueness about how and when she learned to 
quilt. She "brought out a pattern "book she sometimes uses 
to get ideas and models for the quilts she makes. Appliqued 
quilts are her favorites, and she sells or gives them to 
the family as Ji£ts. She knows the dollar value of her 
work too. 
Mrs. Cruise told an interesting story about a woman 
who had just finished a quilt for a local customer and 
called to find out how much to charge. Mrs. Cruise knew 
the customr's financial circumstances and said,"There's 
no way she can afford to pay what the quilt is worth, so 
just try to cover your expenses as best you can." She is 
quite proud of the quilts she's given to members of the 
community such as Dr. Flint and her M.D. as well as those 
she's given to her family. 
Right now, Mrs. Cruise is piecing a flower garden 
pattern which she hopes can be ready for a quilting session 
for us. The Meadows of Dan Baptist Church WMU has about 
eight members who participate in a quilting group during 
the winter, but Mrs. Cruise thinks they'll get together 
before we leave. I asked her about the flower garden, 
particularly about the yellow centers of the flowers. 
Rationalizing the tradition, she said most flowery do have 
yellow centers so that's why the quilt is that way. She is 
also going to start a log cabin quilt as soon as she finds the 
right materials. Right now is not a good time for quilting; 
the gardens demand too much attention, especially the canning 
and freezing of produce. 
Wally and I left the Cruises at 5*30 and headed back to 
Galax. 
August 19 - Wes Leishman and I began our interview with 
Mrs. Edna Pierce at 11:00 a.m. The recording session went 
well although Wes seemed uncomfortable with the emotional 
intensity of Mrs. Pierce's death and dying reminiscences. 
The interview lasted until 2:30 p.m. We ate lunch, 
returned to the Midtowner, and later drove to Elder Millard 
Pruitt's home on Route 1428 near the Laurel Glenn Regular 
Baptist Church in Alleghany County. 
33 
Mr. Pruitt is an extremely soft-spoken man who has 
a heart condition and suffers from enphysema. Wes was 
sitting about three feet from him and could hardly hear 
our conversation. 
The congregation, organized in 1929, purchased the 
building from the Methodists. Pruitt doesn't care for the 
arrangement with the doorway under the eaves. He said the 
newer benches in the building were constructed by the 
members. 
The monthly church service will be held tomorrow; 
singing begins at 11:00 and the service itself at 11:30. 
While some 6? people are members of the church, only 15 or 
so attend each month especially in the summer. 
The congregation uses at least two songbooks. R. E. 
Winsett's Best of All (1951) is referred to as a notebook 
by Pruitt. He likes Benjamin Lloyd's The Primitive Hymns, 
and sang #277 for us in a shaky, halting voice. He knew 
about lining out hymns, but claimed it wasn't done much 
anymore in his church. He has a friend who sometimes helps 
him sing the old hymns during the Sunday service. 
Pruitt is also a fox hunter, and this is fox hunting 
territory. An avid hunter, he said, lives four houses down 
the road on the right. 
After making arrangements to visit the Church tomorrow, 
Wes and I took our leave at about 6:30. 
August 20 - At 9*00 a.m. CF, LE, Harley Jolley and I headed 
for the Crossroads Primitive Baptist Church at Baywood, Va. 
Mr. and Mrs. Truitt had already opened up the Church and 
were arranging communion materials and hymn books for the 
morning service. Mrs. Truitt baked the bread herself the 
night before, and finally got a product she approved of after 
three tries. The unleavened loaf was small and round with f 
lines scored across the top. Raymond Nichols made the 
grape wine, and they seemed rather proud of the fact that 
they use real wine from a recipe handed down within their 
congregation. Mrs. Truitt told me they serve the wine in 
the old-fashioned way, from two glasses. One is for the 
men and the other for the women; they all drink out of the 
same glass. 
34 
At approximately 10:00 people started drifting into 
the Church. The memhers of Crossroads sit in the side pews-- 
the women on one side and the men on the other. Visitors 
sit in the pews facing the pulpit and are not so rigidly 
divided according to sex. Elder Sparks, who was to speak 
later, came in and shook hands all around. 
The Service started at 10:07> Songs were selected from 
D. H. Gable, Primitive Baptist Hymn Book for All Lovers of 
Sacred Singing. The following hymns were sung: 
1. #223 - "A Few More Days on Earth to Spend" 
The congregation was still assembling and generally seemed 
more divided by sex than the Galax group. 
2. #277 - "A Home in Heav'n! What a Joyful Thought!" 
3. #279 - "0 Sing to Me of Heav'n" 
4. #270 - "I Need Thee, Precious Jesus" 
Elder Hash entered and shook hands with the entire congregation. 
5. #215 - "0 How Happy Are They" 
6. #214 - "0 Tell Me No More of This World's Vain Store" 
7. #321 - "Dear Redeemer, Keep Me Free" 
Elder Hash began the service itself at 10:40. The eldest 
(?) of the three preachers, Elder Thomas, made the first 
remarks. The congregation then sang #308, "What a Friend 
We Have in Jesus." Elder Thomas chanted a prayer, and Elder 
Sparks gave the first sermon. He followed the familiar 
format of reading a selection from the Bible, and explaining 
the text. He chanted most of his sermon, ending at 11:15. 
Before he sat down, he shook hands with the other preachers. 
Elder Hash began his sermon with a quote from St. Matthew 
11:28. His explanation of the text did not seem quite as 
mournful as it did two weeks ago. Elder Hash then explained 
the footwashing process, and told the congregation , "When 
you hear singing in the house, come back in." 
At 12:05 the congregation began singing #175 "Amazing 
Grace." The men and women who want to participate in the 
footwashing were urged to sit in the side pews. Five 
Deacons from sister Churches were sitting in one pew at the 
front of the Church facing the pulpit. Two of the Deacons 
served the bread; two served the wine, and one served them 
both communion foods. 
Elder Sparks made the first remarks explaining the 
meaning of the bread. Hash sat to the left of the table 
facing the congregation while Sparks stood to the right 
as he spoke. They both washed their hands in a bowl and 
wiped them on one of the footwashing towels. They broke 
the bread into small pieces as they explained that the 
bread was an emblem of Christ's body. The preachers and 
elders were served first and then the rest of the 
congregation. One plate was passed around on the men's 
side and another on the women's side. 
Elder Hash explained the meaning of the wine. He 
knelt on the floor as he prayed and the other members of 
the congregation leaned over in their seats. Two water 
glasses were filled with the homemade wine and placed on 
a small white paper doily on a glass plate. Each member 
took a sip from the glass, placed in back on the plate, 
and the elder passed the plate to the next person. When 
the rows became too crowded, each person passed the plate 
on to their neighbor. 
Next the porcelain bowls were brought out and the 
regular communion utensils put away. Elder Thomas 
explained the meaning of the footwashing, and once again, 
the retarded boy's feet were washed first. The Elders 
and the sisters passed out bowls of water and towels. 
The members of the congregation chose a partner for 
the footwashing, removed their own shoes and stockings, 
wrapped the towel around their waist, washed the person's 
feet, wiped them with the towel, and the two embraced. 
The roles were then reversed and the footwashing completed 
The congregation began to sing a hymn (?) as the 
footwashing materials were put away. They followed that 
with hymn #6l, "Children of the Heav'nly King." Elder 
Hash closed the service with announcement, especially the 
announcement of the first wedding ever to be held at the 
Crossroads Church on Sept. 2. Raymond Nichols announced 
the dinner on the ground, and the service closed with 
Hymn #163, "Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken." 
36 
Outside the dinner on the ground began with a short 
prayer. Chairs were brought out for the elderly members 
of the Church, and each family placed tablecloths on 
their part of the long wooden table. They put their food 
on that section of the table too, but sampled the contributions 
of other families. Most of the food, except for the Pringle 
potato chips, was home made. I talked to Linda Nichols 
(703/236-5621) who is to be married in the Church. She 
lives at Route 1, Box 210, Galax, Ya. 24333. After tasting 
the food ourselves, we left the Crossroads Church at 3:00. 
August 22 - TE, LE, and I went to see Mrs. Mae Willey. 
She was fixing corn to can with tomatoes because corn by 
itself spoils so easily. She used a knife made by her 
husband to scrape the corn three time around the cob. 
After it was prepared, we took the usual tour of the house 
and garden, and she fixed a snack for us at about noon. 
As the four of us sat at the dining room table, Mrs. 
Willey told some interesting stories about the Depression 
and her own wedding. It seems she gathered and sold 
chestnuts to pay for her wedding gown. TE and LE left 
at approximately 1:00, and Mrs. Willey finished putting 
her corn into the cans. I unpacked the tape recorder, 
and we began to talk about food preservation in general. 
August 23 - Met Margaret Collins and Barbara Testerman 
from the Cooperative Extension Office of Carroll County in 
the Coffee Shop of the Midtowner at 900 a.m. We talked 
briefly about the project and the kinds of people we were 
looking for. They gave me more leads than I can probably 
follow up on. Mrs. Collins first suggested I talk to 
Mrs. Elsie Richardson (766-3263) who lives in Sylvatus and 
whose house is a museum. She has a family mill and a rug 
loom in her attic. She lives on Route 100, six or seven 
miles northeast of Sylvatus. Next they suggested I talk 
to two quilters: Mrs. Spence of the Dougsborough area and 
Mrs. Everett Schockley who is also qui^te a talker (728-2687). 
They also suggested I see Mrs. Glenn Jackson (398-2472) 
and Mrs. Gabe Webb (398-2233) of Laurel Fork. Mrs. Jackson 
lives one mile from the intersection and Mrs. Webb lives 
in a big house on the left. Mary Turner is a young girl 
37 
whose grandmother is teaching her to quilt, knit, and 
crochet. Her grandmother's name in Mrs. Charles Stanley 
(398-2514). 
Mrs. Willie Cruise runs a farm in Floyd County. The 
FFA Fair is being held from September 15 - 16 at the Carroll 
County High School. Helen McGrady, a Home Ec teacher is in 
charge of it. The Vaughan Mill is a water-powered mill in 
the Willis/lndian Valley area of Floyd County. Angela 
Neiland in Floyd also knows about the Noland family mill. 
Mrs. Elsie (James) Williams who lives on Calloway Street 
in Galax is a Black woman who works with Rooftop of Virginia. 
Mrs. Collins thought she might be a good contact for the 
Galax Black community. Mrs. Tolliver is also a good 
contact for the Black community in Galax. There are two 
Black areas in Floyd County. Miss Ida Gwynn (703/251-5828) 
is a good white contact in the Ararat area. She lives on 
the road to the Blue Ridge. 
The extension service has quilting groups in the 
Freemont area. Miss Flora Gardner (728-2639) who lives in 
the oldest houe in the county, knows the history of the 
group. Tom Tabor and Bert Weidner are the agricultural 
agents in the County. Mrs. Cassie Glower is a retired 
schoolteacher (728-7677) who taught children knitting and 
crocheting; she is also a good storyteller. 
In Floyd County, the Houchins sisters (Minnie, Evelyn, 
and Ruth) are four interesting sisters who live together 
in the Pizarro community. They hunt and farm and generally 
are self-sufficient. Contact them through Mrs. Nieland of 
the County Extension Service. Emma Carvers is also an 
Extension Agent in the County. 
Vera Bolt (789-7616) and Verna Alderman are good 
quilters in the Willis area. In Floyd County, the Pilot 
area, Mr. and Mr. A. P. Underwood of Route 1 are interesting 
relatives of Barbara Testerman and were raised in the 
Franklin area. They do old-time farming, quilting, and 
canning. They can be contacted through Barbara Testerman. 
of the Carroll County Extension Service. She also knows 
of a farm her father says was "typical" in the area. It 
38 
is in Floyd County and was owned by the Barton family; it 
was recently sold to "outsiders." Because of the danger 
of fire, the farm had two log houses, one quite near the 
other. Then if one house burned down, the family would 
have the other one to live in. Her father, however, is 
not sure this juxtaposition of houses was a good idea 
because sparks from one fire would surely cause the other 
to catch fire too. In any event, the farm also has barns 
and a spring house. 
Mrs. Collins has a farm in Pulaski County with a 
barnful of old machinery including plows and a binder. 
The address of the county agents is as follows: Barbara 
Testerman, 4H Agent, and Margaret Collins, Family 
Resources, Cooperative Extension Office, P.0. Box 668, 
Hillsville, Virginia 24343. Mrs. Collins has ten 
homemakers groups and four special interest groups, 
which include those on limited incomes. At 10:45 I 
paid for our coffee and headed back to the room. 
Harley Jolley and I started out for Trap Hill at 
11:00 a.m. We stopped first at Cumberland Knob to see 
"BJ" or Charlotte, one of the Park Rangers. She told 
us of a quilter she knew, Grace Harris of the Meadows 
of Dan. Grace lives past Mabry Mill; take the first 
gravel road on the left travelling two miles past the 
bridge. The road forks, but take the right. Her's is a 
brick house on the right. We talked to "BJ" for a few 
minutes and then continued on down the Parkway. 
At 1:30 we drove into the hillside driveway of 
the old house that serves as the Stone Mountain Craft 
peering 
Shop. As we were into the windows of the apparently 
closed shop, a heavy set woman from across the street 
came rushing over to us. Ruth Holbrook (957-8055) was 
ready to be tape recorded, so we took oui* our gear and 
set it up in her combination office and quilting room. 
The quilt she had suspended in the frames was a double 
wedding ring printed fabric, which she was quilting with 
brown thread. 
39 
The shop itself seems to he a shoestring effort. One 
room holds all the locally made craft; quilts, hotpads, 
crocheted Christmas ornaments, woodcarvings are only a few 
of the handmade items available. In the interview that 
followed, Ruth said that she doesn't earn much from her 
job as craft shop manager—sometimes $20 per month, some^ 
times nothing. She does seem to enjoy being there, however, 
and she likes to tell stories about her encounters with 
the tourists. 
Before we started our interview, Ruth showed me her 
list of consignees. Three of them sounded interesting to 
me. Quentin Hawkins of Trap hill makes snake canes. Mrs. 
Gwynn Hayes, Route 2, Box 201, Elkin, N.C. 28621 (957-89^8) 
quilts, canes chairs, and cans. Mae Hutchinson of Route 1, 
Box 182, Trap hill, N.C. 28685 (957-2110) also quilts and 
gathers herbs. 
The two hour conversation with Ruth was extremely 
interesting. A few minutes into the interview, she 
mentioned that her brothers and sisters had all died 
at a very young age. I asked her how they had died, and 
after covering the microphone with her hand, she said they 
all starved to death. She began to cry, and the subject 
was changed. I never did get back to this story to explore 
it further. Ruth also told some entertaining tales of 
helping her father make moonshine whiskey, escaping from 
federal agents in a hopped-up Cadillac, and learning 
how to run a water-powered mill. All in all, Ruth 
Holbrook is an excellent, low-key storyteller. 
We left Ruth's at 4*30 and headed for a restaurant 
for lunch. Unfortunately the only local establishment 
was closed, so we decided to look for another quilter 
Pat had visited in the area. One-quarter mile from 
the Craft Shop on Route 1002 was the homemade sign saying 
"Quilts for Sale." An old blackened ^0t sitting outside 
on top of a pile of ashes suggested that someone had been 
canning beans outdoors in the old-time way. In the 
third house down the gravel road, I found Mrs. Florence E. 
Cheek busily threading beans on a string (957-2356). 
40 
Her address is Star Route, Box 9, Traphill, N.C. 
Mrs. Cheek showed me her quilts made primarily out 
of polyester, tacked and filled with Chatham blankets 
as "quilt padding." She said the blankets made the 
quilt difficult to actually quilt, and that is why she 
tacks most of them. The quilts sell for $30 to $35 
apiece. 
The Cheeks were drying apples in their backyard, 
and we went out to photograph the process. They had 
apple wedges spread out on a jerry-rigged metal table 
and covered with a white cloth. After the apples sat 
in the sun for a day, the Cheeks moved them into the 
car dashboard and rear window. Mrs. Cheek said she 
would like to get an old station wagon from the junk 
yard, put it in her backyard, and use it to dry apples 
and beans. 
Mrs. Cheek's two other neighbors also quilt. Ocia 
Wood lives directly next door to the Cheeks, and Mrs. 
Billings, who has just returned from a hospital st^y, 
lives in the house nearest the road. Mrs. Cheek was 
mildly critical of the quilts made by these two ladies. 
We finally left the Cheeks’ home at 5*30 and began 
hunting for a restaurant for our combination lunch 
and dinner. 
After eating at High Meadows, Harley located the 
Chief of Maintenance for the Park Service, Leo Collins, 
who just happened to be staying at the motel. Leo 
gave us several leads. Jane and Cyrus Lawson live in 
the Skyline area at milepost 226.5 Parkway left. Mrs. 
Lawson quilts and makes rugs. At milepost 225*3 Parkway 
ana 
right, lives Roe Dickens Yvonne and Pearl Henrrix, all 
of whom quilt. Andy Killens wife, Viney, who lives at 
milepost 223-3 left, the second brick’house on the camp¬ 
ground road, has some quilts. Genevieve Van Hoy lives 
on Route 89 toward Galax j take the next paved road past 
the Gulf station and her's is the fifth house opposite 
the Fairview School. She quilts too. 
41 
August 24 - After plotting out our day’s trip, 
Arnold Schofield and I left the Midtovmer at llsl5. 
We headed south on the Parkway to the home of Cyrus 
and Jane Lawson which is perched on a hillside over¬ 
looking the road. Jane was on the porch preparing 
tomatoes for canning. While Arnold remained near the 
car in the driveway below the house, I approached Mrs. 
Lawson and began to talk to her about her quilts. 
Finally she invited both Arnold and I to sit on the 
porch whith her while she worked, but she still seemed 
somewhat nervous about talking to us. Her husband 
remained in the house most of the time. 
Mrs. Lawson no longer makes quilts or rugs. She 
had about 75 quilts that she and her mother had made 
years ago, but their house burned down several years 
ago and all the quilts and handmade chairs were destroyed. 
Mrs. Lawson wishes she still had the quilts so she could 
sell them to the tourists. She also explained to me 
the difference between quilting by the fan and quilting 
by the piece. (See the attached sketch) 
Mrs. Lawson was raised on this farm. She remembers 
when the transverse crib barn was built (c. 1900). She 
also recalls, with some bitterness, that the Parkway 
took 44 acres of her family's farmland, and she is 
still worried about/;he threat to their access road. 
Both Arnold and I silently seemed to agree that we would 
not mention his Paxk Service affiliation. 
It took Mrs. Lawson about 45 minutes to relax some¬ 
what, and I asked her if we could look at the farm 
buildings and take some photos. She was delighted and 
immediately began tc^Fuss about her appearance. She gave 
us a tour of the farm area, discussing in some detail 
the barn and drying shed built by her brother in the 
1930*s. (See Arnold Schofield's more detailed notes 
on the buildings.) After a few more photos of the 
Lawsons themselves, Arnold and I left. He had already 
made some arrangements to return at a later date. 
While travelling down Route 18 towards Sparta, 
42 
we both spied some quilts airing on the clothesline 
strung on the porch of a particularly handsome I house. 
Immediately I made a U turn and pulled into the dirt 
driveway leading to the house. I knocked at the back 
door and a slender, attractive woman led us into 
the living room. Carrie Severt and her daughter, 
Margaret Jarvis, were watching the soaps. We talked 
to them for a few minutes about this house, quilts, and 
our project. 
The Severts have rented this house for seventeen 
years. It is the Higgins homeplace owned by McCamet 
Carlin Higgins of the Higgins Oil Company in Galax. 
The Severts couldn't be prouder of the place if it was 
their own. They "reckon" it to be over 100 years old 
because the elder Higgins was born here. 
Margaret Jarvis then mentioned the Jarvis homeplace 
owned by her mother-in-law, Eva Jarvis. Arnold was 
intrigued by the sound of the farm buildings, so he left 
with Margaret to look at them. 
Carrie Severt is the quilter whose works were hanging 
on the line (919/657-3946). Her address is Ennice, N.C. 
She is a "plain" quilter who "loves to quilt," uses 
quilts on her own beds, never sells any, and has many 
strip and pieced quilts packed away in corners of the 
house. I photographed those that were hanging on the 
line, looked at some of her other quilts, and made an 
appointment to see her tomorrow at Is00. 
Mrs. Severt also told me about two other women in the 
area who quilt. Nora Glasco lives on Route 18 in a brick 
house just above Poole's Grocery Store. Mrs. Carl Edwards 
works at the Grabow Pipe Factory and quilts at her home 
on Little Pine Road (657-3377)» She quilts (or as I later 
learned, mainly tacks quilts) after working all day at 
the factory. 
Arnold was extremely enthusiastic about the Jarvis 
place when he returned about one hour later. We decided 
to take some record photos of the house and travelled 
down Route 18 to Route 1498; the farm is at the end of 
43 
the road. It is a beautiful place. The blacksmith's 
shop is completely equipped with tools; the empty house 
is furnished just as it must have been for years. The 
place is a living, but conveniently vacant, museum. I 
took a roll of film emphasizing some of the important 
features of the construction Arnold pointed out to me, 
and we headed back to Galax at 5*30 p.m. 
At 11:30 that evening, I went to the front desk 
to talk to Marsha Patton whose grandmother is a quilter. 
She told me more about Ila Patton (236-4595) who also 
cans and tells witch stories. She lives with Grace Patton, 
a schoolteacher. Their home is off the Fries Road on 
Route 64l. Go out Route 58, take your first hardtop 
road to the right. The Patton's large white house is on 
the right a mile and a half down Route 64l. 
Marsha also told me about Nannie Mae Bartlett, a 
quilter and canner; Luther Davis, a talker and musician 
from Fairview; Mrs. Eller, who does tatting and lives 
near Comer's Rock; and Ottie Leonard's wife, who makes 
rugs. Molassesmaking begins in Baywood in two weeks or 
after September 1. The Galyeans grind molasses for the 
entire community. To get to their home, you d^ve out 
Route 58 past the end of the four-lane; take the first 
road to the left which leads to Delhart. The Galyeans 
live in a white house just beyond a concrete bridge. 
Marsha's grandmother also knew a blacksmith who 
died recently but left all of his equipment intact. Marsha 
and a male friend visiting her also talked about a haunted 
Church in Austinville. By 12:30 a.m., I was falling 
asleep and decided to return to my room. Marsha promised 
to call me to give me some additional phone numbers. 
August 25 - Much to my surprise, Margaret Collins 
called me at 9*15 a.m. She was in the Coffee Shop and 
had some additional names for me. I quickly threw 
myself together and raced upstairs to meet her. 
She suggested I talk to Mrs. Ninevah Willis 
(728-3191), a storyteller and former school principal. 
Because Mrs. Willis is presently on the schoolboard, she 
44 
has an office in Hillsville. Secondly, Mrs. Collins 
suggested I talk to attorney, John Alderman. He is 
the county's local historian, and his wife quilts. 
Mrs. Collins then told me more about her log barn 
in Pulaski County. It is two stories or 35 ‘to 40 feet 
tall and 50 feet long. Some of the individual logs in 
the building stretch its entire length. The barn is at 
least 140 years old as her uncle, a Howard from England, 
built it. I sketched the structure as she roughly 
described it ' 
Margaret Collins' home phone is 728-9524, and her office 
phone is 728-?6ll. 
As soon as I got back to my room, Marsha called 
me. Molasses-making is starting in a week or so, and we 
can contact Mrs. Ernest Gallyean through his sister, 
Mrs. Dewey Wittaker (236-5862). 
I then called Mrs. Helen Dosier, Allegany County 
Extension Agent, to make an appointment to see her on 
Wednesday, August 30 at 9»00 a.m. Her office is on 
Route 18, a gray stone building near the Library and 
the third building from the Court House. 
Finally, I tried to track down the female chanting 
preacher I had heard on the radio last Sunday. I 
couldn't reach her thmgh the Providence United Methodist 
Church (744-2623), so I gave it up temporarily. I did 
contact Rev. Galen Wine of the Coulson Church of the Brethren 
Route 1, Hillsville, Va. He told me that the service at 
his Church started on Sunday at 10*00 a.m. with singing. 
The Gideons would then speak; there would be a baby 
dedication and a short sermon. To get to the Coulson 
Church, head out Route 58 towards Woodlawn; turn left 
on Route 620, and it is four miles to the brick church 
on your left. 
At 12*30 I left for my 1*00 appointment with Carrie 
Severt. She was a bit dressed up for me, but she still 
45 
acted relaxed and casual as I set up the equipment in her 
living room. She talked quite freely of her early days, 
the flood of the New River, her childhood romance with 
Edd, and her love of quilting. "I'd rather quilt than 
eat," she said. She showed me the boxes of patterns she 
has collected from family and friends. At 3*30 TE, LE, 
and AS arrived. I finished up my part of the interview, 
feeling a bit like we were the Spanish Inquisitors sitting 
on one side of the room interrogating a potential victim. 
We all talked casually after the formal interview ended, 
and again Mrs. Severt seemed totally oblivious of the 
photos the Eilers took of her. Edd Severt returned from 
haying, and Arnold began to talk to him about farming 
practices and equipment. I left shortly after the Eilers 
and returned to Galax. 
JJ arrived that evening just as the entire gang was 
preparing to attend the community dance at Fancy Gap. 
It was my second visit to the dance, and this time 
several people volunteered information about events that 
they felt might interest us. Freddie Currin Hallie 
(728-9255) said he will be making apple butter for the 
Mountain Plains United Methodist Church in two weeks. 
He said he would call us on the day they did the work. 
Several other people asked for photos of the dance. 
We all left at about II13O p.m. 
August 26 - JJ and I again drove south on the Parkway 
and made our first stop at the Northwest Trading Post. 
This shop is an excellent example of what all other shops 
along the Parkway could be. The managers have assembled 
an excellent selection of locally made crafts and foods 
w ith the makers' names plainly visible. They sell quilts, 
dolls, macrame plant holders, pillows, canned goods, and 
even leather britches. They have homemade bread, cake, 
and the best peanut brittle I have ever eaten. Tourists 
can browse among the antiques, pamphlets and books, and 
crafts while munching on a homemade ham biscuit or piece 
cf. pound cake. This store will at least give the visitor 
a fleeting glimpse of Blue Ridge culture. 
46 
I explained our Project to Mrs. Ruth Bare, the 
manager of the Shop. She seemed reluctant to share 
the addresses and phone numbers of her craftsmen with 
me, but I finally persuaded her to help me locate the 
woman who made the yo-yo quilt and one other very good 
quilter. She agreed to give me their addresses if I did 
not publish their names or even put them in my field 
notes. 
Again the women who work here seem very enthusiastic 
about the Shop and Blue Ridge culture in general. They 
have succeeded where others supposedly could not; they are 
making a profit by marketing locally made crafts and foods. 
The community craftsmen seek out this store as a legitimate 
outlet for their goods, and those who want to buy these 
products drive miles to make their purchases. One woman, 
I am told, drives down to the Trading Post from some 
Northern city each summer to buy a case of home-canned 
Billy Beans. If this shop can become so valuable to 
the community, so can the others. 
We continued south to the Cone Craft Center on the 
Parkway. This beautifully restored mansion is filled 
with Southern Highlands Crafts—pottery, Cherokee baskets, 
and rugs—all exquisite and expensive. I asked for the 
direction to the Goodwin Weavers and Bob Harmon, a third 
generation weaver. The Park Ranger told me to go two 
miles north on the Parkway and take the next left exit; 
turn left onto 321 toward Blowing Rock. The Billing 
Rock Craft Center or Goodwin Weaving Guild is a large 
building attached to an old log cabin on the right. 
JJ and I walked into the fabric sales room; coverlets, 
afghans, tablecloths, napkins, and placemats were neatly 
piled in bins around the room. Two large tables allowed 
the customers to spread out their purchases and examine 
them carefully before putting down any money. A small 
craft shop selling candles, Williamsburg sachets, etc. 
is just off the fabric showroom. Prices for the woven 
goods range from $115 for a double woven wool coverlet 
to $15 for a bridge set consisting of a square table 
cloth and four small napkins. 
4? 
Mary Goodwin was busy with customers so we browsed 
in both shops until she was free. I had gotten the impression 
from Harley Jolly that Robert (Butch) Harmon ran the business, 
but apparently Mary has actually kept it going 
with the sometimes unreliable help of her two nephews. I 
detected some family tensions on the part of both Mary and 
Butch, as well as the nervousness of a single woman trying 
to run a large business by herself. 
She told me the well-rehearsed story of how her great¬ 
grandfather had a silk-weaving business in England and even¬ 
tually moved it to this country. He was shipwrecked, but 
the weaving patterns were saved in a trunk she still has. 
Her grandfather was something of an itinerant miller who 
wove linsey-woolsy and blankets. The family would move from 
place to place and set up their weaving operation. Her 
grandfather also went from farm to farm and drew off weaving 
drafts from coverlets women would ask him to copy, or, at 
times, he collected the old drafts the women had in their 
possession. Mary's father, John Goodwin, started weaving 
in West Virginia and Virginia, and during World War I he 
wove blankets for the army. The family moved to Blowing 
Rock from Cedar Bluff, Va. in 1951 because they thought 
business would be better. 
Mary's grandfather and father travelled from one home 
to another to sell the coverlets which is how they turned 
up the old drafts. In Cumberland Gap, they sold blankets 
by trading them for wool which they then wove into more 
blankets. 
Mary showed me the cardboard box full of old drafts 
she has stored in a safe. Drawn in both pencil and ink, 
some date back as far as 1846. A few have been used as 
patterns for the coverlets the Goodwins now weave. She 
also showed me two books she refers to from time to time: 
A Catalogue of the South and Hall, A Book of Handwoven 
Coverlets. 
48 
About this time, Butch Harmon came in; we chatted for 
a few minutes, and then he graciously agreed to give us the 
tour of the factory area. It was worth seeing. The Goodwins 
have at least a half a dozen old automatic looms in 
the oldest one dating from 1876. He showed us how the bobbins 
are threaded by machine, how the looms work, and, most 
important to me, the difference between a bobbin and a shuttle. 
Later Butch showed us the wooden tub used to wash the 
coverlets. it has to be replaced every four or five years, 
and they always use the same model when re-building it. 
Finally he showed us how the fabric is dried on giant rollers. 
It was well after closing time, so we tried to take 
our leave without too much further discussion. Butch told 
us that he also plays the dulcimer for the National Park 
Service and has written a book about the old-timers in this 
area. He knows Ralph Rinzler, who finally helped to convince 
him that he should stay in Blowing Rock and help his aunt 
with the family business. This is definitely a traditional 
weaving operation that deserves more extensive documentation-- 
both tape recording and film. 
August 27, 1978 - At 9*15 a.m., I called Rev. Galen 
Wine of the Coulson Church of the Brethren to once again 
ask his permission to attend the service that morning. He 
vaguely remembered my last phone call, and told me that the 
regular Church service started at 10:00. JJ and I grabbed 
a piece of toast and raced to the Church near Woodlawn. 
Unfortunately Rev. Wine had made a mistake; Sunday School 
starts at 10;00, but the morning service didn’t begin 
until 11;00. We asked permission to tape record the 
service and headed back to Galax to get the Cassette 
tape recorded. We arrived back at the Church at 11:05 
and sat in the 4th row from the front on the left facing 
the pulpit. 
The Church hymnals are as follows: 
1. The Brethren Hymnal. Elgin Illinois: House 
of the Church of the Brethren, 1951. 
Church Hymnal, Cleveland, Tennessee: Tennessee 
Music and Printing Company, 1951. 
"Shaped notes only" 
49 
The Church interior is arranged as follows 
pulpit 
The three pews behind the pulpit face the congregation. 
No one sits in the side pews. The Church was simply decorated 
with only two pictures on the wall: the familiar head of 
Christ and a tapestry or rug featuring the last supper. The 
ubiquitous vase of flowers sat on a small table in front of 
the pulpit. The building was 3/^ full with approximately 
fifty to sixty people in attendance including a liberal 
sprinkling of children. 
A speaker from the Gideons discussed the work of his 
group in some detail and asked for special donations from 
the congregation. The choir members, who were scattered 
throughout the room, gathered in the pews behind the pulpit 
on the right and sang two hymns from Favorite Songs and 
Hymns, 1939* 
1. #32 - "In the Shadow of the Cross" 
2. #33 - "An Empty Mansion" 
The choir returned to their seats, and the congregation then 
stood and sang, "Have Thine Own Way Lord" as an offering 
was taken. 
Next came what Galen Wine had called a "baby dedication." 
A young couple brought their infant to the front of the 
Church, and Rev. Wine read a brief, printed ceremony which, 
in effect, dedicated this child to the Church. The parents 
also read part of the ceremony reaffirming their desire to 
provide this child with a Christian homelife. 
This was followed by a prayer, the reading of scripture, 
and another prayer. Rev. Wine, an elderly and feeble man, 
delivered the sermon. The congregation sang hymn #480, "We 
have Heard the Joyful Sound," and the congregation dispersed. 
As they filed out, each parishoner gave what he wished to 
the Gidion representative. The last member of the congregation 
to leave helped him count the funds. Rev. Wine explained 
50 
to us that there are three branches of the Brethren Church 
in this area; unfortunately I never did get the names of 
the other two branches. JJ and I returned to Galax at 
12;30. 
Almost immediately TE, IE, JJ, and I set out to 
photograph our elusive Family Reunion. We drove to the 
oommunity Center at Vesta, Va., but we were too late. The 
Reunion MO suggested we follow up on was almost over and 
people were packing up their covered dishes and saying 
their farewells. TE felt that the large concrete block 
building was not really suitable for photos anyway. We 
decided to drive further north to the Woolwine area to see 
if we could locate the Family Reunion being held there. 
As we drove on the Parkway past Mabry Mill, it began to 
rain. By the time we reached the intersection of Route 8 
and Route 40, it was coming down in torrents. Needless 
to say, we gave up on the venture. JJ and I bought some 
apples at Handy's Orchard and headed back to Galax along 
Route 221. It had not been a successful day. 
August 28, 1978 - At 10.00 a.m., TE, IE, and I left 
the Midtowner and drove north on the Parkway to Route 612 
and Thelma Melton's house. She was tired and a bit "down" 
because her daughter and grandchildren had just left after 
a week's visit. We chatted for a few minutes, and Thelma 
began to show us all the photos and photo albums of her 
family. All the memorabilia was interesting, but some of 
the older photos were quite fascinating. 
We strolled around the property looking again at her 
canning cellar and finally ended up at the loom building. 
Terry and Lyntha took numerous shots of Thelma weaving an 
orange and yellow rug. At noon, Thelma asked us if we 
would like a snack, just some biscuits. Naturally out 
came a several course meal--meatloaf, green beans, macaroni 
salad, biscuits, and instant coffee. Thelma uses store 
bought biscuits, but she bakes them on top of the stove 
in a pan with a lid. When one side is baked, she simply 
flips the pan over and bakes the other side. 
TE and IE left at about 2:00, and Telma and I continued 
the interview we began several weeks ago. She talked about 
working in the furniture factory during World War I, but 
51 
getting laid off when the men came home. She wished she 
would have worked in a textile factory instead because 
that's women's work, and she could have kept her job. 
We discussed her weaving in some detail, interrupted 
only once by a visit from her daughter who lives across 
the street. Thelma said she used to babysit for the kids when 
her daughter worked, but after they started having so many, 
she told them, "if you're gonna keep having them, then you 
can find somebody else to take care of them." 
Thelma told me about three other women in the area 
who weave. Mazie Beamer "has a loom" and weaves a lot of 
rugs. Mary Walker and Daisy Cox also weave, although 
Daisy primarily weaves placemats. Thelma then showed me 
some of her early rugs and a few quilts too. She assured 
me that she never mixes polyester and cotton in her rugs. 
I left Thelma's at 5*00 and stopped to talk to 
Mazie Beamer, who lives on Route 608 near Thelma’s house. 
Her address is Route 3, Box 304, Galas, Va. (236-6289). 
Mazie has her loom in a corner of her basement opposite 
the canning kitchen. She seems more talkative than 
Thelma, and she also weaves more than Thelma does. She 
must have 50 rugs on hand waiting to be sold for $8 apiece. 
I tried to make an appointment to talk with her soon, but 
she is busy with canning so I told her I would call her. 
Next I stopped at the Lil Country Store (236-3207) 
to get the phone number of the man who makes the whirligigs. 
Christine Edwards, one of the owners of the store, said 
she and her husband, Clin, would be making molasses soon. 
Their phone number is 744-7628. 
That evening I started trying to track down a female 
preacher for next Sunday's service. I called Mrs. Don 
Catrin (744-2364) who lives on Route 58 near Atkins 
Grocery. She told me the Sue Hill that I had heard on 
the radio last Sunday preached in Methodist Churches in 
the Hillsville area. She said that Mrs. Hill had preached 
before she came to the area, but stopped after she 
married, and is now re-entering the ministery. Mrs. Catrin 
became quite friendly when she found out what we were 
52 
doing! she even invited the whole gang over to dinner. 
Mrs. Hill's phone number is in the Fries directory 
(744-7372) under her husband, Edgar's, name. I spoke 
with her, and she told me she was now a lay speaker in 
the Fries Methodist Churches. She had preached with an 
evangelist before she was married, but stopped while she 
raised her family. Now a local preacher, Ben Lyons, is 
ill and speakers are needed to fill in for him at his 
six churches in the Fries area. She doesn't know if or 
when she will be speaking again. She gave me Preacher 
Lyon's number (744-2588) so I can call and speak with 
him. Next I called Hazel Jennings,(236-3909) the 
preacher at the local Holiness Church. She was quite friendly, 
but because she isn’t well, she is not sure she could sit 
through an interview. Apparently the congregation started 
as an outreach mission on the part of several people a 
few years ago. Now the group is trying to build a Church 
and the mantle of leadership has fallen on Hazel’s 
shoulders. The Church service, she said, starts at 11:00 
a.m., and they have a gospel trio that performs each week. 
September 30 - I left Galaz at 8:00 a.m. and drove to 
Sparta for a 9:00 meeting with Mrs. Helen Dosier, 
Chairman of the Allegany County Cooperative Extension 
service. The Extension Office is located in a handsome 
stone building on Route 18 as one drives into Sparta. 
It is on the right just before the major intersection 
in town. I parked in a public parking lot and arrived 
at Mrs. Dosier’s office at 9*15* Almost immediately, 
she volunteered to take me to see some of the people 
she felt would be most useful to the project. She 
had also prepared a list of Allegany people that she, 
and others in her office, thought I should contact. 
(See attached list). 
We first headed south on Route 18 driving in her 
plush automobile towards Laruel .. She pointed out 
the homes of interesting women in the area while we 
both tried to find out a bit more about one 
rs. 
. r<3'7. 
j /^l f 0 r Ar ~T 10 AJ 
jj)( 4 Al 
c^A ^ ^ ^ /} s b *■ 
-/TZ/iw i-r A/) 
l r \ c ~f 
€. S> 
icjr\Af c)(^o sj <AJ{I s _ , 
( 
'olrfi ^ ^ S 
o A/V1 <P / S u^ e r ) a f o a/Y\ 
Q—f- /} (<*cj i\ 4 sv C^o . /~ 
a yJ YJ{ceL S-hf<’' + 
, v e/^(Y0'1'<L' 
-f- Miu^ 
/ JS AJ o 
). 
CA r 
/ / 
7 a /c 
f e-/i^ 41) ^ " (P)^* , 
yl i/0u AA/>W 
3 0 T 'tc 
/],Vi hoM^ / 
;_s bntkUfsY a/ 
O u r\j\ A u 
fir pj-e fi' ~-P> rpM 
/ rh 
//tf 
''S 
3J 
/ r\0 /V\ {P s O A/ 
dA) & 
cl 
i \J e 
. e CS^ /1 P 
l\J Cosy/P s 3 fr e A 
hJ'iRA Y\f 
0 P Ab l/V A r o aj -f f at /v 
o J /yf / 
L . ) ^ ! K 
o /\J A / fh <aJ* - / J 
/T 
4 
~J~~& 1 (E3Y ‘c-?r 
3soa - oupcy 3^3 Ay* 
'J0-' 
k(Z 
Alleghany County Jr. Dairy Show 
WHEN; Saturday, July 29, 1978, at 1:00 pan. (Location will be announced later). 
WHO MAY ENTER? Any boy or girl under 19 years of age. 
STEERING COMMITTEE: Nolan Hampton, Margaret McGrady, Harold Hoppers 
Each contestant may show three animals, but only one animal per class. The 
following classes will be shown for heifers and cows: 
4 year olds and over - all cows dropped before July 1, 1974 
3 year olds - dropped July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975 
2 year olds - dropped July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976 
Senior Yearlings - dropped July 1 to December 31, 1976 
Junior Yearlings - dropped January 1 to June 30, 1977 
Intermediate Calf - dropped October 1 to December 31, 1977 
Junior Calf - dropped January 1 to April 30, 1978 
Baby Calf - dropped after May 1, 1978. 
HOW TO ENTER: Contact the Agricultural Extension Service (4~H Office) 372-5597 
by June 15th. 
AWARDS: Each animal will receive one of these awards: 
$15.00 Blue ribbon animal 
$12.50 Red Ribbon Animal 
$10.00 White Ribbon Animal 
$10.00 Grand Champion 
$5.00 Reserve Champion 
There will also be awards for Showmanship. 
If you need assistance in selecting a calf, I will be happy to help you. 
After the sign up is completed, wo will try to hold a workshop for those who 
have not shown an animal before. 
4^1 - vJ^' 
^ ^ S:^- 
^Tl^dlLo ' v 44-^ 
cj&fc£^_ 
jSifaZZ^s^*^ CA^ut-h^t 
44 -Sv*-x4 /£> /y&y 
J/sMlfy ^/Mujy /Cfrluyv.^ 
4^0^^- 
^gu^y'tCU*- 
ka4^ 
■— / Z7 
syy*y 
/faJU/ULtJ yUUay 
a-ul- // 
— /W.- C£u^t4_^ - 
kuyLi/Ja<* -y?L-£-/ 
Alleghany County Jr. Dairy Show 
WffiN: Saturday, July 29, 1978, at 1:00 p.ni. (Location will be announced later). 
WHO MAY ENTER? Any boy or girl under 19 years of age. 
STEERING COMMITTEE: Nolan Hampton, Margaret McGrady, Harold Hoppers 
Each contestant may show three animals, but only one animal per class. The 
following classes will be shown for heifers and cows: 
4 year olds and over - all cows dropped before July 1, 1974 
3 year olds - dropped July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975 
2 year olds - dropped July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976 
Senior Yearlings - dropped July 1 to December 31, 1976 
Junior Yearlings - dropped January 1 to June 30, 1977 
Intermediate Calf - dropped October 1 to December 31, 1977 
Junior Calf - dropped January 1 to April 30, 1978 
Baby Calf - dropped after May 1, 1978. 
HOW TO ENTER: Contact the Agricultural Extension Service (4-H Office) 372-5597 
by June 15th. 
AWARDS: Each animal will receive one of these awards: 
$15.00 Blue ribbon animal 
$12.50 Red Ribbon Animal 
$10.00 White Ribbon Animal 
$10.00 Grand Champion 
$5.00 Reserve Champion 
There will also be awards for Showmanship. 
If you need assistance in selecting a calf, I will be happy to help you 
After the sign up is completed, we will try to hold a workshop for those who 
have not shown an animal before. 
53 
another. Helen is a youngish, tall, attractive woman 
married to Allegany County State Trooper, E. G. Dosier. 
In fact he has also just been promoted so that he 
supervises men in several counties, and he passed 
us on the road in his patrol car as he was making his 
appointed rounds. Helen was recently appointed County 
Chairman, and she is aware of the fact that it is unusual 
for a woman to hold that position—after all, what does 
a woman know about Bright Leaf tobacco. The men in 
her office, however, are very supportive, and the 
community has eagerly accepted her. She doesn't feel she 
would have the job, though, if her husband did not have 
a position of some importance in the community. 
We were on our way to meet Park Service policeman, 
Cliff Pendry. As we drove along, she pointed out to me 
on the left side of the road the home of Mrs. Bob Thompson, 
an older woman who quilts. In fact, Mrs. Thompson happened 
to be in her yard wearing an old sunbonnet. Next we passed 
the very interesting home of Mrs. Elizabeth Moxley, niece 
of Congressman Bob Doughton. We whisked past the house 
which sat on the right at a crossroads nearing Laurel 
Springs, but it did appear to be some form of I House. 
Mrs. Moxley quilts, cans, and dries food herself, and 
she is active in historical, cultural, and social events 
in the County. 
We arrived at the Laurel Springs Post Office at 
approximately 10*00 a.m. Cliff and a female park 
policeperson were waiting for us. Helen explained our 
mission, and Cliff said that he had heard about the 
project. He lu^ggested a few names including Houston 
Caudill, a sawmill operator. Then the three of them 
began discussing a fatal accident that took place 
recently. Apparently a man, rather intoxicated, drove 
into a Park Service Maintenance area late one evening. 
The guard told him he was in the wrong place, and the 
man turned around and drove directly into a concrete 
pillar. He was killed instantly. The gossiped a bit 
54 
more—oarticularly about police business—and then we 
left. 
As we drove back north on Route 18, Helen told me 
that Cliff, Dean Richardson, Cliff's Park Service 
supervisor, and her husband often get together on a 
Friday night at her house and have a few beers, while 
swapping stories about tourists, Parkway incidents, 
and crazy drivers in general. I realized that instead 
of providing me with some interesting leads, Cliff, 
and Helen Dosier’s husband actually were an interesting 
folk group—cops getting together to let off steam by 
swapping personal narratives about the public. The 
interns ought to follow up on this one. 
Next we stopped at Elizabeth Moxley's house. She 
was surprised to see us; I guess Helen was supposed to call 
before we dropped in. I asked Mrs. Moxley about the house. 
It is the Doughton family home built by her grandfather, 
Horton Doughton in 1872. He was English, and, sure 
enough, the house is a hall and parlor I House. It 
has been extensively remodelled on the first floor, but 
the second floor is closer to its original condition. 
Mrs. Moxley shuts off most of the house during the winter 
and lives in one or two rooms only. 
We first began discussing the County's history. 
Mrs. Moxley was on the Committee that wrote the County's 
Bicentennial history, and, fortunately, she had a spare 
copy which I bought. She has not live in the :area 
continuously herself, but moved north to Wisconsin to 
teach school and be near her daughter. She returned 
to Sparta after she retired. 
I once again explained my mission, and Mrs. Moxley 
suggested a few people I might look up—Mrs. Oscar Ward 
and Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Cox from the Mouth of Wilson. 
They really didn't sound like our kind of folks, so I 
explained the problem of staying withing certain 
geographical boundaries. Helen and Mrs. Moxley began 
discussing the market that used to exist at Roaring 
55 
Gap where farmers delivered their products and produce 
from door to door. (Roaring Gap is the ritzy summer 
home section of the county I later discovered.) 
Mrs. Moxley herself seemed like an interesting person 
to me. She makes hominy and cans soup; she also dries 
apples and quilts. The quilting patterns she favors are 
the diamonds, fans, or by the piece. I was somewhat 
surprised when she walked over to a daybed in the comer 
of the room, lifted up the contemporary spread, and 
showed us the traditional quilt she made several years 
ago. Finally we began to talk about life here during 
the depression and the crops that are generally grown in 
the region. Mrs. Moxley is an educated, articulate 
woman who still has a hand in traditional activities and 
may well be able to fill us in on the local history of 
the region. I made a mental note to get in touch with 
her again. Her phone number is 359-2408. It is best to 
reach her during the evenings before 9*00 a.m. or after 
4«00 p.m. 
She took us on a short tour of the house—an old 
photo of the place is on the Allegany County history 
book cover—and then we took our leave. Other guests 
were arrive, so our timing was just right. 
Back on Route 18, we once again headed towards 
Sparta. This time we discussed truck farming in the 
area—cabbage, squash, and Christmas trees are some of 
the important cash crops. Helen also pointed out the 
homes of other people she now thought might interest me. 
I think she had a better idea of just what I was searching 
for. She pointed out the home of Pat Edwards on Route 18 
near the schoolhouse. She quilts and even demonstrated 
quilting on television. Some of her quilts, however, 
are made from kits. Mrs. Nora Wagoner lives in a trailer 
behind the Odell Krause home on Route 18. She has a lot 
of information about the Parkway. 
56 
Once through Sparta we headed south on Route 221 to 
the home of Mrs. Maggie Jones who lives on the highway 
near the New Hope Church. Again Helen selected out the 
highlights of the trip for me. The Sparta School is north 
on Route 21. The Maxwell Museum run by Mrs. Kathleen 
Maxwell is located on Route 221; it houses many old 
automobiles. We discussed the Blue Ridge Mountain Fair 
which occurs in July. Helen suggested I call Phyllis 
Murray who organized it and is the President of the Arts 
Council. I noticed Burley tobacco being cut and stacked along 
Route 221. Finally Helen pointed out the home of Vella 
(Mrs. Bert) Edwards, who made a spectacular Cathedral 
Window quilt. We passed the New Hope Church and pulled 
into the driveway of Mrs. Maggie Jones on the right hand 
side of Route 221. 
Maggie Jones (359-2969) is everybody's vision of 
what a grandmother should be—white-haired, short, and just 
slightly stout with a twinkle in her eye. She was busy 
canning corn in her kitchen when we arrived. We went 
into her pleasantly furnished living room and talked for 
approximately one-half hour. She talked about her family 
and how they surprised her with a birthday party at the 
Church across the road. She still can't figure out how 
they hid all the cars so she wouldn't see them when she 
drove by. All she can remember is fussing and fussing 
because she didn't want to go over to the Church. She 
showed us several photos of the birthday party and 
many other family photos as well. 
Mrs. Jones was actually baptized in the fish pond 
on her farm many years ago. To this day, she loves that 
pond and she likes to fish too; trout fishing in a 
nearby stream is her specialty. She also cans, and 
according to Helen, makes the best cottage cheese in 
the area. Helen and Mrs. Jones began to talk about 
family and a series of articles in the Sparta paper 
written by local people, entitled, "I Remember When." 
57 
I believe Mrs. Jones was rather puzzled as to why I was 
brought to see her, so she suggested I see the women who 
wrote those personal recollections. She also mentioned 
Frances Wagoner, a former county agent, who knows stories 
of the past. Helen seems to be giving my mission an 
old-timey flavor, but that's all right if it makes it 
more understandable to the people we visit. I can make 
my own judgements on who should be pursued and who 
shouldn’t be. Maggie would be an interesting person to 
interview; unfortunately she is OTA (out of area) and 
seems a bit shy too. Helen did a good job in drawing 
her out for me. 
After a visit of approximately 45 minutes, we 
headed back twoards Sparta on Route 221. We passed 
Twin Oaks, and I began asking Helen about Blacks in the 
County. She said there was a Black Church at Cibil 
Gap just off Route 221. She pointed down a dirt road, and 
I craned my neck to see the place as we drove by. Helen 
also told me that she has a Black Homemakers Club with 
eight members in it. She mentioned Ina Thompson of 
Sparta, a strong community leader, and Treba Carter 
as well as Shirley Washington. 
By this time it was getting close to l:30i an<3 we 
took a much-needed lunch break at the Sparta Cafe. It 
was an interesting experience going into the Cafe with a 
local person of some stature in the community after 
having patronized the place so often with just us 
fieldworkers. The friendliness we could sense but not 
feel was there this time. A waitress I've seen many 
times before came over and talked with us at some 
length. Helen explained our project, and the waitress 
volunteered some information. She said this area is 
interesting, but Mouth of Wilson, where her boyfriend is 
from, is really "old-timey" or backward as she put it. 
As I suspected, the restaurant is run by two women; 
their husbands own the premises, but the women run the 
day to day operation. Helen talked to several other 
women in the Cafe, and we left for our next appointment. 
58 
Our destination was nearby in Sparta itself. As 
we drove to the home of Miss Clyde Fields, we passed the 
telephone company, and I stopped and bought a phone 
book for the office. Miss Fields (372-8410) is a former 
Superintendent of Schools in Allegany County. We 
pulled into her driveway and knocked at the back door 
of her house. After a few minutes, she greeted us and 
led us into a very comfortable living room. Again I’m not 
sure she knew why I was brought to see her, and I myself 
was beginning to think this was more of a courtesy call 
than the others had been. 
Helen and Ms. Fields began discussing the Farmers 
Market held in Sparta each Tuesday and Friday. It is 
located across from the Northwestern Bank in an empty 
lot. Ms. Fields wanted to know the name of the young girl 
who had made the excellent butter and cottage cheese. 
Helen seemed pleased that the girl, Harold Vaughan's 
daughter, was a 4-H’er. 
Our visit with Ms. Fields was brief, and we went on 
to our next local stop, the home of Mrs. A. 0. Joines 
on Route 21. On the short trip to her home, we discussed 
the role of women in this community. They seem to hold 
positions of some influence and power. The Mayor of Sparta 
is Margaret Haydens she is involved in some serious 
conflicts with the City Council now, and part of that 
tension is because she is a woman. There is a female 
minister in town, Rev. Patty Suggs; her husband is also 
a minister. Helen is County Chairman and one candidate 
for the School Board is also a woman. Ms. Fields, Helen 
believes, made it all possible by providing a role model 
for girls and making female leadership acceptable to the 
men in the community. Many County men, however, are 
still very traditional in their concept of women’s 
roles. 
We arrived at the home of Leonis Joines (372-8302) 
at approximately 3*00. This definitely seemed to be a 
social call, or perhaps even a professional obligation 
on Helen's part. Mrs. Joins kindly offered us some grapes 
from her own vines, pound cake she had just made, and a 
59 
soft drink; we tried to explain that we were still quite 
comfortable after our ample lunch. Mrs. Joins seemed 
quite excited about my visit, but apparently didn't quite 
realize what I was searching for. Her own interest is 
local history not traditional culture. She mentioned 
one or two quilters in the area; Ruth Waddell has a 
collection of old quilts. After finishing our soft 
drinks, we once again took our leave and started out for 
another corner of Allegany County. 
This time we travelled south down Route 21 toward 
Roaring Gap. Helen again mentioned some interesting 
people in the area we were driving through. Paul Miles 
generates his own electricity. Miller's Campground is 
run by Mrs. Miller, who is also a waitress and the mother 
of Brenda Rose, a County Extension Agent for Surry 
County. Ann Tyndell is the other agent for that County 
who deals with women's activities. Wayne Blevins is an 
interesting person who knows the background of the Parkway. 
Phyllis Murray and John Woodruff, the Superintendent of 
Schools, lives on Route 1428. 
We finally arrived at Roaring Gap, and Helen drove me 
through this area of exclusive home owned by wealthy summer 
visitors. It is hard to believe so much wealth is so 
close to the extreme poverty of Wilkes County. Some of 
these summer visitors often travel into Sparta and even 
eat at the Cafe. I wonder if that is who the townspeople 
assumed we were? We stopped at a small craft shop, The 
Doll House, owned by Bessie Smith, a friend of Helen's. 
The converted frame house sat in the middle of a lovely 
open field, but, unfortunately, it was locked up and we 
could only peek through the windows. The crafts, 
including some hooked rugs, looked interesting. We 
continued our drive up the mountain while I gawked at 
the lovely homes with their well-manicured yards and 
the lush golf course that circled the road. We went as 
far as the exclusive hotel and restaurant where one 
needs a special invitation to dine. After a slow drive 
back down the mountain, we turned north on Route 21. 
Turning onto Route 1422, we then followed 1428 to the 
6o 
farm of Quincy Higgins. 
We drove up the long dirt road leading to the house. 
Mrs. Quincy Higgins (372-485*0 said that her husband was 
not at home. She said the best time to reach him by 
telephone was between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. 
As we turned to leave, we saw Mr. Higgins standing on 
his cane next to his pick-up truck which was parked near 
the barn. We drove the car down to his truck and stepped 
out to talk to him. Mr. Higgins is a small, wizened-looking 
man with a subble of whiskers on his chin and tobacco juice 
running down the comers of his mouth. 
He immediately began teasing Helen, saying he could 
see her running around in her house from his property. 
(Her house is just barely visible from where we were 
standing.) He tolk her he wanted to take her on a drive 
up to his mountaintop, but that he didn’t dare mess with 
her because her husband is a trooper. He praised her 
husband, calling him a fine police officer. He inter¬ 
spersed his teasing with narratives including jokes he 
has played on visitors, or his own success as a farmer. 
He has a large family, and Helen said his daughters are 
known to be the most beautiful in the County. I gave him 
my card and told him I would call him soon. He told me 
he was going to sleep on the card and see what he dreams 
about. It was obvious that this man must be interviewed 
and recorded by Pat. 
Both Helen and I were anxious to leave. Helen had to 
pick up her daughter at theoffice and I was just plain 
tired. He wouldn't let us go; he kept telling us tale 
after tale. Finally we simply got into the car, and 
literally drove out from under his elbow. He was still 
telling us another story as we drove away. He is 
definitely a find. 
As we drove back to Sparta, Helen told me that Mr. 
Higgins is always like that. The men at the office 
recommended him; he come into the office or calls them 
on the telephone, and they can’t get away. He is a well- 
known local character. I wonder why we haven’t heard of 
61 
him before. 
We arrived back at the Extension Office in Sparta 
at 5s30. Helen's daughter was patiently waiting for her. 
We said our goodbyes, and I left in my car at 
had surely been the most successful day of field work 
yet. 
I was really pleased as I drove back to Galax. I 
only wish I would have systematically contacted the County 
Agents on the first day I arrived in the Blue Ridge. I 
believe they are too often overlooked as resource people 
for a variety of reasons. Historical Society contacts 
and newspaper people are frequently useless as contacts 
and only seldom do librarians or other community leaders 
pay off. But I have never been disappointed by a County 
Extension Agent. They know the community because of 
their outreach programs, particularly their work in 
County Fairs and the Homemakers Clubs. Today I felt 
I learned something about Allegany County on several 
different levels. I saw the physical landscape, but 
unlike cruising, I also learned how people of this 
County interact with the land. I met community leaders, 
some useful contacts, and a few true folk to boot. More 
important I gained some useful insights into the 
community from a local person. 
Now for the Midlife Conference and a little R and R. 
September 6 - Had a 9s00 appointment with Crystal Cruise 
to take some photos of her piecing a quilt. CF decided 
to rig me up with a special light, so I arrived in Vesta 
somewhat late, about 10s15 to be exact. Crystal lives 
just south of Route 58 down the first road past the Post 
Office. The comfortable white frame house sits on the 
right side of the road next to an inviting pond. I 
quickly set up the light with its umbrella contraption 
about six feet away from Crystal who was sitting in an 
easy chair in their living room. She seemed oblivious of 
my presence and continued to sew the off-white hexagons 
forming the path of the Flower Garden quilt. 
62 
We chatted about many things as I snapped photos. 
She told me the story behind this particular quilt. The 
blocks were made long ago by the grandmother of a woman 
who lives in the state of Washington. Several years ago 
her son died, and she became despondent. She read Dr. 
Flint's book and was so inspired that she travelled to 
Meadows of Dan to talk to him personally. Since then 
she has become a member of the congregation and returns 
every summer to spend time with them. She asked the 
Women's Missionary Society to finish the quilt for her, 
and they agreed to do it as a favor for a special friend. 
We discussed the women who will be working on the 
quilt. Some will do a nice job and some won't. Often 
Crystal brings a quilt home after the women have worked 
on it and tears out their stitches. This quilt is different 
because the owner knows all the women who will work on it, 
and Crystal will leave their stitches in no matter what 
they look like. 
She talked about the difficulties she had in putting 
this quilt together. It is a very difficult pattern to 
piece. She just couldn't do it, threw her hands up in 
disgust, and left the house. Levy finally figured out 
how to put it all together for her. She decided to use 
an off-white unbleached muslin for the path and the 
lining of the quilt. She thought this would best complement 
the old blocks. 
Crystal wanted her husband to get into the photographs, 
but he refused and sat in a chair in the far corner of the 
room near the kitchen. I had earlier told him that I 
had heard he was an excellent quilter himself. He said, 
"Some people have big mouths." Apparently he is not 
proud of his prowess as a needleman. Crystal says that 
he quilts better than many of the women who will work on 
this quilt. They quilt together during the winter months 
before they leave for their month in Florida. Levy also 
does needlepoint and hooks rugs. He is not very well, 
and he can't do heavy work so the diversion is good for 
him. 
63 
While we photographed and talked, Levy prepared our 
lunch. We rushed through the meal because Crystal had 
a 2:00 appointment in town, and I wanted to photograph 
her other quilts. She is fond of putting together 
applique quilts from kits, most of which she gives away 
as gifts to family members. She does have one old 
Grandmother's Flower Garden which she uses on a bed in 
the back bedroom. 
Levy and Crystal left at 1:45, leaving me in the 
house alone to photograph the quilts. I spread each 
one on the bed and took pictures with a flash. The 
three appliques are named the Garland of Roses, 
Garden Flowers, and Calico Rose. I also took pictures 
of the Flower Garden quilt and the wooden model she 
uses to cut each hexagon for the Flower Garden. I 
folded up the quilts and left their house at about 
3:00. 
I continued down Route 58 to the Lovers Leap Gift 
Shop. TE and LE told me they saw some curious quilts 
here and I was anzious to check it out. The shop is 
run by a transplanted New Englander, Missy Boder, who 
still seems to have a warm feeling for the area and a 
genuine concern for the people who live here. She is 
not just out to make a buck. The shop appears to be a 
shoestring affair, but Ms. Boder does have some interesting 
items, including a few unusual quilts. 
Ms. Boder was quite open about giving me the name 
of the quilter who made the unusual "Log Cabin" quilt. 
The woman is Josie Goad who lives across from Mabry Mill. 
Her house is on the left hand side of the Parkway directly 
across from the signs for the "Overflow Parking" at Mabry 
Mill. 
I drove over to Mabry Mill and stopped for a cup of 
coffee. Then I headed for Ms. Goad's house. It is a white 
frame house perched on the side of a hill just at the end 
of a dirt driveway. Unfortunately she was not at home, 
so I drove back to Galax on the Parkway. 
That evening I called Mrs. Willey to check on her 
"official" name and to ask her about recipe books and a 
64 
possible canning inventory. She told me that Elmer 
Hanks makes molasses and apple butter, and he should be 
starting soon. He can be reached through Mrs. Elsie 
Gallyan. Mrs. Willey certainly has been helpful to us 
in suggesting leads. 
September 7-1 left Galax at 9*00 a.m. for a 10:00 
appointment with Ann Tyndall at the Surry County Extension 
Office. I took the long but easy drive, picking up 77 
near Hillsville and racing into Dobson on Route 1001. 
The Extension Office is in a large brick building on 
the right after you turn left at the main intersection 
marked by a stop sign. The Office address is P.0. Box 
324, Dobson, N.C. 27017. 
After I explained my mission both Ann Tyndall 
and Brenda Rose began rattling off names of people 
I should see. Fern Evans (789-5264) is a cook who also 
plays in a bluegrass band; she lives in Toast just outside 
of Mt. Airy. For pine needle basketry they suggested I 
see Mrs. Alma Hemmings (386-8649) who lives in Dobson 
just past the funeral home on 1001. Her house is a 
large bftcK one on the right. Mrs. Roxie Ray (835-1733) 
quilts with a group in an old house and also makes baskets. 
Her address is Route 2, Box 147, State Road, N.C. 28676. 
Mrs. Charles Snow (352-4243) lives in the Beulah area and 
does embroidery and tatting. Mary Bet Southern works in 
the Extension Office (352-4155) and is involved in canning, 
drying, baking, and cider making. For pottery work and 
candle-making, see Tony Bledsoe in the Possum Trot area. 
Mrs. E.D. Jarrell of Mt. Airy makes cakes. Kathy Johnson 
of the Beulah area (789-1893) helps her husband run their 
dairy farm. Mrs. Clifton Nixon (874-2664) makes butter 
at her home on Route 1, State Road, N.C. Frances Nichols 
primes tobacco and runs a chicken farm. Marion Venable 
is at Surry Community College and is associated with the 
Historical Society. Mrs. Ed Jones (786-4960) is an 
interesting woman who lives at 1018 North Main, Mt. Airy, 
N.C. Marg Smith of the Beulah area, (786-7672) cans a lot 
of food at her home on Route 9, Mt. Airy. Alice Cockerham 
65 
(874-2154) of Route 1, State Road, N.C. does a lot of 
baking and is a good talker. They also mentioned an 
interesting commune run by Kelly Eames (366-2240) and 
located at Long Creek School and Lodge. A store in 
Devotion is a good place to get some local information. 
For kraut making contact Era Anderson of Route 4, Box 
211 in Mt. Airy (786-?634). Picshin Park in Dobson 
sometimes has some interesting programs; contact the 
school office or Charles Fletcher at 386-8211. 
I already had more leads than I could ever hope 
to follow up on, so after chatting with Brenda and Ann 
for a few more minutes, I thanked them for their help 
and went to see Mary Bet Southern who worked in an 
office around the corner. We talked for about a half hour 
while she answered the telephone and greeted visitors to 
the office. She is an avid cook, and some of her handiwork 
won ribbons at the fair this year. She canned 500 jars of 
pickles and several kinds of jellies including blackberry, 
apple, and grape. She bakes 50 cakes a year, often on 
special request for special occasions. She makes apple - 
butter in the oven. Her mother’s recipes for plain sour 
pickles won the ribbon at the fair as did her chocolate 
cake. Her recipes and techniques seem to be an interesting 
combination of the traditional and the newer methods 
preached by the Extension Service. I mentioned that I 
might like to visit with her sometime. Her phone is 
352-4155. and it is easiest to reach her in the evenings. 
She lives on Route 89, seven miles from Mt. Airy in Low 
Gap and one mile before the new 77- By this time it was 
12:15 and Mrs. Southern asked me if I would like to join 
her for lunch. I accepted and we went to a popular 
restaurant right next door. We talked primarily about 
her family and the region in general. As usual she 
spoke to many friends and neighbors who were also 
eating at the restaurant. 
After lunch, I returned to Mrs. Southern's office 
to call Mrs. Hemmings and Mrs. Evans. I reached them 
both and was able to make appointments for that after- 
66 
noon. Mrs. Hemmings, who lives in Dobson, was at home 
and agreed to see me for a few minutes on my way out of 
town. I found her house quite easily. It is a substantial 
brick house on the right hand side of the road with a barn 
in the back. I pulled into her driveway and knocked at the 
front screen door. She is an older woman, rather hard of 
hearing, who seemed a bit cautious and reserved. We talked 
about her basket weaving, and she showed me some interesting 
reed, honeysuckle, and pine needle baskets. All the pieces 
she makes now are of pine needles. 
She makes a variety of styles and shapes for her own 
use and for sale. She has a very large reed basket made for 
a church group to use for their communion plates; they 
didn’t want it after all so she kept it. She has a woven 
lamp base, pine needle placemant, and the small baskets 
she uses for dried flower arrangements that are so popular 
at the Rooftop. In addition she paints and quilts. Her 
paintings are some of the best I’ve seen in this region. 
She is definitely an unusual woman who needs to be 
interviewed at greater length.' 
Travelling back through Dobson, I picked up Route 601 
north to Mt. Airy heading towards the Surry County Fair. 
I got lost several times, and after getting directions 
from a variety of helpful citizens, I finally arrived at 
the Fair at 3s00. 
Few people were there. I parked my car close to the 
front row of the field turned parking lot, paid my 
admission, and surveyed what seemed like a dreary event. 
It was a hot, hot afternoon and only a few hardy souls 
had ventured out to the fairgrounds. The exhibits were 
housed in several long cement block buildings to the 
right of the entrance gate. The concessionaires directly 
in front looked hot and tired themselves. The few rides 
of the fairway were about a ^ mile down a dirt road. I 
stopped for a coke and listened to the complaints of the 
woman at the hot dog stand. Apparently it had not been 
a good season so far, and she was hoping business would 
pick up soon. 
67 
The crafts were housed in one of the cement "block 
"buildings along with the 4-H displays. There was not a 
breath of air in the place, and I was the only fool in 
the building except for an attendant and several children 
bent on some soret of mischief. The canned food and handwork 
were crowded into a raised platform area in the center of 
the building. Foods were on one side, crafts on the other. 
Much to my chagrin, the whole display was protected by 
chicken wire, which meant I could neither see the objects 
well or get close enough to read the exhibitor's number. 
There were several interesting quilts in the cage, so 
I hunted up the attendant to see if I could get a closer 
look. 
I found him scurrying after the boisterous kids. He 
directed me to the office where I found the women who 
control the displays. Again the three people in the air- 
conditioned office were complaining about the low 
attendance and hoping that this evening's entertainment 
would help boost those figures. The woman in the office 
followed me back to the display area, and we were finally 
able to jot down the display numbers of the quilts that 
interested me. Back in the comfort of the office, she 
looked up the exhibitor's name while I jotted them down 
in my notebook. They ares 
Patchwork Quilts: 
1. Yo-yo quilt - Mrs. Elizabeth Smith, Route 
9, Box 331A, Mt. Airy (789-2693) 
2. 1st prize - Faye Seal, Route 9. Mt. Airy 
3- 2nd prize - Mrs. Ed Bunn, Fancy Gap, Va. 
4. 3rd prize - Elma Jarrell, Route 9t Box 415, 
Mt. Airy 
Applique Quilts: 
1. Callie Atkins, Route 7. Box 201, Mt. Airy 
2. Alpha Marshall, 248 East Lebanon, Mt. Airy 
3* Lucille Chamberlain, 806 S. South Street, 
Mt. Airy 
68 
Next I headed for the home of Fern Evans. She lives 
on Highway 89 which is also called West Pine Street in 
Mt. Airy or Toast. After the last stop light going out 
of town, her house is the seventh one on the right hand 
side. It is on a slight hill and is a hit difficult to 
see. It does have a rail fence in front, which makes it 
somewhat easier to spot. 
I pulled up the driveway into a large backyard 
parking lot filled with all kinds of odds and ends. I 
knocked at her back door and she led me through a den 
area, a kitchen, and into her living room. Mrs. Evans, 
a dark-haired, vivacious woman, was obviously dressed up 
for the occasion. We sat on her curved sectional sofa 
and she bagan to chat about those things she thought would 
interest me. She is an excellent storyteller, almost 
self-conscious in her desire to entertain and create the 
image she thingks you expect. She told me about the old 
days in Low Gap, and how poor the family was. They used 
to play music as a family, and she continued to do so 
after she moved to Mt. Airy. Their thrust is towards 
the modern, Nashville sound; she is friendly with Ronnie 
Stoneman while her sister once played in a famous 
Nashville nightclub with all sorts of country stars 
in attendance. The family band they have now was resurrected 
a few years ago after her sister's husband died. Now they 
play at local events and family gatherings "just for fun." 
Mrs. Evans spent most of her life running a McCulloch 
Chain Saw Business. She was a top salesman in this 
area and won several awards from the company. She seems 
to enjoy working with men as well as shocking her 
neighbors with her unconventional career. The Shop 
was next to her home, so inbetween selling chain saws 
she would cook meals, clean, can, and take care of her 
children. Apparently she did a good job, for one daughter 
is a former Miss North Carolina and the other is a former 
Miss Mount Airy. Mrs. Evans proudly showed me all the 
trophies her daughters had collected. 
69 
Now that she has retired, Mrs. Evans is doing some 
quilting. She showed me her "Trip Around the World" 
quilt. Her handwork does not interest me as much as her 
story telling ability; I am primarily interested in the 
narratives that relate to her early life and her unusual 
career. It may even be possible to get her family band 
together some time. By now it was 5*30 p.m.; I told 
Mrs. Evans I would call her and drove back to Galax on 
Route 89. 
September 8 - The appointment LE and I had with Ruth 
Newman wasn't scheduled until 12t30» so I used the 
morning to make some telephone calls. 
First I called Ethel Brewer, Ruth Newman's aunt 
(236-4203) to get directions to her home at 106 Boyer 
Road. It is located in the Oldtown area near Dixon’s 
Lumber Company. To get there from our motel, go to 
Route 58 and take a left turn; at the first caution light 
take another left; when you reach the Texaco Station 
turn to the right which will be Boyer Street. I had to 
meet Ruth at her aunt's house, where she goes about once 
a month to bake light bread for her aunt, because her 
father was quite upset after my last visit with Ruth 
on August 16 at their home. She wrote to me shortly 
thereafter and asked me not to return to their house. 
We arranged this meeting through subsequent correspondence. 
In the midst of my own phone calls, I received one 
from Ann Fayne, whom I had met at the Lord's Acre meeting. 
She gave me the name of a local quilter, Elsie Padgett 
(6-8569). She told me that she had already checked with 
Mrs. Padgett, and it would be all right for me to contact 
her. 
I called Sue Hill once again to find out where she 
would be preaching this coming coming Sunday. She will 
be at the Providence Church near Fries (OTA), and I copied 
down the directions even though I knew it was a futile act. 
The Ebenezer Church is in the Spring Valley area off of 
Route 94 on the way into Fries. I still would like to 
70 
hear the woman preach! 
Looking for an alternate female preacher, I called 
Hazel Jennings (236-3909) to get specific directions to 
her Church for next week. The Faith Temple Mission is 
located on Wilson Avenue which runs behind the bowling 
alley on Route 58. It is below the City View Trailer 
Court; take a right at the Trailer Court and a right onto 
Northway and you(will see the building. Worship service 
begins at 11:00, and the Faith Temple Trio will play for 
the 40 or 50 people who attend. 
Finally I called Mrs. Helen Dosier (372-5597) to 
thank her for the marvelous tour she gave me several 
days ago. I also had a few follow-up questions about 
black quilters and factory-working homemakers. She had 
no leads there, but did give me the name of a midwife who 
works with a doctor in Stratford, a Mrs. Fannie Burgess. 
She sounds like a professionally trained person, but I 
may check up on her anyway. Helen gave me her home phone 
number in case I need to reach her again; it is 657-3390. 
At noon LE and I left for the interview with Ruth 
Newman. The Brewer home is, indeed, almost in the middle 
of the Dixon lumber yard. The family was sitting on the 
porch on the big, old, rambling house, having just finished 
their noon meal. Because her grown children work nearby, 
they always come to her home for their dinner. I could 
see why when Ruth told me the dishes she had prepared, 
all from scratch, that day. She served green beans, 
vegetable soup, macaroni and cheese, cole slaw, chicken 
and dumplings, pinto beans, biscuits, corn bread, cake, 
and coffee. 
Ruth introduced us to the members of the family, and 
led us through the center hallway to the kitchen. Mrs. 
Brewer joined us in the kitchen, while her husband, who 
has suffered a stroke, sat on a bench in the hallway. 
Ruth immediately began to stir up some crackling bread 
and light bread for us. I tried to record the process 
and her remarks as best I could, and later, when the baking 
was done, I tried to interview her even though several 
other people were present. She was remarkably candid 
71 
although I do wish we could have been alone at her home. 
During the interview with Ruth I also tried to talk 
with her aunt. I thought it might he interesting to 
follow her, even with video tape, as she prepares one of 
those elaborate meals for her family. Her schedule is as 
followss she gets up at 5*00 a.m. to begin preparing 
breakfast at 5*30. That meal is served at 6s00 a.m. 
She then cleans up the dishes and begins preparing dinner 
at 10*00; the family arrives at about noon and the meal 
is consumed. Supper is a "pick-up" affair, mainly sandwiches 
or leftovers. Her day, then, ends after the dinner dishes 
are finally cleaned up. She was rather reluctant about 
being interviewed, and Ruth said later that she doubted 
her aunt would do it. Apparently she is a shy person 
and also finds her husband's condition an embarassment 
and an additional burden, especially when strangers are 
around. 
Mrs. Brewer's specialities according to her own 
family ares pinto beans, biscuits and gravy, chicken and 
dumplings, crackling bread, wild greens, and vegetable 
soup. Sounds good to me. 
More relatives began drifting in at about 4*30 to 
sample Ruth's light bread. LE and I decided it was time 
to pack up and leave. We drove back to Galax with the 
taste of crackling bread in our mouths and what seemed 
like a huge lump of it in our stomachs. 
September 9 - PM and I spent an interesting but tiring 
day with Quincy Higgins. We left Galax at approximately 
8s45 and arrived at his home on Route 1428 near the 
Laurel Glenn Primitive Baptist Church in Allegany County. 
As we pulled into his driveway, we saw him once again 
standing next to his pick-up truck near the barn. There 
were guests at the house, but we were afraid Quincy might 
be leaving, so we jumped out of the car and rushed down to 
talk to him without saying hello to anyone else. We spoke 
to him for a few minutes; he immediately began to tease me 
and tell stories. PM quickly went back to the car, set 
up my mono Nagra and brought it down to the truck. 
72 
Quincy continued to fill our tapes with narratives for an 
hour and a half as we all three stood next to his International 
truck. His repetoire consists of personal narratives heavily 
emphasizing his success as a farmer and religious tales, 
including a gem of a cante-fable. Finally my back 
couldn't take the strain anymore, and in response to his 
teasing, I suggested we see the mountaintop he is always 
talking about. 
We drove very slowly through the farmland of which 
he is so proud. When we reached the top, Quincy pointed 
out the sights—one can see both Galax and Sparta on a 
clear day. PM, who I later discovered was not feeling 
well, got out to pick some apples. While he was outside 
of the truck, Quincy grabbed me and kissed me. What a 
shock! 
We drove back down the mountain, stopping at a lovely 
stream. PM and I traced it back a quarter of a mile or 
so, noting that it would be a good spot for a team 
picnic. Fat Chance! When we got back to the farm, PM 
and I decided to go to Sparta for lunch. Quincy really 
seemed to want to join us, but neither one of us invited 
him. We really needed the break. 
We headed for the Sparta Cafe, and arrived back at 
Quincy's house at about 3s00. This time he was gone, and 
we sat in the living room talking to his wife and her sister. 
This time the hostility that we had sensed between the 
husband and wife finally emerged full-blown. The land 
is Quincy's, the house is her's. He used every spare 
cent he got to buy more land, and, according to Mrs. Higgins, 
never contributed one cent to running the household or 
raising their fifteen children. All those expenses had 
to be met through her egg, milk, or butter money, or 
later from contributions from her children. 
Quincy finally came into the house, and we set up 
our stereo recroding equipment. PM conducted the interview 
and later said that Quincy had a tale or a response to 
every narrative genre he suggested. Unfortunately when 
I sat at the table, Mrs. Higgins would start a separate 
conversation with me. I finally decided to take photos 
73 
to avoid her conversation. Finally she took me into 
the bedroom to show me some quilts and family photos. 
I took a few flash pictures of her quilts. 
We left the Higginses at about 7*00 and headed for 
the Rose Lane in Galax. We were both exhausted but 
pleased with the day's activities. 
September 10, 1978 - At approximately 9*15 a.m., LE, 
Andrew and I left for the Macedonia Primitive Baptist Church 
near Edmonds, N.C. CW was already there setting up 
recording equipemfent; he was trying to be as unobtrusive 
as possible as he strung wires throughout the front of the 
Church. Sunday School was in session, and he felt some 
Church members might object to his activities. 
LE and I strolled around the neat, comparatively 
substantial church building. I went into the basement 
where one woman was conducting Sunday School with several 
small children. The basement area was well-maintained 
and looked as though it must be used for church dinners 
or other informal gatherings. 
At 10:30 Sunday School ended and other Church members 
began to arrive for the Church services. LE, Andrew, 
and I placed ouselves near the front of the Church on the 
right-hand side as we faced the pulpit. Soon it became 
apparent that the women sat on the left hand side, so 
we quickly moved to that side near the middle of the 
room. The Church is arranged as follows: 
The interior of the building is panelled with white, 
wood veneer panelling. A painting of the Lord's Supper 
is on the wall as well as a reproduction of the Ten 
Commandments. An NCBA Sunday School banner also hung on the 
wall. The pulpit itself boasts a cross that lights up when 
the service is started. The humn hook used by the 
congregation is: Baptist Hymnal edited by Walter Hines 
Sims, Nashville, Tenn: Convention Press, 1956. It is a 
hymnal with notes. The Head Deacon of the Church is 
Walter Brown and Leonard Bryan is another Deacon. 
At 10:50 a.m. Leonard Bryan began the singing with 
"Precious Lord Take My Hand." Only three men sat in the 
side pews facing the pulpit on the right. One of them 
was Sabe Choate and another Leonard Bryan. By now the 
congregation was clearly divided with most of the men on 
the right, and the women on the left. 
The Choir moved into the Choir loft area on the left. 
They were dressed in green robes with gold satin draped 
over their shoulders. There were approximately eight to 
ten men and women in the choir. 
Next the congregation sang hymn #188, which they lined 
out. The congregation stood up after the first verse was 
completed. Elder Bryan then read the scripture, and as he 
did, the pastor, Everett Young, remained seated in a large 
chair behind the pulpit. 
Sabe Choate began the next humn, "Going Down By The 
River of Jordan." He stood up to sing, and then kneeled 
at the pew to chant the prayer that followed. 
The choir sand "Thank You Lord" with Keith Bryan 
(Route 1, Sparta, N.C.) singing the solo part. After 
this hymn, Shirley Washington, who was sitting next to the 
minister on the right moved to the pulpit and prayed. 
Sister Washington's address is Route 2, Box 120, Sparta, 
N.C. She is associated with the White Plains Baptist 
Church. The choir then sang "The Blood 
Which Gives Me Strength From Day To Day." 
At 11:15 a third preacher, Roby Cockerham, entered 
from the left side and sat on the left-hand side of the 
preacher. Rev. Roby Cockerham is from the Mt. Sinai 
Holiness Church in Ennice, N.C. Elder Brown then spoke 
and the congregation sang "I'll Be Somewhere Listening For 
My Name." The choir moved into the congregation at this 
point. 
75 
Elders Brown and Bryan then walked down and sat on the 
men's side-pews facing the pulpit. Pastor Everett Young 
began preaching* as he became more intense, Sabe Choate 
walked up and moved the chair from beside the table, and 
Keith Bryan did the same on the other side. Preacher 
Young then moved down to the front of the table and began 
pounding on it as he preached. He stopped speaking at 
11:45. 
Next the congregation sang "Lord I'm Coming Back 
With Jesus When He Comes" and Roby Cockerham preached.. 
Finally Sister Washington began the singing with "We 
Gonna Walk This Road To Glory;" she then moved to the 
pulpit and began preaching. 
Testimonies followed the sermons and the collection 
was taken as each member of the congregatin moved to the 
front of the church to put money into the collection plate. 
The elders counted the money in front of the congregation 
while the choir sang softly. They announced that *pl55.05 
had been collected for the building and $32.17 for the 
preacher. The service ended with the singing of "Blessed 
Be The Tie That Binds." 
During the service, Andrew was a bit fussy, and both 
LE and I had some difficulty keeping up with our tasks. 
The congregation didn't seem to be bothered, however, and 
after the service, Andrew quieted down, and several women 
came to talk to us and fuss over him. I took that 
opportunity to ask about women in the community. I was 
told that Mrs. Dean Gambil was an excellent cook and 
canner, and Maggie Creed did some woodcarving and needlework. 
In general, the congregation seemed friendly and prosperous. 
One family, reputed to be millionaires, made a point of 
asking us about our cameras and telling us about their 
travels around the world. These definitely are not poor 
Black folk. 
We drove back to Galax and after a short pause for 
reorganization, I talked LE into returning to the home of 
Leonard and Mamie Bryan to photograph quilts. The 
Bryans address is Route 1, Box 24, Sparta, N.C. (372-8465). 
76 
We talked to Mamie Bryan about her quilts and photographed 
some of the most interesting ones. They again were enamored 
of Andrew, and while we visited, he fell asleep in Mamie's 
arms. 
It started to rain as we left, and we stopped at a local 
restaurant on Route 18 near the Parkway. 
September 11 - After a late start made even worse by patchy 
fog along Route 58, I arrived at Crystal Cruise's at 10:15. 
She continued to work on the Flower Garden quilt while I 
interviewed her about her life in general, cooking and 
quilting in particular. The Meadows of Dan Church Quilting 
will start on Thursday, and we will record the entire 
event. The members of the WMU quilting group, some of whom 
might be there, are: Eileen Flint, Eva Phillips, Lois 
Harris, Vera Stanley, Clara Harrell, Eunice McAlexander, 
Laura King, Willadean McAlexander, Elizabeth Smith, Marie 
Spangler, and Jean Domingus, who is not a quilter but helps 
out with the food. Crystal also told me about Clariec 
Shieler who won't be at the quilting but is an excellent 
singer and storyteller. 
In one sense, the quilting we see on Thursday will be a 
staged event. The women would not normally begin quilting 
until later in the year. Crystal told me that the entire 
group generally meets on the first day to put the quilt in; 
then, they leave it set up in the Church basement until it 
is finished. Each member comes in and works on it when she 
can. Sometimes only one or two women will be actually 
quilting for the entire day. A woman may drop in for an hour 
or two, or she may work steadily on the quilt for several 
hours. I do suspect we'll have a full house on Thursday. 
Crystal and I began recording our conversation at 
about 10:45. Once again Levy, her husband, prepared the 
entire lunch as we talked. We stopped to eat an excellent 
meal at about 12:30; Levy had prepared fried chicken, sweet 
corn, sweet potato casserole, green beans, cole slaw, 
German Chocolate cake, and instant coffee. Both Crystal 
Cruise and Levy seem proud of their self-sufficiency in 
terms of food. Crystal told me of a dinner they had 
77 
recently at which all the food was home grown and home 
processed. They hav two freezers full of food, one for 
meat and one for fruits and vegetables. Levy cures his 
own hams and apparently participates quite actively in 
food preparation. 
After lunch I continued to talk with Crystal. We 
finished by looking at some old quilting patterns she 
received from her sister long ago, but she has never used 
any of them. I took a few with me, hoping that we could 
xerox or reproduced them somehow. 
I left Crystal's at 3530, stopped at Mabry Mill for 
coffee, and drove across the Parkway to Josie Goad's 
home. Her address is Meadows of Dan, Virginia (952-2961). 
This time she was working in her garden on the hillside 
behind her home. She came to greet me, seemed somewhat 
apprehensive, but finally led me into her bedroom and 
showed me the stacks of quilts and quilt tops she has stacked 
in a cupboard. She just made them for use and continues 
to do so, although she sells them often to tourists and dealers 
who traverse the area. 
We looked at her quilting room which is located in a 
front room of the house. She had a sewing machine in the 
room and a quilting frame set up on a floor stand. Then we 
went out on the front porch and sat to talk for a few 
minutes. She still seemed nervous, but she is an interesting 
woman I would like to talk to further. We discussed a 
common pattern in the region, "The Nine of Diamonds" quilt, 
actually a nine patch turned at an angle with "joinings" 
inbetween the squares. She also talked about Mabry Mill, 
where she worked for many years. She remembered when the farm 
was owned by the Mabry family, and she had people as neighbors 
instead of tourists. The Park Service, she complains, tore 
down the nice, white farmhouse that was on the property and 
dragged in the old log cabin. She wasn't very happy about 
that! 
The best time to reach Josie is early in the morning 
between 8:00 or 9:00 or in the early evening from 6:00 on. 
She is particularly interesting to me because she is making 
78 
that transition from traditional quilter to commercial 
quilter. She made quilts to use and now she makes them 
to sell. I’d he interested in seeing what changes have 
taken place in her techniques as a result. 
September 12 - We met with the new Park Service interns 
during the morning, and I used the rest of the day to run 
errands and make a few phone calls. 
September 13 - We decided as a team to blitz the Jarvis 
family today. TA, TE, LE, and EM went to interview Mr. 
Jarvis while I looked for his mother, Mrs. Jarvis, who 
lives in a trailer next to Margaret's brick rambler. 
Unfortunately by the time we arrived at the home at 11:00 
a.m., the elderly Mrs. Jarvis had left for a Senior Citizen's 
luncheon. I decided to talk to Margaret, especially about 
the kinds of food she prepares and cans. 
George Price and I set up the tape recorder in 
Margaret's living room. We discussed the food she 
prepares for her family, which includes some traditional 
items also prepared by her mother, Carrie Severt, and 
several more contemporary dishes such as barbecue. We 
also discussed several families in the area who collect 
pine tips for sale at Christmas. Later we continued our 
taping down in Margaret's basement where she stores her 
canned goods in a bin-like structure. 
We finished our conversation at about 2:00, and the 
other members of the team, with Mr. Jarvis, arrived at the 
home. I took some photos of the house and trailer, and 
noted that the elderly Mrs. Jarvis was now home and peeping 
out of her trailer. I was also surprised to see Howard 
Jarvis; he seems much older than Margaret. 
GP and I thought we would continue our exploration 
of Severt family foodways, and so stopped at Carrie Severt's 
on our way back to ask her about her canning. We hooked 
up the Nagra in the root cellar, and I stood up, Carrie 
sat on a bucket, and George sat on the ground while the 
bees and flies buzzed around our heads. We talked about 
79 
the potatoes she had covered with lime, and the hundreds of 
canned goods she has lined up neatly in the cellar. She cans 
more than she and Edd need; she cans almost compulsively 
and what she doesn't use she shares with her children. 
At about 4:00 Margaret and her son drove up, so our 
interview ended. It was getting close to milking time, an 
event GP had never seen, so we watched Carrie milk and feed 
the new heifer she had just bought. We left the Severts 
at about 5:15 and headed back to the Midtowner. 
September 14 - Today we recorded an entire quilting at the 
Meadows of Dan Baptist Church. Fortunately or unfortunately 
events conspired to make the recording session both more 
interesting and more tense than it might have been. 
LE and TE returned from the field last night and told us 
that the Meadows of Dan folk were rather upset because the 
Park Service had sent notices to some people who lived along 
the Parkway telling them that the Park Service wished to 
acquire their land. The residents had a meeting on the 15th 
and were sending a busload of representatives to Washington. 
Passions in the community, apparently, were running high.„ 
Richard McCamet and I left the Midtowner at 8:30 a.m. 
Again patchy fog along Route 58 slowed us down. We arrived 
at the Church while Crystal and several other women were 
pttting the quilt in the frames. Setting up the equipment 
took some time, and naturally the most interesting conversation 
took place then. We didn't really get good photos of the 
setting up process nor did we record their discussions of the 
meeting the night before. They talked in quite strong terms 
about their hostility towards the Park Service. They also 
discussed Kylene Barker, the new Miss America. She used to 
date a fellow from this Church, and the women saw her often. 
He married someone else, and they wondered who he felt now. 
They also thought that Kylene had lost some weight since they 
knew her. 
The women kept arriving as we recorded the event; Dr. 
Flint popped in occasionally and told me how he thought 
these people would shoot any Park Service person who came on 
their land. We decided we would not mention Richard's 
80 
affiliation. We had to keep adjusting the recording 
equipment, especially the mikes as the quiltirg frames kept 
banging against them. The members of the quilting group 
appear in the photos as follows: Crystal Cruise; Eileen 
Flint - black hair, rust-flowered blouse; Lora King- bun 
hairdo, yellow ruffled blouse; Marie Spangler - brown hair, 
heavyset; Eunice McAlexander - turquoise blouse; Eva Phillips - 
Thin, peach-colored blouse; Ruth Spangler - white hair, 
heavyset; Dr. Flint; Vera Stanley - brown long-sleeved blouse; 
Willadean McAlexander - light blue pantsuit, black blouse; 
Leota McAlexander - blue print blouse. 
At noon the women for an elaborate potluck lunch that 
consisted of: chicken, ham biscuits, chicken barbecue, biscuits, 
sweet homemade pickles, three different kinds of green beaas, 
beef stew, sirloin steak and gravy, pea salad, cole slaw, 
baked beans, tomatoes, strawberry jello, pecan pie, 
apple dumpling, and three kinds of pound cake. We tried to 
record the casual luncheon conversation that took place, but 
I suspect it was a fairly garbled recording. After lunch, 
the women began to include up more often in their general 
conversation. They encouraged me to quilt and asked questions 
about my background. The discussed the Park Service problem, 
and apparently determined that we were sympathetic. The 
labelled Terry a "radical environmentalist." At one point 
Crystal took me aside, and told me an off-color joke. It 
seems a man had two black eyes, and someone asked him how 
he go them. He said he was singing in the choir at church 
and he noticed the lady in front of him had her skirt caught 
in the crack in her behind. He reached over and pulled the 
skirt out and she turned around and hit him. He thought if 
that made her so mad, he'd put the skirt back again. So he 
tucked it back into her crack, and she turned around and 
gave him the second black eye. 
The group began to break up at about 4:00, and we packed 
up our gear and departed at about 5:00. Richard felt quite 
threatened by the entire event, and I spent some time trying 
to calm him down. He said he didn't want to go to the 
Meadows of Dan again. I tried to explain that one needs to 
divorce himself from the content of the material as much as 
81 
possible. Later that evening we tried to decide what to do 
with the sensitive tapes from the quilting. 
The women at the quilting suggested several names for 
xurther follow-up work. Tom Spangler knows quite a bit about 
local history in the area. Eunice McAlexander, who initially 
was a bit suspicious of us and I think somewhat offended that 
we had not contacted her first, is a ballad singer and had 
two outstanding quilts I should see. Her phone number is 
952-26/9. William Sheiler and Mrs. Tinky have tapes of old- 
time music the family plays. They are listed in the phone 
book. 
September 15-1 spent the morning trying to get to see people 
for that afternoon. Mazie Beamer was still busy canning but 
agreed to talk with me the following Wednesday. I also talked 
with Josie Goad who also told me she was busy in her garden 
but would talk to me sometime in the future. Finally I called 
quilter Roxie Ray who invited me to come over that very 
afternoon. 
Roxie lives in the State Road area of Surry County. I 
left the Midtowner at noon, headed to Hillsville where I picked 
up Route 77 South. I got off 77 at the Dobson exit and 
drove west on 1001. Roxie lives in a farmhouse next to the 
Poplar Springs Community Center. The postal box is marked 
K. F. Ray. 
Roxie turned out to be a fascinating woman and a non¬ 
stop talker. She showed me around the farm pointing out in 
particular the old house where she holds her neighborhood 
quiltings, and the huge bundles of rags she has gathered 
to make quilts for charitable purposes. She carefully guided 
me back to her house. She has an unfriendly dog who will 
lunge at strangers walking towards the house when her husband 
isn't home. He gave me a few scares as I brought my equipment 
in the house. 
Roxie showed me around her house stuffed with antiques 
(including two pie safes for TA) and older objects from the 
past that she treasures. We sat in her dining or sitting 
room and she pieced quilts while I tape recorded. Her quilts 
are not pieced in elaborate patterns, but rather are stitched 
82 
together in squares and either tacked or quilted. 
All I needed to do with Roxie was change the tape. She 
talked about the past and interspersed it with statements 
about her religious beliefs. She told me two clever slightly 
off-color jokes. Both were placed within a family and religious 
framework. She talked for almost two hours interrupted only 
by several telephone calls and an occasional question from me. 
Her husband, Kelly, came home from work at about 5:00. 
As I was packing up my gear, I was once again subjected to 
those dual conversations that have become so familiar. Roxie 
talked to me from the kitchen while her husband sat next to 
me in the dining room and talked about an entirely different 
subject. 
Kelly helped me carry my bags to the car and calmed the 
dog. I took some photos of the interior of the house, especially 
the pie safes, and some of the objects Roxie had talked to 
me about. I also took photos of Kelly, Roxie and that hateful 
dog while we were outside. I left for home at about 6:30 with 
a splitting headache. 
September 16 - That morning I received quite a surprise! As 
Jim was walking the dog and I was still in my nightgown, Ruth 
Newman knocked at my door. I quickly got dressed while she 
waited outside and Jim tried to figure out if she was the 
management trying to evict us because of the dog. Ruth was 
in town for the morning and on her way to see Mrs. Berry. 
She decided to stop in at our motel to give me some grape 
butter and a few more poems. We chatted for awhile, and I 
dragged lyntha over to my room to say hello. I showed Ruth 
around our office, and she finally left at about 9:30. I 
must admit I wasn't ready for a visit from the folk at 
8:00 a.m. Now I know how they feel when we drop in unexpectedly. 
JJ and I decided to spend the rest of the day shopping 
along the Parkway. We stopped at the Northwest Trading Post, 
and they were helpful enough to give me the names of two 
quilters. Zenna Todd (657-5311) lives on Route 1 in Ennis, 
N.0., and Mary BeIp makes the yo-yo quilt and lives on 
Route 3 in Sparta. We drove down to Blowing Rock and back, 
stopping at Roaring Gap for dinner. On our way back to the 
83 
Parkway, we noticed an auction going on at a small country 
store. Gars gathered in the parking lot, and people stood 
on the front porch chatting. JJ and I asked for permission 
to record the auction on a cassette reoo rder and I took 
some photos. 
The building was a one room country store and its shelves 
were crammed with brie—a—brae. People from the area brought in 
their old clothes, china, and appliances to sell, setting 
their own prices in many cases. Clarence R. Crouse of 
Sparta (372-8254) was the auctioneer, a woman manned the 
cash register, and two teen-agers walked up and down the 
aisles displaying the items. All in all, the event struck me 
as an interesting one to document further, and the people 
who attended were an intriguing cross-section of this 
community. 
September 17 - The next morning, part of our team, PM, 
RM, CW, JJ, and I went to record and photograph the New 
Covenant Baptist Association meeting at Redmond Creek, Va. 
How CW ever found the place, I'll never know. We were early 
and niavely parked our car on the Church grounds until it 
became obvious that the entire area was soon going to be 
covered with cars, so we quickly moved our government 
vehicle to a spot near the church. 
People kept streaming into the tiny Church; most could not 
get inside the building, and I quickly determined I would 
spend all my time photographing the people who milled around 
outside. I had a chance to see Leonard Bryan admiring the 
article about himself and Mamie in the Washington Star. I 
photographed people meeting and greeting one another, eating 
in the cement block kitchen building, counting the money from 
the collection, and finally having lunch on the hoods of their 
automobiles after the church service. 
While the service was in progress, I also interviewed 
Anna Pearl Young about the food served at the three day 
Association meeting. The food seemed less traditional than 
that served at the white Primitive Baptist meetings. Mrs. 
Young said they sometimes serve more "old-fashioned" dishes, 
but because so many visitors from other places were at the 
84 
Church, today, they decided to serve more contemporary, easier 
to prepare items. 
JJ and I sampled some of the food ourselves. As we sat at 
the tables inside the building, kids ran in and out, and we 
heard middle-aged visitors to the area greeting one another 
and complaining that they had to attend this event simply to 
please mama or grandma. Some old friends had not seen one 
another for years. 'The Association meeting seemed to be 
a community reunion of some significance. 
At approximately 2:00 p.m., we decided we had done enough 
work for the day, and JJ and I headed back to the Midtowner. 
September 18 - Today was one of the best yet most frustrating 
days of fieldwork I've had. I arrived at Ruth Holbrook's 
Stone Mountain Craft Shop at about 11:00 right in the middle 
of what Ruth called a "hen party." Four women were listening 
to Betty Owens, a representative from the Department of 
Agriculture, tell them how to make home food dryers and 
dry foods such as onions to use later in their cooking. The 
formal session was breaking up just as I wandered in, and 
several of the women took out their crocheting and continued 
to work while they chatted. I was struck by the irrelevance 
of Mrs. Owen's presentation. Here were women who know how to 
dry the food they use—beans, corn, apples—but would have 
very little use for dried onions for soup. On the other hand, 
her presence was one other sign that this is truly the poorest 
of the counties we have worked in, and the government is 
trying to do something about it. 
As I started to set up my recording equipment, I discovered 
that not all the parts to the microphones had been returned 
to my kit after yesterday's Church service. So I had to rig 
up the hand held mike and for one hour I stood next to the 
table trying to record the very amusing conversation the women 
were having. Then I discovered that I had not brought enough 
tape. What disorganization! For the final half hour with 
Ruth I had to use 15 inch reels. 
Ruth has been visited by us so often that she has a good 
notion of what we're looking for. She guided the conversation 
urging the women to tell me stories every now and then. They 
started swapping bawdy stories and personal narratives about 
scantily dressed men. Rozella Shores (87^-2135) who lives 
in Thurmond, N.C., was a particularly effective storyteller. 
She told jokes and narratives involving challenges between 
men and women with women generally victorious. Her personal 
narratives particularly illustrate what seems to be the 
on-going rivalry between the sexes. Juanita Royal, who 
raises 14,100 chickens, was crocheting the afghan and did 
not talk much. Maude Kennedy said very little and Betty 
Owens, who was in another room part of the time, added very 
little and left the Craft Shop early. 
The women began drifting away at about 1:00; Ruth said 
they stayed longer than they normally do because of my 
presence. She fixed us a lunch of tomato sandwiches going 
home to get the fixings and returning to the Shop to eat it. 
She said her husband drinks too much, and she couldn't take 
me into the house. 
I talked to Ruth about her life and her quilting. I was 
especially interested in following up on that remark that 
all her brothers and sisters died during the Depression 
from starvation. As it turns out, they died before the 
Depression because her mother wouldn't feed them (?). In 
the story of Ruth's life, her mother appears to be an ogre 
and her father a resourceful, hardworking man. 
Ruth is more sophistocated about her quilting than I had 
realized. She drew for me the most common quilting patterns: 
Patch 
The peculiar quilt in the frames is 
Diamond 
being done for a woman 
in town. It is a double—wedding ring printed fabric, and Ruth 
is quilting it in brown thread. Ruth had taught quilting 
■ 
i 
and recognizes the difference between quilts used for everyday 
and those made to sell. She told me about the quilts in the 
shop—who had made them and what was wrong with them. The 
"Flower Garden" was made by Rozella Shores, and it is quilted 
in fans when it should be done by the piece. The "Double 
Wedding Ring" was done by Elva Hayes and it is quilted too 
far from the seam. She also made the tacked quilt in the 
Craft Shop. Ruth's old quilt was made by Polly Sparks, 
Ruth's great-great-grandmother. It is filled with wool and 
quilted in the fans. The "Bear Paw" is a tacked quilt, but 
the colors of the blocks are not mixed up enough. 
In the middle of our conversation, Ila Parks Fletcher 
Campbell, a black woman, came into the shop. Ruth led her 
into a discussion of her life—ten minutes of unmitigated 
woe—until she ended up in tears and Ruth made me turn off 
the recorder. Mrs. Campbell left after a while and Ruth and 
I continued our conversation. Finally as I was getting 
ready to leave, Ruth tried to give me the old quilt her great- 
great grandmother made. I tried to tactfully refuse it. 
I left Ruth's at about 5:00. It had been a very strange 
and exhausting day. I spent the evening making arrangements 
to see Mazie Beamer and Fern Evans. 
September 18 - Today I think I pushed too hard. The day 
began with a very interesting interview with Alma Hemmings 
about her basket weaving. She had initially seemed reluctant 
to do the interview, partly I believe because she is somewhat 
hard of hearing. As I set up my equipment at about 10:30 a.m. 
it became apparent that she had given my visit some thought, 
and she kept dragging out old baskets, quilts, and coverlets 
for me to see. 
Her son, who is retarded, was sitting in the back yard 
preparing the pine tips for her baskets. Alma and I sat in 
the large, comfortable living room talking about her background 
and how to make baskets. She demonstrated the process for me 
by showing me how to make a pine needle mat. Two comments 
surprised me during our conversation. Alma told me that 
her grandmother used to weave and use rag carpet. That is 
one of the few references I have heard about that particular 
87 
item during my interviews. Secondly she said that many 
tobacco farmers from this area, including her husband, went 
to Canada to raise tobacco during the Depression. Canadian 
farmers didn't know how to raise or cure tobacco, so Carolina 
farmers survived the 1930's by going to Canada each summer 
to raise the tobacco crop and teach the farmers how to cure 
it. 
LE arrived at approximately 11:00 a.m., and as we finished 
our interview, she took the baskets outside and photographed 
them. We also took the quilts, especially the family album 
quilts, and coverlets outside to get a better photo of them. 
It was 12:30 before we finished with all the items Mrs. 
Hemmings kept bringing out to show us. 
Alma Hemmings is a woman of many talents. Her paintings of 
the family homestead and an old-fashioned wash day are among 
the finest I have ever seen. Her quilts are quite adequate 
and her baskets simply exquisite. She seems to have a strong 
personal feeling for what she does. She is a woman of moderate 
wealth and doesn't need the money the baskets provide. She 
simply must keep busy; she has a strong creative impulse and 
appreciates the attention her baskets generate among family 
and friends. 
By the time we left Mrs. Hemmings it was already 1:00, 
the time we were supposed to be at Roxie Ray's quilting. We 
decided it was most important to regain our equilibrium by 
eating lunch, so we dashed into Dobson for a quick meal and 
that all important chance to catch our breath. We raced out 
to Roxie's old farmhouse, arriving at about 2:15. 
By the time we arrived some of the women had already 
left. Needless-to-say, Roxie was not too happy. The women 
had met at their regular Homemaker's Club meeting at noon, 
and Roxie had talked them into coming over for the quilting. 
The women who had already left were not the dedicated quilters; 
the four women who remained are the one Roxie normally quilts 
with. They are Roxie, herself, in a turquoise blouse; Ileene 
Hinson in a red blouse; Bertha Hanes in a pink checked blouse; 
and Mrs. (Granny) Kate Hinson, who had her dark hair pulled 
in a bun. 
88 
I sat up the stereo equipment as fast as I could. Roxie, 
now a seasoned informant, tried to get the women to talk about 
the "old-days," which is what she thought I wanted to hear. 
It was almost too hot in the old house to quilt, and the 
bundles of rags and general clutter in the room made it seem 
even hotter. All of us, I expect, were uncomfortable. Both 
the front and back doors located in the room were open, but 
hardly a breeze drifted through. Finally the women began 
to leave at about 4:00. LE left at the same time, and I 
was to meet her at 6:30 at the Midtowner to watch Andrew. 
Feeling some pressure, I tried to talk to Roxie about her 
quilting. This time her rumblings were more aggravating as I 
did have a certain amount of hard information I wanted to 
gather. Roxie told me the quilt they work working on now 
was a Fx'iendship quilt, quilted in the fans, and she explained 
how and why she does the fan pattern. She is not what I would 
call a fancy quilter, but she does concentrate on simple 
quilts to give away and slightly more elaborate ones to sell. 
At about 6:00 I felt I had stayed as long as I could. I packed 
up my gear, tried to avoid the biting dog, and raced back to 
Galax, arriving there at about 7:00 p.m. 
September 20-1 spent the morning recuperating from the day 
before, and left the Midtowner for my appointement with 
Mazie Beamer at 1:00. She lives off Piper's Gap Road on 
Route 608. She, too, was upset about the Park Service 
announcement and told me her husband had told her not to 
speak with me. He's just an uneducated farmer, she said, 
and he distrusts all government people. 
She told me that people around here are afraid they will 
lose their land. They want something to hand down to their 
children and grandchildren. The Parkway cut their farm in 
two making it difficult to move cattle from one pature to 
another. Promises were made and never kept. They were promised 
a paved road, but didn't get it until recently. The people 
in this area just don't trust the Park Service. 
We talked about Mazie's early life and her rug making. 
She, at least, seems to be remotely related to the weaving tradition 
as it was her relative who taught the Poverty Program group how 
89 
to weave. Now Mazie weaves more for therapy than for the 
money. Unlike Thelma, she turns out hundreds of rugs each 
year. 
After we were done talking, I took some photos of her, 
her rugs, the loom area in the "basement, and the farm in 
general. Mazie was drying some beans on the roof of her 
root cellar so I took some photos of that. 
As I was leaving, I noticed that on her front step, Mazie 
has an old woven rug with a Turkey Track border on it. She 
bought this rug at a shop while on vacation. It had never 
occurred to her to try to copy the more elaborate, perhaps 
Amish, Turkey Track border on that old rug. 
September 22 - That morning at about 900 a.m. , I headed for 
Surry County and the home of Elizabeth Smith, whose yo-yo quilt 
I had admired at the Surry County Fair. Mrs. Smith lives on 
Route 1621, or Sparga Road, on the left off of Route 89. 
About four miles up the road is her trailer, the last one on 
the left before Piper's Gap Road, or Route 1624. 
Mrs. Smith is an older woman who seems to have had a 
rough life. She lives with her son in the small trailer he 
owns, and quilts in order to earn some extra cash. The yo-yo 
quilt I saw at the fair had already been sold for $65.00. 
She just learned how to make this type of quilt four years 
ago when she was it in a magazine. She likes to make it 
because she doesn't need quilting frames which would be hard 
to put up in the trailer. 
Mrs. Smith and I talked for an hour and a half. She told 
me that she had to grow and prime a patch of tobacco to pay 
for her divorce from her first husband. Her pet bird 
occasionally screeched in the background as we talked. We 
discussed her quilts and quilting, and she led me into the 
back bedroom to show me several examples of her work. She 
had to so most of her tacking and quilting in this bedroom 
with the quilt spread on the bed. 
I took those quilts that seemed most interesting outside 
to take photos of them. I spread them over the clothesline 
and took several shots of her yo-yo quilt, what she calls her 
West Virginia patteai, and the Flower Garden quilt. Mrs. 
90 
Smith didn't know how to put this last very difficult hut 
very traditional pattern together, so it is pieced very 
strangely. Even though she was raised in Patrick County, 
her sense of a quilting tradition doesn't seem very strong. 
She said she had never seen a Flower Garden quilt before. 
I left Elizabeth Smith's at 1:15 and drove to her daughter- 
in law's home across the street. Elizabeth had telephoned 
ahead and made arrangements for me to visit Mrs. Sam Smith. 
I suspect a sense of competition existed between the two women, 
and I also suspect they thought I was a potential buyer of 
quilts. Mrs. Sam T. Smith's address is: Route 5» Box 4l6, 
Mt. Airy, N.C. 
Once again I threw the quilts over the clothesline and 
photographed four of the quilts she showed me; one Flower 
Garden, two Trip's Around the World, and one Lone Star. None 
of the quilts seemed outstanding to me although both women do 
sell quilts through shops in the area and as far away as 
Roanoke. The Lone Star was tacked, and once again, the colors 
in the Flower Garden were arranged in a peculiar fashion. I 
left Sam T. Smith's at 3!°0» and headed for a Hardee's in 
Mt. Airy for a much needed cup of coffee and then on to Fern 
Evan's house. 
Fern Evan's home is on Route 89 in the suburb of Toast. 
After leaving Mt. Airy, it is the seventh house on the left 
past the last stop light. A rail fence borders the front yard 
and E. C. Evans is written on the mail box. I pulled up the 
driveway and into the ample back yard that looked something 
like a junk dealer's paradise or at least the remnants from 
some flea market. 
Fern greeted me at the back door, led me through the 
den and kitchen, and finally into her very comfortable living 
room. The shelves and bookcases in the room are filled with 
photos and trophies won by her daughters. Apparently they 
inherited their mother's charm and ambition, for the oldest 
was Miss North Carolina and the younger the first runner-up 
in a later Miss North Carolina contest. I noticed Fern was 
wearing the same dress this afternoon that she had on in the 
photos taken with her daughters at the Miss North Carolina 
contest. 
91 
Fern showed me the quilt she has started working on 
since her business was sold out from under her by her family. 
Apparently she is not well, but she would not give up her 
work as a chain saw salesman, so her husband simply sold the 
business. Now she keeps busy cooking for large community 
gatherings, canning, quilting, and playing in the family band 
for neighborhood events. 
I quickly set up my recording equipment in her living 
room and we talked about some of her favorite topics: the 
old days in Low Gap, her younger days when she played music 
in the Mt. Airy area, her friendship with Ronnie Stoneman of 
"Hee Haw," and the time she spent selling chain saws for 
McCulloch. Fern is an excellent storyteller. Her tales 
about Low Gap, especially about the black gum toothbrush, 
are informative and amusing, albeit somewhat romantic. Her 
occupational narratives frequently involve inept men who can't 
seem to run the equipment properly. As a musician, she 
identifies strongly with the Nashville sound, and talks 
proudly of the night her sister played banjo in a Nashville 
club with several country music stars listening in. We 
could have continued our conversation indefinitely, but 
the other members of the family began to arrive at about 
6:00. 
Fern fixed a sandwich for me, and I chatted with the 
other members of the family as they drifted in. Her daughters 
could not travel up from Appalachian State College, and I 
got some hint of the girls' attempt to break away from their 
mother's bonds. Finally Charles and the Filers arrived at 
7:45. We set up the mixer in the kitchen and the mikes in 
the living room. Most of the family who had come just to 
listen sat in the den on the other side of the living room. 
It was a strange situation. The bank played in one room, but 
the audience was in another. Fern seemed to be in her glory 
singing and acting as master of ceremonies. The band was 
not that good, but it was, as we have come to say, a "perfect 
example of itself; in other words, it is a typical example 
of a family band playing for its own amusement and for groups 
in the area. CW was able to get some interesting information 
from them about the older tunes from the Mt. Airy area and 
92 
some of their early relatives who were fairly well-known 
musicians in Low Gap. The Eilers left at about 9:00 and 
CW and I recorded until 10s30 or so, packed up our 
equipment, and left Toast at about 11:30 p.m. 
September 23 - The next morning I made arrangements for CW 
and I to deliver photos to Jess Higgins and his wife and 
to record their preparation of the Sunday morning radio 
broadcast. I also made final arrangements to see Hazel 
Jennings at the Faith Temple Holiness Church the next 
morning. 
At 12:30 I left for my 1:00 appointment with Ila Patton, 
the grandmother of the girl who works at the desk. She lives 
on Fries Road or Route 64l. Off of Interstate 58, take the 
first right which is Old Fries Road. Follow the road past 
Shore's Grocery and take the first left turn. Follow this 
road to the left until you reach a brick house; turn right, 
and you are on 64l. Ila Patton's house is a two story white 
house on the right three houses past the cemetery. Naturally 
I got lost trying to find the place, primarily because Shore's 
Grocery is not very clearly identified. 
The Patton house, once the main dwelling on what was 
called the Patton Plantation, is located on a slight hillside 
directly across from the New River. It is a peaceful setting 
with men fishing on the river and cattle grazing near its 
banks. A nearby house is one of the many bought by the Power 
Company when they thought they were going to build a dam on 
the New River. 
Mrs. Patton invited me in and took me upstairs to see 
her quilts. They are not fancy, but very interesting and 
well-made. While I was upstairs, I noticed a wedding 
certificate she had painted herself in a Pennsylvania Dutch 
style. I took some of the quilts down stairs so we could 
talk about them as we looked at them. 
I set up the recording equipment and we began to talk 
about her early life and food traditions. Mrs. Patton seemed 
somewhat uncomfortable with the recording equipment. I 
asked her about the witch stories her granddaughter told me 
about. She told me several, but the best one was interrupted 
by a telephone call, and she couldn't tell it as well a second 
93 
time. She said her stories were a little rusty because she 
used to tell them as bedtime stories to her grandchildren when 
they were young. Now that they are grown, she has no one to 
tell them to. While the tape recorder was turned off, she 
added to the first story she told me the motif of the witch 
urinating in a pan. She wouldn't tell me that one on tape. 
We talked in some detail about her quilts. Most of them 
she made for her own use; the Crazy Quilts or Strip Quilts 
she made by piecing fabrics to a piece of paper. Her pieced 
patterns were often borrowed from neighbors. The Cathedral 
Window Quilt is her most recent attempt. Some of Mrs. Patton's 
quilts are tacked, some quilted, and some joined with secret 
tacking, which was a new technique to me. All in all, the 
interview with Mrs. Patton was very useful and informative. 
We finished talking at about 4:00 and I took the quilts 
out on the porch to photograph them. At about 5:30 I finished 
my work, Mrs. Patton's daughter who lives with her came in, 
and they began fixing dinner. Ila Patton seemed less reserved 
now, and offered me a piece of pie, which I gladly accepted. 
I left the Patton place at 6:00, stopped to take some 
photos in the Patton cemetery, and arrived back at the 
Midtowner at 7s00. CW and I had an 8:00 appointment with the 
Higginses, so I grabbed a quick sandwich, and we left at 
about ?:45. 
When we arrived at the Higgins' home, Jess, his wife 
and daughter were all watching television. Mrs. Higgins 
was still suffering from kidney stones so CW and she talked 
about the miseries associated with the illness. We gave 
them the photos which they seemed to appreciate. 
At about 8:30, Mr. and Mrs. Higgins, CW and I went 
into the bedroom where they recrod their Sunday morning 
radio show. We recorded them recording the half hour 
program on their Wollensack Recorder, and then CW asked some 
questions about Primitive Baptist music, gospel music, and 
Jess's life in general. I suspect there is a good conversion 
story there, although we didn't get it. Jess did say that 
Church is important in the area because there is little else 
to do here. That comment took me by surprise. We got an 
excellent, early and unusual version of "Amazing Grace." 
94 
A fox hunt was going on somewhere in the area and we could 
hear the familiar yelp of the dogs. Jess told the oft-repeated 
story about the man who asked, "Can you hear that music? No," was 
the response, "I can’t hear a thing for all those dogs barking!" 
Finally at about lit 00 we began packing up to leave. Jess 
acted as though he would miss us and paid us, I think, a fine 
compliment. "Never," he said, "has anything that began with 
so much suspicion, ended on such a pleasant note." He also 
hinted that he would like to have us help him produce a 
record of religious music. We finally said our farewells 
and left at about 11:30. It had been another long day. 
September 24 - CW and I left the Midtowner for Faith Temple 
Mission at approximately 9:30 a.m. Somehow he managed to find 
the place while I got hopelessly lost. Finally I pulled into 
the driveway as CW was setting up the microphones outside. 
He said a Sunday School class was going on inside and the 
people did not seem to welcome his presence. I poked my 
head inside and got the same cool reception. 
Finally at 10:45 Sunday School ended and I went inside 
to talk to Hazel Jennings, the Pastor. She was friendly, 
but services were about to begin, so we set up the mikes 
hurriedly in the rear of the Church. I took photos and 
watched the tape recorder while CW went to get more equipment. 
The trio providing the music has made an eight track 
tape including an original composition, "There Must Be No 
Mistake," written by Betty Thomason, the daughter of Hazel 
Jennings. The trio consists of Nancy Pruitt on the piano, 
Doris Caudell playing the guitar, and Betty Thomason on the 
organ. Later, undoubtedly because I was there, Pastor 
Jennings asked the children's trio to sing. That trio 
included a tall blonde boy, Johnny Alley, Rhonda Pruitt, 
and Robbie Pruitt, a smaller boy. The trio was appealing, 
but I doubt we got a good recording because the mikes were 
so poorly placed. The congregation.probably numbering about 
30, seemed to be from a lower socio-economic group, perhaps 
including people with some serious problems. Mrs. Jennings 
did say that the Church began through an outreach mission. 
95 
The service ended at 12:15* and CW had to run off to another 
appointment. Mrs. Jennings, who had "been aloof and reluctant 
to let me interview her before, was not eager to talk with me. 
She wanted to set up an appointment for later that day, but 
I simply had too much paperwork to do. At approximately 1:30 
I returned to the Midtowner. 
September 25 - The next morning before my 1:00 appointment 
with Donna Choate, I set out to track down Nora Glasco, who 
lives near Edmonds on Route 18. BO had met the woman and 
he gave me general directions as to how to reach her house. 
I followed those directions, and talked to an elderly Nora 
Glasco who turned out to be the wrong one. Nora Virginia 
Glasco is the quilter, and she lives on Route 18 in a brick 
house next to the General Store at the intersection of Routes 
18 and 1442. I went by her house, but no one was home. I 
drove on into Sparta for lunch and arrived at the Choates at 
1:00. 
I had expected Donna Choate to be a shy woman to interview 
partly because she had been reluctant to see me. She turned 
out to be a warm and lively talker. I set up my equipment in 
her living room and we began to talk about what it was like 
to grow up as a Black child in Carroll and Allegany counties. 
She hinted that her mother may have been a Higgins; she 
was "whiter than you are" she told me, and she was raised by 
the Higgins as one of the family. Donna said that Ms. Clyde 
Fields, whom I had met earlier in Sparta, was instrumental in 
providing schools for black children in the 1940's. 
Donna learned to quilt from her mother who was taught to 
piece quilts by white people. She now has what she calls her 
Sunday quilts and her everyday quilts. To this day she still 
quilts with the mother of the man for whom she does day work. 
I noticed during our interview that Donna has a tendency 
to repeat stories just like women I've talked to who have had 
a stroke or some other form of memory impairment. It became 
somewhat difficult to keep her on the subject. At about 3!30 
Sabe came in, and I ended our conversation. I took several 
photos of some of Donna's pieced quilts outside and one strip 
quilt as it was being used on the bed. Finally it became 
96 
obvious that Sabe and Donna were anxious for me to leave. 
Apparently they had to meet Mr. Brown to transfer cattle 
from one pasture to another. Donna helped me pack my 
belongings and practically threw my equipment into the car. 
This has been a familiar problem during the course of 
my fieldwork. Women can't seem to believe that I can talk 
to them for three or four hours about quilts. In the future 
the interview and photography sessions need to be separate 
and informants need to be aware of how much time I will spend 
with them. 
On my way home at about 5530. I stopped once again at 
Nora Glasco's home. She and her husband had just returned 
from Roanoke and Nora's visit with her doctor. She agreed 
to meet me at her quilting building across the street the 
next day at 2:00. I returned to the Midtowner at approximately 
6:30. 
September 26 - That morning I called Zenna Todd and made 
arrangements to see her tomorrow at 1:30. At about 10:00, LE 
and I left the Midtowner for Carrie Severt's home. I wanted 
LE to get some good photos of Carrie's quilts. TA was already 
there measuring the house. It was a chilly day and Carrie 
had the wood stove fired in to heat the kitchen which she had 
closed off from the rest of the house. 
It was windy outside, so LE and I had a hard time finding 
a place to take the photos. We hung the quilts on the front 
porch, but the wind still whipped them around. Finally we 
carried the dozen quilts to a back shed where they were some¬ 
what protected from the wind. We noticed how heavy the quilts 
were as we tried to hang them on a line. Carrie came out every 
now and again and commented on the quilts. We took photos 
of two Wheel Quilts, one with black in it. Two of the blocks 
in a Crazy Quilt we photographed are over 100 years old. Carrie 
found them in an old house they live in and copied them as she 
pieced the quilt. A fourth quilt was made of the same squares 
only with strips inbetween each square. The reverse of the 
Yellow Strip quilt was hand-dyed. The Star Quilt is quilted 
in the fans. A seventh quilt was pieced in squares. We 
photographed three strip quilts, which Carrie calls Crazy 
Quilts. One was quilted in the fan and two were quilted in 
97 
lines. Finally, the last quilt we photographed is Carrie's 
version of a Log Cabin quilt. It looks like the following: 
We finished with the quilts right around noon. Carrie had 
lunch ready and expected all of us to join her and Edd, so 
we did. It was a typical Blue Ridge dinner with the best 
homemade biscuits and corn bread I had yet tasted. LE had 
to eat and run to a tobacco auction. TA set up his tape 
recorder and began to talk to Edd. I stayed through one reel 
of tape and then left for my 2:00 appointment with Nora Y. 
Glasco. By that time I was in the middle of another one of 
my now familiar splitting headaches. 
I drove about three miles down RoutelS to the white 
cement block building at the junction of Routes 1442 and 89 
that serves as Nora's quilting building. Her husband, a 
cement contractor, constructed thebuilding several years 
ago, and they eventually plan to turn it into apartments. 
Until now, Nora, her sister, and mother used it for their 
family quiltings. The huge room is filled with old clothes 
and equipment. It is a bright room, however, with plenty of 
space to hand the quilting frames and leave them up until the 
quilt is finished. Nora is the only one now working on the 
quilts. Her mother died, and her sister moved from the area. 
They don't work together as they used to when they quilted up 
to one hundred quilts a year. 
I began this time by taking some photos of the handsome 
Log Cabin quilt Nora was working on. Then I set up my 
equipment and talked about the quilt as she worked on it. 
She is probably my most educated, articulate, and professional 
quilter. She talked about her early marriage, her days in 
the factory which she did not like, her religion, and her 
continuing pursuit of a college degree. The Log Cabin quilt 
is being made for Mrs. Yates for $40. It came from Georgia 
and has already been sold to someone "up North." We talked 
about the quilting newsletters and magazines Nora reads and 
the rules one must follow to be a "fancy quilter." Nora has 
98 
few of her own quilts; she seldom uses them on the teds 
either for warmth or for spreads. She does give them to 
her children as special gifts. 
Nora's hustand came to check on her at 4:30* I packed up 
my equipment, and as I was leaving Nora showed me two Lone 
Star quilt tops made from old neckties ty her grandmother many 
years ago. She wants to tear them apart and make them "more 
modern" ty tlending the colors more carefully. She asked my 
advice and I could tarely control myself as I told her to 
leave the quilt tops as they are. I took some photos of these 
tops, too, partly to document Nora's traditional "roots" and 
also to reinforce the value of these items in Nora's mind. 
People like Mrs. Yates, whom Nora said refuses to buy any 
quilt done in the fans, are destroying the native quilting 
traditions in the Blue Ridge. They are helping to homogenize 
the product and turning out a bland quilt that doesn't reflect 
its regional heritage at all. 
I left Nora's at 5*30 and drove tack to the Midtowner, 
arriving at 6:00. 
September 27-1 left for Zenna Todd's home at approximately 
1:00. She lives off Routers near the Edmonds Crossroads. 
Follow Route 1444 south for three miles. Her trick home is 
on the left, the second house past the Exxon station. 
Zenna looks younger than her fifty some years. She is 
a bubbly, enthusiastic person who would be a natural Park 
Service "authentic" interpreter of Blue Ridge quilts or 
Blue Ridge culture in general. She is very positive about 
the Parkway and the Park Service, primarily because her 
husband worked on the Parkway for many years. 
I set up the recorder in Zenna's living room and we 
talked about her early life and quilting in general. She told 
me the only humorous anecdote about quilting that I have yet 
managed to collect. Her mother-in-law forgot to tell her to 
pull the knots through the bottom of the quilt. When she 
pulled the quilt in the frames up to the ceiling for the 
evening, it looked like flies sitting on the lining of the 
quilt. Zenna has a retarded son who was in another room, but 
his moans continuted throughout our interview and are audible 
on the tape. 
99 
Zenna sells her quilts at the Trading Post and at Rooftop. 
These shops, and the women who run them, do not seem to 
interfere with regional quilting traditions as does Mrs. Yates. 
Zenna considers herself a fancy quilter, hut she still pieces 
and quilts the traditional local patterns. She has a "Monkey 
Wrench" on sale at Rooftop, which is the first pattern she 
ever made. Like Ruth Holbrook, Zenna has taught in a poverty 
program quilting course, which is where she learned the 
difference between a plain and a fancy quilt. 
We finished talking at about 4:30 so Zenna could fix 
dinner for herself and her son. I took several of her quilts 
outside to the back yard to take photos of them. One of her 
quilts particularly intrigued me. It is a family album quilt, 
one of the best of a type I have seen throughout the Blue 
Ridge area. It is made from squares from her children's 
clothing. On the quilt she has embroidered names, dates, 
and initials in addition to family jokes and secrets. For 
example, her hand, complete with nail polidi and ring, is on 
the quilt. Her family always kids her about the polish on 
her nails. I thought that quilt was quite attractive and 
still reflected the family values of the Blue Ridge. I took 
a few photos of some of Zenna's photos of quiltings as well 
as some photos of her house. I left at about 6:00, arriving 
back at the Motel at 6:30. 
September 28-1 left the Midtowner at 9:15 and drove north 
on Route 58, turned left onto Route 705, and tried to find the 
home of Mrs. Maggie Schockley approximately five miles down 
the road. I drove past the green house several times before 
I finally pulled into the driveway at 10:00. Mrs. Schockley 
did not have much time to spend with me; her mother, who was 
a compulsive quilter, is dying and the family provides her with 
24 hour a day nursing care in her own home. They refuse to 
send her to a hospital or nursing home as long as she want to 
remain at home. Maggie was due to relieve her sister at 
11:30 for her eight hour shift. 
I set up my equipment quickly and squeezed in as many 
questions as I could. Maggie had a good deal of information 
and I was sorry I couldn't spend more time with her. She 
100 
has dozens of squares her mother had made and she showed me 
several quilts made by both her and her mother. 
At 11:30 Mrs. Schockley called a neighbor, Gertrude 
Vass, and asked her to stay with me so I could photograph 
the quilts and squares. About that time Everett Schockley 
came home, so both of them tried to help me hold down the 
fabrics on a frustratingly windy day. I took photos of 
five quilts; only the "Flower Basket" was made by Mrs. 
Schockley. The other four quilts were made by her mother, 
Mrs. Norman (Sybella) Cochran, who was born on August 21, 1883. 
These four quilts are the red "Carpenter's Wheel, a six- 
pointed "Star" quilt, a green "Kansas Trouble" pattern, and one 
yellow and brown quilt with an unknown name. I also tried to 
take photos of as many of the quilt squares as I could. 
When I finished these quilts, Mrs. Vass of Hillsville 
(728-2027) took me to her home to show me the string quilts 
made by her mother-in-law, Zelda Vass, Route 1, Hillsville. 
The cotton top is unquilted; the polyester top is quilted. 
I quickly took photos of these quilts and headed for Hillsville 
and a hurried lunch. I was already late for my 2:00 appointment 
with Mrs. Charles Stanley. 
Lura Stanley lives on Route 58 one mile past the Laurel 
Fork Post Office. Her house is the first white one with green 
shutters on the left. I arrived at her home at about 2:45. 
Her home and her quilts are truly exquisite. 
Mrs. Stanley led me into her living room and began showing 
me the quilts she had taken out of storage just for my visit. 
She has a lovely "Flower Basket" that her grandmother made; 
obviously fine quilting runs in the family. She took me into 
her bedroom to show me a quilt she uses as a spread on her 
guest room bed. Finally I set up my recorder in the living 
room and we talked about her quilting. 
She Jearned to quilt as a young girl, but stopped while she 
attended college and taught school in the area. After her 
retirement, she started quilting again, not to sell the items, 
but to create heirlooms for her children and grandchildren. 
I had been told that Mrs. Stanley's granddaughter sometimes 
quilts with her, but that isn't true. She is simply too busy 
with school to learn the difficult art of quilting. 
101 
We finished our conversation at approximately 5'.00 and 
Mrs. Stanley showed me some of the quilts and coverlets she 
had bought at auctions in the area. One exquisite quilt she 
purchased for $3.00, and she told an interesting story about 
how Matt Burnett, the auctioneer, helped her het the quilt 
by noticing her instead of the woman who was bidding against 
her. 
I left Mrs. Stanley's at 500 and drove to Josie Goad's 
home. She was busy painting the porch, but agreed to see me 
on Saturday night. I left her house at 6:00 and headed back 
to Galax by way of the Parkway. 
September 29 - That morning TE, LE, and I agreed to meet at 
Mrs. Stanley's house at 10:00 to take photos of her quilts. 
I arrived first as they had some business to discuss with 
CF. I found a place to hang the quilts outside, and began 
with the older "Flower Basket." I had just set up the green 
"Drunkard's Path" quilt when TE and LE arrived. While they 
continued to photograph the half dozen quilts, I set up the 
tape recorder and talked about each quilt with Mrs. Stanley. 
It was extremely interesting to hear her comments as she 
saw each quilt spread out, hung up, and photographed. She 
said she had never seen them displayed like that before. She 
kept exclaiming, "Isn't that beautiful; isn't that lovely." 
She would add, "I shouldn't say this about my own work, but 
that's just gorgeous." Finally she had to leave for a hair 
appointment so her daughter-in-law came over to stay with us. 
Finally they both left, and we finished with the quilts, folded 
them up, and left them in the house with a few Polaroid snap¬ 
shots. 
I drove over to Mabry Mill for lunch and then back to the 
Lovers Leap Gift Shop to photograph Josie Goad's quilts in 
preparation for my interview the next evening. LE and TE 
were there purchasing a quilt. I couldn't talk them into 
doing anymore photos for me so I took four quilts outside, 
put them over a line and took the photos myself. Unfortunately 
the most interesting quilt, an unusual Log Cabin pattern, had 
been chewed by mice. The Eilers or I would have bought it 
otherwise. 
102 
On the way hack I stopped at Crystal Cruise's to 
return some mimeographed sheets I was never able to copy. 
No one was home, so I left the papers on the rear porch. 
I arrived at the Midtowner at 4:30 and began helping with 
the packing up. 
September 30 - After my argument with the Midtowner management, 
JJ and I set out to see if we could locate Mr. Berlie Largen 
and his Blackgum toothbrush. We found the Iroler's Store 
and they gave us direction to Berlie's brick rambler. 
Fortunately the Largens were home. We talked with 
Berlie in his living room for awhile. We tried to start our 
interview by talking to both Berlie and his wife, who is very 
hard of hearing, but that did not work out too well. Finally 
Jim carried the Nagra and I took the cameras as we tramped 
through Berlie's back acres looking for a Black Gum tree. 
We found several and Berlie showed us how to make and use a 
toothbrush. We walked by his garden and over to the area 
where he keeps his dogs. Their dog house is an old station 
wagon mired in the ground. Finally we went into Berlie's 
workshop where we saw the tools he uses to make some of the 
fine furniture he has upstairs in his house. 
Berlie Clarence Largen's address is Route 2, Box 209, 
Hillsville, Virginia 24343. He was born on September 22, 1908 
and his wife's name is Ruby Vida Largen. We left Berlie's 
at about 3:00, stopped at the Irolers where some of the gang 
were saying their farewells and then back to Galax. I decided 
to skip my appointment with Josie Goad, especially when I 
could not reach her by telephone. The next day, as we left 
the area, we made a final stop at the Mayberry Trading Post. 
Sure enough, Josie had called Addie Woods the day before and 
left a message cancelling our Saturday night appointment. 
An otherwise exhilarating eight weeks ended of a flat, if not 
a sour, note.