AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
AFCCC-FLD5-2
Fieldnotes
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
Project 10482-A25FOLK MUSIC PROJECTField ReportNovember 25, 1938:
Friday:To Mountain View to locate a gusla (Serbian folk instrument) player. He was said to be the
"uncle of the man in the barber shop") but there proved to be too may barber shops running full
tilt in Mountain View. So I drove to Cupertino to get more detailed information from Mr. Mariani,
who is my chief source of information about the Jugo-Slavs (Dalmatians, Croats, Slovenes, Serbs,)
in the Santa Clara Valley. Returning to Mountain View I located my babrber barber and, finally, the
barber's uncle, a few miles out of town on a farm. This was a preliminary visit, so to speak, to get
acquainted. I admired the instrument and begged for the very old kind of singing that it always
is used to accompany. After some persuasion the old man burst into song, but explained he is in
mourning and would prefer to record after another month or so. I did n't expect him to perform at
any length, nor for the recorder, on such short notice, and we agreed I would notify him when I can
come again, in a few weeks.Then to San Jose, where I collected Mr. George Vinton Graham, an old-
timer simply overflowing with songs, who had promised to take me where some old-time dances
were performed. We had time to work for an hour on the texts of [songshe?] is gradually putting on
records for me. I have been writing these for him on the typewriter at his dictation so that when he
sings for the machine he won't got fussed and forget what he's doing, as one tends to do.The old-
time dancing and fiddling turned out to be a Townsend Club meeting. The caller for the quadrilles
was very good, and the whole affair was priceless. I regretted not having a "Life" photographer
along. The caller said he would write out his calls for me; but to judge from past experience I will
have to lok him up again later and sit with him while he does it. The calls are rhymed and half-
chanted, half-sung.November 26, 1938: Saturday:Mr. Graham recorded 3 12" disks, on both sides, as
follows:Record 1, sides A and B: Lord Bakeman and the Turkish Lady (an old English ballad at least
300 years old)Record 2, side A: Barbara Allen (also a very old English ballad)side B: The Bridgwater
(English, about 150 years old probably)It ain't gonna rain no more.Record 3, side A: Her Sweet
Sailor Boy. This is a song known to have been sung by the early settlers at Sutter's Fort, as also the
following:The Lady Del RoyO she licked him and she kicked him[Illegible sentence]Side B: The Dying
CalifornianThe Lover's GhostReturn to Berkeley Saturday, after interviews in Alvarado.November 30,
1938: Wednesday:To San Jose to contact Portuguese and hear some Portuguese Christmas songs.
These turned out to be composed and not traditional, but I got on the track of some interesting 2
harvest songs which are traditional, and arranged to record them this coming Saturday. Mr. Graham
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
expected to record another 2 or 3 records for me on this evening, but, he said, he felt "awful out of
tune" (he had a cold) so we discussed arrangements for publishing his songs by the project, and then
I came back to Berkeley.N.B. I do not expect to report as fully as this each time, and if these reports
are to go into the Area office I had perhaps better do them more formally. But I thought at first a
rather detailed account of my doings would be interesting, at first anyway.
[Illegible]
December 5, 1938Field Report for December 3, 1938
Sidney RobertsonTo San Jose to record the singing of George Vinton Graham.Mr. Graham has got
a friend to type out the words of songs at his dictation, and he is giving me copies. Unfortunately
the friend can spell properly so we are cheated out of Mr. Graham's original documents, which were
of a paralyzing originality as to punctuation and spelling. He gave as copies of seven songs, and he
recorded the following:The Prisoner's Song, with answer ("I sure do hate to think of that old song
getting lost; we better git it onto a record right now!")Kathy GroveWillis TaylorThe Mormon-Eyed
Preacher (one of a large group of songs which comment upon the ease with which the preachers
seem to obtain the best of everything.)Dear Adel my Son (This song left England probably a hundred
years ago as Dear Randolph my Son. "Adel" is Mr. G---'s spelling.)Henry the ShepherdFuller and
WarrenThe Devil out of Hell (This is the old English ballad, "The Scolding Wife" --- she was carted
off to Hell by the Devil at her husband's request, but even the devils in Hell could n't stand her so
her husband had to take her back) (Mrs Graham does n't approve of such freedom in language in a
song, and offered this with many apologies.)The Rose --- a sentimental affair of the nineties which
Mr. Graham insisted upon singing, with the remark that it is at least 500 years old. It was probably
composed and published about 1885; but I could n't offend Mr. G---'s taste by scorning it.True lover
of mine. This is a song referred to in one of the plays of Shakespeare, and Mr. Graham knows the
traditional folk version, not the literary one.Lowlands of Holland (about the press gang victims in
England)Down around the Coast of La Barbarse (Slave-ship days)Sweet Mary, weep no more for me
(The Lover's Ghost, a very old and interesting song)
California Folk MusicProject 10482- A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, Cal.December 29,
1938Field Report for December 24th - 28th inclusive
Sidney H. RobertsonDecember 24th in Smartsville to cultivate the acquaintance of some old miners
who live in a shanty town below the Yuba River Bridge, earning a dollar or so a day, panning or
sluicing for gold. They know songs but it will require some time of course before they will record
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
for me , they are so shy.December 25th. From the camp near Smartville to Central Valley (formerly
Boomtown) 9 miles north of Redding. This is one of mushroom trailer and shanty towns which have
grown up in the last year as work on the Shasta Dam gets under way. For various reasons I spent
the nights in Redding instead camping with the Ford family as I had done before.December 26th
from Redding to Polleck to make the acquaintance of the Acord family who have been 40 years at
this one spot in the mountains. They came from the Ozarks originally and will doubtless provide
much good material later when they know me better. Then returned to Central Valley for recording;
later, to Redding for the night.The Christmas holidays proved an unusually propitious time for songs
and stories, and in four sessions with the recording machine I was able to make fifteen records,
fourteen of songs and one of old dance tunes played on harmonicas. Most of these songs were
sung by Warde Ford and his brother Pat. It was only possible to go through so many songs in such
a short time because of the ground work laid a year ago in Wisconsin and the efforts of the Ford
family members in Wisconsin and California to write down texts of the songs from their collective
memories. A few of the songs have been learned in California but most of them are of extremely
recent adoption belonging by right to the [woodshore?] of the Upper Mississippi River stats. This
should not be taken to mean that the songs bear no relation to California, however. Many of them,
in the same or different versions, have been brought here from other states any time between two
and seventy years ago.This does not exhaust the possibilities of / The Shasta Dam / Community;
far from it. During the last few days I met a number of men who know a few songs each, but it will
hardly be possible to get so many records of such great interest in as short a time again.December
28th returned to Berkeley from Redding.
California Folk MusicProject #10482 - A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJanuary 10,
1939Field Report
Saturday, January 7th to Watsonville in the afternoon to contact a group of Portugese folk singers
from the Azores. They sang and played for Mrs. Avila and myself and arrangements were made for
me to record there when I am in that region again next week. Circumstances made it impossible to
make any records immediately as a misunderstanding as to the non-commercial character of our
enterprise had first to be cleared away. The music they know is primitive and extremely interesting
and I do not foresee any further difficulties when I return. Mrs. Avila is very hopeful since because
of her radio experience she is known to most of them and able to gain their confidence much more
quickly than I could have done alone.SR:GO
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
California Folk MusicProject # 10482-A 252108 Shattuck Ave Berkeley, CaliforniaJanuary 20,
1939 FIELD REPORT
Saturday January 14th - Thursday January 19th To Monterey and Carmel to pick up contracts made
there several months before the project opened. My list of prospects contained 11 names. Of
these, I omitted wo of the least likely for lack of time. Of the remaining nine, two men (One Spanish
Basque, one Mexican) had just left for a month's work at Treasure Island; one very important source
of rare Spanish-California songs (a woman) had gone to San Francisco on a shopping tour for
several days; two Spanish women who planned before to record had just lost their mother and
"didn't feel to sing"; one Norwegian was in bed with the grippe; one Mexican went into the hospital
the day I arrived with a fractured skull due to his having been mistaken for a strike breaker by
some fishermen's union members; the Icelander who was to record old chants for me had a bad
sore throat; and Mrs. Garcia, the most interesting source of material from Spain, was inarticulate
temporarily because she'd just had all her teeth out. The last two recovered sufficiently to record a
few songs each on Wednesday night and I will catch the Basque and the Mexican in San Francisco.
But this [strikes / an?] all-time low for casualties. They expect me back in two - three weeks, however,
and I have been promised some songs by cowboys up the Carmel Valley at the [Cochines?] Ranch,
among other things.
The trip was not wasted but it did not result at all as I expected in terms of recordings
completed.SHR/RSupervisor
California Folk MusicProject #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 9, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
Feb. 9thTo San Pablo to contact the Silesian Fathers for help in getting Portuguese songs and to
see a Portuguese instrument - maker; Also to inquire about Italian folksongs in the community.The
Italian priest, Father Tuzzi, will sing for us and will try to get the Archbishop's permission for us to
record during the Lenten Mission next week, when the congregation sings Italian folk hymns.SHR/
RSupervisor.
California Folk MusicProject #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 10, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
Feb. 10th (Morning)To Mrs. Avila's residence in Oakland to record 14 Portuguese songs with
accompaniment of Portuguese guitar.Feb. 10th (Afternoon)To Walnut Creek to meet Mrs. Drury and
arrange for recording by her aunt who is of authentic Spanish-Californian descent and knows songs,
if we can catch her when her mind is clear enough to remember them. (She is 91.) Then to a series
of farms near Danville and Lafayette to run down Portuguese singers and players. We finally met an
amiable old man who offered to stage a Portuguese party at his house and invite all the musicians
in the district, as soon as Lent is past.Then to Concord, where Mrs. De Soto, (Granddaughter-in-law
of Don Salvio Pacheco, who was Spanish grantee of [Mt?]. Diablo at one time), gave us dinner and
sang 12 songs for us- the second group of records she has made. We contributed an enlargement of
a photograph of her made on a recent trip, and the wine. At sight of the rather-too-clear photo, she
said: "Well! Was the sun in my eyes or am I getting old?!" (She is 75 anyway and admits to 60.)Sidney
H. RobertsonSupervisor.SHR/R
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 11, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
Feb. 11thTo Lafayette, Danville and Walnut Creek in further pursuit of Portuguese. We found
only one man who plays the old Portuguese instruments but several men have said they will sing
"sometime, in the Moraga bar, when they feel just right." Proper setting of the stage for this is
going to be difficult and we shall probably have to make more than one attempt; but fortunately
the distance is not great and the results infinitely woth while. The more unspoiled the singers, the
shyer they are.Then to Concord to pick up Mr. DeVere and go on to Martinez in pursuit of Sicilians,
who are inclined to be sullen with strangers, and are far more difficult to manage than even the
country Portuguese. However, fortune was with us: A young fellow whom Mr. DeVere had known
for years sang one frankly unprintable item in Sicilian dialect and then led us to an old fisherman
who is considered the best singer in the colony. He was sunning himself with some other fisherman
among the boats lying keel up at the edge of the wharf but consented to return to his house where
flocks of daughters and nieces gathered to dispute his choice of songs with shrieks and gestures.
His family absolutely would not let him sing a composition of his own about the horrible women in
this country who get divorces and are seen walking on the street with men. He saw some of these
brazen creatures in Monterey on a fishing trip and is still very indignant about it. He did sing 5 old
songs in the Sicilian dialect and promised to sing more when we come again. If we can separate
him from his women folk he will probably sing the song his family dislikes so much. Another old
Sicilian in Martinez will sing for us in 2 weeks, as soon as he has finished mending his nets.From
Martinez we drove to Concord to hunt up Mario Olveda, a cook who is famous in the neighborhood
for his singing. He asked us to come back on Monday, which is his day off and said he'd be glad to
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
sing. As we were sent to him by other Sicilians, we supposed him to be Sicilian too; but it seems he
is Bolognese.We returned by way of the Italian parish church in San Pablo, Father Tuzzi was to let
us know what arrangements he had been able to make for recording of the singing at the Lenten
mission services. But we found his housekeeper 2 #2 Field ReportFeb. 11, 1939breathless: The
Pope's death had changed all this, for Father Tuzzi was leaving in an hour for Rome where he was to
act as secretary to one of the American Cardinals called to Rome for the ceremonies connected with
the election of the next Pope. I was surprised that a priest should be called from this obscure parish
for so brilliant an assignment; but so it was. We are to resume negotiations next week with Father
Tuzzi's successor, who has not yet been named. Sidney H. Robertson Supervisor.SHR/R
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 13, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
Feb. 13thOn Saturday we had arranged to record Mario Olveda's singing in Concord at 4 P.M.
We had a little trouble finding a place to record at first but finally settled in Mrs. Maggio's dining
alcove, next to Angelo Maggio's bar. Mrs. Maggio as it turned out knows far more real folk songs
than Mario, but she was rendered too shy by Mario's fine voice, and was too hot and flustered
with cooking and washing, to sing for us this time, though she promised she would later.Mario is
a fine example of a natural artist, with a rarely beautiful voice - dramatic, and gay. Unfortunately
he preferred to sing songs that showed off his voice, popular songs of 25 years ago in Italy; and
we had difficulty getting much else out of him. Afterwards he wanted us to play the record for
his brother in Martinez and somebody else in Crockett and we had difficulty evading this without
offense, though we did go with him to play the record for his boss at the restaurant where Mario
cooks.On the way back to Berkeley we hunted for a Portuguese musician in San Pablo who sounded
interesting but had proved elusive before. Lights were blazing in his house, his wife had just returned
from the hospital with thir first-born baby daughter and Mr. Mendez was in a great state of elation.
Indeed he would be glad to record and set about it at once. He had a fine Portuguese viola that he
made himself, and he sings well. Unfortunately he was so overcome with the excitement plus his
nervousness before the microphone that he ran down after singing two fine songs. We are to go
back on Wednesday, when he will bring in a friend to do the playing so he can devote himself to
singing. He is a comparatively young man but was born in the Azores and learned all his songs there.
Sidney H. Robertson Supervisor,SHR/R
California Folk MusicProject # 10482-A 25 2108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 17, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
Feb. 17, 1939To Carmel to meet Mr. Seely who had arranged for the recording of 3 authentic
Spanish-California Songs by Mrs. Brown, who learned them from her grandmother, Senora de la
Torre. They had also unearthed for me a very old woman who knows authentic songs of the Spanish
days, and who had agreed to sing; but she was out of town when I arrived and did not return before
I had to leave.Feb. 18, 1939Afternoon: To record a group of Norwegian folk songs.Evening: To the
wedding of Ben and Rosa Figueroa where I was promised much Mexican music. I did not expect
to be able to record at this first meeting, but late in the evening I suggested the musicians make
a record for Ben and his wife as a wedding present, and I was able to record several interesting
things. The fact that Ben and Rosa's four children, aged 4, 6, 10 and 14, all attended the wedding
and the reception in their new house in the Mexican quarters quarter of Carmel added a [?]
[?] note, I thought.Feb. 20, 1939I waited over Sunday in hopes that Mr. Brown's old Spanish
woman would return, but she did not, so I returned to Berkeley on Monday morning.Sidney H.
RobertsonSupervisor.SHR/R
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaFeb. 25, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
Feb. 25thTo the Molekon (Russian "Quakers") Colony on the Potrero Hill to renew contacts made
before the beginning of the project. One of my calls happened to be upon relatives of the young
woman found murdered Saturday in Los Angeles and when the word arrived the whole colony
gathered to sing mourning chants for about 7 hours. - a perfectly hair raising experience for an
outsider like me.Two families said they would record the chants for me later. Sidney H. Robertson
Supervisor.SHR/R
California Folk MusicProject #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaMarch 10, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
To Martinez to arrange recording with Mr. Lucido, a Sicilian fisherman who has said he will sing for
us but has been ill. He is still unwell so we went on to Pittsburg. The group of Sicilian women whom
we expected to meet were not there at 2:30 but had left word they would return at 4:00. So we went
into town to try to locate a Mr. Buffo whom we had been told was a fine singer of Sicilian songs.
Mr. Buffo still eludes us, but Mr. DeVere unearthed by accident a remarkable fellow, known as the
'singing barber', Mr. Russo by name, who sings well and knows the simple old songs we want. Most
Italians prefer operatic arias and do not like to record folksongs since the latter fail to " show off
the voice". However, Mr. Russo knew just what we wanted and was enthusiastic at the idea that
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
the Sicilians had something wedidn't which he could give us. He recorded several songs, his wife
sitting by in a wheel chair and several old ladies coming in and out to remind him of songs he knew.
He would have gone on indefinitely but we felt we must break into the session to get back to our
original group at 4:00. Promising to return some other day than Saturday (which is a barber's busiest
day), we left Mr. Russo and arrived fifteen minutes late for our 4:00 appointment, to find nobody
home at all. Whether the group returned and declined to wait for us, or never returned at all, or
what, we still don't know. We waited about 20 minutes politely and then went on, confident that
the neighbors would report that we had been there.From Pittsburg we went on to Brentwood, with
the idea of unearthing some Oklahoman and Arkansas fiddle music and songs among the migrants
camped there. Hearing there was to be square dancing at the Hi-Way Cafe later in the evening, we
arranged to record at the Hi-Way Cafe (whose owners Mr. DeVere, as usual, had known sometime
or other, and who were accordingly very glad to accomodate accommodate us). There were rumors
of a group of gypsies encamped somewhere near Brentwood, but the vans by the roadside which
looked exactly like English gypsy vans, high, narrow and luridly painted, turned out to belong to
some Oklahomans. At the dance later in the evening the Brentwood constable, Mr. Smith, told us
there were some gypsies camped 'out behind the schoolhouse'; but, he added, 'They have been
around here for a long time and are practically local, you might say." Mr. DeVere plans to explore
this lead later. Then we took a long drive out through the marshes to Farrar Park on Bethel Island
in search of Hindus who at one time had been farming there. At the Farrar Park Bar an inquiry
about Hindus produced Mr. Singh, a wealthy farmer who launched into a characteristic East Indian
dissertation upon the Five Districts of India and offered to help us et songs from each District when
we can come again. By this time it was eight o'clock so we returned to Antioch for supper and then
on to Brentwood for the dance. I wanted to record the dance calls and the fiddle tunes and the
general shuffling and shouting of the dancing, but constant interference by a drunken individual who
told me he was half-owner of the Cafe but turned out to be merely the barber from next door, made
it impossible to get anything natural from the group, so I made one record and arranged to meet the
orchestra early on another Saturday and record any old tunes they know. The caller is a fine-looking
Oklahoman who knows songs as well as dance calls which he'll be glad to record. By the time we had
treated to beers all around and got packed up again it was midnight, and we got back to Berkeley
about 1:30 a.m. 2 Mr. DeVere had a dairy route in [Contra?] Costa County for years, and the result is
he knows the area inside out. His dark coloring is of invaluable assistance with southern Europeans,
and he is turning into an excellent field-worker. With the Oklahomans, etc. at Brentwood, however, it
seemed better to put the blond Scotch-Irish photographer in the foreground, and I was worried lest
we would be overheard betraying an interest in gypsies, who are particularly despised by migrant
white workers. Sidney R. Robertson SupervisorSHR/R
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
California Folk MusicProject #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaMarch 30, 1939.
FIELD REPORT
March 30th 31st April 1st 2nd 3rdTo Fresno to record Armenian music, make arrangement for
photographing, drawing and recording 5 instruments from the near East. Also to conduct inquiry
into [Armenian?] liturgical melodies, in the hope of recording thosefor special festivals.I was given
six copies of a recent translation of the Armenian Missal (Gregorian or Apostolic Church) and asked
to see that they reach libraries. I am sending one to the New York Public Library, two to the Library
of Congress, one to the University of California and one to the San Francisco Public Libraries.The
Gregorian service is changed in an old form of the language which is no longer spoken and so is
entirely unfamiliar to young Armenians in this country.So far as I can determine the service has
never been translated into one of the European languages before. The [??] in Fresno had it done as
a memorial to their father in 1932. The Missal also contains 70 pages of old liturgical melodies.It will
require at least two more trips to Fresno to finish what I have started there. I have been working on
some of these people for a year and only now seem to have their full confidence. (Mrs.) Sidney H.
Robertson Supervisor.SHR/R
California Folk MusicProject #10482 - A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaApril 19,
1939 FIELD REPORT
April 14 -- FridayTo Fresno in the afternoon.April [15?] -- Saturday.To Fresno (in town) to confirm
appointments made tentatively the previous week, and to make photographs of two instruments
which I hope to be able to record later --- their owners are at present out of town. To Sanger and
to Fowler to make appointments for next week-end.April 16 -- Sunday.Recording the singing of
Ruben Baboyan, and gathering further information about the music of the Gregorian Church.
The choir leader has promised to sing for me on Monday, but he has been ill and may not be well
enough.April 17 -- MondayRecording the Oriental violin playing of Mr. Hartop [Goshtigian?] and the
oude playing and singing of Mrs. Goshtigian. Photographing of the Goshtigians, teir instruments;
photographing of the kanoon owned by Mr. Haroutunian, who is going to record next week-end.April
18 -- Tuesday.Return to Berkeley.
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaMay 4,
1939FIELD REPORT
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
May 2ndTo Stanford University for conference with Professor Warren D. Allen and to work at the
Stanford Library. In the afternoon, to call upon some Jugo-Slavs in an effort to locate a blind [gusla?]
player and another man with a [?] set of Pon's pipes. I located the former, who said he would
record for me if I would bring him a string for his instrument and a new pair of glasses! I would
have begged off on the last score but found that "Mr. Kress" is his [coulist?] (he can't see through
the glasses anyway). So when I go again on Saturday I will bring along one of "Mr. Kress" best gold-
framed spectacles! Guslars are considered great artists and are as thorough prima donnas as
Godski ever was. They sing medieval Serbian heroic ballads and accompany themselves on their
very primitive instrument. Guslars are almost always blind men.May 3rdAt Stanford again in the
morning. In the afternoon to the San Francisco Public Library and return to Berkeley.(Mrs.) Sidney H.
RobertsonSupervisorSHR:O
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaMay 11,
1939FIELD REPORT
May 6thTo Woodside to record the liritza playing of Mr. Dedo. We had to move out to the concrete
floor of Mr. Dedo's unused garage because he stamped his foot so hard keeping time that he ruined
the first record me made. He had just finished putting in a sewer for his neighbor, and his neighbor
and a dozen or so Slavonians gathered around to listen. An Italian plasterer emerged fro somewhere
and insisted upon hearing his voice recorded. The Slavonians bore with him as one does with a
spoiled child but I was pleased to find that he knew some quaint songs in French about Garabaldi
- unexpected bounty.Later I took Mr. Dedo with me to San Mateo to record the gusla playing of my
blind friend, old Mr. Boro. He was in fine fettle and played and sang to make what I consider the
greatest "find" in the way of recordings in California. He had to borrow a friend's gusla because
the horse hairs which make the single string (as well as the bow) of his gusla had worn out. Before
I go again I have undertaken to rob a horse's tail of about 40 strands of hair! They must be from
a young horse so they will be fine enough, and must not be white, because white hairs are weak.
The spectacles from "Mr. Kress" were a great success. He is an exigent old party but he can lead
me about by the nose if he likes, so long as he continues to record the Sarbian heroic ballads that
he knows which have come straight down from the troubadours of the middle ages.May 8thTo
Richmond to record the tuning of Mr. Mendes' viola and arrange for Mr. [?] to draw it. To the City
Museum in Oakland to arrange for Mr. Handon to draw General Vallejo's guitar and a banjo which
was played in the Mother Lode country in the Fifties. SR (Mrs.) Sidney H. RobertsonSupervisorSHR:O
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaMay 22,
1939FIELD REPORT
May 22ndTo Pittsburg with five Basques whom I met on Saturday. I hoped to persuade them to sing
for me during the trip and was not disappointed, so my efforts to get them to Pittsburg in time to
report on their jobs at 6 a.m. were not wasted. I have had great difficulty interesting the Basques
in what I am doing and decided this was a good opportunity to put them nder obligation to me.
Next to the gypsies the Basques are probably the most difficult group in the State and I have almost
despaired of bringing them to the point of recording. However, the more retiring they are the more
interesting their music is, of course, and the more worth while the trials of patience my Basque
friends put me to! -SupervisorSHR:O
California Folk MusicProj. #10482-A 252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaMay 22,
1939FIELD REPORT
May 12thTo San Mateo to take horse hair for Mr. Boro's gusla! So that he can "practice up" to record
at greater length than he has so far felt like doing because he has had to use a borrowed instrument.
I was taken to a Jugo-Slav club meeting in Cupertino and was given formal permission to record the
dance music which concludes their meetings on every second Friday of the month.SupervisorSHR:O
California Folk MusicProj. #10482 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 8,
1939FIELD REPORT
May 26 - June 6th inclusiveMay 26 - 27To Monterey to record the singing of Lottie Espinosa. She
was brought up in the family of Governor Mallorin, in San Jose, and recorded a rare and interesting
lullaby he often sang to the children, among other things. Lottie is now 65 but has so few gray hairs
on her head that I made an appointment with her with great difficulty because she is so much in
demand among her numerous gentleman friends. She was married off at 15 to a man nearly 70. She
had 9 children of whose paternity I gathered it would be tactless to inquire in detail. Senor Espinosa
was "a noted serenader and guitar player" and she learned most of the songs he knew, which must
go back before 1850.May 27 - 28To Bakersfield to contact the Farm Security people about recording
in their migratory camps The best musicians known to them have gone now to Visalia, where
unfortunately I did not have time to go. To Santa Barbara to see Father Bertrand at the Mission and
arrange in detail to record at Palo. I gathered some useful information about the Mission music in
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
the Santa Barbara archives, also - and I found a violin made of wood from the canyon behind the
Mission Santa Barbara about 1800.May 29 -June 3In and about Pasadena. I hoped to determine the
possibility of saving some at least of the 300 wax cylinders of Spanish-California music recorded
by Charles F. Lummis about 1904. I was able to get cordial cooperation in setting up equipment to
filter out the surface noise from / Technicians in the Disney and Paramount studios; after 3 days of
struggle with delicate equipment and aggravating variations in the cylinders we were trying to copy
onto more permanent disks, Dr. Hodge, (Director of the Southwest Museum, where Lummis' original
Edison Machine and cylinders are deposited) suddenly remembered that some of Lummis' original
performers are still living. So I began negotiations to 2 Field Report - 2June 8, 1939persuade them
to record. They were paid before, by Lummis, and expect to be paid again, so . I don't know just how
far we'll get. The Museum will undertake to arrange these contacts for me in advance before I go
down again, however, which is a great help. We did determine that it is not possible to clear up the
sound tracks to get the words of the song on those old cylinders, and that re-recording onto disks of
the 300 cylinders with elimination of the scratch so the tune is audible would be 10 days' hard work
for me and 2 days' work for a technician setting up the equipment at the Museum. At present this
does not seem worth while. This is a famous collection of recordings because it was made so early,
and this information about it will serve at least to answer queries addressed to us by libraries and
collectors in the east. Since a few of Lummis' singers are still living the loss of those cylinders is not
as serious as it might be, though in part they are of course irreplaceable.
On Sunday June 4th I drove to Palo and made what is an unique recording of a melody taught to
the Indians (in Spanish) by the original Franciscan padres who went to Palo from San Luis Rey about
1812. This recording has entailed endless negotiations for over a year with the Fathers at Santa
Barbara, who have "dibs" on all mission music in California, and with two different Fathers at San
Luis Rey and with Father Julian who is in charge of the chapels on The the Palo [?] Indian Reservation,
-so [?] I am relieved to have it behind me. After all this the 6 Indian women who did the actual singing
seemed simple to manage. Father Julian had the inspired notion of bringing them into the Mission
after Mass to sing, instead of taking them into his quarters as we first planned. As a result they sang
exactly as if a service were going on. I sacrificed a new pair of stockings by kneeling on the sandy tiles
under the votive lights of St. Anthony at one side of the altar, with my machine, but the experience
was worth it. My one regret was that the oldest woman from whom the others had learned this
song refused to be photographed - I think because they all wore hats and shoes and her shawl and
sandals embarrassed her.
3
Field Report -3June 8, 1939
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
Monday, June 5th - To Mission San Fernando Rey to make inquiries about other Spanish Indian songs
to Bakersfield to request cooperation from a Basque there in getting Basque music which so far
eludes me; and to Fresno to deliver copies of records made there.Tuesday, June 6th I had trouble
with my car and reached Berkeley at 8 p.m. with one stop at Manteca to see some gypsies I am
cultivating, probably to no purpose!)Supervisor SHR:O
California Folk MusicProject #10482 - A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 28,
1939FIELD REPORT
June 15thTo San Jose to attempt to run down some of the Portuguese music which accompanied the
recent Holy Ghost celebrations. Unfortunately the traditional music was not used in San Jose this
year and I was unable to find any one who knew it well enough to record it. The priest at the church
Church of the Five Wounds will try to find some one and let me know.Called on 5 other singers and
they all promised to record for me when they've had time to write down the words of the songs they
know.SupervisorSHR:O
California Folk MusicProj. #10482 - A 252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 28,
1939FIELD REPORT
June 26thTo Pittsburgh to photograph Mr. Russo, the Sicilian "Singing Barber;" to Concord to record a
few more songs each from Mrs. De Soto, an interesting old Spanish-Californian relic, and from Mike
Blackburn, ranch hand on the Water's dairy ranch. We also got photographs of Mike where we found
him herding the cows - Instead of mending the broken fences 2 men devote about 4 hours a day
to herding cows while they feed. One of the Waters brother is a water witch and showed proudly
how this is done for our camera. I commented innocently on the strange fact that some people can
make a willow branch jerk down by holding it near water, and other can't. "Oh," said Mr. Waters,
struggling to phrase his idea acceptably before a lady, "You have to be a - you gotta have - a feller's
got to be a complete human being before he can switch wells - it won't work for no culls!"Then to Mr.
Macedo's for our Portuguese singing party. None of the men appeared, - why, we have no idea. But
Mr. Macedo is the real performer of the lot and the time spent visiting with his family and interesting
him in the idea was well invested.Supervisor.SHR:O
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
California Folk MusicProject #10482 - A25[2108?] Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaFIELD
REPORT
July 14 - 18 inclusive: To the Southern Mines on the Mother Lode to trace songs of the miners. I
had introductions in Columbia and Groveland which proved invaluable and almost immediately
[productive?]. Saturday and Sunday were spent in the hinterlands looking up old fellows who were
known to sing. They were all friendly, and so full of wildly inaccurate stories about the Mother Lode
that I was glad I was not responsible for sorting fact from fancy. A song, happily, cannot be faked,
though historical data pertaining to it as offered by the singer has long been recognized as belonging
to the reals of folk lore. I heard one fine old fellow with a large [repartoire?] sing 6 excellent and
entertaining songs of great interest - really the best songs I heard during the trip. But on such short
acquaintance I did not dare suggest moving him from his mountain cabin down 11 miles of trail just
barely negotiable by car, to a place where A-C current was available for recording. However I am sure
this can easily be managed when I go again in two weeks. This was at Groveland, near the top of the
Sonora Pass.
In and about Columbia there were 3 old fellows who claim to remember dance tunes and songs of
the [49ers?] which they heard in Columbia as boys. One of them is one-quarter or one-alf Indian
but speaks only English and his songs are English and Irish exclusively. He was shy but unaffected.
Another old party with chin whiskers [whomis?] in charge of the Miner's Club sang parts of a song
whose history has been traced in the East back to 1837. He and my third performer have been so
used to providing local atmosphere for tourists that they performed without any difficulty, after
enough beers. But the old Indian was a much more satisfactory find, on the whole. All three men are
the sons of 49ers, were born in Columbia and have lived there all their lives. One still makes his living
on his claim at the age of 79!
There is far more material in [Tuolumne?] County than I should have supposed and I plan to make at
least two more trips there soon. I found handy places to camp near songs and near water so that the
high temperatures (over 100 degree every day; 108 degree twice) [needn't?] be too unpleasant.(Mrs.)
Sidney R. RobertsonSupervisorSHR:O
California Folk MusicProject #11578 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaAugust 11,
1939FIELD REPORT
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
July 30th, [md] Aug. 7, 1939, [inc.?]July 30: To Columbia, Tuolumne County, to record more songs
from the miners I had met on my first trip, and to locate others. Leon Ponce and Aaron Morgan
both added a few items to their previous contribution; and after considerable inquiry and forays
up and down mountains we located the place where a message would reach a famous country
fiddler named Johnny [Stone?]. Word was left for him to get in touch with me on [August 1?]
in Columbia.July 31: I left Columbia for the Big Oak Flat Road and the very important singer at
Groveland, John McCready. He promised to meet me at the Arizona Bar on August 1st, and I then
went on to locate my man at the Cliff House, who had promised to bring me some singers from the
lumber camps on the ridge above [Tosenite?]. Returned t Groveland for the night without having
located this man, who was off fishing.August 1st: Recorded 12 songs by John McCready, who said
he would record again in a day or two. Returned to Columbia hoping that John Stone would have
appeared. He had left word for me, it turned out, to say that he would be coming in from his mine
'in two or three weeks'. This of course was of no use to me, so I drove out, walked a mile down
the mountain, poled down the river three miles on a raft to his mine after dark, and actually met
Johnny Stone, whose existence I had begun to doubt. Two high school boys from Columbia escorted
me, and a third took my car back to a spot near the river downstream from Stone's mines so that
another mile or so down the river we were able to abandon the raft, whose further fate I never did
learn, and drove back to Columbia. Johnny Stone said he had no fiddle, couldn't play a note, and
never knew a song, so we chatted about other things and I got up to go, much disappointed because
I was sure he was being modest but did not see how I was going to make him admit his skill. As I was
about to go out the door of his shack he suddenly pulled a harmonica out of his pocket and gave
the liveliest and most amusing version of the Arkansas Traveler I have ever heard. I was enthusiastic,
and he finally agreed to meet me in Columbia on August 4th. This is the first time I ever pursued
a folk singer on a raft.August 2nd: To the Cliff house to try again to locate Sam Bell, my 'purveyor
of lumberjack songs'. This time I found him and as he had done nothing about singers, a man who
heard us discussing the matter and who knew the singers offered to go up with me the next day
to the lumber camps not far away to try to locate them. Then I drove to Coulterville, where I had
been told there would probably be some musicians. The only [one?] I heard of there was a miner
who carries his fiddle with him as he goes prospecting over the hills, [md] apparently he sits alne
on a boulder and fiddles to himself at sundown every day! He was out of town and as there was no
way of telling in which direction he had gone nor when he would return I made no further efforts in
Coulterville. I was so tired I slept by the side of the road on the way back to Groveland. The distances
are not great [byt?] the roads are all precipitous and it usually takes two hours to go 30 miles.August
3rd: To the Cliff House to pick up my volunteer excort to the lumber camps, and on to Camps 1 and
21 of the Sugar Pine Lumber Company. All we could do, as it proved, was leave word here and there
as to what we wanted to do, with the information that I and my machine would be at the Cliff House
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
on Saturday. the 5th. All the men who sung were out miles off in the woods and we could not of
course reach them in person. I was much intrigued, after my experiences in Wisconsin and Michigan
lumber camps, to visit a camp where the men have chicken twice a week and where each individual
lunch contains an individual can of canned peaches or grapefruit! Paul Bunyan knew nothing like
this! In the afternoon, returned to Groveland to record another 20 songs by John McCready, who is
one of the 3 best singers I have found in California. Then to Sonora to inquire about other singers
there. One of them passed the drugstore where I was inquiring about him and the proprietor called
him in. He was very deaf, with a peg leg and crutches. When I had shouted loud enough for him
to grasp the fact that I was interested in the Civil War songs he knew, he suddenly burst into a
[lugubrious?] ditty at the very top of his lungs, completely paralysing activity in Mr. [Mouron's?] large
and busy drugstore. Mr. [Mouron?] was, however, pleased, and sent us off with his blessing. Other
engagements prevented my agreeing on a time to record this man's songs[,?] however, and i had
to leave him for another time. Then I tried to find the Couty Superintendent of Schools, who is 94
years old and is said to know songs. He was vacationing at the top of the Sonora Pass, however, so I
had to give him up too for the time being. Next to [Columbia?] for the night.August 4th: At Columbia
Leon Ponce had thought up two or three more songs he used to know, so he recorded these; and
then at long last Johnny Stone put in an appearance. He wanted to borrow a fiddle, and we drove
nearly 40 miles hunting one that would suit him. It was worth the trouble, however, as he recorded
a large number of interesting things when we finally got him settled down to it, both on fiddle and
harmonica. He even sang two or three songs. I think his desire to be persuaded and his general
fussiness came from lack of self-confidence rather than any particular desire to play the prima
donna, as no body could have [been?] more cooperative once he discovered how well his records
sound.August 5th: To the Cliff House to keep my appointment with possible lumberjacks. Only
one appeared, with a song of great interest, however, about the donkey [jammers?] on the donkey
engines which pull the lumber trains up the mountains. Another man was reported on his way
but he had to stop and see a friend and I was advised not to wait for him since it was probable he
would arrive too late and too far gone to sing --- the friend it seems kept a saloon. This lumberjack
hunt proved more trouble than it was worth, at least in tangible songs recorded now. But I felt it
was important to determine what could be found and its general interest, since most lumberjack
songs come from the east and this is the only place where I ever heard, or heard of, true California
ones.August 7th: Return to Berkeley after a day spent in Columbia photographing all the men who
had sung for me. Total from Tuolumne County so far: 22 disks, about 120 items. This is a region and
a type of music never investigated at all before, showing what is left of the 49er tradition.
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
California Folk MusicProject #11578 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaAugust 19,
1939FIELD REPORT
August 15, 1939To San Jose with Miss [Asmussen?], who has been transcribing the texts of some fifty
songs sung by George Vinton Graham. To enable Miss [Asmussen?] to check doubtful points with Mr.
Graham. Mr. Graham recorded fifteen more items on 6 disks, and would I think have continued all
night had we not had to return. But I think we have done fairly well by Mr. Graham. I rather suspect
him of gathering in things from other people now, between my visits, so he may have the glory of
singing more songs for the Library of Congress and the University of California than anyone else
ever has. But I intend to stop here. Mr. Graham has recently had a new visiting card printed which
reads: George Vinton Graham, singer of old songs to the University of California and the Library of
Congress, [Daq?]. Then in a lower corner: Composer of pioneer poetry.
California Folk MusicProject #11578 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaAugust 25,
1939FIELD REPORT
August 17th-21st, 1939To Carmel to continue recording of Lottie [Espinosa?] and to get photographs
of singers who had recorded before. For some reason everything I undertake in Monterey County
is twice as difficult as elsewhere, despite the fact that I lived there for years and know the county
well. People tend to break engagements wholesale, I suppose on the theory that I am sure to come
again. However, I did get several necessary photographs and some good recordings. But the Mexican
cowboy who had promised to sing 'had a headache'; another man a Norwegian, developed a camera
phobia and would only consent to a picture if it could be taken in swimming trunks on the beach!
an enterprise for which I had no time nor inclinaton! Lottie Espinosa, incidentally, is the 'daughter
by the left hand' of a former Mexican Governor of California. She was brought up with his daughter
but never met guests, etc.; and at the choice age of thirteen she was married off to a laborer with a
small farm high on the side of the Carmel Valley, in the Cachagua country. Her husband was nearly
70 when they were married, but she has had 11 children, into whose paternity I judge it would
be unkind to inquire. The songs she knows came mostly from this older man, who had been a
famous serenader of senoritas in Monterey as a young man. Thus her songs present an extremely
valuable and almost lost tradition of Spanish-California music. It is always very difficult to arrange
an appointment with Lottie, who is entertained by gentleman friends during, it would seem, most
of the night; the day, she considers, is for sleep. She is nearly seventy herself now, but her face is
scarcely furrowed and her beautifuly long hair is only a trifle gray. She is a practicing midwife much
in demand in the Spanish community at New Monterey; and recently the friend to whom I owe most
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
of this information obtained a State pension for her. This has enabled her home and her clothes to
match her superlative dignity and grace of person.
California Folk MusicProject #11578 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaSeptember
9, 1939FIELD REPORT
Sept. 1st-5th, 1939To Sutter's Fort, Sacramento to photograph manuscripts and old music books
used in Calaveras County in the Fifties by William Broderson. This is an unique collection and the
Curator brought out more than [twice?] as much music as he first showed me, so that I shall have
to return to complete it later. After the Fort closed I want on to Shasta County to record more
songs by the three Ford brothers and to make sure I had recorded everything that the brother
most recently from Wisconsin originally sang fo me there. In addition I met three people with old
music manuscripts which should be photographed, but as all my copying film had been used on the
Broderson lot I could do nothing about this. One woman has an extremely valuable boot into which
one of the first Scotch-Irish families to settle in Shasta County had copied the songs they knew,
both words and tunes. The present owner is Italian, lives alone with five adopted babies, and two
enormous black dogs; and is considered distinctly odd by the rest of the community. She would not
show me the book, but later told the person who had interested me in it originally that if 'nothing
came off the book' I could photograph it. I had intended to record the singing of the [Acord?] family,
a [swarm?] of weirdly-related Missourians living on the Pit River, when I had met on the preceding
trip; but the relocation of the railroad [necessitained?] by the Central Valley Project has driven them
out and they [seem?] now to have gone to Oregon, too far for me to follow.At Boomtown I met some
Finns who had just opened a restaurant. They proved to come from the 'singing part of Finland' and
made a record for me. One song of this group has never been found complete in America before, I
am informed by an authority on Finnish folk songs.
California Folk MusicProject [#10482?] -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaOctober
12, 1939FIELD REPORT
October 2To Placerville to see Mrs. [Brame?] who was to make arrangements with a fiddler at
Smithflat. To Colona, where another fiddler had planned to record for me with an old man who is
expert with the bones. This fiddler had been taken ill the morning before my arrival so recording of
the "bones" man would have to wait [md] bones do not perform alone. Back to Placerville for the
night.October 3To Lotus to meet Judge [Rasmussen?], who used to play for dances. He has no played
his banjo nor guitar in 30 years, but he sang a "song of his own get up" for the recorder on practically
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
no notice. We just had time to squeeze the brief recording in before court convened. As both Judge
[Rasmussen?] and the complainant's [Lawyer?] were deaf as posts I could hear the proceedings long
after I drove into the main road. It seems there was trouble over squatters' rights in an abandoned
gold mine.
Then to Merryman's at [Smithflat?], where ['?]young['?] John Selleck was awaiting [us?]. Merryman's
is a combination bar and dance hall where only old fashioned dances are held. Young John is 66
[md] Old John, his father, died at 90 odd, four years ago. Young John is an excellent fiddler [md] 5
string banjo player, very glad to play between bottles of beer. Mr. Selleck is authentically Californian
and authentically the traditional country fiddler. Mrs. Merryman plotted with me to [ovade?] the
county supervisor of school music who would have prevented his recording for me if he could. It
seems that [13?] years ago she wrote down 40 of the Selleck family songs, added a very bad piano
accompaniment but has been unable to sell the volume to a publisher. This has so [embittered?]
her that she takes a violent dog-in-the-manger attitude about all traditional music in the county.
Young John, however, considers that music is for use and loved making records. 2 p. 2Field Report
ofOct. 3, continuedI drove him home, out toward Lost Canyon beyond [Camino?], and returned to
Placerville for the night.October 4To Pine Grove to contact a Mr. Pitts, who was known in Senora as
a good singer and guitar player. I expected only to get acquainted, arrange for a later visit to record,
and go on; but Mr. Pitts was all for "doing it now" so we drove after his instrument and returned to
the corner groery store and bar to record. I sat all afternoon on a Coca-Cola box full of ice and was
completely congealed by the time he was through. Two priceless Ozarks mountain men came in to
listen, along with most of the rest of the community, and one Ozarker volunteered two or three that
I would have driven far to get had I suspected their existence. When the recording was over I had
to visit Mr. Pitts' gold mine and be shown the house where Major Rossi was born (in Volcano) and
as a result I was unable to get away before dark, and arrived in Berkeley around 2 a.m. completely
exhausted. However, the material is all good and I am glad to have the Northern mines represented
in the disk collection.
California Folk MusicProject #10482-A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaOctober 12,
[1939?] FIELD REPORT
September 15To Sacramento with a volunteer photographer to get the Brodersen collection of
music books and music [ms.?] at the Sutter's Fort onto 35 mm. film. We were not able to work
after noon on the 16th because the young woman in charge of the Fort's offices (in the absence
of Mr. Peterson, the curator) went home ill. So we rather ill-advisedly started cross-country
for Lakeport, where the curator of the museum there had told me some months ago I might
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
photograph an interesting old song book. The difficulties attached to getting a photographer, a
Leica camera, copying equipment, lamps, film cartridges filled, and myself altogether at the same
time have been so great that I undertook the trip to Lakeport without any written understanding
with the Museum there. This proved to be a mistake, because the woman in charge, though she
remembered our conversation, had meanwhile decided the University should pay for the privilege
of photographing her confounded book. She said the decision rested not with her but with the
County Board of Supervisors. s she had agreed somewhat enthusiastically when we first talked of
it, I was annoyed that she should make such a fuss at this point. However, I went on to the ranch,
of some friends in Cobb Valley, and spent all day Sunday and Monday discussing the pros and cons
of microphotography by University Libraries, The history of the Bancroft Library, etc., with various
influential citizens and with two of the three country supervisors. I have no real idea whether I
affected the issue at all; but I talked with some of the oddest and most suspicious individuals it has
ever been my lot to meet! The Bancroft Library is writing to request formal permissionSeptember
18Return to Berkeley.
California Folk MusicProject # 11578-A-252108 Shattuck Avenue,Berkeley,
California.November 20th, 1939.FIELD REPORT
Nov. 12thTo photograph Mr. John Olafson and Mr. Thodur [Einarsson?], in San Francisco. Then
to Berkeley to pick up Professor Brodeur and to Belvedere to record singing of sea-shanties by
old Captain Robinson. "Cappy" had invited us for lunch but stayed out in his bout past 3 o'clock,
leaving casual word for us to go to a Mrs. Barbour's house far off on the top of a hill. Finally around
3 we confessed how starved we were to the hospitable Mrs. B. --- and no sandwiches ever tasted
so good as the ones she produced. The recordings are stunning.--- (Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson
SupervisorSHR/LS
California Folk MusicProj. 11578-A252108 Shattuck Avenue,Berkeley, California.November
25th, 1939.FIELD REPORT
Nov. 25thTo San Jose to check texts of Mr. Graham's songs with the singer. The Jugo Slavs I hoped to
photograph at San Mateo were all at the big Game!(Mrs.) Sidney E. Robertson,SupervisorSHR/ls
California Folk MusicProject # 11578-A-252108 Shattuck Avenue,Berkeley,
California,November 20th, 1939FIELD REPORT
AFCCC-FLD5-2 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-2
Nov. 14thTo Martinez to photograph two Hungarians and one Sicilian. This series of special trips for
photographs is necessary in those instances where I met the performer only at night. (Mrs.) Sidney
H. Robertson SupervisorSHR/LS