"Dear Mr. President", Galena and Crane, Missouri, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr26
"Dear Mr. President", Galena and Crane, Missouri, January or February 1942
AFS 6425B
Cut B1
Max Brown: My name is Max Brown. I live in Crane, Missouri. Dear Mr. President, I think you're doing
the wise thing by restricting tires. I would much rather have tanks than tires. I think every person in
the United States should buy bonds for their share of freedom. Every true-blooded American should
be glad to give his money to help those who are so graciously and victoriously giving their lives that
our freedom may live. All Americans should be proud to give up their luxuries to help win this battle
for life, liberty, and the peace and the justice of peace- loving people.
I have several questions I would like to ask you. Why don't you make Russia give us bases so that we
may drop ten times as many bombs on Tokyo as Japan dropped on Manila? Why don't you outline
a program for this school, the schools of America? Here in Crane we have gathered paper, tin, and
tin foil. But we who are too young to would like to have a bigger part so that we can feel that we are
doing our share to bear the burden of victory. We can not all win a Congressional Medal for bravery,
but we the students of Crane, Missouri would like to earn our “V” for victory. Thank you.
Cut B2: [blank]
Cut B3
Mary Stevens: My name is Mary Stevens. I live in Crane, Missouri. I feel that the NYA should go
ahead with their work. After all, it's going to take education to win this war. We say that it will take
education to get rid of poverty and things of that sort. Well I feel that education will win a war too.
There are many students who couldn't go to school if it weren't for the NYA Those students needs an
education just the same as those who can go without the NYA
Another thing that I feel that our community needs very badly is a first aid class. We have tried to get
one and I think we can. If we knew more about the first aid and the caring of the injured I feel that
we would have a better idea of the Coast. Since we live in the central part of America we don't know
much about the blackouts and things like that. The food shortage: I feel that food should be rationed
to a certain extent now because people are hoarding food. The commandeering of the railroads:
My father is a railroader and I'm sure that he and any of his other workers wouldn't mind for the
railroads to be commandeered. Labor strikes I feel should have been cut out a long time ago when
our national defense work started. Not now after we're in a war, but when we were preparing for it.
Many industry could have been stepped up a great lot if strikes had been cut out. I'm trying to do
"Dear Mr. President", Galena and Crane, Missouri, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr26
my bit for victory by buying defense stamps. There's a future in a bond. I feel that every student in a
school should do his part by buying stamps and helping with the local defense. I thank you [laughs].