"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr06
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941
AFS 6362B
Cut B1
Frank Tatrey: My name is Frank Tatrey and I do clerical work. I listened to President Roosevelt's
speech and I am behind him a hundred percent. I felt it was a very good speech and a few chosen
words that hit the mark. I am a hundred percent for President Roosevelt.
Can I keep talking?
Interviewer: Yeah ???
Frank Tatrey: I think the time has come when we should all get behind our country. After all, we are
all Americans and we should all be united against these dictator countries who are trying to invade
our country and spoil our way of living. We are all Americans and I once more say, I am a hundred
percent for President Roosevelt's speech.
Cut B2
Carl Nimkow: My name is Carl Nimkow. I came to this country three years ago from Germany. Today,
when I heard the president's speech and I saw the United States enter this war, I was fully in favor of
this declaration and I think that the United States' entry in this war will bring to a sooner close this
great tragedy and will have a very beneficial effect to the future state of the world.
Cut B3
Albert Hemsing: My name is Albert Hemsing. I'm a student. Well, reactions to the crisis and to the
president's speech are varied on our campus. There's been small discussion groups forming all day,
people cutting their class to talk over the events. I've hardly had time to think just what everything
means. We've been so busy here in the student council planning what our part can be, how we can
best use our special skills in the national effort. I think that the most important behavior pattern for
us should be to keep calm, to remember what we're fighting for. And while we're fighting Japan to
remember that perhaps behind Japan there's Hitler and, since I'm a student of economics, perhaps
behind Hitler there is an economic system which after the battles are won will present the real
battle.