Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
Conversation with 50+ year old black female,
Washington, DC (Transcription)
W311 WDS 0073 page 1 <unintelligible text> 1110 Aspen St. N.W. March 27, 1969
START M59 B(7)
FW: What kind of games you played when you were younger.
INF: Well,played hide-n-go seek andj played baseball and jump rope and uh, cooking, play
house, and cooking and I loved to dress up in my mother's old clothes and shoes. All that
and uh, they loved to imitate people, shouting at churche on Sundays and things like that.
FW: How did you play hideand-seek?
INF: Well, uh, be two or three whatever, and one would hide and count up to ten and then
go hide and then you'd ready or not Here I come! and you'd go looking for each other.
Same as you do now.
FW: When you dressed up in the old clothes, what ddid you do, put on make-up and all
that?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: Oh, no, I just put on old long dress and high heel shoes and tie a rag on my head and
make a big ball of hair back there, set old hat up there. And act like, just like she would do
it on Sunday when she was going to church.
FW: What about imitating people?
INF: Oh, well, people look sayin or the way people walk or laugh or talk. All those kinda
things.
FW: Do you remember how you chose person to hide-his eyes?
INF: Well, the way we played it, uh, who ever got caught first. That was the one was it.
Like you know, there be three or fourand s'all be running different directions and whoever
you catch first well you say you it. That's the way we played it. Do you watcha lot of t.v.?
INF: No, yes I do.
FW: Do you have any favorite programs?
INF: Well, I like my, uh, stories such as Edge of Night, As the World Turn, and uh, Search
for Tomorrow and different ones like that.
FW: What's happening on Edge of NIght now?
INF: Oh, well, uh, they kidnapped uh, MIke's daughter, Lori Ann and uh they're holding her
for ranso- not for ransom but they're holding her for uh, uh, secret papers that Mike had.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
And these uh syndicates want him to turn it over to them. And he, uh, so far has refused to
go to them; they got her hid out.
FW: Well, what happened, dont they have another woman
WDS 0073 page 2
on there, oh, I forgot her name, she was in love with Mike and she's trying to break up their
marriage?
INF: Oh, yeah, that's uh, the governor's daughter, uh, NICola. She's uh, trying to get Mike
to, you know, pay attention to her but so far he dont know that and she's not -- making
much time, there, but
FW: ?
INF: No, he did not. She modelled that <unintelligible text> she tried to get him to but it for
his wife, Nancy, and she modelled it for Mike and Capice's nurse, Louise Caprice's nurse,
saw Nicola with the coat and modelling it for Mike and she goes and tells uh, uh, Louise
that Mike was buying this coat for Nicola. So this is not true. She was just modelling it.
Poor Mike! But she didn't buy it, he didn't buy it.
FW: What other daytime programs do you watch, Search for Tomorrow?
INF: Yeah, Search for Tomorrow, and Secret Storm and,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
FW: What's happening on the Secret Storm?
INF: ..... and Paul's supposed to be separate evy you know. She he'd sign-, he'd signed
the papers already, but uh, she can't go for the divorce yet because she was sick.
FW: Who was Amy.....
INF: Well, that was Paul Britten's uh, wife, you know, and he was in love with Belle,....So
that's who he's leaving Amy for, for Belle.
FW: Well, the last time I watched it was last summer and I watched Another World.
INF: Well, I never watched, Another World because I really following these stories so long I
hate to miss any of them, you know, but it's a good story I hear -- Another World, it's a very
good story.
FW: Have you been to the movies recently?
INF: No, it's been quite some time since I been to a movie.
FW: Do you remember the last movie you saw?
INF: No,
FW: On television?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: the last one I saw. I can't remember right now. I really can't.
FW: What about Sorry Wrong Number?
INF: No, I didn't see that.
FW: Did you have a pet?
INF: No, no.
FW: Do you like them?
INF: Yes, I do. I like all pets.
FW: Why do you think you never had one?
INF: Well, i dont know, just didn't bother bout one. But I like them though.
FW: What type do you like, bigg
WDS 0073 page 3
or the small?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: Well I like a cat better than I do a dog. But I like all of them, but I like for my choice
would be a cat.
FW: Whay a cat?
INF: I dont know, I just like them cause they follow around in the house behind you. I just
like them.
FW: (When you were in school what kind of program did they have set up, say in junior
high, high shcool?)
FW: I didn't go that high school at all.
FW: Well, in junior high school do they have it set up loke it is now?
INF: Well, I,
FW: to change classes....
INF: Well, I really <unintelligible text> know, because athe -- at that time I was going to
school, our school <unintelligible text> no higher than fifth grade. That was way back along
time ago, of course you know, so I wouldn't know anything about junior high.
FW: What did you do after school, what did the kids do? Play around?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: Yes, just mostly as the children do now. They have recess and play about the ball
games or hide-n-go seek or different little things like that.
FW: Did you ever have a teacher who hollered alot?
INF: No, but I had one .... very mean. I tell you that.
FW: What were they like?
INF: Oh, <unintelligible text>.... whisper to one another, you couldn't uh, visit one another
and oh boy, .... <gap> alot, they whipped you back in my days.
FW: What did they whip you with?
INF: Switches! Go out there in the woods and get switches and and whip you in your hand,
uh, round your legs, uh, like that. That's right. So you know that was quite some kinda of
<unintelligible text>. So they dont whip you now, you know.
FW: NO, they dare you to touch them.
INF: uhm, I know. Well, honey I got whipped a many time. YOu miss two words of seven,
I didn't come up with your reading like you should, you got a whipping for that. You should
do better tomorrow. IF you did, <unintelligible text> you'd get it right back again. Believe
me.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
FW: What about the best teacher you had.
INF: Well, yea, it was a woman teacher. She was the most kindest one that I've ever had.
Her name was <unintelligible text> I'never will forget her. She was very kind, she tried to
learn the girls to do uh, needlework and things like that. She was the nicest one I ever
had...
WDS 0073 page 4
FW: Do you think it would be good to go back to the old system?
INF: Well, I don't know, but (things changes)? so much... but I really don't know because
the children nowadays they wouldn't uh, stand for that like we did because that was the
systems at that time and we uh, knowed better than to be rude to the teacher. See what
I mean? So we, we take what they put on us and then if they got too overbearing and by
the parents felt it was tooo overbearing why then they would come and have a talk with the
teacher. But still that didn't eliminate the whippings! Believe me! So the children nowadays
they wouldn't stand for that now, you know.
FW: ....
INF: Oh, yes. ....
FW: Did you have a teacher you just couldn't stand just didn't like?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: Oh, yes. There -- his name was Cleo PUSbiball. Oh, I hate him and jus- and he
forever was teaching -- it just seemed like it the school it, it was just built for him to teach
year after year, year after year. Oh yes, I hated him.
FW: What did he do?
INF: OH, he was so mean, he, loved to whip us and he was very prejudiced because he
was real fair, and a real dark child, honey, I have seen him, Im telling you the truth, I would
cry by that child. He, he was very nasty.
FW: ...
INF: Uhm, he was very much so. But the rest of them, uh I could make out with them, you
know. But he was one of the worst there was of all.
FW: Did they have fences so that the boys were on one side and the girls on the other?
INF: Yes, Yes.
FW: Was there a group that you used to associate with, when you were a teenager....
INF: Well, no, uh, <unintelligible text> I never did uh do too much of uh, going around with
a group uh, I mostly was a loner. And still am today. A loner, mostly.
FW: Did you belong to any clubs or anything like that?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
INF: No. Just the church, Sunday Schools and things like that. That's that with the club.
FW: ...
INF: NO, I didn't. at that time.
FW: What about now?
INF: Well, no, I don't uh, can't think of any.
FW: Were there any whites in the group?
INF: NO. It wasn't like that then. Strictly all
WDS 0073 page 5
coloured school and all white, you know what I mean. FW: If you could do it all over again
what would you do, what would want to be or how would you change your life?
INF: Well, I always wanted to uh, uh, wanted uh, a good education and I I I always liked
English, and uf if I would have, I believe if I would of had the privilege that's what I would
have been an English teacher. I dont know why, but I -- that is my favorite subject; I'd
always loved English. Although I didn't have the privilege to get it, but that was my favorite.
I'm just spoke, uh, spoke to my son about that the other day. I said if I'd a had the privilege
<unintelligible text>, uh, uh some of the children got today, I'd -- English would of been my
favorite <unintelligible text> subject.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 50+ year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6707
FW: That's really interesting.
INF: Yes?