"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9 and 10, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr19
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9 and 10, 1941
AFS 6375A
Cut A1
Edward Crane: . . . Texan.
John Lomax: Wait a minute, are you starting?
Unidentified man: Yeah.
Edward Crane: I'm a native Texan. I'll be almost fifty-nine years of age in the middle of this month.
I've been educated in Texas, graduate of the University of Texas in both the academic and the law
department. Practiced law in Texas until the time the First World War broke out. I went in the first
officers training camp and served twenty-five months when I came out discharged as a captain in
field artillery.
John Lomax: This is Mr. Edward Crane talking. And this is John Lomax speaking at the present
moment. And here is Mr. Crane before the microphone to ask him as a representative citizen
of Dallas if he won't give to the American people his reactions when he heard of the Japanese
aggression against this country that happened on the past Sunday morning. Mr. Crane.
Edward Crane: Well, it's difficult for me to express my language in printable language, my thoughts in
printable language. When I saw what happened, I admit that while I've never had a very high opinion
of the Japanese, their conduct in this particular situation has lowered them even in my estimations of
them which was low enough. Frankly, I think there's only one thing for this country to do and that is
we ought to realize the fact that we're in a war to the finish.
The issue raised is one where there's no place for compromise. In other words, it's a war to the
death. There are two civilizations involved. Both of which cannot exist. Frankly, my view is and I
include the Hun or the Germans so-called in what I have to say about the Japanese. That is, we ought
to exterminate both of them. There's no place for either of those races in the world today. As I say, it
started with, there is no compromise involved.
There are two civilizations or rather a civilization as I call it which represents the American and
English viewpoint on one side and the Hun and the Jap on the other. It's going to be a long war,
probably run six or ten years, but we ought to realize the fact there can't be any compromise and
either one of two solutions is bound to follow. That is that the Hun and the Jap will go down or this
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9 and 10, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr19
country and England will go down. It's unthinkable for one minute to conceive the idea that the Hun
and the Jap will prevail.
John Lomax: So far as your experience goes and your communication with other Texans, Mr. Crane,
what do you think the reaction of the Texas people is to what has happened in the last few days?
Edward Crane: I think that what I have stated represents the overwhelming sentiment of the people
in Texas today.
Cut A2
John Lomax: This interview was held at Dallas, Texas on December the ninth, nineteen hundred and
forty-one and was made for the use of the Library of Congress in Washington.