American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_073 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Tavarelli, Paola: IAW-PT-F062390.A to IAW-PT-F071190.B 
}•T- For71YFc(,,4 
T IAW-PT-F071889.A=We meet Emiddio at the A-1 Imported Groceries store where 
David, Doug , Russell and I stop after lunch. He is one of the coowners of the 
store. I ask him where he is from and he says that he was born in Naples and 
came to this country when he was one year old. He was named after his 
grandfather who died 9 days after Emiddio was born. His mother almost named 
him Frank , but then decided to wait until the grandfather died, so the baby 
was not named until then. 
Asked if he liked Naples , he said "Yes, if you like a bunch of old ladies 
kissing you." 
With customers he prefers to speak English, while at home he speaks Italian 
(Neapolitan , I suppose). 
He married a girl of Italian background because he believes "It's better to 
stick with your own kind." 
I believe he could be an interesting informant: his "look" is very American 
but his ideas about family life seem very different) I'm going to try to set 
up an interview with him and possibly with his parents. 
E 
-TT _ 
F 
`71'7? ?. ,4 
T IAW-PT-F071989.A= 
I arrived at the Ciolino's house (Spanish style) at 11 o'clock. 
The youngest 
daughter (16 years old) came to open the door and I waited in the kitchen for 
Grace, who arrived followed by another woman (her sister) and a child. Grace 
was from the beginning very understanding about my need to get a good 
recording: she sent her grandchild to the park with her sister; she turned the 
dishwasher off; she suggested to close the door-window to shut the traffic 
noise off. During the interview, first with Grace alone, then with her 
husband, we were interrupted several times either by the phone ringing or by 
somebody using the phone in the kitchen. 
In these occasions Grace asked me to 
turn the tape-recorder off, which I did. 
After the first half hour of the interview, a relative (son in law, I believe) 
came in and started to speak to Grace in Sicilian. He spent some time in the 
kitchen, prepared some coffee with the "Napoletana," the old style coffee 
maker that I had not seen in a while. I mentioned the wonderful aroma of the 
coffee and they offered me a cup which I accepted. It was the best coffee I 
have tasted in a long time! 
The husband, Domenico (Dominic), came in and for a while listened to us while 
"making noise" with food and plastic bags near the refrigerator. After a while 
I invited him to sit with us around the table and I started to ask him 
questions about fishing. I had the impression that he was not to happy to talk 
about his job with a woman, but he talked a lot about his family history. 
Other people came in: the woman with Grace's grandchild (named Joe after his 
paternal grandfather; the other grandchild was named Dominic after the 
maternal grandfather); another relative, a young woman. 
It seems that the 
Ciolino's house is the center of the extended family. It seems worthed to 
interview the other members of the family (Grace's mother in law for the St. 
Joseph altar; the sister in law for the 'exposition' of her daughter's 
trousseau; the son in law because he works in the "stone" business; the father 
in law who was a fisherman too; Grace's daughter, who got married to an Italo-
American; Grace's son, who did not follow his father's steps and is now 
working in the real estate business.) 
Grace offered to be my 'chaperon' in San Pedro. I accepted her help and I will 
ask her to take me to the vegetable gardens that Italian-Americans cultivate; 
to the park where Italian-Americans play bocce every Sunday, and to any other 
place that she thinks of. 
Tonight, at seven, I will meet her at the Italian-
American Club where she will introduce me to the other members of the 
community and then we will go to the house of her father in law who is coming 
back tonight from Terrasini, Sicily. 
Before leaving the house, I asked to see the pictures in the living-room and 
Grace showed me the whole house. In the living-room there are color pictures 
of the daughter's wedding, of her three children in different moments of their 
lives (graduation, wedding), of her grandchildren, of herself with her 
husband. There is a picture of a woman with her three little kids dressed in 
old customs: I asked who she was and Grace told me that was herself with her 
kids in a photo store of Ports o'Call! 
They also had a picture of Terrasini, 
the Sicilian town where they come from, but one of the grandchildren broke the 
glass of the frame with a ball and they have not replaced it yet. 
I leave at one twenty knowing that I have met a very interesting woman and a 
family who plays a central role in the Sicilian community of San Pedro. 
27A•i --•T- Po 
`1a3 !R7q. 4 
T IAW-PT-F072389 .A 
Around five o'clock I arrive at Mary Star and I talk for a 
while with a young girl in the office of the church . She tries to put me in 
contact with father De Dominici through the phone, but we cannot reach him. 
She tells me that in a hour he is going to say Mass with a young Italian 
priest from Sicily who is visiting some relatives in San Pedro . Grace Ciolino 
already told me about this young priest, nephew of Joe (Pino) Pizzo, for whom 
there is going to be a special celebration at the Italian American club 
tonight. I wait in the office for a while and then I go into the sacristy 
where people are preparing for Mass. I greet the mother of the girl who got 
married yesterday , Mrs. Bottola , and Giovanna Perone, who was sitting at our 
table at the wedding reception. They introduce me to father Lorenzo De 
Dominici , who affter some reluctance, gives me an appointment for the next 
morning. I'm also introduced to Philip Mazzella , president of the Italian 
Catholic Federation, who is in charge of the Saint John Joseph celebration on 
August 19th . I make an appointment with him for next tuesday. 
I go into the church where people are starting to arrive . I greet many people 
and feel that at this point I have to stay for the Mass. The church starts to 
fill up. I notice the youth group who played bocce at the park yesterday; all 
the sicilians from Terrasini (the young priest visiting is from Terrasini); 
many faces I have seen either at the club or at the wedding. 
At the end of Mass, outside the church, the atmosphere is really Italian: 
everybody greets and kisses each other, everybody speaks outloud. Two 
Americans try to enter the church: they look around smiling and say "is this 
the Italian crowd or what?" 
Most of the people who attended this Mass drive to the Italian American club 
for dinner . I drive there too, where David, Doug, and John are already waiting 
(see IAW-PT-F072389.B). 
TIAW-PT-F072589.A=I spend three hours with Grace Ciaramitaro. Before sitting 
at the table on the dining room where we have the interview she shows me the 
entire house which very proudly she defines as "really Italian." The steps 
that take to the living-room are covered with white marble, as well as the 
living-room floor. In the entrance there is a big clock which she says is 
Italian too and a bust of Julius Caesar. In the living room a big crystal 
chandelier hangs from the ceiling over an elaborated mosaic table. 
In her bedroom, on the dresser near the t.v. set she keeps a little statue of 
Baby Jesus in painted plaster. She tells me that the statue protects the 
family, but in order for it to "work" you must receive it as a present, you 
cannot buy it yourself. 
I take some pictures of the statue and of some tablecloths that she bought in 
Italy, but I'm afraid there is not enough light. I tell her that eventually I 
will send Ken Light to take better pictures. 
The kitchen is very modern, in black and white. She makes Italian expresso and 
offers me home-made cookies with it. She shows me the frizer filled with home-
made pasta, basil, and other Italian ingredients. 
Grace dresses very fashionably and very young, I would say. She looks younger 
than her age and very energetic. She prefers to have the interview in Italian 
since her English is not too good. She is very active in the sicilian 
community and at the club. Many people referred me to her as the best cook in 
San Pedro and as the person who maintains many of the sicilian traditions. I 
am very interested in her knowledge about sicilian wedding traditions and 
especially in knowing more about the exposition of the trousseau that she had 
for her daughter. 
She gives me some pictures taken when the trousseau was 
exposed which I promise to bring back in a couple of days. (The interview is 
recorded on IAW-PT-AO13 and A014). 
PT F 7;--3'7F( 
TIAW-PT-F072789=Around 6;30 pm David, Doug, and I drive to the neighbourhood 
gardens to meet Goffredo, an Italian man who cultivates one of the plots. With 
him we find another man, Pasquale D'Ambrosio, friend of Goffredo, who worked 
as a bricklayer in Goffredo's company since he moved to San Pedro from 
Connecticut many years ago. Pasquale is 79 years old and retired but he still 
works building stone walls and other small bricklayer works if people call 
him. He spends much of his time helping Goffredo in the garden. We walk 
together in the beautiful garden where every kind of vegetables are 
cultivated. Recently the two men build a fence around it to protect it from 
people who steal their produce. While Doug draws the layout of the garden and 
David takes pictures I talk in Italian with Pasquale. He is a very charming 
man who looks younger than he is. His English is very poor and he enjoys 
speaking in Italian with me. He tells me about his life. He even shows me a 
letter he recently received from his brother back in Frosinone, Italy, where 
he was born, which he carries in his wallet. Pasquale lived in Connecticut 
with his first wife who was also Italian. He came to San Pedro on vacation and 
decided to stay when Goffredo offered him a job. His wife died several years 
ago and he is now living with a Mexican woman, much younger than he is, but 
who is sick and in need of constant medical care. Because of this he did not 
marry her, otherwise he would have to pay for her medical expenses which he 
cannot afford. 
The two men offer me a red and a white carnations which they grow in the 
garden. I pick a little bunch of basil and I end up walking around with the 
colors of the Italian flag in my handsl We sit under the "Casa dell'amore," 
(house of love) a small but which Pasquale build with cheap wood and recicled 
material just outside the garden. Under the but there is a table and a bench, 
a telephone, a mirror, and a wooden colored figure of a boy sitting on a 
barrel drinking wine. Pasquale is proud of his creation: he shows me around 
pretending to call somebody at the telephone (which obviously doesn't work), 
combing his hair in front of the mirror, showing that nothing is missing from 
his Casa dell'Amore. The two men use the but to rest in the shade when the sun 
is too hot or to eat their lunch. Coming into the garden we noticed also a 
street sign which says: "via delle palme," (palms street). Pasquale build the 
wooden sign and named the path that leads to the Italian garden "via delle 
palme" because there is a palm tree on the path. He tells me more about his 
family: he has a son who lives on the east coast and a mentally retarded 
daughter who lives in a nursing home near San Pedro. From what he tells me I 
gather that his life must have been very hard but his attitude is admirable 
and his spirit lively. We share a few cigarettes and enjoy this lovely place 
while the sun sets. 
T IAW-PT-F072889.A=Yesterday I made an appointment with Gina Di Bernardo 
Mazzella to watch the video her son took of the 1985 Saint Joseph's 
celebration at Mary Star. Gina's brothers own the Santa Maria boat. She came 
from Ischia when she was 16 years old and took care of her family since her 
mother died only nine months after their arrival in San Pedro. She has always 
been a housewife. Her first husband, an American, died several years ago. She 
remarried Philip Mazzella, whom Doug and I interviewed a few days ago. 
When I arrive, around 10:00 am, she is babysitting her daughter's child. We 
Bit in the family room and she turns the v.c.r. on. She is pretty busy with 
her grandchild so I decide not to turn the tape recorder on but to take notes 
while we watch the video together. I thought it was interesting to see the 
difference between the Saint Joseph's day celebrated at home by the Ciolino 
family (see IAW-PT-A003 and A004) and the same day celebrated at the church. 
The video starts with images of the kitchen near the auditorium at Mary Star 
where men and women talking in dialect (sicilian) are getting ready to fry 
squid for the celebration. The images move to the auditorium where the altar 
or table for Saint Joseph is set up. The statue of Saint Joseph is in the 
center with the food in front and around it. The amount of food displayed on 
the table is just amazing. The saint carries the baby and the lilium. At the 
sides of the statue there are the banners of Saint John Joseph society, and 
Saint Anne's society, the Italian Catholic Federation's banner, and the 
Slavonian's Valikin Gospel banner. The video shows the kitchen again this time 
full of squid to be cooked. 
The time for the procession arrives. A man takes the statue down the altar 
while the band (outside the auditorium) starts to play. Several people arrange 
the flowers on the saint and the ribbon on which the devotees are going to pin 
dollar bills. 
The images show the street where two men carry the Italian and American flags. 
The band (20 musicians circa) plays first the American then the Italian 
anthems.The people carrying the flags and the banners proceed in front, 
followed by the women of the Saint Joseph's society dressed in their light 
blue uniform. The altar boys and the priest follow. Then comes the statue 
carried on the shoulders by four men. The procession goes from the auditorium 
through the parking lot into the church where the statue is put at the side of 
the main altar. The Mass is in English. It's 12:00 am. 
When the Mass is over the video shows the three people playing the roles of 
Saint Joseph, Mary, and the Baby exiting the church. The statue gets out of 
the church last. The trio knocks three times at the door of the auditorium 
(you don't see it in the video but Gina tells me that this is what happens). 
The statue is now back in the auditorium in front of the tables set up for 
dinner. People light candles in front of the Saint Joseph statue, which is now 
loaded with money. The priest blesses the food. Gina tells me that the trio 
and the priest eat before everybody else, but we don't see it in the video. 
The food is bought by the ICF with the money collected during previous 
festivals. The cookies are donated by the devotees. Everybody sits at the long 
tables and starts to eat. The band plays Italian music (we hear "O sole mio"). 
Shots of people eating and having a good time. A lady goes around with a red 
handkerchief and puts it around the head of many people, just for fun. At the 
entrance of the auditorium there is a table which sells candles, rosaries, and 
holy pictures with the image of the saint. 
7AW- PtT- •:0'/• 9-'95 (-4 , 
0-
When the video is over Gina and I chat a little but the baby keeps her busy 
most of the time. I ask to use the bathroom and notice in a corner of the 
corridor between the kitchen and the bedrooms a little shrine lit up by a 
small light bulb with a small statue of saint John Joseph and another one of 
the Virgin Mary. 
I ask Gina if I can borrow the video and get a copy of it for the Library. She 
gives me directions to her son 's video store where I go after I leave her 
house. 
T IAW-PT-F072889.B-
- This morning I stopped at Al grocery to ask if it is 
possible to schedule an interview with one of the co-owners of the store. 
Anthony Matera, son of the original owner, tells me to come back in the 
afternoon when business is slower. He is very polite with me but I perceive in 
his words a patronizing tone (he calls me "honey!") so I decide to ask one of 
the guys to come with me, just in case he is the type of man that does not 
take an interview seriously if conducted by a woman! 
David comes with me and I ask him to conduct the interview. Anthony is a good 
talker. We sit in his small office, David and I on two chairs while Anthony 
opens two drawers of the desk and sits on them. Cars and women are his big 
passions in life and even if he is still working in the grocery store, he 
seems ready to let his son and the new young partner, Emiddio Ungaro, take 
over most of the responsabilities. 
He wants to keep the business a family 
affair, a place where people can find known faces and feel comfortable talking 
about their own personal lives. He shows a great admiration and respect for 
his father, who started the business, and wants to keep things running in the 
same way he used to. 
We ask Anthony to show us the store and describe the products he sells. I 
notice a big variety of olive oil, brands which I have never seen before such 
as Saint Joseph olive oill I notice several brands of pasta but nothing too 
fancy (not the kind you find in the Los Angeles stores). He has big cartons of 
pasta on sale which his old customers appreciate. At the counter there is a 
big variety of meat and cold cuts, cheese and southern Italian delicatessen. 
In the room in the back they make sausages and cook food. Recently, after an 
inspection of the hygiene department they had to clean the walls of the back 
room but you can still see on the walls drawings of different kinds such as 
crosses and cars. He explains that everytime an employee would leave they 
would draw a cross on the wall; or when his car "died," they draw it on the 
wall. Apparently the wall was covered with the history of the place! 
T IAW-PT-F072889.C--I arrive at the Di Leva house at 8:00 pm. Neal Di Leva was 
racommended to us by Phil Mazzella, president of the Italian catholic 
federation of San Pedro, because he is a active member of the federation and 
was the promoter of the celebration of saint John Joseph since its beginning 
in 1984. Last year he shot a video of the celebration, and on the phone he 
agreed to show it to me tonight. 
The house has the typical Italian red roof and at the side of the main door 
there is a ceramic tile with a Ischian landscape painted on it and with "casa 
Di Leva" (Home of Di Leva) written on it. Husband and wife (Anna Di Bernardo) 
let me in and for half an hour we sit in the living room watching some 
pictures of the saint's celebrations taken in the past five years. Neal 
doesn't want me to start tape recording. First he wants to know if what he has 
to say interests me. He seems really concerned not to bore me with what he 
knows. I reassure him that I'm interested in his version of things and finally 
his wife and I are able to convince him that his story is worthed recording. 
We move to the family room where they have the t.v. set and V.C.R. but before 
starting to watch the video I ask him to repeat what he had told me before, 
but this time with the tape-recorder on. Then we watch the video, still with 
the tape-recorder on. 
See IAW-PT-A015 
-Z4w -PT- Fv'7,a 7?7 
T IAW-PT-F072989=Andrea (Andy) Briguglio and his wife Margherita invited all of 
us for dinner to inaugurate the forno (brick oven) that Andy just finished to 
build in his backyard. Russell and I get there around four o'clock after our 
interview with the old sicilian man Ferdinando Di Bernardo. I enjoyed talking 
with the old man a lot but I'm exausted after three hours of interview during 
which I struggled trying to understand Ferdinando's strict sicilian dialect! 
Since I know that Doug has interviewed Andy before and has documented the 
building of the oven with pictures and drawings, I try to relax and enjoy the 
evening and mainly act as a friend more than a fieldworkerl I spend some time 
chatting with Margherita who, I discover, is my age (30 years old) but has 
already two children. She came to San Pedro when she was a child. Her mother 
was the one who wanted to leave Ischia because her husband was drinking and 
gambling and she hoped that the move would change him. Margherita started to 
work very early in her life as a sales clerk in a grocery store and she has 
been working there eversince. She has been suffering from back pain and 
recently took a leave from her work to recover, but does not know how to relax 
and works heavily in her house. Margherita and Andy don't seem to live a very 
social life in San Pedro: they had some problems in the past with relatives 
who did not help them in the moment of need, and they have cut their relations 
with them. I suspect that Andy's nervous temperament is the cause of their 
isolation. They seem very happy to have us there for dinner since they don't 
invite people to their house very often. 
Margherita shows me proudly her house, which they bought a few years ago. Andy 
did all the remodeling work and put the marble tiles on the floor. In the 
corridor that leads to the bedrooms there is a little shrine with a little 
statue of a saint (which I don't recognize). She tells me that she is already 
buying trousseau items for her daughter. The last time she was in Italy she 
spent 2.500 dollars to buy a bedspread and an embroidered tablecloth which she 
keeps for her daughter's wedding (her daughter is only 6 or 7 years old). 
I help her with the cooking while the men outside start the fire in the oven 
to make pizza while drinking wine or beer. I clean the vegetables to make a 
salad while she prepares some chicken cutlets with a coating of beaten egg and 
bread crumbs. Then she cuts onions, mushrooms, garlic, bell peppers, and 
anchovies for pizza. She uses the stove in the garage to fry the cutlets, so 
that the house does not smell from the frying oil. Meanwhile the first pizza 
is put in the oven. We are all excited to see the results but Andy is the most 
excited of all. Andy built many brick ovens in Italy but this is the first 
time he tries to build one with American building materials. He is afraid the 
oven is going to crack and the pizza is not going to taste as good as he 
wants, but the results are great and he shows his happiness. He wants to call 
his aunt right away to tell her about the success of his experiment. We try 
different kinds of topping on the pizzas. Margherita's favorite one is the one 
she calls "faccia vecchia," (old face) with anchovies, onions, and oil. It's 
delicious! The kids are excited too; a neighbor comes in and is given a piece 
of pizza too. By the time we sit at the table for dinner nobody is really 
hungry since we have been tasting several pieces of pizza during the 
afternoon. Andy seems a little out of control: he has been drinking all 
afternoon and he feels free to joke heavily with everybody. I decide to leave 
soon after dinner and go back to the hotel with Ken, while David, Doug, and 
Russell stay a little longer. I feel kind of sorry for Margherita and the kids 
who have to put up with a not too sober husband and father but she seems used 
to his behavior and knows how to handle him. 
75 0- f 
T- Fogo7••./• / 
T IAW-PT-F090789.A= 
Russell and I spend sometime on the phone arranging interviews. I call Aldo 
Viarengo, who was recommended by the journalist of the Gilroy Dispatch, and 
make an appointment for saturday morning. Russell calls Ernesto Fortino, who 
owns a winery on Hecker Pass highway, and Ernesto invites us to meet him right 
away. We prepare the equipment and get ready for the first interview in 
Gilroy. 
We arrive at the Fortino winery around 11 ,30 am . Ernesto 's son-in-law is 
working in the tasting room; he directs us to Ernesto who is working on a 
fork-lift. We introduce ourselves; he asks me where I come from. He was born 
in Cosenza, Calabria and came to this country when he was 23 years old. 
He takes us into the tasting room and shows us the caps with the inscription 
"Italian American Heritage Foundation." He shows his pride in being Italian-
American by promoting the Foundation's activities. He starts to talk about his 
life and I ask him if we can find a place where we can sit down and interview 
him. He takes us into a big kitchen where his daughter Terry (Teresa, 21 years 
old) is cleaning vegetables. She will be in and out of the room while we 
interview her father, unpacking laces and flowers for the "new European 
Boutique" she just opened 1 month ago next door to the tasting room. We also 
meet Ernesto's son, Gino, who works in the family business too. 
Ernesto is a very nice man. He shows a lot of patience while Russell and I 
struggle over technical problems with the recording equipment. Then he starts 
to talk about his life and we interrupt him very seldom, since his narration 
is pretty detailed and interesting. Around 1,30 we go into the Deli where 
Terry is slicing coppa, mortadella, turkey and prosciutto for our sandwiches. 
She puts the cold cuts in a tray, slices different types of bread while 
Ernesto gets some of his best wine. Terry asks if we want any mustard or 
mayonnaise. When I reply that I eat my sandwich plain she says that they 
eat 
sandwiches the same way, the Italian way. 
Russell takes some pictures of Ernesto proudly holding a bottle of his wine. 
While we eat an older man comes in to sell onions and Terry buys some of them 
and gives him in exchange a bottle of wine. The family knows the man and 
usually buys staff from him. Ernesto comments "we buy 2 dollar worth of onions 
and give him back a 5 dollar bottle of wine!" Terry explains that she gave him 
a bottle because the last time they bought something from him, they did not 
give him anything. 
During lunch we ask Ernesto if he picks the grapes by hand or with the new 
machine. He says that he prefers to hand-pick his grapes because you never 
know what you are going to find when the machine picks them. With a disgusted 
expression on his face he mentions rats and snakes as the typical animals who 
end up smashed with the grapes. 
When we are finished with lunch we follow Ernesto --and later his son-- into 
the several buildings they built during the years for their growing wine 
production. I hold the tape-recorder while Russell takes pictures in the 
crushing room, the fermentation room, and the storage room. 
While Russell goes around with the camera I go into the boutique for wedding 
favors next to the tasting room where I briefly interview Terry about her new 
activity and about her recent wedding (may '89). 
The tape ends in the middle 
of our conversation. She tells me that Italian-Americans usually give money as 
a wedding present, a lot of money; they received enough money to put a down-
payment on a house (the same pattern of Italian-American weddings in San 
Pedro). 
Then she goes on saying that sometimes it is difficult to be part of an 
Italian family. Her American friends for example very often do not understand 
the importance and influence that her family plays in her life. Even if Terry 
,4c•/- c 
r- FO q0'789. 
is married now, her parents know everything about her and she tells everything 
to them. She did not go away to college because she felt she had to stay near 
the family, since her brother was away. She started to work in the family 
business when she was 7 years old and by 9 she was already handling the 
register. 
She describes her wedding as "a big Italian wedding," with 350 people. She had 
an Italian designed white dress , confetti and bomboniere (favors) in the form 
of a christal parfume bottle , and she gave presents to all the guests at the 
wedding. 
Before we leave, the mother Mary (Mariella) arrives. She does not have time to 
talk to us today and Russell and I feel tired after 4 hours of interviewing. 
The whole family invites us to the promotion-party they have next Saturday for 
their best clients. We leave around 4 pm. 
T IAW-PT-F090889.A= 
At 9 o'clock Russell and I drive to the house of Al Gagliardi, for thirty 
years sheriff's deputy for the Santa Clara County and now retired. His wife 
shows us into the living room and then disappears into the kitchen. During the 
interview Al told us mainly about his father Frank, about his work as a 
cabinet maker and farmer and about his dream of buying land. He does not talk 
with much enthusiasm about his own life as a sheriff's deputy, a job for which 
he applied when he came back after the war and did not know what to do. When 
we ask to see his backyard and we walk outside his personality seems to change 
and enthusiastically he shows us his prunes drying in the sun, his herbs 
growing in pots, his fruit trees, his pet-rabbit, his bonsai trees, and his 
collection of street signs. Russell takes pictures of him holding his mother's 
rolling pins, one of which was probably made by his father. He shows us his 
father's cabinet maker's tools, some of which he still uses for his wood work. 
This man, who choose to be American in public, shows an attachment to his 
Italian roots in his private life. 
- 
Aw 
-•T- •OgOF 
°1, ,4 
T IAW-PT-F090989 .A 
Aldo and Aurora Viarengo receive us in their living room. 
Along the hallway between the living room and the bedrooms there is a gallery 
of family portraits and on the floor there are albums of photographs that they 
Will show us during the interview. 
Aurora says she is Swiss and probably thinks that we are not interested in her 
story, so we clip the lavaliere microphone to Aldo's shirt. We realize during 
the interview that her family moved to Switzerland from northern Italy and 
then to the States and that she has as much to contribute as Aldo to the 
interview. 
She put together an album of family photos and documents which we take with us 
to copy and she has been working on the family tree for a long time. 
When we go into the garden Aldo tells us he just made some wine to show his 
son how to do it . He shows us his father 's bocce balls, which he still uses 
once on a while. He says that even if he lived in the city for a long time he 
is still "a farmer at heart," and his garden shows it. The gate which 
separates the garden from the backyard is made of Venetian blind slats painted 
with the colors of the Italian flag! 
When we leave he points to the old plow and wine press from his father's farm 
which now decorate the front yard of his house. 
T IAW-PT-F090989.B= 
Theresa Filici, whom we interviewed yesterday, called us back this morning. 
She wants us to go back to her house to pick up a bag of figs that she 
prepared for us. When we arrive she shows us some pictures of her father's 
ranch that we take to copy. Then she shows us the tools she used when she was 
working at the cannery. She takes a pear and shows us how to get the seeds out 
without ruining the shape of the fruit. Russell takes picture of the whole 
process. She even offers to give us one of the tools but we tell her that we 
will eventually contact her in the future. 
T IAW-PT-F090989.C=After lunch Russell and I decide to stop at the Porcella 
Music store on Monterey street which was recommended by Aldo Viarengo this 
morning. We introduce ourselves to David Porcella who runs the store. He tells 
us that his father George, from Genova, opened this same store in 1888 as a 
clothing store and then gradually made half of the store a music store. David, 
a musician like his father, completed the conversion when he took over. The 
same shelves that his father used to store clothing are used now by David for 
the instruments. 
We notice two bass drums on a high shelf: one shows a painting of a Columbus' 
caravel, the other is inscribed with the words "Geo. Porcella's Pep Band/The 
Gimkana Town." George played mainly big band music, but he knew also Italian 
music which he played at Italian weddings. 
David shows us the store and the backyard where he grows some vegetables. He 
is going to talk with his cousin and his mother to arrange a convenient time 
for an interview. 
-T•4w -
-!>T- F 
o 
90 9 
?q' . 
T IAW-PT-F090989.D--When we arrive at the Fortino's winery the party is already 
under way. The tasting room is full of people, tasting and buying the half-
priced wine. Terry Fortino, Ernesto's daughter, and her husband, together with 
other family members are selling the wine. Mary, Ernesto's wife is supervising 
the food preparation in the kitchen adjacent to the tasting room. Six women 
(three generations) are working in the kitchen: I meet Ernesto's mother 
(Teresa), Ernesto's sister and two cousins, and Dora Ignami, 21 years old who 
recently married Vince Fortino, Ernesto's nephew. Two big pots full of water 
are ready to boil 40 pounds of pasta. Grandmother Teresa is melting some 
butter to add to the pesto sauce prepared in advance by Mary and Terry. Three 
big bowls of salad are ready. Large trays of fruit are also ready to go. 
Ernesto is outside slicing bread and getting the Santa Maria steaks ready for 
the barbecue. He wears an apron which says "Sicilians are sensational." He is 
Calabrese, but having married a Sicilian woman he became "sicilian by 
injection" as he tells us. 
He introduces me to an Italian man, Mario Scaletti, around 60 years old, who 
talks to me for a long time. He lives in San Francisco and has known the 
Fortinos for a long time. He worked in advertising for the wine industry and 
now writes articles for American and European magazines and newspapers "more 
for pleasure than for money" he says. He really admires Ernesto and his 
success in the wine business. When I ask him if he thinks that it is the 
family nature of the business that made it successful he replies that the key 
to success is in investing the money in the right way. Ernesto started from 
nothing but was never afraid to reinvest the little money he made at the 
beginning and slowly build up what he has now. Evidently he considers Ernesto 
as one of the Italians who made it in America. 
I ask him if he belongs to some Italian associations and he tells me a long 
story about the Sons of Italy. In his opinion, the best Italians once belonged 
to the Sons of Italy, but in the last 10 years things have changed, have 
become more political, and many of the "best Italians" are no longer active in 
the organization. Mario himself run for president of the San Francisco branch 
of the Sons of Italy, but his election was boycotted by some members and he 
decided not to participate anymore. 
Mario tells me about his father who was a well known sculptor in Rome during 
the fascist regime. He received a gold medal from Mussolini for his work. When 
I ask him the reason why he came to the States, Mario is vague and changes the 
subject. 
Russell and Ken bring me some antipasto (cold cuts and a little piece of 
pizza) and a glass of wine. People are eating, drinking, and talking all 
around us while Ernesto and his brother-in-law start to barbecue the steaks. 
Russell and I go to the tasting room and buy two cases of red wine. It seems 
the minimum we can do to repay the Fortino for inviting us to a party for 
which the guests had to pay 25 dollars. 
People start to get in line for the food. Tables covered with white paper are 
set up in every room of the winery. Ernesto and all the members of the family 
who worked hard this evening sit around a table outside the winery. We leave 
around 8:30, just when the rock band starts to play and people begin to 
dance. 
-Co-fi T- Fob 
T IAW-PT-F091089.A= 
At 8:30 am Russell, Ken, and I arrive at the church and enter the kitchen 
where a group of men wearing aprons are defrosting squid which is going to be 
fried and sold at the festival later on. Everybody seems to know who we are, 
since yesterday David and Doug told them we were going to be there. The men 
are all active in one Italian-American organization or another: some of them 
belong to the Italian Catholic Federation, others to the Sons of Italy. They 
offer us coffee and doughnuts, while they continue to prepare things in the 
big kitchen. I say that it's nice to see men in the kitchen instead of women, 
and one of them replies: "we are Sicilians, the men drive, the women sit in 
the back." Another man comments: "Yes, they sit in the back to give you 
directions". 
I walk into the adjacent hall with Tony Di Gerolamo, who identifies himself as 
Sicilian, and he shows me the hall with a great sense of pride. Last night 
they had the election of the Santa Rosalia queen. In the past the girl elected 
was the one who sold more tickets for some sort of lottery, but this year, not 
to create antagonism among the girls they decided to draw lots. Another man 
comes in to show another man how to carry the Italian flag in the procession. 
Meanwhile the float that will carry the statue of Santa Rosalia arrives and 
stops in front of the Royal Chapel of Saint Carlo di Borromeo (apparently one 
of the oldest church in California). The float is decorated with white, blue 
and gold plastic 'skirting.'Some women dressed in traditional customs arrange 
flowers on the float and chat in a mixture of English and Sicilian. More 
people arrive. There are some little girls dressed like angels (white dress 
and wings). The statue of Santa Rosalia (patron saint of Sicilian fishermen) 
holds a crucifix in her right hand and a skull over a book on her left hand. 
She has a crown of flowers on her head. 
I go back to the kitchen where 6 men are working. Two of them are cutting the 
squid, then they put it in a big bowl where they pour milk. Another man 
prepares a mixture of flour, pepper, paprika, and salt in which the squid is 
coated. Another man is in charge of the frying. We are welcome to taste the 
first fried calamari. It's delicious. One of the men asks me if I am married 
and when I answer no, he says: "Eat more squid, you'll get married soon!' I 
laugh and ask why he says so. He mumbles something which I do not understand 
(something like "because they jump") and then adds that all the guys in 
kitchen have many kids because they ate squid all their lives. 
One of the men brings in a bottle of red wine. I cannot refuse it since the 
guy says that you cannot eat calamari without drinking wine! It's 9:30 and I'm 
already drinking! 
I go out again. The procession is supposed to start in ten minutes, but it 
will start ten minutes late. The knights of Columbus are here; they will 
surround the Santa Rosalia float during the procession. The band is here. 
Everybody starts to take his/her place in the procession. A police car arrives 
and takes its place in front of the procession which is headed by a man 
holding a banner of Santa Rosalia with the motto "Ora Pro Nobis".He is 
followed by two women in red-white-and green skirts who hold the banner of the 
Sons of Italy. 
Another woman holds the banner which says "Santa Rosalia 
Branch n. 36/Monterey/established 1936." One man on the right holds the 
American flag, a man on the left holds the italian one. They are followed by 
the band (12 people). 
Behind the band there are two girls who hold flowers, one is dressed in white, 
the other has a blue cape. 
Behind them a group of kids carry a gold-painted string of fishing floats 
(buoys). Each kid has flowers in his hands. Behind them comes the float, 
surrounded by the knights of Columbus. Several "princesses" follow the float 
=Aw-PT- Fos to F? ,,4,, o-
dressed in pink and blue satin dresses (gowns that bride-maids usually wear); 
the queen of Santa Rosalia Queen wears a cape and a crown. Some people follow 
the procession but not too many; mostly people walk aside the procession and 
the bulk of the crowd waits for it at the plaza. 
From Church street the procession turns left on Webster street, then right on 
Munras street, and right again on Alvarado street where more people are 
waiting on the sidewalks. 
I follow the procession near the band. I hear the conductor calling out a 
couple of songs ('Viva America'; 'Viva Santa Rosalia') but in general I did 
not recognize any familiar songs. 
We arrive at the Custom House Plaza around 10.30. People take place on the 
chairs in front of the stage where the Monsignor blesses the Saint. In the 
back of the stage there are free standing plywood panels: in the middle is 
written "Santa Rosalia Festival", and at the side are painted a girl and a guy 
dancing tarantella under grape vines. 
The plaza is ringed by booths that will later sell cannoli, pizza and pasta, 
sausages and calamari. Only the booth that sells T-shirts is open, but they 
refuse to sell anything while Mass is celebrated. Some of the T-shirts say: 
"Happiness is being Italian (or Sicilian)"; "I love grandpa". Some of the 
buttons say: "the happiest people marry Italians"; "cocuzza power". 
The float takes its place on the right side of the stage. After the blessing, 
8 fishermen lift the statue and carry it down to the wharf where the names of 
the fishermen lost at sea are called. Then the "princesses" and the queen of 
Santa Rosalia are called to throw flowers into the water. The Monsignor 
blesses the fleet. 
The procession returns to the plaza for the raising of the American and 
Italian flags and the singing of the national anthems. Mass starts and it will 
last for almost an hour. Then people start to buy food (calamari unfortunately 
is not as good as that we ate in the morning!); many people go to play bocce 
in the adjacent courts. We eat something and then leave when a group of 
musicians starts to play American music on the stage. 
-rA
- w - 
-' T- i
:_0 
(3 1 
1 9 
. 
,4 / 
l 
T IAW-PT-F091189.A= 
We arrive at the Bertolone's house around 5.45 pm after a stop at the flower 
shop where we buy 12 red roses for them. 
We were invited for dinner the first time we met the family at their 
restaurant on 10th street (Joe's restaurant). Since they opened the restaurant 
in 1980 they have always worked seven days a week. Only recently (a month ago) 
they decided to keep the restaurant closed on mondays and take a day off. It 
seems to me that they are so used to working all the time that they have not 
figured out a better way to spend their day off than inviting friends to their 
home for dinner. 
Joe comes to the door followed by Sonia, the oldest daughter (19 years old) to 
whom Russell gives the roses. We enter the kitchen where we meet the mother, 
Elvira, and Mona, a woman who helps them at the restaurant. Sonia and Joe take 
us into the parlor/living-room (in italian I would call it 'il salotto buono') 
a room which is evidently used by the family only on special occasions. The 
situation is very familiar to me. When I was doing fieldwork among Toscan 
farmers, they often opened up the 'salotto buono' just to offer me a glass of 
wine or something to drink but it was evident that they spent most of their 
time in the big kitchen. 
Joe and Sonia proudly show us Elvira's collection of porcelain dolls on 
display in the parlor. She started the collection only one year ago but she 
has accumulated an incredible number of them already. The biggest one is 
Cinderella, followed by Sleeping Beauty. Sonia's favorite is a little doll 
made in Italy. Then they ask if we want to see the house. They show us the 
dining-room, evidently 
used also for special occasions. On the table a big 
gondola and the drawings for the town houses that the family is planning to 
build in Los Banos in the next future. 
Then Sonia shows us the bedrooms; she 
opens the doors of the four bedrooms and even of the bathroom. I know that 
David, Doug, and Russell are probably overwhelmed by this kind of behavior, 
but I recognize the typical italian way: you show your friends the way you 
live, you open up your house for them as a way to show them your true 
friendship. 
Sonia shares her room with her sister Mary (11 years old, the only one born in 
the U.S.); Michael (17 years old) has his own room, and an exchange student 
from Spain has his own room. In the parents' room Sonia opens the closet to 
show us her mother's sheets which she brought from Italy. A big wooden rosary 
hangs on the wall on top of the bed which is covered by an Italian bedspread. 
Pictures of the kids, and of family weddings hang on the corridor's walls. Joe 
shows us a big poster of Sicily and points to the town in the center of the 
island (province of Caltanissetta) where he was born. Sonia teases him about 
his Sicilian origins; he replies that he is proud of being a Sicilian, and 
even if he moved from Sicily to Liguria (town of Andorra in the province of 
Savona) when he was a boy, he still considers himself a Sicilian. He tells us 
that he worked in England and in other parts of Italy before coming to the 
States in 1978. 
Sonia continues the tour of the house: she shows us the garage where the two 
Mercedes are parked (Joe gave Sonia a Mercedes when she graduated from high 
school), and then we go into the backyard. Elvira had a garden there the first 
year they bought the house. At the time they were working with Joe's brother 
in a pizzeria. Then, when they opened their own restaurant she did not find 
the time anymore to take care of the garden. 
We go back to the kitchen and sit around the table while Joe fills our glasses 
with red wine. Some antipasto (salami, prosciutto, mortadella, and cheese) is 
put on the table. The v.c.r. is playing "Dangerous Liaisons," a movie loved by 
the whole family. Our guests are very informally and comfortably dressed in 
••w- 
•'T- Fort 11 X9.
1 
•. 
their everyday clothes. Some kids come in: Michael with the Spanish student, 
Mary with Mona's children. The kids will be in and out all evening. Soon later 
Mona's husband, Rick, will join us for dinner. 
I leave the guys around the table and go near Elvira who is slicing potatoes 
and peppers and frying it in an electric fryer. She seems kind of 
uncomfortable in this kitchen which she rarely uses. She tells me that she 
spends most of her time at the restaurant and that she never cooks at home and 
in fact she misses basic ingredients for her cooking such as salt, oregano, 
and coffee. During the evening she sends first Sonia, and then Michael to the 
restaurant to get what she needs. I ask Elvira about her cooking. She worked 
in restaurants back in Italy, first as a waitress and then as a cook. She 
mentions a dish that she used to prepare in Italy but cannot make here because 
that particular cut of meat is not available on the American market (she 
referred to the "cima ripiena" or "stuffed pocket"). I ask her about the food 
she cooks at the restaurant and she stresses the fact that the food she cooks 
is "really Italian". She shows me the tomato sauce she canned for the winter. 
I ask if she makes jam or canned fruit but she says that it is not worth it 
because fruit costs too much. She tells me that when they first came they 
worked with Joe's brother in his pizzeria and she had time for gardening. Then 
Joe's brother "changed", stole their money, and they had to start on their 
own. Joe and his brother do not talk anymore to each other; she comments 
negatively on her brother-in-law's new wife, who is a young Mexican. 
Elvira tells me that when they came to America they had money. "I was a 
signora in Italy." They had two apartments, and a vegetable store that they 
sold when they came to the States. Elvira calls 
Mona into the kitchen and we start preparing dinner. I offer my help and start 
to peel garlic for the sauce, then I help Mona with the salad, while Elvira 
starts the sauce for pasta. Mona tells me that she began to work at the 
restaurant one year ago and that she is the only person who lasted more than a 
week there! Apparently the Bertolone are very 'direct' people but Mona says 
she understands their rude way of asking for something. 
Mona's father was Italian but he left the family when Mona was a kid so her 
Italian heritage is basically nonexistent, as she says. She tells me that the 
big difference between Italian-Americans and Italians is that Italians will 
give you everything they can but if you "spit on them once, that's it." She 
says that a lot of Americans do not understand this, but she does and accept 
it. She continues saying that now the Bertolone family has become her family. 
When she went to visit her mom in another state Elvira called her at least 
once a day, fact that made her own mother kind of jealous! 
We set the table in a very informal way. Elvira cooks pasta (shells) with her 
tomato sauce to which she adds garlic, onion, bay leaf and basil. Parmesan 
cheese is on the table. Sonia prepares the dressing for the salad with olive 
oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt (she looks for oregano but they do not have any 
in the house). Sliced fried potatoes and peppers are ready. We sit around the 
table and are encouraged to eat and finish everything ("Mangia, Mangial). 
Sonia made some creme caramel (which tastes like the creme caramel my mother 
makes!); somebody puts ice cream on it, somebody else put the "amarene fabbri" 
imported cherries very popular in Italy. We have Italian coffee and grappa 
Julia. Joe insist we finish the wine. 
During dinner Joe tells us about his dislike for Mexican food. He says that 
even if you offered him a million of dollars he would not eat Mexican food 
again. 
Somebody asks Joe what are the most important things in life and he replies 
"Wine, Women and Garlics." 
At the restaurant they used to sell Ernesto Fortino's wines, but something 
happened and they now sell Mario Fortino's wines (Hecker Pass Winery) Joe 
tells me that Ernesto agreed to sell him wine at a certain price and then 
raised the price without letting him know. In Joe's version this is the reason 
why they stopped to buy Ernesto's wine. But Elvira tells another story: 
apparently Ernesto did not direct tourists to Joe's restaurant but to another 
restaurant on first street (Sandrino). Elvira comments that Italians in 
America instead of helping each other are jealous of each other. For Elvira is 
inconceivable that Ernesto, who comes from the same part of Italy where she 
comes from (Calabria) did not act as a "paesano" and did not help them in 
their business. 
Elvira is extremely expressive with her hands and gesture 
which show how mad she really is with Ernesto Fortino and his family. 
After dinner Elvira starts to clean up. David asks Joe what he wants for his 
children. Joe's answer shows his concern for his old age: he wants his 
children to take care of him when he is old, he does not want to end up in a 
home for old people and die alone. 
We leave with the promise that we'll see each other soon. Sonia and Joe want 
to take all of us to San Francisco next monday. 
The V.C.R. is still on while we kiss good bye. 
=,46A) -PT PogI•)'q.,¢ 
T IAW-PT-F091289.A= 
Mario Fortino looks a lot like his brother Ernesto who runs the winery next 
door: the same smile, the same honest eyes. However his philosophy about wine 
making and how to run a winery is very different from his brother's. Ernesto 
has more of an entrepreneurial spirit while Mario has more of an old timer 
perspective on life. He smiles sarcastically about his brother's deli store 
and gift shop and he is proud when his clients tell him that his tasting room 
is the more European they have ever seen. During the interview he stresses 
several time the fact that his family has been making wine for three 
generations and that he wants to keep that tradition going. By staying small 
he is able to produce natural wines that undergo no clarification or 
filtration. 
He supervises and directs all the operations involved in wine making. His 
three sons help him in the winery but they all have their full time jobs 
elsewhere. The crush is still done by friends and family members. The 
equipment for making wine is the same that my family uses in Italy for our 
production of wine for family consumption. He still uses the old "basquet 
presses" to press the grapes; he bottles wine with a manually operated bottle 
filler; he corks the bottles with another manually operated corking machine. 
He receives us in his small office where he tells us how he learned to run a 
winery working for the San Martin winery for 15 years (see IAW-RF-A023). Then 
we take a tour of the winery while Russell takes pictures. Mario and his wife 
live in a mobile home at the edge of the vineyard. Two grandchildren who play 
around while we are there live with them now. After the tour we go into the 
tasting room where we taste some wine and then he gives us a 
bottle of Carignane. He tells us a little more about the work in the vineyard: 
he prunes the vineyard himself every year from february to april and has done 
all the grafting of his plants. he tells us that by june you should not do any 
more work in the vineyard: whatever you do is going to hurt the vines more 
than help them. We leave promising we'll call at the beginning of next week to 
know if they are going to pick grapes and eventually participate in the 
"vendemmia." 
_1AW- ?T- F0 q1,•i: q.,• 
T IAW-PT-F091389.A=I arrive at the Pedrizzetti winery around 2:30 pm. Russell 
and Ken are already there with the owner, Ed Pedrizzetti. He takes us through 
his winery rooms where some workers are labeling bottles. The Pedrizzetti do 
not own a vineyard but buy grapes and produce their own wine as well as wine 
for other people . This place is the opposite of Mario Fortino 's winery: the 
stress seems to be on quantity, on making money out of grapes and not on the 
quality or the "pleasure " of making wine. In fact the Pedrizzetti do not seem 
to take any pleasure in their activity but want to sell the business and 
retire pretty soon. Their son and two daughters do not work in the winery and 
are not interested in continuing the business . 
After a tour of the winery, 
which seems to me a huge industrial operation, we go into the office for the 
interview. Phyllis, Ed's wife, is very talkative and has a good memory while 
Ed does not seem to remember much about the past. The interview is interrupted 
several times by the phone ringing and by employees. Finally a group of French 
Canadians comes for a tour of the winery and tasting and we decide to end the 
interview. Their "wine shop and tasting room" is pretty small; they sell T-
shirts with the name --Pedrizzetti-- printed on them. One T-shirt on display 
on the wall says: "Never bite the foot that stomps your grapes." One bottle of 
California Golden Sherry attracts our attention because of its old label: it 
has a golden cup in the center surrounded by white and red grapes. Phyllis 
tells us that the people they sold the winery to, some years ago, found this 
label "too corny, too Italian" and they changed it into a more modern, 
Californian style. 
Russell takes pictures of the Canadian group tasting wine under the "pergolo." 
Phyllis gives us a bottle of Barolo to take with us. 
rAw - 
cei- T- P 
O t 
IFq. A• j 
T IAW-PT-F091489.A=At 7:30 am. we arrive at the Conrotto winery where Jim Burr 
(Jane Conrotto's husband) his friend Michael and two hired men are already 
picking grapes around the house (once the house where Jane's grandfather, 
Anselmo Conrotto and his wife lived, now rented.) We volunteer to pick grapes 
with them. We get some old wood boxes and start cutting the white grapes which 
are going to become "Simphony" wine. I have to admit that I was disappointed 
as soon as we arrived there. I had assumed that this "vendemmia' was going to 
be similar in atmosphere to the vendemmia I am used to participate in Italy. I 
was expecting more of a social event in which friends of the family 
participate, where nice food is provided by the family for the hard workers, 
where jokes are shared and a joyful atmosphere is all around . This is a 
thursday , a working day; the son, Scott, is in school in Fresno, the daughter, 
Renee, is attending school in Gilroy. Moreover the size of the vineyard does 
not require many people: the sixty boxes of grapes are picked in less than two 
hours and when Jean gets there, around 9:00, she thanks us for having done her 
work . Most of the wine that the Conrotto winery produces comes from grapes 
that Jim buys from other local growers. The vendemmia that I was expecting is 
more a memory of the past: Jean recalls the first words of some of the songs 
that the family used to sing while picking grapes when she was a child: 
"Ciribiribin, the bel nasin," and "Quel mazzolin dei fiori," two popular 
Italian folk songs well known in northern Italy. I ask her if her grandmother 
or her mother used to prepare special food for the vendemmia . She does not 
recall any specific food prepared for the occasion but she recalls the 
Piedmontese "torta" that her grandmother used to prepare (a mixture of eggs 
and every kind of fruits, included the core of the apricots'pits, baked in the 
oven), and the cookies called "pizzelle." Jean does not consider herself a 
good cook and definitely not an Italian cook. Her parents did not teach her 
the dialect from Cocconato (province of Asti, Piedmont), but she knows some 
words and while she talks with me she insert in her English some of these 
(like: biscotti for cookies; testa dura for hard head; vino for wine; nonni 
for grandparents.) 
Jean is very talkative and, as she says of herself, very social. She says she 
likes to spend time with family and friends and that this is often a problem 
with her American husband who, on the contrary, seems very reserved. She tells 
me about a dinner they attended the night before to celebrate the birthday of 
an old aunt of her. Most of the guest were old Italian-Americans and obviously 
it took her more than an hour to say goodbye to everybody while Jim waited 
impatiently to leave. "He does not understand the Italian way!" she says 
proudly. She seems very happy to have the opportunity to chat with me, and 
sometimes is very difficult for me to interrupt her conversation and ask 
specific questions. 
She makes coffee and offers us doughnuts as soon as 
picking grapes. Later we drive together to a nearby 
where we get "Italian" sandwiches for everybody. She 
Italy, where she met aunts and cousins from both her 
father'side of the family. She recalls that they used to send their used 
clothes to the family in Italy when she was younger and that she was surprised 
to find that their relatives are quite well off now, with beautiful homes and 
good jobs. 
we are finished with 
sandwich place, "Togo" 
tells me of her visit to 
mother and her 
Jim and his friend Michael decide that we have enough time to crush the 
grapes. I am surprised to discover that the crusher (the piece of machinery 
used to crush white grapes) is the same that my family uses in Italy (in fact 
is "made in Italy"). Jim explains that to crush the bigger quantity of red 
grapes that he buys he is going to use a bigger machine which is located 
•Aw -`•T F•9` (y•g . 
outside the storage room (outside the back entrance to the tasting room). 
The press is an old one (40 years old or more, Jim says ) and tricky to use. He 
tells me that once there were many old Italian men who knew how to repair it 
in case it got stuck . Now he needs to be more careful and prefers to lose some 
juice than to use the press to its full potential because he is afraid it is 
going to break definitely . Jim and Michael prepare the machines and then start 
crushing . First we help Jean cleaning the grapes in the boxes from the leaves 
while Jim and Michael superintend the crushing and the pressing (see 
pictures ). Then they invite me to throw grapes into the crushing machine and 
we get all excited and dirty while Jim comments on the beauty and richness of 
his grapes. I finally feel involved in the vendemmia "spirit!" 
While we were picking grapes earlier in the morning I noticed that the flower 
garden around the house was very familiar to me: it looked like an old Italian 
garden, both for the vegetation and for the layout . During our next visit to 
the Conrottos I will talk more about the garden with Jean (see IAW-PT-
F091789.a). 
T IAW-PT-F091589.A 
Around 10:00 am I call Saint Mary Church and ask for father 
Guida, the Italian priest. The secretary tells me that Father Guida is over 80 
years old and not always "functioning well" and she suggests that I stop by 
and try to talk with him in person. I go there and meet the old priest who 
just had an operation on his eyes and wears a pair of dark glasses. He came to 
the U.S. from Naples in 1953, then spent three years in Venezuela and one year 
in Brazil. He worked five years in San Jose and then he was assigned to Gilroy 
more because he spoke Spanish and Portuguese than because he spoke Italian. He 
seems to remember more about Latin America than about his work in California. 
When I ask him about his contact with the Italian-American community in Gilroy 
he says that apparently there are not many Italians in Gilroy, and he refers 
me to Mr. Pappani, president of the Italian Catholic Federation. I ask about 
festivals and saints' celebrations but he does not have anything to say about 
it. He seems anxious to go back to his room and I decide to leave after 10 
minutes. 
The church is open only during weekends; Our Lady's chapel behind the church 
is open during weekdays. Outside the chapel there is a wall which frames a 
mosaic of the Virgin of Guadalupe. In front of it there are candles and 
flowers. 
Inside the chapel, on the left there are seven stained glass windows, 
depicting the seven Sorrows of Our Lady. Four of the windows are gifts by 
Italian families: Savin Calabrese family, Charles Quartiroli family, John 
Gambetta family. 
On the right there are the 14 stations of the cross painted on wood by 
Battaglia, an Italian artist. 
I go back to the secretary and ask for the bulletin of the church activities 
for next week. There is a Mass in Spanish, but not one in Italian, and 
apparently there has never been one. The secretary gives me also a historical 
book about the church (first erected in 1869; rebuilt in 1965). 
I cannot help comparing Mary Star of the Sea in San Pedro, center of the 
Sicilian and Ischian fishermen community, with this church that does not seem 
to have played a major role in keeping together the Tuscans, Calabrese, and 
Piedmontese farmers of Gilroy. Is it due to the different regional origin of 
the immigrants? I cannot wait to attend the Italian Catholic federation dinner 
to see who attends it and what they have to say about the church. 
-TAW - T_coq (5K_` . 
i3 
T IAW-PT-F091589.B=Russell and I arrive at Garlic World at 1:00 pm. We go into 
the office where Carolyn Tognetti (owner of the store) and her mother Gloria 
Rizzi are waiting for us. Ken arrives while we set up the tape-recorder and 
the microphones. Since Carolyn's husband is in the fields for the tomato 
harvest, Russell and Ken decide to go out to document it. Gloria and I speak 
in Italian for a while; her maternal grandparents came from the same region 
where I come from (Tuscany) and she learned Italian from them while growing 
up. Carolyn does not speak Italian and she regrets that her parents, both of 
Italian origin, did not teach her the language. 
Gloria is a very attractive woman in her sixties; she has a very good memory 
for dates and names. She tells the immigration stories of both sides of her 
family. Her maternal grandparents came at the beginning of the century from 
the little town of Marlia, province of Lucca; her paternal grandparents came 
at the same time from a small town near Casale Monferrato in the wine area of 
Piemonte. Both families were involved in farm work in Italy and continued the 
tradition in Gilroy. Her husband's grandparents came from a town near 
Domodossola (border with Switzerland) and went to work in the cool mines in 
Colorado and later in Kansas. From there they moved to Gilroy where they 
resumed their Italian activity as bricklayers. 
For Gloria, who says is pride of being Italian, the most important value 
handed down by her Italian family is the value of work. "They all worked hard, 
and liked to work." She learned from her family and taught to her children the 
importance of being hard workers. 
Carolyn talks about her work and how she came to be in charge of "Garlic 
World." She also talks about her husband's family who came to the U.S. from 
the same town in Piemonte where her grandparents came from. 
The interview is often interrupted by the phone ringing and by employees 
coming into the office to pick up their pay-checks. 
During the interview Carolyn will point to a collage of photos on the wall: 
one photo shows Carolyn's trailer in which she sold cherries and vegetables 
for many years before opening Garlic World. She also points to an aerial photo 
of their property to show me where the cherry trees grow and where the trailer 
used to be. 
Mother and daughter are both good-looking, both hard-workers, both good 
Italian cooks. Before we leave they give us fresh fruit, garlic olives, and 
two wonderful garlic braids. We thank by kissing them "the Italian way." 
Av- 
omt- T 
T IAW-PT-F091789=David arranged to meet the Conrotto family again since their 
son, Scott, is coming home today from Fresno where he attends school. When we 
arrive, father and son are not there, and we spend some time in the tasting 
room where Jean is working with some customers. When the men return Doug, 
John, and I offer to take care of the customers while Ken Light takes pictures 
of the family. Then Doug, David and John follow father and son with the tape 
recorder in a tour of the winery. I wait until Jean is done with her customers 
and I ask her to walk with me in the garden that surrounds the old 
grandparents' house. During our first visit I had noticed that the garden 
looked very Italian in the layout and vegetation. There is a bird cage which 
Jean remembers as always being there; there is the "pergolo," or grape harbor 
under which they used to dine when Jean was a child; Jean remembers that there 
used to be an apple tree, a fig tree, and pear and peach trees when her 
grandmother used to live there. Even if these trees are not there anymore, 
there are other small trees that you would usually find in an Italian garden 
and that give the garden that familiar look that I perceive: the "nespolo," or 
loquat tree, the pomegranate tree, a persimmon-apple tree, and a lemon verbena 
tree. Jean remembers that her grandmother used to grow many herbs in the 
garden; verbena, mint, and rosemary are still growing but nobody apparently 
uses them. 
Jean does not seem to have much to say about the garden. Since they rented out 
the house they do not take care of the garden anymore, except for harvesting 
the grapes that grow in it. It would have been more interesting probably to 
ask her parents about it, but it is too late for that since they are out of 
town. 
a;4w 
-
-P-T- Po q 
T IAW-PT-F091889.A=Sonia Bertolone asked me several times if I would go with 
her to San Francisco. Her family has been really nice with all of us from the 
first day in Gilroy and I feel that Sonia is going to be really disappointed 
if I turn her offer down. She does not have many opportunities to spend time 
with a "real" Italian and I feel I don't want to disappoint her as a friend! I 
plan to interview her while she drives and share with her the things she likes 
to do when she goes to the Italian section of San Francisco, North Beach. She 
comes to pick me up at the hotel with her brother Michael, and the spanish 
student who is staying at their house this year and we drive to San Francisco 
under a torrential rain. 
She was born in Albenga, province of Savona (Liguria) in 1971. Her family 
moved to Gilroy in 1977 when she was 6 years old. She remembers vividly when 
they left from the airport of Milan and she was playing with her brother in 
the snow until the last minute before leaving. Her mother had somebody make 
two matching outfits for the kids to wear for the trip. She feels strongly to 
be Italian, and swears that she will never give up her Italian citizenship. 
She is planning to spend next year studying in Florence, and eventually go to 
the university there. Her spoken Italian is very good, but she never writes or 
reads in Italian and fears her Italian is not good enough for university work. 
I encourage her to feel confident and I promise to suggest some Italian 
literature that she can buy at the Italian bookstore in North Beach. 
She tells me how her father sold all his properties in Italy before coming to 
the States. Sonia says that her father thought he would have better 
opportunities in America than in Italy and because his brothers, Michael and 
Sal(vatore) were already here, he decided to move. In Gilroy he invested all 
his money in real estate with his brother, Michael, who had been in America 
for many years. Unfortunately, things did not work out with uncle Michael: 
Sonia's father lost his money and had to start all over again. 
Sonia's mother was misarable at the beginning: she hated it here, according to 
Sonia. She missed her big family back in Italy (five sisters and two 
brothers). 
At first the family stayed in San Jose with one of the brothers. Then they 
moved to Gilroy where they built the restaurant that they operate now and six 
apartments in the back of it. Until 1980 they lived in one of the apartments, 
then they bought the house where they live now. The whole family worked in the 
restaurant from the beginning: Sonia started waitressing when she was 10 years 
old. At the beginning she would serve only people the family knew. Her mother 
is the cook. Sonia says that she gets mad with her mother because she modifies 
the food to please the American taste. For istance, she makes spaghetti with 
meat balls that Sonia does not consider Italian at all, or she serves blue 
cheese or thousand island dressing instead of the oil and vinegar dressing. 
But at the same time she recognizes the need to please the community if you 
want to have a restaurant. The family never eats home, except for mondays when 
the restaurant is closed. Sonia tries to keep her Italian way of eating, that 
is, she does not start her meal with salad and she does not eat bread with 
pasta. 
Sonia works at the restaurant whenever she is not in school. She says that is 
hard to work for her family because she doesn't like the way they do things at 
the restaurant. She defines both of her parents as crazy, but she is more 
upset with her mom than with her father. 
Neither Sonia or Michael want to continue to work in the restaurant business. 
W- ?T F
-OglB•q.,4 , 
-a 
Michael says he wants to be a cop, while Sonia wants to study. She thinks she 
will major in history. 
When we get to North Beach we first stop at Cavalli bookstore where Sonia buys 
a couple of music tapes of Italian singers and a set of expresso cups for her 
mother . Then I offer them cappuccino and pastries at the Caffe Trieste, where 
Sonia usually stops for coffe . Then she shows me around all the stores where 
she buys things that she cannot find in Gilroy, like the Molinari grocery 
stores which carries good prosciutto and bufalo mozzarella. We stop at a 
photographic exhibition of "Italian Americans in North Beach," and both Sonia 
and her brother show a lot of interest for it. Sonia shows her disappointment 
for the "invasion" of the Chinese in that area: she is afraid they are going 
to take over the entire Italian neighborhood. Then we stop at the Italian 
church where Michael lights a candle. Looking for the posters of the Festa 
Italiana we end up on the Fishermen's wharf where we stop for lunch. 
Sonia is definitely in between two cultures. When I first met her I thought of 
the similarities between her situation and the one of Lara Doardi, the girl 
from Venice whose parents own the restaurant in San Pedro . But Lara, who had 
to fight hard at the beginning to gain respect for her family and for herself, 
seems to have found her own identity in this country. She would never think to 
go back to Italy. Sonia, on the contrary, seems still looking for her own 
identity and is trying to go back to Italy to be able to decide for herself 
where she wants to live and who she wants to be. 
a-4uj--PT coq 17Rq, 
:i• 
T IAW-PT-F091889.B=I just got back from San Francisco with Sonia Bartolone and 
on our way back we picked my Italian friend Paola Schellembaum in Palo Alto 
where she is conducting her research on Italian American family businesses. We 
both thought it was interesting for her to participate with us at the dinner 
since many of the people in Gilroy come from Piemonte,the region, famous for 
wine making, where she comes from. And in fact, as soon as we enter the big 
room where tables are already set for dinner, we are greeted by women and men 
who want to talk with the two girls from Italy. We feel both welcomed to this 
dinner and people seem really happy to have the opportunity to speak in 
Italian with us or better to say a few words in Italian. Everybody is willing 
to give us little bits and pieces of their stories. The situation is 
overwhelming for a while: I keep greeting new faces, shaking hands, and 
exchanging brief remarks. I meet several people from my region, Tuscany, while 
Paola meets the Piemontesi. It feels awkward to take out the note-book and 
write down names and facts, so I decide not to do it. But now, while I'm 
trying to remember details of the many short conversations I had, I feel it 
would have been better if I had taken notes! 
We get in line to help ourselves with food. Several people have been working 
in the kitchen in the afternoon. The "rollatini," meat rolls filled with 
parsley and cheese is the central dish for the dinner. Jean Conrotto told me 
the next day that her husband has always served his wine at the ICF dinners, 
but this time they preferred to buy cartons of wine. Everybody seems to have 
his/her own place at the tables. The IAW people sit together and enjoy 
dinner. 
The president of the Federation gives his speech after dinner. A young Italian 
American student is given a scholarship to support her studies and she thanks 
the federation for it. Then John and David talk about our project and I thank 
the Italian American community in Italian for the ospItality we received in 
Gilroy. I have the feeling not too many people understood my brief speech in 
Italian: as many people told me before and after dinner, most of them lost the 
fluency in their Italian dialect as soon as they went to school. On one hand 
this is felt as a loss, but on the other hand everybody seems proud to have 
learned English well, and seems to have strong feelings against bi-lingual 
education. 
The president goes on with business talks. Another member of the ICF gives his 
speech encouraging the older members to take younger members of their families 
to the future dinners and events scheduled by the federation. 
It would have been nice to have attended this dinner at the beginning of our 
fieldwork in Gilroy. I felt many people would have liked to schedule an 
interview with one of us, but generally I felt they were pleased to have us 
there acknowledging their activities. 
-
T-IAW-PT-F091989 Val Filice invited the whole group for lunch at his "Tank 
House Ristorante," which Russell and I visited before with Mimi Serafin (see 
IAW-PT-F090889.B). 
Val is a big man in his sixties. After he suffered from a heart attack he 
tried to take life slower and now he spends much of his time gardening and 
cooking for friends and family members. He is a perfect host and makes all of 
us feel welcome. His wife Elsie is also there and his cousin Joe Filice with 
his wife. When we arrive food is almost ready and we sit around the table 
outside the tank house and help ourselves with big portions of fettuccine with 
shrimp, cooked with a lot of garlic and red chili pepper. Our hosts keep 
pushing us to eat more and keep pouring wine in our glasses. Time goes by 
pretty fast while we eat and talk of nothing in particular. 
When I sat down to write my notes a day later and tried to remember the 
conversation we had, I felt as if I had forgot everything. I realized that I 
had the same trouble remembering the conversations I had with people during 
the ICF dinner we attended the night before. I realized that in both occasions 
I felt that what people were expecting from me (or from us) was to share their 
food and enjoy each other's company and that I could not act as a friend/guest 
and folklorist at the same time! It is possible that I just felt tired, after 
two weeks of fieldwork, and just wanted to relax and enjoy the food and 
company. It is also possible that I felt less responsible because the whole 
IAW group was present and I trusted they were doing their job of participant 
observers properly! 
As an Italian participating in events which involve 
sharing Italian food I always feel much closer to the people who are cooking 
and offering me the food than to the researchers documenting the event! 
Food 
sharing is so much part of my culture and of my everyday life that I probably 
take everything for granted and I find it difficult to write about it. 
This situation was very familiar to me: it reminded me of the many lunches my 
family in Italy shares with old and new friends and I felt comfortable and 
enjoyed it as one of those lunches. The only time I felt uncomfortable was 
when our hosts expressed their ideas about Mexicans and told us stories based 
on their personal experiences with Mexican workers as a way to justify their 
dislike for these people. According to them, Italian immigrants had solid 
values and were hard workers who saved their money and invested it properly 
while Mexicans don't know how to save but instead spend all their money in new 
clothes and don't respect other people's property. I find ironic that sons and 
daughters of an immigrant generation did not learn how to respect other 
immigrants' values and problems in adapting to life in America. As Val 
commented, life must go in circles: every group needs to feel superior to 
another group. Once were the Italians to be treated badly and today is the 
Mexicans' turn. 
TA(d 
- 
PT a 
X00 
T IAW-PT-F092089.A--This is the first time I meet the Guglielmo family. Doug, 
David and I came a few days ago to taste and buy some wine but we did not meet 
any members of the family. Russell has met the three brothers before during 
the grape harvest and has arranged the interview today to talk about the 
family history with parents (George and Maddalena, second generation) and sons 
(George, Gene, and Gary.) They wanted to invite us for lunch at the parents' 
house, which is not far from the winery, but the rain delayed the parents' 
return from a trip to visit Maddalena's mother and they rearranged to have 
lunch in the kitchen at the winery. Tom Kruse, local winemaker and good friend 
of the Guglielmos, volunteered to cook lunch for the whole group. He says that 
even if he is not Italian he loves Italians and Italian food and has been 
around Italians all the time since he moved to Gilroy and started his wine 
business. 
Russell and I arrive around 12:00; the parents have not arrived yet and the 
brothers (George, Gene, and Gary) are still working. 
We go into the tasting room where Gene offers us an aperitif. A big picture of 
the family with barrels of wine in the back hangs in the middle of the room. A 
little Italian flag is on display with imported Italian products and a box 
with a bottle of Guglielmo wine, and a pack of spaghetti named "Italian 
survival kit." The whole decor of the room stresses the pride in the family 
tradition of winemaking and shows that,like their motto says: "Since 1925, 
producing and sharing fine wines ... more than just a business--a way of life." 
In the kitchen Tom Kruse, wearing a white-red-and green apron, 
is preparing the sauce for "pasta Capri," a recipe he got from one of his 
favorite Italian restaurants. I help him cleaning the salad and tasting the 
sauce (shrimp sauteed in butter and garlic to which he adds a can of clam 
juice, chopped tomatoes, and green onions). The mother, Maddalena, tells me 
later when I thank for the delicious meal that this is not "their food," it is 
not the food she would have cooked for us if she could have invited us to her 
house. She mentions she had planned to cook fried peppers and "bagna caoda" (a 
Piedmontese hot dip for raw vegetables, made with oil, butter, garlic, and 
anchovies.) Interesting enough, she gives Russell a bag of fresh bell peppers 
to take home and gives me a can of fried peppers (since I am flying back home 
and cannot carry fresh vegetables.) 
The kitchen is equipped with big pots and pans and a huge colander to drain 
pasta. The kitchenware are used for the F.B.I meetings (full blooded Italians) 
held once a month in the garage adjacent the tasting room. Russell and I 
decide to set up the tape recorder and microphones and be ready to record 
interesting parts of the conversation while having lunch. The whole family was 
eager to talk about their history and heritage and we ended up interviewing 
and recording for almost two hours while having lunch. 
Both Maddalena and her husband, George Washington (because he was born on 
Washington's birthday!) speak some Piedmontese dialect. Their families came 
from two different villages in Piedmont: George's parents from a village near 
the French border, and therefore his family's dialect was a mixture of French 
and Italian. Maddalena had to learn her in-laws' dialect when she got married 
since they lived with them for more than ten years in what is now the office 
building of the winery. They did not teach their children to speak the dialect 
because they felt it was not useful for them to learn one specific dialect 
spoken only in one village. 
George is the oldest brother, the winemaker, the "oldtimer." When he discovers 
that my family in Italy is in the marble business he asks me to send him 
?T- F 
oq ;•o K` -A , 
•2_ 
information and prices because he always wanted to build a shrine with the 
statue of the protector of winemaking to honor the Italian heritage and 
tradition. 
Gene and Gary take care of the marketing side of the business . Gene went to 
Italy after he finished school because he did not know what to do -either 
enter the family business or start a career on his own. Apparently the trip to 
his family 's town in Piedmont helped him in his decision to continue the 
family tradition. 
Gary , the youngest brother, talks much less than the others. His wife with his 
son, Michael , will show up after lunch and Russell will take pictures of the 
whole family. 
Both Russell and I felt very good about this interview. When we left (with the 
peppers and a gift box of wine ) I felt as if I was leaving some relatives or 
anyway somebody that -- as many other families in Gilroy-- would like to see us 
again. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062390.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, paola 
Date: 6/23/90 
Informant/Event: Tour of La Mesa 
Coworker: Taylor, David; DeNatale, Doug; Manini, Paola 
Site: 6 
Around 12 p.m., David Taylor, Doug DeNatale, Paula Manini and I go 
for a tour of  La Mesa, the agricultural area east of Pueblo where 
many 
Italian 
families 
reside and work and where I will 
be 
conducting most of my fieldwork. We drive on highway 50 through the 
communities of Blen e, 
Vinedale and Avondale where we locate 
several Italian farms and businPsRP„s, such as: 
Dionisio Produce 
De Luca grocery (with signs that say: Italian sausages and ricotta 
cheese) 
Thomas Farm (originally Di Tommaso) also involved in truck farming 
Pullara implements 
Pisciotta Land and Cattle 
Giodone restaurant 
While driving on the highway we spot a traditional Italian outside 
oven (forno) in the property of Val Shipley (may be the property 
was once owned by Italians?). On a previous tour of the area, 
DeNatale and Taylor had already spotted a couple of other forni on 
27th lane, which crosses highway 50. We turn on 27th lane and stop 
in front of the mail box of the first farm on the right side of the 
road which says: Emilio Sforze. We see people outside the house so 
we decide to stop and ask them a few questions. The son of the 
Sforze family is getting into his car and directs us to his mother 
who stands just outside the door of her home. She is an older 
woman, 
who listens to David's introduction about the Italian-
Americans in the West project without saying a word, and who does 
not seem too eager to talk to us. (Maybe she is overwhelmed by the 
four of us?). We start to ask some questions about her family and 
she answers very briefly without showing much "enthusiasm". She 
tells us that her husband's family came from Sicily as well as her 
family, while she was born in Pueblo. They have been working on the 
same property for more than forty years, raising vegetables such 
as: tomatoes, eggplant, and all kinds of peppers. She tells us that 
the oven has not been used for the last thirty years. She says that 
they used to bake 25 loafs of bread each week but that it is not 
worth it to keep it in function for a family of only three people 
(husband, son, and herself). 
In spite of our attempts to make her feel at ease (Paula says that 
both she and Doug are Italian-Americans from the east coast; David 
tells her that I come from Italy) and in spite of the brochure 
about the project which David gives her, the woman tells us that 
she is not interested in participating in the project. She welcomes 
IAW-PT-F062390.A - 
2 
us to come back to take pictures of the oven, but she does not want 
to be interviewed. Anyway, she does not seem to know much about 
other Italian farmers in the area. She tells us that the oven we 
spotted on the property in front of the Sforze's one was originally 
built by an Italian family but they do not live there anymore, and 
now Irish people live there. I ask about Saint Joseph's altar, but 
she says that she never took an active part in the celebration. 
She seems to me one of those people who does not believe she could 
have something interesting to tell people. 
We leave the place and drive more in that area; we spot some wine 
grapes on 25th Lane (between Malich and Everett) and stop to see 
if the name on the mail box is Italian, and "obviously" it is: 
Ciacio, and adjacent to it: Giodone. In the front yard there is 
also a small statue of the Madonna. 
We continue our tour on 25th Lane to locate the house of another 
member of the Giodone family, Jasper, a vegetable farmer who was 
recommended by Bob Clark, the agricultural extension agent with 
whom David Taylor spoke a few days ago. 
Just driving around the Mesa and reading the names on the mail 
boxes along the roads we realized that the presence of Italians 
here is really considerable. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062490.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 24/6/90 
Informant/Event: Joanna Nigro Collette; Al Collette 
Coworker: Manini, Paula 
Site: 6 
Paula Manini and I arrive at the house of Jo Anna and Al Collette 
around 2 pm. The house is located in a new development in the west 
Pueblo area. David Taylor and John Williams had met Jo Anna at the 
"Collette's catering and c-Arry 
cc, 
not, on West Northern avenue 
in the spring. This facilitated the introduction of me and Paula 
in their home. We are interested in both their family 
• 
(6 
of their 7 children work with them), and their experience in the 
Saint Joseph's table tradition., 
The son John lets us in the dining area next to the kitchen. In the 
entrance I notice pictures of young children (their grandchildren) 
and of their sons and daughters. On the wall at the entrance hangs 
a big wooden crucifix; on the wall of the dining room hangs a 
painting of the Last Supper. We sit around the big table on which 
they have placed photo albums for us to look at. 
While Paula 
introduces herself I start to set up the equipment. We decide to 
use a lavalier microphone thinking that Jo Anna is going to be our 
major informant but Al is very interested in participating in the 
interview too, so after switching the microphone from one shirt to 
the other we decide to place it in the middle of the table. 
Jo Anna's family was originally from Calabria. Her parents spent 
time near Seattle, 
WA and then moved to Walsenburg, 
south of 
Pueblo. In the 40s they moved to Pueblo, 
in the Mesa area. Her 
father was a barber for the GI during the war (he learned from 
uncles in Washington) ; 
after the war he could not practice anymore, 
unless he took an exam for a license, and since his English was not 
good enough, he got a job as a janitor. Jo Anna's mother learned 
about the Saint Joseph's tradition from the Zinno family in the 
Mesa. 
Interesting enough, 
even if she was not a Sicilian, 
she 
started the Saint Joseph's table tradition that Jo Anna and her 
husband continued. 
Al's parents were from Sicily. They lived on Goat Hill (heavily 
populated by Italians) then on Santa Fe' Avenue. He remembers the 
Saint Joseph's table that his grandmother used to prepare. 
The Collette have made 5 Saint  
Joseph's tables until now and they 
are planning to make another one next year.  
The first one they made 
was in 1965 for their son John who had seizures. They went around 
and knocked at the doors of Italian families to ask for a donation 
for the table. The second table was made 5 years later to thank the 
saint because their prayers were answered. The third one was made 
IAW-PT-F062490.A - 
2 
for Jo Anna's sister who had cancer. They could not remember for 
whom they made the fourth one. They did not make the fifth one in 
their house but helped a friend, Jack Spinuzzi in the mesa to 
organize one. 
They talk about the table while showing the pictures in the albums. 
Th 
nO records _of 
the way the table is supposed to be made, through the pictures, and 
the recipes written by Joanna. 
The 
interview touched upon several topics; 
mainly: 
the Saint 
Joseph's table tradition, 
the family business, 
and the family 
history. We also talked about naming traditions, Italian weddings, 
churches and neighborhoods. 
The interview goes on for two hours while we are offered lemonade 
(it's 105 degrees today!) , 
goat cheese that Jo Anna's cousin makes, 
then 
a glass of red wine- made by Al and his child 
n 
re 
last year 
ec 
(ba 
a ids wanted to learn how to make wine before he gets 
too old). I ask them names of people they recommend I talk to in 
the Mesa and they suggest a few names (Colalancia Silverio; Dominic 
Musso; the Pannunzio family; the Zinno brothers) . 
Jo Anna calls her 
cousin, Jo Vasili, to whom she had already spoken about our visit, 
and asked him for his exact address and the time when he makes 
cheese. Moreover, both Jo Anna and Al are going to set up an 
appointment for us with their parents later this week. 
While Paula Manini talks with them about the Saint Joseph's table 
I take a few pictures of them as well as of the statue of Saint 
Joseph in papier mache that they put on the altar. The statue was 
a gift from JoAnna's mother. They keep it in the upstairs hall. 
Three of their children came into the house at various times during 
the interview. The family is celebrating one of the children's 
birthday this evening, with a spaghetti and meatballs dinner. 
Before we leave we are invited to come back whenever we have time 
and join them for dinner. We are also invited to their family 
celebration for the 4th of July, invitation that we gladly accept. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062490.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/24/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro family reunion 
Coworker: Manini, Paula 
Site: 6 
After our interview with the Collette, Paula Manini and I drive to 
Blende in the Mesa to the house of Tony and Jeannie Rodasta where 
the 
annual 
family 
picnic 
of 
the Martellaro 
family 
is 
held. 
Josephine, married to Tony Martellaro, herself of Slavic origin, 
is our contact. When Paula Manini called her to set up an interview 
with her to talk mainly about the Saint Joseph's table that she 
made this last March 19th, she invited us to this family reunion. 
She even put up a sign in the driveway to make it easier for us to 
find the house. I felt very welcome from the beginning. We were 
invited into the kitchen where the food was displayed on the 
counter and the table. Josephine insisted that we fill up two 
dishes with all the food we want. There are 2 pots still half full 
of rigatoni and spaghetti, both with red sauce, a dish of meatballs 
aW nnP of 
-,au -,aggs; tamaies, 
corn, 
rice —a-n
-a peas, 
three bean 
salad, spinach salad, green salad, and a couple of Jello salads. 
We fill up our plates and go out in the back yard where many kids 
are running and playing on the grass, and young and older people 
are sitting at the several picnic tables, 
chatting. 
Josephine 
insists that we eat before we start talking, 
but soon we are 
answering questions about our project (I give them a few brochures 
about it) as well as about our personal lives (nobody knows where 
my home town is, but they are interested in my Italian accent and 
the way I pronounce my name). They all used to speak Italian, or 
better the Sicilian dialect (the slang, as Annie calls it) 
but 
since their parents died, 
they stopped speaking it and almost 
forgot it. We start talking with the people at our table: Tony 
Martellaro, 
Tony 
Rodasta 
(husband 
of 
Jeannie, 
one 
of 
Tony 
Martellaro 
I s sisters), and the husband of another of Tony's sisters 
who is of Slavic descent. Annie, the oldest sister is invited to 
come to our table since she is the one who remembers more Italian 
than anybody else. Tony and Annie are pushed by the others to say 
something in Italian, but they seem very shy about it. 
Several 
people ask me if I am planning to stay in the States or if I plan 
to go back to Italy, and all sympathized when I tell them that I 
have not decided yet, and that it is a very difficult decision to 
make. 
When I am finished with my food I decide to take some pictures. One 
of the girls is playing on the grass with her husband: 
she is 
jokingly beating him up, forcing him on the ground. I ask her if 
I can take a picture of them to show how Italian women treat their 
men! They agree and everybody laughs at my joke. The ice is broken 
IAW-PT-F062490.B - 
2 
and I go around taking a few pictures of the people sitting around 
the picnic tables, and of the shrine of a white and blue Madonna 
which stands at one of the corners of the yard; then I move to fhe 
vegeta 
e gar en, 
on 
e south side of the yard, 
where Rose 
Martellaro Payne, the youngest of Tony's sisters, is showing some 
of her crops to her daughter. Rose and Jeannie Rodasta take care 
of the garden. 
I ask Rose if she worked on her father's farm when she was growing 
up. 
"Sending" her eyes to the sky, 
she tells me that they all 
worked hard, too hard in fact. Apparently she does not have good 
memories about those years because she changes the topic quickly. 
None of the children continued the agricultural activity of the 
father, but they all have gardens, she tells me. She sh4n4s m_e 
the 
garden where basil, 
finocchio, garlic, 
eggplants, 
carrots, 
and  
other vpuetables grow. 
ere are a so some lilies growing near by. 
I ask if they call these Saint Joseph lilies as we do in Italy, but 
she says these are called Easter lilies, and that they are not used 
for any particular celebration. 
When I get back to the tables I talk a little with Josephine 
Martellaro and one of her daughters, Christine, married to another 
Italian-American: Christopher Spodafora. We talk about weddings: 
all of Josephine's children had big (400/500) Italian weddings and 
she took a big role in organs 
em 
a er, at her house, she 
would show me some of the pictures of the last wedding in her 
family). 
At all the weddings th 
Rodasta adds t a 
ey danced tarantella also), and some home made 
cookies. 
Paula Manini  takes a pirtiirP of a wooden cross covered by flowers 
that ones the kids made to remember "all those that are not wig 
us". Then we are asked to take a few group pictures, both with our 
camera and with their cameras. We promise we will send some of the 
pictures. 
Before leaving for Josephine's house, 
we take a few 
pictures of the left over food displayed in the kitchen. Paula 
takes a few pictures too. Everybody is very kind in saying goodbye 
and the Rodastas invite us to stop by another time to talk more. 
While leaving the place we notice several little statues of saints 
in the frame of a window (statues used for a nativity scene for 
Christmas??). 
On the window of one of the cars parked in the 
driveway there is a sticker which says: "Proud to be Italian". 
We follow 
to their home, only half 
a mile down the road from the site of the picnic, at the end of 
County 
Farm Road. 
Paula Manini 
had 
tentatively 
scheduled 
an 
interview with Josephine for this afternoon, 
but since it 
is 
getting late, and we are all pretty tired, we decide to go to her 
home just to get  some videos of the Saint Joseph's celebration and 
the photo album that she has been putting together on the same 
topic. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062490.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/24/90 
Informant/Event: Visit to the Martellaro home 
Coworker: Manini, Paula 
Site: 6 
The property of the Martellaros is quite large, as well as their 
home. Tony built his house twenty years ago, helped by his father. 
Only the younger son lives with them now, 
since their other 
children got married. 
Tony is retired from the mill and spends his days working in the 
fields. Last year he _was almost paralyzed by arthritis, an 
is 
is why his wife prayed to Saint Joseph to help him recover. Tony 
seems totally recovered, 
and even if -he takes it easier than 
before, he still prunes the trees in the orchard, takes care of the 
garden and the stables for the horses. 
Josephine is a very active woman. The "passion" she put in the 
Saint Joseph's celebration is evident in the album she shows us, 
we 
ake it with us to photograph. It's a large book with news 
clippings, recipes, and photos related to the Saint Joseph's table 
she made the 19th of March, 1990. She even ordered a computer to 
be able to organize all 
the material 
she accumulated on the 
tradition and be able to make a good documentary work to pass on 
to her children (like JoAnna Collette, whom we inEe-rviewed earlier 
this afternoon, the purpose of her work on the Saint- Joseph's altar 
Vs to pass on to her children all the information necessary to 
continue the tradition). Interestingly enough, 
neither she nor 
Joanna Collette are of Sicilian origin, although their husbands 
are. 
Josephine tells us more about the Saint Joseph celebration of this 
year. This was Josephine's first table, and she is very proud of 
the results. 
Everybody who attended the celebration 
(she says 
around 500 people) complimented her for the beauty and accuracy of 
her work. She mentions tha 
s e wan a to surprise her husband with 
it, so decided not to tell him anything until February (the table 
was made to thank the saint for the recovery of Tony from his 
bad 
ar 
itis and also the recovery of their granddaughter Brittany 
from a bad form of eczema. For more details see Paula Manini's 
fieldnotes and interview with Josephine Martellaro). 
Surprisingly, the news that she was making the table spread pretty 
easily and the family started to receive calls from people they had 
never met before who would ask if they could make a donation for 
the table. 
While Paula makes arrangements for a subsequent interview with 
Josephine I look at the pictures of her daughter's wedding, held 
IAW-PT-F062490.0 - 
2 
at the Saint Joseph church in the Mesa. Josephine also shows us the 
painting she made of Saint Joseph with a child. She says that she 
could not find a statue for the altar so decided to paint the 
saint, Using a holy image as a model. She has also painted a Last 
Supper which hangs on the kitchen wall. Then she takes us into the 
living room, a pretty large room with heavy curtains, a fireplace, 
and a wall covered by wood. On this wall she points to another one 
of her paintings, her husband's favorite one, an oil painting of 
a lion. 
Before 
leaving with t 
day 
gelebration and her book of photos, we take a tour of the yard. 
Josephine shows_me_the qarden: most of her vegetables (finocchio, 
carrots, eggplants, celery) have been eaten by wild rabbits. We ask 
Tony if they raise rabbits but he says that they don't (Josephine 
does not eat rabbit), but his father did and they used to sell them 
to the Bessemer Mercantile Company owned by Jo Gagliano, Tony's 
uncle. 
From the garden we move to the orchard on the opposite side of the 
house. There are apple trees that Tony's father planted from seeds 
many years ago and still give the best apples that they have ever 
seen. Nobody seems to know the name of this variety of apples, but 
they are definitely the best in their opinion. There are a few 
Italian plum trees, cherry trees, and bushes of gooseberries. 
In the distance we can see several horses (they invite us to come 
here and ride). 
Both Josephine and her husband have been extremely kind with us and 
seemed very happy to talk to us. 
Tony says goodbye to me in 
Sicilian: "and as we say...statte buono! (be O.K.) to which I reply 
in the same way. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062690.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: First visit to the De Luca grocery and meat market 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
Around 11:30 I drive on highway 50 in the Saint Charles Mesa. I 
decide to stop first at the De Luca grocery and meat market, on 
the north side of the highway. I enter the store and introduce 
myself to the owner, Floyd (Fiorino Giuseppe) De Luca, explain our 
project and give him the brochure "Italian Americans in the West". 
Floyd, an older  man (in his seventies?) tells me his father, Frank 
(Francesco Na a e) came from Calabria and opened the store in 1915. 
The  store, only Italian grocery in the Mesa, used to serve all the 
IEH'iian 
tamiiies in the area. Today business is reduced to a 
minimum: the shelves are half empty, and Floyd tells me that he has 
not sold anything this morning. Apparently they keep the sales to 
a minimum in order to collect social security. 
We talk briefly about the old times and the Italian lodges. He 
mentions, 
in Italian, 
"la societal 
fedelta' 
Vittorio Emanuele 
Terzo", The San Giuseppe lodge, La Protettiva, and the Cristoforo 
Colombo lodge. He adds that during prohibition the Sicilians had 
their own lodge called: Indipendente Siciliani then later united 
with the Cristoforo Colombo lodge. 
I ask him the names of other Calabresi families in the area: he 
mentions his cousin, Charles De Luca, 
85 years old, who was a 
farmer and who owns now the Blende liquor store, run by his son, 
Charles Jr.. He also mentions the Potestio family and the Moroni 
family to whom he is related. 
While Floyd deals with the bread distributor who enters the store 
I walk around and check the products on the shelves. There is one 
kind of imported pasta (La Molisana) and several brands of domestic 
pasta. 
Cans 
of 
tomatoes, 
peppers, 
olives, 
giardiniera 
(mixed 
marinated vegetables), 
and salted lupini. He asks me if I eat 
polenta and points to the 5 pound corn meal brown bags aligned on 
the counter. He also makes sausages. 
The shelves along the windows are full with plants that his wife 
put there for decoration (not to leave the shelves empty); in the 
back there is a rack of used clothes, 
as well as purses and 
decorative objects which belonged to his wife and daughter. There 
are also used books, and used tableware, everything for sale. 
I ask Mr. De Luca if he would be interested in setting a time for 
an interview and he says he would like his wife to be present. She 
is in Denver today, so I tell him I will call him later in the 
week. 
His wife is of Slavic descent. 
She has learned to cook 
IAW-PT-F062690.A - 
2 
Italian from Floyd's mother. 
An older woman comes into the store and greets Floyd as an old 
friend. I introduce myself to this tiny but very energetic woman 
and discover with surprise that she is 82 years old. Her name is 
Martha 
Chimento, 
an 
old client 
of 
the 
De 
Luca 
grocery. 
Her 
husband's family was originally from Messina, Sicily. Her husband 
and she were farmers in the Mesa for many years. Only recently, 
after her husband had a stroke, they sold the farm to the Dionisio 
family and moved to town. She tells me she had a hard life and 
always thought to write a book about it. When I ask her if she 
would be interested in an interview with me she seems very excited, 
and gives me her address and phone number right away (323 West 
Evans. Tel. 543.0009). She kisses me and insists that I call her 
next week to set up the time for the interview. 
She gets two cold pops and takes them to her husband and retarded 
son who are waiting for her in the truck outside. When she comes 
back, 
she orders 10 pounds of ground meat, 
and some slices of 
turkey; then selects the imported pasta, and other items from the 
shelves. She tells me that she drives here from Pueblo to do her 
groceries because she wants to help out old friends. 
It is 12:15 when I leave. I thank both Martha and Floyd for their 
help and they thank me back. 
I drive from Blende towards Vinedale and stop at the Dionisio's 
Turf farms. (see IAW-PT-F062690.b) 
Document: IAW-PT-F062690.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: First visit to the Dionisio's Turf Farms and The 
Dionisio Produce 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
From the De Luca grocery and meat Market I drive east on the 
highway and decide to make my first visit to the next Italian farm 
on the north side of the highway: the Dionisio's Turf Farms. I 
enter the office where I introduce myself and the project to a 
woman in her forties. She tells me that she helps her son in the 
business. Her husband died years ago, her son bought this business 
after having worked for a few years for another turf business in 
Denver. She directs me to her cousins, biggest farmers in the area, 
she says, the Dionisio Produce, two miles east of here on highway 
50. 
She asks where I come from and noticing my accent she tells me I 
should go talk with Olga Potestio, a woman who came from Calabria 
many years ago, who never learned English well and still speaks 
Italian with the members of her family. She shows me where she 
lives, on the other side of the highway, almost in front of the 
office. I thank the woman for her help and drive to the Dionisio 
Produce. 
It's 1:00 o'clock and it's extremely hot. Nobody is around the 
building of the Dionisio Produce. I walk to the house adjacent to 
it and asks a young woman who is setting up a kids' swimming pool 
for her small child in the backyard if I can talk with one of the 
Dionisio family members. She goes inside and calls her father, 
Russ, a big man, with dark skin and dark beard, who listens to my 
introduction and looks at the brochure on Italian Americans in the 
West without saying a word. Then finally he tells me that everyday 
is a good day for an interview and very kindly invites me to call 
him later in the week, so that he can talk with his brother and 
other relatives involved in the business and decide the best time 
for an interview. He also points to where his father, Russ Senior, 
lives, a white house on 39th Lane. The whole family is going to 
celebrate his 80th birthday on the 4th of July. The, old man was 
only partially involved in farming. It is Russell and his brother 
who bought land in the fifties and started the Dionisio Produce. 
Russ suggests I talk with the Thomas family (originally Di Tommaso) 
who runs a fruit stand an-th-a-- Quthprii-side of the highway 50, not 
far from the Dionisios.% 
I get Russ's phone number (948-4321) and his father's number (948-
2528. I leave promising I'll call end of the week. 
IAW-PT-F062690.B - 
2 
It's time for my scheduled interview with Naich Cordo, on County 
Farm Road (see IAW-PT-f062690.c; and IAW-PT-A023, and A024). 
Document: IAW-PT-F062690.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Naich Cordo 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
These notes concern my interview with Naich (Ignazio) Cordo. His 
name was suggested by Josephine and Tony Martellaro. When I called 
Mr. Cordo I discovered that the Martellaros had already called him 
to tell him about my visit. He was expecting my call and seemed 
very happy and excited to contribute to our project. His house is 
a red brick house at 28822 County Farm Road in what I think is 
Vineland. During the interview he tells me that on the map they 
designate this area as Vineland, but it has always been the Saint 
Charles Mesa, and he calls it this way. 
Naich was born in 1916 in Pueblo and lived here all his life 
working as a farmer in the property that once belonged to his 
parents. He also had a job for 25 years as a school bus driver. He 
looks very well for his age, still working in the fields in spite 
of a heart attack last year. His wife died two or three years ago. 
Everyday for breakfast and supper he goes to one of his daughters 
who lives in a house on his property. He has pictures of his wife 
and of his children and grandchildren all over the house. When I 
enter the main door into the living room I am struck by the display 
of pictures on the main table. When we are done with the interview, 
I ask him to describe for me some of the pictures and then I take 
a few pictures of him in front of them. I also take a picture of 
four little plastic statues of Mary, Saint Joseph, and other two 
saints which I saw in the frame of a window, when I came in. Naich 
told me that his wife used to make a small nativity scene for 
Christmas with the statues, but since she died he has not done 
anything with the statues. 
We sit at the table in the kitchen and I clip the lavalier 
microphone to his shirt (the interview is recorded on IAW-PT-AO23 
and A024). He seems a little uncomfortable at the beginning, not 
knowing if he can be of help for the interview but as soon as he 
realizes that I am interested in his life as a farmer, he becomes 
more comfortable. Either because of the heat in the kitchen (it's 
probably more than 100 degrees today!) which makes me really tired 
and uncomfortable or because Naich answers many of my questions 
with a yes or no, my thoughts are not too clear and I jump with my 
questions from one subject to another. 
I start asking him about his parents, and grandparents, who came 
from Sicily. He does not remember much about his father since he 
died when Naich was only 3 years old. His mother was left a widow 
with 6 children, the oldest of whom was 12 years old. Naich's older 
brother used to peddle to Pueblo while Naich worked mainly in the 
IAW-PT-F062690.0 - 
2 
fields. The interview touches mainly on the work in the farm; on 
the connections between farmers and the market place in Pueblo; 
about Italian families and social life in the Mesa. Since the Cordo 
family was very poor, Naich and his brother and sisters were called 
every year to participate in the Saint Joseph's day celebration. 
Naich r 
hat every year there were at least 10 or 12 tables 
in the Mesa. We talk also about the ovens that every Italian fami y 
had in the yard. He gives me a description of how to build them. 
The interview goes on for more than an hour. It's very hot in the 
kitchen, so Naich offers to go get some coke in the basement. We 
talk also about hog raising and slaughtering. He tells me he still 
has the container in the basement where they used to store lard and 
sausages. I ask if we could see it and we go down to the basement 
(I carry the tape recorder with me and hold the microphone with my 
hand). There is another full kitchen, with an old stove used to 
bake bread in the winter time; and a regular stove on which Naich 
cooks his tomato sauce every Sunday (the wooden spoon with tomato 
sauce on it is still near the stove, ready to be used next Sunday). 
The kitchen feels cooler than the kitchen upstairs and looks much 
more lived in than the other one. Then Naich takes me to another 
small room, a storage room, from which he goes into a dark room 
where 
they used to 
store 
the 
coal 
and brings 
out 
the 
clay 
receptacle used to store the lard. He tells me also about the big 
kettle they used to cook the lard in, which is now rusting outside 
(later, when he takes me for a tour of the yard, he'll show it to 
me.) Then we go into a big room where Naich tells me they used to 
slaughter the hog, which has also been used as the dining room for 
all the family reunions. He tells me that his wife and he used to 
spend most of their time here in the basement and go upstairs just 
to go to bed. On the walls of the kitchen there are pictures of the 
whole family as well as plaques with both religious and funny 
sayings. Naich points to some of his favorite ones and I read them 
out loud into the tape recorder. 
We move outside, in the back of the house, where Naich shows me the 
kettle as well as all the equipment he uses in the farm. Naich 
grows hay and alfalfa to feed his cows (he has 24 of them in a 
fenced in area adjacent to the house) on the land that belongs to 
him and rents out other land to grow vegetables. He hires two 
Mexicans guys to help him in the farm, (he points to a small shack 
on his property where these men live). 
Naich gets more animated talking about his work, telling me about 
the equipment he uses and showing me his cows. Before I leave I ask 
him if it would be ok if I come back with our photographer to take 
pictures of his farm and house. He invites me to stop by even 
before the photographer arrives in Pueblo, and invites me to join 
him and his daughters for a Sunday lunch. I thank him for his help 
and he thanks me back saying that it was his pleasure talking to 
me. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062790.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Nigro, Frank; Nigro Pietramale, Rose; 
Coworker: Manini, Paula 
Site: 6 
Paula Manini and I arrive at the house of Frank and Rose Nigro on 
1219 E. Routt Avenue in Pueblo around 1:30. JoAnna Collette, their 
daughter, arranged the interview for us. She is supposed to meet 
us here: she was concerned her mother would be uncomfortable with 
the recording equipment, 
and wanted to be present during the 
interview. When Paula Manini and I enter the small house, 
we 
realize that Rose and Frank have had guests for lunch; 
they are 
talking in the kitchen and nobody seems to be expecting us. Frank 
comes into the living room to greet us; he is hard of hearing and 
we have a hard time making him understand our names and our purpose 
here. Another older woman is there, aunt Mary, Frank's sister, who 
used to live in Spokane, WA, and now lives with Rose and Frank. She 
will not interact with us at all during the afternoon. 
We sit in the living room with aunt Mary and Frank while waiting 
for Jo Anna to 
arrive. 
We 
talk about 
the 
heat. 
When Frank 
understands that I live in California, he says that the heat down 
there is worse than the heat in Pueblo. Then he goes on telling us 
a long story about one of his cousins, a truck driver, who died of 
diphtheria during one of his trips to California. Both Paula and 
I realize that Frank loves to talk and to tell stories in details. 
He is a tall and strong man, 
in his 90 , with an extraordinary 
memos 
w i e 
Fii
T
s 
wi e is sma 
and frail and seems more reserved 
and less talkative. Both Rose and Frank speak English with fairly 
heavy accent. 
Both Paula and I are struck by the number of pictures on display 
on the—shelv-Ps 
in the living room, definitely a sign of the 
importance of the family ties for the old couple. Rose points -to 
some of the old and more recent framed pictures of the members of 
the family. Paula will borrow some of them to make copies for the 
project. 
Jo Anna arrives and we decide to move to the kitchen for the 
interview. 
Paula and I try to 
set up the stand for the big 
microphone but we have some technical problems with it so we decide 
to use it without the stand. While Paula sets up the tape recorder 
(she will be in charge of the recording) we take place around the 
kitchen table. On the wall of the kitchen I notice a painting of 
the Last Supper, a theme present in all the homes I have visited 
until now (the Martellaro, 
the Collette). The home is full of 
religious images which hang from the wall and are 
placed—on—the 
to les. I sit at the table against the wall and Frank sits at my 
rig. Rose sits in front of me near JoAnna, while Paula Manini is 
IAW-PT-F062790.A - 
2 
at my left. Rose has an appointment with the doctor at 3 o'clock, 
so we decide to interview her first about the Saint Joseph's tables 
she made during the years. 
The Nigros moved from Walsenberg to Pueblo in 1943. They lived for 
a year in the Mesa where Rose learned from a Sicilian woman, Mrs. 
Carmela Zinno about the 
n. The first table she 
ma a was 
or 
er daughter Stella, who was hit by a horse and 
consequently could not walk. In 1946 she made another table for 
her son Mike who was in Korea. Rose's memory is not too precise. 
While she tries to remember dates and names her daughter JoAnna 
helps her remembering, while her husband, Frank, keeps interrupting 
her. He says his memory is better than his wife's, while Rose often 
shakes her head and tells us that often he invents stories. 
The first half an hour of the interview (IAW-PM-A007) deals with 
the Saint Joseph tradition. Then Rose gets ready to go to the 
doctor and I start asking Frank about the history of the family. 
He came to the States from the town of Grimaldi, in the province  
in 1914 with his mother (Fortunata Presta) 
and 2 of his sisters (Josephine and-Su-9y)-,  
They left Italy from 
Naples on the ship "Fuoco". Hi.s father (Michele 
igro) was already 
in the States. The family settled in Spokane, WA where his sister, 
Mary was married to Rose's brother. From Washington the family 
moved to Walsenberg, where they farmed and raised goats. Frank's 
memory about those years is very good. Then they moved to Pueblo, 
and Frank worked as a barber at the army base during the war. After 
the war he could not get his license (he says that another Italian 
guy who was a barber too did not want the competition and made sure 
he did not get one), so he worked as a janitor for the school. 
When he left Italy, Rose was only a child, 3 or 4 years old, but 
Frank remembered her and her family 
(Rose's mother had helped 
Frank's mother during Frank's birth). Frank tells us the story of 
his birth. Rose's mother later told him: "If I knew you were going 
to marry my daughter, I would have thrown you to the hogs!" 
The 
two families were farming for the same landowners and both Rose and 
Frank were born in the same house, 
(of which they show us a 
picture). 
of Cosenza, Calabria 
He tells us how he went back to Italy to marry Rose and brought her 
to the States. Later on he will share with us his disappointment 
for what he found in Italy, where people "are divided in classes" 
and are treated differently according to the class they belong to. 
Frank talks briefly about his memory of the Ludlow massacre in 
1918. Then Joe Vasili, Frank's nephew, who makes goat cheese in 
Vineland, comes in to visit with his mother, who is soon going to 
go to a nursing home. Joe speaks to us in Italian. We ask him about 
cheese making. As a boy he first learned to make cheese from his 
uncle Frank in Walsenberg. Frank took care of Joe and his siblings 
IAW-PT-F062790.A - 
3 
after an accident occurred to Joe's 
father 
(I 
reschedule an 
appointment with Jo Vasili to see him making cheese. He is not sure 
if he is going to have enough milk to make cheese on Friday, so he 
tells me to go Saturday morning. Frank offers to accompany me. I 
promise I will pick him up and drive together to the goat farm). 
JoAnna calls her sister Stella and asks her if she has the picture 
of the Saint Joseph's table that was made for her in 1943. She 
arrives at the house around 3:00 o'clock with her grand-daughter, 
Crystal, who is about 7 years old. She brings the picture of the 
table 
as 
well 
as 
other 
old 
pictures 
taken 
at 
the 
farm 
in 
Walsenberg. 
JoAnna 
leaves 
and 
her 
mother 
comes 
back 
from 
her 
doctor's 
appointment. We talk more with her about marriage traditions and 
her trousseau: some of her sheets were used on the Saint Joseph's 
table. Frank wants to talk more but I know that Paula Manini wants 
to ask Rose and Stella about the Saint Joseph's table more in 
detail so I ask Frank to show me his garden and we move outside. 
His garden is well taken care of. Frank planted grapes only 9 years 
ago, and learned how to prune the vines from a relative visiting 
from Italy. 
Frank's father never grew grapes, 
and it is not a 
common crop in Pueblo. 
He is very proud of it. 
The vines are 
planted along three sides of the yard and outline two sides of the 
house. In front of the garage the vines form a "pergolo". Frank 
grows a California grape and a white "moscatina" grape, which makes 
a sweet wine. He shows me around pointing to each little plant 
growing in the garden: tomatoes are scattered here and there, as 
well as basil, parsley and oregano. Garlic is planted at the feet 
of three peach trees. I ask him if there is a reason for that and 
he says that garlic prevents the worms from getting to the peaches. 
He has several fig trees, 4 of them planted in the ground and a few 
others growing in buckets. He explains how he protects the fig 
trees from the cold winter. He bends the plant until it touches the 
ground, then cover it with leaves, old carpets, and finally with 
plastic. To allow the tree to get some air, he leaves open the west 
and south sides, while he closes the north and east side, where the 
coldest winds come from. He does not plant the fig trees in the 
ground until they are at least three or four years old. Before that 
time he keeps them growing in a bucket and keeps them in his garage 
during the winter. 
Looking at the garden from the house: on the right side there is 
the garage and the chicken coop, now storage room. Along the garage 
wall there are the clothes lines; from one of the rusty clothes 
line hang old and rusty goat bells. I ask what those 
are for and 
he says that he uses them to scare the birds away. Then he shows 
me a "bug-light", which he built himself: he took a fan out from 
its frame and put on the top of this frame a light bulb. At the 
bottom of the frame he puts a tin basin, full of water and soap. 
Then at night, 
he turns the light bulb on and all the bugs, 
IAW-PT-F062790.A - 
4 
attracted by the light go to die in the soapy water. 
I take 
pictures of Frank near the fig trees, moving the clothes line, and 
near the "bug-light" (see IAW-PT-B roll 1). 
When we go back into the kitchen, 
Paula Manini, who has been 
talking with Rose and Stella about storytelling, asks Frank who 
Iugale is. Stella told Paula that her grandmother used to tell them 
the stories of Iugale; she does not remember the stories, but she 
says that her father remembers them. Frank liked nothing better 
than telling us the stories of Iugale. He sat down at the table and 
started with "Iugale and the flies", a numskull tale in which 
Iugale, told by his mother to go sell meat to people who do not 
talk too much, decides to sell it to the flies. Since the flies do 
not pay him for the meat, he goes to the judge, who tells him to 
hit a fly whenever he sees one. A fly stops on the judge's nose and 
Iugale hits him with the judge's gavel. 
While Frank tells the story, he moves his hands very animatedly. 
I take a few pictures (see Iaw-PM-B rolls 1 and 2). 
Then Frank goes on with "Iugale and the wood," a story I have heard 
before, in which Iugale starts out by doing something stupid like 
pull off the door from the hinges, and ends up scaring away the 
"briganti" and getting their loot. 
Paula asks him to tell a story in Italian. He starts in English 
with "Iugale and the intestines of the goat" (or pig? see tape IAW-
PM-A009) and then switches to Italian ("Cammina, cammina") in the 
middle of the story. 
This is the story of Iugale who, asked to go wash the intestines 
of the animal in the water, goes away from the village to look for 
the biggest river he can find, until he gets to the sea and washes 
the intestines in the sea water. 
It is almost 6 o'clock, and we have been talking with these people 
for more than four hours. During our stay we were offered cookies 
and pizzelle, iced tea and Frank's home-made wine. The afternoon 
aE— t
-he Nigro home has been incredibly interesting but crowded, with 
people coming and going in and out of the kitchen. 
(Before Frank 
starts telling the stories one of their grand-daughters, who works 
at the bank in front of their house, stops by for a short visit. 
She 
says 
she 
comes 
often, 
but 
not 
everyday 
to 
visit 
her 
grandparents). It is not too surprising to discover later, when we 
go back to the hotel, that Paula Manini inadvertently recorded over 
a side of the third tape that had been already recorded on. 
It takes us some time to take leave from our hosts. 
We kiss 
everybody goodbye, thanking for everything. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062890.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Tony 
Coworker: Frank, Russell 
Site: 6 
Russell Frank and I drive to the Martellaro 
I s home to interview 
Tony Martellaro who was involved in truck farming when he was 
younger and then worked at the rai), mi11 until he retired in 1986. 
We arranged the interview a few days ago after I had met Tony and 
his wife Josephine at the family picnic on June 25, and then at 
their home later on. 
We sit in the living room and clip the lavalier microphone to his 
shirt. Russell is in charge of the tape recording. Tony has a 
southwestern accent, and Russell finds it different from the accent 
of the guys he interviewed in town. Tony's description of both farm 
life and mi 1 
1 
wnrlr are very de a i 
1 ed and filch. We begin with his 
family background: his father came to work in the r,nuisiana_ s-gar 
cz e fields for several summers and then went back to Lucca, 
Sicily. Tien in 191,3 
he came with the family and settled in the 
Saint Charles Mesa, where he stayed all his life. 7 
Tony goes into details about the work in the farm when he was a 
kid. Most of the farms in the Mesa were truck farms, run by the 
families, and rarely employed laborers. The average size of t e 
farms was 10 to 20 acres. The biggest farm in the Mesa was owned 
by the Taravella (35 acres). People were closer than they are now: 
they visited each other regularly and helped each other in various 
activities. Now, he says, he does not know his neighbors. 
Description of the hng 'hiltrhering-and tine social Q-ve „ mss 
^••:.d it-; 
the neighbors got together to help each other and had big dinners 
at the end of the dn(y. Every part of the hog was used: ears, feet 
(pickled), stomach (for tripe),  most of the meat WAG grnunrled and 
sausages were made. 
Very vivid description of the life in the Mesa, 
most of the 
families in the neighborhood were Italians. 
In the summer evenings 
the kids used to go from one family to another to play 
while the 
adults visited and talked mostly in the kitchens. His grandmother 
used to tell stories in Italian to all the kids. Tony remembers 
that those were stories about kings and queens in the old country; 
he says he wishes they had a tape recorder at the time! Even if he 
does not remember the stories, his description of the atmosphere 
that his grandmother created when narrating, is very alive and you 
can tell by the way he talks about the event that his grandmother 
must have been a great storyteller. 
Women always worked hard 
in 
the 
fields. 
He talks 
about his 
IAW-PT-F062890.A - 
2 
grandmother, 
mother, 
and 
sisters' 
work. 
Each 
of his 
sisters 
received 3 acres from the father when he retired. Tony received 6 
acres. 
Detailed description of the truck farming business. 
Names of 
Italians involved in that in the past. Activities in the fields 
(cleaning, plowing, harvesting). 
Forno building and bread baking. Tony remembers wonderful details 
that he just volunteers to us. For example, t 
g  way his mother a-,ed 
tor test the heat in 
t: 
if it turned brown the temperature was right for baking bread, i.£ 
i 
urs 
in o flames was too hnf- 
Description of food habits and 
tood preparation. 
Tony started to work at the mill in January 1951. His memory for 
dates is very precise. His intention was to work at the mill only 
for a brief period and then go back to farming. But the money was 
good and his father decided to retire and there was not enough 
money in farming to raise a family and eventually buy his own land. 
He got married in 1955 and stayed at the mill for 33 years. He 
retired in 1986. 
i✓
 He gives us a detailed description of the operation of the rail 
rolling mill. "Your mill was your family." he says. The  workers of 
one mill went usually to the same tavern. Tony did not like to 
drink, he did not go very often with the guys. He tells us the only 
joke he knows about the mill. 
His wife enters when we are almost finished with the interview. I 
had noticed, as soon as we entered the living room, that on an old 
time desk (a secretary- 
there are a few framed_ pictures of both 
Josephine and Tony's parents together with a Saint Joseph candle, 
and a lotto ticket. During a pause of the interview I asked Tony 
about that and he told me that his wife had to do with it. When I 
ask if the lotto ticket is near the Saint Joseph candle to bring 
good luck, she smiles and says: "You know, I did not even have one 
number!" 
Before going, I show Tony the map of the area where he lives in 
order to get an idea of the location of the other Italian families 
in the Mesa. Unfortunately the map leaves out his farm and it does 
not seem to help Tony remember names. Without looking at the map 
he starts naming all the families that used to live in the Mesa. 
Both Russell and I felt the interview was really rich and we 
appreciated the detailed information Tony volunteered. 
He was 
himself very happy to have the opportunity to revive some of his 
memories and was very thankful for the attention we paid him. As 
he said when we thanked him before leaving, it had been a long time 
since he received so much attention from somebody! 
IAW-PT-F062890.A - 
3 
We say goodbye knowing that in a couple of hours we are going to 
see them for dinner at Gaetano's, Italian restaurant where we are 
going to meet also the Collette couple. 
During the interview Russell took several pictures. 
Document: IAW-PT-F062990.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/29/90 
Informant/Event: Visit to the Thomas farm 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
Around 2:30 I drive to Vineland and stop at the Thomas fruit and 
vegetable stand on highway 50. I talk first with Peggy Thomas, a 
young-looking woman in her 40s. She is the daughter of Tony Thomas 
(originally Di Tommaso) whose father started the fruit and produce 
business. I talk about the project and give her a brochure and she 
seems very interested and eager to help. She calls her sister, 
Patty, who just stopped by with her young son, and tells her about 
the project. She suggests I talk with her uncle Frank Petrocco, who 
just recently went to Italy and who "has studied these kind of 
things." 
She is going to talk to him about the project and then 
try to set up an appointment for me to meet him. She is married to 
a Dionisio, a cousin of Russell Dionisio with whom I talked a few 
days ago. I tell her that I will probably be interviewing the 
family of Russell Dionisio next week and she suggests she joins 
that group for the interview. Before leaving she gives me her phone 
number and tells me to call her beginning of next week. 
Another man comes in. 
Peggy introduces him to me: 
"here is an 
Italian farmer!" He is Charlie Pullara, related to the family who 
owns the "Pullara Implements" half a mile from here. He tells me 
that he does not much about his heritage and that his father is too 
old and does not have a good memory anymore. But he suggests I talk 
with his daughter, Sherry Pullara, who has studied Italian and 
knows everything about the family. I take her phone number, while 
an older man, in his seventies, enters the store. "Here is another 
Italian! Sam Vinci" Peggy goes. 
"Vinci, like Leonardo Da Vinci, 
but he was not from my town." I introduce myself, give him the 
brochure and explain the reason of my presence here, but he does 
not seem to trust me much.I explain more about the project; he asks 
what nationality I am. 
Then starts to talk about his trip to 
Sicily, three years ago, and about his fear of being robbed in 
Palermo. He is a Sicilian himself, from Lucca, but did not like 
what he saw of Italy very much. His wife is Sicilian too (Patti is 
her last name). I ask if he knows about the Saint Joseph tradition 
and he tells me that his wife helped his mother with the Saint 
Joseph's day 
celebrations 
in 
the 
past. 
I try to 
set 
up 
an 
appointment with him but he tells me to call him next week. 
Before I leave, Peggy invites me for dinner tomorrow evening at her 
home, two houses down the road. Her parents, Tony Thomas and his 
wife, will be there as well as other relatives. She says "how can 
you understand the farmers if you don't eat with them, right?" 
Document: IAW-PT-F063090.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Joe Vasili Goat Dairy 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
Around 8:30 a.m. David Taylor and I drive to the house of Frank 
Nigro to pick him up and go together to see his nephew Joe Vasili 
making ricotta cheese at his goat dairy located in Vineland, on 
Daniel Road. 
Frank, 87 nears old. taught Joe how to make cheese when he was a 
boy. When Paula Manini and I interviewed Frank and his wife a few 
days ago, he offered to accompany me to visit Joe's dairy farm. He 
seemed very proud of the fact that when ,Toe started making cheese 
he had to teach him again and still now, once in a while, he asks 
him for his help. 
Joe worked most of his life at the mill. He is 
not marrie 
an 
when he retired 9 years ago decided to start a goat 
dairy. He had learned how to make cheese a long time before, so he 
needed uncle Frank's help. 
Frank is working in the garden in the back of the house when David 
and I get there. He is cleaning some garlic while his wife checks 
the laundry on the clothes line. Rose gives us three cups and 
spoons and some bread to taste the ricotta. A "ricotta soup", 
ricotta mixed with pieces of hrPad is her husband's favorite. She 
asks him to bring some ricotta  back too,-
Frank directs us while I drive. He tells us about the time when he 
worked at the air base as a barber, and mentions a few names of 
Italian families who used to farm along highway 50 while we pass 
them. 
When we turn north on 36th Lane Frank points to the Mauro Farm and 
mentions that they are from his same town in Calabria. In front of 
Joe's dairy farm there is the Cortes farm, from Sicily. 
Joe has been waiting for us since 8 o'clock. There must have been 
some misunderstanding about the time he was supposed to make 
cheese. He told me several time that 9/9:30 was a good time for us 
to go and see the process of cheese making, but I realize now that 
this is the time he starts to make ricotta cheese, while the goat 
cheese, the harder cheese called "caprino" in Italian, is the first 
one to be made and we are too late to see the first part of its 
making. 
The cheese house 
is a cinder block building that looks very 
anonymous to me. There are no signs indicating that it is a cheese 
factory. We enter through the front door into a small room with a 
fridge and a counter. From this room we can see three other doors, 
IAW-PT-F063090.A - 
2 
one that leads to the bathroom, another one that leads to a small 
storage room, and the third one that leads to the bigger room where 
Joe 
makes cheese. From the main room another door in the back 
takes you outside and into a small basement where there is the 
furnace and "a boiler", a device to heat up the milk in the kettle 
upstairs. 
Joe is ready to start making the ricotta cheese and to explain the 
whole process to us. He asks us to ask him questions while he goes 
on. I set up the portable Marantz tape recorder while David gets 
ready to take pictures. Since there is no surface where to put the 
tape recorder, and Joe is going to move around between the kettle, 
the sink, and the walk-in cooler, I carry the tape recorder and 
keep the microphone in my hand. 
Joe's explanation is very clear and detailed. The milk is boiling 
into a big stainless steel kettle (an army kettle mounted on a 
metal frame) . 
Joe waits until the temperature is about 190 degrees, 
then puts a few handful of salt in it (while uncle Frank tells him 
not to put too much of it), then starts to stir slowly and evenly 
with a long wooden spoon (while uncle Frank warns him not to stir 
too fast). Then he covers the kettle with its stainless steel cover 
(divided in two pieces). When the milk "solidifies", ricotta is 
ready. Joe removes the ricotta that floats in the kettle with a 
small stainless steel dipper (he says that he usually uses a bigger 
dipper, but he cannot find it today). The ricotta is transferred 
into a number of small perforated plastic containers lined on the 
stainless steel sink and counter adjacent to the kettle. 
In the cheese room there are also a big walk-in cooler where the 
fresh milk is stored, and another big stainless steel sink where 
Joe washes the plastic ricotta containers before filling them with 
the cheese. Uncle Frank asks Joe to put some ricotta cheese in one 
of the bowls we brought from his home and he crumbled a slice of 
bread in it. Then he moves to the other room, opens the front door 
to get some fresh air in, and sits in front of the door eating his 
"ricotta soup". I move to the door too: the temperature in the 
cheese room is almost unbearable and I need a breath of fresh air. 
Meanwhile Joe's nephew: Charlie Vasile comes in. He helps his uncle 
running the business. He is in his twenties. Later he will suggest 
we visit the Mauro family and the Cortese family across the street. 
When I go back to the cheese room, Joe has finished putting the 
ricotta in the plastic containers; now the ricotta is left to drain 
off the extra liquid into the sink and eventually down to the 
floor. At this point Joe takes the three cylinder-shaped containers 
full of the goat cheese he made before our arrival, and that have 
been sitting on the counter/sink all this time draining off the 
liquid, and 
puts them back into the kettle to "cook" for at least 
three hours. At this point he just has to wait. 
IAW-PT-F063090.A - 
3 
We leave uncle Frank with Charlie and go see the other buildings 
in the farm. 
We walk to the next building, 
divided into two 
separate rooms. Joe takes us into his "junk room" where he shows 
us a small hand-made basket that one of his Italian cousins sent 
to him from Calabria. This is the basket used in Italy to drain the 
ricotta cheese. Joe wanted to use them but an health inspector told 
him that he would have to shut his operation down if he used these 
kind of baskets. David measures the basket and takes a picture of 
Joe holding it. 
Then we moved (same building, another door) to the place where Joe 
stores 
the 
hard 
cheese. 
We 
descend 
into 
a cement 
cellar, 
wonderfully cool, where several hardened wheels of goat cheese are 
spread out on a sheet of plywood. 
The cheese is first treated in brine. At the moment there are two 
plastic container with water and 
salt where cheese 
is 
being 
treated. Joe tells me that he put a cork in one of them to remind 
him which one of the containers he filled first. From the brine, 
the cheese is rolled in salt (Kosher salt) and left for at least 
60 days in this room. Before Joe told me that according to the law 
you cannot sell cheese before these 60 days, but he has clients who 
like the cheese when it is fresher, so he sells it even before the 
60 days have elapsed. 
Joe goes to get a big knife and offers David and I a taste of it. 
David takes pictures. 
Then we walk to his goat stable. All this time I carry the portable 
tape recorder and keep recording what happens. Joe points to a 
mechanical device to crack corn that he uses to feed the goats, and 
to a small storage space where he keeps the corn (granturco). We 
enter the fenced area where his 100 goats are kept and walk around 
"playing" with them. At the end of the fenced area there is a small 
pen where three young pigs are. 
In the winter time Joe makes 
sausages, salami, and capocollo with the pig's meat. 
Then he shows us the room where he milks the goats and the 
pneumatic machine that he uses to milk them. 
The goats are milked 
twice a day, early in the morning and later in the afternoon. He 
just recently weaned several kid goats and keeps them in a separate 
pen inside the bigger fenced area. 
We walk back to the cheese room and get ready to leave. Joe is 
going home to eat lunch and he will be back in two hours to get the 
cheese out of the kettle. We drive back to Pueblo with uncle Frank. 
I park the car in the driveway under the grapevines and enter into 
the back yard. Frank greets his wife "Hi 'sposal" which means bride 
in Italian. 
David sits near Frank who will go on for an hour 
telling him stories while I sit with Rose and chat about her 
family. 
She has not been feeling too well since her daughter 
Lorraine passed away a few years ago. I ask how she chose the names 
IAW-PT-F063090.A - 
4 
for her children and she explains that some were names that she 
liked (such as Eva, 
named after her godmother; and JoAnna, 
in 
Italian Giovanna, name of one of Rose's brother). Her son, Michael, 
got his name from Frank's father. So, for some of her children she 
followed the tradition, and for some of them she did not. 
We go inside to get some of the home made wine since Frank wants 
David to taste it. Rose puts on the kitchen table some left over 
with which aunt Mary, who lives with them, makes a sandwich. Mary 
and Rose speak in Calabrese dialect with each other. I ask Rose how 
she learned English and she tells me that when she first came to 
the States there was a friend of the family, a Sirian woman, who 
would come to the house and talk to her. She would point to a spoon 
and tell Rose :"one spoon" and Rose would repeat it (she points a 
finger to her head and says:"I put it up here"). And so on. 
Rose tells me that if she had gone to school when she was young she 
would have been a genius. She did not go to school in Italy because 
their farm was too far from the village where the school was 
located. only when she was older, because she was going to come to 
the States, she was sent to school to learn how to read and write. 
She passed only "the first book" (the "sillabario"), equivalent of 
first grade. I ask her how she decided to marry Frank, since he 
left for the States when Rose was only a baby and went back with 
the intention of marrying her. She tells me that since she was a 
little girl she knew that her destiny was to marry Frank. She had 
a picture of him that she used to look at, and she says she started 
to love him before seeing him in person. Her mother sent a family 
picture to Frank and Frank had Rose's image cut out and super 
imposed it on a picture of himself so that it looked like if the 
two of them had posed together. Rose received this picture of 
herself with Frank and could not figure out how that could be 
possible! They wrote to each other for 5 or 6 years until finally 
Frank went to Italy where they got married. 
She was not to happy about leaving Italy, especially because she 
knew that that was the last time she saw her mother. With her voice 
showing emotion, she tells me that the day she left her mother let 
her hair down and started to cry and tear her hair, knowing that 
she was saying goodbye to her dauqhter forever: it  was as i 
 
had died that day, she says. It has been hard, Rose says. She never 
wen 
ac 
to Italy  again, never saw her mother again. Some of r 
brot ers 
e t I a y for Canada, 
and other destinations in the 
States. She has seen some of them at a big family reunion they had 
a few years ago, 
and she recalls that as one of the happiest 
moments of her life. 
David and I leave around 1:30. Both Frank and Rose invite us to 
stay for lunch with them, but we refuse the invitation and promise 
to come back another time to take more pictures of the garden and 
talk more with both of them. 
Document: IAW-PT-F063090.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Thomas (Di Tommaso) Tony; Thomas Esther 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
I arrive at the Thomas fruit stand at 7:00p.m. Peggy Thomas Havet 
invited me yesterday to join her family for dinner tonight. Her 
house is only two houses down the fruit stand on the north side of 
highway 50 in Vineland. I miss the house and decide to turn around 
in the space in front of the market and I see Peggy still there. 
She introduces me to her husband (of Norwegian descent) and then 
asks if I want to meet her parents who live in the house adjacent 
to 
the 
market. 
We 
enter 
their 
kitchen, 
which 
has 
windows 
overlooking the fields. They invite me to sit with them and I tell 
them about the project and ask them if they are willing to set up 
an appointment for an interview. Peggy suggests that I interview 
them now, since dinner is not going to be ready until 8:00  o'clock. 
The Thomases just returned from a trip to Las Vegas and seem a 
little tired, but they agree to at least start an interview and 
eventually continue it another time. I go back to my car to get the 
equipment. I set the Marantz tape recorder on the table in the 
kitchen and place a lavalier microphone on the table in between 
Esther and Tony. 
Tony and Esther are in their seventies. Tony's grandfather came 
from Abruzzi and married a Calabrese woman. I ask why he changed 
his name from Di Tommaso to Thomas and Tony explains that with an 
Italian name was impossible to work in Pueblo. His grandfather 
tried to work at the z.; nn __gEelter but he was not hired until he 
changed his name_. Esther says that her grandparents changed their 
name too, 
from Collianni 
(I 
am not 
sure about the 
original 
spelling) to Colian. Both families farmed in Vineland. Esther's 
father had the first fruit stand in the area. Esther adds that it 
was difficult to find a job in the schools too. They did not trust 
an Italian to be a teacher. 
The interview touches mainly on the family history of both the 
Thomases and the Colians; both Esther and Tony grew up working in 
a farm in Vineland. Tony started at 14 years old to peddle in town, 
then worked at the mill for a short time, got drafted and spent 4 
years in the service, then went into farming. Tony, who is 72 years 
old, still farms his land. He tells me briefly what he remembers 
of the gardeners' lodge and of the other lodges that the Italians 
belonged to. 
Esther worked in the farm too; she talks about her father as a man 
ahead of his times: he organized the farmers and got involved in 
IAW-PT-F063090.B - 
2 
politics. When asked if her family stressed education or not. 
She 
says that they definitely did. Her brother, sister and herself got 
music lessons in exchange for vegetables. Esther played piano and 
in the past she has given piano lessons. 
The interview is interrupted several times by the phone ringing. 
Esther tells me about the family reunions tha 
eq havp 
n h 
bia 
basement of their 
ouse for Christmas,s. 
She 
to es me downs airs in a big room as large as the whole house where 
there are tables and chairs for at least 50 people,and a full 
kitchen. She shows me two old pianos and tells me that her brother 
used to play the accordion at weddings and dances in town. I ask 
her about her wedding: 
it was a big Italian wedding to which 
Italian prisoners who were held at the depot participated. Her 
father was friend with the prisoners. She says that Mussolini was 
considered the enemy but not them. 
Peggy calls around 8:00 p.m. to say that dinner is ready. We get 
ready to leave but before Esther shows me the pictures of her 
family in the living room, which is full of artificial flowers of 
every kind and color. There are pictures of her three daughters 
(Peggy's real name is Marguerite and Patty's is Patricia), their 
husbands and kids, as well as a picture of Esther and Tony when 
they got married. 
We leave the house around 8:30, headed to Peggy Thomas Havet's 
home. 
(see Iaw-PT-A027) 
Document: IAW-PT-F063090.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Dinner at the Thomas Havet home 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
I arrive at Peggy Thomas Havet' s home at 8:30  p.m.  I meet Patty 
(Patricia) Thomas Dionisio, Peggy's sister, whom I had met before 
at the fruit stand, her husband Chuck (Charlie) Dionisio, who farms 
500 acres of land in Vineland with his brother Russell Dionisio; 
a friend of the family from Denver, with whom I will not talk much 
during the evening; and a couple of young cousins visiting from 
Texas 
with 
their 
3 children. 
Tony 
and 
Esther, 
whom I just 
interviewed, are also there. Peggy invites me into the kitchen 
where the food is on display on the counter. While the kids have 
already started to eat on the porch in front of the house, facing 
the highway, the adults start helping themselves with the food, 
most of which has been ordered from The Patti's restaurant. Peggy 
tells me that the Pattis buy a lot of vegetables from the Thomas's 
market and that she did not even pay for the food she ordered for 
dinner. There is fried chicken, fried zucchini, barbecued ribs, and 
corn. 
Peggy cooked a wonderful green chili to be eaten with 
tortillas. Melon, watermelon, and a couple of cakes are also on the 
counter. 
Peggy 's house has a Spanish/Mexican flavor. It is a very modern 
house, built 8 years ago, with a modern and functional kitchen, and 
a cozy but refined living-room. Mexican artifacts hang on the wall. 
I go outside and sit at the table where the kids are eating. Chuck 
joins us and we start to talk about the project "Italian Americans 
in the West". Esther and Tony sit at another table with the guests 
from Texas while Peggy and her sister eat in the kitchen. We eat 
our dinner and joke with the kids for a while. Then I ask Chuck to 
describe for me a typical day of work. He gets up usually at 5 and 
goes on his pick-up to the fields to supervise the work of the 
Mexican migrant workers. I ask how many they employ and he tells 
me that it depends on the time of the year. Then he can either 
start calaveting, cleaning the fields, or irrigating, depending on 
the season. He says there is always some piece of equipment to be 
repaired (last night he got home at 11 p.m. because a pump needed 
to be repaired). His brother and him own 350 acres of land and rent 
150 
(some 
of 
it 
from San Vinci). 
They grow 
"every kind 
of 
vegetables" as Chuck says. Most of the farmers in the area do not 
work much during the winter, but the Dionisio brothers can take 
only a couple of weeks off in January, otherwise they have work all 
year around. 
Esther shows me the fava bean field on the left side of the house. 
IAW-PT-F063090.0 - 
2 
I ask her how she cooks them: either she fries them lightly in oil 
or she cooks them with bacon, like she does with peas. These are 
the ways her mother used to cook fava beans. I ask if they eat fava 
beans raw, as we do in Italy, but they don't. 
I go into the kitchen to help myself to a piece of cake and also 
to talk with Peggy who is cleaning up in the kitchen. I ask her 
about her two sons, what they do and if the family expects them to 
be farmers too. She says that her younger son, who is 15 years old, 
has always loved to go to the fields and ride on the tractors, 
since he was a little kid. She thinks he will eventually become a 
farmer, but she is much more excited about Brandon, her oldest son, 
19 years old, who has artistic talents and draws wonderful cartoons 
and whose dream is to have a career in advertising or cinema. 
Brandon has just finished a 6 month art program in Denver and is 
going to start to work in Pueblo for an advertising company next 
week. She takes me into his room to show me a drawing, a sort of 
lunar landscape, not yet completed, that he made on the wall of his 
bedroom. Other drawings on the walls show that he has some talent. 
Brandon also started to learn classic guitar 3 years ago from an 
Italian man well known in Pueblo for his music and his paintings. 
This man, a paraplegic, who did not have kids, believed strongly 
in Brandon's artistic sense and "adopted" him as "the son he never 
had" and taught him all he could. He died last year. 
Peggy is 
extremely proud of Brandon, and even if she knows that probably he 
will 
end 
up 
leaving 
Pueblo 
for 
his 
career, 
she 
has 
always 
encouraged him to pursue his dream. Prompted by one of my questions 
she tells me that her family has never pushed her or her sisters 
to work in the family business, and she thinks everybody should 
follow his/her own talent and aspiration. I ask about her work at 
the fruit stand. She says that she did not work there while raising 
her children but 6 years ago she decided she had time for it. She 
seems to enjoy the work and the contact with the people at the 
stand. Her plan is to build a green house and grow flowers. She 
promises to call Olga Potestio, an old client of the market, and 
arrange an interview for me. 
We go back outside and I sit at the table with Chuck again. Esther 
and Patty join us and I ask how big is the Italian-American 
population in this area. Th_y agree that 50% of the famil  
' 
es in 
Vineland are of Italian origin. I ask about the origin of the name 
-Vineland- and they say that when the Italians settled here they 
planted vineyards and made wine. Very little is left of the vines. 
The soil is not good for it. 
I ask more about old prejudices about Italians . 
Chuck conf irms that 
there were prejudices in the old times and that was difficult for 
Italians even to buy land. He says that his father wanted to buy 
some land that belonged to the Grant family, an "American" family, 
but they would not sell it to an Italian. He had to ask a friend 
to buy it for him, using his name, 
and then get it from him. 
IAW-PT-F063090.0 - 
3 
Apparently the Grant family was very mad! Chuck's wife, Patty adds 
that he had some difficulties too when he started to work, but 
Chuck does not want to elaborate on that. They all refer to the 
southern side of Vineland, as the "snobby side", populated mainly 
by non-Italian families. 
I ask Esther to tell me something about life in Vineland when she 
was growing up, and if there was a sense of an Italian community 
at the time. She answers positively and starts remembering when her 
family used to visit the other families in the neighborhood or when 
they all went to a dance club in Avondale and the adults would 
dance until late while the kids would fall asleep on the benches. 
Then she goes on telling me about the Saint Joseph tables that she 
used to attend when she was young. She was a saint for one of the 
tables, and remembers that they had to go around in a procession 
before sitting at the table and being served food. I ask who are 
the people to talk with about the table in this area and the name 
of Rose Lee Pisciotta comes up. Patty is going to contact her for 
me and explain to her about the project. 
They are all very eager to help and they are very interested in the 
project. They suggest I talk with Anne Musso for the Saint Joseph's 
table, the girl at the Giadone restaurant on the highway to get in 
contact with other members of the Giadone family. Chuck says that 
in that restaurant there are the baskets that his grandfather 
weaved himself years ago. While thinking of other names of Italian 
American farmers, 
the names of Spinuzzi and Dana come up as 
families once involved in the mafia. They have all heard stories 
about the two families. One of the Dana brothers was apparently 
killed and thrown in the river by his brother-in-laws. 
Esther and her husband are going to leave. It's 10:15 and everybody 
seems ready to go home. Esther tells me to stop by again at her 
house and finish the interview we started this evening. 
Peggy 
invites me to stop at the stand next week so that she can accompany 
me to see Mrs. Potestio. Patty is going to contact a few people 
for me and then she will let me know. Chuck is going to tell his 
brother Russell about the project and arrange to meet him and 
possibly the father, next week. 
I ask for names of Italian families in the area that could be 
interested in participating. 
Document: IAW-PT-F070390.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Peggy Thomas Hovet 
Coworker: Jim Harton 
Site: 6 
I drive to Vineland to meet Peggy Thomas Hovet who runs the Thomas 
fruit and vegetable market. Jim Hardin, who works as an editor for 
the Folklife Center at the library of Congress follows me with his 
car. It's 11:00 a.m. when we stop at the market where Peggy told 
me to meet her. One of the girls working there tells us that she 
is probably still at home. Usually she does not start to work at 
the market until 12:00. We drive to her house, two blocks down the 
road, and Jim notices a stone building, now used as a garage, near 
the house. We will ask Peggy later about it and she'll tell us that 
it was built by her grandfather who lived there for many years. 
Peggy lets us in and we sit at the kitchen table while she finishes 
to put on her make up. When she joins us I ask if she has time to 
tell us something about the market she runs. She agrees and I set 
up the equipment (the Marantz tape recorder) and clip the lavalier 
microphone to her shirt (the interview is recorded on IAW-PT-A028). 
During the interview a few kids, friends of her two sons, Brandon 
and Nathan, come into the kitchen and talk briefly with her. One 
of them calls her "mom," I ask her why and she says that this guy 
used to spend a lot of time with Brandon at the house, and started 
to call her "mom" a long time ago. She seems to have a very close 
relationship with her sons, especially the older one, Brandon, who 
towards the end of the interview will show up and talk briefly with 
us (see also IAW-PT-F063090.c). 
The interview touches mainly on the history of the Thomas market 
and on Peggy's involvement in it. It was started by her maternal 
grandfather, 
Colian 
(once 
Collianni, 
I'm not 
sure 
about 
the 
original spelling) 
and then bought by Peggy's father after he 
married Colian's daughter. She never met her grandfather, but she 
has heard a lot about him from her parents: he was "a man ahead of 
his times," the first to hire workers in Vineland to work at the 
market and docks behind it. 
The old wooden building burned 10 years ago: she took pictures of 
the fire that destroyed it. Her mother has most of those pictures. 
She says they saved some of the old buckets the 
use: in the fields 
a 
—  as some of 
e o d Colian's labels that her grandfather had 
printed 
(possible photographs or artifacts for exhi-1t). Today 
Brandon, her son, draws the signs that we see in the market. 
Peggy is in charge of the retail sales, while her father supervises 
the wholesale business. We talk about the produce she sells (fava 
beans are one of the crops that Italians buy most); about the 
IAW-PT-F070390.A - 
2 
clientele, both in the past and in the present; about the people 
working in the business; about the family involvement in it. She 
talks about peddling in the past and today. According to Peggy many 
young men are going into peddling today, 
especially Hispanic 
people. 
Peggy goes to qet a photo album and shows us a few pictures of  
the 
old market, of her father in the fields, and of the family. She 
also brings out a video that her and her two sisters had made last 
year 
as 
a Christmas 
present 
for 
their 
parents. 
It's 
the 
reconstruction of the family history through pictures. She suggests 
we go to her mother's house and watch the video with her before we 
decide if we want to make a copy of it (see IAW-PT-A037; A038). 
Brandon, her oldest son, 19 years old, comes in and talks with us 
briefly. I know from a previous talk with Peggy that he is the 
artist of the family.I ask him if he has ever painted something 
related to the farm; he says that he must have done something when 
he was younger, but he does not have anything to show us. However, 
he has in mind to do some drawings of his grandfather ("papa" he 
says) while he works in the fields. 
He tells us the name his 
grandfather uses for him and his brother: "Wap-wegians" from WOP 
and Norwegian, since Peggy's husband is of Norwegian descent. 
I ask Brandon if he is going to the fairgrounds tonight. We read 
on the local newspaper "The Pueblo Chieftain" that the celebration 
of the 4th of July starts tonight with old-time rock'n roll 
concerts. Brandon does not know about it, but he promises that if 
his friends decide to go he will give us a call this evening. Ken 
Light thought it was a good opportunity to meet Italian kids at the 
fair and photograph them. However Brandon will not call us. 
Brandon has only a few Italian friends among his friends. His 
opinion is that the community is really mixed today. 
When the interview is over, Jim and I drive back to the market 
while Peggy goes to check if her mother is at home (next to the 
market). Unfortunately both her parents are taking a nap (it's very 
hot again today!) and we don't want to disturb them. I decide I 
will come back another time to look at the family video and at the 
pictures of the old market. 
Jim and I buy some fruit and sit in the back of the market and 
watch the activities for 15 minutes. Nathan, Peggy's younger son, 
15 years old, is helping in the store with some electric work. 
Mrs. 
Bucciarelli, 
married 
to 
Carmine 
Bucciarelli, 
a beer 
distributor who went into farming after his retirement, is buying 
a box of fava beans. She says she is going to boil them and freeze 
most of them for the winter. Peggy introduces me to her and we talk 
briefly about Italy. The Bucciarelli took a trip to Italy recently 
and went to Agnone, near Naples, where Carmine's parents came from. 
She tells me to call her if they could be of any help for the 
IAW-PT-F070390.A - 
3 
proj ect . 
Peggy comes to sit with Jim and me. Jim asks her if she knows the 
reason why local people, like herself, pronounce the word Pueblo 
as: "Pee-ebb-lo". Peggy seems surprised and does not really know 
what to say. She calls on the other girl working at the cashier and 
asks her: "Isn't 'Peeblo' an Indian word?" They both agree about 
the Indian origin of the 
word and conclude that "Peeblo" is the 
Indian pronunciation of it. 
Before we leave, 
Peggy promises to take me to meet Mrs. 
Olga 
Potestio later this week; she is an older woman who was born in 
Italy and still speaks Italian with her grandchildren. Peggy has 
been really friendly and helpful with me. When I tell her about our 
intention to find a family with whom our photographer could spend 
an entire day, photographing the members of the family in their 
daily activities, she immediately offers her home as a possible 
site. She suggests we talk about this idea also with her parents 
and her sister Patty Dionisio (whom I met before). I thank her and 
tell her we would let her know something about it. 
Between the 
activities in the fields (Tony Thomas -72 years old- still farms; 
Chuck Dionisio, Patty's husband, farms with his brother Russell), 
Peggy and her mother's work at the market, and the kids helping 
around, 
Ken 
Light 
could 
get 
a good 
documentation 
of 
three 
generations at work. 
We leave around 1:30 p.m. Jim goes back to the hotel while I drive 
to 
Daniel 
Road, 
one block north 
of 
here, 
to meet Rose 
Lee 
Pisciotta. 
Document: IAW-PT-F070390.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, paola 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Pisciotta, Rose Lee; Cuchiara, Anne 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
$ose Lee 
Cn 
ent•no 
Pisciotta lives 
on 
37190 
Daniel Road 
in 
Vineland, 
in an area that is becoming very familiar to me. Her 
house is surrounded by the properties of Italians that I have met 
and interviewed: south of her house, just across the fields, there 
are the houses of the Thomases; on the east side there is the goat 
farm of Joe Vasili, and on the north side the farm of the Cortese. 
Rose Lee is in her 70s. She has been living alone since her husband 
Fred, a vegetable farmer, passed away a few years ago, 
and her 
three sons have all left Pueblo to follow their careers. She lived 
in Vineland all her life and now leases the land to the Mauro farm. 
Patty Thomas called her to tell her about the project and she seems 
happy to meet me. We sit down in her livingroom where I start 
setting up the tape recorder and then clip the levalier microphone 
to her shirt. On the wall behind the couch I notice a big framed 
photograph 
of 
the 
whole 
family, 
taken 
on 
her 
50th 
wedding 
anniversary; photographs of her children and grandchildren are all 
over as well as candles and religious images. During the interview 
she will mention her hopechest and I'll ask her if I can see it. 
She wail take me to the guests' bedroom where she keeps it and then 
will show me the "collection" of sacred statuettes on the top of 
the dresser: there is a statue of Saint Joseph, donated to her 
husband when they made the table in 1981; a figure of Pope John 
Paul II, still in its plastic box, donated by a nephew; several 
other religious statuettes, donated by relatives. She points in 
particular to one of them: Saint Jude, the saint of the helpless 
cases, donated to the Pisciottas when her husband seemed totally 
recovered from cancer. 
In the hall between this room and her bedroom there are pictures 
of her husband and her three sons hanging on the wall together with 
several certificates from Rome and other Catholic institutions 
congratulating the Pisciottas for their 50th wedding anniversary. 
She lets me into her bedroom which is surprisingly very modern, in 
contrast with the rest of the house: 
there are pink and white 
drapes hanging from two walls which give the room a soft pink 
light; the bedspread matches the pink of the drapes while the 
furniture is stark white. 
In the basement of the house there is another kitchen that she used 
every day to cook and can when her husband farmed and her boys were 
at home. Now she does not use it anymore. 
(In all the farmers' 
IAW-PT-F070390.B - 
2 
houses where I have been so far there is always a second kit en s 
also called summer kitchen. She tells me that in the oldest farms 
the summer kitchen was separate from the house.) 
I start asking Rose Lee about her family, the Corsentinos, and then 
about her life as the wife of a farmer. Both the Corsentinos and 
the Pisciotta came from Lucca, Sicily. She worked in the fields 
with her husband until her boys were born; she tells me that girls 
were taught how to cook, keep the house clean, and embroidery and 
there was not much stress on education. On the contrary her husband 
and herself believed in giving their sons the opportunity to study 
and as a result none of them stayed home and took over the farm. 
She is very proud of her sons' careers while her husband was very 
sad that nobody continued to farm his land. 
I ask her about the Saint Joseph's table she made in 1981 to thank 
the saint for her husband's recovery from cancer. She shows me the 
photo album she put together so that, when she dies, her sons will 
find a document of it. I'll take the album with me to make copies 
of some of the pictures. 
She also shows me a "letter" that was read by the priest at a 
funeral Mass recently. 
It's entitled: 
"The Joy Of Growing Up 
Italian." I promise I will make some copies for her and bring 
everything back soon. 
The interview is interrupted by the visit of Rose Lee's sister-in-
law, Awe r 
ra and her grandson, Anthony with his wife and 4 
small kids. They are visiting Pueblo from Dallas. Anne is 84 years 
old, 
but a very-. 
. Rose Lee and Anne are like 
sis ers, they say. Anne sits near me and asks me what I am doing. 
I explain about the project, which she has already heard about 
since one of her nephews has been interviewed by another member of 
the team. I ask her about her family and she starts to talk very 
lively about her life. 
She does not seem to realize that I'm 
holding a microphone in my hand, and after a while, when I tell 
her I have been recording her words, 
she exclaims "Dear Saint 
Joseph!!" and starts laughing. 
She says Saint Joseph is her 
favorite saint, and she always prays to him. Still holding the 
microphone in my hand I ask her about the Saint Joseph's table. She 
cooked and baked a lot to help Rose Lee with her table in 1981; she 
also made a table after the war when one of her sons returned home. 
For a while, Rose Lee talks with Anthony and his wife. Then she 
turns to us and we talk more about the table she made in this same 
living room and they start remembering details. A kid cries in the 
back, and I'm not sure how well Rose Lee's voice is going to be 
heard on the tape. 
After more than half an hour I feel it's time for me to leave and 
IAW-PT-F070390.B - 
3 
let Rose Lee enjoy her relatives' 
visit. 
Before I leave, 
I'm 
offered a glass of coke and to my "Salute" (cheers) both Anne and 
Rose Lee reply in Italian: "Per cent'anni!" (For 100 years). 
Later, while I pack my equipment, they talk about a relative who 
just died and Rose Lee refers to him in Italian as "meschino" (poor 
thing). I remark that and they laugh realizing that they still use 
Italian words learned from their parents. 
Before leaving I take a few pictures of both women sitting on the 
couch. I leave promising Rose Lee to call her soon to return the 
material I borrowed from her. 
(see IAW-PT-AO29 and A030). 
Document: IAW-PT-F070490.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/4/90 
Informant/Event: Fourth of July celebration at the Collette's house 
Coworker: 
Taylor, 
David; 
Frank, 
Russell; 
Hardin, 
Jim; 
Manini, 
Paula; Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
The whole team of "Italian Americans in the West" was invited by 
JoAnna and Al Collette to celebrate the Fourth of July at their 
home. Paula Manini and I arrive at the Collette's home around 5:00 
o'clock. David Taylor, Russell Frank, Jim Hardin, and Ken Light 
went ahead of us, around 3:30 p.m. We enter through the backyard 
where almost everybody is. I ask Theresa, one of JoAnna and Al's 
daughters to tell me the names of everybody present. It is a large 
family reunion, and it is almost impossible for me to remember all 
the names, but it is clear that all the children of the Collettes 
are present (except the one daughter who lives in Alaska), with 
their husbands or wives and kids. There are at least 10 children, 
ranging in age between 9 months and 12 years old. Also invited is 
Al's side of the family: his mother, his sister and brother-in-law 
and their kids with their families (all together we were probably 
40 people). 
I talk briefly with grandmother Collette, who used to live on Goat 
Hill. She is very proud of her family: she has 12 grandchildren and 
a good number of great-grandchildren, 
most of whom are here 
tonight. Then I talk with the wife of one of the Collette brothers, 
who has a small child and is already pregnant with another one. 
Later one of the Collette sisters will say that she has two 
children and does not want anymore while her brother tells her: 
Come on! What kind of Italian woman are you!! 
When Paula and I arrive Al starts to barbecue the hot-dogs; chicken 
has already been barbecued in the morning and is now warming up in 
the oven in the kitchen. It was a pot luck affair. The food is on 
display on the kitchen counter. Several vegetable dishes: green 
bean casserole; hot and mild squash mixed with tomatoes and chili; 
potato salad; roasted potatoes; beans; cottage cheese salad; rice 
and broccoli; a pasta salad; corn; and five different varieties of 
desserts (banana, coconut and chocolate pies; "sex" cake; chocolate 
mousse). We brought Californian wine and beer; they offered mostly 
sodas 
and 
a punch 
with 
rum 
to 
start 
with. 
Nothing 
looks 
particularly Italian about the food, except the abundance of it! 
Everybody helps him/herself to the food: the men go eat outside, 
around the tables set up in the patio in the backyard, few women 
eat outside too, while a group of women, mainly those with young 
children, sit around the dining-room table inside. 
Everybody eats quickly, and in half an hour we start to clean up 
the tables. John, one of the Collette brothers, is in charge of the 
IAW-PT-F070490.A - 
2 
fire crackers. Everybody gets to play with them, especially the 
kids who seem to enjoy the smoke and loud noise very much! The rest 
of the evening is spent playing with fire crackers. 
The whole family starts to think about possible games we can all 
play. 
They will have us play with them a few games that they 
learned during a family reunion at a cousin's wedding in Salt Lake 
City. One of the kids sings a song he composed during the trip. The 
games are defined by my colleagues as typical summer camp games. 
They have many games in mind but most of them require for the 
participants to sit on the grass and since it starts to rain pretty 
heavily we cannot play in the open. 
Everybody is waiting for the dark for the pick of the celebration: 
the most expensive, and beautiful fireworks. As soon as it turns 
dark, around 8:00 o'clock, we move to the front of the house to 
enjoy the boys' ability with fireworks. We move the chairs to the 
front porch: the performance does not stop until 10:00 p.m. I have 
never 
seen 
such 
an 
abundance 
of 
fireworks! 
Pretty 
soon the 
fieldworkers are tired of it but everybody else seems to love it, 
both kids and adults. Towards the end, somebody plays a song by Lee 
Greenwood that goes: "We are proud of being American..." and they 
all sing along. 
Before leaving, Paula Manini asks JoAnna Collette to identify some 
of the people portrayed in photographs that we copied for the 
project. We leave around 10:30 p.m. 
Document: IAW-PT-F070590.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: "Forni" tour with Grace Giadone 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
Around 2:30 Ken Light and I drive in separate cars to the Pete 
Giadone Farm on Everett road in the Saint Charles Mesa. 
Grace 
Giadone called me this morning to set up an appointment for an 
interview this 
afternoon. 
Grace read the article 
"Library of 
Congress team studying Pueblo's Italians", which appeared this 
morning on the local newspaper and seems eager to help us. I asked 
her if she knew where to find some of the old forni (ovens) in the 
area and she offered to accompany us agreed to take us for a tour 
of the area. When we get to her house she offers to take her car 
and we drive south to 27th Lane to the Sforza's farm and then back 
to Everett Road to the Tucci Farms where Ken takes pictures of the 
Forni. While driving Grace talks about the other Italian farmers 
in her neighborhood: in front of her property, there are the fields 
of Dominic Giadone, who died recently and whose fields are now 
leased by Grace's son. She mentions the Musso family, the Bartolo 
(who shorten their name: Bartolomucci), Sforze, Cerulli. Near the 
Sforze's farm there is the house of Helen Bartolo Mosca, 
who 
according to Grace could be a good person to talk to. She was born 
in Italy and was the wife of an Italian farmer. 
Grace is in her seventies; she is a very friendly and talkative 
woman, and seems to me that we could not have found a better person 
to show us around the Mesa area. She moved to the farm on Everett 
road 49 years ago, when she got married to Pete Giadone, and seems 
to be friend of all the Italian families still farming in this 
area. She says that in this area everybody knows each other and 
that you can count on the help of everybody in the moment of need. 
First stop is at the Sforze's farm. While Ken takes pictures of the 
forno she starts to talk about her mother's baking bread, and gives 
me a very live y escription of the wav the forni were built and 
used. 
I take notes on what she says and later, 
during the 
interview, I will ask her to repeat some of the information she 
gave me during the tour. 
The Sforze family is not around, but Grace, who is a friend of the 
family, takes the responsibility on herself and gives us permission 
to take pictures. 
The forno is 
locates3 
in 
a central 
position 
between the house, the summer kitchen and tr,A Mora g 
P 
xhi i wings . 
Grace says that they Gtill 
LAP it nnne on a while when their 
relatives come to visit. 
The second stop is at the Tucci Farms (27467 E. Everett Road). 
Grace stops the car in front of John Tucci and asks him permission 
IAW-PT-F070590.A - 
2 
to drive further up the road to where the forno is located. She 
rolls down the car window and introduces us as the F.B.I. doing 
research on Italians. John asks if we are Full Blooded Italians and 
then exclaims in Italian: "Mannaggia"! 
The forno is located in an area of the farm that looks abandoned. 
The yard looks like a junk yard, and the house in front of the 
oven, which used to be rented, is now empty. Near the forno a shack 
where 
the 
Mexicans 
migrant 
workers 
live, 
in 
extremely 
poor 
conditions. We drive back to the entrance of the farm and stop by 
to ask John Tucci and his wife a few questions about the forno. He 
t_e l is me that it has been restored 9 or 10 years aqo and that they 
still -sP it to roast the pig and occasionally to bake some bread 
when his sisters come to visit in the summer. 
3 
We sit down at a table in front of the garage used as a storage 
room. John says he does not have much time to sit down and chat 
because he has to go irrigate some fields, but he asks me where I 
am from and when I mention Tuscany and Florence he says that that's 
where he was wounded during second world war. His face in fact is 
marked by the explosion (shrapnel) and he lost an eye. He talks 
briefly about Italy and remembers how the more they marched toward 
the north the less he was able to understand the language. 
The 
Tucci 
family 
is 
related 
to 
the 
Sforze 
family. 
John's 
grandfather was from the province of Chieti, Abruzzo. He went back 
and forth from Pueblo to Abruzzo at least seven times and every 
time we would bring back with him some " aesani" (relatives and 
friends from the same town) who were attracted by the work in the 
smelters. I ask John to name some of the
-farmers from Abruzziand 
he says that Combatto, Bartolo, Pinto, Lamano and Cerulli are all 
"paesani." 
John's father came to the States in 1910. He first settled in 
Pennsylvania but then he shut somebody over there and came to 
Pueblo, where there were other "paesani," to escape revenge. In 
Pueblo he made money bootlegging during prohibition and that's how 
many Italians made enough money to buy their farms. 
Another Italian man, Eddie (Arduino) Domenico, stops by. He is a 
carpenter and is building John's new house down the road. He knows 
who we are, and knows we have been interviewing people about the 
Saint Joseph's table. He is the one who built the wood for all the 
tables in the Mesa. He seems proud of it, but does not want to talk 
about it. "You talked with Josephine Martellaro," he says, "and I 
don't have anything to add." While John goes to the fields and Ken 
follows him to take some pictures, Grace, John's wife (of hispanic 
descent), and Eddie talk about the project and they mention other 
people that I should contact: 
Lucy Dagnillo. 
Melina Domenico (Eddie's mother). 
Chuck Martinelli, who works at the "Holsman's Bakery on Abriendo. 
IAW-PT-F070590.A - 
3 
He makes sausages and bakes Italian bread. 
We talk about the way Italian names have changed over the years, 
and how both Grace and Eddie had some trouble when they applied for 
social security because their name on the birth certificate did not 
match the name they had been registered in school. It is really 
amazing how teachers and burocrats took the liberty of changing 
Italian names as they pleased, sometimes, as in the case of Grace, 
who was baptized "Lucrezia Rosa", not even bothering to match the 
English name with the Italian. 
It's almost 4:00 p.m. when Ken and John come back from the fields 
and we decide to drive back to Grace's house. I ask John Tucci when 
I could come back to interview him and he invites me to stop by one 
of these days later in the afternoon. 
Document : IAW-PT-F070590.B 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date : 7/5/90 
Informant/ 
Event: 
Giadone, 
Grace; 
Giadone , Joice; 
Giadone Drew, 
Laurie 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
Grace Giadone, Ken Light and I return to the Giadone Farm after our 
visit 
to 
the 
Tucci 
Farms 
around 
4:00 
o'clock 
(see 
IAW-PT-
F070590 .a). Ken leaves to go photograph the milking of the goats 
at the Joe Vasile 's farm . Grace and I enter the kitchen while 
outside it starts to rain. We sit down around the kitchen table and 
I set up the tape recorder and clip the levalier microphone to 
Grace's shirt. Half an hour into the interview Joyce Giadone (half 
Irish, 
half slavic ), 
Grace 's daughter-in-law, 
married to Pete 
Giadone Junior , enters the kitchen and I switch the levalier 
microphone to her . 
Joyce and her husband run the Giadone Farm since 
Grace 's husband , Pete (Vito) died 4 years ago. Later on Grace's 
oldest son , Tony, who lives out of town and visits his mother at 
least once a week will stop by and soon after, Laurie Giadone Drew, 
Grace 's oldest grand-daughter , will join us and I will clip the 
microphone to her shirt. The interview is recorded on IAW-PT-A031, 
032, 033. 
I'm really happy to have the opportunity to 
interview three 
generations of Giadone women. The three women have read the article 
on the local paper that talks about the Italian-Americans in the 
West project and are eager to contribute to it. 
I spend three 
hours interviewing them and I feel it would be worth it to spend 
more time with them . I feel very good about the interview: Grace 
is a "perfect informant, " with an excellent memory and a great 
storyte••ing ability _ She is in her seventies, worked in the farm 
with her husband until he died. After his death she worked for a 
local dry cleaning store and presently she cooks for the school. 
She likes the fact that I am from the "old country" and often tells 
me that she likes me, especially when she uses an Italian term and 
I show her that I know what she is talking about. 
I turn the tape recorder off when Grace takes me into the living 
room to show me the photos of her family hanging on the wall. There 
are pictures of Grace and her husband , of her two sons when they 
were 
younger , and 
pictures 
of 
her 
grandchildren 
and 
great-
grandchildren. Joyce complains that her picture is not on the wall. 
Grace justifies the fact by saying that her other daughter-in-law 
is not there either . On another wall in the living room there is 
a big crucifix and a wooden rosary; 
a Saint Joseph's wooden 
statuette , made in Italy , stands in the center of a "credenza". 
I start the interview asking Grace about her name (Lucrezia Rosa) 
and how it got changed . Then she goes into the history of both her 
IAW-PT-F070590.B - 
2 
family, the Marascolas (originally from Calabria) and her husband's 
family, the Giodones (originally from Lucca Sicula). 
She offers me a slice of watermelon and soon Joyce comes in to join 
us. Since Joyce's husband, Pete Junior, has also another job at the 
fire department, Joyce works a lot in the farm. I ask both women 
about the differences in their work in the farm, as well as the 
differences in the produce they once used to grow and grow now. 
Joyce, a non-Italian, describes also the overwhelming feeling of 
becoming a member of a big Italian family. 
Grace shows me the photo album of her Saint Joseph's table, made 
a few years ago for her husband (who died of cancer a year later). 
We go through the photographs while she describes how and why her 
husband and her decided, 
separately, 
to make the table; 
the 
preparation and the people involved in 
it; 
the food; 
and the 
meaning of the table for her. I ask Grace if I can borrow the album 
and she also gives me a video of the Saint Joseph's celebration as 
well as another video, made this last February, documenting the 
butchering of the hog. 
Grace then tells me about her involvement with the Saint Joseph 
church in Blende and about the parish festival. 
We talk about the church of Mt. Carmel and the procession they used 
to have there. Grace was baptized and got married in that church. 
Laurie, 29 years old, comes in. She works as a social worker in 
Pueblo. She is married (and later, at the family reunion she will 
tell me she got divorced) and has a 10 year old son. 
We talk about weddings and family celebrations. Grace mentions the 
golf tournament "the Italian open" which is scheduled for July 14 
and 15 in Pueblo. Her brother, Frank Marascola is in charge of it. 
It is open to "full blooded Italians" as well as to people who 
married Italians. Grace received from her brother the letter "The 
Joy of Growing Up Italian" that Rosalie Pisciotta had already 
showed me. We talk about it and I ask both Grace and Laurie what 
they think about it. The origin of the letter is unknown to them. 
A copy of it 
is going to be distributed to all the Italians 
participating to the golf tournament. 
I ask Laurie if her grandmother used to tell her stories when she 
was growing up and she says that she had a story for everything. 
Recently Grace gave her an album of old pictures, and while going 
through the album with her told her stories about each picture. She 
remembers only a few of them, which she tells me. 
It's almost 6:30 p.m. and I feel I have taken too much of these 
people's time. After I turn the tape recorder off, Tony, Grace's 
son, who came in 15 minutes before starts to talk about nicknames. 
I turn the tape recorder on again and ask more questions about it. 
IAW-PT-F070590.B - 
3 
Then I ask Grace about a few topics she had mentioned, while we 
were driving in the car or talking with John Tucci and Eddie 
Domenico at the Tucci farm, such as her cheese-making activities, 
which supported her children through school. 
I get ready to leave when Tony asks me if I heard the stories about 
the tunnels and caves on Goat Hill. He says that every Italian on 
Goat Hill was bootlegging during prohibition and that still today 
there are the tunnels that they used to hide whiskey and liquors 
in. Grace then tells us that when she moved to this house after she 
got married she used to ask about a little door in the living room 
(where her air conditioner is now) but her in-laws would answer 
vaguely about it. Then many years later they told her that the door 
led to a room underneath where they used to store the whiskey. Tony 
says that Italians bought their farms with the money they made 
during prohibition. He remembers that not too long ago they found 
a jar of whiskey while excavating in the orchard. Nobody had the 
courage to taste it! 
Laurie remembers her grandfather telling the 
story of the drunk pigs: one day the feds came and they had to 
throw the whiskey into the hogs' pen. When the feds left the pigs 
were totally drunk! 
I leave at 6:45, promising Grace I'll call her Monday to make sure 
she is home when I return the material I borrowed from her. She 
tells me she is planning a family reunion for Tuesday and that she 
is going to be home cooking for 40 people. 
Some of her first 
cousins who live out of town are going to come to Pueblo for the 
golf tournament and she wants to take advantage of their being here 
to get together with them, her mother (who is 92 years old) and 
some 
of 
the 
older 
relatives. 
I ask 
if 
she 
would 
like 
our 
photographer to come and take a few pictures of the reunion and 
she tells me she is going to think about it and will let me know 
Monday (see IAW-PT-f071090.b). 
Document: IAW-PT-F070690.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/6/90 
Informant/Event: Olga Potestio 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
Around 4:00 p.m. I drive to the Thomas fruit stand in Vineland 
where I meet Peggy Thomas. She is going to accompany me to visit 
Olga Potestio, a very old fashion Italian woman, as Peggy describes 
her, who came to America after the war and never learned English 
very well. We drive to her house, half a mile from the Thomas stand 
on highway 50, and we are greeted by Olga, who is obviously very 
happy to see Peggy. We enter the kitchen and she immediately starts 
to talk in her broken English, which both Peggy and I have a hard 
time understanding. Saying that she code-switches between Italian 
and English is probably correct, but more than that I believe she 
has developed a very peculiar way of speaking: some words are not 
translated at 
all 
(for 
example 
she 
says: 
"I 
no 
like bugie, 
ipocrisia, falsita "'). Many of her exclamations are in English (Oh 
boy, oh boy, oh boy!); mostly, her broken sentences are a mixture 
of Italian words, 
English words and in between English words 
pronounced the Italian way or vice versa. 
She constantly touches 
Peggy to keep her attention on what she is trying to say. She calls 
her "Pe", typical Italian way to shorten every name, and after a 
while calls me "Pa." She uses her hands a lot, and describes her 
grandchildren' size or intelligence with a lot of "Uuuhhh!" sounds. 
She shows us pictures of her three children: Anthony, a medical 
doctor, her favorite son; John, a mechanic, who looks a lot like 
his father; Mary Jo, who, she complains, is too skinny. Anthony 
lives in Denver, Mary Jo lives in Portland, Oregon, the only one 
in Pueblo is Johnny, who comes to visit once a week. 
I am not sure if an interview with Olga would be possible. Whenever 
I ask her a question, she does not answer it, but instead continues 
with her train of thoughts, repeating herself over and over. I feel 
very sad for this old woman, with no teeth in her mouth, whose 
husband died a few years ago and whose children live too far away 
to come visit regularly. She seems to live a very secluded life and 
from the way she showers us with words, it does not seem she has 
many occasions to talk with people. In spite of her economic well 
being (the husband, a mechanical engineer, left her properties) she 
seems to have lived most of her life in her home, taking care of 
her children, to whom she always spoke in Italian. She mentions 
often that her husband did not want her to go out too much and 
therefore she never had the opportunity to better her English or 
to socialize with other families in the area. 
Olga does not seem to be bothered by my equipment, which I set up 
on the table. When both Peggy and I try to explain the purpose of 
my visit and try to tell her that I would like to interview her, 
IAW-PT-F070690.A - 
2 
she does not seem to understand or to be interested at all. It 
takes Peggy half an hour to be able to leave and she has to promise 
Olga that she is going to stop by on her way back from town. I 
start to record before Peggy leaves. As soon as she leaves, we 
switch to Italian and my feeling sorry for Olga slowly disappears. 
I was expecting her to speak the Calabrese dialect, instead she 
speaks fluent Italian. Her personality seems to change when she can 
speak her native tongue, and her memory is definitely good. She 
talks about her growing up with her grandmother and mother back in 
Calabria, of her father, a taylor, who left Italy when she was a 
baby never to come back. Her family, on her mother side, owned land 
in Calabria, and she still has property there. She was raised as 
the only child of a rich family. Her mother used to sing opera for 
her and Olga sings some of her favorite arias for me. 
She married Mr. Potestio, an American born Calabrese, in Italy. 
They lived together in their home town until the war broke off. Mr. 
Potestio left for America before her and she was unable to reach 
him until after the war. She says she came to America alone with 
the first ship that left Italy after the war, not only because she 
wanted to reach her husband, but also because she wanted to meet 
her father, whom she did not know. The Potestio settled in Pueblo, 
in the same house where she is living now. Olga never returned to 
Italy. Her husband and her kids travelled back to Calabria a couple 
of times, but she did not go and does not want to explain why. 
At the end of the interview I ask her to sign the release form but 
she tells me that she cannot do it unless her son reads it and 
gives her permission to sign it. I leave the form with her but I 
doubt she will do anything with it. I decided not to include the 
tapes in the project collection since the interview did not really 
add anything particularly interesting about the life of Italians 
in Pueblo. 
Document: IAW-PT-F070790.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/7/90 
Informant/Event: Dionisio, Russell;Dionisio, Russell Jr.;Dionisio 
Chuck 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I drive to the Dionisio Farm in Vineland. Members 
of the Dionisio family are waiting for us in the office in the 
warehouse: Russell Junior (or big Rusty, as the family calls him 
to distinguish him from his son, 
little Russell); his brother 
Chuck, his wife Patty Thomas and their son C.T. 
(Charles Thomas); 
and Bob Bragg, young nephew of the Dionisios. Russell Senior, Chuck 
and Russell's father will join us ten minutes after our arrival. 
David explains in detail the purpose of the "Italian-Americans in 
the West project" and then sets up the Nigra recorder on one of the 
two desks in the office and father and sons sit behind it: Russell 
Senior, Russell Junior and Chuck will do most of the talking. David 
conducts most of the interview, which lasts more than 3 hours. I 
take several pictures. 
We start asking Russell senior about his family background. His 
father 
came 
to 
Pueblo 
from 
Sicily 
(aq many 
other 
old 
men 
interviewed until now ,
he refers to Sicily as: "down in the boot".) 
He went to work in the Blende zinc smelter but he did not like it, 
bought a small plot in Vineland and started to grow vegetables. 
Russell had nine siblings; he used to go peddle in town with his 
father. He does not remember much about his father, who died when 
he was 23 years old. He says that, like his father, he did not like 
to be bossed, so he never went to work for somebody else. Work in 
the farm was not enough to support the family (when his father died 
Russell took care of his mother and three sisters still at home). 
He bought a used truck and started to buy produce from other 
farmers and travel to Wichita, Kansas where sold it. Later on he 
started to travel to California. He stopped travelling when his 
sons decided to become farmers and asked him to help them. 
Russell hoped his sons would go to college, but today he seems 
proud of their work as farmers. When Russell Junior was 17 and 
Chuck was 15 years old they decided to farm their father's land. 
Russell J. worked for another man for a while, but, like his father 
before him, did not like to be bossed and decided to put all his 
energy in his own business. Russell J. and Chuck were young and 
Italian: not many people trusted them. They started to farm plots 
that were abandoned and that nobody else would farm. Today they own 
350 acres of land and lease 150. 
We ask them about the produce they cultivate (cabbage, onions, and 
peppers are their biggest crops); their work during the year; the 
people they employ; the family members who work for them. David 
IAW-PT-F070790.A - 
2 
asks information about the water rights and Chuck explains in 
detail how the rights are allocated. The interview is rich of 
details on farm work. 
Patty, Chuck's wife, think that the Dionisio's family business is 
unique in this area since most of the men of Russell and Chuck's 
generation have left the farms for other jobs. 
We ask about family gatherings and celebrations. Russell Senior has 
just celebrated his 80th birthday on the 4th of July. I ask about 
the food: they had a barbecue and say that the only Italian food 
present was the fava beans. The family gets together often, they 
say, especially for weddings and funerals. 
We leave around 5:15 p.m.; we arrange to come back Monday with Ken 
Light to take pictures of them working in the 
fields. 
Patty 
promises to show me the videos of the two families (Thomases and 
Dionisios) that she had made as a present for all members of the 
two families. 
Document: IAW-PT-F070890.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: tavarelli, paola 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Family gathering at Susan and Ken Cuchiara's 
Coworker: Taylor, David; Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I were not expecting to find so many people at the 
house of Ken and Susan Cuchiara. Susan had called our office at the 
Hampton Inn after reading the article about the project on the 
"Pueblo Chieftain" and mentioned she had some old wedding pictures 
she wanted us to see. She and her husband (in their late thirties) 
and their son, Anthony, just moved back to Pueblo from Las Vegas. 
They live in a big and very nice house, decorated in a south-
western style. When we enter the home, around 5:30 p.m., there are 
already 10 or more people waiting for us in the living room. 
We 
introduce 
ourselves 
to 
members 
of 
the 
Cuchiara, 
Moroney 
(originally Morone), Ferraro, De Luca, and Fortino families, all 
related in a way or another to Susan and Ken. As we enter the 
living room, we see the wedding pictures Susan had mentioned, on 
display for us on the floor in front of the fire place, ready to 
be hanged on the wall. The people invited by Susan and Ken today 
are all related to the people portrayed in the pictures. Susan and 
Ken have always been very fond of the family traditions and since 
they got married they started to collect the pictures from older 
members of their families (Susan, 
from the Morrone and Ferraro 
families; Ken, from the De Luca, and Cuchiara families). They are 
very proud of their collection. Ken also shows us the several 
paintings by his uncle, De Julio, which hung in the living room, 
kitchen, and entrance. 
The painting in the living room shows a scene from a family reunion 
in 1965, 
in occasion of the Fourth of July. 
The De Luca and 
Cuchiara families used to gather in Montrose, Colorado where a 
branch of the family moved after the war. The picture shows grandpa 
Modesto Cuchiara (who died a few years ago) dancing with his wife 
Anne (who is here today), Ken's father Chuck Cuchiara playing the 
accordion, and other members of the family just hanging around in 
an outside setting (a park). 
David decides to call Ken Light and ask him to come over to 
document this event. Meanwhile, while people chat with each other, 
or go around touring the new house, 
David and I set up the 
recording equipment in front of the fireplace in the living room. 
Ken and Susan bring some folding chairs for us and soon the guests 
form a semi-circle with me and David in the middle of it. 
We distribute 
the 
"Italian-Americans 
in 
the West" 
brochures; 
everybody seems to know about us, 
either because they read the 
newspaper's article or because informed by Susan and Ken. I feel 
rYC"-
1 
IAW-PT-F070890.A - 
2 
the interview is going to be difficult with all these people: the 
risk is to get small and general pieces of information and not have 
the time to go into any specific details. As it turns out, the 
first part of the interview, 
will give us the general family 
background of the 5 families present today, (IAW-PT-A034) while the 
second part will go more in details into marriage and holidays 
traditions. 
We ask everybody to introduce him/herself, from left to right. We 
have members of the Fortino and Ferraro families sitting on our 
left; members of the De Luca and Morone families sitting in front 
of us and members of the Cuchiara family sitting on our right. 
We start with the left side: Joe Ferraro talks about his father 
from Lucca Sicula, who came to Pueblo from Louisiana to work in the 
smelter. When the smelter closed down his father started with a 
grocery store and the Ferraro family has been involved in grocery 
business since then. Joe and his wife lived many years in Los 
Angeles where they had 2 grocery stores and were involved in real 
estate. They moved back to Pueblo several years ago to join other 
members of the family in a big grocery business. Joe is in his 
seventies 
(more or less). Then Anthony Ferraro talks about his 
mother, who was born in Sicily, and more about family history. 
Charlie De Luca, and wife Francis, own a liquor store in Blende, 
now run by their son. Charlie is the brother of Floyd De Luca who 
owns the grocery store on the Mesa. Charlie's father came from the 
town of Trenta, province of Cosenza, 
in Calabria, 
in 1917. His 
father worked in the smelter. As he says "the Italians followed the 
smoke," that is, they moved wherever there was work. David asks 
wFat he remembers about work in the smelter. Other members of the 
family add impressions and information. 
Then Tony Fortino starts to talk. 
He is a wealthy man in his 
sixties who just recently sold his car business (the business Ken 
Cuchiara is now involved with) . 
His family has always been involved 
in the grocery business. 
Later Tony will talk with David and 
promise to get in touch with him next week to give us the family 
genealogy he has been working on. 
Ken Cuchiara, 
our host, 
introduces us to his grandmother Mary 
Morrone, 
in 
her 
eighties, 
and 
talks 
about 
the 
impact 
his 
grandparents had in his life. He stresses how difficult their life 
was and tells us about his grandma's mother who died when she was 
a baby with 6 siblings. He says, with enormous respect: "They had 
so little and they did so well." 
Then his 
father, 
Charlie Cuchiara, 
who has been playing the 
accordion since he was a kid, starts to talk about his band and his 
life growing up in Pueblo. 
The interview gets more lively: people interact more, 
exchange 
IAW-PT-F070890.A - 
3 
opinions and share impressions. Ken Light arrives in the middle of 
the interview and takes pictures of the interview situation. At the 
end of the first tape, 
David proposes a break to give Ken the 
opportunity to take a picture of the whole group before somebody 
has to leave. Everybody moves to the backyard. Then Susan will 
offer everybody coffee and cake. 
During the break I talk more with Charlie De Luca, who asks me to 
stop by at his liquor store in Blende; and with Charlie Cuchiara, 
who is enthusiastic about the project. Then I talk with Mary Anne 
Cuchiara, 
Ken's sister, 
about weddings. 
She tells me that her 
mother, a Morrone, has organized four weddings and that she knows 
a lot about it. Mary Anne has been married twice, the first time 
to an Italian-American guy, and she had "the traditional Italian 
wedding" with 600 people invited. The second time, she married a 
non-Italian, and invited "only" 150 people. Her husband shows his 
disappointment when she talks about her first marriage as "the real 
marriage". She apologizes and tells him "I'm talking about the 
"traditional" wedding. 
Several people leave before we get back to the living room. We are 
not sure if the Cuchiara are still willing to sit with us and talk 
more. It's 8:00 o'clock already, but they seem anxious to tell us 
more about their traditions. 
We sit in the living room with Ken, Susan and their son Anthony; 
Susan's parents: Anthony and Palma Ferraro. Ken's parents: Charlie 
Cuchiara and wife (a Morroni), and their daughter Mary Anne. 
This second part of the interview (IAW-PT-A035; A036) deals mainly 
with changes in wedding tradition. We ask Susan (in her thirties), 
her mother (in her sixties) and her mother-in-law to tell us what 
has changed in the family weddings during the years. Ken's parents 
and his sister will leave soon. Palma Ferraro has a great memory 
and volunteers a lot of information on celebrations, superstitions, 
and beliefs of her family when she was growing up. With great 
embarrassment she tells us that her Sicilian mother-in-law showed 
up at her house the day after she got married to check if she was 
a virgin. She says she quit many of her family's traditions because 
she found them "stupid". 
(For further details see: IAW-PT-A035; 
036) . 
We leave around 9:30, feeling that if it were for our hosts, we 
could stay and talk until tomorrow! 
Document: IAW-PT-F070990.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/9/90 
Informant/Event: Afternoon and evening with the Dionisio and Thomas 
families in Vineland 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
Today is the day we arranged in advance to come to Vineland and 
follow around both the Thomas and the Dionisio families in their 
daily activities in the fields, at the fruit stand and in their 
homes. David Taylor and Ken Light came early this morning to follow 
Chuck Dionisio in the fields: he was supposed to start working 
around 6:00 a.m., but the rain last night makes it impossible today 
to do any work in the fields. When I reach them at 9:00 o'clock, 
we decide not to stay for the morning, which looks very quiet, and 
instead come back in the early afternoon when the peddlers are 
supposed to come at the Thomas warehouse to load their trucks for 
the market in town tomorrow. 
Around 3:00 p.m. Ken and I drive in separate cars to the Thomas 
market. 
While 
Ken 
takes 
pictures 
of 
the 
activities 
in 
the 
warehouse, I am invited by Esther Thomas to enter their office 
where one of the Italian peddlers is talking with her husband, 
Tony. Phil Geanette (originally Giannetto) is eager to talk to me 
about his life. He is an old man (about seventy) who started truck 
farming in the Mesa when he was a kid. Then worked for 5 years for 
the rail road company, and ended up as many other farmers to work 
in the steel mill. While he worked at the mill (for 38 years) he 
also continued to farm, and now that he is retired from the mill 
he continues to farm and sell produce at the market in town with 
his son-in-law. 
He is related to the Thomases: 
his grandchild 
married the youngest of the Thomases' daughter. Tony and Phil are 
contemporaries: it seems clear to me that Phil is there not only 
to do business but also to visit and chat with Tony and Esther. 
Phil asks about myself and where I come from. Then he goes into 
details about his trip to Rome, and while he talks about it, the 
plot assumes the characteristics of a magic tale. He says that his 
trip was wonderful and that he and his wife (not Italian, "but she 
makes a good WOP") found very nice people during their trip. First, 
when they landed at the Rome airport, 
they had to go through 
customs. When the customs' officer saw his passport, he smiled and 
let him go through customs without opening his luggage. Then he 
invited him and his wife to join his family for dinner that same 
night! I ask, astonished, if he knew the customs officer, or if 
they both had the same last name, but Phil says no. Unfortunately, 
the guide of their tour did not allow them to accept the invitation 
since the group already had plans for the evening, but Phil felt 
definitely welcomed! 
IAW-PT-F070990.A - 
2 
Second "magic event" during their staying in Rome: Phil says that 
one evening his wife and himself were watching television in the 
hall of the hotel waiting for supper. They were watching "I love 
Lucy" in English! When the guy working in the hotel told them that 
they were going to have a special dinner for them that night. When 
they sat down at the table in the hotel's restaurant they were 
served a big tray of pasta and meat, and when they finished they 
were even offered a big tray of cheese! Phil describes this supper 
as a wonderful and special event. 
Finally, describing their visit to the Saint Peter's Cathedral, 
Phil does not find the words to describe the magnificence of the 
place. He refers to the Cathedral as the "king's palace" and says 
"we were treated like kings!" 
Phil showed a great storytelling ability in the telling of the 
story of his visit to Rome. The "magic" event of each "episode" 
(the invitation for dinner by a total stranger, the presentation 
of the tray of food) was introduced by his exclamation "and sure 
enough..." which gave the story a magic touch. 
I regret not to have recorded his story, but I think the noise in 
the office and the continuous movement of people in and out of it 
would not have made it possible. 
Phil has to go take care of 
business and Ken is 
impatiently waiting for me to go to the 
Dionisios, so I decide to leave. 
It's around 4:15 p.m. when Ken and I drive to the Dionisio farm, 
only half a mile east on highway 50. Chuck is working on a pickup 
truck with his son and a few other young kids. He spent the day 
repairing the truck and other pieces of equipment in the warehouse 
and now he is ready to take Ken and I for a tour of the fields. We 
drive to the peppers field (350 acres circa), the onions field (35 
acres), the cabbage field (350 acres) and Ken takes pictures of 
Chuck in the fields. When we get back to the warehouse, Ken takes 
pictures of Chuck and his brother Russell Jr. standing in front of 
the warehouse entrance. Then we drive back to the Thomas fruit 
stand where Ken takes a family picture of Esther and Tony Thomas, 
their daughters 
Peggy and 
Patty, 
and 
their grandson, 
Nathan 
(Peggy's youngest son), "the future farmer", as his grandfather 
says. 
Ken leaves and I go into the Thomas's home with Esther and Patty 
to watch the two family videos, one of the Thomas family, the other 
of the Dionisio family, 
put together recently by Patty Thomas 
Dionisio. I set up the tape recorder and ask the two women to 
describe the content of the first video while we watch it. The 
video is not narrated: it shows hundreds of photographs of the 
family, starting with Esther and Tony growing up, their wedding, 
their kids, 
continuing with each daughter's story 
(they have 
three), their families (from the baptism of their kids to their 
weddings) 
and 
finishing 
with 
photos 
of 
family 
celebrations 
IAW-PT-F070990.A - 
3 
(Christmas, birthdays). Each segment has a different soundtrack, 
popular music chosen mainly by the three sisters. 
Then we move on to the Dionisio's video which Patty put together 
following the scheme she followed for the previous one. Patty made 
several copies of each video for every member of the family 
interested 
in 
it, 
and donated 
it 
as 
a Christmas present to 
everybody. Both videos are very long, more than an hour each. We 
go 
quickly through the Dionisio's 
one, 
since dinner time 
is 
approaching.(see IAW-PT-A037; A038) 
Esther invites me to join them for supper. They would have liked 
to take me to the Italian restaurant in the Mesa (the Giodone's 
restaurant) but it's closed on Mondays so they decide to take me 
to the "Ranchman" the place "where all the farmers go". 
Chuck 
Dionisio and his son join us and we drive to the "Ranchman" , on 
highway 97. 
Esther tells me that they come here often during 
harvest time, when she is too busy to cook lunch or dinner. They 
know the lady who runs the country kitchen restaurant pretty well, 
and they seem to know most of the people who come to eat dinner 
tonight (the place is not very busy tonight). Since most of them 
order the special, I follow them and order it too. It's a delicious 
meat loaf, served with green beans and baked potato. It's time for 
them to ask me questions about Italy and about my decision to stay 
in America ( 
they all encourage me to stay) or to go back to Italy. 
It's nice for me to be able to "give back" something to these 
people who have been so open and friendly with me. I leave my 
address with them, in case they decide to take a trip to Italy in 
the future. We leave around 8:30 p.m., not before Esther, as a good 
Italian grandmother, asks me to give her a call when I reach the 
hotel, to make sure that I got home safely. 
Document: IAW-PT-F071090.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/10/90 
Informant/Event: Mt. Carmel Church and Gesuit Diaries 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
A few days ago I called Mt. Carmel Parish to ask for information 
about the parish festival scheduled for the 14 and 15 of July. The 
church had been in the past the church of the Italian community of 
Pueblo and I was wondering if the Italian component of the parish 
is still relevant. I talked with Father Gene Martens, who explained 
that today 85 % of the parishioners are of hispanic descent, and 
only 10 % are of Italian descent. The festival is organized every 
year to collect money for the church. Following the outdoors Mass 
on Sunday there is a procession; People say the rosary and sing 
religious songs, especially the women. The statue of Our Lady of 
Mount Carmel is taken down from its niche on top of the altar in 
the church and carried in the procession (which goes 1 block down, 
1 over and 1 down, then back to Clark street and into the church.) 
Father Martens says that in the old days they used to pin money on 
the statue: people willing to pay more would have the honor to 
carry the statue in the procession. 
The church was founded in 1901 by the Italians. It took several 
years to complete it. The bell tower was added years later. The 
Italian priest mentioned by all the Italians I interviewed is 
Father Giglio. He was at Mt. Carmel from 1929 until he died in 
1943. Father Martens mentions the Jesuit diaries written by the 
priests from 1915, on and off, up to 1960. I decide to go look at 
the diaries and also see the church for signs of the Italian 
influence. 
Mt. Carmel definitely bears the signs of the Italian presence: the 
14 stations of the cross, in colored plaster, along both sides of 
the walls, were all donated by Italian families. Under each one of 
them there are plaques with the names of the donors. Starting from 
the left side going towards the altar: 
1. The Charles De Luca Family; 2. Mr. and Mrs. Camillo Icabone; 3. 
The Anthony Quaranta Family; 4. Mrs. Luigi Porfillio; 5. Mr. and 
Mrs. Frank Vence; 6. In memory of John Paul Costa; 7. The Di Palma 
Family. 
On the right side, starting from the bottom: 
8. The Eva Ciruli Family; 9. The Jeannie Ciruli Family; 10. John 
Santangelo Family; 11. In memory of Florrie Cardillo, donated by 
the Cardillo Family; 12. In memory of Reverend S.M. Giglio, S.J. 
donated by Mary Cardillo; 13. Michael diodosio; 14. In memory of 
Rose Sarlo, donated by Jeannie Incerto. 
IAW-PT-F071090.A - 
2 
Names of Italian families are also at the bottom of the colored 
glass windows: 
left: Frank Spinuzzi; 
and Angelo Massaro 
center: Mercede Giaccio; and Concetta Muzio 
right: Matteo Pagano; and Mary C. Sarlo 
Father Martens tells me that the cupola was once decorated, and 
that the floor was once terrazzo (now covered by carpet) . 
The altar 
is in wood, painted to resemble marble. Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, 
patron saint of the parish, is on the left of the altar, ready to 
be carried in the procession next Sunday. 
I go into the rectory where I start reading the Jesuit diaries, 
looking 
for 
descriptions 
of 
processions, 
festivities, 
and 
interesting notes. Unfortunately, Father Giglio's notes are very 
brief and not very descriptive. For example, he describes the feast 
of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, on the 16 of July of 1939 like this: 
"Patron Feast of our church - Fr. G. sings High Mass at 7.00 - big 
crowd - at 8.00 solemn High Mass with Fr. 
B. 
celebrant - small 
crowd. Fr. B. says last Mass and has two weddings. At 4.30 grand 
procession around the grove - a beautiful sight - nice day -
threatening clouds - no rain - big crowd at night until 12:00 a.m. 
- sold everything." 
He mentions his visits to Bessemer, Salt Creek, and "to the farms" 
to teach catechism. 
There are no descriptions of the events for Saint Joseph's day. 
Father Martens brings a few issues of the Year book, which Mt. 
Carmel started to publish in 1920. These are interesting documents 
of the activities of the church, 
with advertising 
(mostly of 
Italian businesses in Pueblo done both in Italian and in English); 
lists of the contributors (overwhelming majority of Italian names) 
to church collections (with sum of money donated reported near the 
names); jokes and sermons, in Italian, addressed to the community 
to encourage catholic practice; stories in Italian and Spanish 
narrated by a priest. 
Father Martens says I can keep the 1932 Year Book., since they have 
many copies of it. It contains an- interesting picture of the Saint 
Josep 
s procession held the - 17tTi— of April, 1932. 
On the diary entitled "Historia Domus ab anno 1925-1939," 
an 
interesting note on the back of the cover says: 
"To Make Cherry Wine" 
"To every 150 lbs of cherries add 100 lbs of sugar 
Slightly wash cherries before putting in barrel 
Let stand fermenting for two weeks more or less 
IAW-PT-F071090.A - 
3 
Put juice in barrel and let stand for two months 
Ready for consumption" 
The church bought grapes (there are notes on the money spent for 
it), and Father Giglio made his own wine. 
I leave around 4:15. 
Document: IAW-PT-F071090.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/10/90 
Informant/Event: Grace Giadone's family reunion 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
Grace Giadone, whom I interviewed the 5th of July (see IAW-PT-A031, 
032, 033) invited me to participate at her family reunion. I arrive 
at the Pete Giadone Farm around 6:30. Ken Light will join me half 
an hour later. I enter the house where I meet Laurie, Grace's 
granddaughter, whom I interviewed before, with Richard, one of her 
cousins. Grace, who saw me arriving, comes into the house soon 
after and rescues me to introduce me to all her guests. She takes 
me into the wooden shack behind the house, built by Grace and her 
late husband soon after they got married (45 years ago). There is 
an old stove in the middle of the room and several tables covered 
by colorful plastic tablecloths around which most of the women sit. 
Several men stand outside, chatting. She introduces me very warmly 
as the girl doing the project on Italian Americans in Pueblo, and 
everybody greets me with strong handshakes, and a few words of 
welcome in Italian. I feel really welcome! One of the men says "We 
are all Calabresi" and a chorus of "NO!!" answers from inside the 
shack. There are many Sicilians too! 
The first question they ask 
me is "Are you calabrese?" They do not seem to be too disappointed 
when I say that I am from Tuscany. "Toscanese" they say, and go on 
asking if I am now an American. Later during the party I will be 
advised to become an American citizen by several men. 
Grace 
is a perfect host, 
she takes me around introducing me 
personally to all of her relatives and friends. I talk with her 
brother, Frank Marascola (Marscie) who is one of the organizers of 
the golf tournament "the Italian Open," the event for which some 
of Grace's first cousins here today came to Pueblo from California. 
I talk briefly with Grace's mother, Mary Scalese Fatta, 87 years 
old, who kisses me and talk to me in Calabrese dialect. Grace will 
later write a list of all the people present to her dinner: 
Pete and Joyce Giadone (Grace's son and wife now farming her land) ; 
Laurie Giadone Drew (Grace's grandaughter) and her son Barry; 
Richard Giadone (Grace's grandson); 
Joe Giadone (Grace's other son) and his son Jeff Giadone; 
Frank Marascola (Grace's oldest brother) and his wife Emma; 
Linda Jean (Frank's daughter) and her two children: Audre and Tim; 
Guy Marascola (Grace's youngest brother) and his wife Mary Jane; 
Russell Scalese (Grace's uncle) and his wife Minnie; 
Frank and Josephine Scalese; Janet and Bob Shupina (cousins); 
Martha Scalese Longa with husband Richard and Joe Scalese and wife 
Joy, Grace's cousins on her mother's side; 
Ben and Elizabeth Clementi, 
and Tony and Mary DeLuca, 
Grace's 
IAW-PT-F071090.B - 
2 
cousins on her mother's side; 
Jim and Rose Russo from Pittsburg, California (first cousins) 
Frank and Louise Rocco from Fresno, California (first cousins) 
Jim and Fern Rocco from Fresno too (first cousins); 
Francis and Charles De Luca (second cousins); 
Rose and Pete Pagnotta (second cousins); 
Louis and Helen Daurio, John and Angie Giaratano, and Virginia 
Pisciotta, close friends with whom Grace and her brothers grew up 
in Blende. 
Soon after my arrival the food is brought out from the house and 
set on a long table. Pete Giadone qoes intn_the ce 1 
ar of the house 
and brings back two bottles  of home-made red wine (which tastes 
pretty good). Grace urges me mill up my prat-eand taste all the 
food. There is chicken and hot dogs, baked beans and potato salad; 
pole beans (considered an Italian dish) cooked in a tomato sauce; 
zucchini; pickled eggplant made by Guy Marascola following the 
traditional recipe 
(as 
he tells me: 
he peels and slices the 
eggplants, sprinkles salt on them and then to get rid of the water 
in them, he presses them in the old press used to press grapes. 
Then he puts them in a crock and let them marinate in oil and 
spices for 7 days.) 
Later on several desserts will find their places on the table. 
I sit at one of the tables in front of Frank Marascola. He seems 
disappointed that I did not call him, as Grace suggested when I 
interviewed her, to ask him about the golf tournament. I ask him 
to tell me more about the tournament and he explains how it started 
9 years ago and how it is growing in number of participants every 
year. 
He says there is a long waiting list of Italian people 
applying 
from 
all 
over 
the 
States. 
Frank 
is 
a very 
social 
character, and a great joke teller, as I soon discover. While we 
eat he tells me "You know I almost became Pope?" and then goes on 
telling me that during the last elections in Rome, he almost won, 
but then they asked him for his name and decided that they could 
not have a Pope-sicola (pun on his name Marascola/Pepsicola). 
Frank has a great sense of humor and an ironic smile on his face. 
I understand he must have a wide repertoire of jokes he wants to 
tell me. While I fill my plate the second time and talk with other 
people, I keep finding Frank near me: he definitely wants to tell 
me more jokes. We sit at another table with Louis Daurio and Guy 
Marascola. Linda Jean, Frank's daughter comes to sit with us and 
tells me that the two brothers and old-time friend Louis know a lot 
of jokes. She asks her father to tell me the one about "Rosa, fa 
cosi' (Do like this)." 
And Frank starts with the first of a series 
of jokes. The wife of an Italian barber, Rosa, was in the hospital 
and needed an operation "in her lower parts." So they needed to 
shave her. She refuses to be shaved by anybody except her husband 
(he mimics the woman battling with the sheets while the nurse aid, 
a young man, approaches her bed to try to shave her.) So they call 
IAW-PT-F071090.B - 
3 
her husband. The barber goes to her room, prepares the soap and 
tells his wife "OK, Rosa, fa cosi!" 
Frank mimics the barber asking 
his wife to twist "her mouth" to the side to be shaved! 
I realize I will need to write some notes if I want to remember the 
jokes they are going to tell me now: nobody seems bothered by it, 
instead, they encourage me to write everything they say. 
Then Guy Marascola tells me "a true story" about an Irish man: this 
man liked to gamble. 
Every year of his life he bought Irish 
sweepstakes tickets. He got old and he was very sick. His family 
is worried about something (I am not sure if they worry because 
they do not know where he put the tickets or because they are 
afraid he is going to die and they will not be able to get the 
money if he wins the lottery). So they call the priest. The old man 
promises the priest to give him half of the money ... the priest 
dies! 
Guy (called "Junior" by everybody) keeps telling me that this is 
a true story! Then Frank takes over again and tells me another 
joke. An Italian guy has three daughters. 
He was poor but he 
wanted his daughters to be educated, and send them all to college. 
The first one goes to Notre Dame, does very well in school, gets 
very good grades and then graduates and goes back home where her 
father has a great dinner in her honor. At the end of dinner he 
gives her a present: a nice wrist watch. On the back of the watch 
there is a inscription: F.U.F. 
The second daughter goes to school, graduates with good grades, 
goes back home , her father gives her a watch with the same 
inscription on the back: F.U.F. 
Same thing happens to the third daughter. 
Finally, the father gets old, and when he is in bed, near to his 
death, the three daughters ask him "Hey Pa, what did you mean by 
F.U.F." And the father replies in astonishment: 
"with all your 
studies you don't understand "From Your Father!!??" 
This joke bring about another one in which three sons of a wealthy 
man gather around his bed, while he is very sick. They ask him "Pa, 
where did you hide the money?" And the father, who cannot talk or 
move much, moves slowly his crossed fingers. Nobody understands 
what he means by that. When he gets stronger, the sons ask him "Pa, 
what did you mean by that?" and he says "I did not have the 
strength to tell you this (and Frank moves his arm against the 
other, in the typical Italian gesture meaning "fuck you!") 
Frank says he knows a lot of dirty jokes, but he does not want to 
tell me those. 
He asks me if I know what are the three most 
important vegetables for an Italian farmer. He answers: Lettuce, 
turnip and pea (Let us turn up and pee?). 
IAW-PT-F071090.B - 
4 
Then he asks me if I know what are the three most important parts 
of a stove. He answers: Lifter, layer, poker (Lift her, lay her, 
poke her?). 
Louis Daurio asks me if I know the Italian version of "Jack and the 
Beanstalk" and of "The Three Bears." 
When I ask him to tell me the 
stories he says they are too long and that he cannot recite them 
properly but that he has the stories written down at home and that 
I am welcome to stop at his house and get a copy. Frank asks if I 
am free around noon tomorrow and invites me and Louis to meet at 
his house tomorrow. (see IAW-PT-F071190.a) 
More women come to join us at the table. From telling jokes they 
go into reminiscent about the past. Louis talks about the sense of 
pride the old Italians had. 
"They were proud people." As an 
example, he recalls that during the depression the school in Blende 
offered free lunches for the kids. But no Italian kid was allowed 
to go. "They would be insulted!" Somebody else says: "They did not 
have money to buy shoes, but they bought the grapes!" They teLl me 
about the three day event of butchering the hogs. The neighbors 
wound get together and help each other. The first day was to kill 
the 
pig; 
the second 
day 
was 
to 
make 
sausages, 
prosciutti, 
capocollo, salami and all that. The third day was for the cooking 
of the lard. Somebody remembers that it was the kids' job to wash 
the in es ines that were used to make the "case" for sausages. The 
topic of butchering the hogs and making sausages brings about food 
traditions. 
Somebody recalls the 
"real  
Italian-Pizza" 
called 
"scaravoglia" in 
Sicilian, hakpd in the outdoor oven (forno) that 
evyerbody used to bake bread once a week.  
Emma Marascola tells me the recipe for "scaravoglia", the Sicilian 
pizza that she 
says was 
"invented" 
during the depression by 
Sicilian mothers who did not have anything else to feed their 
families. They would make the bread dough and spread over it the 
renderings, the last, condensed part of the lard, then top it with 
tomatoes and spices, and then cover it with another piece of bread 
dough (like a calzone) and bake it in the oven. 
Another dish they all remember from the period of the Depression 
was called: taell4 (from the name of the pan in which was cooked: 
"teglia" in Italian). Emma says it is like a casserole. You start 
with a layer of sliced potatoes, then you sprinkle it with a 
mixture of chopped garlic, basil, parsley and hot pepper, then you 
add a layer of bread crumbs mixed with romano cheese, then a layer 
of 
ripe 
tomatoes. 
You 
can 
enrich 
the 
recipe 
with 
sausages 
(optional), and keep going with several layers until you fill the 
pan. Then the pan was put in the outside oven and baked for three 
hours. It was eaten with home made bread. Emma says she still makes 
it when the kids come to visit or for some special occasions. 
Obviously, she now bakes it in the regular oven. 
IAW-PT-F071090.B - 
5 
Linda 
Jean 
(Frank 
and 
Emma's 
daughter) 
and 
Laurie 
(Grace's 
daughter) start talking about the "white dinner" for Christmas eve. 
They still try to get the seven varieties of fish required for the 
traditional celebration but most often in recent years they have 
r uced 
e 00  
o fhe baccala'(salted codfish) and the "white 
spaghetti" 
wi 
garlic and oil). They all try to remember the 
differen 
varie ies of fish that their grandmothers and mothers 
used to prepare for the occasion: there would be a big fresh fish 
and all 
nnPri or dr;Pri-fish such as: anchovies, 
codfish (baccala'). There would 
be the "white spaghetti" an 
a varie y o vege a e dishes. Among 
th—e— We—g—et—abiles there were always "verze" (a variety of cabbage, 
boiled and fried) and "cardoni" (the 'stem' of artichokes, again 
boiled and friee). 
Red beets were also part of the Christmas eve 
dinner. 
sarde salate (salted sardes)  smelt 
11 
Linda Jean, who married a non-Italian, tells me the funny names 
that her husband has used to designate the food: he says "bacalaps" 
for baccala' and "aliupis" for the spaghetti "aglio a olio" (garlic 
and oil). The two younger women, Laurie and Linda Jean, both in 
their thirties, who married non-Italians tell me of their concern 
for the reaction of their husbands the first time they spent 
Christmas eve with their Italian families. They were afraid that 
their husbands would have been disgusted by the food, but with 
surprise they say that they loved it! The two women still today 
spend Easter and Christmas with their Italian families, always at 
the house of their parents. They tried to change the tradition and 
invite their parents to their house, but they refused, and both 
girls feel good about that. Frank explains to me: Until I die, my 
kids are going to come to my house. Then if me or my wife passes 
away, then it's another story, and we will have to think about it. 
Laurie says that the house of her grandnarP•hac aiwa.••}ie 
center for the whole family for every holidays and celebrations. 
As a i s e reme 
ers meeting there all her cousins; both her and 
Linda Jean speak with great nostalgia of the past and the sense of 
family unity they felt growing up. Now the cousins have grown up 
and many have moved away from Pueblo and they don't have many 
occasions to see them anymore. "When my grandmother dies, Laurie 
says, 
is going to be it!" Meaning, no more family reunions like 
this one tonight. 
The atmosphere at this reunion is really great. I feel totally at 
ease, everybody has something to tell me, something he wants to 
remember and share with everybody else. Grace brings in some old 
postcards and pictures of her and her brothers. They all laugh and 
try to 
find the resemblance between the three kids, 
now the 
grandparents, and their grandchildren. 
Somebody asks me if I am married. When they discover that I am 
thirty years old and not married, they start joking about making 
a "masciata", 
an arranged marriage for me. 
The men joke about 
finding for me a good Italian boy, with money too! 
Laurie, now 
IAW-PT-F071090.B - 
6 
divorced, asks them to find a man for her too! Joyce, Grace's 
daughter-in-law decides that the best candidate is cousin Dennis 
who lives in Alaska. Everybody agrees with her. 
Around 9:30 people start to leave. Everybody kisses each other, and 
I kiss everybody too. These people are all going to see more of 
each other this week, since the cousins from California (with whom 
I did not interact much tonight) are going to be in town until 
Sunday. I understand there are other smaller dinners planned for 
them. Everybody plans to meet anyway during the golf tournament. 
I am the last one to leave while outside it starts to rain again. 
Document: IAW-PT-F071190.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/11/90 
Informant/Event: Lunch at Frank Marascola's house 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I drive to the house of Frank and Emma Marascola 
around 12:30 p.m. 
I had met the Marascolas at the family reunion 
at the family reunion of Grace Giadone, 
Frank's sister and he 
invited me to stop by today to meet his friend Louis Daurio who 
wants to give me the Italian versions of the two stories of "Jack 
and the Beanstalk" and "the Three Bears". Frank did not tell me 
that they were inviting some family members for lunch, so David and 
I are very surprised when we enter the house and we see the table 
set up for lunch and some of the people that I met at the family 
reunion last night. 
Frank introduces David to his guests: his mother, Mary Scalese 
Fatta, his sister Grace Giadone, his wife Emma and daughter Julie, 
his friend Louis Dario and wife Helen, and to the cousins visiting 
from California: Jim and Rose Russo, Frank and Louise Rocco; and 
Jim and Fern Rocco. 
Louis immediately shows us the papers on which the stories are 
written. We sit on the couch in the living room while we are 
offered something to drink, and Louis starts to read "Jacche Enne 
Binnestaucche" (Jack and the Beanstalk). The story is written in 
Pidgin English "in the slang spoken by our old Italian people" as 
Louis says and goes like this: "...Uans appona taim uas disse boi. 
Neimse Giacomo. We calle im Giacche. Naise boi. Long aire, Ise 
tipicele tienaige. Live uid ise Mama. Mainde de cao..." (Once upon 
a time was this boy. His name is Giacomo. We call him Jack. Nice 
boy. Long hair, he is a typical teenager. Lived with his Mom. He 
minds the cow.) 
Louis reads the whole story while I try to follow his reading and 
spelling, 
and then continues with "Di Tri Berrese" 
(The three 
bears). He has had the stories for a long time and does not even 
remember how he got them. He thinks some Italian friends sent them 
to him from Boston, just for fun. Marscie tells us that he used to 
tell the stories to his customers when he was a liquors and wines 
sales representative. We take the copies of the stories with us and 
will make copies for the Library. 
Meanwhile, we are invited to sit around the table and join them for 
lunch. It's an offer that we cannot refuse. Emma invites me to help 
myself to the crackers and small pretzels on the kitchen counter 
before sitting down for lunch. Marscie tells me to forget about it 
("it's American stuff," he says) 
and invites me to taste the 
grilled peppers that he prepared himself. We sit at the table and 
IAW-PT-F071190.A - 
2 
we start to pass around the several trays of wonderful food. There 
are trays of cold cuts such as salame, prosciutto, capocollo; trays 
of dried little sausages (which Marscie buys from an old Italian 
lady in Denver); there is a wonderful tomato salad, with onions 
and basil (which comes from the garden); stuffed zucchini, Italian 
style, (the stuffing is made with bread crumbs, cheese, parsley and 
more cheese melted on top); grilled peppers; cucumber salad (the 
cucumbers come also from the garden). Except for the green jello 
salad, everything else is Italian! 
We are offered some sort of 
alcoholic drinks, but David and I prefer to have some water. 
We sit at the table around 1:00 o'clock, and for the whole duration 
of the meal (when we leave around 2:20 for another appointment, 
they are still sitting at the table: It's a real Italian "pranzo") 
our hosts will go on telling stories about the past, especially 
about the boys' adventures while growing up in Blende. All the boys 
had nicknames: Louis, for example, was called "Dolce", which means 
"Sweet" 
in Italian. 
(For more information about nicknames see 
interview with Grace Giadone: IAW-PT-A033). 
Time goes by fast, while the men go on reminiscing and the wives 
laugh listening to them. We end lunch with a strawberry cake, made 
by Helen, Louis' wife, and coffee, while Frank shows to us his 
outfit for the golf tournament, "the Italian open" which starts 
this coming weekend. His shirt has the colors of the Italian flag 
(white, red, and green), and his hat shows a small map of Italy on 
its front. But the "Italian open" is not his only "love": he is a 
fan of the Raiders, and he has all the paraphernalia for it. He 
goes into his room and comes back holding a big teddy bear with an 
helmet, and wearing a Raiders "cowboy" hat (both presents from his 
daughter Julie). 
David takes pictures during lunch. We leave around 2:20 p.m. while 
more relatives come in to join the family reunion. 
Document: IAW-PT-F071190.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/11/90 
Informant/Event: 
Cortese, 
Rose and Joe; 
Gagliano Carmela 
and 
Josephine 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
The Bessemer Mercantile, still called by many "Joe Gag's" after his 
founder Joe Gagliano, is the last Italian grocery store open in 
the Bessemer neighborhood. All my colleagues have met the owner, 
Rose Gagliano Cortese and her husband Joe Cortese, and we all have 
tasted Rose's wonderful sausages. 
Both Russell Frank and Paula 
Manini suggested that I go visit them and interview also Rose's old 
mother, Carmela Gagliano who speaks only Sicilian. 
David Taylor and I drive to the store around 2:30 p.m. We greet Joe 
behind the counter and move to the living quarters in the back of 
the store where Rose is waiting for us. 
Mercedes Tonne, a young student of anthropology at the Colorado 
Springs university who contacted us after reading about the project 
on the local newspaper, 
is already there. She is working on a 
project for her thesis which deals with the different ethnic groups 
in Pueblo. She is particularly interested in the impact that the 
steel mill has had on the lives of the people who worked there and 
in the changes brought about by the lay offs. She is interested in 
seeing how we work and the questions we ask, so we invited her to 
join us for the interview. While David sets up the microphone and 
tape recorder, and Mercedes sets up her video camera (she will 
videotape the event while I conduct the interview), I go into one 
of the two small bedrooms where Carmela lays in a hospital bed. She 
is over 90 years old, a very frail woman, who spends most of her 
time in bed. Usually her daughter tries to make her get up and walk 
a little, but today Carmela does not feel too strong and she will 
not get up. I decide to start the interview with Rose in the bigger 
room, and then later come to talk with Carmela. 
David leaves to do some errands and I sit at one end of the table 
with Rose in front of me. She puts on the table a tray full of 
cookies and invites Mercedes and me to taste all of them. I start 
asking Rose about the family history and the history of the store, 
which was started by her parents in two small rooms now adjacent 
to the store. Joe and Carmela Gagliano started their business with 
a cow: Joe would milk it and peddle milk around Pueblo. Carmela 
would walk into town taking her daughter with her and would buy 
bric-a-brac, miscellaneous small articles like needles and thread 
which she would bring back to the store to sell it to the neighbors 
who would not have the time to go shopping downtown. 
I ask Rose about the changes the store went through during the 
IAW-PT-F071190.B - 
2 
years (changes in clientele, 
in merchandise sold, 
in volume of 
business). Today the store's shelves are half empty and Rose says 
she is tired of working and is thinking of retiring. Her husband 
is going blind from a congenital disease and she seems to suggest 
that if the store is still open, it is because her mother Carmela 
is still alive. Rose keeps saying that things started to change for 
their business when the big supermarkets opened in town. The small, 
neighborhood store could not compete in prices with them. Joe, who 
comes into the room after he's done with customers, says that he 
counted 128 stores closing down in Pueblo one after the other. 
The Gagliano/Cortese grocery store has always been well known for 
their sausages, still made today following Carmela original recipe. 
People tell Rose "If you close, 
where am I going to buy my 
sausages!?" 
But nobody in the family thinks 
is profitable to 
continue the business: Rose's two sons have their professions and 
live outside Pueblo, and the mother does not think is worth it for 
them to leave a secure job to continue the family business. 
Rose does not seem to happy to talk about the store. It is evident 
in the bitter tone of her voice that she would have preferred that 
her husband had continued to work at the mill (where he was working 
when she met him), and in fact she says so. I understand she had 
different expectations and ambitions for her life and that her 
personality, that must have been once very lively and pleasant, is 
now burdened and embittered by the daily care for her invalid 
mother, and by the imminent prospect of taking care of her almost 
blind husband. I have a hard time trying to get Rose to talk about 
the store. She prefers to talk about "happier" topics such as her 
sons' weddings (she shows me the pictures). 
Half way through the interview Josephine Gagliano comes in. She 
comes regularly to visit her aunt Carmela. She is a young (48 years 
old) and lively woman, born in Lucca Sicula, who came to Pueblo 
when she was 18 years old to follow her husband (a Gagliano, nephew 
of Carmela and Joe). Josephine started to work in the store when 
she first moved to Pueblo and worked there many years. Rose thinks 
that she could be the perfect candidate to buy the store (she is 
a wonderful cook, and has the "right" personality for the job) . 
But 
Josephine has now a stable job at a market in town and does not 
seem to be interested. 
(She has previously been interviewed by 
Paula Manini about the Saint Joseph tradition). 
With Josephine the interview gets more animated. She tells us how 
hard life was for a girl in Sicily and how strict her brothers were 
in her 
family. 
She tells 
us a personal 
experience story to 
exemplify how girls were supposed to behave before she left Sicily 
in 1962, and continues to explain how things have changed since 
she left. Rose tells us how things have been similar for her, and 
how her parents arranged her marriage before she even had the 
opportunity to date her husband. 
IAW-PT-F071190.B - 
3 
David comes back and ask some questions related to sausage making. 
While David and Mercedes take a tour of the store with Joe and 
Rose, 
I switch to the lavalier microphone and bring the tape 
recorder into the bedroom where Carmela lays in her hospital bed. 
Josephine comes with me and will act as the intermediary between 
my Italian (which Carmela does not seem to understand very well) 
and her Sicilian. I ask Carmela, 92 years old, to tell me how life 
was when she came to Pueblo and started the store with her husband. 
Josephine asks the same thing in Sicilian but the old woman does 
not really understand what I am interested in. Josephine asks her 
to tell me what she always told her: how she would walk to town to 
buy little things, how her husband would go around Pueblo selling 
cow's milk. She nods and says a few words. Josephine puts words in 
her mouth to get her to 
talk more, 
but Carmela 
seems more 
interested in telling me about her great-grandson, a beautiful baby 
whose picture she keeps on the dresser. We talk for almost half an 
hour. 
Before leaving we buy some pasta and some goat cheese, while Rose 
packs all the cookies for us. 
It takes us a while before leaving. 
We kiss goodbye with the promise that we will stop by in the future 
if we ever come back to Pueblo. (see IAW-PT-A39; A40).