American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_061 
Documentation/Fie Idnotes - 
DeNatale, Doug: IAW-DD-FO71689 to IAW-DD-F091989.A 
DD-F0716.A 
Tour of San Pedro 
Coworkers: Taylor, David; Frank, Russell 
I arrived in L.A. around noon today (three o'clock, Eastern Daylight Time), 
and arrived at the hotel to find David well-ensconced in his room, surrounded by 
piles of equipment. 
The man at the desk had told me that Russell Frank had 
already arrived, 
so we gave a call to his room, 
and after greetings and 
preliminary chat, David offered to take us on a quick tour of San Pedro. 
The city (and it does have the feeling of being a separate city, though 
within L.A.'s municipal boundaries) sits at the foot of a long, sloping hill that 
had been very noticeable as I had driven south from the airport. 
David told us 
that the upper slopes of this hill was Palos Verdes, a separate community from 
San Pedro. 
San Pedro struck me as being a grid of small bungalow houses, with a 
relatively unimpressive downtown area with a few high-rise buildings--two of them 
under construction. 
The harbor area is very impressive, though, with a bustling 
container industry whose loading cranes dominate the view of the harbor. 
San 
Pedro's fishing fleet is small, and clusters in a single fishing slip, adjacent 
to a horrendous conglomeration of synthetic, touristy shops in a mixture of 
architectural styles in which a New England flavor is most apparent from the 
fishing harbor. 
This horror is called the Ports of call Villages, and clings to 
the harborside like some aberrant barnacle that has no relation to the rest of 
the community. 
As David explained it, the Italian community in San Pedro is predominantly 
from Sicily and from the island of Ischia near Naples. 
There is no identifiably 
Italian neighborhood, and I was surprised to see no visible religious icons in 
people's yards--a striking contrast to Lowell, where yard shrines proliferate. 
We drove around the tip of the peninsula on which San Pedro is located, and 
into Palos Verdes, a very, very upscale community with wealth dripping from the 
large shingled and rock-walled houses, with flowering hedges and luxuriant ground 
cover falling down the precarious slopes on which these land yachts are sited. 
Russell commented on the amount of water necessary to keep these places so 
groomed. 
As we navigated around one of the curving roads, we all laughed at a 
sign tacked to a tree that read "Lost Turtle." 
Visions of the wandering turtle 
of Palos Verdes would become a running joke of the project. 
DD-F0716.B 
La Piccolo Trattoria 
Coworkers: Taylor, David; Frank, Russell 
After returning to the hotel to freshen up, Russell, David, and I went out 
in search of dinner. 
David suggested an Italian restaurant he had been to on his 
visit to San Pedro with John Williams in March, a place called La Piccolo 
Trattoria, located in a shopping center on the edge of Palos Verdes. 
Russell 
commented on how all the ethnic restaurants in California seemed to be in 
shopping centers, and David mentioned that the situation in Florida had been 
similar. 
David told us that the restaurant was run by a family from Venice, and that 
one of the daughters in the family had been the main advocate for the family's 
emigration to America. 
He had apparently been to the restaurant in the previous 
week. 
The mother of the family greeted him familiarly and showed us to a table 
at the side of the restaurant, vacant except for ourselves and an older woman 
sitting at a table at the back of the restaurant, beneath a mural of gondola in 
front of the Doges palace, that was bordered on top with a wooden filagree. 
After taking our order and giving it to the cook, the woman joined the older 
woman at the back of the restaurant. 
This was apparently the family table, for 
later on, after the older woman had left, a young couple came in and sat at the 
same table. 
David recognized the young woman as the daughter in the family, and 
the mother would join the two when she was not taking care of us. 
Adjacent to the family table was a large built-in wooden wine rack, and 
next to this was the kitchen, with a stove or preparation area or bar (I couldn't 
see which) jutting into the restaurant. 
This had a hood over it built to look 
like the roof of a house--very similar to the arrangement I had seen in Lowell 
at a Portuguese social club. 
In this case, the artificial roof came complete 
with a false brick chimney. 
Russell was impressed with the presentation of the sculpin he ordered, 
deboned by our table by the mother of the family. 
And both David and I were 
equally impressed by our orders of veal, marsala for me. 
While David was settling our bill, I walked over to one of the paintings 
on the other side of the restaurant, a depiction of St. Mark's Square. 
As I got 
closer to the painting I was surprised and bewildered to see that, instead of the 
paving stones of St. 
Marks, 
the terrain depicted within the square was a 
moonscape with craters. 
I thought this was sufficiently bizarre enought to draw 
Russell's attention to it. 
After dinner we returned to the hotel, where I collapsed into bed. 
-iriqcu -•1 b- F_0 `7 / 
-7•q
7?, 
DD-F0717.A 
Morning drive around San Pedro and Palos Verdes 
I was wide-awake by five o'clock, California time, so I decided to take 
another drive around the community. 
Actually, I was most interested in trying 
to get to the top of the hillside behind San,Pedro, looking for a panorama of the 
harbor. 
I retraced the David's tour of yesterday, and made a stab at a road that 
looked like it might go to the top of the hill, but soon found myself in a 
bewildering maze of affluent residential streets. 
I managed to work my way back 
down to Western Avenue, which seems to be a dividing line between the bungalow 
homes that characterize most of San Pedro and the fancy ranch houses of Palos 
Verdes, and drove north, thinking to work my way around the flank of the hill. 
I came to a large intersection at a Palos Verdes Avenue, and turned west 
onto Palos Verdes. 
I soon found myself in very ritzy territory, passing a series 
of horse farms on my right, with names like "Dapplegray." 
After one dead-end 
turn into a road that immediately confronted me with a private guardhouse, I 
managed to find a major road that climbed the hill, noting that the houses seem 
to get more elaborate the farther up the hill you get. 
I found myself driving around a higher contour line of the hill, with still 
no notion of how to get any higher, and at last gave up and retraced my steps 
down to Palos Verdes Drive. 
Instead of turning back on Western I kept on Palos 
Verdes, and found myself at an intersection with Gaffey Street--familiar from 
exiting the freeway the previous day. 
This passed a large tank farm (one of the 
tanks had a sign painted on it celebrating San Pedro's centennial), before 
returning to familiar territory. 
I made my way back to the hotel. 
DD-F0717.B 
Fieldworker Training: Documentation Procedures 
Coworkers: Taylor, David; Frank, Russell; Tavarelli, Paola 
In the hotel's breakfast room, I ran into Russell. 
We talked for a bit 
about his previous experiences in San Pedro, doing fieldwork among the fishermen 
for the community's centennial festival. 
Then we went out to the hotel lobby to 
pick up a paper. 
We were sitting there reading, when a young woman came in and 
went up to the desk. 
kussell looked up and called out, 'you must be Paola.' 
She 
came over, and we introduced ourselves. 
We talked for about fifteen minutes, 
each of them asking me about the folklife center and what was likely to be 
expected of them working on the project. 
Then we went up to David's room. 
David had set out packages of materials for each of us in his usual well-
prepared fashion. 
We spend the morning going over the general procedures for 
documentation, working our way through Carl's media documentation manual. 
I was 
impressed with both Russell and Paola's questions, and quickly felt assured that 
we would have few fieldworker complications on the project. 
_ 4u, -b-b- F"o x717 Fq. c 
DD-F0717.0 
Fieldworker Training: Use of Equipment 
After we broke for lunch, we took up the use of equipment. 
David began 
talking through the procedures, but I interrupted him (with a little misgiving, 
wanting to be careful to defer to him as. the director of this project) and 
suggested that we do a run-through with the recording equipment. 
I really did 
feel that this was essential, based on my experiences in Lowell, because I had 
found that most academically trained folklorists have had little experience with 
recording equipment any more sophisticated than a cheap internal-microphone 
cassette. 
As it turned out, this really was a necessary exercise, especially in 
regard to the type of factors to be taken into account when placing the 
microphones. 
As it turned out, we spend the entire afternoon on this before Russell and 
Paola really seemed comfortable'with equipment. 
Because we only had one Nagra 
with us, it didn't seem useful to teach Russell and Paola how to use it, so we 
stuck to the Marantz cassette recorders. 
I suggested to Russell and Paola that 
we would be happy to show them how to use the Nagra if they wanted to get further 
recording experience, that it might prove to be a useful skill to have in their 
future work, 
but we left 
it 
for the moment. 
Again based on the Lowell 
experience, I would argue that for most interviewing situations that the cassette 
recorders are sufficient. 
We ended the session with David going over the use of the cameras, then 
walked over to the harbor for a beer at one of the restaurants in Ports of Call 
before Paola braved the freeway traffic to return home. 
Dinner for Russell, 
David, and me that night at a Mexican shopping-center restaurant. 
-T•'JD(-Fo-7199--? .,4 
T IAW-DD-F071889 .A= 
We spent the morning going over the procedures for 
using the computer program that I had developed. 
All of the fieldworkers 
seemed to pick up the procedures involved very quickly. 
We did, however, find 
one or two bugs in the program that resulted from the backup modules that I 
had added to the program last week. 
To circumvent this problem I cut out 
these modules so the file would be backed up only at the time of creation, not 
after updating or indexing. 
I'll try to correct this problem before the 
Gilroy fieldwork , but it shouldn 't effect the running of the program in the 
meantime. 
I found out that neither Russell nor Paola have a copy of WordPerfect 
5.0 on their computers , so we'll have to get copies so they can run the 
program at home. 
I told Paola that as soon as we get another copy from the 
folklife center I would come over and install the program on her computer. 
7,jt,.- Db- ro'71T?q-
TIAW-DD-F071889.B= 
After breaking for lunch, the field team returned to 
David's room at the hotel. 
We had agreed that it would probably be best if 
Russell and Paola took some time to familiarize themselves with the equipment 
and the computer program. 
After spending about a half-an-hour with them to 
make sure that everything was going smoothly, David and I left to go to a 
camera store and pick up a flash attachment for the cameras. 
=Aw-ID FOT6F:•. c 
-rIAW-DD-F071889 .C= 
While Paola and Russell practiced with the recording 
equipment and the computer program, David and I ran over to Lomita, the next 
town in from the coast , to purchase a flash attachment for the cameras. 
Lomita appears to be closer to San Pedro than either is to the rarified 
heights of Palos Verdes. 
While David was paying for the flash,, we got into a conversation with 
the clerk, a young fellow in his early twenties, who was very impressed to 
hear that David worked for the Library of Congress . He commented on how he 
and a friend had just discovered that you could purchase prints from the FSA 
photographs relatively inexpensively , and how excited they were about it. 
He 
had ordered prints about three weeks ago, and asked David if he knew when he 
might expect them to arrive, to which David had to reply that he really didn't 
know. 
2 
hu! 
- • 
- 
•,"i9C1,A 
Interview with Giovanni Palomba 
2235 W. 25th St. 
San Pedro , CA 
90732 
213-519-0434 
Birthdate: 1917 
Birthplace: Torre del Greco, Italy 
We received Mr. Palomba 's name from the program booklet for the San Pedro 
Festival held last November . Mr. Palomba demonstrated at the festival as a cameo 
carver. 
When I contacted him by phone , he told me that he was leaving for 
Minnesota on Thursday , so I set up my first interview in San Pedro with him 
today. 
On the drive to Mr. Palomba 's I began 
before I reached his address . As it turned 
lives is just within the San Pedro line, at 
exclusive community of Ranchos Palos Verde. 
a long, two-story building that looks more like a motel than an apartment 
building to me, because I'm used to the enclosed buildings of the east. 
The 
hallways of the building were actually balconies on the outside of the building, 
like a motel . The apartments were arranged around several internal courtyards, 
and there were open spaces for people's cars on the ground floor between the 
columns that supported the apartments above. 
to wonder if I would leave San Pedro 
out, the apartment building where he 
the west end of the town next to the 
Mr 
Palomba 's apartment building is 
It took me a few minutes to locate Mr. Palomba 's apartment , and as I 
approached the apartment , I saw an elderly man and woman apparently looking for 
someone. 
As I approached , counting the numbers of the doors , I realized that 
this was probably the Palombas , and called out a greeting to them. 
Mr. Palomba 
is a large man, 72 -years old , with a white Van Dyke beard and flowing white hair. 
His wife, Grace , is a sweet , round-faced woman, who was wearing a tiger-striped 
sweatsuit. 
I introduced myself, and was caught a bit unprepared when the Palombas 
asked me in a friendly tone whether I had any identification. 
I realized that 
I had left the printed description of the project in my rental car, so I asked 
them if I could leave my equipment bhere while I went back to the car--thinking 
that my leaving them with my equipment would help alleviate any lingering 
suspicions they might have about what I was up to. 
At this they asked me where 
I was parked , and when I pointed to the street , they suggested that I bring my 
car into the side parking lot for the apartment building. 
When I had moved the car and returned with the information card and 
brochure for the Folklife Center, they warmly invited me into their apartment. 
As soon as I entered the front hallway, I was taken aback by the extravagantly 
painted murals on almost every wall in the apartment . It turned out that Mr. 
Palomba makes his living as a mural painter, working primarily for churches and 
restaurants , but also for private homes . His apartment is an extravagant example 
of his own work, which he later explained also acts as an advertisement and 
sample of his work for potential clients who come to visit. 
The apartment is relatively small, with a living room and adjoining dining 
alcove, and a walk-in kitchen off the dining room. 
These and the hallway were 
all I saw of the place . The hall doors , front door , and kitchen cabinets were 
all painted with floral decorations , that reminded me a little bit of tolle 
painting . 
In the living room were the main examples of Mr. Palomba's art. 
1r^ci^-' - - 
F-
 
Behind the couch was a large mural depicting some imaginary scene by a lake or 
by the sea, with vaquely roman ruins in the background. 
The fairly low ceiling 
(about eight feet) is decorated with an oval sky-scape replete with clouds and 
putti. 
The oval was framed with a representation of marble, and a single column 
between the living room and dining area was also painted to look like a marble 
column. 
After beginning the interview, I soon realized that Mr. Palomba is not 
closely tied to the Italian community of San Pedro at all, despite the fact that 
he has been living here for about nine years. 
Before that time he was living in 
the Italian section of Los Angeles near Chinatown, and he and his wife, Grace, 
continue to attend the major Italian church there, 
St. Peter's Church. 
He 
claimed to have few Italian friends in San Pedro, which he described, a little 
condescendingly I thought, as a community of fishermen. 
He said that he had 
moved to San Pedro because he had friends in Rancho Palos Verdes, 
and was 
attracted to the area because it was on the coast and reminded him of his native 
village, Torre del Greco, near Naples. 
I was interested, however, to learn of Mr. Palomba's role as a mural 
painter, particularly his observation that most clients who requested him to 
paint a particular scene chose a landscape from their native communities. 
In 
regard to this, Mr. Palomba generally works from photographs supplied by his 
clients. 
In response to my question whether he had done any work in San Pedro, Mr. 
Palomba responded that he had done very little, only a few private homes, and 
added that most of the people in San Pedro could not afford his work. 
Much of 
his work is done for a chain of Italian restaurants owned by two brothers who 
live in Hollywood. 
It turned out that Mr. Palomba had demonstrated cameo carving 
at the San Pedro Traditions Festival because of his Los Angeles connections--he 
had been contacted by the city cultural office because of his San Pedro 
residence, not because of local connections. 
I also noted that although he was 
born near Naples, he placed a good deal of emphasis on his connections with 
Venice, where he had attended the Art Academy, and where he still has relatives 
living. 
I asked him whether he knew the proprietors of La Piccolo Trattoria, who 
are also from Venice, and he told'me that he knew them well. 
This struck me 
after hearing of Paola's conversation with the owners of this restaurant, and 
their complaint that they had not been welcomed by the rest of the Italian 
community, which is predominantly from Sicily and Ischia. 
While we were talking, Mrs. Palomba asked me whether I would like some 
espresso or cappucino, 
and went into the kitchen to prepare the coffee--
apologizing for the noise of the steam as she made cappucino. 
Mr. Palomba's cameo carving impressed me a good deal, more than his mural 
work. 
He learned the art in a special school established in his home village, 
which he entered at the age of 13. 
He said that this school was connected with 
Italian royalty, but could not recall the period when the school was established. 
The school, named Maria Piemonte, is still in operation, he says, and has become 
a major tourist attraction. 
I turned off the tape recorder shortly after Mrs. Palomba brought out a 
glass-covered tray with examples of Mr. Palomba's cameo work. 
I asked if Mr. 
Palomba would demonstrate the tools he uses for carving, and he said certainly, 
but he would have to get them from the storage space out in the garage. 
While 
171 qyr• . 
pa - 
3 
he did this , I took the opportunity of returning to my own car for the camera 
tripod. 
I took several photos of Mr. Palomba holding a cameo and working on it 
with a carving knife. 
The cameo blank, a smoothed section of conch shell, is 
glued to a stick that is held in the hand while it is worked. 
I also took several portrait shots of.Mr. Palomba sitting on the couch in 
front of his mural, as well as closeup shots of the cameos in the glass -topped 
case. 
The lighting in the room was very poor , and the conditions not the best 
for using a flash, so I have my doubts about the quality of the photos, but we'll 
see. 
Mr. Palomba also asked me to be sure to take a photo of the ceiling mural, 
and asked whether it would be possible for him to have a copy of the photo, which 
I promised to send him . I also took photos of some of the decorative painting 
in the hall and kitchen , and a framed painting of Venice over the dining table. 
As I packed up my equipment, Mrs. Palomba invited me to stay for lunch, but 
I declined because I had already agreed to meet the other fieldworkers for lunch. 
IAW-DD-F0719.B 
Lunch at Canetti's Restaurant 
entire field team 
Went to lunch at Canetti's seafood restaurant down by the fishing piers 
with David and Russell. 
Paola arrived later, after we had finished eating. 
As Russell pointed out, 
Canetti's 
is 
a real 
institution among the 
fishermen, who meet there for coffee and meals. 
When David, Russell, and I had 
been on the docks yesterday, talking with a former fisherman that Russell had met 
last year, we were told several times that such-and-such a fisherman could be 
best found at Canetti's. 
The restaurant is spartanly furnished--cement floor, wooden tables. 
A long 
table in the center of the restaurant seems to be the place where the fishermen 
congregate. 
We noted that two of the men seated at this table were wearing t-
shirts, one depicting a purse seiner, and the other an illustrated table of 
Pacific saltwater fish. 
Russell mentioned that he would like to record a session of men talking at 
this table, and we discussed the logistics of setting up the recording equipment. 
Our businesslike young 
our orders briskly, and with 
in conversation while paying 
Pedro from Long Island four 
waitress about the tattoo, 
brighten up its colors. 
waitress, with a tattoo on her right shoulder, took 
no side talk. 
Later, Russell managed to engage her 
the bill, and discovered that she had moved to San 
months ago. 
Paola had her own discussion with the 
and was told that it had recently been redone to 
IAW-DD-F0719.0 
Ciolino Family 
Paola had an interview with Grace Ciolino, the president of the woman's 
section of the Italian-American Club, this morning, and during the course of the 
interview Grace had invited Paola to her mother-in-law's home this evening for 
a welcome-home celebration in honor of Grace's father-in-law, who was flying home 
from a visit to Italy. 
This seemed to be an event where more than one 
fieldworker would be advisable, so I went along to take pictures and for possible 
sound recording. 
We drove first to Grace's house, picked her up and drove to the mother-in-
law's house, while Grace's husband followed in their own car. 
(In the course of 
the evening, we were introduced to about twenty members of the family, and since 
I was preoccupied with picture-taking, I didn't absorb all of their names, so 
Paola's notes will be the best source for these.) 
The mother-in-law's house is a one-story bungalow with a separate garage 
in the rear. 
As Grace explained, her mother-in-law had converted the garage into 
a separate kitchen and dining area where the entire family could gather, because 
the house itself didn't have any space large enough. 
We entered through a front 
gate to the yard, then through another side gate at the west side of the house, 
down a narrow walkway to a patio between the house and the garage, where several 
chairs were arranged. 
The door to the garage-cum-kitchen was open, with a glass-
bead curtain across it. 
We entered the garage/kitchen to a family gathering in full swing--actually 
the preparations for the gathering. 
A gang of children were playing in-between 
the adults, and several women were working at a long counter with a sink and 
stove along the east wall of the room. 
The room was roughly delineated into 
cooking, eating, and sitting areas. 
Two facing couches were on the north side 
of the room, one against the north wall and one facing. 
Along the south side of 
the room was a refrigerator and a glass cabinet with a display of dishes, a huge 
aquarium (about fifty gallons) with saltwater tropical fish, and with a wooden 
model of a tuna boat on top of it. 
In front of these was a long table, with a 
east-west orientation, that could 'seat about fifteen people. 
The adult women, and several teenage girls, were busy preparing the meal. 
The main dish was a type of fried rice ball (Paola has the name) that has 
regional variations throughout Italy (my grandmother made a variant). 
While 
Paola talked with the women, and took down the recipe, I unpacked my cameras and 
started snapping away. 
Although we had brought the Nagra along with the idea of 
recording the family occasion, the activity was so scattered and the sound so 
diffuse that I quickly dropped the idea. 
There was a comfortable three-ring circus of activity going on as the meal 
was prepared, with separate conversations going on all over the room, good 
natured joking, and physical signs of affection. 
(As we entered the room and 
were introduced to the grandmother, she presented her cheek for a continental 
kiss.) 
It felt very homelike to be among such a comfortable and affectionate 
family. 
After I had taken a good number of pictures of the process of frying the 
rice balls, one of the young girls (about twelve) asked me if I wanted to see the 
fish pond. 
She brought me outside to the north side of the garage, where an 
•d a 
elaborate artificial pond, with a running brook and small waterfall were located. 
In the point were six or seven ornamental carp, the largest about fifteen inches 
long. 
Flanking the fishpond on the north and south sides were two small tomato 
patches. 
I took some pictures, then returned inside to find that the family was 
about to eat, and that Paola and I were urged to join them. 
We sat down, about fifteen in all, around the table, and the food was 
passed around. 
I was a little surprised that there was no communal grace before 
the meal, but noticed that several of the family members prayed silently before 
eating. 
Conversation at the dinner table was largely in English, but I'm pretty 
sure this was for my benefit more than anything else. 
It was clear that everyone 
in the family speaks fluent Italian, including the second- and third-generations, 
who spoke English with what sounded to my eastern ears with a touch of San 
Fernando Valley Girl accent. 
The meal consisted of the rice balls, fried white fish (mackerel, I think), 
a large salad , and homemade bread. 
Grace later told us that her mother-in-law 
makes all of the breads and pastries for the home--I can attest to her skill. 
While the family was eating, 
I got up and took some more photos, 
finally 
returning to the table when they started teasing me about not eating. 
I did wish that we had the recorder on during the course of the meal, as 
a fascinating discussion about mourning practices in the Italian community 
ensued. 
One of the granddaughters , in her twenties with a newborn baby, began 
talking about her mother, who was not there, and how she was still dressed in 
mourning black for her husband who died two years ago, and who still did not like 
to go out in public. 
Several of the family members noted that it was not unusual 
for women in the community to dress in mourning for as long as thirty or forty 
years. 
One of Grace's brother-in-laws noted that the women did this more because 
of what they thought other people were thinking than because they really wanted 
to dress in mourning . Grace noted that this had changed with her generation--she 
had dressed in mourning •for two months when her father died, and then had 
thought, what am I trying to prove by doing this. 
The granddaughter with the newborn complained that the baby kept spitting 
up the bottle-milk she was fed, and the doctor had put her on some expensive 
formula. 
One of the older woman asked her whether she had tried goats milk, and 
she replied that there weren't enough nutrients in goats milk. 
Shortly after we were finished eating, Grace said it was time for us to go 
over to the bingo at the Italian-American club. 
The grandfather 's plane had been 
delayed, so we would return to the family later after the bingo. 
IAW-DD-F0719.D 
BINGO AT ITALIAN-AMERICAN CLUB 
PT, DT 
After dinner with the Ciolino family, Grace Ciolino, her husband, Paola, 
and I drove to the Italian-American Club where the regular Wednesday-night bingo 
was to be held. 
As president of the woman's division, Grace apparently had to 
be there to start the bingo. 
The club is in a one-story, whitewashed building, with art deco flourishes 
on the exterior. 
For the interior layout, see accompanying sketch map in the 
project files. 
The interior basically consisted of a large hall, about twenty 
by twenty feet, with a small stage at one end, and a bar at the otther. 
The club 
has a regular bartender, who was present for the bingo, spending his time making 
espresso and capuccino for the members. 
I didn't notice anyone drinking any 
alcoholic beverages. 
Over the bar was a painting of a fishing boat, and on the 
same wall on the other side was a painting of Venice. 
As we entered, one of the women present took me under her wing and gave me 
a quick tour of the club, pointing out the kitchen specially, which the club 
members are currently renovating. 
David Taylor had planned to meet Paola and me 
at the club, and was already present when we arrived. 
He soon entered into an 
extended discussion about fishing with Grace's husband, and I took a few photos 
of them in earnest discussion. 
At one point David called me over to hear the 
observation by Grace's husband that smaller fish will often shelter from the sun 
by swimming beneath whales or kelp beds. 
While David was talking with Grace's husband and Paola was talking with the 
women who had already arrived for the bingo, I went around the club taking 
interior photographs, and then went outside for several exterior shots. 
Soon 
after I returned inside, Paola came over to David and Grace's husband to announce 
that the women wanted to start the bingo and they were waiting on us. 
The bingo crowd was largely women, but there were two or three men also 
present. 
Grace insisted that we'play as well, but I begged off so I could 
continue to take photos. 
There were several in-group gags that took place in the 
course of the playing. 
At one point, the bartender closed the exterior doors to 
the club and went over to turn on the air conditioner, at which four of the women 
pulled out wool hats and put them on, as a joke, we were told, about the habit 
of the bartender of putting on the air conditioner too high. 
The women did a 
double-take when they realized I was photographing them, and then mugged for the 
camera. 
Later on, when the number 69 was called, the woman who was calling out 
the numbers took out a long plastic horn and blew it to the delight of the crowd. 
Later, on the ride home, Paola mentioned that bingo reminded her of an Italian 
game, in which slightly obscene nicknames were sometimes called out instead of 
the numbers. 
She had asked one of the women playing bingo whether anything 
similar happened here, and was told that it did, but that the nicknames weren't 
being used tonight because of the 'foreigners' present. 
Paola joked and reminded 
the woman that we didn't speak Italian and so wouldn't understand what was being 
said anyway, at which the woman reflected and replied that the use of these 
nicknames actually slowed the game down, 
and that was the real reason they 
weren't used, and were reserved for games during the holidays when-there was more 
time. 
Paola also remarked to me that she was fascinated by the amound of code-
switching between English and Italian that went on in the course of the evening. 
-1(•_• 6 
r) - 
0'7i F•- 
`• .1), a-
There was one pause in the play while the crowd stopped to watch the 
winning number of the California Lotta game be announced on the large-screen 
television on the stage behind the bingo apparatus. 
David excused himself from the bingo table after the first game , and came 
over to the side to take a few notes . Before he could do so, a new man entered 
the hall and asked us what we were doing. 
After introducing ourselves to the 
man, whose name is Stefano Finazzo , David explained the aims of the project. 
Finazzo's interest was immediately piqued, and he explained that he was involved 
in an effort to bring the Los Angeles celebration of the Columbian Quincentenary 
to San Pedro, and was in close contact with the Italian consul about this. 
He 
outlined plans for a parade with Italian gondolas and reproductions of Columbus's 
three ships . He noted that the Italian-American Federation is a prime mover in 
this effort. 
As we spoke, Mr. Finazzo graciously ordered two espressos for David 
and me. 
Mr. Finazzo spoke for awhile about the Italian-American Club, which, he 
said, has between 250 and 350 members. 
He said the club was trying to set up 
Italian language and culture courses in the fall for the younger people in the 
community , and that this effort was to be financially supported by the Italian 
government . He also noted that the club is going to buy a satellite dish so it 
will be possible to watch Italian soccer at the club. 
Mr. Finazzo grew up in San Pedro, but now lives in Rancho Palos Verdes 
(2175 Rocking Horse Rd., Rancho Palos Verdes, 833-4576 (H); 499-3228 (W). 
He is 
a chemical engineer for Atlantic-Richfield. 
Mr. Finazzo gave us a number of good leads for the community. 
He also told 
us that there are two important religious festivals in the Italian community. 
One, 
the Feast of Saints Giovanni and Giuseppe della Croce, 
is an Ischian 
festival , held in the middle of August. 
He called over one of the women who is 
involved in the festival, and she said that she thought the feast would be held 
August 19 . The other festival is the feast of St. Joseph , which is a Sicilian 
festival, and is held March 19. 
As Mr. Finazzo explained it, the feast involves 
the home preparation of food that is sold and the proceeds are donated to the 
church. 
The feast also involves soine type of house visits. 
(Grace Ciolino had 
earlier told Paola about the feast of St. Joseph , and has a videotape of the 
event that she is going to show us.) 
In regard to home gardens , Mr. Finazzo noted that many people in the 
community have vegetable gardens, many of them in the community gardens supplied 
by the city. 
He also noted that many people write to relatives in Italy for 
vegetable seeds that cannot be obtained here. 
As for the activities of the Italian-American Club, Mr. Finazzo listed a 
family dinner held on the first Friday of every month . Every Monday night is 
children 's night, and the children have their own organization with their own 
president . Tuesday is an adult night . Mr. Finazzo didn't mention any specific 
activity for Tuesday nights, but said that the board holds its meetings once a 
month on Tuesday nights. 
Wednesday night is bingo night. 
Once a month on 
Thursday night is the general meeting. 
As for the aims of the club, Mr. Finazzo 
summarized these as "Trying to get all the Italian people together." 
He said the 
club used to have its own soccer team. 
It is planning to rent a bus for an 
exhibition match by the Italian soccer team in Los Angeles on August 10. 
.rte ^ 
6 
b 
-
 F 
o 
1 
r7 i 
• 
".'b, -3 
Mr. 
Finazzo indicated that 
he would be willing to be 
interviewed, 
preferably on the Saturday after next. 
After we had talked with Mr. Finazzo for about half an hour, Grace and 
Paola came over and said they were ready to go back to the Ciolino's home. 
Paola 
announced , a little embarrased , that she bad won two games of bingo--but had 
turned down the cash prizes. 
We went back to the car, and Grace went with David in his car to give him 
directions back to the house. 
,-1--t` ) 'bb - 
Fo `7 i 
? 
F 
q 
. 
E 
IAW-DD-F0719.E 
Ciolino FAMILY GATHERING 
After leaving the bingo game at the Italian-American Club, we drove back 
to Grace Ciolino's mother-in-law's house, where her father-in-law had finally 
arrived from Italy. 
The second (or third?) dinner shift had just finished, and 
we were seated at the table for coffee and pastry. 
By this time we were all 
pretty tired, and it seemed appropriate to leave the cameras in the bag. 
Much of the conversation around the table was about a man from San Pedro 
who had just died while on a visit back to Italy. 
It was a real contrapuntal 
conversation, 
with each family member contributing various details. 
The 
conversation was now almost entirely in Italian, so David and I pretty much sat 
at the sidelines, enjoying the play of the conversation back and forth across the 
table. 
We stayed about forty minutes, until Paola decided that it was time for her 
to head back home. 
As we prepared to leave, Grace suggested that we come over 
to her house tomorrow to view the videotape of the St. Joseph's festival. 
Paola 
had already set up an appointment with Grace's sister-in-law, but the sister-in-
law, who was also present, suggested that she come over to Grace's house and join 
us there. 
As it turned out, the videotape was made by the husband of yet another 
sister-in-law, who has a business (or side business) videotaping events like 
weddings. 
He will be videotaping a wedding in the Italian community on Saturday, 
and Paola asked about the possibility of attending to document the wedding. 
We'll see. 
=AU? - 
-b 
-- F 
0 
`7 •,4 9 
q 
A 1 
DD-F0720.A 
Grace and Dominic Ciolino 
Coworker: PT 
At the Ciolino family party last night, Paola had arranged to view a 
videotape of the St. Joseph's festival at Grace and Dominic's home. 
Grace had 
included me in her invitation, and I decided that it would be a good idea for me 
to come so Paola would have an introduction to group fieldwork. 
I wanted to 
record the viewing of .the videotape in order to get Grace's commentary. 
I spent the morning writing fieldnotes, and caught up with David around 
noon. 
As it turned out, David and Russell had run into Dominic at the fishing 
pier, and had done an impromptu interview with him. 
While David and I were 
talking in his room, Paola arrived and she and I left for the Ciolino's. 
When 
we arrived at the Ciolino's, Dominic was also :there--so he ended up being 
interviewed twice in one day by the entire field team, some kind of fieldwork 
record. 
Paola and I arrived in separate cars, because I planned to leave early to 
track down some other leads. 
As I was standing by Paola's car, Grace came out 
to greet us. 
The Ciolino's house is a one-story bungalow on the street corner, 
with its shorter side on the south. 
The main entrance is on the south side. 
An 
arch separates a small porch from the yard on that side. 
Behind the arch is a 
small portico on the west end of the porch, with the main door perpendicular to 
the street. 
A sliding glass door faces the porch, which was the entrance that 
Grace used. 
She ushered us in to a dining area, past the entrance to the kitchen, and 
into a living room, where Dominic was sitting. 
All of the floors in the house 
that I saw were covered with tile. 
The interior walls were white stucco, with 
many family photographs displayed. 
While I set up the tape recorder, 
Grace searched through a pile of 
videotapes for the one on the St. Joseph festival. 
The television set was 
already on, to a program about the moon landing twenty years ago today. 
Whenever 
Grace changed a videotape or fast' forwarded to another spot on the tape, the 
program on the moon landing will be heard on the audiotape. 
Grace and Dominic provided a running commentary to the video of the St. 
Joseph festival. 
Grace told us that there are four families in San Pedro who 
observe this festival in their homes, in addition to a public observance held by 
Mary Star of the Sea Church. 
Dominic's stepmother is the member of the Ciolino 
family who has this devotion, which she has been observing for fifteen years, 
ever since making a promise that she would observe the feast as long as she was 
able if one of her daughters who had been married for five years would be able 
to conceive. 
The feast involves the construction of a home altar, which is decorated 
with flowers and a number of special breads. 
One of the priests comes to the 
home and blesses the bread. 
After the blessing, three participants depicting 
Joseph and Mary in search of lodgings in Bethlehem proceed from house to house. 
A child in costume, who Grace and Dominic asserted to be a representation of 
Jesus, accompanies them. 
At each house, the accompanying group of people sing 
an unaccompanied hymn, and then the figure of Joseph knocks on the closed door. 
A ritualized interchange follows with the propietor of the home, hidden behind 
acs) -b b 
- 
Fo 7,;:•o Fq. /4 , 
•L 
the door, and then the procession goes on to the next home, arriving finally at 
the home with the devotion, where the trio are welcomed. 
They are fed samples 
of each of the prepared foods by all of the guests, and then everyone eats. 
Each 
participant makes a donation, and these donations are given to charity by the 
person putting on the feast. 
Because the immediate neighbors of Dominic's 
stepmother are not Italian Catholics, instead of going from house to house, the 
procession goes around the house three times , returning each time to the 
converted garage/kitchen where the altar is placed. 
In the video that we were 
shown, it was Dominic's father who played the role of Joseph, while the role of 
Mary was played by a young woman who appeared to be in her twenties. 
After showing us this video, Dominic asked if we would like some espresso. 
We talked a little about the interview he had had that morning with David and 
Russell, and Grace mentioned that she also had a video of Dominic's boat in 
operation . She said that the wives of the crew had been invited to go out with 
the boat about fifteen years ago; and she had filmed the process of fishing for 
anchovies . The film, which appears to have been shot with a Super-8 camera, was 
good quality , though the colors were a bit faded . Grace mentioned that she was 
glad that she had not gotten seasick , though the wife of the boat's owner had 
gotten sick. 
After showing us this film , which had been transferred to video on a tape 
marked "The Good Old Stuff ," Grace showed us another portion of the same tape 
taken during a visit to the Sicilian town that both Dominic and Grace's families 
are from, 
which the family made about fifteen years ago. 
This contained 
interesting footage of the family eating, 
as well as a public nighttime 
entertainment, some kind of musical stage revue. 
There were also shots of a 
village carnival very reminiscent of the carnival just held at Mary Star of the 
Sea Church. 
(By the way, I've noticed that everyone in the congregation appears 
to refer to the church simply as "Mary Star.") 
We talked for a short while after viewing the videotapes . I asked whether 
it would be possible for Grace and/or Dominic to give us a tour of San Pedro, and 
set next Monday as a tentative date. 
Grace said that she had spoken with a 
friend who had the key to the community gardens, and that we could visit these 
any time. 
The friend had said that'this would be a great time to do it, because 
her garden was really looking good. 
Grace also told us about a "festa" (sp?) being held this weekend at the 
Italian-American club by someone name Pino (Joe) Pizzo, to which the public was 
invited, and said that she would try to find out more about it for us. 
We also talked about the decline of the Fishermen 's Fiesta in recent years. 
Grace and Dominic both complained that the city has failed to involve the ethnic 
clubs in this event, and noted that at last year's there was a huge tent "that 
must have cost about ten thousand dollars to rent", and the only thing in the 
tent was a display by a local car dealer. 
Grace said she had films of the Fiesta 
about fifteen years ago when it was really something to see. 
All of the boats 
were beautifully decorated to particular themes--she mentioned one boat that was 
decorated to resemble Pinocchio. 
She said that the boat owners would invite 
people on board to eat a dinner that was supplied by the Fiesta's organizers. 
But now, nobody wants to do it because they are afraid of getting sued if anyone 
gets hurt. 
She and Dominic both gave this as the reason that the city has 
removed much of its support from the event, not because of the events religious 
associations. 
-rA_o -_D1D- F 
6'7•z o 
Fq, A 
, 
While talking about Grace doing a tour, she asked us if we had visited the 
Korean bell that is placed in one of the town parks as a peace memorial. 
She 
said that lots of people in town joke that it is really a plot by the Koreans, 
and that there is an atomic bomb hidden in the bell. 
In a non-joking tone, she 
also told us that there were tunnels from Fort MacArthur to Point Fermin, and 
that people in the area often find that a pgrtion of their yards has collapsed. 
I asked the Ciolinos what markets they considered to be Italian , and they 
listed the following:
: 
Giuliano 's Market, Western Boulevard 
Portofino 's Market, Western Boulevard 
McCowan's Market, 20th and Walker--this they said had not originated as an 
Italian market but had increased its Italian imports to the point that it could 
be considered one 
International Market, 8th and Weymouth 
Al Market , 8th Street. 
I left Paola with the Ciolino's at this point, because I wanted to visit 
a few of the stores that had previously been cited to us. 
DD-F0720.B 
Tony Pirozzi 
After leaving the Ciolino's, I drove to Gaffey Street to make contact with 
Tony Pirozzi at Tony's TV Sales and Service, 1214 S. 
Gaffey St., 
831-4873. 
Stephana Finazzo had recommended that we talk to Tony, who has had a radio show 
since the 1950s. 
Finazzo had told us that the show originated because Pirozzi 
was frustrated about his inability to obtain the most recent Italian soccer 
scores, and had purchased a shortwave radio for this purpose, and was then asked 
to report the scores over the radio. 
Finazzo made a point of dramatizing the 
fact that Pirozzi had gotten up at 5:30 in the morning in order to catch the 
soccer scores. 
Pirozzi's store is on the east side of Gaffey street, and actually consists 
of two storefronts. 
When I arrived it was about 4:30, and both doors were 
locked. 
I assumed that the store was closed, and was walking away when a man 
leaned out one of the doors and called to me. 
I walked back and introduced 
myself to Mr. Pirozzi, who is a wiry, energetic man in his fifties. 
When I 
explained who I was he became very excited, and said that this was just what the 
community needs, to preserve its heritage, and that he had always worked to help 
the community do this. 
The side of the shop that we were in was filled with television sets in 
various states of repair. 
A young man was working in a backroom that had an 
opening into the main showroom. 
Along the north wall of this half of the store 
was a display of postcards and photographs, all reflecting Italian identity. 
The 
other part of the store seemed to be an overflow area, and on the wall visible 
were a number of soccer posters. 
I made an appointment to interview Mr. Pirozzi on Saturday afternoon, after 
he closed the store at 1:00. 
He told me that he had many photographs that he 
wanted to show me, so I made a note to bring the copying equipment. 
=oA - 
7) — 
Fo 7.•  
Fc• . 
C 
DD-F0720.0 
Bataglia Marble 
After leaving Tony Pirozzi's store I drove over to visit the Bataglia 
Marble company , which is actually in Lomita , a community adjacent to San Pedro. 
When I arrived it was 4:50 and the showroom was about to close. 
We had heard 
about the company from Stephano Finazzo. 
The showroom seemed aimed at a very 
upscale clientele of the sort that might be found in Ranchos Palos Verdes more 
than San Pedro. 
Two elaborate marble desks dominated the showroom . Both had 
tops of green marble about a foot thick. 
In one desk , the green marble was 
wrapped around two cylinders of black marble lying on their sides parallel to 
each other . The other desk was similar, but in this case there was only one 
supporting cylinder , and the green marble top projected from it, dramatically 
suspended in mid-air. 
(Paola later found an advertisement for the company in a 
newspaper, with a picture of this desk.) 
Along two.walls was a display of marble 
tiles in various colors set into `a series of racks. 
As I entered, a very well-
dressed young couple were discussing the available tiles with a saleswoman, 
comparing the colors against a carpet square they had brought with them. 
While I waited for someone to acknowledge my presence , I peered into an 
adjoining showroom , where there were several marble statues displayed--a nude 
Diana with bow, and a lion with a polished body and a contrastingly rough mane. 
When the saleswoman finally acknowledged my presence (I should add that I 
was fairly casually dressed in a polo shirt and jeans), I explained who I was and 
apologized for arriving so late in the day. 
I'left a handout on the project, and 
asked if it would be better for me to stop in the following morning. 
The 
saleswoman agreed that this would be best, so I left making a mental note to 
dress for the part when I returned. 
DD-F0720.D 
Portofino Restaurant 
Coworkers: DT, RF 
While Paola and I had been speaking with Domenic and Grace Ciolino, I had 
asked for their recommendations for Italian groceries. 
They had cited the 
Portofino market, and mentioned that there it was a restaurant as well, which 
they considered the best 
in town. 
This 
seemed like a not-to-be missed 
recommendation, so Russell, David, and I decided to check it out. 
It took considerable time to locate the restaurant, in spite of the fact 
that we had the street address. 
Like most of the Italian restaurants we've 
encountered in San Pedro, the restaurant is located in a shopping center. 
In 
this case, it is located in a modernistic, pink, terraced shopping center on 
Western Avenue that features a Pier 1 Imports store and other shops of that ilk. 
The restaurant is located on the third, highest tier of stores, and is completely 
hidden from the street. 
The restaurant is part of the Portofino complex, along with a wine shop, 
bakery, and gift shop. 
As we walked back to the restaurant section, we passed 
a pianist sitting at a white baby grand, who greated us effusively while still 
playing. 
His repertoire consisted entirely of light popular music, nothing 
particularly Italian, not even of the Dean Martin, Tony Bennett variety. 
Along the corridor to the restaurant was a refrigerated display case with 
various fish, which I assumed were sold as part of the Portofino retail trade, 
as well as samples of some of the dishes available at the restaurant. 
An 
impressive looking dessert tray sat alongside. 
We were seated next to a long table with ten people by a professionally 
cordial waiter--who I later recognized in a photo in a newspaper ad for the 
place, and who turned out-to be one of the owners of the Portofino shops. 
The 
service 
was 
excellent 
throughout--with 
the 
formal 
air 
of 
the 
European 
professional waiter. 
And the food lived up to the Ciolino's recommendation. 
Portofino clearly is aimed at' an upscale audience. 
The single room where 
the restaurant is located is arranged around a stone fountain, and false roof 
gables with terracotta tiles along two of the walls give the room the atmosphere 
of a courtyard garden. 
The large group sitting near us certainly appeared 
affluent. 
It was a little amusing to see a set of ten orders of osso bucco 
brought on a cart to their table--making me wonder whether the menu had been 
arranged beforehand. 
Toward the end of their meal, four waiters brought out a 
small cake and sang "Happy Birthday" to one of their members. 
As we left the restaurant, we passed the gregarious piano player again, who 
warmly wished us a good evening. 
His warmth seemed to diminish as we passed by 
the goldfish bowl on top of the piano without depositing a tip. 
We, feeling 
cheap after the fairly expensive meal and not particularly impressed by the 
music, felt little compunction. 
DD-F0721.A 
Battaglia Marble 
I returned to the Battaglia Marble company to follow up on my visit the 
previous day. 
When I arrived shortly after nine o'clock, there was a food 
service truck pulled alongside the curb and about ten men were milling around 
having a coffee break. 
Most of the men were wearing cloth aprons well-saturated 
with stone dust. 
In the showroom, Terry Asada, the woman I had spoken to the previous day 
was talking with two men who seemed to be contractors. 
After about five minutes 
she acknowledged my presence, but I had to reintroduce myself. 
She took the 
project handout I had left the previous afternoon, and told me that she would 
talk to John Battaglia's secretary about it. 
She disappeared for a long period, 
then returned with a business card with John Battaglia's name on it. 
She gave 
it to me and told me that I should call back later that afternoon and ask for 
Sue, Battaglia's secretary. 
I thanked her and left. 
When I called back later in the afternoon, Battaglia's secretary asked me 
for more information about the project, and said that she would check with the 
Battaglias and that I should call back on Monday. 
Addendum: I continued to telephone the company until Thursday of the 
following week. 
When I called back on Monday I was told that Nino and John 
Battaglia had gone out of town suddenly and would be back Thursday. 
On Thursday 
I was told that they hadn't come back yet, but would probably be back on Friday. 
At this point, because the end of the fieldwork stint was near, because I had 
already made other commitments, and because the company was not located in San 
Pedro proper, David Taylor and I agreed that it was not worth pursuing further. 
•qc•► • 
• 
•u - 
FJn••I •4. •1• 
DD-F0721.B 
Random Lengths Newspaper 
on his rounds , David had come across a local alternative paper called 
"Random Lengths ," with an article on avant garde artists in San Pedro written by 
a woman named Barbara DeNatale . The name
.connection seemed too intriguing to 
pass up, so I decided to go by the paper's offices to check it out. 
It also 
seemed like it might be interesting to talk to people at an alternative paper and 
see if they had a different perspective on San Pedro. 
The name of the paper, 
according to its masthead , 
was derived from the days when San Pedro was the major 
timber port for Southern California, 
and the wood was shipped in "random 
lengths." 
The paper 's offices are in a small job printing office on Seventh Street. 
I introduced myself and was referred to the editor/publisher of the paper, James 
Allen, who came around from an office space partitioned off at the back of the 
small shop. 
Allen struck me as having an air of being half -leftover hippie, 
half-California beach bum--a loose-jointed guy about my age with intense deepset 
eyes, wearing torn jeans with the fly open but held together with a safety pin. 
He seemed, not openly antagonistic as I explained the project, but with an air 
of condescension. 
I told him that we were trying to get a sense of the community 
dynamics of San Pedro so we wouldn 't be indulging in unjustified romanticism in 
our depiction of the Italian-American community, and that we had noticed that 
Random Lengths seemed to be an alternative newspaper. 
"Well that's pretty 
obvious, isn't it," Allen responded. 
I was about ready to back my way out to the 
street at this point, but he shrugged and said, 'well we're pretty busy now, but 
I guess I could talk to you in about an hour if you'll come back then.' 
When I returned an hour later , one of the women sitting at a desk behind 
the front counter went back to notify Allen, and came back to tell me that he was 
on the phone right now and why didn't I sit down on the couch by the front door. 
I picked up an earlier edition of the paper and perused it as I waited. 
From 
where I sat I could hear Allen on the phone to some creditor, arguing at length 
over a five-dollar charge. 
At last the call ended , and h)e came out and invited me back to his office 
behind the partition , a cluttered desk with a Macintosh computer at one side. 
He picked up the project handout that I had left earlier, and sat reading it 
silently for about two minutes while I waited. 
Then he announced, 'I know what 
you want,' 
and took out a copy of the newspaper. 
He turned to a page of 
restaurant adds, and began circling ads for Italian restaurants, saying as he did 
so, 
'you should go to such-and-such a place, they have really good food.' 
He 
drew a line between ads for D'Orios and La Piccolo Trattoria, and told me that 
these two would be particularly good, because they were both old families that 
had been in San Pedro for a long time--which made me wonder , knowing that the 
family that runs La Piccolo Trattoria are recent immigrants. 
I asked him for his general perspective on the Italian community, trying 
to steer him away from the restaurant tour, telling him that we were interested 
in getting a sense of the extent of social mobility in the community and which 
segments of the community were involved in maintaining the community and which 
in promoting development. 
He didn't seem very enthusiastic about talking over 
such matters, but when pressed stated that the Italians were the ones that were 
most 
interested in seeing the town develop. 
He said that the only ones 
interested in preserving the material fabric of San Pedro were the Anglos and the 
-=-•Aut - 
b•• - 
Fc2;,-; I 
Fq . 
B, C•2- 
Mexicans . 
The Anglos 
he 
characterized as 
the younger 
artists who were 
discovering San Pedro as potentional studio space and who wanted to keep rents 
down, a concern that was shared by the Mexicans . When I asked whether there was 
any Preservation organizations in the town, he referred me to Flora Baker at the 
Historical Society. 
Later he mentioned the San Pedro Downzoning Committee, an 
organization that is trying to keep San Pedro residentially zoned, and when I 
asked him who we should contact in regard to this, he called to one of the men 
working in the shop for a list of the committee members, and gave me a xeroxed 
copy. 
(The list, by the way, has only two Italian names on it.) 
I then asked him whether he had any other suggestions for people we might 
contact, and fearing that he might mention more restaurants, said that we were 
interested in businesses that were involved in public displays of Italian 
ethnicity , but we also wanted to contact private individuals. 
At this he looked 
at me sternaly and said , "You've misunderstood ." 
I,was a little taken aback, but 
said, 
'oh, I'm sorry, what did you mean.' 
He replied that the restaurants were 
very important institutions for the Italian community, which had no public space 
of its own , and that any gathering in the community was held at one of the 
restaurants, which served the community as a type of community living room. 
After this observation , Allen went on to tell me that we should contact Ann 
DiMotto, the local councilwoman . After a pause, he said, 
'I know, you should get 
in touch with Flo Ponzetti at the video store on Sixth Street.' 
He said that 
lots of Italian merchant marines come into her shop , that it's a real hangout for 
them. 
At this I asked whether he had any suggestions for people in the fishing 
industry , and he replied that the fishing industry is pretty much dead now, and 
that the cruise ships have replaced them, that there were a lot of Italians that 
worked for the cruise lines, and that a lot of them "jumped ship" in San Pedro--
these were the ones that hung around at Flo Ponzetti's store. 
He said that if we wanted to 
business 
that 
we 
should talk to 
longshoremen 's cap and works at the 
Weymouth streets. 
He said that he 
Street and had been there for years. 
talk to someone who had been in the fish 
the 
old man who 
always 
wears 
a white 
fresh fish market at the corner of 8th and 
used to have his own fish store on Mason 
As a final comment, Allen said that there weren't many Italians left in San 
Pedro anymore , that there had been a lot of outmigration to places farther up the 
coast near San Francisco , mentioning Carmel in particular. 
DD-F0721.0 
Flo Ponzetti 
Coworker: DT 
After having lunch with David Taylor at the local Australian cafe "Wallaby 
Darned," we decided to check out the lead that James Allen had given to me 
concerning Italian merchant marines who come to a video store owned by a Flo 
Ponzetti. 
I looked in a phone book for a video store on Sixth Street, and found 
one listed under Odyssey Video. 
When we arrived at the address, however, it 
turned out to be a bookstore. 
The woman clerk inside told us that the video 
store there had been gone for years, but when I asked about Flo Ponzetti, she 
directed us to another video store next to the old movie theater up the street. 
Following her directions, we did indeed find a video store, and when I asked the 
middle-aged woman clerk inside for Flo Ponzetti, she replied that she was Flo. 
When I asked Ms. Ponzetti about the merchant marine connection, she said, 
'Oh, you mean the Italian crews on the cruise ships. 
She told us that many of 
the crew members for the Carnival Cruise Lines are Italian, and have developed 
friendships with families in San Pedro. 
She told us that if you go down to the 
cruise dock on Sunday morning when the ships come in you will often see people 
from the San Pedro Italian community waiting to meet a friend on the ship. 
She 
told us that they will often come into the video store (which also sells music 
cassettes) to buy Italian music cassettes which her partner Giorgio orders from 
Italy. 
Giorgio (last name not known) unfortunately is in Italy right now. 
Ms. Ponzetti also told us that many of her customers are Italian Americans 
from San Pedro, and come to rent Italian movies that are also ordered by Giorgio. 
When I asked her what kind of videos her customers liked to watch, she giggled 
a little nervously, and said, 'well, they like the dirty ones.' 
After asking her 
a little more, it appeared that what she meant was that the Italian movies had 
more nudity than in American movies, for she said that many of her patrons didn't 
realize this until they got home with them and were watching them with their 
children. 
She said that many of her customers might not have been back to Italy 
for twenty years or more, but they still liked to watch Italian movies. 
We asked her what businesdes in town were run by Italians, 
and she 
mentioned the following: Watermen's Clothing Store, Dino's Market, Little Napoli 
Pizza, and Josephs Bakery on Meyler Street, which is run by Joseph and Rosa 
Tuberosi. 
She also told use that we should talk with Giuseppe Catalano, who owns 
Gianfranco clothing store and Franco's Restaurant. 
In regard to the cruise ships, she said that they usually go on weeklong 
cruises to Alaska or Mexico, 
arriving in San Pedro on Sunday morning and 
departing that same evening. 
The Tropicale sails to Alaska, while the Admiral 
sails to Ensenada. 
She suggested that we talk with Hector, the manager, at the 
cruise line offices on Fifth Street (she couldn't remember Hector's last name). 
She said that Hector had only been working at this office for several months, and 
might not know of local families with connections to the crew members, and 
suggested that we might try to get in touch with Anna Russo, who used to be the 
secretary at the Carnival office, but now works someplace else. 
Ms. Ponzetti 
looked for, but was unable to locate Ms. Russo's phone number. 
When we asked Ms. Ponzetti about her own background, she told us that she 
was originally from a town near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, but had moved to San 
Pedro with her father, who was a glassblower, and who got a job working at a 
glass factory in San Pedro that is no longer in operation. 
We asked Ms. Ponzetti 
if she knew of other craftspeople in San Pedro, and the only person she could 
think of is a Dave Gaetano, who does carpentry work. 
She said that there was 
also someone who worked with marble, but she could not remember his name. 
I 
asked her if she was thinking of the Battaglia company, but she said, no, this 
was an individual craftsman. 
As we were making our goodbyes, she asked us if we were interested in 
"Italian characters," and when we asked her to elaborate, she told us that 
everyone in town knew of a slightly sinister Italian character known as "Harry 
the Hat," who had the reputation of being some kind of crime enforcer, or 
legbreaker. 
She said that he could still be seen around town. 
We thanked Ms. Ponzetti for the information that she had given us, and 
left. 
••C,•• - 0 - 
fi 6 W1/ 5Fg . 
DD-F0721.D 
Hector Patino 
Coworker: DT 
After leaving Flo Ponzetti's video store, David and I decided to follow up 
on her suggestion that we talk to the manager at the Carnival Cruise Line offices 
on Fifth Street. 
We thought that there might be a good photo opportunity in the 
scene of local people going to meet Italian members of the cruise ships on Sunday 
mornings. 
We decided to walk to the office since it was one street over--a 
decision I later regretted because we were away longer than I expected, and I 
ended up getting a parking ticket, which David graciously offered to pay. 
Anyway, we found the Carnival office in a modern office building down near 
the piers, and entered a pretty spartan suite of small cubicles--obviously a 
business office rather than one intended to service prospective cruise customers. 
After waiting for several moments for someone to come out of one of the inner 
cubicles, we were greeted"by an Hispanic woman, who, 
after hearing of our 
interest in photographing a scene at one of the cruise ships, told us that we had 
better talk to the manager, who was on the phone at the moment. 
She indicated 
two padded chairs flanking a table with magazines, 
and we made ourselves 
comfortable here while she went back to inform the manager, and perused the 
magazines, which were all hotel food service magazines. 
After perhaps five minutes, the woman reappeared and ushered us down the 
short hallway to the manager's office, a portly and serious Hispanic man, with 
a sign on a credenza behind his desk identifying himself as Hector Patino. 
He 
greeted us warmly and asked what we were interested in doing. 
David gave him the 
rundown on the project, and explained that we were interested in the ongoing 
interaction between members of San Pedro's Italian community with friends or 
relatives in Italy, and because of this we were intrigued by the connection 
between local people and members of the cruise ship crews. 
Mr. Patino agreed 
that this would be an interesting subject to photograph, and told us that he 
would be glad to help us in any way that he could. 
He said that he was not 
familiar with any connections of the sort we were looking for, because he was new 
to this office, but that he would ask about it this coming Sunday, and perhaps 
we could come the following Sunday. 
He mentioned in a joking tone that it was 
possible that some of the crew members might have girlfriends in San Pedro that 
they might not be anxious about letting their families back in Italy know about--
particularly if they also happened to be married. 
However, he would ask the 
captain of the ship if he had any suggestions. 
David asked Mr. Patino if he knew 
of Anna Russo's present whereabouts, and he replied that he saw her occasionally, 
but didn't have her telephone number. 
Mr. Patino commented that he thought that the kind of work we were doing 
must be fascinating, and walked with us to the door, again saying that he would 
be happy to help us in any way he could. 
Addendum: David later told me that Mr. Patino had called him back with the 
news that he had been unable to find any crew members who were friends with 
members of the San Pedro Italian community, but that we were welcome to come on 
Sunday to go aboard the cruise ships and take photographs. 
By this point, our 
calendar was pretty full with other interviews, and because it didn't seem likely 
that we would be able to make connections between the cruise ship crews and local 
community he thought it would be best if we passed the opportunity by this time. 
DD-F0721.E 
Computer Setup at Paola Taverelli's 
Coworker: PT 
Because the fieldworkers would have to log their photographs and tapes 
after the fieldwork phase of the project was completed, and also because Paola 
Tavarelli would be commuting between her home in Venice and San Pedro during this 
phase of the project, we had decided to install the computer program I had 
devised onto her computer at home. 
I had forgotten to ask the folklife center 
to send a copy of WordPerfect on 5-1/4-inch diskettes, 
and so had to ask 
Sebastian LoCurto to send it by express mail. 
It arrived yesterday, and Paola 
and I had set this afternoon as the time for me to go home with her and install 
the program. 
When I started her computer, I discovered that there was a shell program 
already installed that automatically booted up when the computer was started. 
In addition, there was a copy of SideKick, which is a memory-resident desktop 
utility that interferes with the running of some programs. 
I was able to figure out enough of the shell program without a manual 
available to create a separate subdirectory on the computer's hard disk and to 
copy the WordPerfect files to it. 
But when I tried to run WordPerfect from the 
shell, I got an insufficient memory message. 
In addition, it turned out that 
either the shell program had been installed incorrectly, 
or that SideKick 
interfered with its proper operation--the result being that when I tried to exit 
the shell program to the DOS prompt, the keyboard froze. 
I first thought that 
I was not exiting the shell program properly, but then I consulted with Paola's 
father-in-law, who had either installed the shell program, or who was familiar 
with it, by phone, and he agreed that the installation of SideKick was properly 
interfering with the shell, which was also a memory-resident program. 
He also 
agreed that the amount of memory these two programs took up did not leave enough 
for the running of WordPerfect 5.0. 
I finally was able to get WordPerfect running on the computer by renaming 
the Autoexec.bat file, but since Paola and her husband were used to working with 
the shell program, this can only beta jury-rigged solution that I'm going to have 
to deal with by providing two alternative batch files for starting the computer. 
To further my headaches, I discovered that Sebastian had not sent the printer 
files with the program, 
and because of WordPerfect's delightful quirk of 
preformatting each document to a particular printer, 
I could not get the 
fieldwork program to work properly without the printer file that had been 
installed on my own computer. 
Ah, the delights of computers. 
At any rate, the immediate solution will be to get Sebastian to send the 
printer file needed so I can finish the temporary installation on Paola's 
computer. 
This points up the vagaries in the range of systems that are to be 
encountered, and underlines the need for developing a uniform, standalone program 
that can be installed with the least amount of adjustment for any particular 
system. 
Nuff said. 
-I-A'-bD -PO ?•
2,-Q Fcl. 
I 
DD-F0722.A 
Fish Wholesalers, Signal Place 
Coworkers: Taylor, David; Light, Ken; Frank, Russell 
In the week before the fieldworkers had arrived (or was it on his previous 
visit in March?) David had determined that the family-run seafood wholesalers 
located by the fishing docks on Signal Place, are open for retail business on 
Saturday mornings. 
He wanted Ken to get some pictures of this, particularly as 
the customers were largely Hispanic and Asian, which would provide an opportunity 
for some pictures of interethnic interaction. 
I decided to go along out of 
curiosity as much as anything else. 
From his previous visit David knew that the 
wholesalers open for the retail trade as a means of getting rid of their excess 
fish, and that they tend to sell out by nine or ten o'clock. 
So we decided to 
be at the wholesalers by seven-thirty. 
When we arrived the market was in full swing, with lots of Hispanic and 
Asian customers. 
The fish companies back onto Signal Place, with a loading dock 
for their delivery trucks. 
We climbed up on the loading dock and began walking 
down in front of the line of companies, all in a single warehouse. 
The first 
company we came to that was open for business was the State Fish Company. 
There 
was a busy trade inside the warehouse--the busiest of all. the companies it later 
turned out. 
About five employees were hard at work picking out fish from 
cardboard cartons loaded on wooden flats and putting them into plastic bags for 
the customers; weighing fish and bringing out of huge walk-in freezers with 
motorized hand trucks, 
and doing bookkeeping work behind a glass partioned 
office. 
While Ken arranged his cameras, David and I wandered back to the dock side 
of the place, and into an adjoining space where large slabs of frozen fish on a 
flat were being moved by an elderly employee. 
He looked at us sharply, and I 
thought I'd better introduce ourselves. 
I told him we were working on a project 
for the Library of Congress, and was it okay to take a few photographs? 
At this 
he replied that we'd better ask the boss, and took us over to a woman in her 
forties, whose carefully coifed blond hair contrasted with her t-shirt, blue 
jeans, and work apron. 
David took over and explained the project to her, giving 
her a handout, and she, in turn, escorted us over to the glassed-in office, where 
she conferred with another man, in 'his fifties. 
He turned to us and with a no-
nonsense air declared that it was out of the question for us to photograph here 
without permission of the owners; that they came down from Hollywood to film here 
all the time, and that we would probably have to pay a fee if we were allowed to 
photograph at all. 
Firmly rebuffed, we made our exit, but as we got back out to 
the loading dock, the blond-haired woman came running out, a business card held 
in her extended hand, which she handed to David with an apologetic air, saying 
that she was sorry that we couldn't photograph right now, but that if we called 
the person on the card we could probably get permission. 
David thanked her, and 
we moved down to the next open fish company--the Ocean Fish Company. 
We walked inside here, and found much less activity--here there was only 
one flat with cartons of fish, and a single employee assisting customers. 
Three 
elderly, Italian-looking men were sitting alongside a glass-partitioned office 
playing cards with a fourth man inside the office, who was leaning out of an open 
partition in order to reach the card game. 
Ken's eyes lit up when he saw this 
scene, 
and this time he approached them to ask whether he could take their 
photograph. 
Thinking that it was best for us not to surround them at once, I 
continued walking through the warehouse and out the open garage-type door onto 
the dock beyond. 
I stood here for a few minutes watching the water traffic, then 
-oco 7-,,)- 
F't .4, 
turned around and went back inside--to see David and Ken leaving the company at 
the other side. 
Wondering what had happened, I walked over to the flat and 
looked over the fish before I, too, left. 
As I passed the four men at the card 
game, 
I heard one of them comment, 
"Fucking assholes, wanting to take our 
pictures and probably land us in jail." 
I kept on walking past to the loading dock side, but couldn't see Ken or 
David. 
I kept on walking past the next open company, thinking that they were 
probably inside, and'went to the last company on the dock, the L.A. Fish and 
Oyster Company. 
The activity here, too, was fairly quiet--I assume that this 
relates to the amount of fish that the company has available for retail sale on 
any given Saturday, there was less for sale here as well. 
Again I walked around 
and looked at the fish, then went out back to the dock to see if Ken and David 
were out there. 
When I turned back into the company, they were just entering. 
David went over to the man who seemed to be in charge, a thickset man in 
his late fifties, and gave him the project spiel. 
In what was now a surprising 
contrast to our previous encounters, the man, who introduced himself as Jack 
Robinson, was entirely friendly and open to our photographing the activities. 
While Ken happily snapped away, David and I chatted with Mr. Robinson, who had 
a number of interesting observations on the changing demographics of the retail 
customers and their preferences over the past several years. 
In essence, the 
customers had shifted from blacks from L.A. to South African and Jamaican blacks, 
as well as Hispanics. 
With this shift had come a shift in preferences for types 
of fish. 
Mr. Robinson said the earlier customers had bought a lot of red 
snapper, while the newer ones liked fish like barracuda. 
In the course of our conversation, David set up an interview with Mr. 
Robinson. 
I eventually left the conversation and went back out to the loading 
dock, where there were two canteen-service-type trucks parked, and two men in 
coveralls were scrubbing down the trucks with a good deal of joking and singing 
of the crooning variety. -While I stood there, Ken came out and started taking 
pictures of the two men. 
One was perhaps in his early sixties, and the other a 
young man in his twenties or early thirties. 
We introduced ourselves, and found 
out that their names were Nick and Andrea. 
They told us they bought fish from 
the wholesalers and peddled it in the surrounding towns. 
While Ken was photographing their assiduous scrubbing activities--covering 
every inch of the trucks' 
exteriors as well as a number of flat, 
plastic 
containers--David came out of the L.A. Fish and Oyster Company, and Russell, who 
had been over at Canetti's Restaurant photographing Joe Canetti making doughnuts, 
also walked over to join us. 
While David and I were greeting Russell, two men 
came up on the loading dock, and asked us what we were doing. 
When we told them, 
one of them snorted and in a half-joking tone declaimed, 'More government money 
going to waste.' 
He went on in the same tone for a bit, half-serious, half-
joking, while we replied with allusions to the comparative cost of the project 
to the lately-unveiled B-1 bomber--half-serious and half-joking ourselves. 
The other man, who as Ken later pointed out bore a striking resemblence to 
Allen Funt, took a considerable bit more favorable interest in our project, and 
volunteered the information that his mother's name was Columbus and was probably 
descended from Christopher Columbus. 
He also mentioned that he had a ship's lamp 
at home that had belonged to his parents that was made in Italy by a company 
named Columbus, and which had the company name stamped on it. 
While David chatted with the two men, I got off the loading dock and went 
down to the two fish peddlers. 
I introduced myself to Andrea, and asked if he 
would be willing to be interviewed. 
He agreed to be interviewed on Sunday, when 
he wouldn't be working, and gave his full name as Andrea Briguglio. 
A while 
later I remembered that Stefano Finazzo had mentioned a Frank Briguglio who made 
wine, and when I asked Andrea, he told me that Frank was his uncle, but that he, 
Andrea, also made wine--with a certain air that conveyed that his wine was much 
better. 
By now Ken had gone back into the L.A. Fish Company and had rounded up the 
members of the Robinson family for a group portrait. 
After watching Ken take a 
few shots, Andrea suddenly called out, 'Hey, what about me? 
I'm a member of the 
family, too,' and ran up to join the group. 
Later he jokingly admitted that he 
really wasn't a member of the family--but he had bought enough fish from them to 
be practically considered a member. 
While Ken packed up" his equipment, 
David, 
Russell and I extricated 
ourselves from the gentlemen who was still disparaging our application of tax 
money (Russell was to run into the same man several times in the course of the 
project, to the running joke of: 'Are you guys still here? 
When are you leaving 
so I don't have to save money by not eating?'). 
We said our goodbyes to the 
Robinsons and to Andrea and Nick (Ken had arranged to come back on Monday to 
photograph Nick loading his truck), and went over to Canetti's for a cup of 
coffee. 
T IAW-DD-F072289.B— 
I had set up an interview with Tony Marabella a few days ago, and we 
had agreed that I should come by on Saturday morning, when the winery was open for 
business. 
When I walked into the garage-door opening to the business, my attention was 
immediately drawn to a salesroom on the left, that had not been visible on my previous 
visit because the door to it was closed. 
Here I found Tony Marabella standing behind a 
glass-topped counter in conversation with, or more properly listening to a discourse by, 
a well-dressed young man in his late twenties or early thirties, on the subject of home 
beer-brewing. 
Tony acknowledged my presence with a nod as I entered, but didn't 
interrupt the discussion. 
I stood silently and surveyed the racks of beer and 
winemaking accessories along the walls. 
A rack of wines from Marabella's winery stood 
in the middle of the room, and was supplemented by a display of gallon glass jugs of 
Marabella wine along one wall. 
At length the customer made his purchase and left, and I walked over to the 
counter. 
I asked Mr. Marabella if a lot of his customers were occupied with beer 
brewing and he said that a large percentage was, that this was what the younger 
customers were doing, and that only the older customers continued to make their own 
wine. 
I asked Mr. Marabella if it would be okay to set up the tape recorder in the 
showroom while we talked, and he agreed. 
At first I thought that he was being a bit 
standoffish, but later I realized that he is most likely more than a little shy. 
While 
I set up the tape recorder, Mr. - Marabella asked me if I needed a electric outlet for it. 
I told him that I didn't, but he disappeared to look for an extension cord, anyway. 
While I was in the showroom alone, a young man came in, who I later found out is Mr. 
Marabella's son, and looking at the tape recorder asked me, with an amused air of 
disbelief, 'Are you going to record him?' 
When I told him yes, he replied, chuckling, 
'Good luck.' 
Mr. Marabella came back with a cord, so I plugged the tape recorder into it 
anyway. 
Before we got started, however, an elderly woman came in with a strong 
Yugoslavian accent. 
She said to Mr. Marabella that her sister had told her that he sold 
sulfur for fumigating. 
He asked her whether she wanted sulfer sticks or pellets, and 
then demonstrated to her how they should be used. 
He asked after the woman's husband, 
and expressed sympathy when she told him that her husband had died several months ago. 
Later, after she left, Mr. Marabella told me that her husband used to be one of his 
customers, but had had to give up winemaking after he got too feeble. 
The interview got off slowly, but Mr. Marabella relaxed and grew more expansive 
as it went on. 
Toward the end, a policeman in uniform entered and started asking Mr. 
Marabella about the winery. 
The policeman told us that he had just moved to Los Angeles 
from San Francisco, and that.he had always been fascinated by winemaking. 
It had been 
his dream for a while to open a small winery, but that there was no way that you could 
afford to get into the business today. 
During the course of the interview, Mr. Marabella told me that he produces his 
wines from his own grapes, which he grow on leased land in Cucamonga. 
He said that his 
shop was only open on Fridays and Saturdays at this time of the year, and that he was in 
Cucamonga for the rest of the week preparing for the harvest. 
I asked him if it would 
be okay for us to come out and photograph his operation in Cucamonga, to which he 
agreed. 
I asked Mr. Marabella for suggestions of other people in the Italian community 
that we might talk to. 
He seemed stumped for a moment, then said that if we really 
wanted to talk to someone who knows a lot about Italian-American culture, then we should 
talk to one of his customers, who comes in every Saturday around noon before going to 
play bocce with a couple of other men. 
At this my ears pricked up, since we had been 
looking for examples of bocce playing. 
Shortly after this, David Taylor came into the shop and reintroduced himself to 
Mr. Marabella. 
Then the gentlemen that Mr. Marabella had just told me about entered the 
shop. 
He introduced himself as Frank Pontillo, and when I asked him, told us that he 
did indeed play bocce every Saturday with several men belonging to the Verona Bocce 
Club. 
I asked whether they played on grass or courts, he vigorously asserted that they 
played on courts, of course, and suggested that we come by at about one o'clock, and 
gave us directions to the court on Miraflora Street. 
I had another interview at one, 
but David said that he could come at that time. 
Before leaving I made sure to buy a bottle of Mirabella's "Dago Red" wine. 
T IAW-DD-F072289.C= 
I had just enough time to run back to the hotel for 
the copying equipment before driving to Tony's TV Sales and Service on Gaffey 
Street for my interview with Tony Pirozzi. 
Mr. Pirozzi had told me that he 
had a lot of photographs that would be worth copying, so I had thought I would 
try to do this immediately after our interview. 
I entered the shop and heard Mr. Pirozzi conversing in Italian with 
someone else. 
I entered far enough to look into the adjoining shop space and 
found him talking with a younger, athletic-looking man in his forties, who was 
introduced to me as Mr. Pirozzi's partner in his musical productions, Dominic 
Manghesi. 
The two were standing in the shop space that I had earlier thought 
was primarily for storage, but as I looked closer this time I saw that there 
were soccer-related items such as balls, t-shirts, and pennants in a glass-
counter around the corner from the opening between the two shops. 
Later, Mr. 
Pirozzi told me that this half of the store had been exclusively a soccer shop 
up until a few years ago, and his entire operation was advertised as Tony's TV 
and Soccer. 
He mentioned that a photographer had taken a photo of the front 
of the store a few years ago, and that it had been printed in a book along 
with the caption: "TV and Soccer: Only in California!" 
I had intended to use the Sennheiser external microphones for the 
interview, but there was so much street noise penetrating the shop, even after 
I asked the two men to close the front door, that I decided to use a lavaliere 
microphone on Mr. Pirozzi. 
We set up the interview in front of the glass 
counter of soccer items, with Tony sitting on a rickety chair with uneven legs 
while I sat on a sofa that looked like it could have come out of an old 
Volkswagon bus. 
While we talked, Mr. Manghesi leaned on the glass counter, or 
paced to the other side of the room and back, smoking a cigarette all the 
while. 
Although the interview was primarily with Mr. Pirozzi, Mr. Manghesi 
would interject a comment now and then, and once, while Mr. Pirozzi had to 
answer the phone, I questioned Mr. Manghesi on his own background and 
association with Mr. Pirozzi in their music productions. 
Both men evinced a strong sense of pride in Italian culture, by which 
they seemed to be talking primarily of Italian popular culture. 
They book 
Italian entertainers for their semiannual shows through an agent, and these 
tend to be popular recording artists, both contemporary ones and those popular 
ten or fifteen years ago. 
Mr. Pirozzi acts as the emcee at these shows. 
During the interview, Mr. Pirozzi spoke movingly about his sense of 
elation when he put on the first of his concerts in the 1960s, and the 
audience broke into applause as he stepped up to the microphone and began 
speaking Italian. 
After the interview was over, he mentioned how much it 
meant to him to be interviewed for this project, and how he saw it as a type 
of vindication for all of the work that he had done to promote Italian culture 
in the community. 
It seemed apparent from Mr. Pirozzi's depiction of each of his 
successive ventures--initiating an Italian radio program, a soccer team, 
showing films of Italian soccer matches, obtaining a satellite dish so the 
Italian matches could be viewed live, and more recently his productions with 
Manghesi--that he acts as a type of catalyst in the community, or at any rate 
sees himself in that role. 
As he explained it, once one of his ideas has 
taken hold, he moves on to another one. 
Mr. Pirozzi apologized for not having the photographs that he had 
promised me, but said he had looked for them without success. 
Before leaving, 
I arranged with him for Ken Light and I to visit while he was recording one of 
his radio programs in order to take photographs. 
While he was giving 
directions to his house, he mentioned that he lived up on the hill, and that 
he had bought the house from an old Italian man, back in the 1960s. 
He said 
that one day while his wife and children were pulling weeds in the backyard, 
he saw what they were pulling up and stopped them, exclaiming, 
'Don't you know 
what that is? 
That's finocchio.' 
At that time, it was impossible to find 
fresh fennel in the store. 
This must have been left from some seeds that the 
previous owner had planted. 
_]A(o -- 1b - 
Rc 
F`? . 
-() i 
T IAW-DD-F072289.D= 
After leaving Tony Pirozzi's store, I decided to drive 
over to the bocce courts that Frank Pontillo had given us directions for, to 
see if anything was still going on. 
When I came to the place where the court 
was supposed to be, I was confused at first because there was nothing to be 
seen but a stand of banana trees planted in a patch roughly fifty feet square. 
Once I stopped my car, however, I heard voices from behind the banana trees, 
and when I went over to investigate I discovered David Taylor sitting and 
joking with three older men in a delapidated wooden shed at one end of a 
single bocce court. 
As I approached, they greeted me warmly, and David 
introduced me to the last three members of the Verona Bocce Club: Frank 
Pontillo, Pasquale D'Ambrose, and Fred Arduini. 
They invited me to join them 
in a beer, and Pasquale pulled a brown bottle of Lucky's beer from a white 
styrofoam cooler. 
The three men informed me with good humor that they had been teaching 
David how to play bocce, and that he had the makings of a fine player. 
When 
asked if I knew how to play, I answered that I had often played the lawn 
version of the game as a child,•but had never played on a court. 
'Entirely 
different game,' they assured me. 
As David had them recount for my benefit, the Verona Bocce Club is 
forty-five years old, and one time had nearly fifty members. 
The founding 
members were from Verona, hence the name. 
From this, and subsequent 
assertions by the three men, it appeared that there was an older Italian 
population of San Pedro with a large percentage of northern Italians that were 
later supplanted by the immigration of Sicilians and Ischiatani. 
The once-a-week meeting of the club is a longstanding tradition. 
They 
told us that 'in the old days' it was an all-day outing, including a picnic 
put up by the members' wives. 
The court itself certainly looks like it has 
seen better days. 
It probably could have accomodated fifty men in it heyday, 
but now only one of two courts is still used, the other overgrown with weeds. 
The men told us that you used to have to arrive early in the morning if you 
wanted to be sure of getting on a court right away. 
As it turned out, of the three, only Pasquale D'Ambrose actually lived 
in San Pedro. 
Fred Arduini used to live in San Pedro, but now he is 
apparently living in some kind of retirement home in Torrance, and from the 
sound of it, is having a hard time making ends meet. 
In contrast, Frank 
Pontillo seems to be a fairly prosperous retiree, who lives in Los Angeles and 
comes down to San Pedro every Saturday specifically to play bocce. 
Originally 
from upstate New York, he moved to California in the 1950s, and hasn't missed 
a meeting of the club whenever he has been at home since that time. 
After talking for about fifteen minutes, the three men urged David and 
me to have a try at the game. 
As they had promised, the feel of the game 
played on a dirt court is entirely different, and the strategy involved in 
playing the ball off of the sidewalls adds even more interest. 
It took me 
about five rounds before I began to get a feel for it. 
After David and I had blundered our way through a game, the men played a 
game of their own. 
Mr. D'Ambrose played at the west end of the court by the 
wooden covering, or shed; while Mr. Arduini played at the other end. 
Mr. 
Pontillo played both ends of the court against each of the other two, walking 
back and forth between each round. 
I thought it might be nice to have a recording of the game, and ran back 
out to my car to get the recording equipment. 
I didn't have a windscreen with 
me, so I had to improvise with spare sock that I was using as extra cushioning 
in the microphone bag. 
While I recorded, accompanying Mr. Pontillo from one 
end of the court to the other on each round, David took pictures. 
I was happy 
b-b - 
F 
o,-7 6q , 
-6 , 
a? 
that I had decided to record, as the commentary in Italian as the players 
urged their balls into place was fascinating. 
After they finished playing, Mr. Pontillo gave a long explanation (on 
tape) of a drinking game that used to accompany the playing of bocce. 
From 
this he moved to a discussion of the Italian finger game, marra (sp?), which 
he demonstrated with Mr. D'Ambrose. 
Soon after this, Mr. Pontillo and Mr. D'Ambrose both announced that they 
had to leave, and David and I both packed up our gear also. 
The two men left 
before us, and as we walked to our car, Mr. Arduini accompanied us part of the 
way, talking about his living situation some more, and complaining that the 
city did more for new immigrants than they did for people who had lived there 
all their lives. 
David and I decided to drive over to the park where we had been told 
that people from the Italian-American club played bocce, but when we got there 
everyone had left. 
Later, Ken told us that he and Paola had photographed the 
group there, large adolescents, and non-Italian speaking. 
T IAW-DD-F072389.A= 
I had arranged for Ken Light to take photographs of 
Tony Pirozzi while he was recording his Italian radio program during my visit 
with him yesterday. 
Ken and John Williams went to photograph a soccer game 
earlier in the morning, so I had arranged to meet them there and take them 
over to the Pirozzis' home. 
As it turned out, the directions that the soccer players had given Ken 
were not very clear, and it took me longer than I had expected to find the 
field, which turned out to be in Palos Verdes rather than San Pedro. 
Even so, 
we arrived at the Pirozzi home only five minutes late. 
The Pirozzis live in a 
ranch-style home in a residential neighborhood west of Western Ave. 
According 
to the map of San Pedro that David got from the Chamber of Commerce, the 
neighborhood is just within the boundaries of Palos Verdes. 
I would 
characterize it as upper-middle-class, as opposed to the upper-upper-middle-
class homes a little farther up the hill. 
The three-car driveway was occupied by a sedan and a new pickup truck, 
which I nipped in-between, while Ken parked his car on the street. 
A two-car 
garage fronted the street, separated from the rest of the house by a 
breezeway. 
The front door was open, but blocked by a screen door with a heavy 
layer of grill work. 
I went up to the door, followed by John, while Ken got 
his equipment together, but before I got to the bell, the door was opened by a 
smiling Mr. Pirozzi, who welcomed us inside and introduced John and me to his 
wife, Filomena, and to one of his sons, Anthony, who owned the pickup truck 
outside. 
The introductions were punctuated by the barking of a large German 
Shepherd in the backyard, who could see us through the sliding glass doors 
that opened onto the back. 
In order to get the dog to stop barking, Mr. 
Pirozzi went over and pulled the curtains. 
Mr. Pirozzi showed me his "recording studio," while John conversed with 
Mrs. Pirozzi. 
Two televisions were sitting on a work table next to a stereo 
deck, one of the televisions was showing an Italian soccer game and the other 
some American situation comedy. 
As Ken joined us, Mr. Pirozzi pointed proudly 
to the $600 shortwave radio he had purchased back in the 1950s, which got him 
started on his broadcasting avocation, and then by way of contrast pointed out 
the satellite dish that occupied much of his backyard. 
While Ken set up for the photographs, I went back into the kitchen where 
John and Mrs. Pirozzi were talking. 
I asked her if she ever expected that her 
husband's activities would get him recognized by the Library of Congress, and 
she replied in good humor that she never knew where his enthusiasms would take 
him. 
The Pirozzis' son, Anthony, came into the kitchen, and asked about the 
project with great interest. 
I went back out to the car to fetch a copy of 
the AFC newsletter describing the project, as well as the project handout, and 
gave these to Anthony, who read them on the spot. 
I mentioned to Mrs. Pirozzi and Anthony that we would like Ken to take a 
family portrait of the three of them after he was finished photographing Mr. 
Pirozzi. 
At this, Mrs. Pirozzi expressed disappointment that her other three 
children were not present, and offered to call them up and tell them to come 
over. 
Anthony dissuaded her of the notion, pointing out that one of the 
children lived on the other side of town. 
By this time, Ken was, in fact, finished with photographing Mr. Pirozzi, 
so we assembled the three for a photograph in the den/recording studio. 
After 
this, Mrs. Pirozzi invited us to sit down with them and have a cup of coffee 
and some pastry. 
While we were sitting at the dining room table, Anthony 
asked some more about the project, and mentioned that he was planning to take 
a trip to New York City in September, and wondered if it would be possible for 
him to come to the Library of Congress to visit the Folklife Center. 
We 
assured him that his visit would be welcome, and the family then discussed the 
- 
b 
b - 
x 
O'7,23 E61-4, --•-
possibility of stopping in Washington en route to a planned vacation in Italy 
next summer. 
Mr. Pirozzi had found some photographs of the concerts that he and 
Dominic Manghesi had arranged in San Pedro , which he lended to me for copying. 
As we were packing up and making our departure , Mrs. Pirozzi came over and 
asked whether we wouldn 't like to also take photographs of her other three 
children , as they were sure to be disappointed that they hadn't been 
photographed. 
I agreed to do this, and asked whether we couldn't also borrow 
the Pirozzis' wedding'picture , which was hanging between the children 's photos 
on the wall in the living room. 
After she took the photos down from the walls and removed them from 
their frames , we said our final goodbyes and left. 
-
3-
A _ 
Ub- F07,-:•3• 
T IAW-DD-F072389 .B= 
After leaving the Pirozzi family, John Williams joined 
me for my scheduled interview with Andrea Briguglio, the fish peddler that I 
had met during a visit to the fish wholesalers on Signal Place. 
We drove to 
his home at the corner of 18th and Cabrillo Streets, and found a long, low, 
ranch house , surrounded by brick and cinder block walls on all sides. 
In the 
front of the house, the wall was about three feet high, topped by an 
ornamental iron fence. 
Between this wall and the house was a series of small 
vegetable gardens . At the west side of the house, next to the garage, an 
eight-foot high cinder block wall with a ironwork gate enclosed a concrete 
space where Briguglio"s fish truck was parked. 
We went up to the front door, which was open but protected by a grilled, 
screen door similar to the one at the Pirozzi home, and rang the doorbell. 
After a pause, Mr. Briguglio appeared at the door with a grin on his face, and 
exclaimed , 'You came! 
Good!' 
He welcomed us inside , to an amazing living. 
room . The floor was covered 
with white marble tile , identical to the type I had seen at the Battaglia 
company showroom. 
An elaborate Louis XVI living room set dominated the room, 
upholstered with white satin that was protected by clear plastic slip covers. 
Two porcelein chandaliers completed the picture. 
Mr. Briguglio showed us through an adjoining kitchen to a den or 
playroom in the back , where a television set was blaring away. 
As I set up 
the recording equipment , we explained once again that we were trying to 
document aspects of Italian heritage in San Pedro. 
Mr. Briguglio's eyes lit 
up, and he said , 'if you want the Italian heritage , I have something here that 
no one else in San Pedro has--a Sicilian bread oven.' 
It turned out that he 
had decided to build a traditional forno in his yard, and planned to have it 
ready for its first firing the following weekend. 
While he took John out to 
see the forno, I finished setting up the recording equipment. 
The two men returned inside, and John confirmed the fact that Mr. 
Briguglio's forno was certainly worth documenting. 
I asked Mr . Briguglio if 
we could turn off the television set, and we began the interview. 
In all, I felt that the interview was extremely successful, with very 
good information about the way in which Mr. Briguglio obtained his business, 
how he learned his route , his strategies for selling fish and dealing with 
customers , and his relation with the fish wholesalers . While the interview 
was going on, his wife , Margherita , joined us . In contrast to Mr . Briguglio's 
strong Sicilian accent, she spoke with a California accent, and I assumed that 
she was a second-generation Italian until I asked her where she was born, and 
she replied that she had been born in Terasini and had immigrated with her 
family as a child. 
This opened up a whole other area of conversation about 
the couple 's courtship, the restrictions the family had placed upon them, the 
role of the families in brokering marriages, chaperonage , as well as conflicts 
arising from class distinctions and family obligations . It transpired that 
Mr. Briguglio was a first cousin of Frank Briguglio, whose sister , in turn,, is 
married to Al Golleti , one of the wealthier Italian families in San Pedro. 
The two families have had their share of conflicts, in which the wedding of 
Andrea and Margherita played a role. 
While the interview was going on, the Briguglios' six-year-old daughter, 
Joanna, came into the room and climbed up on her mother's chair. 
I was struck 
by the playful and loving relationship between the two. 
After a while, Mrs. 
Briguglio asked us if we would like some coffee, and when we said yes, went 
into the kitchen and returned shortly with the espresso that seems to 
invariably be equated with coffee in the Italian-American community here. 
Coffee means espresso ; the other is identified as "American coffee." 
.=Atv- -D-Tc 
?O t 3 a 
After the interview was finished, I packed up my equipment while John 
joined Mr. and Mrs. Briguglio in the kitchen, and then ducked outside to take 
a look at the forno and take a few photos of it. 
When I returned inside, Mr. 
Briguglio asked me whether I had been to see Frank Briguglio about his 
winemaking, and when I replied that I hadn't, he mentioned that Frank 
Briguglio had come to him, Andrea, for advice on winemaking. 
At this, John's 
ears pricked up, and he asked Mr. Briguglio about his own winemaking. 
Mr. 
Briguglio offered to let us taste his wine, and went to get a bottle. 
Both 
John and I agreed that the quality of his wine was noteworthy for homemade 
table wine. 
Somehow this evolved into a discussion of the pickled olives that 
Mr. Briguglio also puts up, and before I knew it, into an invitation to have 
lunch. 
Mrs. Briguglio boiled some pasta, which she served with homemade 
tomato sauce from the tomatoes in the garden, as well as some fried egglant. 
While we ate, Mr. Briguglio got onto the subject of his relationship 
with relatives in San Pedro once again. 
It appears that the difficulties 
stem, in part, from a controversy over some land in Sicily that is occupied by 
Mr. Briguglio's mother. 
According to him, when his parents returned to Sicily 
after deciding that they didn't want to stay in San Pedro, his relatives 
signed over the land to them for their own use. 
But a few years ago, one of 
the relatives returned to Sicily, and decided that he wanted to have a place 
of his own there, and decided to contest the granting of the land to Mr. 
Briguglio's mother. 
Apparently there has been a lot of behind-the-scenes 
maneuvering, which is known on both sides, but never acknowledged at family 
get-togethers in San Pedro. 
Before leaving, I asked Mr. Briguglio to show us around the garden, and 
was struck by the degree to which the garden serves the family in its home 
cuisine, thinking that a plan of the garden might prove useful for the 
project. 
Mr. Briguglio invited us to come to the first firing of the forno 
this coming Saturday, and I asked if it would be all right for the other 
members of the field team to come as well. 
He responded that everyone was 
welcome, and we departed with mutual expressions of good feelings--fueled in 
part, no doubt, by his excellent wine. 
T•IAW-DD-F072389.C= 
Grace Ciolino had told us about this party when Paola 
and I had interviewed her earlier in the week. 
From our somewhat sketchy 
information, it appeared that one of the members of Mary Star of the Sea 
Church, a man named Pino "Joe" Pizzo, had decided to give a party in honor of 
an Italian priest from Sicily. 
It was our understanding that this priest was 
returning to Italy after a stay in San Pedro, but I believe that the party 
was, in fact, to welcome the priest. 
I'm afraid that I didn't note the 
priest's name--for this, consult Paola's notes. 
Ken, John, David, and I arrived at the Italian-Club at about seven p.m., 
to find that no one had arrived yet. 
The party was to be preceeded by a mass 
at the church, which Paola had gone to attend. 
The only people present at the 
club were waiting to bring some sound equipment in, and were waiting for 
someone with a key to show up. 
We waited around for about ten minutes, and I suggested that we use to 
time to take a walk around the neighborhood. 
While returning to the club down 
the hill on Cabrillo Street s I noticed a patch of weeds by the side of the 
road that looked like it might have once been a garden, and noticed some 
fennel growing wild there. 
I thought of the story that Tony Pirozzi had told 
me about his children pulling up fennel in the abandoned garden of their new 
home. 
We returned to the club and found that people were just beginning to 
arrive from the church. 
Ken began photographing the people greeting each 
other on the sidewalk outside of the club. 
Soon Paola arrived, and David and 
I went over to greet her. 
Several members of the Ciolino family walked by, 
and greeted us warmly. 
Inside the club, the main room was now arranged with rows of tables, 
festooned with balloons and paper ribbons. 
Two large signs, one in English 
and one in Italian, welcomed the Sicilian priest. 
We mingled, a little 
aimlessly, for a while, until Paola came over with the president of the 
Italian-American Club and introduced him to us. 
I pretty much stood in the 
background and happily let David and John explain the project. 
A short while 
later, the president returned with a very fashionably dressed woman, who he 
introduced as one of the officers in the Italian Catholic Federation. 
I 
commented to Paola on the woman's fingernails--the nails of her ring fingers 
on each hand were embellished with a finely drawn filigree of silver lines and 
tiny sequins. 
Paola told me she had seen this on several women, and had heard 
that there was a Japanese woman in San Pedro who did this. 
We were seated at a table across from two woman, one elderly and one in 
her forties, who seemed to be with a man who wandered back over to the two 
periodically. 
As it turned out, the older woman was from New York and was now 
living in Poughkeepsie, and visiting her niece, the younger woman--who was 
originally from Pennsylvania. 
We talked for a while about places in the 
Poughkeepsie area that we were both familiar with, then the president of the 
club came back to our table and announced that dinner was being served and,we 
should join the serving line. 
The dinner was served buffet-style on several tables set out in front of 
the stage. 
It consisted largely of different types of antipasta and cold 
cuts, as well as homemade rolls. 
We all commented on the pickled salmon that 
was part of the antipasta, and which was very similar to the pickled salmon 
that John and I had sampled at the Briguglio's home. 
We were told that the 
dinner had been provided by Pino Pizzo's wife. 
After everyone had eaten at their respective tables, the president of 
the club got up on stage and introduced the guest of honor. 
All of the 
presentations from the stage were made in Italian (formal Italian, I think, as 
-1= o'7
•-
opposed to the Sicilian dialect--but I'm not sure, check Paola's notes on 
this). 
Just before the presentation began, the older woman sitting across the 
table from us discovered that there was another person in the room from her 
home village in Italy, and they were having a conversation across three tables 
when the club president called for silence. 
The Sicilian priest gave a short speech of thanks , and then began 
talking about how he worked at a children 's home in Sicily and had found that 
it was useful to know a few magic tricks to keep the children entertained, and 
that he wanted to offer a few tricks for our entertainment . While he spoke in 
Italian, Paola translated for me, but as he began displaying his magic tricks, 
her running translation faded away. 
For the most part, it was hardly 
necessary , as the tricks depended largely on visual sight gags. 
There were a 
series of card tricks , followed by a series of handkerchief tricks. 
The 
priest called on children from the audience several times. 
The trick that got 
the biggest laugh involved an adolescent girl and a set of fortune cards that 
prompted the girl to give the priest two big kisses --which was quickly 
circumvented by the priest offering his cheek for two quick , cheek-brushing, 
continental kisses. 
At length the magic show concluded, and the sound crew we had seen 
outside the club began preparations for a discotheque -style dance , which we 
had been told was the common form of dancing at the club . By this point, all 
of the fieldworkers were feeling worn out, so we made our goodbyes to the 
various officials in the room and left for the hotel. 
T IAW-DD-F072489.A= 
I had hoped that Ken Light could come with me to 
photograph Tony Marabella working at his vineyards at Cucamonga, but Russell 
had gotten word that there was likely to be a load of fish coming into the 
canneries this morning, and we all agreed that it would be more useful for Ken 
to stay in San Pedro for this possibility. 
John had expressed interest in 
seeing Marabella's operation, so the two of us drove through the morning 
freeway traffic out to Cucamonga, about fifty miles east of San Pedro, at the 
foot of the San Gabriel mountains. 
Around nine o'clock, as we approached Foothills Road, where Mr. 
Marabella had told us to exit the freeway, the mountains were barely visible, 
floating above a smoky haze. 
An hour later, they could no longer be seen 
through the veil of smog, though only a mile or two distant. 
This valley, 
though many signs of its agricultural past remain, has become a heavily 
industrialized extension of the Los Angeles sprawl. 
It seemed that heavy 
metal operations, both scrap metal and fabrication, dominated, and we passed 
acres of sprawling factories on either side of the freeway. 
After exiting onto Foothills Road, and passing under the freeway, 
Marabella's vineyards were immediately visible to our left. 
We make a U-turn 
as he had told me to do, at the turn for a bar--a barn that had been painted a 
garish pink, with a large sign advertising the "Cowgirl Revue -- Topless 
Drama." 
Indeed. 
At first I wasn't sure that anyone was in the vineyard, as I turned onto 
the dirt track beside a large concrete flood-control culvert. 
The vines were 
not staked, as I had expected to see, instead, the vines grew in individual 
low clumps. 
We rattled over the dirt track for about three hundred yards, 
until I finally caught a glimpse of two trucks parked down a sidetrack, back 
toward the freeway. 
We drove down behind them and parked, and opened our 
doors as Mr. Marabella straightened his back and waved to us from the row he 
was working on next to two Hispanic men. 
We went over to greet him, and he 
expressed satisfaction that we were able to find the vineyard without 
difficulty. 
He told us that he and the two men were tying up the vines so the 
grapes wouldn't touch the ground. 
He told us that the yield had been 
especially high this year, in spite of the fact that there hadn't been much 
rain--it had rained at just the right time. 
Normally they wouldn't have to 
tie up the vines they way they were doing, but if they didn't, the grapes 
touching the ground would rot. 
I asked Mr. Marabella if I could record him while we were talking, and 
when he agreed, I went back to the car for the recording equipment. 
I had 
planned to use the Senntek remote microphone for the recording, but discovered 
that the previous person who had used it had forgotten to turn off the 
transmitter, and the batteries had gone dead, and I, 
of course, had neglected 
to bring fresh batteries. 
So I was forced to use the Sennheiser microphone on 
a boom, improvising with a sock as a windscreen. 
As the day was dead calm, 
this seemed to work pretty well. 
Mr. Marabella paused in his work while we talked, and the two Hispanic 
men continued working their way up and down the rows. 
I was fairly satisfied 
with the interview. 
It contained a fair amount of interesting material on the 
cultivation of the grapes, the leasing arrangements for the land, Mr. 
Marabella's relations with his customers, and his observations on the changing 
popularities of types of wine. 
It was also very helpful to have John Williams 
present with his historical knowledge of the California wine industry. 
After we had talked for about forty-five minutes, I handed the tape 
recorder and microphone to John Williams, so I could take some photographs of 
the interview in the fields. 
Just as John finished the interview, the two 
Hispanic men--who turned out to be Mr. Marabella's full-time employees at the 
P
-0 
7' 
4, • 
vineyard -- returned to the two trucks and stood there waiting for us to finish. 
I asked Mr . Marabella whether they were waiting for him, and he said that they 
were waiting to be paid , that they usually worked only in the morning, because 
it got too hot in the afternoon . We walked over to join them, and I asked 
them if they would mind tying up a few more vines so I could take some 
photographs . They obliged me, and I quickly filled two rolls of film. 
We 
returned to the trucks, where Mr. Marabella was talking with John, and I got 
the names and addresses of the two men. 
The older of the two is Justine 
Garcia , 10260 24th St., Cucamonga ; the younger is Isidro Guerra, 1224 Myrtle 
Drive, Upland , CA 
91786 . I gave each man a copy of the center newsletter, 
and John explained to them in Spanish what the purpose of the project was. 
Mr. Marabella commented that he had no trouble communicating with the two men-
-he using Italian and they using Spanish. 
Before we left, Mr . Marabella asked if we were planning to visit any 
other wineries while we were in Cucamonga. 
He told us that the vineyards 
visible across the Foothills Road belonged to the .Regina Vinegar Company. 
He 
suggested that we visit the Galleano Winery in Mira Loma, a few miles from 
there. 
He mentioned that he sold grapes to this winery, and that the owner 
was a third-generation Italian winemaker. 
John expressed interest at this, so 
we agreed to pay Galleano a visit. 
We thanked Mr. Marabella, Mr. Guerra, and 
Mr. Garcia for their help, and left. 
Fo 7a 
T IAW-DD-F072489.B— 
After leaving Tony Marabella's vineyard, John and I drove over to 
the Galleano Winery in Mira Loma. 
As we drove up to the winery, John commented that it 
was similar in layout to many of the small wineries in northern California--a courtyard 
arrangement with the workshops and storage rooms to one side and a public tasting room 
at the other side of the courtyard. 
We were greeted by a middle-aged Hispanic woman as we entered the tasting room, 
who offered several wines for tasting. 
I deferred to John's more educated palate, but 
didn't shy away from the tasting, nonetheless. 
After we had sampled a number of the 
Galleano wines, and John had commented on the honesty of the owner, who had posted index 
cards above each of the wines displayed on a central rack, with a frank appraisal of its 
merits and deficiencies, we explained our project to the woman. 
We thought we were 
unlikely to get any further when she told us that the owner was busy at the moment, but 
in a few minutes a man in his late thirties or early forties entered the tasting room, 
and the woman introduced him to us as the owner, Don Galleano. 
John explained the project to Mr. Galleano, and mentioned that we had been 
visiting Tony Marabella's vineyards. 
Galleano raised his eyebrows, and commented, 'Old 
Tony's an interesting character--he has some odd notions about wine.' 
John told him 
that we were interested in home winemaking as well as commercial winemaking because of 
its connection with Italian heritage, and that we were interested in finding out more 
about the Galleano family to see whether it had its roots in this tradition as well. 
At 
first I thought that Mr. Galleano was going to brush us off, but after a pause, he told 
us that he couldn't see us right then, but why didn't we go get a bite to eat, and come 
back in an hour, and he would be able to talk with us then. 
We thanked him, and John asked for a suggestion of a place to eat. 
Mr. Galleano 
recommended a restaurant called the Magic Lamp in Cucamonga, telling us to mention his 
name to the owner. 
We drove back to Cucamonga and found the place, a businessmen's 
luncheon/wedding reception type of restaurant. 
When we returned from lunch, Mr. Galleano brought us on a quick tour of the 
winery operations, and I tried to snap some photos along the way, though I'm doubtful 
whether they will come out because of the difficult lighting situation. 
In the packing 
room, Mr. Galleano showed us a number of custom labels for restaurants, vineyards that 
supply him with grapes, and even for the local Chamber of Commerce. 
Galleano bottles 
the wines for these customers and puts their labels on the bottles. 
Mr. Galleano then took us into an office by the side of the tasting room. 
John 
asked him whether his family had any connection with the Guasti family, who had run the 
important Italian Wine Company in the area in the nineteenth and early twentieth 
centuries. 
In reply, Mr. Galleano pulled out several albums of mounted photographs that 
were taken of the Guasti family and their operations. 
These appeared to be original 
prints, a number of them were excellent in quality, and depicted the operations of 
harvesting, stemming and crushing, etc., 
While John and Mr. Galleano talked, I borrowed 
the two books and brought them outside, where I photographed a number using the macro 
lens in natural light. 
It took me perhaps half an hour to finish copying the photographs, and then I 
returned inside the office where John was busily talking notes. 
Just as we were about 
to depart, a knock came on the office door, and Tony Marabella entered. 
He expressed a 
little surprise at seeing the two of us still there, and there was some good-natured 
joking between Marabella and Galleano on each other's winemaking techniques. 
They both 
asked us if we planned to visit other wineries, and suggested that we drive south to 
Temecula, where there are about ten small wineries and vineyards in a small area, some 
with Italian connections. 
John thought this might be a good idea, and I agreed, 
especially after Marabella and Galleano both pointed out that we would get stuck in the 
freeway traffic if we went straight back to San Pedro anyway. 
So we drove to Temecula--another fifty miles or so, and arrived at the wineries 
there at about four-thirty. 
John had said that he suspected that this was one of the 
newer wine areas developed under consultation with UCLA's research program into micro-
climates, and it turned out, in fact, that the vineyards here were only twenty years 
old. 
We stopped at the Callaway Winery out of curiosity to see if it was connected with 
the Callaway family of Coca-Cola fame, and because Galleano had mentioned that the chief 
winemaker there was Italian. 
We were a little put off by the winetasting fee and the 
souvenir wineglasses, but paid the fee anyway, leaving after finding out that it was, 
indeed, the Coca-Cola Callaways. 
rA
- w 6-Pd`7•y6ct. 3, a 
We made one last visit at a winery across the road that appeared to have 
interesting stone buildings, but these turned out to be ersatz construction housing a 
fancy restaurant specializing in the winery's home champagnes. 
By now ready to give the 
rest of the Temecula wineries a miss, we headed back to San Pedro. 
TIAW-DD-F072589.A= 
John Royal, the president of the Fishermen's Union, 
was one of the people that John Barbieri suggested as an informant. 
When I 
contacted Mr. Royal by phone last week he told me that he couldn't meet with 
me until today, because he had to travel to Washington, D.C. 
I arrived at the 
Fishermen's Union office at ten o'clock, and was greeted by a secretary, who 
told me apologetically that Mr. Royal was on the phone at the moment, but 
would be with me shortly. 
She offered me a chair, and I glanced through a 
number of newsletters by various fishermen's organizations on the West Coast 
of the U. S. and Canada. 
After five minutes or so, the secretary came over to 
ask me if I'd like a cup of coffee. 
Remembering that I had left both the 
interview release forms and the project handouts in the car, I told that I 
would love a cup of coffee, but I also wanted to run out to my car for a 
moment. 
When I returned, the door to Mr. Royal's office was open, and a slender, 
silver-haired man in his fifties was standing in front of the open door 
talking to the two secretaries in the office. 
He turned to me and welcomed me 
with a firm handshake, apologizing as he did so for keeping me waiting. 
As he 
ushered me into his office, he also apologized for not having been able to see 
me the previous week, asserting that he was anxious to help in any way he 
could, and had certainly not been trying to put me off. 
Mr. Royal's office, like the reception area outside, is fairly spartan, 
with cinder-block walls and simple furniture. 
Behind his desk at the east end 
of the room is a display of photographs and certificates on the wall, 
including a sentimental print of a young man standing behind the wheel of a 
boat, with the figure of Christ standing behind him, covering the boy's hands 
on the wheel with his own. 
This print was placed directly behind Mr. Royal's 
chair. 
To the right was a photograph of a man who Mr. Royal later identified 
as  
, the organizer of the Longshoremen's Union. 
I was a little 
surprised to see a photograph of Ronald Reagan on the left-hand side of the 
wall. 
Later, Mr. Royal told me that Reagan had appointed him to the 
International Fisheries Commission, and added that only the Republican 
administrations had ever appointed him to any national commissions--ironic 
because he himself had been a lifelong Democrat. 
At the other end of the room was a conference table that could seat 
about eight people, and I suggested that we conduct the interview here. 
Mr. 
Royal offered me a cup of coffee, which I accepted, and as he perused the 
project handout, I set up the recording equipment. 
The interview lasted about an hour-and-a-half, and elicited much 
important information, on the development of the fishing industry in San Pedro 
during Mr. Royal's lifetime, on the relations between fishermen of different 
ethnicities, on the changing composition of the Italian-American community, 
and on the effect of technological innovations. 
I found the most absorbing 
part of the interview to be the story of Mr. Royal's own family, which is 
virtually a saga of the labor movement in America during the twentieth-
century. 
His father, Achille Reale, who anglicized his name to Archie Royal, 
but who was better-known by his nickname, "Jumbo," immigrated to the Colorado 
coalfields shortly before the Ludlow Massacre. 
He subsequently pursued 
homesteading in Colorado and was harrassed by the Ku Klux Klan, and later 
moved to San Pedro, where he was instrumental in organizing the Longshoremen's 
Union. 
His son, John, later organized the Fishermen's Union. 
While Mr. Royal was able to give much detailed information about his 
father's life, he suggested that we also interview his mother, who is still 
living, and who has a lot of photographs going back to the family's time in 
Colorado. 
We arranged it that Mr. Royal would check with his mother, and that 
I would call back for an interview time. 
I took a few photographs of Mr. Royal sitting behind his desk. 
While 
doing this, I noticed that he had a small ship-in-a-bottle on his desk, and 
that the ship was constructed from the cut-up pieces of his business cards. 
I 
took a few pictures of this, but noticing that Mr. Royal was anxiously 
glancing at his watch, I apologized for taking so much of his time. 
He, in 
turn, apologized for having to end, but that he had a lunch meeting at twelve 
(and by now it was 11:55). 
I quickly packed up my equipment, thanked Mr. 
Royal for his help, and left. 
TIAW-DD-F072589.B= 
When I returned to the hotel after my interview with 
John Royal, David told me that Russell and Ken had managed to arrange a trip 
on one of the fishing boats, and that they would be leaving this afternoon. 
David had another interview scheduled, so he asked me if I could drive Russell 
and Ken to the docks and take some photographs of their departure on the 
boat. 
After lunch and some note writing, Russell and Ken came to my room, 
complete with anti-seasickness patches behind their ears. 
We drove to the 
dock and walked over to the boat they were going out on, the St. George II. 
Nobody was around yet, which Russell assured us was quite normal around the 
fishing docks, where things take place in their own good time. 
While Ken and 
I lounged against one of the huge piles of tarpaulin-covered nets, Russell 
noticed that another one of the boats was getting ready to go out, and went 
over to chat with its fishermen, who he had already gotten to know. 
After about half-an-hour, two of the fishermen from the St. George II 
drove up alongside the dock, and started unloading bags of groceries and two 
gallon-jugs of wine. 
Russell went over and introduced himself to them 
(apparently the connection was made through other crew members), and they 
invited us aboard the boat. 
One of them, the boat's engineer, I think, showed us into the ships 
tight little galley, where there was a gas stove, a small table that could 
comfortably seat four or five people, and on the wall at one end of the table 
a wooden saints statue, I think of St. Anthony. 
On a shelf in the corner of 
the room was a small television set and videorecorder, and a box of videotapes 
sat on the floor below it. 
By this time more crew members were arriving, one of them bringing his 
fifteen-year-old son with him for his first fishing trip--at the sight of whom 
both Russell and Ken's eyes lit up. 
One of the men started repairing the net 
piled up at the stern of the boat, and while Ken took pictures of this 
operation, I took photos of Ken photographing. 
Russell took out his notebook 
and straightway began getting the names of all the crew members, and began on 
an impromptu interview with one of the crew members, a young man in his 
twenties. 
While this was going on, the ship's captain came on board and we 
introduced ourselves to him. 
Several of the crewmen half-jokingly but with a 
solicitous air asked Russell and Ken whether they thought they might have 
problems with seasickness. 
Russell told them that they "had taken 
precautions" against this, but did not elaborate. 
The captain joined the 
other man at repairing the nets, while both Ken and I took some photos. 
Ken had me take a photo of him posed to take a photo, and then Russell 
came over to tell me that the boat was about to depart. 
I scrambled back on 
the dock, and clicked away as the boat pulled into the channel and headed out, 
feeling a little like I was sending my kids away to camp. 
-
=-,4c,
.- - 
h  - 
F-o'7,-72 s 
g 
1, c 
T IAW-DD-F072589.C= 
Paola had set up an evening interview with Phillip 
Mazzela, the president of the Italian-American Catholic Federation, and had 
asked me to accompany her. 
She was feeling pretty worn-out, and before we 
left she called Mr. Mazzela to doublecheck that he still wanted to do the 
interview (half-hoping that he would want to reschedule). 
We drove over to 
the Mazzela's home, located fairly high up the hill on 18th Street. 
I noted 
as we climbed up to the front door that the walkway was constructed of marble 
slabs. 
Mr. Mazzela, a dignified, white-haired man, met us at the door, 
apologizing for his casual appearance as he had just taken a shower. 
We were 
welcomed into a fairly formal living room, with the distinctive marble tile 
flooring that seems to be a hallmark of Italian-American homes in San Pedro. 
I wonder if the use of so much marble tiling depends on the presence of the 
Battaglia Marble Company. 
It will be interesting to see if homes at the other 
fieldwork sites also have marble tiling. 
Mr. Mazzela asked us where we would like to do the interview, and I 
suggested that we do it sitting around a table. 
He showed us into the 
kitchen, and I set up the Nagra. 
While I was doing this, Mrs. Mazzela came 
into the kitchen and Mr. Mazzela introduced us to her. 
She left soon after 
the interview began. 
This was a fairly low-energy interview, largely because both Paola and I 
were feeling pretty bushed. 
Mr. Mazzela detailed the activities of the 
Italian-American Catholic Federation in San Pedro, and its relation to the 
larger organization in California. 
From our perspective, the most interesting 
information involved the Federation's sponsorship of the observances 
surrounding the feast of St. Giovan Giuseppe della Croce, the patron saint of 
the Ischian portion of the Italian-American community. 
He was also able to 
contrast the local observances with the feast in Ischia, which he has attended 
a number of times, the last within several years. 
During the interview Mr. Mazzela mentioned that the secretary of the 
Federation has a scrapbook with photographs of the feast in San Pedro going 
back for forty years. 
He•also mentioned that one of the men in the 
organization has made a videotape of the feast. 
After the interview, while 
Paola and I were speaking with Mrs. Mazzela, Mr. Mazzela went to phone the 
secretary of the Federation to see if it would be possible for us to copy some 
of the photographs in the scrapbook. 
He came back to the kitchen, and 
commented briefly, 
'well that didn't work out.' 
He didn't elaborate. 
He did 
tell us, however, that he would try to obtain the videotape for us. 
Before leaving, I asked Mr. Mazzela if I could take his photograph, and 
suggested that we do this in the living room. 
While passing through the 
dining room at the northeast corner of the house, I commented on the truly 
spectacular view through the rooms corner windows. 
I took several photographs 
of Mr. Mazzela seated formally on a couch beneath a painting (I can't remember 
the subject.) 
I gathered up my equipment, and as I did so, the Mazzela's 
daughter and son-in-law entered the kitchen, and were introduced to us. 
Paola 
and I reiterated our thanks to Mr. Mazzela, as he showed us down the steep 
path to the street, urging us to be careful because the front light was out. 
TIAW-DD-F072689.A= 
I had arranged with John Royal to interview him and 
his mother together. 
I called this afternoon to set up the interview, and we 
agreed on 7:30 this evening. 
David decided to come along with me, and we 
drove over to Mrs. Royal's house together. 
I brought along copying equipment 
because Mr. Royal had told me that his mother had a number of old photographs. 
When we got to Mrs. Royal's home, we left the copying equipment in the car 
until we could find out what the situation,was. 
I fumbled with the latch on the iron gate in front of Mrs. Royal's 
bungalow, until Mr. Royal came to the door and told me how to release the 
catch. 
A heavy metal barricade door blocked entry to the front door of the 
house, and Mr. Royal unlocked it with a key to let us in. 
He greeted us 
warmly and introduced us to his mother, Albina Royal. 
Mrs. Royal is eighty-
five years old, and although she apologized numerous times during our visit 
for her poor memory, her memories seemed vivid to me. 
As it turned out, the copying equipment was superfluous, because Mrs. 
Royal had been unable to find the photographs that her son had mentioned to 
me. 
The two explained that"Mrs. Royal's home had been broken into about six 
months previously. 
Most of the stolen goods were recovered from the people 
living in the house directly across the street. 
Mrs. Royal and her son both 
complained about the deteriorating quality of the neighborhood. 
Mr. Royal 
also told us that he had confronted the thief who had been just released after 
a short prison sentence, and had warned him that "we Italians take care of our 
families in our own way," and that if anything happened to his mother, he, 
John, would come after the thief. 
"You're my mother's insurance policy," he 
told us he had told the thief. 
Before the interview, Mr. Royal took us outside to the backyard to see 
Mrs. Royal's garden. 
It is an interesting arrangement of two gardens, 
actually, with two outbuildings--one serving as a rental apartment, and one as 
a garage. 
According to Mrs. Royal, the lot directly behind hers was once 
vacant, and her husband made us of it for a very large garden, with which he 
supplied most of the neighborhood with vegetables. 
We were also interested to 
see a small shrine on a pole for a clothesline. 
The Royals then took us downstairs into the basement of the house 
John 
Royal told us that he and his father had excavated the basement by hand 
underneath the existing house. 
He said that they had run into a little bit of 
trouble with the building inspector, but that they had braced the house far 
beyond its structural requirements, so there had been no trouble in the end. 
The Royal's had excavated this space in order to create a place for 
socializing with family and friends. 
There was a separate kitchen area, a 
bar, and a large dining table with a side cupboard. 
A separate cellar room 
toward the front of the house contained Archie Royal's winemaking equipment, 
including a copper still that had been used to make grappa. 
The Royals 
acknowledged that this had been illegal, but that Archie Royal hadn't worried 
about it. 
Mrs. Royal told an amusing story of coming home one day and being 
able to smell the distilling process out in the street, but her husband had 
told her not to worry when she rushed down to the cellar to warn him. 
Both 
the Royals insisted that Archie Royal had not been afraid of anything. 
On the 
doorway to the winemaking room, was the framed property slip from the time 
that Archie Royal had been arrested for his activities with the Longshoremen's 
Union. 
The winemaking room itself was decorated with several girlie calendars 
from a local print shop. 
In the large party room was an arrangement of Archie 
and Albina Royal's wedding photographs. 
We interviewed the Royals in the front living room. 
The situation was a 
little problemmatic because I had to ask Mrs. Royal to turn off the ceiling 
fan because the tape recorder was picking up wind noise; and then we had to 
shut the front door because of the traffic noise. 
We took a break after the 
•, 
_ 
✓-
b- Fo 7,1•2r1-g. 4 
second reel of tape to cool off. 
The interview contains more detail about the life of Mrs. Royal's 
husband, Archie, who was involved in the Ludlow Massacre in Colorado, and who 
was one of the organizers of the Longshoremen's Union in San Pedro. 
From the 
accounts of his wife and son, his life had epic proportions. 
It's unfortunate 
that Mrs. Royal was unable to furnish us with any photographs. 
I did arrange, 
however, to return with Ken to photograph the wedding pictures and the garden. 
Before leaving,'I asked if the Royals still had any relatives in 
Colorado for possible future interviewing. 
The only remaining relative there 
is Mrs. Royal's nephew: Jimmy LeDonne, who works at the Rifle Creek Golf 
Course, Rifle, Colorado, and who is 72 years old. 
As we left, Mr. Royal warned us to be careful in going to our car. 
This 
raised some concern for the equipment we had left in the back, but we reached 
the unmolested car safely, and returned to the hotel. 
The gardens are located on Harbor Boulevard overlooking the fishing 
docks, adjacent to a Little League playing field. 
The plot of land is 
protected by a cyclone fence, but when we arrived, we discovered that there 
were two men working in the garden, and the sliding gateway to the fence was 
unlocked. 
We let ourselves in and began walking around. 
Neither of the two men 
working in their garden plots appeared to be paying us much attention, so we 
tacitly decided to reconnoiter a bit before approaching them. 
The large 
rectangular plot of land enclosed by the fence was clearly divided into 
individual gardens, each about ten feet wide and about twenty feet long. 
There were no distinctive signs of anything particularly Italian about the 
gardens until we got to the far end near the harbor. 
By one of the plots was 
a small wooden sign that read "Via - delle - palme." 
Here, too, there was a 
shed-like structure over a picnic table, with a sign reading "Casa 
dell'Amore." 
Its flimsy thatched (?) 
roof was surmounted with a cut out of a 
rooster. 
There was also a separate section of the garden that was blocked off by 
another section of fence with a locked gate. 
The plots we could see through 
the wire mesh appeared to be about, the size of the others in the garden, but 
this section was canted at an angle to accomodate a steep bank that dropped 
off just beyond the fence on the northeast side of the garden. 
While Ken took photographs, David and I approached one of the men 
working in his garden plot in the middle of the main section of the garden. 
We introduced ourselves and the project, and the man, who introduced himself 
as Bernie Barnett, seemed to grasp what we were up to right away. 
As it 
turned out, he is a member of the historical society in town. 
Mr. Barnett told us that the Italian community has been in decline for a 
long time. 
There used to be an Italian-American club about three blocks from 
our present location, he told us. 
He said the only active institutions he 
knew about were the Sons of Italy, and the Italian Catholic Federation. 
He 
told us that we should visit Isidore's Barber Shop near the bowling alley on 
8th Street, where a number of the older Italian men still congregate. 
We asked Mr. Barnett about the garden, and he told us that all of the 
Italians had plots in the fenced-off section at the far end. 
The caretaker of 
the garden is a man named Goffredo Momi, who owns the San Pedro Building 
Supply company on Channel Street. 
He told us that Mr. Momi came to San Pedro 
in 1948, and worked as a stonemason in town for many years. 
t
,, -bb - 
F
v V6 
•9, A, 3 
Mr. Barnett told us that the individuals with garden plots pay only 
twelve dollars a year for the privilege , which probably doesn't cover the cost 
of the water that is available to them. 
He told us that besides Mary Star of the Sea Church, there is also St. 
Peter's Church, which is attended largely by "Mexicans," but which is also 
attended by a number of older Italians. 
We asked Mr. Bainett whether the Italian garden plots had any 
distinctive crops . He said that he didn't really know, because he didn't get 
back to the Italian section of the garden. 
We asked about religious yard shrines in San Pedro, remarking that we 
had not seen any. 
He told us that there used to be a lot of yard shrines, but 
most of these were torn down during the 1960s . He said that this was 
because 
new people had bought the houses where such shrines were located. Could 
Vatican II also have had an influence here ? Mr. Barnett told us that he had 
noticed that there was still a house with a shrine somewhere near the San 
Pedro hospital. 
He told us that there had been a lot of controversy when the old Mary 
Star of the Sea Church had been torn down, but that the church had been 
growing and needed new facilities. 
We asked Mr . Barnett if he knew of any stone houses that had been built 
by local masons . He said that he didn't know of any, but that there was a 
famous old brick house that had belonged to the Langendorf family on the 
corner of 7th and Grand streets. 
Mr . Barnett's neighbor , a Yugoslavian man, 
built a "stone castle for his wife" on the corner of 19th Street and Walker 
Street. 
The man is a contractor , and is currently building a hotel in town. 
The house "looks ridiculous on the lot." 
He asked whether we had talked with Flora Baker or Art Almeida from the 
Historical Society , and David told him that he had been in touch with Flora 
Baker. 
He gave us Mr. Momi 's phone number : 548-1269. 
He noted that San Pedro is going through a lot of changes: people are 
moving out from Los Angeles. 
It used to be all family, but now it 's changing, 
with a lot of foreign investment. 
Mr. Barnett lives on 9th Street and Palos Verdes. 
He mentioned that there was a "real old Italian man" who did a lot of 
stonework in the San Pedro cemetery . Momi knows where all the stonework is, 
though . People are tearing out all the old stuff -- the original Gaffey house, 
which had a chapel built of adobe , had been torn down to build a new YMCA. 
A 
lot of the historical places are going, and nothing has been written down 
about them. 
We asked about the "Casa dell 'Amore ," and he told us that Mr. Momi had 
build it a few months ago--did it in one day. 
People usually come to work in their gardens in the evenings . There are 
a lot of Filipinos who have garden plots here as well , and they come and work 
in the gardens all day . (Mr. Barnett identified the other man working in his 
garden as Filipino). 
Mr. Momi is teaching a stonemason class at Harbor College, how to build 
_T,_AL'-1b-Fo 7,
-2 6Fq, 4 
brick and rock walls. 
Mr. Barnett is taking the course. 
I asked about the tile work at Mary Star of the Sea Church. 
Mr. Barnett 
thinks they brought in people from Italy to do that work. 
Momi's stonemasonry classs will be meeting at his building supply store 
this coming Saturday, from 9:00 to 12:00. 
The previous three classes were all 
held at the college. 
Mr. Barnett wants to built a compost pit. 
The status of the community gardens is uncertain. 
They won't 
appropriate money from the gardening fees for anything but water. 
There's 
supposed to be only one plot per person, but some have several, like the 
Filipinos. 
The soil was treated correctly--it's clayey, coarse soil. 
I asked about the Japanese dry farmers that we had heard used to have 
farms farther up the hill. 
Mr. Barnett said there is still one dry farmer 
left, who has a plot of land near the Salvation Army cadet training center in 
Palos Verdes--used to be Marineland. 
He has a little roadside stand. 
Raises 
flowers for the wholesale market. 
By this time, Ken had finished photographing, so David and I said goodby 
to Mr. Barnett. 
We decided to drive over to Mary Star of the Sea Church so 
Ken could take some interior photographs. 
We spent about a half-an-hour 
there, then drove over to check out the barber shop that Mr. Barnett told us 
about. 
We found it by the bowling alley, and went inside to find three men 
waiting their turn. 
A sign on one of the walls identified the barber as 
Isidoro Colonna. 
We sat and waited until Mr. Colonna was finished cutting the 
hair of the person in the barber's chair, and then David went over and 
introduced himself. 
Mr. Colonna was willing for Ken to photograph him, but 
the person who was next to have his hair cut didn't want his photograph taken, 
so Mr. Colonna suggested that we come back later. 
We thanked him and returned 
to the hotel. 
FO 
, 
TIAW-DD-F072789.B= 
David and I drove over to Fiorentino's marine sales to 
catch up with Russell, who had gone there that morning to interview Mr. 
Fiorentino. 
We found the two in the back, where Mr. Fiorentino was cleaning 
off a stovetop. 
The shop is an interesting mixture of commercial space, 
office, and impromptu kitchen. 
The main space in the shop is filled with 
large equipment for the fishing boats, including a number of reconditioned 
power blocks, which appears to be the main.sales item. 
David had to make a phone call and borrowed the office phone while 
Russell and I looked over the machinery. 
After David was finished, Russell 
said his goodbyes to Mr. Fiorentino, and the three of us went next door to 
Canetti's restaurant for a bite to eat. 
It was amusing to see how much 
Russell has become an accepted member of the fishermen's community at 
Canetti's. 
Several of the men called out to him as we entered, and our 
waitress--this time an older woman who is a member of the Canetti family--
greeted him familiarly and automatically brought him a cup of the strong 
coffee that seems to be the universal lubricant there. 
--r
-,4w -.Db- Fo 
,-7,; w7cl. C 
T IAW-DD-F072789.C= 
After lunch I decided to try to contact Goffeedo Mimo, 
the caretaker of the community gardens. 
I drove to San Pedro Builder's 
Supply, hoping to find him there. 
Four men were standing and sitting behind a large counter in the sparse 
salesroom when I entered. 
A gravelly voiced older man with a strong Italian 
accent asked what I wanted, and I told him.that I was looking for Gofreddo 
Mimo. 
He told me that he was Mr. Mimo, and I introduced myself and the 
project to him, handing him a copy of the project handout and the center 
newsletter. 
He looked them over cursorily and responded, 
'you want to talk to 
the dummy Italians, eh.' 
I was a little taken aback by this, not sure if he 
was kidding or not. 
I told him that we were interested in the gardens, and 
asked if it would be possible to talk with him there. 
He told me that he 
would be there later that evening, about six-thirty, and that we could meet 
him there. 
I thanked him, and left--a little uncertain about whether his 
response had been a favorable one or not. 
zAty - 
-bb - F 
o 
7 
8 . 
T IAW-DD-F072789.D= 
David and Paola decided to come with me to visit Mr. 
Momi at the community gardens this evening. 
When we arrived, we were 
surprised to see Pasquale D'Ambrose there as well. 
Mr. D'Ambrose was one of 
the bocce players from the Verona Bocce Club. 
He had told David that he had a 
plot in the community gardens, and David had tried to reach him without 
success earlier in the day in our attempt to gain access to the gardens. 
Mr. Momi and Mr. D'Ambrose took us into the Italian section of the 
gardens. 
It turned out that only three people gardened in this section--the 
two men present, and a third man. 
Mr. Momi showed us around and I tried to 
begin a sketch map of the vegetables in the garden. 
I quickly decided that 
this would take far too long and would be too difficult to do with four other 
people present, so I asked Mr. Momi if I could gain access to the garden some 
other time, and we agreed that I would try to reach him by telephone around 
two o'clock tomorrow. I did manage, however, to get Mr. Momi to identify the 
various plants in the garden. 
While Mr. Momi was showing me around, David and Paola were talking with 
Mr. D'Ambrose. As it turned out, it was Mr. D'Ambrose who was responsible for 
the "Casa dell'Amore." 
Mr. Momi told me that Mr. D'Ambrose had a wonderful 
sense of humor--which David and I had already observed at the Bocce Club. 
Mr. Momi is 68 years old. 
He told me that there are about 70 individual 
plots in the community gardens. 
I asked Mr. Momi about his work as a stonemason, and asked him for 
examples of his work. 
He told me that he had done facing work at the market 
at 22nd and Pacific Streets. 
He also told me that he had done work at a store 
on 9th and Pacific Streets with a combination of lava, driftwood, and "P.V." 
Stone. 
P.V. Stone, or Palos Verdes Stone is white with gold flecks in it, and 
is found in round stones ten inches to two feet in diameter, usually in house 
excavations. 
Another type of stone is Santa Maria Stone, which comes from a 
quarry near Monterrey, in two-inch thick slabs. 
Mr. Momi doesn't know of any 
stonework being done now. 
He did a big patio not too long ago, with a 
free-form stone planter for a house on via Zumaya in Palos Verdes. 
one of the unfamiliar vegetables in the garden was an extremely long 
squash--about three inches in diameter and as long as four or five feet. 
Mr. 
Momi said that he had never seen this type of squash before last year. 
I asked Mr. Momi what he had meant by his comment about the "dummy" 
Italians when I had introduced myself to him in his store. 
He told me that 
the Italian community is "dumb" because it can't work together, it is too 
stratified. 
The rich Italians call the laborers, fishermen, the "stinking" 
Italians (Mr. Momi used an Italian word, something like "fonsecu"). 
He said 
that the Sons of Italy(?) had had an opportunity a number of years ago to buy 
a roller skating rink for a club facility. 
Were unable to do it because there 
were a number of real estate agents in the club, and each one of them wanted 
the commission for themselves. 
Mr. Momi is disenchanted with the 
Italian-American Club because they lock up the refrigerator when the bartender 
isn't around. 
By this time it was getting to be near eight o'clock, and David, Paola, 
and I hadn't eaten yet. 
We said goodbye to the two men and headed back to the 
hotel. 
TIAW-DD-F072889.A= 
I had arranged to accompany Andrea Briguglio on the 
route of his fish peddling business. 
We had agreed on today because Friday is 
the day that his route is located in San Pedro. 
Ken Light was to come along 
to photograph, but would come in a separate car so he could wouldn't have to 
stay for the entire route. 
I wanted to be down at the fish wholesalers while 
Mr. Briguglio was loading his truck, so Ken and I agreed that I would give him 
a phone call when Mr. Briguglio went back to his house for morning coffee 
before setting out on his route. 
When I arrived at the fish wholesalers both Mr. Briguglio and Nick  
 
the older fish peddler, were loading their trucks, packing crushed ice on 
the bed of the side compartments in the truck, and smoothing the surface of 
the ice with a two-by-four before putting the flat plastic containers with the 
fish on top of the ice. 
There was a lot of good-natured ribbing between the 
two and with the employees of the L.A. Fish and Oyster Company, who were going 
in and out of the garage-door opening to the building with flats of fish on 
motorized hand trucks. 
Mr. Briguglio would place fish filets in one of the 
plastic containers, and then announce to Nick, "okay, that's it, I'm going 
now." 
The two men compared -notes on what kinds of fish they were bringing out 
that day, what had sold the previous day, and which wholesalers had what kinds 
of fish. 
Mr. Briguglio announced that he wasn't bringing any salmon today, 
hadn't been able to sell any the previous day, and seemed a little put out 
when Nick retorted that he had sold several pounds. 
After loading his fish, Mr. Briguglio began washing the exterior of his 
truck with a wet rag. 
Then he brought a scale out of one of the side 
compartments, and placing it on the loading dock, began to rub it down as 
well. 
One of the L.A. fish employees saw him doing this and said, 
'geesh, 
Andrea, what are you doing that for?' 
Mr. Briguglio jibed, 
'I'm cleaning it 
up to take to my girlfriend.' 
Both Nick and Mr. Briguglio complained that it had been a lousy week for 
them. 
While they were doing so, a young man in his twenties or early thirties 
pulled a pickup truck alongside the two fish trucks, and climbed up on the 
loading dock. 
When he saw me and the camera, he asked what was going on, and 
Mr. Briguglio immediately responded, 
'we're going to be in the movies!' 
I 
told the man what I was doing, and he responded, 
'oh, you're documenting the 
old ways--now me, I'm the new wave.' 
He told me that he had a fish store up 
on Western Avenue called Nino's, which specialized in "hand-picked fresh 
fish." 
He said that he came down ,and picked out all the fish in his store 
himself. 
One of the L.A. employees came out and addressed the man as 'Chico.' 
He went in to the wholesalers, and started coming out with cardboard cartons 
of fish, which he loaded on the back of his pickup. 
At one point he showed 
Nick and Mr. Briguglio a fish (oreo dorio?) and said, 
'have you tried this? 
It's just like a twenty-dollar bill.' 
Within a few minutes, the pickup was 
loaded and the man drove off, to the joking oaths of the two fish peddlers. 
Announcing, "This is my kind of weather, Giuseppe," (it was cloudy), 
Nick finished loading up his truck and left. 
Mr. Briguglio turned to me and 
said, 
'Okay, we go now.' 
I told him that I was going to run by the hotel and 
pick up Ken, and that I would meet him at the house. 
I found Ken with the other fieldworkers in the breakfast room, and we 
headed over to the Briguglio's in our separate cars. 
The two kids led us in, 
and we were greeted by Mr. and Mrs. Briguglio at the kitchen table. 
They 
offered us coffee, which I accepted and Ken turned down, and brought me a cup 
of espresso. 
After about twenty minutes at the kitchen table, Mr. Briguglio announced 
that it was time to leave, so we went outside to the truck. 
I hooked up the 
Senntek remote microphone to Mr. Briguglio while Ken got his equipment 
F 
d 
'7 •
2? q 
together , and then Ken had Mr . Briguglio drive his truck up the street and 
back so he could get a picture of the truck underway. 
As he had told me during our previous interview , Mr. Briguglio's route 
went to particular customers . Our first customer was a Joe Randazzo at 912 
28th St. 
Mr . Briguglio told me that Mr. Randazzo was a fireman. 
Another man, 
who owns a shoe store and lives across the street from Mr. Randazzo is another 
of Mr. Briguglio 's customers, but he failed to come out at the sound of the 
truck's horn . Ken snapped photographs of Mr. Briguglio and Mr. Randazzo, 
while I did my best to stay out of the frame. 
Then we got back in our respective vehicles and went to the next stop on 
Mr. Briguglio 's route, a house at 929 22nd St., to deliver to a woman he knew 
only as Phyllis . The yard of this house was a bit of a jungle, and there were 
several posts sunk into the ground in front of the house, with rope wrapped 
around them to make them look like the pilings of a dock. 
After we were finished with Phyllis, Mr. Briguglio announced that it was 
time for a break . He explained that he went over to his mother-in-law's house 
for twenty minutes to have a cup of coffee before continuing on his rounds. 
He also mentioned that his wife and her mother were not speaking to each 
other . We drove over to the mother-in-law's house on Leland Street, which 
turned out to be in the same block of houses where Grace Ciolino 's father-in-
law lives . Like that house , the garage has been converted into a family 
kitchen. 
A wall along the street between the house and the garage creates an 
inner courtyard between the two buildings. 
Mr. Briguglio introduced Ken and me to his mother-in-law, Diane Orlando. 
Her seven-year-old grandson , Joey Saccamano , was also there. 
Mr. Briguglio 
asked us if we would like anything to drink, and Mrs. Orlando went to get us a 
soda . While she was doing this, Mr. Briguglio took me into the garage /kitchen 
to show me what had been done there . In one corner of the room was a crib 
with a sleeping baby- -another of Mrs. Orlando 's grandchildren . Mr. Briguglio 
explained that all of the work in the kitchen had been done by family and 
friends, that this was how most of the remodeling work was done in the Italian 
community. 
He told me that his father-in-law also made wine, and brought me 
back out into the courtyard to show me several plastic containers filled with 
olives that his father-in-law was pickling. 
Ken, in the meantime, had been given a tour of the house by Mrs. 
Orlando, and had photographed a number of religious artifacts in the house. 
Mrs. Orlando came out of the house with a bag of flour for Mr. Briguglio, 
which was to be used for making pizza in his forno . Mr. Briguglio explained 
that this was a special flour that he had gotten in one of the other towns 
where he makes his peddling rounds. 
As we were leaving the Orlando 's house, Mr. Orlando came walking up the 
street carrying two pails of fish that he had bought at the fish wholesalers. 
(He had been down there while Mr . Briguglio was loading up.) 
Mr . Briguglio 
explained that his father-in-law walked to the docks and back every day, that 
it was one of his few forms of entertainment, since he didn't drive a car. 
Ken made Mr . Orlando go back to the end of the block and walk back while he 
took photographs, and then took photos of the husband and wife together. 
From here we drove to a house at 1615 Patton Avenue, where the customer 
was a man in his thirties named Mike . After Ken had photographed here, he 
told us that he was going to head back to the docks and said goodbye. 
Mr. 
Briguglio announced that it was time for another break, adding that Friday was 
a very slow day. 
We drove to the area of Weymouth Street near the hospital, and turned 
T 
- 
bc) - 
Fo 
into a parking lot behind the stores on the corner of 8th and Weymouth 
Streets. 
Mr. Briguglio jumped out of the truck, and in the time it took me to 
assemble my cameras, I lost him. 
In a few minutes he returned to the truckk, 
and we went into the back door of the Guadalajara Mexican Restaurant at 710 
Weymouth, where Mr. Briguglio was greeted as "cumpadre" by the proprietor, 
Jesus Castrellon. 
Mr. Briguglio asked him what he wanted that day, and when 
Mr. Castrellon paused to think, Mr. Briguglio told him that he would come back 
in a few minutes. 
We went next door to a beauty parlor (I didn't get the 
name), and Mr. Briguglio marched to the front of the shop, greeting a number 
of the elderly women getting their hair done as we went by. 
He went up to a 
woman working at the front of the shop, who seemed to be the proprietor, and 
asked her what she wanted that week. 
Then he took orders from some of the 
other women in the shop, including customers. 
We returned to the truck and Mr. Briguglio bagged the various orders 
Then we took one order into the back door of the Polly Ann Bakery, 1440 W. 8th 
Street--which is where he had disappeared to when_we first arrived. 
After 
some banter with the workers there, we went back to the beauty parlor with 
those orders, then back to the Mexican restaurant, where Mr. Castrellon gave 
and received his order. 
While the two were talking, I took some photos. 
Mr. 
Briguglio then invited me to the front of the Mexican restaurant, and asked me 
if I wanted anything to eat. 
When I replied that the only thing I might be 
able to swallow at that point was another cup of coffee, he smiled broadly and 
announced, 
'for that we go next door where it's free.' 
And we trooped back to 
the beauty parlor, where there was a coffeemaker set up in the back of the 
shop. 
Mr. Briguglio poured me a cup, and then said, 
'we don't have to drink 
it here.' 
We went back out to the truck, and he got back in. 
I started to 
gulp down the coffee, thinking to return the cup, but Mr. Briguglio told me to 
get inside--he would return the cup next week. 
Our next stop was a clinic near the Hospital, where Mr. Briguglio made 
visits to the offices of Dr. Gary Krieger and Dr. Joseph Rodney, one a 
pediatrician and the other a physical therapist. 
I was a little surprised at 
how much at home Mr. Briguglio was in each of these office, joking with the 
nurses, sitting down behind one of the desks and making himself comfortable. 
In both cases it was the nurses who were ordering fish. 
Our final stop before lunch was at the corner of 15th Street and Gaffey, 
where Mr. Briguglio made a delivery to a music teacher who he called "the 
Professor." 
After this stop, we headed back to his home, where he would have 
lunch before starting his afternoon rounds. 
At this point I thanked him and 
turned down his offer of lunch, and headed back to the hotel. 
T,4w -fib - 
Po 
,-7,5zy,•:4 . 
e 
--IAW-DD-F072889 .B= 
After lunch I was supposed to go over to photograph at 
Mrs. Royal's with Ken , but we must have gotten our signals crossed, because he 
didn't come back to the hotel in time, so I ended up going over by myself. 
I did as best as I could photographing in the basement of the house, 
then I borrowed a few photographs to take outside and photograph in daylight. 
After this I made a rough measured drawing of the yard and got Mrs. 
Royal to identify the plants for me again . Before leaving, I asked Mrs. Royal 
whether it might be possible to get the family together for a portrait on 
Sunday , when Ken said he would like to take a number of family portraits. 
She 
said that she would check, and I said I would call her back . [As it turned 
out, the portrait never took place because John Royal had to go out on a 
research ship on Sunday.] 
FO 
70 FW 
9 . 
T IAW-DD-F072889.C= 
After measuring Mrs. Royal's garden, I went back to 
the hotel and called Goffredo Momi, as we had arranged, to see about getting 
into the community gardens. 
He agreed to come out and let me into the Italian 
section, so I drove over and waited for him. 
When Mr. Momi arrived, he had brought a copy of the plan of the 
community gardens. 
This was only a sketch map of the shape of the plots, 
none of which were identified as to the name of the person using that plot. 
However, Mr. Momi added the names of the three men in the Italian section to 
their particular plots. 
While I began my measuring, Mr. Momi did some watering in that part of 
the garden. 
It seems that the three men look out for each other's plots, and 
water them all if they seem to need it. 
I called upon Mr. Momi a few times 
for the identification of some of the plants that I had forgotten. 
After about half-an-hour, Mr. Momi finished, his watering, and left me to 
finish my drawing. 
one thing that struck me again while doing the drawing was 
the way in which plants were mixed together in the Italian section. 
Some 
plants were laid out geometrically in the plots, but this had a degree of 
casualness to it. 
Most commonly, the plants were interspersed a great deal. 
It took about an hour-and-a-half to finish my sketching. 
After sweating 
in the hot sun, I was glad to head back to the hotel. 
T IAW-DD-F072989.A= 
This was a day for catching up on photographing. 
We 
wanted photos of Marabella's Winery and the Al Grocery, so I went along with 
Ken to introduce him. 
At Marabella's I was interested to find out that there was a kitchen/lab 
in the back that I hadn't noticed before. 
Mr. Marabella said that they used 
to use the kitchen to cook for the crew--used to have three or four men 
working there. 
Mr. Marabella asked me whether we had talked with Andrea Briguglio, and 
I mentioned that we were going over there this evening to witness the first 
use of his forno. 
At this, Mr. Marabella commented, "For a young guy he's got 
old ideas--that's good." 
We started talking about all the presses that Mr. 
Marabella had purchased from local winemakers when they had gotten too old. 
At some point I mentioned that my grandfather had died at the age of 95, and 
Mr. Marabella's comment was, "He must have drunk a lot of wine." 
Mr. Marabella and Ken had,a good time comparing notes on the wines from 
the Napa Valley while Ken.took some photos of him in his back office, then 
moving to the yard behind the shop to photograph Mr. Marabella's assistant. 
This was Luis Vasquez, 338 W. 13th St., San Pedro, CA 
90731. 
Ken asked Mr. Marabella how much he charged for juice used in home 
winemaking. 
The charge is $2.50 per gallon, and $3.00 per gallon for varietal 
juices. 
Before going on to the Al, Ken took some photos of Mr. Marabella 
standing in front of the shop. 
=41d- b6 P-0'7•2 9F9. 3 
TIAW-DD-F072989.B= 
From Marabella's we went next door to the Al Grocery. 
David and Paola had done an interview with the family last night, so they knew 
we were coming. 
While Ken photographed in the public spaces I perused the 
contents of the vegetable bins, and noted that the labels included "Escorol" 
and "Italian Parsley." 
I was also amused to see that the fad for convenience 
foods has hit Italian food as well, producing products such as "Pronto 
Polenta" and freeze-dried(?) focaccia labelled "Mediterranean Magic: Ready in 
Minutes!" 
I watched Ken for taking photographs--and also directing photographs--of 
the men behind the meat counter, to comments about Hollywood and being in the 
movies . Then Ken moved to the food preparation and cooler areas out of sight 
in the back of the store. I went back to make sure that he took some 
photographs of the wall mentioned by David that was covered with drawings of 
tombstones and the names of departing employees . 
After passing through an area 
where an older woman was making submarine sandwiches , I came to another area 
where a man was filling plastic jugs with cottonseed oil from a fifty gallon 
drug, and a man in his thirties ,was preparing to make sausage . The meat was 
already ground and in a large plastic bin, to which he added spices by hand 
before putting portions of the meat into an industrial size sausage press. 
I 
watched for awhile, then returned to the shop area, deciding to do an 
impromptu survey of the types of food sold in the store. 
I noted a section on one of the aisles with products for an Hispanic 
audience. 
This included dulce de leche, Yerba Mate, Salsa Verde, a creamed 
sweet potato dessert from Argentina, and Guava paste. 
In the bread bins there was bread from the Portofino Bakery, 1213 South 
Meyler, and also bread from the Europa Bakery, 237 W. 7th Street that was 
labelled "Ischia Bread." 
There was a coffee section with at least five different types of 
espresso blend. 
Immediately below the coffee was a selection of votive 
candles, all of them to the Nino de la Salud and to San Martin Caballero. 
In a refrigerated case were several ready prepared dishes made in the 
store: egglant, lobster sauce, antipasto, stuffed shells. 
The other 
highlighted item produced in the store is the sausage, which comes in three 
varieties: hot, mild, and fennel. 
The most impressive display was the pasta, mostly from the Costa 
company. 
The varieties included: sphagetti, spaghettini, linguine, 
mostaccioli, vermicelli, stars, rosamarina, Acinie de Pepe, lasaghetti, 
foratino, small elbows, salad macaroni, ditalini, pennini, large elbows, small 
shells, rotelle, mostaccioli rigati, large shells, rigatoni, gnocchi, 
rigatini, fettucini, mafalda, farfalle, conchiglie, demi-rigatoni, wagon 
wheels, pepins, pepe bucato, alphabets, ziti. 
By this time Ken was finished with his photographing, so we made our 
departure. 
7 1AW-DD-FO72989.C-- 
David and I wanted to go back to visit the members of 
the Verona Bocce Club largely to return their hospitality. 
We picked up a 
six-pack of beer to contribute, and arrived to find Pasquale D'Ambrose, Frank 
Pontillo, and Fred Arduini finishing a lunch of sandwiches. 
When they saw us, 
they apologized for not having much to offer us, but Mr. Pontillo jumped up 
and made us each a tomato sandwich. 
Mr. Arduini had a map of Italy spread out on the table, and was trying 
to find the small village in Calabria where his father had originated. 
Finally, with several'of us peering at the map, we were able to locate the 
town. 
After David and I had eaten, Mr. Pontillo brought out some photographs 
he had taken on a visit to Italy that showed his cousin making a week's-supply 
of bread. 
The map and photographs had evidently been brought for our benefit. 
Mr. Pontillo was intrigued to hear that we were going to witness the firing of 
an outdoor bread oven in San Pedro that very night. 
The men suggested that we play a round of bocce, but we begged off for 
the moment while they played, David and I taking photographs. 
After they were 
finished I staged a few photos of each man posing with the bocce ball ready to 
be released. 
Then David and I took a turn, this time paired with one of the men: 
David with Mr. Arduini, and me with Mr. D'Ambrose. 
Despite Mr. Arduini's 
ritual exclamations of 'I just can't get the feel of this court,' he and David 
but our side away neatly. 
In all, we visited for about an hour-and-a-half. 
T IAW-DD-F072989.D= 
The first firing of the forno at the Briguglio's house 
was something that all of the fieldworkers wanted to be in on. 
When John 
Williams and I had first talked to them about our coming, it had sounded as if 
there was going to be a large gathering at the house, and Mr. Briguglio's aunt 
was going to be doing the baking. 
As it turned out, this was intended to be a 
test firing, and the bread baking wasn't going to take place until Monday 
night. 
Tonight they were going to bake some pizza, and Mr. Briguglio 
explained that the oven had to be fired several times before it was ready to 
be used for bread baking. 
He had actually fired it once that morning, and the 
coating of concrete over the bricks had cracked slightly, but he didn't think 
this was going to cause too much of a problem. 
I was worried at first about imposing five people on the family, and 
they seemed a little taken aback at first when Paola and Russell showed up 
about twenty minutes after David, Ken, and I. 
There were half-joking 
references to the proverb about fish and relatives stinking after three days, 
and I thought we had inadvertently gone over the line. 
But the Briguglio's 
adjusted to our presence quickly, and soon we were all teasing each other good 
naturedly over it. 
At the first opportunity I pulled Mrs. Briguglio aside and 
apologized for imposing on her in this way, to which she responded, 
'No, no, I 
think you guys are great--we love having you here,' and after this the 
atmosphere seemed clear. 
Before Mr. Briguglio fired the oven, I got David to help me make a 
measured drawing of the family's garden and yard. 
I'm not sure why I've 
decided to make these drawings--probably because it was something that I had 
wanted to see done in the Lowell project but never got a chance to do. 
At any 
rate, maybe they'll prove useful to material culture types, even if they have 
no immediate use for this project. 
Russell and Paola arrived while we were in 
the middle of doing this. 
Once the forno was fired up the evening's festivities began in earnest--
and the scene moved more toward hilarity and edged toward hysteria as the 
evening went on. 
Mr. Briguglio offered us some of his wine, and we stood 
around the forno as he gradually fed more wood into it. 
The two children were 
playing at our feet, and became sillier and sillier with the excitement, until 
both Mr. and Mrs. Briguglio had to rein them in a few times. 
Ken wanted to take some photographs of the harbor in evening light, and 
he and Paola were supposed to meet, a friend that they had discovered they had 
in common, so after taking photos of Mr. Briguglio feeding the slowly growing 
fire, he prepared to leave, to the expressed disapproval of Mr. Briguglio, who 
insisted that Ken return after he had finished with the harbor, telling him 
that we would save him a pizza. 
We watched the interior walls of the forno change from black to white, 
much to Mr. Briguglio's delight, because, as he explained, the bricks needed 
to be white hot for the baking to take place properly. 
With the wine we had 
been drinking, we were all getting a little giddy by the time Mrs. Briguglio 
came out with a tray full of toppings for the pizzas: anchovies, onions, bdll 
peppers, olive oil, pepperoni, and homemade tomato sauce. 
Mr. Briguglio pushed the fire to one side of the forno, explaining that 
the fire would be swept out and the floor of the oven wiped for bread baking; 
but for pizza the fire would be kept burning and the pizza cooked to one side 
of the oven with the door open. 
He brought out a "shovel" for the pizza 
baking--a flat sheet of metal fixed to a wooden handle. 
At this point he 
realized that the fit of the shovel was going to be tight, especially because 
it had to be angled for the pizza to be cooked at one side of the oven. 
Nonetheless, after Mrs. Briguglio brought out the dough for the first pizza, 
he was axle to slide it into the oven. 
The first pizzas (about eight inches in diameter) cooked a little too 
quickly. 
Even so, as each one came out the atmosphere became more and more 
excited, until Mr. Briguglio started prancing around chanting "I'm the biggest 
man in San Pedro!" 
His children had picked up a friend outside on the 
sidewalk, and he told the kid to go get his mother, a young Yugoslavian woman 
who came and tried a piece of the pizza. 
We tried several different 
variations on the toppings, including plain onion and olive oil, which the 
Briguglios called facia del vechhio--old person's face. 
There was also some 
debate, and experimentation, to determine whether it was better to flour or 
oil the shovel/spatula. 
Flour won decisively. 
While the pizza baking was still going on, Ken came back from his 
shooting, and started photographing Mr. Briguglio. 
Ken got up on a chair and 
asked Mr. Briguglio to hold the pizza out toward him on the shovel, and as Mr. 
Briguglio jokingly gestured with the shovel as if he was going to throw the 
pizza at Ken, the pizza did, in fact, fly off the shovel, narrowly missing 
Russell, and landing on the concrete. 
By now, this was wildly funny to all of 
US. 
Shortly after Ken arrived, we baked the last pizza, and retired to the 
kitchen, where Mrs. Briguglio had also prepared a dish of chicken covered with 
bread crumbs and sauteed in olive oil--as well as a tomato salad and other 
vegetables. 
The eating occupied us for awhile, and Mr. Briguglio became 
increasingly expansive and boastful as we all drank more wine. 
At one point, 
I think we all looked at each other a little nervously, wondering if this was 
going to get out of hand. 
Paola and Ken finally made their goodbyes to go off to look for their 
friend. 
At some point, the Briguglio's daughter, Joanna, found a tape with 
Dean Martin's "That's Amore," and we all began singing along with it, while 
Mr. Briguglio picked up the girl and started dancing around, holding her slung 
over his shoulder. 
After the fourth or fifth playing of the song, everyone 
had had enough of it, and Mrs. Briguglio told Joanna to turn it off. 
Mr. Briguglio started talking about how we were going to keep partying 
till after midnight (it was now about nine-thirty, and we had been there since 
four), but eventually Russell worked up the courage to make departure noises, 
and David and I quickly backed him up. 
We thanked the Briguglios for their 
warm hospitality and wonderful food, and said our goodbyes. 
SAc;- bb-F=c' -7`3oTci..A) I 
T IAW-DD-F073089.A= 
David had gotten Mr. Perniciaro's name from one of his 
early contacts, who told him that Mr. Perniciaro had a motorcycle covered with 
Italian symbols that he had brought to the Heritage Festival last fall. 
As it 
turned out, Mr. Perniciaro has a travel business that involves bringing groups 
to Italy for motorcycle tours. 
When I tried to contact Mr. Perniciaro I could 
only get an answering machine, which regaled the listener with an 
advertisement for his tours. 
I left a message, and received a reply only a 
few days ago when a package of tour materials was left at the hotel desk by 
Mr. Perniciaro himself. 
When I made a follow up phone call, today was the 
only time remaining when we could set up an interview. 
In the tour materials that Mr. Perniciaro had left at the desk there was 
also a brochure for an "Italian-American Immigrant's Dictionary" that he had 
compiled. 
When I showed this to Paola, she realized that she had encountered 
Mr. Perniciaro selling his dictionary at a theatrical performance given by a 
visiting Italian actor in Los Angeles. 
According to the brochure, Mr. 
Perniciaro was making the case that there is a new variant of Italian that has 
developed in American, which is•distinct from formal Italian and which is 
shared in common by all of the Italian immigrant communities in the U.S. 
Mr. Perniciaro told me that he would leave his motorcycle in the 
driveway to help me find the house. 
As advertised, the motorcycle was not an 
easy landmark to miss. 
It was covered with Italian pennants and insignia, and 
hundreds of Italian coins were epoxyed to the body. 
I rang the door bell, and the door was answered by Mrs. Perniciaro, 
whose name I later learned is Liliana M. Perniciaro. 
She invited me inside, 
and asked me if I would like a cup of coffee. 
While she was making the 
coffee, Mr. Perniciaro came into the living room and welcomed me warmly, 
telling me how glad he was that I had been able to make time to see him, and 
how upset he had been that he hadn't been informed about our project by the 
Chamber of Commerce. 
He said that he had called them up and chewed them out 
for this oversight. 
Mrs. Perniciaro brought the coffee, and Mr. Perniciaro apologized for it 
being "American coffee," which he said he could not drink because it has a 
diuretic effect. 
We sat in the living room and chatted while I drank the 
coffee, then I asked if it would be alright to set up the interview in the 
backyard, because the Perniciaro's have a longhaired cat, and I am very 
allergic to cats. 
We went out through the sliding glass doors in the living room to the 
backyard, where there was a small swimming pool and a covered hot tub. 
We sat 
around a redwood table for the interview, while Mrs. Perniciaro sat near the 
hot tub and repotted some plants. 
I was pretty pleased with the interview. 
Mr. Perniciaro is an 
articulate speaker with definite opinions. 
Before coming to America he worked 
in the U. S. consulate in Palermo, and had some interesting observations about 
Italian emigration to the U. S. during the sixties. 
At times he waxed 
eloquent on his views of America and his observations on ethnicity. 
Toward 
the end of the interview, he got up to show me an editorial that his wife had 
written to the Long Beach Press Telegram against bilingual education, based 
upon her own experiences as an immigrant. 
After the interview was over, he 
took me back inside and showed me a hallway where there were about fifteen 
framed letters to the editor that he or his wife had written. 
Mr. Perniciaro 
also showed me a copy of the Congressional Record containing one of his 
letters to the editor that had been read into the record by Representative 
Glenn M. Anderson. 
The letter observed that Mr. Perniciaro celebrates each 
April 15th, because that's the day he became a citizen, and that he considers 
it an honor to pay taxes in a free country, that he holds an open house every 
year on that day. 
The reference is: Congressional Record, Vol. 131 #58, 
Tuesday, May 7, 
1986, E1971. 
Mr. Perniciaro then took me into the office that he uses for his 
business, and showed me photographs of himself with various dignataries. 
He 
also showed me a textbook that he had written on container ship operations--he 
worked in the container industry before beginning his tour business. 
Then we went out to the driveway so I could photograph his two 
motorcycles, and he showed me the plaque that Alitalia had mistakenly sent one 
of his motorcycles for being a million-mile passenger. 
He also told me that 
his motorcycle was in the Guiness Book of Records, for holding the longest 
distance of one motorcycle towing another motorcycle--he had had to tow it 
cross-country when his companion had gotten sick. 
I returned inside to gather my equipment, thanked the Perniciaros for 
their help, and returned to the hotel. 
s401' - 
bb -Fo 173o•Fq - 
8 
T IAW-DD-F073089 .B= 
Ken wanted us to set up group photos with a number of 
families , so I had arranged this session with the Pirozzis . I thought that 
this was particularly important because Mr. and Mrs . Pirozzi had been 
disappointed that all of their children were not present when we had 
photographed them before. 
While Ken photographed the family in.the breezeway between their house 
and garage , which had the nicest light at that time of day , I jotted down 
everyone's name and their location in the photo . After we were finished, the 
family invited us in '
for coffee, but we had to beg off . I thanked Mr. and 
Mrs. Pirozzi again for their help with the project. 
7,4ty - b 
- 
F) -7 F -4 
T IAW-DD-FO73189.A= 
 
We wanted to do something special to show our thanks 
to the Briguglio family after our several marathon sessions with them, so I 
bought a couple of wineglasses and had their names and the project name 
engraved on them. 
I ran by the house this morning to give them the present, 
and was greeted at the door the two children. 
They called their mother, and 
Mrs. Briguglio welcomed me warmly, saying that Mr. Briguglio would be back in 
a moment, and invited me in. 
I apologized.for not having time to visit, and 
gave her the present. 
She thanked me and urged me to come back and visit with 
them if I was ever in San Pedro again. 
•r,4&J -10 - 
F673i 8C1, 3 
T IAW-DD-F073189 .B= 
We had finally gotten the proper printer file from the 
center, so I went up to Venice to install the program on Paola's computer as 
the final chore for this stint of fieldwork. 
This time it went fairly 
smoothly . I wrote two batch files to allow Paola and her husband to switch 
between using the computer as they were used to doing, and using WordPerfect 
without their shell program so the fieldwork program could be run. 
David came along for the ride, and after completing the installation, he 
and I took a stroll along the "boardwalk" at Venice Beach--quite a contrast 
from the waterfront at San Pedro! 
-TAU 
7, 
 
T IAW-DD-F090689.A= 
After the fieldwork team's reunion last evening, we 
got down to work this morning. 
Spent the morning going over revisions in the 
computer program and plotting out some preliminary strategies. 
Because the 
Italian community is not as large here as in San Pedro, we decided that a team 
approach is probably warranted here. 
We had lunch at the Harvest Time restaurant--which Don Galleano had told 
John Williams was the place where the local vintners hang out. 
It reminded me 
of the older restaurants favored by the old retired couples in places like 
Bronxville, New York-?-places where the food is straightforward, the prices 
inexpensive, the service slow, and the ambience unrushed. 
Then we drove over to Hecker Pass Road to visit the wineries run by the 
Fortino family. 
At the Fortino winery we talked to the son-in-law of the 
owner, Ernest Fortino, who told us that Ernest had gone to buy supplies for a 
big party on Saturday. 
We sampled a few of the wines, left information on the 
project, and moved on to the winery next door, the Hecker Pass Winery, run by 
Ernest's brother, Mario. 
The woman in the wine tasting room, a neighbor who 
comes in to help out when needed, told us that Mario was there, but working on 
the roof (we could hear the hammer blows inside the tasting room.) 
Sampled a 
few more wines (occupational hazard) before we left. 
Then David took us "for a windshield survey," up the Watsonville Road, 
over to the Guglielmo Winery (turned around in the parking lot without going 
in--enough is enough, already), then headed back to the motel. 
This is an attractive valley, which Russell characterized as 'the 
perfect California landscape.' 
He also noted with surprise that the 
development from Silicon Valley has not encroached as far as he expected it 
to. 
While there are certainly subdivisions in evidence, the valley is still 
dominated by agriculture--mostly fruit and nut orchards toward the Watsonville 
end, row crops toward the Hollister end. 
T IAW-DD-F090789.A=Interview with partners of the Glen Loma Group, 7888 Wren 
Ave., Gilroy, CA 
David had been contacted by the secretary of the three Filice cousins 
who make up the Glen Loma Group, who offered to do an interview with us after 
seeing an article on the project in the local paper. 
The Glen Loma Group is a 
local development company, which is involved in building new subdivisions on 
land that is either acquired by the group or which belongs to the Filice 
family. 
Neither David nor I were quite sure what to expect of this interview. 
It's been a new experience for both of us to work on a project in which people 
have actually called up asking to be interviewed. 
We were both pleasantly 
surprised by the quality of the interview. 
We had already surmised from the 
number of times other people had mentioned the Filice family that it has been 
an important influence in the local Italian community. 
The three cousins told 
a fascinating story of an entrepreneurial family with strong connections that 
has evolved and yet endured over three generations. 
The Glen Loma Group is located in a modern business park, which turned 
out to be on the site of a former cherry orchard belonging to the family. 
In 
the reception area hangs a photograh of the family's first business in 
California, a grocery store in San Jose. 
The three cousins, John, Tim, and 
Craig, ushered us into a formal conference room and offered us coffee. 
I set 
up the recording equipment while David explained the project. 
I think the most important fact to emerge from the interview was the 
manner in which the general structure of family relations has remained intact 
while providing a flexible mechanism for dealing with the changing business 
conditions of the area. 
Bruno Filice, the cousins' grandfather, came first to 
San Jose and worked for a produce company owned by the Biscaglia family. 
The 
Biscaglia family acted as immigration brokers for the families from their 
region of Calabria, and it was this connection that brought Bruno Filice to 
San Jose. 
Bruno and his five sons all worked for Biscaglia, until they 
decided to go into the winemaking business. 
According to the cousins, the 
family lost the opportunity to buy the Almaden winery by a matter of several 
hours, and instead bought the San Martin winery in Gilroy, which had been a 
cooperative. 
The cousins gave a good account of the vicissitudes of the 
winery business in this century, including the fact that many of the wineries 
survived during World War II by producing alcohol to be used as torpedo fuel 
by the Navy. 
The family went through a period of expansion into the fruit business--
another distinction the cousins claimed was that the family had been among the 
first to produce fruit wines in California, as well as the claim that they 
were the second winery (following Sebastiani) to use the strategy of the 
tasting room for retail sales. 
During this period the five brothers 
established a strategy of deeding the family lands in trust for the succeeding 
generation, and setting up a series of limited partnerships to control the 
family holdings. 
As the cousins explained it, this has allowed the family'to 
continue its business associations even after they divested themselves of the 
family winery. 
The pattern of decision making established during their 
fathers' times continues today, as does a round of family socializing. 
The 
limited partnership approach means that the older male members of the family 
control the investments, and do not feel outside pressures for liquidity. 
The 
younger members of the family who have a greater need for liquidity tend to be 
taken into the limited partnerships as they come along. 
In the Glen Loma 
Group, for example, Tim and John are the older cousins who took Craig into 
their operation. 
The interview contained good information on family traditions, 
=At-­_W Foil o729 4 
, 
particularly about the use of nicknames to distinguish between family members 
with the same first names. 
It also emerged from the interview that there have 
been several "clubs" among smaller groups in the family--the "Calamari Club" 
(defunct) and the "Mostaccioli Club" (still active)--that are essentially 
meet-to-eat gatherings. 
The cousins told us that they would try to have a 
meeting while we were here. 
Both David and I agreed that we could have continued with the interview 
for several hours, but unfortunately the cousins had to cut the interview 
short for several already scheduled meetings. 
Before leaving, they gave us a 
number of leads for people in the agricultural community. 
-
T-IAW-DD-F090789.B= 
After interviewing members of the Filice family, David 
and I did some driving around Gilroy to make some contacts on the fly. 
We 
first drove over to Forest Street to find the bocce courts that several people 
had told us about. 
After several false starts, we finally found the fenced-in 
grounds, but no one was there. 
A nice facility--with a metal roof over one of 
the two bocce courts (the other looked unused), picnic tables, a grill, and a 
small clubhouse. 
Then we drove up into the hills on the east side of town (the Coyote 
Hills), so David could show me the house of the people who had him over to 
dinner last night. 
Some pretty amazing places--all the houses in these hills 
are small palaces, custom-built homes on five to ten acre lots. 
It was 
interesting to note that the houses that seemed to have been there for a while 
all had bright green lawns that must require tons of water, while the newer 
homes seem to be landscaped more with native California, drought-resistant 
grasses (an encouraging sign). 
This is a beautiful landscape to me, rolling hills covered with a tawny 
mane of dry grass, with live oaks and eucalyptus trees dotting the expanse. 
We went further up into the hills and inspected the evaporated expanse of 
Coyote Lake, before turning back to the motel and lunch at a mediocre chain 
restaurant. 
After lunch we stopped by the Chamber of Commerce Visitors Center so 
David could drop off some promised literature to a woman who seemed more 
enthusiastic about the attractions of living near Monterrey than she did about 
the resources of the Santa Clara Valley. 
We took a swing by the Rapazzini 
Winery to see if the owner was in--David had previously contacted them by 
phone. 
An odd place--it seemed as devoted to the wonders of garlic as it did 
to wine. 
The owner was not in. 
Then we took a trip over to the A. Conrotto winery on the Hecker Pass 
Road. 
This winery appeared to me to be less oriented to the itinerant wine 
tasters than do the other places with their elaborate tasting room operations. 
There were several odd paintings with grape motifs decorating the exteriors of 
the buildings. 
A notice on the door to the small wine tasting cabin 
instructed us to ring the bell, and after a wait of several minutes a man in 
his fifties came over and asked what he could do for us. 
David introduced the 
project to him, and got the response, 
'well, I'm not Italian -- you'd have to 
talk to my wife, and she's not here.' 
(He didn't appear overly interested.) 
David told him that we'd contact his wife later. 
As we drove back through town, we decided to stop by the town museum, 
which turned out to be in a former Carnegie Library--lovely building. 
We 
introduced ourselves to the woman sitting behind the front desk. 
She showed 
us the museum's "Hall of Fame" a scrapbook of biographies of prominent local 
figures that are inducted by a committee each year. 
She told us that the 
museum has some historical photos of agriculture in the area, but not much 
that is specifically Italian. 
She did type up a list of possible contacts for 
us, though. 
Finally, we swung by the bocce courts one more time on the off chance of 
finding some players there, and were gratified to find four men playing 
"Pedro"--a local card game. 
We introduced ourselves, and were warmly welcomed 
by one of the players in particular, who told us that he and his brother 
(sitting across the picnic table from him) had owned the New Gilroy Bakery 
until 1985. 
The men told us that we could find bocce players there tomorrow 
afternoon, and also told us that they were going to have a dinner at the bocce 
courts next Wednesday, and that we would be welcome to attend. 
They also told 
us that the Gilroy Garlic Festival will be having a thank-you dinner for the 
volunteers at Christmas Hill Park on Saturday. 
They also mentioned that there 
is an "Italian Club" in town--we need to find out just what this is when we go 
back tomorrow. 
On the drive back to the motel we noticed a spectacular house covered 
with whirligigs and surrounded by vegetable gardens. 
We stopped and David 
took some photos, but we discovered, alas, that the owner is Portuguese. 
a:4u' -1 J 
- 
Fvao FF-cl,,4, 7 
T IAW-DD-F090889.A= 
I spent the morning and early afternoon working on 
additional documentation for processing the computer files. 
Then around 2:00 
p.m. David and I returned with Ken to see what was happening at the bocci 
courts on Forest Street. 
Today there were six men at the courts and a game 
was in progress. We had agreed before coming that Ken and David would take 
photos while I would take notes. 
We went in and greeted the men who had been there yesterday, and Mike 
Pirozzoli (wearing a cap with the name of a produce company on it) came over 
and greeted us warmly''. 
He introduced us to the other players: his brother 
Bill Pirozzoli (wearing a sweatshirt with a logo for San Francisco on it); 
Silvio Da1Bon (wearing a short-sleeved shirt, black pants and a baseball cap); 
Tereso "Terry" Cadei (wearing glasses); Lee Quartiero (wearing a porkpie hat); 
and Gus Audisio (wearing a short-sleeved shirt and gray pants). 
[Physical 
descriptions are for photo ids.) 
Mike Pirozzoli reminded us about the party 
that the group was holding at the bocce courts next Wednesay, at 12:00 p.m. 
Mike Pirozzoli told us that the roof over the bocce court (or "overhang" 
as he called it) had been put up twenty years ago. 
The group apparently has 
no official name--first Mike Pirozzoli called it the Senior Bocce Club, and 
then the Gilroy Bocce Club. 
Later he called it the Forest Street Bocce Club. 
He told us that there used to be another big bocce club on the Watsonville 
Road that was run by Joe Perucca--they used to have big contests that were 
attended by people from all over, as far away as San Francisco. 
Mike Pirozzoli told us that the club had gotten several writeups in the 
local paper, the Dispatch, and while Ken started taking pictures, Mr. 
Pirozzoli took David and me inside the small clubhouse to see the newspaper 
clippings hanging on the wall, inside a glass case that had snapshot photos of 
all of the members of the club. 
Mr. Pirozzoli told us that the club was about 
twenty-five years old, but its membership is in decline--"we might have to 
recruit women soon," he joked. 
David took a photo of the display of club member photos, then we went 
back outside to watch the game. 
While David and Ken took photos, I struck up 
a conversation with Gus Audisio. 
Mr. Audisio told me that he was born in 
California, but had gone back to Italy with his family. 
He fought in the 
Italian army during World War II, which he said had been a horrible 
experience. 
After the war, Mr. Audisio returned to the United States, but it 
took him five years to get permission to come back because he "had fought 
against his own country" in the war. 
In the course of play, Mike Pirozzoli came over to the end of the court 
where Mr. Audisio and I were standing. 
I asked him whether the group had 
regular teams, and he told me that they drew cards before each game to choose 
the teams. 
Picking up our earlier conversation, he said that the membership 
of the club was declining because of the deaths of older members. 
There are 
now about twenty-two or twenty-four players. 
He said that the men usually 
play every day. 
The court belongs to the town--which I find interesting, 
because the facility is surrounded by a high cyclone fence with a locked gate-
-who determines who gets access? 
About this time, another man--one of those who had been there yesterday-
-entered the area. 
This was Andy Battagin (wearing a short-sleeved shirt, 
brown pants, and a red cap). 
We started talking, and he told me that he had 
been born in Santa Barbara--he's 76 years old. 
His father came to Texas from 
Italy with his own father, but went back to Italy to get married. 
After 
marriage, Mr. Battagin's father came back to America, but came to California 
instead of Texas. 
He had relatives in Santa Barbara. 
Mr. Battagin's father 
worked as an estate gardener in Santa Barbara all his life. 
Andy Battagin 
married a woman from Gilroy, which is the reason he moved here. 
He used to be 
aA60 - 
bt 
- 
Fo 91oF69. 4 
/ CP 
I 
a commercial photographer here in Gilroy--he said that he was the only one 
here for twenty-five years. 
But he retired at the age of 49 because he had 
heart problems and his doctor told him that he had to retire. 
Unfortunately, 
he doesn't have any of the photographs or negatives from his work as a 
photographer because he sold the business to a Swiss man named Suri, and Suri 
later went out of business. 
Mr. Battagin said that he had studied as an 
apprentice to learn photography. 
While Mr. Battagin and I were talking, Mike Pirozzoli came over and 
handed me a beer. 
David also came over and joined our conversation. 
Mr. 
Battagin told us that there used to be a Japanese colony in Gilroy, and for 
funeral photographs he would use a panoramic camera. 
He also used 8x10 and 
3x5 cameras. 
He said that back in those days they had to extensively retouch 
photographs or they couldn't sell them. 
His wife used to tint the 
photographs, which she learned to do in a class in San Francisco. 
While we were talking I noticed that one of the side walls at the end of 
the court had a hinged portion that could be opened to let the roller in. 
We watched the game some more, and Gus Audisio came over and joined 
David and me. 
David asked him to retell the story of how the club got the 
city to put a roof over the court--which was essentially that a man named 
Sanchez was running for (County?) Supervisor, and pledged to build the roof as 
an election promise. 
I noted that there was virtually no Italian spoken by any of the men--my 
impression was that this lack of Italian was not merely for our benefit. 
There was some minimal use of Italian phrases as interjections during the 
course of play. 
For example, when his side got a point, Mike Pirozzoli 
exclaimed "One--uno bello." 
I sat at the side of the courts and listened to the wordplay for a 
while. 
There was the usual commentary about being photographed: "We're going 
to be in the movies." 
One team member exclaimed, 
'we're having to work hard, 
one point at a time.' 
"You have to show a little class," said one man, and another replied, 
"you did!" 
Mike Pirozzoli commented, "You have to talk to the balls--they don't 
talk back." 
"I made the shot of the day," exclaimed one man. 
"You're not kidding," 
encouraged another on the opposite side, "We were going strong, but you came 
back from the dead." 
The game ended, Mike Pirozzoli came over to chat with David and me some 
more, while the others went over to one of the picnic tables on the side to 
play cards. 
Mr. Pirozzoli told us to be sure to come to the banquet that the 
Garlic Festival is holding for its volunteers at Christmas Hill Park on 
Saturday from 5 to 8 p.m. 
He asserted that four or five thousand people would 
be there. 
Mr. Pirozzoli mentioned that he had been born and raised in Madeira, 
California--it's hot there! 
David asked him what the other men had done to 
make a living. 
Mr. Quartiero had been an engineer. 
Mr. Audisio had run a 
bakery and a grocery. 
Mr. Da1Bon had worked for the city. 
Mr. Pirozzoli and 
his brother Bill had run a bakery. 
Most of the wealthy Italians were in farming, stated Mr. Pirozzoli--they 
came here when land was cheap and made a killing. He cited the example of the 
-
•--kc: - 
F 
o 
610 FFq , 
,g 
Bossi family , who made their money in mushrooms up near Morgan Hill--Morgan 
Hill is mushrooms , he said. 
David asked for other leads in the community. 
Mr . Pirozzoli listed Pete 
Garretti (sp?), who had owned the bakery before the Pirozzoli brothers bought 
it--he lives on Fifth Street , has to go to the hospital for dialysis 
treatments regularly . Mr. Garretti 's brother is Harry, who will be at the 
bocce party next Wednesday. 
Gene Cascarella''raised prunes . He's now 91 years-old. 
Chinto Conrotto lives across the road from the Conrotto winery, which he 
has given to his two daughters . Mr. Conrotto used to come to play bocce every 
day. 
David asked about Italian clubs , and Mr. Pirozzoli cited the Sons of 
Italy, which meets on the third Thursday of every month at the "cottage" next 
to St. Mary 's Church. 
Mr. Pirozzoli is going to cook polenta for their next 
dinner . The club has about"60 members. 
The Italian-Catholic Federation meets in the "big hall" at St. Mary's. 
They're having a dinner on September 18th--Mr. Pirozzoli is making risotto for 
the dinner . This is the largest club, with about 200 members. 
The Italian-American Club meets once a month for a dinner at St. 
Catherines in Morgan Hill. 
It has a "closed membership " of 50 to 60 members, 
and is about fifty years old. 
Gus Audisio came over to join us , and told us that Mr . Pirozzoli used to 
do catering , so he now cooks for most of the club dinners . Mr. Pirozzoli told 
us with a note of pride that when he cooked the clubs could charge as little 
as $2.00 a person and still make money on the dinner--'You have to know how to 
cook for that many people . Some people use as much as four gallons of oil to 
cook for 200 people . What are they doing with that much, bathing each pot in 
it?' 
David asked Mr. Pirozzoli what Italian foods had been sold at his 
bakery, and Mr . Pirozzoli mentioned panetone , bread sticks , and something else 
that I didn't catch . David asked whether any bakeries in town today sell 
Italian foods, and Mr. Pirozzoli cited the Nob Hill Bakery, which sells things 
like head cheese. 
He also said that Granata 's Bakery might have Italian 
foods--Tony Granata is Italian. 
David asked if Mr. Pirozzoli made wine. 
He said that his father had 
made wine , but that it wasn 't worth it --' too many mosquitoes .' 
The family 
lived in a house near the present site of Gavilan College then , lived there 
until 1940. 
I asked about the card game , Pedro, that the other men were playing on a 
carpet -covered picnic table beneath the line of Mulberry trees bordering the 
court . Mr. Pirozzoli said that the game originated in California , and that it 
was a "Spanish " or "Mexican " game. 
The men were using a cribbage board to 
keep score . Mr. Pirozzoli said that they used to play tre cent (sp?) and 
casino as well. 
More leads: according to Mr. Pirozzoli , the Garretti family had one of 
the first wineries , on Birch Hill Road. 
The Fontino winery used to be the 
Casa brothers . John Ruffinela 's aunt had the winery just before the Fortino 
Winery , on the left hand side of the road [Thomas Kruse Winery ?]. 
Ruffinela 
is retired now--leases his vineyard to the Fortino family . The Golden Oaks 
[Live Oaks?] Winery used to be the Amalfo Winery. 
The Madrone [?] Winery used 
Sul-.)b -Focl 
/q y 
to be Cribari, before they moved. 
Ken came over and asked Mike Pirozzoli for his address to send photos to 
the other players: Mike Pirozzoli, 7770 Miller Ave., Gilroy, CA 95020. 
We 
said our goodbyes and left--me to go back to the motel and work on more 
documentation, and David and Ken to take Ken on a tour of the area. 
P7 0  
-rIAW-DD-F090989.A= 
I spent the morning working on a memo for Stephanie 
Hall on the final processing of the project's files. 
It looks like this 
segment of fieldwork is going to permit more time for housekeeping tasks like 
this. 
The spread-out nature of Gilroy is making fieldwork less intense than 
San Pedro, in that interview opportunities are not presenting themselves at 
every turn. 
Here, probably because it's an agricultural community, we're 
finding that it's a matter of working from one lead to another. 
In the afternoon, Ken, David, and I drove down to Monterey to check out 
the possibility of covering the Santa Rosalia festival tomorrow, stopping at a 
camera store in Salinas on the way. 
David had read about the festival in the 
Gilroy paper. 
Monterey is certainly an interesting place for a saints' 
procession, not my image of a procession through a working-class neighborhood, 
like in Lowell. 
We found the tourist information office in the local YMCA, and got 
directions to the church where the procession was to start. 
The Church of San 
Carlos is a beautiful old Spanish church from the Presidio period. 
We found 
the rectory, and got a church bulletin listing the days events from the woman 
who answered the door (but left us standing outside the doorway). 
She 
directed us across the street to the church hall, where preparations for the 
dinner/dance for the investiture of the festival queen was to take place. 
We spoke with Lena D'Aquanno, the chairpersion of the Queen Committee, a 
thin, intense woman with a strong Italian accent, who seemed to have the 
preparations well in hand. 
She told us that we should come early, because a 
group of men would be cooking calamari for the festival in the kitchen at the 
church hall. 
She told us the processional route and advised us about the best 
place to photograph the Blessing of the Fleet from. 
Then we drove down to the "Fisherman's Wharf," now a tourist haven, 
noting the bocce courts where a group of men were practicing for the bocce 
tournament that was to accompany the festival. 
We drove by "Cannery Row," in 
its touristy incarnation, then returned to Gilroy. 
-rIAW-DD-F090989.B= 
The men at the bocce courts had told us that the 
organizers of the Gilroy Garlic Festival were having a thank-you dinner for 
the volunteers at Christmas Hill Park this evening, so David and I went over 
to check it out while Russell, Paola, and Ken went to a customer event at the 
Fortino Winery. 
While the Garlic Festival is a bit tangential to our research 
here on the Italian-American community, we had heard that Val Filice was one 
of the founders, and certainly the dishes served at the festival show a large 
Italian influence by all accounts--e.g. calamari, scampi, etc. 
We thought it 
might present possibilities to meet others in the community, particularly as 
the men from the bocce courts assured us that they were going to be there, and 
that they would introduce us to people there. 
When David and I arrived around 5:00 p.m., there was already a line of 
cars waiting to get into the park. 
A string of parking monitors directed us 
to a large open field with the precision of a drill team. 
We walked across 
the road to the picnic grounds, where a rock band was setting up on a covered 
stage. 
There were already four or five hundred people present, standing in 
four long serving lines waiting.for the dinner to be served. 
The beginning of 
each line passed by a long serving table, where servers stood poised to dish 
out salad, pinto beans, garlic bread, and "Santa Maria" steak--something I've 
never encountered before, basically marinated flank steak topped with salsa. 
Beyond the serving tables was the cooking area, a covered pavilion with 
several long cinder-block barbecue pits, with adjustable grills suspended from 
chains. 
A small army of cooks was grilling steaks, garlic bread, and sausage, 
while an impressive plume of smoke drifted into the air overhead. 
We wandered around a bit to get our bearings, and found out where to 
purchase non-volunteer tickets for the dinner. 
Then I took our place on line 
while David went to snap a few photos of the "Thank You Garlic Festival 
Volunteers" banner suspended from the cooking pavilion roof. 
Someone behind 
this festival has pretty amazing organizational skills. 
The whole operation 
proceeded on well-greased wheels, including the servers with aluminum foil 
trays of garlic bread and sausage who went up and down the waiting serving 
lines to soften the edges of hunger. 
By the time David and I had our meals the available picnic tables were 
all filled, so we took our food to the edge of a playing field, and took a 
place under a small tree. 
During the time it took us to eat, much of the 
four- or five-acre field began to fill with circles of picnickers. 
We both 
commented on the pleasant small-tgwn ambience of Gilroy--the relaxed circles 
of diners seemed to convey a sense that this is a good place to live. 
We never found our bocce players, though I did think I glimpsed Gus 
Audisio at one point. 
By the time we left the picnic, there were at least 
fifteen hundred people at the picnic. 
If this is a sign of the degree of the 
volunteer support enjoyed by the Garlic Festival, then it certainly has a 
strong claim of being a real community event. 
-T4 - 
bD - 
rb q(U F6• .,4 
-T'AW-DD-F091089 .A-- 
While Paola , Ken, and Russell went to Monterey to 
cover the Santa Rosalia festival procession, David and I waited in Gilroy for 
the arrival of Blanton Owens and Andrea Graham . Blanton and Andrea, who are 
going to do fieldwork in Nevada for the project , flew in to check out this 
field site and our methods of doing fieldwork. 
David and I drove out to the little county airport to meet Blanton and 
Andrea, and returned with them to the offibe. 
We went through the 
documentation procedures and I showed them the computer program. 
Then Blanton, David , and I went back to the airport, and Blanton took us 
up in his plane so we could take some aerial photos of the Gilroy area. 
We 
first flew over the Hecker Pass area , and took photos of the Fortino Winery 
and the colorful flower bed display by one of the seed companies. 
Then we 
flew over the main street of Gilroy , getting shots of St. Mary's Catholic 
church along the way. 
We photographed the garlic fields south of town, then 
did another swing over the town and photographed the San Martin winery before 
setting down again. 
, 
-r
L-Zzb) -lb - F•o?M f9.• 
TIAW-DD-F091089 .B= 
After lunch at Joe's Restaurant in Gilroy , David, 
Blanton Owens , Andrea Graham, and I drove over to Monterey to catch the end of 
the Santa Rosalia Festival . We spent a good deal of time photographing the 
bocce tournament -- a hotly contested semifinal round that was followed with 
avid interest by the crowd. 
There was a nice age mixture among the 
spectators, and I concentrated on trying to get some crowd-reaction photos. 
Then we walked over to a plaza area where an Italian band was playing 
smalzy music . Blanton and Andrea, who had gone on ahead of David and me, told 
us the the band leader had joked that the drummer , who was black , was from 
Sicily-- this certainly seems to be a running joke in the Italian community out 
here. 
We noticed a fairly disgruntled festival queen, aged fourteen or so, 
sulking through the plaza area, with an anxious -looking older woman (her 
mother? ) in her wake . This was not a happy queen. 
We walked up the main street a way, before returning to our car and 
driving back to Gilroy. 
_•) -F - 
Fog11••.• 
--IAW-DD-F091189.A= 
The interview that David and I had done with the 
Filice cousins at the Glen Loma Group had been cut short last week before we 
had a change to take a photograph. 
David had called to ask if we could 
arrange a photo session before Tim Filice left town, so we went back this 
morning to take the photo. 
The receptionist, Gloria, met us warmly, and gave us a few minutes to 
get out our equipment before calling the cousins to let them know we were 
there. 
The three cousins came out, and greeted us, commenting that they heard 
that Val Filice was going to make a meal for us at his informal "Pump House 
Restaurant." 
We were' delighted to hear this, because we've been hoping to get 
a sight of one of these occasions. 
First we asked the Filices to come outside so we could photograph them 
alongside the sign for the building 
Then we went into the conference room 
and took some photos of them in front of the plaque and photos they have for 
the San Martin winery. 
We made some small talk about the picnic on Saturday for the volunteers 
for the Garlic Festival, which Tim had attended. 
John Filice kidded us about 
all the weight we must be gaining in Gilroy (no small problem in fieldwork!), 
and offered to take us as his guests to his health club--an offer we perhaps 
should have accepted! 
David got some more leads for the Filice family. 
In the course of this, 
Craig Filice showed us a poster with a photo of a cousin, Edward Filice, who 
has become the winemaker for the corporation that owns the Paul Masson 
wineries. 
Before leaving, we borrowed the photograph of the Filice family's 
first grocery in San Jose. 
When we got back to the motel we showed it to 
Paola, who translated the little plaque attached to the frame as "All 
together, from the beginning." 
-rIAW-DD-F091189.B= 
We had met Mike Pirozzoli at the Bocce courts, and I 
called him this morning to see if we could set up an interview. 
He was able 
to see us at 1:00 p.m. this afternoon, so after lunch David and I went over to 
his home on Miller Avenue--a one-story green ranch house with a two-car 
garage. 
The strip of concrete along the road had small water-rounded pebbles 
embedded in it, and I wondered if this was something Mr. Pirozzoli had done. 
Later, his wife, Marie, confirmed this guess, and commented that they had made 
the mistake of going over the concrete with a roller, which ended up embedding 
some of the stones underneath the concrete. 
The interior of the house felt very Italian-American to me--porcelien 
figurines, lace tablecloth on the dining room table, glass cabinet filled with 
delicate glassware in the dining room, which rattled each time I walked by. 
I set up the recorder in the dining room to get away from some of the 
street noise, while David made small talk with Mr. Pirozzoli. 
I was a little surprised at how low-key the interview turned out to be. 
At the bocce courts, Mr. Pirozzoli had been animated and talkative--here he 
seemed more subdued. 
I think the energy level of the interview was slackened 
by the fact that David and I had just eaten. 
In the course of the interview, 
Mrs. Marie Pirozzoli arrived home from her volunteer job at the hospital, 
closing the front door with a great slam, to her embarrasment when she came 
around the corner and found us recording. 
We reassured her and invited her to 
join us, but she disappeared into the kitchen, reappearing several times to 
bring us anise cookies, apple cake, and coffee. 
After the interview, which, as David pointed out, contained good basic 
information, the Pirozzolis took us outside to see their small neat garden 
along the side of the house and in a small fenced-in tract in back. 
They 
loaded us down, in spite of our protests, with figs and apples--the figs from 
the garden. 
They also gave us several jars of homemade pickled olives. 
They 
told us that they put up about a thousand jars of olives each year--they pick 
the olives on the ranch of a friend and give the pickled olives away to 
friends. 
The pickling process involves using a lye solution to cure the 
olives, and then soaking the cured olives in a series of water baths over 
several weeks to remove the lye. 
"It's something we do to keep busy," they 
said. 
Though they seem to have little shortage of things to do, between their 
active involvement with bocce, their enthusiastic volunteer work for St. 
Mary's Church and School, the Italian-Catholic Federation, the Sons of Italy, 
and the Knights of Columbus. 
The Pirozzolis are obviously very giving people-
-witness the bounty they loaded us with. 
In the garden behind the house was a small fig tree, which they 
explained was a miniature tree that had been produced by "planting it upside 
down"--a trick that they learned from an Italian friend. 
Mrs. Pirozzoli 
explained that they had had another fig tree in the backyard, but it had 
gotten too large and its roots were threatening the sewer line, so this was 
the solution. 
"We've been married forty-seven years," she told me proudly--
"sometimes he drives me crazy, but we work well together." 
T IAW-DD-F091189.C= 
During a visit to Joe's Restaurant, run by the 
Bertolone family, David and Paola had received an invitation for the entire 
field team to come to dinner at the Bertolones' home on Monday night, their 
one day off during the week. 
Paola had asked if we could bring anything to the dinner, and was told 
nothing in no uncertain terms, so we stopped at a flower shop on the way over 
and picked up a bouquet of roses as a thank-you. 
The family lives in a tract of houses several streets away from the 
restaurant. 
Driving over there I had a quick sense of a brief evolution in 
the town--one layer of development in the fairly modest ranch houses in the 
area adjacent to Tenth Street, then the street we were driving down dead-ended 
at a T-intersection with another street lined with houses another notch up on 
the social mobility meter--chateauesque ranches with touches of ironwork. 
This was the street the Bertolones live on. 
I gathered from the length of 
time they have lived here that this tract of houses is about fifteen-years-
old. 
We were greeted at the door by Joe Bertolone, with his oldest daughter, 
Sonia, bringing up the rear. 
Russell presented the flowers to Sonia, and we 
were ushered into the kitchen, where the mother, Elvira, was cooking in the 
company of Mona Lima(sp?), a woman who waits in the restaurant, and who, it 
was proclaimed and confirmed several times during the evening, is a close 
family friend. 
A color tv on a freestanding bar in the open family room 
adjacent to the kitchen blared away in the background, displaying a video of 
"Dangerous Liasons." 
Sonia announced proudly that the family loved this 
movie--that they owned the video--that we could borrow it if we wanted. 
The Bertolone household is one of those constant ten-ring hubbubs of 
activity, where a minimal noise-level is required to lubricate normal 
activity. 
At several points people in the family suggested that the TV should 
be switched off--but these comments, it appeared common knowledge, were to be 
taken only as part of the general envelope of sound. 
Gender organization.began quickly. 
Joe gruffly signalled to David, 
Russell, and me, to follow him, and we dutifully trailed back down the front 
hallway to a side parlor reminiscent of the one in the Briguglio home in San 
Pedro--French Baroque settee and side chairs, linoleum rather than marble 
floors, crystal rather than porcelein chandelier. 
A profusion of dolls 
clustered at one end of the room, massed on the floor. 
The parlor had an 
hermetically sealed air--to be opened only in cases of company. 
Joe offered 
us wine or scotch, but before he could fill our orders, Sonia whisked into the 
room followed by Paola--gender insurrection? 
Sonia placed the vase in which 
she had placed our roses on the marble coffeetable, then breezily pointed out 
her mother's doll collection to Paola, including a three-foot high porcelein 
Cinderella on a sideboard that complemented the two-foot Sleeping Beauty on 
the floor, surrounded by her retinue on the floor. 
Sonia demanded to know 
whether we wanted to see the house, and herded us out of the parlor--upstaging 
her father a bit. 
We left the parlor, never to return again, and trouped across the 
hallway to a formal dining room that seemed to be as little used for its 
original purpose, but in this case it seemed to have found greater use as a 
material repository--a china gondola was the main exhibit on the dining room 
tabletop. 
The home, in general, held a profusion of things, objets darts, 
dolls, figurines, photographs, souvenirs, miniatures, all with a casual and 
confident disregard for period, theme, or conventionality, making it a home 
with a strong sense of place and comfortable confusion. 
In the dining room we examined a set of blueprints for a townhouse 
a,4tu,' - 
1» - 
Fc`l 11 Y9, C 
, 
a 
complex that Joe is planning to build in Los Banos, with anticipated and, it 
seemed, substantial bank financing. 
At first, we scratched our heads a bit 
over this, because it seemed out of scale with the operations of the family's 
storefront restaurant, but it seems in keeping with this area's sense of 
itself as an incipient boom area for development. 
Some of the family's 
confidence, it seemed to us, draws its sustenance from Sonia--who Russell 
later compared to the eldest daughter of the family who runs the Piccolo 
Trattoria in San Pedro. 
Sonia herded us,back down the hallway to view each of the families 
bedrooms in turn. 
The effect was to throw all of the doors of the household 
open, to say, 
'this is our life, nothing to hide.' 
This was a new experience 
to me, but Paola later assured us that this was a common welcoming gesture in 
Italy. 
Posters for rock bands and cars with comely women in the son's room, a 
large set of rosary beads displayed over the bed in the parents' room--Sonia 
identified the latter as "my mother's room." 
In Sonia's room a hefty feline 
named ? on the bed, so I, severely allergic to cats, backed out of the room, 
noting in my retreat posters for the folk rock band U-2 and for the family 
theme movie, "Dangerous Liasons." 
An arty depiction of a heavily made up 
woman's face dripping a heart-shaped tear and emblazoned "Lost Love" on the 
wall facing the entry to the room. 
Sonia then brought us into the garage to view her Mercedes, a high 
school graduation present from her father--covered with a protective bedsheet 
and next to her father's older model with a flat tire. 
Sonia lifted up the 
sheet to display the license plate: "U2 BONO 1." 
Couldn't get anything 
Italian, she explained--there are so many Italians in California that it's 
impossible to make up a personalized plate with an Italian theme. 
Russell 
suggested spelling backwards. 
In the corner of the garage, an elaborate brass 
espresso machine, which we later learned was from the family's second 
restaurant in Hollister, sold a few months ago. 
Then we were brought down the side of the house, with a glancing 
deprecatory remark cast over the fence toward the neighbors. 
Sonia brought us 
to the backyard, and we were surprised to see no garden. 
'We're never here to 
keep a garden,' Sonia reminded us. 
An olive tree and several fig trees were 
the only home produce in evidence. 
Sonia pointed out the dry condition of the 
lawn--water rationing here in Gilroy with lawn watering allowed only on 
certain days. 
Elvira had forgotten and watered the lawn last week on her only 
day off, and the neighbors had turned her in to the authorities--hence Sonia's 
neighborly slur. 
A clever courtyard arrangement at the back of the house with a window 
through to the kitchen and a tiled serving shelf below. 
Joe unlocked the iron 
grill protecting a door onto the courtyard from the family room adjacent to 
the kitchen, and we slipped back inside. 
Here, Joe finally got to serve his 
wine, and the gender segregation finally sorted itself out in what seemed 
normal fashion. 
Paola migrated to the kitchen area, where Elvira was frying 
potatoes and peppers in a portable electric skillet while Mona watched, and 
the three boys settled down with Joe at the working dining table, separated 
from the family room area by a low iron fence. 
In a short while Elvira 
brought over a plate of antipasto--with prosciutto, provolone, and peperoni, 
to Joe's disapproval, 
'but this is America, peperoni's okay in antipasto.' 
After awhile I crossed the gender lines to the extent of breaking out my 
camera and taking some snaps of Elvira frying, Sonia making salad dressing, 
Paola peeling garlic. 
In the long interval while dinner was being prepared, a 
troupe of younger offspring, both the Bertolone's and Mona's, arrived from a 
visit to the bowling alley. 
The Bertolone's younger children, Michael and 
Mary, and Mona's daughter--can't remember her name, Sonia teasingly called her 
"Greaselips" for her lip gloss. 
Also a Spanish exchange student, a boy 
::14t , 
-1\"I).- Fo 170 SF?, C; 3 
Michael's age, around sixteen. 
Mona came and joined us at the antipasto, and gave an impassioned 
testimonial to the accomplishments of the family in their restaurant business. 
She directed Sonia to bring out a number of newspaper clippings, including a 
feature article on Elvira, or "Mama" as the article repeatedly called her. 
Then the originals for the photos in the newspaper article were brought out--
it turns out that the offices of the Gilroy paper are near the restaurant, and 
the news staff are regular patrons. 
I hung back in the conversation that David and Russell were having with 
Joe, so I could hop up now and then to snap another picture. 
At one point, 
shortly before dinner was served, Anthony expressed the opinion that the table 
was not going to be big enough, so we juggled the dishes off the table while 
more leaves were put in and red restaurant tablecloths went on. 
Around this 
time, Mona's husband, Rick, a flooring contractor, came in. 
Dinner was a gargantuan affair, with shell pasta and a hot red sauce, 
bread, a huge salad--a spirited interchange between Mona and Sonia before 
dinner over whether the salad was tossable, and whether to use hands for 
tossing (it was left alone). 
At one point in the dinner, Elvira remembered a 
dish she had planned to serve but had left at the restaurant, and sent Sonia 
and Michael over to the restaurant to get it, some kind of meatball with 
eggplant mixed in. 
Dinner conversation revolved around food and taxes. 
Joe's aversion to 
Mexican food, Chinese food: "duck and guts"; the gross impropriety of another 
Italian restaurant in serving cappuchino in wineglasses; the calumny of one of 
the local wineries in sending tourists to another restaurant; Joe's 
appreciation for the finer things in life: wine, women, and garlic. 
Mona's 
husband, Rick, asked about the project, and there was a sticky moment when 
they realized that their tax dollars were underwriting part of the research, 
but a potential crisis was averted when we told them that most of us were 
self-employed and suffered the same rigors of quarterly tax-filing. 
Paola 
asked Joe what he liked best about America, and he complained about the 
stresses of life here, having always to work--which triggered some teasing 
about Joe's work habits from his daughter. 
Michael and the Spanish exchange student got up from the table to go to 
a movie in Morgan Hill--to loud complaints from his parents, but no move to 
stop them. 
Considerable discussion was devoted to how long it would take to 
drive to Morgan Hill to set a time limit in which Michael was to call home to 
tell his parents he had made it to Morgan Hill safely. 
He was asked if they 
were meeting girlfriends, and he said that he still had to find a girlfriend 
for the exchange student. 
On schedule the required phone call was made. 
A pause after dinner while dishes were cleared and washed--again an all-
female operation, though I risked gender censure to the extent of helping move 
dishes from the table to the kitchen counter. 
While the table was being 
cleared, Sonia consulted with Russell on a composition she had to write for a 
college class tomorrow--Is there a drug problem in America? 
Talk about the 
proposed publication for the project--Joe was anxious to be included in the 
publication for the publicity value. 
Joe instructed Sonia to bring out 
bottles of grappa, sambucca, and scotch ('what's the difference between red 
label and black label,' she asked--'six years,' I told her). 
When the table 
was clear, we had a cordial glass of grappa--one swig, we were instructed. 
Then before we made our way home, Joe invited us to have a final glass of 
wine, which we dutifully and unsteadily complied with before making our 
departure. 
i7 
-rIAW-DD-F091289.A= 
David was finally able to reach Jean Controtto by 
phone, and after she checked with her parents, Cinto ("Chinto," from Giacinto) 
and Rose Conrotto, set up this interview. 
We drove first to the winery to meet Jean. 
Looking for the door to the 
house across from the winery, we walked around the corner and discovered an 
impressive outdoor canary cage, with about twenty birds, next to a nice grape 
arbor. 
A good possibility for a photo, particularly with the winery in the 
background and showing a group of cactus pears adjacent to the birdhouse. 
We climbed an outside flight of stairs to the door, but nobody responded 
to our knock. 
As we went back down the stairs, though, Jean Conrotto came 
from the barn to greet us. 
I was a little surprised to see how well-dressed 
she was, after having gotten used to seeing the people around the wineries in 
work clothes. 
Perhaps for the interview? 
She told us that we would go up to her parents' house for the interview, 
so we got in our car and followed her across the road and up a steep driveway 
immediately across from the-winery. 
On top of the small hill covered with a 
vineyard was her parents' yellow ranch house, with a spectacular prospect of 
Gilroy, the valley, and the surrounding hills. 
Rose Conrotto greeted us at the door and ushered us into the living 
room, a pleasant open room with a large stone fireplace--a deers head at one 
side and a built-in gun cabinet at the other. 
Here we were introduced to 
Cinto Conrotto, a massively built and powerful-looking man with a soft and 
quiet demeanor. 
We sat down first while David explained the project, then I broke out 
the recording equipment and set it up. 
Just as I was finished setting up the 
Nagra, I discovered to my chagrin that the switch must have been jostled into 
the play position somewhere on the trip back from the Bertolone family last 
night, and the batteries were drained. 
I apologized for the problem, and 
rushed back to the hotel to pick up the external power transformer--as well as 
a cassette recorder for a backup. 
I got back to the house in about fifteen 
minutes, and found David and the Conrottos in the kitchen, looking at a large 
photograph showing Cinto's grandparents and their children. 
We returned to the living room and began the interview. 
It was a bit 
slow at first. 
Cinto Conrotto doesn't seem very voluble in general (Jean had 
hinted at this), so the earlier part of the interview, in which we were asking 
about his family background in Italy and his father's early history, was a 
little slow going. 
It turned out to be a pretty difficult recording situation. 
Because the 
house is at the top of its little hill, it catches much of the traffic noise 
from the valley below. 
This was exacerbated by the fact that the large screen 
sliding door between the living room and a patio outside was open--I didn't 
have the heart to ask the Conrottos to close the door after having asked them 
to turn off the ceiling fan (and I don't think it would have really cut down 
the noise that much. 
It was also difficult because the seating arrangement 
made it impossible to group the three Controttos together for microphone 
placement. 
I had to do some experimenting with the microphones while the tape 
was rolling until I could find an arrangement I was satisfied with. 
The interview picked up considerably when we turned to family traditions 
both in the winery and in foodways. 
Jean Conrotto, in particular, was a very 
articulate spokesperson for the importance of family tradition in the winery 
and for the balance between continuing the winery as it has been since her 
grandfather's time, and adapting to present consumer tastes. 
After the interview, the Conrottos identified the people in the family 
photograph while I wrote down their names. 
From the top, clockwise: Battista 
Conrotto (Cinto's grandfather), Battista's wife (the Conrottos couldn't 
remember her name; children: Pietro, Anselmo (Cinto's father), Enrico, 
Natalina, Giacinto, Giovanni; in the middle: top, Annetta; bottom, Simplice. 
This photograph had been found in the possession of a cousin while Cinto was 
on a visit to Italy. 
It is actually a composite of individual photographs, 
with the children shown at roughly the same ages. 
I copied the names with the 
expectation that David was going to photograph the photograph, and was a 
little surprised that he didn't, but as he pointed out, we'll need to go back. 
Another photograph possiblity is a battered old hat belonging to Anselmo 
Conrotto that Jean's sister (name?) had bronzed and presented to her parents 
on their fiftieth wedding anniversary. 
The Conrottos invited us to have a glass of wine on the outdoor patio, 
along with some biscotti that Rose had baked. 
One thing underlined for me the 
contrast between the Conrotto family's approach to wine from some of the other 
wineries here. 
Earlier I had asked what wines Anselmo Conrotto had made, and 
was told a burgundy and a sauterne (now called chablis, the Conrottos said). 
These were the same two wines that the family made exclusively throughout 
Cinto's working life, and it is only recently that the winery has been making 
varietal wines. 
Cinto had commented that everyone knows about wines--a baby 
will spit a wine out if it doesn't like it. 
This simpler, less refined view 
of winemaking was underlined for me on the patio, when all three family 
members suggested dunking the biscotti in the wine. 
David took a portrait shot of the Conrottos on the patio, and then 
another sitting on a tree stump on the side of the hill overlooking the 
winery. 
It was about six-thirty by now, and the beautiful, syrupy quality of 
the light set off the hillside of vines, the winery in the valley, and the 
surrounding hills--should be a lovely picture if all went well. 
Then David 
had Jean Conrotto snap a picture of him and me in the same place. 
Jean had to leave to pick up her daughter at a shopping center, so she 
left us now. 
We finished out glasses of wine with the parents, chatting about 
the ranch that they own in the hills north of San Francisco--David asked if 
they knew any of the winemakers up there, and Cinto said that he had bought 
wine from Louis Martini once. 
The ranch is where Cinto hunts--he had bragged 
during the interview about Rose's skill at cooking wild game. 
We also chatted 
a little about football--Cinto had been a fullback in high school and college. 
We helped the Conrottos bring the things from the patio into the kitchen 
and said our goodbyes. 
-T-,4L) -tib -P091•2gq.i3 
T IAW-DD-F091289 .B— 
David and I 
had a few minutes to collect ourselves after our 
interview with the Conrotto family before going to our evening interview with 
members of the Italian community in Gilroy that had been assembled by Frank 
Genelli, the assistant superintendent of schools here. 
Both David and I agreed afterwards that this was one of the best group 
interviews either of us had ever done. 
Mr. Genelli did a beautiful job in 
selecting the three other men for the interview. 
The four were complementary 
in many ways--narrative styles that were just contrasting enough to spur each 
other on, a good representation of occupations, regional origins, and social 
class in Gilroy. 
Frank Genelli and his wife, Allyceann, welcomed us with a cordial glass 
of apricot brandy, which we all carried into the living room. 
In our by now 
usual routine, David introduced the project while I set up the recording 
equipment. 
He was scarcely able to finish before the men were off with 
relevent examples of the types of information for, which we are looking. 
One of the things about Gilroy that came out clearly in this interview 
was the important grouping between the Piemontese who settled around the 
Hecker Pass area and started the wineries there, and the Calabrese who settled 
south of Gilroy and built up orchard business there. 
Some nice information on 
traditions, contrasts, relations, etc. 
There was also good information from Val Filice on the genesis of the 
Garlic Festival in Gilroy, and the way in which its organization has evolved. 
I've been inclined to discount any serious connection between Italian 
ethnicity and the festival, but I began to think that a greater case could be 
made after this evening--particularly in the role of Val Filice in instituting 
the "Gourmet Alley" aspect of the festival, and his drawing upon his own 
foodways traditions. 
I think something is also operating here in an 
organizational sense, with Val Filice acting as a kind of promenti for the 
festival. 
The interview lasted about an hour-and-twenty minutes, breaking up 
shortly after Mr. Conrottp had to leave. 
Before leaving, Val Filice invited 
the field team to lunch at his "Pumphouse Restaurant." 
After the other men 
left, we spend a few more minutes with the Genellis, as they showed us the 
ravioli roller that had been Mr. Genelli's father's, and a newspaper from the 
great San Francisco earthquake. 
:'-A0-1 - 
h_b - 
P
-07 
1-3 F9, 
A, l 
TIAW-DD-F091389.A= 
winery this morning for 
Conrotto had called and 
be until Thursday. 
But 
Guglielmo winery, which 
to take some photographs 
We were originally supposed to go back to the Conrotto 
the beginning of their grape harvest, but Jean 
left a message last night that the harvest would not 
in the meantime, Russell had made contact with the 
was harvesting today. 
Russell, Ken, and I went over 
I followed Ken's car over so I could leave early and go to the lunch 
that the men at the Bocce Club were putting on. 
Ken began to drive around 
back to the winery office, but there wasn't enough space back there. 
A huge 
Doberman came over to greet us, so we were a little nervous when we had parked 
the cars in the main lot and had to walk back to the office. 
The Doberman 
turned out to be a real pussycat, though, only interested in leaning its head 
against you for scratching. 
A friendly woman in the office called for Gene Guglielmo, who came out 
and greeted us. 
He brought us outside and introduced us to his brother, 
George, the winemaker, and directed us to the field where the grape pickers 
were working. 
As we walked over, I noticed a strong contrast between an area 
of younger vines, which had wide alleys between them for easier cultivating 
and which were supported by trellises, and the older area where the grape 
pickers were working, with narrow alleys and self-supporting vines. 
These, 
Gene, later explained, were the older Zinfandel and Carignan grapes. 
A line of metal bins were lined up along the dirt roadway at the edge of 
the field, into which the pickers dumped their five-gallon plastic buckets. 
A 
small forklift moved the bins as the picking progressed across the field, 
loading the full bins on top of a truck. 
The pickers, all Hispanic, were 
working at a furious rate. 
The pay, we learned, was a piece rate--sixty-cents 
for each five-gallon bucket. 
The only woman in the crew ran from bin to bin 
as the pickers emerged from the vines to empty their loads, and punched a hole 
in the card that each picker carried--some under their caps, some folded in 
their pockets, and one with the card pinned to his floppy hat. 
In all, there 
were fourteen pickers, the woman checker, and the forklift operator, who also 
punched the pickers' cards. 
Each picker worked a pattern between the vines, 
filling one bucket and leaving it near the bin, then filling the other and 
returning to grab the first on his way to the bin. 
Ken, who has done a great deal of work photographing Mexican 
agricultural workers, was in his element here. 
We spent over an hour in the 
field. 
I kept trying to get a photograph that would convey the rush of the 
men as they ran with their buckets to empty them, but I don't think I ever 
quite succeeded. 
At one point, Ken called over to Russell to come talk to a 
picker that he had found was from Michagoan. 
Russell did his best to 
interview the man, but it was practically impossible given the constraints 
under which the man was picking. 
After we had been there for about an hour-and-a-half, Gene Guglielmo 
came out to look for us because his brother, George, was ready to begin the 
crushing operation. 
On our walk back to the winery, I commented on how fast 
the pickers were working, and Gene responded, 'they'd pick a lot slower if you 
didn't pay them by the bucket.' 
Gene brought us over to George Guglielmo, who gave us an explanation of 
the crushing process. He explained that the grapes were picked when the sugar 
content was around twenty-three percent, and that the sugar would decrease in 
the process of fermentation. 
The grapes were carried in the bins we had seen 
in the field to the crusher and stemmer. 
The grapes are emptied into a large 
vat and screw drive carries them to a conveyer built which carries them the 
the crusher. 
The crusher has a drum with holes and a set of revolving blades 
forces the grapes against the holes in the drum. 
The juice and skins pass 
through the holes and the stems and leaves are ejected. 
The juice and skins are pumped through a six-inch diameter hose up to 
the fermentation tanks--huge stainless steel tanks outside the winery under a 
protective roof. 
In the case of red wines, fermentation in these tanks takes 
about three to five days from the time that fermentation begins. 
(George 
mentioned that he had just bought a load of grapes from the Napa valley that 
were mechanically harvested in the evening'while it was cool, and that it had 
taken two days in the tanks for fermentation to begin.) 
The huge fermentation 
tanks at the winery were installed in 1961. 
They have refrigeration coils 
inside to slow down the fermentation process if the temperature should get too 
high. 
The newer fermentation tanks have refrigerated jackets. 
From the fermentation tanks the mixture goes through a hydraulic press 
which removes the solid materials. 
White wines are pressed before 
fermentation. 
The wine is then placed into the huge oak storage tanks inside 
the winery for aging. 
As George put it, the task is to marry the tannin in 
the grapes with the tannin in the oak. 
Russell asked for George's opinion on the assertion we have heard 
several times that white wines are easier to make than reds. 
George disagreed 
to the extent that red wines are easier to make than whites from a physical 
standpoint. 
As he put, you have to clean the wine--reds clean themselves, 
whites have to be cleaned. 
Ken asked George if he had studied in the wine 
program at the University of California-Davis, which brought the slightly acid 
rejoinder, 
'Why do people think that Davis has the only wine program.' 
He 
explained that he had studied at Fresno, because he had wanted more hands-on 
experience. 
I stayed and watched the operation for a while, then left Russell and 
Ken there while I went off to meet David for our visit to the Bocce club. 
TAu) __D• - 
'•og13E;',?l 1 
T IAW-DD-F091389 .B= 
When David , Ken, and I had visited and photographed at 
the bocce courts on Forest Street last week , we were invited to come to a 
lunch at the court to be held today. 
We were told that the group of men who 
play bocce here usually have a party once a month to celebrate the birthdays 
of the members whose birthdays fall in that month. 
Ken had stayed with 
Russell at Guglielmo's winery, so David and I went over to the bocce courts to 
see what was happening. 
There were about six men at the courts when we arrived. 
Mike Pirozzoli 
came over to greet us, and apologized that many of the men he had called to 
come to the party had been unable to make it. 
At this point I realized that 
the event was largely in our honor--Mike explained that they had decided to 
just schedule their monthly party for our convenience. 
Mike brought David and me into the small clubhouse, and invited us to 
have a brandy, chopping some ice into the glasses, and then adding Seven-Up 
before offering them to us. 
(Actually, David had a whiskey and Seven-Up.) 
Mike began to set out'pots and bowls full of food that he had brought in 
a cardboard carton. 
(Later, we asked one of the other men, who told us that 
Mike had brought all of the food.) 
David and I began talking with Floyd 
Maestri, who had been born in Arkansas and came to Gilroy following the war. 
Mr. Maestri had served in the tank corps during the war. 
While we were talking, one of the men came in with his small grandson, 
Mike. 
The grandfather had Mike gravely shake hands with both David and me. 
Shortly after this, Mike Pirozzoli announced that the food was ready. 
Most of the men had brought their own utensils and metal trays onto 
which they dished out the food. 
Mike had brought some extra plastic plates 
for David and me. 
I took some photos of the serving line before I finally 
took my own food at the urging of Mike Pirozzoli, who told me to get my food 
before it ran out. 
Seeing as how he had brought food for twice as many people 
as showed us, there was little danger of this. 
The men brought their trays to the two picnic tables under the mulberry 
trees. 
Dinner conversation revolved around talk about how good life in Gilroy 
was with its mild climate. 
Some of the men had first come to California 
during the war, then had returned to stay after the war. 
Little Mike's 
grandfather was originally from Bridgeport, Connecticut, and told me how a 
friend in Connecticut had thought that he was a fool to come to California--
until the friend came for a visit years later and declared that he had been 
the one who was a fool. 
The other predominant theme in the lunch conversation 
was talk about Hawaii--how it was even more of a paradise than California. 
Most of the men had been to Hawaii several times. 
Floyd Maestri said that he 
had been trying to talk his wife into spending several months each year in 
Hawaii. 
Both Mr. Maestri and Valente Tessaro, a man in his nineties, turned out 
to be from the same town in Arkansas . Mr. Tessaro was wearing a cap with a 
logo for a grape festival in this town, and Mr. Maestri went out to his car to 
bring a copy of the program booklet for this festival, which he gave to David. 
Mike Pirozzoli's brother, Bill, came over from the other table to talk, 
and told me how great he thought it was that young people like us were 
interested in what the older people had done. 
He urged David and me to stop 
by and visit him and his wife. 
I told him that we would try, but explained 
that our schedule was getting pretty full. 
After the meal, Mike Pirozzoli announced that it was time for bocce, and 
invited David and me to draw cards with the rest of them to choose teams. 
_T4c()-1 J— FO,7t399, 3 
,a 
David and I drew cards that would have put us on the same team, but the men 
suggested that we play on opposite teams. 
This was undoubtedly to minimize 
the damage that either of us would do, as was the order for bowling. 
There 
were three men on each side, and both teams put David and me in the middle 
order, so the first player could set the strategy, and the last bowler could 
repair the damage from out bowling. 
As we walked over to the courts, David 
mentioned to me that he had just learned that Lee Quartiero was originally 
from Trinidad, Colorado. 
The bocce court, we discovered, had a funny roll to it--though it looked 
absolutely flat, the balls had a tendency to roll to one side unless they were 
placed down a fairly narrow "alley," as the men called it. 
The experienced 
players used this tendency to good effect, hooking balls around those in front 
of the pallino. 
There was much good-natured ribbing between the men as they bowled, but 
the play was in dead earnest. 
As David mentioned after we left, it was 
interesting to watch them bite their tongues to keep from saying anything when 
one of us blew a shot. 
Bill Pirozzoli was the object of particular ribbing 
for the intensity with which he played--offset by the effects of the beer he 
was drinking. 
David bowled with surprising skill, eliciting compliments from the men 
and the assertion that he must really be an Italian in disguise. 
We finished 
the one game, then drew cards for new sides and played another game, before 
the men decided it was time for a game of Pedro, the card game we had 
witnessed on our earlier visit. 
The men sorted themselves out between the two picnic tables--by now 
there were eight men to play two games while David and I watched. 
Floyd 
Maestri quickly sketched the rules of the game, of which the only details I 
caught were the values of the cards: the Fives are the "Pedros," worth five 
points, Jacks are worth four, Deuces, three, and Kings and Queens, two. 
David and I watched the game for a while before expressing our thanks 
and making our departure. 
By this time it was around three o'clock. 
-rAto- t) 
b- F 
O 
q 
iq $q , 
,4 
, 
t 
T IAW-DD-F091489.A= 
David and I had arranged to photograph the grape 
harvest at the Conrotto Winery. 
Originally this was to have taken place 
yesterday, but the sugar level of the grapes was not high enough, so it was 
postponed until today. 
Paola, David, Ken, and I arrived at the winery at 
7:30, and were greeted by Jean Conrotto Burr's husband, Jim Burr. 
The grapes 
being harvested were a new hybrid called Symphony, developed at the University 
of California, Davis. 
The vineyard at the,winery is small, only an acre or 
SO. 
Most of the grapes are planted at the west side of the old family home in 
a square plot with the vines trained on wire trellises. 
The rest are 
scattered around the north and east sides of the house. 
Jim and a friend, 
Mike Florek, were harvesting the grapes around the house, while two Hispanic 
workers, Fernando and Jose Guerroro, were working in the main plot. 
Jim later 
explained that the Guerroros had been given this plot so they could work 
faster and make more money. 
Mike Florek was volunteer labor--as I later 
learned, he is an Advisory Marketing Support Representative for I.B.M. 
Mike 
and his wife, Barbara Jean, have been friends with the Burrs for several 
years, originally a customer/winery relationship that has grown into a close 
friendship. 
The Conrottos have ,a table wine called BJR: "Barbara Jean 
Reserve." 
Ken made a beeline to photograph the Hispanic workers, while David, 
Paola, and I gravitated to the two men working around the house. 
David and I 
began taking photographs while Paola took up one of the hooked knives used for 
cutting the grape clusters off the vines, and began helping the two men. 
The 
early morning light was gorgeous--hopefully there will be some beautiful 
pictures to come out of this session. 
I took some shots of the setting, 
including the outdoor canary house we had seen the earlier day, and then 
concentrated on photographing the two men at work. 
After a while David put 
down his camera and started helping with the harvest. 
I photographed for 
about half an hour more, then I pitched in as well. 
The Symphony grapes grow in heavy clusters underneath the leaves and 
close to the central portion of the vine. 
It took some looking to make sure 
we had picked all of the grapes. 
The curved knives make efficient cutting 
tools for this work--though it takes same caution while cutting around the 
vine not to hook your own'hand holding the cluster of grapes--David got a 
scratch in the course of the work. 
While I was working in front of the house, Jean Conrotto Burr arrived, 
expressing some surprise and pleasure at seeing our crew at work. 
It's true 
that we made a major impact on the speed of the harvest--the grapes by the 
house were pretty well picked in about an hour-and-a-half. 
The Guerroros took 
about an hour longer, I suspect because they had alloted the morning to the 
work and adjusted their work speed accordingly. 
Ken took off once the picking was finished, while David, Paola, and I 
stayed around to chat with the Burrs. 
I asked Jim Burr why he wasn't crushing 
the grapes today, and he said that he first needed to wait until all the 
grapes were picked, and besides, he wanted to do it in the morning before the 
yellow jacket wasps were active. Jean Burr made some coffee, and invited Paola 
and me to bring our cups to the patio behind the tasting room. 
She told us 
that the family owned the land between the winery and a dry creekbed over 
toward the hills across the valley. 
This land had been originally planted 
with walnut and prune trees, but all except a few walnut trees near the patio 
had been pulled up in the 1960s. 
Jean told us that the winery held parties 
for customers on this patio, added when the tasting room had been put in a few 
years ago. 
Originally the building in which the tasting room is located had 
been housing for workers during her grandfather's time. 
Jean also mentioned that several weddings had been held on the patio. 
For one couple from San Diego, Jean had done all of the preparations. 
The 
-
rAv . 
b 
b 
- 
F 
0 
q 
i'Y ' 
q 
• 
4, :L 
winery will print special labels for weddings--this is apparently a very 
common practice. 
Jean showed us the small bottles of wine that had been given 
to guests at the wedding of Mike and Barbara Jean Florek, with the motto: Mike 
and BJ: Not their first, but their last." 
Paola asked Jean about the family, and she reiterated some of what had 
been discussed during our interview. 
Paola asked if she had been back to the 
small town in the Asti region of Italy where the family is from, and Jean 
mentioned that she had slept in the home there where her grandmother had 
lived. 
She also told us the story of how one of her aunts(?) had been born in 
America but had gone back to Italy with her mother. 
When the mother had died, 
Jean's grandmother went back to Italy and brought the girl back to the U.S. 
with her. 
Jean also mentioned that her sister is a nun, and is stationed at a 
retreat center that hosts multidenominational conferences. 
We talked a little about weddings in the Italian community. 
Jean said 
that when her sister, Germaine, had gotten married there were 500 guests 
invited to the wedding, and 490 , showed up. 
When Jean and Jim got married they 
decided to have a small wedding, and only had about twenty-five guests. 
Jean 
cited this as an example of how marriage customs in the community had changed. 
As another example, she mentioned that one of the weddings she has recently 
gone to in Gilroy was a black-and-white wedding--the bridge wore white and the 
bridesmaids wore black. 
She said that when she had gotten married, the woman 
at the bridal shop in Gilroy told her that she had always wanted to do a 
black-and-white wedding, but Jean's mother was horrified at the notion. 
Paola 
responded that black was traditionally worn at Italian weddings among the 
peasant population--only the very wealthy wore white. 
Perhaps for Rose 
Conrotto's generation black still held this association with the peasantry 
among the Italian-American community? 
We finished our coffee and went back inside the tasting room, where 
David joined us. 
We looked over the display of wines, and a display of 
antique odds and ends at one of the room, in a set of the wooden boxes used 
for carrying the grapes which were mounted on the wall. 
Just then, Mike 
Florek came into the tasting room with the news that Jim Burr had decided to 
crush the grapes today after all. 
So I ran back to the hotel to pick up a 
tripod and some higher-speed film so we could work in the dim conditions of 
the pressing room. 
The contrast between the larger-scale, more modern operation at the 
Guglielmo winery and the survival of the older, family oriented, manual labor 
operations at the Conrotto winery really came home to me during the crush. 
Both the crusher and the press used at Conrottos date from Anselmo Conrotto's 
time--just before we left, Jim Burr pointed to the solid brass fittings of the 
press. 
The procedure at Conrottos was done in a piecemeal fashion with an 
almost casual air. 
The boxes of grapes were carried one-by-one to the crusher 
which was set on several of the wooden carrying boxes over a plastic bin, 
about twenty gallons in capacity. 
The grapes were fed into the electric-
powered crusher by hand--a cluster at a time so the machine wouldn't jam, 
which it did nonetheless a number of times. 
The juice and skins fell into'the 
plastic bin below and the stems were ejected onto the concrete floor behind 
the crusher. 
Care had to be taken not to get any leaves into the crusher, 
which apparently couldn't hand these. 
once the plastic bin beneath the crusher was full, the crusher was 
turned off. 
Mike Florek guided the end of a four-inch plastic hose into the 
plastic bin, while Jim Burr operated an electric must pump, which sucked the 
skins and juice out of the plastic bin and pumped it into the hopper on top of 
the press. 
The press was a fairly massive affair, about six feet long and 
about five feet high. 
The hopper on top wasn't visible from the ground, so 
Jim had to guess when to cut off the must pump, then climbed a short wooden 
ladder leaning against the press to peer inside the hopper and see how much 
space was left. 
At this point, the two men had to unplug the crusher and plug the only 
available 220-volt line into the press--not only that, but the ends of the 
plug were exposed even while plugged in, so one of the men would go over to 
the circuit box, switch it off and yell "Clear," while the other man made the 
switch. 
The juice from the press was pumped directly to the fermentation tanks 
downstairs, while the skins were ejected into a metal garbage pail leaning 
against the rear of the press. 
Once this part of the process was complete, 
the whole cycle had to be repeated. 
About three or four boxes of grapes could 
be processed in one cycle--and since there were about seventy boxes, this took 
several hours. 
This was a small lot of grapes being processed. 
Jim later 
told us that it would produce about 800 bottles of wine. 
With the exception 
of this small amount produced from the winery's own vineyard, the entire run 
is produced from purchased grapes--so it must be a pretty labor-intensive 
period for the next several weeks. 
At the beginning of crushing, it took some time for the men to 
straighten out the electrical hookup of the must pump, so I went downstairs in 
the interval to investigate the old wooden storage tanks. 
There were two huge 
glass demijohns filled with wine sitting on a table, so I experimented a bit 
with the tripod, taking some time exposures of the tanks with the demijohns in 
the background. 
I photographed some of the crush from the top of the huge old open 
concrete fermentation tanks along one side of the pressing room. 
As in other 
wineries, these fermentation tanks are no longer in use--the Conrottos use 
stainless steel fermentation tanks like the other wineries. 
The old tanks 
stand empty. 
The walls are about eight feet high and about eight inches 
thick, so it was a bit of a nervous balancing act to stand on the top of a 
wall and photograph. 
As the crush proceeded, the number of wasps attracted by the grapes 
increased, but luckily none seemed in a combative mood. 
Earlier, Jim Burr had 
shown me the wasp traps he uses in the vineyard in an effort to keep the wasps 
from building nests. 
These consist of a plastic dish filled with soapy water, 
with a raised island in the middle on which pieces of bacon are placed. 
As 
Jim explained it, wasps have to first descend when they take off in flight, so 
they fall into the soapy water. 
Jean Burr, Paola, and David went over the 
grapes and removed any leaves. 
(Since I have a pretty severe wasp allergy, I 
deferred.) 
The crush took about three hours. 
Jean and Paola went off to a local 
sandwich shop called "Togos" and brought back some lunch, which we all at out 
on the patio. 
We asked Jim about the fermentation process, and he explained 
that the white Symphony wine would be fermented in stored tanks with a water 
seal to prevent oxidation. 
The gas produced by fermentation will bubble out 
of the tank, and the amount of sugar consumed can be judged by the rate of 
bubbling. 
He told us that the wine would be left in the fermentation tank for 
about ten days. 
We asked when sulfite had to be added to the wine, and Jim 
told us that it would be added several times in the process because it is lost 
through oxidation. 
The wine has to be "racked" several times as the sediments settle over 
the winter. 
The clear wine is drawn off of the top and the wine containing 
sediments is left at the bottom. 
Jim remarked how much it hurt to throw that 
part of the wine away. 
Most of the sedimentation takes place during the cold 
months of winter, and this part of the process is called "stabilization." 
Jim 
-_
-
T[- 4
1 
u-• - 
D 
b 
, 
Von? /I/ Eq..-4) C/ 
also remarked how wine drinkers in America are absurdly sensitive to any 
cloudiness left in the wine, and noted disparagingly about the comments that 
people make --' Didn't you wash the sand off the grapes?' 
David asked the Burrs whether their son, Scott , was introducing any of 
the knowledge he was picking up in the wine program at the University of 
California , Fresno. 
Jim told a story about his son calling him up to say, 
'Hey dad, did you know that the sulfite were using is fifty-seven percent 
inert?' 
A professor had watched Scott measure out the sulfite , and asked him 
if he was taking the inert portion into account, which is how Scott had 
learned this . Jim noted that Scott had managed to bluff his way out that one 
pretty well. 
Another topic of conversation at lunch was an imminent move by Mike and 
Barbara Jean Florek to Des Moines for two years . Barbara Jean had already 
moved, and Mike was to join her in a few days . Mike mentioned that he was 
trying to sell their house in Gilroy , and had offered to trade it to the 
Conrottos for some of their land-- an offer that had apparently not been taken 
seriously . The two men also discussed their plan to do some rewiring tomorrow 
to allow both the crusher and press to be operated without the juggling of the 
electricity. 
After lunch, the two men went out to begin cleaning up the crusher and 
press, and the three of us went into the tasting room with Jean to sample 
several of the family's wines--and to purchase some for ourselves. 
we chatted 
for another fifteen minutes or so before leaving around 3:30. 
EAU)-••- Fc• rS 
,,4 
TIAW-DD-F091589.A= 
I spent the morning and part of the afternoon getting 
caught up on my fieldnotes , and the rest of the day beginning the initial work 
on the askSam application program that will be used for retrieving information 
from the project collection. 
-hD - 
FO  
1•'R7. 4 
T IAW-DD-F091689.A= 
I spent the day working on the askSam application 
program that will be used to retrieve information from the project 
collection. 
s;•W->>- FOg (7F7.A ) l 
TIAW-DD-F091789.A= 
We returned to the Conrotto Winery today for a family 
portrait and to conduct an interview with Jim Burr and his son Scott. 
John 
Williams arrived today, after driving cross-country, and though he had driven 
all night, decided to come along. 
Ken also came for the beginning of the 
session to take the portrait of the family. 
The interview was prompted by the fact that the Burr's son, Scott, was 
coming home from his studies at the University of California, Fresno, to pick 
up an old washer and dryer. 
We were planning to go over at about 1:00 p.m., 
but Jean Conrotto Burr called shortly before one to let us know that Scott 
hadn't arrived yet, so we grabbed some lunch in the meantime , and arrived at 
the winery at about 2:15. 
Jean was in the tasting room with a large and 
jovial group of visitors, so I suggested that Ken take a few shots of the 
tasting room scene. 
Jean told us that Jim and Scott were in the winery, but 
when David and I went looking for them, we found that they were gone. 
It 
turned out that they had gone over to pick up the washer and dryer. 
David and I looked over the winery for the best site for our proposed 
interview, and decided that'the little separate office beside the winery would 
be the best bet if there was enough room, because there was a fair amount of 
traffic and wind noise inside the open winery buildings. 
Jim and Scott arrived about fifteen minutes later, and when the tasting 
room crowd had thinned out enough to allow John, Paola, and me to fill in for 
her, Jean was able to join the rest of the family for Ken's portrait. 
While 
we were waiting for Jean to get away, Jim showed us the larger crusher that is 
located on the covered loading dock area next to the winery. 
I hadn't 
realized that this was still in use, as are the large old pipes that convey 
the must from this crusher into the winery. 
I was also surprised to find out 
that the large concrete fermentation tanks in the winery are still used for 
fermenting red wine. 
So the operations of this winery really are very little 
changed since the time of Anselmo Conrotto. 
While Paola, John, and I were filling in for Jean in the tasting room, 
it was amusing to watch John filling in as a very knowledgeable source of 
information on the various grapes used in the Burrs' wines. 
If he ever wants 
another job, I think John has a future here! 
After Ken had finished with the portrait, he went inside the winery to 
take some interior photographs, while David and I prepared the recording 
equipment. 
We had decided to ask Jim and Scott to give us a walking tour of 
the winery and explain the entire process. 
I decided to record in stereo with 
a coincident tip arrangement. 
I regretted not having any windscreens with me, 
because it did get breezy enough a few times inside the winery to raise some 
wind noise--we've had a couple of days of rainy and windy weather here thanks 
to a hurricane offshore pumping moisture this way. 
By and large, though, the 
sound quality was good, and the ambient noise enhanced the interview--
particularly as we stood by the fermentation tank containing the juice that we 
had harvested a few days before and the sound of the fermentation gases 
bubbling out of the water trap made a nice counterpart to Jim's commentary. 
Both Jim and Scott proved to be articulate and amusing speakers--a very 
pleasing and very useful interview with much good information about processes, 
techniques, tools, family stories, winemaking beliefs, tales of prohibition, 
dangers of earthquake. 
During our tour of the winery, and to a large extent 
in the follow-up interview, David acted as the interviewer while I handled the 
tape recorder. 
In good folklorist fashion, David did an excellent job of 
giving physical descriptions of the objects that were being talked about--
which Jim commented upon at one point out of curiosity. 
I was really impressed by the extent to which this winery really is an 
s•Uj - 
b 
) 
- 
F(39 (7•q . 
A) 2 
old-timey operation. 
In Anselmo Conrotto 's time, and even into Jim Burr's 
time, the winery required several workers , even though most of the production 
has always used purchased grapes . Jim explained that the winery was laid out 
to enable much of the flow of production to take advantage of gravity--this 
was a plan that Anselmo had brought from Italy . But even so it required a 
good deal of manpower . The Burrs make use of pumps to simplify the flow of 
production, which seems to enable them to reduce the amount of manpower 
required . Even so , it's a pretty labor-intensive operation, but more in terms 
of repetitive tasks--like filling , corking , and labelling the wine bottles. 
After the tour of the winery , we returned upstairs to the fermentation 
room and did a short session with Jim and Scott on their memories of the 
family and feelings about the winery. 
It 's easy to wax overly romantic about 
this type of operation in comparison to the larger wineries , but in regard to 
this it was interesting to see that both Jim and Scott seemed satisfied in 
general with the present operations of the winery . Scott did say that he was 
interested in investing in more stainless steel tanks eventually, but then 
modified his statement with the opinion that the older redwood tanks used in 
the winery have their advantages , too. 
Since Scott has just begun his studies 
in the wine program at Fresno since August, it's certainly premature to make 
any sweeping generalizations here, but for the time at least, he seems to feel 
quite secure within the family winemaking tradition. 
TIAW-DD-F091889.A= 
Russell had arranged to do this interview with Louis 
Bonino, whose family runs the LJB produce stand between Gilroy and San Martin. 
Louis is a third-generation farmer, who continues to work land that his 
grandfather acquired. 
For a period of four years, Louis left farming and went 
to work for Carriage House Foods the food processing company that was owned by 
the family his wife, Judy. 
He started a new packing plant in Watsonville, and 
stayed with the company until it was bought by an English firm. 
The family 
began the farm stand before Louis went to work for Carriage House, and kept it 
going during that period because Judy wanted to keep it going. 
Russell and I arrived at the Boninos at 8:30. 
Ken had gone on before 
us, hoping to get some photographs of the garlic braiding that is done at the 
stand, but the rain started up again, and the Boninos decided not to harvest 
anything this morning. 
We met a disappointed Ken as he was leaving, and 
promised to call him if the man who braids the garlic showed up. 
We picked our way across the muddy driveway to the open garage-like 
building that houses the stand. , Counters along two of the building held 
boxes, or "lugs" of produce"from the farm, while a wooden bin about four-feet-
square sitting on the floor in the middle of the room held ears of corn. 
Garlic braids of various lengths decorated the walls, while a wreath of small, 
bright red chili peppers hung on the wall behind the cashiers counter. 
Russell and I chatted with Judy while Louis talked on the phone, I think 
to buy some produce from a neighboring farmer. 
Judy told us that the counter 
with the cash register was relatively new. 
She said that while her children 
were working in the farm stand, she wouldn't let them use a calculator to ring 
up orders--they had to do everything in their heads. 
For this reason, all 
prices had been rounded off to the nearest nickel. 
I gathered that this 
system had finally proved too uneconomical. 
Judy also told us that she 
refused to bring grocery carts into the stand, but had conceded to the point 
of getting some small fruit baskets that people could use to carry their 
produce as they went through the stand. 
When Louis was finished talking on the phone, he announced, "okay, let's 
go over to the house and g"et this over with," in a semi-joking fashion. 
He 
led through a heavy wooden gate in a fence that separated the large ranch 
house from the public stand. 
We learned in the course of the interview that 
Louis built the house himself--the impressive stonework around the foundation 
and fireplace was done by a friend. 
In the backyard that Louis led us through 
was a beautiful kidney-shaped swimming pool with an elaborate rock waterfall 
that tumbled into one side of the pool. 
There was also a large stone patio 
area with a stone barbecue pit. 
This was a very good interview. 
Louis is an expansive and comfortable 
talker. 
Lots of good information about the relationships between the 
generations of the family, changing approaches to agriculture in the valley, 
foodways, agricultural beliefs. 
Louis's grandfather's main crop was grapes, 
which he supplied to home winemakers in San Francisco's Italian section. 
Because the family had a truck with which they made deliveries to San 
Francisco, they were able to survive Prohibition, and continued to supply home 
winemakers into the 1950s. 
Louis had good information about making these 
deliveries, and crushing the grapes at customers' houses with a portable 
crusher. 
It seems apparent that Louis's stint with Carriage Foods has changed his 
ideas about agriculture, orienting him more toward agribusiness. 
He expressed 
disatisfaction with the farm stand--the type of farming he does he does not 
consider farming because it is too small and diversified--each crop occupies 
only ten acres or so. 
His goal now is to get back into the food processing 
business by starting his own plant. 
Louis struck both Russell and me as a 
.iAw -60- Fo?q 9• ,4;--)- 
restless person who is continually striving to move forward. 
As he, himself, 
put it when he mentioned that he had been approached a number of times to 
return to work for Carriage Foods, 
'you can't go backward, you can only go 
forward.' 
I was also struck with the feeling that Louis is pulled between the 
attitudes instilled by his family and the changing demands of agriculture. 
In 
our interview, he insisted that one of the things that had made it possible 
for him to survive as a farmer was the ethic of never taking on any credit. 
Yet, as he admitted t'o us during lunch, the processing plant that he hopes to 
establish would require tremendous amounts of capital that could only be 
obtained through extensive bank financing. 
Another revealing moment came 
during Louis's description of the traditional beliefs that governed his 
grandfather's agricultural methods and Louis's observation that many of the 
beliefs seemed to have empirical validity. 
This was countered with his 
involved discussion of the benefits of using a computer to track the costs 
involved with raising particular crops, and the importance of timing the 
planting of particular crops to , "fill in the holes"--the periods of time when 
those crops are not readily'available on the market and the prices that they 
fetch are correspondingly higher. 
After the interview, Louis showed us the family photographs displayed on 
the wall behind a small, well-stocked, built-in bar in the living room. 
Louis 
pointed out family artifacts in the living room: a milking stool that was used 
by Judy's grandfather in his dairying business, a wagon wheel taken from 
Louis's grandfather's farm that he converted into a chandelier. 
The small 
playroom that adjoins the living room is dominated by a pool table, while 
several old mechanical games are arranged along the walls. 
Here, Louis 
pointed out a mosaic picture of a plowman that Judy had picked up in Italy, 
chosen because of its theme. 
Then Louis took us out to the garage to show us an old corn sheller that 
had been used on the farm. 
We were more impressed by a '57 Chevy in beautiful 
condition, except for a missing front bumper. 
Louis explained that the bumper 
was dented this past weekend by his son. 
The father and son are busy trying 
to get the damage repaired in time for an old-time car show in Watsonville 
this weekend. 
By this time the rain had cleared off enough that Louis decided to have 
the two Hispanic men who work regularly for him harvest some corn. 
Louis took 
Russell and me in his pickup truck to show us the harvest. 
The dirt road was 
well-saturated and slippery from the rains, and even Louis's four-wheel drive 
pickup skittered a bit, prompting Louis to wonder out loud whether it had been 
a good idea to go this way. 
Louis pointed out the fields of various chiles and bell peppers in this 
area, before we arrived at the corn field. 
Russell and I photographed Louis 
in a field of bell peppers before the two other men arrived on a forklift with 
an empty wooden bin. 
We photographed the two men (I asked Russell with his 
ever-present notebook to get their names) picking corn in the narrow rows.' 
Each wore a special bag strapped to their stomach for carrying the ears of 
corn. 
Once the bag was full, they carried it out to the bin, and emptied it 
by pulling a release at the bottom of the bag. 
Both Russell and I had a good 
time threading our way through the green jungle of corn stalks and trying to 
photograph through the rows. 
We both emerged with great wads of adobe mud 
clinging to our sneakers and dragging dried cornstalks that had affixed 
themselves to the mud. 
After photographing this, I took some photos of Louis standing in one of 
the chili pepper fields, with the grassy hills in the background illuminated 
by the sun through the clouds--it if comes out, this should be a nice photo. 
a^) - 
b - 
Po  
I'FV,41 3 
Louis then asked us if we'd like to see the ranch--I keep forgetting 
that everyone here refers to agricultural property as a ranch--that was owned 
by his maternal grandparents. 
This is located in Gilroy, so Russell and I 
followed him over in our car. 
The ranch is now leased by Northrup King, which 
uses it to test new varieties. 
We climbed back into Louis's pickup, and he 
pointed out the various test fields of tomatoes, peppers, broccoli, and 
carrots 
Then we went back to the farmstead, and I got Louis to take us 
through the barns. 
Louis pointed out the stanchions where the cows had been 
milked, and told us that his grandfather had known each cow by name. 
The cows 
had gone crazy if some stranger entered the barn, he told us. 
He also pointed 
out the pen where one of the farm hands had raised a fawn he had found--later 
getting rid of it when it had grown into a buck that went crazy each rutting 
season and had a habit of pinning him against the wall. 
Then Louis showed us the horse barn, now a repository of ancient shop 
equipment and an army jeep. 
Louis told us that he'd love to get rid of some 
of the "junk" but in a large family, someone will always say, 
'what happened 
to...' and get upset if it'"s been thrown away. 
Louis then took us for lunch at the Denny's near the farm, which he told 
us had been the hangout for all the farmers in the area during the time before 
he had gone to work for Carriage Foods. 
By the time Louis returned the 
farming, most of the older generation had quit, though, so it's no longer the 
hangout. 
There had been early morning breakfast gatherings, where each farmer 
kept informed on what the others had been doing. 
Russell and I both laughed 
to see a woman sitting at a booth in the restaurant wearing a sweatshirt with 
the logo, "Italian Style." 
Oh for a camera, we groaned. 
At lunch, Louis talked about his years working for Carriage House foods. 
Brought in as a relative, he found it hard to win the respect of other 
employees initially. 
He described the processing business as a cut-throat 
one. 
He would ask other employees for help, and they would give him wrong 
information just to see him make a mistake. 
But then he started making his 
own decisions, and things started going fine. 
He also talked about his relations with the union. 
He had had an option 
to go with the union or not when the new plant was started, and he had decided 
to let the plant be a union plant. 
But he expressed disgust at the way the 
union representatives 'would come
,in and try to make trouble.' 
His main 
complaint was that the union would try to get in the way of his negotiating 
directly with a worker. 
I asked Louis where he had learned Spanish, and he told us that he had 
picked it up from the migrant workers who had worked for his family. 
He 
described his knowledge as a great asset during his Carriage House years, 
because he had concealed his knowledge from the workers, and he was able to 
understand their overheard conversations. 
Louis picked up the check in spite of my attempts to do so, rejoining 
that I could pick up the check the next time. 
We said goodbye in the parking 
lot of the restaurant, and Russell and I made the short drive to the motel. 
By now it was around two p.m. 
•, W 
-• 6 
- 
T IAW-DD-F091989.A= 
Val Filice had invited us to have lunch with him at 
his "Tank House Ristorante" when David and I interviewed him at the Ginellis 
last week. 
The "ristorante" consists of a shed roof with a picnic table next 
to the old tank house at the Filice family home. 
Val and his brother, Joe, 
have installed a stove and sink under the shed roof, where they can prepare 
alfresco meals for their friends. 
We arrived for the event late, because Russell was the only one who knew 
how to get there, and he was delayed at his morning interview. 
After a call 
to the woman who had 'showed the place to Russell and Paola, we finally figured 
out how to get there. 
I grabbed two bottles of wine to bring along, despite 
Val's insistence over the phone that we shouldn't bring anything, and I think 
it helped smooth over our tardiness. 
We presented a pretty formidable 
contigent--the five fieldworkers, John Williams, Paola's friend from Italy--
another Paola, and my wife, Pam Upton. 
Val had insisted that the number was 
no problem. 
We arrived to find Val and his wife, Elsie, and Val's brother Joe and 
his wife Judy. 
After introductions, Val began cooking some scampi on the gas 
stove. 
In a few minutes we were readdy to sit down to an enormous lunch of 
pasta con pesto, dried tomatoes, sausage, scampi cooked with garlic; bread; 
salad, wine, and figs from the huge garden behind the tank house. 
The Filices 
kept pressing more helpings on us. 
The setting and style of the meal reminded me strongly of the summer 
meals at my Italian grandfather's farm in New York. 
Val propounded on the 
value of lingering over such a meal. 
Later, Russell asked Val why he and Joe 
had gone to the trouble of creating such a place, and Val responded that it 
was to 'get away from the craziness.' 
The setting itself holds a wonderful 
irony. 
It is all that remains of the Filice family farmstead. 
The house 
still stands next to the tank house, and is rented out to a young people. 
The 
garden occupies about an acre behind the tank house, and is bounded toward the 
south by a huge embankment thrown up by the town for flood control. 
On the 
other three sides, the place is surrounded by a huge housing development on 
the land that the family once farmed. 
The development has made the brothers 
financially secure, yet they continue to garden and entertain in the little 
island provided by the tank house and garden. 
After the meal, Joe Filice took some of us on a tour of the garden while 
Val and the others cleaned up. 
I ,joined Ken in photographing the tour, while 
Joe pointed out the various garden plants grown by the brothers: tomatoes, 
pole beans, corn, a type of squash that Joe called "Italian Gray Squash," 
figs, olives, muscat grapes , peaches, oranges , grapefruit, walnuts. 
By now we were all feeling comfortable with each other, and there was a 
good deal of good natured joking, of which Russell served as the instigator 
and butt to a large extent. 
Val teased Russell over whether he had ever done 
hard labor. 
Ken countered by getting Val and Joe to pose with rake and hoe in 
hand--"Italian Gothic," Russell volunteered. 
Val questioned Paola a good deal about Italian comparisons--what do they 
call such-and-such a thing in Italy; the similarity between the San Joaquim 
and Po valleys. 
Val demonstrated the the location of the region of Calabrese 
where the Filice family originates, using his leg as a map of Italy--prompting 
Joe to joke about how large Calabrese must be--with size 14 shoes as the 
model. 
Val compared the area around Dominice Inferior (sp?) where the family is 
from with the distance from the tank house to the high school several blocks 
away. 
He explained that the different branches of the Filice family in 
Dominice were identified by whether they lived down in the valley or on the 
=-4w-i)b - 
F  
r0 799­4 r
, 0-
hill. 
This brought us into a discussion of nicknames in the Filice family--
and we learned that Joe was the "Trucker Joe" referred to by the Filice 
cousins, Tim, Craig, and John. 
Elsie Filice added the name "Louie the Sun" to 
our list--a complement to "Louis Moon." 
None of the Filices present knew 
where these two nicknames originated. 
It's interesting to note the degree J;o which Val has taken on the role 
of symbolic spokesperson for the Italian community here through his 
involvement with the Garlic Festival. 
He told us that for the last four years 
or so he has cooked at an Italian festival held at a hotel in Reno, Nevada, 
around Columbus day. 
This prompted a long rendition by Judy of the time that 
she and Elsie surprised Joe and Val at one of these occasions after the men 
had invited the women to come with them and then had changed their mind. 
Judy 
got up from the table and acted out the encounter between the two women and 
Val in the hotel restaurant. 
This was told with great hilarity and supporting 
laughter and asides from Elsie, while the two men sat and protested their 
failure to find the incident funny. 
It was all in good fun, but tinged with a 
little bit of seriousness--pushing a little bit at those gender roles. 
Val took a turn in the garden, and then showed the interior of the tank 
house to Paola and Dave. 
Joe had earlier showed the interior to John Williams 
and me--and showed us the dried oregano that the brothers keep tied in paper 
bags hanging from the ceiling to keep the spiders from getting to the flowers. 
After dinner, Joe helped John pick some fresh oregano and strip the leaves off 
the stems, so John could bring the oregano back east with him. 
Then Val declared that it was time for coffee. 
Elsie had a good time 
showing Pam and me the jury-rigged electrical hookup for the coffeepot. 
The 
coffee was accompanied by brandy, and by canteloupe and honeydew melon from 
the garden--which Val sliced and skinned before serving. 
During dessert, Val pressed us on our own backgrounds, and declared that 
we had a good example here of the ethnic mix in America. 
This prompted a 
comment from Elsie that she is not prejudiced toward most ethnic groups, but 
that she is prejudiced toward Mexicans. 
A vigorous discussion on the mores of 
the Hispanic farm workers ,in the valley ensued, with Joe and Elsie listing the 
shortcomings of Hispanics, Val putting in a word now and then for moderation 
in attitudes toward Hispanics, and Judy maintaining silence. Joe and Elsie 
argued that Hispanics have failed to advance in the forty-or-so years that 
they have been an important presence in the valley because of their traits of 
laziness and willingness to be dependent on their employers. 
Joe cited the 
example of a trucker who worked for him, and who was paid five hundred dollars 
a week, but who spend the money on the weekends with women he picked up in 
bars, leaving his wife to come begging for an advance on Monday. 
Elsie cited 
the case of an Hispanic farm worker's family who left the Filice farm suddenly 
to avoid arrest, and left a pile of dirty childrens' clothing in the room. 
She advanced the theory that the family never washed the children's clothes, 
but just kept buying new ones. 
All of the Filices agreed that the Mexicans 
loved to spent money. 
These views don't contrast greatly with others that we've heard in the 
valley. 
We did counter a bit in this instance with observations about the 
changing attitudes toward Italians, and with the far greater difficulty of 
obtaining land today--which the Filices all acknowledged and agreed with. 
The 
discussion in general wasn't heated, just honest differences of opinion with 
some give and take in the discussion. 
Before leaving, Val took us over to see the small grove of grapefruit 
trees behind the old family house, and then up to the flood control 
embankment. 
Then we returned and made our lengthy goodbyes, prompting Paola 
to compare the leavetaking ceremony approvingly with the custom in Italy. 
"Just like Italy," she said, "it always takes half-an-hour to say goodbye."