Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit,
Michigan (Transcription)
IN: Yes. FW: How about when you are the smartest, do you get any special <unintelligible
text> or rewards or prizes? IN: If you're the smartest sometimes they give you a ward for
not being absent or having the best grades or something like that. FW: Did you ever get
anything like that? IN: No; cause I was always absent. FW: What do they give you,
Begin M19 B(4)
0137.34 what kind of prizes do they give you? IN: Just a piece of paper saying that you
had the highest grades in school. FW: What about the dumbest kid, do you know what
that is. IN: Let me see. <unintelligible text> FW: Why's he dumb? IN: Cause he doesn't do
nothing, cause he has another teacher come in every day and teach him for a hour. FW:
Like a private tutor? IN: (yes) FW: Um, I see. And what time do you get out of school? IN:
0137.35 Two o'clock. FW: And what if it was fifteen minutes before that? What time would
that be? IN: Fifteen to two. FW: What else, would you call that anything else? IN: No. FW:
You wouldn't say quarter to? IN: uh quarter to or fifteen to or quarter to. FW: What about,
do you have some girl friends that you always pal around with? IN: (yes) FW: Who are
they? IN: <unintelligible text>
0137.36 <unintelligible text> and that's about all. FW: How old are these about? IN: Ten
and eleven. FW: And how old are you? IN: Pardon me? FW: How old are you? IN: I'm
going to be eleven in August. FW: These friends of yours, do they live around here or are
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
they friends from school? IN: About three or four of them live on the next block across
Third and the other ones live down town or by my cousin
0137.37 on Arizona, and stuff. FW: Of your friends or the kids in your class or your friends,
are there any Negroes or any Jewish kids? IN: This is a Catholic school. Only Catholics
go. FW: Any Negroes in the school? IN: There's Negroes in the school but I don't have any
in my class. FW: What about the kids that speak another language, anybody speak Polish
or Italian? IN: No. FW: What about in your group is there one person
0137.38 who everybody sort of does what she says? IN: <unintelligible text> FW: Why's
that? IN: She think she's big. FW: Don't you? IN: (no) FW: Why? IN: Cause she wear
nylons and her ears are pierced and short dresses and go-go boots and junk like that.
FW: How old is she? IN: Eleven. FW: Would you like to have your ears pierced? IN: (no)
FW: What about if somebody new moved around here. Could they get into your group of
friends?
0137.39 IN: Depends what kind of friends they are. I mean, I like if they're our age maybe
I don't think I'd play with them because I wouldn't know if she'd be able to go across the
street. Yea, and she probably wouldn't be Catholic and she'd probably go to the public
school. FW: But if they went to your school then you pro-
0137.40 bably play with them. Is there anything special they'd have to do to get into your
group? Anything special they'd have to do? IN: No. Just have to be nice and like to do
things, have to be able to go to the kids house, and they be able to go places. FW: What
about when you finish school? What would you like to be? IN: Kindergarten teacher. FW:
Oh, why would you like to be a kinder-
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0137.41 garten teacher? IN: cause I like kids. FW: Do you know how long it takes to be a
kindergarten teacher? IN: Five years. FW: Do you have to go to school after college...after
high school? IN: Yes. FW: Where do you have to go? IN: College. FW: How, what does
a kindergarten teacher do? IN: Well, they teach their abc's and how to count and to sing
songs and they play games and they read 'em stories and they have naps and paint and
some-
0137.42 times the teacher will teach them some math, you know, like she'll put some, uh,
(garble) math problems in this they give them a book and a handwritting book and they're
all things how to spell and stuff. FW: Do you play games like that with your sister? IN:
No. Fw: Would you like to have a new baby sister you can play with? IN: Yes. FW: What
would you do with her? IN: I'd take her every place I could go. FW: What about if you had
to change her
0137.43 diapers? IN: I wouldn't mind. FW: You wouldn't mind. Oh, boy. Your mother'd
better have a lot if you're going to take care of them. What about, you said you were ten
years old. What about if you had all those ten years to live over again? Would you change
anything? IN: Yes. FW: What would you change. IN: Instead of painting my bike the color
that it is now, I'd color it pink. FW: What color is it now? IN: Bluish white and blue. FW:
Don't
0137.44 you like that? IN: My girl friends dipped her brush into the wrong color paint and
made it all mucky. FW: How about anything else that you'd change? IN: Some of the stuff
that I got for my birthday last year. FW: What did you get for your birthday? IN: Well, I got
this game that had a dollor in my girlfriend gave me but nobody knew how to play it and
my girl friend next door took it
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0137.45 over to her house one day to play with it, 'cause I was sick and they wrecked it.
It had little cares that went with it, but they wrecked it so I'd like to live that over so I won't
give it to her. I could keep it. FW: What was the name, do you remember? IN: Something
about a spy. FW: Anything else you'd like to do over? Still like to live here and have all
your sisters? IN: Except for <unintelligible text>. FW: Why? IN: 'Cause <unintelligible text>
0137.46 too <unintelligible text> and not <unintelligible text>, but <unintelligible text> she
thinks she has her own way. FW: Does she have her own way? IN: Yes. FW: Don't you
like that? You like to have your way? IN: No, there's no way if everybody wants different.
Then we do it...something else that everybody like. FW: What does she do to have her
own way? IN: Well, she walks abround funny, thinks she's big. she'll put her mouth open
wide. Think she's big
0137.47 and she bought, she saved her money and bought a pair of sun glasses.
Whenever I'd want to use them she'd say no big fat <unintelligible text> can't use them
or when we'd go to go swimming, you know, me and her, <unintelligible text> and
<unintelligible text> bought the pool and so my mom said everybody shares it because
they- my mother has to put the hot water in it. So those guys, whenever I go to get in like
there'll be <unintelligible text>, and my cousin <unintelligible text>
0147.48 they'll say big fat <unintelligible text> will knock all the water out. FW: They used
to say the same thing to me. Are you big and fat? IN: No. FW: No, you don't want to be
thought, do you. When you grow up you want to be real pretty and you don't want to be fat.
Then everybody will tease you. What about if you had all the money you could ever want?
Anytime you wanted money it was always there, as much as you want. What
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0147.49 would you do with it? IN: Buy a brand new racer. FW: What else? IN: <Berby?
> dish, um, I'd have a little play home in the back yard with real furniture and dishes
and chairs and rugs real <foemy?> rugs that you didn't have to wear shoes, and they're
bouncy, a real vaccum cleaner to keep it clean and a duster, 'cause I like to clean houses.
I hate to clean my bedroom. FW: And a swimming pool all of your own. IN: Yea, about
0147.50 ten feet high. FW: You might drown in it, no? IN: Pardon me? FW: Wouldn't you
drown in it? IN: If I wore a life preserver I wouldn't. FW: Do you know how to swim? IN:
Yeah. FW: Oh, boy. Great. Where'd you learn to swim? IN: Last year on our vacation. FW:
Who took you? IN: Pardon me? FW: Who took you? IN: My mother. FW: And what about
your daddy, what does he do? IN: He's a fireman. FW: Oh, where does he work?
<unintelligible text> tan. FW: And what does he do at work? IN: If there's no fires or
anything, he just plays cards and watch T.V. or sleeps. FW: You mean, that's all he does?
IN: Except for his housework. FW: Housework? IN: Yeah, no. At the firehouse. FW: What
does he do? IN: They have to do the dusting, they have to do the cooking, and they have
to do the sweeping the floors, and shining the fire engines.
0137.52 so they don't get rusty and fixing their boots and stuff so they're not all sloppy and
they have to wax the floors and fix supper as I said, and different things like that. FW: And
what if there is a fire, what happens? IN: Well, then they just drop everything and run to
the fire engine. FW: And what about your mother? Does she work? IN: No. FW: This area
of town, what do they call this? IN: Uptown. FW: Uptown what? IN:
0137.53 Uptown Highland Park. FW: What do you call the city around here? IN: Detroit.
FW: Are there any streets that are like the boundary of Highland Park? IN: I know half
of Euclid is and then I don't know the boundary of Highland Park towards Detroit River.
FW: Do you know what some of the main streets of Highland Park are? IN: Woodward,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
Hamilton, John R., Nevada, Twelth, Third, Second. FW: How about some of the main
street of Detroit?
0137.54 You know what they are? IN: Eight Mile, Seven Mile, Dequindre, State Fair, no,
not Davidson, but Woodward. FW: You know what that street is that goes out East Detroit?
Begins with a G. IN: No. FW: Gra... IN: Gratroit? FW: Yeah, and how about that one that
starts with Liver? IN: Livernois. FW: And did you ever go down to Cobo Hall? IN: Yeah.
FW: Do you know the name of the street that's on? IN: No. FW: How about
0137.55 they have those things like highways but they're not really like highways, and you
use them to get across town real fast. IN: Expressways. FW: Do you know the names of
any of them? IN: Oh, no. FW: Where were you born? IN: In Detroit. FW: Have you always
lived in this house? IN: NO. FW: Where else did you live? IN: I've lived on Brush after I
was born, and then we moved over to Chandler, we lived on a house, and then we
<unintelligible text> then we moved over here. FW: Chandler, Brush, and what was the
other one? IN: <Louise?>. FW: That's where you live now? How about have you ever lived
any place outside of Detroit? IN: Pardon me? FW: Have you ever lived anyplace outside
of Detroit? IN: No. FW: Have you ever gone on any long trips? IN: Pardon me? FW: Have
you ever gone on any long trips? IN: Yes. FW: Where? IN: Port Huron,
0137.57 We go---we're going to be leaving this Saturday. FW: What do you do there?
IN: Well we swim in Lake Huron, and we.. my dad bought thirteen dollars worth of toys to
play while we're there, balls and bats, and golf sets, little plastic ones and beach toys and
we bought a pair of shoes to wear in the water because there's rocks, got rafts, almost
everything you can think of. FW: How long do you go for? IN: Usually go for one
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0137.58 week, this year, we were going to go at to this other place, but we can't get it
there. He's getting it for two weeks, so Mom and Dad decided it's be nice if we could go for
two weeks. FW: Did you ever go any place else? IN: No. FW: What about for the holiday?
Does anything special happen here for the holidays? IN: Easter and Christmas and stuff
we go over to my Grandmother's, St. Johns. FW: And what happened then? IN:
0137.59 we have...uh, my cousins are all there and we play on the steps because most of
my cousins are boys. And we play out in the backyard, and running games, and on Easter
we hide eggs in the yard, and we find them. Christmas, she buys us a little gift and a bag
of candy or something that we like and we have ham and sausage because we're Polish,
baked beans, and everything, but I almost eat all the baked beans up. FW: How
0137.60 about does your grandmother cook anything special for Christmas? IN: I don't
know what she...what it's called...FW: What does it look like? IN: It's brown. FW: Like
bread? IN: It's like a hot dog, but it isn't. It's a meat. FW: <Kielbasa?> IN: Yea. FW:
Anything else? IN: NO, my grandfather does most of the cooking. FW: What does he
make? IN: Turkey and ham and chicken, breads, and rolls. FW: DOes she make
0137.61 Polish bread? Do you know what the Polish bread is called? Does she make
it for Easter or does she buy it? IN: She doesn't cook very much. Most of the time my
grandfather cooks and we never see him. FW: Are there any thing that the Polish people
do for Christmas? IN: NO. FW: How about, do you go to your grandmother's Christmas
Eve? IN: It depends what day my dad works. FW: Oh, I see. And what about Easter? Does
your grand-
0137.62 father cook anything special for Easter? IN: I don't know. See, when we have
the parties and stuff he'll cook all the food. After it's all cooked he'll disapppear. FW: What
does he cook for Easter? IN: Same thing. FW: What about, what's the best Christmas
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
present you ever had? IN: This big cut-out doll about this high and it had big huge clothes
that I almost fit me, but they were paper. FW: Oh, too bad. What about this year.
0137.63 What would you like to have this year? IN: A bicycle. FW: A new one? A pink
one? IN: Yes. FW: What about, have you made your holy first communion yet? Anything
special happen at home then? IN: We had a party for my aunts and uncles and stuff and
I got thirty-three dollars worth of money and my grandmother gave me a radio and I got
cards and a book with ten dollars in it. My grandmother gave me that radio that cost fifteen
0137.64 dollars plus five more dollards. FW: How about confirmation? Did you make that
yet? IN: Yes. FW: Anything happen then? IN: I got a neckalce and a bracelt and then we
just had a bit of cake. FW: What kind of necklace? IN: Heart shaped necklace that had...it
opened it and you could put pictures in it. FW: Did you put pictures in it? IN: (no). Couldn't
get any that small. FW: Too bad. What about, there's a holiday that comes a-
0137.65 round the end of October... IN: Halloween? FW: What happens? IN: Oh,
sometimes we'll get dressed up and go out and get candy. FW: What do you say when you
ring the doorbell? IN: Help the poor, give me some money so I can buy a new pair of new
pants. FW: What about, did you ever buy those great big orange things? IN: Oh pumpkins.
FW: Did you get them sometimes? IN: Most of the time. FW: What do you do with them?
IN: She takes
0137.66 it, cuts a face out. You take the seeds out, put 'em in the oven. We make pumpkin
seeds and then we eat 'em and then with the pumpkins she puts a candle inside. FW: How
do you make pumpkin seeds? IN; You know those things inside the pumpkin? Well, you
take them and you wash 'em good, then you put them on a plate so they're all spread out
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
and then put them in the oven and then <balk?> 'em and then inside when you open them
they got
137.67 that little piece of meat of whatever it is inside. FW: Is that the same kind of
pumpkin shell that you can buy in the store? And you can make them yourself? I never
knew that. And what about, were you ever one of those things with the big pointed hat and
the straggly hair? And the broom? IN: Oh, a witch? FW: Yeah. Do you like being a witch?
IN: No. FW: What were you last year? IN: A beatnik. FW: A beatnik
137.68 How were you dressed? IN: I had a pair of tights on, slippers, purple lipstick on, I
think it was black eye shadow, and I had a bunch of eye shadow and all this junk on. FW:
What about the hair cut you had? Was it a Beatle hair cut? IN: How'd you know? No, not a
Beatle but a Batman hair cut. FW: A Batman haircut? IN: But it's not combed or anything.
FW: I wonderd, 'cause your ears were out. I thought it must be a
0137.69 Beatle. Somekind of a hair cut. Who cut your hair? IN: My mom. FW: (yes) Very
nice. Do you like that kind of haircut? IN: Good. FW: what about, what about this year?
What would you like to be for Halloween this year? IN: Ummm... FW: Batman? IN: No. I
don't know what I want to be yet. I think I'll be a queen or something. FW: How's a queen
dress? IN: In real silky gowns and a crown, and mean looking. FW: Mean looking? IN:
Yes.
0137.70 FW: I thought queens were nice. You don't wanna be a nice one? IN: Some
queens are nice and some queens aren't. Most of them I know of aren't. FW: Oh,
boy. What about when you said you ring the doorbell you said help the poor? You say
something else? IN: Trick or Treat? FW: Do you say it or do you just usually say the other
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
one? IN: Say trick or treat or something they'll hit me on the back and tell me not to say it.
And then we say
0137.71 trick or treat or help the poor, or give me some money. FW: Why do they say
don't say trick or treat? IN: They're not trick or treat when I go say help the poor and give
me some money to buy a new pair of pants, 'cause they don't think it's right. FW: What
about fights? Do kids around here fight? IN: No. FW: How do they fight? IN: Kicking. FW:
Kicking. And that's fighting dirty? IN: I don't know, I'm always in the fights.
0137.72 How do you fight? Are there rules? Things you can't do like...anything goes.
IN: Anybody's so mad. I just start shoving, pushing and kicking and tearing hair out and
scraching and pulling. FW: What about the boys? How do they fight? IN: Same way, but I
can beat them all up, so they always run when I go to fight after them. FW: You beat them
up? IN: (yes) FW: Did you ever get in a fight with anyone bigger than you?
0137.73 IN: No. FW: Never? IN: Just...no. FW: What about, did you ever see anybody get
beat up real bad? IN: No. FW: How about if somebody was fighting and it was supposed to
be a fair fight and all of a sudden somebody or if you were fighting with somebody and all
of a sudden the other guy pulled out a stick or something, what would you do? IN: First I'd
kick them, I'd punch in the stomach, I'd get real close up in 'em and put my knee in
0137.74 their stomach and then shove. I'd get 'em down on the ground and start going
like that, pulling their face apart. FW: What about when kids do fight, do they fight one to
one or do they fight in gangs or one against the whole bunch or how? IN: Usually it's two
against me. FW: Two against you? IN: Or sometimes three. FW: Do you handle them all.
IN: Most of the time. FW: Do you always win? IN: Sometimes. FW: What do you
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0137.75 do that you always win? IN: I don't know. They just can't fight. There's this boy
down the block, he's real scardy cat anybody can beat him up. His name is Johnny <Ray?
>, and one timehe said he could beat me up before he knew I could beat him up and we
started fighting, and he's got a bloddy nose and I didn't do it, and he thought I did. He got
real mad and started hitting, and a couple boyfriends started hitting on me so I just
0137.76 kicked 'em and they run. FW: Good for you. How about the hospital? Have
you ever been in a hospital? IN: No. FW: Never? IN: No. FW: How about your sisters or
anybody else? IN: Yea. FW: What happened? IN: She drank varnish, Nore drinks nail
polish remover like pop, and Ginny drank a bottle of nail polish. FW: What happened to
them? IN: They had to get their stomach pumped out. FW: What do you do when you get
your stomach
0137.77 pumped out? IN: I don't know. FW: Did it hurt them, do you think. IN: Yeah. FW:
Did they cry after they drank the stuff? IN: I don't know. FW: You weren't home? IN: I don't
like to stay home. Whenever I do, I gotta do work. Like they'll say go throw this away and
then I'll come back in the house, take her to there, take her to there. Like yesterday. FW:
What happened yesterday? IN: We were on a picnic and my sister had to
0137.78 bathroom and my mom didn't know if there was a bathroom so she said take her
and so I took her and when we came back there wasn't one, and so she had some trash
to throw away and my mom said go throw it away. <unintelligible text> and I said why don't
you send <unintelligible text>, I said I've already did some work. She said, well, do some
more work. FW: So what did you do? IN: Threw it away. FW: Where do you go around
here when you don't want to
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
0137.79 stay home? Where do you go? IN: Usually I'm over at my girl friends
<unintelligible text>. FW: And you play with her? What about sick, have you ever been sick
bed? IN: Yeah. FW: What did you have? IN: German measles. FW: What happened? IN:
I got blotches all over me. FW: Did it hurt or itch? IN: No. Like it's hard to run. FW: Hard
to run? IN: Yea. FW: You mean you had to stay in the house? IN: Yea, I had to stay in the
house.
0137.80 See, but my uncle was over babysitting that day and he was about fifteen and he
took the cedar chest downstairs, put it up so it's like an army tank and we were playing
army. FW: Oh. IN: Then my mom came home and I got out thoro...the house was a mess,
pillows, feather, and everything all over the <unintelligible text>. FW: What if all of a
sudden I got a cold and started sneezing and coughing real bad you might look at me and
0137.81 you might say, don't come too close to me. I don't want too.... IN: Catch your cold.
FW: Okay. And how about car accidents. Have you ever been in a car accident? IN: Yes.
FW: What happened? IN: My mom was going through a green light. You're supposed to
know this lady didn't see the lights and she said my mom should have waited for it. She
didn't see the lights, but first this lady says, young lady, why don't you watch where
0137.82 you're going. You seen me coming. Why should I just stop for you and my mom
saids, Listen lady, there's a light up there and the lady says, well, I don't see it. FW: What
happened then? IN: She said no. Then she just said, well, there's a light up there and I'm
not going to sue anything but you to pay for you bloody nose. 'course she did it on the
door. It was all blocky. FW: Anything else happen to anyone else? IN: NO.
0137.83 my Uncle just wanted to get out of the car as soon as it happend. He won't go
anywhere with my mom or anything. FW: Anything happen to the car? IN: Yes, the front
fender got all banged up. FW: What about, were you over any place or any situation where
Library of Congress
Conversation with 12 year old white female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2704
you thought this is it. I'm going to get killed. I'm not going to live? IN: Pardon me? FW:
Were you ever any place or any kind of situation where you thought I'm not going
0137.84 live anymore. I'm going to die right now. This is it. IN: (no) FW: Never? How about
dreams? Did you ever dream about dying? IN: Yes. Fw: What happend in the dream? IN:
One time when I was dreaming I was gonna die, I had a dream that I was locked in the
freezer, and I was freezing to death. But then I seen a thing of kool-pops and I started
eating the kool-pops and I lived. FW: Oh, boy. It's a good thing you saw that. IN:
0137.85 Yeah. FW: How about sometimes people talk about this thing they call fate. Do
you know what fate it? IN: Fainting? FW: F-A-T-E, fate? Did you ever hear the word?
You know, some people say if something is going to happen to you it's going to happen.
There's nothing you can do about it. IN: Faith? FW: Fate. IN: (no) FW: Okay. What if
somebody, all of a sudden I fell down and broke myleg, I fell on this chair and broke
0137.86 my leg, and I said if God wants it to happen to me, it's supposed to happen.
There's nothing I can do about it. What do you think about that? IN: I think that would be
pretty Christianist, but I'd help you up and even thought that happened if God wanted
you to it you'd probably just take it. FW: (yes) You think that's right? IN: (yes) FW: If
somethings going to happen there's nothing you do about it? End
End if excerpt (end M19 B(4))