Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March
1944
FORT VALLEY STATE COLLEGE Folk Festival
THE PEACHITE MARCH, 1944 Festival Number
THE PEACHITE
OFFICIAL ORGAN OF STUDENT EXPRESSION Published Quarterly by the Students of
The Fort Valley State College, Fort Valley, Georgia
STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Starr Hilda Jordan
NEWS EDITOR Frances N. Martin
LITERARY EDITOR Fozzie M. Rumph
MUSIC EDITOR Marion J. Kirkley
ART EDITOR Myraline Moore
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS Bertha W. Strother Gladys M. Lowman Alma R. Hill Lloyd E.
Jones
ASSISTANTS Erma V. Lucas Minnie H. Pierce Riley J. Harris
FACULTY ADVISER Therman B. O'Daniel
BUSINESS MANAGER Alberta Horne
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
SOCIETY EDITOR Esther N. Lewis
FEATURE EDITOR Mabel B. Douglas
SPORTS EDITOR Lessie R. Horne
(This issue of The Peachite is edited by a special faculty committee in cooperation with
the Peachite Staff. The Children's Folk Games appearing on page 14 were collected by
students under the direction of Miss Hermese Johnson. Mr. Therman B. O'Daniel assisted
with making layouts and other details of format, and Dr. Horace Mann Bond assisted with
various editorial responsibilities. Dean W. W. E. Blanchet, and Willis Lawrence James of
Spelman College, sometime Festival Director, assembled the material printed here about
our Folk performers. We are very grateful to Life Magazine for permission to print here
for the first time, and without any reproduction fee, nine wonderful photographs taken
during the 1943 Folk Festival by Life's photographer, Edward Clark. With Mr. William S.
Howland, Director of the Atlanta Bureau of Life and Time Magazines, Mr. Clark spent a
day made happy for us by his pleasant, patient and unerring skill in making good pictures.
His photographs of the Fort Valley Ham and Egg Show appeared in Life for March 22,
1943. Unused prints appear here for the first time.
Mr. Clark's—and Life's —pictures include: Cover, Pearly Brown; page 4, Bus Ezell with
other folk performers; page 6, Folk Jam Session; page 7. Bus Ezell, guitarist, and Buster
Brown, mouth-organist; page 7, inset, Sanders and Duffy; page 9, Fort Valley State
College Chorus singing “The Saint Louis Blues”; page 12, Children in folk dance, “He-y,
Mr. Dan-d-y!”; back cover page, Folk Pageant, “The Hen, Hog, and Mule Speak.”
THANK YOU, MR. CLARK! THANK YOU, LIFE MAGAZINE!
VOLUME II FOLK FESTIVAL NUMBER, MARCH, 1944 NUMBER 2
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Published three times yearly. Prices: Annual subscription, $1.00; per copy, 35¢ this
Festival Issue, $1.00
CONTENTS
Pearly Brown ( cover ), blind guitarist, improvises songs of peculiar interest. He uses
a six-string guitar of the modern variety. His accompaniment is more personal than
traditional. The History of the Fort Valley Folk Festival is on page one. Bettina Steinke's
portrait of William C. Handy, Father of the Blues, and a perennial judge at the Fort Valley
Festivals, covers page two, with a statement from Mr. Handy on page three. Bus Ezell is
in the foreground of an admiring cluster of guitarists on page four. Bus is a rare musical
talent, and the most consistent prize winner of all. Says Mr. Buster Ezell, “I done some o'
everything; saw mill, road gangs, played in circuses, hoochie coochie shows . . . I use to
be world's champeen, 'cause I'm 'bout dat now when de boys pushes me. I has to be to
win.” He is always making new songs; and several of his recordings are in the Library of
Congress Folk Music Archives. His Ballad, “Roosevelt and Hitler; Buster Ezell's War-time
Song, or, Strange Things Are Happenin' in the Land,” appears on page five.
On page six, the dark troubadours get together after the contest for the oldest of all “jam
sessions.” The center figure is Bus Ezell. On page seven is another study of Bus Ezell; the
harmonica player is Buster Brown, a wizard of a “mouth-organ playah,” who performs the
incredible feat of playing and singing at the same time. Says Buster Brown, “When I starts
to playin' sho' 'nough, I'm scairt to trust myself; I can't tell my own strenth.” (He was not
“scairt” to trust his white duck suit to the cold March wind, during the entire Festival.) He
has several records in the Library of Congress Archives.
The two boys on page eight are typical of the real “folk” musicians who come to the
Festival. These two boys have improvised musical instruments from a plank, two bricks,
a length of haywire, and a soft drink bottle. Sanders and Duffy (inset, page eight ), two
very consistent minstrels in the Festival, are peach orchard workers. The audience loves
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
them because of their talent and their intensely interesting personalities; they achieve a
personal, natural, human balance which is above mere comedy and which might well be
the ambition of more famous artists.
Sanders and Duffy never fail to “set-off” an unrestrained current of response from the
audience when they sing— “Yuh cause me to worry, Yuh cause me to moan, Yuh cause
me to leave My happy home. . . .” (Continued on Page Three)
Page One
The History Of The Fort Valley State College Folk Festival
The Fort Valley State College Folk Festival began as an annex to a conventional college-
high school music festival. The idea of a Folk Festival came to several persons at Fort
Valley, including the President, Horace Mann Bond, after a visit one day to a rural church.
The singing of the people was wonderful. There is no better word for it; yes, it was exactly
and perfectly wonderful. So, then, at a Festival intended to teach young Negro high school
students an appreciation of music, why not have a session or two devoted to the Folk and
to their perfectly wonderful music?
A sound idea; in practice, it did not work. The Folk need a Festival of their own; the people
do not like to be on exhibition; they have come to the Fort Valley State College Festival
because it was their own, and among themselves they felt at home. After 1940, therefore,
we have held the Folk Festival separately. Beginning in 1941, we scheduled the Folk
Festival at the same time that the annual Ham and Egg Show is held. This ancient event,
now in its 29th year, is purely a folk event; the Father of the Ham Show, County Agent O.
S. O'Neal, is a man of the folk, and for a quarter of a century the annual Show has brought
the folk to the College for a day all their own. The Folk Festival added a last touch needed
to round out the Ham Show, the natural element of the people's music to the people's
holiday.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
We invited that grand old man, William C. Handy, to be our chief judge at our first Folk
Festival in 1940. Mr. Handy helped make our Festival a success. Seen at the Festival,
you know that Mr. Handy has written great music because he is a man of the Folk. The
people liked Mr. Handy. At our first secular event, so many variations of the Saint Louis
Blues were played by admiring, sometimes barefooted, guitarists and harmonica players,
that Mr. Handy wept with joyous laughter and at the end he took out his gold trumpet and
played the Saint Louis Blues and the Folk loved it.
From the first, the Festival fell naturally into the evening devoted to secular performers,
principally guitarists and banjoists (Note: we have never had a fiddler!) and a Sunday
afternoon (reaching to unpredictable hours, also, of the evening) for religious groups.
Each year increasing numbers have taken part. On the secular evenings, we have had
guitarists, banjoists, pianists, harmonic players, jug bands and artists with washboards,
“quills,” saws, bones, and improvised one-string instruments. On the religious “rally days”
we have had rural church congregations and choirs, quartettes and soloists with new
songs they have composed and which the congregation instantaneously learns to follow.
From emphasis on music, the Festival has broadened itself naturally. In 1942 prizes were
offered for “tall tales”; and in 1943, children's folk dances were added to the program.
In the summer of 1940, Frederick Hall, now of the Alabama State Teachers College,
taught music in our Summer School. Mr. Hall had studied the Eisteddfod in its native
Wales and understood what a great folk festival tradition could mean. (It is worthy to note
here how stubborn and disdainful an eye many conventionally educated Negro music
teachers will turn to the Folk and to their music; the phenomenon, of course, is not a racial
fault, but a symbol of the middle-class mind, insecure in its semi-sophistication, obsessed
with its tremendous drive to escape from the Folk and everything of poverty and lower-
class status which, to the middle-class mind, Folk status implies.)
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Willis Lawrence James of Spelman College joined our Summer Faculty in 1941. Mr.
James brought to the conduct of our Summer Festival, and indeed, to our Winter Festivals
an enthusiasm, a sympathy, a knowledge, and an imagination that is extremely rare. A
very special quality of musical greatness is needed in sponsors of Folk Festivals. Mr.
Handy has it; Fred Hall has it; and Willis James has it. He has, also a beautiful voice and
the people like to have him lead them in their singing. He has imagination; and he has
extended that imagination to the folk, helping them substitute an open for their secret pride
in their art; Bus Ezell and Mrs. Beatie Gay and a dozen others are now making and singing
new songs because “Professor” James believes, and has made them believe, that what
they are doing is a good and a fine thing.
Other good men have helped us by their understanding presence. Sterling Brown, from
Howard, was here once, and the Folk like him. They like John Work from Fisk. They liked
Bliss Wiant, sometime of China, who was a visitor in 1943.
The Library of Congress, through Harold Spivacke, Alan Lomax and B. A. Botkin, have
helped us by facilitating arrangements for recording the Festival in successive years.
Our folk performers are frequently astonishing in their virtuosity. Sam Jackson, of whom,
unfortunately, we have no photograph, is a great and dramatic song leader. Gus Gibson,
guitarist, now dead, Mrs. Beatie Gay of Byron, Georgia, and her choir, and the choir from
minuscule New York, Georgia, are very wonderful musical people.
Our students at Fort Valley have been consistently understanding and helpful. They are
very sensible people. The Editors, with no more than the usual institutional smugness, feel
justified in believing that at no other college in America could such an event have been
developed. Anywhere else the Folk would not feel at home as they do here; anywhere
else, the college students would make them feel not at home.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Of all Folk Festival memories, one of the most piquant is that of the Barn Dance for
students which is an annual feature of the Festival. A (See HISTORY, Page Nineteen)
Fort Valley Folk Festival 1944 W.C. Handy 1-7-1944.
Page Three
WILLIAM C. HANDY says:
On May 6, 7, and 8, 1938, I took part in the National Folk Festival at Constitution Hall,
Washington, D. C., along with Maryland Hymn Singers, Wisconsin Wood Choppers,
Michigan Lumberjacks, all singing their native songs; there were songs of Western
Ranchers and Rough Riders of the Plains and Prairies, Kentucky Mountaineers, West
Virginia Hillbillies, New England Sea Chanties and Southern Negro Spiritual Singers. At
that time B. A. Botkin wrote in The Washington Post:
“In the salvaging of our folk and regional heritage, national research foundations and
learned societies with their publications, the State universities and their presses and
quarterlies, the State folklore societies and journals, the Federal Arts Projects and other
New Deal agencies have all done their part. But whereas their approach has been chiefly
through literature and scholarship, it has remained to the folk festivals to foster the
presentation of folk materials and the participation of folk groups as the living expression.”
I have taken part in this National Folk Festival at Madison Square Garden, New York City,
where other features were added and Oriental music and dances were included.
My last appearance was the 10th annual festival at Philadelphia's Academy of Music,
1943, where besides the songs and dances of our Allies, the folk music of the Hitler
conquered nations was performed. Probably, America is the only country in the world that
could have staged such a performance, and our Negro folk music proved as interesting as
that of any race. This activity is mentioned as an indication of my interest in folk music.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
A word picture of my visits to the Rural Folk Music Festival held annually at The Fort
Valley College in Georgia should be equally as interesting. The National Folk Festival
viewpoint is cited to show how thoroughly up-to-date Fort Valley is in keeping step with this
American experiment.
The Fort Valley Rural Folk Festival is significant in that it presents from year to year the
people who are making a new folk music in their own tradition, without the influence of
radio and records nor resorting to the music of Civil War days. In this they are refuting the
popular notion so harmfully affecting the culture of our race—that to be truly cultured one
must know and be able to sing or play the works of the European masters, whose music
is, after all, an enlargement on the folk music of their individual countries.
While acting as a judge in the contest, I was impressed by the fact that recording
apparatus had been brought by John W. Work of Fisk University, by William L. Dawson of
Tuskegee Institute, and even by the United States Library of Congress, Washington, D.
C., in an effort to capture, study and preserve this new form of music. It is too difficult to
describe here, but the influence of this new folk music is being noted not only in the church
music of the South, but in various Northern cities as well.
The Fort Valley Rural Folk Festival is a source of raw material for creating art forms
through which the world may have something new and good. —New York, N. Y.
CONTENTS—(Continued)
On page nine, framed in the hams and pieces of side meat left hanging from the Ham
Show earlier in the day, the Fort Valley State College Chorus carries on their annual
contribution to a tradition of the Folk Festival; the singing of W. C. Handy's “Saint Louis
Blues,” arranged for choral voices. The custom began in 1940 at the first Folk Festival
when the Father of the Blues himself took out his favorite gold-plated trumpet and played
an accompaniment. In the Handy party that year was Joe Jordan—“Lovely Joe”—who was
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
at the piano. Mr. Handy said that the song was sung as he wanted it sung when he wrote
it.
On page ten is the Silver Moon Quartette of Macon, Georgia, with Willis L. James, of
Spelman College, and Sterling Brown, of Howard University. On page twelve you see a
group of 4-H children in the folk dance, “Hey, Mr. Dan-d-y!” On page thirteen is a portrait
of Katherine Dunham, Ph.B., M.A., the University of Chicago, whose original research in
the folk dances in the West Indies, and stylizations of American Negro dancing, make her
a pioneer in a rich field yet to be developed. Miss Dunham's current “Tropical Revue” has
created a sensation on Broadway.
On page fourteen are the rhymes of several ring games and dances contributed by Fort
Valley Freshman students. On page fifteen are statements, with portraits, of Thomas W.
Talley, first in the field of collecting Negro rhymes, and Louise Pound, of the University
of Nebraska. On page sixteen the Byron Baptist Church Choir of Byron, Georgia, is seen
making a recording for the Library of Congress, Lewis Wade Jones, recorder.
On page seventeen is the portrait of John W. Work, professor of music at Fisk University,
who follows in the footsteps of his late, distinguished father as a collector of Negro folk
songs and as a composer of merit. With Mr. Work's statement is printed a page from one
of his manuscripts. On page eighteen the portrait of William Grant Still, one of America's
foremost composers, is accompanied by a statement concerning the value of the Fort
Valley State College Folk Festival. On page nineteen we print the portrait of Howard W.
Odum, Director of the Institute of Social Research of
(Continued on the Outside of the Back Cover)
Page Five
Roosevelt and Hitler: Bus (Buster) Ezell's War Time Song, or, Strange Things Are
Happening in the Land
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
There are ancient roots to this ballad. John Work says he heard an old blind guitarist in
Mississippi sing a 1917 version in which Woodrow Wilson and the Kaiser were the chief
protagonists. The refrain is a theme familiar in old mountain ballads of Civil War days; it is
doubtless even older. Credit Bus Ezell, nevertheless, with the power as well as the license
of a creative poet of first rank! (Ed. note.)
You may read the Holy Bible Where Matthew's does record There are 'pistles (pestilences)
and earthquakes And also rumors of war There you can see The Bible do fulfill There are
strange things a-happenin' in the land.
( Chorus ) Strange things are happenin' in this land— Strange things are happenin' in
this land. The war is goin' on, 'Causin' many hearts to mourn, There are strange things a-
happenin' in this land.
Nations against Nations, Are risin' in this land Kingdoms against kingdoms, You jus' can't
understand. But you need not to be surprise For the time is drawin' nigh. There are strange
things a-happenin' in this land.
We have read also of famines That shall come in this land. But if you notice closely,
You can see and understand. Provisions are so high, ' Til we can't hardly buy, There are
strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Roosevelt with Hitler He tried to live in peace. But Hitler he's destroyin' Every vessel he
could see He's treatin' us so mean With his dreadful sub-marines, There are strange
things a-happenin' in this land.
Hitler, he's a fightin' And makin' every charge. He's tryin' to win the victory, So his land
might be enlarge. He's fightin' everywhere On land and in the air. There are strange things
a-happenin' in this land.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Some said Roosevelt was coward, And said he would not fight But he was jus' only a-
waitin' 'Till he got things fixed up right. When he made it up in his mind He got on the
foughtin' line There are strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Hitler tried to fool the Negroes, By sayin' they ought not to fight. They have no home or
country No flag or equal rights. But the Negro knewed the best They deeds did prove the
rest. There are strange things a-happenin' in this land.
When Uncle Sam called for them They answered, “Here are we, To perform a soldier's
duty, Where-'sn-ever we may be.” They answered true and brave, Ef the trenches makes
they grave There are strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Hitler called the Japanese They could not help from cryin'. They say, “Ef you go up against
that race, You comin' out behin'.” If you try to take they place, You can't not keep from
dyin'. There are strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Hitler told his wife at the supper table He dreamt a mighty dream. “Ef I cut out these
submarines, I will sure save many of men. But ef I fight and Ef I win, I will gain a many a
frien',” There are strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Now sinners, God is Power You jes' can't understand. The whole world will tremble From
the moving of his hand. Hit's beyond the human sights, But all he does is right. There are
strange things a-happenin' in this land.
Pictured. left, are six notable Negro musicians. The four uniformed gentlemen are: Joe
Brown, First Tenor; Ivory Sallett, Second Tenor; James Marmon, First Bass; and Fred
Combs, Second Bass. They are the Silver Moon Quartette of Macon, Georgia. The two
musicians in mufti are Willis L. James of Spelman College and Sterling Brown of Howard
University. Sterling, Brown, author of (Continued on Page Twenty)
Page Eleven
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Get Right, Stay Right
Negro Shout Song Georgia Version — Ann. by Willis Taurence James Chorus lively
To the Fort Valley State College Fort Festival “1944”
Page Fourteen
FOLK GAMES
Dancing children, 4-H club members, face smiling Katherine Dunham on pages 12 and 13.
Miss Dunham's publicity calls her “Ph.B., M.A., of Broadway, Hollywood and the University
of Chicago.” All true; this great dancer is also a scholar who has studied the social and
physical anthropology of the dance in the West Indies and in the United States.
Our children in Fort Valley and in Georgia generally repeat each day, with an unconscious
elegance of voice and movement, songs and dances which are the mirror of the social
history of the Folk. We need a thousand sensitive and intelligent Katherine Dunhams, to
do for these singing dances what James, Still, and Work are doing for the music of the
Folk; and what Hughes and Brown and Talley have done, and are doing, for the poetry of
the Folk.
CHULA, LU! (Collector, Lillie Mae Cooper, '47) I'm a big fat lady! Chula, Lu! I'm just from
the country! Chula, Lu! Just outen' the kitchen, Chula, Lu! With a handful 'o biscuits! Chula,
Lu! You know I wants to marry? Chula, Lu! Then, Miss Fancy Chula Lu, Fly, way over
yonder! Now choose your pardner, Chula, Lu! And swing him around! Chula, Lu! I'm a bald
head gen'leman, Chula, Lu! Etc., etc.
MR. DANDY (Collector, Johnnie Mae Pickett, '47) H-e-y, Mr. Dandy! Gimme a piece of
can-d-y! When my lovey one comes back, I'll pay you back!
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
GIVE THAT GAL SOME CAKE! (Collector, Voncile West, '47) The first day I played in the
sand, the sand got in my eye; The second day I played in sand, the sand made me cry. I
went over to my Grandma's house, and asked her for some cake. She turned me ' round,
and 'round, and 'round, and said, “Give that po' gal some cake! Oh, give that gal some
cake; oh, give that gal some cake!” She turned me 'round and 'round and 'round, and said,
“Give that po' gal some cake!”
JENNY CRACKS CORN (Collector, Evelyn Lindsay, '47) Jenny cracks corn, and I don't
care, Jenny cracks corn, and I don't care, Jenny cracks corn, and I don't care, Massa's
gone away! Dosi, dosi, I don't care, Dosi, dosi, I don't care, Dosi, dosi, I don't care,
Massa's gone away!
LITTLE SALLY WALKER ( Version ) (Collector, Johnnie Mae Pickett, '47) Little Sally
Walker, sitting in the saucer, Crying, and weeping, over what you have done; Oh! Rise,
Sally, Rise! And wipe your weeping eyes! Put your hands on your hips and let your
backbone slip; Turn to the East, turn to the West, turn to the one that you love best!
AUNT DINAH'S DEAD (Collector, Ledicia Spivey, '47) Aunt Dinah's dead! How did she
die? Oh, she died like this! Oh, she died like this! She lived in the country 'til she came to
town, And she danced, danced, danced, 'til the sun went down.
STEAL MISS LIZA (Collector, Doreatha Chisholm, 47) Steal Miss Liza, steal Liza Jane,
Steal Miss Liza, steal Liza Jane. That old man ain't got no wife, Steal Liza Jane. Can't get
a wife to save his life, Steal, Liza Jane!
BREAKING OUT OF JAIL (Collector, Cornelia Robinson, '47) (Prisoner) “I'm gointa break
out of jail!” (Guards) “Oh, no, you ain't!” (Prisoner) “I'm gointa break out of jail!” (Guards)
“Oh, no, you ain't!” (Voice) “Oh, let my buddy outen jail!” (Guards) “We shain't, we shain't!”
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
STRAWBERRY WALK (Collector, S. Emily Jones) Strawberry, Atlanta walk, Strawberry,
come go with me! Strawberry, ot Tennessee! Strawberry, etc. . . .
Louise Pound says:
Several decades ago, pageants were leading popular outdoor and indoor institutions.
They enlisted many participants, presented a variety of scenes, characters, incidents,
tableaux, and they attracted many spectators. They had cultural as well as entertainment
value. Often they were elaborate and beautiful; often, too, they were taxing to organize,
expensive to produce, and their oral features none too audible. Of late years, however,
folk festivals have gained prestige over pageants. Throughout the country there are fewer
pageants and more festivals. Since 1934, a national festival has been held annually in
large cities; such as, St. Louis, Dallas, Washington, Philadelphia. There are now many
local and regional festivals. The shift of interest to these is understandable. Festivals seem
of greater permanent value than pageants, impressive as the latter often are. Community
assemblages, “get-togethers” for “old timers,” performers, and spectators, afford more
than mere entertainment, more than mere recreation, or aesthetic enjoyment. They
have social and historical significance. They are likely to bring together different racial
groups and these illustrate, in their various modes of expression, contrasting folkways.
Customs of earlier days are recreated in the folksongs, music, dances, games, tales,
legends, reminiscences, all of which are staple features of these occasions. Traditions are
revived and handed on. Folk legacies from pioneer times are recorded and preserved,
and local color consciousness enhanced. Gatherings of this type, however, wide or narrow
their scope, promote community life and foster social values. Colleges and schools are
excellent centers for such festivals, as they were for pageants. In this war period, of all
periods in our history, community activity, community participation, community interest and
cooperation and sense of unity are especially needed.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
The Fort Valley State College is to be congratulated for its initiative in planning such a
festival and for maintaining it in successive years. —The University of Nebraska, Lincoln,
Nebraska.
LOUISE POUND Professor of English Literature, the University of Nebraska; formerly
president, American Dialect Society, American Folklore Society, author and editor of many
publications on literature, linguistics, folk-lore, and educational subjects.
Thomas W. Talley says:
By the term “folklore,” we normally mean primitive stories and verses handed down by
men to their descendants beginning back with the primitive nth generation and extending
down to the present.
Even the most silly stories in our folklore, which the cultured only deign to read when they
want a good laugh over nonsense, often carry hidden in their midst most profound truths.
As an example of this, in the Negro folk-stories recorded by Joel Chandler Harris in “Nights
with Uncle Remus” one laughs as he reads of the many pranks played by “Brer Rabbit” on
the fox, the bear, the raccoon, the cow, and the horse wherein he always comes off the
victor. Few of us stop to think, however, that the rabbit is depicted as being able to do this
because he supposedly surpassed all his competitors in his power to do logical thinking.
The real message in Mr. Harris' two volumes is that the winner in the battle of life is the
one who thinks more profoundly and clearly than others.
Folklore offers explanation for the origin of traditions found among all men; however
primitive, such as those of Creation, the Devil, Hell, The Golden Age or Milennium, the
Transmigration of Souls, etc. It speaks, though obscurely, of all of man's past, and we
must learn the most possible about the past if we would most wisely give direction to our
future.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Finally, we would congratulate the Fort Valley State College in that it has had the
educational foresight to engage in the collection and preservation of this lore which can
also, among other things, contribute much towards interracial understanding in our war-
torn world. —Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn.
THOMAS W. TALLEY Professor-Emeritus, Fisk University; author of the classic volume,
Negro Folk Rhymes (New York, Macmillan Co., 1922).
Byron Baptist Church recording for the Library of Congress (opposite page). Lewis Wade
Jones, Recorder; Mrs. Beatie Gay (second rfom right).
Page Seventeen
John Work says:
When we think of the marvelous Negro folklore which has disappeared forever through the
inattentiveness and the lack of appreciation of it by those who might have preserved it, the
importance of the Fort Valley Folk Festival looms high. By bringing such inimitable music
as “Gus” Gibson, “Bus” Ezell, and Samuel Jackson make to the attention of America, and
in the same action proving to these musicians that their appreciative audience extends far
beyond their own church or corner store-front where they previously sang and played, this
festival stimulates and preserves something extremely valuable in our American life. In
giving academic sanction, as it does to the music whose status is generally questioned by
so many people, the Festival broadens the general usefulness of Negro Folk music, both
in the areas of study materials and art. —Fisk University, Nashville.
JOHN W. WORK Assistant Professor of Music, Fisk University; author of numerous
arrangements, motets, anthems; author and editor, American Negro Songs and Spirituals
(New York, Crown Publishers, Ryerson Press, New York).
THIS OL' HAMMER killed John Henry
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Negro Work Song For Chorus of Men's Voices John W. Work
Page Eighteen
William Grant Still says:
There can be no more rewarding task for Americans than the recording, preserving and
publicizing of American culture in all its phases. We have looked too often to Europe for
guidance; we have been too long under the influence of a foreign culture. We must not, of
course, entirely overlook this foreign culture, but we must give increasing attention to our
own. This is vitally important to our national welfare.
It goes without saying that one of the most important aspects of any national culture is the
folk source from which it came. In many ways this is the most spontaneous aspect of all,
and the most inspiring to many sophisticated artists in various fields. For all these reasons
a Folk Festival such as yours at Fort Valley State College is especially valuable. It is a
thoroughly American institution, and I hope that it will continue to flourish and to attract
more and more attention as the years go by. All good wishes to you. —Los Angeles,
California.
William Grant Still was born on May 11, 1895, in Woodville, Miss., and was educated
in the public schools of Little Rock, Ark., at Wilberforce University and at the Oberlin
Conservatory of Music. He studied privately, on scholarships made possible by their
generosity, with George W. Chadwick and Edgar Varese. He learned to orchestrate
by playing many instruments (among them the violin, 'cello and oboe) in professional
orchestras, and by orchestrating for W. C. Handy, Don Voorhees, Sophie Tucker,
Paul Whiteman, Willard Robinson and Artie Shaw. For several years he arranged and
conducted the Deep River Hour over CBS and WOR. He became the first colored man
to conduct a major symphony orchestra in the United States when in 1936 he directed
the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra in his own compositions in the Hollywood Bowl.
He is a member of ASCAP and the League of Composers, the recipient of extended
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
Guggenheim and Rosenwald Fellowships and of the honorary degrees of Master of Music
(from Wilberforce University) and Doctor of Music (from Howard University). He has won
important commissions from the Columbia Broadcasting System, the New York World's
Fair 1939–40, Paul Whiteman and the League of Composers. His home is now in Los
Angeles, Calif.
COMPOSITIONS
FOR LARGE ORCHESTRA Darker America, published by the C. C. Birchard Co., Boston.
Afro-American Symphony, published by J. Fischer & Bro., New York City. Symphony in G-
minor, on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. Dismal Swamp, published in New Music
Edition, American Music Center, N. Y. C. Lenox Avenue, orchestra score on rental from
J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. Song of a City (orchestra and chorus) on rental from J. Fischer
& Bro., N. Y. C. Kaintuck (orchestra and piano), on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C.
Suite from the Ballet Sahdji, on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N.Y. C. Suite from the Ballet
La Guiablesse, on rental from Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y. C. Africa, on rental from Robbins
Music Corp., N. Y. C. Plain-Chant for America (baritone and orchestra), on rental from J.
Fischer and Bro., N. Y. C. In Memoriam: The Colored Soldiers Who Died for Democracy,
on rental from Delkas Music Publishing Co., Los Angeles. Old California, on rental from
Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y. C.
FOR SMALL ORCHESTRA Scherzo from Afro-American Symphony, published by J.
Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. Summerland from Three Visions, published by J. Fischer & Bro.,
N. Y. C. Blues from Lenox Avenue, published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. From the Black
Belt, on rental from Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y. C. Victory Tide, published by J. Fischer & Bro.,
N. Y. C. Pages From Negro History, in the collection “Music of Our Time,” published by
Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y. C. Out of the Silence from Seven Trac- eries, on rental from J.
Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
FOR PIANO SOLO Three Visions, published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. (Dark
Horsemen, Summerland Radiant Pinnacle). Quit Dat Fool'nish, published by J. Fischer &
Bro., N. Y. C. Seven Traceries, published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. (Cloud Cradles,
Mystic Pool, Muted Laughter, Out of the Silence, Woven Silver, Wailing Dawn, A Bit of
Wit). A Deserted Plantation, published by Robbins Music Corp., N. Y. C. (Spiritual, Young
Missy, Dance).
FOR VOICE AND PIANO Winter's Approach, published by G. Schirmer, Inc., N. Y. C.
Breath of a Rose, published by G. Schirmer, Inc., N. Y. C. Twelve Negro Spirituals,
published by Handy Bros. Music Co., N. Y. C. Victory Tide, published by J. Fischer & Bro.,
N. Y. C. Here's One, published by the John Church Co., Philadelphia. Plain-Chant for
America, published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. (Scores for large and small orchestra on
rental). (Continued on Page Nineteen)
Page Nineteen
Howard W. Odum says:
In 1909, I wrote as an introduction to a study of the folk songs and poetry of the Negro
somewhat as follows:
“To preserve and interpret the contributions of a people to civilization is to add to the
science of folk-history. Posterity has often judged peoples without having so much as a
passing knowledge of their inner life, while treasures of folk-lore and song, the psychic,
religious and social expression of the race, have been permitted to remain in complete
obscurity. Likewise, peoples have lived contemporaneously side by side, but ignorant of
the treasures of folk-gems that lay hidden and wasting all about them. The heart and soul
of the real people are unknown, science is deprived of a needed contribution, and the
world is hindered in its effort to discover the full significance of the psychological, religious,
social and political history of mankind. That which is distinctly the product of racial life and
development deserves a better fate than to be blown away with changing environment,
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
and not even remain to enrich the soil from which it sprang. Justice to the race and the
scientific spirit demand the preservation of all interesting and valuable additions to the
knowledge of folk-life. . . . The exact form of expression itself constitutes a contribution to
knowledge and literature.
During the years between then and now, the value of the folk has seemed to me to be
increasingly important and more and more recognized by larger numbers of peoples the
world over. The folk as the heart of a culture and life of the common man is now more than
ever the eternal witness for all the peoples of the world and their aspirations. It is through
the folk spirit and folk society, moreover, that our world grows strong and better, and it is
through them that enduring society will survive and develop at its best.
All good wishes for the next folk festival. —Institute for Research in Social Science, the
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C.
HOWARD W. ODUM Director of the Institute for Social Research, Kenan Professor of
Sociology, University of North Carolina. Author (among other writings), Cold Blue Moon,
black Ulysses afar off (New York, Bobbs, 1931); Rainbow Round My Shoulder, the blue
trail of black Ulysses (New York, Bobbs, 1928); Wings on My Feet, black Ulysses at the
wars (New York, Bobbs, 1929); with Guy B. Johnson, Negro and His Songs, a study of
typical Negro Songs in the South (Chapel Hill, U. of N. Car. Press, 1925); Negro Workaday
Songs (Chapel Hill, U. of N. Car. Press, 1926).
STILL'S COMPOSITIONS
(Continued from Page Eighteen)
FOR CHORUS Three Negro Spirituals, published by Handy Bros. Music Co., N. Y.
C. (Gwinter Sing All Along de Way, Keep Me from Sinkin' Down, Lord I Want to be a
Christian). Two choral episodes in Lenox Avenue, piano score published by J. Fischer &
Bro., N. Y. C. And They Lynched Him on a Tree, published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
(orchestra score on rental). Choral episodes in Sahdji, on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N.
Y. C.
FOR BALLET Lenox Avenue, piano score published by J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. La
Guiablesse, piano and orchestra scores on rental from Carl Fischer, Inc., N. Y. C. Sahdji,
piano and orchestra scores on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C. Miss Sally's Party,
piano and orchestra scores on rental from J. Fischer & Bro., N. Y. C.
UNPUBLISHED WORKS Band arrangements of: Summerland, Old California, Victory
Tide. Violin and piano arrangements of: Summerland, Here's One, Blues from Lenox
Avenue, Quit Dat Fool'nish. Incantation and Dance, for oboe and piano.
Caribbean Melodies, for singers with piano accompaniment. Can'tcha Line 'Em, for
orchestra. Those Who Wait, for chorus, two soloists and orchestra. Fanfare for American
Heroes, for orchestra. Suite for violin and piano. Troubled Island, opera in four acts. A
Southern Interlude, opera in two acts. A Bayou Legend, opera in three acts. Blue Steel,
opera in three acts.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 1)
string band usually provides the music. In 1941, Mr. Handy had in his party Joe Jordan,
pianist and composed of many popular songs, and J. Russell Robinson, who wrote the
popular “Margie.” Coming to the Barn Dance as spectators, these musicians could not
long restrain themselves. Mr. Handy sent for his trumpet, and with Joe Jordan and J.
Russel Robinson alternating at the piano, the students carried on their square, and other,
dancing to the melodies of an orchestra composed of “Blind Billy Smith's” String and
Washboard Band from Macon, with William C. Handy at the trumpet and Jordan and
Robinson alternating at the piano! And a good time was had by all.
Page Twenty
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
A NOTE ON BLUES
By Langston Hughes
“The Blues, unlike the Spirituals, have a strict poetic pattern: one long line, repeated, and
a third line to rhyme with the first two. Sometimes the second line in repetition is slightly
changed and sometimes, but very seldom, it is omitted. Unlike the Spirituals, the Blues are
not group songs. When sung under natural circumstances, they are usually sung by one
man or one woman alone. Whereas the Spirituals are often songs about escaping from
trouble, going to heaven and living happily ever after, the Blues are songs about being
in the midst of trouble, friendless, hungry, disappointed in love, right here on earth. The
mood of the Blues is almost always despondency, but when they are sung people laugh.”
—From Langston Hughes' The Dream Keeper and Other Poems, p. 30. (New York, A. A.
Knopf, 1935).
LANGSTON HUGHES Author: Weary Blues, Fine Clothes to the Jew, Not Without
Laughter, The Dream Keeper, The Ways of White Folks, The Big Sea, Shakespeare in
Harlem. Plays, “Mulatto”, “Don't You Want to Be Free?”
LANGSTON HUGHES says
The contributions of American Negro folklore to American life, especially in the field of
music, are immeasurable. American popular music is greatly indebted to this source.
Indeed, the best known and best loved American song, sung all around the world, is the
St. Louis Blues, which stems from a folk base. To encourage and preserve the Negro folk
arts is to add continually to a valuable reservoir of American culture. I heartily commend
the Annual Folk Festival which Fort Valley State College sponsors. —New York, N. Y.
“I hate to see . . . That evening sun go down. . . .” —Miss Mary Perry, 1942 solo prize-
winner from Americus, Ga.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
WILLIS JAMES AND SILVER MOON
(Continued from Page Eleven)
“Southern Road,” a book of verse, editor of the anthology “The Negro Caravan,” is a
natural man when transcribing Negro folk poetry into more conventional verse. Willis
James has been a preternatural man at the Fort Valley Folk Festival. The folk have a
warm, joyous confidence in him; when they follow his rich voice, you hear sinking like
nothing you have ever heard before. Willis L. James, a very preternatural sort of man, has
helped make The Fort Valley State College Folk Festival a notable, natural, preter-natural
event. Above ( page eleven ) is one of his arrangements of a tune heard at the Festival.
These are they which have come out of the many tribulations of managing successive Folk
Festivals; with a special flourish in the direction of President Bond, Dean Blanchet, and
Business Manager Bywaters, who have through the years done much of the detailed work
of gathering the Folk and making them happy.
W. W. E. BLANCHET Dean of the College
HORACE MANN BOND President of the College
L. R. BYWATERS Business Manager of the College
OTIS SAMUEL O'NEAL Peach-Houston Counties Farm Agent; Father, Ham Show
WILLIAM P. FOSTER Assistant Professor of Music of the College, 1943.
FREDERICK HALL Guest Instructor of Music in the College, Summer, 1940
MILDRED WHITE Instructor, Music, 1943
EDGAR ROGIE CLARK U.S.O.; Instructor, Music, 1939–1941
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
MATHILDA VANCE HUNT Instructor, Music, 1939–1943
ALFONSO JESSIE, '45x, AS UNCLE SAM IN THE FOLK PAGEANT, “The Hen, Hog, and
Mule Speak”
CONTENTS —( Continued from Page Three )
the University of North Carolina, who sends a statement about our Festival. Page twenty
carries a final statement, with portrait, from Langston Hughes, the first poet of the people
to see the tremendous poetic values in the Negro “blues.” Also, on this page we carry a
photograph of a young country school teacher whose singing at the 1941 Festival was
notable.
The inside of the back cover carries brief notices of persons of the Fort Valley State
College staff who have worked, through the years, to make the Festival successful.
Frederick Hall, on the Summer Faculty of 1940, now head of the Department of Music
at the Alabama State Teachers College at Montgomery, finds a place here as one of
our early and enthusiastic builders; Edgar Rogie Clark, now with the United Service
Organizations, and Mildred White, have served also as instructors in music and Festival
directors. Mrs. Mathilda Vance Hunt, instructor, has also been untiring in her aid. Mr.
William P. Foster, as Director of Music in the Fort Valley State College, 1943–44, is the
Director of the current Festival. Mr. Otis O'Neal, Peach County Farm Agent, is the Father
of the famous Ham and Egg Show, the annual outpouring of rural folk which provided the
first nucleus for the Folk Festival. President Horace Mann Bond, Dean W. W. E. Blanchet,
and Business Manager Leroy Bywaters have, through the years, done much of the detail
work required in the organization of the Festival.
Library of Congress
The Peachite Vol. II, No. 2, Folk Festival Number, March 1944 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1943012.afc1943012_ms059
The back cover photograph is of the folk pageant, a feature of the 1943 Ham Show, “The
Hen, Hog, and Mule Speak,” as written by County Agent O. S. O'Neal and directed by
Gloria Harris.