American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_07_103 
Documentation/Audiologs - 
Tavarelli, Paola: IAW-PT-AO23 to IAW-PT-AO40 
/
0  
4_ 0 1 
4 
i 
..Y 
e 
Document: IAW-PT-AO23 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Cordo, Naich 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Naich-:'(Ignazio)*Gordo lives on 28822 County Farm Road in the Saint 
Charles Mesa area of Pueblo. He was born August 29, 
1916 in the 
Mesa and lived here all his life. 
His-parents`were'born in-Sicily. - His mother came to America when 
she was 10 years old. He does not remember much about his father 
who died of flu in 1919, when Naich was only 3 years old. The widow 
was left with 6 children. 
I show him a map of the,Mesa area to help me locate his property 
and the properties of other Italian farmers. He says there are not 
many Italians left in the area. He is the,only_one,-still.farming 
Naich had 20 acres; he calls it the average size for people in the 
Mesa, while Vineland had bigger plots. The 20 acres were split 
between Naich and his brother. The only Italians living near him 
now are his two daughters: one married to "a so-called American," 
the other one married to a half Italian/half Austrian. Naich gave 
the daughters some of his land to build their houses. Many of the 
old farms have been sold to house developments. 
Naich has 2 sons and 3 daughters. The third daughter lives in 
Penrose; one son, Sam, lives on Hillside road; another one teaches 
in La Junta. Sam farms too; he does not own any land but leases 
farm land. 
"Naich"" still °farms for"his"`living.° He grows vegetable crops: ,j"au 
little bit of everything: peppers,"carrots, cabbage, green onions,', 
;tomatoes, a few water melons, green beans.'!"" He sells his produce' 
at home;-, also he sells to Andrew's produce in town; used to sell 
to another warehouse, but they moved to Denver and eventually went 
out of business. Used to have a lot of truckers but not anymore. 
"Farming.is•getting rougher
,
 in here now .. all our buyers have 
left..." He raises also a few fava.beans. He advertises his produce 
by putting an ad in the paper, and people come directly to the farm 
to buy it. 
He hires two men to help him in the fields.  "What we do - 
is : 
- 
if 
there is -three or four farmers together, got a crop that has to get -
out, well then we let our help go help them and vice versa." Naich 
still works in the fields himself. Right now he is calaveting, with 
the tractor. 
IAW-PT-AO23 - 
2 
In the old days they did-everything with horses or by hand. In the 
early thirties most people started to buy tractors. His children , 
grew up working in the farm, he did not have any outside help when 
they were at home . The kids would clean the fields from weeds; 
would bunch produce 
(like green onions and carrots ); 
his wife 
worked with him in the fields. Naich's mother lived with them and 
baby-sat for the kids. 
Naich built this house in 1951, 
after 
demolishing the old lumber house that his father built. They had 
4 rooms for 8 of them . When his father passed away, Naich's oldest 
brother was 12 years old, and his younger sister was 3 months old J 
The children quit school and helped at home .` 
'•"" 
--" 
.- 
Naich got married in 1937 . His wife moved into the house with 
Naich's sisters (who got married later) and his mother. 
Naich is farming 60 acres circa right now. He rents 50 acres from 
other people. In the past all farmers in the Mesa grow the same 
vegetables. In Vineland they grew sugar beets , 
pinto beans , 
because 
they had a lot more acreage . When Naich's brother got older he 
started to peddle in town with the horse and wagon and sell house 
to house. 
Every -farmer -w from the - 
Mesa _went to pPdd1P ;n tnwn. 
Everybody had an established route . They -used to have a meeting, 
place where all the farmers congregated and decided their areas for 
peddling . His brother peddled on the east side: he had all the 
stores there and the houses. The farmers' meeting place was on• 
Santa Fe: they had drinking places for the horses . The peddlers 
would trade the crops they had for the crops they did not have. 
They would leave home around 3:30/4:00 in the morning, stop at theJ 
meeting place until the stores would open around 8:00 and start, 
their regular routes . The meeting place did not have a specific+ 
name; the 'grocery -store close to it"was owned by 
Perricone; an 
Italian family. Naich went with his brother once on a while, but 
he did not like it: "it was no fun...I did not do no work really, 
just sitting there, it would be hot, waiting all day. He would 
peddle until about noon and then we would come home 
in the 
afternoon." The brother continued to peddle with a little truck, 
a Model T. 
Naich never peddled door-to-door. He would take a whole 
load of watermelons or cantaloupes some place and sell them. 
Naich was working in the farm alone when he got married. His wife, 
a Musso, used to live on Everett road , north of the highway : "there 
were all Italians there . There were a whole bunch of Musso and 
Giadone
.. there and they were all related." 
She came from a 
- 
farmers 
family too. 
When the old Mr. Perricone died, his sons did not want to have to-
deal with the farmers anymore and the peddlers started to stop 
going to the meeting place. 
Also a lot of farmers went into 
trucking themselves, and would go directly to the farms to load 
their trucks. Naich mentions the Dionisio family who owns now a big 
farm operation in Vineland. The father of the two men running the. 
GC7 G 
a"•7•- ftia
Al 
f 
C•DUt•• 
9  ca( 
IAW-PT-A023 - 
3 
business now: 
Russell Dionisio Senior and an uncle, 
Jack, 
had 
trucks and used to buy a lot of vegetables from Naich. Also a 
cousin and uncle of him, Charlie Cardamando, owned trucks and used 
to buy his vegetables. : They would haul the produce -in'other states:: 
Cardamando would haul into Wichita*, YKansas; ­Dionisio would go into 
Oklahoma; other people would go into Texas. Tom Giadone would buy 
whole truck load; and the Cerulli brothers, who had a produce house 
in town, used to buy from all the farmers around. 
I ask if, at the time his brother peddled to Pueblo, there were 
other farmers peddling to mining towns around Pueblo. Naich says 
that with the horse and wagon you could not go too far. 
Side B 
Most - of 
., the peddlers" were" Italians. When I ask why Naich says 
"because we were ,, the 
ardest - worlkers!" All 
the other people 
harvested bigger crops, like corn or alfalfa. "I -think• the .-ItaliAn 
f ,people were-the hardest working class-people "in this 
a.
,, -He 
says there was no -- friction between Calabresi and Sicilians in the 
Mesa: 
He is related to the M-oscos and Sforzes who are Calabresi. 
✓ 
"We - 
all -mingled; 
"' we all went to school together as -kids and the 
:families --respected one another." 
Naich spoke Italian with his mother. 
His kids did not learn much 
Italian. 
His mother could talk English pretty good so they 
communicated in English. 
Naich used to speak Italian but now he 
does not think he could do it. 
I ask Naich about the lodges in Pueblo and if there was a lodge for 
the farmers. 
He says there was "the°-gardeners' - halj" where Gus' 
market is now. "There was a hall-where Italian people would gather__, 
and have meetings... there's where I got married, 
we had the 
reception there, and there it's where all -the -Italian people used 
to get married,' and that was owned by a bunch of farmers." He 
thinks that the Williams were among the original people who started 
the lodge; the Giadone family was also involved. If they needed to 
have a meeting they would pass the word around. They used to have 
parties and get together there. 
Soon after Naich got married, 
around 1937, the gardeners' hall was converted into a market. Gus 
Giadone bought the building and built the fruit market around it. 
I ask if there was another place where the farmers would meet after 
the hall closed, but Naich says "Everybody went for themselves, 
more or less." I ask if there were places where Italians would 
gather for holidays and he says that on the holidays everybody from 
this area went to the city park: "each -family-went-for themselves 
but't-hPn"th_ey - would meet over-there and have big family get 
togethers...like on the 4th of July." There were no places where 
IAW-PT-AO23 - 
4 
the neighbors got together, but "of course the neighbors used to 
visit one another at them time ... just to pass the evening away." 
"So there was no place where Italian men would go and play bocce, 
for instance?" I ask . He says that there were places at the park 
where they would play. Naich played bocce : "We used to have an old 
man that lived just a few doors down, Pantaleo , 
and he used to love 
to play that game ." This man taught Naich how to play bocce. 
I ask Naich if Italian men from the Mesa would go the bars in town. 
He says "the kids my generation, we did not particularly cater to 
any bars. If we'd go in, may be buy a beer then go to a dance or 
go to a show and come on home." His oldest brother was a bartender 
for year at the bar owned by Dominic Pisciotta on Union Avenue, but 
Naich would go only occasionally to see his brother. 
This is the same brother who would peddle in the past. When he quit 
farming, "because we did not have enough here for all of us" he 
went to work for the mill , and then became a bartender. 
I ask Naich how the property was divided between the brothers and 
sisters . He says that his mother gave his sisters their share in 
money and the land was divided between the two brothers. He thinks 
that this arrangement was common: "The -men -were -more - subject -to 
stay `on the "farm. .you"give my sisters some land, come along and 
got married , their husbands didn't like anything about the farm, 
wanted to move to town, they would move. And then the land, who 
would get the land? You don't know ... this way it stayed in the 
family, and I think that was a tradition for most farmers, whether)  
they were Italian or what." 
I ask Naich to name some of his neighbors: he mentions the Wells, 
the Smiths , who are still here, then the Italians : the Pantaleos, 
Gagliano , Parlapianos, 
Taravella , Spinuzzi , Cardinelli and two 
miles 
from 
here 
there 
were 
the 
Musso , Giadone , Cardamando, 
Martinelli . 
He does not consider this area as heavily populated by 
Italians as the Pleasant View area (around 25th lane). 
We talk about some of the Italian families who changed their names 
(the Williams , Guglielmo, the Thomases , Di Tommaso). He says that 
his original last name is Corda . 
His brother changed it into Cordo 
to distinguish himself from another Joe Corda in town. 
I ask how he named his kids : he named his oldest boy : Sam, after 
his grandfather , Salvatore ; his oldest daughter : Anita, which was 
Antonia, named after his mother ; 
the second daughter was named Anna 
Rosa after his wife's mother; then Joe, after his dad and older 
brother ; then Pauline, his grandmother 's name . Naich's son, Sam, 
named his first child after him: Naich (originally Ignazio), then 
named his youngest boy after himself; 
his daughter was named 
Shelley . He shows me Shelley's baby picture. When I entered the 
house through the living room I noticed a table covered by family 
photos and I ask Naich to move to the living room where he can shofa 
N4M& 
C; 11g1", 6iS 
•2.Pelrrc,j 
IAW-PT-AO23 - 
5 
them to me. We move, with the tape recorder into the room. 
The table is covered by a 
 nice "croche" tablecloth made by his 
/'deceased wife. He shows me the picture of his wife and himself when 
they graduated from high school; a wedding picture taken at the 
wedding of his brother's son; 
then pictures of his 
sons and 
daughters with their wives and husbands and kids. In the back of /fAn.,,r 
all his 
11e table, in a 
 
grandchildren posing
ntral like a tree 
on there 
the oldest on topthe
oto 
y 
youngest/ 
'T 
g 
p 
g 
( 
P 
Y 
g 
at the bottom). 
I ask if the family gets together often. He says that they used to 
when his wife was living. &very, Sunday they had dinner tncrPthPr 
with"the"whole family (at least 25 or 30 ppcp1PQ.,His wife cooked , 
spaghetti and meatballs every Sunday. Naich still makes the sauce' 
every ,Sunday at-home: his daughter,`Ywho lives across the street,-
makes the meat balls and comes to get the sauce and brings it to 
her house, where they_ have Sunday dinner. now. "We are not many,-4• 
sometimes we are only 3!" 
For Christmas Naich gets together with his brother and 2 sisters. 
There are 4 of them left, he says, and they all lost their mates. 
Naich goes to the basement to get some Pepsi. 
I ask him who is going to inherit his farm when he retires. He says 
he does not know: "There is a lot of them, they can do what they 
want... I'm not going to retire, as long as I can farm, I'm going 
to farm." He tells me that in addition to farming all his life, he 
also drove a school bus for 35 years, here in this area. 
We talk about food. His mother used to cook spaghetti and meatballs 
for special occasions. She used to do a lot of cooking for the 
church (Mt. Carmel); then after Naich got married, his wife would 
do a lot of cooking too, first for Mt. Carmel and later for the 
local church on the Mesa, Saint Joseph. His wife and sister-in-law 
(who married his wife's brother) 
used to cook for the Saint 
Joseph's spaghetti dinner (20 boxes of macaroni), an event to raise 
money 
or t e churc
h
 
I ask Naich if his wife was involved in the Saint Joseph's table 
tradition. He says that her family had one, and that there used to 
be a lot of them years ago. Naich participated at this year table 
at the MartellaroIs house. He was assigned the role of Saint Jude. 
I ask what he had to do and he says: 
us 
sit there and eat all 
the food that they pour to you!" Then Naich tells me about the 
past: since his mother was left a widow with 6 children at 27 years 
old, all the Saint Joseph's tables that were made around here his 
brother and himself were invited to sit at. "...I think people felt 
sorry for us!" I ask if the sisters were not invited. He says that 
everybody was invited, but only certain people were invited to sit 
(to impersonate the saints),,. Sometimes members of his family were 
invited to sit at different tables (years ago there were at least 
IAW-PT-AO23 - 
6 
10 or 12 made every year). "The public was invited to go see them 
all, and everybody would go the evening before, you know, but then 
if I was chosen to come and sit at your table, that's where I 
went..." 
End of tape. Interview continues on IAW-PT-AO24 
Document: IAW-PT-AO24 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Cordo, Naich 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview with Naich Cordo continues from IAW-PT-A023. 
Saint Joseph's table: In the past only kids were invited to sit at 
the table. Whatever they did not eat that day, they would put in 
a pan and was donate it to the orphanages in town. 
I ask if they had a procession. He says: 
"they used to make us 
walk. 
In the 
old days we put... 
in 
Italian they call 
them: 
' 
ucidates I 
, a big crown bread, and they put an orange i 
n the .+•P 
of it and we used fo 
hold f 
iem on our head and we would walk around 
outside and 
then walk around the table until you come to your place 
where you are to sit... We  were blessed, the priest would come and 
biezz ever ything, and I guess the tradition was: you are blessed, 
so you walk around and everything that you touch or walk around was 
supposed to be blessed too." When the kids left they would be given 
the bread and the orange and a little of everything: "In the olden 
days they mixed everything, you know. If you had rice and onions, 
everything was poured in on top of your bread, 
but now Tony 
(Martellaro) had individual boxes, put a little of everything in 
each box and give it to you that way." 
Naich Is mother never made an altar herself but was involved in 
helping other women making it. Naich tells me what the tradition 
related to the table is: if you have somebody sick in vnttr family, 
you pra 
to Saint Joseph  for him/her to get well, and you would beg 
to get 
you neel6a. According to Naich there were other 
other 
than 
the 
Sicilians 
who 
followed 
this 
Italian 
people 
tradition. 
We go back to talk about farming and animal raising. Naich used to 
raise chickens and a lot of rabbits, now he raises only cows. I ask 
about the grocery stores that Italians used to shop at. He says the 
De Luca grocery store was the only Italian market in the Mesa area; 
they also went to town to the Gaglianos; they were two brothers, 
one on Elm street and one on Northern; then Gus, on Elm Street, 
used to have a grocery store in the back of the bar. 
His mother used to bake in the outside oven. After his mother 
passed away, his wife used the "forno" for a couple of times and 
then they tore it down. His mother would bake 20 loafs. They built 
two or three ovens during the years. His brother used to build 
IAW-PT-A024 - 
2 
them, with bricks and mud. They used to have bricks with a smooth 
part inside. He explains the steps of building the oven (forno). 
One of the Mexican helpers rings the bell and talks briefly with 
Naich. 
I ask if in the past the neighbors would help each other. He says 
especially when a mother was going to give birth, everybody would 
come and help. 
Farmers would exchange work in the fields. The 
farmers would help one another when they had to put up hay or if 
somebody needed help with a big harvest, his brother would go with 
his horses and help in the fields: "That'-s the only way they made 
it, during thp-
m days, by helping one another." 
I ask about the butchering of the pigs. He says in the old time the 
neighbors used to get together and help one another and there was 
one old man who used to do the butchering, "the sticking of the 
pig _" He explains the whole process. No money was exchanged. They 
used to make lard. Naich still has a big cast-iron kettle outside, 
which was used to cook the lard (later, when we go outside he'll 
show it to me.) In the old times a fire was built under the kettle, 
more recently Naich used gas under it. When the lard was brown 
"cooked down to nothing" and then you would strain it and put it 
in big crocks (he has one downstairs, which he will show me later) 
and store sausages in it. 
The family made sausages  for family 
consumption. They also cut bacon and have somebody sure it for 
them. 
 
I ask him who taught him how to make all this, since his father 
died when he was a kid. He says that his mother knew quite a bit. 
They also had a milk cow. His mother made cheese and ricotta. When 
his mother passed away, 
his wife, 
who had learned from her, 
continued to make cheese. Before they had a refrigerator they used 
to buy ice boxes, where there was space for big chunks of ice and 
space to store the milk. The ice was delivered at the farm. They 
used to put a card in the window so that the delivery man knew they 
needed ice. 
Naich talks about his mother. 
She was a wonderful 
cook, 
he 
remembers her chicken soup and says he very seldom ate chicken soup 
any place else. He did not care for other food except for that 
prepared by his mother. "I thought she was the one and only... she 
was a good cook, she was neat, she was clean. She was a wonderful 
woman, I got to say that for my mother." She was 27 years old when 
her husband died and never remarried. She had many opportunities 
to get married again, but she refused them. She died at 75. 
We move to the basement (I take the tape recorder with me and hold 
the mic) where he says they basically lived all the time and went 
upstairs only to go to bed. He shows me some family pictures on the 
wall and looks for the picture of his wife stirring a big bowl of 
IAW-PT-AO24 - 
3 
V/  
spaghetti she was cooking for the church. Naich moves from the big 
kitchen to a smaller room that, he says , used to be his coal room 
before they got modern , and takes out the crock made of clay which 
was filled up to the rim with lard which would soon get hard. The 
sausages were put in it when the lard was watery. Lard was also 
used for cooking : his mother would put lard in bottles and use that 
for her bread , to bake cakes or pies . In the small room , which is 
now a sort of junk room , there is also an old a tub in which they 
used to wash clothes before they bought the automatic washer. He 
says they probably bought the tub from the Gagliano's store. We 
move to another long room (28 foot long 14 foot wide ) where Naich 
says they used to eat when the family got together. They also used 
the big room to cut up the hogs : "It was like a party! 
It was 
nothing to have 15 or 20 guys cuttinq up." There are old pictures 
on the walls . He shows me a graduation picture in which there are 
photographs of himself 
(Naich Corda , not Cordo ) and his wife 
Pauline Musso, 
James 
Bongirno , the teacher; 
Jeannie 
Cortese; 
Josephine Bellitti. 
We move back to the main room, the kitchen, where there is an old 
cast-iron stove which his mother used to bake bread in the winter 
time when outside was cold. On the walls there are pictures and 
plaques with inscriptions, mainly related to food and cooking. I 
read some of them : "Good bread, Good Meat ; Good Gosh , Let's eat." 
He directs me on the opposite wall where there are some of his 
wife 's favorites : "T-bones = 25 cents; with meat =$ 1.75 and the 
image of a cook boning the meat. Another saying, which Naich likes, 
says: "Thank God for dirty dishes, they have a tale to tell; While 
others may go hungry , 
we are eating very well. With home and health 
and happiness I should not want to fuss , for by the stock of 
evidence , 
God has been good to us." Another one goes: "Criticizing 
the cook in this kitchen could be hazardous to your health." 
Naich uses the kitchen to make his Sunday spaghetti sauce: there 
is still a wooden spoon beside the modern stove, with red sauce on 
it. 
We go up the stairs and walk outside from the back door. I,•_ 
e 
yard there is a blue and white shrine with the statue of the Virgin 
Kary. His kids put it there after their mother passed away. This 
reminds me of the small saint statuettes I saw in the window near 
the front door when I came in. 
I ask Naich if they used the 
statuettes for a Christmas nativity scene. He says that his wife 
used to put up Jesus in the manger in the house for Christmas. He 
has not done it since she passed away. 
We walk along the side of the house past two big storage sheds. In 
the back of one of these buildings there is the kettle once used 
to cook lard in it , now rusting. 
Side B 
IAW-PT-AO24 - 
4 
The kettle's diameter is around three feet. It was put on a stand 
over some wood which would be kept burning for the whole day. 
Near it there is the machinery that Naich uses in the fields: a 
piece of equipment which cuts the hay and leaves it in a row and 
another machine used to bail the hay. His son-in-law has another 
machine that stacks the hay. His son-in-law helps Naich with the 
work in the fields. He shows me the fields in the back of his house 
where alfalfa is growing. He keeps it to feed his cows. The big 
equipment he has here he shares with his son, Sam, who leases farm 
land 2 miles from here. 
There are more storage buildings in the back of the house, one used 
to store onions and then a shack where the two Mexican helpers 
live. 
We move to a fenced area where the cows stay (22 "Black Angus" 
cows). 
Naich says that he sells some of the cows in La Junta, but 
most of them he takes to be butchered in town and keeps the meat 
for home consumption. Since he has supper with his daughter next 
door, he provides her with the meat and tries to help her out that 
way. There is no stable for the cows, Naich says they can stand a 
lot of cold. 
There are flowers along the walls of the house. 
Naich's wife 
planted them. When he started to hire help to work in the fields, 
he says, she retired and started to grow flowers. 
"It was good 
advertising. People would drive by and see them flowers, they would 
ask what we had and we had produce at the time." 
We walk back to where the machines are and he shows me the 
calavetor and how it works. I ask Naich at what time he starts to 
work in the fields. He says that the way to do it is to get out in 
the fields early, then stop for breakfast around 8:30 and then go 
back. But now he takes it easy: he does not go out until he has had 
breakfast since a year ago, in January, he had a heart attack and 
had five by-passes. His friend and neighbor comes to pick him up 
and they go to the fields together. We walk around the house and 
he shows me the cistern once used for water, and the place where 
the outside oven used to be. 
End of interview. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO25 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Vasile, Joe; Nigro, Frank; Vasile, Charlie 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For related information see David Taylor's fieldnotes and his 
photographs logs and my fieldnotes: IAW-PT-F063090.a. 
It's the 30th of June 1990, David Taylor and Paola Tavarelli are 
at the cheese plant of Joe Vasile on Daniel Road in Vineland. Frank 
Nigro, Joe's unc1E, accompanied us
-here. Joe was born March 2nd, 
1924 in a mining town 50/60 miles south of here. From the ranch 
there Joe's family moved to Walsenburg where he went to school. In 
1943 he went into the service; when he got out in 1945 he came to 
work 3n Pueblo at thA C'F 
I where--h.- worked for 38 years. When he 
retired he said "what the hell am I going to do with myself now" 
so he bought 
and started the 
cheese plant "to kee 
all-a-1-f  
a, 
o feed the goat•• 
me 
of trouble 
see!" He qrows corn and 
From the cinder-block building where he has the machinery to make 
the cheese Joe takes us outside, and points to the stable where he 
keeps the goats. Then he shows us the furnace room, just outside 
the cheese plant, 
underground, where there is the boiler 
(gas 
heated) which produces the steam to heat the kettle upstairs. Then 
we move back inside the cheese room; he opens the cooler where he 
keeps the milk he milked today that he is going to use tomorrow to 
make cheese. He has 40 gallons circa of milk every day. He hired 
a licensed contractor to build the cheese plant. He says he could 
have built it himself, but the law requires commercial buildings 
to be built by authorized people. 
He built the rest of the 
buildings in the farm by himself: 
the stable and the storage 
building where he keeps the cheese to dry. 
How Joe learned to make cheese: he used to work for his uncle 
( ran ) when he was a kid in Walsenburg. Frank had a herd of 900 
gaofs; they would start to milk them at 2 o'clock in the morning 
a`fd - by 6 a.m.  Joe would be out in the fields with the goats. He 
says that because he was so busy milking and taking care of the 
goats afterwards, he never really learned how to make cheese. When 
he started this plant he asked uncle Frank for help and he says he 
still does ask him for help now, 
whenever he gets stuck with 
something. "I had a general idea, but then you forget things. I 
asked him, he has corrected me in a lot of them things." 
David tells Joe that he doesn't know anything about cheese making 
and ask him what he would tell him if he had to teach him how to 
IAW-PT-AO25 - 
2 
make cheese. 
First thing, Joe says, you have to milk the goats and strain your 
milk. Then you put it in the kettle. Generally you put the rennet 
in there at the body heat of the animal, which is about 98 degrees 
and you stir it to mix it. He shows us the rennet he uses, a bottle 
he keeps in the fridge, which comes out of Wisconsin. They make the 
rennet out of the stomach of a calf. The old-timers, he says, used 
to make the rennet out of the kidney of the goats, but now it's 
illegal (it has been illegal since the '30s.) Frank says that they 
had been making cheese for years using that rennet. The old guys, 
who had been in the cheese business for years were allowed to keep 
using it, but the "new guys" were not. Frank says:"We used to be 
careful, you know, we used to be very careful. We used to keep the 
nanny goats as clean as a whistle, and we butcher them and deliver 
the nanny goats at the store ... now they cannot even sell the nanny 
goats to the butcher shop." 
Now they have to butcher them at the 
slaughter house. 
Joe starts putting the rennet in the kettle where the skim milk 
starts to boil. Frank gives him advise "Are you sure you have the 
milk warm, Joe?" (Joe has already made cheese this morni_nrn, 
_r._ 
e 
our arrival. The skim milk  which is now in the kettle is gDdn 
t-o 
bP use 
o make ric 
a c eeGe 
Joe tells us that you have to 
bring the milk to a boil and just before it starts boiling you shut 
the fire off, the heat, and the condensed milk (the ricotta) comes 
floating to the top of the kettle. Joe adds a few handful of salt 
to the kettle. Frank warns him: "Don't put no more!" Joe answers 
back: 
"Salt is good for you, Frank! Good for your heart!" Frank 
says "I cannot have no salt, Joe." Then Joe gets a gallon of fresh 
milk out of the cooler and pours it into the kettle while he keeps 
stirring it. "Slow Joe, slow. You go too fast over there," uncle 
Frank says, watching Joe stirring the milk with a big stainless 
steel stick. Then Joe puts the cover on the kettle and sticks a 
thermometer through a hole in the cover. 
Joe will check the 
temperature and stir again the milk when the temperature reaches 
150, stir again at 160 degrees, then again when it reaches 170 
degrees. Frank says: "It takes a 180 degree hot before the ricotta 
comes up." 
The stainless steel kettle holds about 70 gallons. 
While we wait for the ricotta to form in the kettle, Joe explains 
how he makes the hard goat cheese which is made before making the 
ricotta. 
"You get your milk in there.. strain it, put it in a vat there. Like 
I said, I got cold milk in there too, sometimes—and that's how I 
bring the temperature to what you might say is the body heat of the 
animal, which is about 98 degrees ...then I put the rennet in it. 
I stir it. 
I use about one table spoon of rennet to every 16 
gallons of milk ... wait about 45 minutes to an hour then I get that 
same stick, I break it all up ... while I do that I got the steam 
in it, heat it up until about 110 degrees. Then I shut the steam 
IAW-PT-A025 - 
3 
off. When it's all broken up, let it sat for maybe 15/20 minutes 
and then I gather it. I roll it... like a sausage ... then I get that 
knife and I cut it in small pieces, I set it on the table. I get 
that coffee strainer I got out there and strain whatever pieces 
left at the bottom, because you don't pick it all up. So I use that 
coffee strainer to pick up whatever I can (from the kettle) ... and 
that's what I got there on the table over there (he points to the 
several cheese containers sitting on the table). I put the steam 
back on here and I go ahead and put that cut-down small pieces and 
break them up and put them inside the baskets there. And after I 
get that done I turn them over...I already turned them over once. 
I leave them like that and then you just leave them sat there until 
I get my ricotta done, which is about ready to be done now ... When 
I get that all out of there (the ricotta out of the kettle) then 
I put the cheese back in here (in the kettle) and cook it at a 
temperature of about 190/200 degrees and I shut the steam off and 
I let it sat (settle? sit?) in there for three hours, that's what 
he (Frank) told me: to let it sat for 3 hours. Then I come back 
out, take it out, put cold water on top of it, I turn it over 
again, take it out of the basket and turn it over and I let it sat 
fifteen to twenty minutes until it all settles pretty good. Then 
I turn it back over again to where it was. And the reason why I do 
that: because it's rough on the bottom, see and if I do that twice, 
then it will be smooth..." The containers, some stainless steel, 
some plastic, have holes in them to allow the water to come out. 
It's time for Joe to check the ricotta which is coming up in the 
kettle. He stirs some more, he says, so that he gets an even heat 
all the way around. Otherwise you burn it on a side and on the 
other side it's still raw. 
I ask Joe what he uses to strain the milk before starting to make 
cheese. He shows us a stainless steel strainer and the filter pads 
he puts on top of the strainer. Sometimes he says he puts a towel 
on top. We move to the room adjacent to the cheese room, which he 
calls a "junk collector," where he tries to find the old baskets 
in which the cheese was once kept. 
He cannot 
find them and 
remembers he keeps them in another room, which he is going to show 
us later. We qo back to the cheese room where Frank "the old master 
✓ at work" is checking and stirring the ricotta in the kettle ; 
Joe tells us that a lot of his cheese was getting sour and he could 
not figure out what was wrong with it. Frank told him that he had 
sour milk. 
"Sometimes, 
Joe says, 
you don't believe these olcl-
timers, but they know what they are talking about most of the 
time_!" Joe realized that he was using milk that was not too fresh, 
and this caused the problem, as uncle Frank had predicted. 
The telephone rings, Joe goes into the other room to answer it. 
Frank talks about the old times in Walsenburg when he used to sell 
milk to people who wanted to make cheese themselves. He says that 
IAW-PT-AO25 - 
4 
it was so hot, 
(at the time they had no refrigeration) that the 
milk used to get sour by the time he would deliver it. 
Joe puts the plastic baskets on the table near the kettle and gets 
ready to pick up the ricotta floating in the kettle and put it in 
the baskets. Joe jokes about me going back to Italy and telling 
everybody "how those turkeys in Colorado make cheese." 
He knows 
/that in  i i 
e 
cheese the same way. He was in Sicily visiting relatives in 1968 
and in 1973. Joe's mother was Calabrese and his father was Sicilian 
and he learned both dialects and "I kind of break it up a little 
bit I don't even know that I'm doing ice, but they tell me that I 
am." Joe keeps checking the ricotta in the kettle while Frank warns 
him to stir it slowly, and "give it a swing." 
Frank says he used 
to make cheese on the fire and not with steam. 
The kettle he used 
was a copper kettle and he used to silver plate it. He used to buy 
a silver bar, heat the boiler with a torch, clean it inside and 
then melt the silver and pour it in it. He says in Walsenburg there 
V was a "compare" of his, Mauro, who owned a creamery and Frank used 
to silver plate- his copper tubs every year or every two years. 
I ask Frank how he learned to silver plate the copper. He says "I 
learned everything the hard way.". 
Side B 
V 
Frank continues to say that whatever he did he learned with no 
teacher.  He says he worked in the an_a__l mines when he was 15 years 
old 15 to 20 miles from Walsenburg. He says there were many mining 
camps in that area. He used to dig coal, load carts. He  says there 
were many Italians working with him, a 
 few Mexicans, and many "Bo-
Jons" (the way people from Pueblo call Slavic and Austrian people) . 
Frank used to work in the mining camps in the winter time, four 
months every year; in the summertime he worked in the ranch with 
his father. 
,} 
V- 
,,,A w:•... ,5 
A young nephew of Joe, Charlie Vasile, who works on the goat farm 
with Joe, 
comes 
in and Frank yells at him to close to door 
otherwise the heat goes down (the temperature in the room is almost 
unbearable for me!) While Frank chats with Charlie, Joe proceeds 
to transfer the ricotta which comes up in the kettle to the plastic 
containers. He transfers it with a stainless steel dipper. 
Frank says "We'd better eat first before he takes all the ricotta 
out!" 
Joe tells us that now he has to be careful that the ricotta does 
nQt -boil in the kettle. If it gets too hot and the ricotta starts 
to boil he puts some cold water all 
around it, 
to_prevent the 
ricot a from getting hard. (Frank asks Charlie to give him a glass 
of water). 
I ask Joe if people come directly to the cheese plant to buy his 
ricotta or if he delivers it. He says that many people do that, 
IAW-PT-AO25 - 
5 
J•pCty 
otherwise, he takes it to the stores: Safeways 
King Soupers and 
others. He puts some of the ricotta in small perforated containers 
and some in bigger trays. King Soupers wants it in the bigger 
trays, so that they can cut it as they want. I ask Frank which kind 
of containers he used to put ricotta 
in. 
He says they used 
perforated coffee or lard cans. 
Lot of noise: while Charlie washes some dishes and talks with Joe, 
Frank and I take out the bowls and the loaf of bread that we 
brought from Frank's home and Frank starts breaking some bread in 
the bowl and mixes it with the hot ricotta comi ng direntl= from the 
kettle. "This is r ic
is 
soup," Frank says while Joe says "This is 
no soup, we call it - wpane -e ricotta" (bread and ricotta), or  "pane 
✓ e latte" (bread and milk) . 
They offer me some of it, and both Frank 
and I take our bowls  to the other room. Frank sits in front of the 
main door, trying to get some fresh air from outside while he eats 
his ricotta soup and chats with Charlie. 
David asks Joe where he got all the stainless steel equipment he 
works with. He says his brother got the kettle for him from the 
army base. While Joe keeps putting the ricotta in the plastic 
containers, 
he tells us that some people use vinegar to make 
ricotta, but he does not. 
I go in the other room to eat my ricotta and try to recuperate some 
energy from the intense heat. Frank tells me that the ricotta he 
used to make tasted different than this. The animals used to go 
free and eat what they liked and not what you like them to eat (I 
clip the lavalier mic to his shirt) . In the background you can hear 
David and Jo talking in the other room. 
I ask Charlie a few 
questions. He never makes cheese, he could, he says, but he never 
does. Frank says that once a year he comes here with his compari 
and compari to eat the fresh ricotta. Joe takes ricotta to-Frank's 
house requ arly. Frank says that Joe is the only one in the area 
making cheese and ricotta. 
It takes 40,000 dollars to start a 
cheese plant like this and nobody feels it is worth the investment, 
according to Frank. Charlie says that the Provosti family and Mary 
Giadone used to make ricotta. Frank keeps giving advise on how to 
handle the cheese. He tells Charlie that they should put the cheese 
back in the cooler when it is hot like today, otherwise it could 
turn sour by staying two or three hours sitting on the table. 
Charlie tells me of a trip he took when he was in school to 
participate at a Convention for the Future Farmers of America. 
Charlie's grandfather, Joe Gamba, had a dairy farm in the Trinidad 
area, 
Frank says. 
Charlie's family is related to the Spinuzzi, 
Potestio, and Pisciotta. Frank finished his ricotta and I remove 
the levalier mic from his shirt and move back into the cheese room. 
Joe is talking with David about his time in the navy in the Pacific 
campaign. While I was in the other room, Joe finished putting the 
ricotta in the containers and then took the goat cheese (which sat 
IAW-PT-AO25 - 
6 
in several containers on the table for a couple of hours) and put 
it back in the kettle to cook it. He brings the temperature in the 
kettle up to 190 to 200 degrees, then shuts the steam off and lets 
the cheese stay there and cook for three hours. Then he is going 
to take it out again, put it on the table, pour cold water on it 
so that he can handle it, turn it over. He lets it sit for twenty 
minutes then he turns it over again, puts it in the basket and 
leaves it there until the following morning. 
The interview continues on IAW-PT-AO26 
Document: IAW-PT-A026 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Vasile, Joe; Nigro, Frank; Vasile, Charlie 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A025. 
Joe Vasile explains the last phase of cheese makina. When the qoat 
cheese is ready, he takes it to the basement and puts it in brine 
(sa amnia, 
in Italian) where it stays for three days until  
it 
hardens up. Then he salts it and put it on a table. Legally he is 
supposed to wait 60 days before selling it, but people want it 
fresh: "I cannot argue with the public, if they want it!" 
Joe spends a lot of his time at the cheese plant. He says that his 
sister and his nephew, Charlie, are supposed to handle the whole 
operation, but Joe is here most of the time. Joe is the owner of 
the cheese plant, but the sister and nephew are supposed to run it. 
He' says that at the enct of — the year, i`f^his sister has made some 
money, then he takes it, otherwise, nothing. 
I ask Joe if the cheese making is the same winter and summer time. 
He says that it could be that way if you breed your goats year 
round, but he does not want to work in the winter time. The cheese 
making starts in March and goes on until SeptembQr or the beginning 
of October, when the goats go dry and he just feeds them. 
"No 
ricotta in the winter, then" I say, and Joe switches to Italian and 
says that it is too cold. 
Joe tells me that when he was in Italy he felt he could understand 
the people over there almost perfectly "They talk the way I talk," 
except for a guy from Tuscany, whom he could not understand at all. 
He says that his dad comes from Bivona, in Sicily, and he used to 
call the bathroom "latrina" but most of the people in Sicily call 
it "cesso" and when he went to Sicily he found that people now call 
it "gabinetto." 
He asks me which one of those is correct. I tell 
him that I am familiar with all of these terms and that they are 
all correct. The use depends from the region and that the most 
"polite" word is "gabinetto". Joe realizes that he forgot to shut 
the steam off in the kettle. The temperature is now 220 degrees. 
He shuts the steam off and let the cheese cook for the next three 
hours. 
Frank and David come into the room. Frank is talking about hogs. 
Joe asks him if he wants to come with us to the basement and to the 
goat stable, but Frank says he is going to wait for us here. 
IAW-PT-A026 - 
2 
Joe, 
David and I walk to the next building, where Joe has two 
rooms: a junk room, where we enter first, and a basement where he 
keeps the goat cheese. In the junk room he shows us a "fuscedda," 
a straw basket which Joe got from his uncle in Calabria, Italy. Joe 
calls the material of which the basket is made "suglia" (? probably 
a Calabrese term for straw which I am not familiar with) . 
Joe would 
have liked to use it for his cheese, but he was advised not to use 
it because it's illegal in the States. The basket is about 8 inches 
across the bottom and 4 inches deep (we measure it). David takes 
pictures of Joe holding the basket. 
Then we go down the stairs to the basement where the cheese is 
stored. There are two plastic containers on the floor where the 
cheese is kept in brine (water and salt) 
for 3 days. Joe shows 
lifts the cover and we can see the salty water and a cork floating 
in it. Joe explains that he put a cork in there just as a memory 
devise:he knows that the cheese with the cork is the one that has 
to come out next. "If my mind was like yours, you wouldn't need 
it!" he says. Near the plastic containers there is a table on which 
several cheese wheels are aging. Joe shows us a box of kosher salt 
used to preserve the cheese. There are a few wheels set apart from 
the rest of the cheese. Joe says that these wheels floated to the 
top and he is afraid that they may be sour. If that is the case, 
he would not put that cheese on the market, but eat it himself. 
Different wheels have different colors. Joe says that it's all one 
kind of cheese and that the different color comes probably from the 
heat. He had an order for red chili and one for black pepper 
cheese, so he mixed the ingredients to the cheese when he took the 
cheese out from the kettle. These cheese is called simply goat 
✓cheese, 11 ormaggio caprino" in Ttallan 
David takes Ulc ures. He 
seT1s the cheese by the pound 
o the arnnAry stores 
or 
o anybody who wants to buv directly from him. 
Joe goes upstairs to fetch a knife and cuts a piece of cheese for 
us to taste. 
The brine in which Joe keeps the cheese for 3 days is only water 
and salt. He says that he puts enough salt "to float an egg. A 
fresh egg: when it floats, you damn you got enough salt in it, but 
I always put a little extra more." He cuts a piece of cheese for 
us to take. We go outside and walk on the street that leads to the 
goat stable. On the left there are the fields of Anthony Cortese, 
who grows corn to feed his cows. On the right we can see in the 
distance the Mauro vegetable market. They ship around the country. 
Joe's fields are in between: he grows corn and alfalfa, mainly to 
feed his goats, but this year he is going to sell some of the corn. 
He shows us a machine that he uses to crack up the corn and a pile 
of cracked corn which he uses to feed the goats when he milks them. 
His goats don't like it too much. He says: "They are mean, they are 
like a woman! They are mean, aren't they? ...That's what I tell my 
sister: she is the only girl and I mean she is mean too!" 
IAW-PT-A026 - 
3 
I ask why he built the stable so far from the cheese plant and he 
says that there are too many flies near the animals. 
We get to the fenced area where he keeps about 100 goats. Some of 
them are separated from their mothers, 
in a small fenced area 
inside the bigger pen. He is weaning them. We go inside the milk 
barn. He shows us the milking machine which sucks the milk by air 
pressure. He has also a cooler in here because when the animals are 
inside it gets very hot in the barn. Charlie usually milks the 
goats. The machine allows to milk 4 goats at a time. The goats are 
milked twice a day. First at 6 o'clock in the morning, then in the 
afternoon, around 4 o'clock. From the milk barn we move through a 
door into the loafen (?) barn, open to a side, and then to a closed 
barn. We follow Joe around. He shows us another wood structure, a 
feed pen, with a pipe in the center through which he throws the 
food (a goat is stuck in there and Joe tries to get her out.) David 
asks if he has names for them. Joe says: "No, you don't want to 
hear how I call them anyway!" 
Side B 
The fenced area is about 120 feet. At the far end of the fenced 
area there is a pig shed with 4 small pigs. Joe makes sa»•ac•Ps, 
salame and sopressata for home consumption. He uses the cheese 
plan 
1n 
a winter to make the sausages. One of the goats follows 
me around like a pet. Joe says she was an orphan and always follows 
you around. I ask Joe if he knows the Italian saying "Duro come una 
capra" 
(Hard 
headed 
like 
a goat). 
He 
says 
:"Those are 
the 
Calabresi!" 
'.. 
father used to say about his Calabrese 
wife: "Tiene 'naeGta nnmP tin 
'montorie' ! (STS•.  a head 11 e a 
billy goad . 
" 
We walk back towards the cheese plant. 
Joe sells his cheese 
locally1  he is not sure he has enough production for a bigger 
market. He figures he makes 13 pounds of cheese per day. We go back 
to the basement and Joe wraps some cheese for us. Then we go back 
to the cheese plant. We leave about 12:00. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO27 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Thomas, Esther; Thomas, Tony 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For further information about this interview see: IAW-PT-F063090.b 
We are in the kitchen of Esther and Tony Thomas, originally Di 
Tommaso. Tony's father was born in Abruzzo, while his mother was 
born in the States from a Calabrese/Abruzzese family. Esther's 
family was also Abruzzese on one side and Calabrese on the other 
side. 
She also says that there is a little of "Potenese" or 
"Potenzese" in her family, since her grandmother on her mother's 
side came from the city of Potenza, in the Basilicata region of 
Italy. 
Esther was born on April 16, 1922; Tony on March 4, 1918. 
Tony told me before I started to record that his father changed his 
name because it was difficult for Italians to find wok. I ask him 
more about that. "Every o y knew tnat. Even the Italian women who 
were trying to get a job teaching over here, they could not get 
one." This happened back in the '30s, Esther says. However, her 
father was able to get on the school board in their school 
district; he Americanized his name too: from Collianni to Collian. 
I ask if they ever felt pressure in their families to marry an 
Italian. Tony says he did not. Esther says that their parents were 
really Americanized. "My folks did not even talk Italian, which I'm 
sorry, I didn't learn the language; and our grandparents didn't 
speak enough Italian." There was a big Italian community in this 
area but they all spoke English, she says, and associated with all 
the others. Tony says: "I know more Mexicans than I know Italians 
(he pronounces "AE-talians")." 
Tony's father worked at the smelter and run a little farm on the 
side. "Even though he couldn't talk good at the time , 
w hen he fi rst 
started, he still got the job (after he Americanized his name) 
...There was hard work in them days... Most of those Italian guys 
f worked, they didn't fool around." Tony's father bought 12 acres in 
t 
dle vegetables on the side. Tony started 
peddling when he was 14 
They were 4 brothers and 4 sisters in the 
family. He started peddling from house to house, then started to 
sell to the stores. I ask Tony where he used to peddle, if he had 
an area assigned to him. Esther answers for him: 
"There was an 
/Italian community in__P,iahln, 
they had their own goats, 
so they 
V cal
- 
lec the place 'Goat Hill' ...he  used to sell up there." I ask 
IAW-PT-AO27 - 
2 
Tony about the place where all the farmers would meet before 
starting their peddling. He says the market was on First street in 
town: "You'd go there early and stop there with your load.. see, 
we used to raise this stuff, and you would stop at this market and 
all the guys that peddled around town that didn't grow it, they'd 
come down and buy this from you and that from the other guy." 
I ask about the "gardeners lodge." "They got together and formed 
a lodge 
You pav so much a month and then at death time fo
 t the 
time 
__o_ 
death] you got so much...I don't know, I never belonqed to 
it. 
If 
Esther says that the lodge existed when they were small. 
Her 
father, she says, represented the farmers at the State legislature. 
He was a politician as well as a farmer. He had the first fruit 
market here in Pueblo, and from that he started to load trucks that 
would go all over the United States. "That's how we got into the 
business." 
Both Esther's grandfathers -pPddlPd. Her paternal grandpa Mauro 
would go house to house with the horse and buggy: "He'd go to the 
bakery in Pueblo, when he'd come back he had that wagon full of a 
day-old pastries, and we all waited for him to come back from 
Pueblo with all those good pastries." Esther's maternal grandfather 
peddled with a truck: he was a little wealthier than the other. "We 
✓✓ have been on a farm all our life, both of us," Esther says. 
I ask if their parents stressed education. She says that her dad 
had only second-grade education because he had to work but he was 
self-taught: 
"He had quite a library and read Shakespeare! and 
taught himself how to be a politician and a lobbyist. So, oh yes, 
they really stressed education." Tony says he went to the tenth 
grade and then quit and "start fooling aroun." 
When he was 
peddling he says, they would go to play pool and fool around a lot. 
Tony talks more about peddling. At that time, he says, there were 
a lot of places that used to load produce out and sell it: "You'd 
take a whole load of cabbage to one guy and sell it to him, because 
they had ordered it, or green beans or sweet corn, whatever they 
wanted ... these were produce houses and they used to load it on a 
truck and go to Kansas and Texas, wherever they went..." Some of 
the 
Italian truck 
farmers 
were 
Williams 
(Guglielmo), 
Sarlo, 
Ferrone, 
iadone, De Santi, Martinos. _ 
I ask Esther about her father. He farmed but he bought from the 
farmers and loaded trucks too. He also sold to the army and ship 
out car loads of produce. While he was in the business he lobbied 
for the farmers he bought from, at the State legislature in Denver. 
I ask more about the lodges. Tony has never been "a joiner" Esther 
IAW-PT-A027 - 
3 
says and does not believe in associations. His mother believed in 
it: at 91 years old she was the president of one of these lodges 
(they don't remember the name of it). His father was not active in 
any 
of 
the 
lodges 
and Tony does 
not know much about their 
activities except for collecting money to pay for the funerals of 
their members. The•y•
 
that the main purpose of t-hPSP 1ndgP.s was 
to get together, and socialize. 
Tony worked at the mill for 4 years and then was drafted in the 
army for 4 years. When he came back in 1946 he went back to the 
mill for 2 weeks, but they were paying only $4.80 a day at the 
time, so he decided to start farming. He got married and Esther's 
father wasn't farming at the time (he was just selling) so gave 
Tony 20 acres to farm and told him: "pay the taxes and water on it, 
you can farm it. We started with 20 acres." When Esther's father 
died in 1948, Tony continued his work. 
Ton 
rew: 
tomatoes, 
cantaloupes, 
watermelons 
carrots, 
beets, 
beans, peas, 
s,  
ava beans, squashes 
all trod$. 
Esther was working at City Hall as a secretary before she got 
married.  She quit because wanted to stay home and help Tony in the 
farm. When they started farming she helped Tony in the fields: 
"he' d pick it ( 
sweet corn) and I' d carry the sack. That went  
on 
for 
a couple of years, until we started hiring help. I have 
always kept the books." 
Esther has a brother and a sister. I ask her if there was a "rule" 
that the brother would take over the farm of the father. She says 
that her family never stressed that. Moreover, her brother has hay 
fever and cannot be around the produce much because of that. 
I ask when they started the  
 fruit market. Esther 
s her fa-thQr 
had the market since 1928  (first open vegetable market in Pueb]o 
county). It was out her, in Vineland, a big open air market. When 
he died in '48 they took over. The old market burned down a few 
years ago and they built the new one, which Peggy, their second 
daughter, now runs (see interview with Peggy Thomas Hovet: IAW-PT-
A028) . Esther says that their 3 daughters 
--have a 
i 
w ayc h ',e 
w th 
the market. 
The phone rings a couple of times. While Esther answers it I ask 
Tony: If you could go back, would you be a farmer again? He says: 
"I don't think I would change a thing. I mean, I did real good at 
it. 
...The only thing like, 
the jobs now are paying 60 to 75 
dollars a day, plus all kinds of benefits, you'll have something 
to look forward to. Over here, you got to save it or do something 
on your own ... We didn't ask nobody for nothing, you had to work if 
you wanted it, and wP ara -
2— working at it." 'today Tony farms 
51iu acres. They wholesale and retail produce. They hire 20 people 
Plow. 
Two of their daughters live around here, in Vineland while Tony Sue 
IAW-PT-A027 - 
4 
lives in Pueblo West. They have a flower stand in town that she 
operates. 
I ask if they used to raise animals in the farm. Tony says his dad 
had pigs, goats, chickens, ducks, rabbits, and pigeons. Esther's 
family had a cow for milk. She says: "We were never huncgry ... Our 
parents weren't all that rich or anything but we never lacked for 
food." Tony adds: "I  remember my dad, when he was peddling, he'd 
go to town with a load of produce, sell it all, you know, and he'd 
come back and bring a sack of flour, or a sack of sugar, a box of 
macaroni, stuff like that and put it away for the winter. Then in 
the early winter he'd kill four or five pigs that he raised. They 
had everything they wanted." Both Esther and Tony remember when 
t 
pigs. ZsEher says  they used to mare a party out of 
it. She remembers the polenta they would cook. Tony says they used 
to make all kind of stuff, then he adds: "After the old folks are 
gone, that's it!" 
Side B 
I ask Tony if his father peddled to the mining towns around Pueblo. 
He said his father did not but he did. He went to Trinidad and 
Walsenburg when he started peddling with the truck. 
Tony quit 
peddling to go to the army. Around that time men like Esther's 
father started with the produce houses which would buy from the 
farmers directly. Tony says: "There was always a few peddlers who 
still went around, but the biggest part went to the shippers and 
sold their stuff." 
Esther says there were 2 or 3 produce houses 
on the Mesa, and her father's one here in Vineland. 
Esther goes back to talk about education. She says her parents 
wanted them to study music. 
They traded vegetables for music 
lessons. She had a lot of piano lessons and her sister had violin 
lessons, her brother had accordion lesson. Her brother still plays 
the accordion for dances and weddings. She says she is going to 
show me downstairs where they have family get togethers. They had 
big ones for a long time. Esther used to give piano and organ 
lessons: 
"I don't know how I run a fruit market with 3 little 
girls, kept all the books and have 15 students every week!" 
Before 
leaving 
to 
go 
to 
Peggy's 
house 
for 
dinner 
(IAW-PT-
f063090.c), Esther takes me downstairs to show me the room and the 
pianos. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO28 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Thomas Hovet, Peggy 
Coworker: Hardin, James 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For related documentation see my fieldnotes: IAW-PT-F070390.a. 
We are in the kitchen of Peggy Thomas Hovet with Jim Hardin (editor 
at the Folklife Center of the Library of Congress). 
Peggy was born December 30, 1949. She runs the Thomas fruit market 
on highway 50 in Vineland. I ask her to tell me the history of the 
family owned market. 
Peggy's grandfather, her mother's father, built the old dock and 
the produce market. He built the dock himself. It was considered 
a big dock for the time; it was 150 feet long. Peggy thinks he 
built it around 1943-45. He was a farmer. He owned 39 acres of 
land, land which surrounds Peggy's house and her parents' house. 
When Peggy's father took over the property, he added other land. 
Now he farms 250/300 acres. Peggy says that it is a lot of land for 
a produce farmer. 
All the sheds and buildings that Peggy's grandfather built are gone 
now: the old dock and the market burned down in 1980. Her parents 
decided together to rebuild another one. Peggy's mother, Esther, 
has always taken care of the market, while her father (Tony) has 
taken care of the upstairs, the wholesale business. He sells to 
other farmers and peddlers who come in and buy produce from him and 
then go out and sell it. 
"Selling produce and peddling has got to be a big thing in the last 
5 to 10 years. There are so many people who want to do it now... lot 
more than when I was growing up. A lot of these little road side 
peddlers, you know, them days they had them too, but there are just 
a lot more doing it; a lot of younger people are getting into it, 
a lot of younger men, like in their 30s, 
20s...I guess because 
there is more of a demand of fresh produce. I think people are more 
aware of their ... they are trying to change their eating habits, so 
they are more into vegetable and fruit. I think that has had a lot 
to do with it." 
Peggy's father sells to a variety of people, but Peggy thinks that 
a little more than half of his clients are Italians. 
The old 
generation of peddlers are Italians (like Phil Ginetto; see IAW-
PT-F070990.a), while the young generation is not. 
IAW-PT-A028 - 
2 
I ask Peggy if her grandfather and her father always sold to the 
peddlers. 
She 
says 
that 
it 
started 
out 
that 
way 
with 
her 
grandfather. Her dad has been doing this for a long time: he was 
buying produce and peddling it when he was 16. 
I ask which kind of produce peddlers 
sell 
today . She 
says: 
watermelons, cantaloupes , a lot of chili, tomatoes , 
and sweet corn. 
Peggy says that there is more chili sold in this area than anywhere 
else: green chili and anaheim chili, jalapeno , bell pepper, and 
pimento. There has been an argument about the origin of chili 
between the state of New Mexico and Colorado . "The seed came from 
New Mexico : this is what they say, but my Dad says : NO, it's not 
true, it started here!" 
Peggy thinks that chili has got more popular in recent years. At 
her grandfather 's time they were growing a lot of onions, a lot of 
watermelons and cantaloupes : "they did have tomatoes , 
they did have 
chili but I don't think that was as quite as popular then that it 
is now. Because we do have a lot of Mexican trade , there is a lot 
of Mexican population here just as much as there is Italian, and 
I'm sure that there is more." 
;JA 
:•
tar5 
Peggy describes her clientele at the market as 
"a very big 
mixture," but she seems to recognize that Italians come to the 
market early in the season to buy the early stuff, like the fava 
beans (called horse beans by "the Anglos "). 
"It seems like our 
trade in the very beginning, when we get started with the produce, 
is mostly Italian, because they know that we qrow the  fava beans 
and we have ... lot of them come out for the  eggplant , stuff like 
that." Peggy says that her father was the first one, around ten 
years ago , 
to grow the fava beans again. "Some of these things died 
out throuqh the years , 
you know how it goes, these older traditions 
they'll faze out then all of a sudden they 'll start coming back. 
Ana  my dad started just planting a couple of rows for us, for Iust 
a few people around here , and then it caught on that he had horse 
beans and all these Italian people started coming out because they 
ha 
een 
ooking for them for years! 
Pretty soon he started 
planting more and more and more." 
Foodways : Peggy does not use fava beans in her cooking , neither do 
her two sisters , while her parents like them a lot. She things she 
doesn't like them anymore because she ate too many of them when 
growing up. Her mother boils the fava beans and then fries them 
with bacon and onions, and then boil macaroni and mixed it with it. 
Lot of people lust eat the fava beans alone . Lot of people would 
put them in a spaqhetti sauce; some people would fry them and then 
throw eggs in it, scrambled eggs . She says that the name "horse 
beans" was given to the fava beans because of its size. 
Other Italian produce that they carry at the market: "Pole beans: 
it's mostly the Italian people that come out and want to buy those! 
IAW-PT-AO28 - 
3 
They are flat, wide ...almost like a green bean but a lot bigger." 
Mostly you cook them like you cook green beans: you put them in 
a sauce. I ask if they sell finocchio (sweet anise) but Peggy does 
not know what finocchio is. 
Peggy started to work at the produce market in 1981-82 after she 
and her husband built their house on the family's land. While 
growing up she and her two sisters helped in the market, but it was 
more her oldest sister, Patty, who worked in the store while Peggy 
was more interested in following her father in the fields while he 
was irrigating, or carrying tubes, riding on the tractor. Peggy 
says she never was interested in the market, 
she did not like 
waiting on customers. She thinks that the big factor that got her 
involved in the market was the fact that they built their house 
near it. She started just going there to help and "before you know 
it, it just came natural for me to be there and work there all the 
time." Through the years they had several girls working at the 
market: relatives, friends, not necessarily Italians. (A couple of 
friends of Brandon, Peggy's oldest son, come in to look for him.) 
Peggy says she had a hard time letting go of her responsibility in 
her home: taking care of her two boys and taking care of her home. 
She says: 
"Family business is a funny thing. You know, you get 
along really well but then at the same time you are always 
screaming the whole time. And we are a close family but I think, 
because we are so close, we'll do that: 
holler at each other 
...aren't Italian families well known for that?! holler at each 
other, 
screaming and carrying on. 
This is just a tradition, I 
guess!" 
Peggy's husband farmed off and on with her father. 
(Brandon's 
friends leave) The last time he farmed her youngest son Nathan was 
a baby, he is now 15 years old. She says that it is a good size 
produce farm, but not big enough to support 2 families. Her husband 
has been in construction since he was 17 years old since his family 
was in that business. Peggy thinks that probably one day, when her 
father will retire, her husband will take over the farm. 
I ask Peggy how the market, once owned by her mother's father, 
Colian, pass from the Colian family to the Thomases. Peggy tells 
us what she has heard about her great-grandfather and how her 
grandfather started to farm his own land when he was very young and 
even helped his parents instead of getting help from them. When he 
bought the 39 acres, he started also employing people and shipping 
stuff out to peddlers who would go other places besides Pueblo. 
"...starting 
the 
type 
of 
farm 
that 
would 
run 
like: 
bigger 
production, lot of people, employing more people: a system, he had 
his own system ... a production type farm. Most of the Italian farms 
I think were family type of business but he was one of the first 
one out here who started a production tyke: like renting the onion 
sheds, growing masses, 
acres of onions, shipping them out ... he 
started loading trucks, even way back in the '40s." 
IAW-PT-AO28 - 
4 
Side B 
Peggy's father grew up on a farm in the Mesa. he had experience in 
farming for having worked for Mr. Cortese, and had peddled when he 
was a boy. He was dating Peggy's mother before he went to the 
service. When he came back from the service he started to work for 
his father-in-law. When is father-in-law passed away, he took over 
the business. "My dad was interested in bigger farming, this type 
of production farming. I think my grandfather, my mom's father, 
knew it. He wasn't willing to farm this little stuff, like up in 
the Mesa." 
Ply mentions the old crates and bushels that had colorful papers 
on fhem wi 
a name o 
er 
ran 
on 
em: 
o ian 
produce." 
 
o or u papers covered the wall-, of the o 
ock 
and the market while Peggy was growing up. Peggy stresses the fact 
that her grandtather had very modern ideas on how to run the 
business. Both his advertising and his system of farming, she says: 
"are real close to the way we do things now, and I find it real 
unusual." 
Peggy comments on the new organic farms: "the organic farmer and 
the produce farmer, like my dad, just don't see eye to eye at all!" 
Customers at the market have been asking for organic produce, Peggy 
however thinks 
is 
ridiculous to think that you can have big 
quantity of nice-looking stuff without spraying the fields. Her 
father is not interested in experimenting with organic produce. 
There are 7 or 8 women working at the market, and between 18 and 
25 guys who work for her father in the fields and the dock. Peggy 
starts to work around noon time and is the last one to leave in the 
evening. Peggy and her mother are the only Italians working at the 
market, the other women are all of Mexican origin or Anglo. 
The new dock, built after the old one burned out, is smaller than 
the first one, and connected to the market, while the old dock was 
a separate building from the market. The old dock, built by her 
grandfather with the help of 3 or 4 other guys, was the biggest in 
the area. It was all wood. She says her mother has a scrap-book of 
the fire, from beginning to end (I will ask Esther for the scrap-
book, but she could not find it). Peggy took the pictures of the 
building burning down. 
Her father got upset with her at the 
beginning. "Why would I want to see pictures of my all life going 
into ashes," he told Peggy, but now he looks at the pictures from 
time to time and he is happy to have them. 
We talk about Peggy's sons, Brandon and Nathan. Nathan follows his 
grandfather in the fields and since he was a kid he showed interest 
in the farm, while Brandon is the artist of the family and does not 
show any interest for farm work. 
IAW-PT-AO28 - 
5 
Peggy goes to get a photo album and shows us some family pictures 
as well as some pictures of the old house and dock. 
She has 
pictures of the old summer kitchen where the family used to cook 
and can in the summer, mixed with pictures of the family (Peggy and 
her husband the day of their wedding; an  old picture of Peggy's 
grandmother on her--father ••Ae 
; pictures of the kids, 
of her 
sisters and parents, of the fields.) 
Brandon comes in. We chat for a while about his paintings and about 
his plans for the 4th of July. We leave to go to the house of 
Peggy's parents and see if Esther has time to show us the family 
video (see IAW-PT-A037; A038). 
Document: IAW-PT-AO29 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Pisciotta, Rosalie; Cuchiara Anne 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For related documentation see my fieldnotes: IAW-PT-f070390.b. 
Rosalie Pisciotta was born on July 28, 1912. Her late husband, Fred 
Pisciotta, 
was 
"a very good farmer"; 
he farmed 200 
acres 
in 
Vineland; he raised tomatoes, popcorn "he had the best popcorn," 
onions, "all big crops." His father was a farmer too. Fred started 
to farm when he was 16. He lost a brother and when his father 
decided to sell his land he told him he would farm it. He quit 
school and started farming with 40 acres: his father gave him 20 
acres and he paid for the other 20. "He kept buying land. We had 
3 boys and he thought that the boys were going to farm ... they all 
got good education and they are all gone!" Rosalie's oldest son, 
Pete, is a math teacher and athletic director in Phoenix, Arizona. 
He was named after his grandfather Pisciotta: "He was named before 
he was born! He had to be Pete!" The second boy, Fred, owns 22 
stores and a warehouse and sells automotive parts in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. He is named after his father. Her youngest boy, John 
has a PhD in economics and teaches in Texas. He was named after 
Rosalie's brother. 
Twelve years ago Fred, Rosalie's husband, got sick with cancer. He 
fought it for many years and thought he had recovered from it, but 
four years ago he got sick again and died. Rosalie made a Saint 
Joseph's table in 1981 when they thouqht he was well. "It was in 
thanksgiving to Saint sncarh, because we prayed to him, he
—si
-our 
patron saint." I ask Rosalie if she has a statue of Saint Joseph 
and if she used it on her table. She says that she has one, but on 
the table she used a statue that her sister-in-law used on a 
previous table she made after the war, to thank the saint for the 
return home of her son. 
Rosalie had a lot of help from friends to make her Saint Joseph's 
table. She had hip surgery 9 months before her husband got sick 
again. When they started to work on the preparation for the Saint 
Joseph's table, she fell and was on crutches, so her friends and 
neighbors—helped with trP hakinq and preparation for the altar. 
The women helped with the baking and cooking 
(especially her 
sister-in-law, who had made a table before) while the men took care 
of building the table. Fred got the lumber and his friends put it 
IAW-PT-AO29 - 
2 
together, then  the women decorated it. 
The baking was done in 
Rosalie' s kitchen dow t 
. 
She sa s that al 
. - • 
- 
• - 
o 
of t 
er 
ki c en in their hniisPs, because the men would come in so dusty 
that would have been impossible to keep the house clean. 
The 
kitchen in the basement was also cooler, 
and used for  all the 
canning. Rosalie stopped canning when she got older, and when her 
children left, and she didn't need to can anymore. 
Her husband quit farming when he got sick; he was 72. "He loved it! 
He'd get up 5 o'clock in the morning, it was no chore at all for 
him to get up at 5 and go out in the fields, and come back at 9 and 
have breakfast, then go back, come in for lunch, rest about an hour 
and go back in that hot sun!" He hired people, up to 200 workers, 
to help him during the harvest. Since they got married, he always 
hired people to help in the fields. Rosalie helped in the fields 
before she got married and had the kids; she remembers picking 
asparagus and green beans. The children helped in the summer time. 
I ask Rosalie if the grandfather generation played soccer or bocce. 
She says they didn't. Her husband's father loved to play cards. 
Fred loved sports and took the kids to every game. Her kids played 
football, basketball, and baseball. 
Fred was sad that his boys decided not to work in the farm. He 
tried very hard to keep one of the boys on the farm, the one that 
did not do as well in school as his brothers: "He even bought him 
a new car to try to keep him on the farm!!" 
She talks about her boys and their families 
(she has eleven 
grandchildren) and points to a framed family photo hanging on the 
living room wall; 
it was 
taken 
for Rosalie 
and Fred golden 
anniversary. "It's my pride and joy, it's all my family. That's the 
only time we ever all got together. Because they are all away and 
everybody is in school, so many of them are going to summer school 
and cannot make it at time." 
Today Rosalie leases the land to the Mauro family. I ask if she 
keeps a garden for herself, but she says it is too much work for 
her and she would have to ask the Mauro for the water. She says the 
neighbors bring her vegetables. Her husband used to give away a lot 
of vegetables and even when he quit farming, and tried to buy some, 
the neighbors never wanted him to pay for it. 
His sisters and 
relatives used to come to the farm and get tomatoes to can and he 
never charged them. 
I ask her about the Italian farmers in this area. She says that 
there were German farmers and farmers of different nationalities 
but the Italians were the best- 
vpgpta_hlP farmers  
I ask if while growing up she would go visit other families in the 
area. She says that her parents were very strict and would not go 
IAW-PT-A029 - 
3 
visit much. Her family name is Corsentino, from Lucca Sicula. Her 
husband 's family was from the same area . Rosalie and Fred were 
neighbors while growing up . The Corsentino farm was located next 
to 
e 
' 
. It was not a farm big enough to support more 
than one family , so all her brothers left and found other jobs. 
When her parents died, they sold the farm . There are new homes on 
that land now. 
I ask Rosalie to tell me how her life was when she was a kid. She 
says she learned how to embroider and crochet. They went to church 
on Sunday . They used to visit another Pisciotta family, closed to 
them, but did not use to get together much with other families. 
Rosalie was engaged with Fred for a year and during that year her 
house was built , in 1933 . Rosalie learned to cook after she got 
married, she says . She had an older sister who did all the cooking 
when she was home . Her favorite dish is spaghetti and meatballs. 
py5 
I ask her for the recipe of her sauce: 
she buys the tomato paste 
and tomato puree and she mixes it. 
Them she fries onions with 
•j 
garlic salt, 
o 
no 
as 
one lon 
er, 
 
sal_t, 
pepper and a little sugar 
I ask if her parents stressed education. She says : "Not a lot. They 
thought the boys should get an education , 
but the boys were working 
on the farms so lot of them dropped out ... when I finished school, 
we were only 5 girls , when I graduated from high school." In 
contrast , she and her husband believed in education and sent their 
kids to school for as far as they wanted. 
A woman in her days was supposed to stay home, learn how to cook 
and then get married . Rosalie embroidered some of her hope chest, 
and when I ask if she has the ho a 
kes me into one of 
th 
s ow it to me (see my fieldno es for mnre•a;is: 
IAW-PT-F070390.b ). When we come back to the living room she takes 
wither the album with the pictures 
of 
the Saint Joseph's 
celebration that took place the 19th of March, 1981 at her house. 
The first picture in the album is in black and white: it was taken 
for the local newspaper . 
Then she shows me several clips from other 
newspapers which talk about the Saint Joseph's table tradition. The 
next picture shows the table covered by a white canopy. I ask her 
who decided to have it decorated in this way and she says that they 
did not know anything about how to build a table and let the people 
who wanted to be involved decide what to do . "It was just gorgeous, 
it was just beautiful!" 
We go through the pictures . One shows Rosalie and Fred holding a 
sign with "Saint Joseph's table" written in big letters. She says 
that a friend made the sign and placed at the corner of the street 
so that people would know where to go. "There were thousands people 
that came. I_had a brother, and he was standing in the kitchen 
looking out the window and he said : 'You'll never believe it. There 
is an ocean of people in your yard!— 
IAW-PT-AO29 - 
4 
I ask about the pastry we see in the pictures : she points to the 
heart-shaped and to the chalice-shaped bread. The candles on the 
table burn until the next day, when they dismantled the 
a e. 
Rosalie says that she burned candles for six months after she had 
the table because people brought candles and she had to burn them 
all. The pictures show the table before they placed food on it, and 
after. They had "pignolata ," honey balls , a big fish , placed in the 
c@nter of the table . "Everything but meat, no meat on the table.' 
There is a cake that.says "Let's give thank"; the cake was brought 
by one of the visitors. "A lot of people would bring things, and 
then they brought money here 
... and 
you know, we made the 
tabLe 
because was our s•rrifice , but then peop a were devoted to Saint 
Joseph 
started dropping monev on the table. So we had 
o 
•e 
hey 
a bowl so that t 
We >> dn't piit the mnnpy nn  the food  
and 
when we got to counting money we had two thousand dollars!" THey 
sent one thousand dollars to the hospital in Houston, Texas, where 
Rosalie 's husband was treated for cancer . 
Five hundred dollars were 
donated to Saint Joseph Church in Blende because that same day the 
church was dedicated to Saint Joseph. Five hundred dollars were 
given to the Santa Theresa parish in Vineland. 
Side B 
The door bell rings . Rosalie had told me before that she was 
expecting her sister-in-law , Anne Cuchiara with the family of her 
grandchild . They come in and sit in the living room . While Rosalie 
talks with Anthony Cuchiara , his wife and four kids , Anne comes to 
sit near me and asks what I'm doing with the tape-recorder. I 
explain about the project and give them the brochure about the 
Italian-Americans in the West. 
Anne was born in 1904: she was raised , qot married, and had kids 
here 
. She was raised on a farm on the Saint Charles Mesa 
where she lived for 12 years , then they moved to Vineland . 
When she 
got married in 1918 she moved to town. Her husband worked at Cf&I. 
Anne 's last name "Cuchiara" means "spoon" in Italian. She speaks 
Italian:her father and mother did not speak English and they had 
two grandmothers living with them who didn 't speak English either. 
"So we had to speak Italian , and you know, I'm glad!" Her kids 
understand some Italian but don't speak it. Her "children " are 66, 
62. Anne is 85 years old but looks much younger! When I compliment 
her fro 
her age shhe 
t-eTls me that she had a good marriage. Her 
husband, Modesto Cuchiara , died 2 years ago after they spent 57 
years together . She says their life was "the best, and I think that 
that reflects on you." 
"Gi, 
you are good to talk to! 
It seems like I know you!" she 
exclaims , 
and I return the compliment and add that after all we are 
Italians . She 
says : "I'm proud of being Ital ian' 
Defi nitely, 
because I lQvP Ttn lians . My father came from Italy and I'm proud 
IAW-PT-AO29 - 
5 
of it. We were 9 children and we all spoke Italian." Three of her 
siblings were born in Italy. Her father's broth  rs were already"in 
Pueblo working 
ache 
mill : "The mill was going full blast and they 
raise 
a ami y here . My father bought a farm ." Her husband came 
to Pueblo from Italy when he was 16. His brother had already a job 
at 
e mill and got a job for Modesto top. He worked there for 47 
years . e 
e in 
Pueblo is near the mill "from my backyard you 
can see the steel mill." The neighborhood is mostly Italian and 
Austrian . I ask where she did her grocery shopping . She says there 
were  3 Italian corner stores : Gus Masciotra , Vito Gagliano and Joe 
Gagliano . Anne worked for 16 years keeping house for well-to-do 
people. Then her husband retired and she retired too. I ask about 
her husband . She says he did not have much family here in Pueblo. 
His parents sent him to the Stat •sto avoid him being drafted for 
t1je Tripoli war. I ask her where they met. He used to visit Anne's 
brother-ni
-- law, with whom he worked at the mill , and she says: "Do 
you believe in love at first Fi_ght 7 on both sides! My grandaughter 
says, you {now grandma, I think your marriaae was made in heaven!" 
Anne did not realize that I was recording our conversation. When 
I tell her she exclaims: "Saint Joseph in Heaven! I would have been 
more careful !" And everybody laughs . I still have the photo album 
of the Saint Joseph's table on my lap and I start asking Anen 
about 
it since she played an active role in helping Rosalie whit 
the 
baking. "Hone , she says, it wasthebeautiful thing I ever 
saw ... This was all Sain 
Joseph's table right here," and she points 
V 
to the  area in the living roflm where we are sitting. Rosalie 
participates in the conversation. When I ask who decided to set it 
up so high, with 3 levels and a canopy, she says that the lady who 
offered to do it just used her own talent . The lady who decided the 
lay out of the table is of Spanish descent. Rosalie says :"  We had 
help from all nationalities 
... There were a lot of Austrian ladies, 
•j and Irish, friends and neighbors who wanted to be on it." 
f• While Anne and I go through the photo album we talk more about the 
food that is supposed to be on the table . Rosalie says that they 
knew there had to be fish and no meat, lots of vegetables and fish, 
and Anne adds , 
bakery . Anne tells me about the spaghetti sauce made 
witPf-noiled eggs instead of meat balls , and  about the rice dishes. 
When I ask wha 
p 
g 
nne says: 
"Lot of people make a 
promise to Saint Joseph , say well, if I get well, or my son or my 
daughter ... and they would come and bring sugar, money , flour, eggs, 
whatever their heart desires." Anne donated money and helped with 
her work, mainly baking and cleaning up the day after. Rosalie used 
Anne 's statue on the table. 
The cooking for th 
mar++ TncPnh 's day lasts about three weeks to 
one month . Anne says: "The stuff that could stay we made first, 
like piz'zelles and things like that. And then the ones that had to 
be done the latest we did the latest. We did accordingly." 
Arne made a table after the war when her son came back safe and 
IAW-PT-A029 - 
6 
sound. "It's a promise you have to fulfill." I ask if she had a 
dream , or how she decided to have a table. She says: "It just comes 
in your head. I was so sad when my son left, he was only 18, and 
I just felt 'Oh •eaint Joseph, let him come home like he left!" 
She says that she always prayed Saint Joseph , who is her favorite. 
Her father would always call Saint Joseph too., 
Anne's family and her husband's family were neighbors in Lucca 
Sicula. I ask who is the patron saint of Lucca and Anne says she 
thinks Saint Joseph 
is. 
Her mother never made a table. 
Anne 
continues : "It has got to be a promise from a bad sickness or a 
war. When the war was ended , you'd to see the tables that come up 
that year when the boys came back because every mother promised a 
table to Saint Joseph. It was great ... we went— around to all of 
them . I wish you could see one, and the smell alone!", 
I ask whom she invited to be the saints at her table. She says: 
"It's up to you. You mostly invite people that are sickly or needy 
people ... and then when they go home, you give them so much stuff 
to take home." 
I ask if she has gone to see some of the tables made recently. She 
says : "Every year we go ... we went to see 3 of them this year... in 
town somewhere , one was on Duke, one was on circle drive ... one was 
my cousin 's," she refers to the Martellaro 's table. Anne helped the 
Martellaros . "Because you need a lot of help , honey, you can't do 
it alone. Oh, never in a mi 
ion years." 
Before you "break the table" the priest  
comes and blesses the 
table. The saints eat first and_get everything that is on the 
table. What they don't eat they take it home.-, 
I tell them of the tradition in San Pedro, where a woman made a 
promise to have a table every year. Anne says that there was a 
woman who made a table every year: Mrs. Cirullo. Rosalie says that 
once in a lifetime is enough . Anne adds: "You don't invite, public 
is invited, you don't invite . 
And everybody comes ." People find out 
about it in the paper and then, Anne says : "People look for it.
,, 
I'm still looking at the pictures and I ask what they used to cover 
the wood tables . It's a white material that looks like silk but is 
plastic . The lady who did the work also donated the material. 
"They all smell alike, don't they Rose ?" Anne asks , and Rosalie 
agrees. 
I ask if they ever buried the food that was left. They never did 
that or even heard of it. The left overs were donated. Rosalie says 
that her Irish grand-daughter who lived in Chicago and could not 
sell her home buried a statue of Saint Joseph. Rosalie's reaction 
was: "Sally! That sounds sacrilegious to me! " But in 3 days they 
sold the house! 
I ask if Sicilians would have Saint Joseph protect 
IAW-PT-A029 - 
7 
the fields or something else. 
Anne says 
. "You can pray for 
anything. Then if it comes out true then you do it if you promised 
something." I ask Anne if she learned any Italian prayers for San 
Joseph and she says she used to know a lot of them but she has 
forgotten them. Her mother used to teach the kids the rosary and 
prayers to Saint Joseph. 
In the photo album I see a few pieces of papers that Rosalie says 
she kept because they talked about the Saint Joseph' s tradition and 
she wants her kids some day, to find them and learn about it. One 
is entitled: "Legend of the Saint Joseph's table" and was written 
in 1984 by Francis and Lee Dazio. There is also a list of the food 
required on a table, both in English and Italian: Saint Joseph's 
bread, trittafa(like an omelette with vegetables in it) , fered cod 
fish (baccala'); sfingi 
a lan fried doughnuts; you eat them hot 
and saturated in honey); rosettes (fried light dough, in  the shape 
of a rose); cream puffs; cream pies. 
Anne asks Rosalie what she has been doing. Rosalie says she has 
been getting ready for her kids (who are going to come visit her 
Saturday). 
She cleaned a bunch of 
fave 
(fava beans) 
and she 
complains about her fingers hurting. 
I ask Rosalie if I can borrow the album to make copies of some of 
the photos and she agrees. 
V/  
I ask if there was a procession that day. Anne remembers that when 
she was a little girl and was chosen to be a saint for the 
celebration, they put one of the round-shaped bread on the saints' 
heads and put an orange or a banana in the middle of it and then 
they walked around the block. They quit that long time ago, she 
says. Rosalie says: "Those were the older peon__1e 
from Italy, when 
we came along, we modernized things _ And you don't see too many 
tables, because it's a sacrifice!" 
I ask Anne and Rosalie if they celebrate their name day. They 
don't, but Rosalie says that she would like to know something about 
Santa Rosalia and she remembers her father praying to her. Rosalie 
says that they celebrate Saint Anthony by cooking "la cuccia," the 
wheat. Anne says that she was named after God and so her day would 
be Christmas. "When my mother had me, my mother almost died. And 
my grandma got so scared that she says 'God, please let everything 
come alright and we'll name this baby after you... I'm really named 
after God. My name is Salvatrice Anna." 
The interview continues on IAW-PT-A030. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO30 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Pisciotta Rosalie; Cuchiara, Anne 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A029. 
Anne Cuchiara has 22 great-grandchildren and 11 grandchildren. The 
one here today is her oldest grandson, "her favorite." Both Ros lie 
and Anne comments on the way Italian families show their love: 
'!I 
can't help tt, 
 s 
e way we are. We love deeply!;' 
Rosalie says that the other night they went to a funeral Mass and 
the priest read something about the Italian people which Rosalie 
finds true and beautiful. She has a copy of these 3/4 pages and she 
asks if I can make some more copies for her. Rosalie felt that the 
piece was not appropriate for a funeral and that the priest made 
a bad choice, but both her and Anne enjoyed it very much and 
comment: 
"It is so Italian! 
It's us, 
in every way, 
shape and 
form." 
We go back to talk about kids and grand-kids. Rosalie says that 
their sons and daughters intermarried and so today their kids do 
not have Italian names anymore. 
"I told you, my son was named 
before he was born: Pete. He got to be Pete. Now I have Brandon, 
Lisa and Gina and Sonny." Anne adds: "I got names that I don't even 
remember, I got one her name is "Ashley": Do you know that I have 
to stop and think?! It's true honey! We used to have Rose, Mary, 
Annie, Josephine, just plain names. They don't go for those names 
anymore." 
I ask Anne how she named her kids and she replies: "My kids were 
named before they were born. ..because the husband has first choice, 
so my first son was named Charles and my daughter, that's his 
mother's name: Marie, Maria; and my mother was named Cathe, so my 
second child was named Cathe." 
Rosalie gives me the copy of the piece she wants me to copy for 
her. It's entitled "The ioy of qEowincx un zt1 ian." The piece was 
given to the priest, he did not write it himself. I take it with 
me. 
I ask Anne about her memory growing up. 
She tells me that her 
mother taught her sister Mary and herself to make bread when she 
was 12 years old: "She (her mother) had a tub, made o t- 
of wand, 
and she would  
,t - 
. 
- the bread there and she would show us: she' dput 
the salt and everything bu 
we i 
... 
i 
e used to mak 
IAW-PT-AO30 - 
2 
good bread, I'll t-P11 
and then we -used to put it outside in 
the bake oven, lu furnu." Anne remembers there were "spF01-1 
11 men 
who used to go around and knew how to 
de ovens. She 
reme 
ers 
r. Cicro (or Ciclo) who built the forno of her family. 
When I ask if he used to build other things too, Rosalie adds that 
he was kind of a doctor: her sister brought her daughter to him and 
he made a cast out of cardboard for her leg. She had T.B. of the 
bone. 
The kids are getting impatient and I can tell that Anne and Rosalie 
want to chat with each other, so I decide to leave. Rosalie shows 
me some pictures of her family. Anne mentions that today at a 
funeral she saw somebody that Rosalie knows too and who does not 
look too healthy. Rosalie comments: "Meschino" which means "Poor 
thing" in Sicilian. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO31 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: 
Giadone, 
Grace; Giadone, 
Joyce; 
Drew Giadone, 
Laurie 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For further notes on this interview see IAW-PT-f07.05.90.b. 
Grace Marascola Giadone and I are at the Pete Giadone Farm in 
pueblo. We just got back from a tour of the area where Grace showed 
Ken Light and myself some of the old outside ovens that Ken 
photographed. During the tour and the stop at the Tucci Farm, Grace 
talked about her name being changed so I ask her to repeat that 
story for me. She was baptized "Lucrezia Rosa" and when she went 
to school they 'evidently' could not pronounce the name Lucrezia 
and renamed her "Grace." She had some problems when she applied for 
social security, but "I'm legal" she says, and after some trouble 
she got her social security. 
She has been on this farm for 49 yea s. She married Pete 
iadorie 
when she was 19 an 
move 
o the farm. Pete had been living on the 
arm with his paren  s, 
oe and Jennie. He had 3 other brothers: 2 
of them were married and gone from the farm (one was a farmer, the 
other a driver license technician) when Grace got married and 1 
brother had polio and was crippled. "My husband naturally loved 
farming, so he stayed with his father." 
Name changes: 
Pete was baptized "Vito"; 
his brother Toni was 
baptized "Gaetano"; Tom was baptized "Tommaso." 
Grace tells me what she r=----,•ers of her in-laws. Her father-in-
law came to Pu-•lo . . od 1903 
 and worked in the smelters. "He came 
from Louisiana. He always 
old us that he reme 
mse 
docking in 
Louisiana with a long loaf of French bread under his arm and he'd 
break a piece of bread and eat it." Grace doesn't remember if he 
had relatives or friends there, but she knows that he did not stay 
there a long time. Grace knows that friends (cumparis) told him 
to come to Pueblo. He was born in 1885 in Lucca Sicula. He came 
with his brothers: Dominic and Pete. Another  
brother. Sam sffta
 
d 
in Lucca for a while and when they got tha r homes he_came too. He 
stayed -T years, but he went back to Italy because his wife wouldn't 
come to America. 
Grace's father-in-law was 85 when he died. 
He married Jennie 
Ferrero and settled in the home where we are now. They had 25 acres 
of ground. They were vegetable farmers; planted tomatoes, peppers, 
IAW-PT-AO31 - 
2 
green beans, sugar beets (which were popular between 1925 and 1935 
and then gradually faded out). When Grace moved in, in 1942, her 
in-laws had a team of horses ( 
2 
) that they used to plough with. 
After the war her husband bought the first tractor. Her father-in-
law had a Model A Fo 
1Qad vegetables on it  and go to town and peddle from house to 
house. Half of the time he would trade vegetables and bring back 
home a box of bananas, a box of cinnamon rolls, some meat: "They 
traded their food for other food." Grace remembers that before she 
married her husband her father told her: "You may not ever have a 
dollar in your pocket, but you'll never go hungry." And she adds: 
right. Because we always had food, alwavz! We may not 
have 
a 
a 
o ar but if you got food, you are rich.", — 
"And he was 
used to 
Grace was raised in Blende "where you could run to the store and 
get something you need," but when she moved to the farm, they used 
to buy ahead of time and didn't go to the store much, but  canned 
and froze a lot, and baked bread. 
Grace's father, Marascola, came from Calabria and joined the army 
e army in 1917 or 1918 he 
in World 
ar 
 
ne. 
en 
a go 
ou 
o 
settled on Santa Fe Avenue, "which was a settlement of a lot of the 
Italian people, between Santa Fe' and Goat Hill. Then naturally he 
met my motEer;•in that time it isn't 'meet' like you meet today. 
They more or less arranged their marriages 
...They made the 
'masciata' ... As my mother said, her father-in-law was here and he 
passed one day and he saw that there were three young ladies in 
this particular house and he was living in one of his cumparis' 
houses and he told my dad: There is some nice girls there, you can 
get married. So my father picked my mother. He got out of the army 
in March, they got married in June and my grandfather went back to 
Italy and my dad stayed here and never went back to Italy." 
Unfortunately, Grace says, they never got to know the Marascola 
side of the family who remained in Italy. 
Grace's mother was a Scal ese Her father came here by hiding on the 
boat. Grace remembers her mother tellina that he settled in Pueblo 
because he had a brother already living here. He worked for the 
street car company. 
Grace says that a lot of pe_[]nl a whn 1 
i ed in Bl ende were working 
in the zinc smelter and that a lot of the brick houses that you can 
still see today in Blende belonged to the smelter company. her 
father however lived on Santa Fe'Avenue until the flood of 1921. 
Then moved to Blende and got a job with the railroad company and 
worked there until he retired. 
Grace's mother stayed home and 
raised 5 kids. Grace's father during the depression was making 3 
dollars a day and taking care of the extended family: an uncle and 
aunt (her mother's sister) who lived next door and had 4 children; 
the grandparents who lived with Grace's family plus her mother's 
brothers. "People at that time helped one another. At that time 
IAW-PT-AO31 - 
3 
you'd see, going into a room , you'd see 10/15 boxes of macaroni, 
2-0 pound boxes , I don't know how many sacks of flour, sacks of 
sguar. 
So you lived on beans and macaroni or spaghetti, 
ttie 
basics." 
Visiting and children 's games : Grace remembers "it was like one big 
block, 
and everybody visited, 
played . The kids played in the 
streets . The best part of our life growing up was when we played 
"kick the can" ou 
a 
 
r i we sat around the table in the 
w33iter at nignt we' d play "old maid" a game of cards and the joker, 
whoever got the joker was the old maid ...you picked and nobody 
wanted that joker. We 'd run down the basement and we'd steal a 
bottle of peaches, because we all canned peaches. That was our 
delicacy ... or in the winter time , 
when it snowed , 
we'd run outside, 
get some nice clean snow , put a little of vanilla over it and that 
was our ice-cream." 
Grace says that when somebody after having worked in the fields 
received a bushel of beans or a basket of cabbage would share it 
with the neighbors in the block. Grace too went to pick vegetables 
in the fields when she was a kid. 
"They paid us 75 cents for a 
hundred pounds of green beans . So that meant I would pick and pick 
and maybe by the time I came home I had a quarter ! So my first stop 
would be at De Luca grocery store in Blende and I would buy a 
Hershey bar!" 
At the time Grace was a kid, in the Mesa most of the farmers she 
says, were Italians . She would go to work for the Italians her 
family knew . She mentions a few names of Italian farmers: Granato, 
Williams , Cerulli. 
Grace's husband was born in the house where Grace is living now. 
She estates the house being 90 years old . It has been restored 
and enlarged over the years. Her  father-in-law and somebody he knew 
built it. 
I ask Grace if over the years they grew different produce at the 
farm . She says they always worked with vegetable : green beans, 
bell peppers , carrots, red beets , tomatoes , hot peppers . They_al'so 
grew fava beans . She says she always cooked favas and lenticchie 
(lenti 
for hr•r hnchanrl rut she did not like them. She  would cook 
the lentils with macaroni in a soup and favas with rice or fried 
with bacon and 
I 
Grace's son has been farming her land  since Pete's death four years 
ado,. As far as the change in the produce that they have raised on 
the farm she says that things have changed because people's eating 
habits have changed . People don't can or cook as much as they used 
to. 
"Actually I wouldn't recommend any young people today to go 
into farming . You cannot make a living on it, you have to have 
another job to compensate for the farming." 
Her son in fact is a 
fireman : he works 24 hours and is off 48 and his schedule works 
IAW-PT-A031 - 
4 
well with farming. 
Grace talks about her family. On her mother side she says, there 
are five generations alive now. Grace's mother will be 87 
in 
O tober; Grace is  
67; her son is 47; he has a daughter who is 27 
and she has a boy who is 10 years ol-d; his son has a little boy and 
a girl. Except for one grandson who live in Kansas, everybody else 
lives in Pueblo or in the vicinity, 
Pete Junior , Grace 's youngest son 
takes c 
. Her 
other son is a mor ician and an insurance salesman. He lives 100 
miles south of Pueblo, 
in Lamar, 
Colorado. She sees him every 
Wednesday when he comes to Pueblo for business. Grace lives alone 
since her husband died, 
but she says that she is never alone 
because her family members are here all the time. Pete Junior and 
his family live only half a block away. 
Farm work: 
a lot of people come directly to the Giadone Farm to 
buy the produce because, Grace says, they want ,t f---,h. 
People 
come from Pueblo, Colorado Springs, Denver, Walsenburg, 50 to 75 
miles radius. Grace's son and daughter-in-law advertise in the 
paper and people come. They have been advertising in the paper for 
many years. Grace says that people wait for the ad, they look in 
the produce area and know when green beans , for example , are ready. 
Grace says that during the years they built up a clientele which 
comes back every year. Often she would call the client herself to 
let him/her know when they were picking vegetables. But people are 
not cooking and canning as they used to: 
"You catch spells when 
people are canning a lot and then suddenly they are not canning. 
And I can see why: 
'cause their families grow and leave and they 
are not cooking as much, because I can see it for myself." 
Locally the Giadone Farm sells to Gus's Market on the Mesa; to,-he 
Thomas' Market in Vineland, and deliver to any grocery store that 
calls to order. 
Grace retired from the business 4 years ago, after her husband 
died, but her son and daughter-in-law still ask her opinion on how 
to run the business. Since then she has worked for 3 and a half 
years in a laundry and last year she started to work as a cook for 
one of the schools. She is also very active at Saint Joapph C 
biirr-1 
Every year, she tells me, the parish_h.a_s a festival in August for 
which they make-Italian cookies and meat-ball sandwiches. "All the 
ladies in the neiqhborhood come 
... we mix them and here there'-s
- a
- 11 
these ladies rolling cookies ... the we ice them then we pack them 
in bags and they freeze them and they are gone before you know it. 
We have a real real good name for good cookies out here, so they 
all come from all over..." This festival is held to make money for 
the church. Then in November they have a spaghetti dinner: "And in 
one da•• ••
•Ga-;;il• 
f•o• znnn neop e... we coo 
32 boxes of macarnol, 
spaghetti, we make meatballs: 600 pounds of meat." 
IAW-PT-AO31 - 
5 
I ask about the Saint Joseph's church. Mount Carmel, "down in the 
Grove" was the mother church. Grace got married at Mt. Carmel as 
well as her mother. "That was the church, that was the Italian 
church, 
yes." 
Grace says that Mt. 
Carmel has some financial 
problems and it could be possible that they close it down. She is 
going to participate to the festival that Mt. Carmel is organizing 
in July to raise money for the church. "We cook lupini beans and 
sell lupinis at the festival... it's Italian, I know it wasn't a 
Sicilian custom for lupinis because lot of them never knew what 
they were. I think it was more like your Calabrese, Abruzzese or 
whatever you want from the other end of it." 
Side B 
I continue to ask about Mt. 
Carmel and if she remembers the 
processions while growing up. She talks about the procession they 
used to have for the Assumption in August: they marched around the 
block following the statue to which people used to pin money. 
People used to pay money to get the privilege of carrying the 
statue in the procession. Grace used to go to Mt. 
Carmel from 
Blende every Sunday with some friends, then when they built Saint 
Joseph in the Mesa, they started to go there, even if it took them 
a while to get used to the new church. 
Grace says that what hurt Mt. Carmel a lot was the fact that so 
many families moved from that area into better housing areas. Lower 
class people, 
income-wise were left around that area, and they 
could not keep the church up. Lot of people moved into the Saint 
Therese area, on Goodnight Avenue, and the new and beautiful church 
attracted many young kids. 
Joyce Giadone, Grace's daughter-in-law who runs the Giadone farm 
with her husband, comes in with a huge watermelon. While Grace 
slices the watermelon and offers everybody a piece, I ask Joyce a 
few questions. She is of Irish-English background and did not know 
how to cook at all when she married her husband. She learned from 
Grace and by trial and error and now Grace says she is an excellent 
cook. Grace says that when Joyce got married she experienced quite 
a change from the life she was used to: she came from a divorced 
family with not many relatives at all and the first Giadone family 
gathering she attended there were 300 people. She describes the 
overwhelming feeling of meeting 300 relatives at once and the 
feeling of suddenly having acquired hundreds of relatives who greet 
you when you walk in town while you don't know who they are! 
Grace says: "She got a good baptism into THE Italian FAM]'T.Y when 
she got into this one, believe me!" 
Grace says that when they hAd 
the Saint Joseph's table, they had a quest boob and over 100Q 
people signed it, 
this to explain the number of friends, 
and 
retaMves of—  fie Giadones. 
I ask Joyce about the table. She had seen some tables before, but 
the one her mother-in-law made was the first one she participated 
IAW-PT-A031 - 
6 
as far as cooking and preparing for it. 
We talk briefly about garlic, 
which Joyce uses a lot in her 
cooking, and she explains the reasons why, in her opinion, farmers 
do not grow garlic in this area. Grace says they raised "cardoni" 
all her married life and she explains how they cultivate cardoni 
(trenching them and bleaching them). 
I ask both Grace and Joyce to tell me what their work as women has 
been and is today in the farm. Grace says that when she married her 
husband and came to the farm she did not know "a radish from a 
weed!" She learned how to bunch radishes, onions from her in-laws 
and her husband. At the time they did not hire any help, it was a 
family endeavour. Grace worked in the fields picking, weeding, 
cleaning, bunching, except tractor work. She learned how to drive 
it but never felt comfortable doing it. Joyce on the contrary had 
to learn how to work the tractor because her husband always had 
another job, and if something needed to be done, she would do it. 
But she says she learned how to do basic work, like leveling the 
ground, and not the heaviest work. Now that her oldest son works 
with them in the farm, he does all the work that his father would 
normally do. 
I ask Joyce if there is a difference in the produce they cultivate 
today and the produce her in-laws used to grow. She says that it 
is pretty much the same that it always had. Out here, she says, you 
must have tomatoes and chili because are the htings that sell the 
most; then each farmer has -T
its own specialty 
(the Giadones are 
known for the cardoni and the celery). Every now and then they try 
something a little different, like the fava beans they started to 
grow again this year after many years during which they did not 
grow them. This year she is also growing a lot of fresh herbs 
(oregano, sage, rosemary, thyme, camomile) which Grace has never 
grown before. Joyce just started to harvest the herbs and she does 
not know if she is going to be able to sell much of it or not. 
I ask who makes the decisions about farm work in her family. She 
says that it depends on the decision. If it concerns field work, 
then her husband knows more and does not need to discuss things 
with her, but she knows quite a bit about plants and he consults 
her for that. In the springtime, when there is not much work at the 
farm, Joyce works at a greenhouse, where she learned a lot. 
Joyce and Pete's son, Richard, works in the Sheriff's Department 
and also works with his parents at the farm. 
c 
We talk more about names and changes. Grace says that the last name 
Giadone was originally spelled Giaiadoni. 
She thinks that  many 
people in this area chanqed their "beautiful Italian last names" 
becaus'e-u 
ne 
ime here they were very very against the Italians 
and i you were Italian you had a hard time finding a job.-" She 
sasy 
En-
 many now are going back to the original Italian names. 
IAW-PT-A031 - 
7 
I ask Grace to tell me if all the Giadones that are listed in the 
phone book belong to the same family. She explains a little about 
the genealogy of the family starting with her husband's father, 
uncles, and aunts (who married Mussos). The Giodone family (spelled 
with an "o" instead of an "a") changed the vowel just because at 
a time there were three Tom Giadones in town and it was difficult 
to get the mail delivered to the right place. 
Grace talks about her grand-son Richard and then takes me to the 
living-room where she has a whole wall covered with pictures  
of her 
family (see my fieldnotes IAW-PT-f070590b). 
When we get back to the kitchen Grace brings with her the photo 
album of the Saint Joseph's table. I ask Joyce to tell me what she 
thought about it. She says they had a lot of fun doing it. She says 
that it was "huge, humongous." She recalls the first table she saw: 
it was a small one, made by a Giadone cousin in Salinas. Then she 
saw the one made by Musso, the one made by Bessy Ingo, the one made 
by Rosa Dazzio (see Paula Manini's interviews and fieldnotes). The 
older ladies really knew how to do things, Grace says, and she 
learned from them. 
v/ 
Grace's mother-in-law had her first table right after the war, in 
thank for all the boys who came back from the war, plus for her son 
who was crippled by polio but could at least walk with crutches. 
The one Grace and Joyce had, 5 years ago, was for Grace's son, Pete 
(Joyce's husband) who had cancer, and for Grace's daughter-in-law, 
her other son's wife, who lost a breast through cancer. Grace says: 
"My husband was very sick at the time and everybody thought that 
it was for him, but Pete said: No, it was for the kids .:`.We asked 
Saint Joseph a favor: to have our kids get well 
and making the 
table was our thanks for it." Grace and her husband deci e 
o ave 
a-able. Grace says: "It was so strange: we didn't even talk to one 
another about it. One day we were going toward town and he said: 
'I have to tell you something, I made a promise.' and I looked at 
him and I said: 
'Well, so did I.' He said: 
'I 
romised the Saint 
Joseph table for the kids' and I said: 
'So did I.
1 
Li e I said, 
this was in October and he said "We are having it this coming 
here." So by January we were all ready in our minds planning it and 
putting money away for it. One time they used to go, it was a real 
real sacrifice, they used to go from house to house asking for 
donations, and we said we weren't going to do that, we'd take care 
of it ourselves." 
Grace continues talking about the table: she says_that•••t 
t_c
 give and are r a. ly insulted i 
f you don't put something on the 
table to put money in. If _vou don't do that, 
 they'll throw money 
on the food anyhow. The money they got from the table they gave 
some to Saint Joseph church, some to Saint Jude, an organization 
that helps children, and some to the Heart Association. 
Grace starts to talk about the food they prepared. I suggest we 
IAW-PT-AO31 - 
8 
look at the pictures so that she can remember more details. 
The interview continues on IAW-PT-A032. 
Document: IAW-PT-A032 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: 
Giadone, 
Grace; 
Giadone, 
Joyce; 
Drew Giadone, 
Laurie 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A031. 
I tell Grace and Joyce Giadone about the Saint Joseph's tradition 
in San Pedro, California, where one lady prayed Saint Joseph in 
order for her daughter to have a baby. Grace says that she knows 
of one lady in Pueblo who made a promise to the saint for her 
children to have children and their babies to be born normal, but 
mostly people made altars to  thank the saint for the favor  
of 
curing an illness or helping a sick person. Grace says she does not 
believe in making the table or asking Saint Joseph to do you the 
favor of making money or paying bills: 
"To me that is not a 
sacrifice ...There have been a couple of instances and I don't 
think that's right." 
Grace gives me the photocopy of an article about the table which 
appeared in Better Homes and Gardens. Joyce asks if I spoke with 
a teacher, Mr. Caputo, who has done extensive research on Italians 
in the state of Colorado (see David Taylor's interview with Mr. 
Caputo). 
Grace tells me what she knows about 
"The Joy of Growing Up 
Italian," a three-page letter that has been circulating in the 
Italian community of Pueblo recently and that was read at a Mass 
funeral attended by many Italians. The priest who read it during 
the funeral Mass started saying: "Strange things happen when you 
are on a golf course playing with a lot of Italians." Apparently, 
Grace's brother, who is one of the organizers of the "Italian Open 
golf tournament" gave one copy to the priest. Grace tells me about 
the golf tournament, which is going to take place the 14th and 15th 
of July, open only to full blooded Italians or to people who have 
married into an Italian family. 
She tells me her reactions to the reading of "The Joy of Growing 
up Italian." 
She says that you could see the faces of the Italians 
in church that night glowing: "especially when he talked about "the 
Medicanis" and the "succo." 
Only he, Father Mac Guinness is Irish 
so he really slaughtered it, you know, and we just laughed." Grace 
does not know who wrote the piece, and nobody seems to know where 
it originates. Every person participating at the golf tournament 
is going to be given a copy of it. 
IAW-PT-A032 - 
2 
Grace tells me the names of the Italian guys who are organizing 
"The Italian Open": Ray Piscetta , Sam Dazzio , and Grace 's brother 
Frank Marascola (see IAW-PT-F071190.a). Grace tells me that she has 
cousins coming from Fresno and Pittsburgh, California because of 
the tournament . She suggests I call her brother to know more about 
the tournament (see also David Taylor fieldnotes about the golf 
tournament). 
I ask if anybody played bocce in Pueblo. Grace remembers playing 
bocce ball when she was a kid after they had killed the pig, but 
nobody seems to play bocce today. 
Joyce says that now they play 
horseshoes . Grace says that one of her brothers who lives in 
California (West Covina , 
Los Angeles) every year participates with 
hundreds of Italians to a big Italian event in the Los Angeles area 
and during the event , they play bocce. 
Grace goes back to talk about the Saint Joseph's book (photo album) 
she and Joyce put together . We go through the pictures : I notice 
a chocolate bunny on the table and Grace explains that it was close 
to Easter time so somebody put an Easter bunny on the table. I 
notice the Easter lilies (what in Italy we call "Saint Joseph's 
lies"j , Grace says that a couple of green houses pushed the 
lilies so that they could have them for the table! "All this stuff, 
you have to plan ahead of t; 
like planting the wheat and 
getting the wheat ready for it too." • 
The album follows the setting up of the table day by day. Grace 
says she wanted to document the preparation of the table "so that, 
somebody, someday, may want to know how to make one and you got the 
basics of starting it." 
The table was set up in the living room. 
It was one of the largest ever made in Pueblo , 
as Domenico (the man 
who built it) said this afternoon when we met him at the Tucci farm 
(see my fieldnotes IAW-PT -F070590.a). 
Grace continues to show me the pictures . There is a picture of the 
Holy Family that belonged to Pete 's parents and that he Wantod on 
the table . 
Then there are pictures of the setting up of the table, 
of the old ladies: Bessie Ingo and Rosa Dazzio , considered to be 
the 
experts on the Saint Joseph 's table in Pueblo. 
They are 
experts especially for the breads , the  "Cuccidata" and the "fancy 
stuff." Grace says they started to work 10 days /2 weeks 
--b-e- 
-ore 
Saint Joseph 's day (19th of March) 
People came to Grace 's home to 
cook . 
Grace dismantled one of her bedrooms and put rug on the floor 
and had working tables in there; they also used the kitchen and the 
stove in the shed outside: "We had them all over the house, they 
were working constantly ." She points to another picture in the 
album that shows some sort of cookies called "pignolat3": dough 
balls dipped in honey . Grace says a lady from Italy made them. 
There 
are 
also  confetti 
(sugar 
covered 
almond 
candies) 
and 
"breads," fried dough which I know by the name of "cenci" 
(in 
Tuscany we make them for Carnival -in February -). More pictures 
IAW-PT-A032 - 
3 
show more ladies baking and working in the kitchen. Other pictures 
show th•halice and heart shaped breads. One picture shows Mrs. 
'Abate wo•Ring with a Iittle knife shaping the bread dough. 
Grace is not Sicilian, so I ask her how she feels about it (the 
Saint Jose 
' 
 
's a Sicilian tradition). Grace says: 
"It 
doesn't bother me. I think a lot o 
em take me for Sicilian. All 
of his (her husband) relatives, as far as they are concerned I'm 
about a Sicilian as they are! I get along real good with them." 
There is a picture of  a big fish, standing in the center of the 
table. The fish was sent by a nephew who lives in Alaska: "When he 
knew we were going to do the table, he sent the fish, special." 
The table was covered by white paper with a lace on it. Another 
picture shows the  hand-shaped breads made by Bessie -and Rosa. I ask 
Grace if she knows the symbology of the different shaped breads. 
Grace says: "There is a meaning for everything." You must have on 
the table the heart-Ghnned bread . the chalice, the hands, the face 
of Saint Joseph, the lambs, the wheat. 
The wheat, the breads and 
the fish she says, sictnified that one time the people were hungry 
and Saint Joseph fed the people with that,. 
The next pictures in the album show the table set up for the 
saints. On the plates there are a slice of orange and a sarda 
(s a r
dine) with which the saints start their meal. The dishes used 
for the meal of the people impersonating the saints belonged to 
Grace's mother-in-law. She used them for her Saint Joseph's table. 
Grace had given the dishes to her daughter-in-law and she brought 
LY 
them for the occasion. 
Another picture shows people sitting in Grace's living-room and 
Grace points out all of them who died, most of them of cancer, in 
recent years. Another picture shows a smaller table, on the side 
from the bigger one. Grace says that they had so much food and 
flowers that they had to set up another table to put everything on 
display. "People came with candles and wanted us to put them on the 
table. You don't refuse them: if they want to nut something on the 
talbe, they brought something, we put-- ;_ 
hPr 
_I' 
I ask how she advertised the table and she shows me  the newspaper 
clipping showing the ad for the table. "And then, word of mouth, 
it really goes." There is a picture of an infant, who Grace says, 
was one of the saints. "They had to rush him to the children's 
hospital in Denver by airplane." Grace says they chose to be the 
sa' 
he 
knew was sick and was asking for a 
blessing from Sai 
. "Some, 
their blessing was gran e , 
some, 
a biggest part of them, died." Grace's son and daughter-
in-law (for whom the table was made) sat at the saints' table too. 
Laurie Drew Giadone, Grace's grand-daughter, and Joyce's daughter 
IAW-PT-AO32 - 
4 
comes in. She works for social services but once in a while she 
helps the family in the fields. 
I ask if all the people who impersonated the saints were Italians. 
Except for one lady, of German descent, everybody was Italian. I 
ask if anybody refused to be a saint. Grace says that a couple of 
people she asked to be a saint refused: one of them felt he would 
be a burden, since he was in a wheel chair. Another person refused 
because they felt they shouldn't participate because they had 
fallen away from the church. 
There are more pictures of the table fully decorated. There are 
pineapples, artichokes, asparagus, kumquats, and  finocchio. The 
vegetables were sent from Grace's brother from California. There 
are pictures that shows the cannolis and chocolate pizzelles. Grace 
says everybody fights for the cannolis. All the cookies were made 
in Grace's house and she bought all the ingredients to make them. 
Grace bought also the  parsnips, carrots, which they bode 
and 
fried. Then peas, and favas and you make the "frogia" (Sicilian 
word for frittata). The  priest came to bless the table. I askif 
he sat at the table with the saints. Grace says that he could have 
done it, but that day he could not stay. The food is served to the 
saints: everything is taken off the table and the saints have to 
taste everything. 
en 
hey fix a box and give the saints some  of 
everything to take home with them. Each one of the breads and the 
oranges, she says, cLo home with the saints., 
All the left overs were sent to the "Boys Ranch," an institution 
for children without families. 
All the visitors get to taste 
cookies and everything they want to taste. 
"Lot of people that 
looked at the table and came back the next day: 
there is a 
particular thing they like to taste off of the table, we tried to 
see to it that they get to taste it, 
especially if they are 
pregnant ...because they say, you know, that you should let them 
taste whatever ...either you get birth marks or you loose it." I 
say the term we use in Italian to call the birthmark that a baby 
would get if the mother does not eat what she craves for: 
"la 
voglia," and Grace seems to know the term. 
The saints are offered wine to drink (home made wine that Grace's 
husband use 
o ma e , and they should taste some wine , unless 
their medications prevent them from doing it. Everybody else was 
offered wine, coffee and punch. I tell Grace that I was surprised 
to find no grapes in this area which is called Vineland. She says 
that there are no grapes in Vineland and that her husband always 
bought grapes to make his wine. Her grandson and her son learned 
tp make wine by watching her husband  and helping him and they -s-f-j 
 
lY 
make some. They used to buy big amounts of grapes but now they buy 
25 to 30 boxes of grapes. They stir use the nrj 
a nal 
rape-
sgueezer that belonged to her father-in-law s and they have barrels 
that Grace says, her husband has had forever. 
W► 
v•a--
(• ` 
vcs 
IAW-PT-A032 - 
5 
We continue to look at the pictures (there are at least 100 of 
them). There is a picture showing a group of older people who sat 
at a special table set up for them. After the saints were served 
the food, they were served next: 
"some of the older folks that 
couldn't go outside and we wanted to honor them." 
Side B 
Grace tells me about the spaghetti done with a meatless tomato 
sauce with finocchio and eggs called "pasta con sarde." For people 
who did not like the egg-sauce they made another sauce with bread-
balls instead of meat-balls. The bread-balls are made with bread 
crumbs, cheese parsley and eggs, which are fried and then put in 
the "succo" (toma o sauce 
 
Different people took pictures and sent them to Grace. Joyce and 
Laurie took many of them. Many pictures show flowers. Grace says 
that one man, Dominic Giadone, who just died a month ago, every 
year sent flowers for all the tables that were made that year. The 
last table he donated 
flowers 
for was 
the 
one done by the 
Martellaro family. On Grace's table there were also other flowers 
donated by other people. 
Grace says that before everything else that day they said  the 
rosary. Then she adds that she has a tape of everything that was 
happening that day (I will take the tape with me and make a copy 
of it for the Library). Grace's husband died the year following 
that Saint Joseph's day. Grace says: "It was a good thing that we 
had it and made it because, you can't believe that night how proud 
he 
as! How happy them two days, just as if he had been reborn 
again. I think that was His farewell party to everybody, he just 
loved it. 
SQ_T'm especially fond of my pictures and of that 
(re3eYting to the video)." 
We get to the end of the photo album. There are articles from the 
newspapers that Grace kept just in case somebody wants to make a 
Saint Joseph's table. There is also a list of all the ingredients 
that Grace bought and that you need to prepare the food. She says 
there have been a few girls that made tables in the meantime and 
she gave them her book and the list of the things she bought so 
that they could have an idea of how much to buy for so many people. 
(the girls she refers to are Josephine Gagliano and a Costanza 
girl) . 
I ask Joyce if she would think of making a table in the future. She 
says she hopes they don't have to but if they did, they would make 
one. 
I ask if one of the churches has made a table. Grace says that 
Saint Therese has been trying it for the past few years but she 
does not think it has been successful. Grace says her mother has 
IAW-PT-AO32 - 
6 
lived in California for many years and she said the church makes 
it every year but it's like a community affair: everybody pays for 
the food and cookies and it's a money making enterprise for the 
church. Grace says that people think that the Saint Joseph church 
should have a table, just because it is named after the saint, but 
she is skeptical about how the table would work as a public affair. 
She says: 
"I think it would kind of loose its ...(it would be) 
commercial. To me it would loose the true meaning of hayJ nq t;;e 
Saint Joseph's table ...I call it a sacrifice more than anything, 
because, believe me, when you open your house to people, every inch 
of  your house, that's it.,._", 
I ask Grace to tell me again some of the things she told me before 
during our tour of the area, when she showed me and Ken Light the 
outside ovens in the area. She says that her in-laws had one forno 
in the farm when she moved in. She describes the shape (a base and 
the round oven itself) and the material used to build it (bricks 
and "adobe", mud and straw put in between the bricks). Grace says 
she was taught to use one kind of wood: the branches of either 
cherry trees or apple trees: "They used to save them to start the 
fire because they said something about the ash and the heat in it. 
And we had to learn when the bricks were kind of white at the 
bottom ...and then, you know, you kept putting less and less wood 
and then when it was ready you took all of these ashes out. We get, 
like I said, a big stick with a burlap sack at the bottom and we 
put it in some water if it was too hot and we pull out all the 
ashes, which weren't too many. And then we had a long pole with a 
square thing that our bread pans fit on, and we'd shove them in a 
put them all around the oven." 
Grace's family in Blende used to bake bread in the fornc PvPry 
Saturday. "Lot of time, they used to make, now they call it pizza, 
well we were making pizza 50 years ago! or 100 years ago, but it 
was a thick one. And they used to put sardes [sardines] in it, 
which I didn't like at all! And they would put the onion and the 
tomato on top. My mother-in-law used to call it "schiacciata." 
Grace talks also about butchering the pig and making sausages and 
lard. She says her son still butchers the hog and makes bis own 
lard. Grace says they made a video last February documenting the 
butchering of the hoq from the shootinq, hanginq and cutting of the 
hog -t-o
-The sausage-makinq the next day. Her brother from California 
provided the narration while the others did the work. Joyce says 
that the video is "part comical and part serious." They give me the 
video which we'll copy for the Library. 
The Giadones have always made sausages for their own use. Grace 
says she used to roast the sausages and bottle them with lard. They 
would last for the whole year. Today they don't do this anymore, 
mostly because the house is too hot: they have heat in the basement 
and that makes a big difference. 
1 
IAW-PT-AO32 - 
7 
I remember Grace told me before I started to record her that she 
used to make cheese, so I ask her about it. She and her husband had 
a  cow and her mother- in-1aw--taught her how to make cheese and 
ricotta . She used to put the big stainless steel pan on the stove 
every single morning and first make the cheese and then the 
ricotta. She explains what you need to know in order to make a good 
ricotta . 
She used vinegar for her ricotta and not the "caglio," the 
rennet. "But I tell -you: making the cheese and ricotta. that was, 
when my kids w ere small, that was the money that brought us through 
the winter when we didn't have vegetables and r
- t
-ham through the 
schoo ." 
Grace 's son, the one who lives in Lamar and comes to visit once a 
week , comes in. He saw the picture that the Pueblo 's newspaper 
published today together with the article on the Library of 
Congress team and tells his mother and Joyce that he recognized 
"nonna ," his grandmother among the women portrayed in the picture. 
They debate for a while if that one is really grandma or not. 
According to Grace the ladies portrayed in the pictures all lived 
in Bessemer : "they were more your Agnonese, Abruzzese and what 
have you." She says the women belonged to the lodge that at the 
time was called "Principessa Iolanda." 
With Grace's son we talk briefly about the golf tournament which 
he is going to participate in. He says the dinner at the State 
Fairgrounds is going to be for 600 people. 
I get ready to leave when I remember I never asked Grace or Joyce 
about their birth dates. 
Grace was born 11/26/1922 and Joyce 
9/26/1943. While I prepare -t•o — pack my equipment mother and son 
start to talk about nicknames and naming traditions and I decide 
to turn the tape-recorder on again. 
Grace says that in the Musso family it was a must that they named 
their first boy : John and the girls had to have "Rose" in their 
names : "So we have : Rose Mary , Rose Marie , Rose Anne, Rosalie 
...the boys are: John Donald , 
John Michael , 
John Paul , so they call 
one "Shoe," one "Corky ," one "Puppy ," one "Stony," 
...they had to 
designate them some way so they 'd know who they were talking 
about !" The nicknames seem to come from physical characteristics 
or habits of the boys. Grace's husband was called "Cracky": when 
he was in school and started playing ball his friends started to 
call him "Cracky " and it stayed with him , 
Grace says. With the help 
of either Joyce or her son, Grace recalls other nicknames: Pete 
Musso was "Cangur," because he played basketball; Tommy Musso is 
"Busco ," another Tommy Musso was called "Phil," Dominic Giadone was 
"Moony ," Donald Giadone was "Duck," (as in Donald Duck). 
I ask if women had nicknames . Joyce says jokingly: "They weren't 
important enough to nickname them!" Grace says her father used to 
call her "Mable ," while another lady who worked here for 40 years 
calls Grace "Samantha ," because she is like a witch, that is, she 
IAW-PT-A032 - 
8 
has an instinct for knowing when things happen. Grace tells the 
story of when she was farming with her husband and had 15 to 20 
people working for them. She'd go to the men in the fields and tell 
them to pick 20 bushels of something, then she would leave them and 
come home: "Instinctively, I'd go back when they were finishing the 
last bushel ... and they'd say, 
"What do you do? Stand there and 
watch us?" And I would say no ...So they started to give me the 
nickname "Samantha the witch, because I knew what it was going on 
all the time!" 
Grace's son was nicknamed "Spade," while her other son, Pete, was 
called by the family "Junior," to distinguish him from his father. 
Grace's husband was called "Vito" by his parents (the Italian name 
he was baptized with). 
I ask Grace what other acts of devotion they pay to Saint Joseph 
aside 
from 
the 
Saint 
Joseph's 
table 
tradition 
and 
I ask 
specifically if they ever blessed the fields on Saint Joseph's day. 
She says that the priest would come to bless the fields and your 
house when you wanted. She says that at Saint Joseph's church they 
have a big dinner and party for the parishioners. Saint Joseph has 
always been the patron Saint for Pete's family, she says, while 
other people have different saints, and she mentions. Saint Jude, 
Saint Anthony, the Blessed Mother. However she adds: "in this area 
Saint Joseph seems to be a pretty common person that the want all 
the time ...Saint Joseph is supposed to be the b•1s_er of t e 
workers of the fields." 
I ask Grace if they still bless the fields and she says that you 
could if you wanted to but that the priests have changed in recent 
years: before they had Jesuit priests and "they are more devoted 
to the family things and people like that." 
Now instead they have 
the dioceses priests and things have been different according to 
her. 
Father Giglio, 
the 
Italian Jesuit priest at Mt. 
Carmel 
baptized Grace and married her in 1942. I ask Grace if she had a 
big wedding. She says it was not big by the standards of today 
because people couldn't afford it: 
it was limited to family and 
friends. Her mother-in-law cooked their wedding dinner: she killed 
her 
chickens 
and 
fried 
them, 
then 
had 
spaghetti: 
"We 
made 
sandwiches, at that time you just made sandwiches, you made cookies 
and you served peanuts, you know the bushel baskets, we didn't have 
fancy trays when you went to the hall and they served beer and 
passed sandwiches about 11 o'clock and peanuts." Grace had the 
reception at the May Hall but before them, her brother-in-law got 
married at home and they used to celebrate for 3 days. 
"Ours 
(wedding) was supposed to be a little more modern so we went (to 
the hall)." 
I ask Joyce if she had a big wedding. She says she didn't and 
points to her daughter and says she had a big wedding. Laurie (who 
came back into the kitchen recently and has kept silent until now) 
married a German guy. 
IAW-PT-AO32 - 
9 
Interview continues on IAW-PT-AO33 
Document: IAW-PT-A033 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/5/90 
Informant/Event: 
Giadone, 
Grace; 
Giadone, 
Joyce; Giadone Drew, 
Laurie 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A032. 
I ask Laurie if her grandmother told her stories when she was a 
kid. She says: "Always, there were always stories." She often got 
to hear stories about her father and uncle and what they used to 
do when they were kids. Recently Grace went through a box of old 
pictures and gave Laurie a lot of pictures of the family and there 
were stories that went along with some of the pictures. 
Laurie cannot remember any of the stories specifically. Grace helps 
her recalling that she (Grace) used to tell her about grandma. 
Laurie remembers that she used to go visit her grandma and she used 
to pinch her cheeks as well as her stomach. Laurie says she learned 
a lot from the Saint Joseph's table; she did not grow up knowing 
about the tradition, she says, and that was the first table she had 
ever seen. She says it was really interesting to her and learned 
a lot 
from 
it. 
Laurie 
invited to 
see the table one 
of her 
girlfriends who had lost a child several years before on the same 
day of Saint Joseph and who was still upset about it. She came and 
later told Laurie that even if she was not Catholic, still the 
table had a special meaning to her. Other girl friends with whom 
Laurie works came to see the table too and all found it very 
meaningful. 
I ask if the younger generation understands and wants to maintain 
these traditions or if younger people laugh at it. Grace says that 
there had been a period during which the young people were getting 
away from tradition and church but now she thinks that the kids 
want to go back to the old ways: they want to eat the basic foods 
like peas and macaroni, 
beans and macaroni, 
they want to get 
together with the family. Also they are naming their kids more and 
more with Italian names. 
I try to elicit some stories from Laurie. She remembers the story 
of Grace who was working in the f 
ields the day she had Laurie' s 
father. Grace says: 
"I was bunching red beets! and kept having 
labor pains. He kept telling me, you better go, you better go. So 
I go to the hospital about 10 o'clock in the morning and he was 
born ...my husband said: I'm going home, the doctor said it won't 
be for a while, I'll go change the water and I come back. Before 
he got back I was in the delivery room and had him ...when he came 
IAW-PT-AO33 - 
2 
back I was mad at him, because he wasn't there." The same thing 
happened for the birth of her second son: as soon as she entered 
the hospital she delivered him. 
I ask Grace if Laurie had a favorite story that she always wanted 
to hear. While Grace thinks about it, Joyce remembers the nickname 
that Laurie got from her uncle: Abus-Crabus. Grace explains: "She 
was our first grandchild and happened to be a girl, so she was kind 
of ...(she makes a strange face while everybody laughs at the 
expression she used "she happened to be a girl") . I came from a 
family of boys, 4 brothers; my husband came from a family of boys; 
my mother-in-law always told me: "...Can't you have a girl!? This 
house, even if we have a cow and it has a calf, it's a boy!" So I 
go to the hospital and I have 2 boys! So when she was born, she was 
the only girl, fortunately or unfortunately! After that then: 5 
grandsons in succession!" 
I ask Laurie if she feels Italian. She says that every time she 
goes out to dinner she wouldn't eat Italian food because she 
doesn't like it: 
"It's not Grandma's, or Mom's! Mom is a good 
Italian cook too!" 
End of interview. 
Document: IAW-PT-A034 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Ken and Susan Cuchiara's family reunion 
Coworker: Taylor, David; Light, Ken 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: Al 
Site: 6 
For related documentation see my fieldnotes (IAW-PT-f 07 08 9 
0. a) , and 
David Taylor's fieldnotes. 
It's July 8, 
1990. 
David Taylor and Paola Tavarelli are at 55 
Fordham Circle in Pueblo, Colorado at the home of Susan and Ken 
Cuchiara with a whole crowd of people from different branches of 
the family. From left to right David asks the people to introduce 
themselves: 
Martha Fortino 
Anne Ferraro 
Anthony Ferraro 
Joe Ferraro 
Tony Fortino 
Palma Ferraro 
Francis De Luca 
Charles De Luca 
Mary Morone 
Mary Anne Cuchiara 
Val (?) Cuchiara 
Charles Cuchiara 
Anne Cuchiara 
Mary Fabian 
Susan Cuchiara 
Ken Cuchiara 
David asks the family group on the left, the Ferraro/Fortino, to 
tell us something about their ancestors coming to this country. 
Joe Ferraro starts to say that they landed in New Orleans and then 
came on west. His grandfather bought a farm on the Saint Charles 
Mesa; he had 2 sons and 3 daughters and he got each of them a tract 
of land. Later on his father went in the produce business and later 
they all went into the grocery business. His father's name was Sam 
(Salvatore) Ferraro. He came from Lucca Sicula, Sicily. Joe says 
Lucca is a province 50/60 miles north of Naples (whhic i 
not true, 
Lucca Sicula is in Sicily in the province of Agrigento). His father 
came to this country when he was 3 years old. He died in Pueblo at 
the age of 89. He learned to type, keep books and used these skills 
for the grocery business. The rest of the family worked in the 
grocery business. 
Joe worked first as a city fireman; 
in 1945, 
the day he was 
IAW-PT-A034 - 
2 
supposed to go to the Army, he was injured . When he recovered he 
moved to Los Angeles with his family where he got a real estate 
licence and sold some real estate as well as worked in the grocery 
business : he had a couple of stores with a couple of his brothers. 
He stayed in Los Angeles for 8 years . Later on the rest of the 
family wanted them to come back to Pueblo because they had the 
chance to buy a big grocery store and they came back . The name of 
the store was Jim 's E1 Rancho Market , on the east side of Pueblo. 
Joe was born in Pueblo, January 23, 1910. Joe says they tried to 
trace their ancestors : 
ey 
ave 
een to Italy a couple of times, 
and went down to Sicily where they met the cousins still living 
there . They traced back to a great-grandfather , 200 years ago. His 
grandparents came to Pueblo around 1884. 
Anthony Ferraro says that Joe covered a lot of the history of his 
family too. His father had a farm too. He was born in Pueblo. His 
mother came to the United States when she was 6 weeks old, from 
Sicily . He 
doesn't know 
from which town she 
came 
from, 
but 
everybody else says that they all came from Lucca Sicula 
(Joe 
Ferraro now corrects himself and says that Lucca is about 50 miles 
south of Palermo ). David asks what brought them here. Anthony says 
they came like their great-grandfather , they had the land and 
started farming Then they went into the grocery business too. He 
says 
his 
wife - 
naff—  imself 
awe 
go ng 
-o 
ave 
their 
50 
year 
anniversary this year and they plan to have a nice celebration with 
friends and relatives . His wife is a De Luca. 
The door bell rings (Ken Light arrives ) while Susan says they have 
a family tree of the Morone/De Luca and Ferraro families which she 
will 
to find and give to us before we leave Pueblo. , 
I ask Charlie De Luca to repeat the expression he used a few 
minutes before to explain why Italians came to Pueblo: 
"They 
followed the smoke , he said. "Where there was smoke there were 
jobs ... the eastern part  of the country was already pretty well 
esta 
is 
a says 
is rather was working in Philadelphia and 
left to go back to the old country where he stayed for 3 years, 
then came back bringing the whole family. He says the Morone family 
was here in Pueblo before the De Luca family , while the De Lucas 
were previously in Philadelphia . Charlie was 5 years old when he 
came with his family ; he had 5 sisters and 6 brothers , of whom 
Charlie is the youngest ; they came in 1911 to Pueblo from the town 
of Trenta, province of Cosenza, in the region of Calabria. 
' 
One of the DeLuca women says her father was the first De Luca 
brother to come to Pueblo. He started the De Luca grocery store, 
which still exists today, in Blende . Charles says: "That's where 
the smoke was a 
ecause 
a smelter was there." 
c•l,•ota-
L.• 
David introduces Ken Light and then asks if somebody can tell us 
how the work at the smelter was and how people got jobs there. A 
few people say their fathers worked there . They had three smelters 
at one time . Tony Fortino says : "As Charlie says, 
the Italian  i/ 
IAW-PT-AO34 - 
3 
f, 
V 
people were wherever there was work, so they took jobs nobody else 
wanted, that's why you find them in tH-esteel mill, smelters an  
the coal mines." He mentions the name of a town, 27 miles from here 
where a lot of Italians settled because of the coal mines. "They 
took the jobs that were available, they were uneducated when they 
came 
rom 
a y, 
e were uneducated but they were willing to work 
so took whatever jobs they could get." He adds that in the early 
30s the smelters were all gone. 
I ask Palma, who said her father worked at the smelter, if he told 
stories about working there. She says he always told them about 
working in the smelter; he always had a cough which he got from 
working in the smelter. They melt,_7•inn and led for the steel mill. 
Ten cents a ton for ore, Charles De Luca says was the pay. By the 
end of the day you could earn 3 dollars. Charles worked there in 
the winter time to make a couple of bucks, he says, when he was 14-
16 years old. 
We continue with family histories. Toni Fortino says his dad came 
here when he was about 17, in 1917. He worked at the smelter, left 
when he 
fell 
off one of the towers. 
He went in the grocery 
business. He had a store for 47 years. In the family, he calculates 
there must have been at least 8 or 9 grocery stores. What he thinks 
is an interesting thing to look at is how Christopher Columbus D 
became a national holiday. The Italians in Pue 
o 
ike Vincent 
Massari and other people were very instrumental in the Columbus 
Lodge and helped to make Columbus Day a national holiday. He thinks 
it is one of the better things they did in those days. 
His grandfather was a farmer; he was born in a little town near 
Cosenza. He thinks he  can answer our qv 
"why they came here," 
bsa ing they 
ecause there was work here that they could 
make a living. They were able to grow the food they--needed in Italy 
but there was nothing else for them there. His dad came, then 
brought his 2 sisters. His grandmother was a Morone. They had the 
first family reunion in 1975: they had 320 people coming from all 
over United States and Canada. They had another reunion in 1985 
with 300 people. In the early 30s, the three brothers Morone who 
had about eleven kids each, went to California because in their 
farms in Pueblo could not make a living. So there were at least 33 
kids who moved to California. The Morone and De Luca families were 
related in Italy and all got here because of zi' 
Beppino (his 
wife's grandfather) 
who came here first from Cosenza and then  
brouqht Stith him all the rest of the Morone family and his De Lump, 
cousin.g. 
"We are all inter-related and inter-married now.' That's 
how I got my wife, by the way, at a family reunion!" 
The whole family had something to do with the grocery business. 
Tony's grand 
Saint Charles Mesa, 
and tYLeir sons and daughters sti11_today have the same farms. "4Ie 
were the largest ethnic group in Pueblo for many,many years..-paw 
the Mexicans people 
... the quota got so low that they couldn't come, 
IAW-PT-AO34 - 
4 
in fact I have 21 first cousins in Toronto because they can't come 
to this country, so they went from Cosenza, they are all from that 
province, to Toronto, in the car business, whatever. I was in the 
car business for 40 years, Chevrolet, and I just sold out." 
Toni continues saying that the Italian people have been very active 
in the community; there are a couple of judges, senators, Italians 
who had positions of authority in the city and county councils. He 
mentions there are a couple of hundreds of Morone people in South 
Philadelphia, and they stay pretty close, he says as well as the 
Californian side of the family: they all get together for birthdays 
and family reunions. 
I ask him about the eight grocery stores the extended family owned 
in Pueblo; the De Luca in Blende was probably the first one to open 
in the early 1900. Tony's father opened his store in 1921 on 4th 
street. The family still owns the building and the store is still 
there. Joe Felise, related to the Morone, had two stores on 4th; 
the De Luca: Mike, Pete, and Frank had 3 stores in Blende. Charlie 
also had a nice night club in Blende, which burned down 10 years 
ago. The night club was used for large meetings and weddings. It 
was an elegant club, kind of unique for Pueblo. Susan remembers as 
a kid walking 
in 
the restrooms where there were 
samples 
of 
perfumes, and you couldn't find something similar in Pueblo. They 
mention some of the famous entertainers who performed at the club. 
Side B 
Somebody mentions that Italian people knew how to save money: "They 
call it mattress savings and loans!" The Italians, Slovenians and 
all the "ethnic" European people didn't trust the banks after what 
happened in the 30s. They didn't put their money in the bank until 
after the second world war. Toni Fortino says that a lot of young 
kids in the 30s got out of school and went to work wherever there 
was work: in the mill or farming. 
Charlie De luca says that Sam De Luca was a ioneer in carrying 
vegetables from the Mesa to the mining camps. He was one of the 
first that started to truck vegetables and he ended up, like Tony's 
uncle, 
Frank Grana o, 
wor 1ng mainly in Wichita, 
Kansas. After 
them, 
eveZybody started to peddle vegetables around that time 
L 
(early 30s). 
Toni says there were also a lot of musicians in their family. His 
brother was an accordionist, and Palma's brother was a musician 
too. 
Charlie De Luca says he started as a musician, 
playing 
accordion and guitar. He says he learned just by playing; those who 
played by ear, with no music sheets, were those that put more 
feelings in their music, he says. 
Somebody says in those days 
everybody played the accordion. 
Charlie Cuchiara is also a musician. He starts telling us about his 
IAW-PT-A034 - 
5 
father who came from Lucca Sicula when he was 16. He started to 
work at CF&I. Charlie and his sister went to high school and then 
Charlie himself went to work in the mill at 15, 
during summer 
vacation. He went to World War II, came back 3 years later and 
"learned the trade" and followed it for several years: he was in 
the bar business for 35 years and was a musician, practically self-
taught, for 50 years. 
I played ton of weddings, of all kinds, in 
this town and out of town, still active, I got a six piece band and 
we still enjoy playing music. The trumpet player and I have been 
playing together since 
we were just kids and then, as Charlie was 
saying, you know, the lessons were few and far between, mostly 
self-taught: you could buy a piece of music for 20 cents and 
transpose it in the saxophone player, transpose it in the trumpet 
player. We used to play for house parties and then we just enjoyed, 
I have enjoyed music business for a long time, has been a big part 
of my life." His band is named "Serenade;" other members of his 
family had 
some type of music passion. 
His 
son, 
Kenny, 
who 
graduated from Berkeley, is a very accomplished drummer his father 
says. Now he is in the car business, the business that Toni Fortino 
sold. 
Charlie's wife tells us that her husband used to play in his 
uncle's beer joint for 50 cents and went home thinking he was 
really rich! Charlie says that when he was a kid he played in his 
uncle's tavern: "One night I made 3 bucks! And I went home and I 
woke up everybody in the household because I had made 3 dollars!" 
His uncle was Joe Corda, he had a bar for years: "I used to sit 
there, 
play requests and watch the fights! 
I used to kind of 
enjoyed it." His wife is a Morone, they had four children: three 
sons and one daughter. Three of his sons live in Pueblo, two of 
them just moved back here; one is an attorney in Denver. 
Toni Fortino says that he forgot to mention World War II: at least 
30 or 40 of them 
(family members) 
went to World War II, 
and 
everybody came back. 
V 
Kenny Cuchiara takes the word and introduces his grandmother Mary 
Morr
oonnee  whose wedding picture is standinq behind us, 
and whose 
father's 
weddirlct 
picture 
is 
also 
here 
(Kenny's 
great- 
grraan father's). Kenny is 35 years old and says that when}  he was 15 
or 16 it  was his grandpas and great-grandpas that really had  a 
great impact on him. "That generation to me it's so special because 
they had so little and to- 
ave ••v- so •ood! You know 
I always 
say, in the kitchen they could make a soup out of a boot!" To give 
us an example of what he means he points 
o one 
a wedding 
pictures which portrays one of his aunts and tells us the story of 
her family: she was 13 years old and her youngest sister was a few 
days old when their mother passed away leaving the father, 
a 
farmer, alone with 7 kids. "You know, you go around this room and 
they all touch upon the positive aspects of their life but, you 
know, you take like my grandmother here, you know, can you imagine 
her dad faced with a crisis like that?!" He continues telling of 
IAW-PT-A034 - 
6 
another accident that occurred to his other grandmother's brother, 
who was killed by a truck full of lumber when he was 17 years old. 
Other people talk about little sisters and brothers who died very 
young. Kenny restates his point: "They had it tough, and they did 
so well with so little, but along the way there was a lot of 
tragedy involved." 
They all talk highly of the Morone great-grandmother who married 
the farmer left with 7 kids and took care of the children as if 
they were her own kids. This woman is still alive and Kenny's 
mother says they go visit her every Saturday. 
Grandma Mary Morone, born Capanna, who is 85, 
says she doesn't 
remember much. She knows her grandpa came around 1850s and worked 
in the railroads an  
en wen 
in o farming. Charlie Cuchiara says 
that we can see from this conversation how  people were close and 
stuck together and helped one another. He says that in his mother's 
house, 
when she was growing up, 
there were 9 children and 2 
grandmothers. Anne Cuchiara says: "Can you picture 2 old ladies in 
the same house?!" Everybody laughs. 
Toni Fortino recalls the 3 
 day  
cele  ration for the killing of the 
pigs,: first day to kill the pigs, second day to make lard, t 
ird 
day to make sausages. He says that for 2 months in the winter, 
every Sunday entire families would go from one farm to the other 
to help each other. 
"There were no n 
-people took care 
s." Toni 
says tha 
here were a lot of marriages out of disasters: people 
would pull together and raise kids not of their own. 
Toni goes back to talk about world war 2 and what he thought when 
he was over there: "Oh boy, what goes around comes around. You 
know, you have to really admire those people, all the ones we h-aye 
been talking about 
... when you go to a foreign country, you can't 
read, you can't write, and you can't speak and then most people 
weren't educated 
... you have to give these people credit." 
"They educated themselves," Kenny Cuchiara says. His grandfather 
Cuchiara, who came when he was 16, learned to read on his own. 
Kenny remembers one day taking his great-grandpa to get some 
groceries to a store in Blende. "He had a little account there, you 
know, and there was a page, I'd give anything for this page! but 
there was a page there where he'd sign his name. Now, he didn't go 
to school at all! And—his signature, you know, was a little shaky, 
but I tell you what: it was all the same down the whole page! I 
remember that when I was 17 years old ... he really took care of 
himself until he was 88 years old." 
Charlie Cuchiara says that his dad wanted to become a citizen so 
bad that he used to go to night school and get some help from his 
daughter in order to learn how to write. Charlie thinks that the 
v✓ 
IAW-PT-AO34 - 
7 
day he got his citizenship was one of his dad's happiest days in 
his life. Toni Fortino remembers that when he was a kid the older 
Morone people used to get togiethe — around the big table in the 
kitchen at ni ht to study for their citizenship and they were 
scare—d-55 death. 
Charlie De Luca is reminded of a story he heard about an Italian 
guy who was studying for his citizenship. 
"He went before the 
judge, he is an Italian fellow, ...and started to explain to the 
judge that: I can't read very well, I can't talk English very well, 
I don't know whether I'm going to pass or not. And the judge said: 
Don't you worry, don't you worry (pronounced like an Italian would 
pronounce it)." Everybody laughs. 
Interview continues, after a break, on IAW-PT-AO35 
Document: IAW-PT-AO35 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Ken and Susan Cuchiara's family reunion 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: Al 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A034. 
After a break with coffee 
and cake, 
most 
of 
Susan 
and 
Ken 
Cuchiara's guests left the house. David Taylor and I remain to 
interview Ken and Susan, Susan's parents and Ken's parents and 
sister. 
I ask the women, Susan, her mother Palma, and her sister-in-law 
Mary Anne what has changed in the marriage traditions during the 
years. Charlie Cuchiara, Ken's father, says that when his parents 
got married they celebrated their wedding at home and it lasted 2 
or 3 days. As time went on, the celebration moved to the halls 
because there were more people invited to the weddings. Charles' 
wife says that her dad had a big tent in the backyard for her older 
sister's wedding and they cooked themselves, while her wedding was 
all catered. Charles and his wife had their wedding at the May hall 
and they had sandwiches. Charlie, who witnessed many weddings as 
a accordion player says that in those days there were no spaghetti 
and meat balls at weddings 
(like the women are saying), 
but 
sandwiches, 
and the "big thing" they used to pass around was 
peanuts. His wife says she has been to many weddings but never saw 
peanuts, 
while Charlie 
insists that 
40 
years ago bushels of 
peanuts, sandwiches and confetti (the Italian sugar coated almond 
candies) were served at the weddings. 
Susan asks if in the old days they used to give money as a present 
as they do now. Everybody says yes. Susan thinks that Italians give 
more money at weddings than Americans do: you go to an Italian 
wedding you see more envelopes than gifts, while at an American 
wedding you see more presents than money. 
Everybody talks at the same time and still Charlie and his wife 
disagree about the presence of sandwiches at weddings. 
MaryAnne, who got married twice, says that her first wedding was 
a very traditional one: she had 12 bride's maids and 12 groom's 
ones. They borrowed a cousin's '31 Chrysler and paraded along Main 
street in town while a photographer took the video of the entire 
car procession (everybody blowing their horns). The reception was 
held at the Country club where they had her father's band playing. 
Charles wants to comment on today's weddings: "From the church you 
go to the country club and everything is set up, everything is 
IAW-PT-AO35 - 
2 
catered and in 5 hours it's all over! People go home. You know, 
referring back to the old days where they would come back the next 
day and even the next day! In the house: people would come, they 
were close, they didn't have jobs, they had more time." 
MaryAnne says that there are a lot of things that go on in an 
Italian wedding that people who are not Italian don't know about, 
like the "dollar dance:" They play a traditional song and you have 
to pay a dollar to dance with either the bride or the groom. The 
money collected is used by the newlyweds for their honeymoon. Then, 
she adds, the man takes the garter off the bride and he throws it 
to the men: it's supposed to be a belief, she says, that whoever 
catches the garter is going to get married next. And the bride 
throws her bouquet to the single women in the wedding and whoever 
catches it is supposed to get married next. 
She also talks about the "Grand March:" when it is time to cut the 
cake, the bride and groom pick out a couple to lead the Grand 
March. Susan says that uncle Charlie De Luca and his wife Francis 
have lead hundreds of them. You choose somebody who knows how to 
do it because you have to move 500 people through the room and take 
all of them to the cake. 
Susan says: 
"It's not just marching 
around. There are people that tell you which way to go and they all 
end up at the cake. And they play this one song, they call it "the 
grand march" and you pick someone out, it' s kind of an honor to let 
them lead your Grand March." 
David asks our informants to tell us the things that happen during 
a wedding day in order, from the first thing of the wedding day to 
the last. Susan starts, remembering when she was a kid: they would 
have to get ready real early in the morning for the ceremony in the 
church. From the church they would go to a lunch. Then there would 
be a break in the afternoon and then you would go back at night 
for the reception and people would change their clothes and put on 
their evening attire. The reception would go on all night: the 
bride, the groom and their families would create the "reception 
line" so that when people came in they greeted the bride and the 
groom and the whole family before they got into the reception. 
Everybody would eat and a band would start playing around 8 p.m. 
Charlie adds that the bride and groom would start the first dance 
and then the bridal party would join in and finally the parents on 
both sides. 
Prior to the day of the wedding, Susan continues, the women would 
get together and make all the cookies and meat-balls, and also 
would 
get 
together 
to 
make 
the 
bride's 
maids 
dresses. 
Her 
grandmother Ferraro had 7 sisters in her family and when they got 
married, they picked a kid or grand-kid from each family to make 
up the wedding party: 
"so that nobody got a hurt feeling or 
anything. 
So the whole 
family would be represented at these 
weddings. They were bia, mayor, ma or affa_irs!" The women would be 
preparing for_the wedding months ahead of tmie. 
IAW-PT-AO35 - 
3 
I ask if the groom would go to pick the bride up at her house 
before the ceremony. Susan says the groom is not supposed to see 
the bride until she arrives to the church. She thinks this is a 
tradition for everybody, not necessarily for Italians. 
Susan and Ken got married in 1978. Her wedding took place in the 
afternoon, at 6 o'clock, and the reception ended around midnight. 
Ken says that there are many Italian people in Pueblo who got 
married with the "masciata," the term used in both Sicilian and 
Calabrese dialect to refer to an arranged marriage. Ken's mother 
and Susa•ns 
motFi-er— sa — th--t 
eir mothers' marriages were both 
"masciata" marriages, as well as Charlie and Francis De Luca Is one. 
I ask about the dress for the bride. The women say it has always 
been white. 
Ken and Susan's son, about 10 years old, has been listening to the 
conversation and comes up with a "Well, I'm glad I'm Italian! I 
think we all are." And his grandfather replies: "You said that 
right, buddy!" 
We continue to talk about the dresses: Susan says she noticed in 
the older wedding pictures that women wore gloves and the ring over 
the glove. 
Since we got a description of a more recent wedding day, I ask for 
a description of a wedding day of 50 years ago. Palma, Susan's 
mother, says she didn't have a "masciata." Her husband and her were 
neighbors in Blende. Her husband would come to her father's store 
when he was a kid and "that was it." Palma had a 2 year engagement. 
"Engagement was almost like a wedding in those days: 
real big 
dinner." The immediate family would get together and the mother of 
the bride would cook spaghetti and meat-balls, chicken, 
"a huge 
dinner." There were no presents for the engagement, except for the 
engagement ring, which she has given to her daughter Susan. She 
received the ring from her future husband, she didn't buy anything 
for him. 
In those days, 
she says, 
the husband had to buy the 
wedding gown for the bride. Palma got married April 27, 1941. At 
that time there was no rehearsal dinner. 
ro•sSea• ask if her mother prepared any sheets for her and she says: "She 
made me a big hope chest, cider chest of sheets, towels, and bed-
spreads 
I mean, you didn1t have to buv a towel or sheets." Susan 
has also a hope-chest. She says: "I  have a cider chest and I still 
have yards and vards of hand-cr cheted lace that they 
ut as a 
edging on the sheet 
" Ken's mother says that 
they wou d also show the trousseau in the bedroom. The trousseau 
was shown the day before the wedding. I ask if somebody helped the 
bride to display the trousseau and Palma says she wasn't allowed 
to go and see the house until the day she got married. Palma Is 
sister brought the trousseau chest to her new house and she spread 
IAW-PT-AO35 - 
4 
the hope chest content all over the bed. 
The p_e aration of Palma's trousseau was started when she was a 
kid. She says that her mother was crocheting when she was 13 years 
old. Susan comments that Palma did the same thing for her, she made 
things and put them in the cider chest for her. "That's an Italian 
tradition. Nobody did that." Palma comments that today they give 
showers now, 
implying that the hope-chest tradition has been 
replaced by the bridal shower. Palma did not have a shower. Her 
sisters, who got married five years after her, both had showers. 
I ask what her mother thought about the shower tradition. Palma 
says that her mother thought it was ok, 
while her father was 
opposed to that: he didn't think it was necessary. 
I ask Palma to tell us about her wedding day. She says she was very 
unhappy from the minute she got up. She remembers she didn't like 
the way her hair looked. She remembers the lilies, which she didn't 
like 
either. 
Charlie 
remembers 
lilies being present 
at many 
weddings he witnessed. Palma says: "Lilies ... they were a sign of 
virginity, that's what they claimed." She went shopping for her 
wedding dress with her mother-in-law, who paid for it. 
Side B 
Ken's parents and sister, MaryAnne, leave. David and I continue to 
interview Ken and Susan and Susan's mother, Palma Ferraro, while 
her father remains silent in a chair behind us. 
Palma says there is a big difference in weddings today. They still 
have big weddings now, but people sleep together before the wedding 
while at her time, she says: "You had to be a virgin in those days. 
If you weren't a virgin, oh boy! ... They'd send your mother-in-law 
over to check your bed! ... Mine (mother-in-law) came with the key 
and opened my door, seven in the morning! ...My folks didn't believe 
in it, but the Sicilian people believed in it." 
I ask what were the tricks that the friends and guests would play 
to the bride and groom. Palma says that sometimes they would kidnap 
the bride. This didn't happen to her but she knows it happened, as 
a form of practical joke, to other people. Palma was accompanied 
to the church by her parents and bride's maids. 
There were 2 
weddings that day in the same church at the same time. "There were 
so many weddings those days ... Sunday, it had to be on Sunday, no 
Saturday wedding, no week-day wedding." 
They got married at Mt. Carmel. Susan is surprised and comments 
that today a bride would share her ceremony with anybody: "It shows 
you how self-centered people have become since then." I ask if 
there was a time during the year when there were more weddings. 
Palma says that there were wedding year round. June and April were 
big months for weddings. She wanted to get married in May but her 
IAW-PT-A035 - 
5 
mother said: "no, no May-wedding. I don't know why." I suggest is 
probably because was the month dedicated to the Virgin, and Palma 
seems to agree. They couldn't get married during Lent either, and 
Palma adds that they did not believe in getting married in November 
either. 
Palma continues saying that her folks, especially her mother, did 
"weird things": "My mother believed in putting a shoe out on All 
Souls Day, they would fill it up with candies and boy! We were 8 
of us, we'd wake up in the morning and find a sack of candies in 
our shoes!" I ask if they found also a piece of coal in it (the 
Italian tradition) but she says they always found candies in it. 
Her mother explained to the kids that if they were good the Souls 
would come and put candies in your shoe. Susan asks her why she 
never did that for her kids and Palma replies: "Because I thought 
it was stupid!" She adds that her husband's family did not believe 
in All Souls Day tradition. 
I ask what were the other "strange things" her mother would do. 
Palma says: "Oh like on Christmas Eve: if you weren't asleep before 
midnight you'd hear all the dogs and cats talk ... and that would 
frighten us. I'd go to bed early on Christmas Eve so I wouldn't 
hear the animals talk. And if you hear them talk, you would die, 
or some." 
Susan says they had the tradition with the evil eye that the only 
time that they could tell you how to do it was on Christmas Eve. 
Palma says: "Ya, the 'malocchio"" (Italian term for evil eye). 
Ken tells us that they would get a bowl of water and pour oil in 
it: "They had this ritual: if the oil sank you had the malocchio." 
Palma corrects him and says you had the malocchio if the oil spread 
in the water. I ask what they do to get rid of the malocchio. Palma 
says : "All they do is put some over your head and, I don't know." 
Susan says: 
"They say things, they have these chants. We taped 
Nonna Ferraro, we taped her doing it one time for us ... She kept 
making the sign of the cross over and over again and chanting." 
Palma says that when she was a kid, and she would have a headache 
she would say: "Mom, make me the malocchio, I have got a headache, 
and so she'd make me the malocchio and I'd feel real good. like I 
said, it's all psychological and she would yawn aahh, you know, and 
say: "oh, it was a boy who made you the malocchio," or "it was a 
girl," you know." 
Ken continues to repeat that that generation was tough and gives 
us an example saying that his father received an ultimatum from his 
future father-in-law: either he was going to marry his daughter 
soon or he would have not allow him to see her anymore. Susan says 
that people that generation would tolerate so much more than people 
tolerate now. She shows respect for women who worked hard to raise 
big families: "these people ... did what they had to do, they just 
worked real hard and they never felt sorry for themselves." 
IAW-PT-AO35 - 
6 
Ken gives us examples of tragedies that happened in his grandmother 
Cuchiara's family: 
young people who died of pneumonia or flu 
epidemics: "They grieved so hard and they had so many tragedies, 
you can't believe it." 
I tell Palma that she never finished telling us about her wedding 
day. She says they had a band playing at the church steps and 
people threw pennies and wedding candies and rice. I ask if anybody 
put a ribbon in front of the couple for them to cut when they 
walked out of the church (an Italian tradition called "serraglio"), 
but Palma says that they just walked out of the church and people 
followed them in the cars and went to May Hall for the reception. 
Palma says they needed a big hall because her husband's family is 
very big (they had 200 people at the wedding). The Ferraro family 
is related to the Musso and Giadone families, who have always been 
"real clannish, real close knit family." 
Susan and Ken had 150 people at their wedding. Susan explains that 
since she had been married once before and had a big wedding (600 
people) , she did not feel like having a huge wedding, but still 
they had what everybody considered "a big Italian wedding." 
We go back to Palma' s wedding. The ceremony at the church ended 
about 1 or 2 o'clock in the afternoon. After that they went home 
to freshen up and change and then went to the hall. The bridal 
party had dinner first and after them everybody else joined in. I 
ask Palma who paid for the wedding. She says they did half and half 
between the bride and groom's families. Palma says: "My dad was 
Calabrese, and he was, you know how they say "Calabrese capatosta" 
(which means hard-headed), so he always believed that the groom was 
supposed to pay, the groom had all the expenses and his mother (her 
husband's mother) was real strange, she said "we believe in going 
half and half," and so that's what we did. 
Susan and Ken did the same thing. Palma adds that her husband paid 
for her wedding dress as well as for the ring. At that time the 
husband did not wear a wedding band like they do now. 
I ask Palma if her family was happy about her marrying a Sicilian, 
her family being calabrese. She says that at the time there was a 
sort 
of 
rivalry between 
Sicilians 
and 
Calabreses, 
and Palma 
believes she was the one who broke the ice. 
Before we leave David asks our guests to identify the people in the 
photographs, as well as the people who hold the framed photos when 
Ken Light took the family portrait. 
Grandmother Mary Morone carried the picture with her father: Felix 
Capanna and her mother, who died when Mary was young (Ken and Susan 
don't remember her name). 
Toni Fortino was holding Felix's parents, an old picture that goes 
IAW-PT-AO35 - 
7 
back to 1860 circa. 
Susan's father: Anthony Ferraro was holding the picture of his 
parents: 
Carluzza 
(they pronounce the name "Carluda") 
and John 
Ferraro. 
Ken's mother, 
Carmela Cuchiara was holding the picture of her 
parents: Frank and Mary Louise Morone. 
Ken and Susan's son, 
Anthony, 
was holding the picture of his 
maternal grandparents, Palma and Anthony Ferraro. 
Palma tells us about her name. She was born a week before Christmas 
and baptized on Palms' Day, so she got the names "Natalina Palma." 
End of tape. interview continues on IAW-PT-AO36 
Document: IAW-PT-A036 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/8/90 
Informant/Event: Ken and Susan Cuchiara's family reunion 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: Al 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A035. 
I asked Palma 
Ferraro about her baptism. 
She didn't have a 
particular close relationship with her godparents. I ask if a woman 
after giving birth was supposed to go to church to receive a 
special blessing (an old Italian tradition). Palma says she never 
heard of something similar. 
I ask about birthdays tradition%. Palma says they were too big of 
a family to receive presents for their birthdays but her mother 
would cook the kid's favorite dinner. Most of her siblings liked 
"cavatellis," the calabrese term for "gnocchi," a shell shaped 
noodle made with flour and boiled potatoes. 
To conclude the interview I ask if they consider themselves an 
Italian, Italian-American or an American family. Anthony, Ken and 
Susan's kid, answers for everybody: "A big Italian family!" Palma 
says that Ken's family is a lot more Italian than everybody else. 
Ken says that he and his brothers try to keep the traditions alive. 
His brother still makes home made sausages, his mother still cans 
tomatoes and still celebrate the holidays with the traditional 
food, 
like fish for Christmas eve. 
Ken says that when he was 
growing up his mother would fix baccala with suco (salted dry cod 
with tomato sauce), and anchovies and macaroni. She would raise 
hell if anybody ate a piece of meat for Christmas Eve. On Christmas 
Day they would eat ravioli. 
Palma says that on Christmas Eve they all had to kiss her dad's 
hand, before sitting down at the table. He would say "Benedico,"(I 
bless you) to everyone who kissed his hand. 
Ken says that he thinks it is kind of neat to try to keep some of 
the traditions alive even if he knows that with each generation 
they fade out more and more. He does not expect that his son's wife 
one day will know what baccala' 
is. 
His wife adds "or that he 
marries an Italian, 
for that matter!... unless she is his fifth 
cousin!" 
I ask where they spend Christmas eve now. Ken says they always have 
Christmas Eve at his mother's house with the fish dinner and on 
Christmas Day they cook gnocchi and ravioli at home. Ken's mother 
IAW-PT-AO36 - 
2 
has always cooked for the holidays, 
"in abbondanza," Ken says, 
which means "abundantly" in Italian. She gets the whole family 
together for Thanksgiving, Easter and Christmas: "You can't take 
those holidays away from her." Ken says they butcher the goats for 
Easter, "the crapet" (dialect for capretto, little goat), and for 
Ken "it wouldn't be Easter without it!" 
Susan comments that on her side of the family they used to get 
together for the holidays more when nonna, her grandmother, was 
alive. Palma doesn't consider her family as "typical Italian" at 
least not as much as Ken's family (the Cuchiara/Morone family) or 
the Musso/Gordo family related to them. 
Ken says that Pueblo was once called "Little Chicago," from the 20s 
on: organized crime and gambling were common. Susan adds that after 
the war a lot of people owned bars and had businesses and held 
games and a lot of money passed through this town. Ken says they 
even had "the black hand" here in Pueblo. His grandma Cuchiara told 
him the story of when they approached her husband, grandpa Modesto, 
telling him that they would have dropped off some gallons of oil 
at his house. He told them in Sicilian: "I can use one gallon for 
the "insalata" (salad). The rest, you know where you can put it!" 
Grandma was scared for a long time after that. 
I ask Palma how funerals were one time and if they are very 
different from today's funerals. She says that she was 10 years old 
when her young brother died of fever. Her mother made the kids wear 
black for 2 years and prohibited them to turn on the radio. About 
the funeral itself, Palma says that it was horrible. She remembers 
people crying a lot, 
her husband says they hired professional 
mourners. The ladies came to the house the night before the funeral 
to say the rosary; the family would cook a big dinner for the 
people who would come to greet the family and they would bring food 
too. Palma says that even today some family have the dead body 
brought back to the house. Anthony, her husband, says that the 
Bojons (the Slovenians) still do that today. Palma comments on the 
term Bojons saying that is a term that the Slovenians use for 
themselves. 
I ask if they would dress up the dead body and Palma says that even 
if 
they were poor they would spend their last penny for an 
expensive casket. I tell them that in Italy we have the tradition 
of putting near the body of the deceased an object or something 
that would make clear what his profession was when he was alive 
(like a tool for a farmer). They say that they just put a rosary 
with the body. The only example they can think of is a person they 
knew in Las Vegas, who was a casino executive: when he died they 
put a straight flush in his hands. 
Ken says that they used to take pictures of the dead in the coffin. 
To explain to us why they did that he points to the picture of 
Modesto Cuchiara's parents and tells us the story: "they sent their 
IAW-PT-AO36 - 
3 
kids to America and they thought that if the kids came here they 
became rich. And part of the reason why they thought they became 
rich: because my grandpa did make money and he would send them 
money. And then, the older generation that stayed in Sicily, or 
Italy, thought that all the people who came here became rich. Well, 
it really wasn't true. They didn't become rich. They made money but 
didn't become rich. And then when some of them that came to America 
would die, the ones in the old country wouldn't believe it because 
they wouldn't get this big sum of money. So they would take a 
photograph of the person in the coffin and they'd make it 8 by 10 
and they would take this photograph and put it in a black envelope 
and had a white writing on it, you know. The black envelope was to 
let you know that it was bad news." Ken says that Sammy (Turiddu) 
Pisciotta told him this. 
Ken himself has seen these pictures. His 
grandmother Anne Cuchiara has a picture of the girl that fell on 
the bicycle. He mentions another Italian man who had a picture of 
his dead sister in a coffin hanging on the living room wall. 
Palma says that his dad paid for his father and mother to come to 
America. 
End of the interview. For more information see my fieldnotes (IAW-
PT-F07089O.a) and David Taylor's fieldnotes. 
Document: IAW-PT-A037 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/9/90 
Informant/Event: Watching the family videos with Esther Thomas and 
Patty Thomas Dionisio 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
For related documentation see my fieldnotes IAW-PT-f070990.a. 
We are at the house of Esther Thomas on highway 50 in Vineland. 
Patty Thomas Dionisio, her oldest daughter, is here too. We are 
going to watch the video entitled "Family," which Patty and her 2 
sisters put together last year for their parents. On the tape's 
cover I read: 
"Family: 
in honor of 2 very special people, 
our 
parents, 
Tony 
and Esther. 
December 
25, 
1989." 
Following the 
dedication there are the titles of the songs which form the 
soundtrack for the video. Patty chose the songs and with her 2 
sisters, Peggy and ToniSue, they put the pictures together. They 
selected the pictures from their parents' collection and from their 
own collections. The parents did not know about the project, it was 
a surprise present for them last Christmas. 
I ask Patty how she chose the songs. She picked songs that she 
liked and songs that she knew her mother liked. One particular song 
"somewhere my love" was Esther's mother's favorite song; in fact 
Esther says they used that song for her funeral. Patty chose songs 
from the 30s and 40s to be the soundtrack for the pictures from 
that period, 
songs like "Embraceable You," and "Stardust." The 
video was put together by a store in Pueblo. 
Patty says the video is very long, maybe 1 and a half hours. Patty 
says the beginning could be interesting for me, because it shows 
the grandparents. We wait for the video to start. The VCR cannot 
be stopped by the remote control (Esther cannot figure out what the 
problem is) so we'll watch the sequence of pictures and only once 
on a while we will stop the video and rewind it, whenever either 
Patty or Esther want to show me a particular picture that they 
think is interesting. The video is not narrated: Patty says that 
her mother and herself know who the people in the pictures are and 
that she didn't think it was necessary to explain it, but now she 
thinks that for the future it would be nice to have it redone with 
a narration in the background. 
The first segment of the video, with "Somewhere My Love" in the 
background, shows pictures of the Mauro and Colliani families. The 
first picture shows grandma Mauro, Esther's maternal grandmother. 
It is followed by the picture of Esther's paternal grandparents. 
IAW-PT-A037 - 
2 
Then wedding pictures of Esther's parents, Julia and Jim Colliani, 
and pictures of Julia and Jim during one of the many trips Jim used 
to take to visit his produce buyers. Then pictures of Julia with 
her second husband John Perucci (Esther's father died at the age 
of 52 and his wife remarried soon after). 
Several pictures show 
members 
of 
the 
Mauro 
family, 
grandma's 
sister 
Annie 
during 
birthdays and weddings celebrations. 
The second segment starts with the song "Embraceable You" and shows 
pictures of Esther when she was a kid (the first one is of Esther 
with one of her cousins), and her side of the family. Esther wants 
to stop the video to show me a man in one of the pictures, the son 
of one of the ladies portrayed in the photo published by the Pueblo 
Chieftain. His name was Rossarelli, he married a second cousin of 
Esther. Then pictures of the 
grandparents who lived in the stone 
house (now a garage) near Peggy's house on highway 50. The building 
was built in 1930 circa. 
Tony Thomas enters the living room and sits in an armchair. He will 
watch the video and comments on some pictures until he falls 
asleep. 
More pictures of Esther growing up: in front of the Vineland high-
school where she graduated from. Her class just celebrated the 50th 
reunion. Then pictures of Esther when she was 21. Patty says she 
was very active in the parent-teacher Association. Then pictures 
of Esther's sister and her sons and daughters, then her brother and 
his children. Until now most of the pictures were black and white, 
now some are color pictures. After Esther's side of the family we 
move to Tony's family: Tony's parents: Emilia and Emilio Thomas (Di 
Tommaso); Tony and his sisters; Tony stationed in Alaska during 
World War II; 
Tony with his mother, 
sisters and brothers; Las 
Vegas' 
"Red Garter Casino"; more recent pictures showing Tony 
opening Christmas' presents. 
New song, and pictures of Tony and Esther when they were dating and 
then a wedding picture. Pictures of the old house where Esther and 
Tony lived before remodeling it. 
Pictures of the house warming 
party. Pictures of their three daughters when they were kids in the 
house; when they were teenagers; then pictures of Patty and Peggy's 
kids, Esther's grandkids: Julie, Frankie, Brandon, Nathan, and C.T. 
ToniSue's kids weren't born yet. More recent pictures of Esther and 
Tony. 
One picture was published 
in the newspaper: 
the paper 
featured Esther and Tony's story at one time. 
Peggy comes in and out the living room (she is working at the fruit 
market just across her parents' house). 
New song from the soundtrack of "An officer and a Gentleman." Patty 
suggests that we stop the video now. From now on, the video will 
show pictures of each daughter with her family. 
IAW-PT-AO37 - 
3 
First Patty as a teenager, then with her future husband Chuck 
Dionisio. Then pictures of Chuck when he was growing up. 
Peggy comments that she 
has never seen pictures of herself when 
she was a baby. More pictures of Patty and Chuck in California; 
pictures of Chuck working in the farm: Chuck unloading a truck of 
pumpkins; Chuck on the forklift: "where he spends 90% of his time," 
Patty comments; Chuck loading a truck of peppers. Pictures of their 
wedding. Patty got married at Saint Therese's church in Vineland 
in 
1967. 
1200 people were invited to their reception at the 
fairgrounds. More pictures of Patty: at the beach; when she got her 
Master's degree in education; pictures of a Halloween party at her 
house in 1984; other pictures taken at different parties. 
New song "Children of the World" and pictures of Patty's children. 
First pictures of her daughter, Julie, who lives in San Diego with 
her husband; 
pictures 
of Julie growing up, 
taking her 
first 
Communion; on the swim team; with her pig called Penelope for which 
she received prizes at the fair; playing the piano (Esther taught 
piano to all her grandkids). New song for the pictures of Julie's 
wedding. 
She got married at Saint Joseph's in Blende (she had a 
big wedding too: 
800 
people); 
pictures 
of the ceremony, 
the 
reception, the display of food. 
Esther offers me some cookies. I ask Esther what are the big 
differences she sees 
in weddings today 
in comparison to the 
weddings at her time. Esther repeats what she has told me once 
before: at her wedding the Italian prisoners of war were invited, 
which made the girls happy because at the time most of the men were 
away for the war. She says the food is a lot more elaborate today 
at weddings than it used to be, except when they had the wedding 
at home and cooked all the food. The weddings used to last 2/3 
days. Esther got married during the war, so she did not have much. 
She had cold cuts and sandwiches at her wedding. Peggy asks me if 
we have the Grand March at Italian weddings. I tell her that I did 
not know about the Grand March until yesterday (Susan and Ken 
Cuchiara told me about it: see IAW-PT-A035/A036). Esther thinks it 
is an American custom and not an Italian one. Peggy thought it was 
an Italian custom since she has seen it only at Italian weddings. 
Both Patty and Peggy had a Grand March during their weddings. 
Patty insists that we stop the video and start to look at the 
Dionisio's one. I ask her to tell me what happens next in this 
video. 
The next section shows pictures of her 2 sons, first Frankie then 
C.T. Then a section of Peggy growing up, and Lethan, her husband. 
Then 2 sections for her 2 kids, Brandon and Nathan. Then the same 
thing for ToniSue and her 3 kids. The last section shows pictures 
of the whole family together. We decide to fast forward the video 
until we get to the last section. While we do that, the video shows 
one of the pictures with the kids on an agricultural float. Patty 
tells me that there was an agricultural movement all over the 
IAW-PT-A037 - 
4 
States, around 10 years ago. Esther says that the farmers felt they 
weren't on a par with other industries in this country, because 
costs kept rising and their incomes lessened. So farmers took their 
tractors and marched on Washington from all over the country. From 
Pueblo the farmers went to the capitol in Denver with tractors and 
big trucks. They made 2 big floats: one for the State Fair parade 
and one (which was in the video) for the kids' day parade. Other 
farming families from the area (the Mesa, Vineland, and Avondale) 
got together at the Thomas' market to build the floats to be 
represented in the parade. 
Esther is in charge of the remote control. She fast-forwards the 
tape and stops once on a while whenever she sees something she 
wants to show me. We see pictures of Peggy's first Communion and 
wedding. She got married in 1969. I ask Peggy who paid for her 
wedding. 
She says the bride's family pays for everything. The 
husband pays for the rehearsal dinner. Peggy chose the song for her 
section: Barbra Streisand's "The way we were." 
Side B 
Esther stops the video to show me pictures of the old market called 
"Riley:" 
(I'm not sure about the spelling) 
grandpa Colliani's 
nickname was "Riley Big Shot," 
from the TV show "The Life Of 
Riley." This character used to lay around in his amaca and give the 
orders. More pictures of the market and of the girls who used to 
work there. I ask when they changed the name of the market from 
Riley to Thomas. Esther says they changed it 3 or 4 years ago. More 
pictures show the women making pepper braids. More pictures show 
work at the farm; the Thomas stand at the State Fair. There is also 
an aerial view of the Thomas property showing the market, the 
warehouse in the back, the house and the fields. 
Another section shows newspapers' clips documenting every time the 
Thomas family has been in the paper. There is one article written 
in Italian which says "Il sergente Thomas in licenza (sergeant 
Thomas on vacation). Esther says they had an Italian paper in 
Pueblo. It was run by the Italian man who got also the University 
status for the college in Pueblo. 
Peggy has been looking for a photo album with the pictures she took 
of the burning down of the old market, but she can't find it. I ask 
them if I'm stopping them from having dinner, but they say it's 
still early for that and Esther invites me to join them for dinner 
at a local restaurant later. Patty tells me that these days her 
husband comes home around 7 pm for dinner, but as soon as they 
start harvesting is going to be 9 pm or even later. In the winter 
time they have dinner at 6, but in the summer it varies a lot. 
Esther rewinds the tape to find the picture that shows the roasting 
of the peppers ( 
in the afternoon she showed me in the warehouse the 
machine they use to roast the peppers). The soundtrack for the 
whole section that shows the work at the market is "Nobody does it 
IAW-PT-AO37 - 
5 
better." Patty says she thought the song was perfect for that! 
We finally get to the last section of the video which shows 
pictures of family gatherings. Earlier Esther had shown me the 
basement of her house where the family, 
gets 
ebrate 
holidays. Esther says that for Christmas Eve and Christmas day they 
have her family and Tony's family together. For Christmas Eve they 
cook baccala' . Esther tells me of the 
llwhite.maalll 
that—al-1 
Italians, 
she  says, 
have 
for 
Chriqtnn_-,_ev_ej fish 
and white 
spaghet i, wi 
no meat at all. The video shows pictures of the 
Christmas gathering in the basement; the song played is a Christmas 
carol. Esther remembers that they used not to have meat on Fridays, 
while now the only time during which they don't eat meat is for 
Christmas Eve, Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. The video continues 
with pictures of relatives during Christmas celebrations. 
For 
Easter the immediate family gather here and they have spaghetti 
(not lamb). For Christmas, Esther says, everybody brings food: they 
send out invitations and write on those what the menu is. 
Esther 
says that they have done it so long that everybody knows what to 
bring. Patty for example, knows that she is supposed to bring the 
sauce and meat-balls. Esther makes pizzelle for Christmas. She 
mixes the dough and Tony cooks them. I ask for the recipe: 6/7 cups 
of flour, a dozen eggs, four cubes of butter (she usually uses 2 
cubes of butter and 2 of margarine) and mix that with a little bit 
of anise flavoring, 4 cups of sugar. Then she bakes it using the 
electric machine appositely for pizzelle. 
The video shows pictures of birthdays parties. 
(Brandon, Peggy's 
oldest son, comes in.) Then Halloween party at Peggy's house; the 
anniversary party for the 40th marriage anniversary of Tony and 
Esther. 
I ask if I can borrow the videos and make a copy of it for the 
library. It's getting late and we decide to start the Dionisio 
family video and stop it whenever it's time to go to dinner. 
Patty says her mother-in-law died in January 2 years ago. So with 
her 2 sister-in-laws they made the video in her memory. I read on 
the tape "Dedicated to the memory of Angelina Dionisio." Patty made 
20 copies of each videos and gave it as present to the family 
members. She wanted to make sure that everybody had a copy because 
people have been fighting over some of the older pictures. 
The video starts with Chuck and Russell Dionisio's grandparents on 
the paternal side. 
Then continues with Chuck's mother and her 
brother and sister. Then a picture of the father, Russell Senior 
and the kids after the mother passed away (the kids lived in an 
orphanage after their mother died). Pictures of the three kids 
growing up. Then a picture of the Dionisio brother from Italy who 
came to visit his brother in Pueblo. 
Then pictures of Russell 
senior and his wife Angie. Then pictures of Angie and her sister: 
Tommasina (her daughter AnneMarie owns the Giadone's restaurant on 
IAW-PT-AO37 - 
6 
the highway). Russell Senior and his brother married 2 sisters. 
Esther shows me an old Happy New Year card in Italian, sent from 
Rome to her father Jim Colliani. 
Patty says that one of the main reasons why they decided to make 
the videos was because everybody could have the pictures. They were 
trying to get some of the pictures made but it cost a fortune to 
reprint them while copies of the video cost only 7 dollars (the 
master video costs 50/60 dollars). 
The video is structured in the same way as the previous one. After 
the section of the paternal grandparents, there is the section on 
the maternal grandparents, the Patrocco family. Since I don't know 
the family personally, it is kind of hard for me to follow who is 
who. We fast-forward until we get to the section with pictures of 
Angelina 
(Angie) 
Patrocco, 
Patty's 
mother-in-law. 
There 
are 
pictures of her house and garden with grapevines: it was on 4th 
street 
in 
town. 
Pictures 
of Angie growing up; 
Angie 
at 
the 
orphanage. 
End of tape. Interview continues on IAW-PT-A038. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO38 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/9/90 
Informant/Event: Watching Family Videos with Esther Thomas and 
Patty Thomas Dionisio 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A037. 
We continue to watch the family video of the Dionisio family. 
Russell Jr., Chuck and MaryAnne Dionisio 
I s pictures of their first 
communion; more pictures of them as teenagers; pictures of Russell 
and Chuck when they started to farm (Russell was 17 and Chuck was 
15) . 
Patty suggests we skip the next section of pictures which show the 
kids of the first marriage of Chuck's mother, Angie. She went to 
work for a men who had 4 children and ended up marrying the man and 
raised those 4 children plus one daughter of their own. When her 
husband died she remarried Russell Dionisio Senior and had Russell 
Jr., Chuck and MaryAnne. We fast-forward kind of slowly and we can 
still see the succession of pictures showing the 4 children growing 
up and getting married. Their last name is Clemente; they all live 
in Vineland near the Dionisio. They are also in farming. 
We get to the section of the video that shows pictures of Russell 
Jr., or Rusty growing up, getting married and continuing with his 
4 kids, 2 daughters and 2 sons. Rusty Jr. farms with his father, 
while ToniJoe does not want to be in farming at all. This is a real 
long section, Patty says, because Russell's kids take a lot of 
pictures. 
We fast-forward until we get to Chuck and Patty's section. We watch 
that while eating lady-fingers made by Mrs. Dazzio. After that 
there is MaryAnne's section and the video ends, like the Thomas' 
one, with a section on family celebrations. 
End of interview. For related documentation see my fieldnotes IAW-
PT-f07O990.a 
Document: IAW-PT-A039 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/11/90 
Informant/Event: Cortese, Rose; Cortese, Joe; GagliAnn, Giuseppina; 
Gagliano, Carmela 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: Al 
Site: 6 
For related documentation see my fieldnotes IAW-PT-f07ll90,b and 
David Taylor's fieldnotes and photos. 
Today is the 11 of July 1990 and Paola Tavarelli is interviewing 
Rose 
Gagliano 
Cortese 
at 
her 
grocery 
store 
called 
Bessemer 
MerEia i 
o nr Gagliano grocer , 
or Gag's , as people call it. We are 
in the living quarters in the back of the store. Rose's house is 
2 doors down from the store but these days Rose takes care of her 
mother, Maria Carmela, and sleeps here in the bedroom adjacent to 
her's. Maria Carmela is going to be 95 on the 31 of July. Rose was 
born July 15, 1921, the year of the flood that devastated Pueblo. 
Rose's husband, Joe Cortese was born on April 13, 1920. 
I ask Rose about the story of her family and she starts telling me 
the history of the grocery store. The store started in two small 
rooms adjacent to the present store which are now used as storage 
space. Then her father 
Joe r4aql iano, who started the h,l- inacs, 
built the store that still operates today. He borrowed 200 dollars 
from his brother and he 
ng door to door 
selling milk. He also worked at the smelter. He was from Lur.ca 
Sicula; he came to Pueblo alone, and many years later sent for his 
mother and helped him to bring his wife and son over from Sicily. 
Once Joe left Italy, he never saw his parents again. Rose doesn't 
know how old her father was when he came to the States. She says 
that her cousin (Josephine Gagliano, already interviewed by Paula 
Manini) who is supposed to show up a little later at the store 
might know more about this. 
With the money Joe Gagliano borrowed he bought merchandise to put 
in the store. 
There were no other stores in the area so Rose 
remembers she used to walk to a "five and dime" store downtown 
Pueblo with her mother to buy needles, thread, odds and ends and 
bring them back to their store and sold them to the neighbors. Rose 
was 2 years old when the store opened (1923) . It was a thriving 
business at the time because there were not too many other grocery 
stores at the time in the neighborhood. Rose's father would buy the 
meat from a store on Santa Fe drive. 
Mainly the store bought 
imported goods from New York. "Tie thing 
that 
•• *P Q• > 
> l teat 
people still want are: ...baccala', at)  
s 
Christmas time: we sell an 
awful lot of baccala', a lot of it. And our olives ...wP get—them 
IAW-PT-AO39 - 
2 
from New York and they are from French Morocco; and we get the 
olive oil, that of course comes from Italy. We get pecorino romano, 
that 
of course comes from sheep's milk in Italy; and sarde salate 
(salted 
sardines) 
...and 
then 
the 
things made 
like here 
in 
Colorado: 
is the ricotta that people buy to make the lasagna." 
The baccala' used to look like a fish tail and it was black. Now 
it is skinless and boneless and is white. Joe Cortese, who comes 
into the room, says that people prefer this one because it is much 
cleaner. It still needs to be soaked in water for a few days, like 
the other kind, before you can cook it. I ask Rose what her recipe 
for baccala' is. She says they do their baccala' sweet and sour 
while most people don't do it that way. Rose soaks it 2 or 3 days, 
and keeps changing the water; then she dries it and flours it and 
puts it in the frying pan until it's brown. When it is all brown, 
she gets green olives and mashes them and fries them with a lot of 
onions and after that she puts a layer of cod fish and a layer of 
olives and onions one after the other in a pan, then she gets a 
glass of white vinegar with sugar in it and sprinkles it on top of 
it, and bakes it in the oven for 20 minutes. This is the recipe 
Rose uses for her family. She never cooked baccala' to sell in the 
store. She never cooked anything to sell in the store. 
At the beginning, when the store opened, Rose's parents and herself 
worked in the store. Rose was about 7 years old, she remembers, 
when she was selling ice cream cones and candies. "I have been here 
all my life! ...I'm tired, very very tired." 
Both Joe and Rose say 
they will have to retire soon. Joe does not see very well anymore: 
he has problems with his retina and has no vision in one eye. He 
says he is lucky to be still doing what he is doing. Their two 
sons, 38 and 34 years old, live outside Pueblo, one in Denver and 
one in Colorado Springs. They both have good jobs and Rose told 
them not to leave their jobs because it's not worth it. 
Rose 
doesn't think they could make enough money with the store. 
I ask about the changes in the store over the years. Rose refers 
to a picture she gave Russell Frank during a  revious visit, which 
shows tfie 
fftord--in the 30s, 
and s e says: 
"It was loaded with 
everything. When we bought bananas, we didn't buy a few pounds like 
we buy now: 
we bought the entire bunch!" 
They used to buy 
vegetables by the sack and not in small quantity like they do now. 
Rose sees the big change in the quantity of merchandise that they 
used to buy and sell. The ve etables  were bought from the farmers: 
peddlers would come to sQll at th 
. Some of the 
armers were 
also customers of the store and they would trade their vegetables 
for grocery products. She says a lot of them had credit with them. 
She says they had very high credit bills and lot of them, when the 
depression came, never paid them back. Most of the peddlers were 
Italians. 
V 
In 1966 Rose and her husband took over the store. They were still 
ordering meat and Joe was still cutting meat at the time. Then it 
IAW-PT-AO39 - 
3 
got to a point that his eyes got too bad and they quit to carry 
meat all together. They stick to the sausages (for which they are 
famous in i
-own) because they sell a lot of them. They also still 
sell  a lot of 
pasta and imported cheese. They also carry the 
Ita tan  salted "ciceri," chick peas, which the supermarkets don't 
carry, and people who'want to buy Them know that they can buy them 
here. They get the ciceri or ceci from New York, in 25 pound boxes 
and they pack them in 1 pound packages with the label of the store. 
Joe goes to get a package for me. He brings back two different 
packages: one of roasted ceci, he says they are roasted in sand, 
and 
one 
of 
mixed 
ceci 
and 
fava 
beans. 
Both Mercedes 
Tonne 
[anthroplogy student] (who has been with us from the beginning of 
the interview filming the interview with her video-camera) and I 
taste the ceci and fava beans. 
Rose says she used to write the letters to order all this stuff 
from New York, while now they phone most of their orders in. 
The only supplier that Rose knew personally was the guy who sold 
the R&F pasta because he came to the store to advertise the new 
brand almost 60 years ago. Rose remembers they used to buy a whale 
freight car full of macaroni: 1300 boxes that they would unload 
themselves out of the train. Now, she says, they order maybe 50 
cases every 2 weeks. I ask when things started to change for the 
store. Rose says things started to change when the supermarkets and 
the wholesalers, like Andrew's produce in town, started and they 
can't compete with their prices. Joe says there used to be a lot 
of small grocery stores in this section of town; "Since I have been 
here I have seen at least 125/130 stores close up." 
They mention 
a few names: another Gagliano store, owned by Rose's uncle, was 
just around the corner; Gus's, now a bar, used to have a grocery 
store 
too; 
Freddy's 
tavern 
too; 
Pisciotta's 
grocery; 
Riggio 
grocery, they were all in the Bessemer district, now called the 
Minnequa district. 
Rose's father called the wholesale business "Rose's imports," from 
his daughter's name. Then, when he opened the bigger store, he 
called it "Bessemer Mercantile" from the name of the area. Still 
people say "I'm going to 'Gag's' for sausage!" 
The store used to carry meats of all kinds, Joe says: they had 
chicken, rabbit, kid goats especially for Easter time. 
We talk briefly about Italian regions: Rose says her mother was 
born in Lucca Sicula, in the province of Agrigento, and came to 
Pueblo to get married. She doesn't remember what year she came and 
we look in one of the 2 volumes of "The Historical Encyclopedia of 
Colorado," which Rose has on the table, where there is the story 
of Joe Gaqliano, grocer of Pueblo County. It says: "Joe Gagliano 
was born in_J-taly in 1889 to Antonia Rose Gagliano, native of 
Italy, whose marriage took place in that country ...Coming to the 
States alone at the age of 18, he first worked on farms for wages 
of 60 cents a day. He later worked in steel mills, supplementing 
his income by selling milk which lead to his going ; 
n+-o the f7rocery 
IAW-PT-A039 - 
4 
business. Mr. Gagliano married Mrs. Carmela Maria De Angelo, a 
native Italian, and the daughter of Anthony and Francis Provenzano 
De Angelo of Italy. There is one daughter of this marriage, Rose, 
now Mrs. Joe Cortese. There are 2 grandsons: Joseph and Gerald." 
I ask Rose if her mother used to tell her stories about her leaving 
Italy, but Rose says that if she did, she doesn't remember. She 
remembers the stories her mother used to tell her about the flood 
in Pueblo, and how they lost everything. The flood took the home 
they were living in and they lost all their belongings. The family 
moved for a while with somebody who lived on higher grounds. The 
Red Cross gave them clothes for Rose and different people gave them 
things. 
Side B 
I ask again about changes in the store. Rose says the store does 
not have anymore the barrels of pickles and the boxes. She says it 
used to be one of those "old fashion" stores, 
with the candy 
containers "and all that." Joe says they have done a lot of 
remodeling: they used to have a regular wood floor and Joe replaced 
it with an oak floor; the stove (a coal stove, they think) that was 
in the middle of the store has been removed; 
Rose says that 
everything was stocked all over in the store, everything was out 
in the open, and the only thing refrigerated was the meat. Joe adds 
that they didn't need refrigeration because everything sold so 
fast. Rose says that every time a customer came to pay his grocery 
bill they would give him a sack of fresh fruit. They used to buy 
their fruit from the William's produce market in town. 
The name of the Williams, once Guglielmo, brings about the topic 
of name changing. 
Rose mentions a relative of her family who 
changed his last name from Bongiorno 
(which means Good day in 
Italian) to "Days." She does not know why he decided to change the 
name. 
The Bessemer Mercantile's clientele was from all over town. Joe 
used 
o 
deliver twice a day to families on Goat Hill. Then they 
hired some help to do the deliveries. They were real busy, Rose 
says, around 1930/1935. 
I ask Rose about her marriage. She got married when she was 19 
years old. She met Joe in the grocery store. His family used to be 
customers. "We couldn't date. Oh my Goodness! My father would have 
strangled me! The only time I went to a movie, his sister ...and 
her husband, they had to accompany us to a movie, and that was the 
one and only time. I couldn't go out until I married him. In those 
days you wouldn't dare go out with a boy." They got married at Mt. 
Carmel church. Their wedding was a small one, in comparison to the 
wedding of her son for which they had 1300 people. Rose goes to get 
pictures 
of 
her 
son's 
wedding. 
Rose 
says 
that 
the 
whole 
neighborhood, the "kids" raised on this block, were invited to the 
IAW-PT-AO39 - 
5 
wedding. They posed together for a picture, the first one in the 
album: I recognize Anne Cuchiara and her daughter among other 
Italians: Capinera, Giuliano, Giacovelli, Andanusio, Masciotra. 
Rose's son did not married an Italian, however she converted to 
Catholicism and got married at Saint Mary's Church in Pueblo. 
We go through the pictures. Several of them show the tables where 
the food was set up. Rose shows me the meat balls, the sauce and 
the pasta. Rose insisted to bring their own sausages and pasta and 
had an Italian made the meat balls: "They cooked our sausage, I 
wouldn't have had it any other way ...and our own cookies too." 
Rose doesn't have much to say about her wedding. She says they had 
pasta and meat balls but it was a small wedding. She prefers to 
talk about "the biggy," her son's wedding. 
The store used to have the license to sell beer, but it costs too 
much money, Rose says, and it is not worth it anymore. Her father 
never made wine. They have always bought olives from California. 
They get boxes of olives in September, and Rose smashes them and 
lets them stay in water for several days. The water is changed 3 
times each day, and then she cures them with oregano, garlic and 
salt. 
r 
I ask Rose about other merchandise sold in the store. People did 
not buy much canned stuff but bought flour, sugar and pasta in 
great quantities. 
"They bought everything in loge  quanti-ties. 
Sugar 
and 
stuff 
...macaroni 
in 
25 
pound boxes. 
They bought 
everything in big suppiies." 
David Taylor comes back and Josephine Gagliano (a cousin of Rose) 
joins us for the rest of the interview. I ask how the sausages are 
made and if there have been any changes in the sausage making 
 
process during the years. Rose says there have been no changes: 
th_y still follow the recipe of Carmela, Rose's mother. Nothing is 
measured, Rose says. Her mother taught a guy, Richard Harris, how 
to make them, and he is the one who still makes them today: "She 
v 
showed him how much salt she puts in her fist, she showed him _how 
much of this she puts in her f 
is , s e 1 everything with-her f; at-
...-This is the way she used to cook too. She has got me cooking 
this way too now: I put everythin 
in my fish Isn't that crazy? 
...You can't give anybody a recipe!" 
She points at Josephine and says that she is the lady who makes all 
the good Italian cookies 
(she made the cookies for her son's 
wedding) and she also does not measure anything when she cooks. 
Process of making sausages: Rose says you have to get the pork and 
grind it. You have to bone it and grind it. She says they like to 
leave the meat overnight so that the seasoning gets in there. The 
"regular" seasoning is salt, pepper, chili, and fennel. The next 
morning the sausa-ges are made. The casing for the sausages is made 
of the intestines of the cow. Josephine adds that the casing in 
IAW-PT-AO39 - 
6 
Italy is different, this is more "Americanized." The casing is 
cured in salt, Joe says, and they have to wash the salt out before 
starting to stuff it with the sausage meat. Rose says that for 
Christmas they receive so many orders for sausages that they can't 
keep up with them. Last Christmas Josephine's husband was here 
helping them too. Everybody buys sausages for Christmas, she says, 
Slovenians, Italians, you name it. I ask if Italians don't have 
fish for Christmas eve. 
Rose says that they do: 
they buy the 
baccala' 
and pasta for Christmas Eve dinner. The sausages are 
pro ably cooked on 
Christmas 
day. 
I ask what they cook 
for 
Christmas eve but Rose says they are so tired that they just want 
to rest. 
They make only one variety of sausages, unless people place some 
special orders, requesting to leave out one ingredient or to add 
another one. 
Another thinq they sell a lot of for Christmas is string fps (dry 
figs on a string) that people use to make Christmas fig cookies 
End of tape. Interview continues on IAW-PT-A040. 
Document: IAW-PT-AO40 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Date: 7/11/90 
Informant/ Event: Cortese, Rose; Cortese, Joe; Gagliano, Josephine; 
Gagliano, Carmela 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: Al 
Site: 6 
Interview continues from IAW-PT-A039. 
David Taylor, Mercedes Tonne, and I are tasting the cookies that 
Rose Cortese encourage us to taste. 
Josephine Gagliano, Rose's 
cousin, is also present. I ask Joe Cortese to tell us about his 
family. His father and 3 brothers worked at CF&I. He worked there 
too. 
In 1936 he quit school and went to work at the mill as a 
packer. He worked in the mill about 2 years; he quit to start 
working at the grocery store. Rose jokes kind of bitterly about his 
decision: apparently she would have liked her husband to have a 
steady job at the mill instead of working in the grocery store. He 
got married in 1941 and left for the army in 1942 where he stayed 
3 and a half years. When he came back he continued to work for his 
father-in-law at the grocery store. 
Since Rose has mentioned before how difficult it was at those times 
to date her husband without strict supervision, I ask Joe to tell 
us if he had to formally ask for his wife's hand. He says that at 
the time the folks got together and "made a deal." Rose jokes 
bitterly about it and stresses the fact that "the crazy deal" was 
arranged by the parents. Joe's family used to live on Northern 
Avenue, a block away from the entrance of CF&I. Joe tells us that 
his parents had 9 children, 4 girls and 5 boys. His older brother 
was named Joe after the paternal grandfather; he died a year before 
he was born and in order to carry on the naming tradition he was 
named Joe 
too. 
His brothers continued to work at 
CF&I; 
The 
department Joe worked in closed down and that's the reason why he 
quit. 
He was working at the time for what they called "kids' 
wages", which was 2 dollars and 80 cents a day. When he started to 
work at the store he mainly dealt with the deliveries. His father-
in-law used to deliver before Joe started to work for him. Rose and 
Joe moved in a house just 2 doors down the store when they got 
married. 
I ask what they have today in the store that they did not use to 
carry in the older times. Rose says that they keep their shelves 
pretty empty today and that they don' t carry new items. For the 
Italian 
o le, she says, they keep the chick-peas, the cod fis 
as 
a 
up on anythign 
anymore, 
except 
for 
Christmas • items 
such 
as 
the 
cod 
fish 
IAW-PT-AO40 - 
2 
(baccala'), and the figs for the cookies. For Christmas they also 
carry torroni and panettoni (the pan-Italian candies and sweet 
breads popular in Italy today). 
David asks if there is another place in town where people could get 
the same stuff that they can buy here. Rose believes they are the 
only store in town where you can buy the ciceri (chick-peas ) 
, 
while 
other items can probably be found elsewhere . She says there is a 
doctor in town who orders the "panforte" for his employees at 
Christmas time. Panforte is a very rich round fruit cake, with nuts 
and candied fruit in it ( It is made in Siena , Tuscany but it's 
popular all over Italy today for Christmas). 
I ask about cheese . 
They carry the imported Italian pecorino cheese 
and the local goat cheese and ricotta that comes in from La Junta, 
Colorado . 
They deliver it every Friday and they buy a dozen cartons 
of ricotta . For Easter time , 
Rose says 
gh_of 
that because everybody buys it to make ravioli. 
Rose doesn 't make ravioli, Josephine does . Rose says she is a good 
cook : 
Rose 's mother taught her how to cook. Josephine worked in the 
grocery store for 12 years soon after she came from Italy when she 
was 18 years old. Joe says that he taught her to speak English. 
Josephine says she also went to school at night to learn English 
but then she quit because she had a baby. She starts talking about 
her 4 brothers back in Sicily and how strict they were with her, 
the only daughter in the family. 
She tells us the story of her brother who ran away from home once 
when she was 16, because an aunt of hers in Palermo , 
with whom she 
had stayed for a while, had made her a dress that did not have 
sleeves. When she went home and put on the dress her brother said 
that she was nude ! 
her father protected her and told his son: "This 
is my house, and this is my daughter , if you want to stay, you 
stay , if you don't, you leave ." And the brother left . Josephine 
says she started to cry and was afraid that her brother , the only 
one who was taking care of the land that her father owned, would 
not come back . The next morning, when he went back home to pick up 
his clothes she promised she would never wear that dress again if 
he would stay home , and he did. Later on Josephine got married and 
moved to America . 7 years 
later when she visited Sicily on 
vacation , she saw his wife wearing a very provocative dress, as 
well as a lot of make -up! Her brother admitted he was stupid, and 
Josephine says that time has changed things in Sicily since she 
left. 
(Rose answers the phone: 
on the tape you hear her voice and 
Josephine 's 
voice together .) I ask Josephine what her family thought 
about her marrying an American . She says that her husband was an 
Italian: he was born in Sicily , in the same town where she was 
born , 
and they knew each other as kids . 
She continues to talk about 
changes in Sicily: she was not allowed to go to the beach because 
IAW-PT-AO40 - 
3 
the boys would have seen her legs! When she went back home after 
she got married, her mother suggested she go to the beach. "Even 
your own parents change." Josephine comments that things have 
changed mostly for the better, but she wishes that certain things 
had stayed the same: when she was young, she says, they didn't have 
much, but they had love and closeness. Now everybody watches T.V.; 
people 
used 
to 
help 
one 
another, 
now 
everybody 
thinks 
for 
themselves both in Italy and in the States, she says. 
We talk more about the old times when there were many neighborhood 
stores in Pueblo. I ask what made people go to their store instead 
of another one. Rote say% that the ne i 
rrhb= would come to the 
store and Josephine adds that they used to qive credit to everybody 
and that helped a lot. Joe says that a lot of people who did not 
speak English came to the store. Rose's parents would speak Spanish 
too. They had a lot of Mexican clients too: they would buy corn 
husks and things to make tamales. The other Gagliano grocery store, 
which closed more than 5 years ago, would cater to the Mexican 
population: he had a mill in which he grind the corn to make the 
"masa" to make the tamales, Rose says. 
I ask why they haven't closed their store. Joe says they have tried 
to sell the store to Josephine and her husband, but she doesn't 
want to buy it. 
She says that if she didn't have another job 
already, she would buy it. She says that if it was her wish, she 
would love to have the store: she would like to transform it into 
a catering business with a little store in front. But her husband 
could not help her because he has problems with his back. 
Rose says that people keep saying: "Where are we going to get our 
sausage if you close?" 
Rose says that she does not have room to 
put her mother's things and she does not want to put her in a 
nursing home and she thinks she is staying here for her mother more 
than for anything else. 
David asks what they like about this 
business. Josephine says she loves it, she loves to be with people, 
to meet 
the 
customers, 
and 
she 
says 
that 
she 
can 
sell 
you 
everything, even if you don't like it! Rose says that Josephine can 
sell you the Brooklyn bridge! 
David asks about the credit system they used to have in the store 
and how it worked. Rose says that they would have to know you to 
give you credit today, but Joe adds that years ago they used to 
trust everybody. 
Side B 
I ask how the neighborhood has changed in terms of people living 
here. Rose says that she knows and trusts the old people who have 
been here for years but other than those, she doesn't know half of 
her neighbors anymore. 
I ask Rose what she knows about the Saint Joseph's tradition. She 
says she grew up knowing about it but never made a table. Her 
IAW-PT-AO40 - 
4 
mother used to have a little table every year just for the family: 
she would cook the tr,-,ai_tdonal foods and l 
't a candle and put a 
picture (of Saint Joseph I suppose) on a small table. People were 
not invited over; it was just for the family. Rose adds that her 
mother worked full time in the store and the whole family was kept 
quite busy all the time. Her mother, Carmela, to this day doesn't 
speak English. She tells us the story her father always told them: 
when they first got a phone, Carmela used to answer: "Hallo, Joe 
Gagl iano' s 
. Nobody's home!!" I ask how she managed in the store 
without speaking English and Rose says that most of their clients 
were either Italians or Spanish-speaking people and she got along 
great with them. 
While David and Mercedes take a tour of the store with Joe I move 
with the tape-recorder and a lavalier microphone to the small 
bedroom where Carmela lies on a hospital bed. Josephine and Rose 
come with me and act as interpreters. The brief interview is mainly 
in Sicilian dialect. 
Carmela is 95 years old. I ask her to tell me when she came to 
America, but she does not remember. Josephine thinks she came in 
1920. I ask if her husband went back to Sicily to get her but she 
says she came with another lady from Lucca Sicula but she did not 
know who she was. I ask her if she liked to come to America. She 
says she came because she liked to come. There is more work here, 
she says. She came to marry her husband, Josephine's uncle. 
I ask how life was here when she arrived from Italy. When she first 
came she stayed with a cousin, then she got married and moved with 
her husband. Before they had the store, her husband had the cow 
which he milked twice a day and sold the milk house by house. He 
also worked at the mill. I ask if when she came from Italy she had 
the trousseau. She says that the flood took her chest full of 
embroidered sheets and pillow-cases. I ask 
if 
the dowry was 
imp 
an 
in Sicily. She says that in Sicily it was important but 
here it wasn't. Lucca Sicula, she says, now is good, but before it 
was not good, it was better here. 
I ask what she remembers of her life here. She tells me that with 
her husband they started a little business in a room as small as 
this one; they started by putting on the shelves a few tomato cans. 
I ask if they started by selling stuff that she canned, 
but 
Josephine says she didn't. She used to buy cans of tomato paste or 
other canned vegetables and started selling those. 
Josephine asks her to tell me about the time when she went to the 
city to buy "knickknacks," which Carmela calls "cicereddi." Cheap 
things, 
Carmela says, 
that would cost only 10 
or 
15 
"soldi" 
(cents). She says she would buy these little things and bring them 
back to her store. I ask if this was her idea or her husband's 
idea. She says this was her idea. He bought from the wholesalers. 
She says she would put the ribbon 
(la 
scocca), 
the lace 
(la 
puntina), the thread (lu filu), and many little things in a glass 
IAW-PT-A040 - 
5 
case in her store, and that's the way they started the business. 
I ask Carmela if she ever went back to Sicily. She never went, 
Josephine thinks, because of the store. One of her brothers came 
to visit her in 1964. 
She says that all her brothers came to 
America and settled in Rockfort, Illinois. One was a barber, the 
other worked in a mill. She adds that one of her brothers, named 
Vito, went back to Italy where he died. Josephine is not sure she 
remembers correctly and questions her about it. Josephine says she 
never had a brother named Vito; she had 3 brothers: Nino, Vincenzo, 
and Michele. Michele drowned when he was 4, Michele stayed in Lucca 
and Nino went to Rockfort, Illinois. 
Josephine says that Carmela used to be a hard worker: until she was 
75 years old she used to climb like a goat and wash windows. 
Josephine says Carmela taught her how to cook. Carmela said she 
cooked a lot for her family. Her favorite dish, 
she says, was 
"pasta con la miscaglia" Sicilian for minestrone, or beans and 
lentil soup. 
Josephine asks Carmela to tell me when her husband sent for his 
brother (Josephine's father-in-law). But Carmela does not seem to 
remember too well. Josephine tells me that in Pueblo there were 2 
Gagliano brothers and one sister. When they had left Sicily many 
years before they had left a younger brother, who was 12 years old 
at the time. They wanted to meet each other, but the two "American" 
brothers could not leave because they both had stores to take care 
of. So the younger brother (who was at the time 55 years old) came 
with his son who was 16 years old, and decided to stay. He could 
not find work because he was too old, so Joe Gagliano gave him a 
job at the store 
(he took care of the meat section and made 
sausages). For 2 years father and son lived here, in the living 
quarters behind the store, and they all ate together. After 2 years 
they bought a house and the mother joined them from Italy. The son 
(Josephine's husband) went to school for a year and then, since 
they needed money, he went to work in a broom factory. Later, the 
other uncle found a job for him at the state hospital. For the last 
32 years he has been working for a company that makes pistons for 
cars and tractors. 
End of interview. For related documentation see my fieldnotes IAW-
PT-F071190.b; David Taylor's fieldnotes and photos.