Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
Conversation with 24 year old black female,
Washington, DC (Transcription)
W306 WDS 0049 <unintelligible text> Female Age 24 College Grad. (WAW)
START M59 A(2)
FW What kinds of games did you play when you were younger?
INF If we had, if I was at a party, we'd play spin the bottle, we played monopoly, checkers
uh what else did we play? Well, we usually played cowboys and Indians. Uh well, you
divide into two teams and one team would be against the other team and we had a park
right across the street from our houses and we usually played very rough. I was going
to tell you about that. We played some games uh there was a devil. And the devil would
tell what type of, what kind of pie he wanted and that particular pie would run from the
devil and if the devil caught him, then he would have to be the devil, but I forget what you
call it. Oh, it was a lot of fun. I think that was one of my a favorite games. You could be
a blueberry pie; you could select the type you wanted to be. I forgot to tell you about this
game. I don't remember about that one. We played hop scotch and you put uh a stone
in your block and you jump over all the other blocks. And then if you made it you'd know
your stone would go to 2 and then to 3 until you got to 10. Nnno. But in elementary school,
there was some little silly game.... What was it? Um oh, I can't think of it, but um when
we were going to church and we'd have programs. And we'd play little Miss Muffett, sit on
her tuffett, eating her Christmas pie? Along came the spider and sat dwon beside her and
frightened Miss Muffett away. And I used to be Miss Muffett and when the spiders came
Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
down, I'd have to jump up and scream and run away. I didn't remember all the games I
used to play.
P.2 0049
INF I said, Oh my goodness! I didn't play any games. But then when I started talking about
them, then I remember all the games we used to play. No. I played cowboys and Indians,
but I didn't play marbles. I thought that was a boy's game. I ususallly watched. Oh, double
dutch. I was one of the best rope jumpers in my neighborhood. And in high school, I did
a special performance on one occasion where I just jumped rope and showed a lot of
tricks for it. Oh, yes. I was really goood. It wasn't a game, but every gym class presented
something. It could be a dance or if your class was jumping rope, you could jump rope.
And I did all of these different things with a rope, a single rope. And everybody just loved it.
I was thinking about becoming famous by jumping rope.
Well, it's not that I don't like TV. When I was younger I never had the opportunity to see
what I wanted to on televison. Therefore I did other things and so I never really became
that interested in television. Because I didn't like cowboys and Indians and the Lone
Ranger. I'm dating myself. But uh I got out of the habit and now I only look at Peyton
Place and ..... Well the last time I saw it. Rodney's brother-in-law a had run over him on
the highway and a knocked him off his motorcycle. And he was in the hospital to have
this operation. And Betty told Stephen at the hospital to please leav her and Ron alone
because he was ruining their lives; just to stay out of it. And he said well he felt he should
know what was going on and um she felt that he was the one responsible for the fact that
Ron might die. And the doc, I mean in the previews the minister finally, what was the girl's
name? Uh, the girl who ? them. He finally released some of his feelings about how he felt
about her. I thought all the time that he was in love with her, but I was waiting to see. But
the wife actually threw them togather on purpose
Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
p. 3 0049
INF Because I think she liked someone else, but they haven't really brought that fact out.
No, she's married to Rodney. She's been married to Rodney along time now. And uh
she got a divorce from Stephen. Uh the father, old man Peyton had something to do with
that, because Betty at the time was up for a murder charge or she she thought she had
killed somebody. Right. The cliff. Only she was going to push Betty off. Only Betty stepped
aside and she fell over, but there was no way that she could prove that. And uh Rodney's
half brother, what's his name? Norman got this money from his wife's father. So now he
has a lot of money and he's going into business. And that's how Steve got mixed up with
Rodney and Betty again, because they were in on this business deal. I love Peyton Place;
my roomate hates it. But uh she let's me watch it. She has a TV and I have a stero. We
compromise.
Uh not as much as I like. The last picture I saw was Guns For San Sebastian. It was really
good. It was about thid man. I don't know what he was, he was so many things. And he
tried to tell the people in this village that he wasn't a minister, but they wouldn't believe it.
He had been drinking some wine and he put the cask in a tree or behind something in a
church. And when somebody shot an arrow, the wine spilled and they thought it was blood
and that it was a big miracle and they made him a preist of this little village. And these
people had been run out of the village by the Indians and uh they said oh well here's, we
can come back now and these people will save us. But what the people didn't know was
they had to,save themselves, because they weren't very brave and they would just let
people run them out, and the men wouldn't even try to fight. And the Indians and this other
little outlaw group would wait for the plants
p. 4 0049
Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
INF and when the food would start growing they would run in and take it and then run back
to the mountains again. So uh he came and gave them the courage to fight; keep what
they wanted.
Lula Bye of Broadway. Well, I was a child at the time and it was a musical. I can't even
remember what it was about, but it just left me feeling like I wanted to see it again, but it
never came back. No. I I enjoyed Lula Bye of Broadway. I don't remember who stared in it
or what it was about, but it was in color and it was a beautiful musical. I hope that it does
come back one day, but I doubt it.
No, I haven't, but I entend to because someone was teasing me about that the other day. I
haven't seen that. No I don't. I don't believe in spooky things. I don't know. I intend to read
the book, but um Some one said that this was the first time that they had ever read the
book and then gone to see the picture and wasn't disapointed. Because usually, like Valley
of the Dolls, the book is very good, but the picture is different. I didn't. I read the book. And
after I read the book and everyone was saying that the picture was not as good as the
book, I didn't go to see the picture. No. I didn't see Gone With the Wind.
FW What was your major in school?
IrF My major was Speech Correction. Well, we ususally work with students who have
more or less an organic problem or some deeply imbedded problem as in contradiction
to people who just speak sub-standard English. And we work on things like articulation
um but to the point that you can't understand what they're saying. And you understand
what a non standard speaker says. And uh we work on stuttering problems uh phasure
and lisping, voice problems... No, I never had the opportunity to work with deaf mutes and
Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
I really don't think that we are taught to work with deaf mutes. That's an intirely different
aspect
p.5 0049
INF of speech correction, I would imagine. I don't either. That is why I am saying that
I don't know. I wouldn't know where to begin. Yes, I went to Giddings, Mont, Bell um
Randall, Dunbar and D. C. Teacher's. Yes, I had some of my best teachers in elementary
school. Um, I had a teacher that was named <unintelligible text> and she worked with me
to help bring up my reading skills and to develop me personally, And when I graduated
from elementary school, she saw to it that I was put in a good section, because the school
that I went to you know, the further down in sections you go, I think the less education
you get. You know, like 7-1 and 7-2 has the best books and the best teachers and I was
always grateful to her. She died just last year. I used to go see her when I was in college.
And I didn't know she had passed. No, she didn't. When I went to kindergarten, when I
was a little girl and everyone said, <unintelligible text> what do you want to be? I said, I
want to be a teacher. I wanted to be a teacher, but when I got out of high school, I didn't
know what I wanted to be. I just instinctively went into college to be a teacher. My mother
said to me work or go to school. I said that I will do that. I'll go to school. No work for me. I
had worked that summer too in this lady's house and she wanted me, well I was supposed
to baby sit. And everyday she'd add something scrubbing the floors and all that kind of
stuff and then she wanted you to iron. And I said, well I'm sorry, you know. So after three
days, I skipped. Yeah, she wanted me to do all this work for $10. No me. She'd work me to
death. And then this other thing. She'd give the children one thing for lunch and then you'd
get something else for lunch. And then one day I remember I brought my lunch. And she
said, Oh, you brought your lunch. And I said, Yes I'm not used to eating peanut butter and
jelly everyday,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 24 year old black female, Washington, DC (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6702
p. 6 0049
INF So I went to school after that. I said I know it's hard out here. I better go get some
more education.
END M59 A(2)