AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
AFCCC-COR3.3
Correspondence
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaNovember 8, 1938
Dr. George HerzogDepartment of AnthropologyColumbia UniversityNew York CityDear Dr. Herzog:
This is to let you know that our California Folk Music Project has finally opened at the above address.
Not all our workers have been assigned as yet, but as Berkeley has a large university-trained and
unemployed population, it is amazing to me to find the sound training several of our people have.
You already know of Miss Poladian, of course. She is my assistant, in charge of the workers when I
am in the field.
We had expected, as I daresay Mr. Elkus mentioned, to use your technique for melodic analysis of
California tunes, and perhaps western ones generally. As I did not foresee that anyone but Miss
Poladian would be able to handle this, we made no great point of it. Now it appears that we are
going to have at least two workers who are perfectly able to manage the analysis, up to a certain
point. Cannot we undertake this on a somewhat broad scale and turn the results over to you
after careful checking by Miss Poladian? There is no real reason why we cannot cover all American
published collections and related European ones, and turn the results over to you. Of course I do
not know whether this would contribute to your work, or not; and equally I do not know but that H.
Halpert's project may have the same thing in mind. My impression was, however, that the time the
National Service Bureau was willing to allow for 'pure' research is not sufficient to do such work on
any large scale.
As I understand it, the problem is to try this technique with large numbers of American tunes to see
whether the method is effective where variants are so numerous, and to develope the necessary
modifications if it is not.
Will you let me know what you think of this? Where Spanish Califrnia tunes are concerned, I think we
could profitably extend the work to material from South and Central America, and perhaps Spain
if we can find related material, -- in order to detect characteristics belonging to the Americas, and
to California in particular -- if any. There is interesting material here among Portuguese, Icelanders,
Maltese, Sicilians, etc., none of which (except possibly the first) has been in this country long enough
to show much other influences but all of which could profitably be analyzed, I think. The most
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
attractive material (to me) is that from the Near East and the Orient; but for the most part I do not
feel we should be justified in transcribing this, though I shall certainly record all of it I can. Most of
the English-language songs I have found so far will be simple to transcribe; their history is usually
Iowa-, Indiana- or Missouri-to-California, within the past 50 years. I do not see how this can carry any
regional mark -- from this region anyhow; but there is a possibility of more interesting material, in
English but in California since the early incursions of American trappers, which is said to exist still in
one or two far and mountainous corners of the state.
2
The rather tentative analysis we have been doing, (of Spanish California tunes, from two rather
poor published collections), presents a number if problems which differ from our only guide,
the Mississippi collection. I want to do more of this, using material collected and published more
critically, before asking your advice in more detail, however. So far we have been dealing only with
ordinary diatonic tunes. We can fall back on the music department of the University for questions
when determination of the final in a modal tune seems difficult; and if we may bother you at first
with qeries which may serve to establish general rules for the work, I think we can accomplish a
great deal which I hope may be of use to you.
In addition to the collection on disks, we are undertaking:
To run down the many songs published in old diaries of the Forties and Fifties, and match them with
their tunes where possible;
To gather tunes to which the many 49er songs published in songsters in San Francisco (in the Fifties)
were sung.
A check list of songs about, or known to have been sung in California (English ones only, to begin
with.) (Published and unpublished.)
A card catalogue of published collections of American folk songs, for the Library of Congress Music
Division. (Analytic cards, that is, for each song contained in a published collection: titles, first lines,
refrains.)
Photographs, working drawings, and all the data we can gather, on the thirty or more folk and
national instruments to be found in and near San Francisco: Oud, cembalon, Irish Union pipes.
Dalmatian lyrica and bagpipes, gusla, Greek clarinet, etc. We have a good engineering draftsman
-- if we can just hang onto him -- who will take measurements, sketches, etc. and we shall have
photographs of players and instruments. This should be a fascinating thing.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
We are making a most necessary bibliography, as we go, on material in periodicals dealing with
the folk music and instruments of the various racial groups to be found in California ... based on
research in the country of origin, of course. This may turn into something useful if nobody else has
done it; and because of my inadequate German, we shall certainly acquire a lot of translations of
articles from German journals.
I hope you will find time to offer any comments and criticisms that may occur to you. We have
twenty workers to keep busy for a year, at least.
If Columbia University would like copies of our disks and will supply blanks, we will be able to make
the copies here; since our originals come from the Library of Congess, Columbia should probably got
permission from Dr. Spivacke to have this use made of their originals. If Columbia does n't want the
whole set (200 disks, minimum) we could perhaps provide samples.
I am embarrassed to find that this information about our plans has not been sent you long before
this; but I have delayed because for four months we have expected almost daily to have the project
released for operation, and, as you so pertinently remarked in your latter to me, plans were so sure
to change as the project began work that comment before hand was sure to he superfluous.Cordially
yours,(Mrs.) Sidney R. RobertsonSupervisor, Folk Music Project
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaNovember 10, 1938
Dr. Harold Spivacke, ChiefMusic DivisionLibrary of CongressWashington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
This is formal notification that the [California Folk Music Project?] opened at the above address
on October 27th, 1938. In addition to the Music Division of the Library of Congress, our sponsors
are the Music Department of the University of California, the New Music Society and the Society of
California Pioneers.
Your article on cataloging of folk music records was much appreciated, and we have now copied it
and are returning herewith your photostat original, with our thanks.
With respect to the signing of receipts for disks and cards sent us by the Library of Congress, it
seems I cannot sign as a WPA officer at all, since no employee of the WPA except certain purchasing
officers may legally acknowledge any obligation. So my personal receipt will have to continue to
serve; or you can consign records, etc., to the Music Department of the University of California and
they will be signed for there. This means considerable traipsing back and forth for us, however.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Please do whichever seems best from your point of view. The address there should be California
FolkMusic Project, Music Department, University of California, Berkeley, California; if you consign
direct to me, my address now will be Sidney Robertson, California Folk Music Project, Room 124,
2108 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, California.
If you have sent me a second lot of 25 records recently, they have not been received. Receipt
enclosed
I'm glad Alan found so much of interest in Michigan. Has his father returned from Europe? I keep
meaning to write him..... my regards to him, if he is about.
I will write again within a few days with some queries about the cataloging of published collections.
Meanwhile my thanks to you for all your help, and cordial regards to your staff.Sincerely yours,
Sidney H Robertson (Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson, SupervisorCalifornia Folk Music Project
Music[?] [?] MailNovember 10, 1938
Please furnish a top for the box which contains records to be shipped to Mrs. Sidney Robertson, [??]
Way, San Francisco, Calif.Chief, Division of MusicMusic[?]mailNovember 10, 1938
The package to be sent Express Prepaid to Mrs. Sidney Robertson, 70 Avon Way, San Francisco,
California, contains records.Chief, Division of Music
November 25, 1938
Mrs. Sidney H. Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
Permit me to extend to you my best wishes for the success of the , California Folk Music Project.
I think that the receipt you sent me will suffice - for the time being at least.
If you will start sending in some of the records you have already made it will give considerable
impetus to our support of your project. I haven't time to go into etail about this at the moment, but
please take my word for it and send us some recordings as soon as possible.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Don't forget to send some sample cards for criticism and advice. Sincerely,Chief, Division of
MusicHS:ed
Dr. Spivacke, Chief, Division of Music, I suggest that, since we have no adequate duplicating
equipment in the Archive, the records Sidney Robertson mention he left in her hands until she is
able to duplicate them. They will then be sent to us express collect. Perhaps Mrs. Robertson might
be urged to [?] prepare more detailed notes about the singers and the backgrounds of the records, if
this has not already occurred to her.Alan Lomax[?] in chargeArchives of [?] Folk Songs
2108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, CaliforniaDecember 15, 1938
To Mr. Lomax -- for memorandum Dr. Harold Spivacke,Chief, Division of MusicLibrary of
Congress,Washington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
Thank you for your letter of November 25th. I have delayed answering hoping it would be possible to
send off to you the 27 records I have made here.
We have had, and in fact still are having, difficulty with the problem of re-recording for the University,
and it now looks as if it will be another month before we can be sure of doing this. The University
is at present awaiting supplementary equipment for dubbing onto acetate, and I understand their
budget will not allow the order to be placed before January 1st. If it is important for you to have the
records in the Library immediately let me know by air mail and I will send them to you at once - with
the understanding that you will make copies of this first lot for the University. In this case I will send
blanks of course.
I am still tying to borrow duplicating equipment elsewhere and if I am successful we won't have to
wait for the University, but I can't be sure about this. Meanwhile I thought you would like to see a list
of the records I have made and am enclosing a pencilled list I made for myself, which please return
to me.
Tentatively we are classifying the records into series "M" and series "E", the first for minority groups
and the second for English-speaking performers. Of course your series numbers will be different.
We have not yet started on the catalog cards because our staff is not yet complete.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
With best Christmas wishes to your staff and the Archive, I am Cordially yours, Sidney H. Robertson
SupervisorSHR/R To judge from Resettlement experience [?] send about 4 records with wrappings,
and a single [?] such as you sent me. You said you would send further in [illegible line]
December 19, 1938
Mrs. Sidney H. Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
Since our duplicating apparatus is still rather primitive, I suggest that you keep the records until you
have made the duplicates. I referred your notes to Mr. Lomax who expressed great interest in them,
but suggested that you have them more detailed with respect to the singers and their backgrounds.
Of course we realize that the list you sent us does not contain all the information about the singers
which you have.
With kindest regards from Mr. Lomax and myself,Sincerely,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of
Music[?]mr
WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATIONUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIACalifornia Folk Music 2108
Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJanuary 9, 1939.
Dr. Harold Spivacke, ChiefMusic DivisionLibrary of CongressWahington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
I enclose two copies of some queries which came to mind as we marked on the enclosed cards.
We'd greatly appreciate having the answers pencilled in on one copy, to be returned to us. We have
at present only one typewriter, plus my own portable, so we are not trying to type these cards at
present. We have ordered an L. C. Smith with library card-holder attachment, and it will undoubtedly
arrive eventually.
We are not inserting call numbers because these are only procurable at the San Francisco or
University of California libraries, and I am not sufficiently informed about the actuality of the
principle of conformity among libraries in these matters.
If you would like these inserted, shall we send you a sheet listing the books we plan to work on, for
insertion of the call numbers at your end and return to us? I'll enclose authors and titles of a dozen
books for you to do this if you think we should insert your call numbers.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
The principle I worked on with the enclosed cards was simplicity of duplication for additional entries.
Therefore I attempted to establish one formula which is to be repeated three times, with first line
and refrain entries for the second and third cards added at the top. This could be done in red ink if
you like. The only really intelligent help I have been able to get on analytical cataloging came from
Miss Goetz, chief cataloger at the University of California library. She was reluctant to give much
advice, however, as she said many new problems were involved that would have to be worked out
as we go along. She seemed doubtful even about punctuation in some instances. I had been feeling
it was perhaps unduly brash for an entirely untrained person like myself to undertake such a thing,
and Miss Goetz' doubts made me feel much better!
We shall be very grateful for all the help you feel able to give us.Cordially yours, Sidney H. Robertson
Sidney H. RobertsonSupervisorSHR/Rncl.
If we are to insert call numbers, please indicate on this sheet and return.Barry, Eckstorm and Smyth:
British Ballads from Maine. 1929. Cox, John Harrington: Folk Songs of the South. 1925.Davis, Arthur
Kyle Jr.: Traditional Ballads of Virginia. 1929. Dett, Nathaniel R.: Religious Folk-songs of the Negro,
as sung at Hampton Institute. 1927. Eckstorm, Fannie Hardy, and Smyth, Mary W.: Minstrelsy of
Maine. 1927. Gellert, Lawrence: Negro Songs of Protest. 1936.Greenleaf, E. B. and Mansfield, Grace:
Ballads and Sea Songs of Newfoundland. 1933. Hague, Eleanor: Spanish-American Folk Songs. 1917.
(Memoirs of the American Folk Lore Society, vol. x.) Hughes, Robert and Sturgis, Edith: Songs from
the Hills of Vermont. 1919. Lomax, John A.: Cowboy Songs and other frontier ballads. 1910-16-18.
Lomax, John A, and Alan: American Ballads and Folk Songs. 1934. Lunsford, B.L. and Stringfield, L.
30 and 1 Folk Songs from the Southern Mountains. 1929. Matteson, Marurice: Beech Mountain Folk
Songs and Ballads. 1936. McGill, Josephine: Folk Songs of the Kentucky Mountains. 1917. Mackenzie,
W. Roy: Ballads and Sea Songs from Nova Scotia. 1936. Pound, Louise: American Ballads and Songs.
1922.Rickaby, Franz: Ballads and Songs of the Shanty-Boy. 1926. Sandburg, Carl: The American
Songbag. 1927.Wolford, Leah J. The Play Party in Indiana. 1916.
WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATIONUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIACalifornia Folk Music2108
Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJanuary 25, 1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke, ChiefMusic Division Library of CongressWashington, D. C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
I enclose a copy of the announcement the WPA people here want me to insert on all, or at least
most, of the records. The part of the form that is indispensable in their eyes is the " by the University
of California,under the auspices of the Works Progress Administration". This is the form agreed on
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
between the University and WPA for the title page of publications issued on University-sponsored
projects. The University is our sponsor; the Library of Congress, the Society of California Pioneers,
the New Music Society and the State Relief Administration, are co-sponsors, and can be included as
'other agencies' simply, or omitted entirely. Since the original disks belong to the Library of Congress,
it seems to me we should work out some sort of statement that is satisfactory to you first of all. The
question is how to work in the acknowledgement to the Sponsor and WPA. Any revision you want
to suggest will I am sure be acceptable here so long as it includes the phrase in quotation marks,
above.
The envelopes and cards for the disks must also be marked in some way, and I thought I'd have
a rubber stamp made --- perhaps reading: "U.C.-WPA Coll" for the cards and for the envelopes:
"Collection made by the University of California for the Library of Congress, under the auspices
of Works Progress Administration Project No. [?] ". Or we can say Archives of American Folk Song
instead of Library of Congress on this last --- or both: except that the briefer the better. I should
use the "U.C.-WPA Coll" stamp on margins of photos also. (You will have photos of every performer
and instrument, so far as is humanly possible.) If for any reason it seems simpler to you to omit
reference to the Library or the Archive, the WPA would not object since the Library is not our primary
Sponsor.
It seems I cannot send you the records from here until this is settled. I have made 49 to date but
have copied only a dozen or so. As soon as I hear from you about this I will finish up and send on
the first 25. I could use another 25 here now but dislike requesting more until you have some of the
records in your hands there.
Did you receive a letter of inquiry about the analytical catalogue of published volumes, enclosing
some cards? We have workers who could get to work on this now.Cordially yours,(Mrs.) Sidney
RobertsonSupervisorSR: [?]Enc.
P.S. "Under the auspices of "[WPA?]" sounded very odd to me; but it seems the theory about the
University of California projects (which are grouped together into one large project, rather like a
separate city under WPA) is that each project is requested by a professor to supplement research
of his own, and that the real research is done by the University staff. So far as I know ours is the
only project where this is not strictly true. Albert Elkus, head of the University music department,
agreed to sponsor my work and appointed one of his staff as adviser --- in hopes, I think, that in
this way he could add to the musicological resources and training of his department... A young
Armenian woman, an excellent scholar, with a Master's Thesis on Armenian Folk Music to her credit,
is doing the musicological research as one of the project staff; and we have so far seen our music
department adviser twice for half an hour, in 2 1/2 months. So it would seem to me that the work
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
is being done by WPA under U.C. auspices instead of the other way around. But far be it from me to
raise any more jurisdictional problems than absolutely necessary! S.R.
This is one of a series of recordings of California folk music made by the University of California for
its music department and the Archives of American Folk Song of the Library of Congress, under the
auspices of the Works Progress Administration project No. [?]
February [9, 1939?]
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
The recent death of my mother followed by a bad cold, a series of concerts, and other things have
considerably upset my routine. I received your letter of inquiry with regard to the indexing of folk-
songs but it will take me at least one full day to answer it properly. My only fear - at first reading -
was that you may be duplicating the work of Professor Taylor, copies of whose cards will soon be in
the Library.
Either one of the announcements seems suitable. Such announcements should be spoken into
the records as well as stamped on the envelopes.Sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of
Music[HS?][mr?]
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaApril 6, 1939
Dear Dr. Spivacke:
I've been meaning to write to tell you how very sorry I was to hear of your mother's death; and that
you had been ill. It must all have meant a heavily shadowed holiday season for you. I hope the world
has by now begun to seem brighter to you. I know how difficult acceptance of such a loss can be.
A letter from Carleton Sprague Smith mentions that Alan is in New York studying under Curt Sachs.
I have had some translators at work on a couple of his books -- not making complete translations,
as we thought of doing at first, but just extracting the gist of his work on certain instruments, plus
his general remarks. I greatly envy Alan this opportunity, I can tell you! though it would be hard to
beat the assorted varieites varietes of education I'm being subjected to under the WPA. When I was
informed last week that I must spend one evening a week for 24 weeks taking a Red Cross First Aid
course, however, I went on strike -- the project is located 2 blocks from the Emgency Emergency
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Hospital and they'll have us taking courses in hairdressing next. It's great sport working out the
training of interviewers, etc., working within the rather unwieldy frame of WPA. One of my workers
turns out to be the son of two " show business " old-timers who worked on the Barbary Coast prior
to 1910. They recorded for me last night -- some grand funny rag-time and reminiscences from the
lady,[?] (on the piano) and some priceless unprintable songs from the gent. In a week I'm to meet
with some of their pals and record more of the same. There is a club of old-timers in vaudeville in
Oakland where various stars of 30-60 years ago do their stuff at the monthly meetings --- simply
priceless, but requiring movies to them justice. So far they hedge about recording because they fear
somebody may "steal their acts" ---- Most of them are over 60.
Lately I've been having excellent cooperation from Portuguese and from Sicilian fishermen. .... a
really beautiful series of records from various Portuguese are coming along; I'm not going to send
them in, however, until the series is relatively complete... I want examples of songs and dances
from each of the Azores Islands before we stop. One woman has sung about 45 songs from the
mainland for me.... The Azores records are too swell for words, much more primitive than the
mainland music --- except possibly in remote regions in Portugal proper. In Fresno last week I heard
5 different instruments all entirely new to me (various modifications of the psaltery; and some odd
clarinets, played like mad). Also a woman there has the most beautiful oude I've ever seen, and
she does very fancy things on it --- she's Armenian from Constantinople and objects seriously to
my inquiring for country music elsewhere in Fresno.... The priest who conducts the choir at the
Armenian Cathedral is an old pupil of [Vincet?] [D'Indy?] and very scholarly about Armen. folk music
but excruciatingly purist so that I have to conceal from him the fact that I'm also recording Turkish-
Armenian and Persian-Armenian music. He is explosive and fiery and says: "[?], Mademoiselle, at the
bougez pas!" When I protest that I must go: "C'eat moi qui vous direz quand it [?] [?] partir!" He was
collarless, unshaven, with a filthy vest, an enormous paunch and one bare foot, the other in a carpet-
slipper. He was training his Easter choir in this garb, and wanted me to stay to hear. The music at
the Cathedral is very bad --- all mixed with the [Breton?] folk music that was stylish under d'Indy. But
perhaps I can extract something from him.
I've found come lovely Hebrides Islanders --- one my landlord; and have started a series of Gaelic
records as good as those reserved by Marjorie Edgar which I made in Minnesota and which I trust
are in your care by this time. I'm not having much trouble getting interesting old-timers of American
background, either, except that mostly they live far from the Bay Region and are expensive in
travel. I've got about 25 records of Lord Bateman, Cindy, etc., from various people, in addition to my
ragtime records. I've got some good migrant fiddlers and dance-callers and singers on tap but have
neglected them lately ..... people from Arkansas and Oklahoma.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
The Sicilians are wonderful --- friendly and helpful, quite different from what I'd been led to expect.
I must unconsciously have absorbed a lot of misinformation about the Black Band etc. (No that's
Corsica!) Anyhow, I expected suspicion and greed and got the most delightful naive helpfulness and
interest and pride in being asked for a contribution of something they had which we don t....
I omitted to mention that I got a marvelous song, in Gaelic, about the Highlanders in Vancouvr,
reproaching newcomers from Scotland for pretending they know nothing of the Gaelic and
comparing them [?] unfavorably with the Chinese who refuse to abandon their customs and
language no matter how much fun is made of them ......
And I could devote a whole letter to bagpipes of various sorts!
The CIO has promised help in getting strike songs --- I've had difficulty with these because I could not
devote a lot of time to following up blind alleys and could not get any consistent and dependable
help from anyone. But I've promised records they can use on their labor broadcasts if they will pin
down the people they want to sing, so we may get some action now. It has been delicately hinted to
me that the University would just as leave not have these records! and I've been advised to [?] travel
under an assumed name when gathering these! (because of the delicate feelings of the University.)
I have a box of 10-inch records which I use to give away, [? performing singers] one to a performer....
They choose what songs they want to record for themselves, which is in itself an interesting
revelation of the music they prefer..... These records smooth my way marvelously among foreigners,
who would otherwise I think be entirely uninterested such of the time.
Many thanks for all your help and interest --- and my warmest regards all 'round.Ever cordially,
Sidney Robertson
WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATIONUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIACalifornia Folk Music2108
Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaApril 7, 1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke,Chief Music DivisionLibrary of CongressWashington, D. C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
Hastily: I have made more than 80 disks to date and would like to send you 50 at once with catalog
cards for each dik and each title. The franks you sent won't cover more than four disks at a time.
You mentioned you might have a way of meeting expense charges on library property. If so please
let me know. The Department of Agriculture used to send me some kind of order on the express
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
company. The records are packed in boxes holding twenty-five disks and each box weighs sixteen
pounds. We have been holding these as I wanted to send photos and interview data complete at
the same time; but the delays are such that I have decided you had better have these records now,
particularly as I now would like to ask for another installment of the 200 blanks which constitute
your sponsor's contribution to the California Folk Music Project. We have had 50 from you. May
we now have another 75? This will enable me to copy for you the disks I have made 2 Dr. Harold
Spivacke - 2April 7, 1939over and above your original 50; and give me some to go on with, as I much
prefer to use Library of Congress disks for my originals in the field.
I have no doubt that every collector has a definite idea about the type of disks he likes best; but I
have really not had very good luck with your French acetate disks. My stylus cuts through to the
aluminum every now and then and after only one or two playings the records are noisy. The ordinary
red shank shadowgraph needles recommended for acetate cut far too much fuzz, it seems to me,
on these records. The use of Presto's Disklude liquid improves this somewhat. Did you know that
the Continental Music Company, 251 - 4th Avenue; New York City, now make something they call
Perma Disk for which they claim 100 perfect playbacks free from surface and noise? They say further
that these disks can be used up to 900 times. I bought a few here to try and like them very much.
Tests with them show far less nise up to 150 Playbacks than with the Presto disks or your French
ones. One or two of the Perma Disks have shown a tendency for the acetate to peel away from the
aluminum in a solid sheet. Even if the makers cannot guarantee against this defect it still seems to
me a less serious one than the uneven thickness of the cutting on the French disk, since in the first
case the recording can be salvaged by copying. 3 Dr. Harold Spivacke - 3April 7, 1939
I am sending you by mail two copies (one for the Music Division and one for the Main Library) of the
Missal of the Armenian Apostolic (Gregorian) Church published in Fresno in 1932, which has for the
first time the English translation set side by side with the Old Armenian text.
It also contains some sixty pages of music for the liturgy. I know nothing about the man who
arranged these melodies but the melodies themselves come from Etchmiadzine which is the center
of learning for the Armenian Church. This translation was financed as a memorial to their father by
the Misses Mosesian, two young women who have ably managed their father's packing house in
Fresno since his death. Fresno is the largest Armenian city, I am told; and the Armenian cathedral
there is considered the mother church in America, - (except by the various schismatics who demur
violently!) Miss Mary Mosesian asked me to present some copies to libraries where I thought they
would be of interest. Will you please see that these copies are acknowledged to her at 747 - R Street,
Fresno, California? The sense of having contributed something to libraries in this country will be a
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
tremendous satisfaction to the Armenian colony where I am finding all kinds of interesting music
and instruments.
I am doing nothing more about the analytic catalog of folk song collections until you know whether
or not Dr.Archer Taylor's cards make this unnecessary.Ever cordially, Sidney H. Robertson (Mrs.)
Sidney RobertsonSupervisorSR:GO
A April 12, 1939
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
I was delighted to hear of your progress. Your postmaster is quite wrong with regard to the franks
which we sent you. They can be used in parcel post shipments. You can also send the records by
express collect.
With regard to the disks, your description of the Perma disk makes me quite doubtful because
peeling is one of the worst faults a record can have. With thousands of records lying around they
cannot be inspected every day. I suggest that we go back to the old stand by - the Presto disk. Please
wire me if you agree with this and I shall order them for you immediately.
Thank you for sending us the two copies of the Armenian Missal. We shall acknowledge them as
soon as they are received.
I suggest that you communicate with Archer Taylor with regard to the analysis of the folk song
collections.Sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of MusicHS[W?]
as from 2108 Shattuck Ave Berkeley [?] Fresno, CalifYour letter just read to me over the phone.
Suggest you order Presto 12" disks from Ediphone Company, 519 Market St. S.F. @ $1 less 20% for
orders over $15 [md] as in this way you would I think save express one way. I am testing Perma Disks
[??] but it [?] [??] as portable machines for recording on wire (playing back without the wear of a
needle) are about to go on the market out here & so we'll probably be out of the disk stage before
long.
We are recording, photographing & [machine?]working drawings of oude, Santur, tourna, kianata,
kanoon, bulgore & drums this week [?] @ go in the shade. Hurrah for Armenia!SR THIS SIDE OF CARD
IS FOR ADDRESS AIR MAIL Dr. Harold Spivacke, Chief Music Division Library of Congress Washington,
D.C. April 21, 1939
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
April 22, 1939
Mrs. Sidney Robertson 2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
Thank you for your letter of April 6 enclosing the photographs and for your post card of April 18. I
shall have the disks sent to your as soon as possible.
So far we have not received any disks from you unless they have been mislaid in the shuffle.
Please see that we get them soon so that we can include them in the annual report for this
year.Regards,Sincerely,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of MusicHSW
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaMay 4---
Dear Dr. Spivacke:
A hasty note -- as usual! -- to say the first 25 disks went off to you last Tuesday and the last 25 will
go soon. I went away for 10 days or so before hearing from you what was to be done about getting
the records to you; and when I returned I found they had completely disappeared! They had been
waiting on my desk, addressed and packed, after a last checking with the catalog cards we've made;
and on my return I expected to be able to send them off. But, said my project clerk, Mr. K--, my
immediate superior on WPA, had said he would attend to them...... To make a long story short, Mr.
K--, after borrowing money from everybody he could and leaving a trail of queer cheeks behind him,
disappeared. He took the records to a small radio station in San Francisco, after removing all my nice
neat cvers. The radio man said he'd try them over to see whether he could use any of them, and so
K-- left them saying he'd come back. Apparently he got to thinking it over and got scared -- anyway
he did n't return; and within 24 hours of the time I missed them the radio man had run down the
project address and returned them --- he had heard somewhere about my recording and of course
the label is spoken into most of the records so even if he had not known of me he would have reali
zed they belonged to the University or the Library of Congress. Mr. K-- apparently forgot, or did n't
know about the labels spoken into the disks.
We replaced the old covers on the 1st 25 disks, cleaning them up a little, and are at work on the
2nd 25 now. A few of them are awfully dusty but on the whole they seem to have been undamaged.
They were [?] stacked with pieces of tissue paper between instead of covers. K--is being pursued
on the bad checks charge; I do not believe they intend to pursue the Federal property angle on the
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
disks but if so, you will be asked for a statement to the effect that these disks were Library property.
Everybody likes and pities the man's wife, who is related to somebody or other at the University, so
the thing is being kept as quiet as possible.
Supplementary information about performers, etc., will have to come along later as those sheets,
which I'd put into the record folders, are gone too, and will have to be recopied from the University
of California set.
Awfully sorry -- a contrary Fate seems to pursue my efforts to get these records to you -- it's like
those nightmares where you struggle to move and cannot get your feet off the ground!As ever,
Sidney Robertson
[?] [?] [A?] May 5th, 1939
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, California
Received from the Music Division of the Library of Congres, Washington, D.C. (per [Presto?],
New York) 100 - 12" acetate disks for recording. (For the California Folk Music Project.) Sidney H.
Robertson (Signed) Sidney H. Robertson
A. May 15, 1939
Check Mark Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
The first twenty-five disks are here and I am sorry to learn that you had so much trouble with them.
In cleaning the dust off the records remember that the simplest way is to put then on a turntable
and simply hold a soft flannel or similar cloth lightly over them.
I played some of the records and found them acoustically excellent. Please do not over emphasize
the sacred side of California music and get also some of the folk-songs brought from the East. It is
possible, of course, that you have already done so in the later records.
With kindest regards,Sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of MusicHSw
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
California Folk MusicProject [10432- A 25?]2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 9,
1939
Miss Eleanor Hague640 Hillside TerracePasadena, CaliforniaDear Miss Hague:
I hated to leave Pasadena without seeing you again and playing for you the record I made at Pala on
Sunday. This is the melody called to my attention by one of the Franciscan priests at Mission Santa
Barbara who was struck by it two years ago and upon inquiry learned that this is a Santos taught the
Pala Indians by the original padres probably around 1812. It is a beautiful melody and the recording
turned out especially well.
[???]
I last saw Dr. Hodge and Mr. Harrington early Monday morning and the present status of my
attempt to retrieve the [Lmmis?] cylinders is this:
1. No technician would hold out any hope of clearing the sound track sufficiently to make the
[words?] distinct enough to transcribe. This is largely because of the heavy use to which the
cylinders have been subjected. The overtones which make speech distinct seen to have been effaced
completely.
2. With some technical help it would be possible to work out a combination of my recording machine
and Lummis' old one to get the [melody?] onto my more permanent kind of disk with most of the
scratch removed so it is relatively easy to transcribe. If you would lend the old machine you own this
would be a great improvement over Lummis' because the motor of the latter would require some
expensive replacement of hand-machined parts before undertaking any extensive series of copies
with it. The difficulty about this is that we would have to pay the technician something -- probably
about $12 and neither Dr. Hodge nor I see any way to raise this. I had a great deal of free help from
technicians in the Disney and Paramount sound laboratories but I couldn't ask to be allowed to work
there for several days nor could I ask one of them to come clear out to the museum and lose time at
the studio without payment. 2 Miss Eleanor Hague - 2June 9, 1939
3. At this point Dr. Hodge mentioned the probability that several of the people who recorded for Mr.
Lummis are still living and able to sing. I met Mrs. Plummer on Monday at Dr. Hodge's office and she
assured us that Rosendo Uruchurtu, the old blind man, is still alive and has sung at Casa de Adobe
fiesta within two years. He was present this year but did not sing. She was doubtful whether he can
still produce a recognizeable tune but this opinion may be the result of professional standards of
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
vocal performance. For example, she has an Uncle Fran who knows some of the Lummis' songs but
considers that she should learn them from him and do the recording herself as his voice is "nothing
much." The difficulty about Rosendo seems to be that an Lummis paid him before he would again
expect to be paid. I can't do anything about that but what I can do is to provide him with a record or
two for himself and see that a complete set of copies is at the Southwest Museum where I take it Dr.
Hodge still hopes you can undertake the editing of whatever interests you.
Dr. Hodge thought it might be worth while to record part of each song from the cylinder onto one
of my disks, no matter how imperfect the result would be, so that the original singer (if he or she
can be found) could thus be reminded of the song. I am not sure that this is worth the trouble and
expense and the only way we can find this out is to know what singers recorded for Lummis, what
songs they sang and whether or not they or some one else knowing the song can still be located
for re-recording with my machine at first-hand. Dr. Hodge said the Museum would help in locating
enough singers and getting their cooperation because it is impossible for me to be away from
Berkeley more than a few days at a time.
Do you feel able to run down some of these people, as for instance Rosendo, and decide whether,
with the [rements?] at hand, so to speak, the idea of recording the songs on the Lummis cylinders
anew is going to be practicable, and the results worth the effort? I shall need to know how necessary
it will be to use the "reminder" method, also, since this will cut down my time with the singers in
person and add to the record expense.
I would have to plan to do this in late August or early September. Miss Eleanor Hague - 3June 9, 1939
It is so difficult for me to get away and the trip is relatively so expensive that I would rather not plan
to make it unless you feel sure the results wll be well worth while.
To do a thorough job, as I said before, would require three or four days' work with the cylinders
before tackling the singer if we are to try to play back to him the songs he sang before as a reminder.
If your old Edison works well enough you might conceivably use the cylinder directly as a reminder
which of course would save me much wear and tear but would add to the wear and tear on the
cylinders. Perhaps they are not worth so much consideration at this late date, however, since they
are so far gone. In any event I am not going to be able to spare the time to do the necessary advance
work with the singers -- listing the repertoires, noting of texts and so on.
Will you let me know whether this strikes you as a feasible enterprise and how far you have strength
and inclination to struggle with it?Ever cordially,[?]
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
California Folk Music Project2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 16, 1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke:Music Division, Library of CongressWashington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
It seems that once the project started, my personal connection with the discs provided by the Library
as co-sponsor should have been transferred to the music department of the University of California,
whose chief is Dr. Albert Elkus. There was some doubt at first as to whether correspondence with
you should be carried on by the music department or through the office of the Administrator of
WPA Projects for the University, Dr. Pomeroy, and the matter lapsed until your records began to be
returned to you.
Will you, therefore, be good enough to acknowledge receipt of the records, as received, to Dr. Elkus
at the above address instead of to me? I have explained that I returned the records to you at your
request and that unless I had done so the project would not have received the second shipment of
records, which we needed,--- though in rereading your requess for the return of the records I find
you did not phrase matters quite that way.Cordially yours,(Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson
California Folk MusicProject #10482 -A252108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaJune 20,
1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke, ChiefMusic DivisionLibrary of CongressWashington, D. C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
It seems I was a trifle out of order in returning the records to you without benefit of the formal
blessing of the University of California, despite the fact that they are indubitably your records and
that the University and W P A both knew I was sending them.
Would you kindly address a letter to Mr. Albert Elkus, Head of the Music Department of the
University of California, 2108 Shattuck Ave., Berkeley, California, dated April 15 or so, requesting
that the disks so far completed be returned at once to you, as until they are received you cannot
request authorization for the new lot needed by the project .... or words to that general effect. I said
that the reason they had been sent was that the Library wished to clear its records before sending
the second lot, and while I find that this was implied in your letters you did not state it, but only
mentioned that you wanted the records in time to report them on your Annual Report. My boss has
asked me for copies of these letters to clear him with [his?] very persnickety boss; and if you are
willing to make as clearcut a statement as I request above, I think it will have more weight with the
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
belligerent brass hats out here than your politer requests which, it will seem to them, might well
have been disregarded!!
You will receive a letter from Mr. Elkus notifying you of the transmittal of 72 records, (a receipt for
which arrived from the Library of Congress today.)
Apparently the procedure is for the project to retain all materials until the project closing date (about
Sept. 20th for us so far as we nw know) and then the chief sponsor -- the University of California in
this case -- takes over everything and distributes the loot. I never had any idea but that each lot of
records should be sent to you as soon as copied; but apparently that is not customary. I will try to
get the first 100 in your hands and then we had probably better keep the others until September. 2
Dr. Harold Spivacke, Chief - 2June 20, 1939
There are still two schools of thought as to the person with [?] whom you should officially be
corresponding; and as soon as that is settled I will let you know. I raised the question before but had
no answer; apparently now the University will have to make up its mind since the present informal
arrangement whereby I write you directly is liable to make difficulties for my WPA boss.Ever cordially,
S. Robertson (Mrs.) Sidney H. RobertsonSupervisorSHR:O
June 23, 1939
Check Mark Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
You were perfectly correct in your interpretation of ny "politer requests." No additional records
would have been sent you had you not returned a substantial portion of the first lot of records! This
is a principle which we apply to all "outside" projects for only in this way can we be sure that the
Archive is getting the proper type of material.
If you wish me to enter into correspondence with any other persons or institutions, I shall
be pleased to do so if these persons or institutions will communicate with me. You made the
application and we expressed our willingness to cooperate with you. You are therefore the
responsible party as far as we are concerned. If there is to be any change, it will have to be
authorized by you in writing.
With regard to the discs; please remember that they are U.S. Government property. If at any time
you have reason to believe that due to complicated transfers they are in danger of being lost, you
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
are hereby authorized to return them to us at once by express collect whether recorded or still in a
blank state.
I do not wish to add to any difficulties you may have but I hope that you realize that I am also
responsible for this material and must exercise due precaution. If it is simply a matter of formality,
however, I believe that it can be settled easily. Why don't you discuss the problem with Mr. Elkus?
I feel sure that he can help you solve it.Very sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of
MusicHSmr
7/11/39
Mr. [?] Here is our present list of instruments ----- please examine Mr [Handon's?] drawing of
each one [before?] undertaking research on it. Bagpipes ([?]) [?] [?] ([?]) " [?] (Shepherd's pipe) "
Double pipes flute? oboe-? no drawing yet - [Balkan?] [Gusla?] [?] ------- Tar [Georgia?] [Oude?]
[?] [?] " [?] " Saz [Armenia?] [Surna?] [Armenia?] [Santur???] [?drawn yet?] [???] We want data on
distribution (geographic); history; technic of performance, tuning; other instruments associated
with in performance (if any); ceremonial or specific social use, if any. Also please note names given
this instrument by various authorities naming the authority in each case. Don't fail to indicate your
source for each statement SR
2108 Shattuck AveBerkeley, Calif.
You inquired whether miners sing: You bet they do, swell stuff! I had an awful time discovering the
right places to go, & the right introduction, but things are going swimmingly now. Project extended
to Jan 1st & has been requested by U.C. for a second year - which remains to be seen. I have 152
records for you but only 90 copies for the Univ. (including 72 already sent you) because it has been
hard to get blanks for the Univ. copies. However they should be here next week & then you will
begin to receive your disks in [triplicate?] with the cordial approval (after much dickering) of WPA,
University, & project. I am now told I can send you anything just so I list it in detail for WPA.God
bless our home.[?]Sidney Robertson BerkeleyAug 257 PM1939CalifTHIS SIDE OF CARD IS FOR
ADDRESSRECEIVED LIBRARY OR CONGRESSFIRST MAILMAIL & [?] DIV.AUG291939 Harold Spivacke
Music Division Library of Congress Washington, D.C.
California Folk Music Project2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaSeptember 26, 1939
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Mr. Alan Lomax, in chargeArchive of American Folk SongLibrary of CongressWashington, D. C.Dear
Mr. Lomax:
I enclose the report upon the California Folk Music Project which you requested recently. I hope
it will meet your requirements and that you and Dr. Spivacke will feel free to cut where it seems
to you desirable.With kindest regards, I amCordially yours, Sidney H. Robertson (Mrs.) Sidney H.
RobertsonSupervisorSHR:L W.C.P.
A September 1, 1939
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Sidney:
All felicitations about the progress of your work in California. I have listened to some of your records
and read over your careful notes and it all seems most interesting. The fact that you seem to be
making a musical cross-section of your community with everything from Icelandic religious songs
to Barbary Coast ragtime shows the fertility of your approach. Some day the material will prove
invaluable to historians and students of society. So far as I know, there is no other study of this
nature being made.
You must forgive me for my complete failure as a correspondent. My activities have been so many
and so varied for the past nine months that I have written only such letters as were absolutely
essential to my day to day work.
The trip to Michigan was in many ways the most interesting I have yet made and results in terms of
about a thousand songs and tunes from lumberjacks, lake sailors, Finns, Serbs, Poles, etc., form a
useful part of the Archive now. I planned to return to the same region this summer, but it has been
impossible for me to leave the Library. Your friends in Wisconsin and Minnesota I hope to see some
day. Miss Marjorie Edgar agreed to work with me if I had been able to return this summer, but I was
able to impress her, I think with the finished material I had gathered in Northern Michigan.
In making up the Annual Report of the Music Division, we should like to have from you a summary,
a couple of typewritten pages, of your work so far. This should include a very brief statement of
the set-up of your project, plus a general summary of the recordings and an impression or two of
your own. Please don't regard this report as a difficult chore and let it be as concise and simple as
possible.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
I have a personal favor to ask of you. During the coming year I am going to be in charge of the
musical programs of the Columbia Broadcasting System's American School of te Air and in one of my
broadcasts will deal with the Gold-Rush Period in California. I have a recording or so of the songs of
the period, but none of them come from California and I should like to listen to as nearly genuine as
possible singing of these songs before I tackle them on the air. 2 Mrs. Robertson9/1/39 - Page Two
I should greatly appreciate, therefore, if you could nose around for some recordings of this kind
and would also appreciate any information on the score that you can send me. If it involves a lot of
extra works, please let me know and we can make some sort of arrangement about it. I look forward
to hearing from you within the next few days.With best regards and highest esteem, I amSincerely
yours,Alan LomaxAL a
[?] 2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaSeptember, 4 1939
Dear Alan:
A hasty note to thank you for your good letter and all the kind words. The WPA here has asked
me for a statement as to the value of the records already sent in, and I had been hesitating about
requesting that until I had sent in more English material... songs in English, that is to say. However,
your unsolicited letter would serve admirably if I may use it the [?] . Will you let me know by return
postcard?
The report you request will be forthcoming in a day or two. It now contains three pages instead of
two and I'll pare the other off before it reaches you.
Apropos of songs of the gold rush period, I have just spent some time along the Mother Lode and
have 20 or so recordings from old timers there. Perhaps a third of this material comes from sons
of 49ers. Next week Iam going into the northern mines, around Placerville, and hope to do equally
well there --- my contacts, after endless struggle, seem at last to be bearing fruit. Sometimes it is
hard to strike the right level -- the one which bears the kind of gold I'm looking for! Please let me
know when you need these disks for study prior to your broadcast, and if necessary I will copy them
first and send [?] the originals in out of order.... I don't know of any good recordings with the flavor
of the period. There is a Decca or Musicraft set called Songs of California (I think) which contains
Lilly Dale, Sweet Betsy, etc..; but they seem very badly done, to me. Lilly Dale; Her Sweet Sailor Boy
and Lady Leroy are among the songs sung in the wagons crossing the plains... my information is
from the children of 49ers. The last two were sung by G.V. Graham and records [?] are already in
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
the Library. Minstrel troupes were ubiquitous in the mines and many of their songs were picked up
and sung up and down the hill country. Put's California Songster, the Coal Oil Tommy Songster, Put's
Golden Songster, all pub. in S.F. in the 50ties, will give you some idea. There were 20-some songsters
publsihed w ich contain a fairly good cross-section --- there were minstrel songs, parodies dealing
with conditions in the mines and on the journey here by sea and by land, traditional songs like the
Blue-Eyed Sailor, plus Ben Bolt and Nancy Lee, etc. The records I've made so far, while genuine
enough, are rather decrepit performances --- not the performances of the kind of singer who has
sung much all his life .... mostly these true 49er songs I have were retrieved one by one with difficulty
from the memory of some old party whose memory of the song is not clear. If you want to use an
actual recording, I would suggest you listen to the records of the McCready brothers from Groveland.
They were barn in Kansas but their father was a 49er who made a lit le pile and returned to Kansas.
So it's rather back-handed Clif. material, as to source. They have lived and mined in Tuolumne
County for 30 or so years, however, and are still mining actively, though their chief source of income
is a State pension. These songs have not been sent in to the Library yet because I have run out of
styli and am having trouble finding money for more; but a week or two should solve all this. as ever
[Sidney?]
Sidney Robertson2108 ShattuckBerkeley Calif BERKELEYSEP [?][?] PM1939
CALIF. Air Mail THIS SIDE OF CARD IS FOR ADDRESS Alan LomaxAAFSLibrary of CongressWashington
D.C.
A
Sept. 25, 1939Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 ShattuckBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Sidney:
Humblest apology for errors and failures to give credit where due. The styli are enclosed in this
letter. Archer Taylor is indeed a lamb although I wouldn't say it to his face if I were you.
The programs begin October 10 at 9:30 a.m. and continue on Tuesdays. Please hurry with the
duplicates. My plan now is to present California gold rush songs as growing out if a background of
folktheater and minstrel shows, etc. Who was Put? Are there any real oral variants of the ballad in his
Songster? Were anything but music hall tunes and sea shanty tunes sung? I wish to heavens I could
fly out there for a week.Best regards,Sincerely yours,Alan LomaxAssistant in Charge of theArchive of
American FolksongALw
Sr description [???] is her own experience (She sent [?]?) of the classification system for time later
so well developed & [?] Bronson. He was one your project adin. & writer if you can remember I told
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
him about this in 1939; I may just have been one of those [?] whose time had come 2180 Shattuck
Avenue[Berkeley, California?][September 2, ??]Dear Charlie:
I was about to write surprised [??] your forgetting who Archer Taylor is, when your second letter
arrived.
The point about the finding-[?] is that it is not yet complete, nor any where near. He fondly thinks
that he has included all published collections, and that no new songs are likely to turn up --- none
[?] for which a main entry has not already been made. But he is in for a surprise when he looks at
the collections published during the past two or three years. He wants us to put 10 people to work
on it for a year, will personally buy all necessary cards, etc., and is much excited about it. This we
cannot do, because we are coming to the end of our Federal funds and our materials, but we are
starting some more NYA students to work on it this week; and if we survive for a second year, we will
make this one of our main occupations. It really is a beautiful job. The cards are enormous -- next
size larger than 5 x 7 -- about 7 x 15 -- and he is putting a sentence or two to outline the plot on every
one.... The incompleteness probably explains way Alan did n't see fit to [?] the list -- I believe Taylor
asked to have [??] at the Library.[illegible paragraph?][illegible paragraph?]
The new Library Folk Lore project sounds swell..... I do not see just how I could tie in with us because
it seems unlikely we shall survive the new year... I expect to close around January 1st as sponsor's
funds --- i.e., non-labor funds for rent, paper, ink, typewriter rent, etc., will not be forthcoming
so far as I can now see. If you have any ideas as to where a grant of $1000 could be obtained
for us, do let me know--that is all it would take. We had a pledge of $1800 from the State Relief
Administration, on the basis of $7.50 per man month (whch struck [?] us an improvement over the
$22.50 monthly relief average). They cancelled this on July 1st, leaving an unexpended balance of
$400. We should not need so [?] another year because we now have chairs, [?], etc., and various
dark-room equipment, which [??] SRA would I think let us keep, and which would [?] not need to be
duplicated. The University very much wants the project to continue, but it against University policy to
provide more than operating space and technical sponsorship -- advice, etc. In our case there was no
room for us so we had to pay rent out of our $1800. The music department is formally that we can
count on. They did not even buy the blank disks for their set of copies -- these came from SRA funds.
Individually and departmentally the University is helpful, interested and very complimentary; but
the administration is anti-WPA despite some million dollars of labor contributed each year. I have no
doubt of being able to get Federal funds from WPA for labor for another year; but do not see where
the famous 5% or so for materials and rent can come from. Mr. Elkus asked the Research Committee
for funds and was refused.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
I should not ask for $1000, as a matter of fact, but around $1500, since this year I had no help at all
on travel, except for $30 monthly from WPA (which did not materialize actually until months after I
had got myself into debt travelling) SRA planned to let me have per diem but later it was discovered
they could not pay per diem for anyone on another agency's payroll, so I struggled along by myself.
Do you suppose there is the slightest chance of my tying in with the new project in any way? I am
tired of spending all my salary on my job and having so little help generally. I would like to get the
material we now have straight in the files for the University of Paul Bunyn or Sam Slick to publish,
and then depart with a swish of the skirts. We will do our Calif. check-list, which is nearly ready to
mimeograph, and our card catalog, and then phooey to this old University so far as I am concerned. I
was offered a teaching job beginning this coming January, and I may get contrary and take it, though
it does not appeal to me at all.
By the bye, I was shown the letter offering copies of our stuff to you the other day, and of curse it
was all wrong, though it would not do to press the point. At no time has anyone been told that the
200 disks have been completed -- my monthly progress reports all shown 162 (I think) to date, and
72 deposited in the L of C. The reason the WPA set of photographs has not yet been sent in is, of
course, that it is not yet complete. We lost our photographer on the 18th months furlough, but he
will be back soon. But the photos will not be complete until the disks are, of course.
I think a system of melodic indexing ought to accompany the 'factory method' -- not anything
esoteric, nor more than the average music school grad. could direct -- and nothing that pretends
to bring variants together, but something like a reduction of melodies to cards so they can be filed
according to scale degrees or intervals [?] [??]. These methods are open to all sorts of objections
but it seems to me they constitute a beginning and can provide a sort of melodic finding-list. I
think Miss Poladian is going to emerge with something in this respect, though she is having trouble
making it simple enough. I had noticed that melodies of accented rhythm seemed to change less in
their [porogrinations?] than the narrative type where the story was the thing. So I though perhaps
individual tones in a melody would affect the memory the same way. We assumed momentarily
that in a given ballad tune the rhytmically important notes would change less frequently than what
we have called rhythmic passing-tones. Miss Poladian made a lot of cards withlarge figures for the
scale degrees of [rhytmically?] accented tones and small ones for the others, and it was amazing
how many more variants bobbed up to the eye at once, when we ignored the small figures and filed
according to the larger ones. Of course there are still variants which escape one this way; but out
of her hundred songs variants that had escaped us when the melodies were classified according
to Mersmann, Bartok-Herzog and Hustvedt and Turner showed up unmistakably. She had some
Street Williams included which were textual variants but not melodic ones, and these showed up at
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
once. This just may turn into something that can be used on a large scale. Don't anticipate us on this,
though, will you? But let me know what criticisms occur to you. Of course we were thinking in terms
of melodies already published -- adequate use of the disks is something else again. But any good
transcriber could get enough from the records of the average singer to make it possible to idenify
the tune-family -- Henry has been saying he thinks much too much fuss is made about accurate
transcription since no transcription is complete anyhow! which is cheering.
WORK PROJECTS ADMINISTRATIONCalifornia Folk MusicProject #11578-A 252108
Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDr. Harold Spivacke, ChiefDivision of MusicLibrary of
CongressWashington, D. C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
Forty-six disks, Series E 33-78 inclusive, have been sent to you express collect today. These were
almost all recorded in the Mother Lode country.
To date we have received 150 12-inch disks from you and have returned 118, including this last
lot. We could use the last 50 of our projected 200 if you will send them. Records completed so far
number 169 so I am getting a trifle ahead of you.
Our present closing date is the end of January. The Music Department of the University is however
anxious for us to continue nd we are hoping this may be possible.
The library cards are now being typed. We had (for only a few weeks) an excellent librarian-
cataloguer who straightened us out fairly well.We cannot promise a second set of cards for first lines
but hope we may do them for you. First lines and refrains are being added.
If you have any suggestions as to labeling our file [?] photographs, size 2 1/2 X 3 1/2. I should like to
have them. The paper is too thin to type on the back, and ink shows through.
With kindest regards I am,Cordially yours, Sidney H. Robertson (Mrs.) Sidney H.
RobertsonSupervisorSHR:L
2108 Shattuck Berkeley - Oct. 8, 1939
Dear Alan: I enclose a card from the head of the Music Division of the S.F. Pub. Library giving
what information she could lay her hands upon in [?] Stone. "Old Pub" D. application is listed as
[compiler?] of the 1st Calif songster in 1855, as well as publisher. Then about 1858 a series with
Pub's name appears - [?] Calif & [?] original Calif. Songster. He started something which has left us
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
probably the most complete contemporary record in song of any period, undertaking in the U.S. --
[?] even the [?] woodsmen documented their daily lines more completely. The miners' songs more
over dealt frankly with every side of life -- "protest" songs were frequent a good example is "[??]
Companies." There were comments on various forms of graft & on all the various discouragements,
from [?] to squatters.
Your folk theatre idea sounds ok tho' local people in the mines would be surprised at the term --
everything came under the head of minstrel [?] or "grand poplar entertainment" Local talent, if
sufficiently applauded often went "on tour" to neighboring towns. The blackface business was pure
[?];and the main minstrel frame simply provided a simple form for all sorts of local talent. The few
negroes I've heard of in the mines by the bye, were much respected and extremely popular for their
good spirits & hard work. I've heard long appreciative tales of such men by their surviving friends --
with no one thinking to mention the man's colour till almost the end of the story.
In addition to much home talent, there was an enormous amount of professional singing & dancing
troups, minstrel troups, etc. The famous Hutchinson family toured the mines (see their songster.) 2
(2.) Jonny Lind and various famous actresses whose name I've forgotten were a great success. Many
- probably most - of the miners, you see, were men of some education & [??] - They were not all
country people exactly. The "lib'rary" or literary society meetings, given ones to recitations & songs
were sometimes very sophisticated indeed in their [?]. There was a good [?] of French & Italians who
lent an "air" to all these events. Everyone turned out in full force and many entertainers made their
fortunes in a few weeks - Comparatively few men can have been so isolated as not to have been
exposed to much professional entertainment.
On the other hand, the mines were, & still are, alive with Missourians who do not [?] easily abandon
their native folk culture.
Also many from the [?] Coast - Main - Vt. N.H. - Ohio Kansas - Iowa. [?] I am continually interrupted
& will have to abandon anything but a series of unreated statements. You use your knitting needles
on it 'em! Dialect songs, because of the cosmopolitan nature of the mines, were extremely popular
among the American "folk" to whom a Swedish or Chinese accent was a great surprise & source
of amusement. These were mostly German (or Swedish), Chinese, Scotch and - in overwhelming
proportions - Irish. I recorded a song recently [?] with a very German accent which the starter
couldn't complete and it was finished by another old miner in the room - but in "Irish!" Often these
songs dealt with local events, but imagine the dialect song in general was born on the professional
stage during the 40's, 50's, 60's - the periods of the tremendously heavy immigration to the U.S.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
There were German, Welsh & Swiss singing societies very early. Also [bands?] - every town had its
brass band of 25-45 [?]. The flute and cornet have apparently ousted the piano even in the present
generation in the mining [?] & I daresay this is because 3 (3)of the band tradition. There were & still
[?] are lots of good country fiddlers who play Hell among the yearlin's, Sally Goodin; Soldiers Joy,
Leather Breeches, etc. I have yet by the by, to hear Old Joe Clark in Calif., the I've asked many times.
No one remembers hearing it even.
Everywhere there were Mexicans, Chilenas, Porteguse, & this meant much serenading in the
streets in the evening. This pleasant custom was adopted also by some American [bags?] in the [?]
very old men now, who used to meant meet to practice as a dace band and would play their way
home for all to hear - in, Coloma, where John Marshall first discovered gold, & probably elsewhere.
Instruments among the Latin Americans were of course several forms of the guitar, the Portuguese
viola (descended from the [?], a guitar, no relation to over viola) a small Mexican, harp; The Chinese
brought their various [?] flutes with them and were often heard playing melancholy solas after dark;
the Americans, played the 5-string banjo, the fiddle & the bones, chiefly (for dance music; quadrelles
& such) also the hammer dulcimer (I've at last found one which was played in the 70's & have met an
old man whose father played one in the early mines,) and later the harmonica became popular; but I
have heard many complaints that the real [old?] songs won't "go" on the harmonica - which points to
modal tunes needing the 6th below the tonic I expect.
I know of only one [?] noting down of tunes to Calif. songs directly from a 49er, in Calif -- this wad
done from the singing of old John Selleck about 15 years ago. I have seen a photostat 4 [4?] copy
of the song but as the compiler is a pathological case no one has yet been able to persuade her to
allow the songs to be copies. Fanny Eckstorm [?] noted some of them from a returned 49er in Maine
about '90. They are among Phillip Barry's paper & I have arranged to have them searched for -- it
may take some time to find them, however. But except for stray items in the collections of Helen
Flanders, H. M. Belden, Vance Randolph - 4 or 5 all told - those two sets are the only contemporary
notationsof tunes. "Uncle Sam's Farm" to which [?] Steamship Companies (from one of the Calif. [?])
was sung, was recorded for me by old Ben [?] Springfield Mo. in Dec. 36, if F. S. A. Collection you can
get at it. Two other good songs related to Calif. in my Missouri lot are ['The Rolling Stone' 'A Stone
that goes rolling will gather no moss"?] & "Root Hog or Die" -- The former song by Ben Rice, the latter
by "Colonel" Denson. [?] A [?] of [?] tune was a common [?] tune in quadrille books in the 50's here,
& a textual variant is still sung. I On the promised "no commercial use" of these songs but if you like
'em enough to want to sing 'em, send my people each $2.50 per song -- or whatever seems right --
will you? They would be so grateful, & I should feel absolved of [?] my promise if they make a little
something out of it.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
[Illegible Paragraph?]
On the records I've sent in from Calif to the A. A. F. A. the first 10 on the [?] series are good stuff by a
gent named George Vinton Graham. Two of his songs, Her Sweet Sailor Boy and Lady Le Roy. 5 [5?]
he learned from a equally picturesque old party called Rocky Mountain Jim. Jim had known Sutter &
Marshall had worked at Sacramento for the former & said he learned those two songs from some
immigrants arriving at Sutter's Fort [?] in a wagon trail. Jim died about 10 years ago, a very old man
indeed.
["The Blue Eyed Sailor" ???]
In "Country Songs of Vermont" by H. H. Flandrs & [?] ([?] about 1938 I think) is "In the Days of Forty-
nine.' I have not seen this, but if it is the one in which somebody or other roared out his soul and/or
[?] fell down a hole "in the days of 49" -- it is the song which was actually sung in the mines.
In the W. P. A.'s the California San Francisco Songster the song to the tune of Caroline of [?] is
authentic -- "Crossing the plains" I believe is the title. Joe [?] & Sweet Betsy were sung [everywhere?]
-- they are mentioned over & over. Likewise Susanna, of course.
I made [one?] copy of the Calif. Miners' songs & the motor on my play off went "bad". I have had
so much trouble with it, I didn't dare wait to have it fixed lest it takes 2 or 3 weeks "fixings" as once
before. Instead I have "rented" a commercial [?] up for 3 days at $15 if as you mentioned you have
an expense account of some way of [?] me that I should appreciate it since I should have waited for
my own ramshackle [?] if you were not in [?]. If I misunderstood what you (meant never mind and I'll
just consider it one more item in a good cause.
Two more days [???] records -- they should go off [by express Wed --?]
A formal letter repeating the info. on the enclosed card will reach you through formal channels 6
[6?]soon! -- but I thought you should have this, at least, quickly!
I should perhaps mention that all the tunes I mention above are contained in the [Selleck?] song
book with little or no variation, so I know they are authentic. Betsy & Susanna change not a all, [???
versions] Joe [?] only a note or two.
Soung Young John Selleck 66, buried his father at 99 a years ago He is a fiddler and a fine musician,
but cannot alas, play the [song?] tunes on his fiddle. He said he might later on his 5-string banjo.
But if the miserly Miss Kelley hears he is recording for me I am afraid all will be lost as to song tunes,
though she may let him continue to fiddle for dance music.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
This is all I know at the moment![Sincerely?] -- Sidney
Mrs. Hope L. Cahill, DirectorDiv. of Professional and Service ProjectsDiv. of Professional and
Service ProjectsArea 0.8History of MusicOctober 17, 1939
Mr. R. C. ShawJ. C. Gregory
Mrs. Robertson, supervisor of our Music Project, has been able to furnish us with the following
information concerning your inquiry of October 3rd under the above. Mrs. Robinson's letter is
quoted in full.
"In answer to the inquiry about 'Old Put' received from Alan Lomax, assistant in charge of the
Archive of American Folk Music at the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., I have been able to
gather only the following rather meager information:
1) Old Put's name was John A. Stone. He was himself a miner; was fond of singing and had long
made a point of collecting songs of and by miners. 2) There is no evidence that he was ever an
employee of D. Appleton & Company. He was rather the compiler of a series of songsters published
by appleton.
3) He was a member of a group known as the Sierra Nevada Rangers, which toured the mines
singing the songs later published in the Old Put collections. His name first appeared on a published
songster in 1856.
4) There is no evidence of authorship to link his name with any one of the above-mentioned songs;
but it seems probable that some ofthe texts were of his composition.
5) At least six of the songs published by 'Old Put' have survived in the oral tradition, though in
fragmentary form.
I am obliged to Miss Fredericks of the Music Division of the San Francisco Library and to the Bancroft
Library for this information.
Miss Wensel, head of the California Room at The California State Library in Sacramento, was good
enough to put one of her assistants on this trail, but an entire day's work there revealed nothing
except 'Old Put's' name."Very truly yours,Phyllis Kristich, Area SupervisorDiv. of Professional and
Service ProjectsJCCcc: P & SP Files - 2UC File
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Oct 8
Dear Alan:I've been laid up for a week with some sort of God knows what. The miners' recordings
copying is complete and will go off to the Library express collect in the morning. One more thing to
add to my [?] on gold Rush Music. There seems to have been many songs - a really large [?]- of which
are rather like the medieval chants - fables - a la Arkansas [?], music or song [?] by spoken nonsense.
The songsters are full of these, and I should say half the songs I've recorded which to back surely
to '49 are of this type. [?] Leon Ponce in Columbia. Ponce is 3/4 Indian, 1/4 Mex. - but speaks only
English & is much respected in town. Sorry about all the delay -- I cannot get your programs to my
disgust - none of the big [S. F.?] Stations are in operation at 6[30?] a. m. If you [?] could let me know
what station & when I might be able to get your [?] direct. HastilySidney
A Oct. 23, 1939
Check Mark Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Sidney:
Just a hurried not to thank you for your beautiful material on Put, and I am looking forward with
enthusiasm to hearing the [Gold Miner?] recording. I will write you when I have listened and had
time to look at the letter more thoroughly.
Best Regards,Sincerely yours,Alan LomaxAssistant in ChargeArchive of American Folk-SongALW
MEMORANDUMSubject: Loan of recording equipment to the Library of CongressWe feel that the
wording of the telegram of October 31, 1939 agreeing to a two week loan of the Writer's Project
recording equipment to the Library of Congress may give rise to some misunderstanding. In order
to expedite the original request it was transmitted to the Writer's Project over the telephone. As a
matter of convenience for the Project, we suggested over the phone that the equipment be returned
to the Presto Company after the trip for a purely routine check. This was simply meant to make it
easier for the Project since it was difficult for us to arrange the transportation of the equipment
and also because [?] no [?] funds are set up to make even minor adjustments. In a trip of the length
contemplated for the machine, the jarring unavoidable in carrying the machinery by car, might
loosen some of the connections.
We are afraid that the telegram might seem to imply some idea that the machine might be
mishandled. We wish to correct this impression should it exist. The Project's relations with the
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Library of Congress have always been most cordial and we are indebted for very generous technical
and personal assistance.
A November 1, 1939
Mrs. Sidney H. Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
The large package of records arrived. I am too busy to inspect them myself but I shall ask Dr. Botkin
to do it for me soon. I shall write you about them later.
The fifty discs will be sent you as soon as possible.
I do not understand your remarks about the cards for first lines. Aren't these our cards in the first
place?
Have you tried pasting labels on the photographs? This may solve your problem.
With best regards,Sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief, Division of MusicHSw
Nov. 2, 1939
2108 Shattuck Avenue,Berkeley, CaliforniaDear Alan:
I had heart-failure, positively, yesterday, when a letter was handed me -- "Mrs. R please peruse and
take note" it was marked -- saying that your Gold Rush program was taking place --- had taken place
-- on the preceding day. I had spent an irritable half-hour at 6:30 that Tuesday morning, the 31st,
trying to get New York without success. It is possible that the afternoon hour was broadcast from
coast-to-coast and that I could have heard it if I had known, however; (though Columbia here had no
information as to such a program two weeks ago).
Now I am praying that after all the complications the records will have reached you in time for you to
hear a little miners' music before this program. Your earlier letter had given the date of this program
as November 14, so although I was regretful we could not simply send the records by return mail
when you first asked for them, I did think there was still plenty of time.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Well, I hope the program went well, as I'm sure it did; but I'm awful mad I did n't hear it. I'll try at the
later hour next week.
Are these programs of yours being recorded as they are broadcast? Because it seems to me that they
should be, and that they might mak a Decca or Musicraft album later.
The San Francisco office was highly impressed with your letter -- all to the good, and thank you,
sir. The University is girding up its loins to do battle for the rest of the non-labor, sponsor's funds
that we need for another year. The WPA is sufficiently impressed with us to offer to pay our rent
for another year, incidentally, which it would not do the first year. As rent is our largest single item,
this is the largest loud off my shoulders at one fell swoop. There is talk of a combination of three
departments with the music department to provide our funds for another year; and Anthropology
wants us to do Indians and has a field workers who is a member of the peyote cult and will take
me 'round... imagine! I have kept away from Indians, partly because I know too little about them
(though that has not deterred me with Finns and Albanians!) but chiefly because departments
of anthropology have accustomed Indians to being paid by the hour for their efforts in behalf of
science, and I had no money for this.
A letter from Mrs. Flanders says you are going to spend ten days in New England soon. She has been
awfully friendly and nice to me -- I've had three letters from her, I think, in answer to one inquiry. I
envy you the work in New England-- that has always interested me particularly. Also, partly because
of my interest in the Gaels, I've always wanted to go to Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. Is there
any chance of your going there? So much of the material which has travelled west via the lumber
industry seems to h be discoverable there --- and it must have fed New England first. There seems to
be a distinct northern tradition which stretches straight across to Idaho and, I suppose, Oregon and
Washington --- which I still hope to explore one far day, incidentally.
Dr. Taylor's 9 boxes of 5 x 8 cards are before me as I write --- we have some [?] kinds kids workng on
them, and will have WPA people for next year I trust. He was awfully funny about Miss Edgar: "I'm
always so glad to see [?] and always so [?] to have her go because long before she leaves I'm reduced
to exhaustion."
Well --- good hunting. Please do forgive me about the records -- I'm afraid they were not much use to
you.Ever cordially, Sidney Please, oh please, don't forget to return [?] discs 69E-78E inclusive to us? -
If you cannot frank 'em, send 'em collect and I'll pay the express, since it was our mistake.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
The extraordinary amount of packing material we send you is required by a sort of pigs-is-pigs
express company man here, who will insure victrola records otherwise, despite any insurance that
they are not breakable as the commercial ones are.
November 16, 1938
Received of Music Division, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Per [?] Gov't Bill of Lading No. 984)
Twenty-five (25) blank acetate disks, 12 inch, with folders. Sidney H. Robertson Sidney H. Robertson
University of California Folk Music Project 2108 Shattuck Ave. Berkeley, Calif.
California FolkMusic Project,#11578-A25.2108 Shattuck Avenue Berkeley, CaliforniaNovember
21st, 1939.
Mr. Harry D. HubbardP.O. Box [?]Stockton, California.Dear Mr. Hubbard:
I am sorry you have had so much difficulty locating me, but it seems extraordinary that Mr. Lomax
should not have given you my correct address, which he uses constantly and which has worked
without difficulty so far. He has not mentioned you to me, but he has been swamped with the work
connected with the preparation of his broadcasts and I suppose he will get around to writing me
soon.
Meanwhile, if you will write to say on what day, and at what hour, between nine and five, you expect
to be in Berkeley, I will arrange to be at the above address to talk to you. You had better allow time
for a reply from me confirming the appointment however, as I travel constantly.
I have been working in the Mother Lode Country on and off for eight months and have sent to
the Library recordings of nearly two hundred items. I think Mr. Lomax must have been under the
impression that you were offering information which might serve to make the collection more
complete, out of an historical insterest in the subject. You do not tell me what your interest is, nor
what you have to offer, so it is a little difficult for m to make any suggestions.
It is true that the Library of Congress is sponsoring the project I am directing, but the Library
provides none of the funds. I have been making the recordings with equipment which belongs to
me personally on blank disks which belong to the Library and are returned to them. A small travel
allowance pays for about half the mileage I travel, and the rest, along with hotel and restaurant
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
expense, I pay for myself. There is no money to pay performers an I owe the recordings I have made
entirely to the courtesy of disinterested old timers whose sole reward is the opportunity to hear their
own voices.
The project is sponsored by a group of agencies and individuals no one of which is financially able
to meet the entire expense. For that reason I think it is safe to say that the recordings would not be
made were W.P.A not willing to undertake a heavy share.
I am sorry, I must say again, that you had such difficulty getting in touch with me. Government
agencies expect business to be transacted in office and not at home by their representatives,
therefore they do not ordinarily give home addresses. If you had asked for the project by name, you
would have had no trouble.Very truly yours,(Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson, SupervisorSHR/ls
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaNovember 21, 1939
Alan LomaxArchive of American Folk SongLibrary of CongressWashington, D.C.Dear Alan:
I enclose a copy of a letter from an apparent lunatic whom you seem innocently to have sicked onto
my trail. I've heard nothing from you about him, and he does n't seem to have cared to use the
address you must have given him. At least I imagine you can hardly have given him an address in
Oakland.
He must entirely have misunderstood what you must have written him, for, as you see, he attempts
to make it clear that since he is willing to do my job, I am forthwith, nder instructions from you,
to stop! He does n't say anything about what he is able or would like to do, just a long tale about
his difficulty in locating me, which can hardly be much of a problem since letters addressed to me
simply 'Berkeley' have reached me without trouble. Does he have recordings? Or what? I have been
working along peacefully by avoiding a number of people much like this gent, all of whom seem
to think they own the Mother Lode. There is plenty of material there and I have had no trouble
getting it by going to the people themselves. Obviously this man thinks there is a job in the offing
somewhere. I think he is a little crazy, and if you would just send me a copy of your letter to him,
I should know better how to deal with him when, if and as he appears. I shall write mildly in the
meantime. RSVP pronto.
Had a nice letter from Mrs. Flanders informing me of the hour of your broadcast. I am going to make
one more try, in 15 minutes, to get it here!
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
She just sent me a copy of the letter she is mailing all her clubwomen. I've never met her, but she's
seems to be a grand person.
Please don't forget I need those ten records sent you by mistake, very badly indeed. I have not
the number at hand but the ten highest-numbered records are the ones I have not copied for
the University nor had catalogued. If you want to make the copies for me onto 10 of the last 50
acetate blanks which Dr. Spivacke writes will be sent me shortly, that will save the shipping back and
forth. But I think it's simpler to send them and let me start over again on them. Awfully sorry this
happened.Ever cordially, Sidney
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaNovember [21st?], 1939.
Miss Caroline WenzelCalifornia State LibrarySacramento, CaliforniaDear Miss Wenzel:
I thought you would be interested to know that Albert Ellus wrote officially as fom the University to
ask permission to include a list of titles of the Bar-Room ballads in our Check List of California Songs,
and Miss Kelly refused in no uncertain terms. He is replying to her vague "threats" of publication to
say that the University would be interested in publishing this set of songs if she has not concluded
other arrangements. A difficulty there would, however, be Mrs. Wiley's settings of the airs, which the
University would want to omit, as good practice among folk-lorists frowns upon accompaniments to
folk airs.
Apropos of Old Put, (John A. Stone) of California Songster fame, Miss Jessica Fredericks, San
Francisco Public Library, writes me that Old Put was a miner who gathered old sons whenever he
found them, and who seems to have toured the mines singing them himself, with an organization
known as the Sierra Nevada Rangers. This last sounds entertainingly modern! and I think should be
checked. I don't at present know the source of her information. At any rate I thought it interesting
that Appleton published songs under Old Put's editorship which the latter had both gathered and
sung in the mines.
I wonder whether you, or possibly Miss Gillis, would be good enough to give us permission to
include in our Check List titles from four songsters you have that we have not found elsewhere, and
also titles of the broadsides? I have assumed you knew what we are doing, but I have never asked
formal permission for the publication of the information we have been gathering. We are making
a list, indexing by titles and also first lines, of early printed material, both traditional and minstrel
songs. Publication is by the California Folk Music Project of the Work Projects Administration, for
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
the Music Department of the University of California.Many thanks for all your help.Ever cordially,
(Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson, SupervisorCalifornia Folk Music ProjectUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley,
California
2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDecember 8, 1939
Dr. Harold SpivackeMusic DivisionLibrary of CongressWashington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
I am sorry to have delayed answering your last letter; but I have been ill and for a while the routine
signatures and reports for WPA seemed a large day's work! In response to your query about the
catalog cards: I said I doubted that we could send you cards for first lines this year, meaning that a
title index is all we shall have completed. You may remember suggesting that a second card for filing
under first lines would be useful. Of course the cards are yours.. Our first idea was that we should
not be able to type these cards, particularly as those you sent us were very heavy. So the first 500
or so were made in pencil. They looked very nice to us until a former chief cataloguer of the Los
Angeles Public Library came onto the project for two months and revsied them with an unsparing
pen. So the project bought some more cards, lighter weight than those with which you supplied us
but not quite as light as the weight of the typewritten cards you sent us as samples; these are being
typewritten and look to my untrained eye very nice. (I tried to duplicate the light weight cards you
use but the paper company sent me a different sort twice and I accepted the last lot because time
was getting short.)
I should perhaps explain that the new WPA regulations so upset the project during the summer that
for a time we had no skilled workers at all, and our numbers were so reduced that when our first
12 months was up in October we had funds with which to continue; at that time the project was
extended to the end of January. For this reason the catalog cards are still here being finished, and
the photographs we promised you are still here too.
Alan Lomax asked me to send in whatever Mother Lode material I had, even though it meant
copying somewhat out of turn. The date he gave me for his broadcast was Nvember 14; when I
learned it was to be earlier I rushed the records in, too late I fear, only to discover after they had left
that the clerk who packed them had included ten more than I gave her "in order to fill up the box!"
It was too late to retrieve them from the express company, so I wrote Alan right away giving him the
missing numbers and asking him to arrange their return. 2 They had not been catalogued nor copied
for the University of California. I am writing at home and do not have the exact serial numbers at
hand; but the 10 highest numbered disks in series E are the ones which were sent you out of turn --
69E to 78E including I believe but am not certain. If the procedure for returning these 10 disks to us
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
is too complicated or seems to you too uncertain, perhaps someone there would copy them onto
10 of the last 50 disks I requested from you, sending me the 10 copies plus 40 blanks. I am sorry this
happened, but I know of no substitute for intelligence nor antidote for excessive good intentions.
I have made 194 originals so far, so whatever you send me will be used for copies, I should perhaps
mention that I have not in every case returned to you the same blank that was sent me for the
reason that it seemed very important to me that the Library should retain the originals, since they
are so much better than even the first copy. Therefore, when I get ahead of you, as at present, I
have been sending you the originals made in the field regardless of whether the actual blank came
from you or was bought here. This resulted in your getting some Presto disks instead of the French
acetate you sent in the second [first?] lot; and now you will get a few Perma disks instead of Prestos.
As we have used Prest blanks almost entirely, this makes very little practical difference.
None of the records sent you have been played more than 3 or 4 times; most of them were played
back to the performer, then treated with disklube and played a second time for copying, and that is
all. Included in the lot sent you as from California are two songs from Missouri (recorded by me for
FSA in 1936) which have California as there, subject; and I also included one record of the playing of
the hammer dulcimer by a man in Iowa, because I had found a hammer dulcimer out here, but no
player. This record was intended to illustrate the sound of the instrument included in our working
drawings of folk instruments in California. This likewise is in the FSA collection, but was included
[?? by, because I thought, perhaps erroneously, that the California collection should be identical in
Washington and at the University here.
I hope you may have a chance to hear the 7 records sent Dr. Moore by request, now in Mr. Seeger's
hands, I believe. These records are my selection of the most interesting items gathered this year;
some of them are only interesting but a few, like the Armenian ones, are extraordinarily beautiful.
Recently I recorded 8 songs by an Indian from Tesuque Pueblo in New Mexico, and I suggested to
the music department, for whom the recording was done, that the two disks be sent you with a
request for a couple of good negro records in exchange. These will reach you in due time; meanwhile
I thought you would be interested to know that Ernest Bloch tells me the Indian themes he used in
"America" came from Tesuque and that 3 one in this lot is very like one he used, though I was unable
to pin him down to stating whether he meant I had recorded a variant of the "America" theme or
that the general feeling ofthe two was alike, merely.
You may like to know that George Vinton Graham, an old party around seventy who recorded line
first 10 disks in series E, already in your hands, has had cards printed which read:George Vinton
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
GrahamSinger of Old SongsTo TheLibrary of CongressAnd TheUniversity of CaliforniaEsq.Composer
of Pioneer PoetrySan Jose, Calif.Box 9, Route 17Phone Mayfair 345.
Have I ever explained that series E consist of songs and fiddle tunes sung and played by Californians
whose native speech is English; and that series M represents the minority groups in the same way?
With kindest remembrances to your staff and yourself, and good wishes for the holidays, I amEver
cordially yours, Sidney Robertson
P.S. Would you please let me know about the ten disks I mention at the bottom of page 1: whether
you are sending originals or copies and when, roughly, I may expect them? I am t rying to wind up
the cataloguing this month; though previous experience scheduling/ in /[?] work for WPA workers
should teach me better than to predict!
OFFICE OFTHE LIBRARIANTO Mr. Spivacke submits the paragraph marked in blue [md] "for your
amusement only." [?] 12/13 AND HOW AMUSIN' [?] [Tucker?]!
December [?] 1939
TO: Dr. Harold SpivackeFROM: Charles SeegerSUBJECT: Check on discs received from WPA and NYA
collectors (not counting Southern Recording Expedition already accounted for) located on this date
in AAFS
This Check does not account for an unknown number of discs now in Broadcast Studio at
Department of Interior, but covers all discs that could be found by Miss Rogers and Mr lan Lomax
in the Music Division and in the [AAFS?].1. [Halpert?] (NY) - 3 shipments482. Robertson (Cal) - 2
shipments or packages463. [Corse?] (Florida) - 3 shipments304. [Ray?] ([S.C.?]) - 1 package115.
Valiant (NYA - Georgia)18 total 153
There is a disc in each envelope. I have not checked the table of contents on the envelopes with any
lists sent in separately, nor with the contents of the discs enclosed. From certain samplings taken
during the last week, it is obvious that such a check must be made.
Detailed accounting of each item above listed (1 - 5) is attached. Attached: two [leftas?] from [Delful
& U.S.?] with [memoranda?] Check on discs received from [WPA?] and [NYA?] collectors (not counting
Southern Recording Expedition already accounted for) located in [ALS?], December [?] 1939.Detailer
accounting. (all discs 12")1. HalpertShipment Nov 8 - marking "Halpet N.J. - N.Y.col. 1939" nos.
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
26-23 (acetate)3- marking "....made by [Herbert?] Halpertat offices of Nat. Service [Bur?].,Feb.
The Proj., N.Y.C." nos. 1-16 16 (1,2,4,5, aluminum; rest acetate) total 19 19 (this tallies with letter
from H.H. to H.S. dated Nov. 8)Shipment Nov 29 - marking "Halpert nos. 124-5 (alum.)2- marking
"Halpert nos. 126-7 (acet.)2- marking "Halpert N. Y. City Collection"nos. 17-26 (acetate) 10 total 14
14 (this tallies with letter from H.H. to M.S. dated Nov 20)Shipment Dec 2 - marking "Halpert 1937
copy ColumbiaUniversity" nos. [82?], 85, 100 (alum.)3 - marking "Halpert N.Y. [?] collectionwriters
Project" nos. 27-38 (acetate) 12 total 15 5 (Tallies with letter form H.H. to H.S. dated Nov 29)Total for
Halpert482. Robertson Box #1 - no marking. numbered 33E - 53E (acetate)21 Box #2 - no marking.
numbered 54E - 78E (acetate) 25 Total for Robertson46
December 20, 1939
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
Thank you for your letter of December 8. It remained unanswered this long because I had hoped
to get our relations with the W.P.A. straightened out by this time, but I was too optimistic. What
happened was that during the months of September and October the Writers and Historical Records
Project were suspended. All I could do was to receive the material as it came in and acknowledge
it without any attempt to open the package or check the contents. At the present time the Messrs.
Seeger, [Botkin?] and Lomax are working in this and should have matters straightened out soon. It
will help if in the meantime you send me the exact number of disks which you contributed to the
Archive and have already sent to the Library, as well as, the total number of disks which I sent to you.
(I do not care whether they are the identical disks which we sent you or disks of another make). This
will enable us to check our figures.
I have been so terribly busy that I have had absolutely no chance to listen to any records, either fork-
songs or other material.
With best wishes for a merry Christmas and a happy New Year,Sincerely yours,Harold SpivackeChief,
Division of MusicHSw
California Folk Music Project2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDecember 26, 1939
Dr. Harold SpivackeLibrary of CongressWashington, D.C.Dear Dr. Spivacke:
Here are the figures you requested on the contribution of the Librry to this Project:
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Disks received: 150 ( 25, Aug. 25, 1938; 25, Nov. 16, 1938; 100, May 5th, 1939.)
Disks returned: 110 (Our series M, Nos. 1-55 inc. Our series E, 1-10 inc.; 26-52 inc.; 55-79, inc.)
One of the reasons why I expressed the hope that you might have heard the demonstration set of
disks that I made up for the WPA is that this set includes a few of the more interesting items which
have not yet been sent in to you because they have not yet been copied here. The set contains
most of my 'treasures', with fuller notes than I seem likely to be able to include for every item. (Title,
performer, instrument, place, date, nationality are of course complete on each label; but so far I
have not had time to amplify my field notes.)
Another reason is that I am in the process of rewriting the project for another year, and if you feel
you would like more disks from California, I should like the project to undertake to make them
for you under the same arrangement we have now. I had intended deferring this request until we
had been able to send you photographs and catalog cards and the complete set of disks; but I was
ill in November and December so am obliged to rewrite the project before certain parts of it are
complete. If you are willing to send us up to 200 disks in the course of another 12 months, would
you be good enough to wire me to that effect, as I am obliged to complete my 'documentation'
this week if there is not to be a kiatus between the old and new projects. (Such a hiatus means
that trained workers are scattered and that we lose our quarters and are obliged to pack up and
move.) We have done nothing with the Oriental groups (Japanese, Chinese, Hindu) this year, and
I am looking forward to that. One fine shanty singer recorded this year and has introduced me to
two others; and the Indian Bureau has some singers on tap here which they will arrange for me to
record. I have done almost nothing in the Farm Security Administration camps, and hope to puruse
pursue this contact more consistently.
Exclusive of course of [?] so blanks [?] [another?] [?] which are [?] last of this first [?] 200.
A brief wire saying the Library will continue the present arrangement with us if the project is
renewed is all that I need now. I hope the short notice will not inconvenience you; nothing connected
with the exigencies of WPA ever proves as simple as one hopes!
With cordial good wishes for the New Year, I amYours sincerely, Sidney H. Robertson (Mrs.) Sidney H.
Robertson
A Division of MusicDecember 29, 1939
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Check Mark
Mrs. Sidney Robertson, of the Works Progress Administration of California, has requested that the
Library of Congress supply her (in 1940) with 200 additional acetate blank discs for the continuation
of her folk-song recording. The finished records will become the property of the Library. Since our
folk-song collections have already been considerably increased through Mrs. Robertson's activities,
I recommend the purchase of the 200 discs. The details of transmittal to Mrs. Robertson, and the
approval of material to be recorded, can be settled later.Acting-Chief,Division of Music
CLASS OF SERVICE DESIREDDOMESTIC CABLETELEGRAM FULL RATEDAY LETTER DEFERREDNIGHT
NIGHTMESSAGE LETTERNIGHT SHIPLETTER RADIOGRAMPatrons should check class of
services desired; otherwise messages will be transmitted at a full-rate; [?].COPY OFWESTERN
UNION TELEGRAMDecember 29, 1939Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley,
CliforniaLIBRARIAN HAS APPROVED 200 DISCS FOR 1940. DETAILS LATER. GREETINGSEdward H.
WatersOfficial
A January 11, 1940
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
In the course of a short talk late yesterday afternoon, a question arose concerning the analyzation of
magazines, journals and [?] periodicals. We would like to know as soon as possible whether you are
engaged in any way upon work of this nature and if so what the periodical in that you are analyzing
Do you know or are you working upon any analyzation of [The Journal of American Folklore?]? If you
are, we should appreciate any particulars and details that you can forward - the nature of the work,
its extent, how complete the project in and how thoroughly the job is being done. And of course the
same question applies to any other magazine which is being similarly treated.
[Thanking?] you in advance for your reply and sending you best wishes from the Music Division, I
amSincerely yours,Edward H. Waters[?]mr
[Feb?] January 18, 1940
Mrs. Sidney Robertson2108 Shattuck AvenueBerkeley, CaliforniaDear Mrs. Robertson:
AFCCC-COR3.3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_cor3-3
Thanks so much for your two recent letters. They are now being read and considered by various
interested persons. Your reference to cards, however, brings us to the realization that we are
supposed to receive a card catalog from you. We are prepared to arrange for your receiving another
supply of cards, but are very anxious to secure the ones you have already made out. Will you please
let us know promptly the present status of your card catalog and when we may expect it?
I shall immediately get out these ten records you mentioned and send then back to you for
duplication. Meanwile, fifty blank records have been ordered for you from Presto. These blanks are
the final installment on the first approval and do not cut into the tentative arrangements for 1940.
With best wishes, as always, I amSincerely yours,Edward H. WatersENWW
A MusicAccessionsJanuary 18, 1940
Please order from Presto Check Mark 50 12-inch acetate discs to be shipped to Mrs. Sidney H.
Robertson, 2108 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, California. These are the last of the two hundred discs
originally approved by the Librarian.Chief, Division of Music
February 2, 1940
Received of Music Division, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
50 12 inch Presto acetate blanks disks.  (Mrs.) Sidney H. Robertson  (Mrs.) Sidney H.
RobertsonSupervisor, California Folk Music ProjectUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, California