"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr07
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941
AFS 6363A
Cut A1
Bronx Electrician: I am an electrician, living in the Bronx in New York City and while I felt very keenly
about this whole war situation that we had no part of it, at the present time with the attack being
made on the United States, I am in full accord with the action taken by the president and by the
Congress of the United States. And I'll do all in my power to work toward that victory which is
absolutely essential.
Cut A2
Chinese Student: I was born in China. I'm a student and a laundryman at the same time. And the
Congress declared war on Japan I'm very happy about. Because Japan's always picked on the small
nations and the weak ones and now that they picked on the U.S., and I don't think it take long to
clean that a war bird out of Tokyo. But I received letter from China lately and they described about
the condition over there that our people live on unoccupied territory so it did not affect our family
much. I was happy about that too.
Interviewer: And now you think, do you think things will be better now?
Chinese Student: Well, yes. Since the U.S. declared war on Japan and it's going to give a great relief to
China. And it's going to give on both sides a ???.
Cut A3
Man from Puerto Rico: I just arrived from Puerto Rico today and I was informed in the steamship
[Guamo (?)] of Japan's aggression to the island of Manila, or I should say, Philippine Islands and
Honolulu. All the passengers in the boat were alarmed, they were excited, and I should say they were
of the opinion that this is right time to lick Japan. That is all.
Cut A4-A5 — tests, false start
Cut A6-A7
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr07
Housewife: I'm a housewife. I was born in Greece, but I'm an American citizen. I hate war. I love my
freedom and independence. As you know, the Greeks were recently very independent and they love
their freedom.
And that's why I'm not . . . I am for [interviewee and interviewer talking, but words are unintelligible] I am
for the president's declaration of war.
I'm a housewife. I was born in Greece, but I'm an American citizen. I hate war, but I love my freedom
and independence. As you know, the Greeks always fought for their freedom and independence and
I guess that's why I feel the same way about it.