"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr46
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942
AFS 6446A
Carlos Lopez: Mr. President, I am Carlos Lopez from Tucson, Arizona. I came over to tell you what
I think about this war and what you are doing. I have a recent discharge from the army and I am
about to enlist in the marines because I feel that I should do my part and I would like to, and I
believe that it'd be the best way to do it.
About this war, I believe that you are doing better than anybody could expect. I am sure all of the
United States and the people in it are backing you up, as far as I know. As for the Spanish people
born in the United States, I believe they all have the same opinion that I have. We feel that we should
fight and defend this country as soon as possible.
As for Mexico, I imagine the neighbors there are in the same boat. The attack on Pearl Harbor didn't
suit me any more than it did anybody else. And I believe I've gotten my fighting blood up just the
same as all Americans. I am sure we are going to win even if it does cost quite a bit. I believe we
will win because I believe the morale of American soldiers a lot better than theirs and we have a
reason to fight. We are fighting for what we believe is ours. Mexico is ready to stand by I believe.
It has brought it to a better understanding of this war and I know that all American [and American
Americans (?)] will back you up to the limit.
Cut A2
Unidentified Man: Mr. President, I'm awfully happy to have the opportunity to see you today. I have
been reading in the newspapers about your policy in connection with South America, and in this
respect I want to tell you my thoughts on this present war situation in Japan. The war with Japan
should have been fought twenty-five years ago, not today. But our pig-headedness, our thought
that we were the greatest people on earth has caused us to get into this fight at the present time
with us totally unprepared. We have been solely ??? of goods by the Dutch and English. We have to
fight the battle we're going to win. But here in our own backyard in Latin America we must continue
the work that you have started. You must have your State Department and the industrialists who
are anxious to expand and to go to foreign countries. Send men down there who are prepared to
do a job. Those men should be selected from Arizona, Texas, New Mexico, California, Arizona, and
parts where the citizens of the country have had an opportunity to have a close contact with the
Latin people. I believe that your State Department will do a good job, that they will make an effort to
train men to go to South America to live there and to form part of their countries down there instead
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr46
of making the money and leaving. I'm very happy to have had this opportunity to be with you this
afternoon and I can assure you of my support in the present emergency. Thank you.