"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr41
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942
AFS 6441A
A. J. Steel: Dear Mr. President, this is A. J. Steel, a salesman from Nashville, Tennessee. Now that we
are at war we are very anxious to do our part for the defense of democracy. We're anxious to serve
where we can do the most good. In my opinion, we can do this best by holding government positions
that our training fits us best for. There are many efficient Negroes who could do so much for their
country in these capacities. Such would not only help the United States directly, but indirectly as well
by showing the world that we have a democratic government with all of its people living together,
working together, and willing to die together if need be for the common good. Then we can truly
secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our prosperity.
Grafton Luby: Dear Mr. President, my name is Grafton Luby. I am a teacher, a secretary of commerce
in a defense setup at the 18th Avenue Youth Center. We have three defense classes, one in
secretarial commerce, one in homemaking, and the other in the related subjects. They are designed
for the purpose of training secretaries and domestics. We are hoping that these classes may
continue so that the Negro youth in this city will have an opportunity to prepare himself to do his
share in the defense program of his country. And also to prepare himself for the changing condition
which must come with peace.
Mrs. C. S. Johnson: Dear Mr. President, I am Mrs. C. S. Johnson, General Chairman of the Nashville
Block Organization for Colored Citizens. As you move about the city, we are impressed with the eager
response of our people of all classes to each request made of them in the civilian defense program.
We have discovered that they believe in you. As Mrs. Roosevelt has recently said, we feel as if we are
standing upon a solid rock and that rock is our faith in our fellow citizens.
In the face of this optimism however, we are faithfully met with one increasing fear which we pass
onto you. Namely that the continuous flow of information regarding the location and magnitude of
our defense industries and production centers is needlessly exposing our vulnerability to the enemy.
And this one weakness in our system may blast in a moment this rock of civilian solidarity upon
which we are building and upon which our victory must ultimately rest. We appeal to you therefore
Mr. President and to the Congress to exercise all just powers to control those items in the daily news
and syndicated columns which we Americans can well forego for the present without sacrificing any
of our coveted liberties. To the end that we ourselves may know our weaknesses and our enemies
may only be aware of our gathering strength.
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr41
Arvin Bradford: Dear Mr. President, this is Arvin Bradford, a graduate student, Department of Social
Sciences at Fisk University. My loyalty is with the fighting forces of United States. I feel that as a
student and as a boys work leader I can keep abreast with what is going on in the world, urge Negro
boys to train themselves for skilled jobs, and help defeat the enemy from without. At the same
time, I feel that it is my duty to join hands with organizations that are fighting enemies within in our
borders. If we stand idly by and permit hostile forces to destroy the principles for which Negro boys
are fighting to preserve, I think that we will be defeating our own purposes.
AFS 6441B: [Blank]
AFS 6442A: [Blank]