"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr14
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6370B
John Henry Faulk: Mr. Brodie, how long do you reckon this war is going to last? How long are you
looking for it to last?
J. C. Brodie: Six months.
John Henry Faulk: And by that time we'll have —
J. C. Brodie: — have Japan whipped.
John Henry Faulk: Well, do you reckon it's just a matter of whipping Japan though? Seems like to me
Germany and Italy are going to have to be subdued.
J. C. Brodie: Well, I think that too. I think that Japan and Italy will be the whip. It may take longer then
if we have to fight them to do it, but just Japan by herself, I think we'd whip her in six months.
John Henry Faulk: Yeah, I believe that too.
J. C. Brodie: If they can get a hold of Japan's navy and destroy it, they're through. And if the United
States will fight like Hitler does and Mussolini and bomb Japan, their manufacturers and set them
afire, they're made out of flimsy materials and if they ever start fires in them why they'll burn her off
the face of the earth.
John Henry Faulk: ??? was telling us one time, that they make everything out of bamboo and —
Unidentified Woman: Paper.
John Henry Faulk: — paper —
Unidentified Woman: Yeah.
John Henry Faulk: — buildings ???
J. C. Brodie: And I understand their manufacturing outfit don't cover much more than a hundred
acres of land and it's all right together. And if they hit their railroad that runs through the center, as
small as Japan is, and tear it up they have no way of transportation.
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr14
John Henry Faulk: That's right.
J. C. Brodie: And so much of the population lives out on the edges of the water and not even land to
live on.
Unidentified woman: ???
John Henry Faulk: Well, you reckon Japan has her rights, I mean her demands, you know she says the
reason she's got it spread out is to have some place for the population to live. You reckon that's true?
J. C. Brodie: That is true.
John Henry Faulk: Well, then what do you reckon is the solution for that is? Reckon, we ought to give
her land?
J. C. Brodie: Well, the way I understand them, they're a people that don't believe in religion. They're
atheists and the best thing to do with them is to take them off the face of the earth.
John Henry Faulk: Just obliterate them.
J. C. Brodie: That's what I think.
John Henry Faulk: Well, I was going to ask you, what do you think ought to be done at the end of the
war? I mean what kind of peace do you think ought to be written? Do you think they ought to give
the Japanese, the Italians, and the Germans any rights at all?
J. C. Brodie: Well, the Germans, the only way to keep out of war with Germany is to do away with
Germany entirely and put them under other governments and have no Germany at all. As long
as there's a Germany there'll be wars. Twenty-three or four years ago we whipped Germany, she
throwed up the sponge and they're right back worse than ever.
John Henry Faulk: Do you remember that last war very well?
J. C. Brodie: I guess I do.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what do you, do you think we're as well-prepared for it as are for this one?
J. C. Brodie: We're better prepared for this one than we was for the other.
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr14
John Henry Faulk: Do you think we're fighting this one with any more justification than we did the last
one?
J. C. Brodie: Yes I do.
John Henry Faulk: In other words, we were really attacked this time.
J. C. Brodie: We were really attacked this time. It's our duty as a nation to defend it and whip the
aggressors.
John Henry Faulk: That's right. And of course like you mentioned, many of those when they were
over here those Kurusu and that other fellow, the ambassador over here making overtures of peace.
J. C. Brodie: All they were doing was just stalling for time and lying. That is the end of it.
John Henry Faulk: I wonder if Roosevelt ??? was fooled by any of this you reckon?
J. C. Brodie: I think not.
John Henry Faulk: They realized it ???
J. C. Brodie: Yeah.
John Henry Faulk: Did the war come as much of a surprise to you, did you —
J. C. Brodie: Not at all. They did just what I thought they would do, attacked without any —
John Henry Faulk: Any warning.
J. C. Brodie: — any warning whatever.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what about the country? What do you think the United States is going to do
now? By that I mean do you think prices are going to get out of hand or do you —
J. C. Brodie: I don't see why prices should raise any higher. Labor now is through striking and we
have a price ceiling that should stop where it is.
John Henry Faulk: Well what about, now you're a farmer — what about your goods, butter and eggs
and stuff that you sell in town. Do you think they'll have a price limit on them?
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr14
J. C. Brodie: I do.
John Henry Faulk: In other words you all feel that I should get but just so much?
J. C. Brodie: It shouldn't rise in order for the public to live.
John Henry Faulk: You're able to get along all right on what you're getting for it?
J. C. Brodie: Yes sir. I don't think that farmers should be allowed an extortionist price and I don't think
the grocery man will charge the people an extortionist price. Living costs now is high enough without
rising anymore at the present.
John Henry Faulk: Well, I'm glad to hear you say that Mr. Brodie because well Tom Miller, you know,
here the other day, he was saying that — he's a produce man, you know he buys produce — and
he said that it wasn't right to put a ceiling on prices because the farmer would get pinched then. He
wouldn't be able to get a decent price for his goods.
J. C. Brodie: Well if Tom Miller had them to buy he wouldn't get nothing no how.
John Henry Faulk: Why [laughs]?
J. C. Brodie: Because he's a cheapskate buyer.
John Henry Faulk: [laughs]. I suspected that all along. He is lambasting Henderson, Leon
Henderson, you know. Henderson has charged with attempting to put a price ceiling on goods so
flour and basic commodities won't go out of sight.
J. C. Brodie: There's no excuse for flour to go up. There's no excuse for corn to go up or meal to go
up. There's no excuse for our meat to go up. We've got plenty of everything.
John Henry Faulk: What are you getting for, what are you getting a pound for . . . what is the corn?
What do get if you sell it ???
J. C. Brodie: Sixty cents.
John Henry Faulk: That's better than you did last year, but not a whole lot better.
J. C. Brodie: About the same.
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr14
John Henry Faulk: Mm hmm [affirmative]. What about hogs? What are they selling for now?
J. C. Brodie: About ten and a quarter.
Unidentified woman: [Is that the norm (?)] ???.
John Henry Faulk: Sure. That's a good price for hog isn't it?
J. C. Brodie: Well that's a good price ???.
John Henry Faulk: In other words, farmers getting along all right now, aren't they?
J. C. Brodie: The farmer's in better shape than he's been in a long time.
John Henry Faulk: Well, you ought to know [laughs] you're one yourself. You ought to be able to
speak that. Well, what seems to be the opinion amongst the boys, the fellas down at the stockyard,
the auction? What do you think they think —
J. C. Brodie: People as a whole are behind the president a hundred percent.
John Henry Faulk: That's what it seems to me. I think Roosevelt did the right thing.
J. C. Brodie: I do. I think we have a wonderful president and a wonderful mind and a wonderful
foresight. I think we have the right man in the right place at the right time.
John Henry Faulk: [laughs] Well that should get us [what we want (?)].