AFCCC-CAPTA http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_capta
AFCCC-CAPTA
Captain Hull and proud Dacus
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
Calif - 1939 19E-A4W.F.
CAPTAIN BULL AND PROUD DACUS
Song about Dacus and Captain Hull. There is only a few lines of it, but I'm no sure I'm correct on
either the tune or the words.
When proud Dacus came on board to deliver up his sword,Loathe was he to part with it, it was so
handy, oh."Then" keep your sword," said Hull, "if it's going to make you dull;Cheer up and let us
have a bit of brandy, oh!"When proud Dacus came on board to deliver up his sword,Loathe was
he to part with it, it was so handy, oh."Oh, keep your sword," said Hull, "if it's going to make you
dull;Cheer up and let us have a bit of brandy, oh!" [Ward Ford?] [?] 1954 CAPTAIN HULL AND PROUD
DACUSIt ofttimes has been told how the British sesamen boldCould beat the tars of France so neat
and handy-O.But they never found their match till the Yaknees did themO the Yankee boys for
fighting are they dandy-O! catch.The Guerriere so bold on the foaming ocean rolledCommanded by
proud Dacus the grandee-ee-O!With the finest British crew that a rammer ever drew,Could beat the
Frenchmen two to one so very handy O!
Daeres
When this frigate hove in view, says proud Dacus to his crew:"Now clear the ship for action if youre
you're handy-O ! On the weather guage [I'de?] go get her!" and to make his men fight betterHe gave
to them gunpowder mixed with brandy-O ! Then proud Dacus loudly cries, "Make the Yankee ship
your prize ! You can do it in thirty minutes, neat and handy-O ! Twenty-five would should do, I'm sure,
[ and?] if you'll do it in a score,I will treat you to a double share of brandy-O ! The British shot flew
hot but the Yankees answered not,Till they got up close enough to call it handy-O ! "Now [?] ," says
Hull unto his crew, "Let me see what you can do ! If you capture this proud Briton you're the-dandy-
O !" The first broadside we pour took her mainmast by the board,Which made their lofty-ship look
all abandoned, O ! Then / Proud Dacus shook his head and to his men he said:"I did not think those
Yankees were so handy-O ! Our secound [?] told so well that their fore and mizzen fellWhich dropped
the royal ensin neat and handy-O.Proud Dacus [?] said: "We're done!" and they fired a lee gun,While
the Yankees struck up Yankee-Doddle-Dandy-O ! When proud Dacus came on board to deliver up his
sword,Loathe was he to part with it, it was so handy, O."Oh, keep your sword," said Hull, "if it's going
to make you dull;Cheer up and let us have a bit of little brandy-O !" Now fill your glasses full and we'll
AFCCC-CAPTA http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_capta
drink to Captain Hull,Give every man a dram of good old brandy-O!Johnny Bull may boast his fill, let
the world say what it will:The Yankee boys for fighting are the dandy-O !
Clipping from a Milwaukee newspaper, date probably about 1910, in Mrs. Seymour's scrapbook.
[?] from
Handwritten page illegible Handwritten page illegible Handwritten page illegible Handwritten page
illegible Handwritten page illegible Handwritten page illegible
Captain Hull [??]