American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Colorado Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/031) 
afcl991031_01_036 
Misc. Notes on Architecture and Artifacts 
((INSERT in Feb. 81 director's report)) 
C080 Summit, Grand Counties, Colorado (the high Rocky Mountains) 
artifacts / buildings recorded by Barbara Orbach (UCLA), 
Elke Dettmer (UC Berkeley), Marshall (AFC/LC), 18-30 Aug 80: 
1. Fleshutts log cabin at Holzworth Homestead outdoor museum, 
Rocky Mt. National Park (Grand County) 
2. log town jail "restored" by Grand County Historical Society, 
in town square, Kremmling, Grand Co. 
3. I. W. McKee ranch ("Old Johnson place"), on Blue River, Summit County 
homemade snow ski (or sled runner?) 
log barn #1 
log barn #1 
log barn #3 
log building (house?) / wreckage 
3 log bldgs, built end to end 
log shop 
4. Columbine Ranch (Wheaton College / Smith) -- log cattle shelter 
in upper hay meadow near Boulder Creek (land leased by McKee); Summit Co. 
■M 
5. log mule stable in old mining town site of Rexford, North Fork of 
Swan River, near Breckenridge, Summit Co. 
6. family graveyard on Blue River near Heeny / Colo. 9 junction, Summit Co. 
7. Knorr Brothers Ranch, on Green Mt. Reservoir near Heeney, Summit Co. 
log I house (Judge Guyselman) 
older log house 
log "feed rack" 
log bunkhouse 
"old Dave Doig place" -- log I house and outbuilding 
haying equipment -- hay stacker, plunger, stack yard; and hayfield red. 
ft \ ' \\ \ • * v . • . . \ l 
■ * ^ ** *• . .. 
8. Charlie Lund ranch, Slate Creek, on Blue River, Summit Co. 
8flA V- JAiVidi! .r >vir« DiWK'i-H T WV»t 
artifacts recorded, contd. (jl) 
(Lund ranch) (all but8 and 10 by ED) 
ranch plan 
log homestead, house 
log milk house 
log wood shed 
log icehouse / granary 
log tool shed 
log cow barn 
log cow barn #2 (bldg. 8) 
log equipment shed (bldge #10) 
9. log assay office at site of gold mining town of Tiger, on 
county road near Farr house, near Breckenridge, Surmiit Co. 
10. Lula Myers log stack house ("cabin" to the Historical Soc.), ".restored" and 
moved to historical society grounds, Dillon, Summit Co. 
’ that makes about 25 buildings and 6 or so "artifacts" documented / recorded 
for Rocky Mountain Continental Divide Foundation archives (research base) .... 
t.Q >flS- 
W f\(J. Of ..( V.C--5 :>'r 
Marshall 1 Sept 
C080-ED 
8/20/80 
p. 1 
The Assayor's Gfbln at Tiger (defunct mining town, Summit County, Col.) 
A lesson in recording a building. 
When recording a building, it is important to get a feeling for 
the place first, to take photos and to concentrate on the* form, 
the floorplan, the elevation, and the volume. The most essential 
photos are 3/4 shots of the front, then diagonal and head-on shots 
of all sides,. In log buildings the cornering is particularly im¬ 
portant. All is later to be sorted out according to the ethnic 
origin and diffusion patterns. 
This cabin sits still on its original site, but will soon become part 
of the Summit County Historical Society Museum at Dillon. It was 
originally an assayor's office, but it has been extensively remodeled 
and reworked. Its location right next to the road and the fact that 
it has doors on the small side indicate that this is a public building; 
private houses generally have doors on the long side and are farther 
removed from the road. Without foundation and a rough floor just 
built on dirt it is not as carefully constructed as a private house. 
The cabin is built in the Western tradition of saddle-notched lodge- 
pole pine, the dominant tree of the area; this soft alpine wood cannot 
be cleaved easily and the logs are left round. Some logs are ’locked*, 
others are not; some have great nails or spikes driven through them. 
In the East this building style would only be used for somewhat 
'scruffy*, low-grade buildings such as outhouses; here it works fine, 
the lodgepole pine logs have a slightly twisted look. One log on the 
front is squared, indicating that perhaps the cabin was planned to be 
sided originally. But the log sticks out too much and it would have 
been a lot of trouble to accomplish this. 
Two tools are needed to flatten a log; a felling axe and a broad axe. 
Three steps are involved in the process: 
1 - Several people work on either end of a new log and make a chalk 
line straight from end to end by using a string that is tightened and 
snapped. 
2 - With the felling axe the log is chopped diagonally at regular 
intervals deep enough to meet this lirie; this process is called 'scoring 
it leaves a series of wood chips on one side of the log. 
3 - One goes along the line with the broad axe, which is sharp on one 
side only, to peel off the wood chips. 
In this cabin the plates have been squared and flattened on three sides, 
the logs that support the roof, set on top of the long side bearing 
walls that support the building. V/hile the bottom of the plates have 
not been flattened, it is easier and more efficient, besides being 
more traditional, to set the rafters that are held by the plates o n 
a flat surface. 
cont 
C080-ED 
8/20/80 
The Assayor's Cabin at Tiger p. 2 
The rafters are sawed straight across and they are toe-nailed right 
through the rafter into the plate, about 2’ apart. The tailing is 
sticking through and the rafter couples are butted flush at the peak; 
this is an important indication of early American origin. They are 
stabilized by horizontal collar beams made of 1x6 boards; only the 
higher ones are still the original beams, the others are 'junk' that 
was nailed up later. The decking is made of lx5§ boards nailed to 
the rafters at 2" gaps. The original shingles on top are now replaced 
by asphalt. 
The four principal members on which the building rests are sills, 
here built right onto the ground. They are often hewn, especially 
on top to support the floor joists. The floor joists.in turn are the 
principal members supporting the floor and they are situated between 
the sill and the next log. The pine log joists are hewn flat on top 
only to nail in the floor boards of rough circle sawn lumber and random 
size. The sub-floor consists of wide 1x8 boards, whereas fancier 
houses would have smaller boards joined together by tongue and groove. 
Some of the upper floor has tongue and groove boards, a later addition 
and an effort at up-grading typical of mining camps, where 'junk was 
all thrown together'. 
The cabin originally consisted of the basic log walls, everything else 
came later. It looks like a three-room house, perhaps there were two 
doors in the middle of the building. The front room was probably 
used for reception and business; the second room with its ^>x5i tongue 
in groove pine floor seems a little nicer. The ceiling joist in the 
second room is probably original and supported the attic; perhaps the 
upstairs wTas floored; the front room may not have had a ceiling. 
The second room has an unusually wide window of strange shape, perhaps 
a ride-in window? 
The back end of the cabin was added later, but not much later than the 
original building. 
When recording a building, it should be drawn first, then measured. 
The entrance should consistently be at the bottom of the drawing, 
and North should always be indicated. For the roof pitch the angle 
at the bottom of the roof where it meets the wall is taken; here it is 
an unusually steep 55°5 the eave, the part of the wall where it meets 
the roof, is particularly low at 6'. 
The nails used in log buildings are good indicators of age and origin; 
cut nails are square; they are not ancient, but are still being made 
now (Tremont Nail Co., Massachusetts). 
Another important feature of log buildings is the chinking between 
the logs. In this cabin we find fine, sandy gravel and wood splits 
sealed together with some bonding agent. Adobe can be used for this 
purpose, but the devation is too high for it to work well here. 
rougU cbTOipr - f loos a ^rrfci- \\\&) 
[jjl'isZ- 'AiczS^a.ry +* r£-r<orv\ 
LJJ&u 
t=~l 
DeTTnfj^ 
|O<aL0«. ( -- 
sr/aossro 
On Recording a Building; (Asseyor’s cabin at Tiger, defunct mining town) 
1 - Take fotos, get a feeling for the place 
Concentrate on form - floorplan/elevation/volume (include vertical 
with horizontal measurements) 
Later to be sorted out according to diffusion, ethnic origin 
Log buildings - cornering particularly, important 
This cabin: still on original site, but extensively remodeled, re¬ 
worked; was an asseyor's office (stores, public buildings tend to 
have doors on small side, as here - private houses generally have 
doors on long side) — it is right on the road, another indication 
for a ’public* building 
The most essential fotos: 3/4 dhot of front side, then diagonal 
and head-on of all walls0 
Rough floor, no foundation, just built on dirt — not as carefully 
done as ’real' house. 
Pine: soft wood, alpine, cannot be cleaved easily, is notched 
here: saddle-notching (predominant Western tradition, whereas in 
East mostly used for ’scruffy’ buildings, outhouses = low grade) 
logs are left round, less neat looking; some logs are ’locked', 
others are not; some have great nails, spikes driven through them, 
Lodgepole pine (predominant tree here) - saddle-notching works fine, 
slightly twisted look 
- ^ 
Chinking -- fine, sandy gravel and wood splits sealed with some 
bonding agent (or adobe if that not available, but really the 
elevation is too high for adobe -- it does not work well here) 
- One log on front is squared—perhaps it was planned to be sided 
originally (but: logs stick out too much, would be a lot of trouble 
to do) 
- Building is built right on to the ground, no foundation - another 
indication that building is not very important; bottom members are 
sills (4 principle members on which the building rests) 
- Plates: (on top ofysbearing walls that carry the building, support 
bhc- n c x o othe roof)- here plates have been squ ared, 
flattened on 3 sides; 
- Tools to flatten log: felling axe and broad axe; 
ls_t step: stand on new log and make chalk line straight/va-eros^ (use 
string, tighten and snap, several people working on either end) 
2nd step: Chop log with felling axe diagonally deep enough to meet 
line = scoring, leaves series of wood chips at intervals 
3rd step: with broad axe (sharp on one side only) go along line: 
peels of the wood chips; flatten 3 sides only-- bottom not necessaryk' 
■fit its, 
broaA 
5LVT«_ 
c* 
i pU Us) 
C«-*.rs 
Page 2 
- Plate has to hold rafters, easier to set rafters on flat surface, 
saves time and is more efficient, besides being more traditional, 
- Rafters are sawed straight across, tailing sticking through, toe- 
nailed right through rafter into plate; about 2* apart 
- oills are often hewn, too, /o .5-^[.evx. <• 
- Floor joist = principal member supporting floor, between sill and 
next log 
- Rafter couples are butted flush^aj; the peak (imp. - indicates 
Eiigilsh origin), stabilized by'^c'blrar beams (1x6 boards - only- 
higher ones are original, others are 'junk* nailed up later) 
- Pine log joist hewn flat on top only (to nail in florr boards), 
rough circle sawn lumber, random size floor boards 
- Sub-floor has wide 1x8 boards (fancier house would have smaller 
boards that more likely would be joined together by tongue and groove) 
some of upper floor has tongue and groove, later addition, typical 
mining camp 'upgrading1 (junk all thrown together) 
- Front room was probably reception; second room probably a little 
nicer with l/2"x 5 1/2" tongue in groove pine floor 
- Decking = l"x5 1/2" about 2" gaps, deckihg nailed to rafters; 
shingles on top now replaced with asphalt 
- originally only basic log walls, everything else came later; pe¬ 
titions - perhaps 2 doors in the middle of building, looks like aA' 
3-room house; perhaps upstairs was floored 
- nails--good indicators; cut nails are square, not ancient, are 
still being made now o ^* rdo s-5&-t 
- 
- ceiling joist in second room — probably original, supported attic; 
front room may or may not have had ceiling, 
- Second room window--maybe ride-in window? (strange shape) 
- Back-end added later, but not too much later 
- Entrance at bottom of drawing (be consistent - always keep this 
the same)^ ^ J. 
- Draw first, then measure; roof pitch: angle of bottom of roof 
where it meets side wall = 55° (unusually steep) (part of wall 
where it meets roof) is low, 6*0