"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr17
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942
AFS 6414A
Cut A1
Man born in Philadelphia: [airplane in background] All right, ladies and gentlemen—
Interviewer: [speaks softly to him]
Man born in Philadelphia: - Yeah. Mr. President, I was born in Philadelphia, outside of Philadelphia.
My mother was born in Canadian French. My father was from the yellow tribe, Indian, the American
Indian. And I'm glad and happy to say that I am an American amongst our fellow brothers. We all
are brothers. Let us remain brothers, don't care what creed are you or what color or who you are
or where you come from. We all are American and let's fight for American and our brothers that is
outside. Let's die American. If we have to go on the battlefield, let's die American. Our foremothers
and fathers died and we must do the same to keep our freedom and liberty and our own brothers
must worship any religion that ???. Thank you, Mr. President.
Cut A2
Charles Alexander: Mr. President, I'm Charles Alexander of 772 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City,
the colored neighborhoods, Harlem. I just like to express a few points about the present situation. I
was born in Jamaica, British West Indies, and served a year and a half in the Canadian forces, but my
duties mostly confined to guard duty. I have been employed with the National Electric Type Company
in New York City. That is, making printing plates. The war has affected our industry in respect of
metals. You see, we'll be short of metals on account of the war, copper especially, lead, tin foil which
we use in our business and already quite a few of our men are out of work since, say two weeks
before Christmas.
Well, as far as I'm concerned I think I'll be able to do something besides electric typing in case I get
laid off. Of course, I wouldn't like to get laid off, but I'm handy with tools and can do pipe fitting all
that ???. I'll try to find something else to do. And of course, if the inevitable comes, that is I have to
go, although I'm over the age, why I'd be glad to serve the United States of America.
AFS 6414B [Blank]