UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  GEORGE MERCIER
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  9/23/87
D = DAVID
G = GEORGE
W = WIFE
LFP-DT-R011-R012
Tape begins with informant in mid sentence:
G:  ... mill town.  And years ago that's all you had, old mills you know?  [D:  Yeah]
W:  [Comment unclear]
G:  There wasn't much, too much future.  You know you work in a mill or you starve to death.  
That's the only way you could eat.
D:  When were you born?  When is your birthday?
G:  1912.  But uh, her and I both, when we started to work we start at the wrong time in other 
words.  Uh, it was depression.  [D:  Umhm]  And God, jobs were hard to get.  Oh boy were they 
hard to get.  Now they got, it got worse and worse huh, until (--)
W:  Yeah and I started when I was, was it fourteen?  
G:  Yeah.  And as uh, you know, as years went my God, it got to a point where you were lucky if 
you could get a job shoveling manure someplace, you know?  [Chuckles]  And the wages were 
all pretty small.  Naturally that was uh, that always should be expected.  But you know I uh, I 
make, I made a joke of it, but uh, one of the fellows that used to work with me down at the shop 
there, he was a colored guy.  He was talking about slaves you know?  [D:  Yeah]  And uh, down 
south and all that.  I says, jeeses the people out here they weren't any better off.  My god they, 
they worked for wages that were so small you couldn't uh, I think the slaves were better off than 
some of these people working in these mills, you know?  That's a fact.  That's a fact.  
D:  Did, did your parents grow up in Lowell too?
W:  No, Canada.
G:  No, no.  They came from Canada.  [D:  Yeah]  Canada was well practically the same 
problems up there.  There's no work you know?  And uh, they had to find jobs someplace, [D:  
Right], so they could live you know, and eat. [D:  Yup]  And have a roof over their head.  
D:  Did your parents come from Canada too?
G:  No.
W:  My parents came from Germany.
D:  Oh really!  [Sound of cars passing by]  What was the first job that you had in a mill.  
G:  Well it started (--)  My fist job actually it wasn't in a mill.  It was in a, in a box shop.  They 
made boxes, wooden boxes.  Allen Box Shop I remember.  And I worked there for about two 
years, or three years I guess.  
W:  Don't look at me, I wouldn't know!  [Laughs]
G:  I didn't know you then anyway.  But they made all kinds of nice boxes.  Bushel boxes, 
cartridge boxes.  They made some for the Winchester uh, riffle outfit there.  [D:  Yeah]  And uh, 
of course the guy that owned the shop, he was uh, I guess he was a war veteran from I don't 
know what.  Civil War I guess, or the First World War.  I don't know which.  He had good 
connections anyway.  And the first thing you know, he lost his pull, or his connections, or politics
I guess and he had to go bankrupt.  [D:  Hm]  To bankruptcy you know?  And I [few words 
unclear] damn shop.  It was a nice little shop though.  What, what was your job in [unclear]?  
Well you started uh, you've seen boxes with corrugated corners, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  I don't 
know what the heck they call them.  Well my first job, I didn't have any experience, I was just a 
kid then.  I had a glue pot there, fish glue and a sink.  [Laughs]  They used to heat this stuff on a 
steam kettle there.  And I put some glue on the corner of each uh, board, you know?  And this 
other guy would put it together and squeeze it in a box there.  And uh, I hated that job.  Oh boy, I 
thought it was the worst job I ever had.  I couldn't think of uh, I wanted to quit so damn many 
times.  But like I said, you were, you were lucky to get, have a job.  Jeese, any kind of a job.  
D:  You say you started out when you were pretty young.  How old were you?
G:  Yeah, well I was about sixteen I guess.  Sixteen, seventeen years old.  So from there, where 
the heck did I go?  Oh yeah, from there I went to Lawrence Hosiery.  And uh, the NRA came in 
then.  I don't know if you ever heard of it?
D:  Is that the National Recovery Agency?  [W:  Yeah]  
G:  Yeah, something like that.  Yeah.  [D:  Yeah]  They made jobs for a lot of people, you know?  
And at the Lawrence Hosiery if you wanted to learn how to knit, these knitting machines, you 
could learn.  Now they break you in no, a couple of weeks, you know, learning how to run these 
machines, how to knit.  And then they put you on the payroll.  You learn for nothing.  You don't 
get paid to learn.  And I learned how to run that, those damn machines and the first thing you 
know I was a knitter.  [Laughs]  And then everything was fine until they decided to join a union.  
[Laughs]
W:  They closed down.
G:  Oh boy!
D:  Was that mill in Lawrence?
W:  No, no!
G:  No, in Lowell.  
D:  It was in Lowell.
G:  It's what they call the Lawrence, the Lawrence Hosiery.
W:  Remember they had that big fire in [unclear]?  [D:  Yeah]  [G:  Lawrence Hosiery]  Well 
that's one of the mills.
D:  Oh yeah!  [W:  Yeah]
G:  Lawrence Hosiery.  That's what it was.
W:  Yeah, it's one of the mills that burned, yeah.  
G:  But those were nice mills.  They were pretty good mills.  The pay wasn't too big, but I mean 
they were nice people to work for.  And from there, well I was out for quite awhile.  And I went 
to the uh, I went to work for the Locks and Canal.  That's where I started, yup.
W:  Went to [unclear], yeah.  Your father was the boss and he got him in.  
G:  Uh, when the heck was it?  Around early thirties and that's where I started.  [D:  Oh yeah!]  
With the outside maintenance gang, outside.  And it was quite a crew then, you know, taking care
of the uh, Locks, Locks and Canal.  Uh, yeah, yeah I learned the maintenance work.  Well uh, 
they sold the water to the mills then, you know?  Every mill had to buy the power uh, the water 
from the Locks and Canal in other words.  And uh, it was up to the Locks and Canal to keep the 
water nice and free you know, from rubbish and ice and snow, and everything else so that they'd 
have nice, could use the water properly.  
D:  You say your Dad was uh, ?
G:  Yeah, well he was an outside foreman, you know?  Yeah.
D:  What was his first name?
W:  Peter.  
G:  Peter, yeah.  I uh, well the Locks and Canal gang, that was quite a crew.  It was good people. 
It was very good people to work for.  I mean the old, the old Locks and Canal people, you know, 
they're all, well they're all Yankees.  [Chuckles]  Old Yankees.
W:  Mr. Stafford and Mr., what was the ?
G:  Kent and uh.  
W:  Mr. Kent, yeah.
D:  Were these the bosses you mean?
W:  Big bosses.  [D:  Unclear]
G:  Yeah, they were the engineer, first engineers and all that stuff.  They were in charge in other 
words.
W:  They were awfully nice, real nice.  
G:  Very smart people.  I mean they were hydraulic engineer actually.
D:  Oh yes!  Umhm.  
G:  And they knew their stuff.  Boy oh boy.  As a matter of fact, Mr. Stafford, he uh (--)
W:  Mr. Stafford was from around Boston.
G:  He more or less invented one of the uh, water wheels there that, he patented one of them that 
was very successful, you know, with that particular wheel because they didn't use uh, well they 
didn't have to use too much water with that type of a wheel.  And he got credit for it.  Uh, he 
went to Harvard.  
W:  Oh yeah.  Mr. Stafford lived around Boston anyway.
G:  And one of the uh, one of his buddy there was a Harvard professor.  He came over to see us 
there quite a few times.  
D:  So you say the crew that you worked on was pretty large.  Like how many other people 
would you have worked with?
G:  Well oh my God!  At that time of course the crew used to be big, you know, when the mills 
were running.  [D:  Umhm]  But they had to cut back and cut back.  They had to keep cutting 
back.  When
I went with them, well the crew of, well it might have been ten I guess, ten or twelve, and the 
gang you know, left.  And uh, it was more or less just maintenance.  Uh, make sure that that gates
and everything was working properly, you know?  It wasn't anything like what they have today.  
Today is automatic, automatic stuff you know.  But you know, uh, it's amazing when you thing 
back about the way they did things then and what, how they do it today.  You didn't have all of 
this mechanical machines then, you know?  Bulldozers and jack hammers and everything.  
Everything was done by hand.  And uh, if you want to dig a hole anywhere, there's a shovel and a
pick and a crow bar, and that's what you work for.  You work hard.  You work hard for your 
money.  Well they guys, Pete didn't mind, they didn't mind working hard.  
D:  What were the first things you learned about to uh, to work on the Locks and Canals.  
G:  Well like I says, I was with the maintenance crew.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, oh gosh.  
[Chuckles]  We did all kinds of repairs, you know?  [D:  Yeah]  In the canal ways, the sewage 
ways, or runways and all that stuff.  And in the winter especially, it was, it was kind of rough.  
See you had to go to work, in the winter you had to go to work early before the mill start and 
clear the canal of ice and make sure the water was nice and clear so they could use the water in 
the wheels.  And on cold days there's a lot of ice here.  And they had, had boats to break the ice 
with.  [D:  Umhm]  And we used to freeze our ass there in the morning, early in the morning  
[All laugh] breaking that stupid ice.  Boy was it cold!  Boy we turned blue.  
D:  How early would you start work?
G:  Well we used to, I think my father and I, I think we used to go, leave at five o'clock I guess.  
There were no buses at that time.  No, well there was street cars in them days.  But you had to 
walk down, you know, from Crawford Street?  [Unclear] of course if they didn't plow the streets 
like they do today.  My God, we went to work some mornings there and the god damn snow was 
up near your waist.  Wind storms and everything else.  And oh boy it was a lot of fun.  Now 
that's, that was the main thing in the winter.  [D:  Yeah]  And of course you had to break the ice 
in big pieces so that it would run off, you know?  And when it ran off if would get to a dam.  The
pieces were too big to go to the, go to the uh, [bay?] what they called a [bays?].  So there were 
men there with bars and they'd break the ice so that the water could go through the bays, you 
know?  I don't know if you're familiar with the dams down there.  
D:  Yes I've [unclear] been around them.
G:  Uh, a low level, a swamp log, uh, all those places.  Well that's where they (--)  Well the 
swamp log was a very important point for the canal system.  That's where they controlled the 
levels, of the two levels of the canal, from a swamp log.  And then from that level they went to 
the lower level.  Uh, that was Patty uh, what was, what the heck did he call that?  Well we used 
to call it Patty's dam.  Patty's uh, Pollard.  Uh, where the Rex is.  You know that gate, that dam 
they got there?  They fixed it all up now.  There's all (--)
W:  In back of the uh, Wang building.
G:  Wang.  Do you know where Wang is?
D:  Oh yes.  They call that what, the locks?  [W:  Yeah, yeah]
G:  Yeah, there's a canal there you know? 
D:  Is that the [unclear] of it?
G:  Yeah, what the heck did they call that dam.
W:  You used to be able to take a short-cut through.  [G:  Yeah]
D:  Umhm.
G:  But they had a name for that, that dam, but we always called it Patty's dam.
D:  Patty's Dam?  Yeah.
G:  Because Patty, Patty's father worked there.  [All laugh]
D:  Oh?  He was the one in charge of the dam?
G:  Yeah.  Yeah, they had a man on each, each dam then, you know?  [D:  Oh yeah!]  It wasn't 
like it is today.  Each (--)  Today you have, you have [ciphens?] and everything else.  Then they 
didn't.  Each man had to control, take care of his own dam.  [D:  Yup]  Regulate the height of the 
canal and all that.  [W:  And that was Patty's dam {laughs}]
D:  Oh, I see.
G:  And uh, you had to be on the ball.  You had to stay awake.  Uh, suppose you had a shutdown 
all of a sudden?  Boy that water, boy it really came up fast, you know?  The gates, I mean the 
wheels weren't using that water.  You know, they were shut off in other words, so the water 
would come up.  Now if you didn't pull those boards off quick and then raise the gate, you'd 
flood a few basements there when they got up.  [All laugh]  That happened quite a few times.  
D:  Was it just one man at the (--)
G:  Each, each gate, gate yard.  They had a, they had a guy at the Boott Dam, what they called a 
Boott Dam.  [D:  Umhm]  The Rex there, Patty's, Patty's.  The Merrimack Manufacturing 
Company, the old Merrimack Mills here, it was there then.  They had a man there at that gate 
house.  Today there's a, the shack, the dam and everything else is gone, but I mean it used to, that
used to be one dam over there too.  I mean the gate, gate house.  
D:  Did they, were they working only during the daylight hours?
G:  They, during the daylight, yeah.  When the mills were running, you know? 
D:  Oh I see.  
G:  Like in the morning when all the mills, they used to start all about the same time.  [D:  
Umhm]  So we had to hurry up and get the water there, you know, so they could start their 
generators and all that.  [D:  Umhm]  And after the mill was running, had it started, well 
everything was fine until lunch time.  [D:  Umhm]  Lunch time was around ten o'clock I guess.  
They'd shut down a lot of machinery and stuff, you know, cut back on the power.  So naturally 
the canal would come up.  So they had to pull up [laughs], or let, take the boards off so let the 
water through.  And after lunch, well you know, they start the machine again.  Excuse me.  Like 
the Boott Mill, they had a, a buzzer or something.  One to start, you know, the lunch over, was 
over, it'd start the machinery and then that's where you took, you know, used a lot of power, more
water.  So they had to put all of the boards back on again.  In the wintertime that was a rough job.
You went there early in the morning before, before the mills.  And then during the day if you had 
a very cold spell, you know, you went up to the Pawtucket Falls over here and made sure that 
everything was all right.  Water was gold then, you know?  That water was, was worth a lot of 
(--)  That's always your power.  That's  [unclear] control them, could run the mills economically.  
[D:  Umhm]  Of course most of them they had steam turbines and all that stuff you know, with 
the boilers, but they tried to run everything on the water, they couldn't.  If they could get the 
water, they had the water.  So the dam every now and then we had to keep, make dam sure that 
dam was in good repairs all winter long.  [D:  Umhm]  And sometimes, well (--)
W:  You'd find a body spread out like this [laughs].
G:  The Pawtucket Falls when it's all frozen, you know the ice is that thick, or thicker.  There a 
lot of pressure against those boards, you know, the pins.  So we used to cut a channel oh, about a 
couple of feet wide.  The whole length of the dam, you know?  Take the pressure off.  And then 
again if you had any leaks in the panels, well you repair those.  And of course today whenever 
we want to fix the dam they had to empty, almost empty the damn river so you could get in there 
and walk around, you know, as if it was uh, a sidewalk.  But then you couldn't waste that water.  
[D:  Umhm]  You couldn't waste that water.  So we had those uh damn boot, what they hell they 
call them now?  I know, they come up to here anyway.  [Laughs]  And got in the damn water you
know, to fix any leaks, any, or change the boards, or fix the leaks in the dam, or change a panel.
D:  Is there a sort of [unclear] or something that you could out on?  [G:  Yeah, that's it. Yeah]  
Yeah?
W:  The fishermen use it.  [Laughs]  
D:  Yup, I know what you mean.
G:  And of course that water is cold.  Boy was it cold!  Now sometimes, well lots of times the 
pins were bent over.  You had to pull those damn pins out, out of the holes.  And they're frozen in
there.  So they take a pin and wack it a couple of times with the other pin you know, to loosen it 
up.  Then you reach in there, in the water, ice cold and pull that pin out.  [Laughs]  Gloves were 
no good.  You put gloves on, it felt colder with your gloves on.  No they weren't gloves, they 
were mittens, [D:  yeah] rubber mittens.  It was colder with the damn mittens than it was you 
know, having your water in the water.  I mean the hands in the cold water.  
D:  These were pins that held the boards to the top of the dam?
G:  That's right.  Yeah, yeah.  I forgot how (--)  I used to know how many pins and all that stuff, 
but that's, that don't matter anymore.  How many panels.  But that dam was fixed summer or 
winter, all the time.  It didn't make any difference how much ice you had in back there, or how 
cold it was, it had to be fixed, [D:  now in the winter] because that water was so valuable, you 
know?
D:  Yup.  You've been telling me about breaking the ice in the wintertime, was that the only type 
of maintenance work that you did in the wintertime?
G:  No, like I said you had, you had to keep the canal clear you know?  Like I said, like I said, in 
the morning you had to break the ice to the canal here and there.  If you didn't sometimes it 
would break and you'd create a dam someplace.  You know that damn ice would let go and you'd 
have a hell of a dam and make, make a heck of a mess.  Uh, that was part of it.  And in between, 
in between, if it snowed quite a bit, well the locks had a lot of property all over the damn place, 
all over Lowell here.  We had bridges here and there that they owned you know.  We had to 
shovel that.  Shovel the snow.  They didn't have any snow blowers.  You had to do it with a 
shovel.  [Laughs]  And again, oh on Lakeview Avenue, oh was it cold there.  You're out there on 
open space, you know?  You used to freeze!  And there was a women there in one of the cottages,
it was so funny.  I guess she felt sorry for us.  She'd open the window and she'd holler to us 
"come on", you know?  [All laugh]  I'd run over.  We knew gee, there's, there's donuts and coffee 
for the whole bunch of us.  Yeah.  And they were as poor as church mouse.  They didn't have a 
pot to piss in I guess.  I don't think so.  Jesus, they were so poor and they were so generous, you 
know?  Give you coffee.  So we always left [W:  unclear], we always left a little bit of dough, 
you know, a tip.  
D:  Did you usually work outside all day long?
G:  Most of the time.  And then every now and then the company, they used to pick up jobs you 
know.  They's pick up jobs for the old, good old Boott Mills here.  Jobs that the maintenance men
didn't want to do.  Some dirty rotten job that, that they had once, you know, we'd inherit.  And 
we'd have to do it.  So we'd go in the mill you know, one extreme to the other.  We'd go in the 
mill it was so damn hot you almost died.  [Few words unclear] you know, heavy clothes for the 
outside.  And then we'd go in there and work there you know, part, part of the day or the whole 
day.  Sometimes every day for a week or two, or more.  Whatever.  If we didn't have too much 
work, you know if there was no work outside, we'd go in there, in the Boott Mill and do some 
work in there.  We did that for (--)  We did that for the Merrimack Mills, uh, different mills, you 
know, if there was jobs here and there.  
D:  What kinds of jobs would you do for the mills?
G:  Well there was so many damn different things.  Well like uh, uh, well like the Boott Mill 
there.  The damn floor is sagging, you know?  And uh, we went under there to see if we could 
put some posts, or something so that [unclear] you know, the floor up again.  And uh, that was a 
rotten place.  That's that place I told you, that's along the river.  That big long wall there.  And 
there's about twenty rats, big, big water rats.  You had a flash light down there and you look at 
them.  You only could see these eyes, you know, shine, looking at you.  [All laugh]  And I look at
Gerry, Gerry [unclear], he went down the, there was a trap door, we go down there.  It's just 
crawling space underneath.  He went down there and looked around.  And he stuttered a little bit,
you know?  And he saw all of those rats, you know?  He'd stick his head out of the trap door.  
"Hey GGGGGeorge [unclear], I don't think we better go down there," you know.  [All laugh]  
Why?  "Come and see!"  Geese, I went down and "these are rats!"  I never saw the big big water 
rats, you know?  [D:  Hm]  You know it's like the rats we saw, yeah.
W:  That's from [unclear] on the river bank, yeah.
G:  He was loaded with rats.  So we decided we couldn't do the job.  [All laugh]  Call it a day!  
Couldn't see working down there with those rats.  [D: Yeah]  That, uh, different kinds of work.  
You know, like the Lawrence Hosiery.  Uh, well they had uh, storehouse there in the back.  They 
decided they want a railroad stretch rack to that, um, to that storehouse.  [D:  Umhm]  And the 
Locks and Canal put the tracks in.  Oh, it was about three or four hundred feet of tracks there we 
put in for the Lawrence Hosiery.  And the Lawrence Hosiery they had a little small engine, steam
engine of their own, you know, for their own cars and all that.  Gee that was a cute little thing.  
That was a nice little engine.  It's too bad they couldn't keep it, you know, a souvenir or 
something.  
D:  When you went to work in the morning uh, did the foreman assign you a job everyday?  
G:  Well it all depends.  See you have the engineers, chief engineers, and they tell you what has 
to be done.  You know, calls that they get during the day, you know.  Emergencies.  Cave-ins.  
Uh, oh my God, so many different kinds of work that we did.  Now like uh, like in the Boott Mill
for instance, they put in two or three big transformers.  Big, big damn things.  And that was a 
mean place you had to get it under.  Between alleys and everything else to get the transformer in 
where they wanted them, you know?  Well they spent quite a bit of time there.  Well they put in a
new [unclear] from the Merrimack Mills to the Boott Mills.  You know, then they had 
transformers on each end.  And uh, Locks and Canals, well they inherited that job of putting big 
transformers in a place almost as tall as this house here.  Oh a big, big thing.  And then 
afterwards of course putting in cables you know, underground cables from one, one mill to the 
other.  Well that, that took quite a bit of time.  Oh my God, I could go on and on.  I mean there's 
no end to it.  
D:  Did you do uh, repair work on the stones of the sides of the canals themselves?
G:  Well I uh, in the summertime when things were quiet.  They had these big what they called, 
like barges, you know, big fat boats.  Uh, they put that in the canal here and there after inspection
you know, and see if there was any bad spots that, they'd fix that.  Uh, on Cheever Street they fix 
that wall there many times.  There was a lot of stone, stone walls, you know, frost and all that.  
They'd have stones there, concrete, you know, they, frost does a job on them, that stuff.  And 
that's, the people that owned and managed the Locks and Canals, they made damn sure that uh, 
everything was kept in good, you know, in good shape.  Uh, another time, oh, they had, they had 
land here and there, uh, next to the old Pilling Shoe Shop.  The Locks owned uh, quite a piece of 
land there.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, well it's just across the street from the Francis Gate in other 
words.  [D:  Right]  Uh, the old (--)  Must have, they're all apartment houses in there now I think.
Yeah.
D:  Yeah, yup.
G:  Well that was a shoe shop then.  And Avery had a house there in front of it.  And in the 
summertime we used to go up there, cut the brush, the big field in back, in back of Pillings.  My 
God, the field used to grow like all hay there.  
W:  That's where he got the poison ivy.
D:  Oh.
G:  Uh, so that, cut that down, keep it down you know, so in case uh, somebody wouldn't set it on
fire.  Across the river in the canal there, it was the same way.  They owned all that land.  You 
know the driveway and all that.  Of course they have houses over there now.  The thing is all 
built.  But they used to cut brush, trees, big, big trees, rotten trees.  Uh, up in the resevoir in 
Belvidere, same thing.  I used to go up there every summer.  But the brush, keep it nice a clean.  
It wasn't anything like it is now.  It was kept nice, beautiful.  Uh, cut dead branches.  
D:  How many other men worked on this crew with you?
G:  Well I'll tell you.  There was about (--)  The Locks and Canal was bigger than that.  They had 
men you know, on all the dams and all that stuff.  There was a bigger crew than our gang.  Our 
gang was just a maintenance crew, [D:  Umhm] and nothing else.  Uh, I worked on the dams.  I 
used to fill in in the summertime on vacation time, you know?  Patty's Dam, I filled in over there 
many times.  Uh, that little gate house there on Dutton Street, right across the street from that uh,
museum there that they have, that there was a man in there all, all the time, I mean during the 
day.  Barney, Barney Hemlin.  And I filled in for him over there a few times on his vacation.  
And uh, they had a strike.  [Laughs]
W:  That's the one next to [unclear]? 
G:  No, no, no.  On Dutton Street.  You know where the museum is, the Heritage Park Museum, 
or whatever they call it?  On Dutton Street.  Not (--)  Suffolk Street.  [W:  Suffolk Street ,yeah]  
Suffolk Street.
D:  I've got a chart of the canal system here, right here.
G:  Suffolk Street.
D:  Yeah.  Let's see.  This is [unclear].
G:  Yeah, there's a feeder there.  No, it should be over here.  Tremont Mills.  Right there Marie.
W:  Oh, right there.
G:  That's the gatehouse.  I worked in that gatehouse and I worked in the Lawrence, The 
Lawrence Hosiery [D:  umhm] at a gatehouse on the river there.  That's gone now I guess.  I don't
know.  I don't think there's any, I don't know if there's anything left.  But that used to be a 
building and everything else.  I used to fill in, that's for Charlie.  
D:  Right, right by where it's the Lawrence Canal?
G:  Yeah, that's right.  They use to, you know, in other words [unclear] to the uh, Merrimack 
River.  
D:  Now where is uh, Patty's Dam?  Where would that be?
G:  Mt. Prescott, Mass.  Patty's Dam would be up here.  There's the  Concord.  There's Patty's 
Dam right there.  
D:  Okay.  Right where the canal comes into the Concord River?
G:  Yeah, that's right.  Yeah.  
D:  Yeah?  I see.
G:  That dumps into the Concord, yeah.  [D:  Yeah]  And the Concord in to the Merrimack.  
D:  Umhm.  So in the course of your work on this crew did you work on all parts of the canal?  
All the different canals?
G:  Uh, I did.  I did.  I was all over the place.  All of us, you know, there's (--)  In other words it 
was uh, maintenance work all over the place.  It's not uh, here and there.  You know, you jumped 
around from one place to another.  
D:  Umhm.  Um.  [Long pause-sound of traffic passing by]  Did you have headquarters, or a 
place that you went?  
G:  Broadway [D:  yeah] was a place, you know, the old building there.  Broadway.  That was the
main office.  In the morning that's where you went to work.  And you didn't know where you'd 
end up and where you'd start every, every day.  You had to go, you went where (--)
D:  Have you seen that publication?
G:  Uh, I don't know.  I've seen, I saw so damn many pictures.  No, I didn't see this at all, [D:  
Yeah] but I saw, I saw this picture before.  
D:  Yeah.  Well I've got an extra one.  I'll leave that with you if you'd like to have it.  
G:  Okay.  Good.  But that's a way bit, that's before my time.
D:  Umhm.  Yeah, that's the story about the structure of all of that.  Yeah.  Were there any new 
canals (--)
Wife:  1920, 1821.  1821!  [Laughs]
G:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I wasn't even a little spec then.  [All laugh]
Wife:  Your mother and father weren't even married.  They were up in Canada.  
D:  Were there any new canals, or parts of canals built during your work?
G:  No, no.  No.  Uh, before my time they put in uh, section 8.  Do you know where section 8 is? 
It's the LID, Lowell Industrial Development Company.  I mean 95 Bridge Street in other words.  
[D:  Okay]  There's a lot of wheels over there.  [D:  Right]  Well section 8, what they call section 
8, there's three generators in there.  I think they're about four hundred kilowatts a piece.  Uh, that 
was built uh, when I was a little kid.  My father put that in.  All that cement work there.  And one
day he decided to take me with him to show me around, you know?  And the generators weren't 
in, but I guess they were getting ready for it.  And I went in there.  I was walking the planks, you 
know, across these is a big opening.  And uh, it was quite an experience for me.  It was the first 
time I ever saw anything like that in my life.  Jeese, I couldn't have been more than maybe eight, 
maybe I was ten years old then, or younger, I don't know.  But I remember that part, section 8.  
[D:  Hm]  So that's uh, that's fairly new.  Well compared to uh, some of the stuff that they have, 
you know?  
D:  Right.  
G:  And then the Prescott was built almost (--)  Was it the Prescott Power Station, that's all gone 
now.  That's where Wang's got his uh, [Wife:  Wang is now] yeah.
D:  Oh yeah!
G:  Now that was a heck of a nice station.  
Wife:  And you worked in there in the power station
G:  I worked in there.  
D:  That's down where you say Patty's Dam was?  In that area?
G:  Yeah, but again I was on maintenance.  And then later on I was tranferred, [Wife:  temporary]
or graduated [Wife:  temporary]  Temporary?  They put me in what they called section 8 to learn 
how to operate generators.  You know, I'd phase them in and all that stuff.  [D:  Umhm]  And that
was only for, for a short time.  How many years was I there?  [All laugh]
D:  How long?
Wife:  About fifty years.  Temporary!
G:  That's a temporary job.  I'm waiting every years.  Every, you know, almost every day, when 
the heck will I get the heck out of here!  I hate that job.  But the idea is to learn how to phase, put
in the wheels on the line, you know, the generators on the line.  I worked there, the Prescott, and 
the main power.  I don't know if you're familiar with the main power.  [Wife:  That's along the 
river]  That's another power station down there.  Everything was in(--)
D:  That's now the river?
G:  Yeah, yeah.
Wife:  That's [unclear].
G:  Yeah.  Merrimack River.  [Wife:  Yeah]  And those power stations, they were in beautiful 
shape then.  Very, very (--)  [Tape fades out]
SIDE ONE ENDS
SIDE TWO BEGINS
Side two begins with George, informant, in mid-sentence:
G:  They had his [unclear].
D:  Put that on now.  You'll hear us talking.  I use the headphones, because that allows me to hear
what's going on the tape.
G:  Yeah. 
D:  Can you hear us now?
Wife:  [Comment unclear]
D:  Can you hear it?  Okay, now does it sound like there were two people talking at the same 
time?  [Wife:  yeah]  Okay.  That is playing what's on the tape and it's playing, and you can hear 
me.
[Wife:  you talking, yeah, yeah]  So there's a little gap of uh, of time there.  I'll play it back in a 
little, we can, we can all (--)
G:  Yeah.
D:  Let's see, what were we talking about there?  [Wife:  laughs]
G:  [Unclear]  A friend of mine, you know, he's a, he used to go around with a lunch wagon.  [D: 
Yeah]  And he uh, [Wife:  that don't sound like him] he had a set of drums.  He had a set of 
drums you know, and he used to love these dam drums.  So one day when I started walking over 
to the diner and I could hear the drum and the music and everything else.  What the hell is this?  
[D:  yeah]  
Wife:  It didn't sound like him at all.  [D:  Uh]
G:  So I went down there to see what the heck, you know, what was going on.  And there's Ernie, 
he had a record going you know, and the music, and he's keeping [few words unclear] parade 
coming down Bridge Street.  [Laughs]  And he had a recorder like that, you know?
D:  Oh yeah!
G:  Something like it.
D:  Was it dangerous working on the canals and the locks?
G:  Yeah, it is, it is dangerous work.  Uh, you think nothing of it, but I mean it's really something.
Just like one time we were in a wheel in the main power.  And uh, we were cleaning out the 
drain, you know?  And that, to get to the wheel you've got to walk, oh my God, four or five 
hundred yards underground.  You know, the big tube like, you know, to get to the, to the wheel.  
And some asshole [Wife:  [laughs] the language] told to fill up the canal you know.  It was 
around five o'clock.  [D:  Yeah]  The canal was all right.  And uh, there was nobody in the canal, 
fill it up.  And there's Ovie and I  down there. 
D:  This is down in the turbine?
  
G:  Yeah!  So of course this was quite a pitch you know.  And that, it's a big big pipe like you 
know.  My god you could drive a car in it, it's so big.  And jeese the pitch, there was always 
leakage anyway.  It just seemed like, the water seemed to be coming in a little faster than usual, 
you know?  Ovie looks at me, oh let's finish this.  I says, let's get the hell out of here.  I said 
there's more water coming in here than there should be, you know?  I think they're filling up the 
canal.  Oh no!  They won't fill up the canal until we get out of here.  Well I said I think they are.  
They probably think we're out.  You better get out of here.  It's a good thing we did.  Because 
when that thing is full you haven't got a chance.  You'd drown, you'd drown like rats.  
D:  Did you ever get hurt in anything?
G:  No, it's, (--)  No, not necessarily.  Uh, well I was on wheels for a long time until I went in the 
service.  And when I came out of the service I couldn't see going back on the wheels again.  So I 
asked the bosses to put me on maintenance again, you know, because the hours were better and 
everything else.  So I went back on maintenance.  And one of the bosses there kind of took a 
liking to me I guess and we got along fine and everything else.  And first thing you know I'm an 
elevator mechanic.  [D:  Hm]  [Laughs]  Yeah.  So.
Wife:  Did you get your license?
G:  That's not so bad.  These are the old fashioned, old elevators, you know?  Belt machine.  You 
know, it's not what they, kind of elevators you have today.  They had [unclear] to it and 
everything else.
D:  You mean [unclear]?
W:  This was all in the mills.
G:  In the mills, yeah.
D:  Oh okay.  Okay.
G:  So I'm an elevator mechanic.  
D:  Umhm.
G:  So I had no license.  And uh, okay, everything is fine, you know, get along fine until they 
changed management.  Another management bought the whole dam shabang, Boott, and Locks 
and Canal, and everything else.  They got new bosses.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, the new boss 
figured that I knew so much about elevators I should be, uh, the regular elevator mechanic.  [D:  
Umhm]  Well I said okay, I'll go along with that.  So first you know there's an inspector there.  
[D:  Um]  Have you got a license?  No [laughs], no.  Am I suppose to have a license?  Oh sure!  I
said I thought because I was working under him you know, I was just following the orders.  Oh 
you can't do that.  He can't be responsible for you.  Suppose somebody gets hurt and all that.  [D:
Umhm]  He can't be responsible for you.  He says it's just like uh, well if you go up on top of that
mill there and jumped in the canal and drowned, who's responsible him or you?  You know?
D:  Uh huh. 
G:  You better get a license.  So okay.  So I tried for a license.  I failed miserably.  I didn't know 
anything about it, too much about it you know?  So later on I tried it again and I got the license.  
[D:  Umhm]  And I, well became a licensed (--)  
W:  And that's when he got hurt.
G:  But they didn't pay, they didn't pay anything, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  There's a lot of risk to
it.  You're responsible for the elevators.  A lot of people are writing this thing and everything else.
If somebody gets hurt you're in trouble.  
W:  Broken legs, broken arms.  
G:  So I got hurt a few times there on elevators.  And uh, people, some people that you work for 
are awfully cheap.  And who you know means an awful lot.  Some people that don't need any 
help.  They got all the help they need.  And those that need help don't get any.  So that's one of 
those things.  That's why I got hurt.  There's was nobody.  I tried top get by the best I could.  
D:  What was it about working on the wheels that you had to know?
G:  Uh it's monotonous.  Well you have to learn how to like I said, phase a wheel, you know?  
[D:  Umhm]  You just don't throw that dam switch in and it's in.  The wheel has to go a certain 
speed.  The same cycle as, you know, the same cycle that you have on the line.  Sixty cycles.  
You know everything is sixty cycles.  [D: Umhm]  So it has to be sixty cycles before you can 
throw that switch in.  [D:  Umhm]  If you're, it's uh, that wheel is going too fast or too slow you 
get one out of a bump where you can shake the whole dam system.  I mean uh, not only at one 
station.  Every, everybody's going to feel it.  [D:  Umhm]   Everything but this, what they call a 
bump phase.  Uh, the Boott Mill used to be famous for that.  They had a big turbine there.  The 
guy used to come in late in the morning and oh he'd push that thing.  It's a big, big dam thing.  
And my god it's as big as these two rooms here.  He used to throw that switch in.  And one time 
we lost a whole, all the power because of this.  [Chuckles]
D:  Because there's so much difference between one engine generating everything else?  
G:  Yeah.  Oh yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  That's right, yeah.  
D:  Oh okay.
G:  The voltage is different, you know?  The cycle is different.  And the speed of the wheel, you 
know, is too high or too low.  [D:  umhm]  And of course you control the cycle by the speed of 
the wheel you know?  
D:  Was there any way you could regulate the water flow to, to control the speed?
G:  No, you have, you go by your gauges, your meters on the board.  [D:  Right]  I have a 
switchboard, a big long switchboard.  A long switchboard in section 8.  It's about as long as these
two rooms.  Prescott was a little bit longer.  And the main power that was really a long one.  
There was two, three boards down, up there.  Uh, otherwise, did you ever go down there at all?  
The main part?
D:  I've walked around [unclear].
G:  You see a little bit of it anyway.  Uh, like the Boott Mills,  they have uh, uh, they have a 
switchboard over there fairly new.  I mean it's not new, but it's the latest, the last one they put in.  
And that was put in during the strike I guess.  When the Boott had a strike.  That's a long time 
ago.  Now they have that brand new wheel there on top of the (--)  I didn't see that place yet.  [D: 
Oh yeah]  Uh, someday I'll probably go down there and look.  [D:  Sure]  If they don't throw me 
out.  They won't know who the hell I am anyway.  [D:  Laughs]  They probably won't let me in.  
D:  Was it just one wheel that you were [few words unclear]?
G:  No.  See, like the Prescott you have five wheels there.  [D:  Umhm]  Prescott had uh, well 
they were good for 220 a piece.   That's about you know, over a thousand for the, for that, for that
station.  In section 8 you had three, four hundred kilowatt wheels, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  
That's another, well it's over a thousand anyway.  And the main power, well that's uh, that's quite 
a system down there.  Uh, you have a lot of wheels and it all depends on how you hooked her, 
hooked the dam thing, you know?  Right now I think they only have one, one wheel tied, you 
know?  [D:  Umhm]  But those are big, big big generators.  And there as old as the hills, but I 
don't think it'll ever wear out.  Uh, those wheels, all of them for that matter, they were in a flood, 
1936.  Everyone of them.  They didn't have any power at all down there.  And they uh, well 
they're tied in with the uh, New England Power for a little while.  They had a small line coming 
in and a [unclear] line, so that Gene's Ice Cream used to be there.  He had tons of ice cream 
around.  I was about ready belt down the sewer.  So they tied in that, that one line you know, so 
they could keep Gene's Ice Cream going.  And after that, it wasn't long afterward they had one 
station going.  They had section 8 going.  Later on they, they dry them up, you know, dry up 
everything and put them back on the line with not too much repairs.  And the same thing with the
main power.  
D:  When you worked on the wheels in the place that you were working, [G:  Yeah, oh yeah] 
would there be other men there with you?
G:  Oh yeah, yeah.  [D:  Yeah]  No, not on switchboard operating.  No, they're all alone.  I've see 
times that (--)  I don't know how many times, [few words unclear], Archie used to do it, I did it, 
be uh, there was, you'd be in at night you know, after five o'clock you'd be in charge of two 
stations.  They couldn't carry the whole thing on one station, so you had to go across the street to 
the Prescott and put in you know, a couple of, a couple of generators to help out, or take them 
out.  It all depends.  At that time, at that time we weren't, we weren't tied in with the New 
England Power.   It was an independent power you know.  That's why I say you had to regulate 
your own cycle and your own [unclear] and everything else.  You had regulators you know, that 
take care of that.  
D:  Now let's say you were at the Boott Mill and working with the wheels there.  Did the power 
generated there go only to that mill?  
G:  All the mills, they're all tied in together.  Big, big network.  Merrimack, Lawrence Hosiery, 
uh, Boott, LID, the old Middlesex Mills, that's gone now, but they used to be tied in with us.  It 
was a big, it's quite a network.  [D:  Umhm]  You'll probably see some old blueprints there.  
Some of the stations that give you an idea what, some old ones, you know?  [D:  Right]  Give 
you an idea of what it was like.  
D:  Now, now you've told me about a couple of the different kind of jobs that maintenance, the 
maintenance crew had, [G:  yeah] like breaking the ice and uh [unclear].
G:  Now that's Locks and Canal now.  [D: Yeah]  But on the board, on the switchboard, that's a, 
that's another job all together.  Okay, we had to do maintenance on that too.  [D:  Umhm]  You, 
you uh, well we just took care of the board and get all the, the load and that stuff, but those 
wheels, those waterwheels in other words, they had to be uh, maintained too.  So if they emptied 
the canal or something and on a Sunday, you'd take these big manhole covers off and we'd go 
down a wheel and make sure that everything was okay. You know, that those paddles and gates 
and everything else, make sure that you know, it was clear.  No rubbish, or timber, or whatever 
that might get in there.  Uh, like in one station there, my god they had racks, what they called 
racks outside.  Water racks.  Water goes through these racks, keeps all the debris and the junk and
stuff out of, out of the water.  So none of that big heavy stuff would go in, go in the wheel and 
break the wheel.  [D:  right]  Well in the main power, jeese, we had an epidemic there for awhile 
and the boss didn't want to shut down the wheel.  He thought he'd lose so much money.  So they 
were taking, it was thrown at the bottom of the canal I guess, and they were getting tires, 
automobile tired.  [D:  Oh]  Oh my god!  We had a tire [unclear] as a tractor tire.  God it was this 
big!  About eight foot tall.  [Laughs]
Wife:  [Unclear]
D:  Oh boy!
G:  See there was no racks.  Everything went in there.  
Wife:  Oh.
G:  Ovie and I, we had to take an ax and a saw and boy did we work at that thing to get it out of 
there.  And while (--)
D:  You could get into the wheel and stand up?
G:  Yeah, yeah.  Well it couldn't get through, that big one couldn't go through the wheel because 
it was too big.  But that was a nuisance.  You know, it blocked the water passage  
D:  Right.  How often would the canals be drained?
G:  It all depends.  Now this management don't believe in that I guess.  He wouldn't empty the 
canal even if it's uh (--)  Uh, I don't want to say anything.  I better not.  
D:  It's okay.  How often would it occur when you were working?
G:  Well in the summertime especially.  That's the only time that you can do work in the canal, 
you know?  [D:  Umhm]  If it's possible.  When I worked with the Locks and Canal I never had a
Sunday off, you know, because they emptied the canal every Sunday.  [D:  Really?]  Yeah.  
D:  Right year round do you mean?
G:  All the canals, yeah.  [D:  Yeah]
Wife:  Somebody decided to jump in the canal [unclear] problems.
G:  Every now and then some, somebody would decide to end it all, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  
That happened quite often.  
Wife:  Drain the canal for it.  
G:  Uh, wake you up at three o'clock in the morning, go empty the canal so you could find some 
guy that jumped in.  [D:  Hm]  Uh, that was normal.  [Laughs]
D:  Well what does it involve to uh, to drain the canal?
G:  The what?
D:  What did that involve.  What did you do?
G:  Well they had to open up gates, [unclear], get rid of that water.
Wife:  Let all the water out of the river.  
G:  You got a gate, close the gate that feeds the water into it that got out.  [D:  Umhm]  And then 
on Suffolk Street you have uh, gates over there that I think the people that's in charge now, I don't
think they know what those gates were for.  But they used to separate the canals.  [G:  Hm]  Most
of the time you didn't have to empty the whole dam system, only one section, you know, or the 
other with those gates.  But I don't think they've been using them since I've stopped working 
there.  [Laughs]  God it's so, that is stuck with mud.  They'd never get that on.  They're probably 
no good at all.  Now just like the uh, the gates there on uh, on Merrimack Street, that gatehouse? 
[D:  Umhm]  Oh boy, that was a nice place.  That was a hell of a nice gatehouse.  Now all of the 
gates are down.  And if you leave them down long enough at the water edge it's [unclear] rot.  
[D:  Umhm]  And that's, that's the way the gates are going over there.  [D:  Oh yeah]  They, I 
don't think they're any good anymore.  I think they'll have to rip up all the gates.  Those gates 
used to work good.  Everytime I empty the canal we used to go over there, or close, or open 
those gates.  And there was three gates there.  Alex Rondeau used to pick the middle one because
it was easy.  Once you get it started you just leave it alone.  The dam thing, you know, they were 
so perfectly balanced.  The thing would run by itself.  And the one on the left, that was kind of 
rough.  The last one near Merrimack Street, that was, that was always our mean son-of-gun.  
That's the one I got stuck with most of the time.  [Laughs]  You had to you know, turn that crank 
until your, your arms were about ready to fall off.  
D:  When you uh, drained the canals did you ever find any unusual things in there?  
G:  Well you find uh, a little bit of everything, everything I guess.  
Wife:  Shopping carts, babies.  
G:  Babies, that's, that happened quite often.  Dogs, cats and of boy,(--)
D:  What about fish?
G:  It was loaded.  There's, those canals are loaded with fish.  Eels especially.  [D:  Yeah]  Oh my
God!  In the Boott Mills, if you go in the wheels over there, you know, we went in there I don't 
know how many times to fix what they call the links on the, on the gates.  And there's only about 
that much water in the wheel, you know?  It won't drain, the drain is too high.  And the fishes, it's
so full of fishes you're stepping on them.  Actually they, you know, they fish around you.  You 
know, they swim around your legs darn eels.  And it's dark down there. You don't see them.  All 
you have is a flashlight.  Well they're there all right.  
D:  When you drained the canals did, did people take fish home with them, or give them away, or
anything?
G:  No, they uh, somehow those fished don't die.  They uh, they lived.  They uh, they followed 
the, if there's a drop of water they'll live.  Especially an eel.  They're tough fish.  You have the 
German Carps.  There's quite a few of those, but the German, you don't see too many of the 
German Carps in the canal.  You see it in the river.  A lot of those in the river, but German Carps 
is a funny fish.  It's a big fat fish you know?  And they'll eat anything.  I used to go down to the 
Boott Mill in the river side and there was a big sewer pipe.  Oh my God, a big, big thing you 
know.  All the sewerage used to come out of there.  And that's where the German Carps were 
eating that stuff.  [Laughs]  They live [unclear] that stuff.
Wife:  Scavengers.
G:  I know!
D:  Yup.  Do people fish in the canals much?
G:  Uh, not too many.  They fish right at the dam here, Pawtucket Dam.  That's a good spot there.
[D:  Umhm]  Right in back of the gatehouse.  
D:  Down on the down riverside?  
G:  On the riverside.  Right out [D:  Yeah].  Now see there's more or less dead water there on the 
corner.  A lot of rubbish and stuff collects in the corner.  And they (--)
Wife:  [Unclear] those Cambodians take out over here.
G:  The German Carps.
Wife:  Oh, the German Carp?  
G:  Yeah.  Oh they catch them right and left right here.  
Wife:  [Unclear] right over here.
D:  Right here by the Tyngsboro bridge you [unclear]?
Wife:  No, right across the street here!
G:  Over here, right across the river, uh, the road here.  
D:  Oh really?
G:  Uh, weekends they come here three or four cars.  
Wife:  They come here all day long.
G:  They spend a whole day down here fishing.
D:  Right across from, from you down the bank?
Wife:  Yeah.  Yeah.  On the river bank.  [D:  Oh yeah]
G:  It's loaded with German Carps.
Wife:  [Comment unclear]
G:  A lot of(--)  There's(--)  Some of them there they got little kids and everything else, they 
bring the whole family and they sit uh, those beach chairs.  [Laughs]  They sit down there and 
they fish all day.  
Wife:  And you see them coming back with plastic bags loaded down with fish.
G:  Picnic, you know, basket.
Wife:  I wouldn't even eat those fish.  [D:  Uh huh]  He eats them.
G:  And those fishes are (--)  They catch a lot, because sometimes they have a burlap bag there, 
there's so many fishes in it they got all they can do just to carry it.  [Wife:  They're dragging 
them]  Yeah.
D:  Wow!  Hm.  
G:  And they keep (--)  I don't know where the heck they all come from, but they keep catching 
them all the time.  [D: Yeah?]  Yeah.
D:  I wanted to ask too if people swam in the canals very much?
G:  No, not too much.  They try to discourage that you know, because it's dangerous, it's too dam 
dangerous.  They have a lot of strong current.  May not, may not have that much current today, 
but in the old days uh, it was very strong current.  [D:  Umhm]  I'll tell you an experience.  I, I 
was only a kid then.  I wasn't working for the company the.  It was Alex Rondeau and Willie 
LaPointe, they were breaking ice on Ford Street, where Cabot Street bridge is, you know?  And 
uh, you know, with the boat, rock boat and everything else, and it caves in and the water you 
know, started to carry that ice down stream.  And first you know, I don't know what the hell 
happened.  [Wife:  And your uncle?]  The boat capsized.  [Wife:  Oh, your uncle Willie with 
them]  Yeah.  The boat turned over and [few words unclear] and Willie are in the water.  And 
when they got to the bridge.  My uh, well Willie didn't know how to swim.  Alex knew how to 
swim, but they, when they got under the bridge well the bridge is only about that high above 
water, you know?
D:  About three feet or so?
G:  And they grabbed the beam underneath there and they hanged, you know, they hung up to 
the, to stay there until they got some help.  Well the whole gang was there then.  [D:  Hm]  So 
they couldn't get them out.  So the foreman had to, to get an ax and everything else. So they had 
to make, they had to make a hole in the bridge.  There was a wooden bridge, to get them out of 
there.  [Laughs]  
D:  These guys were working on the crew with you?
G:  Yeah.  So.  
Wife:  I have to say it was his uncle.
G:  Willie, Uncle Willie is uh, my God he had nightmares about that for years afterwards.  I was, 
that was uh, so close.  Oh yeah, I had suffered an experience like that too.  [D:  Yeah?]  You 
know where the swamp wreck is?  [D: Umhm]  Well like I said before, we had to go there in the 
morning and break the ice, you know?  [D: Umhm]  And in front of the bays they had booms you
know, that you could walk on.  You know, so they could direct those booms for that purpose, to 
run the ice you know, a certain way.  So [unclear].  And uh, oh the booms, they were only about 
that wide.  That timbers like, you know, they float.  And they're only about that much of it above 
water.  
D:  They're a couple of feet wide and two or three inches above the water?
G:  Yeah, well I mean the top part of it, you know?  [D:  Yeah]  Anyway, because they're heavy.  
They're heavy uh, timbers.  Anyway I had uh,  I don't know who the heck it was.  He was 
working next to me, you know, breaking the ice.  You know, making a [few words unclear].  And 
it's cold you know.  God it's five o'clock in the morning.  It's still dark.  And chopping away, you 
know.  And I had to get on the other side of this guy so I could start chopping on the other side of
him, you know?  My area was all clean.  So going by him my feet went [Wife and he laugh] [few
words unclear].  And uh, jeeses, it was just beginning to get a little bit daylight, you know.  And 
oh my, I'm under the water there and the eye of the water was at the yellowish color you know, 
and I could see the ice underneath.  The ice is thick.  Jeese I hope I can get out of this.  You 
know, where I went through there was only space about this wide.  [Laughs] 
D:  You, you fell in through the ice, you were looking up through the ice?
G:  Yeah, I can see the ice, the bottom part of the ice, you know?  The daylight showing through 
the ice a little bit.  I could see the bottom part of the ice.  Jeese I'm looking around to see if 
there's a hole there someplace.  Got to get out of here!  [All laugh]  And by chances, I don't know
how it happened, it's a miracle I guess.  I came out the same damn hole I fell in.  Yeah.  And I 
was soak and wet.  So I went to the shack there.  The guys were sitting around the stove you 
know, keeping themselves warm.  When you're finished your area you can go in there and keep 
warm.  They had a little pot belly stove.  And until everybody is finished then you can take off, 
you know?  So I went in there, I'm all soak and wet.  And I'm  hugging the stove trying to dry up.
And the boss says, go home.  [Wife:  your father?]  Yeah.  I says, I'll go home and change clothes
and I'll be right back.  No, when you fall in the canal you have the day off with pay.  Jeese that's 
nice.  [All laugh]  So I went home, changed clothes and I went to the old Royal Theater on 
Merrimack Street.  I spent the afternoon in there.  I watched the movies.  But it was cold enough.
I had a car then, you know.  It was cold enough that my clothes froze from that little shack, you 
know, to the car.  My clothes was all ice.  I got in the car, you could hear crunch, crunch, crunch. 
Now that goes on all the time.  That's, that's, part of the job.
D:  What kind of clothing did you wear when you worked in the wintertime.
G:  Well as warm, as warm as possible.  You can't dress too damn warm because you got to 
move.  You know, you have, you can't stand there [Wife:  in insulated underwear] (--)  It has to 
be (--)  Well no, it wasn't insulated underwear then.  It was just the old fashioned weaved heavy 
underwear.  Whatever you call them.  God it was just like a horse blanket [D:  Umhm] then.  You
know, with a drop seat in the back and all that.  [All laugh]
Wife:  In the one piece.
G:  Yeah, two buttons.  Uh, you laugh at it now.  It wasn't funny then.  [D:  yeah]
D:  Now in the summertime you told, told me about clearing brush and that sort of thing.  What 
other types of maintenance would you do?
G:  Well sometimes they, they last quite awhile.  Like those transformers I told you about.  That, 
that job last quite awhile.  That took a couple of years you know, before they could complete a 
whole thing.  Uh, we got the power in.  Put cables, they were big, uh, they were big cables.  You 
know, those lead shield cables, they're heavy, heavy damn thing.  You had to pull them you 
know, with a [unclear] and I mean chain [unclear] and everything else.  Uh, well it took over a 
year to get everything connected.  And then at the Boott Mill they had a bus, what they call that, 
a bus station.  [Excuse me]  And they had to change the whole damn system.  They were all you 
know, copper bars you know, where the cables are tied to the switches and all that stuff.  [D: Oh 
yeah]  They had to change the whole system because it wasn't uh, it wasn't heavy enough for all 
of this electricity that was, that tied to it, you know?  So we worked quite a few weekdays and 
we worked especially Sundays when the mill was shut down.  That's the only time you could 
work on that stuff.  Work Sundays.  I work an awful lot. a lot of Sundays working for that 
company.  Oh boy oh boy!  And that was uh, you might as well call it the church.  [D:  Yeah]  
Wife:  [Unclear] floods, [D:  oh yeah] never saw you at all.
G:  And again, floods.  Oh boy, '36 flood.  And of course you had floods almost every year.  Uh, 
'36 was a big one.  Then you had another one in '38 I guess.  [Wife:  '38]  Well it wasn't too bad.  
It was a wind storm more than anything else.  It was a hurricane then.  
D:  Was there anything you could do to prepare for the flood?
G:  Well what you do is, you're, all these mills are all along the river, you know.  And they're all, 
they're all low spots.  So the river comes up pretty high.  And they come in the mills here and 
there.  And places where uh, the engine room and generator rooms, and all that stuff.  You try to 
keep those place dry as much as possible.  [D:  Umhm]  You don't want to wander on air if you 
can help it.  So you make more of all this coffer dams and set up pumps and pump water.  Uh, 
sometimes you had an awful lot of, quite a few pumps there running, you know, just to keep the 
damn place dry to try to save it.  
D:  Umhm.  What, what would happen when the, when you saw that it was a flood on and it 
looks like things were going to be in danger.  What would you do?  
G:  Well that's all you can do is wait and see what's going to happen.  They uh, the big boss, 
engineers, they used to get word from New Hampshire and they could tell you pretty close, you 
know,  what to expect.  Uh, if it was going to come up, go down, or hold it's own, you know?  So
lots of times they, thirty six especially, all you could do is wait and hope and pray I guess.  That's
about all you could do.  See, like the '36 flood, that was an awful lot of work there.  My God was
there.  You try to save the mills to begin with.  And after awhile you couldn't do much of 
anything.  So we went up the uh, on Broadway to see what we could do with the Francis Gate, if 
we could lower that.  And then on top, in back of the Francis Gate, you don't see that today, I 
guess it's all buried, but it's a cement wall there with holes in it so you can put pins.  The pins that
you use in a, at the Pawtucket Falls, you know?  Those same pins, pins just like it, can put it in 
the uh, in these holes and put uh, a dam, those panels in back of it.  So that would hold the water 
another three foot.  [D:  Umhm]  But we didn't have to, because it stopped before it got that far.  
You know, we didn't have to use that dam at all.
Wife:  Because I was going to say how come I never saw it?  You never showed me that.  
[Chuckles]  [G: Well]
D:  Did you used to drop the Francis Gate during those times?
G:  Yeah.  Yeah.
D:  What was, what was that like?  Were you involved with that?
Wife:  Oh yes he was involved.
D:  Yeah.
G:  Well I was at [chuckles] (--)  The Francis Gate, naturally we had, we lowered that thing when
the Chief Engineer told us to.  Uh, I don't know if you heard of his name or not, Mr. Stanley 
Kent, he was the Chief Engineer of the Locks and Canal then.  Of course there was another man 
over him, Mr. Stafford.  I forgot his first name now.  Stafford was the big wheel.  [Wife:  yeah]  
And Mr. Kent was under him.  And Mr. Kent, my God he was so concerned about everything, 
you know?  He was a heck of a nice boss.  Good boss.  [D:  Umhm] Wonderful man.  He's the 
one that gave us the word to lower that gate, you know?  And actually there wasn't too much to 
it.  
Wife:  There was you, your father, your uncle.
G:  And, yeah.  
Wife:  And Clem, [G:  Rondeau] and then Alex Rondeau.  
G:  Yeah.  This big gate, I don't know if you ever have a look at, saw it, it's a big, one big shackle
that holds the whole dam gate.  Well they had tools up there for that purpose.  Cutting tools.  It's 
just like a chisel, you know, a coal chisel with a handle on it, [D:  Umhm] and a couple of 
hammers, sledge hammers, just for that purpose.  Uh, it might have been there for I don't know 
how long.  You know, but it was up there for that purpose.  So we went up there, of course it was 
dark up there in the attic.  It was just like a big attic where the shackle.  And uh, well one guy 
held this dam thing, this chisel like, and the other guy (--)  
TAPE ONE-SIDE TWO ENDS.
LFD-DT-R013
Side one begins with interviewer:
D:  Okay, where were we there?
G:  Well this uh, it's like I said, it's just like a chisel with a hammer.  And it's a, the shackle, what 
they call a shackle, it's a heavy thing.  It's a big hook like, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, with
a pin in it.  So they cut the shackle you know, with this chisel and cut it and cut it and finally 
when it got thin enough you know, weak enough, it broke and that gate went down.  We didn't 
see it go down.  It went down so fast.  You couldn't follow that thing, it was impossible.  And it 
shook us, you know the little, that building there a little bit, but we didn't hardly feel, felt 
anything.  But uh, I think it was the next day, that street next to it you know, on Broadway, off 
Broadway [Wife:  unclear] there next, next to the Bartlett School there someplace.  She 
complained that it shook her dishes [D:  Laughs] when that thing hit bottom.  I can believe it 
because it weighed so dam many tons, you know?  [D:  Right]  They had, they know exactly how
much that things weighs.  And when it hit, of boy!  Although the water sort of slowed down a 
little bit, but gee there's so much weight it hit bottom kind of hard I guess.  And it shook the 
ground a little bit, you know?  
D:  Now where were you when this shackle was being cut?
G:  Upstairs, up there.  
D:  You were right on the top?
G:  Yeah.  
D:  And your father and these other men were up there too?
G:  Yeah, it was the four of us.  [D: Yeah]  And uh, we have a picture of it someplace.  I don't 
know where the heck that stuff is, you know?  
D:  Was that the last time that that gate was drawn?
G:  As far as (--)  Yes, yeah.
Wife:  One and only time.
D:  Really?
G:  No no, it was, it was dropped before way, oh a long long time ago.  
Wife:  Francis Follie?
G:  Long, long, long time ago, yeah.  Before our time, you know?  They had a record of it 
someplace.  I, I forgot what the heck it was, you know, the dates were.  
Wife:  We used to call it Francis Follie.
G:  Yeah.  And you look, you look at the lay-out you know, and you see why that gate ran so 
much.  If it wouldn't have been for that gate downtown Lowell would have been a hell of a mess.
[D:  Umhm]  Because there's quite a drop from there to the canal in back of, of the gate house 
there.  You look at it sometime.  The river height and the canal below. 
Wife:  Why you were the heroes of Lowell.
G:  And uh, that gate, well naturally it was there for a purpose.  Uh, well it was there for, well to 
save a lot of damage, but uh, I guess there was (--)  Years ago I guess they used to float on the 
booms or something you know, from the river down into the canal.  As a matter of fact one time 
we did float a boom from Pawtucket Street.  Did you eve notice that on Pawtucket Street they 
have uh, near the boathouse there, there's a boom across?  [D:  Yeah]  Well years ago they uh, oh 
there was a lot of attention paid to that boom.  Because they used to hold all that crap back, you 
know, from you know, going in the [Wife:  going in the canal], the canal.
D: Right.
G:  At one time the boom was getting rotten and everything else.  Uh, we took three or four pots, 
you know, booms there.  They're all tied together.  And we went through the Francis Gate, Gate 
was wide opened.  They lowered the canal just high enough, you know, they could work the 
canal high up and down enough so they could get these booms in.  And we floated, we floated 
those on those booms all the way down to the swamp lock.  [D:  Hm]  Pushing ourself against 
the wall.  [Laughs]  It was quite a thrill. 
D:  How did, how did you get that uh, gate back up again after it had been dropped?
G:  I never saw that thing go up again, but they, they used jacks you know, to get it started.  
Because to begin with it's a job to get it started, because it gets stuck in the mud.  It's you know, 
there's so dam much suction there [D:  umhm] it's a job to get it going.  Once you get it going it's 
not so bad.  You could have uh, wench and all that stuff.  You know they, they get it up there, 
right up to my shovel.  But I never took part in putting that thing up again.  
D:  Did you find that after the gate had been dropped and that it helped protect the city, and then 
people treated you any differently, give you anymore respect or anything like that?
G:  Oh no no.  That's, that, that doesn't mean a thing.  No it was nothing.  To me, I don't know.  
There was no, nothing to be glory there of any kind.  I mean it was just a days work, that's all.  I 
mean (--)  [D:  yeah]
D:  Now let me see if I can understand sort of the different parts of your career.  You started out 
working in the, on the maintenance crew?  [G:  Yeah]  And how about long did you do that 
before you started working on the wheel?  
G:  Oh!  The wheels.  Now I think the wheels, I think I started that in 1936.  '35, or '36, around 
there.  
Wife:  You went in the Marine Corp in '42.
D:  Yeah.
G:  Yeah.  Uh, maintenance, oh my God.  You're, it covers a lot of ground, you know?  I helped 
the blacksmith many times.  The blacksmith, that was his job to straighten all of these pins for 
the dam you know.  And this blacksmith, uh, Jimmy Graham, boy he was really an artist.  You 
ought to see the beautiful work he did with metal, you know?  All hand tooled, and oh, he was a 
very good blacksmith.  I think the best, one of the best.  Uh, and there was a lot of nice old 
fellows there that, to work with, to begin with, you know?  Uh, a guy like Gerry Connors.  Gee, 
him and I got along great.  Jimmy uh, Johnny Summer.  He was a hydraulic engineer.  We had a 
[derek?] you know, they had quite a few, but one time in the swamp lock they had a derek there.  
They could lift the dam boom right out of the canal and put it on dry land.  Work on it and repair 
it and put it back in the water again.  Of course they did away with that.  But he was uh, he was a
licensed engineer to run that uh, the dunky boiler, you know.  [D:  Umhm]  And Johnny, it was a 
funny thing.  I think he only weighed about ninety pounds soak and wet.  Just a little tiny guy.  It 
was a nice little guy.  And the kids from the Bartlett School, they used to tease them, tease the 
heck out of them you know?  There was a derek up there on the Wilson side, you know, Wilson 
[Wife:  coal] uh, coal on the other side of the street.  They were doing a big job there with a 
derek set up.  And Johnny used to run that derek, that uh, boiler.  And the kids used to find little 
snakes on the rocks.  And they come over and showed it to Johnny.  Now Johnny, he was afraid 
of them and it made him sick.  Everytime he saw those things he felt like throwing up.  Well the 
kids found it out that he was that way and they took advantage of it.  [Laughing]  They used to, 
they'd pester the heck out of him.  Poor Johnny.  [Laughing]  Uh geese.  But anyhow Johnny and 
I, oh we got along famously.  It was very good.  
D:  Umhm.  Did you, you were telling me before that you, in the wintertime you'd go to work at 
five in the morning.  [G:  Yeah]  Was that the time when you went to work year round?
G:  No, no, just in the winter.  [D:  yeah]  Just in the winter. When ice, you know, when 
everything was freezing and you had to get the canal going so that the mill could use that water.  
D:  I see.
G:  Because uh, see the canal in the winter it can be messy at times.  You have what you call an 
anchor ice.  It's just like snow.  [D:  Yeah]  You know, that freezes right along.  I mean it don't 
turn into ice.  It's just snow, flaky snow, ice like.  
Wife:  Like crushed ice.
G:  Yeah.  [D: Oh yeah]  Well when it gets to the racks that dam stuff it will block up the racks so
tight there's not a drop of water that will go through.  [D:  Umhm]  So again, that's the way we 
came in.  [Unclear] we had to go to the racks and clean the racks.  You know, what they call a 
pack pole and all this stuff.  You know, the space inbetween you know, where the water would go
through we tied to open up, make a hole so the water could go through, so they could run the 
waterwheels.  Now that was a, that was a mean job.  That was hard work, very hard work.  
Again, uh, it all depends where you were.  There's a place there on Jackson Street, my God we 
used to freeze our ass over there.  Oh my God was it cold!  And it was wide open, you know?  
Jackson Street.  Uh, then we had to take care of the gate.  Mr., there's a, there's a pretty good 
story right there.  Mr. Melanfront worked with the gang.  And uh, on Jackson Street, on the end 
there in the Courier Citizen yard, way down the other end, the entrance, there's a gatehouse.  Mr. 
Melanfront, you know, like I said, if the ice is too big it won't go through the opening.  So that he
was there standing on a boom breaking the ice.  And ice got stuck and he hung, instead of letting 
it go he was hand on, you hung on to the bar.  A big long, you know, ice pick in other words.  
And it's about six foot tall, six, seven foot tall.  Anyway he hung on to the ice and the dam thing, 
the ice pulled him in, into this uh, to this gatehouse.  It's a whirlpool.  You can see the dam water,
you know.  And on that side of it, after you're gone through the uh, after you went through the 
gatehouse it's all underground.  He came out on the other side.  Drowned.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, 
all they saw was his hat float down the river, you know?  Toward the uh, Patty's Gatehouse there.
Wife:  Did he drown?
G:  Oh hell yes!  I, I shouldn't say this I suppose, but uh, he drowned and I was, they emptied the 
canal and got him out.  And that's how I got to work with the Locks and Canal.  [D:  Umhm]  
That's all.  If he hadn't drowned I wouldn't have been [laughing] working.  [D:  Yeah, right]  
That's the only think I can say.  He was a heck of a nice guy.  I knew the guy.  I knew the man 
very well.  He was a married man with family and all.  And uh, that's a heck of a way to get a 
job, but gee whiz.
D:  Did the parts of the wheels, the turbines uh (--)
G:  No he didn't go through.  That's just a raceway like. 
D:  Oh I see.
G:  See, it's not, it has nothing to do with the wheels right there.  [D:  Yeah]  Uh, all of the wheels
are in, before you got to that gatehouse you know, you see a long line of racks there.  And after 
you've gone by the racks then you go to that, to that gatehouse.  It's a sharp 45o corner there.  
And when the gauges, it's a gate that you crank up and down, you know?  Big gate.  And once 
that gate is opened wide opened there's an awful lot of water going through there.  [D:  Yeah]  
Boy oh boy!  Strong current.  And underneath, then it drops, you know?  So he was under, 
underground all that time, from there until he came up on the other side, you know, and through 
the lower canal.  [D:  Umhm]  So that's how, that's why he drowned.  You didn't have a change.  
D:  Yeah.  I was wondering if any of the internal parts of the uh, of the wheels every broke and 
you had to fix them.
G:  Oh yeah.
D:  What were those parts called?  I think you mentioned them?
G:  The gates.
D:  Yeah.
G:  Yeah.  And all of your wheels, they're all a little bit different, you know?  And the idea is to 
get down there and uh, see what it is.  Sometimes it's just uh, what the heck do they call them?  
Well anyway a part that broke and you have to take the part out and put a new one in.  [D:  
Umhm]  Links.  Links.  And uh, that's not very pleasant either, because everything is rusty and 
stinks down there.  I don't know about today, but one time boy those canals, they didn't smell 
very good.  There was an awful lot of sewerage that emptied into that canals and the river.  
There's an awful lot of it.  Well maybe not the canal so much now, but uh, even the river.
Wife:  Now we can smell the river sometime when you go by in the hot weather.
G:  Yeah, there's a lot of sewerage in that river yet.  
D:  Oh yeah, yeah.
G:  A lot of it.  
D:  So when did you retire from working on the Locks and Canals?  
G:  Hm.
Wife:  '78?
G:  See I was transferred.  [D:  Yeah]
Wife:  Temporary.  [Chuckles]  
G:  Twice.  I was with the Locks Gang and then I was with the what they called the Lowell 
Industrial Development Company.  [D:  Umhm]  Temporary.  And uh, a couple of days.  So that 
was, I had to work under another name, you know?  Lowell Industrial.  [D:  Right]  Still part of 
the Locks and Canal, you know?  It was under the Locks and Canal management.  [D:  Umhm]  
But I call it, well I might as well say I worked for the Locks and Canal at that time.  [Wife:  
yeah]  Until this bunch of people from New York came in and bought the whole dam shabang 
down there.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, the first thing you know (--)
Wife:  Now it's called 95 Bridge Street.  
G:  Now they call everything Boott Mills down there.  [D:  Oh yeah]  It's not Boott Mills at all.  
There's only one mill that's Boott Mills and they'll never be another Boott Mill as long as there 
(--)  Uh, I don't know what you think of the Boott Mills, but we don't think much of it.  My wife 
worked there one time as a weaver.  [D:  Oh yeah]
Wife:  Ten months and I got jipped on my pay.  [G:  And that was ] I worked ten weeks for 
nothing.  It was the biggest rat hole.  And cockroaches, oh!
G:  [All laugh]  I'm not going to say it.  I'm not going to tell you when I went to the toilet.  Rats 
in there and cockroaches.
D:  So under the different kinds of employers that you had from, [G:  yeah] was it from '33 that 
you began did you tell me?
G:  Well actually, oh my God!  
Wife:  You were there on the flood.
G:  Yeah, but I, I started with 1931 rig.  1931.  [D:  Yeah]  And I worked for awhile.  Gee the jobs
were like I said, hard to get.  I worked for awhile.  Not quite, not quite a year.  And they had to 
lay us off because there was no more work, you know?  They ran out of money or something.  So
from there jeese I went looking for jobs all over the place.  Jeese I went to oh my God!  I spent 
an awful lot of time.  I went to Boston and I worked in some swetshops down there.  I had to 
give it up.  There was, I wasn't uh, it was a losing proposition.  As it was you couldn't make cent 
down there.  What you make you spend it all traveling back and forth.  [Laughs]
D:  Yup, yup.  
G:  So I had to give that up and came back to Lowell.  And that's how I got this NRA thing 
started, you know.  The first thing you know, Archie and I, we ended up in the Lawrence Hosiery
to learn how to knit.  And that was going along fine.  
Wife:  I thought he was with the fire department.
G:  Afterward.
Wife:  Oh afterward.
G:  Yeah.  And uh, it was a good deal.  Nice clean job.  I liked it.  But uh, first thing you know 
they decided they got all the help there.  Join the union.  And they want more money, more 
benefits, and more everything else.  So that I wished they had another mill someplace else that 
wasn't union.  So all the work went to the other mill and there was nothing to do here in Lowell.  
[D:  Yeah]  So again we're out of, we're looking for jobs again.  It just so happened the Locks 
started a job of some kind.  I forget what the heck (--)  Oh yeah, Pachette, Pachette's Garage.  
Remember that?  They started that garage there and they needed help?  And we got rehired.  You 
know Pachette's where the Boott Mill is now, that was quite a, that was quite a (--)  What the 
heck they call it? Boarding House?  Well the people years ago, I guess they had these boarding 
house for the help.  [D:  Umhm]  And uh, girls used to come from Maine and Vermont and all 
those places to work in the Boott Mills.  And they had you know, the board and room.  You 
know, but that was part of their pay I guess.  And they had all of these, these boarding houses.  
And uh, when they built, well in other words that Pachette's Garage was built out of a boarding 
house.  You know they changed everything, knocked the roof off and everything else and they 
made a nice big garage over there.  Oh yeah.
Wife:  And they tore it down.
G:  Yeah.  We had to tear down quite a few floors you know?  And it's an old old building.  And 
every room had a fire place.  it's a funny thing.  Way, way, way back that's how they, that's the 
only heat they had.  There was no central heat.  Cockroaches in there, you'd never believe how 
much cockroaches.  They were all dead when we started tearing down the place, because it was 
cold and they all froze to death I guess.  But there was about two and three inches of cockroaches
between the floor and the ceiling of each floor.  Thick with cockroaches.  Boy was that, how can 
those people, could those people live there with all that, those bugs.  I don't know.
D:  Yeah.  What did you like about work on the canals and the locks?
G:  Well it was exci (--)  I was uh, it was interesting.  I uh, I like it very much.  It's hard, it was 
hard work you know?  And uh, well you had to take chances, you know, didn't want to get hurt.  
Hope for the best and all that stuff.  That's a job, it was a job.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, but I didn't stay 
with them, I didn't stay with the gang because I, I didn't, it wasn't my choice. I wanted to stay 
with the gang, but no, they thought I was too smart or something and they put me in (--)  [All 
laugh]  Gave me a better job.  No more money, but.  But it's uh, it wasn't that great.  I mean the 
pay was small you know.  [Wife:  comment unclear]  But it paid, it paid a little better than the 
mills.  Just a couple of pennies you know.  In them days when I started, my God, twelve dollars, 
fourteen dollars a week, you know?  It was pretty, no it was pretty good pay then.  [D:  Umhm, 
umhm]
D:  That was for five days a week, or six?
G:  Five days.  [D:  Yup]  And of course like I said, we worked every dam Sunday, never failed, 
so we made a little more than a regular pay, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  With the overtime.  And 
the overtime, it was straight time.  No time and a half, or double time.  That was straight time 
with the overtime.  [D:  Umhm]
D:  Did you get any vacation time, or holiday time? 
G:  No, no.  In them days, no.  [D:  yeah]  No.  Nobody, hardly anybody had uh, vacation time, 
or holidays.  Well there was only two or three big holidays I guess.  Christmas, New Years [Wife:
Christmas and New Years] and Fourth of July, or something like that.  All the people, that's the 
way they worked then in them days.  That's the only uh, holidays that they had.
D:  Did management ever give you things?  Like I know some companies these days will give 
you a turkey, or something if you work there.  
G:  Well this, the last management, not the last one, the one before this one, used to give us uh, 
ten bucks, [D:  umhm] or a turkey a couple of times.  Nixen, yeah, Nixen rather.
Wife:  I thought you got it from one of the shops up there?
G:  I did, I did get some from the shop too.  From the [unclear].  One year I had what was it, four
turkeys, four or five turkeys?  [All laugh]  I didn't know what the hell to do with them all, you 
know?  A bottle of booze and all that.  They uh, the company wasn't uh, it wasn't too bad.  But 
they uh, I actually, I don't know whether their conscience bothered them or what, but they were 
cheap.  [Laughs]
D:  What do you think uh, people in Lowell think of the canals anyway?
G:  Well if you want my opinion I don't think they're going to think much of it.  Maybe you 
better turn it off, because it's uh (--)
D:  Okay I'll do that, because I'm just about out of questions anyway.  [G:  Yeah]  This is a good 
place to stop.
end of tape