Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old
female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription)
START M48 B(4)
March maybe. Did you also have a truck graden... Yes, we <uintelligible text> had that.
Garden, we called it a garden -- Sweet corn, string beans, lima beans, red beets, peas,
and then potatoes, a couple acres of potatoes. No, I don't anymore. They daughter does
sometimes but I don't no more. Yea. Yea, we did canning -- my mother used to do a lot
-- Years ago they did lots of meat canning we never did. My father didn't go for that. But
my aunt I know did. Sausage meat, Sausage and tenderloin and stuff -- we used to can it.
Now my mother we didn't put it in a can the tenderloin. We put it in an earthcrock and she
put a layer in, salt and pepper and another layer and so on up til it was about maybe an
inch and a half up to the top then she put lard over. That was air-tight.
5. 107
That was good stuff. But she never put it in a regular jar, with a lid. Yea, you used to dry
corn and beans, we used to dry. Well I do yet. We never did too much at home but I dry
apples, like Paradise apples for snits and knep. For snits and knep. Do you know what
that is? Yea, that's good too. Yea. You cook the the meat and then you put the apples in,
then you, dried apples and then you put, make dumplings and put it in. Yea, I dry them
in the oven. Yea. Well he made like a a wire -- Quarter inch mesh wire, I got -- To put on
top of the grate -- To put on top of the grates, you know. So the apples don't fall through.
So the apples won't fall through then. And then I let the oven door open. I put it to wa--a
little above warm and then I let the oven door open -- you can dry them that way. Oh well
it takes a day for sure and I have them in sometimes over night, like that, yea. You gotta
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
have ham -- smoked meat or ham. Yea, you should have ham and then you should have
sweet apples. And sweet apples. Paradise apples are the best. Sometimes you can buy at
these auctions and stuff dried apples. Yea, like Lancaster these Amish people they have
<gap> We used to dry the others at home too. We made snits pie, we used to call it. Yea,
you dried them and then cooked them and then you put spices in and then you made them
like that. We never made them. Yea, we used to. I don't know and sometimes I think they
mixed it and put it in a crock. I know we used to make tomatoes like that. Tomatoes and
put lemon rind in and stuff had it in a pot and then you took some out and baked it.
6. 135
No, we never made -- Yea, my mother made wine. Wild cherry wine. She put I really don't
know what <gap> you would put the wild cherry in the crock or in a 5-gallon bottle we used
to have <gap> and water I think you had put <gap> you put sugar-- we made I don't know
too much about that to tell you the truth. dandelion wine here the <boys?> made. Well you
took the flowers and I know if you put hot water on or what -- then you drained it off then
I guess you put sugar in and I don't know what was put in no more. And then it ferments
-- it cooks over you know -- certain time til that is cooked all and I think you I don't tell you
too much about that I don't was too small when my mother did it but it it gotta ferment. Now
her uncle he used to be in the wine business. He passed away here about a year ago.
Yea, he used to make all kinds of wine. Oh yea, all kinds. Lemon -- lemon -- yea -- any
kind -- yea, any kind. Yea, he was in the wine business. Yea, she had another uncle too --
Well he wasn't my right -- my aunt -- my father's aunt lived with him -- he used to make a
lot of wine too. Yea, he had a wine cellar. Yea, he had wine cellar -- he made lots of wine,
too. Yea, unhuh. I don't think they drank too much. No they gave more away than anything
-- I don't think they never sold it. They just made it for a hobby I guess. NO, they didn't
<unintelligible text> sell it. They didn't dare to sell it. They wouldn't dare to sell it. They
gave it away. If you wanted to give them a dollar you could give them a dollar, you know.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
Yea, that gotta be cleaned, also. You put that lime on that I think my father did, put lime on
-- You know what I mean, lime? I know my father used to be on with
7. 162
the gum boots. Yes. That's a job. You have to get that skin that inner skin off too, that's
very rough on the inside. Did you ever see one on the inside? The cattle's stomach. That's
very rough <unintelligible text> It's hard to get clean. And then my mother well she cleaned
it and cut it in pieces and rolled it up and tied it -- Well you have to cook it then. -- and
cooked it -- It sorta smells then when you cook it then. Yea it sorta smells -- and cooked
it and then she pickled it -- <unintelligible text> Yea, you pickle it. Yea, you can buy that
these hotels. Did you? did you? You can buy it -- it's in little blocks now. I don't know, if it
does or not. I guess well -- I never went, my father liked it. I never went too much for it. For
pig's feet. My father used to eat too. That's good meat, the hog's foot. My mother used to
cook em and then he took the meat off and put some little vinegar and salt and pepper on
they ate it. It wasn't bad. And that's the way your <unintelligible text> is made too. Pig's
feet and then beef you can put in and some peppers and <gap> and some put lemon in
these butchers at these auctions there's some lemon in in some pork parsley in -- well
you've seen -- Yea, <unintelligible text> some is better and some is good. <unintelligible
text> Some make it different and some isn't so good and some is better. It's like cooking,
you know. That's right. It's the way you season it too. When you make <unintelligible text>.
You talk about this drying corn and beans and stuff -- We had a big frame about this broad
and this long. We had a fireplace with a stove and a wood stove and we had this put this in
the top you know and then we dried it on <gap> the heat rises you know that's the way we
dried in <unintelligible text>
8. 193
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
These old houses used to have fireplaces -- these old farmhouses you had the stove
in there and -- Now here we do it the -- Well years ago we had these driers what you
filled with water -- Yea I can show you the wire -- I have the wire. You used to put it in a
long pan -- well it was about that thick to put water in. You put water in then you kept it
on the stove all the time. And it was boiling all the time. That dried too then. But it I dry
string beans in the oven too like that. Yea. Bananas? Do <unintelligible text> you want
to see how it operates? <unintelligible text> Well a little more than warm but you daresn't
have it too hot or it burns. No, huhun. No when they started to dry you can take your
hand and <unintelligible text> push them around. But well see this tells you in the book
-- Now you could put alumnum foil on the those grates too but the book says you're not
supposed to put alumnun foil on the stove grates. That's why I don't put use no alumnun
foil -- And you gotta measure your grates -- I don't know what they measure -- maybe they
- you have measure as the same size stove. I don't know. What size stove do you have?
<unintelligible text> That's a 30 inch. Well measure your grates and gotta have a tin sissor
-- No you don't peal them. Not for snits and knep. You gotta have the paradise they call
them -- Paradise apple. Sweet apple for snits and knep. No you just -- I cut them well in
half and then in fourth and cut the fourth in half again. But I cut the -- if it has bad spots or
something but I don't peel them. Paradise apples
9. 228
are scarce. They're very hard to get. Yea you don't see too many. No this is a sweet apple.
Well delicious are sweet too but this was sweeter <unintelligible text> yet -- it's an apple
that the orchards do not have them no more. Down at Vera cruz we had an old tree yet
but I guess it's no more either. It went <unintelligible text> of existence. The neighbor
well up the hill here he he has one but he doesn't spray it then but it's two years ago I got
pretty many out he said we could come up and pick them up if we wanted them -- He didn't
want them. And I got pretty many. Like at the fairgrounds and at the market you can buy it
but I don't know where they get the apples. and at the big market and in at the Allentown
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
Fairground you know where I mean? There you can buy them but I don't know what kind
if they have paradise apples yet Or what kind of apples they use. It's gotta be a sweet
apple. Goose fat, you could take that or -- My mother used to rub me like Vicks Vaporub
on here, you know, and that goose fat you can take -- if you can take it. That's like Castor
Oil, worse. Oh it's yea, it's very greasy and it has an ugly taste. If you never -- I never took
it. Oh yea I took it lots when I was little, yes. That's what you had, old remedies, you know.
Yes, and she rubbed me and put a a woolen rag on my chest here and pinned it on here
with safety pins on my night gown and I went to bed and I took some too. Maybe tabl-- no
tables -- teaspoon. Yea, you could take it but -- Yea well for sore throat or was that swollen
glands well for swollen and for colds too. Take potatoes and put them in a rag and tie them
around your neck. That we never did. Yea, put them
10. 260
in a rag and tie them around your neck. I took quite a lot of goose fat <gap> for cold, yea.
Yea, my grandmother did but no we never did what kind of leaves she put in -- she went
down into the meadow and to the woods and she got, <unintelligible text> -- oak leaves
-- I'm not sure no more and then you can buy these long sticks of licorace you <inside?
> there already then she cooked that but what she put in I don't know -- it was black it
looked like the licorice when it was done. Black, yea. But she put a leaf in of tree from a
tree and something else yet I guess but I don't know what. I was too little. It tasted like
licorice. Well I don't know that we ever made anything -- Yea, that's what she did. I don't
remember exactly. No, I don't remember <dem?> nothing that we did. Well my father's
aunt she made a sauve for, it was for anything -- healing or what I believe yea just about
out of -- what's the English name, I won't tell you -- you know what I mean they get these
little things on top they get about that high. Down at Vera Cruz we had a lot on the lawn.
They get leaves, maybe four leaves -- (P6 name) you called it in Dutch. I don't know. What
is the English name now? And she took those leaves and she cooked them but I don't
know either what all she put in. She made a sauve out of that. I think it was for sores --
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
yea, I believe it was. Even this skunk cabbage is good for certain things if you know what
to do with it. Yea, you know what I mean -- broad leaf -- it stinks like skunk. You see it
growing where it's wet, in meadows. Gotta be wet for that. But what she put in that sauve, I
know about this (P6)
11. 291
(P6) but I don't know the English name. It's not no not chickweed that's -- chickweed is
(P6) you know what (P6) is now in English? Yes, P6 Chicken is a (P6) Yes, it creeps, this
weed, it's creepy, creeps and it grows about this high and it's called (P6) in Dutch. That's
chick weed, I think. <unintelligible text> We used to, yeah lemon and lemon and honey
and whiskey I guess we used to put in sometimes -- I don't know that. Yea, we used to
take lemon a nd honey. Well we never used too much of that one No, we'd didn't I don't
know what -- Well there's something <gap> an old remedy you can put on -- well what
was it -- spit or what did they put on? I don't know. Saliva and rubbed it a little I believe so
half these older people did. Well they put some put ground on but I guess that was maybe
that's first that they started to wet some mud and put mud on. Yea. I really don't know what
they put on -- <gap> Well they have remedy drugs to put on now they go to the drugstore
and buy some. No we never -- well I know the boys, our sons and I don't know if Diana
did wore some camphor, remember camphor blocks we used to ti -- Camphor -- I sewed
them in a rag and then they wore them around their neck. My mother made little bags that
time they could get camphor blocks about an inch by inch or inch and a quarter square
-- little blocks about half inch thick and she made a little bag and she pinned that on my
<unintelligible text> shirt and I didn't think they -- Yea but believe I wore it to school -- I
believe I did. Winter yea I believe I wore it to school. That time you didn't get
12. 325
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 61year old female, Macungie, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5604
laughed at when you come -- well you didn't see it -- it was on the inside. Well that time
you didn't get laughed at like you would now. They'd chase you out -- they'd chase you
home. Oh yea. My father had lots of pow-wowing done. Out neighbor was a pow-wow.
Yea, there's words in the bible that he said and he went over like this -- I can still see
him do it. My father used to get what is it called? Erosyplis, you know -- It used to be
erosyplis <unintelligible text> it's -- (P6) we called it in Dutch. <unintelligible text> It's a
it's an itch. Yea, you swell up and get all red. I had it one year in my face. I went to one
over in Easton. It helped. Well they go over you, what they say I don't know but they --
with the hands. It took the heat out. This fellow that she goes to he does it a little different
I think than our neighbor did. He puts a different way to do it. I still go to one in Easton.
For arthritis -- I have arthritis in my knee. Yea, there's one up here in Lenhardsville, a
woman -- I don't know right <unintelligible text> -- Some don't believe in it. I don't believe
for everything but in some -- <unintelligible text> years ago I don't know how you call that
-- Babies used to get this -- Rickets -- Yea rickets, they they used to call it (P6) in German.
They got less -- they don't get the babies don't get that no more. They lost weight But they
got less at a certain age they got less and in Dutch you call it (P6) We went to for this
<unintelligible text> his name was he al he pow-wowed for that and it got better. Now the
babies don't get that no more. No they don't. You don't <unintelligible text> Well yea what
ever you want -- Yea donation -- to give them. Whatever you wanted