UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT: SIX PARK RANGERS
CONDUCTED BY: DOUG DENATALE
DATE: 
L = LINDSEY [TITIS]
LL = LARRY LEE
B = BECKY WARREN
S = SUZANNE [     ]
P = PETER [     ]
BH = BILLY HIGGINS
D = DOUG DENATALE
LFP-DD-R070-R071
D:  Mainly about contemporary life in Lowell?  Looking at some of the Ethnic communities, but 
also uh, trying to get a sense of what the different neighborhoods in Lowell are.  Uh, how people 
perceive them?  What kinds of community events are organized around the neighborhoods and 
ethnic identities?  And then getting into historical aspects by talking to people about what they 
remember when they were growing up and that kind of thing.  Uh, so what I thought was it 
would be a good idea to get a bunch of rangers together and uh, just sort of have a round table 
discussion.  Because I am really interested in how you all perceive Lowell based on your 
experiences here, because you know, your role here in Lowell is as an interpreter of history.  You 
are really on the front lines when it comes to you know, dealing with the public who comes in 
from the outside and you are conveying an experience of what Lowell is about.  And I also 
thought it, you know, one of my regrets over the years really, that their hasn't been more 
opportunity just you know, for there to be more interaction between us all, because you know, I 
mean I think we are sort of working in a common kind of venture here.  So I thought maybe what
we could do is you know, if it is interesting to you, you know, we can sort of turn tables and I 
would be glad to answer any questions that you might have about what we have been up to, or 
things that you think should be, things that you know of that maybe we should be looking at, or 
uh, or things that you would like to see done.  Anyway, just as a way of getting started I thought 
maybe what we could do is just go around the room, uh, and maybe just get you all to say your 
name so it is on the tape and uh, just talk about how you end, personally, how you ended up here 
in Lowell.  You I guess have the easy job here.  But uh, you know, what brought you to the 
National Park into Lowell and what brought you into working in the National and State Parks?  
So Lindsey why don't we start with you if you don't mind?
L:  Okay.  That is my name, Lindsey, Lindsey [Titis].  And uh, I am a ranger here at the Visitors 
Center at the National Historical Park.  And uh, I came here about, well, since August, the 
beginning of August.  And I have worked for the Park Service for two and a half years, but I have
only been here in Lowell for a few months.  And I worked before as a secretary in the regional 
office and uh, there was an opening here, so that is why I came.  I have always wanted to be a 
ranger, and I always felt like I was when I worked for the Park Service.  I just felt like I was 
disguised as a secretary, you know, just on the paper.  I was, my job description was a secretary.  
Um, I like working with people and this is a real people oriented park.  Um, I don't know what 
else to say.  I think we should just get around the room and talk to everybody.  I don't want to go 
into my whole life story.  [Laughter]  I was born in a small town.  [More laughter]
D:   Well if you want to, you can.  Okay.  Well let's go around the room.
LL:  My name is Larry Lee and I am a ranger with the National Park Service.  I give tours.  I 
came here fleeing a terrible job in April of last year.  So I have been here just about a year.  And I
took the job, one, because it was close to where my family lives and I had no idea what was up 
here in Lowell.  To think I had never been to Lowell and I grew up about twenty miles from here.
Never had been here, had no idea what had happened here until I took the job.  And uh, it has 
made some big impressions on me.  And I like it here.
B:  My name is Becky Warren and I also work with the National Park conducting tours.  Among 
other things, education programs and a clerk typist all rolled into one.  I am finally a permanent 
as of a couple of weeks ago, so that makes me feel good.  I have been here close to five years, 
four and a half years and most of that time I have been a seasonal.  And I have definitely changed
my opinion of Lowell since I first started.  I am a Chelmsford girl and uh, one of those farm 
girls, yankee farm girls, and had a very low opinion of Lowell when I was growing up.  Would 
not come to Lowell unless Sears, you know there was only Sears and Roebuck in Lowell.  So we
went to Lowell to go to that store, but then you locked your doors and you zoom back into 
Chelmsford and that was the end of that.  So I have changed my attitude quite a bit in my time 
here.  And I think I have changed other people's attitude about Lowell since I have been working 
here.  And I do enjoy it very much.  
S:  My name is Suzanne [     ] and I came here at the same time that Larry came, almost a year 
ago.  And uh, I too was in a job that I wasn't particularly happy with and I was also involved with
someone who lived in Lowell and had visited here before because of that reason.  So I knew 
something about it and I applied to both the State and National Parks and took whichever one 
offered me a job first, which happened to be the National Park.  And then this fall, in October, I 
started working full time for the State Park.  So I have had the benefit of working for both.  So I 
know all of these people.  I have really enjoyed it because I am really interested in history.  I had 
worked previous to this on a farm interpreting 19th century farming.  And so in a way I have had 
that experience of going from a farm to a factory, which is kind of interesting for me personally. 
D:  Where was that?
S:  Hancock Shaker Village.  I worked there for four years.  And uh, it was a good job, but it had 
changed a lot and I had outgrown it basically.  
P:  I am Peter [     ].  I work right now for the State Heritage Park, Visitors Services Supervisor.  I
have also worked for the National Park.  Uh, first appointment was January of 1980.  I am also a 
native Lowellian, so uh, I guess of the group here Becky and I and Bill are the ones from the 
area.  I started working for the National Park because my major in college was history and I 
didn't particularly want to go too far away from home.  And this park happened to open up right 
about the time I was graduating from college, so it was nice, nice place to get into.  Since then I 
have worked for a couple of other National Parks, Boston, Philadelphia, and in New Orleans for 
about six months at a time.  And uh, now I am over at the State.  I particularly, you know, being 
native to the city have been fascinated with the way the city has changed and grown.  I distinctly 
remember when I was in school you never had any lessons on Lowell, or what it was, or what the
canals were.  I walked over that canal every single day of my life going to high school and I 
didn't know what it was there for.  I just thought it was something to be a pain in the neck and be 
cold in the winter with the wind blowing off.  Uh, now of course I think every school kid from 
the third grade on up, not only in Lowell, but in most of the surrounding communities knows 
what Lowell was, what it was here for, and how it fit into the national picture.  So that is a major 
change that I have seen.  Plus I have seen the city basically grow from a place that as Becky said,
was kind of a dump.  Who wanted to come here?  You just came here for Sears, and now people 
come here for all sorts of things.  I guess the ironic thing is Sears isn't here anymore.  [?:  There 
anymore.]  [Laughter]  [?:  That's right]  So it has been quite a thing for me to see as time has 
gone on and I like being a part of it.  
BH:  I am Billy Higgins.  I just started two days ago at the State Heritage Park doing interpretive 
work and whatever else happens to be thrown my way.  I am from Lowell.  I have always lived 
in Lowell, but I live over in the Belvidere section.  So we used to come downtown to visit, to go 
the movies at the old Strand Theatre, which isn't here anymore.  When I was, when I was very 
young Lowell was exactly that, it was something of a dump.  But I was away for most of my 
adult life so far at college and at boarding schools for two years.  And I got to come back every 
so often and see the revitalization of the city, which I have grown to love over the years.  And I 
was very interested in the history of Lowell as being a history major in college at North Adams 
and seeing almost the same thing happen up there.  But it was, out there it is something that has 
stagnated.  I am very interested in showing my city off to other people.  I still find it surprising 
that people actually come here on a vacation.
D:  I guess just to be fair here, I am Doug DeNatale, and uh, believe it or not I used to work for 
the National Park in Lowell, um, when uh (--)  I am a folklorist and I studied at the University of 
North Carolina and later at the University of Pennsylvania.  And uh, when I was at North 
Carolina I was involved in an Oral History Program that was looking at the textile industry.  And 
that was about the time that the park opened here in Lowell and they were starting an oral history
project themselves.  And uh, I heard word of it.  And I also was involved with someone up 
around here at the time, so I thought that was a nice combination.  And uh, so I did some work 
for a few months when that project was uh, starting out.  And it has been really fascinating for 
me to come here you know, after a gap of about seven years, you know, to see some pretty 
amazing changes that have taken place in Lowell over that time.  Um, Becky, maybe you could, 
could I get you to expand a little bit about  [B: Sure.]  your perceptions, you know, growing up in
Chelmsford, of Lowell?
B:  I knew about the city, I knew that Lowell was there.  And grandfather and great aunts didn't 
have anything bad to say about it.  I lived right next door to them and it was when they were 
farming they would bring things to Lowell and sell them in Lowell. Sell eggs and that type of 
thing.  So I didn't get any negativism  from them.  Um, my Mom just, she went to Lowell quite a 
bit when she was younger, but when she had children and she saw, I think, the decline coming.  It
rubbed off on the kids and so we had a negative attitude toward Lowell.  And as I have said in 
my tours, many a time when people would ask me when I was growing up where I was from, I 
told them.  Well Concord, Lexington, it is near Concord, it is near Lexington, it is near New 
Hampshire, it is near Boston, the very last resort would be, well have you heard of Lowell?  
[Laughs]  Uh, I was embarrassed to say that I lived near the city.  And why I started here I really 
didn't have any idea. I liked the outdoors and I wanted to work in a park.  I applied here. It was 
close to home, which meant I could stay home and help with the farm work at home.  I wasn't 
going to move away, but I really didn't know what to expect when I started working here.  And I 
worked in the Visitors Center first, my first year here.  And everyday I would think, I am driving 
to Lowell, oh no!  And I was afraid to stay here any later.  And now I can walk up and down the 
street and see street people, call, say hi to some of them by name.  Um, watch certain things 
going on in the streets that would have shocked me a few years ago.  And now I can walk right 
by it and not even think twice about it.  So I guess I have matured, but I have also come to realize
what Lowell is about.  Like Pete said, in school I never knew.  I knew there were mills here, but I
didn't know anything more than that, there were mills.  We never learned about Lowell in school.
We learned about the farmers in Chelmsford and the Garrison house, and the Historical Society 
and all that, but we never learned about Lowell.  So I had no idea what the history was here.  So I
was in for the Parks, the Parks and Recreation part of it.  I wasn't in the history at all.  And low 
and behold here I am and liking history.
P:  Just to kind of expand on what Becky has said, I remember when I was a senior in High 
School we did an exchange program with a class from Chelmsford High School.  We spent a day 
at Chelmsford High School, they spent a day here.  And at the end of the day I remember the 
attitude in Chelmsford was, "Wow this is like a normal school."  I said, "Well, what did you 
expect?"  And they said, well, one kid, one kid said, "oh we expected like knife fights in the 
hallway, and blood on the walls, and things like that."  You know, only half kidding I said, "well 
gee no, we only have those on Thursdays you will have to come back for those."  But the attitude
from the Chelmsford kids was that, you know, this was some terrible place to come and go to 
school and they were really, they were really surprised.  They looked at us and they said "well, 
but I mean you know, you have the chorus and things like that, and you have an auditorium and 
the teachers don't carry whips and guns and there is no massacres in the hallway."  And it was uh,
it opened  my eyes to what people think of, or thought of then of Lowell.  And I guess it opened 
their eyes to what Lowell could be.  And as much as we have kind of fought against that there is 
still a lot of that around.  There is still a lot of people from the area that won't come to Lowell 
after dark.  Some that won't come before dark. [Laughter]  
S:  The very common comment you get if somebody goes into the park that is a local person then
they will say "gosh, I didn't know that this was here, wow."  "This is interesting."  "Huh, well I 
never got around to coming here, I didn't think there was anything to see."  "But uh, I will have 
to come back with my family."  You know, that kind of thing.  It is a lot more interest once they 
have had a peek at it.
D:  Uh huh.  What about those of you who uh, who came from other places, what was your first 
impression of Lowell?
L:  I think it is beautiful, I really do.  I mean it is not beautiful in a natural sense that you feel if 
you would go to Acadia, or the Cape Cod National Seashore.  But there is a certain beauty here 
in the architecture and uh, the river and the falls, and just the whole.  I think it has got a very 
European sort of flavor and that is, it has got a, it definitely has a personality and a soul, and you 
feel it when you come here.  I have only been living here for a few months, not even a year, and I
feel a real affinity with this city.  I just, I don't know why, I can't say why.  The town where I 
grew up for twenty-five years, I feel more affinity here then I do there and I don't know why.  
D:  Do you all, do you all live in Lowell?
S:  I do, yeah.
?:  Yeah.
?:  Yeah. 
D:  Becky?
B:  I live in Chelmsford still, yeah.  [Background voices unclear]
?:  Let me just expand a little bit on what you just said Lindsey.  I remember my first day of 
driving up here I couldn't believe I had been hired for a job that they don't interview you for.  I 
couldn't handle that.  So I had to drive up and see what was up here and let them know what they
were getting.  And I had an interview and I had to go be measured for my uniform.  I mean who 
knows how long their, their arms are, the inseam and all that.  So I was going down just to find a 
tailor shop.  There is, you know the one downtown. I am walking down Merrimack Street and I 
remember looking where the bus stop is outside Woolworth's, outside Woolco.  And every single 
kind of person you could imagine in the entire world is lined up along that street.  Then there are 
people that are absolutely nuts.  There are uptight business people.  There are kids in school, and 
posing for this and posing for that.  There were every kind of person imaginable.  And I said, 
"wow this place is all right!  [Laugh]  I felt comfortable here as soon as I, as soon as I felt that.  
And it was a dreary day.  You know, not too much unlike today, except that it was raining.  It was
raining and a little colder.  But it was that, there is a sort of, there is life in the people.   And 
there, I mean there are people here that their families have grown up here.  I mean three, four, 
five generations.  That amazes me.  I have never been to a place.  I come from the suburbs, you 
know, everybody moves there and their kids grow up, the old people die, and then new people 
move in.  Here it is just like generation after generation.  And you can, and you can see it.  You 
can even hear it in people's accents as they talk and how they speak.  And it is a sort of big 
process is happening here.  I don't know what I would call the process, but something, something
is happening socially here that I think is very exciting.
D:  Can I get you to expand on that a little bit more?  I mean you said you can't put your fingers 
on it.
?:  So, but try.
?:  Okay.  [?:  try]  Um, well coming from the suburbs where everything, there is this drive to 
make everything homogeneous.  We will all be the same, we will all look the same, our skin is all
the same color.
?:  Houses all look the same, roads. 
L:  Houses all, [unclear word], the whole bit.  
?:  Little boxes.
LL:  Um, here everybody was different.  The individuality of people struck me.  And just, you 
just walk down, you should take a photographer down there, or with a camera and just walk 
down Merrimack Street around noon right in front of Woolworth's and just see all the different 
kinds of people sitting there.  And there was, there was no animosity here that you can feel 
sometimes walking through the streets in Boston toward people of different color, or different 
creeds, or different nationalities.  Sure you know, you go and eat in the deli and there is the 
Greek guy there and he is lamb basting, you know, his neighbors.  Well they are Italian, you 
know this, but there is no malice in it.  There is just, you know, I am Greek and you are Italian 
and you are Irish and that is just the way it is, but there is nothing attached to that in the old, I 
guess in the strict bigot type sense.  That is what I, that is what I pick on.  Any nay sayers?  
Especially if you have lived here your whole lives, you know.
D:  Is he being naive?
?:  Yeah.
?:  No I don't think so.  Because in my neighborhood there are, there is Greeks all around my 
neighborhood.  My mother is Arabic. She is here and she is married to an Irishmen.  And my 
friend Peter is Italian.  Next door they are English.  And there is, nobody has even had a second 
thought about it.  What I have noticed in Lowell is that people like my age are very fiercely 
proud of the city now.  You know, because we grew up, we saw the revitalization, we saw Wang 
and the National Park, and the State Park and everybody did for us.  You know we are all very 
proud of the city.  And it is starting to, it is starting to, it is starting to turn over a little bit.  And 
most of my friends, I went to school in North Adams where most of the kids are from this area, 
or from the Boston area.  They would say, "oh, you are from Lowell."  "My God, did you get, 
how many times did you get mugged a week?"  It is like, "well no, you should come there."  And
every once in a while I will drag somebody here either to go to a bar, or to show them around the
city, or something like that.  And they say, "oh wow, this is, this is not what we were expecting to
see."  And it is like they don't seem to realize how much the city has cleaned up in the last ten 
years.  Even in the last five years.  
S:  And my mother wouldn't come and visit me for almost six months I guess [loud cough blocks
out few words].  [laugh]
P:  I think too what Larry said is maybe one of the effects that the parks have had on the city, or 
the city has had on the parks, whichever way you want to put it, there is an awareness of your 
culture and of your heritage, but as you say it is not a negative awareness.  And it wasn't always 
like that.  Uh, you know I can remember growing up when it was you know, the Greeks, or the 
damned French Canadians, or this, or that.  But what one of the things that the city has done 
through the parks, and I say that purposely because the parks came about because the city wanted
them.  And not the city as in the city government.  But the people in the city have shown that it 
is, it is all right and good to celebrate your culture and your heritage and you can do it without 
denigrating somebody elses.  You know the point is that when you get the Greeks together, and 
when you get the French Canadians together, and when you get the Irish and the Italians, you get
something different out of that then what was out into it, and that is good.  And you can do that.  
So you know, there is a lot of the joking around now, you know, that uh, between, between the 
cultures, but it isn't, it is not the prejudice culture.  And I guess I can say that that wasn't always 
the case.  I think the point I would say is I think, I basically think people are pretty good most of 
the time and if you give them half a chance they will be positive.  And by bringing in the types of
things that the parks brought in you gave these people half a chance to have a positive culture.  
And they took it and they made it into something.  So you celebrate the heritage and you 
celebrate the differences, but not just because they are different, but because by being a little 
different you each change the entire culture just a little bit and what you come out with is 
something better then what some of the parts would have been.
S:  You know when I first came to Lowell I was struck by how ethnic it is of course and also 
within that how unmixed, I mean, how really distinct it was.  Like you can walk down by city 
hall and see a Greek shop right across from the Southeast Asian shop.  And it is all just very tight
together.  Going from one block to the next block you can see very distinct changes and hear 
different languages spoken.  And uh, I guess I thought it would be more blended by this time and
that hasn't been the case.  
D:  What about your uh, your interactions with people in the city?  And maybe, maybe you 
should talk about it in terms of, as well, is there a difference when you are, when you are in 
uniform and when you are out of uniform?  And if there is how would you describe it?
S:  Sometimes people think that you are a police officer.  You know, I had a little boy one time on
my tour point to another ranger an say, "oh that is another cop like you."  And then a lady once 
apologized for double parking.  She said, "I will just be a minute."  You know, thinking that I was
going to give her a ticket.  
P:  So you did right?  [Laughter]
B:  I find not hiding behind the uniform, but feeling different.  A lot of people that I speak to on 
the street I probably, if I were dressed like this I wouldn't have said hi to them, or helped them, or
interacted with them.  But because I am in uniform, because they know who I am, I feel that I 
can talk to them and they are not going to hurt me, or they are not going to say something to me, 
or whatever.  I feel more comfortable in discussing things with them.  Um, I think what is great 
when you have people on the tour is that you get the extremes.  You get the extreme of people 
wide eyed, and exactly what Suzanne was saying, the stores and the shops together.  Isn't this 
great, this is wonderful, this is like a little market place!  And oh, and they are all working 
together and that type of thing!  They are so wide eyed that I listen to what they say and then I 
become wide eyed and think yes, this is neat place, it is a very unique place.  And then you get 
the people that do the typical thing, I suppose the Puerto Ricans live in these tenements here, and
are they working, and they don't seem to be working, and things like that.  And I find myself 
defending the people, the newer immigrants in the city and explaining that they are starting at the
bottom, well just like the story, but starting like the first immigrants in the city and they are 
working their way up and they will be moving out of the downtown, and things like that.  And I 
find myself defending them.  I probably wouldn't have felt that way ten or fifteen years ago, 
right.  But it is nice to be able to tell people the good side about what I see in Lowell.
?:  I would like to ask if anybody has had this same phenomenon that I have seen in terms of the 
uniform.  It seems to me that I have reached a point where it doesn't really matter if I have a 
uniform on now or not.  People seem to know that I am a ranger or that I am approachable.
S:  Um, I have had that experience.
?:  And it is like, you know, when you're in uniform the people who have been here for awhile 
know that you are somebody that they can go to to get help.  I mean it could be you know, where 
is the Social Security Office?  Where do I park my car?  How do I get a tour or something like 
that?  But then sometimes when you are not in uniform you walk down and they do that anyway. 
You wonder is there some sort of aura that you put out.  I know Jim McKay who works at the 
Visitors Center tells a story, maybe this is just not Lowell wise.  He said he was up in Acadia, 
him and a friend who was another ranger.  They were in street cloths.  And people kept coming 
up to ask them questions about the park.  And the next thing you knew they actually had a line of
people waiting to ask them questions.  So it is, it is like after awhile it seems like you are in the 
uniform whether you are in it or not.  Maybe that is your body language that you are 
approachable, maybe people recognize you from being outside of the uniform.  
D:  Or is it that there is almost like a set of mannerisms or something that you take on?  
[Someone interupts, sentence unclear]
P:  Yeah, I couldn't say for sure what it is, but I have had that happen.  Part of it is to, I mean 
sometimes you just forget you are not in uniform.  And you walk down this street and you are 
smiling at people and you are nodding and you are saying hello, and somebody looks like they 
are in trouble and you ask if you can help them.  Every once in a while you get this strange look 
like who is that guy?  And you look down and you say oh yeah, I am not in uniform, they don't 
know that I am a ranger or whatever.  But I have seen that kind of phenomenon I guess that you 
are a ranger whether you are in uniform or not.
D:  You are all nodding your heads.  Is that (--)  [?:  Yeah]
?:  I don't know.  The uniform is weird downtown.  You can walk, you can just walk down the 
street from, or over on Merrimack Street you walk two or three blocks down to the Visitors 
Center to give a tour and you are always (--)  I mean, I defy anybody here to say they haven't 
heard the  words Hey Yogi!  Hey Bobo!  [Laugh]  People call at you.  And um, it is kind of 
funny, but you hear it a million times and you sort of want to shack the people up side the head 
and say, "look, you are not original."   You know, you are not the first person that ever had 
thought of it.  But you just sort of of you know, I will call back, "Mr. Ranger sir", whatever to get
past it.  Sometimes it is a thing for me anyway to get past being in a uniform.  I am not, you 
know, I am not a model.  I am not ta da, a Ranger, I am a human being.  And then you can talk 
past that.  So that is part of the challenge I think of wearing a uniform or not having one.  Then 
you can also use it to get past people.  If you don't feel like talking you can sort of put a [Bern 
look on your face and people leave you alone because they do think you are a cop.  [Laugh]  
They do see the badge.  
P:  Not only a cop, but a cop in a bad mood.
?:  Not just a cop but a security guard too.   You are everything.  
?:  Yes.
?:  Until three days ago I thought every member of the National Park Service could arrest you in 
Lowell.  [Laugh]  Told all of my friends that.  Now they all believe it. 
P:  Even the ones that were in law enforcement can't, right?  [Laugh]
D:  You were going to say something? 
S:  Well I was going to say that my impression is that uh, people here in Lowell are very 
defensive about their park rangers.  I mean I feel like I am, I am a city possession almost.  And 
yet people do cat call when you walk down the street and you get Yogi and Bobo Bear and all 
that.  But I feel it is done in a very sort of protective way.  You know, it is okay for them to yell 
things at you, but it is in a very supportive kind of way.  It is not malicious, it is not threatening 
at all.  And I think if anyone, you know, were to uh (--)  It is kind of like having a little sister.  It 
is okay for you to beat up on it, but the minute somebody else does you get very defensive of it.  
And that is how I feel.  As a ranger here I feel very safe, you know, the general over all feeling is 
very positive towards the park, that people like us here.  
D:  I thought I have heard stories of when the park was first getting started of people in uniform 
getting chased out of stores by people who said, "you are not supposed to be in here on you 
know, government time!"  And that type of thing.  Any of those stories still circulating?
P:  Now it is more the other way around.  I hate to walk into stores in uniform because people 
start giving you excuses of why they haven't taken a tour yet.
B:  Yes.
P:  I walked into a bakery once, you know, I wanted a cupcake, you know, whatever it was.  And 
this woman starts saying, "oh I am really sorry that I haven't taken that tour."  "I should get 
down, I promise I will go this week."  And I am going, "Mame all I want is a cupcake."  I mean 
let me take your name and number, we will put you on the list, have somebody come and drag 
you away.  You know, go on a tour by next week.  [?:  Sentence not quite clear]  But there is, you
know, there is that, "oh yeah, I have to get there and do that."  And also as Lindsey said, I have 
had people actually defend me like that's you know, because you have to be careful of what you 
say because a lot of people have their, their stereotypes.  And I remember one time I was talking 
doing a slide show and I was talking about some of the different ethnic groups and each ethnic 
group seemed to have this place where they gathered.  And it just happened that the Irish was the 
tavern.  And that is all I said.  I said the Irish would gather in the taverns after the, after the 
program.  Old little lady came up and she was irate.  She says, "how come you said all Irish 
people were drunks?"  And before I could say a word two people from the audience jumped in 
and said, "he never said that."  The next thing you know they are all but attacking this woman.  
And I had to go save her.  And I said, "geez, you know, hey, hold on here guys."  "I can handle it,
you know, I will explain to the woman what I meant and all that."  But it is true you know, you 
do get that defend, that defense and that defensive stuff.  And the people know more, a lot more 
who we are now and you get, you do, you get a variety of reactions from that too.  From, "gee I 
am really sorry I didn't go on the tour yet", to you know, people yelling things at you out the 
window.  But I do think it is basically good natured, because people are glad to have us here.
D:  So you really feel like you have a recognized place in this city by now as rangers?
B:  I still have, there are a few people that are, they are obviously locals.  And every time they 
see me or someone in a uniform, ask me if I live around here and that we feds, we are coming 
from other parts of the country and we are taking jobs away from the local people.  And there are
a couple of people that do that to me about every summer.  And they grill every single new 
ranger that comes by and want to know, "well if you are not from here you are taking jobs from 
our area here," and they get a little upset.  But I think that is a small percentage compared to 
what Pete says, being very protective of us.  And they are here to showcase our (--)
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
D:  Where is the Park located?
P:  You have touched on a sore point.  Not a sore point, but a tough question.  Um, when people 
ask you, "where is the park,"  they want you to say a specific spot.  It is on the corner of 
Merrimack and Fourth Street.  It is not.  The city is the park and the park is the city.  You know, 
you have the preservation boundaries that basically follow the river and the canal system, but it 
goes beyond that because neither park really owns anything.  You know, there are a few building 
that the National Park Service owns.  There are a few buildings that the State Park owns.  There 
are some structures, the canals and that kind of thing, but it is, you can't say this section of 
Lowell is part of the park and this section isn't.  It is fair to say that the National and State Parks 
are here because the city of Lowell is significant.  So we don't want to diminish that by saying, 
"the park is blank."  The park is Lowell and Lowell is the parks.
?:  People are used to having boundaries, but I try to explain it to people by saying the park is 
more like a state of mind.  You know, the whole city is involved and uh (--)
B:  It doesn't work though does it? 
S:  Well they like, they want boundaries?  [?:  Yeah, they want boundaries]  When I say that 
people usually nod.  [laugh]  They have got some grasp, but it is not just you know, this street is 
included and this is not.
?:  They nod and walk quickly away.
D:  Well, what about for yourselves?  I mean do any of you conceptualize of an area that you 
operate in as the park?
B:  I know where I am most of the day.  I know in the summer I am on the canals, I go to certain 
gate houses.  Um, and if someone,   if you say that to me that is what I think of first.  I really do,  
because that is where I travel, that is where I go, that is where I tred and that is what I talk about. 
But if I am standing at the desk I am thinking that in my mind and then the gears start turning 
and I realize exactly what Pete said, it is the whole city.  And then I start explaining what we 
own, what we use, we have cooperative agreements, we have arrangement.  And by the time you 
are, five minutes later when you are trying to explain kind of the technicalities of it, I think the 
people have finally realized that it is a state of mind.  That it is, I can't tell you (--)
?:  It is better to walk away.  [laugh]  [B:  away!] 
?:  [Loud laughter-cannot transcribe sentence]
B:  But some people are very definite.  You will tell them that and they will say, "yes, but where 
is it?"  "Show me on this map."  "Where is it?"  And that is when you have, I guess you find that 
you say, well you can go in this one and you circle this building, or you have access to this 
building.  And it becomes given points along the way.  
P:  Sometimes that is what they are asking.  What can I go see?
B:  What can I go see?
P:  You have to find that out.  You know, because we take "where is the park" as kind of a 
metaphysical question.  And they want to know, "where can I go on this tour?"  
?:  Yeah, before lunch what can I see (--)
B:  Right.
L:  Yeah, that is a question, I mean I answer that every single day about a million times on the 
information desk.  Because most people who aren't familiar with the park, their concept of a park
before they come is that it is this, you know, this definite physical space with boundaries, and 
you have jurisdiction, and that there is a certain activity to do there.  And then they go to the 
information desk and they want to know where it is, because all that they have seen so far is the 
parking lot.  And they walk in through a housing project and you know, this mill complex and 
they are not allowed to go into it, you know, because it is active.  It is privately owned.  There is 
people living there.  So there is nothing as far as the visitor can see right away, there is nothing 
there.  There is no park, where is it?  You know, and so you are always asking, answering that 
question in the same way.  That it is the city, and that it is really a story that is interpreted through
the tours.
P:  Way back when in the beginning of the park people would come in looking for a traditional 
park.  And Becky and I probably can both tell you stories about, we used to have staff out in the 
parking lot basically so that the locals wouldn't fill the whole parking lot.  But you know, people 
would drive up with their camping equipment and they would say,  "we saw the National Park 
sign, where can we go swimming?"  Uh, or "where do we pitch the tent?"  Uh, "where is the 
camp ground?"  And it is like well, there aren't any, but this is what we do have.  And it, Lowell 
is known in the Park Service and through the State Heritage Parks.  Lowell was the first State 
Heritage Park as a different way or a different type of park.  The cooperation that we have been 
talking about with the city, the state, the federal, and the private people, most people who you 
asked ten or fifteen years ago said that would never work.  You will never get all these people to 
get together and to agree on things.  And we have our fights.  I mean they are you know,  
National Park and State Park argue about things every once in a while.  We argue with the private
people.  Different people might want different things, but overall it has worked tremendously 
well. So it is, it is kind of a disservice to some people to say the park is this, because it is a lot 
more than that.  And that is why it is a model for other parks, both in the state and in the national 
system.  
S:  My concept has changed a little bit too, because I started out as I said working for the 
National Park, which has a more I would say, more narrow mandate or a more specific kind of 
focus on the Industrial Revolution then is the case for the state park.  For example, I have gotten 
involved with the Green Acre Project since working in the state park, which is a community 
program for youth who live in the Acre.  A gardening program.  And so I think my concept of 
what the park is has broadened out.  Partly because I have been here longer, but also because of 
that shift.  
D:  Why don't we just push this a little bit more uh, and relate it to the uniform again.  If the 
uniform is the symbol of your role with the park, do you feel that you have a territory?   Are 
there parts of the city that you would not normally go into wearing a uniform?  Is that a factor at 
all?
?:  I feel like I am aware of when I am kind of in a place where I am going to be stared at as 
being out of place.  For instance I have gone to the South East Asian market for uh, to get 
something for lunch and I feel very out of place there.  Not unpleasantly so,  but aware that I am 
the only person like me there. 
?:  To be honest there are areas of the city that I wouldn't go into, uniform or not.  Um, you know,
Lowell is a city and there are some areas that aren't very nice places.  Just like any other city this 
size that you would see.  So you are aware of those and yet you avoid them on an individual 
basis, but that area has shrunk dramatically in the last eight or nine years.  Partly because of the 
parks and in tangible terms, because people could get grants to renovate the buildings.  Um (--)
D:  Can I ask you to be a little more specific about which area you are talking about?
?:  Um, the core area, the Acre.  They have had drug problems, crime problems and things like 
that there.  Basically right now it is, it is the Fletcher Street area up uh, up around Fletcher Street 
into where Adams Street comes in.  Those are the areas that you wouldn't go down to.  At one 
point it was basically the whole Acre that you wouldn't want to go through.  And now through a 
lot of these programs that is changing.  And by heightening that role a lot of other community 
groups have grown up, like the Coalition for a Better Acre for instance, that is trying to change 
that.  And I have seen that space shrink from like a good chunk of the city to a very small area.  
Now I don't know if you will ever get rid of it entirely and that is not to say you would be 
completely safe where ever you go.  I mean things happen to people no matter where they are in 
what city.  Well like you know, people say to me, "can you guarantee I won't get mugged in 
Lowell?"  I say, "no, but can you guarantee you won't get mugged anywhere on the earth?"  You 
know, that is the point to me.  It is as safe or safer then most places.   I've you know, Suzanne 
tells me it is because I am big and look mean.  But uh (--)
S:  We had a discussion about that, because I told Pete that I didn't feel safe walking through the 
Acre, which I really do not.  At least in parts of it.  And I do have to go to Adams Street for my 
Green Acre meetings and I don't feel comfortable there.  But uh, yeah, and Pete said well, he 
feels comfortable.  And I said, "well Pete you are a larger man, and you are Greek, and you are a 
native to Lowell."  "I am none of those."  But uh, you know, nothing has happened either to be 
fair.  I mean it may be my perception.
D:  Our experience here is that people in the Commission were horrified to hear you know,  that 
we were doing things like going to places on Adams Street after dark, and that was like the utter 
height of folly, you know.  I suppose in some ways it was, but uh, the whole issue of where, 
where is, where is it dangerous I think is a really important one for a city too and it really 
confines itself.  But what about, I mean how about, does it extend to the neighborhoods as well?  
I mean not in terms of danger, but in terms of places you would normally go or not go in 
uniform?
?:  Not for me.  I go in my uniform to a lot of different places.  
B:  I think we are just more of an oddity, we're a spectacle.  Um (--)
?:  We also bear witness to stuff.  I know for me giving walking tours, the Mill Girl and 
Immigrant tour and it takes you right down to Ecumenical Plaza.  And uh, I have to (--)  I don't 
know, I have never been here before so I don't know whether it is growing or expanding, but the 
number of prostitutes that I see on Ecumenical Plaza at high noon is increasing, whether it is the 
warm weather or not.  And so I see, I see that, you know, and uh, I feel weird about it,  seeing it 
because I am wearing a uniform.  Because I am supposed to be you know, [?:  anxious] all these 
whatever I am supposed to be.  I have a badge on and I am an employee of the U.S. Government,
you know, all that kind of bears burden on me.  
?:  You haven't heard about the Ranger discount yet have you?  [Laughs]
?:  I guess not.
LL: So while I am out there I am seeing this and I am also, this is where I rap up my whole tour.  
The big conclusion.  You bring the people along.  In this neighborhood the Irish were over here, 
and the French-Canadians over there, and the Greeks here, and this is the why.  And, you know, 
you start telling the revitalization story and there are prostitutes walking on the street and cars are
pulling up and pulling away.  The other day some old man was yelling, was yelling at one of the 
girls out there.  I don't know if the price was wrong or he was a guy that lived there and just 
wanted her to get out.  Don't, you know, this is our neighborhood we live here, I live here, I don't
want this where I live.  And it is sort of weird I think that nobody wants that where they live no 
matter who you are, but that it happens to be that it happens in poorer sections of town.  And uh, 
me, I am kind of fascinated with that way of life.  How does it start?   How does it, how does it 
begin?  And there I am wearing this uniform so I have to go and at the same time you are telling 
these people of this wonderful rosy place.  And that is what people want to hear on the tour.  And
only one or two of the people will recognize what the women are doing out there.  And not to 
know that just a block behind you up there on Adams Street you can drive down and pick up a 
bag of heroine if you want.  And I am reading about the, was it the city manager or the mayor 
walking through the Acre and going into shooting galleries.  I am fascinated with that.  I have 
never seen a shooting gallery.  I don't know what that is about.  So I have gone into the Acre after
dark by myself, but in my mind I already have a route of where I am going.  I have determination
and purpose.  And you go and you hang out there for a while and you make three or four trips 
and you see the same people on the same corners.  Well what are they doing there?  And why?  
Are they lookouts for this, are they lookouts for that?  I have never been approached to buy any 
drugs.  I don't want to get to close to anybody, because I don't have any experience in that.  I 
don't want to get into a situation that I can't get out of.  But uh, you can also see that stuff going 
on.
D:  You can imagine what our situation is, we go into the Acre with cameras?
?:  Yeah, with cameras.  Now, especially now with the crack down.  The sound equipment, you 
know.  It is bad, it is bad news in parts.
?:  It is funny we kind of have to walk a fine line with that because we don't want to give an 
unreal picture of the city.  Um, you know, when I do tours and when I did tours I tell people 
Lowell is, you know, a mid-size city with all the problems attendant to a mid-size city.  There are
drugs here, there are prostitution, there is prostitution here.  There are problems in the city.  I 
mean there always will be no matter where you go.  You know the point is that there are people 
trying to address those problems and not only in a, you know, negative way.  It is not only we 
want to get rid of it,  but you know, like Larry said, it is why is it happening?  And can we help a 
little bit more?  Um, that is part of what I think the goal, the ultimate goal for this city is.  Is not 
only to get tourist down here, not only to tell the story but to help improve the city.  And I think 
we have done that a lot with the buildings and with the restoration, and with a lot of the people.  
And now the thing you start hearing more and more from the city, from the park people, from the
State Park people is quality of life issues,  because we have done a lot of the, the stuff with the 
buildings and things like that.  How can we make all of this better?  And one of the ways to do 
that is to understand what is going on.  You know you can't do anything till you know what you 
want to do.  And that is, we are probably at the beginning of that process.  And to be realistic I 
don't think it will ever be completely successful.  I mean you will never stamp out crime, or 
drugs, or prostitution, or anything like that in an entire city.  Um, but that is where I think the 
different groups in the city are trying to head.  
?:  It seems like people are less tolerant of that sort of thing.  Like enough is enough.  For 
instance they just had a meeting at City Hall a couple of weeks ago, uh, a sort of crime watch.  
They are trying to get together a bunch of citizens to look out for each other and patrol.  And that
kind of thing seems to be happening.  I was just going to say also, I have a kind of interesting 
reaction when I see things that are unpleasant like Larry was describing.  Because I want to be 
(--)  I guess I do feel pride for the city and whenever I see something like that I sort of have that 
same feeling of embarrassment that a mother would have if their child was misbehaving in 
public sort of.  [Laughs]  You want it to look good you know, and it is like oh,  let's not see any 
of that on this tour.  
D:  How do you deal with situations like that, like Larry did?  A situation like you know, a 
prostitute?
LL:  Well what I did, this is a riot.  I came back after the first time I had seen prostitutes down on
the corner.  And I said, "well jee, I suppose I should do something about this."  "What can I really
do?"  So you push paper.  You fill out a case incident this, and it comes back to me.  "Well how 
did you know she was a prostitute?"  And do you say?  Did you see her soliciting?  Did you see 
this?  You know the legal stuff if you are going to arrest her.  Well I don't want her arrested.  You 
know I feel sorry for her that she has to live this way.  Maybe she has got a drug, I mean who 
knows.  I don't know what her situation.  I have no, no bones with her and how she lives and how
she earns her living.  But from wearing the uniform I don't want her to do it while I am there.  So
what has happened is this sort of truce has gone on.  I make myself very visible when I go out 
there.  I am out there at you know, a certain regular time.  Um, I don't know if the word gets 
passed on through Protection or they tell the Lowell Police what is happening.  I just don't want 
them there for that twenty minutes that I am there.  So the people, I mean people they come from
you know, the suburbs all across the nation, they come and take my tour.  They might not have 
an empathy for a city at all.  Well they see one prostitute and Lowell is nothing but one big 
prostitution city.  They see one dealer it is nothing but that.  Um, I just don't want them there.  It 
is the irony really, really hits me and I think it is what is really amazing.  Revitalized city blah, 
blah, blah where the people are working there and there is a working girl walking back and forth 
in the street.  So what I do is just stand up.  I will usually stand up on a bench or something and 
make myself seen and I recognize the women that are out there every day.  And some of them 
just take out newspapers and read while I am there.  And it all stops and it all goes away and I 
step down and we leave and I guess business resumes.
D:  You have never, you have never had any direct communication with the women.  It is just 
[rest of sentence unclear]?
LL:  No, I have wanted to, but then how do I walk up there wearing a uniform?  [Laugh]  The 
word gets back, the Lowell PD is staking the place out or whatever, ready to perform a sweep 
and there I am talking to a prostitute.  So therefore my sort of humanity I give that up being a 
human being, being able to speak to another because I am wearing the uniform.  And I would 
like to go down there and just say, "hello my name is Larry Lee, I am the ranger and I give the 
tours."  "We're here at such and such a time, could you please just not do that here?"  But then 
there is the whole psychology of how they work and what they are doing.  And just my telling 
them that or asking that, or who knows if it goes on through the channels I am doing them a 
favor.  They are not going to get arrested by hanging out there at that time.  But, you know, I 
wouldn't want to pay them for their time.  They are in a time business, you know?  [Laugh]
D:  I don't think the Federal Government would go for that.  [Laughs]
?:  No I don't think so in or out of uniform, you know?
D:  But this really, it does get in the whole issue of interpretation and uh, (--)
LL:  Sure we are out there, we are interpreting people's back yards.  And you are trying to tell 
these people and they have no clue, sorry to interrupt you.  Um, you know they may never have 
seen a housing project, or in their minds it is how, it is people that live in the housing project, 
you know, and it is all (--)  And then the racial slurs come out.  And it is just they are poor people
you know, and it is no crime to be poor.  It may be a slum to you, but it is somebody else's home.
So uh, they might have the same pride where they are, or their home, that you have for yours,  
but yours happens to you know, cost four hundred thousand dollars.  Um, give them a chance.
D:  Some of those places are a hell of a lot cleaner then some of the four hundred thousand dollar
homes you might go into too.  
LL:  Yeah, absolutely.
B:  That is true.
L:  But they turn off.  They see a housing project and it is like, oh my god.  And they don't want 
to look.  These people are embarrassed.  They don't realize that somebody lives there.
S:  We had an interesting reaction last week.  One of our state rangers went out on a tour and got 
a letter back um, from some  people who had been on the tour saying that they had felt very 
uncomfortable going on a public way that was behind some of housing projects by Holy Trinity, 
because they felt like they were walking in people's back yards and peering at them.  You know, 
like studying them like a goldfish bowl or something.  And they thought that it was completely 
inappropriate and lacking in dignity, which is kind of an interesting reaction.  
?:  The funny thing is most of the people in those projects not only don't mind us going through 
there, but welcome us coming through.  I mean I have had a lot of great conversations with those
people.  I am so glad that these tours are coming through, because I know if you are bringing 
people through here, improvements in this area are going to follow.  Because you know, they are 
not going to want this place to look like a dump if you are bringing people through.  And maybe 
that will get rid of the crime that is there if you know, if that is a problem or whatever.  And that 
(--)  It was kind of funny.  I know my first reaction to that letter, um, because basically I am the 
supervisor of the person it was written about.  Was (--)
D:  I am sorry, which letter are you referring to?
?:  The letter that Suzanne was referring to.
S:  The letter to they referred, where the people said they didn't like going through peoples back 
yards.
D:  Oh, okay.
?:  It actually was, my first reaction was anger.  Because like, well these people don't really know
what they are talking about. Why didn't they ask the ranger why he is doing that?  Why he's 
going through there?  Why you know, don't put your stereotype into this situation?   Ask why?  
Or say you know, what, say, "I don't want to go through there can we go around."  [?:  Yeah, 
yeah]  That was my first reaction and for that reason too, because I guess I know what is behind 
that and most of the people that I have talked to over in that area not only you know, don't mind 
us coming through there, but welcome us coming through there.  
S:  You know, I think it was kind of misplaced good intentions, you know.  They felt that they 
wouldn't have liked people going through  their back yards and therefore these people must mind
it also.  
D:  So it is mainly this situation arises in the Acre area?  Is that mainly the part of the neigh (--)  
Is that mainly the neighborhood that you most interact with because of the, because of the whole 
tourist situation?
B:  It is the closest.  Yeah, it is the closest one you get to when the tours go through, yeah. 
?:  Basically in the Acre, so.
B:  Right.  I think it is interesting (--)  I don't know if you had something to say Lindsey I don't 
want to interrupt.
L:  No, go ahead, go ahead.
B:  Um, you are talking about the uniform.  I would never (--)  It was kind of an unwritten rule in
the tours district that a couple of times we had to go up toward the North Common and it was, 
"don't walk in uniform through the streets to get to the North Common."  Take a car or whatever, 
but don't walk through because you are just asking for trouble.  Now that was about four, four 
years ago that I was told that.  Um, it wasn't official or anything, but it was just don't walk 
through there.  And then to have the Folk Festival last year and to walk, have that the Dragon 
Dance and other parades going from downtown right through the poorer sections of Lowell to 
the North Common.  And reading that letter that came from a gentleman that came to the Folk 
Festival.  He wrote a letter to the Lowell Sun praising Lowell and saying how wonderful it was 
to have people hanging out their windows in the projects and clapping and waving and enjoying 
the whole thing.  And these people evidently felt no harm or felt no problem at all with going 
through maybe a section that I wouldn't have gone through and I was told not to go through a 
few years ago, especially in uniform.  And we had uniformed people and we had visitors from all
over the world walking through that section and I guess they didn't know what to expect a lot of 
them, so they didn't even feel any problem going through that area.
?:  I think a lot of that is perception.  
B:  It is.  
?:  Because, you know, again this goes back to something Suzanne and I have talked about.  I 
never felt any compunction about walking through there in uniform.  I never had.  I mean I have 
walked through there in uniform countless times all different times of the day, you know, from 
eight o'clock in the morning till ten or eleven o'clock at night.  And usually people just, you 
know, they may say something as you go by.  I mean you say, "hello" or sometimes they have 
been on tours.  Especially the kids who have been down there say, "hey I recognize you, you are 
the guy who came to our school", or "you are the guy who did this."  Most of the time it is just, 
you know, I have never had anything really negative happen to me going through there.  And I 
suppose it could. It could happen there, it could happen anywhere.  But a lot of the people who 
tell you never to walk through there, if you were to say to them "why, what did you ever hear of 
that happened to anybody going through there?"  They can't think of a single thing.  
D:  That has been pretty much my experiences too you know.  Um,
(--)
?:  There are more people mugged in Belvidere then in the Acre.
D:  Is that true?
?:  I have seen it plenty of times.  [Laughs]
?:  There is a lot, you know there is a lot more stuff to get in Belvidere.
D:  Well you know in a funny way it is sort of the same sort of thing that we are up against.  I 
mean your are dealing with a situation where you are interpreting a whole world to people who 
are not part of that, you know.  And there are always these dangers there.  On the one hand there 
is the danger of trying to ignore what is there, you know?  And then the other hand is the danger 
to, of trivializing, you know what I mean?  That is what we run up against all the time.  I mean it 
is just sort of a instinctive reaction to treat what is different as something, as being something 
that is weird or exotic, or quaint, or whatever.  And not really being able to see how it all fits 
together into the life of the people.  Um. [Long pause]  Something must have happened, I have 
drawn a blank.  I need a cup of coffee.  [Laugh]  Um, what about the tours?  Do any of you have 
good stories about things that happened on, that happened on tours?
B:  How long do you have?  No.
D:  Oh yeah, got all the time in the world.  I have got as much time as you have.  
B:  Okay.  Think about that.  What do you think?
?:  What kind of good stories?  [B:  Yeah, what?]  Funny, happy, [?:  Yeah] strange?
D:  Whatever kind of story you want to tell.
S:  Go ahead Larry.
L:  You would have to remind me of one of mine.
D:  It sounds like this is a topic of conversation?
B:  Well usually what happens at least in our and I am sure it happens at the State is that after, 
especially in the summer where so many tours, twenty some odd tours are going on every day, 
you are dealing with a lot of people, a lot of school children in the Spring and in the Fall.  And 
you come back to the office and you vent.  You just, you go off on what happened.  And by the 
next day you have forgotten about it, or it is very small in your mind.  And if we were to sit 
around at a party, or get together, or whatever and Pete starts talking about one story, oh yeah, 
that reminds me of one that happened when I gave a VIP tour with Japanese people that didn't 
speak English and I had Sandy Walters and George Price and Zinny Speronis and my map flew 
into the canal.  And you know, you start thinking [?:  my hat flew in] that your hat flies in and all 
that.  [?:  Zinny Speronis]  You start thinking of things and comments that people make um, 
while we are on the tour.
?:  We actually had um, we had sheets upstairs so that you could put comments, questions, or 
happenings of the day down.  You know, things like uh, in the downtown district you are 
answering phones.  You know, you answer (--)  January 15th we are taking all the school 
reservations so phones start ringing at about eight thirty in the morning, they don't stop.  You get 
a little punchy after a while.  So you know, you say some things on the phone that just you know,
don't come out right.  Things like people picking up the phone when there are four other phones 
ringing going, "Lowell National Park may I hold you?"  Instead of, "can you hold please?"  
Things like that, or "can you help me?"  May be a Freudian slip.  Or things that visitors have 
asked you on a tour.  For instance, the last day of the Folk Festival last year it is about two 
o'clock, there is approximately seven billion people around.  This gentleman comes up to me 
about three o'clock and says, "this is nice, do you do this every weekend?"  And I looked at him 
and I just, I really had to bite my tongue.  I said, "gee no sir this is kind of a once a year kind of 
thing."  You know, do you do this every weekend?  Oh yeah, we can throw this together no 
problem.  [Laughs]
D:  Why was everyone looking at you Lindsey?
L:  Well the Visitors Center is a really um, it is kind of a unique, it is a good place to watch 
people because that is,  you are stationary, you are the stationary one on a tour.  You are the one 
moving through the city and you can leave people or situations, or places if they get unpleasant 
or if you know, if it is time to go.  And in the Visitors Center it is open from eight thirty in the 
morning till five o'clock and just things happen in front of you, you are the stationary one.  And 
you can just watch all the different kinds of people that come in and you, you can peg your 
people.  I mean you can stand on the other side of that desk and just you know, categorize, or do 
whatever.  I don't know, it sort of happens naturally.  You can just, you can predict what people 
are going to do and say before they even do it.  And it is kind of funny to because we have the 
regulars.  You know, the street people who come in.  It is their Visitors Center I think more than 
it is you know, Mr. and Mrs. Smith from Hartford, Connecticut.  It belongs to the "Cat Lady" and
it belongs to "Solicit Woman" and we have names for all of them.  I don't know what their real 
names are or where they live.  [Laugh]
?:  Is the "Cat Lady" still around?  She was around when I was five.  I remember "Cat Lady."  
[Background conversation unclear, too much laughing]  We had those here, the "Bathroom 
Boys."  [?:  Yeah]  The four old men, the four older men who come in at what, four o'clock every
single day.
L:  Well that is, yeah.  They are called the "Four O'clock Club."  We have got the "Indian Chief" 
and the "Newlyweds," and the "Cat Lady" and "Solicit Woman" and "Stumble Woman."
?:  And who?
?:  [Unclear] woman.
?:  "Crazy Mary"
L:  Oh "Crazy Mary" and I guess "Ding Ding" has died.
?:  "Ding Ding" died.
?:  Yes, "Ding Ding" has died.
?:  Did he die?
P:  You know it is funny because as the staffs turn over you get different names for these people. 
Everybody has. I think the "Cat Lady" is the only one whose name stays the same.
?:  "Ding Ding" was around since when I was (--)
?:  "Ding Ding".
P:  And "Ding Ding" yeah.  
?:  I think the "Cat Lady" goes back before the park.  
?:  Oh, long before the park.  
S:  You inherit these stories so it is like, "wait until you meet the Cat Lady."
?:  Yeah, that is what you tell the new people.  "Oh, wait until you see those two they are coming 
in."  "Oh as soon as they walk in have somebody go upstairs and call you and tell you you have 
to go upstairs, otherwise you will be there forever."  
?:  The Park [few words unclear]
S:  There are a number of lonely people around here who want to tell their story over and over.
B:  Oh yeah. 
S:  And they don't really mind who it is.
?:  I have only seen him twice and I know everything about that man.  [?: Well put]  And uh, it is 
really interesting, you know?  And when you talk about the tours that go into the Acre and you 
might see something that is maybe unpleasant or embarrassing and you can kind of can move 
yourself along or detract attention form it.  In the Visitors Center, I mean there is only, it is, you 
notice the "Cat Lady" when she comes in.  You can hear her, you can, you know you can smell 
her too.  She is not a very clean person.  And you can see her.  And you can have a group of 
VIP's in the Visitors Center.  We had I think it was a champagne reception for some occasion.  
They have so many of those over there.  And uh, "Cat Lady" walked in.  And you just felt like 
oh, not now "Cat Lady", not now "Cat Lady".  [Laugh]  And she knows and she will go away.  
She sort of knows that this is not the right time for her to be there.  And she goes out and then she
will come back a little later.  And the uh, the "Newlyweds", they are the same way.  They will 
leave.  
END OF SIDE TWO
END OF TAPE
UNIVERSITY OF LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
LOWELL HISTORY COLLECTION
LOWELL FOLKLIFE CENTER
Informant:  Park Rangers
Conducted by:  Doug DeNatale
Date:
L: Lindsey [Titis]
LL: Larry Lee
B: Becky Warren
S: Suzanne [     ]
P: Peter [     ]
BH: Billy Higgins
D:  Doug DeNatale
LFP-DD-RO72-RO73
L:  The indication that we are going to kick her out.  And we never do and we never have.  
D:  And you call her "Solicit Woman?"
?:  It depends what is going on too.
L:  Well we call her "Solicit Woman".  She, I don't know how she really got that name.  She 
doesn't really solicit anything.  That is the "Doily Lady."  She is separate.  "Solicit Woman" (--)
?:  She comes in and tries to sell things.
?:  "Solicit Woman" always asks for money. 
B:  Yeah, she is the tall lady.
L:  Yeah, with the short hair and she is really heavy set.  
B:  Yeah, she ask for money.  
L:  She just always wants a dollar or two.
B:  From visitors.  
?:  She is always at the pay phone.  She wears slippers with no socks in the middle of the winter 
and bathrobes.  
?:  Is the "Cat Lady" the lady who has the big black jacket and the greasy hair?  Still is that the 
same "Cat Lady?"   
?:  Same.  Wait until you meet her.  [All laugh]
?:  No because I think I have met her a couple of times.  
L:  She wears the blue keds [?:  same one, same one] and the pink trench coat.  
?:  It has been years, you know.
B:  She retired her big black jacket.  She had it when I was here, but now she has a pink, well it 
used to be pink.
S:  Sort of a mauve rain coat, like a trenchcoat.
B:  Yeah, rain coat now.  
?:  You know what is funny?  A lot of these old, [?: People institution] a lot of these people that 
you think of as street people, I think there is the tendency to think that they are stupid, or 
retarded, or whatever and they are not.  Because I mean if you can get past the smell most of the 
time, I mean you can (--)  I was listening to this one guy talk, his name is Chris, that is all I know
about him.  He was a street people, or a street person who used to come in all the time.  This man
had a lot on the ball and he would sit down there and he would talk to visitors.  And I would say, 
"damn he knows more about this place than I will ever hope to learn."  And you know, like I said,
if you can get past the immediate, "oh my God, gee wiz," you don't want to (--)  These guys have
turned out in a lot of cases to be great sources of information.  
S:  Yeah, some of the older mill workers that kind of hang around. Yeah, you might have, you 
personally might have heard their story several times, but there is a lot of meat to it, you know.  
If you had never heard it there is a lot to learn from them.  
D:  Um, yeah [?:  We can draw on them] [S:  Um] we have had some pretty amazing encounters 
ourselves, especially over on Middlesex Street.  Have any of you run into Sarge?  
B:  No. 
D:  Yeah, he is sort of in charge of all the street people over on Middlesex Street.  
B:  Oh.  Um.
?:  I always see him when I drive by the shelter on my way to work.
?:  He's got a white beard?
?:  He is the big white beard guy?  I don't know who he is. 
?:  Smoke a pipe?
?:  I'll look for him now.
D:  I don't know if he [few words unclear].
?:  Oh yeah!
?:  Oh and he has a ponytail, doesn't he?
?:  Yeah, yeah, white hair. 
?:  I think I walked by him this morning and I said hi to him.   
D:  We were taking some photographs in Arthur Ramalho's Gym, which is, in order to get to it 
you have to walk through the yard where all the street people are.  And uh, it was pretty amazing,
you know, the negotiation that went on you know, to get through there.  [?:  right]  And what 
were we doing.  And of course we are always you know, up against you know, the issue of 
cameras and stuff like that.  They laid down clear rules of how we were to act in that area, you 
know, and we followed them.  
?:  You are really aware of the roles that people are playing.  You know, it is like there is this 
whole sort of (--)  That is true particularly with the uniform.  And uh, that everybody has their 
nitch.  But, you know, as individuals there is no harm particularly intended or you know ,they are
just kind of, people do what they do.
?:  I remember once out in that court yard around the noon music things during the summertime, 
the lunch time concerts, whatever they are called.  And some man came up and he was dead tired
and I just sort of wanted to sit out there to take a break, but there I was in my uniform and I said, 
"oh no."  So everyone was coming up and asking questions and I just wanted to enjoy the music. 
Um, so this man comes up to me and he says something and he asked if he could sit down here 
and I said certainly.  And he turns to me and it is only then that I really look at him.  You know, 
he was just another, just another person.  And uh, what I noticed were his boots.  He had two 
different kinds of boots on.  But they were very close, but they were from different pairs of 
shoes.  And I sort of worked my way up and his clothes are all frayed and I said, "oh here is"(--)  
I didn't say anything street person, but I knew there was somebody down on their luck, you 
know.  And he asked me where the shelter was on Middlesex Street.  Um, and I had only been 
here three, four, five weeks, I didn't know where Middlesex Street was.  So I said, "okay, I will 
find out where it is you know, because I don't know, but I have to go inside."  And he said, "you 
are not going to call the cops are you?"  "You are not going to have me arrested?"  He got really, 
he was very defensive.  He was sort of verbally attacking me, "because I haven't done anything." 
"I have walked here ten miles from Chelmsford."  I have done this, blah blah, blah blah, blah.  
And I said, "no I just want you."  You know, I said, "I have had to walk long distances before."  
"You are not the only person in the world who as ever had to walk ten miles to get to a place."  
"And I figure by now if you have walked ten miles you are going to want to know the shortest, 
quickest, fastest way to get there and I don't know it." "Sure I could send you over there in a 
vague area, maybe it is over here or off to the right."  "You will eventually find it sure, but don't 
you want to just go there straight away."  And it really took him back, because he is so used to 
being basic probably shit on by anybody and everybody that walks around, everyone in sort of 
the  straight world.  And he said, "oh."  He sat down.  I got him his directions.  I wrote him out a 
little map. Said, "here you go."  And he said, "thank you very much."  And he left.
D:  What about your, what are your categories of people?  You mentioned when people came in 
you can pretty much (--)
L:  Well you have got you know, your basic all American family.  You know, they look like they 
walked off channel five.  You know, prime time TV show.  Um, and then you have got your uh, 
people like, I call them sort of pseudo intellectuals.  They come in and they, they have got sort of 
an air about them.  Like uh, show me what you have got, you know.  Just uh, they kind of, I think
they see you in uniform and they think (--)  I don't know, it is funny people's perception of a 
uniform.  I don't know, really know what they are.  I just know what I have perceived of you 
know, the National Park Service uniforms, but some people seem to really be in awe of them.  
You know they have incredible respect for them.  Some people treat you like you are clergy you 
know, like they, like you are a priest or a minister, or a nun maybe and uh, in my case.  [Laugh]  
Um, some people treat you like you are below them.    You know, like you (--)
?:  Like you are a moron.
L:  Exactly.
S:  Or like working class, because working class people wore uniforms.  Like nurses or maybe a 
delivery person or something like that.
P:  Like we pay your salary so you damn well better do everything we want you to do.  [?:  Yeah]
L:  So maybe, maybe when I, maybe when I categorize people when they walk in, maybe I am 
not really categorizing them.  I am just pin pointing their perception of me.  I am saying well this
person thinks this of me, so therefore I have to act this way.  And most people wear themselves 
out to here.  You know, you can just read them like a book.  And most people don't think they're 
being read.  But it is very easy to read people after a while.  Most people, most people all read 
the same.  You know, you get very few individuals.  That is what kind of makes it fun to work 
there is  when you finally meet a real dynamic personality who walks in the door.  It just kind of 
charges you up for all the rest of the, you know, Mr. and Mrs. Smiths that, Smiths that walk 
through the door.  Because most of them, most people that walk through are just your bland 
visitor.  [Laugh]  [Few words unclear] but that is the truth.
S:  Well also don't forget they are in a receptive frame of mind so they are not going to be 
projecting what they are all about,  because they are coming here to learn about that too. So that 
is another aspect.  You are not asking them about them.  
P:  We used to try and guess what they were going to ask when they got into the Visitors Center.  
And we would see them walking across and we would say, "oh oh there is somebody who got 
lost three times on the way and is going to be really ticked off,  because they are going to say 
there are no signs here."  Even though we know there are approximately five hundred and twenty
three signs showing you how to get to Lowell they are going to say there is not one.  And when 
you tell them exactly where the signs are they are going to say, "no there wasn't," or we are going
to say, "okay, here comes a family that are going to go on the tour", or "here comes a family that 
wants to go but doesn't know that there are reservations required."  
?:  Umhm, that is a big one. 
?:  Right.  There is a family that can get right up to the sign that says "Visitors Center" and still 
can't find it.  
?:  Married couples are strange or if they are a pair of couples, because you will be able to see 
who was dragged along.  Right away.  The tour that I like to give the best is the Mill Girl and 
Immigrant Tour and it is all walking and it is all out side.  And it is, you can be really dynamic 
about it.
?:  Only if [few words unclear] you can tell people really bite into it.
?:  Sure!  And you have to, I do my best in my introduction.  You know, crack a lot of jokes so 
the, it is generally it is the guys, the one guy you know, he wanted to watch the Celtics this 
afternoon but no, he is here on tour because you know, for the last three weekends he has done 
what he wanted to do and now he is going to do what his wife wants to do.  So God damn it let 
us do it!  [Laugh]  I just do my best to crack them up.  Because just tell them, hey, I am not going
to be boring, it is not going to be bland.  Give it a chance.  I know you are seething, I know you 
are mad, but be you know, be mad with who you are with, but not at me.  [All laugh]
?:  Remember I am missing the Celtics too.  
?:  Exactly.
?:  You know the funny thing about that is usually the people that they had to drag in to get in in 
the first place they have to drag out to get them away too.  I have seen that more times then not.  
It is like I don't want to go there.  What the hell is there in Lowell that I want to learn about.  And
two hours later the wife and kids are going come on honey let's go.   Well let's look at this one 
exhibit this is really neat!  And another hour later, can we go now?  We want to eat.  Look at how
this thing works.  The next thing you know the wife and kids say, "we are leaving, see you later!"
Okay, I will take the train home, have a good trip.  
D:  Well how do you go about learning the tours?
B:  Lots of reading.
P:  We make them up as we go along.  
?:  Lots!
S:  You sit and study a lot just like you would if you were studying for a class or something.  You
sort of hold yourself up there and get materials and just wade through it.  
?:  And talk to people.
D:  Is that it?
?:  Talking helps a lot.  All of the good anecdotes the real, real life stuff, because this is still, the 
Industrial Revolution is still happening.  There are still people here who worked in the mills.  I 
learned some great ways of describing the noise in the weave room.  I had a guy on tour and he 
told me, I have always thought you know, they are noisy and the noise is deafening and it is 
painful.  And he told me that well after the first few days, he was fifteen, his ears stopped ringing
and after that it was very, very pleasant, it was very serene, it was very dream like walking 
through the mills.  Because you could take out something, you drop something, you could watch 
it drop and the sound wouldn't come back.  He liked that, it made an impression on him as a kid. 
I would have never thought of that.  That is what it is like to be deaf.  It really, it hit me that way. 
Or woman telling, telling the stories of their children or their grandchildren.  Don't you ever 
swim in those canals!  And the kids would come home different colors from the dye that would 
flow through the canals.  And the mother would know what canal they swam in by what color 
they came home.  Stuff like this, um, is perhaps the best part I think of giving tours.  Being able 
to listen to people who had experience here, who grew up.  One thing, people talk about this city 
being revitalized.  And you take (--)  We do a lot of sort of promo boat trips.  Evening sunset 
cruises for the Commission, for the Wang Corporation, for the Lowell Plan.  And one guy said 
before he moved here, he didn't grow up here his wife did.  He moved here, his business came, 
blah, blah, blah.  But he didn't want to move here twenty years ago because this was Lowell Hell.
You know, it wasn't Lowell, Lowell Hell.  I thought that was wow!  That is great!  And they will 
tell you when the revitalization really took place, in the last five years or so.  That is what I hear. 
I lived with a family for about a month, the Donahues, of Donahue and Donahue, the law firm.  
They just had their hundreth year anniversary.  Mr. Donahue said you know, it was really the last 
five years and if it wasn't, he credits it all to there being a park here.  The park brought it all 
along.  And those things, the real, real visceral stuff.  A hundred, two hundred years from now if 
there is still a world, I mean a lot of things could happen between now and then but uh, there 
won't be people around that know what it was like.  
D:  So you, so you really do get knowledge directly from local people who come on the tours?  
And you incorporate it into [unclear]?
?:  Absolutely.  We are encouraged to do that.
?:  Yeah, whenever possible.  It is, yeah, that is where the uh, that is the stuff that sticks in 
people's minds.
B:  And obviously it stuck in our minds and we are able to say it again.  
?:  That is the uh, you know, that is the icing on the cake if you want to put it that way.  You can 
know all the facts and all the figures and all that is going to do is be boring.
D:  Yeah.  Do you have any other examples?  Any of the others have views?
B:  Well I have seemed to have gotten trapped by Mr. Eno through the years.  Donna Mailloux 
had him and then he found me.  So I have to hide from him everywhere I go.  He is a great 
wealth of knowledge, but you just need a lot of time to be able to talk with him.  Um, and I have 
given tours to former mill workers, a whole tour, and even today on my tour I said that.  I gave a 
tour to former mill workers a couple of years ago.  And now I can talk about the conditions in the
mills and I can talk about children working and cleaning and getting fingers cut off, and getting 
woman scalped.  And they will all go ooh, but they will sit and talk to the person next to them 
right afterwards.  But when I say that I have talked to somebody that was actually on this tour.  
He was sitting right there and he told me that he saw a woman get scalped at a mill in 1943.  
Now that wasn't very long ago.  They stop, they listen and they become involved.  And it is real 
now, it is not just like Pete said, facts and figures.  When you come here you get a basic outline, 
very basic outline for a tour.  This is what we would like you to cover, but elaborate all you can 
and focus on what you want to focus.  And mill workers, former mill workers have really 
supplied me with most of my information.  And I am a bit skeptical about what I read in a book.  
I don't know.  I read it and I am not sure who said it.  Is it really true?  Um, is it documented?  
Then again if you talk to a mill worker you wonder how true is this.  Um, but I tend to believe 
what they say more than what I read in a book.
?:  There is one man who comes in the Visitors Center and you might know him.  It might even 
be this person I don't know.  He is a rather short man and he told me about how when he had to 
oil certain machines he had to reach up high on his tippy toes because you know, he just couldn't 
reach it otherwise and he didn't have time to run and get something to stand on.  And he said 
when you did that you have a tendency to topple into the machine.  He said his abdomen was all 
covered with scares from you know, being cut by leaning into the machine.  And that is the kind 
of thing, it is like wow!  [?:  Yeah]  This really happened.  [?:  This really happened]  This person
(--)
?:  One of the first people that I talked to in Lowell, I went over to his house and I started my 
usual question of you know, "well what was it like working in the [     ] mills?"  You know?  And 
he said, "well to begin with, let me tell yeah."  [Laugh]  
B:  Yeah.
?:  They keep us honest too.  
B:  That is true.
P:  I mentioned earlier that we don't want to make this all sound like rosy and like it was great.
S:  You can't romanticize it.
?:  And that it was fun to work in a mill, you know.  If you start doing that these people listen to 
us.  And they get mad if we don't say it right.  Lindsey mentioned Sidney the other, a little while 
ago.  Sidney takes it upon himself to quiz every new person who has come in here.  And he has a 
certain standard that you better measure up to or else you are basically not good enough to be a 
ranger here.  Uh, and he likes to do it when there is nobody around that knows him that can kind 
of warn them about him.  He will come in and he will say, he will just start firing questions at 
you.  Like, how many looms did they have in the mill?  Or, how fast did a loom go?  Or, was it 
dangerous?  How hot was it?   And if you try to answer that and sugar coat it he will just tell you 
that you are full of shit.  [Laugh]  And uh, you better be ready for something like that and he is 
not the only person that will come in and do that.  Conversely when you are sure that you know 
that stuff you are his buddy from now until whenever.  And it is the same with any of these 
others.  You are alright because you are not trying to lie about what it was like working in the 
mills.  You are not trying to make it sound better than it was.  And it wasn't.  I mean I tell people 
you would have to be nuts to want to do this.  Nobody would do this unless they had too.  
?:  You try to create a imbalanced impression at the end.  You know, you try to say some good 
things and you try to say some bad things, [B:  bad things] because that is the way it seems to me
that it was.  There are always some good things about it.  And uh, but there was a lady as another
example, there was a lady who came out here to the plaza and I was talking to her.  And she was 
going on and on about how unpleasant it was to live in Lowell.  And her husband had worked at 
the University which was then Lowell Tech I guess.  And she said we lived here thirty years and 
we just moved away ten years ago and that is just before all these changes started happening.  So 
we went at the wrong time.  We suffered through all the bad stuff and we are not reaping the 
rewards.  And I finally said, because she was going on, uh, well didn't you ever think of moving?
She said constantly.  [Laugh]  I have gotten that reaction from a lot of people.  But again just 
making that close contact.  
B:  I think the best part for me giving tours is when a former mill worker comes up to me at the 
end of a tour and tells me that what I said was accurate.  It was true, and that I didn't sugar coat it
but I didn't tell all the bad like you said.  I try to tell them both sides and let them form their own 
opinion.  And if a former mill worker comes up to me and they are embarrassed that they were a 
former mill worker and they just quietly say to me, you know, "boy you hit it right on the head."  
"You really told that was just what it was like."  I have this glowing feeling in me to know that I 
am telling people the truth.  That I know that this is at least according to him and according to 
quite a few mill workers that is the way it was.  Um, that makes me, maks me feel good.  And 
then the few mill workers that do want to say, they will pipe up after a while on the tour and say, 
"well I did work down at Boott at some point in time, or I worked in Rhode Island, or I worked 
somewhere."  And boy the people on the tour just stop and listen and hang on every word that 
that person says, because they obviously they are fascinated by it.
P:  And you as a ranger you have to, you have to make use of those people.  Um, I know my 
experience now is that I was doing tours for a while, I worked at the visitors center for a while.  
Now I am supervising, so I am supposed to be telling other people how to do tours.  One of the 
things we tell them is, you know, seize any interpretive moment that is there.  Don't think that 
you have to know everything.  If you have an engineer on your tour that knows exactly how that 
steam engine works, ask him or ask her.  What do you know about this sir?  What do you know 
about this mame?  Or can you add anything?  Something like that.  That is one of the reasons 
why you know we tell people get to the tour early so you can find out who is on it.  You know, 
know who is on it.  And you can use that kind of thing.  It is people, it is events that happen.  You
want to be able to use that so you have to have a good knowledge yourself and you have to be 
able to sometimes kind of supplement yourself.  Sublimate yourself to them, because they have 
things to say.  You can't just say this is my tour and damn it I am going to do it my way and I 
don't care what you say.
?:  You can defer to their greater knowledge in a particular area.  I have gone and when I have 
been interpreting the power loom.  When I worked for the National Park I would sometimes say 
is there anyone here who has worked in a mill?  And if there is quite often they can put in or at 
least confirm what you are saying, or say well that was my experience, or that was not.  And you 
still get people afterwards who are shy.  They want to hear what you are going to say [B:  Say] 
first and then afterwards they will come and tell you individually that that was right or it was not 
right.  But uh, generally they are real supportive.  
P:  See a lot of the books we get theory.  And they know the actual.  You know this was how it 
was supposed to work.  This is how it did.
D:  So is that the main interaction you have with people?  I mean is that, is on tours where that 
mostly takes place?  Are there any other places or?
B:  Sure, you get it at the desk.
L:  Oh at the desk, sure and especially in the winter time because the visitation is down.  So more
of the uh, you know, the residents, I mean the visitors center is located right in a housing project 
and uh, so the people come down for someone to listen really.  And I figure that is the best thing 
that I can do is to just listen to what they have to say, be it about their own experience or about 
someone they knew, or about what is going on right now in the city.  I mean it is information and 
it is all useful or it can be useful.  And uh, so even the, you know, the so called locals or street 
people, or undesirables whatever you want to call them.  They have something to offer and I 
mean everybody does, but at least in the winter you have time to just sit and listen.  And uh, I 
don't know, I guess it is good PR too, I don't know, but it is also interesting to just listen to all 
these different people and their experiences and their perceptions.  And uh (--)
S:  The Water Power Exhibit is another place where that happens. It uh, the same.  That is where 
I would be behind a desk.  In fact just this week there was a couple who came through and the 
woman had grown up in Lowell and the man had grown up in Manchester.  So they both had mill
backgrounds.  And she was telling me about counting rats in Lowell.  She would go to certain 
places and see how many rats she could find.  You know that kind of thing.  And exclaiming on 
how it had changed.  And I think I listened to them for probably fourty five minutes just going 
on.  They just wanted a listening ear really.  And I picked up some interesting information like 
that.  But most of it was just paying attention to them, you know?
D:  In a funny sort of way you are all becoming kind of the collective memory for Lowell.
?:  Um, I think so.
?:  The tours are a good part of it, but my experience is that you pick this up all over the place.  I 
mean you can pick it up walking down the street to go get your lunch.  You can do this kind of 
thing at the festival.  If you could do it at any of recreational programs, any time you go to a 
restaurant.  It kind of opens your eyes too, because then after having been a ranger when you do 
anything, not only in Lowell, but when you go some place else to you notice things that you 
might not have noticed before.  Like what is that person's accent?  And how come?  You might 
ask him things like, you know, has your family owned this restaurant for a long time?  Is this, do 
a lot of people in your family own this?  You know, one of the jokes that I say is that basically 
every pizza place in the Eastern seaboard is owned by a Greek.  And that wouldn't have even, 
that wouldn't have even struck me I don't think if I had not worked for the National Park Service 
and the State Parks.  You know, you find out certain (--)
?:  The patterns.
P:  Patterns, yeah, that different groups follow.  And uh, you get to be, doing the tours makes you
a lot more aware of things like that.  And then because you have done the tour and because you 
are more aware you are more open to it when you go outside of doing the tours.  It is kind of like 
a circle.  So the tours maybe started off, but to say you know, that is the main part of it, that is the
only part I think that is, you know that is a little bit, that is a little bit wrong.  I think you get it, 
once you start doing the tours you get it from everything. 
S:  It becomes much more Holistic.  I think you kind of get a frame of mind, a frame of reference
so that when you are not in uniform, you are not on tour you are still looking for those kind of 
things saying, "uh, maybe I can use that on my tour."  
D:  Well those of you who live here in Lowell what do you do outside, off hours?  I mean what 
kinds of involvements do you have with the city?  
P:  Well I go to school at night working towards a Masters Degree, so I do that.  We have things 
that the Park Service does that we do as a park.  You know social events, we have a softball team,
volley ball team, things like that.  As part of my job I have been more exposed to some of the 
different community groups, going to their meetings, um, going to the some of the different 
restaurants, just basically to go to a restaurant, but also to see what is there and to see who is 
there.  So that kind of thing, that social interaction that you have through the rest of the 
community.  Plus I mean you are there, you are in the neighborhood.  So when you talk to your 
neighbors or when you talk to a person down the street, or when you go into the supermarket, or 
things like that you are aware of what is going on.  
D:  What neighborhood do you live in?
P:  Uh, I live, right now I live in the Highlands.  Kind of the end of the Highlands right up on 
Middlesex Street.  Middlesex Street goes through the entire city.  So I live over right near 
Stevens Street.  And uh, but I grew up until I was ten years old was in Pawtucketville, which 
basically if you think of downtown as the city Pawtucketville would be the suburb.  The area that
I lived in was a development and all the houses were the same and all that stuff.  And then when 
I was ten we moved up to Centralville, which was a little bit different.  It was more of an ethnic 
neighborhood even  though, by the time we moved in it was pretty much diverse.  But it was a 
neighborhood you know, more than the area of Pawtucketville that I lived in once.  And I lived 
there until after I finished school.  And basically I have been in the Highlands since then.  Mostly
just for pragmatic reasons is that uh, traffic is hell going over the bridge every night.  And I said 
well, if I am going to work on this side of the river , I want to live on this side of the river, 
because that way it won't take me thirty minutes to go half a mile to get home at night.
D:  What about the rest of you?
S:  I live near Pete.  I live also in the Highlands.  And I remember when I moved there I didn't 
know what neighborhood I was in.  And I asked several people and I told them I lived on Dover 
Street.  And they said, "oh yeah, that would be the Highlands."  It is like oh how do you know?  
Well they just sort of had this mental map.  And it is more like spheres of influence probably than
actual boundaries, but everybody agreed that I lived in the Highlands so.  I guess that came up 
because I wanted to call and ask if there was going to be a neighborhood clean up and I didn't 
know what neighborhood I was in.  So I though I better ask.  
B:   It is funny that they call a neighborhood too, because my definition of a neighborhood is just
you know, a sub community of a section.  You know, where I grew up I call my neighborhood, it 
was a street.  And all the people who lived on the street were this sort of tight community.  And 
where I live now I guess I am in what is called a neighborhood, but yet I don't know any of my 
neighbors.  I live on a street basically.  But my definition, what you call a neighborhood here in 
Lowell I would call a section, you know.  
?:  Uh huh.  That is what I call them too.
?:  Yeah, that is true for me.
?:  They are different, there are five or six different sections of town each one has their own 
junior football team, each one has their own little league or something.
?:  Yeah, within a section there are a bunch of neighborhoods.
D:  Well what are the sections?
?:  There is Belvidere, there is the Highlands, Pawtucketville, Centralville, the Village.
?:  Christian Hill.
?:  Christian Hill.
P:  Christian Hill is Centralville.  It is like a sub section of Centralville.  
?:  There is the Upper Highlands too.  Isn't there something like that way up towards [unclear] 
Street?
?:  I think people make the distinctions though.
?:  Yeah, depending on how long you have lived here depends on how much you break it down.  
[P:  Then there is downtown too]  Um, there is the Acre.  [P:  which is the Acre]  There is the 
Lower Acre, there is the Highlands, there is the Upper Highlands, there is the Village which 
some people think is actually part of the Highlands, there is Pawtucketville, but where is the 
boarder between Pawtucketville and the Acre?  Well it depends on who you talk too.  Uh, 
Christian Hill is like, this may be a strange way to put it, but it is like the upper class of 
Centralville.  You know, if you live, you know you say, "you live in Centralville, do you live on 
the Hill? "
?:  Vertically.
?:  Yeah.
?:  Yeah, vertically.  [Laughs]
?:  If you live on the hill there is a little bit of extra status involved in that.  I mean it still was 
basically a blue collar neighborhood, but it was like say the plumber or the carpenter as opposed 
to the day laborer who might live on the bottom.  So you know, I would have just said I live in 
Centralville.  And then they say, "oh Christian Hill, or Lower Centralville," or whatever?  And I 
would say, "well I lived up on Christian Hill."  
D:  What kind of a schedule are you all on?  Do you have to get back?  [Sirens in the 
background]  I mean this is great as far as I am concerned.  I would love to just keep going with 
it if you can?
B:  I don't need to get back.
L:  Sure.  [all laugh]
?:  All right Linds, yeah.
?:  [Comment unclear]
D:  Well in that case I better run and get one more tape okay?
?:  Good.  While you are doing that can you show me where the bathroom is.
D:  Yes.
    [Short pause in tape]
D:  Rosemary has given us most of our good dirt on the neighborhoods. 
R:  Huh?
D:  You have given us most of our good dirt on the neighborhoods.
?:  Oh yeah that is why I am going to leave right now.
D:  Take the coffee with you too.
?:  Yeah. 
D:  Fine.  Um.  So um.  Well while we are on the subject of neighborhoods I mean maybe (--)  
What are some of the other neighborhoods that you know, I mean you have mentioned sections 
of Belvidere and the Highlands and Pawtucketville, Centralville, and Christian Hill, and (--)
?:  The Village.
D:  The Village.  
?:  Always had the best football team when I was a kid.
S:  Where is the place that uh (--)
?:  Highlands.  [Background voices unclear]
D:  Always the Village?
?:  The Village always beat up the (--)
?:  Back Central Street is kind of a neighborhood in and of itself.
?:  Supposedly you know, a hundred years ago they annexed it form North Chelmsford along 
with the Highlands.  Just like Belvidere was annexed from Tewksbury, or got kicked out of 
Tewksbury depends on how you look at it.
?:  No, Tewksbury says we stole it.  Occasionally there is still, I remember about ten years ago 
there was this big move to annex all of Tyngsboro.  We were going to be Lowellboro, or Tyngsell
or something like that, I don't know.  And people in Tyngsboro were very, very upset they didn't 
want to be associated with us.  It was of like "who do you think you are just because you are the 
big city."  Because around here we are the big city.  Thinking you can take us over.  And uh, and 
nothing much ever happened about it.  
D:  What about the move from Belvidere?  Where in Belvidere do you live or did you grow up 
there?
?:  Yeah, I have lived there my whole life.  It is about six or seven streets down from Tewksbury, 
right off of Andover Street.  
D:  Uh huh.  [Pause]  How would you characterize (--)  What would you characterize the 
relationship of that neighborhood to the rest of the city?
?:  Political power.
P:  Upper class.
?:  I don't know about that, because it depends on where you are.  [?:  Yeah]  If you are on 
Andover Street you are rich and it is without even thinking about it.  Those houses up there run a 
million bucks a pop.  As you go off on the side streets it gets to normal middle class people.  You 
know, like my parents are not rich they just live there, but (--)
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
 
?:  More and more.
?:  The reason why I said political power for Belvidere is because last year's elections everybody 
was, it was a really great election as I recall.  And Mike DeMoulas wanted to put up a, right near,
right near DeMoulas Market, or Market Basket, now Mike DeMoulas wanted to put up a K-Mart 
[unclear].  And the Lowell Sun ran this big thing about it saying that he really, anybody, any of 
the city councilors who would back that are risking their political future in Lowell or something 
along those lines, because they would be coming up against the very politically powerful 
Belvidere neighborhood of Lowell.  And I couldn't understand that.  And then he went on to 
explain it, that 95% of Lowell votes, whereas you might get fifty percent of the Acre to vote, of 
the registered voters might go out and vote.  [?:  Hm]  That made quite an impression on me.  I 
hadn't thought of that.  The Belvidere, Belvidere has a political fashion perhaps of, that really 
went up against that in such.  As it turns out Mike DeMoulas made the right move.  Hallissy is 
moving he is going to pull (--)  [Laugh]  And there is nothing that anybody can do about it.
P:  Of course there is not a whole lot of difference between Hallissy and a K-Mart.  
?:  That is true.  I am glad I live in Belvidere, it is nice.
S:  Do you think Belvidere is close in the sense that people know each other you know, on their 
street or anything?
?:  No.  Not any more.
?:  Because on my street on Dover Street, uh, in the Highlands, if that is what you want to call it, 
um, I don't know anybody else on the street.  You know in the wintertime I went out to try to 
meet people.  You know, like shoveling off their cars for them and stuff, you know, just to have a 
chance to kind of see people.  And uh, they would go in their houses and close the doors and 
stuff.  And it seems to be mostly families, but I don't see an awful lot of interaction taking place, 
certainly not with us.  Although I may have gotten insight into that when one of our neighbors 
said about our house.  She said, "well you know, it seems pretty big and you don't see police out 
there or anything."   Meaning because most of the people living in my house are students.  So 
you know.  [Laughs]
P:  I think though your point is well taken.  I remember when I was growing up I knew 
everybody in the neighborhood that I was growing up in.  Um, the place we lived in in 
Centralville we have lived their since 1967, so that is about twenty one years.  For the first 
fifteen years almost nobody moved.  I mean it was the only time anybody moved is if somebody 
died.  
?:  That is right.
P:  Over the last six years or so they have turned over like four or five different times.  Houses 
have been sold.  If that is a reflection I don't know of the real estate market or maybe it is a 
reflection of the fact that with Wang coming in Lowell is not as much a blue collar city.  Maybe 
it is a reflection of the fact that with the economy better people can afford to move where they 
couldn't afford to move before.  I don't know.  But it seems like even in the neighborhoods if you 
have been there for a long time there is still a core of people that, that all know each other.  It is 
not as much.
?:  Yeah a neighbor of mine who lives on Wilder Street up above where it crosses Middlesex said
that on his section of the street, like if they move they will be the last of like the old [     ], 
whatever.  They have lived there for about thirty years.  And everybody else he regards as being 
new.  
?:  The way, I think my parents are the oldest people on my street.  When I was a boy I used to 
do the paper route for my street and the streets all around it.  And I knew every single person in 
my neighborhood.  I knew their children.  I knew their aunts and uncles.  It just seemed that it 
happened that way.  And if I walked down the street now nobody would know who I was, 
because I think there is maybe half a dozen people left from my original paper route.  
?:  That is typical of other parts too though, it is not just Lowell.  [?:  Oh no.]  You know people 
are more mobile in general I think.  It is true of my home town and so forth too.
?:  It is really weird.  We have a new next door neighbor that has been there maybe six, maybe a 
year now.  And I know him.  My parents know him, but it is not like we are neighbors.
?:  You need another six years to get to know them.  
?:  When I was a kid we knew everybody, everybody knew everybody.
?:  Although kids are more of a link I think.  You know kids go back and forth [unclear].
?:  That is right.
?:  That is it, people in areas don't have any chance.
?:  And when you are an adult you don't really have an excuse to go and visit these other people.
?:  It is kind of funny though, because here we are we are talking about increased awareness of 
the history and the ethnic heritage and all that and that is something that you have seen in 
Lowell.  However, one of the things that is kind of ironic is that the neighborhoods are kind of 
breaking down.  That there is not as much of a neighborhood feeling.  Um you know, of course 
maybe that is part of it.  People are not thinking of themselves so much as from the Highlands, or
from Pawtucketville, or from Belvidere as they are thinking of themselves as from Lowell.  
?:  That is true.
?:  And Lowell is a big place.  You know, something like that.  Or maybe it is part of the mobility.
Or maybe it is that you know, people only have so much of themselves that they can give over to 
this type of thing that we have called heritage and if they are going to concentrate on our ethnic 
heritage and history then they don't have time to be part of the neighborhood or something like 
that.
                                                                 ?:  Sure, I consider myself a person from Lowell.  And I 
would, if somebody ask me where are you from, I am from Lowell.  I am not from the Belvidere 
section of Lowell, or the Pawtucketville section of Lowell, or anything like that.
?:  Yeah if they ask you you know.  People ask me where are you form and almost automatically 
I say, oh Centralville, or the Highlands or whatever.  But that is kind of breaking down I think.  
D:  What about you guys?  What is your experience?
?:  Um, well as I said I live on a street as far as I am concerned. I don't live in a neighborhood at 
all.  If there is one there I am not a part of it.  And uh, what you call a neighborhood I call a 
section which is huge.  And uh, I live in the Highlands section of Lowell and I don't live in a 
neighborhood at all.  I live on a street.  And maybe Suzanne that is what you were saying.  
Maybe children are what make neighborhoods tick, I don't know.  There are children around and 
I have only talked to a few of them, but uh, I don't know their parents.  I don't go into their 
homes the way I did when I as a child.  I knew everybody on the (--)  The people on my street 
were my family, or my second extended family maybe.  And where I live know as far as I am 
concerned the nieghborhood does not even exist.  
?:  But you want to know what is funny though is uh, Lindsey happens to live next door from me.
I lived in that same house for three years and then I went to Philadelphia and then I came back, 
and I have been here for two years now.  Within like three or four months after she moved in she,
we would be talking and she would say, "oh ya I talked to you know, whoever it was from 
upstairs".  And I said, "yeah, who is that?"  I mean she (--)  I had lived there for like four years.  I
didn't know who the hell these people were.  And she had been there for a couple of months and 
she knew more of the neighbors than I did, you know.  
?:  Yeah but they are not neighbors they are just people.  [?:  that live in the house, yeah]  I mean 
I just know their names.  I know who they are.  I know their cars, but I don't go into their homes. 
I am not a part of their home or a part of their life.  [?:  on the other half]  I am just sort of 
peripheral.  You know, I (--)  And to me that is not a neighborhood and that is not having 
neighbors.  
D:  Is there a network among the rangers as far as finding housing and that kind of thing?
?:  Sometimes, yeah.
?:  In the apartment I live in it has been a ranger apartment.  Four different rangers have lived 
there since 1981, 1979 I should say, it had a ranger living there that long.
?:  Yeah, when I first got here you know, I didn't know anything.  And uh, as far as where to go, 
where to live, where do you buy a paper and go, but you would always ask your co-workers, 
"what do you know?"  And since it was a seasonal appointment and would only last a few 
months you want some temporary housing.  I didn't want to pay the rents that were around here.  
I came here essentially broke until I found some house sitting jobs sort of through the network.  
And I have done that a bit.  It is kind of a drag.  They never really last more than, more than a 
month that I have been able to find yet.  Anyway I am hoping that I will find something a little 
longer than that.  But it was through the network that I found these places.  So I would say there 
is a network most definitely.  
?:  Yeah, there is also a student network and I overlap with that a little bit.  As it happens 
everybody else in my house are students.  And uh, so, but there is some of that crossover too.  
Anybody looking for temporary housing I guess.
?:  Cause it is seasonal it is tough, because uh, first of all you don't make that much money.  
Second of all a lot of people want a lease of a year.  And you can't sign a year lease because you 
know you are not going to be here for a year.  Or they might want, you know, first last and a 
months rent worth of security deposit.  I mean you know, you are a seasonal, you come here 
broke, you don't have a thousand dollars that you can plump down for that kind stuff.  So what 
has happened is that there has been kind of a sub market of people who rent to seasonals.  And a 
lot of them (--)
?:  Because they are rangers.
?:  Because they are rangers.  Exactly.  They say I want a ranger to come in and live here.  
?:  Yeah, that is true.  Rangers have a good reputation in that ragard.  It is a kind, a quality, or 
people perceive that it is a kind of person that they are getting.  
D:  Well, I don't want to you know, be the interrogater or anything here.  Uh, is there anything 
you would like to you know, find out more about what we are doing here?
B:  Well I know the project that, I know somewhat of the project that you are doing.  What is 
going to be, I don't want to say the end result or the final result, but all the work that you are 
putting in is that going to be accessible for us.  I think that has been one pretty much problem 
that we have had is yeah, you can read it in books but, and a few people that go on your tours can
give you some information.  But a lot of people want to know what do people do?  What do they 
feel about the city?  How do they feel about the city?  And I don't think I am a good person to be 
able to answer that.  I am a Chelmsfordite and I don't come in here very often except to go to 
work.  I feel a little more comfortable, I feel more comfortable coming in at other times, but I 
have.  I don't live in a neighborhood, so I don't know what the workings of a neighborhood 
would be.  Um, so how is this going to be available for the park to be able to use?
D:  Well okay.  There will be, immediately all the stuff we are doing and after we are done here I 
will be glad to show you some of the photographs, you know how the photographs we have are 
available.  Um, all of the interviews we have done, all of the recordings, um, all of the tapes will 
be available.  All of that stuff will be in the Mogan Center.  
B:  Okay.
D:  Um, and all of the tapes that we do we will not have complete transcriptions of them, but 
what we have are logs that essentially say you know, so and so tells the story of when he first 
came to Lowell and such and such happens there.  You know, brief synopsis of what the content 
of the stuff is.  Those will all be, we will have printouts of all that stuff.  And then on top of that 
it will all be indexed.  So that you know, if you are looking for something that has to do with uh, 
the New Years celebrations in the French community you can look under New Years, or you can 
look under French.  But it will refer you to the page where that particular reference is.  So 
hopefully you know, that will provide some sort of, some kinds of immediate access to you.  Um,
then I guess the next product that will come out of it is they want me to write some kind of 
publication, book like publication on Lowell, based on the project.  So I will be working on that 
over the next year.  And  hopefully by next summer that should be out.  And then I think  being 
somewhat more important than any of this stuff is they are trying to get a Regional FolkLife 
Center established here in Lowell, in connection with the Mogan Center and the Boott Mill 
Complex, that would continue the kind of stuff that we are doing, you know.  And it would be 
really nice if there was you know, a real close working relationship between that center and the 
parks, you know.  A lot of the kinds of things that we have been doing uh, you know are really, 
really neighborhood based.  You know, really (--)  Well you know, for example in the Portuguese 
Community there is this, there is a tradition, a religious tradition that takes place every year.  You
may have seen some of the street processions that they have at this time of year.  [?:  Umhm]  
There is a society that is a society from the Azores that is called the Holy Ghost Society.  Do you 
know the Holy Ghost Park?  [?:  Yeah I am familiar with it]  It is out near Hallissy.
?:  Oh that is what that place is. 
?:  I have always wondered what that place was.  
?:  [Sentence unclear]
D:  Okay.
?:  Okay!
D:  What that, what that (--)  This society um, I don't know a great deal about the history.  I am 
going to have to do a lot of homework myself you know, after all this is over.  But from people in
the community, according to people in the community this whole society started in the Azores.  I 
think they claim that it went back to the 15th century.  They said apparenty the Queen of the 
Portugal visited the Azores.  And I guess, now this is my interpretation here, left a crown as a 
sign of the connection there, whatever.  And it, it, because of you know, all of the beliefs 
revolving around you know, the royalties ability to heal and that kind of thing this crown became
seen as you know, and viewed with religious significance.  And these Holy Ghost Societies, or 
Holy, they are Spiritu Sanctu I think this is what they call them in Portuguese, they have a 
membership of families that belong to the society.  And they have events throughout the, you 
know, it acts as a social, social thing.  And so there is the Holy Ghost Park, which has a hall and 
that is the major meeting place for the people in the Portuguese community.  Any kind of 
community events go on out at, out at the uh park there.  And if you have even been out there it 
is very much set up as a European type park.  There is a band show, there is a dance area and 
then there is rows of benches.  And uh, they, between Easter and Pentacost the members of the 
society they draw lots.  And if you, if you win, if you win the lot then you, then you can take one 
of these crowns into your home for a week during this period.  [?: I see]  And the people build 
altars in their homes.  Really amazing, beautiful.  We were, we were out at the Saint Anthony's 
Church on Easter photographing the Easter service.  And they have these crowns on the altars.  
And uh, after the mass we were taking some photographs of the crowns and a woman came up to
us and said you know, "I am going to be taking this to my house would you like to come and take
some photographs of the altars?"  So I said "yes". And this thing was like a, it looked like a 
wedding cake.  I mean it was, had like three tiers to it was just, just beautiful.  Um, and every 
night this week uh, the, all of the friends of the family come into the, into the home and they pray
the rosary, you know, in front of the thing.  So I mean there is the, you know it is a very private 
kind of thing.  Something that you would never know went on in the community.  [?:  right]  It is 
an amazing tradition that goes on.  But um, you know, it is the kind of thing that you know, I 
think that something like this Regional Folklife Center could really act as a you know, channel of
communication there, you know, and uh, you know, help provide access you know, to people on 
the ranger staff to some of these events that are going on in the community.  You know and, you 
know, also provide some research as to what the significance of some of these events and all of 
that.  Um, so that (--)  The current plan is that they are going to try and get that center um, started
located in the Agents House across from the Mogan Center.  That is one of the things that is 
going to go in there and hopefully get that started in a years time.  
B:  Wow.
D:  So hopefully that can be of some use to you, but (--)
?:  Great!
?:  Is the study going to be ending in May?  I thought you said it was a temporary project.  Well 
not a temporary, but a temporary assignment for you anyway to do this project, or will you stop 
and make somebody else will pick up and continue the project, or are you finishing it?
D:  Well this project per say will stop at the end of May.  But then the process of getting that 
Folklife Center started will be going on over the summer and into the fall.  And also the guys 
doing this mapping project, that will be going on.  So you know, hopefully there will be you 
know, continued work of this kind going on.  And as soon as we (--)  I am, you know, I am 
hoping [knocks on wood] and working hard to try and get all of this stuff ready, you know, so 
that as soon as we are done in May the material should all be available.  Um, and you know in 
the meantime if there is anything you know, that we can do, you know.  I mean we have got a 
bank of slides and stuff if you know, if you are looking for anything on communtiy events you 
know, we would be glad to make anything we have available to you.  
B:  Great.
?:  So much of this stuff is not even published.  Like even Holy Ghost Park wasn't on a map.  
You know I had to ask somebody from Lowell, in this case, Richard.  You know, where, what is 
it, and where is it, because it was written on the (--)  It was (--)  I went to a Gaelic mass there.  
The hall had been rented by somebody in the Irish community and this Gaelic mass.  And it had 
said in the flier you know, located at Holy Ghost Park in quotation marks.  So it is like what is 
this?
B:  What is this?  [Laughs]
?:  I am going to you know, get going.
?:  Thanks a lot.
?:  You can stay until five and [few words unclear].
P:  Thank you.
?:  It was very interesting.
B:  See you Pete.  
P:  Good night.
?:  Cheers Pete.
D:  Yeah.  There has been some (--)  There are amazing things that go on in this community [few 
words unclear].
B:  I had no idea, it is [unclear].
?:  Well so much of it is taken for granted I suppose.  You know, whatever (--)  If you had 
Christmas traditions, or New Years traditions, or whatever religious traditions in your family, you
know that is way you have always done it.  So the thought that it might be of great interest to 
someone outside might not occur to someone.
D:  That is true.
?:  I can't think of that.  That is you know, not important.  [Laughs]
?:  Not to mention the privacy issue.  Some people would want to keep it private.  
D:  Yeah, and this is always the problem with a lot of these traditions that are so community 
based.  I mean they are not something that you know, you could not bring a park tour too.  [B:  
right]  You know, because it would change the, change the event.  But they are such an important
part of the community and it is how do you, how do you weave some of this together?
B:  Integrate the two, yeah.
D:  Yeah.  Um, when you were talking about the Acre before I was thinking that did any of you 
either see or read about the procession that the Hispanic community had through the Acre on 
Good Friday?
?:  No.
?:  Did it make the paper?
D:  Yeah, there was, there was uh, I guess it was in, I guess it was in the Saturday paper there 
was a short item about it.
?:  The park doesn't get it the librarian, Ed Harley, generally
cuts anything that has to do with Lowell.  And I didn't see anything.
?:  Yeah, [few words unclear]
B:  I don't think you get (--)  I think Saturday has been a problem with getting the paper 
delivered because the front door is locked.
So (--)
?:  Huh.
?:  I know it has been a problem here.
D:  Um, what they did is, it is directly from a Puerto Rican tradition.  Um, these Good Friday 
processions and people in the community they, they reinact the stations of the cross.  And they 
have, they carry it across throught the streets and have one person who is dressed as Christ and 
people dressed as the Roman soldiers. And uh, and they would, they went through the, through 
the streets of the Acre doing, doing this procession and doing the stations of the cross.  And you 
know, it was a very conscious kind of way of saying you know, we own the Acre too.  You know,
saying that you know, the religious community has a claim on the Acre as well.  And uh, they 
went out to Dutton Street and down Dutton street to Thorndike and then went over and down 
Appleton Street.  And then they went over to the South Common and the hill behind the school 
there and they reinacted the crucifixion at the top of the hill.
?:  Wow!
D:  Actually I have got some photographs of that.
?:  [Comment unclear]
?:  It is like how did we miss all this?
?:  Yeah, yeah, you live right here.  [?:  Well you know, that is] (--)  That is how people miss the 
park.  You don't even know they are there.  I guess it is the same thing.
?:  You have your own little world that you travel in.
?:  Yeah.
?:  Umhm.
?:  It seemed like that would be such, it would be a big thing. Where you have so many, I think I 
read somewhere in one of the preliminary studies fifty-four different ethnic groups identifiable 
here in the city, which is kind of amazing.  As in living, I lived in Gloucester for about two years,
Gloucester, Mass.  And uh, the blessing of the fleet is a big thing at Saint Peter's fiesta.  [D:  Uh 
huh.]  Um, and people come to see the fiesta, people that don't even live in Gloucester.  It is a big
deal.  Same thing they bless the fleet down in New Bedford at the track.  It is a big, it is a big 
attaction, it is a big event, it is a big festival.  And I would think each one of these would be, 
would have the same effect but they haven't.  They are very much kept within their own little 
community.  
?:  The Portuguese community here seems very, uh,...
?:  Do you want to take calls?
?:  Um?  [Short pause]
?:  The photographer.
D:  Yeah [few words unclear]
?:  I forget his name.  Jack.  Jack.
?:  The Portuguese community here seems so much more closed at least to me than some of the 
other communities.  More private.
?:  Well I think the French-Canadian community (--)  You know I think, where are they?  I see 
the Pawtucketville Social Club, but what holidays do they celebrate?  What, you know, the 
typical things I would expect to see [few words unclear].
?:  Saint Jean Baptiste of course, they have a brochure they put out of all their events.  Various 
masses and um, speeches and dedications of things and there is a dinner that they every year and 
stuff like that.  
?:  I have even, I have even missed all that.  Now the Asian community is such a mystery.  
[Cough]  All the differences and the subtleties between the (--)  
?:  Different groups.
?:  Vietnamese and the Cambodians and [?:  Laotians] and the those from Laos, yeah.
?:  Yeah, I know.
?:  I would love to see the community and find out what they are about.  What holidays they 
celebrate?
?:  They always seem very closed to me you know?  
?:  That could be language too, you know?  [?:  That is true]  I mean I don't speak any of their 
languages.  I can say one word in Khmer.  That is it.  And you know, how do you approach 
somebody?
B:   Um, that you have got some language barriers.
?:   I have gone twice to the Asian Markets and have bought greens and people have said to me 
you know, kind of astonished that I seemed to know what I was doing.  And I would just go in 
for the couple of things that I really knew.  And there are a lot of things in there that I can't 
identify.  And the woman at the counter on two different occasions said, "do you know what to 
do with this?"  You know, just kind of like very surprised.  [Laughs]
B:  Well what is your word that you know?
?:  Mom I think.  It is uh, mulberry.  Somebody told me that on one of my tours, because all of 
the Cambodian kids on my tours would pick mulberries.  And, you know down by uh, [?:  yeah, 
the Blacksmith's shop] the Blacksmith's shop.  [?:  Yeah]  And they would just stand there and eat
these mulberries.  And uh (--)
?:  Yeah, mulberries are very, very good.  We have one in my back yard.  Just kind of grew there. 
?:  Well last year was a banner year for mulberries.
B:  Sure was.  It was great.
?:  They were everywhere.
D:  In Philadelphia um, there is a big Mung community and they would always come.  And there 
are a lot of Ginkgo trees on the University of Pennsylvania campus and these whole families 
would come and they would collect the fruits that fell on the ground.
?:  Hm, and what group was this that did this?
D:  The Mung, they are the highland people in Laos.  
?:  It is really funny that you say that, because just today I ordered for the Green Acre project a 
pair of Ginkgo trees, [?:  Huh] for that reason.  You know, a lot of people don't like to plant the 
female trees, because the fruit have a very offensive odor.  [?:  Yeah]  Um, dog vomit is the way I
have heard it described.  [Laughs]  It is really nasty.  But um, you know, you see the canned 
fruits and stuff in the markets.  And to obviously have the fruit it is like holly, you have to have 
the pair of them.  So I ordered two.  
D:  This is the uh, these are the contact sheets that we just got back from uh, from that 
procession.  
B:  I think it is kind of neat that it was sort of a you know, a non-attraction, because the people 
that went to it obviously were really into it.  They are a part of it as opposed to spectators.  And 
that [few words unclear].
?:  Yeah, that is one thing that I don't like about tours.  I'm like, when people come to my area it 
is like, I don't want you there just observing me you know, with my native costumes necessarily. 
Do you know?  [?:  Yeah]  There is (--)  And then you can have a sort of outward focus.  The 
community will stop being who it is and start thinking, oh, now who, what would they like to 
see?  You get a more outward look. 
?:  I wondered about the Khmer dancing at the [?:  
umhm] National Folk Festival.  Um, you know, how, how close to out there in the hills was the 
music?  The drumming?  But it was strange.  Well what is great about it too,  you didn't need to 
speak the language to understand what was going on and as far as the story being told.  
?:  Yeah, that was amazing.  I was amazed at (--)
?:  I didn't need that at all. I was getting all sort of subtle things, trails and nature.  And uh, I was, 
I was amazed.  I was very impressed with that.  I thought, [?:  yeah] so it worked.   It crossed the 
language even though I don't speak it.
?:  Also that too, those court dancing more than like folk dancing I think.  So that it would have 
been more of an exhibition dance as I understand it, even back in the home country.
D:  We had heard from people in the Assistance Agencies that people in the community were 
really excited about that, because it was the high art form.  And a lot of the people in the 
Cambodian community here are from villages.  And that was the first time that they have gotten 
in their lives to see that.  I mean they didn't even have a chance to see that back in Cambodia.  
This is the, this is the home altar I was talking about.  The uh, the crowns of the (--)
B:  [Comment unclear]
?:  Did you do all of your work in black and white?
D:  Uh no, we take colors, do all of the color and stuff in slides.  And uh, that takes a little longer 
to process, but uh, pretty much we try and do both color and black and white whenever we can.
?:  There seems to be a very wide cross section of the community here in terms of age.  You 
know there are a lot of young people in this perception and a lot of older people.
D:  That is one of the really striking things about the Portuguese community.  You know the, all 
of the (--)
?:  It is very, very family orientated.
?:  It is not [unclear].  It is not being uncool.
?:  Um.  Yeah, exactly.
?:  Yeah.
D:  Well all of, all of the events (--)
?:  Yeah, even a teenager might be involved in it.
?:  A teenager would do it.
D:  Yeah.  It is not without some tress.  I mean there is some (--)
?:  Sure.
?:  Are there things that we can watch out more out there, watch for you Doug, or be aware of 
something you might not catch, or something you might want to be aware of?  I mean I can't 
think of anything off hand.  I can't think of anything that I have seen, or that has happened in 
Lowell that through my experience that you would want to know about, but there may be.  
D:  Well you know, some of these people that you talk to, do you all uh, I remember that Ed used
to be good about this.  About you know, they would always, when that Oral History Program was
going on they would always sort of, when people would come down (--)  I guess at that point the 
Visitors Center was actually over on Merrimack Street where uh, [B:  Wood Ab, well it was] 
where the Crafts Gallery is now.  [B:  Yeah]  Yeah.  And they, the rangers would always send, 
send people up to talk to Ed.  You know, and Ed would get their names for us.  And that was 
really, that was (--)  A lot of the people that we talked to right at the beginning there were people 
that just came in.  Um, you know, if you do come across interesting people you know, it is 
probably good just to keep a list of, a list of them, um, you know, particularly when this Regional
Center opens.  It would be good to you know, try and (--)
?:  [Voice in background unclear].
?:  Is there a fine between uh, you kow, just sort of documenting what is happening and 
exploiting what is happening?
D:  Yes.  Yeah,  definitely.  It is uh, yeah, it is a really, it is a really uh, tricky issue.  Um. 
?:  [Unclear].   
?:  Yeah.  I am getting [few words unclear].
?:  Help. [Laughs]
?:  Cause Larry what you were saying about how they uh, the festivals in Gloucester how they 
are major attractions and people come to see them.
L:  But they still are, but the thing still, it still happens . It is not lessened,  but other people 
come.
?:  [All speak at once, cannot transcribe].
?:  That is the danger though.
L:  No.  No, absolutely not.  Absolutely.  That means San, the statue of San Pedro comes [few 
words unclear] along and people go up and they stick dollar bills on him.  And it is, it is a neat 
thing.  And it is, I mean the whole, the whole, the whole catholic community essentially in, in 
Gloucester turns out.  The blessing of the fleet.  Fishermen's wives.  [Conversation going on in 
background-cannot transcribe]   Everybody comes back for a fiesta.
?:  I'm not sure what you would find interesting or not.  [Beginning of sentence unclear] 
interesting or not.  Probably not.
?:  [Few words unclear] real kind of thing.  [Few words unclear] from the standpoint of there 
being danger involved.  You know what I mean?
?:  Well at some points it is you know, it, we tend to be pretty [rest of sentence unclear-too many 
speaking as once].  My limitation right now is that, that things are winding down [end of 
sentence unclear].  You know, [rest of sentence unclear].
?: It is a real thing.  It has it's own commercial aspects to it too.  I mean you know, it is a festival.
So then there are the Merry-Go-Round rides and the turn around things.   And the gismos and 
cotton candy is sold, but the city does it.  It is part of, it is just part of tradition.  
[More than one conversation going on at once, cannot transcribe all of them, too unclear]
?: Do you know how long you have been doing it?
?: I don't know, probably since whenever, I think they even blessed the fleet.  You know the 
movie Captain Courageous?  I think it was filmed in the nineteen thirties and it was being done 
in the days of wooden ships.  I could not tell you when it first started, but I  think it goes back to, 
to Spain.
?:  Maybe the turn of the century when everybody you know, started coming here.
D: I mentioned it to Ed and he digged up, he dug up this article in Life Magazine back in the 
thirties about the bingo games in Lowell.  And it you know, amazing.  They used to have bingo 
and they used bingo in the city auditorium during the depression.  
B: Oh, geeze.
D: You know, and it was a big, big thing.  I mean it was like the lottery is today.  [B:  Wow!]  
And um, and also after that I turned to an interview with Ed McMahon who was from Lowell.  
And it turns out he got his start in the, in the uh, [?:  WCAP].  Well it would be right before that.  
In high school he started out, he got his start by announcing at bingo games.  [Laughs] 
?: Well how about the tradition of cruising here?  Cruising [unclear].  When did that start?  I have
met, there is a ranger who used to, she used to work at the park and her mom says that in the 
forties they were cruising here.  And it is (--)  I read in the paper Lowell was stop, stop the 
roudies!  And we are going to increase police presence.  
?: There is tons of cops down there at night.
?: It is as if, it is as if it just, just started this year or last.  
END OF TAPE