UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  PATRICK J. MOGAN
CONDUCTED BY:  PAUL MARION & DOUG DENATALE
DATE
P = PATRICK
M = MARION
D = DOUG
LFP-DD-R009-R010
SIDE A
Begins with Patrick J. Mogan in mid-sentence:
P:  to deal with the 80% factor, which was the city as a whole.  And I'm looking at that as a 
setting in which your educational program can now be carried out.  Under the (--)  Because we 
had to deal with the way that they government was organized, although we had the theme of our 
model city program, progressed through education, which was an interdisciplinary approach to 
our re-development, we had to organize our report.  We had an overview, but we had to organize 
our report for the way that the government was organized.  And under the legislation it was 
calling for a task force in health, a task force in education, a task force in transportation, a task 
(--)  Just the way that they, in commerce just the way(--)
M:  In commerce, in housing, whatever.
P:  Just in housing, just the way the government, the government was organized.  
M:  Now did you, just to divert a second, you went from being a School Principal to being 
Director of the Educational Component of Model Cities?  Was that the kind of (--)
P:  I went from a School Principal, from a teacher, to a School Principal, to a System 
Superintendent.
M:  Okay.  System Superintendent.  
P:  Then I went to the University of Lowell (M:  okay) in the Education Department on Graduate 
Studies.  Then I came back as the Long Range Planner for the City of Lowell.
M:  Okay.  This was all before Model Cities?
P:  No, all the time in the meantime I started the Human Services Corporation.  And the same 
time I'm doing both jobs.  I'm Director of the Human Services. 
M:  Human Services, was Model Cities the antecedent for Human Services?
P:  The Model Cities was the antecedent of Human Services.  When, the legislation for Model 
Cities was suppose to be five years.  
M:  That was the late 60's?  
P:  Yeah.  It's 60, I think it came out in '66.  And it was (--)  But what happened is after 2 years 
they started, they started to try to phase it out.  
M:  And that was like urban re-development program?
P:  Yes, they started to phase the thing out.  And so what they did, what we did is we said, this 
legislation is going to go out.  And what we're talking about is a long range plan.  We need a 
mechanism for continuity.  So we took the goals of the model city and started the Human 
Services Corporation, which was designed to carry out those particular goals.  So while I was 
long range planner, I was getting no money from the Human Services Corporation.  But even 
though I was working for the city, I was running both of them at the same time.  Now because we
had to submit our plan to narrowly oriented agencies of government, just like housing and 
education and the like, we had task forces.  And we had a task force in education.  And sitting 
around the table maybe about, we had very active participation of people.  Sitting around the 
table we had representatives from maybe all of the cultural groups from Lowell.  And I said, 
looking at them, I said this looks like the League of Nations.  And so I said, how do you look 
upon your culture, or your own background?  On your cultural practices, and traditions, and 
customs.  Do you look upon them as negative as far as the education of your children is 
concerned?  Or do you look upon them as positive as far as the education of your children is 
concerned.  And one of the people there proposed this point of view, "what difference does it 
make, because we don't influence the institutions of, that are educating.  They have a particular 
format."  I said, "well that is a condition that exists, but it doesn't have to exist.  I said, I think 
what has to be determined first is, do you believe, or is there any evidence that what you are on 
your background is a positive factor, or any evidence that it's the negative factor."  And one of 
the ladies spoke up.  She was a Greek lady.  She said, "I have three children.  Every one of them 
speaks Greek fluently.  She said, I have a sister with two children, neither of them speak Greek.  
And she said, she believes that she is doing right, and I believe that I am doing right."  And so all
of them said they had the same thing.  They said, "what difference does it make even if you think
your right?"  If the impression is given to you by the institution that you are not right, (--)
M:  Was there, was there a general perception of the people at that meeting that the institution 
was [few words unclear], in each case was not right.  
P:  Oh sure.  Oh sure.  Oh sure, because at that time we were even having the French school 
thinking of dropping French.  We had the Greek school thinking of dropping (--)  During that 
particular time I had to talk to the French, and I had to talk to the Polish, and I had to talk to the 
Greek Schools to preserve their language in their school, because the pressure was being put on 
them by the so called education Frenchmen, but the so called education Greek, by the so called 
educated Polish to get into the mainstream.  So they were, they didn't know how to handle that 
pressure.  They didn't have the knowledge of all the research.  So we said, "okay.  I said, what if 
you find out?"  I said to the lady, "that your perpetuation of the language and the cultures and the 
customs and the traditions was detrimental."  They said, "what if we had positive evidence to 
prove that?"  Then she said, "I'd change right away, because she said, I live for my kids."  And so
I said, "okay, why don't we get the leading authorities on the country to come in and talk to us, 
and give us view points on this."  So that's what we did.  
     We were able to get Doctoral Programs around the country to come in and talk to the group.  
And the group came, their opinion, their findings of the thing was that there was terrific value in 
their background, and there was terrific value in their diversity, and that it was, it was the prime 
ingredients for a very successful educational program.  So that's how that particular group (--)  
And then as time went on in the Model Cities Program, where they had all the individual task 
force, all of the task forces congealed around the education task force.  So we were back again.  
So we had the constituency and we had a group of committed people, like when we were (--)  
And this is what was happening in the housing, say we had the housing task force.  When the 
problem came up on housing, 1955, just before Model Cities you had Urban Renewal.  (M:  '65?)
'55.   (M:  '55.)  Sure, '60's.  Well between '55 and '65 you had Urban Renewal.  
M:  Yeah, because "Little Canada" was taken down in '62, '64.  
P:  Yeah, and well, and your plans were made long before that.  They were made in 1955.  So 
what happened as a result of your Urban Renewal.  A whole way of life was wiped out.  The 
French Community was scattered all over Lowell.  It left Saint Joseph's School here a parish of 
elderly, with the school with no one from the parish to have.  So when we started this whole 
thing because of previous governmental programs, there was a terrific distrust for the 
government.  And to sum up what the feeling was, we are not going to sacrifice any more of our 
way of life for a pad like we did under the Urban Renewal.  
M:  Did the destruction of "Little Canada" play into this directly at all?
P:  Oh yes!  The people were saying that there is more to this than a room, or a place to sleep.  
There is a way of life, and you have ruined it on us.  You have pushed us here and pushed us 
there, and pushed us all over the city.  And we no longer have that coherent neighborhood that 
we once had.  
M:  What was an interesting twist in the whole, the Urban Renewal of that section "Little 
Canada" was also the destruction of the Dutton Street Row Houses, the Boarding Houses, 
because then there was people like Lydia Howard who got involved and you know, it crossed 
kind of an ethnic boundary into also the Yankee interest in just the whole preservation.  Raise 
preservation consciousness as well as this other kind of [unclear] of the French Community.  
P:  Yeah.  Well I think we at that time, we, when we started to talk about cultural groups, we 
mentioned them and how they were being wiped out.  And one of the first ones that we always 
mentioned was the Yankees.  (M:  Yeah)  So we put them in the same, in the same category as all 
of the others.  Now what was happening on the thing was that there is no, cities are organized, 
and there was no comprehensive overall planner.  They are organized just like the government.  
Incidentally, when we got those, about 40 different departments in the same room, one of the 
men got up after we were there for awhile, and he was so intrigued by the discussions that were 
going on, he said," I've been working for the government for thirty years.  This is the first time I 
have ever sat down with my counterparts from other departments working on a common cause.  
He said, the first time that it's ever happened."       Now what's happened in your cities?  Most of 
your planners are physical planners.  And most of your economics is the economics of a bygone 
day.  At one time, say in the United States, 80% of the economic format was the production of 
hard goods, and only 20% was your service related.  We're in a stage when we were talking about
this, where 60% of your format was service oriented, and at the most 40% was hard good.  But 
all of your economic determinations were being done as if, as if it were just the reverse.  So no 
one was every looking to the composition, in your cultural composition as having an economic 
implications.  But your whole economic theory in your country was based on the two elements.  
So here we were doing planning for a long time with one arm tied behind our back.  And so this 
was the first integrated plan.  And it wasn't the plan that was accepted by the political element, it 
was the plan we jammed down their throats, because we had a constituency.  They never really 
understood it.  And I still think today they don't.  They don't understand it.
M:  Pat, you keep on saying the political type, would that be the local?
P:  The local political.  The local political.  
M:  What were the dynamics?  How did you manage to jam that down their throats?
P:  All right.  When we had, when we were organized, and one of the things we had, we had to 
organize some kind of an interaction with your existing government.  So we had the various task 
forces, and everyone else, and the representatives, and we sat down with corresponding ones 
from the other ones all around, all around the table.  Well the local government was kind of 
smart, but the people weren't that stupid.  Paul say would have the part in the public works and 
he would bring with him, not only him and his assistant, but two more from other divisions 
within that.  So there were four votes, five votes there, and this other one.  So we could see that 
we were easily going to be outvoted.  So we brought in to them that anything that we were doing 
that was going to be incorporated in the plan would have to have the approval of 80% of the 
Model City group before it could even be considered by them.  So we kind of took over that 
particular, that particular part.  So your whole plan went through to Washington under that 
particular, under that particular format.  So we were able, we were able to out politicize the 
political process that was going on at that time.  Because most of your agencies had a tendency 
to be protective of what they were doing.  And that was normal and we, we realized that.  So we 
knew damn well that we weren't going to get anyone related to housing or health agree with what
we were saying.  We knew we weren't going to get the same thing from education to agree.  You 
could get individual.  But your institution as a whole would disagree with what you were doing.  
So we, we realized we would be just spinning our wheels.  So that is the important part of the 
process that we set up, because at this time, you know, it's amazing to me when I look back.  You
go back and get the headlines, and get the papers.  I was referred to as a nut in the papers, but I 
had a good reputation.  So they had a hard time dealing, dealing with that.  So if it weren't for the
fact that I had a good reputation, and it weren't the fact that we had a constituency organized, we 
never would have gotten where we got.  And also the big part of it was, that when we went to 
Washington, and went to all of the hearings, the others couldn't talk about it because they didn't 
know it.  We were the spokesmen for that.  And when the time when the political sector got in 
and started to take over and they couldn't, they had to push us right back again, because we were 
the only ones that could explain it.  
M:  But the plan that you're talking about, is this the plan that came out of the Model City's 
report, or is the Historic Canal District Plan?
P:  Oh no, the Model City Report.  
M:  The Model City's Report.  
P:  The Model City's Report, because you never, because in the Model City Report was the 
National Park.  
M:  Called for the National Park.  Right.
P:  Yes, it called for the, it called for the National Park.  And it called for the State Park.
M:  Have other things from that Model City's Report come to fruition?  
P:  Well the thing that, the big thing, and this is which was to make, become and educated city or 
an urban laboratory.  That was the big concept.  
M:  [Unclear] you said what happened is that it all congealed around the education task force.  
So the report really took this concept of educated city.  (P:  Yes, yes. )  Yeah.
P:  Now what we were doing on the thing is we would make certain statements, and when we 
were at hearings we were only hoping that someone would question.  Because when we, just to 
give you an idea, under HUD, we had some difficulties with HUD, The Regional Office and Dr. 
Fred Wilkinson, who is the Head of that particular office.  And under our education plan it called 
for an experimental school being run and financed by the state to start incorporating some of 
these things that we were talking about.  And it called for the Parks.  And the stance of the, of the
Department of HUD, was you can't do these, because none of these things exist.  Well we had 
already gone through the process of having legislation past in the state, allowing no more than 
two experimental school districts to be started in Massachusetts.  We already got that passed the 
legislature.  So Clemie Alexis, [few words unclear].  So we said to them, and this is Clemie 
doing the talking now.  What's wrong conceptually with the National Park and the State Park, 
and what's wrong conceptually with the experimental school?  And they said, "nothing."  Then 
she said, "well the only thing I can conclude is that you think we're too stupid to carry it out."  So
they, they unwillingly then, gave accent to what we were proposing, but we were having that 
same difficulty all the way through, but we were waiting for them to say something.  And we 
were waiting for them in Washington to say something.  Because as soon as they said something,
we had the leading experts in the country to come in with the testimony to give affirmation to 
what we, what we were doing.  And so, so this is, so that is the reason why the political sector 
couldn't carry it, they didn't understand the thing.  And I predicted that once it went into 
operation, where it would become the physical development, that the other ideas would be given 
short shift.  And actually that's what, but it isn't necessarily giving short shift, they don't 
understand what we were driving at.  In other words, I claim we got about, of the, on the scale 
from one to ten, of the potential we got maybe two so far.  And so these (--)  And so as the time 
goes on, you know, we start, and a lot of the assumption that we were making, that your 
economy is going to change, and your economy has changed, and there are other opportunities, 
economic opportunities associated with that.  
     See, in this whole process, before I forget it, we were so organized to, to, to give the best 
research, and the best opinions that we could possibly find out on what we were doing.  In this 
process and during that period of time, we had more outstanding scholars coming into the city of 
Lowell working for us than you could imagine.  We were actually an Urban Laboratory.  And this
is the process that we should continue that, because once this was developed there was a period 
of time where no one come in, because everyone here knew the answers.  So this is what I mean 
on the scale of your big thing, was to become that Urban Laboratory.  And another thing we had 
was that, that we, on education, what we were talking about, and we were talking about our 
diversity, and we were talking about our importance of that diversity to the country, and the 
importance of this history, and everything like that.  So the, what's his name?  Ernest Boyer was 
Commissioner of Education, and I was able to get to his office.  I got the assistant, but he, I was 
suppose to see him, but he was out of the country.  But they didn't cancel the meeting, they didn't
tell me, I went down.  And I met his assistant.  And his assistant told how interested they were, 
and this particular thing that we were working on.  But after that Boyer came up with something. 
And he's now gone to the Rockerfeller Foundation as the Director.  And his whole theme is we 
are being jolted into the era of interdependence.  Now that means, to me what it means is that we 
as a country cannot exist as an inter, independent country.  
M:  That's where [Reischall?] fits it, right?
P:  Yeah, and [Reischall?] and all of the others fit it.  So, and so, what I'm saying is now that if 
we are going to remain and keep our standard of living up, be have to have better and positive 
relationships with all of the countries.  So what I'm saying is we could go to Poland, or any 
country, and say for the first time in the history of the United States a statement has been made 
by our Federal Government of the positive role that the various culture groups played in the 
development of America.  So if you as a country are going to do anything in relation to the 
United States, Lowell is the place that could do it, because that's where that statement has been 
embodied, was in the city of Lowell.  And this is why I'm saying, they're missing a terrific 
economic opportunity by not exploring this particular concept with every single one of those 
countries, and have all of their traveling cultural groups being spearheaded through Lowell.
D:  Just so I can have a better idea of all of the pieces that went into this, one of, I guess sort of a 
connected question here, the make-up of the task force that was involved in Model Cities, I was 
wondering what the composition of that was in regard to the communities in the city?  And 
secondly, Paul and I were talking on the way over, you coming into the city as someone who is 
not a native of Lowell, and this being a city that seems to be very oriented towards people who 
have their history in the city itself, what kind of a position did that put you in, and what was the 
[unclear] of that?
P:  I had a good reputation.  I had, my first school I had as the Principal was the Molloy School, 
which was in a section of the city that was composed of French, Yankee, and Jewish.  And when 
I first, the year before I went to that school they had 350 broken windows.  The year I left that 
school there was one broken, broken window.  The school had the reputation that no sub every 
wanted to go there.  After awhile every sub wanted to go there.  Kids had the best reputation, and
the best school community relations was done there than anyplace else in the whole city.  And 
uh, and we had very good working relationships.  Like we had, we had the Poor Claire 
Monastery, which was close to the Molloy School.  We supplied the alter boys.  For that.  We had
very good relationship with the French Church in that community.  And we had very very good 
relationships with the Highland Congregational Church.  So, so I had that background.  And then
also I had another school that came for the so called Yankee section of the city.  And it was the 
Reilly School.  And I think it was 1958 that opened.  When I went over there to open that school,
half the kids to make up the composition were going to come from say, outer Belvidere.  The 
other half were going to come from lower Belvidere.  Well I had teachers and parents that wanted
the kids from lower Belvidere in one classroom, the ones from outer Belvidere in another 
classroom.  This is long before we had any numbers.  There wasn't a Black kid involved, and 
there wasn't a Puerto Rican kid involved.  These were so, it was jut a matter of class, that's all it 
was.  And so the uh, I quickly handled that, you know, and told them.  I said, after a period of 
time you'll never know who was who, and they wouldn't.  And they didn't know who was who.  
But we always had very very good activities going on, and we always had a very high moral 
associated with it.  Some of the other schools didn't like what I was doing because they figured 
they might have to do it, but that never bothered me.  So when we started the task force we had 
the public and private.  In fact at one time I talked to the private schools about, I said, how about 
being sub-systems to the public school?  And you remain, you have the French, and the Polish, 
and the Greek, and move our kids around through them and try to work on (--)  We even went to 
the Archdiocese about the thing.  
M:  Who were some of the people on the task force, the education task force?
P:  We had the pastor of all, all of the churches were on there.  And the principals of all of the 
schools.  The Greek school, and the principal of the Polish school.  And in fact at that time one of
the problems they had in the parochial schools, and I knew about it because I used to do 
evaluations, I used to work with the mother houses of a lot of these things, and I was one of 
them.  I was, with the outside evaluation team come in, I was generally one of the team on doing 
the evaluations.  So I knew what their charters were.  And I knew, but I also knew one of the 
problems they were.  They were losing their nuns.  And one of the reasons why they were, one of
the big reasons why they were losing them is the inability of the orders to carry out their 
commitment to educate them.  And many of these nuns were teaching without degrees.  So I set 
up a process under Model Cities, where they were going to the University getting their degrees.  
Because I believe that education was a total process, and I believe just as much what the private 
schools was doing.  And you had some strong private schools, and I wanted them to keep on 
going, because they were the receptacle of your cultural factors.  And so I believe they were 
important to the city.  So we already, so we had some of that experience, and some of that, some 
of that background.  And also the fact that I was able to tell them that I came from a background 
myself, where I saw the cultural dimensions wiped out.  And without any, without any fight.  
Without any, there wasn't any organized group to, to you know, to do the research that we were 
doing, and get an answer.  And I, like I, the reason why my mother never spoke Gaelic to me, 
was she wanted me to become better than she was.  And she believed the institutions that told, 
we were referred to as second language problems in school.  The language was never looked 
upon as an asset.  And we have research, and we had research.  And this is another thing I found 
out.  That experts on linguistic development, this is just more or less a generalization.  Although 
language patterns are pretty well developed in that first five years of life.  The optimum time for 
the acquisition of another language is between the ages of five and nine.  Now, but also they 
were saying in that research that to understand your language, suppose it's the English language, 
you can do it much better if you had another functional language as a frame of reference.  So to 
be intellectually bound, we would try to get every English speaking person to have another 
language.  Now what was happening community wise, all around the country, via the Institution 
with Education was the wipe out that other function.  So they were actually anti-intellectual, or 
they (--)
LFP-DD-ROO9-R010
SIDE B
Begins with Pat Mogan in mid sentence:
P:  The means as a value to the ones that were putting the money up.
M:  Right.  Right.
D:  In regard to the whole language issue, how would you characterize what's currently going on 
in the city with the whole issue of bilingual education?
P:  All right.  One of the things that you would always get up is that it doesn't take any brains to 
be against something.  It does take some brains to be for something.  And you could get a few 
people long before we had Puerto Ricans, long before we had the Orientals, I organized the 
Reilly school and the people didn't want the poor Whites in the thing.  So it is, it is much deeper 
than that.  It is just a bigotry and a prejudice that exist based on a lack of knowledge.  If you had, 
if the people had the knowledge, like in the world that we have to send our kids in, it would be a 
communication world.  But also taking the field of hard goods, the most of your manufacturing 
in the future and it's being done now, it's being done in foreign countries, and mostly in third 
world countries.  All right.  So what's happening is that an awful lot of the job opportunities for 
the average person, and others here, will come from going to the foreign countries and being a 
supervisor.  But that calls for a knowledge of the language and the customs of the thing.  So 
anyone thinking of the economic well being of our kids, should be thinking of that as one of the 
elements in their particular, their particular development.  So I'm saying that those people are 
anti-development of the kids due to their ignorance.  If they knew what we were talking about, or
if the other people knew, they would never influence the other people.  
M:  Well they're taking kids who are already partially bilingual, and trying to make them 
monolingual. 
P:  Yes!  Well I had, back, I used to have some dealings with the Sears Roebuck Company.  And I
was very friendly with some of their officials.  And they had the Rosenthal Foundation that used 
to do an awful lot of help in education.  And I got money from them when I was in another 
community.  Talking to one of the officials of Sears Roebuck, he said to me, if you know any 
bright young people with the knowledge of Portuguese, or Spanish, we have some good openings
in South America.  I said, I never thought you would have difficulty getting bright young people 
with the knowledge of Spanish, or a knowledge of Portuguese.  He said, no, we don't, except one
thing.  They have the mechanical knowledge of the language, and the mechanical knowledge, the
language is not based on an understanding of the culture.  So we sent them down there.  They 
can't, they feel out of place down there.  They might stay there one year or two years and they're 
back home.  They've been very poor investments for us.  So we're looking for that type of person.
And there are the openings down there for those people, but they have to be, they have to have 
more than the language.  They have to have a feeling, because we have to build up the good will 
to start getting, getting the business.  So what these people are talking about is completely 
antithetical to what, to what I'm talking about.
    And what I was trying to do for education was (--)  I should give you an example.  One of the 
Superintendents of one of your wealthy suburbs here that I used to cooperative programs with, he
told me one time, we started to develop a program where some of our kids would go to Concord 
and learn about Concord under the tutor lege of Concord students teaching Lowell students.  And
the idea was for the Concord students to come back and under the tutor lege of the Lowell kids 
teach them about, and they would have their political revolution, along with the industrial 
revolution and get some kind of a comparative base.  
     The Superintendent said to me one time, he said, what I'm doing is not necessarily for the 
edification of Lowell.  He said, what I'm doing is for the good of the kids I have in Concord.  So 
he said, I need Lowell in order, in order to do it.  Now when you have leading people in the field 
of education saying that, and you have these people through their idiocy, saying just the opposite.
I think that they're working to the detriment of the kids in doing that.  So, but I blame part of it 
on the fact that your political sector did not make much what?  Much of an effort, or much of a 
promotion.  That the physical things we were doing was only building the framework around 
which we would do the cultural thing.  And they never, they never start mentioning the cultural 
part as the biggest value that, that we had.  So it's, it's understandable that the other people didn't,
didn't get this particular understanding because the political sector.  We knew that generally you 
have to build, you have to have a facility to do something.  And the facility precedes the 
program.  But treating the facilities, and not treating the, you know, to encompass the program is 
kind of, well it's the most shortsighted and stupid thing that I can think of.  
D:  What would you attribute that orientation of the political sector?  Here you have people, 
you've got your people on your task force that are coming out of the community and are 
receptive to what you're basing on an educational program.  You also have the political leaders 
who are coming out of the same background.  What's this information [rest of comment unclear]?
P:  All right.  All right.  Well I'll tell you what you're doing.  When you had these people coming 
out of the community, you were having the representation of all of these cultural groups as part, 
that's what we mean as part of the, part of the community.  You're, generally people fear what 
they don't know.  The xenophobic idea.  We know that there are more similarities between groups
than differences, but your differences stand out first.  When these groups are working together, 
they find out how many similarities they have among all of them.  So those were the well 
educated people, but remember they were mostly made up of your minority groups.  But your 
government was made up of your majority.  But your government never really understood what 
the process was.
M:  Also, I mean they can understand real estate, they can understand property, and but the other 
aspect is in a sense is a little bit more, it's more abstract.  You have a concept of a kind of a whole
social movement in a city.  So I mean what, as Pat was saying what we have, you know, the idea 
of the National, or State Park being the props around which the story is told, I mean that's a 
great, the props are easy to see, and understand, and focus on, and develop, but then the story 
you know, it's tough.
P:  I'll tell you one of the things you're going through.  You've got two groups.  You got the group
of people who were snow, what do you call it?  Brainwashed into believing that what they were 
weren't important.  That they should become something else.  Then that particular group of 
people after study found out that they have something of real value in and of them self, and they 
have something of real value to contribute to someone else when they started leading to the 
expert.  So that group starts becoming educated.  They are reinforced now.  When the people start
coming from other communities, coming in here, gradually the city is gradually being educated 
to that.  Except some of the ignorant ones that we have that are still playing on the old thing, but 
they're running into some difficulty on the thing.  They're not getting the support that they're, 
they're not getting any open (--)  Remember, we are a perfect example of this.  Up until the year 
about pretty close to 1850, the Irish in the city were in separate schools, they were segregated.  
People in this community don't realize that.  They don't realize.  And that's, that's a majority 
group.  And after the Irish got enough political power and numbers they gradually overcame that 
particular thing.  But also they not only overcame it, but all the time they were advocates among 
the ruling group agreeing with that.  So you had some from both branches.  This is what 
happened in the model cities.  We had, we had advocates among all of them.  And the one thing 
that we did have which was unique, we had generally the scholars of the country on their side 
too.  So once this particular story would be, it's very easy to neutralize the story of the, of the 
others who are still operating you know, as if it were you know, something, something of the 
past.  And this is one of the reason why I wanted the different type of education program.  I know
that, and most of the research show the connection between a person's achievement and their 
economic status.  And I also know that there's a certain close correlation between the educational
level of the parents and the level of their kids.  And this is a very very dominant factor in the, in 
the achievement of the school.  So what's happening is people who come from a different 
background into that institution are at a disadvantage because they are coming in, when 
predictably a format is oriented to one cultural group.  
     So, but there's been an awful lot of research done.  And one of them, in Harlem there was a 
Black Professor from Yale that went with kids and families.  And he said, I'm going to come up, 
what do you want for your kid?  And they told what they wanted.  He said, okay, I'll help them 
get there.  But I want them prenatally, and I want you to become part of this process with it.  And
if you're not going to I don't even want to work with you.  Those kids have made out remarkable,
because they weren't coming in with the disadvantage.  So I knew your present format of 
education had to  be changed to give equal opportunity to the ones that are coming in.  But again,
I didn't want to present that as a intellectual discussion, because it's easier to be against 
something, because you don't have to have any knowledge, than it is to be for something.  So I 
went for the other thing of treating the 80% factor, and then coming later and finding a way of 
tying it in, is part of a whole (--)  In other words, there was a strategy, there was a strategy to do 
it.  Otherwise you would end up in an incessant debate over the cultural contribution to learning, 
verses a so called standard, standard curriculum.  I think it's one of the things, I use it as a quote 
a lot of times.  
     Dean Atchinson was known to be a person who was very very well, had a terrific amount of 
knowledge in a lot of different fields.  And someone said to him one time, a reporter, said where 
did you get all of your varied knowledge?  Where did you get such an education?  And he said 
most of my education has come from my mother's knee and other low joints.  And I think most 
of my education on the same way, and it's come by a comparative you know, approach.  And 
that's, that's what the whole American study movements is done, is oriented towards, towards 
something.  So what I'm saying is, Lowell actually can be and is closer to being that Urban 
Laboratory, than any community in the United States.
M:  I mean it's happening in kind of a formal, informal way.  I mean just by, I mean everybody 
from Prince Charles to the City Manager of Beaumont, Texas (P: Yeah) coming through here.  I 
mean the teachers are the bureaucrats, and the government officials and so forth who talk about 
you know, this whole, a planning miracle that happened here.  You know.  So I mean there's like 
this (--)  In a way a portion of the educative city is in place, but you know, there's so much more 
to be realized.  Like you said, two on the scale of ten.  
P:  Well another things too, if they only realize, most places and people don't have any long 
range plan, and don't see ways of getting it.  But also, most agencies don't have any real long 
range plan, and they're all incapsulized right in their own particular unit.  So what you have to do
is come up with some kind of an organization to encompass all of those, and release the energy 
of all of those in one common thing.  And that's easy to do, because no, there's great chance of 
success in that, because no one is doing it.  Everyone is looking at, like there was a very 
interesting book that came out one excellence?  (M:  unclear)
D:  In Search of Excellence?
P:  In Search of Excellence.  Well as I look upon that, one of the major things out of that was that
most Corporations, there are two things.  Most corporations undervalued the individual attributes
in contributions that the individuals can make within an institution. In other words, undervalued 
that (--)  Because the successful operation, the successful corporations are ones that had a higher 
moral, and a sense of participation that the others.  The other thing was, that most of your 
institutions are incapable of changing themselves, and they all had to find something outside of 
their institutions, who improve the institution.  So John Gardner said, what every community had
was a loosely knit group of people working on some kind of a common good to do things which 
cannot be done by any single institution along.  Well that's what we did.  And we were just 
applying these basic principles of organization, and the basic principles of learning in order, in 
order to do.  But we didn't want to get hung up on any kind of a debate on the, this and that.  Like
this guy that called me from last night, Irv, I wrote his name down.  He's from Philadelphia.  And
his particular, his particular thing was that, that there was a feeling (--)  In other words, we, 
among an awful lot of people there is a feeling that respectability and dignity is given to what 
they were and the path that they played in this process of the American Industrial Revolution.  
An awful lot of the people that come into the city get that particular feeling.  That's the thing that 
we wanted.  What we have done to a degree is harness an awful lot of those people to be active 
and good community, community participants.  But actually, what is happening is we got another
trend where unthinking people not knowing exactly what our objectives were, or if they did 
know them, didn't understand them, saying now that we got some physical things done, let's 
bring some culture to the city.  In other words, what they were saying is, you people have 
nothing to contribute culturally, so we have to bring something from the outside in, which again 
is, is back to step one from which we were started.  So this is the ambivalence for which we were
started.  So this is the ambivalence that's in the minds of a lot of the people.  And it's culture, it is 
institutionally induced again by the, by the uh (--)  See, my definition of culture, and in fact it 
isn't my definition.  We had a definition that, we had some very close relationships with the 
Quebec Government.  And the Government of Quebec came up with the cultural and economic 
plan for Quebec.  And they are the ones, and we talked to them, and we talked about 
inter-relationships that we could have with them that could be of benefit to their community, and 
could be of benefit to this community.  And when we met with them we found out they were 
agreeing 100% with us.  We met with the Minister of Cultural and Economic Affairs, and their 
assistant, and then one is from the Embassy, the French Embassy too.  We got their white paper 
and we found out they had the same definition.  They said that culture is the harmonization 
between human factors and economic factors.  It's that way of life.  
     Well this what we wanted the artist, and artists and your various arts and crafts are mean of 
expressing the culture.  The product isn't the culture.  The product is, is a representation of the 
culture.  But we have people thinking that culture was putting up some statues.  And this is, this 
is what I object too.  And I object to it very very very much.  But some people, some people are 
not doing enough thinking on that.  
M:  In the Cultural Plan the definition that we, we used you know, on the Cultural Plan is culture 
is the ways of living, learning, and expression rising from Lowell's heritage.  So it's tied in.  
Culture is (--)
P:  And culture could have some negative things in it.  Just like the harmonization between say, 
making a living, say in the community I grew up in, and (--)
M:  Yes, it's not always positive.
P:  And the way of life that the institutions convey the impression that it was a detriment to have 
that language.  So part of the way of harmonizing that, the people did not propose, and give the 
language to their kids.  So some bad things come out of it, because of the, in the harmonization.  
That could have been much better.  Like when I was in school, when you know, you had the 
whole Dick and Jane theory of school.  When the kids would get up and start, you know, one of 
your purposed of your reading, reading is only suppose to be printed speech.  And one of your 
purposes of it is to promote discussion and build up your vocabulary and things of that particular 
nature.  Well I used to marvel for awhile at those kids that were able to get up and talk.  Of 
course they were talking about their life.  There was no occasion to talk about our life.  Now this 
is just to show you what could happen.  If, if they were talking about some kind of a birthday 
party, or something like that, which was in the Dick and Jane, and they were giving examples, if 
the teachers were smart and had enough knowledge, they would say to us, what kind of 
celebrations do you have, say among the Irish, among your people, so I could go home and talk 
to my father and my mother, and they would start telling me, and I bring the things in, and the 
other kids are amazed and please at what I'm saying.  In other words, there wasn't any effort to 
involve the various groups who had something positive to offer in the whole educational process,
because they were led to believe the thing was negative.  So it's about time, you know, some of 
these are going to change, because, because unfortunately there seems to be an opinion that 
everyone in the United States gives value to only one way of life.  And there are certain 
communities and countries around the world that do not want to accept that, and are afraid of that
other way of life.  So we are building up our own enemies by the process that we are having.
     But also, I wanted to look upon, say this part being a statement by a federal government of the
positive role that the various culture has played in the development of America.  I wanted 
exchange programs with our kids, and all of those other places, so our kids could have for school
all of these other countries, as well as what we have here, or have, have something unique.  I'm 
not asking for something which is the same as every other community.  I'm asking for something 
that's different.  Another community couldn't do it, because they don't have the composition.  
And there's one superintendent, and another one said, "what I know about research, I would 
should be doing a lot of things.  But he said, I can't do them the way you can do them, because 
you have the ingredients.  You have the ingredients to do it."  
D:  In regards to that, in regards to the composition of Lowell, earlier in speaking of your own 
background you had talked about going from a situation that was essentially a community, to 
what is essentially (P:  We didn't realize it as that) a group of houses.  And that there is that 
process where community is at the same time a geographical entity, but it's the makeup of the 
families that contribute to the total sense of community.  That when that total feeling is gone that 
all you have is the [unclear] of houses.  Given the composition of Lowell what kind of processes 
do you see going on here in regard to neighborhood and community?
P:  You have an outstanding opportunity for a comparative approach to education that no one else
has.  Because you have this group here, this group there, this group here.  And they have more 
things in common than they have things uncommon.  But you need that diversity in order to have
any of the comparative approach to education.  And William [Reishower?] wrote a book towards 
the 21ST Century, "Education for a Changing World".  And the major thesis of his book is the 
comparative approach to history.  We have the ingredients for it within our own community.  
Most of them can only do that comparative, because they are so homogenized in their own 
community, that they don't have that other group to start comparing with.  And so that's, that's 
one, that's the major thing that (--) But in order to do that you would have to have a knowledge 
of system.  Because once you have a knowledge of systems, like if you had your objective 
understood, then there could be many many means to get to that end.  But unfortunately what has
happened to education is their means and objectives are exactly the same.  So there is no 
opportunity for taking advantage of this thing, and this thing, and this thing, and this thing, as a 
means to that, to that particular end.  And that's going to be the biggest drawback that I can 
possibly think is going to happen to education down the road, would, would be that.  Because 
most of your, most (--)  See you had, there was a very interesting study done by the Department 
of Commerce in 1980, "Learning Environments for Innovation" done by the Department of 
Commerce.  The premise on the thing was, and the reason why the Department of Commerce 
was interested in it, was that our economic future was very closely tied up with high technology.  
And so we, the Department of Commerce was interested in finding ways of preserving the so 
called leadership roles that they assumed that we had then in the world, in high technology.  How
are you going to preserve, perpetuate and transmit, and build people for those leadership 
positions?
     When they studied the thing, they found out that many of the leaders in high technology were 
foreigners.  They found out that three of them came from the same place in Hungary, the same 
area.  Going over there and studying them, they found out that it wasn't necessarily the school, 
but the parents were tinkerers, always doing things.  And their kids picked up the same habits as 
tinkerers.  They did exactly the same thing in the United States, and they found out some of the 
leaders in high technology in this country were people who had a very successful and active 
interaction with something like a science museum, or an exploratorium early in their school life.  
All right.  So what they were recommending that high technology get together with community 
and develop something like an exploratorium, or a science museum. And I'm talking about an 
exploratorium which would come together where you could (--)  See, I would take the elements, 
the ingredients of the major objectives, or the major ingredients of the Park, which are the Water 
Power (--)
M:  It would really be like an Arts and Humanities and Science Exploratory.
P:  Yeah.  Arts and Humanities and Science, and you could have all of the leaders, all of the 
different thinkers from around the country come here and start enhancing and developing ways 
of further expanding and utilizing that particular, the ingredients that we do have.  And actually it
would be just the continuation of what we did in the early years of the, of the uh (--)
     See, I had a very interesting thing that happened to me.  I got my Doctorate from the 
University of Mass.  And I wasn't that particularly interested in it, but when I was up at the 
University, I was up at the University of Mass. getting people, and getting their students, and 
graduate students to work with us to achieve our particular goals.  So it came to the point a lot of 
times when we had meetings, and they have the School of Business here and the School of 
Education, the School of Health, all of them around, and I'm in there.  So they make out their 
agenda, and they have me down as Doctor Mogan.  So I said, "I'm not a doctor."  So the first 
time was all right.  The second time we had a thing, the same thing.  So I said, "I'm not paranoia 
about this, but you continually doing the same thing.  I said, why?"  Because I knew what it was. 
Because some people, you know, it's getting into a society, and you have to be one of them.  And 
you're one of them is you have your Doctorate.  So one of them said, "why don't you get your 
Doctorate?"  I said, "because the way you people are organized.  You're organized (--)"
Side B ends