Library of Congress
Horse Trader's Song http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1985001.afc1985001_st042
Horse Trader's Song
HORSE TRADER'S SONG 5122A2
Frank Pipkin Arvin, 1941
Where was you last winter boys When the ground was all covered in snow? Where
was you last winter boys When the ground was all covered in snow? On the Blue Ridge
Mountains all wet , hungry and cold, God knows I've been all around this world.
Do you know these horse traders Or do you know their plans? Do you know these horse
traders Or do you know their plans? Draggin' a round from town to town and pullin' through
the sand, God knows I've been all around this world.
Look ahead of your horses, boys For yonder comes a man; Look ahead of your horses,
boys For yonder comes a man; And if we do snide him we'll none get nary a dram, God
knows I've been all around this world
Look ahead of your horses, boys And yonder comes a plug; Look ahead of your horses,
boys For yonder comes a plug; And if we do snide him we'll soon be out of grub God
knows I've been all around this world.
Look ahead of your horses, boys And For yonder is a creek; Look ahead of your horses,
boys and For yonder is a creek; We'll drive out for supper and hobble on the grass, God
knows I've been all around this world.
We'll send our women from house to house To get whatever they can; We'll send our
women from house to house To get whatever they can; Lord , sakes , yonder comes a
woman with a hog jaw in each hand, God knows I've been all around this world.
Library of Congress
Horse Trader's Song http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1985001.afc1985001_st042
HORSE TRADER'S SONG
We'll hook up our old snide horses, boys And drive them out to town ; We'll hook up our
old snide horses, boys And take them up to town; First old master that comes along he'll
pay us to bring them back, God knows I've been all around this world.
Come all you dido peddlers And let's go take a glass; Come all you dido peddlers And
let's go take a glass; For I've swapped old Swagey I've swapped old Swagey at last, God
knows I've been all around this world.
The new railroad is finished, boys And the cars are on the track; The new railroad is
finished, boys And the cars are on the track; And if our women leave us, money will bring
them back, God knows I've been all around this world —And started round again!