"Dear Mr. President", Denver, Colorado, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr57
"Dear Mr. President", Denver, Colorado, January or February 1942
AFS 6463A
Unidentified Man: A few days ago on February the 27th the citizens of Denver, Colorado launched
their first ship. Denver's right underneath the Rocky Mountains, twelve hundred and ninety-seven
miles from the sea and it has no navigable river. The ship was launched in railway trucks with a
bottle of melted snow from Pikes Peak. In the old days, you remember, the pioneers put these words
on their wagons “Pikes Peak or bust.” These railway trucks carrying the parts of Denver's first ship
were inscribed “Pikes Peak to Tokyo or bust.”
Eight plants in Denver have taken on the job of making these parts for one of the navy yards on the
West Coast. They make the whole of the ship except the plating of the hull and they pack the parts
off by rail through the Rocky Mountains. The plants are all determined to double and triple their
output. We're speaking in one of them now and here it's manager, Gerald H. Garrett.
Gerald H. Garrett: Not very long ago we saw there was something more important to do than making
water pipes, tanks, and smokestacks for border houses which was our particular business. I went to
Washington for four days to find out what would best fit our facilities and they told us that one of the
navy yards wanted help. So I left Washington and went three thousand miles across the continent to
find out all about it. But the job was too big for us to handle alone. Back in Denver we talked it over
with Clyde Hartsell of the war production board. We asked him if we could share the job between a
number of us. We called a meeting of eight plants and eight plants took it on. Three of them usually
make structural steel for buildings and bridges, another made oil tanks and general plate steel work,
another made mining equipment and machinery. None of us had ever made ships before, but we
got into production as quickly as possible and it hasn't been too difficult.
Although Denver is a long way from the sea it isn't out of the way for the shipments of steel. Steel
plates are made in the East anyway and if they have to go to the West Coast they would have to go
right through Denver. On the railroads we have a special rate known as the Fabricated and Transit
Rate and it only costs two cents a hundred weight. That's about a penny in British money to unload
it in Denver and to ship it forward again when it is fabricated. There's a depot in the city where the
plates are received and distributed and they ship the fabricated plates from the same depot. They
actually call it the Denver Branch to the Navy Yard so that's simple. The navy sends us templates,
they call them molds, and we make the parts from them.
We had some trouble converting to the new job, but it's going smoothly now. At our plant we're
building a new shop so that we can increase production quickly. We started the new shop three
"Dear Mr. President", Denver, Colorado, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr57
weeks ago and we'll finish it in another two weeks. We will need more labor, but that's not a great
difficulty. The training within industries scheme of the Office of Emergency Management is doing
a fine job. They teach men out of the shops how to break down the particular jobs into simple
operations. These men then teach the operations to the beginners. We're training welders and
shipfitters that way right now.
The government pays us for our output on a cost-plus basis, but we have to put in a bid. If the work
costs less than the bid the government gets the benefit. If it costs more then we have to absorb the
difference. That means that nobody is making any money out of it, but I'm glad of that because no
one should be making a lot of money out of supplying materials for the war.
What's in the mind of all of us is getting more of these ships out. The boys in the shops have a very
fine attitude. The enemy is doing his best to whip the hell out of us and we're not standing for much
of that. We expect these naval escort vessels of ours will do something towards whipping hell out of
him and they'll be a great many of them.