Northeastern New Mexico Project 1985
‘Museum of International Folk Art

New Mexico Historie Preservation Office
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress

FIELDNOTES
Carl Fleischhauer, American Folklife Center
Corrected and revised by the fieldworker, 12 August 2019

‘Table of contents
Date. Page
26 August 1985, 1
27 August 1985, 2
28 August 1985, 3
29 August 1985,

30 August 1985, is
31 August 1985, 20,
September 1985 [26

Date (YRMODA): 850826

{arrived in Santa Fe at about 4 pm, after renting a car and picking up air freight in Albuquerque
checked into the El Rey motel, and then visited Austin Lamont, my old friend from film school
Laurie Kalb came and picked me up at Austin's at about 6 or 7, and we went to a pot luck supper
at Boyd Pratt's house.

Boyd is the SHPO’s contract architectural historian for Northeastern New Mexico (NE NM), and
Laurie's co-worker in the folklife project. He had kindly organized this event, and had a good
tumour, including some old friends: Charlene Cerny and Steve Becker from the Museum of
International Folk Art; Steve's cousin, filmmaker Judy Goldberg; Joan Williams from the
anthropological film center, Martha (o is it Marsha?) Jackson—I think she works in the Museum
of NM too, SHPO Tom Metlan and his wife Fran Levine (a historical archeologist, I believe),
Tina Van Dyke and Kathleen Brooker from the SHPOs office; Jerry Williams, the cultural
geographer who is working with Boyd and Laurie; and others, including Sally Pratt and the
Pratt's infant son, Robert

enjoyed talking to various folks about various things, especially a conversation with Judy
Goldberg, who filled me in on the Lopez. family in Trampas, the subject of one of the FSA/OWI
photo series we are editing at the LC, which depicts Trampas in the early forties, But I didn’t
participate in the conversation in which Laurie, Boyd, and Jerry spent considerable time talking
about the NE quadrant. It was a genuine "team meeting,” We broke up before too long-maybe.
10 or 10:30-and I went back to the motel and to bed,

Fliachhauer 1985 NM flednotes Page 1
Date (YRMODA): 850827

Charlene (CC), Laurie (LK), Steve Becker (SB), and I met for breakfast It tumed out that
‘Tuesday was a moming when most ofthe hot spots were closed, but after two strikes we ended
‘pat a nouvelle cuisine place forthe meal. The place featured home baked bread and a wide
selection of omelets~I had a spinach omelet--but the hippie waiter was so green and
<discombobulated that I can only give the place two stars.

ur conversation tured on two interrelated issues: the project, and SB's biography. Both
pertained to the meta-question "what can we say about historic preservation activities and culture
ina broader sense.” Steve attended the Indiana folklore program and has recently held a variety
‘of jobs in California which have made him very much aware of governmental historic
preservation undertakings, This background means that he will be a good consultant as the NE
NM project proceeds. He also seemed outgoing and jolly am inclined to think that he will,
‘contribute in a good way to the work ofthe museum.

It's hard to put one's finger on the hist-pres/culture question, or family of questions. At times our
‘conversation tended to emphasize the way folklore could amplify understanding of a building,
‘while at other times it encompassed a broader perspective. We talked for an hour or so. I thought
the conversation very useful--it gave SB a first broad look atthe work--and helped reiterate our
thinking and principles for Charlene. Good background for the managers. And it helped LK. and
‘me think through the matter one more time.

‘Then we went to the museum, and CC gave me a tour of improvements since my last visit, The
storage rooms in the basement have been redone, with very clever racks and closets for fabrics
‘and costumes, and a new Halon fire protection system for the whole. Then the new video room,
constructed with assistance from D&P in Alexandria, which offers various films on tape in 2
slightly cumbersome choose-and-play system. The programs were: a new film the museum had
‘made on the SF fiesta (to go with the new exhibit), film by Jack Loeffler on NM folk music,
and a Charles Kuralt segment on the new Girard wing together with an interview with collector
Girard

‘The Fiesta exhibit is very nice~CC said, the first exhibit at MOIFA which deals with local
culture and the neighborhood, One room looks atthe longer history ofthe event, and its mixed
‘ld- Hispanic/new Anglo influences; the second room displays a set of costumes made by/for
participants-mostly mainstream people~-over the last 50-75 years. Quite interesting, a look at
localized popular culture in dress. The main curator forthe show was Tom Chavez, head of the
sister museum at the Governor's Palace, and a well-connected NM person, (We first met him as a
‘Smithsonian intern in 1979.)

My overall impression was very positive~CC has really been at it! She has gotten money in a
dazen places, including the National Endow for the Arts, although NOT incl the folk arts
‘program (needless to say). And despite rebuffs from folklorist, she has continued to be
interested in “anthro” approaches to her subject.

Flesehauer 1985 NM fldnots Page 2
[Next I started to unpack, thinking to repack stuff in convenient fashion for our fieldwork. But
‘upon testing the Nagra and my flashguns, I found that they were not working properly
‘Something was wrong withthe Nagra’s power hookup--it would mysteriously cut in and out--and
| spent an aggravating hour or two trying to gt the damn thing to work.

Finally, I got the gadgets as good as I could get them. LK and I went downtown-1 hit a couple of
bbookstores--and then to lunch. Then to Boyd's (it was by now 3 or 4 in the pm) where we shifted
stuf from one car to another.

LK and I would go in the car I rented and Boyd (BP) was going to drive LK’s car. Our
destination was Clayton; tomorrow we will cover a livestock auction there, LK and I set out at
4:30 of so, heading up the interstate to Las Vegas. We could either continue north on the
Interstate oF go cross-country, east to Tucumcari and then north to Clayton; we chose the latter
route, although it was dark on the second leg of the run

cast),
may that

‘As we headed east, we stopped about 2 or 3 miles east of Trujillo to take a picture (I
«down nto the vast, flat Canadian River basin, (At other points the river isin a gorge
the gorge is within a broader valley.)

‘Next, atthe bottom and between Trujillo and Trementina, we photographed a new, litle chapel
‘on a fock. Inside, the virgin. It seemed very Hispanic, save for the signs which said (in English)
"Visitors Welcome” and "Put Flowers Here." The interior was protected by a large sheet of
Plexiglas. We could not guess what had led tothe construction. A vision? A highway accident?
‘A cure? There was a handicapped ramp; three one-gallon jugs full of water stood atthe bottom.
For the flowers? Or fora holy purpose?

‘Then we pressed on, stopping in Tucumcari for gas and supper. It was now dark. The city is on
an incomplete stretch of the interstate, and still has the character ofa classic "forties road strip,
town," “commercial vernacular” and all that, The restaurant we stopped at was operated by
Hispanics but had an eclectic variety of food (and the ubiquitous salad bar), in a paneled,
formica-ed, plasticized interior. The two Emergency Medical Technicians atthe next table were
called away, and left their meals, to jump in the ambulance and respond to a call.

Laurie drove the leg up to Clayton, while I dazed off. We arrived at the Hi Ho Motel and Cafe at
11:15 or so, and Boyd-—who had left SF and hour or two after us—came out in his bathrobe and
‘chuckled over our choice of route, Then to bed.

Date (YRMODA):850828

{ got up early in order to make some "morning light” photos of Clayton. Left the motel at about
‘6:45 and shot until about 8, when the three of us were to meet for breakfast at the Hi Ho Cafe,
‘The town was interesting, although the parts I saw struck me as alittle sterile: a treeless,
highway main street, cross commercial street, and small-house residential blocks, punctuated
with trailers, including horse trailers. I shot three interesting downtown buildings~BP later
explained about them, The Eklund hotel, a turn-of-the-century stone structure, BP thought on
[nominated for] the National Register, the Farmers and Stockman’s bank, important tothe cattle

Flischhauer 1985 NM fieldnots Page3
industry, and the Union County courthouse (1909). I also photographed the railroad tracks (and a
train, color only) the tracks I saw were forthe Burlington Northern

‘We had quite long talk at breakfast; then packed up to go tothe auetion. LK and BP had met a
Woman named Linda Leak in a General Store in a nearby town a few days earlier, and she had
said that she worked at the weekly livestock auction, "Cmon and see i.” So LK had phoned the
auctioneer. Bill Weight (as he introduced himself in person; he had said Billy Joe Wright to LK
‘on the phone), and asked permission to come. Wright said yes

‘The auction house was called "Five State Livestock Auction Co. Inc." The five states are NM,
‘TX, OK, KS, and CO. Due to "rules" pertaining to one thing or another, few sellers come into
1NM from TX and OK these days; most trade is with NM, and CO and KS. Boyd and I arrived
first-LK was absorbed in @ conversation with a rancher in the eafe~and met Wright and his
partner Ron Jenkins. Wright was eating breakfast inthe little cafe at the auetion, and we agreed
to sce him after a bit to talk. Then BP and I went out to the entry point, where livestock arrived
and was ofMloaded from ranchers trailers. The "input" chute (my term), Here, Linda Leak was in
charge, filling out the paperwork as animals entered the chutes. The slips of paper she filled out--
‘name of owner, types and numbers of animals--would follow the beasts through the system. A
‘rural mailbox at the chutes contained the papers until the animals’ next move. Then the papers
would follow them.

i i pide:

parking meth

“The area behind the auction barn contained many numbered pens. Arriving animals went out of
the entry chutes to the pens, moved by drovers (my word; I don't know what they would say),
‘some on horseback, some on foot, All ages and genders, but mostly male. At the entry and exit
‘chutes, a rural mailbox on a post held the papers. Once, when a large bull arrived, the man atthe
entry chute shouted forward to his colleagues, “Bull, bull”

“The auction was scheduled to start at I, and only missed this time by a few minutes. We were
ready and began taping at once at the beginning

‘As the animals were called to be sold (an outdoor loudspeaker called to the drovers, “Lot 98,
nine-eight, nine- eight”) they were moved along the passageways between the pens into a small

Fleschhaver 1985 NM ildnotes Paget
holding pen adjacent to the actual auction floor. The paperwork arrived with them. The last
<drover controled the gate into the arena. A wire--lke baling wire--was stretched across this
‘opening, about ten or twelve feet above the ground. The slip of paper was clipped toa "squeezo”
paper clip which was strung on the wire through a hole in its "handle." When the animals were
‘Sent into the ring, the last drover would push/swoosh the clip and paper across to the auctioneet’s
platform--the clip would stop and be held by some twists in the wire. Ron Jenkins received the
papers and looked at them first~1 once heard him shout to the drover, “the mail, the mail,”
‘meaning "shoot me the papers.”

lentry
drov! pen’! auctioneer platiorn
\

RI BY pC “sé

\ 1 o¢tice
ARSNO Foca '

he PC*Pat Ceiap

whose nene might have been Svaggerty--he ran the scale

BP and I sct up the Nagra (which went thru a spell of not working, then working) behind the
‘quartet onthe platform. We clamped our cardioid mike to the desk stand that held the
Auctioneer's own mike and attempted to get ambient sound and conversation with the lavalier
(our only other mike) on alittle camera stand. (This latter dida't work very wel; but the pickup
of the auction chant was fine.)

As noted, RJ received the paperwork describing the animals, He made a judgment on what the
Starting bid ought to be and told BW, who began his chant at tha figure, moving down or up as
‘needed. Pat Crisp received the paper and noted the final bid on it--so many dollars per
‘hundredweight (easily convertible to cents per pound). Then the slip was passed to "S" (I wish I
remembered his name—-he was gregarious and helpful in offering explanations tous). § stood by
4s the cattle moved onto the seal. A printer on the scale would imprint the weight ofthe lot onto
the slip. Then, the slip was set under a small monochrome TV camera and displayed to the
‘audience on a monitor above the platform; thus, the buyers and sellers could refer to the price
and net weight of the previous lot There was a second TV monitor, as I write, | find thet | am
not clear on what it displayed. I wonder if was some kind of a summary of the days figures--but
‘where would that have come from? Additionally, S spoke into a microphone as he worked1
thought he was letting the women inthe office know something ofthe statisties, but ! am not
‘certain, (Could it have fed into a system which generated the summary?)

Flischhaver 1985 NM feldnotes Pages

‘After the animals were weighed, they were moved out to pens, awaiting transfer atthe “output”
‘chute (my term) tothe buyers. Here, Linda Leak held forth again, managing the movement and
record-keeping the transfer required

Meanwhile inthe office, eight or nine women, apparently led by Dora Russell, tallied the
figures—basically multiplying the rate per ewt times the actual weight. Every few minutes, DR
‘went out to S's station on the platform and received a batch of marked slips. The slips (I think)
‘were something like self-carbon NCR forms--three in one: buyer, seller, house. There was a
‘buyer's table—reckoning what had to be collected~and a seller's table reckoning the payout. And
Somewhere, a calculation ofthe house cut-this was how the auction made its money. Dora said
that I should definitely send a picture; she had always wanted to photograph the group, Two
‘openings on the counter like bank tellers windows collected from buyers~I saw one cowboy
‘type peeling off hundred-dollar bills from a roll~and another paid to sellers. (Mrs. Dora Russell,
Box 28, Clayton NM 88415}. I asked her if she didn't think a computer would help-they all used
hhand adding machines--and she rolled her eyes. Dathart had tried one for a week or two she said,
and all it gave them was trouble. But Amarillo had succeeded, and she could see that it would
‘come. [Note Texas orientation, ]

‘And meanwhile the eafe served food. Evidently when their interests were not a stake, men (and
some women, I took most of them to be wives rather than buyers or sellers) hada bite to eat
Hamburgers, hot plate specials. Like the church lunch counters ata fir

In conversations with folks~mosly Sat the platform, reported to me by BP, but als talk with
others~e learned that the extent of the auction varied withthe season, At this time of year, it
‘might go for 5 hours, a the slackest time 3 hours, and at peak time--carly Octaber when the calf
{Crop was in-as much as 12 hours. There were thre sorting crews outside the folks I keep
talling drovers) The very firs lots included sade horses~-maybe two or thre lots, individual
and twos and threes In one case, a nervous-lookng owner rode the horse in, made litle speech
extolling its quality, and removed the saddle (to show off the animal) before the chant began
‘Then came the lots of eatle From about 11 to 1 or 2pm, the lots contained from 1-5 animals (or
0); later in the afternoon, we Were told, the "eal" ots with larger numbers would come along,
‘The early lots included heifers, steers, bulls (retired or "extra" for slaughter), weaners. Later,
bigger lots would tend more toward sters and weaners, as I understood it-market cattle

BP recorded only one reel, and correctly figured he had a good representative sample. He stayed
in place, however, watching the spectacle. LK had met a rancher and was in conversation with
him, first in the arena and then the cafe. At about 2, BP and I had a burger inthe cafe-later, we
‘were joined by LK. As BP and Isat there, we marveled at the flow of animals and paper through
the system.

We also tried to calculate the number of workers on auction day. We figured:
© 3-4 arriving point
#10 oF so in the pens~the folks I called "drovers"
© 2.4 "drovers" atthe entrance and exit to arena; atleast two were kids about ten or twelve
yrs old
‘+ 5.6 atthe ring/arena (4 on platform, 1-2 on floor)

Fleisehhaver 1985 NM fieldnotes Pages
#10 inthe office
‘+ 5-7 in the restauranveate
‘© Total ~ somewhere from 35 to 45

‘Now, this crowd is on the payroll once a week~I expect the daily number tobe more on the
‘order of eight to ten. No cafe,

After lunch we went to the output chute and visited Linda Leak; Laurie wanted to talk and asked
‘me to take some photographs of her. There was a long confusing spell there brought on by the
fact that one lot of cattle could not be found--they were notin the pen where they were supposed
to be. The man who had bought them stood by, unperturbed,

We left at about 3 pm. Laurie had wanted to look at some little houses in town, so we went to
them. She had been told that the structures had come from the former mining town of Dawson
think the story had the move occurring after a big disaster--and now there were simply part of
Clayton's residential housing stock, The neighborhood in which they were located lies on the
north edge of town, not far from the auction bar,

‘There must have been from ten to fifteen of the houses, four rooms under a “pyramid” hipped
roof, in athree- or four-square block area. All of them had been fixed up except for one group of
four. We correctly deduced that the later four were for rent; the others, sold and privately

‘owned. Laurie talked to one of the occupants ofa rented house, who said he hoped we were from
the health department and were going to condemn the houses. Meanwhile, BP talked to a couple
in one of the fixed-up homes. Afier LK and I took some pictures, we joined him. The couple was
named Irene and Lloyd Tower (Box $3, Clayton, NM 88415; (505) 374-2440). Like their
neighbors, they had bought their house in 1949, We copied an old photo of the place, taken that
year. They had added a room, added insulation, plumbing, heat, a porch, and fenced yard (and
‘sandbox-formerly--fr their daughters), but had kept the shutters that had arrived with house.

LEK taped the conversation with her Sony DSM, and two lavaliers~I photographed BP, LK, and
the Towers in the living room,

Lloyd is a retired post office employee. The couple are evangelical Christians~Assembly of
God, I believe~and some of their neighbors had (and have) booze and parties. Mrs. T explained
her strategy for newcomers: take them some cookies so that they will know of her postive
feelings but make their beliefs clear so that they will nt even be invited tothe parties, Unruly
neighbor kids always shared the sandbox and forced Mrs. T to be a day-care mother: this helped
motivate the fence. The couple are rock hounds and their yard is full of pretty stones and one
large petrified log (donated from the yard ofa friend in town) which Mr. T had to have a tow
‘ruck bring, "750 pounds,” he said.

‘Wind was a topic~not the danger of tomadoes, although there were such things~but the
incessant wind of the plains, and its psychological effect, Its seasonal, but I don' recall exactly
when the bad time is--winter, I think.

‘The Ts paid off their house with an extra mortgage payment at Christmas~-made for a great
celebration,

Pleschhauer 1985 NM ildootes Page?
We left them at 6 oF so, prepared to head for Mosquero. At M. we were to be lodged in the
church convent (former) and would mostly be cooking our own food. And no real grocery in
“Mogquero, so we headed for the Clayton Safeway to stock up forthe rest ofthe week. Salami,
bread, cheese, fruit, breakfast cereal, milk, and **coffee**. We already had some beer.

‘tthe Safeway we met Pat Crisp from the auction. She gave us a rundown: the sale lasted until 4
‘pm (5 hours), sold about 1000 head, cattle averaged $60 per hundredweight (typical for these
days). Most buyers were from feedlots, some ranchers, She explained that they served small and
‘mid-sized ranches; really big operations sold right from the ranch. Crisp is a ranch wife (did she
say her husband was a hired hand?) with four boys and one gil. 1 would guess from twenty-five
to thirty-five years old She sai alot of families moved to town--husbands commute tothe ranch
to work!!~s0 kids can goto school more easily. But with 4 boys, not for her. She valued the
duality of life inthe country

We drove on to Mosquero, stopping along NM state Route 18 about 5 miles south of Clayton to
shoot some scenic views in the evening light (ranches and windmills on flat land) and stopping.
‘at Hayden at the fall of dark--punctuated by flashes of lightning, a frequent and beautiful
‘component of the NM evening sky-~and tried my best to photograph the church in late evening.
LK and BP were to return here forthe rodeo on Monday.

We had a shouted conversation with Orville Hauser, who was atthe top of his thiry-foot TV
aerial making adjustments. LK and BP had previously visited him. BP said that Hayden was
populated by German Catholics. Later in the week, while looking over a history ofthe St
Josephs parish (see next para), I noticed thatthe priesthood (for the last many years) seemed t0
‘be made up of three ethnic groups in nearly equal numbers: Hispanic, German, and Irish. Not
‘one Italian.

‘We arrived at Mosquero at 8:30. Met atthe convent by Father Doug Raun, a talkative young
priest who lives in Roy and visits a number of "mission" churches, what a Methodist would call
“riding a circuit.” The string may be (Iam a little unclear here) based at St. Josephs in Mosquero,
‘even if Fr, Raun lives in Roy. Roy is the county's other town of size, anda former competitor 0
be county seat, and somewhat Mosquero's superior today for commercial chutzpah, But just
barely. (Father Doug Raun, Holy Family Rectory, St. George Lane, Roy, NM 87743.)

‘After talking to Father R, we made ourselves some sandwiches and went to bed, LK got the real
bed, and BP and I tried to camp out on the floor. For me, the setup didnt work well and I didn't
sleep well

ate (YRMODA):850829

We ate a leisurely breakfast; BP figured out a way to use our canning funnel, coffee filters, and a
glass pitcher to make coffee, we talked, but I didn't note the subjects,

‘At9:30 we went to the cafe. Erma Trujillo (ET) runs a cafe which adjoins the bar founded by her
father-in-law Albert (AT), and now operated by her husband Patrick (PT), The businesses have

Flesehhaver 1988 NM fildnotes Page 8
separate doors and signs (Erma's Coffee Shop; Pat's City Bar-~ "City Bar” on the big sign). But
the kitchen serves both~part of Erma's lunch counter is in the bar, an opening connects the two.

‘After we had talked fora while, we decided to take some pictures of the ba. It was suitably
picturesque, and I got out the Hisselblads as well asthe Nikons, and one of the quartz-lights
(Lowell Tote-light and umbrella). As I was setting up in the bar, LK found herself in a
‘conversation with Enrique Sanchez, a Cuban who had come from the island about 7 years ago
land through some set of circumstances found himself here. He worked at the Bell Ranch, the
monster operation just west of town, Eventually I got the Nagra for LK and she taped some of
the conversation. His Spanish was very tough to follow, for the locals as well as LK. I took some
photos of the interview.

[My idea was to photograph Albert with a portrait painting of him which hung on the bar wall.
‘The painting was recent. Pat had a snapshot of the old man inthe bar, and Molly Trigg. a local
artist, had done the painting from it, Rows of bottles were arrayed behind AT's head. I took a
‘coupe with just Albert, then got the rest ofthe family to join: Erma Trujillo (Erminda Garcia
‘Trujillo), her husband Patrick "Pat" Trujillo, his father Albert Trujillo, Erma and Pat's daughter
‘Tina Baca, anda painting of Albert by Molly Trigg. Tina was recently married and just out of
high school, She worked in her mothers cafe,

When I went to set up, I had to retrieve my car from the convent (also a former rectory) parking
area, There I meta man looking for the priest. He came with me to the store to get information.
‘We talked a bite-he told me about (and introduced me to) Paul Osborne, from Logan, 81 years
old, said to know all about homesteading, Born 1904, lived on Ute Creek, "just below the hill”
(gesturing nearby) since 1908. Phone 487-298

I noted another tip-from the retired nurse who often visits with Erma at the cafe~Tony Rigoni in
Roy, knowledgeable older man,

‘After the family portrait took some other photos at the bar and looking thns the opening into
the cafe. Slowly, the lunchtime crowd started to build-folks from the courthouse and the two oF

Fleischer 1985 NM fieldnoes Page
three businesses in town, Looked like “regulars.” Two men who worked for a "C02" (carbon
dioxide) company came and ate the usual, and then played a game of pool. Sporty fellows; one
wore a yachting T-shirt, "Mackinaw Straits Regatta” ot some-such. The CO2 companies inthe
area take advantage of natural, underground pockets ofthe gas and make dry icethe highway
imap notes “dry ice fields" as a point of interest

‘After lunch (we ate too~burgers), | waited for the crowd to clear to shoot interiors of the cafe,
‘The town's center of interest is the bench in front ofthe store next tothe cafe, we called it the
“liar’s bench,” as such things are sometimes called. But the town seems to just call it the bench,
‘or Spanish banco meaning both bench and bank, and the fellows who sit on it are called the Bank
President and Board of Directors. The store is run by Tito Trujillo (about sixty) and his son Andy
‘Andres? about thirty); not immediate kin to ET, PT, etal

Early in the afternoon, LK got a tape recorder and joined the men with the tape recorder. One of
the most talkative was Tony Trujillo, about 70, who would fit anyone's stereotype of a crusty,
‘eregarious curmudgeon, He wore a cowboy bandana and kept insisting to Laurie that he was a

* wetback," which he certainly is not. In another part the conversation, fe (and the others) pressed
Laurie for er origin, aking where she or her family had come from. {Although 2 New Yorker
from a Jewish family, her brown eyes and black hair resemble those of the region's Hispanics,
‘and she is sometimes mistaken for @ local] Her answer, which was as much of a smokescreen as
‘Tony's “wetback," was "from Russia." Tis subsequently led to little jokes, based on Soviet-US
relations,

[ photographed LK and BP with the men at the bench and copied an old banquet-camera photo of
the celebration when Mosquero became the county seat in 1921. And photographed Alberton the
bench, feeding an ice cream bar to his pet dog, Spot.

Then, LK and I photographed some samples of Andy T's art. He is skillful at making miniature
sculpture and had done a brone rider and a bull rider in wax--but evidently without intending 10
cast them (in metal), Tito (father) wondered out loud why his son did not pursue the talent. Andy
has evidently let the whole thing drop. We also photographed a work-in-progress (i.e, not in
progress)-a block of wax, string, and knife (tools and materials) and a bull and rider nearly
ready for completion. Tito sad that Andy had started about 6 years ago, got ideas from
magazines

‘At about 3:30 we went to visit Joe Cordova~-LK & BP had seen his homestead in the canyon
‘outside of town and had heard that he was knowledgeable about the place. We went to the house,
knocked, and were admitted by his wife Alisandra. LK did the introducing, and we went in. A
child was sent to summon Joe. (I saw a business card on a photo: Joe N. Cordova for Sheriff
Alisanda said that he had held the office inthe 605.)

Presently Joe arrived, looking a litle bleary-eyed. He had been asleep and had been awakened to
come, What followed was a fascinating and disquieting exchange. Alisandra had seemed
hospitable and welcoming, and Joe did to at first. But then he waved his hat at us and said,
"You want information, you pay." Alisandra added that there must be money in work like ours.
We tried to joke it off as best we could, Then Joe went to the kitchen and hospitably made us ice

Fleisehhauer 1988 NM feldnotes Page 10
{aor rather brought ajar of instant ta, ie, and glasses into the livingroom. This was followed

by preliminary talk about LK and BP's visits to his homestead, which led t some remarks from

Joe abou wheter they hat seen the "No Tress” sigs tthe ae (tee were nonin
ed)

‘Soon Joe began talking about the place, responding warmly to BP and LK’s well-informed
Questions. We asked, and I got the tape recorder. The conversation drifted into the back room--
kind of rec room with a wall of glass. I preferred it for photography to the dark living room. AS
the talk continued, {brought the Nagra to this room. The floor and walls were made of some sort
‘of locally-collected stone (reminded me of the Towers in Clayton). A son or son in law had made
‘two end-tables. The leg posts were covered by cowboy jeans, chaps, and terminated in (used)
‘cowboy boots. Very amusing and contemporary-looking. During much of this, we were joined
by grandchildren Robert “Spider” Aragon and Jolene Aragon.

[As the conversation continued, I noticed that Jolene had gone into the extended back yard
(barmyard?) to feed the animals: chickens, three goats (two adults, one kid) and one pig. Sol left
the recording session, and headed out to photograph this, Jolene worked; Robert came out and
{ook a lariat and practiced roping using the kid goat as a target. After a bit, LK came out ofthe
hhouse looking for more tape. Then in abit more, she came out again looking for the other
‘microphone. As I went tothe car with her, she said-~with emphasis—that she wanted to include
Alisandra in the conversation. (The microphone was added at the midpoint of reel number 2]
Eventually I came back into take some more photos; Alisandra had taken the other chair in the
back room, but she wasn't saying much.

| went back out to shoot the house exterior, followed by a walk around town joined by Robert)
in which I photographed the main street, the fire hall, the courthouse, and the post office. as well
as the neighborhood next to Joe's-including the Aragon (son-in-law and daughter, parents of
Robert and Jolene) mobile home.

| retuned at about 6. The interview had been completed, and LK asked me to shoot some of
Alisandta's quilts. We had a bit of trouble finding a place to hang them, but eventually did so,
from a rain gutter in front of the back door. They had pieced tops but were not quilted per se
they were held together by pieces of ted yarn, “ties” (or whatever they are called). One of the
patterns was a flower basket which had been inspired by and derived from the 1978 13-cent folk
art U.S. postage stamp, They were genuine home, domestic use quilts—but not what we think of
as "a museum-quality artifact,” as they say. I also photographed Joe's rifle, with a stock
decorated by his friend Joe Lovato, ftom Roy. Cordova likes to hunt, often in the canyon; he had
‘8 trophy Barbary sheep head mounted in the back room,

| went to put my cameras away-~it was quite dark--but then Jolene and her mother Arlene came
by, Jolene on a horse, So I tagged along and photographed Jolene receiving a riding lesson from
hher mother. Jolene is active in 4H, and we had previously seen Polaroids of her county fair prize
steers, one Charolais cross and one Hereford. She was also in other fair events, some of which
hhad been seen by LK and BP a week or two before, Riding was a special skill, and she was
preparing for the state fair in Albuquerque. She had already won some state-level award, Her
events were barrel-racing and pole-bending. Her mother, Arlene (Cordova's daughter) had also

Fleschhauer 1988 NM eldsotes, Page 11
bboen a skillful rider and cowgirl; she was tutoring her daughter in the practice, telling her when
10 pour iton, when to slow up, ee.

‘When I got back, LK told me we had been invited to have sandwiches with the family. I put the
equipment away and came in. The meal consisted of sliced bologna and spam heated in the
‘microwave, white and wheat bread (like Wonder, ie. store-bought) and leftover tortilla or two
‘onthe same plate, roasted chilis (homemade). Miracle Whip, mustard, sauerkraut, iced tea mix,
‘water, and coffee, The dessert was ll homemade: zucchini cake (LK got the recipe, orally), and
newly-cooked grape jelly.

We talked--or, really, Joe talked-about a numberof things. Firs, a few details about ranching:
nobody cuts watles on cattle anymore; some cut earmarks, he doestit; everyone puts brands on
calves. Catle ae kept in fenced enclosures, pasteo or pasio (pasture)--not using the term fields
like I heard in Nevada. A field is where you farm, Joe said. You cut hay on a vega (like las
vegas), low flat field or meadow.

For some reason, we got into talking about water. I think because Joe was explaining that he uses
city water for some purposes, and water from his windmill-driven wel for others. (The windmill
{s just behind the house ) In any ease, it led him to tell a story about water witching from an
‘unbelievers perspective

‘On the ranch, he said, he had looked to see where the gourd vines grew most vigorously,
reasoning thatthe water would be there, the roots had had to seek it out. Before a well was dug, a
family debate ensued, especially with his mother. A water witch (Joe's term) was called in, said
of Joe's spot, "No water here.” Joe was determined and went against mom and witch. He brought
{in an Anglo well driller, who asked him, before beginning, "Did you witch?" The driller was also
‘believer. But he went ahead and drilled, and at sixty feet (not so deep for this country) ht lots
‘Of water. [think it was Joe who explained that you had to watch the drillers (or did I hear this
From Margarito Garcia tomorrow”), Drillers charge by the foot and will pretend not to have hit
‘water ata shallow level so they can go deeper and make more money.

‘Then Joe told about treasure seeking, An Anglo friend named E.C. Davis (?) had a wire gadget,
Sort of'a metal detector~a loop shaped sort of like this

1 (point &>

Fleisehhauer 1988 NM fildnotes Page 12
‘The man put a Filipino peso at "e” where the wire crossed itself. He held the loop vertically, a
hhand at point A, the other at point B; the loop's plane was perpendicular to the ground. Joe threw
a silver dime~first two or three false throws, then the release, then more false throws--s0 it was
hhard to watch. The man followed the pointing of the loop and found the dime. At moments,
Davis held the loop horizontally, to see if it would point down.

Davis was also a water witch. He had a blank-paged book which he hung ona string suspended
from a skeleton key (neither BP nor I understood just how this worked). Once over a site (silver
‘OR water, think), each otation ofthe suspended book would inicate one foot of depth. The
‘man had heard Joe recount a community legend about three bars of silver inthe canyon. He and
Joe used to the loop to set out from J's house. Went south; Joe hadn't tod the man, but there was
‘cave in that direction. Davis alternated holding the loop between vertical and horizontal, the
former for direction, andthe latter for “are we there?” The pair got to the cave below the cap
rock; apetroglyph was there "Indian writing”) Joe said his dad had scen the writing when he
‘was 21, "that's how oldit is”

Davis's loop took them to the rock with the petroglyphs. But they didn't dig. Later, another time,
they went back with another friend, Ray Firestone, and the depth-detecting book. At first, Joe
tried the book, but it didn’t work for him. For Davis, the book said four feet, they stated to dig,
Hita rock, went down to 5 ft, nothing. Then Joe tried the book again, It worked, pointing to the
rock they had found, which had discolorations on it. The book and wire for Firestone too. Then
Davis tried it-suddenly, opposite results, The loop pointed UP instead of down, They sent the
streaked rock to Las Cruces for analysis. The report came back: sandstone.

‘Then Joe told about another time he and Davis looked for gold. I don't think it was as long; in
any case, I didn't make notes about it. The point was: the gadget didn't work. Joe is a skeptic
bout witching gadgets.

| don't know how the subject was introduced, but as the meal ended, we moved toa litle cycle of
stories about practical jokes at Alisandra's expense, The first was set in the days when they used
to work out at the ranch in the canyon from April to October (could this have been after moving,
to town? Or did he mean working in one part of the canyon while living atthe ranch?), Joe and
Alisandra were caught in a sudden rain and worried about a flash flood. They raced toa creek,
and Joe rode ahead. This meant that his horse's hooves kicked wet mud onto his wife, She had a
favorite “shaped” black (cowboy?) hat she wore. The rain made it collapse; Joe found all of this
quite funny,

Summer work on the ranch did include haying; he said something about mowing, raking, and
stacking loose hay (on) (from) a truck.

‘The second practical joke was set at the present house in town. They had some kind of a
gasoline-powered washing machine, and Joe tricked Alisandra into holding the spark-plug wire
and touching the plug and receiving an electrical shock

‘The third story was set inthe old jacal on the ranch. Joe made some allusion to being a young
‘man, who got up early and was fond of slapping his wife's behind as he left the bed. She didn't

Flischhaver 1985 NM feldaotes Page 13
like it and, one morning, threw a shoe at Joe, missed him, and broke the mirror on the door of
their wardrobe. They stil have and use this piece of furniture.

Date (YRMODA): 850830

1 got up fairly early this morning to shoot the town by morning light. I started with St. Joseph's
cchurch-a difficult subject due to the tees. I saw thatthe longest side view would be best in
‘evening light and decided to come back for it. While atthe church I shot the exterior of the grotto
(hot the interior later, with tripod), the parish hall, and the convent/rectory. The conventirectory
\was also a difficult photographic subject, In back the building's form was hard to discern but
easy t0 photograph. The front, interesting and quirky, was practically impossible to photograph

‘Then I went downtown and saw that the morning light gave a very nice "Edward Hopper” effect
to the facades and the bench. I shot them, and then came back to get the tripod, When T got back
‘to our headquarters, | found that LK and BP had arisen and fixed coffee. For me, the beverage
was extremely (!) welcome.

Using the tripod, I photographed the church interior andthe inside ofthe grotto, Inthe church 1
the two things that seemed especially “old” to me: the stained glass light above the front door
(the words-"St Joseph's Altar Society" in English—read corectly tothe interior, is this not the
reverse of the normal?) and painted banner (silk?), emblazoned "Sociedad det Altar,
‘Mosquero." [also climbed the rickety water tower—as far as I dared—and shot the roof ofthe
church; the angle helps show the building's form.

‘Then | jumped in the car and drove around, stopping atthe school. I took a picture ofthe main
‘building—this week, I think, is the start ofthe new year. A car with three women drove up, and
they got out and went toward the building. They stopped, and one introduced herself: She was a
teacher (I think, or an administrator) and she had previously met BP & LK. She wondered if LK.
had the pictures she had promised—to illustrate an article about BP and LK forthe school paper.
T said I thought not and promised to send along some myself. The paper was reproduced by
‘Xerox, and the prints should be on the low contrast side. The teacher's name and address: Mrs,
Sonia Raftery, Box 55, Mosquero NM 87733.

‘Then I snapped a picture of a house between the school parking lot (an area of packed dirt) and
Joe Cordova's home. The house I photographed incorporated a mobile home, more or less with @
‘normal house built around it, The mobile home would have been more or less invisible, except
‘one end of it stuck through the end wall ofthe surrounding construction. It ater developed that
this was Pat and Erma Trujillo's home.

Back in town, a man got of a car with a revolver on a shoulder holster. Andy Trujillo told me
later that this was the deputy sheriff. On another occasion I saw the sheriff; he wore a revolver
con his belt

| put ina bit of time near the bench, generally hoping for a “candid” shot of the board in session.

| struck up a conversation with a slightly "floating" group, mainly Tony Trajillo, Tito and Andy
‘Trujillo, Joe Solomon, and Benito (Benny) Pacheco. Solomon is retired, I think; he isan Anglo

Flischinaer 1985 NM fitness Page 14
‘who had worked on the big Waggoner Ranch next to town (now the Bell Ranch). Solomon is a
‘Texas name, I guess—seems like there are some well-known Texas fiddlers named Solomon
including Norman Solomon), Pacheco was another local older fellow, and the owner of (or his
family owns) a homestead in the canyon,

asked about ranching. I think Joe did most ofthe talking, but everyone joined in. In the old
‘days, one could make a living on a "320" (320-acre farm) or even on a quarter-section (160
acres). But today, the economics (and climate?) are such that a fellow needs 5000 acres to make
it, [think part ofthe idea is that there was more precipitation then. And folks all bartered atthe
store; you needed less cash

They got to talking about old ways of dealing with wheat; my ignorance of the subject prevented
‘me from following it. The talk about harvesting celebrated the old "header" and "barge"
formed the impression that the header cut the grain, and some sort of elevator or conveyor sent
the wheat into the barge (a distinctive type of wagon) for transport to the thresher. Then ta
‘about horses, and their employment in the (pinto) bean harvest. When it was time to thresh the
‘beans, there was a way to circle the horses. [think this was contrasted with a hand method using
‘flail, One man said that next you would “wind” (asin breeze) the beans to separate the chaff;
the result was cleaner than with newer mechanized cleaning,

‘The noun "hay" seemed to be used in a way which distinguished i from “alfalfa.”

Folks stopped using horses in the thirties (this seemed early to me, compared to Nevada and
Texas. 7),

‘The old crops were beans, wheat, cattle, sheep. Today: wheat, millet, maize, cattle. Cattle were
always important. The market for maize is the brewing industry--used in beer. As you go east
toward Texas, one hits more and more crops; here, cattle are very important. "This area isthe
best cattle country in the state,” "You can raise 15 to 20 head per section.” (Grazing them, as 1
gotit.)

‘The Waggoner Ranch where Solomon worked had about 165,000 acres, and a herd of about
2000-2200. This counts cows and bulls, The operation sold weaners. The owner lived in Vernor
[Vernon 7], Texas. He had (has) 500,000 acres there. He sold this place in 1969, now it is the
Bell Ranch.

By 10:30 LK had arrived atthe cafe. I had the pictures of the men which I sought, so I joined
her. As we sat there an Anglo woman brought in a can to leave by the cash register: donations for
‘Muscular Dystrophy. She had met LK previously, and the two got to taking. The woman's name
‘was Mary Byrd, Laurie told me later thatthe woman was from Kentucky.

Byrd asked Laurie who she had been visiting, LK gave some answer, my reading of body
language indicated that MB wasn't fully satisfied, so T asked who she would suggest we visit. LK
hhad evidently heard it before but jotted down some names again. It seemed clear to me that MB
saw that we would not have a comprehensive “history,” she had alluded to some pre-existing
book on the region. We will never learn enough facts to compete with a diligent local historian.

Fleschhauer 1985 NM fildnows Page is
| made a little speech to the effect that we knew that in our short visits we would not be able to
learn everything, but that, in fact, we wondered as much about heritage and values as history per
se, She immediately said, "What we want isto raise our kids o be good citizens!”

‘She went on to talk about how the community was well integrated, free from emnity. And the
different churches cooperated. Everyone believed in God. Ifyou worked with animals, and
regularly worked with animals, you would have to believe in God. You'd know that God does 99
percent of what happens with animals. The children, she said, would atend the Bible classes at
all of the churches, regardless of denomination. And agriculture, she asserted forcefully, was
fundamental to America. I asked about cowboy dress--most locals didnt seem to dress the part
‘She replied that ostentation in dress would be the mark ofthe “drugstore” (false) cowboy. And
‘there was litle or no crime here, compared to New York or Washington. (Or Albuquerque and
Santa Fe, | inserted.) Byrd said she had lived in Mosquero for 15 years, and that she was @
‘Catholic (I would have thought her a born-again Baptist.

‘Before MB came in, LK and | had been introduced to Margarito Garcia, Erm’ father. He was
nice-seeming gentleman of about seventy, with a dark complexion and a moustache, and a good
command of English. We talked fora bit but were distracted by Byrd's arrival. Around noon LK
‘and I went off to look for Garcia at home.

We found him and his wife Trinidad in a nice stone house in the neighborhood near the
courthouse. We set up the Nagra and Laurie interviewed the couple. The tape will contain the
details~1 made a few notes as they talked. He talked about the homestead in the canyon. He
‘owned 21/2 sections: in 1953, he bought out both his father and father-in-law, and combined the
‘two (adjacent properties, as I understood it) place. He said that you could raise 35 cattle per
section, but Iam not sure if that isa "now" or “then” remark. He sells weaners, I think he said at
from 6-8 months of age.

Previously, the family had raised and sold beans. They also raised maize, milo, and hegar (a
Sudanese form of grain sorghum) as grain to feed the cattle, I found myself thinking tha,
‘compared to Nevada, Montana, etal, this area does not, need not, emphasize hay~in contrast,
‘they emphasize grain for feed. This was a contrast to the "grass-fed beef” areas to the north. The
family also had about 12 sheep and numerous chickens. for home consumption,

Garcia talked about rising land values. He attributed this buying by Texans, who seek the land
for recreation. But he wanted to pass his land on to his son. This son, baptized Luis, now Louis,
lives in Georgia and is a very successful (former) contractor/construction supervisor and (now)
state park employee. Louis liked to come visit and go hunting on the old homestead.

Louis had lived in Chicago, Detroit, and Atlanta, building skyscrapers, K-Mart, etc. But the
pressures ofthe work were getting to him as supervisor. He couldnt sleep at night and switched
‘careers. He now lives in West Point, Georgia, ata park ata lake (reservoir) behind a dam used 10
{generate electricity, He likes Florida; when the senior Garcia's came to visit, they were taken
there, Their scrapbook album has more Florida beach shots than any other genre. A framed
collection of beach: found shark's teeth decorates the Garcia's living room wall, Louis quit school
atthe end of the I Ith grade and joined the Marines. They succeeded in making a man of him,

Fleischhauer 1985 NM fieldnotes Page 16
according to his father. He was stationed on Okinawa and after the service, worked as a
‘carpenter. His father (and mother, although I didn't hear as much from her) is extremely proud of
him

‘The Garcia's mailing address is Box 24, Mosquero, They have a Chihuahua named "Tiny," a cat
with no name, and a litle black dog~a poodle?~called "Dean Martin." Mr. G said it arived with
some other similar-sounding name, but he just got to calling it Dean Martin. I have a stray note
that makes the 1950s the date when the ranches became seasonal residences. Did G. tell us that
they had lived there year-round until then’?

‘Mrs. G had to go with to town with her daughter and granddaughter, so we were left with Mr. G,
Who invited us to go down into the canyon with him. T was about 2:30 and LK and I had not
‘eaten, I whispered to LK that I wondered if she could zip by the house and make us a couple of
‘sandwiches while I took a photo of the building interior and exterior. She kindly did so, Mr. G
‘aid that he was going to stay down in the canyon, so we decided to take our car. LK rode with
him im his truck in order to talk, while I drove behind (and ate my sandwich). On the way down
we passed BP coming out; BP gave me his water botle, remarking that it was very hot down,
there

We arrived at G's place at about 3. There was a pretty stone house, and the ubiquitous windmill
(a real symbol of the region, especially in its classic wood-framed form). This was not the
‘windmill of the story-that one was on down the creck a way. There were afew cattle here; G
said they were the dry cows and one bull. The rest ofthe herd was “over the mountain.” One of
the cows, with a deeper shade of red, and coloring that covered the eyes (most Hereford crosses
are white there), was a favorite of Trinidad. She called ita vacka bonita, the prety cow. His
‘wife would not let him sell it this yea.

The house had a gabled roof but had originally had a dirt roof: He said thatthe drt was piled one
foot thick and that it would only leak if one had four or five days of rain. Three posts made a
frame in front of the house, witha chain hung across the top, parallel to the top wooden element
in the frame. This was used to hang beef carcasses during butchering; the weight was supported
by the chain, not the wooden crossbar.

‘Schematic drawing of house

Flesehbaver 1985 NM fildnotes Page 17
(bedroom)  Call-purpoae (atorage
‘room Foon)

door Andow

W--g---3

houne facea thie
wey touara bottom
of canyon

(achenatic: not to scele?

{Flaw in schematic: the stove pipe must be aligned withthe interior wall Between all-purpose
room and storage oom-the stove was in the all-p room. But it did penetrate the roof where the
‘wo front planes met..s0 the relationship between the wall and the roof-meeting line is
incorrectly sketched.)

[Mr. G comes often enough, and stays over often enough, to warrant the house being equipped:
bed and bedding, stove, food staples, chain saw, etc. I made one photo in the interior, from the
all-purpose room into the bedroom, through the opening in the partition which separates them.
‘There was a door or a door-like opening (slender, covered by wood) between the all-purpose
room and the storage room, but it looked like normal access was thru the outside door.

“The storage room contained feed supplements which add protein tothe cattle diet. Cotton seed
blocks or pellets will run 40 percent protein; generally, Mr. G has pellets composed of maize,
‘milo, alfalfa, and hegari They run only 20 pereent protein, but are cheaper. I understood that this
feed supplement was made locally; itis not clear whether G himself yrows the grains and alfalfa
that isin them. I think not I bet in the old days, when he did grow more small grains, that they
‘were fed directly, not in pellet form,

‘This house was Mr, G's father-in-law, He and Trinidad were martied at St. Joseph's church in
‘town and came back to this house for the reception. They marched up to the house from the gate
atthe road (or the ane), and there was a big celebration in the yard in front of the house.

‘Weddings loomed large in the conversations we had with Hispanics; clearly of high importance.

From the house, the three of us~now together in Mr. G's truck--went down to the windmill he
had told us about on the tape. Despite the protestations and offers of help from family and
neighbors, G arid Mrs. G had raised the tower themselves. (After Mr. G had dug out the well by
band.) This remarkable feat was accomplished by rigging a steel cable to a block and tackle on
‘an apple tree, and Mrs. G pulled the cable witha pickup truck. Two ofthe legs ofthe tower were
secured to the ground; the pointed end had been raised on some sort of thing (?); Mr. G had a
regular rope pulling in the opposite direction from the cable--he held this, as I got it, to steady the
tower as it was raised, and to keep it from overshooting. The mill and "wheel" (propeller) were

Fleschhauer 1985 NM Feldnotes Page 18
added after the tower was up. I photographed the site, and Mr. G with it. As he told it, it made us
all think it was a long-ago legend. Turned out that he and Trinidad had done this 4-5 years ago.

‘Stake to Tower stands
held rope “after”

Tower tilted
“before”

Truck

he steel cable went from tower top to "p* (pulley) to the truck; made a 90 degree bend at the
pulley; the trick pulled toward us. think the safety rope also went from tower top back to
Snubbing post, where Mr, held it after snubbing, 1 imagine). These items are visible in my
photos~obscured because a cedar tree stands between the tower and the apple tee.

‘We noticed that ths site livestock watering place--had a double water system. The windmill
and well coexisted with a dam and reservoir impoundment. I asked, "for runoff?” using the
northern term for water from snowmelt. G didnt understand me, But the impoundment was
clearly for rain and snow water.

While I stayed at G's to take some photos, LK and G went across the canyon to look at one or
two other homesteads. It was striking how close these places were to each other, tuly a rural
neighborhood where one could always see one or two neighbors.

had told LK of one or two other interesting places to visit in the canyon, ic, particularly
picturesque structures (including a Penitente morada) at Pacheco's, and LK independently
‘Wanted to look at Joe Cordova's again, after we had heard his stories. But it was about , and 1
‘wanted to get my “evening” shot atthe church in town, So we decided to return tothe canyon the
next a m., and proceeded back to town, stopping only to photograph back down into the canyon
from a rock formation which resembles pillars and known as Los Pilares (the pillars) and then to
Tet me shoot the town of Mosquero stretched out along the horizon. The difference in “fee!”
‘between the flat plain and the enclosed canyon is certainly remarkable. LK thought that the
homesteads had been established in the canyon because water was more easily available there at
the time

At 5:40, we arrived back, and I photographed the west wall of the church. BP had gone back to
‘Santa Fe by then--his wife Sally had come as planned during the afternoon to pick him up. Then,
after I took a shower-it was hot!~-LK reheated the enchiladas and tamales she had brought,
leftovers from Monday's pot luck. They were great, accompanied by beer. As always, we talked
about what we had seen, and speculated about what it all meant. And then to our respective beds
to sleep.

Fleischer 1985 NM fieldnoes Page 19
ate (YRMODA):850831

LK and I got up and headed down into the canyon, leaving at 6:45 in order to get the good
‘morning light, and to some degree, to escape the heat. After stopping en route to shoot a backlit
seene looking down into the canyon, we proceeded to the Pacheco place, about the first (maybe
certainly the first) homestead one encounters, G had told LK that there were three houses and the
‘morada. There was a nice stone house there with a shed roof, a couple of things that served as
‘outbuildings (but were too modest to be called a building), a spring-fed (?) reservoir (which
‘would also catch runoff) with some crude and recently-maintained irrigation ditches. And a
‘corrugated metal privy. Some rocks were marked with a connected MP~the curving part ofthe
letter P was drawn onto the right vertical line of the M--which one supposes was the Pacheco's
brand.

‘After taking a few shots, LK and I headed up the hillside to look for the morada, The incoming
road ran down the opposite hillside, and G had pointed out some white (natural color, not
painted) rocks above the house, So we went in that direction and discovered what looked like a
piled-stone fence. Very odd. It wandered ina serpentine up th hill, not seeming to enclose
anything. Could it have marked the way of the eross that G had mentioned in connection with the
‘morada? But it did not seem to be punctuated with any sort of mark or large stones which might
‘count as stations. Still, we followed it up and around, finally coming toa vista point, and there
‘beyond and below us~just back from a crest onthe hillside-stood the remains of the (presumed)
‘morada. The rock-fence-path didn't exactly go right to the structure, but it certainly came close.

‘We went on down to the morada and took some photos. I became a litle anxious about
‘trespassing; I had already been a trifle anxious at the house. We had not asked any family
‘members for permission, and it was @ Saturday when someone might just stop out. And maybe
‘the morada was off limits. I worried, so we tried to hurry

Schematic of morada:

Fleischbave 1985 NM fieldnots Page 20
window.

as

2

fireplace | wood section

io-er i? about 12°

Edirection te rock with graffiti

arehort atone wall aticking out te attach to pecel-1:ke wood well

Gf the front ell-

Vertical dimenaicr

Yneide the atone part, fron dirt floor to botton of
fv

‘The stone exterior vall stood abo\
2 feet all the vay sround--we could:

‘The morada contained an old blue-painted cross, and the ruins of platform or bed, in the stone
‘part. Near the building lay sections of old sheet-metal stove pipe which must have risen from the
flat top of the fireplace thru the wood section's roof. And there was a big rock with graffiti about
20-30 yards from the structure. A. wooden cross stood above the building, jammed between a
‘couple of rocks in the top of the wall. The cross at first looked like a couple of boards which had
bbeen hastily nailed together, but on closer examination, they had been cut to create a rabbet joint
before fastening. The two crosses persuaded us that this was indeed the morada

LK found the structure excitingshe was surprised to find Penitentes this far east.

‘After making our pictures, we skedaddled down the hill-this time on the more direet path of a
‘water gully tothe reservoir next to the house where we started. A path that neither of us would
have taken to be a route to anything if we had seen it from the bottom, We snapped a few more
pictures around the house, and then pushed on.

Our next stop was Joe Cordova's. We photographed some of the buildings, including (by eraning
necks through the window), the newspaper and catalog-page papered jacal ceiling. I did a
schematic site plan, which I will redraw by hand on a separate sheet of paper.

Schematic of Cordova ranch building ensemble:

Fleischbaver 1988 NM fieldnotes Page 2t
APPRox
Noe

che NCard pee)
Sclawatic ote pew

Page 22

Fleischer 1985 NM fieldnoes

‘As we drove back, we talked about what had struck us about the architecture—two amateurs at
the subject as we were. We wondered to what degree the symmetrical house forms, and linear
site plans were “Anglo,” like the act of homesteading itself, shared, for example, with Oklahoma
neighbors. Would Hispanics have had courtyard farm plans, or asymmetrical house facades? But
the construction methods, particularity the vertcal-log walls ofthe jacal, with their vigas and.
dirt roofs, seemed especially Hispanic. We wondered about the mixture of elements in northeast
New Mexico, a land of mixed settlement: Anglo from the east and Hispanic from the Rio Grande
valley to the west. Well it made a nifty model, but tamorrow, when we tried it on BP, it didn't
pan out. There are lots of linear Hispanic farms, he said, and an equal tendency to symmetry. Oh
well

‘We got back to town at about 10:40, Laurie had intended to get some signatures on release forms
today, and our frst stop was Erma's. The cafe is closed on Saturdays, so she was home (Pat was,
tthe bar and gas station) The visit gave us a tour of the mobile-home-in-a-house. Basically, the
‘mobile home remains as original, wth one large added room, accessed by a large opening cut in
the old mobile home wall. The windows that had been there were shifted to positions in the new
wall. The work was done by Pat and Mr. Garcia. Erma complained thatthe men had not
followed her drawings when they placed the windows and the woodstove.

Erma is shor for Erminda, ‘The Garcias seem to have kept to Hispanic names--but Erma's
husband is Patrick and his dad is Albert. And one of Erma and Pat's boys is also Patrick. We got
4 tour ofthe house, including a look atthe wall where portraits of the four children are hung.
‘Two girls, including Tina, and two boys. Erma is proud of them but wishes they had pursued
their educations more fully. She sets great store by education, personal development, and
improving one’s circumstances, Tina was married just out of high school. One of the boys came
home with his high school diploma and said, “This is for you mom.” And dida' start college. 1
think the other boy started college and didn't finish, The other girl came within an ace of
finishing, but after three years at Univ of NM at Las Cruces, she transferred to Highlands in Las
‘Vegas, Proximity to her boyfriend was a factor. She and Erma agreed this college was inferior,
‘eventually the girl dropped out.

LK and I said how much we had enjoyed our day with Mr. Garcia. Erma said she always loved
‘coming home to hear his stories. "What language,” I asked. "English," she replied. LK asked
Erma to tell me a story she had told LK: how she leamed Spanish. This proved to be more or less
«an occasion fora little eycle of stories: how Erma learmed her Hispanic identity, and how she
later learned Spanish,

[Erma grew up in Dalhart; the family moved there when she was young. Mr. Garcia quit his so-so
‘railroad job and got work in an ice plant~they iced railroad cars filled with produce being
shipped cross-country. Dalhar, in racist (compared to NM) Texas, had four schools; two for
‘whites. South Ward ina rich neighborhood. North Ward in a poor one; one (pronounced "calla
hill" Callow Hill??) for Hispanics (Mexican-Americans), and one for blacks, the latter in @
little house by the cemetery. Hispanics and blacks were bussed. Due to some fluke, Erma was
‘one of two Hispanic kids in South Ward; she came to think of herself as part of that set. Her best
friend was named Sondra and had blue eyes and blond hai

Fleschhauer 1985 NM fieldnotes Page 23
(Once the South Ward ball team played a game at Calla Hill. The kids went to watch. She and
Sondra went to go inside to the bathroom; the door was blocked by young Carranza, the school
bully, Sondra said, "Get out ofthe way, you Mexican bastard,” or something like that. Erma

chimed in, "Yeh, you Mexican!” Carranza turned to Erma and said, "And who do you think you

[Erma said it took a few hours, or even days for tis to sink in, but with the help of talk with her
older sister "Lida" (Adalida) pronounced Ly-da, itd finally sink in.

Here Erma digressed to say that she thought of learning Spanish "like learning French,” a matter
of educational improvement or culture. “English is really our language,” she added, "It's really
“American,” And one must know English to suoceed and to bea proper American,

Emma's next story was set shortly after her marriage. At home, she was not able to sustain @
‘conversation in Spanish with her new relatives. After it was over, Pat said, “I am ashamed of
‘you, that you don't know your language." So she improved her Spanish, and could soon read
‘much better than Pat. By reading, she was able to (privately) embarrass him once at church; he
‘aid, "Let's stop this competing about language.”

Pat had been on the local school board, It was a problem and he eventually quit doing it. People
called him day and night. He would select a person for a job-drawn from a hat, once~and if the
sumame was Trujillo, some would be mad, And that hurt their business.

We talked a bit about politics. She asked me if had seen Ronald Reagan, whom she evidently
admired. She compared him favorably to non-presidential Jimmy Carter, and "undignified" Tip
ONeill

Erma told about being a substitute teacher~again folks thought she was favored unfairly. “Just
because she’s a Trujillo." She laughed and said, if they had only known that she had only
‘completed the eleventh grade, they could have pushed her out easily. But she succeeded as @
teacher, even in math, and the man at the school board begged her to stay with it.

‘The house includes some local genre scenes by an artist named Jose Roybal, a fellow who had
some association with the school system in Mosquero, but now lives in another part ofthe state.
‘One picture included a house with alittle addition that Erma said reminded her of thie family's
‘home in the canyon (it also had snow, and coyotes). Another showed the region's emblematic
‘windmill, A third, anomalous for me, showed what made me think of a cottage in a European
‘wood, There was also a painting of four pine cones by a local painter named Burroughs, Erma
said that the four cones reminded her of her four children. A swallow had nested outside the
‘window; she didn’t want to take the nest off of their house because the four little birds reminded
her of the children too.

‘We talked about hunting. She recalled that, out atthe ranch, her father had taken a pan or bucket

or something, rigged it with stick and string, baited it with grain, and caught squirrels. Mom
‘would roast (1) them, with a bread-based stuffing. Folks also hunted deer--not just recreation, she

Fischer 1985 NM feldnoes Page 24
cemphasized-~and dried the meat as jerky. It contributed to the family diet. Today, Tina and her
hhusband Tony Baca have gone antelope hunting; they too will make jerky if they are successful,

Erma told about the origin of the Bill Special lunch at her cafe. About seven years ago, a man
‘named Bill asked her to prepare a plate of burritos with chili all over them, and with added
lettuce and cheese. Others ordered it, it caught on: the Bill Special

Erma said she didn't mind the bench, or the men on it. She told how it was replaced from time to
time, but always with another old bench. And one Halloween, vandals stole it (possibly including
‘one of her boys), But only that one time. The whole matir ofthe bench reminded me of Dillon
Bustin’s book from Indiana, /f You Don't Outdie Me, in which the Liars Bench serves the same
purpose, and was destroyed one Halloween (but by the wives).

Allin all, the vist was very moving-Ermas stories and perceptions had a special quality. Laurie
said that she had previously taped some of this material. We both felt as though there was 2
bond, especially between the two women, and that Erma was reaching out to us in particualr
‘way, I suppose we represented the larger world and “education” in some way, but I think it went
deeper than that. Erma i intelligent and insightful and need not worry about missing out on
school-based book-learning

‘We went back tothe rectory/convent and had a bite. I suppose it was 2 or 3 pm. LK set out to get
1 few more signatures for her release forms, while I set about packing up.

At five or so, she returned, and told how Mrs. Garcia had shown her a scrapbook album. We
decided to go back to copy some of the photos as our final act in Mosquero; then we would head
for Santa Fe. The undertaking would also let LK practice doing some copy work.

‘We setup on the porch, which seemed like a good idea until we saw thatthe sun kept shifting,
and that the breeze blew the pictures around. But we stuck it out, The images we copied ae:

1.” Mis. G's parents and brother in uniform. Reyes Perea (mom), Benito "Benny" Perea
(bro), and Roman Perea, ca. 1950, photo by Mrs.

2, Pairof pix: Mr. Garcia in his late 20s or early 30s, a four-for-a-quater or cheap studio
picture, and Mrs G's sister Clorinda Pino, ca. 1938-39, also a studio shot.

3, Reyes Perea, Erma Garcia (now Trujillo) [born 1942], Roman Perea. Snapshot border
marked Mar 59; photo made by Adilena Perea (now Medina), Mrs, G's sister.

4, Mr. and Mrs, Perea with Arlene Cordova (Joe Cs daughter, now Arlene Aragon), at the
time of Arlene's frst communion. Ca. 1960; photog unknown,

5. Mr. and Mrs. Perea, Mar 1959 (same time s #3). Prob same photographer.

66. At the Garcia's marriage; May 1, 1938. | tor: Avrelia Velasquez, the Gs, Benito
Velasquez. Mr. and Mrs. Velasquez were the parino and madrina atthe ceremony. The
picture was made a the church is thatthe rectory/convent in the background”) aftr the
‘ceremony, probably by Mrs. Ofrescinia(Ofeseina?) Lovato, a friend

7. Catch from trapping. Atthejacal where the Garcias lived, ca, 1930, Margarito and
Fransico (si; written on back of photo, confirmed by Mrs. G) at their parent's home.
Coyote, badger (?), and skunk pelts and hunting dogs. Photo by ther sister.

8. Mr-and Mrs. G photographed at a studio ata camival in Dalhat, ca. 1955.

Fleisehhauer 1985 NM fldnotes Pages
We left town at about 6:30, taking the road to Roy. I drove my rented car, and LK followed in
hers, As we left, I suddenly saw that I had failed t0 look at all of the landscape~- had been
townbound. This direction was different! Big, “anglo” ranches, the first had a giant sign: The
Heimann Ranch, It was across the road from the Bell Ranch. This was different country! 1 had
thought that we may have de-emphasized the Anglo side of the town of Mosquero; tis sight
‘made me think that something was definitely being left out

‘We went thru Roy--interesting~and Wagon Mound. Then took the intestate to Santa Fe,
arriving at about 8 pm. We unloaded at LK’s house (she is house-siting for museum conservator
Bettina Raphael), and set out for supper at about 9:30, Even in sophisticated Santa Fe, folks seem
to ca early and we had abit of wouble finding a place to eat (LK refuses to consider
MeDonalds) I slept ona daybed at LK's

Date YRMODA): 850901

‘This morning BP bought a bunch of donuts and some milk ("skimmed," said LK), and brought
them to Bettina's house (where LK is house-sitting, and we had a very pleasant breakfast on the
patio, Before we ate, | finished up my rolls of 2 1/4 film by snapping shots ofthe back yard at
the house,

‘The three of us talked about the project and the various things we had seen; LK and I tried to
update BP on what the two of us had done separately from him. LK only has one more week for
fieldwork, and then precious few days to write everything up asa final report. BP will have more
time to digest things.

‘We looked atthe ailing Nagra-I was going to leave it forthe pair to use, if they wished, or for
LK to log tapes on, (She seemed especially anxious about logging tapes--here her time was really
scarce!) With less luggage to take back, I saw that I didnt need to goto air freight in
‘Albuquerque but could just take my stuff as "excess baggage.”

[eft Santa Fe at 10:30, arriving in Albuquerque at noon; just enough time to tum in the car and
make my plane. On the way south I passed many cars with windsurfer gear, heading for Cochiti
Lake, How about that?

Flesehhaver 1985 NM Fldnotes Page 26
