Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit,
Michigan (Transcription)
W91
0241.1 ... mostly they just make up little games. They watch TV mostly..not just regular
games. FW: (garble) IN: Well, we played mostly games outside, uhm, Jacob's ladder
and so forth outside and then we would play in the house we played cards.. we played
games like, uh...match games. Fw: How do you play Jacob's ladder? IN: Oh, you hold your
hands...up. No, that's London bridge isn't it. London bridge is fall-
0241.2 ing down and then they had a Jacob's ladder and I don't really remember how you
play that. And, uh, it's with a string..make a string and you make a ladder and you hold it
up but uh..I forget..and it was quite small Oh, I have interference. But, uh...kids mostly they
just sit around and, uh, watch television or have guests (over)..oh, they like to play records
and they like to dance. And they like to have a social. Like they get,
0241.3 uh, one friend each there's seven of them so they get one friend and they have
little Party with kool-aid and cookies, mostly like that.. Uh, <gap> I can't get him to sit
still long enough to do too much.. (garble) fifteen, he likes to go swimmin', he likes, uh,
basketball but he don't care for too many sports. He like kickball, <something?> like
that...but not football and <unintelligible text> rent thing. He just love to swim.. FW:
0241.4 What's your favorite television program? IN: Uhm...this will be funny. I like the,uh,
Hillbillies, Flintstones, and I like Spy, Long Hot Summer...I don't care for the uh, day
programs..you know, the continued story...I don't care for those..I start watching TV about
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
seven in the afternoon and I watch most of the comedy and I watch, uh..most of the, uh,
spy pictures that comes one later. <and?> Fugitive, things like that..uh, they come
0241.5 on at ten o'clock, you know this is doctor 6hat's supposed to killed his wife.. and he
keeps running and he running. I watched him last night and I watched I Spy and Long Hot
summer and I don't like Peyton Place. <unintelligible text> uh...when Peyton Place come
on I usually <unintelligible text> and find me some kind of detective story, <unintelligible
text> I wind up on the comedies. On the Flintstones, or something. Yeah..so..TV is..well,
got two so I can go up and look at my pro-
0241.6 gram but TV is the most...uh, center attraction at home..in this home. Uh, I don't
know about..the kids not having a father.. it, uh, don't giv4 us too much outing..unless we
go picnicking and things like that which we do quite a bit of..(yes) FW: What is the best
movies that you've seen recently? IN: Last time I went to the movie I believe I was seeing
double oh seven..and that was right around Christmas..now I haven't been..I tried
0241.7 to get in to see Dr...Zagiva..Zhivagi downtown and you have to make reservations
to see that and I didn't get to see that..and I wanted to see Maya before it leave. It's on
now. But, uh, double seven about the best one I..the last one i've seen (yes) FW: (garble)
IN: Yeah, this was uh..uhm..I just remember what the, oh...Thunderball, Thunderball that's
the one. That one was. FW: Is that the one where they try to steal that (garble)?
0241.8 IN: Yeah. (yes) It was trying to bomb someplace and they had all this underwater
fighting.... and this cacoon boat..I thought that was just wondeful...where, uh, you know,
he's just got one big yacht and he says "shoot the cacoon" and the boat comes right' out of
the back..and what have you got..you've got a, a battle ship on the back, you know, but it
was just good..it was so way out till, uh, it was way out..I enjoyed it, though..I
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.9 really did..but the best movie I've ever seen in my life was the Ten
Commandments. Now I saw that about twice and I want to see' it again here but I
didn't get a chance. I thought that was nice. I don't go too, often. Go to church..Maybe
occasional movies but nothing else.(yes) FW: Do you have any pets? IN: Just a dog. Just
a dog and.. I don't care too much for her but that's John's dog, but, uh,...I don't care too
much for running around
0241.10 pets. I like, uh, the canaries, goldfish.. something that stay put where I put them
you know..when I got up keep up with a dog's seven babies. I'm telling you, that's a job..
so I don't. I don't care for pets that much. FW: Is there anyway that, when you were doing
something, anytimes that you more or less were obliged to make a wish, like after you've
been eating dhicken and you pulled the bone. IN: You mean like the wishbone? Yeah.
Broke the
0241.11 wishbone..and made your wish and it's supposed to came true. Oh Yes...I've had
many occasions to do that..they never came true..they never came true. I wish all sorts of
foolish things, you know..but they didn't...I finally, uh, come to the conclusion in order to
make a wish come true you got to be able to just about do it yourself. Yeah. FW: And you
know, some of the wishes I've made I'm really glad they didn't come
0241.12 true. IN: Me, too. Me, too. I think I'd have been gone long ago if they had. I
wanted to fly across the ocean, I wanted to see the foreign land..those the type of wishes I
had. FW: I had some tasty wishes when I was a mad at someone. IN: Like wishing they'd
drop dead or something. FW: Exactly. IN: Yeah. I've often thought of wishing that my
mother would just disappear you know..she'd get kind of nasty
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.13 some times and, and it was secret.. you just close your eyes and make a wish
and I'd say when I wake up in the morning, and she wouldn't be here. That'd be fine, you
know. But I'm..those are the type of wishes you don't want to come true. But it.. makes you
feel better just wishing.. IN: It does..just to think you can kind of do something about it, you
know.. FW: Tell me about school. What was it like? IN: When I
0241.14 was going to school? Well, I can say this much about school..it's much different
than today. I went to school in <unintelligible text> and it was a pretty fairly large school.
First one I went to went to the seventh grade, kindergarten to seventh grade. Then I left
there and went to Jr. high, it had from kindergarten to, uh, ninth grade. Then I left there
and I went to uh, Central high and I stopped in the
0241.15 tenth grade..but school to me was very nice. I really liked that school but the
people was kind of poor so I dropped out of school. But school in my days was so much
nicer than these because you didn't, <unintelligible text> could hear a pin fall, you know,
and when the teacher walked out the classroom you were on your P's and Q's, you
know..and when she came back in you, uh, she would come back in very easy, very
quietly and
0241.16 you didn't look at her to watch, see if she's coming in or watch to see if she's
going out. You mind your own business and <unintelligible text> a days..soon as you walk
into the classroom you get a book thrown at you or anything..so.. I had a chance to talk
to the principal about one of the schools here. I haven't been here but a year see and I
told him, I said "sometimes you come by this school and it sounds like everybody's having
gym." That's just the
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.17 the way it sound..and they're are classrooms so he told me why the school was
old and that..your voice would carry when you talk..I understood that part, I understood
that part but, but, but, but, I couldn't understand why you running down the halls calling
a boy on the other end of the hall or you not walking orderly down the hall, we walked in
twos and they came in twos but these kids goes down four, six, eight, come up the stairs in
droves
0241.18 you know so..school in my days was real nice I thought..maybe the kids think
they're nice now a days, you know. Maybe they think mine is old fashioned but I can say
this, what I learned I still got it. What they learn they forget it by the time school starts next
semester. They really do..(To baby) Oh, I'm busy, I'm going to clean house and I'm going
to make 'em worse a mess and if Mommy take that away from you I'm going to scream..
0241.19 you can have it..I understand it's quite a bit..I can't talk but I understand.. Okay
stop. FW: He looks lie he was playing (garble) IN: Yeah. Well, that's what he's doing. that's
what he's doing. I got a great imagination..but I'm a stinker at time...yea.. FWY Did you
ever have a teacher who hollered a lot? IN: Hollered a lot? No, I don't believe so. I had one
who was very, very stern. She was my favorite teacher but I didn't like her. She,
0241.20 uhm..I liked..I, I, uh, envied her, uh, but the way she handles herself, you know,
she was so sure of herself and just talk to you..but she never let herself go. She was down
to business, no monkeying around and she, uh.. well, she'd just straighten you right out
without even raising her voice. We didn't like her because she made us work our heads
off...but really when you looked at it from the outside she was a very nice woman..she
was..she told
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.21 me, she said <unintelligible text> ...I was seventh grade. She said, <gap> I've
always been a <dead?> pole, you know.. she say" you're growing up to be such a nice
attractive little girl." She said "But I want to tell you something, don't let this go to your
head." <gap> was just this plain spoken, you know, and she said.."if you keep the way
you're going and always smile, it'll get you a long way." That's been over twenty some
years and I
0241.22 never forgot it. She was just a nice lady, but you get out of the way and she would
just stop and say "Now you know that isn't right; if you want your ears pinned back I will do
it." and you just..automatically you got in your place, you know..she never touched you..but
now she would get hold of you.. she'd pin them back for you, too. But she was nice, her
husband was a teacher, she was a teacher. They had no children. Now her hus-
241.23 band is a truant officer and I really didn't find out where she was when I went
back..I wouldn't be a bit surprised if she wasn't principal but she was very good in
anything... FW: Do you remember a teacher that you just couldn't stand? IN: Couple of
them..really a couple of them. I had a science' teacher and I couldn't stand her becahse
she had snakes and turtles and all this in the room, and she would handle them and she'd
241.24 want you to go up and experiment with(them) and I couldn't stand all these creepy
bugs. And then, uh, as I think back I had one man teacher..come to think of, he didn't
holler quite a bit. I mean, if he wasn't in on times he would start screaming about the door
and when you sit down and, uh, you couldn't hear,very well, he'd start screaming about
that..he was, uh, well, now suppose you want to ask him a question, you
41.25 hold you hand..well, you just might well forget it's up there, you see. And you go
up to him half, by the time you got half way, "what are you coming up here for" you know.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
I don't even remember his name but I believe he was my history teacher and flunked
in history. So I think it was my story teacher. I never got anything done that classroom
because he couldn't..to me he couldn't express himself..he couldn't
0241.26 explain what he wanted you to do. Well, enough. and then if you wanted to ask
questions..well, you should have listened, you see. Yeah..so don't do that Lane, stop
Lane, stop. FW: Did you ever play any trick on the teachers? IN: No, not me. No. I was
always a quiet student...I've alway been the type of person to sit back and look. Now
i've seen many kids put tacks on the seats. you know, or they take the test papers or
something
0241.27 like this and hide 'em, they'd go in teacher's drawer and rumble it up, you know.
But I've always sit back and just watched them and she'd ask who did it and nobody would
tell so the classroom got punished for it. But I, uh, never been,well, I'm not bragging but
i've never been mischeivious just to really get into something just because I could. or
because somebody put me up to it..uh,mother always said I had a old fashioned mind, I
mind
0241.28 my own business, sit back and watch you and if you were wrong i'd leave you
right quick..'cause mother was very strict on us. She would beat the daylight out of you,
see. So now if the neighbors would tell her we did something you'd get beat half to death.
If she found out you did something you got beat half to death so, uh..she used to tell me all
the time...she used to tell me all the time.. "Alice, no matter where you go, what you do,
0241.29 I see you." And in this, in this town it had a tall light up over the railroad tracks,
you know, just this big light after I growed up I knew..and she would tell me, say "you see
that light up there? I'm right up there watching you." and that stayed with me until I grew up
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
and I, it came to me that that was the light for the railroad station and that she was not up
on that light but anywhere I go ...I said.."that light shines
0241.30 far and I know she's watching me, and I can't do this." She kept me pretty well
in line 'til I got about sixteen and she gave me a turn of heart, the boys comed come and
see me and I could go. Then when I got so I could take company she'd send my little sister
along with me. So I never had a chance to step out of line until I got married. I came out of
school..and the next year I got married. So that's when my troubles began..oh, my troubles
0241.31 Oh, I was very happy at home. Well, much as a low income family be, because I
had a step-father and, uh, at that particular time she, I can't remember too well how they
got along except I know they divorced about fifteen years ago and about <fifteen?> years
ago is when I came out of school and after I left home they divorced and so the home was
split up so I can't just say too much about it. But for the last
0241.32 fifteen years after my oldest son was born I got married, I've really been on my
own so home was never home no more.. FW: (garble) IN: Yeah. Once you leave I, I don't
<come?> back you know. Because Mamma says "you can't". Everything is "you can't, you
can't <have?> my bone you can't and as long as you under my roof and you're gonna do
this", well...thirty two years old and I'm about gonna what I always thinks and so I get my
own
0241.33 house and I do just as I like. So fifteen years I've stayed in her house <see?
>..and the longest I've ever spent in <her?> house was one week..and I left. That's that.
So I could be free, you know. And like well my children...once you get grown, you got to
go, go. You're free to go, you know <unintelligble text> .... FW: I think that's awfully hard to
decide. IN: It is. It is. But I force ,it because I find if I tell them to go
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.34 they won't go....they won't. Put <unintelligble text> dog Lane...put it down. Uh, my
oldest <unintelligble text>, about a month ago I got on him. I kind roughed him up a little
bit. He was telling the boys out there that one day he <unintelligble text> have to listen to
me, you know.. he's boasting off to the boys. About two weeks later it got back to me. I
brought him in the house and I told him. I said now <unintelligble text>, if you think you are
grown enough
0241.35 take care of yourself in those <unintelligble text> right now, get your clothes
and go, see. There's the door, you don't have to <unintelligble text>. Because as long
as you're in my house I gotta see to you you're going to do that..I'm going to raise you
way I think right you're going to do it and you don't <got?> to do it go right now. I've had
no <unintelligble text> out of Junior no more. He'll tell you <unintelligble text>.. that's my
mother and I owe her a cer-
0241.36 tain amount of respect and I'm going to do it, you see, and they say, <unintelligble
text> what you going to do when you grow up? "Well, I think I'll be at home for quite some
time. I think I'll just , uh, just stay at home finish school and if service want me come
and get me but I'll be right here at home for quite some times." He changed his mind
<unintelligble text> see..'cause I don't care if he go..but if he had stepped out the door I
think I'd have fell
0241.37 dead, see. You see, 'cause I know he can't do it. But long as they think you're
going to cry and pet them they will just push you now to give me this, to do this, to do that,
but I don't no it. I got too many and I want him to know he got to stand on his own two feet.
And ask me for advice, I'll give it to him and if he do this he'll go right but if he feels that he
can make it, go ahead, make it. He'll come home. FW: What makes a
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
0241.38 person smart? IN: What makes a person smart? FW: Yeah. IN: Well, I would say
he's smart by being, well, first from the beginning he's gotta be well trained. The way I
think you become smart is your upbringing. If that kid there, at the stage he is now I can
teach him to do anything. If I take a lot of patience and teach that child, he's gonna be very
intelligent. But if I let the child raise himself by doing as he please, then it seems'
0241.39 to stunt 'em, they don't, uh, progress as early. Now <gap> this is a smart child
here. Anything she see done once or twice, she can do it again. <gap> is..slow in his
books, but he's, uh, handy at doing handy work or catching on to what mostly men enjoy.
But when it come to education I really don't think <gap> gonna make it. Uh, <gap> is slow.
She's the type of person, she likes to work in the home. She's a clean neat girl.
0241.40 You don't have to keep behind her. She know what she gonna do, she does it,
she get outa here. But when it come down to a book..it just don't register. So really I think
what make you smart is, uh, I didn't take much time with <gap>, either, but with her she
was the first girl, and all my time' that I could spend and doing things with her,I think it
helped her. With <gap> he was a boy and he was alone, and I didn't take too
0241.41 much patience with him, I was quite' young when I had <gap>. But this baby and
the baby before that baby.. they're real <unintelligble text> sometime the kids say "well,
he's bad" I don't see him being bad because anything <unintelligble text> see one of those
kids do out there he'll do and he'll go upstairs and wash his hands might make a mess, but
he'll wash 'em, and he'll use toilet tissue. He's only three. <unintelligble text> tell him come
downstairs and get something
0241.42 out of the refrigerator he'll get it. he's only three, but they think he's bad, and
I think he's...adjusted himself quicker <then?> they did. See? Okay <gap> can tell
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
something and use a new word, he got it <unintelligble text> like that. You see? So I try
to step <unintelligble text> This is the one I'm speaking of, and <unintelligble text> can
make him angry and he'll run off in the corner and he won't say a word to you. <He's?> got
sense to know it..yet enough to know
0241.43 how to surl add...He won't talk back but he'll let you know he don't like it. He
<didn't?> appreciate it. That's what I think make smart child. The parents putting in a lot
time with 'em. If they ask questions, answer <unintelligble text> don't care what question it
is. If (answer) answer it intelligently, he won't <unintelligble text> the wrong, uh,...attitude
towards it, he won't think dirty of what you tell him. all my kids, down to the eight year old,
0241.44 as far as life concerned, I tell <them?> If they ask me, sometime they stunts but
I'll tell 'em. (laugh) I get it <unintelligble text> you know as telligent as I can..intelligently
as I can, and, uh, (To children in ground: Stop now, stop! Stop! Stop!) the dog has lad her
puppies. Everybody <unintelligble text> this. Junior knows what to do for her when and
how. He don't want to come in <unintelligble text> "The dog's having puppies, Mama."
0241.45 I say "is she?" You know. (laugh) course I've never noticed it, and right if you sit
down and talk to him, you'll a...they ask..they will, uh..express themselves if they know
that, uh, you're interested. But my kid is a type of kids, if <unintelligble text> think, uh, like
<gap> said, out on the porch <unintelligble text> I don't need no doctor to see. They..he
<unintelligble text> you were some kind of Psychiatrist or, something like this. Yeah! And,
uh, he,
0241.46 he didn't want anybody..he say, well, they don't put you on cots no more. They
just tell to you to see if you're mentally upstairs, you know. (laugh). So this is what I was
explaining till he run around the back. He thought that's what was happening. But if he
Library of Congress
Conversation with 32 year old black female, Detroit, Michigan (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2602
think, well, you're just doing a survey or something like that he'll sit down 'n talk. Really,
they, they're quick to think, you know, and they're quick to pick
0241.47 up to things
end M18 A (2)