"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr08
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941
AFS 6364A
Cut A1
Salesman: As a man on the street, I'm a salesman meeting all kinds of people and getting all kinds
of opinions on the conditions of today. The work that I do is door-to-door canvassing. I have been
asked to give my opinion on the foreign policy of our president. I want it to be distinctly understood
that I, as an American born and raised in this country, am in favor of everything which is beneficial
to everyone living in this land. But I sincerely believe, had a different attitude been taken on the part
of our president we would never have to face or be confronted with a condition that exists today.
For example, people may say, “Well, whatever was done years ago was all right, that two wrongs do
not make a right.” But England, in my estimation, . . . the territory that England has, what she calls
by right of conquest, has been taken by force. Might over right. She, in turn, feels that she does not
want to lose any of those possessions. Therefore, she has called on this country. Germany, who
has a right to expand, and there have been tyrants as great as Hitler. History shows that. And if
Hitler would not have racial prejudice he'd really be a great man because he'd be looking out for his
country.
But under the conditions, he cannot and must not win. Now we will take the condition of Japan.
Japan, who wants to rule Asia and have a Monroe Doctrine, the same as this country, in her way
of thinking is correct. We have no right to condemn. But I believe that Japan has made one great
mistake by sending a peace envoy to this country. And then stabbing us, as Roosevelt would say, in
the back. In other words, having a Bible in one hand and a dagger in the other. But people should
not be disillusioned, because they are under the impression that they are going to go to a picnic. But
that is not so. But under the — [long pause].
Interviewer: ??? finishing?
Salesman: No, I just want to get the ??? kind of hard . . .
Cut A2
James Popp: My name is James Popp. I live in New York City. I work on the custodial staff at City
College. I think the speech is very fine and what Roosevelt did, he couldn't do anything else. It was
forced upon us and there's nothing else for us to do but fight. Most people think that Roosevelt's
speech was fine and that it was . . . very popular. What he said was very popular. And I know they're
"Man-on-the-Street", New York, New York, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr08
all behind what he's doing now. Whatever he did, I'm sure he did it for the best interest for all of the
people of the United States.
Cut A3
Richard Kwan: My name is Richard Kwan. I work for the city of New York. I think President Roosevelt's
speech was excellent and I think it is the only means of meeting the aggression of the Japanese by
declaring war. And I think all the people of the United States should be behind the president because
his speech was an excellent performance of his duty towards the people of this state. And I assure
you that every working man will be behind the president in his hour of need.