Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male,
New Mexico (Transcription)
M 6A(4)
FW: Uh hmm. Hmm. What, what else can you see that's changed?
INF: We don't plant anymore.
FW: I know.
INF: The water, that's...but they have little water during those years and they used to raise
the alfalfa, but we don't raise anything now. And then everybody's working. At the mine.
Most of the people are working at the mines. And then those days, some of these people,
they raise their own sheep and cattle and whatever they can get out of it, they...that's their,
that's their earning of money. And some raise, you know, little alfalfa and sell it to each
others. So whoever don't have alfalfa and corn, things like that.
FW: Did they ever, around here, did they ever just trade?
INF: Uh hmm. They trade.
FW: trade Long time ago. Yeah, cuse I remember that. And they that, that, that you traded
whatever you had for maybe somethin that...
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
Tape 34 Page 15 <unintelligible text> #331
INF: Yeah, they trade, uh hmm. And during that time maybe, maybe you have
remembered or I don't know. During, during summertime, they used to put all the, they
used to have horses you know, for their wagons and riding horses and... They used to put
them together and they hire somebody to herd for them during the summertime. During the
day. And then they bring, bring them back in. Put em in the corral.
FW: Oh really. No, I don't remember that.
INF: Don't you remember?
FW: Huh uh.
INF: That's what they used to do.
FW: Really?
INF: They used to, somebody usually herd for them during the day. And then they bring
them back in the evening. Put em back in the corral because, they got fields there that
they don't want anybody to, get their horses in the fields. They don't just turn them loose.
Til, in the fall, when everything's picked that's the time they turn them loose.
FW: They're in everybody's garden.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Uh hmm. Yeah.
FW: Gee, and I, but I remember that they had, they used to have alot of horses around
here.
INF: Uh huh. They used to have a lot of horses.
FW: Yeah. Course they were used for things, that's why, no?
INF: Yeah. Plowing and, going after wood and things like that. But now everybody's got
trucks and it's all changing now too. There's hardly anybody owns horses. Just very few.
FW: I know it.
INF: And then no wagons.
FW: Uh hmm. Can you think of anything else that you know that might be changed?
INF: And now everybody's driving cars around. The councilmen and the officers
Tape 34 Page 16 <unintelligible text> #359
used to come, come to the meeting at Laguna with the wagons.
FW: Oh really?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Uh hmm. They used to hire, they used to ask somebody to bring them over here to
the meeting and then take him back in the evening. That's the way they used to do with
the wagon.
FW: Really?
INF: Uh hmm.
FW: I wonder what time they started their meetings?
INF: I think they start about nine o'clock. They usually come a little early and then... I don't
know how long it takes from <unintelligible text> to Laguna with the wagon. And then from
Paquate to, and then from <unintelligible text> to Laguna. I don't know how long they...
They must have start about nine o'clock. Sometimes when there's a big meeting, they
don't usually get home till gets a little dark or something like that. I remember those days.
FW: Really? Did you, did you have your own horse and buggy, or whatever?
INF: Uh hmm. Yeah. We used to have, we used to have a lot of horses.
<Plural?> stopped
FW: Uh hmm. What did you, what kind of chores did you have? How much you have...?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Used to feed the horses. And I used to feed the horses and take em back to the field.
Walk them in the morning. But they make you get up early.
FW: And now kids stay in bed.
INF: Now kids stay in bed until about nine o'clock now.
FW: I know it. I guess, probably what kept everybody in line was that everybody had some
kind of chore to do.
INF: Yeah, uh hmm. All day long...
FW: Long time ago, yeah.
INF: ...they take you out in the field, you know, they make you work. But now we don't
have nothing for them to do. They just stay home and play around and things like that.
Tape 35 Page 17 <unintelligible text> #385
FW: Get into trouble.
INF: Get into trouble.
FW: Yeah.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: But we start raising some things, maybe we'll...like if we have enough water. Maybe
we'll start up again and maybe some of the kids will like to plant or something like that. Get
out in the field.
FW: Uh hmm. That would be a nice project to start, no?
INF: Yeah.
FW: That the, co, that the, you know, community could set up a certain area where you
know the kids could take care of it during the summertime. When they're out of school
and...cuse they really don't have anything to do.
INF: No, they really don't have anything to do.
FW: Course they have, you know, these summer jobs for them.
INF: And then they don't put all of them in. They just you know, work em about two weeks
at a time or something like that.
FW: Oh, is that the way they do it?
INF: That's the way they do it, for about, oh I think it was two weeks or three weeks at a
time. And then they try to give everybody a chance. To work.
FW: Oh, I didn't know that.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Cuse there're too... But then...
FW: There's too many of them, huh?
INF: There're too many of them. At that age... A few years back, they used to pick them
out, you know if your father and mother both work, and they, they get pretty good income,
they don't put em in. Just the ones that, with the low income make those guys work. The
boys and the girls. That's the way they used to work. But I think now, everybody's suppose
to get a job. But then there's too many of them to put em in all at once, all of them. So they
have to kinda divide it out. One month or two weeks or three weeks, I don't know.
Tape 35 Page 18 #413
FW: Gee, that's too bad. Does anybody in your family...well, you know, you've got your
daughter. Does, does she make pottery or does your wife make any pottery?
INF: She used to, but she got lazy. She doesn't make anymore.
FW: It's a lot of work.
INF: It, it is. A lot of work. And then my daughter, you know she start to make pottery.
She was doing good but then she decided she'd quit. And then she started one of those,
whatcha call that, you know, the one they buy in the stores already made?
FW: Oh yeah. Ceramics?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Uh hmm.
FW: Uh huh.
INF: All ready. All they do is paint them. Put designs on them. She was doing real good on
that...and then she got lazy too.
FW: Yeah. Painting and stuff is a lot of work. I, I tried too.
INF: And then she started weaving, I think she made a skirt. And my wife weaves.
FW: Is that what she does?
INF: But she doesn't do the weaving now. She took lessons with this Adult Education and
then, she's taking basket weaving now. With the yucca. She's been doing that.
FW: I didn't know that they still had classes for basket weaving. I thought they were
finished with that already.
INF: They, they did. We were suppose to only go up to I think it was April or June. And
then they extend till September.
FW: Did they really?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 62 year old Native American male, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1404
INF: Uh hmm. And then they gonna start another one. I don't know what, what kind of
program they gonna have. Maybe it'll be the same program.
FW: Gee, that's nice. I wish I could, I wish sometimes I wish I was up here to take you
know, some of those.
INF: I think it's real good, I like to, I took auto mechanics the first.