"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr49
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942
AFS 6449B
Cut B1
Enos Francisco: My name is Enos Francisco. I am a Papago Indian. I work in agriculture chemistry.
What I think of the war is what any other good American thinks. I think the same way as in the olden
times how our tribe, we had to cooperate with our chief, which our president is our chief now. We
want to do all we can do win the war. There has been two casualties in our tribe already, but we
want to do all we can and do more of it in agriculture work and in the other work that will help our
men who are fighting the Japs, Germans, and any other enemy. We had believed in sacrifice in our
olden days and now that we hear our president want to do the same thing we are all willing to do it
again.
Cut B2
Enos Francisco: My name is Enos Francisco. I am a Papago Indian. I work in agriculture chemistry
now. We Papagos feel the same way as any other good American thinks about the war. We want to
do all we can in helping win the war. Our boys out there on the reservation are doing the work that
they know that will help in any way.
Unidentified Man: Let's cut George.
Cut B3
Enos Francisco: My name is Enos Francisco. I work in agriculture chemistry now.
Cut B4
Enos Francisco: My name is Enos Francisco. I work in the agriculture chemistry now. I am a Papago
Indian. What I think of the war is what all Papagos think and what any other good American thinks,
that we all cooperate in doing all we can to help this war. In the olden days when the Apaches
attacked us we all get together to win the war. To win the war means our liberty in those days and
so now that the Japs and Germans have attacked us we want to win our liberties again. What would
happen if the Japs and Germans come over and change our ways of our customs which Americans
have always give us the right to follow? The other day I was out on the reservation and I was very
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr49
surprised to find as many Papagos as I talked to that they heard of the Pearl Harbor being attacked
on the seventh of December. And they are willing to do their part since they were attacked.