AFCCC-DOWNI http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_downi
AFCCC-DOWNI
The Mermaid
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
TextRobertson, Sidney [md] collectorFord, Warde [md] singerAsmussen, Ella [md] transcriber of
textRecorded at Central Valley, Shasta Co.,CaliforniaDecember 1938UC WPA Disk No. 16E-A2
[*1 The Mermaid] Once I was a sailor boy, and a tale to you I'll tell,It's all about the things I saw *1
down in the diving bell.Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea,There lives a pretty mermaid
the fishermen like to see,Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea.Nice little mermaid,
pretty little mermaid oft came courting me.I saw when I was half way down a thing that made me
laugh,They'd made a clothes line out of the Atlantic telegraph.The old mermaid she came to me
with a salt tear in her eye.She said, "When you're ten miles under water, it's a very hard matter to
dry."Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea,There lives a pretty mermaid the fishermen
like to see,Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea.Nice little mermaid, pretty little mermaid
oft came courting me.Once I caught the pretty fish, to kiss her was my wish,When like an eel she
slipped away, you can't hold onto fish.Her mother brought her back again, and whispered unto
me,That if I wished, Oh, there I might get married in the sea.Down in the diving bell at the bottom of
the sea,There lives a pretty mermaid the fishermen like to see,Down in the diving bell at the bottom
of the sea.Nice little mermaid, pretty little mermaid oft came courting me.So we were married in a
queer little church, all built of oyster shells,The parson wore a floating gown, the codfish rang the
bell,So now we're happy married, you girls are in the shade,There's none so rare as can compare to
the pretty mermaid.Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea,There lives a pretty mermaid
the fishermen like to see,Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea.Nice little mermaid, pretty
little mermaid oft came courting me. 16E-[A?]2 THE MERMAID Once I was a sailor boy, and a tale to
you I'll tell,It's all about the things I saw, down in the diving bell. (Chorus Down in-the diving bell at
the bottom of the sea There lives a pretty mermaid the fisherman like to see Oft came courting me.
(Chorus [md] as written at the end of the song.)I saw when I was half way down, a thing that made
me laugh,They'd made a clothes line out of the Atlantic telegraph.The old mermaid she came to me
with salt tear in her eye,She said when your ten miles under-water, its a very hardmatter to dry.
[???]
Chorus [md] Once I caught the pretty fish, to kiss her was my wish,When like an eel she slipped away,
you can't hold onto fish.Her mother bro't her back again, and whispered unto me,That if I wished
Oh there I might get married in the sea.Chorus [md] So we were married in a queer little church, all
built ofoyster shells,The parson wore a floating gown, the codfish rang the bell,So now we're happy
married, you girls are in the shade,There's none so rare as can compare, although she's a'Merry'
AFCCC-DOWNI http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_downi
maid. to the pretty mermaid Chorus: (Chorus Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the sea,There
is lives a pretty place mermaid the fisherman like to see,Down in the diving bell at the bottom of the
sea,Nice little mermaid, pretty little mermaid,Oft came courting me.-----
Sung by Mrs. Elizabeth Ford.
The Mermaid