American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Pinelands Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/023) 
afc1991023_13_116 
Documentation - 
Fleischhauer, Carl - 
Field Notes 
Folder 116 
Carl Fleischhauer 
1983 Fieldnotes 
Contents 
September 18 
1 
September 20 
3 
October 
4 
8 
October 
5 
9 
October 
6 
12 
October 
7 
14 
October 
8 
20 
October 
9 
22 
November 
16 
31 
November 
17 
34 
November 
18 
42 
November 
19 
44 
November 
20 
48 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF0918 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: I have spent most of the time si 
State Forest; 27GT on Friday (16 Sept) 
squared away and training the team mem 
I feel pretty good about the affair. T 
and willing to try. They have been mos 
add, about the computers. Jay has 
helping acclimate folks to them. 
I ended up with only three unhappy fee 
equipment: first, we clearly do not ha 
for Jens, the team members do not have 
gear (usually one camera, perhaps with 
use ours. But we have only three "kits 
lenses each) and that's not enough to 
therefore declared them "pool" equipme 
was one for everyone.) Once the associ 
going to break loose. 
nce I arrived here G—Lebanon 
getting the media equipment 
bers on 
its use. Generally 
he folks seem enthusiastic 
t enthusiastic, I should 
done an excellent job of 
lings about the media 
ve enough cameras. Except 
enough personal camera 
two lenses) and want to 
(two bodies and four 
really go around. We have 
nt. (With the Nagras, there 
ates arrive, all 
hell 
is 
The second unhappy feeling had to do with using the Nagras. 
They are undeniably heavy, and this is going to present a problem 
for the smaller team members, especially Christine with her back 
trouble. Even Mary had difficulty when she wanted to walk around 
with the recorder for a long time. This will 
inhibit use, and 
lead to more use of (ugh) audiocassettes. I put together one kit 
with our new $300 Sony TCM-5000, and Christine used it on the 
20th, but the results were disappointing. The "whush" 
in the 
background never really goes away. 
The third unhappy feeling was that, ONCE AGAIN, the lack of 
high—speed dubbing equipment was a real drawback. We need to make 
three copies of each original recording (one for the fieldworker, 
one for the LC archive, and one for the reference archive). This 
ought to be done on an as—we—go basis, and 
it 
is painfully slow 
in our real—time setup. Perhaps a student can be hired to help 
out, but even so, a high—speed dubber is called for. 
TX02: Late this afternoon, Sue Samuelson and I went out to visit 
a roadside fruit and vegetable market she had been to. For me, 
it 
Fleischhauer- - 83 Fieldnotes 
page 1 
was a chance to do a little "living" camera demonstration. It was 
about four pm, and the light was low, and attractive. The stand 
was on state highway 70, just west of the intersection with 
highway 206 at Red Lion circle G—Red Lion; 23GT. It is called the 
Green Top Farm Market, and has a green roof. 
We approached a young man 
in the stand, whom Sue thought 
she had spoken to the day before. He seemed confused about this 
and sent us to talk to his father, the owner of the stand. We 
solicited and received permission to take pictures. At first the 
men seemed a trifle suspicious, but as we plugged away, they 
warmed considerably. The warming was helped by the younger man's 
two children, who began posing for pictures at once. 
The family name was Moore. The owner, about sixty, was 
William Sr. The young man was David, and he was joined in 
the 
work by Diane, his wife. Their children were named David Jr. and 
his Danielle. The kids were approximately six or seven. 
Early on, David asked us, with a hopeful tone 
in his voice, 
whether the picture might be 
in a book. We said they might, but 
that in any case we would send the family some pictures. In a 
sense, no better statement of consent for the use of pictures 
could be 
imagined. 
Sue and I took photos of the building and some of the items 
on display. I also tried to take a few snaps of customer 
interaction. Sadly, I noticed the next day that the camera I had 
loaded with Kodachrome 64 was still set for a film speed of 200 
(from the prior load of Ektachromes), and my color pictures may 
not come out well. 
This roadside stand is one of 
literally hundreds in the 
area. 
In fact, on this stretch of hwy 70, 
it 
is one of several. I 
had the impression that the stands generally served folks 
in 
the 
area and tourists, but the ones on 70 served tourists with a 
vengeance. 70 
is highway to "shore points:" I was reminded of 
driving from Washington to Rehoboth Beach in Delaware on a summer 
weekend. Lots of cars, and lots of farm markets. 
We should hasten to point out that "farm market" 
is used in 
to more or less means "produce stands." There were a few little 
stands in which one had the impression that the produce was grown 
right there, but I guessed that most were supplied by truck. 
Perhaps as much as possible from southern New Jersey farms, but 
not necessarily from the farm where the stand stood. 
David Moore's address is Summit Drive, Vincentown NJ 08088. 
William Moore Sr.'s address 
is Rt. 70, Vincentown, NJ 
08088. 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05:--TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 2 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF0920 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Elaine Thatcher and I set out at about 8 or 8:30 this 
morning, ostensibly on a photo mission similar to the one I went 
on with Sue on the 18th. But we took the tape recorders just in 
case, and were heading for a more distant part of Elaine's survey 
area. We went west on 70, then turned south on route 541 at 
Medford. 
Although not strictly part of her territory, Elaine had been 
struck by the handsome old homes and yards, and the old—timey 
downtown in Medford G—Medford; 18GT. The houses on west side of the 
main street (the one we came in on, heading south) were 
occasionally marked with signs indicating construction dates 
in 
the 1870s. They were asymmetric "Victorians." Opposite, and 
closer to the street (less front yard) were symmetrical homes 
(more or less "Georgian" or "I—house" types) with signs here and 
there indicating construction in the 1820s and 1830s. We took 
photos of them and of a feed store, trying to take advantage of 
morning light, Next to the feed store was a building with a sign 
that said "police station." It was painted up 
in a "Victorian" 
fashion, but looked newer and converted. Like the signs, 
it 
brought home a sense that Medford had cultivated a self—conscious 
revival of nineteenth—centuriness. history, architecture 
Elaine was starved for breakfast, but no suitable places 
seemed to be available there, so we headed on south toward her 
area. As we drove on, 
it became clear that this old core of 
Medford was surrounded by (vast?) regions of tract housing, 
perhaps the burgeoning (since the fifties, at least) of Greater 
Philadelphia's bedroom communities. During the rest of our trip, 
we saw much suburban development, and I have come to think of the 
PFP as a near—urban or suburban folklife project. (Of course I am 
aware that there are also genuine rural parts to the large 
project area....) 
We drove on south and southwest, trying to follow paved 
county roads through the area. They all 
had numbers, but the 
numbers were perversely omitted from the official state highway 
map we were using. Eventually we came to the area around 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 3 
Sicklerville and Williamstown in Monroe Township in Gloucester 
County. Somewhere in this neck of the woods, we stopped for a 
late (10 am) breakfast. (I have no particular observations here, 
and have omitted the place—data.) 
TX02: In this area, near the community of Cedar Brook, we passed 
G—New Brooklyn Lake; 33GT and saw a black man fishing. He told us 
that the bridge he was standing next to was called the Red Bridge 
G—Red Bridge; 33GT. It was a very unassuming structure, not even 
marked as a bridge (much less named; we created a place name 
form) on the USGS quadrangle map. We stopped to talk to him and 
learned that his name was 
Dave Fleming Jr.. He was about fifty 
or sixty years old. He was from Woodbury, New Jersey (131 Park 
Ave., NJ 08096) near Philadelphia. He was a retired serviceman, 
had worked as a truck driver, mechanic, and was an "ordained" 
Holiness preacher. His church was 
in Woodbury. He was fishing for 
pickerel and largemouth bass, but said that he wouldn't eat his 
catch; the polluted water spoiled the fish and had once made him 
very sick. 
He was using a plastic worm and spinning gear. He let 
the work sit on the bottom for bass, and jiggled it near the 
surface for pickerel. But he said that the fish weren't biting 
today. pollution 
We told him about the project and our curiousity about the 
area, and he went into a long discourse about land and land use. 
He talked about the frustration developers felt, although he made 
clear that he did not share it. 
(He had also worked as 
land 
assessor or something; he told about a building code requirement 
for "basins" that was not clear to me). His own mood was to 
protect the environment, and to limit the number of people in the 
area. 
land management 
I guess we knew that land—use rules and the 
role of the 
Pinelands legislation/commission was well known and often talked 
about in the area, and our conversation proved this. 
I took some pictures of Fleming fishing, and of Elaine 
interviewing him. He seemed like quite a nice fellow, and we 
enjoyed talking to him. We wished that his church was 
in our area 
so we could attend. I told Elaine I longed to create a set of 
photos of a man like Fleming, where we could juxtapose an 
image 
of the man fishing in nature with another of him preaching in 
church. 
TX03: Then we turned southeast and proceeded toward G—Buena; 02GT, 
and Buena Vista. All 
of this area is farmland (no pine woods to 
speak 
of), and seems to have moderately dense population. But 
not in new tract houses; 
instead small houses that look to have 
been built in the thirties and forties. 
Most of the way, the surnames on signs and mailboxes were 
more or less Anglo— or North 
European sounding (insofar as I 
paid attention), but when we hit the village of G—Landis; 02GT, 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 4 
there were Italian names everywhere. And Italian stores, 
restaurants, and the like. 
The flow continued into the town of 
Buena, but here the names were more mixed. Still, altogether a 
striking effect. 
We hurried back around lunchtime. 
TX04: This afternoon, I went out with Christine to see the Webb 
family. We left at about 4 pm, and went to the place. It is near 
Chatsworth (about a half mile north of the village) 
on Route 503 
G—Chatsworth; 27GT. 
The place consists of two houses adjacent along the road, 
and a large area around them. The area is full of vehicles, 
sheds, a very large vegetable garden, and the like. Very 
cluttered and "hillbilly." The main household is that of Henry 
Webb and his wife Edna; evidently some others, children and 
grandchildren, live there too. The second house is occupied by 
the Webb's ninth child, Harvey, his wife, and their two children. 
Henry was on the road in his work as a long—haul truck driver; 
Harvey arrived to join us at about five. 
We began by talking to Harvey's wife DeeDee (Dolores; 
in her 
early twenties) and then to Edna. Henry is a native 
Mississippian; Edna is from Moultrie (Colquitt County) Georgia. 
When I learned this, I was able to chat a bit; our South—Central 
Georgia Folklife Project covered that area in 
1977. We compared 
notes about tobacco, and later, about boiled peanuts. 
The area was so 
level and full and spread out that I could 
not take a photo that would show in 
its entirety. From 
Christine's description before we left, I had suspected as much 
and was prepared to make a sketch of the site. I made the sketch 
and turned it over to Christine; she can see to 
it getting 
properly f 
i 
led. 
I began by trying to take advantage of the nice afternoon 
light and tried for an overview from the north end of the place, 
near Henry's house. 
The house has a sign in front: "Fresh Brown 
Eggs." So I went around and shot details, including the chicken 
run, picturesque beneath a grape arbor. Other details: a 
scarecrow next to the popcorn, details of the garden, a bee gum 
behind the house, some of the vehicles, the other house, the 
stone work under way to decorate its front, the vast trash pile, 
a Franklin stove used to burn the plastic insulation off of 
copper wire being salvaged, etc etc. 
As I was engaged in photography, Christine was using the 
Sony cassette recorder to record DeeDee and then Harvey (also in 
his early twenties). They were informative and non—stop talkers. 
My photos at some point began picking up details that they had 
talked about. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 5 
There was something compulsive about Harvey's two—hour 
ramble with Christine. He makes his living as a scavenger, 
in 
effect, collecting the trash (much metal and glass) of others and 
converting it 
into saleable things. He also rebuilds things like 
trucks and buildings. It 
is a kind of 
industrial hunting and 
gathering in this semi—rural setting. Harvey follows in his 
father's footsteps in this work. The place is their collective 
workplace. Harvey's long talk with Christine proves that he can 
rationalize almost every item and every aspect of the work. It 
all 
has a grand plan, and a clear connection to 
livelihood. 
gathering 
But, based on Christine's description of Henry, I felt that 
the compulsiveness was also a manifestation of the younger man's 
sense of being 
in his father's shadow, (C. had suggested this 
prior to our visit.) There was also a kind of assertiveness about 
his manner that spoke of an inferiority complex against, perhaps, 
the 
local neighbors. He talked about how strong he, how people 
knew of his strength and did not bother things at the Webb place. 
Two melancholy notes were struck at the 
end of the 
interview. First, Harvey began complaining about how DeeDee 
didn't keep house to suit him, although she did help with the 
outside work, 
including cutting firewood. domestic work, women, 
men 
To return to the midpoint of the visit, after I started 
photographing, I was accompanied by young Jeremy, first grade 
age. He was living in Henry's house with his brother Joshua (in 
diapers) and his mother Evelyn. I later learned that Evelyn's 
last name 
is Barnard (pronounced Bernard, first syllable stress); 
her husband is a service man and they are going to move to 
Brown's Mills. She had evidently been previously married (Jeremy 
was the issue of this marriage, Christine thought his proper name 
was Jeremiah) but preferred that we call Jeremy "Barnard." His 
middle name is DeWayne (spelling unknown). 
I talked a little to Jeremy, but when I began drawing the 
garden as part of my site plan, I found that J. 
could name every 
plant, and 
in fact was VERY knowledgable about the place and what 
went on there. Quite a bright young lad. Later, we talked about 
how Henry and other family members hasd been featured in an 
issue 
of National Geographic, and 
in a documentary film. His mother 
said that he cried a little when the film was shown in class, 
especially when it showed scenes of his cousins, who used live at 
the place, but now live 
in Harrisville, West Virginia. (plant) 
After I had finished, I talked a bit to Edna. I remarked 
that I felt like I was looking as SOUTHERN garden, since it 
contained both okra and peanuts (!). She laughed, and said that I 
should have seen the cotton. From her, and from Harvey, I learned 
that on three occasions, Henry had planted a row or two of 
cotton, once along the road 
in front of the house. They both took 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 6 
it as a kind of eccentricity or joke, but assented to my 
assertion that he might be trying to signal that he was from the 
Sou t  . 
I asked Edna if the brown egg business paid off. She said 
that they 
broke even, but things were more profitable in sprin 
when they would get 65 eggs per day. cottage industry 
99 
Jeremy was insistent about having photos sent to him, and 
Edna also said that pictures of the kids would be very welcome. 
As I always do, I warned that weeks would pass before they 
arrived but that we would send them. The family's mailing address 
is Box 464, Chatsworth NJ 08019. 
After we left, Christine and I stopped for a bite at the 
Woodshed (restaurant). I had seen soft—shell crabs on the menu at 
the neighboring restaurant, and asked about them here. The 
waitress asserted that they had them, and we ordered some. But 
when they arrived, they were cold, steamed hard crabs. Not bad, 
but not what I had hoped for. 
They were served without the 
seasoning we are used to from Chesapeake Bay. 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 7 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1004 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: I drove up from Washington this evening, arriving at about 
ten or ten thirty. I walked into a full kitchen at headquarters 
house, and greeted Joseph Czarnecki, Christine, and others. They 
were in conversation with a photographer named Jim Gandy, who had 
visited with a portfolio of Pine Barrens photos. He had made the 
pictures between 1976 and the present, partly with a small grant 
from the state arts council. He said, with a touch of shyness, 
that he worked as an accountant (I THINK it was accountant). 
His pictures were nice; a mixture of portraits of Pineys 
(some who did inhabit McPhee's book, and others who could have) 
and landscapes typical of the woodsy part of the region. They 
were good—looking matted prints, although the landscapes lacked 
the bite they might have had 
if made with larger—format film. The 
portraits were handsome, humane pictures of the camera—aware 
type. Altogether they were clearly a labor of 
love. 
Joseph seemed to be 
in good spirits and engaged various team 
members in conversation, actively soliciting ideas and details to 
guide him in the search for picture subjects. The others all 
seemed to be 
in good shape, and the veterans left me with the 
impression of having fallen into the traces very smoothly. 
Tomorrow the "associates" arrive and I hope they adapt as well 
and as quickly. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 8 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1005 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMOI: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXOI: I spent a good bit of time today working on equipment. I 
brought stuff with me, 
including some gear for a dubbing setup 
(to make copies of the original sound recordings). I learned that 
a high school student named Twana Watson would come to work part— 
time, and that after she made up a batch of map copies at the 
Pinelands Commission office, she would begin helping to make tape 
copies. 
About midday, the associates arrived. I took out two mono 
Nagra kits for Tom and Mal, and we had a session. I also had a 
session on cameras with Tom, and a shorter one on cameras with 
Mal 
and Bonnie. Later tonight, after supper, I went over the 
stereo Nagra with Bonnie. 
I suppose we suspected this from the start, but it 
is now 
very clear that this group will be making tape recordings in a 
different way from other project teams. It 
is evident that there 
is a significantly greater amount of recording while walking 
around than in earlier projects. And here, our Nagras do not 
always do what they need to do. First, we only have large lids 
(which accommodate 7" reels) for four or five of the machines. The 
others will either have to be used with 5" reels (15 minute time 
limit) or with the lids open. 
In the woods, this is tough. Also, 
the machines are heavy. At the moment, there is 
no short—term 
solution. I am having trouble formulating a long—term solution. 
We are getting into difficult situations for recording, and may 
simply need more of a professional sound recordist on site, just 
as we have a professional photographer. Further evidence: I have 
the wireless (radio) mike here, but am having trouble figuring 
who to train to run 
it. Eventually, I settled on Elaine; she has 
an excellent knack for technology, and 
is our best computer 
teacher. 
Nora arrived at midday too. We had originally planned to 
make a trip together to orient her to the equipment, but she 
didn't have an appointment ready, so I went with Bonnie. G—Lebanon 
State Forest; 27GT 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 9 
TX02: Bonnie was going 
in search of a Puerto Rican—American that 
Mary knew about in Whitesbog G—Whitesbog; 21GT. Supposedly, he 
raised chickens and sold eggs, 
in addition to his work on the 
cranberry bogs. And further, he was thought to raise gamecocks, 
fighting cocks. Bonnie and I thought that it was probably legal 
to raise them, although illegal to fight them. In any case, the 
question would not be raised on this first visit. 
There was a little trouble about the directions, but we 
eventually went into the now—preserved ensemble of buildings 
associated with the old ("industrial") bog. Some structures are 
used for purposes like an environmental center or something, but 
a few of the houses were (evidently) made available to folks like 
the man we sought. We found him standing in his yard, with a 
large bag of fresh cranberries, and young boy hanging around. The 
yard was full 
of cats, some proved to be a neighbor's, and a few 
chickens. Most of the chickens were in pens at the back of the 
property. (animal) 
We talked a bit, or I should say Bonnie did. At first the 
conversation was conducted in English (We asked about buying 
eggs.), but shortly Bonnie switched to Spanish. Her facility with 
the language was excellent and impressive to me. The man's name 
proved to be Rivera (spelling uncertain), and he ended the talk 
by 
insisting that we call him "Jimmy." "Everyone knows me as 
'Jimmy,'" he said. 
He pointed to a board fence in front of the house where the 
words "Eggs for sale" (or somesuch) had been painted over, and 
said that his hens had stopped laying. For a full account of the 
conversation, refer to Bonnie's notes. 
Mrs. Rivera stood on the porch; she was a black woman of 
middle age. I had the distinct impression that she did not speak 
Spanish. One of her remarks identified the young man as a 
grandson. 
While Bonnie and Jimmy were talking, I found myself chatting 
with Mrs. Rivera. One of the chickens in the yard was sort of a 
pet and welcome 
in the house. Sensing my/our interest, Mrs. R 
called to 
it. Either she or Jimmy explained that it was named 
"Precious," and Mrs. R answered my question about whether it was 
housebroken or not by assenting. 
After permitting Precious to 
come through the screen door, Mrs. R picked her up, tucking the 
bird under her arm and talking to 
it. She made the matter into a 
bit of a dialog, saying, "Are you afraid of this man (meaning 
me)?," and the chicken responded with a low cluck. Then she said, 
"Well I don't know if he 
is dangerous or not," and the chicken 
clucked again. This continued for a bit. It seemed more or less 
innocent, although there was something striking about the 
particular questions coupled with the arrival of strangers. 
After about a half hour, Bonnie and I left, with Jimmy 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 10 
insisting that Bonnie come back on Sunday when he had more time 
to talk. Then, he said, he would introduce her to his neighbor, 
who owned the cats, and they could talk. The man, Jimmy said, was 
the only other Puerto Rican 
in the area. 
On the way to the shopping mall north of Fort Dix, we agreed 
that it had been an auspicious start. Bonnie said that she always 
worried a bit about initial contacts with Hispanics. They were 
naturally and justifiably suspicious of Anglo—Americans, 
especially from government. One had to tread lightly. 
TX03: As we drove through G—Fort Dix; 19GT, we saw a basic training 
company coming back to barracks, dressed in fatigues and running 
into the building double—time. armed forces 
North of the Fort, we passed through the little "parasitic" 
town of G—Wrightstown; 19GT (parasitic on the soldiers at the fort) 
and Sykesville. We went to the Jamesway store and I bought 
another round of duffel bags for media equipment. Then we circled 
around to the north, passed through New Egypt, and came back. 
TX04: This evening, a few of us headed off to Mayo's Restaurant 
G—Halfway; 27GT for supper and by the time the trip got organized, 
EVERYONE came except Jens, who had headed off to the Pioneer 
America Society Meeting in Illinois. Christine was off to 
Newfoundland tomorrow to defend her dissertation, but she came 
along too. With Nora, Joseph and the associates on hand, 
it 
turned into a sort of celebratory family dinner for all. The 
spirit was very warm and congenial, and I thought somehow that 
the group really was an auspicious mix of folks. 
Hooray. 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 11 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1006 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: For lunchtime sandwiches and breakfast, I have been going 
either to the McDonald's in Brown's Mills or to the Woodland 
Liquor Store near headquarters house. 
As I began to write these notes, I talked to Sue and Mary 
about the location of the liquor store. We were a little stumped 
about what to say, or what the locals would say, so I decided to 
watch for a chance to ask the man who runs the store. In a 
conversation on the seventh (tomorrow), he answered my "where" 
question by saying, "near Four Mile Circle," adding, "We go to 
court in Chatsworth, and get mail from New Lisbon." The store 
name 
is testimony to 
its township location. He added, "It's crazy 
here; no one knows where they are." The name "Four Mile Circle" 
is 
in the USGS Gazeteer. Thus for a locator for the store, I will 
say G—Four Mile Circle; 27GT. 
The liquor store is 
interesting. It, and the business places 
on either side (a woodburning stove shop, a gas station, and a 
bar or two) occupy low, slightly shabby, nondescript buildings. 
(This, and the remarks that follow, reflect my own taste, roughly 
speaking, the orthodox taste of college—educated Americans...) 
The buildings 
are the sort of structures where the core has been 
so thoroughly modified as to make the original form indistinct, 
and the new form complex. Coupled with variable painting, 
haphazard window placement, and a melange of signs, these 
buildings present the sort of sight that appalls "planners" and 
social critics, and gladdens the heart of fans of the commercial 
vernacular. (I would say that the region abounds in roadside 
architecture like this.) 
The man who runs the liquor store is 
in his late twenties or 
early thirties, with a moustache, bulky without being fat, and 
wears knit shirts that reveal a bit of belly. He looks like a 
workingman, without the requisite soil. He 
is marvelously 
gregarious. His accent seems to me "Jersey" (insofar as I have an 
ear for this) but not "Joisey." 
Upon entering the store, you pass a sales counter with a 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 12 
cash register and come into a room with a variety of apparatus 
and merchandise: a cooler with soft drinks, a wall of 
liquor 
bottles, a glass—windowed butcher's meat counter, and a table 
with coffee makers and boxes of sweet rolls. 
The store has a 
second room to the left of the entry room devoted exclusively to 
beer and wine. 
A blond woman, possibly the owner's wife, 
is sometimes seen 
behind the meat counter, although she more often has disappeared 
in the kitchen behind. A menu lists a large number of "deli" 
sandwiches; evidently the place does a good business in carry out 
lunches. 
But I was struck by the breakfast crowd. The store opens at 
6, 
and when I arrived between 7 and 8, 
the folks had started to 
flow through. Route 72 feeds into route 70 at this point, and 
is 
a traffic corridor towards the more urbanized west. A large 
number and a wide range of people are travelling at this hour. 
They include women who look like they might be secretaries 
(coiffed, made—up, and 
prettily—dressed), salesmen or 
businessmen (young men 
in jackets and ties), and workingmen 
(jeans, t—shirts, and the like). The storekeeper greets many of 
them by name, sandwiches (the day's lunch?) are ready for others, 
and they all 
get coffee and run. Quite a parade. 
As I sit and write these notes on the morning of the 8th, I 
am unable to recall what else I did on the 6th. I assume that 
this means that I spent most of the rest of the time working on 
equipment. I know I spent some time racking and numbering the 
color slides from my September visits. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 13 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1007 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: This morning Nora and I went to the monthly meeting of the 
Pinelands Commission, held in the Southampton Township municipal 
building G—Vincentown: 23GT. Nora explained that a couple of "hot" 
topics were going to be discussed, and that she had a particular 
interest in one of them: the certification of the land use plan 
for Hamilton Township. I have taken the agenda and other handouts 
(notably the "Resolutions" to be voted upon) and added them to my 
ephemera file. 
land management 
The meeting started a little after nine, with all 
but two or 
three of the commissioners in attendance (I counted eleven, and 
wonder if this turnout reflects the heat of the topic) and about 
twenty in the audience. By about 10:30, the audience had swelled 
to forty or forty—five. 
The commissioners were serious lot, 
looking like a group who 
went seriously about serious business. Except for John Sinton, 
who wore a bright red plaid sports jacket, the commissioners wore 
business suits, or sedate jackets and ties (men and women). It 
looked like the convening of a congressional committee. 
The chairman, Franklin Parker, was the image of a WASP. He 
wore a poplin or cavalry twill suit, a blue oxford cloth shirt, 
and a repp silk tie, topped off by a narrow face, white hair, and 
a slightly pained expression when he talked. He 
looked like a 
Princeton—educated lawyer. 
The commissioners sat in two rows 
in what I believe might 
ordinarily serve as a courtroom, or as a room for township 
commissioners or somesuch. They were joined by Terrence Moore, 
the Exec. Dir. of the Commission, and another fellow who seemed 
to be a counsel to the Commission. 
Moore was very skillful: he deferred to Parker, who ran the 
meeting politely and efficiently, but Moore was clearly 
in charge 
of the real movement of the agenda, and often suggested actions 
to the commissioners. I would not say that he railroaded them, 
although they were clearly somewhat (and to varying degrees) at 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 14 
the mercy of staff preparations and proposals, but he managed 
things very well. But Parker was good too; he kept the pace 
flowing without cutting 
discussion in 
an unfair way. 
Jim Coleman, the Federal Appointee and a National Park 
Service officer, was 
in attendance, and Michael Batcher, one of 
his staff folks, was 
in the audience. 
Early in the meeting, there was an opportunity for general 
comments from the floor (unrelated to the topics to be voted on 
later). At this time, a man named Jack Tagart stood up and 
introduced himself and the president of the NJ Audubon Society, 
and delivered a little sermonette on preserving the land. He made 
some reference to Ocean County needing a stronger land use plan 
and thereby jumped the gun on one of the issues to be voted upon 
later. I think Nora said he was a regular at these meetings. 
Then there was a recommendation from the NJ Office of 
Administrative Law. The underlying issue had to do with local 
powers to zone, 
in cases where the local jurisdiction did not 
have a land use plan that conformed to the Pinelands 
Comprehensive Management Plan (CMP). In such cases, the 
Commission can take over, and require that land use follow the 
CMP. But the CMP does not address all 
issues, e.g. 
lighting and 
parking are omitted, and a local jurisdiction, if non—conforming, 
can zone for the "left—over issues." (If they were conforming, of 
course, they would zone every feature, but the zoning ordinances 
would be 
in 
line with the CMP.) 
Evidently there had been appeals by counties or 
municipalities of commission rulings of one sort or another where 
the grounds for the appeal had to do with some ambiguity 
associated with the authority over "left—overs;" the 
administrative law people wanted the commission to vote something 
that would make this more clear, and more permanent in order to 
stave off an endless series of appeals. As my befuddled 
explanation indicates, I didn't get a good grasp of the problem, 
but I was struck by the way the discussion made John Sinton a 
"loner." He was distressed about the recommendation, and made 
pointed remarks to that effect, referring along the way to 
"earlier talks we have had about this." Insofar as I could follow 
his argument, he was unhappy with the commission's coercion of 
local government, and found evidence of further coercion in the 
matter at hand. Later I talked to Nora, and learned that Sinton 
is generally unhappy, as Nora is, with the lack of public input 
in commission decisionmaking; I took S's negative remarks here, 
then, to be a further instance of a general complaint. In the 
vote, he was the sole opponent; there was one abstention. The 
rest were on the other side of the fence from S. 
As the discussion proceeded, and even my confused 
description above will 
indicate a bit of 
its nature and tenor, I 
found myself asking, "How will our discoveries in the Pinelands 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 15 
have any connection with all 
of this?" I offered this thought to 
Nora, and she replied that we might indeed give a voice to folks 
who had not been heard from, and contribute to better flow of 
ideas between the public and the commission and the commission 
staff. I hope so, but wonder how much we can do. 
During the course of the talk, I looked over the latest 
Pinelands Commission newsletter. In 
it, I read of the coming 
review of the CMP. Evidently the law, or something, requires 
(suggests?) a review of the plan every three years. The article 
said that the process would begin this fall, and end next year 
(1984). When I first read this, I thought that we should try to 
time our final report and recommendations so that they would 
become available during the review. (In fact, 
if the review goes 
forward, we really MUST do this.) But Nora reported that there 
was some doubt as to whether the review would 
in fact proceed. 
First, there was a feeling, she said, that no one wanted to 
change the rules in midstream. Only some of the many 
jurisdictions in the Pinelands had developed conforming plans. 
While waiting for the remainder to finish the work, should the 
rules be changed? Further, the plan must be approved at the Dept. 
of the Interior, an outgrowth of the original Federal Reserve 
legislation, and there was a fear that if changed locally, there 
might be further changes imposed by James Watt. Thus, 
it 
is not 
clear if the triannual review will 
in fact occur. 
Two overall 
impressions I had from the meeting were: all of 
the squabbles are about HOUSES (where to put or not put them, and 
how many) and about the locus of power in the area (local, 
county, commission, state, federal). The three main players in 
the tug—of—war are the local municipality, the county, and the 
commission. 
Another impression, implied by some comments above, had to 
do with the level 
of detail of the questions before the body. 
Discussion came down to fine, technical points. In another 
matter, to cite another example, the commission had to rule on a 
request for a variance (in effect a variance, but called 
something else) where a builder was thought not to have 
sufficient wetland buffer where two lots were to be developed. It 
was an area where the CMP, and 
someone suggested later that this 
part of the plan had been badly worked out, had called for lots 
of 3.2 acres minimum. But the terrain in this part of the county 
made this hard to accomplish. But someone had tried to do 
it, and 
had been caught by inadequate buffer space. One commissioner, 
upon hearing that "x" number of feet of buffer were insufficient, 
asked how much would be needed, and received a lengthy 
explanation from a staff member about types of soils, and the 
effect of water tables, etc. etc. The gist is that there was no 
simple answer to his question. Frustratingly complicated rules, 
in short, but (I 
imagine) necessary. 
TX02: A group of G—Woodland; 27GT Township residents then spoke. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 16 
They were seeking the commission's help with a tax relief measure 
now stalled in the state legislature. The township suffered from 
the CMP; they had lost a large part of their tax base through the 
decisions to protect certain lands. The speakers, a young man and 
an older one, 
looking like workingmen dressed up for the 
occasion, but articulate and well—spoken, made their case well. 
They explained that they had had to dissolve their police 
department recently, and had long since given up on trash 
collection. No money, no services. They said that they had 
reluctantly gone along with the CMP, but that the carrot they had 
been promised had died 
in the garden. 
The commissioners seemed 
exceedingly sympathetic, and two or three said that they would 
try to use their connections with members of the legislature to 
swing things. "We can talk to people we know," one said. 
And a 
proposal was made and passed to write an official 
letter 
requesting prompt action on the relief bill 
(S. 
1731). 
land 
management 
At the end of the exchange, which was very kind and 
friendly, Moore made a little speech in which he said how glad he 
was at the cooperative attitude, and he referred to earlier 
shouting matches with Woodlanders. 
TX03: One important resolution had to do with decertifying Ocean 
County. There 
is a watershed in the county (the Davenport Basin) 
G—Davenport Branch; 44GT that is clearly an 
important ecological 
site 
in 
an area with little development, and 
in an area 
identified as "forest" 
in the CMP. Ocean County's plan does not 
exactly spell out what is 
to happen there, but the county 
planners evidently allowed G—Berkeley; 44GT Township proceed with 
what the commission thought was an 
inappropriate plan. The county 
argued 
that the area was NOT forest, contrary to the designation 
on "Plate 28" 
in the CMP. 
There was considerable talk about this issue, and the 
commissioners had evidently spent a lot of time 
in subcommittee 
trying to reach a compromise. But folks in the county were 
adamant. A planner said (threatened?) that if 
the county was 
decertified, this would undercut the fabric of the political 
equilibrium in the area, and hurt the commission. "We will join 
Atlantic County on the outside," he said, referring to the only 
other non—conforming county. (Nora pointed out that some of 
peculiarities in Sinton's relationship to the commission grow out 
of the fact that he 
is the Atlantic County representative.) 
The county representative also said that the commission's 
complaint should be with the municipality, not the county. "We 
only tried to provide broad guidelines," he said, "the details are 
coming form Berkeley Township; you should deal with them." As far 
as I could tell, this argument was not answered directly, but it 
seemed to carry no weight in the room. 
The actual discussion of the topic was introduced by Moore; 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 17 
his remarks preceded those I have already summarized. 
Moore, for the commission, argued in favor of decertification for 
a variety of reasons. One interesting one, which I didn't 
understand until Nora explained it to me 
later, had to do with 
the fear of James Watt and the US Dept. of the Interior. 
Evidently the 
idea was that if the county's plan was allowed to 
proceed, 
it would change the status of the "forest" to something 
else, and, 
like the triannual review of the CMP mentioned above, 
might 
thereby throw the whole plan open to Dept. of the Interior 
review. 
In the end, the commission voted to decertify. Many members 
spoke before it was over, I and I was left with the impression 
that the commissioners strongly supported the CMP and were truly 
dedicated to preservation of the area. Parker said something 
along these lines: "We have tried to compromise with you...we 
could not come to terms with this area, 
identified from the start 
as an important and rare ecological area... we have come down to 
this: our judgement against yours...it makes me sad, but we must 
act." 
Then there was also a lot of rhetoric to the effect that the 
process of compromise must continue. Decertification was clearly 
perceived as a stick to beat the county, but not as the end of 
the process. 
After this action, Nora and stepped outside and talked for 
awhile. She bemoaned the coercive nature of the whole affair 
(Commission and CMP, not just today's actions). I tended to be 
more positive about things, but observed that the legislation was 
inevitably coercive. I didn't see how some of these broader goals 
for society, preservation, clean water, etc, 
could be 
accomplished without someone being coerced. But that this truth 
didn't make me happy. 
TX04: At about noon, I left and came back to headquarters house. 
Later, Nora told me about a vote at the commission that took 
place after my departure. It was another controversial one she 
cared about. It concerned the plan for Hamilton Twp in Atlantic 
County. It 
is near Atlantic City, and evidently the CMP has the 
effect of forcing MORE housing on Hamilton than they want. The 
locals, according to Nora, are trying to cut back on housing, but 
the commission won't let them. Today's vote continued this 
process. And thus undercut my impression of the commission as 
strict preservationists. 
Altogether it was highly interesting and thought—provoking 
to attend the meeting. 
TX05: 
I spent the afternoon working around headquarters house, 
as always, tinkering with equipment. Then, 
in 
late afternoon, I 
joined Mal O'Conner on a trip to visit Silas Little, a retired US 
Forest Service silviculturist. He 
lived over near Moorestown, 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 18 
near Mount Holly, out of the Pinelands, 
in a lovely eighteenth— 
century (the oldest parts, I think he said) Georgian—plan house. 
A daughter was there, and she listened in for most of the 
interview. Little had written some items for some of the books 
about the natural history of the Pine Barrens, and was 
knowledgeable about local 
and natural history and forestry 
management practices. I helped (and thereby demonstrated), 
setting up and running the recorder and taking a few pictures as 
Mal conducted the interview. Little was charming and seemed glad 
to talk about what his daughter later assured us were his 
favorite subjects. I will 
leave the details about his 
conversation to the logs for Mal's tapes. 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 19 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1008 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NMOS: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: This evening I went with Mary to choir practice at the 
Second Baptist Church in Manitou Park 
in 
(or at) South Tom's 
River. G—Manitou Park; 44GT. This is a black church; Mary knew some 
of 
its members from the time of her work at Bayville's high 
school. She also hoped to record a Sunday morning service 
tomorrow, and we were going to seek permission for this during 
our visit. 
Shortly after we arrived, at about sixish in the evening, we 
met the minister and his wife. The preacher's name 
is William 
Lawson. He 
is a young man, 
in his mid to 
late twenties, I would 
think, and his wife is about the same age. They are both 
attractive and, 
like many blacks I have met in the last few days, 
speak American English with an accent that seems to me to be 
closer to the mainstream speech than, say, that of blacks who 
live 
in Washington. Mr and Mrs Lawson struck me as "modernist." 
Mrs. L, who taught the Gospel Chorus we were to record later, 
clearly aimed for a modern soul—tinged style in performance, and 
was a little unhappy that there were no musicians to accompany 
the group, or that the ones that were available were not trained, 
and only played by ear. 
As we 
left after the Sunday service, she 
mused that we should come back 
in a year or to see how far the 
church had "advanced." music 
Reverend Lawson was assertive and forceful. For example, he 
made permission to record the next day conditional on seeing our 
equipment setup. "I don't want any distractions," he said, 
adding, with gesture that made clear he thought of this as a joke 
(or more precisely, as a statement that was to be understood as 
the exact opposite of true), "I have enough trouble getting them 
to 
listen to my sermon as 
it 
is." Later, he did come and see our 
Saturday night setup and laid ground rules for Sunday: no mikes 
in the middle, no mike on him at the pulpit ("You'll have no 
trouble hearing me!"), no photos during prayers or the sermon. 
Mary and I both felt that he was less concerned about 
distractions than simply establishing who was boss. 
Lawson also seemed very self—conscious 
during his Sunday 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 20 
preaching performance. This is the sort of thing that is hard to 
put one's finger on, but even though his style was chanted 
oratory, supposedly fueled by divine inspiration, I got the 
feeling that for him it was just a bit self—consious and even 
contrived. I mean this 
in the most sympathetic way: someone like 
C. 
L. Franklin or Martin Luther King Jr. 
(or, more likely, their 
local equivalent) might be a model for Lawson, and he was trying 
to get to the point where "it came naturally." religion 
To return to today: the Gospel Chorus consisted of about 
twelve or fifteen 
young people, mostly girls, and two young 
men who alternated on a set of drums and another young man who 
played piano. They were led by Mrs. Lawson, who was joined at 
midpoint by another woman (who walked with crutches; possibly 
from another church). We set up and taped the whole affair; much 
more detail can be derived from Mary's tape logs (and from her 
fieldnotes). 
The interesting aspects of the event included the fact that 
a considerable amount of time was spent discussing costume for 
performances, with talk about which outfit was to be worn on 
which occasion, having skirts made, and discussion of the 
cummerbund that was part of the costume (for girls AND boys, 
if I 
understood properly), and a demonstration of how to tie a bow tie 
(for boys). 
There was also an 
interesting teaching moment: Mrs Lawson 
brought a very poorly—made cassette recording (from an LP) to 
teach a song. Mary and I were amazed that anyone could understand 
it at all. 
As the tape will reveal, she went through the song 
once, 
leading but hardly "working" with the choir, and said that 
they would return to the item another day. 
In what I am inclined 
to thing of as a poor teaching technique, she would say things 
like, "Well 
it will take us until the year 2000 to learn this 
one," and so forth. 
At the end of the evening, we did strike the Sunday morning 
deal noted above, and promised to come back tomorrow. Lawson said 
that 
there would be a Sunday School at about 9:30 am, and at 
first we thought we would come a bit ahead of that to set up, but 
in the end we left most of our microphone stands and cables 
in 
place and simply decided to come at about 10 or 10:30, just ahead 
of the 11 services. 
We drove straight back, stopping at a McDonald's for a small 
supper. Mary clearly has no enthusiasm for such places, but 
gamely joined me. I had a hamburger and she tried Chicken 
McNuggets, carefully peeling the fried breaded coating off of 
each piece before disdainfully consuming it. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05:--TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 21 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1003 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Mary and I left headquarters house at about 9 am to go back 
up to Second Baptist Church G—Manitou Park; 44GT. As we drove into 
Tom's River, I remembered that I had forgotten to pack some 
gaffer tape to tape down the mike cables (I 
like to tape cables 
to the floor/carpet when they cross aisles, etc.) 
So we stopped 
at the 7-11 store to buy some tape. 
It was just about 10 am. At 
the counter of the 7-11, I ran 
into Reverend Lawson buying a cup 
of coffee to go. He shook hands and greeted me with the slight 
air of distance that had marked all 
of his conversations with us. 
Without harshness he said, "I expected you about a half hour 
ago." I apologized for our being later than we had said (left the 
impression of saying, really), but he said that it did not 
matter. We each got into our respective cars and turned off the 
main road toward the church. 
As the county map makes clear, Manitou Park is a little grid 
of numbered and named streets just outside Tom's River. It 
is by 
no means a slum, but is clearly a poor folk's neighborhood, and 
one cannot help wonder what sort of gerrymander led to the 
drawing of the town line. 
When we left Saturday night, a police 
car was parked along the side of the road coming in; 
this morning 
two police cars were stationed at nearly the same place. 
Mary 
and I were unable to figure out what they were looking for. 
The church building is new, with a cornerstone bearing the 
date 1980. 
It 
is built in a classic grassroots church form and 
style. One—story (but with a basement with more rooms, probably 
classrooms and a kitchen), a simple rectangular floor plan, and a 
brick exterior. A generation ago, I suppose, the building would 
have been white frame. I didn't look closely, but I expect that 
the building is balloon—frame, and that the brick 
is a facade. 
There was no steeple (although there was little mid—roof pointed 
cupola that may be called a steeple), but there was little porch 
with a gabled roof of 
its own, and a long wheelchair ramp leading 
down to the parking lot. 
Inside, behind the altar, there is a 
green fiberglass baptismal font (tub?). It 
is barely visible 
through a small window—like opening, below a hanging rug/tapestry 
depicting Christ with a bleeding heart (ordinarily a Roman 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 22 
Catholic symbol) and carrying 
images of the wafer, wine chalice, 
etc). religion 
The old church stands behind the new building, which faces 
west toward Second St. As far as could tell, the old building was 
abandoned. It faces east toward First St. The old building has 
lines that please my eye more than the new. 
It is taller, has 
"gothic" windows, a steeple with a crenellated top, and a volume 
that implies a more spacious sanctuary (I did not go 
inside). It 
appears to be frame covered with asbestos shingles made—to—look— 
like—brick. Its cornerstone bears the date 1929. 
After the service, I spoke briefly to Lynda Zigler, a young 
woman 
in her twenties, who was a member of the Gospel Chorus. She 
explained that her grandparents were very knowledgeable about the 
history of the church, and urged us to 
interview them. They are 
Deacon and Mrs. Wallace Clark (her name 
is 
Sadie) and they live 
across the road from the church. Telephone: 349-3881. Clark was 
previously introduced to me as the oldest member of the church 
(or was 
it the oldest deacon?). His speech was hard to 
understand, due to age and accent, and he may be heard on the 
tape delivering a Bible reading and prayer at the beginning of 
the service. Deacon Clark told me that the church had begun life 
in 
1921 
in a house "downtown," and moved to Manitou Park (he 
didn't use this name, 
in fact I never heard it used, but I didn't 
ask either) in 
1929 when the first building was constructed. 
We went into the church at about 10 or a little after. A 
Sunday School class was meeting in the front right corner, and 
seemed to be composed of deacons and one (or two?) of the older 
women referred to as "Mothers of the Church." We didn't feel that 
our activities would bother this small group, so we went ahead to 
complete our setup. 
The other Sunday School classes seemed to be 
meeting downstairs. This group was discussing a section of the 
Bible which referred to trees in Lebanon, and the conversation 
concerned the trees. One person said they thought the trees would 
be olive trees, and there was some talk about whether olive trees 
may or may not be found in the United States. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 23 
Our setup used a pair of stereo Nagras, connected by the 
parallel connector. We sat in the second pew on the left, near 
the piano. My fieldnotes for 1008 outline the terms of the 
arrangement we negotiated with Rev. Lawson. The microphone 
locations were approximately as follows: (JAY, LET'S SEE YOU GET 
THIS ONE INTO THE OTHER COMPUTER!) 
baptismal font 
! 
!closet! 
chairs 
!closet! 
!and 
! 
Sr. 
!and 
! 
!entr. ! choir 
!entr. ! 
!to fnt! 
here 
!to fnt! 
!(A) organ 
(B)! 
! 
(C) 
pulpit 
! 
! (D) 
! 
!(E) 
offer tble 
(F)! 
! 
! 
! 
! 
! 
! 
many more 
! 
! 
rows of pews 
! 
! door ! 
! minister's! 
! choir prep 
! 
! 
study 
! 
hall 
! room 
! 
! 
(G) 
(G) 
! 
! 
 
 
door 
 
 ! 
! 
 
 porch  
 _ -- ramp 
 
Key: A and B. Public address system loudspeakers. 
C. Stereo coincident mike pair for our recorders, over and 
near organ, and (unfortunately) not quite in 
line with choir 
D. Piano 
E. Left congregational mike; for the first few minutes, this 
was a Sennheiser 403, then for most of the service, a 803. 
F. Right congregational mike (Sennheiser 402) and location 
of Deacon's bench (in line with wall; perpendicular to pews) 
G. 
At this writing I cannot recall this detail; there may 
have been a stair to the basement and/or a coat closet here. 
The chief disadvantage of the setup was that we had to 
record the sermon off—mike (Lawson forbade a separate mike on 
him; "I'll 
be plenty loud. "). As a result, I had to record his 
voice from the loudspeaker on the wall 
(right side). It 
is clear 
enough, but doesn't have the force it would if I could have put 
another mike at the pulpit. 
The church program, which should be added to Mary's ephemera 
file for this date, 
indicated that the deacons would begin the 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 24 
service at 10:45. At just about 10:50, Deacon Green, who seemed 
more 
in charge of the service than the other two, said, "Let us 
start the devotion." I started the tape recorder just after he 
uttered this sentence, and it ran continuously throughout the 
service. 
At this starting moment, the only people in the sanctuary 
were the three deacons, two older women (at least one was a 
"mother"), and two younger women. Shortly, one of the older women 
started a hymn with a very old—fashioned character. It occurred to 
me that it 
is a hymn like this that WE would choose for a demo or 
record, while the church would likely favor a "new—sounding" 
tune. During this hymn and 
in the Bible—reading and prayer 
following, there was much hub—bub around the door. People were 
coming in, chatting, and 
it sounded like the choir was practicing 
a song in the choir room just outside the door (separated from 
the sanctuary by a large window). Deacon Green had to call for 
silence at least once. 
Although Deacon Green's first announcement 
marked the start 
of the service, the flow of people into the room worked as a 
contrary signal, blurring the start mark. This lack of a clearcut 
start was characteristic of most of the Southern church services 
I have attended. To overstate the effect a bit, 
it makes the 
service's starting point seem like the coming of winter, a time 
of "becoming" but not "being." Deacon Clark, as previously noted, 
offered a reading and prayer early 
in the service. 
The deacon s bench was 
in the front right corner, and the 
"mother's" pew was about the second on the right. The right side 
was 
where a lot of the most spirited singing came from, and, 
especially in the person of Deacon Green, the loudest "Amens." 
His shouts of encouragement will be prominent on the tape. 
During these early moments, I listened to the tape with the 
monitor—mono button pressed; I am not confident that the four 
mikes are 
in phase. 
If these recordings are used for 
presentations, we should check phasing. (Mary, can you add this 
note to your tape log?) 
One part of the service was an "organ meditation." For 
reasons unclear to me, the tune played was "Danny Boy." I can 
only surmise that there 
is a hymn with this melody. 
When 
hymns from the hymnal were sung, this congregation would sing 
only stanzas 1, 
2, 
and 4 (a widespread practice). At the end of 
one hymn that was sung with considerable verve, the chorus was 
repeated. This only happened once and, as far as could tell, 
occurred because of a shared feeling about the song reinforced by 
the Lawson's lead. The hymnal was published by the National 
Baptist something; I wonder if this 
is a black organization? 
(Mary noted the bibliographic citation for the hymnal.) 
There was one solo vocal by Mildred Brown, spoiled at the 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 25 
very end by a loud buzz on the public address system. From my 
point of view, the pa system is unnecessary. All 
the singing and 
preaching could have been heard perfectly well without it. 
It 
merely adds a 60—cycle hum to the affair, and 
is prone to buzz 
and spoil things at inopportune moments. (In conversation, there 
was a reference to an buzzing incident on a prior occasion.) But 
I assume there is a measure of status associated with having such 
a device, and I guess I have to admit that it may actually help 
an occasional musical performances. 
When there were Bible readings, many congregation members 
took the Bibles out of the hymnal racks at their pews and read 
silently as the leader read the passage aloud. 
Mary noted yesterday how the choir's choreography was 
rehearsed. Today, 
in typical fashion for a church of this sort, 
the choir made a processional 
into the building. They marched, 
swaying slowly in step with the music. I tried to to take a 
picture, but I was poorly situated. Later, when the offering was 
taken, the ushers moved forward in step and, as they moved along 
the pews passing the plate, they moved precisely in step toward 
the back of the church. Most of the ushers were girls of about 
eleven to fifteen; there were also one or two boys. The girls 
wore white blouses, black skirts, white stockings, and black 
shoes. They also wore a small 
lace headpiece that reminded Mary 
of a similar headpiece worn by Catholic women. The boys wore 
black suits and white gloves. I cannot recall 
if the girls wore 
gloves, but they may have. All 
of the ushers wore ribboned badges 
with the word "usher" in gold. 
Money was received in two consecutive events 
in a manner I 
have not seen before. First, the plate was passed: the 
"offering." Then a box was placed on the table up front to take 
"tithes," and church members (the word "trustees" was somehow 
used in this context) moved past the table in turn and dropped 
in 
filled—out offertory envelopes. 
All of this took some time. 
The preacher got up to deliver the sermon at about 11:50 or 
11:55. In conversations prior to the service, he and Mrs. Lawson 
had made it clear to us that it was a point of pride to keep the 
service short. Mrs. Lawson made an explicit comparison to the 
nearby pentecostal/fundamentalist church (Mary got the exact 
name), saying that both services would start at 11, but that 2nd 
Baptist would let out at 12:30, while the other would keep going 
until 2 or 3. They were very sympathetic to the other church; the 
remark was simply meant to instruct us on another aspect of their 
"modernism." I think Mrs. L may have referred to the other church 
as "old—time." The discussion 
reminded 
me of the Omaha Indian 
pow—wow, where the MC (Clifford Wolfe) was at pains to keep on 
schedule, partly to fight against the stereotype of "Indian 
time." 
And indeed, Reverend Lawson met the timetable. The sermon 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 26 
was completed at about 12:20, and the service ended at about 
12:30. In my report of my 
impressions of Reverend Lawson in my 
fieldnotes (PFP83—FCF1008), I offered a thought or two that 
pertain to his sermon style. 
Early in the service, during announcements, we learned that 
Sister Grant, the pianist, had a seriously ill brother in the 
hospital. Toward the end the of the sermon, one of the ushers 
came and took Sister Grant out of the room. Shortly after, two 
other middle—aged women from the choir also left. The meaning was 
clear enough: the brother must have died, or taken a turn for the 
worse. Lawson incorporated this into his remarks, but in a 
slightly disguised way. 
He said, 
"I know you have seen people 
moving about in the church, don't be alarmed. The Lord is with us 
today." 
After the sermon, there may have been one or two more small 
events, but the real closing was listed as an "altar call" on the 
program. This was not the altar call of the revival, when folks 
moved by the spirit come forward to make vows, but rather a ring 
of members, standing together to pray. The whole congregation 
formed a large oval 
in front of the pulpit, filling the empty 
area laterally in front of the first row of pews, and clasped 
hands. Lawson spoke the closing prayer and remarks (benediction?, 
I can't recall now) 
in 
loud, spirited fashion. Then he moved to 
the back door, and the choir was about to make its exiting 
processional. Just before (or just after) the processional, 
Lawson (at the door) called for silence and announced the death 
of Sister Grant's brother. He added that he would hurry to the 
hospital and would not remain to greet folks. 
Without the tape to refer to, I can't be sure 
if the event I 
am about to describe preceded or followed the altar call, but a 
woman was voted into membership more or less at the end of the 
service. As the deacons stood by, she came forward and stood next 
to the preacher. He asked her for a statement, and she compared 
this church and 
its members (or its members' spirit) to the 
church she presently belonged to, and said she wanted to join 2nd 
Baptist. Lawson then made a positive remark, but turned to the 
congregation for the formality. Mrs. Lawson, 
in about the third 
pew on the right, moved that the woman be allowed to join. This 
motion was seconded, and someone called "Question" 
in the best 
parliamentary fashion. The voice vote to accept the woman was 
unanimous. I know that Baptist churches have business meetings (I 
thought usually on Saturday); this action is something I have not 
seen before. 
I hurried out of the church to take exterior shots while 
people were milling around, having people in the shots always 
humanizes what would otherwise merely show architecture. During 
this period, I photographed some of the ushers and promised to 
send along photos: sisters Sandra, Melissa, and Veronica Palmer, 
cousin Robin Black, and Michelle Lawson (the preacher's daughter, 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 27 
who sang solo 
in 
last night's rehearsal). The Lawson's address is 
23 Haley St., Freehold, NJ 07728. 
As things settled down, Mary spent some time talking to 
people and getting the names of folks whose voices will 
be heard 
on our tapes. She also had a chance to ask about some of the 
practices and beliefs of the church. I felt a terrible temptation 
to grab a microphone and recorder and run over to tape the 
conversation, but ended up just taking down and packing up the 
gear. At about 1 or 1:30, we left, and drove south along the 
coast. 
Both of us had a good appetite, and we ended up driving into 
the resort town of Forked River. We ate 
in a large restaurant 
across from a marina. The seafood was good but not great. We 
talked about the project, and I am afraid I got into unduly 
negative frame of mind about one thing or another and my 
conversation put a melancholy cast on the meal. 
TX02: We drove back to headquarters house, arriving at about 4 or 
4:15. Gene Hunn was there preparing some plant samples. I took a 
photo of him at work, and then headed for my next destination. 
G—Lebanon State Forest; 27GT 
TX03: This evening, Sue, Elaine, and I were to record a hymn— 
singing service in a Methodist church in Dorchester G—Dorchester; 
38GT, near Port Elizabeth on Delaware Bay. Sue and Elaine had set 
out already on what was to said to be a two—hour drive, so I 
headed south. Jens, who was at the Pioneer America Society 
meeting in 
Illinois, had made the arrangements with the minister 
of Dorchester United Methodist Church, Benjamin Sooy. Somehow, 
his directions were faulty. By 
luck, I found the church quickly, 
but Elaine and Sue had more trouble. 
I arrived at about 6, and found the handsome nineteenth 
century structure empty. There was some sort of meeting in the 
fellowship hall/classroom building in back, but I didn't go 
in. A 
group of teenagers were gathering around in front for the 6:30 
youth fellowship, and I confirmed that I was 
in the right place. 
I found a program for that morning's service (given to Sue to 
enter as her ephemera) that revealed that the sing was to 
involve 
the local "cluster" of Methodist churches. While waiting, I took 
advantage of the waning light to make some photographs of the 
structure, 
inside and out. I felt a little uncomfortable about 
starting without speaking to the minister or someone in 
authority, but I went in and began setting up. 
Prior to this, I had looked around the town. It 
is very 
picturesque, standing on a little two—lane road, and lying along 
the marshes and channel of the Maurice ("Morris") River. G—Maurice 
River; 38GT Some of the large, two—story houses looked like they 
might date from just before the Civil War, although I suppose 
they may be later than that. They crowd the road the way houses 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 28 
do 
in places where the roads predate the era of the motor car. 
There was a shipyard, docks, and a number of 
identically—painted 
boats on the river. Two young men were on a dock. I couldn't see 
what they were doing, but it may have been repairing a boat or 
some crab pots. The first house as one comes into town was a 
picturesque mess, a yard full 
of goats, poultry, and other 
livestock, miscellaneous junk, and piles of crab pots (or what 
looked like crab pots to me). 
Back at the church, after a bit, the minister's wife 
arrived, and on her heels, Sue and Elaine. We pressed forward 
with our setting—up chores, and as we did so, many other folks 
began arriving. Although the official starting time was 7, 
the 
event, like this morning's church, began with spontaneous—seeming 
singing. This made us a bit nervous about completing our set—up 
and we hurried to get our equipment ready. As we did so, there 
were some problems. Elaine's recorder had dead batteries, and I 
had trouble hearing what was going on when I listened to the 
earphones. By the time we got ready, 
it was nearly 7, 
and sweat 
was pouring off of me. 
Early in the pre—service period, we met Reverend Benjamin 
Sooy. He was an exceedingly gentle and kind—seeming man 
in his 
sixties. There was another, younger minister named John Robbins, 
(His home church was Port Elizabeth.), who conducted the service. 
He 
introduced himself just before seven. He came up and asked me 
our names. I wrote them on one of our cards, but he finally asked 
me to say a few words during the service, and "to introduce the 
girls." (We all winced, 
invisibly.) 
We got the equipment running by about 7. We had two 
Sennheiser 402 cardioids facing the congregation (one on each 
side), and a third 402 at the pulpit, to record remarks and the 
voice of the song leader. We used a pair of stereo Nagras with a 
parallel connector. The mike to the pulpit was on a machine set 
for mono; the others were a stereo pair. The setup seemed to work 
very well, offering a nice balance 
between the voice of the 
leader and the congregation. 
A man played the organ and a woman 
played the piano. We just let these bounce onto the tape; they 
were not separately miked. Although the electric organ was on the 
left side of the church, 
its 
loudspeaker was next to the piano on 
the right. There was a balcony in the church, from which I took a 
few photographs, but no singers sat there. 
Evidently there are eight or nine churches in the cluster, 
and all but one or two were represented. The total crowd must 
have been about fifty. It will be easy to determine accurately; a 
prize for attendance was given, and each church's representation 
was carefully counted "on mike." 
The singing was nice and spirited at times, although not a 
musical knockout. Family, down—home, local, but not virtuouso. 
The hymnal was NOT a Methodist book, but rather a "Singspiration" 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 29 
gospel hymnal (round note) from Nashville. 
At the end of the service, things broke up pretty quickly, 
and 
it was evident that folks wanted to 
lock up the church in a 
hurry. (One woman told me there was a get—together next, 
evidently a local social event, perhaps for the Dorchester 
folks.) We packed as quickly as we could and roared out. 
We stopped at a little Italian diner and had some supper. 
Sue talked about the pressure of the work; she feels it keenly 
in 
her role as field coordinator. She joked that she and the three 
full—time fieldworkers sigh with relief when Monday comes and the 
extra people (from Washington and Philly) push on and leave the 
place to them. This was no reflection on the individuals; just 
the numbers, and the fact that Sue and Elaine "live over the 
store." 
We got back at about 10 or 11, 
and piled the equipment in 
the living room. We will unpack it tomorrow, before Mary and I 
head back to D.C. 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 30 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1116 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Mary and I drove up from Washington today in the cargo van, 
ready to pack up and return with the "stuff" this weekend--the 
end of fieldwork. We were supposed to arrive 
in G—Smithville; 09GT 
by 2 pm for a meeting. Smithville, according to the quadrangle 
map, 
is at the very edge of the Reserve; 
it 
is more or less phony 
historic village featuring gift shops and restaurants. I have 
added two brochures from Smithville to my ephemera file. 
The meeting concerned an exhibit connected with the project. 
Rita Moonsamy is the moving force behind the idea. 
It 
is an 
activity supported by her boss at the New Jersey Arts Council, 
and she has been hard at work trying to assemble the needed 
elements. In the midst of her deliberations during the 
last few 
weeks, she met a man named Dirk Van Nest, the regional director 
of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation G—Whitesbog; 21GT (main 
hq: 3000 Mendham Rd., Morristown, NJ 07960; 201/539--7540; 
WHITESBOG OFFICE: 120-34A Whitesbog Rd., Browns Mills 08015; ofc: 
609-893-4646, home: 201/988-5621). He was enthusiastic about the 
project and spoke to some folks he knew at Smithville. Evidently, 
they are willing to invest money in an exhibit that would 
increase tourism at their place. 
Due to a series of mishaps and miscalculations, notably 
including me getting us 
lost in Baltimore--we arrived at 3:30 pm, 
to find that the "meeting" was over. But in fact, most of the 
principals were still there: Van Nest, Samuelson, Moonsamy, and 
(for a brief moment) a man who was some sort of publicist for 
Smithville. We sat down for coffee and talked. Ostensibly, we 
were talking to "them," but in fact we were talking to each 
other. 
Our conversation continued talk that had been begun over the 
phone during the last few weeks. Rita's conception was for an 
exhibit that primarily used photos and text, but would include 
some audio loops and a few artifacts. She and Mary thought that 
"One Space, Many Places" would work as an organizing theme. The 
structure and ingredients that would make the theme visible were 
a little less well—defined. There was an 
idea that three or four 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 31 
ecosystems might be used as central points of departure: the 
marsh, the bay, and the woods. 
My impression is that Mary and 
Rita were inclined to generalize about how these areas were 
humans; I found myself emphasizing how communication and human 
interest would be enhanced by featuring individual people 
in 
connection with the ecosystem. My suggestion was to take the bay, 
say, and introduce views to two or three people for whom it 
is a 
place, and to 
learn how--for each of them--it is a rather 
different sort of place. I also found myself wishing out loud for 
a gesture toward the "suburban" ecosystem. (In a later 
conversation with Sue, I heard the suggestion of using the term 
"ruburbia," "rural" plus "suburbia. ") 
Our conversation also turned to method: how could such an 
exhibit be created? Rita clearly was in a position to serve an 
overseer or coordinator, and Mary, Sue, and I would be helpful 
consultants. But we didn't settle the question if an additional 
curator was required as part of the task force. I worried that 
Mary and Sue would be too busy, at least in the short term, to 
actually do the editing and writing needed. Mary differed, and 
argued that she could work with Rita to perform this work. The 
matter was furthered influenced by the open question of the 
possible connections to the state museum in Trenton. A woman 
there--from their anthropological section--might also join the 
task force; would she be the curator? 
The question is 
important partly because its answer will 
influence how the work 
is done, but also because it tends to 
define the agency relationships. Is this a state or a federal 
undertaking? Who is 
in charge? How will work and costs be shared? 
Dirk Van Nest was an 
interested listener to all 
of this; no 
one from Smithville was still on hand. But Van Nest had been the 
go—between. And, somehow, there had been some talk with folks at 
the New Jersey Department of State, and there was some sort of 
interest there. So we talked to Van Nest for a bit. It turned out 
that he--and perhaps, by extension, the money men behind 
Smithville, and the Dept. of State--were hoping for a 
"blockbuster." If Van Nest was to be believed, there was a hope 
for a big exhibit, an exhibit to travel the country, an exhibit 
costing hundreds of thousands of dollars, and an exhibit that 
would really boost New Jersey! Needless to say, this line of 
thought made us a little uncomfortable. We all tried to offer 
alternative ways to think about the exhibit: 
it would be more 
ethnographic, and not necessarily feature the duck decoys Van 
Nest loved; 
it might deal with relatively abstract issues, and 
not be viscerally appealing to "everyman;" we weren't ready to 
for a "blockbuster" yet, our research was incomplete. 
This latter modest line of talk, of course, made Rita a 
little uncomfortable. If everything sounded too modest, or too 
hard to do, 
it tended to jeopardize the exhibit in any form. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 32 
In the end 
it was hard for me to judge just how seriously to 
take the Smithville possibility. As Van Nest admitted, the place 
is essentially phony as far as historical representation goes. 
But the visitor count, as he 
insistently reminded us, was "one 
million three." and there was an extravagant (verbal) offer from 
the boss of Smithville to "build any kind of a museum" for 
purposes like ours. We concluded the pow—wow by agreeing to pass 
around a written proposal for the project. We need such a 
document ourselves to carry planning forward, and 
it would permit 
folks like Van Nest and/or Smithville to react and make more 
concrete expressions of 
interest. 
TX02: Sue, Mary, Rita, and I then drove from Smithville to G—New 
Gretna; 15GT to eat at Allen's Clam Bar. I had clam cakes (similar 
to a crab cake) on a platter with french fries and--as best I can 
recall--apple sauce. Although the menu included oysters on the 
half shell, and this 
is the right season, the place was out of 
them. 
It did not have a liquor license, and I went across the 
street for some beer. (foodways) 
Then we went to headquarters 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 33 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1117 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMOI: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Today I joined Elaine and Sue on a (final) visit to the 
Putiri family G—Elwood; 12GT. The ostensive purpose was the 
photography of grave blankets, said to be more—or—less made of 
natural materials and placed on graves at Christmas time, or at 
least in winter. In the end, 
in fact, we never saw this activity 
although we had a good visit with the family. 
The family and household consists of a father, Salvatore 
"Sal," and two 
unmarried sons, Ralph and Sal 
(Jr.). Mrs. Putiri 
died earlier this year. Sal Sr. was once described as "mayor" of 
Mullica Township, and handed out business cards that had his name 
with the title "Township Committee." There was another card for 
Emma's Farm Market, the family business, which listed Ralph C. 
Putiri as "prop." 
(Signs on the road also identify the 
establishment as "Emma's Farm and Garden Center.") The family--at 
least on the father's side--stems from Sicily. The primary source 
of 
income seems to be the farm market, although there was some 
talk about Ralph's "Shaklee parties" and I assume that he 
is a 
salesman for their line of products. 
When we arrived, there was at first no answer to our knock, 
then someone peeked through the window, and Sal 
Jr. came to the 
door and 
let us 
in. We deduced that he and his brother may have 
just gotten up. Sal started to get us some instant coffee and we 
were soon joined by his brother and father. 
We talked about various things for a while, and the 
conversation at some point turned to language. This prompted Sal 
Sr. 
to talk about "how things get lost," referring to the loss of 
language as a symptom of the 
loss of culture. At this point I ran 
to the car and brought in the Nagra and set it up. 
(We were 
in 
the kitchen, and I received permission to turn off the 
refrigerator.) But I was 
in too much of a hurry to setup the 
stereo mike pair. 
We recorded one or one and a half reels of conversation, led 
by Sal Sr., generally concerning changes in the community, mostly 
changes prompted by coming to America. At one point, I asked 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 34 
about changes in religion, which prompted some interesting 
comments. Sal Sr. felt badly about the change to the English in 
the Catholic mass, and about the newer forms of church 
decoration. The first change, of course, 
is a matter of changes 
in world Catholicism, not a matter of 
immigration. The second is 
harder to pin on one factor or another. But Sal 
illustrated his 
remarks by fetching out his wedding photo album, which included 
photos showing the "old" ornate altar. I copied one of these 
photos, one of the wedding couple, and one of the parents sitting 
with the wedding couple. 
The other interesting set of comments prompted by the 
question had to do with the sons' 
religion. It turned out that 
one was a "born again Christian" and the other belonged to 
Congregationalist church. These facts were quickly touched upon, 
but not elaborated on, 
as though they might be just a bit of a 
sore point in the family. I later learned that Elaine and Sue had 
heard much on the subject from the boys (especially the born— 
again fellow, I believe), but I don't know how much the topic was 
part of group discussion. 
During the conversation, I took photographs, trying to make 
exposures with Kodachrome and Tri—X. At one point 
I set up a 
tripod and started to make some pictures of the living room. This 
evidently set Ralph aback, and he came around and quizzed me 
about it. I made some sort of brief explanation, and he went in 
and straightened the room (it was very neat and didn't require 
much cleaning—up) and proceeded with the picture—making. 
But later, while I was packing, he asked me again why I did 
it. 
It evidently had made an 
impression on him. He proclaimed 
himself merely curious, but there was a note of suspicion in his 
voice. Without sounding too much like "me scientist, you subject— 
matter," 
I made a little speech about homes as "information," 
stressing positive aspects: Your home shows how warm and familial 
you are, etc. etc. 
It was hard to say 
if I was persuasive and 
soothing in the right degree. I hope so. 
The tape covers a fair amount of ground; 
it can be referred 
to for more detail. But I noted one item in my notebook that was 
not on tape, and I didn't see Elaine or Sue jot it down. This had 
to do with the "deer pile." (I think I have that name right.) The 
idea, as far as I got it, was that the Putiris put our food for 
deer. Food means things like pumpkins and vegetables, as I get 
it. 
And the deer come and eat. I think the boys hunt, and this 
may be an (illegal?) lure for hunting. But I had the impression 
that the pile was more for "sightseeing;" to get the deer to show 
themselves. The detail 
in the description that struck me was one 
of the boys saying that the buck always came out the woods first 
and looked around. Then the doe(s) and fawns would come. (animal), 
(plant) 
After the long kitchen conversation, we went with Ralph to 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 35 
the old World War I Amatol ammunition plant G—Elwood; 12GT, a kind 
of ruins 
in the woods where the boys used to play. I took 
pictures designed to show its ruin—like character. 
Then we went back to the shop, or more precisely to a 
greenhouse next door, where the men--with two hired helpers--make 
up their decorations, grave blankets, and what have you. I 
photographed the succession of signs along the road that Sal 
Jr. 
had painted. I guess they count as "folk art." One 
is a 
watermelon slice like a famous one 
in one of the standard museum 
folk art books (Beyond Necessity? Naives and Visionaries?). 
Another is a corncupia that resembles other painted signs 
reproduced in books. This latter work was a favorite of Sal 
Jr.'s, and he particularly asked that we photograph it. history 
When I finished the signs, I joined Elaine and Sue 
in the 
shop and photographed some of the creation of a floral ornament 
for Christmas. My notebook for today notes that late 
in the 
afternoon I discovered my black and white camera was empty--
although I had been shooting as though it were full. Upon 
examining my contact sheets, I see what happened. After shooting 
my fourth roll 
in 
the greenhouse, I failed to reload and went on 
shooting with an empty camera. Thus, the following subjects will 
only be available for use 
in color (Kodachrome); the final stages 
of making the Christmas "log," still 
life shot of the Christmas 
"log," exterior scenes of the Putiri's yard (dog burial sites et 
al, shots of the historic village at G—Batsto State Forest; 26GT 
and landscape shots of the pine woods at sunset near G—Chatsworth; 
27GT. 
During the demonstration of making the Christmas log--and 
the affair was a demonstration for the camera--Sal and Ralph had 
what can be called an aesthetic debate. It 
is on the tape. Sal 
was actually doing the work, and Ralph would kibbitz from time to 
time. 
I have two overlapping interpretations of the exchange 
(based on memory; I have not listened to the tape). On the one 
hand, Ralph's taste differs from his father's. He called certain 
elements in the log's ensemble "tacky" (or an equivalent term). 
To some degree, his taste seemed more elevated than his father's. 
Let me make clear what I mean by elevated. First, 
it was closer 
to my own, and therefore to what I take to be "educated 
establishmentarian." (Needless to say, I found the concept of the 
log 
itself to be tacky, but within the genre Ralph's approach--
less plastic doodads--would be 
less tacky to me.) Further, 
Ralph's approach was 
in 
line with I would imagine to be the 
suggestions of a mainstream arbiter of popular culture; Woman's 
Day magazine, say. Their suggestions for "improving" the log 
would parallel Ralph's. 
One the other hand--here is the second interpretation--Sal 
was executing the work somewhat hastily for the sake of the 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 36 
demonstration. That is, 
he would say things like "...and then you 
do more of this sort of thing until you are done..." without 
actually carrying out all 
the steps. There was a long exchange 
with Ralph about "preening" (I think that was the word) the bow. 
Ralph urged that the red ribbon bow be manipulated by hand to 
give 
it shape. Sal was not so eager--I don't know why. And when 
it came time to add the finishing touch--a pine cone--Sal was 
ready to put on any old pine cone (and found a big one), but 
Ralph insisted on searching for a smaller one that would fit 
better. The point here 
is that in some of their wrangling, the 
men agreed about the look they sought, but Sal was just trying to 
finish up the demonstration and get on to other things. (animal), 
(plant), arts and crafts, ethnicity, Italian 
TX02: We went to lunch at a nearby Italian restaurant on Route 30 
called Columbia II G—Elwood; 12GT. The lunch was for Ralph; Elaine 
and Sue's treat. The Columbia, 
if that is 
its name, 
is a family 
affair, operated by a gregarious man named Dominic Amendolia. His 
father came from Sicily, "just south of Messina." 
The group for the meal 
included Sue, Elaine, Ralph, Sal Sr., 
and me. We talked about this and that--and ended up eating 
antipasto, and very nice veal steaks (memory has failed me; I 
think they were breaded and fried, but good meat--not patties.) 
With spaghetti. As we ate, Ralph told about how people get used 
to certain chairs at dinner. At the Putiri's, Sal Sr. (father) 
always sat at the east end of the table, toward the 
sink/refrigerator. Mrs. Putiri always sat to the north, Sal 
Jr. 
west, and Ralph south. The only variation would occur if 
Grandmother Putiri came; then she would get the east seat and Sal 
Sr. would join his wife on the north side. (Ralph looked my way a 
little askance as I drew a chart of this arrangement in my 
notebook, but he said nothing.) (foodways) 
Dominic joined us for a while, and told stories. He talked 
about his uncle gathering mushrooms--this came forth with no 
prompting from us, 
as far as I can recall. We talked about 
hunting, having learned that D. was an avid hunter. He explained 
that deer season began December 5, 
and that the hunting clubs 
would be active then, and during the week before. He explained 
that deer hunting in the area used a "drive" technique, with a 
team including 8 drivers who pushed the deer past 12 men on a 
stand. One club, he said, had 60 members who formed 3 teams 
during the season. D. named some clubs, 
including one called the 
"Never There Club." He also talked about one extended family that 
had an annual Thanksgiving dinner and weekend outing at a club 
"in the woods." He described as quite an outing and offered to 
introduce us to the people involved, but we said we would be away 
at that time. (There was something here about seeing someone 
called Pic—a—lilly on route 36. Elaine knew who this was.) 
Upon hearing of our Pinelands Commission connection, Dominic 
waxed negative. He felt badly, arguing that the management plan 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 37 
had hurt land value and limited possible family use. Ralph 
explained that the Putiri 
land had been classified as "forest," 
and that the two boys could not now put up their houses as they 
had planned. He said he couldn't see why the commission wouldn't 
have declared that section of route 30 as a commercial corridor. 
Dominic's argument was that the whole affair was contrived by 
north Jerseyites as a way to keep south Jersey's population down, 
and hence keep their influence 
in the state legislature at a low 
level. 
Sal Sr. noticed that I was eating left—handed. He made a 
joke about left—handed people. The right side of the brain 
controls the left hand, the left side controls the right; thus 
only left—handers are in their right minds. 
Ralph told how a road in G—Folsom; 08GT near Hammonton, 
is 
called "Unexpected Road." 
G—Elwood; 12GT Dominic told about a tavern—owners meeting 
where the group had asked for lower proofs on alcohol. Not only 
reducing availability of 100 proof, but even making the standard 
(for bars?) something like 60 proof. D. said people don't need 
it; 
"they go out to socialize." ("I noted to myself: Dominic 
himself is 
living proof of this. ") 
Dominic told about how he and some friends had just come 
back from a tour of Sicily. He had a group photo, taken on the 
steps of the abbey on Mount Casino in Italy (site of the famous 
World War II battle), dated September 1983. He told about some of 
the other people in the picture, 
including a trio of couples who 
"were" Atlantic Blueberries--which we were to understand to be a 
successful business. This led, with a question from me to trigger 
it, 
to a discussion of the prosperity of the Sicilians who came 
to south Jersey. He said that many who went on the trip gave 
money to their distant relatives in the old country. He remarked 
on how the Sicilians were very good farmers--no wonder they 
thrived 
in agriculture in New Jersey--but said he was surprised 
to see donkeys still 
in use 
in Sicily. 
Dominic was interested in our project and intuitively 
understood what our subject was (although it came out more or 
less 
as 
local history 
in his understanding). He 
led Sal and 
Ralph 
in a discussion of things—we—should—see and people—we— 
should—meet. He seemed gratified that Elaine had already met some 
of the folks he named. During the talk, he and Sal fell 
into 
telling about families in which the rhetoric took the form of a 
"litany of names." It reminded me of Maggie Hammons Parker in 
West Virginia--at some point in talking about the old days, she 
would tell 
the names of all 
the children and grandchildren in a 
family, not entirely unlike the "begats" 
in the Old Testament. 
(foodways) 
TX03: 
Back at the house, Tom Caucci, Ralph's uncle, was sitting 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 38 
at the kitchen table. He seemed drunk. He was Italian (Sicilian?) 
and quickly joined in an "old days" discussion, but with a bitter 
turn to his words (bitter about today, that is). He was 
exuberant, however, and carried on for a while about polenta, a 
mush—like food that figured in a big way 
in the taped 
conversation with Sal Sr. this morning. Then he asserted that 
young people today do not have any respect for their elders; 
in 
his day, youths were ladies and gentlemen. 
And you didn't used 
to have to 
lock your doors. 
TX04: 
At about 2 or 3 in the afternoon 
I headed back 
in my 
truck, while Ralph and the fieldworkers went somewhere else. I 
stopped at the historic village at G—Batsto; 26GT. 
It seemed quite 
interesting; the buildings and boat(!) were handsome antiques and 
the mansion house was a surprising piece of Charles Addams in the 
middle of the woods. The museum seemed quite reasonable. The chap 
in the museum knew about the project and had spoken previously to 
Mary and Sue. 
The place was a striking contrast to Smithville. 
But, no restaurant (this was off season; there may be something 
on season) and no (literally, none) visitors. To be fair, 
it was 
late on a cold off—season day, 
late 
in the afternoon, midweek, 
etc. etc. 
TX05: Then on through G—Chatsworth; 27GT where I took some photos 
of woods. When Mary and I had edited pictures the other day, I 
noticed that we had no shot that "said" scrub—pine—forest. I 
remembered in 
1982 that I had tried to take such a shot at the 
G—Carranza Memorial; 25GT and failed. And someone had quoted Joseph 
Czarnecki as being frustrated on the same front. 
Well, I got out 
of the car and made some exposures (as noted 
above, no black and 
white here or at Batsto). But failed again. Making a usable 
picture of these woods is damn near impossible. The indication, 
of course, ties to the "outsider's" remark about how the woods 
are not beautiful. Maybe a successful picture would duplicate the 
song by Merce Ridgeway that Mary quoted: 
look closely (i.e. 
photograph) at the tiny plants. (plant), 
insider/outsider 
TX06: I stopped to get some beer at the Woodland Liquor Store 
G—Four Mile Circle; 27GT. I had written about this store in my 
notes for October 6 (PFP83—FCF1006). Today, 
looking at the signs 
and liquor license, I saw that the operator's name 
is Jimmy 
Lucas. 
TX07: 
In the evening, Mary asked me to join her in a visit to the 
Bakely family. G—Peach Farm; 25GT. 
Mr. Bakely is an employee of 
the Thompson (Mary Ann et al) and evidently is perceived by them 
as a classic Piney. The Bakelys occupy a picturesque (although 
newly sided—over) farmhouse owned by the Thompsons, and Mr. 
Bakely is a musician of sorts. Mary and I arrived at about seven, 
after dark, and were unable to get a good look at the house. We 
did see some of the family's fourteen cats crouched (huddled?) on 
the front porch. The scene inspired Mary and me to say "aw" (as 
in 
"aw cute") and the Bakelys seemed to have an affection for the 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 39 
animals, although they were not allowed inside. 
Mr. Bakely's name 
is Vernon, although he 
is called "Pudgie." 
Mrs. Bakely is named Margaret and called (I think I have this 
right--we STILL have not done much with the "Interview Reports") 
Liz. 
In case it 
is not noted on Mary's log for the tape we made, 
Pudgie is on the left channel and Liz on the right. The Bakely's 
mailing address is South Park Road 
in Vincentown 08088. 
Liz's paintings 
area (see title 
several years a 
practice again. 
enters pictures 
hunch 
is that s 
the facile sort 
(And indeed, wi 
things.) 
are landscapes, more or less scenes of the 
s and photos for more). She evidently began 
go, quit for a while, and now has taken up the 
She 
is relatively serious about the work, and 
in craft fairs and the 
like, hoping to sell. My 
he would love to have the skills needed to execute 
of 
landscapes often seen for sale 
in furniture. 
th these skills, she might do some very nice 
As 
it stands, the pictures are more or less along the lines 
of copied-from-a-magazine picture. Or (better) copied from two o 
three items from two or three pictures. Many, for example, have 
animals (often game) 
in a landscape. I took one picture which 
reveals the process (although in reverse of Liz's usual order): 
two ducks have been penciled in on a cornfield landscape; they 
will be painted in next. After I had shot the painting, Liz 
explained that usually she paints the birds or foreground item 
first and then fills 
in the background. 
I asked about s 
to talk about b 
inspiration. Bu 
at magazine pic 
And she 
is 
inte 
she sees. The i 
the earliest wo 
accomplished by 
The tree-trunk 
"sections." 
Th 
identical to pa 
is much more co 
approach is mai 
and watercolors 
r 
ources of 
inspiration, and Liz's rhetoric ran 
eing self-taught, and following her own 
t she has met some other similar painters, 
looks 
tures, and started out with paint-by-number sets. 
Iligent and educated and pays attention to what 
nfluence of the paint by number set can be seen 
in 
rk we photographed (Egret). Here, highlighting is 
colored areas--no blending, except in the sky. 
in the foreground goes from dark to 
light in 
e water is rendered similarly, 
in a manner 
int-by-number kits. 
But in the later works, there 
for blending, although the animal-in-the-landscape 
ntained. And Liz has gone from oils to acrylics 
We shot the following paintings (by no means all 
in the 
house). The titles are hers, unless bracketed; most of the titles 
seem to have been invented when I asked for them: 
1. 
Harrisville; oil; 1980. G-Harrisville; 15GT 
2. Chatsworth Hotel; oil; 1980. G-Chatsworth; 27GT 
3. Cedar Swamp; oil; 1980. 
4. Last House at Mary Ann's Forge; oil; 1980. G-Mary Ann's 
Forge; 21GT 
5. Eagle Battle; oil; 1980. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 40 
Of this one, Liz explained that Pudgie had done the drawing, and 
that she had painted it. Pudgie had found a photo or painting to 
copy, and had only added the catfish. But Liz said that she hated 
the painting. 
6. Turkey 
in the Pines; water color; 1983. 
7. Ducks 
in the Reservoir; acrylic; 1983. 
The birds are widgeons. My notes indicate that the 
first reel 
of tape ran out here. We only brought one 
(by mistake) and Mary had to go back for more as I 
continued to take pictures. 
8. Alaska Snowscene; acrylic; 1983. 
From a magazine photograph. 
9. Cranberry Reservoir; water color; 1983. 
Said to be the reservoir across the road from their 
house; therefore: G—Peach Farm; 25GT 
10. 
[Experiment in Water Color] (a work in progress); water 
color; 1983. 
This 
is the work under way--the birds are being drawn 
over the cornfield background. Liz said this was the 
reverse of her normal method: birds first, background 
second. 
11. 
[Egret]; oil; 1960. 
arts and crafts 
As I finished up photographing paintings, Mary returned with 
more blank tape and we began taping again. We asked Mr. Bakely 
about his music. He said that he had played with his brothers, 
and consented to play and sing for us. He had two guitars and a 
banjo--all Japanese or "Kay" types and relatively new. He 
performed country and western tunes; earnestly but not too well. 
The tapes will 
tell 
the story. 
One thing that may not have made 
it onto the tapes was 
Pudgie's remarks about his brothers' remarriage. "They divorced 
their wives," he said at least twice, "and married younger women. 
And then they stopped playing [with me]." There was no trace of 
envy 
in his voice; only melancholy at losing his co—musicians. 
But still the fact of the remarriage to younger women was on his 
mind, for better or worse. Somewhere in the conversation we 
learned Pudge's age. I had mentally categorized him as my senior, 
but (this 
is happening a lot these days) found--as best I can 
recall; where ARE those interview reports?--he was actually my 
junior. 
At ten or so--at the end of a LONG day--we packed up and 
went back to headquarters house. 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 41 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1118 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: This morning Sue and I went to G—Browns Mills; 21GT. 
I 
wanted breakfast at McDonald's and Sue had some errands to run. 
When we got back to headquarters, I was able to write some 
fieldnotes, but intermittently found myself 
in conversation with 
Mary and Robert Hanley, a New York Times reporter. Both of us had 
some trouble figuring the fellow out. I have put his business 
card in my ephemera file. As far as I could tell, he works for 
the metropolitan page/section of the New Jersey edition of the 
paper. He seemed very earnest, and spent two or three days on 
site, writing page after page on a yellow legal pad. But he 
didn't seem that bright. 
He lingered to a frustrating degree on 
the question of how to use the term "Piney," and seemed to be 
seeking the quintessential type. We worried about what he might 
write. Would he think we were pursuing the wrong quarry? 
TX02: 
In the evening, Mary and I went fox hunting with a minister 
named Milt Collins, a man 
in his fifties or sixties. (One of the 
most active fox hunters we met in the Blue Ridge was also a 
preacher.) We rendezvoused with him in the small town of New 
Gretna, and followed him to a section of G—Penn State Forest; 26GT. 
Once there, we were joined by his son and some other men along 
G—Allen Road; 26GT. 
Ultimately there must have been about four 
vehicles, all 
pickup trucks, I believe, 
in the convoy. 
Mary made tapes throughout the evening, despite intermittent 
technical problems. (We tried the "half—shotgun" Sennheiser 803, 
the full shotgun 816, and the radio mike.) The men had names for 
various spots and roads in the little region where they hunted; 
these are on the tape, and Collins can be interviewed with a 
quadrangle map for more precise location information. Also on the 
tape 
is a good sample of the use of the CB radio. The men were on 
channel 
15, and at times the affair reminded me of a military 
operation, with various platoons calling for situation reports 
from various locales. 
The men reminded me of the Blue Ridge foxhunters. They were 
mature and quiet, no bloodthirsty talk or action, and solicitous 
of the fox. They argued against trapping and the "dangerous" 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 42 
leghold trap. They stopped for coffee or tea and donuts (not 
alcohol), and quit at the (surprising to me) sober hour of 10:30 
or 11, even on a night with little success. 
And little success it was. When the dogs (the most frequent 
noun: I had expected "hound") were first cast, there was belief 
that they were on the trail, but finally nothing came of 
it. Then 
they were restarted two or three times at nearby locations, but 
with even less effect. The tape includes some discussion and 
rationalization of the event. 
And I guess we had little success too. Looking at my black 
and white photos (as I write this the color has not yet arrived), 
I must say that the pictures are only "OK," one or two good ones. 
This had nothing to do with the absence of the fox, for in 
all 
likelihood the animal could not have been photographed in any 
case. And the tapes suffered too. The radio mike didn't perform 
well; 
it added a loud whoosh to much of the tape. And the levels, 
influenced by things like the truck motor and the men's shouts at 
the dogs, often overloaded the recording. On the rare moments 
when the hounds made their music, they were usually too far away, 
or the music coincided with the flyover of a jet. (South Jersey 
is 
on the main flyway for planes traveling north and south on the 
eastern seaboard.) Oh well. 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 43 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1119 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: I spent most of today packing, starting the day with a good 
nourishing McDonald's breakfast. My back had been hurting, and 
the heavy work and lifting involved made it worse. I hope I 
haven't done more damage. But packing should be done properly; 
if 
things are put away 
in order, then unpacking is simple. Thus, for 
the media gear, I really don't trust anyone else to do 
it. Maybe 
someday a younger person will come along to help me out. 
In the evening, I joined Mary to document an evening at 
Albert Hall G—Waretown; 53GT. I had expected a tavern—like place 
for some reason, but in fact it was a concert setting, located 
in 
the back of a warehouse—auto repair kind of building at the edge 
of shopping center. A brochure from the Pinelands Cultural 
Society describes it as the old Waretown Auction in Waretown 
Plaza. It looked and 
in some ways "felt" like the historic photos 
I have seen of the Renfro Valley Barn Dance, or the old Opry, 
long before it got to the Ryman Auditorium. The hall seated two 
hundred or so, and had a refreshment and souvenir stand at the 
back. The stage, rather like Bill Monroe's Bean Blossom park, 
represented the inside of a log cabin. 
And the music was derived 
from country music of the thirties, forties, and fifties. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 44 
The floor plan 
is approximately as follows (not to scale): 
Hall!Rehearsal! 
(unknown) 
! 
! 
Room 
! 
!Hall 
! 
Stage 
! 
! 
 
 ! 
 
seats 
.... more rows 
mixing 
console 
.... more rows 
!----snack bar--!1 
!----sales stand 
1=ticket 
! 
! 
! 
sales 
! 
office 
!2 
3! 
rest rooms 
2=black— 
! 
! 
! 
board 
! 
 
 ! door!  
 
3=photo 
faces north 
wall 
The Hall 
is sponsored by a self—conscious "Piney" outfit, 
the Pinelands Cultural Society. A brochure from the group has 
been put in my ephemera file, and the people have been the 
subject of articles by Angus Gillespie. It 
is an odd phenomenon; 
UNLIKE Renfro Valley, Bean Blossom, et al, 
it 
is not a profit— 
making affair. It 
is true sort of 
local expression, communicating 
the beliefs and values of a sort of educated citizenry with an 
all—around preservationist bent. I end up a little uncomfortable, 
because, 
like the similar folks who run the West Virginia State 
Folk Festival 
in Glenville, there is a kind narrow—mindedness in 
the approach, and real 
romantic dreaming about the past. 
The name "Albert Hall" (a pun on the name of a London 
performing theater) and "Pinelands Cultural Society" are also 
clues to the 
level 
of sophistication of the organization. (The 
hall also gets its name from the Albert brothers who were among 
the prime movers in the Pinelands Cultural Society.--SS) 
To top matters off (and to contrast Albert Hall with the 
West Virginia festival and all 
of the music parks named above) 
the music was not that good. Interesting, I guess, but not 
terribly skillful. The tapes will 
let every listener judge for 
themselves, but it 
is reasonable to say that most of the music 
was "kitchen—quality." In this regard it IS interesting. It made 
me think of people like Phil Nussbaum and Neil Rosenberg who 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 45 
argue that this 
is the core of "homemade" music in America: the 
eclectic, unclassifiable stuff everybody plays. 
But the preservationist bent here made Albert Hall's music a 
little more pure. It was, shall we say, "folk—like." The composed 
songs owe a debt to a Carter family approach, and also the 
influence of more contemporary "folk" singer—songwriters. And the 
country repertory proper included tunes like "Waltz Over Texas," 
"Out Behind the Barn," "Soldier's Last Letter," "(It Wasn't God 
that Made) Honky Tonk Angels," and items from the repertory of 
Jimmie Rodgers and Bob Wills. To me, this selectivity helps 
reinforce the notion of education and self—consciousness. People 
who just like music might not have stuck so close to a particular 
style and repertory. 
There was some give and take with the audience. One exchange 
between a woman 
in her forties and a musician in the Jersey Ho 
Downers: "You going to sing tonight, Tinker?" "Uh .... yeh." 
"(Don't forget) tomatoes are still 
in season." 
I was optimistic about recording quality since the Hall had 
a fine public address system and we could tap right in to make a 
good recording. Russ Herr was 
in charge of this and was extremely 
helpful. But I would find a little fault with the balance he 
offered in his mixes; I would have kept different instrument at 
different levels than he did. 
Mary and I were interested in songs composed about the 
Pinelands, and hoped to record some. 
She asked members of the 
Pineconers to perform some tunes she had heard before. And they 
did. 
Angus's articles about the Pineconers are adulatory. In many 
ways their music is the most interesting at the Hall, but I would 
stop short of his praise. The two women members really carry the 
groups, singing and playing lead. Joe Albert is a picturesque 
figure as he plays washtub bass, and sings a few comic songs in 
strong tenor voice. Sam Hunt contributes least, playing vague 
chords on a Stelling (US made, expensive) five—string banjo that 
could as well be a plectrum. And he sat on 
lovely little cedar 
chair which I bet he made himself. He took it with him at the end 
of the evening. 
Nearly everyone on the show played Japanese instruments, the 
inexpensive staple of the amateur musician. There were a few 
exceptions, including Sam Hunt and the woman banjoist in the 
Pineconers, and a couple of the members of the Back Porch 
Rockers. The Rockers included the night's best pickers. They did 
Doc Watsonesque and bluegrassy tunes with some facility, playing 
Martin guitars. 
Some guitars were decorated. MC Billy Dunn had his name 
in 
rustic letters and pine cone painted on his instrument. A young 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 46 
lad who performed with two or three groups had a squirrel tail 
hanging from his peghead. (About fifteen and exceedingly smooth 
cheeked, this youth insisted on singing "Swinging Doors" and 
several other drinking and macho songs with incongruous effect.) 
The band that played with Billy Dunn included folks with an 
age range of fifteen to sixty. This too 
is a characteristic of 
the "all—American home music" mentioned above, a family, or 
family—like affair. 
I photographed the sign naming all 
the groups who performed. 
As photographed, the sign has the final slot open; 
it was filled 
by Emil Brown. 
At the end of the evening, Billy Dunn asked us to send him 
photos. His address is 
145 Drum Point Rd., Bricktown, NJ 
08723. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 47 
INUM: 
PFP83—FCF1120 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: This morning I went with Bonnie Blair to record a mass in 
Spanish, with special added music, for the Puerto Rican folks who 
live around G—Hammonton; 11GT. The mass was to be said at St. 
Joseph's Catholic Church at about 12:30 or 1 pm. I was worried 
about having enough time to setup, and Bonnie had arranged for us 
to set up gear between earlier, English masses. 
On the drive to Hammonton, Bonnie and I talked about various 
things. She told about how she had photographed some hunters the 
other day, and told about appearing on Spanish—language radio in 
Hammonton. She said she had gone to a benefit affair for a Fire 
Aid Society, and had been asked to say a few words to the mobile 
radio studio there, and by extension, to the crowd. I asked, as a 
matter of curiosity about fieldwork method, 
if that helped her 
make community contacts, and she said it did. She said she was 
surprised at the way folks approached her with ideas and 
comments, and thanks for the Library of Congress's interest, 
after her public remarks. A great story, I thought, and a good 
thing to have done. 
We arrived at about the time the nine o'clock mass was 
ending, and we had about one hour before the next one started. I 
got a little worried because we could not find Father Jose' 
Rebaque', 
the Spanish priest. But after a bit he turned up, and 
we were able to start putting up microphones and taping down 
cables. We had just enough time to do most of what we planned 
before the eleven o'clock mass started. During the mass, we 
headed over to a local convenience market for coffee. 
Our setup included two mikes alongside existing mikes in the 
church public address system. One of these was on the main altar, 
where the priest offered several of the "calls" to which the 
congregation and choir "responded." We also placed a mike at the 
pulpit on the 
left side of the front, where the readings and 
sermons were delivered. The other two mikes were on stands at the 
right front, facing the choir. One, high, was designed to catch 
the voices, and the other, 
low, was for the small ensemble of 
guitars, drums, and tambourine that accompanied the singing. We 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 48 
used the parallel connector with a pair of stereo Nagras. The 
altar and pulpit mikes were on a machine set to mono and came up 
"center channel," while the choir voice mike was left and the 
instruments were designated right. 
As we sat in the car, Bonnie told me about her work. I was 
very impressed with the thoroughness of her fieldwork. She had 
truly SURVEYED the Spanish—speaking community, trying to get a 
statistical overview, spot the location of all pockets of 
members, and talking to community leaders and non—members (like 
priests, and a fascinating—sounding "local historian"). She said 
that she deliberately didn't get too wrapped up with Orlando 
Torres and his family so as not lose the big picture. I was 
struck by the contrast with, say, Sue's and Elaine's approach to 
their Italian—American friends. This is no new differentiation, 
but simply another instance of the classic trade—off between a 
relatively deep look at a small phenomenon (here, a family) 
versus a broader but shallower look at a larger phenomenon (here, 
an ethnic group). 
Details in Bonnie's talk included drawing some contrasts 
between Mexican folks she knew in the Southwest, and the (mostly) 
Puerto Ricans she was meeting here. The Puerto Ricans seemed a 
bit less "open" to Bonnie; welcoming, but not as ready to embrace 
a new visitor. Bonnie also explained how the "local historian" 
explained about incoming Puerto Ricans and automobiles. The man 
pointed out how the arrest lists 
in the paper always include 
folks with Spanish surnames. Bonnie said that new arrivals are 
sold cars with false assurances that all the needed licenses are 
included. They are not and eventually the buyers are arrested. 
And Mexican illegals have cars with license plates obtained one 
way or another, and eventually they too are arrested. Bonnie 
thought that most of the Mexicans' plates were from Illinois 
(Chicago?). 
We went back to the church as the 
last English mass was 
ending, and went in to complete our setup. Bonnie ran the tape 
machines as I tried to take photos. Our freedom of movement, both 
in camera mobility and mike placement, was 
in striking contrast 
to the 2d Baptist Church in Manitou Park. Once or twice, I 
slipped up and listened to the headphones to try to double check 
the mike placements, and to hear Bonnie's mix. I thought at first 
that she had the guitars and other instruments too high relative 
to the other voices. Later I was offering more suggestions, as 
reel 
one was running out, and thus stupidly kept Bonnie from 
changing machines, 
less than ten seconds were lost, but they were 
in 
the middle of a musical selection. (I 
really felt dumb.) The 
entire service lasted less than an hour and filled one and five— 
sixths tapes so we never had a another changeover. 
I took photos freely from various positions, mostly with the 
tripod. It was dim and the exposures were on the order of 1/8 and 
1/15. 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 49 
The deacon who was at the altar with Father Jose' was named 
Ismael Tava'rez. The older of two women who read at the pulpit was 
named Hilda Torres. 
As always, at the end of the service, I ran out and 
photographed folks streaming out and socializing as they 
departed. 
After church, we went to the rectory and joined Father Jose' 
for coffee as he ate his lunch. In what I take to be a typical 
Catholic arrangement, the rectory was overseen (operated?) by at 
least two older women. One answered the door. There was a little 
foyer with a desk, and many knick—knacks, Bibles, missals, and 
other items were for sale. After checking with Father Jose', she 
led us back to the dining room. As we talked to Father Jose', the 
women (the one who greeted us plus another) served him. He was 
little preemptory with them, brusquely requesting this and that. 
Later Bonnie said she had noticed the same thing. We couldn't 
decide how much of the "sexism" could be 
laid at the feet of 
Jose '' s Spanish upbringing. 
Father Jose' spoke English with us. He speaks with an accent 
and good but not flawless grammar and vocabulary. I had a little 
trouble understanding him, and here and there I have noted the 
risk that I misunderstood. Bonnie said she has spoken Spanish 
with him, her Mexican Spanish compared to his perfect Spaniard's 
Spanish. Bonnie remarked that his sermon was truly wonderful 
oratory, not unlike a Baptist punch—em—up sermon. 
His biography is fascinating. I only have the barest outline 
here, and assume Bonnie has noted down more. There was a whole 
"bit" about working at a prep school, was it 
in South America, 
that I didn't get. Father Jose' was born and raised in Spain, and 
joined an order (he often used the noun "community") called the 
Pallottines. The official name 
is different; 
it appears 
in some 
literature that Bonnie picked up to put in her ephemera file. The 
order was founded in 
Italy by a man named Pallotti 
in about 1850. 
If I got this right, 
it 
is divided into "provinces" and 
"delegations." There are too few members in Spain to form a 
"province," so Father Jose' 
is part of the Spanish delegation to 
the South German province. 
Father Jose' had spent some time 
in other parts of the world; 
in South America, another part of New Jersey (I think), and with 
a Mexican—American parish 
in Lubbock, Texas. He explained a 
little about being assigned by the order. Evidently he has a 
little say 
in where he goes, but 
it sounded like he had to help 
raise the money to pay his passage. He said he wanted to come to 
America to see the nation and to 
learn English. 
Saint Joseph's church is staffed (is that the word?) by 
Pallottines. It was created to serve the Italian immigrants in 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 50 
the region. The other two priests at the church are also 
Pallottines, from the North American province. 
Father Jose', of 
course, came recently to serve the Spanish—speakers new to the 
area. 
Saint Joseph's also 
is the home for a shrine to Our Lady of 
Mount Carmel. In the sanctuary, the statue of Our Lady stands to 
the left of the altar (stage right, 
if I am using that term 
correctly; my photos will make this clear) and a statue of Saint 
Joseph stands to the right. 
If I understood properly, the 
"shrine" 
is this statue, with the surrounding banks of votary 
candles, etc. Evidently there is an 
identical statue stored 
elsewhere in the church. This second statue is brought out for 
the festival for Our Lady of Mount Carmel. This week—long affair 
occurs on July 16 and surrounding days. I think Father Jose' said 
that it begins the Saturday before the 16th and runs for that 
week. The statue spends some time outdoors near the church, where 
it 
is worshipped, and also is carried through the streets in a 
procession; Father Jose' said the people put chains of money 
around the statue as 
it 
is carried on a wagon of some sort 
(pulled by a motor vehicle, I believe). Hispanic, ethnicity, 
(celebration) 
Father Jose' said that this festival was a very big deal. 
In 
the old days (not too long ago) as many as 40,000 would come, but 
today the crowd still runs to 15,000. People who used to live in 
the area, and presumably are of Italian—Catholic background, come 
back. 
It 
is 
in that regard like a Baptist church homecoming. 
Music during the affair is supplied by an Italian orchestra from 
Pennsylvania. 
Father Jose' thought that most of the original parishioners 
had immigrated from the same little community in Sicily. Father 
Jose' didn't know where it was and he summoned in the women. One 
of them seemed unclear about it too and asked the other. Despite 
the fact that they were 
in their fifties or sixties, the matter 
must have been one or two generations earlier. But the second 
woman named the place: Gesso (spelling slightly uncertain) 
in the 
province of Messina. 
Father Jose' talked about the first New Jersey church to 
serve Puerto Ricans. Here again, why in hell didn't we tape this 
conversation, I am a little vague, but evidently there was a 
church in Camden which had also been called Our Lady of Mount 
Carmel when it had served Italians, but it was "given" to 
Spanish—speakers and now was called (at least by the members; I 
couldn't understand if the name change was official or not) Our 
Lady of Fatima. I guess the same statue of the Virgin would serve 
both names. 
Prompted in part by a question from Bonnie about whether 
Puerto Ricans kept appointments, she had been disappointed on a 
few occasions, Father Jose' gave us his impressions of the 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 51 
differences between the Mexicans he knew in Lubbock and the 
Puerto Ricans he had met here. (Here is a case where he might not 
have talked so freely if the recorder had been set up.) The 
Mexicans were more hospitable and more sincere, he said. Puerto 
Ricans always make excuses, 
"I can't come today." He added, "They 
lie a lot, but they don't know they are lying." They say 
something and a few days later say the opposite. He quizzes them 
and ends up figuring that what they said at first was 
in fact 
what they were thinking at the time. After marriage, Puerto Rican 
family relationships, between brothers, say, were not as close as 
those Father Jose' knew from Spain. Promptness was also a problem; 
Father Jose' said it had been hard train the Puerto Ricans to get 
to mass on time. 
Father Jose' told about a Mexican camp nearby, where a few 
illegal aliens from Mexico lived. Some had been 
in church that 
morning, he reported. He thought that there were about a dozen 
young men, "shielded" by one family of 
legal Mexicans. He said he 
felt very bad about their living conditions. As illegals, they 
were at the mercy of everyone. He told about one man who sought 
any sort of papers to help him get a foothold here. He had wanted 
to be baptized again, but Father Jose' had drawn the line at such 
a misuse of a sacrament. Father Jose' remarked that Mexicans 
undercut the Puerto Ricans by agreeing to work for $3.50 per 
hour. This, as well 
as cultural factors, exacerbated the 
relationships between the two groups. 
Bonnie had originally hoped to visit a Puerto Rican woman 
during the afternoon. The interior of her home had been described 
as resembling something from the old country. But when Bonnie 
called her, she said that a relative had gotten sick and was 
taken to the hospital and that we would not be able to visit that 
day. So we went back to headquarters and I continued to pack. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Fleischhauer--83 Fieldnotes 
page 52