American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_066 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Lund, Jens: WW189-FJL0516 to WW1890520 
I 
Document: WWI89-FJL0514 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/14/89 
Informant/Event: Campanelli, Richard; Saint Francis of Assisi 
Church; Elia, Ben and Beatrice; Paietta, Charles and Lillian 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fj10514 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/14/89: 
Day spent with Richard (Dick) 
Campanelli (of Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society), 49 Jade, 
Walla Walla, WA. 99362 
(509) 525-1021. 
Main concentration of Italian-Americans are on Rose Rd., 
southwest of Walla Walla, between Walla Walla and College Place, 
and on edges of College Place. Driving along, see small produce 
fields, some with onions, some bare, and some with wheat. The 
wheat is used for crop-rotation. 
Outside of Walla Walla, most of 
the agricultural land is in wheat, in large "wheat ranches," 
which are not Italian-American-owned. 
There are a few other Italian-American settlements in area, 
scattered east and south of Walla Walla, and near Milton-
Freewater, OR. 
Rose Rd./College Place group are mostly Milanese, most of whom 
are from Lonate Pozzolo, 35 km. west of Milano. Some are also 
from villages on the shore of Lago Maggiore, ca. 70 km. northwest 
of Milano. Other Walla Walla Italians are from Calabria, and they 
tend not to be concentrated in a specific area, as are the 
Milanese. 
Photographed Christopher Columbus statue erected in 1911 by 
subscription of local Italian families. Also passed Pastime Cafe, 
215 W. Main, Walla Walla 525-0873, which is owned by an old 
Italian-American family and has always been Walla Walla's leading 
Italian-American restaurant. 
Mr. Campanelli believes that up to 25% of Walla Walla County is 
of at least partial Italian ancestry. Many do not have Italian 
surnames because of various factors, including "they changed it 
at Ellis Island," later Anglicization due to discrimination, 
and 
intermarriage with non-Italians. 
Original Roman Catholic Church is Saint Patrick's, but Italians 
felt out-of-place with Irish priests and had their own church 
established, in 1915, Saint Francis of Assisi, 722 W. Alder, 
e 
WWI89-FJL0514 - 
2 
Walla Walla. Originally had an Italian pastor. Is now pastored by 
a Dutchman, but is still primarily the Italian-American church in 
Walla Walla. 
Stopped and photographed Saint Francis of Assisi Roman Catholic 
Church. Photos included Italian-American parishioners Dick 
Campanelli and Margaret Magnioni Chadek. 
Passed Locati Ln. off Wallula Rd. 
Stopped to visit Mr. and Mrs. Bennie & Beatrice Elia, Rte. 5, Box 
416 (York Ave.), Walla Walla, 529-1227. Photographed their 
backyard shrine and onion field. Also went next door to Mrs. 
Elia's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Regalia, 525-2168. Mr. Regalia, 
who is presently disabled by a stroke, built a horse-barn behind 
the house in 1927. It is now an equipment shed. I photographed 
it. 
Visited with Mrs. Beatrice Elia. She told me about Lonate 
Pozzolo, where the Elias have cousins, whom they have visited and 
who have visited them. Lent me two videotapes of last three 
Italian Heritage Days (Columbus Day festivals). One tape (1988) 
is by Bennie Elia, and shows Fame Furlee Dancers, a professional 
Italian "folk dance" troupe from Vancouver, B.C., who performed 
at '88 festival. Other tape is composite of three tapes. Two are 
from 1986, shot by Frank Magnaghi (ca. 1 hr.); and by Marc 
Anthony (ca. 35 min.). Third portion of second tape is from 1987, 
shot by Bennie Elia. 
Mrs. Elia also lent me Lonate Pozzolo: storia arta societa. 
Lonate Pozzolo: Nicolini Editore, 1985, and English-language 
supplement, Lonate Pozzolo: history art society, translated by 
Ernesto Milani & Loredana Garzoli Ucchino, with Cristina Vanetti. 
Lonate Pozzolo: Nicolini Editore 1986. Both have a chapter by 
Ernesto Milani, "L'Esperienza Lonatese nelle Americhe," pp. 
361-372 (Italian version), and "The Lonatese Experience in the 
Americas,"pp. 19-34 (English version). Section on Walla Walla is 
"Pioneri Lonatesi a Walla Walla," pp. 364-368 (Italian version); 
and "Lonatese Pioneers in Walla Walla," pp. 22-25. Will have 
these materials photocopied. 
Mrs. Elia stated that the most important food-item among the old-
timers was rice, and that it is still widely used in local 
cooking by local Italian-Americans. 
Then we went to visit Charlie & Lillian Paietta, Rte. 2, Box 182-
AA, Walla Walla (actually Hussey St. in College Place), 525-3642, 
retired onion-growers. Mr. Paietta's parents were from shores of 
Lago Maggiore, and he had several pictures of the lake on his 
wall, including a commercially available wallpaper mural, that 
coincidentally happened to be available from a local dealer. 
Photographed these. 
r 
WWI89-FJL0514 - 
3 
Mr. Paietta lent me some photo albums with pictures of his onion-
growing efforts in the late 1950s and early 1960s. He also gave 
me some photos of his kitchen garden from late last summer. He 
has a large kitchen garden, which he had just planted, so there 
was nothing to see, just freshly-dug dirt. Told me that some 
folks keep fig-trees in area, not necessarily Italians, and that 
the climate is mild enough for them to winter over. Also told me 
that Leonetti's Cellar, 1321 School, Walla Walla 
525-1428, is 
the only Italian commercial winery in the area. Some old-timers 
made wine for home consumption, but this was not as common here 
as in other parts of US. Mentioned Bert Pesciallo, Rte. 2, Box 
59, Milton-Freewater, OR. 97862 (503) 938-7963, as one former 
home wine maker. 
Mr. Paietta had two walls in basement that were very 
Italian-American. One had collection of Catholic chromolithos. 
Other had family photos from "old country" to his kids & 
grandkids. Paietta, like many Walla Walla Italian-Americans, is 
especially proud that his offspring are all professionals, 
including his daughter, who is the Librarian of Yale Medical 
School in New Haven, CT. 
Saw lots of good onion-field photo-opportunities, along Hussey 
St., near Mr. Paietta's. Should shoot late p.m. or early a.m. 
Contacted Emilio (Millie) Buttice, Rte. 2, Box 183-F (Braden 
Rd.), Walla 
Walla, 525-1697, (Vice President of Walla Walla 
Italian Heritage Society) who will be working at Paietta's, while 
they are out of town (rest of week). 
Document: WWI89-FJL0515 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/15/89 
Informant/Event: Paietta, Charles and Lillian; Locati, Joe J.; 
Bossini, Louis; Pastime Cafe 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: WWI89-Fj10515 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/15/89: 
Top three leading employers in Walla 
Walla County are: 
1.) Iowa Beef Packing Co. 
(in Wallula), 2.) 
Washington State Penitentiary, 3.) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 
4.) Continental Can Co. 
Photographed the pictures on Charlie & Lillian Paietta's basement 
walls. 
Visited with Joe J. Locati, author of The Horticultural Heritage  
of Walla Walla County. Mr. Locati is self-appointed community-
historian. The difference between Campanelli's and Locati's 
respective approaches to Italian ethnicity is striking. 
Campanelli is the ethnic revivalist, concerned primarily with 
maintaining and reviving Italianness in the community, through 
Italian Heritage Assoc., Italian Heritage Days (October), and 
language teaching (which he does, as a volunteer, twice a week). 
Locati is the historian of of Italian community and of 
horticulture, in general. 
Locati has done lots of research, much of it unpublished. Was a 
contributor to the 1977 yearbook, Columbus -- The Publication of 
the Columbus Celebration: Historical Issue: "Italians in 
California." Published by Alessandro Baccari & Assoc., 219 
Pacific Ave., San Francisco, CA. 94111. He also shared with me 
the Center for Migration Studies' & Fondazione Giovanni Agnelli's 
Images: A Pictorial History of Italian-Americans, and he gave me 
several unpublished papers on various Italian families, etc., 
which I am forwarding on to LC-AFC. 
Locati looks at the Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society as "a 
bit of nostalgia," and claims that there is little real local 
Italian-American pride. Columbus Day festival was revived in 
1976, inspired by the US Bicentennial. Walla Walla Italian 
Heritage Society not particularly interested in local Italian-
American history, but more in Italian ethnicity revival, through 
festivals, including Walla Walla Sweet Onion Festival (July) and 
Italian Heritage Days (October). 
WWI89-FJL0515 - 
2 
Had long conversation with Locati. He is obviously anxious to 
tell as much of the history of Walla Walla-Italians, as possible, 
but I told him that the in-depth research would come at a later 
time. Some important bits of information he shared: Community 
considered to be 1/2 Milanese and 1/2 Calabrese, but only about 
1/2 of the so- called "Calabrese" are really from Calabria. 
Others are Neapolitan, Sicilian, etc. What it means is that 
"Calabrese," here, means Southern Italian. Most of the Italians 
got here via San Francisco, although the very earliest came more 
directly from Italy via the East Coast. In his writings he tried 
to leave out the sensational, such as a number of gory suicides 
spawned by economic failure. Was later criticized by historian 
David Nicandri for doing this. 
The history of Italian-American horticulture in the Walla Walla 
Valley, and of the Walla Walla Sweet onion, are well-documented, 
especially in Joe Locati's The Horticultural Heritage of Walla 
 
Walla County, 181-1977: A Comprehensive review of Fruit and  
Vegetable Growing, Shipping and Processinq Focused on Walla Walla 
County--With a Section on the Italian Heritaqe. 
Walla Walla, 
WA.: Published by the author, 1978. LCCN: 77-091265; LC Call #: 
SB 319.2 .W2L63. I have included photocopies of pertinent pages. 
Also, a complete copy is in the LC holdings. For those reasons, I 
shall not go to great lengths retelling the story here. 
Because of lack of opportunity for professionals, and so many of 
the present-generation Italian Americans are professionals, most 
of the younger Italian-Americans have left the Valley to go to 
urban areas. 
Leonetti's Cellars are owned by the Figgins family, which is 1/2 
Italian through the mother's line. It was the mother whose name 
was Leonetti, and her family used to grow a lot of wine grapes 
and make a lot of wine. 
A Mr. Louis Rizzuti raises fig trees. 
Mr. Locati made much of the differing "regional character" of 
Northern vs. Southern Italians -- Northern Italians "pragmatic," 
"businesslike," "modest." Southern Italians "sociable," musical, 
somewhat undependable, but more enjoyable. Said that if visitors 
came, Southern Italians would quit work to visit with them. Also 
said that almost all Southern Italians were musical and could 
play at least something on an instrument, but that Northern 
Italians were not musical, at all. Characterized Northern 
Italians as "Germanic," and talked about the Lombards (which 
include the Milanese) as a Germanic tribe. 
Locati let me borrow some photos to copy, including the 1911 
Columbus Day parade & Columbus-statue dedication. Also the 
original photo of 1910 Sunday gathering at Tony Locati's (widely 
reproduced), and a rather fuzzy enlargement of a Polaroid of the 
WWI89-FJL0515 - 
3 
1976 rededication of the Columbus statue, with the old 1911 
Kingdom of Italy flag in the foreground. It was borrowed, for the 
occasion, from Fort Walla Walla Museum (actually the Walla Walla 
Valley Pioneer & Historical Society), to whom it had been 
donated. 
Went with Joe Locati out to look at old Saturno/Breen and Tachi 
homesteads. (Joe Tachi and Pasquale Saturno/Frank Breen were 
among the most successful early Italian horticulturists in the 
Walla Walla Valley.) Light not right for photos, will return on 
an early a.m. There are still Breens living in Saturno/Breen 
house, a large ten-room 
farmhouse with lots of outbuildings, 
including 2-story wooden pump house/water tower. House was built 
for Pasquale Saturno/Frank Breen by non-Italian carpenters. It is 
possible that Saturno/Breen or some of his family members may 
have built the barn or outbuildings, but nobody knows for sure. 
House now inhabited by Saturno's great-grandson and his wife 
(also Italian American), who are fixing it up. Tachi house much 
smaller and more modest. Also probably built by non-Italians. It 
is surrounded by onion fields and is still owned by Joe Tachi's 
descendants, but rented out by a large Thai immigrant family. 
(Some agricultural labor is done by Thais in Walla Walla Valley.) 
Locati attributed difference in houses' size and ostentation to 
Saturno being Sicilian and Tachi being Milanese. He claims that 
Joe Tachi was actually wealthier than Pasquale Saturno/Frank 
Breen, but that he was modest and didn't display his wealth. 
Locati told me that Tachi and Saturno/Breen mausolea (Italian 
marble made in Italy, and assembled locally), can be seen in the 
Catholic section of Mountain View Cemetery (municipal cemetery). 
Heard great local legend about Saturno family's adoption of 
"Breen" as an "Anglo" surname. Saturno also operated a business 
as a vegetable peddler, first from a wagon, then from a truck. 
Many Italians in area at turn-of-century had given name 
"Francesco," and were called "Frank" by Anglos. "Frank" became a 
generic nickname used by "Anglos" for Italian men. Pasquale 
Saturno, whose name was supposedly unpronounceable by 
"Americans," came to be known as "Frank Breen" because he would 
say to his customers, "Ah breen-a you dis, Ah breen-a you dat," 
and the name stuck, and was actually added to his mausoleum on a 
plaque, below Saturno. His descendants are still mostly Breens, 
although in recent years, a few have legally changed their 
surnames back to Saturno. Many area Italians have non-Italian 
surnames. 
In back of Locati's is the Joe Guglielmelli turf-farm, which I 
photographed. 
After returning to Joe Locati's house, we went next door to visit 
Louis Bossini, retired onion-farmer. He showed me a restored 1927 
Ford Model-A truck, which he uses as a billboard for the family's 
onion-packing business. Mr. Bossini took us out to his son Greg's 
WWI89-FJL0515 - 
4 
onion-farm and onion-packing plant, (Bossini Packing Co., Rte. 1, 
Pranger Rd., 529-4139), which packs "Boss Man" (larger size) and 
"Big Leo" (smaller size) brand Walla Walla Sweets. Met with and 
photographed Greg's operation and Greg himself. Was given Walla 
Walla Sweet promotion-poster and labeled bags used by the packing 
company. Greg Bossini's main efforts now are to mechanize the 
cultivation, harvest, and packing of onions, as the increases in 
labor cost and regulation have made it very difficult to have it 
done by hand. It is now primarily done by seasonally-hired 
Hispanic laborers. 
Bossini withdrew from the Walla Walla 
Gardeners' Association (the Italian truck-farmers' co-operative 
packing co.), after they became a corporation in 1983. 
Explained how after early 1960s, the onion-growers went from 
planting sets to planting seeds, as this was more economical, as 
it could be done by mechanical seeder. Now Louis Bossini rides on 
the harvesting machine, pulling out the finest Walla Walla sweets 
by hand and transplanting them to make them into seed-onions. 
Also talked about how an onion-crop can "bolt," i.e. go to seed 
spontaneously, due to climatic factors, and thereby ruin an 
entire crop, as they then produce neither good bulbs nor good 
seeds. 
Had dinner at Pastime Cafe, the old Italian restaurant. Was 
served the largest lasagna I've ever seen. Most of the people 
there seem to favor large servings. Met Father VanderHeyden of 
Saint Francis of Assisi Roman Catholic Church and will meet with 
him tomorrow. Did not have a chance to talk with owners of 
Pastime Cafe, but will get to later. 
Document: WWI89-FJL0516 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/16/89 
Informant/Event: Saint Francis of Assisi Church: VanderHeyden, 
Father Adrian; DeStito, Carmen; Braden School; Mountain View 
Cemetary 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fj10516 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/16/89: 
Visited Saint Francis of Assisi 
Roman Catholic Church (722 W. Alder, 525-1663) with Father Adrian 
VanderHeyden, and photographed interior. In old days, the 
Northerners and Southerners sat on opposite sides of the church. 
Church has statue of Saint Francis on front lawn of next-door 
rectory, and over doorway of church is inscribed "Porta del 
Cielo" (Gate of Heaven). Windows were paid for by subscription. 
One window panel on each side inscribed, in English, "Donated by 
the Northern Colony" and "Donated by the Southern Colony," 
respectively. First priest was an Italian, but none have been, 
since. 
VanderHeyden is a Dutch immigrant, in poor health, facing 
retirement. Parish is concerned about finding a replacement, due 
to priest shortage, and resulting possible consolidation with 
Saint Patrick's Roman Catholic Church, the main Roman Catholic 
church, which is older and not Italian-oriented. 
Visited Carmen (Carmy) DeStito (Rt. 1, Box 80, on Braden Rd., 
529-1509), present president of Walla Walla Italian Heritage 
Society. Mrs. DeStito is widow. She came to Walla Walla from the 
Spokane area, so she is not part of the local Italian 
pioneer-family community. Also present was her gentleman-friend, 
Emilio (Millie) Buttice (Rte. 2, Box 183F, Braden Rd.). Mrs. 
DeStito lent me lots of photos of various Walla Walla Italian 
Heritage Society doings, especially Italian Heritage Days, which 
I will copy & return. Her father had just passed away the day 
before, in California, so she was on her way down there to help 
out her mother and arrange the funeral. 
Mrs. DeStito has been in on the organization on the Walla Walla 
Italian Heritage Society from the start. She grew up in an 
Italian neighborhood in Spokane, and is 2d-generation Italian 
Much of our conversation concerned cooking. Still lots of Italian 
cooking in Walla Walla Valley. Mary Elia Gunberg (310 S. 2d, 
525-8295) makes homemade cavetelli (called noci by the 
WWI89-FJL0516 - 
2 
Northerners) for Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society events. 
Old-timers still do lots of home baking. Generic Italian American 
cooking is, of course, quite prominent, but Walla Walla 
Italian-Americans also keep up traditions learned from 
grandmothers, etc. Mrs. DeStito's specialty is teida 
(zucchini-potato-sausage casserole). Other entrees include 
eggplant casserole, fried asparagus (Walla Walla, of course), 
asparagus patties, lots of fried vegetables, esp. eggplant, and 
the usual fettucine and linguini. Local custom includes the 
serving of eggs boiled in tomato sauce on Good Friday. 
Mrs. D. is presently working on putting together an Italian 
Heritage Cookbook for Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society. She 
and several other Italian-American women get together to make 
Italian pastries for Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society 
celebrations. She learned pastry making from her mother and 
mother-in-law in CA. & Spokane, and has taught many in the Walla 
Walla area. The men of Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society make 
Italian sausage, which is sold at a portable green-white-&-red 
booth at local fairs, Fort Walla Walla Frontier Days, Walla Walla 
Balloon Stampede, Walla Walla Sweet Onion Days, etc., as well as 
Italian Heritage Days. 
Mrs. D. also talked about widespread use of rice in local 
cooking, as derived from Northern Italian diet. She said that 
Charlie Paietta specializes in making rizota with real saffron. 
Some people fry piccelis (fried dough, like elephant-ears), 
crustalese, and tratellis. Lots of people still make Pita (fruit 
cakes). 
Mrs. D. also talked about the old Braden School, cor. S.9 & 
Braden Rd., s. of Walla Walla, (which is now the Church of God, 
Seventh Day). It was predominantly Italian during the 1920s-50s, 
and was popularly known as "the Italian School." It served the 
district which included the areas between Walla Walla and College 
Place, where the Italian truck-farms were concentrated. Lent me 
some photos of various classes there. Virgin Mary of the 
Assumption, a newer Roman Catholic church, operates a parochial 
school, and many Italian-American Roman Catholic kids go there 
now, but no parochial school was available in the old days. 
(Jens' own observation: Parochial schools were considered 
"Un-American" in many Northwestern communities early in the 20th 
century. They were actually outlawed in Oregon for a period of 
time. Don't know if this has anything to do with that.) 
Mrs. D. says she set up first Rededication Ceremony for Walla 
Walla Columbus statue in 1976, through Saint Francis of Assisi 
Church. Took place, October 12, 1986 at the statue, on the Walla 
Walla County Court House lawn. Plans were laid then for Italian 
Heritage Days, but they came to naught until 1986, when Walla 
Walla Italian Heritage Society was organized. Walla Walla Italian 
Heritage Society sponsors an Italian Heritage Children's Dance 
WWI89-FJL0516 - 
3 
Group with 19 kids, aged 3-9. The group is led by Cheryl Landoni 
Knotts (926 S. Wilbur, 525-1925 or 525-1912) and practices 
Wednesday nights at Victor Toppano's equipment shed. There is 
also an adult Italian Heritage Dancers' group, but they weren't 
rehearsing that week, and are more active as Italian Heritage 
Days gets closer. 
According to Mrs. D., home wine making died out by the early 
1950s. People had already stopped growing their own grapes, and 
had been ordering grapes from California. During World War II, 
they became hard to get, and after the war, they got more and 
more expensive. The leader in home wine making efforts in the 
Walla Walla Valley was Bert Pesciallo (Rte. 2, Box 59, 
Milton-Freewater, OR. 97862 
[503] 938-7963), who sold lots of 
grapes to local wine makers, and who coached many of the wine 
makers. Vineyards in Wallula (on the Columbia R., ca. 30 mi. w. 
of Walla Walla) were also a source of grapes. 
(The California 
explanation doesn't make a lot of sense. However, several people, 
including Mrs. D., talked about Walla Walla's Italian community 
being a major regional source of illegal wine during Prohibition, 
so that stigma, in connection with general anti-Italian prejudice 
may have had something to do with wine making's decline there.) 
Mrs. D's front lawn was completely dug up, due to a fungal 
disease called "white rot." This disease supposedly also attacks 
the onions, and has been responsible for the fact that many of 
the old onion-fields in the southwest-Walla Walla/College Place 
area are now planted with other crops and onion planting has 
moved out of town, especially to the south, between Walla Walla 
and the OR. state line. 
Photographed the old Braden School (now Church of God, Seventh 
Day), on Braden Rd. & S. 9th. Also photographed roadside signs of 
Italian businesses. Also went to Mountain View Cemetery 
(municipal) at 2d Ave. S. & Abbott Rd., south of Walla Walla, to 
take photographs. Catholic section includes many Italian grave 
markers, including elaborate mausolea for Saturno and Tachi. Also 
an interesting Chinese section nearby, with many turn-of-century 
graves and a recent monument in English & Chinese, and some kind 
of little temple. 
Document: WWI89-FJL0517 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/17/89 
Informant/Event: Pesciallo, Bert; Walla WallaUnion-Bulletin; 
Children's Italian Heritage Dancers; Leonetti Cellars: Figgins, 
Gary 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fjl0517 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/17/89: 
Drove to Bert Pesciallo's home and 
orchards in Umatilla County, Oregon, ca. 3 1/2 mi. w. of Milton-
Freewater, ca. 1/2 mi. n. of Barrett, ca. 3 mi. s. of Washington 
State Line, ca. 10 mi. sw. of Walla Walla. Pesciallo was pruning 
young apple saplings. He has a large apple orchard, has also 
raised peaches and pears. Used to raise grapes commercially, 
still raises a few for fun, but hasn't made wine since early 
1950s. Photographed orchards, irrigation ditches, and Pesciallo 
at work pruning. 
Oregon portion of Walla Walla Valley never had very many 
Italians. He knows of 3 families in the Milton-Freewater area, 
his own, his brother's (M.A. 
[John]) and Bonos. Oregon portion of 
the Walla Walla Valley is more like Washington's Yakima Valley, 
than Washington's Walla Walla Valley. Washington State's Walla 
Walla Valley mostly wheat (except for truck-gardening areas near 
City of WW), whereas OR. Walla Walla Valley is entirely irrigated 
orchard land. 
Pesciallo raised grapes commercially until early 1950s. 
Specialized in European strains: Muscat of Alexandria, Little 
Muscatel, Malaga, and Black Prince (his favorite). His father, 
Giuseppe (Joe) B. Pesciallo (born in Nenno, near Genoa), raised 
Tokay, and also raised American Concords for market. Concords are 
cold-resistant. Walla Walla Valley subject to occasional low 
freezes, which killed off or severely set back the European 
varieties. Black Prince was the main wine grape of area, but very 
sensitive to cold. He still has a few Black Prince vines today. A 
very cold spell last February severely affected them, and they 
were just starting to put out a few leaves at ground level, as 
all above-ground vines were killed. Best wine was made with a 
mixture of European varieties. Neither Bert nor G.B. ever used 
instruments, did it all by guess. Pesciallos always used a 
home-modified cider press as a wine press. His equipment was 
donated to Fort Walla Walla Museum, and is often displayed there 
during Italian Heritage Days. 
WWI89-FJL0517 - 
2 
Pesciallo very articulate about difference between good wine and 
"Dago red" (he called it that). Latter is sour and partly 
spoiled, from being made in ceramic crocks or poor quality 
barrels. Pesciallos always used charred whiskey barrels 
(once-used) which they ordered from Portland. 
Pesciallos had first commercial winery in entire area of eastern 
Washington and Oregon (so he claims). After Bert's grape crop 
froze to death in a freeze in the winter of 1955, he gave up 
commercial wine making and cancelled his Federal license. Last 
time he made any wine at all was in 1959, only a small quantity. 
Still has a few gallons of 1937-vintage (an abundant year) which 
he transferred to gallon jugs some time in the 1950s, but due to 
diabetes, he no longer drinks wine at all. The Pesciallo's wine 
was labeled "BLUE MOUNTAIN Natural Pure Black Prince Grape Wine." 
(Blue Mountains are the range just east and south of Walla Walla 
Valley.) Pesciallo gave me a couple of the labels. When wine 
making started to be a serious industry in Eastern Washington & 
Oregon in early 1960s, many new vintners came to Bert Pesciallo 
for advice, and he claims to have taught most of the major wine 
makers in those areas. Only Italian wine makers during that 
period were the Frank Sabuco family of Attalia on the Columbia 
R., 
(ca. 30 mi. west of Walla Walla), whose vineyards were 
eventually covered up by water from the McNary Dam. Sabuco grew 
large crops of Zinfandel. Many local vintners mixed Zinfandel and 
Black Prince. Years later, Figgins family of Walla Walla (1/2 
Italian) started Leonetti Cellars. 
His father G.B. 
(Joe) was brought to Pendleton from Italy by a 
wheat rancher, and worked for him as a farmhand. Later saved 
money to buy sagebrush land where Pesciallo orchards are now. He 
cleared it and, when irrigation became available, first put in 
truck gardens, especially watermelon and vegetables, and later 
put in orchards and vineyards. 
G.B. specialized in raising grapes for Walla Walla Italians Both 
Northerners and Southerners came there to buy. Grapes were sold 
"by the row," right out of the vineyard, so the buyer could see 
the crop on the vine. At grape-buying season, large numbers of 
Walla Walla Italians would congregate at Pesciallo's. Northerners 
and Southerners would socialize there, even when they would do so 
in Walla Walla itself. He remembered as a boy that Southern 
Italians always deferred to Northern Italians in conversations 
and discussions. Some Walla Walla Valley Italians bought only 
Zinfandel grapes, as they made the strongest wine. These were 
purchased from California, by rail, through Walla Walla Valley 
Gardeners' Association (the Italian truck-farmers' co-operative). 
Many home wine makers mixed Black Prince and Zinfandel. 
Pesciallo showed me an old (ca. 1910), fragmentary book he had, 
which was kind of a commercial guide to the Walla Walla Valley, 
WWI89-FJL0517 - 
3 
and published in Milton, OR. It had three Italian biographies in 
it (G.B. Pesciallo, Frank Fazzari, and Mike Perri). Told me to 
stop by County Extension Agent office in Milton-Freewater, and 
they would give me a photocopy, as they had made some copies of 
his. Sure enough, I stopped by and they gave me a free copy. 
Later that afternoon went to Walla Walla Union-Bulletin and was 
interviewed by Tim Wolfe, a local reporter, who had no idea that 
there even were any Italians in the Walla Walla Valley. He had 
moved to Walla Walla less than a year ago from Fargo, ND. Story 
to run on Sunday the 21st. 
Wednesday evening -- went back to Whitman Motor Inn to photograph 
children's Italian Heritage Dancers. Normally they practice in a 
shed, but due to rain, they practiced in the hotel ballroom, 
instead. Group established August 1988 by Cheryl Landoni Knotts 
(926 S. Wilbur, 525-1925 or 525-1912) and Mary Christiano Kleyn 
(854 Pleasant, 525-5632) at the suggestion of Carmen DeStito. 
First performed at 1988 Italian Heritage Days. They do 
tarantellas and other Italian dances to recorded music. Knotts & 
Kleyn are in the adult group. It was formed in 1986 by Geraldine 
Manuel Hartley, also at Mrs. DeStito's suggestion. Mrs. Hartley 
learned the dances from books, and taught them to the other 
dancers. 
Later Wednesday evening -- went to the Leonetti Cellars to 
interview Gary Figgins (1321 School Rd., 525-1428), owner. 
Figgins' mother was a Leonetti. Figgins lived next door to his 
maternal grandparents, and grew up in an Italian environment. The 
Leonetti family made lots of homemade wine, and Gary (who is 
about 40) has experimented with it since his early 20s. However, 
during the '70s, he took a number of correspondence courses in 
oenology through the University of California system. Figgins 
started Leonetti Cellars in 1977 as a sideline, and had its first 
vintage in '78. He is machinist for Continental Can Co., and is 
resigning in June '89 to go into viticulture full-time. Grows 
some of his own grapes near his house and cellars south of Walla 
Walla, also buys from several vineyards in Columbia and Snake 
River Valleys. His first commercial Cabernet (vintage '78) won a 
national prize ("Best Cabernet") in 1982. His wines are 
expensive, cheapest bottle, a Cabernet, cost $18, and some were 
priced as high as $65. Photographed his cellars. 
Document: WWI89-FJL0518 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/18/89 
Informant/Event: Saturno/Breen homestead; Tachi homestead; 
Colombo, Lewis; Lazzari, Horace and Jeanette; Rizzuti, Louis; 
Magnaghi, Byron 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fj10518 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/18/89: 
Early a.m. I went down to College 
Place to photograph the Saturno/Breen (Hussey St.) and Tachi 
(Myra Rd.) homesteads. Also met up with Lewis (Louie) Colombo 
(525-8053), who was thinning onions on his land on "C" St. and 
photographed him at work. 
10 a.m., went to home of Horace and Jeannette Lazzari (55 Tieton, 
529-2888). Mr. L. is a professional classical accordionist. He is 
originally from Toronto, Ont., trained at Toronto Conservatory of 
Music, and moved to Walla Walla in the 1950s. He has taught 
accordion there ever since. He also performs on tour, has played 
concerts with Seattle Symphony, and tours for the Petosa 
Accordion Co., a leading manufacturer of concert accordions. Most 
of our conversation pertained to the lack of respect for the 
accordion as an instrument and the Lazzaris' frustration with 
that. He is often asked to play for Walla Walla Italian Heritage 
Society functions, such as Italian Heritage Days. He does so, but 
does not enjoy it. He did, however, play his Italian Heritage 
repertoire for us, which I recorded on audiocassette. 
Early p.m. went to home of Louis Rizzuti (1606 S. Howard, 525-
1298), who grows figs in his back yard. Rizzuti orig. from 
Steubenville, Ohio, came to the Walla Walla area during his 
military service. Has lived there 45 years now. Has been growing 
figs since he first came to Walla Walla, when an older Italian in 
the area gave him fig shoots. Worked most of his life for City of 
Walla Walla. Doesn't sell figs, just gives them to older Italian-
Americans. Climate in Walla Walla Valley is usually warm enough 
so that wrapping or burying fig trees unnecessary. This past year 
was an exception, due to below-0 temperatures in February '89, 
which killed some of his trees, and severely set back the 
survivors. New shoots were just starting to come up now. 
Types of figs he grows: green and green-and-black hybrid. Has 
also tried Mission little black, but they did not produce. 
Presently believes he has six producing trees, but not sure due 
WWI89-FJL0518 - 
2 
to February '89 frost-damage. 
Rizzuti often makes pirvele, Italian waffles, for Walla Walla 
Italian Heritage Society events. 
Went by Leonetti's Cellars (Figgins') and photographed outside, 
as it was too dark last night. 
Later p.m. visited Byron Magnaghi at packing plant and offices of 
Walla Walla Gardeners' Association, 205 N. 11th, 525-7070. 
Magnaghi is the manager of the Association. Walla Walla 
Gardeners' Association is the original Italian truck-gardeners' 
co-op founded early in 20th century. It operated as a co-op until 
1983, when it became a stockholders' corporation. This was done 
because as a co-op, the smallest holder had the same vote as the 
biggest grower. Walla Walla Gardeners' Association packs 
vegetables, mostly asparagus, spinach, Walla Walla Sweet onions, 
and some "storage onions." That afternoon, a large temporary crew 
was packing asparagus. Walla Walla Gardeners' Association uses 
"Gloria" as their brand-name. Walla Walla Gardeners' Association 
does all the marketing and selling, as well as the packing. 
Still later p.m. -- visited mandolinist Mel Buttice, 929 Home, 
525- 6306. Mr. Buttice has been playing mandolin since teen 
years, and owns an old Gibson A-model. He often plays for Walla 
Walla Italian Heritage Society events, and Italian Heritage Days. 
Took lessons as a young man, but also remembers listening to 
Italian old timers play mandolin. Mostly plays from sheet music. 
Recorded some of his Italian selections. He told me about Jim 
Rizzuti of Uptown Music (17 Boyer, 525-1083) as the man who has 
taught most of the accordionists in the Walla Walla area. Horace 
Lazzari teaches only the most advanced. Buttice lent me an 
audiocassette he had made at last year's Italian Heritage Days, 
with himself, Horace Lazzari, David Venneri (another 
accordionist, who also sings) and Jim O'Boyle (a professional 
tenor, lives in Walla Walla, has a large international 
repertoire, which includes many Italian songs, which he sings for 
Italian Heritage Days). Later on I will dub and return the tape. 
Document: WWI89-FJL0519 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/19/89 
Informant/Event: Pastime Cafe: Fazzari, Frank; Fort Walla Walla 
Park; Venneri, David 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fj10519 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/19/89: 
A.M. went to Pastime Cafe, 215 W. 
Main, 525-0873, and interviewed Frank Fazzari (home: 185 Bryant 
Ave., 525-6604), proprietor. Founded in 1927, by his father, 
Louis Fazzari, as Pastime Pool Hall, and was the gathering place 
for the Southern Italians. Louis was from Calabria. In 1933, 
after beer licenses became available again, it became Pastime 
Cafe, a saloon. Restaurant founded in '35 or '36. Still has 
restaurant half and saloon half (the latter is rather a dive). 
Older fare was mostly spaghetti, sandwiches and hamburgers. 
Started serving pizza in early 1960s, and was the second place in 
town to serve pizza (first was a diner near Whitman College). Has 
always been an Italian gathering place, and old Italian-Americans 
still meet there to play Italian card game, briccole. Old-timers 
also still occasionally play finger game, putting out fingers and 
trying to guess total number you and your opponent put out. This 
was very popular among Italians who gathered there in old days. 
Pastime Cafe still a family business. Frank started working there 
in '33. His kids and grandkids still work there. Walls have great 
collection of photos showing the place's history. 
Went to Assessor's Office at Walla Walla County Court House and 
looked at plat books to try to figure out Italian settlement 
areas. recent plat books very difficult to use, unless you know 
the name of each family. A Metsker Map Co. plat book from 1969 
was much easier to use, so I had pertinent pages copied, and 
later colored in obvious Italian-owned properties. Also went to 
County Engineer's office and bought a Walla Walla County map. 
Early p.m. went to Fort Walla Walla Park (Myra Rd.) city-owned, 
formerly a military installation from days of Indian Wars. It 
includes Fort Walla Walla Museum (P.O. Box 1616, 525-7704) 
directed by Bill Burk. Burk claims this is where Italian Heritage 
Days really got started, as they had some ethnic weekends during 
late 1970s. Museum has some Italian artifacts, including 
Pesciallo's wine making equipment, and an old Kingdom of Italy 
flag from 1911, which was flown at the dedication of Columbus 
WWI89-FJL0519 - 
2 
statue. Burk (who is not Italian) worked with Francis Christiano 
(Rte. 2, Box 49, 525-0698), who was, during early '80s, president 
of board of Walla Walla Valley Pioneer and Historical Society, 
who were setting up ethnic events at park. (Society still owns 
museum.) These "Ethnic Days" inspired Christiani and other 
Italian-Americans to start Italian Heritage Days and Walla Walla 
Italian Heritage Society, and Christiani was founding president 
of Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society. Christiani also helped 
local German-Russian (Volga) community get organized enough to 
establish their own Walla Walla Chapter of American Historical 
Society of Germans From Russia. (From previous research, I know 
that Walla Walla is the residence of Elaine Frank Davison, 1850 
Pleasant, 525-8051, an amazingly prolific historian, genealogist, 
and storyteller in the Northwest's German-Russian community. I 
have some recordings of her telling historical narratives in 
1988. She is one of the best narrators I have ever recorded.) 
Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society got started at meetings at 
Fort Walla Walla Museum, led by Christiano, DeStito, Campanelli, 
and Bill Burk. In 1986, the Walla Walla Main St. Association 
asked them to put some Italian performances together for annual 
ceremony at Columbus statue. During Italian Heritage Days, one 
day's festivities held at Fort Walla Walla Park. Now trying to 
get bocce started, and hope to host a regional tournament some 
year. Next year also hope to have a "grape stomping contest." 
Burk was not amused when I asked if that didn't perpetuate a 
stereotype. "That's your problem!" he said to me, and explained 
how Tri-Cities-area vineyards have huge, regional "grape stomping 
contests." (You have so many minutes to "stomp" a measured amount 
of grapes in a vat. Resulting juice is then drained off and 
measured. "Stomper" with most juice wins.) In three years, 
Italian Heritage Days at Fort Walla Walla have grown from only 6 
to over 300 participants. 
In gift shop, bought A Collection of Recipes Featuring Our Walla 
Walla Sweet Onions, pub. 1982 by Walla Walla Gardeners' 
Association. Also looked at books by Robert A. Bennett: Walla  
Walla: Portrait of a Western Town, 1804-1899 (1980); Walla Walla:  
A Town Built to be a City, 1900-1919 (1982); and Walla Walla: A 
Nice Place to Raise a Family, 1920-1949 (1988), all published by 
Pioneer Press Books, Walla Walla. Previously had bought Vance 
Orchard's The Walla Walla Story: Washington Centennial Edition,  
An Illustrated Description of the History and Resources of The  
Valley They Liked So Well They Named It Twice!. Walla Walla: 
General Printing, 1988 (a revised version of 1953 book). 
Later p.m. -- visited David Venneri (25 Morton, 525-8768), 
accordionist and singer. He was getting ready to leave town to 
visit son in Portland, so didn't have much time to chat, but sang 
and played some Italian tunes, which I recorded. He often plays 
at Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society events and Italian 
Heritage Days. He is definitely not of professional quality, 
WWI89-FJL0519 - 
3 
totally unlike Horace Lazzari. Did, however, have an interesting 
conversation with Venneri about Italian & social status. He 
compared the Italians of the early 20th cent. with the Hispanics 
in the Walla Walla Valley today -- poorest people, dirtiest jobs, 
higher crime rate, discrimination and prejudice, etc., and said 
he was pleased to see Hispanic families establishing themselves 
in the Valley now and predicted that, in a generation, they too 
would be as assimilated as the Italian-Americans now are. 
Document: WWI89-FJL0520 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Lund, Jens 
Date: 5/20/89 
Informant/Event: Locati, Joe 
Coworker: 
Site: 3 
FIELDNOTES 
WALLA WALLA ITALIANS PROJECT 
INUM: 
WWI89-Fj10520 
TEXT: 
Jens Lund, 5/20/89: 
Went and picked up the dubbed 
videotape of Italian Heritage Days.Spent the rest of the day, 
until I had to go to the airport, late afternoon, under the roof 
of Joe Locati's gazebo, copying photos lent to me by various 
people I visited during the week, and then returning them to 
their owners.