American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project collection (AFC 1982/009) 
afcl982009_ll_137 
Final Products - Fieldworkers' Essays - Margaret Owen 
1 
Folklorists and other scholars have frequently written about the 
"mountainous" South and often appear to make the mistake of believing 
that the mountains about which they write are part of one homogenous 
cultural unit. Certainly the culture of the mountains varies from 
that of the coastal region, for example, but I think that most people 
who have spent any time examining the culture of the area would agree 
that there is much variation to be explored. This essay will deal only 
with a specific area in the Blue Ridge Mountains of southwestern Vir¬ 
ginia and northwestern North Carolina. The Blue Ridge Folklife 
Project, sponsored by the American Folklife Center of the Library of 
Congress in August and September of 1978, provided me with an op¬ 
portunity to do field research in an area encompassing parts of seven 
counties along an approximately one-hundred-mile-long stretch of the 
Blue Ridge Parkway.'*' As a member of a team of fieldworkers on the pro¬ 
ject, I undertook to locate and examine traditional dance and dance 
events within the study area. 
Traditional, or folk, dance has received very little scholarly 
treatment in the past and American folk dance has been virtually 
2 
ignored. A part of my task, then, was to establish some precedent 
for the study of traditional Anglo-American dance and to develop— 
or begin to develop—some suitable method of documentation and 
analysis. Scholars studying traditional ballads or tales have at the 
very least type and motif indices to turn to for help in the descrip¬ 
tion and classification of their subject matter. Traditional Anglo- 
American dance has not yet received enough systematic study to do 
comparative work and there is no classification system applicable. 
2 
Worse, there is no commonly known notation system that adequately 
3 
documents folk dance. Working within these limitations, I made an 
effort to describe with words, audio and video tape recordings, and 
still photography the traditional dance that was a part of life within 
the study area. 
Like other aspects of folk culture, dance is a part of a larger 
picture—it is difficult and perhaps impossible to try to isolate it 
as a phenomenon apart from the culture in which it exists. It is 
by its nature most closely related to and involved with music, 
without which the dance would cease to exist. In an area widely 
known for its strong string band tradition, it is perhaps not sur¬ 
prising to find an equally strong dance tradition—one supports 
the other. Just as the dancers have to have music (and "suitable" 
music) to dance to, the musicians need to have a reason, or an 
excuse, to play. The regularly held community dances provide the 
opportunity and setting for the bands to perform the kind of music 
that has become known as the "Galax sound." 
Perhaps because of the attention that has been givfki to this 
music over the past few decades, I had an initial problem in my 
fieldwork convincing people that I was interested in dance, per se, 
and not just interested in collecting and recording music. Invariably, 
when I asked about dances or dancers, I was first told about musi¬ 
cians, or bands. The two go together, of course, and it is not 
surprising that they are spoken of as one. Indeed, I sometimes 
had to provide some music myself (by way of arranging for a musician 
to be present) before I could witness an individual's dancing 
skill, for the dance is not something that can easily be demonstrated 
3 
apart from the music. Most dancers have a decided preference as to 
what kind of music they dance to (for example, most of the flat foot 
dancers I interviewed prefer to dance to "clawhammer banjo" music), 
and often have specific tunes that they "dance best to." Of course, 
musicians do not, by the same token, have to have dancers in order 
to play their music, but it is rare in the area to witness a string 
band playing without also seeing at least one lone flat foot dancer 
showing his skill and, thereby, his approval of the music. One of 
the most common ways of complimenting music in the region is to 
say of a tune, "If you can't dance to that, you just can't dance." 
Bands, as well as individual tunes, are often classified as being 
"good to dance to" or "good for flat footing." 
The string band music of the Galax area has been heavily 
documented and has proven to be a decid^J-y regional "sound." 
It is possible to fairly accurately place many a band's locale 
by its sound. Likewise, there are distinctly regional trends to 
be discerned in the dance traditions of the area. These trends 
apparently follow at least some geographic boundaries, and in the 
case of the study area discussed here, roads and highways serve 
as fairly distinctive boundary lines for the traditions. Roads do, 
of course, follow natural gaps and ridges when possible, and so fre¬ 
quently correspond to older natural boundaries as well. 
In the area around Galax (our central headquarters for the 
field project), one often hears the terms "down the mountain," 
"up the mountain," "on the mountain," or "back of the mountain" 
to describe where an event happened or where someone lived. These 
terms are used to describe dancing, music, and probably any number 
of practices—for example, "they dance it different on the mountain." 
4 
The two dance traditions with which this essay is primarily concerned— 
"flat foot dancing" and mountain "square dancing"—are very strong 
within the study area, but apparently begin to be less evident as one 
travels out of the study area in any direction. The most dramatic boun¬ 
dary line is that to the south: North Carolina Highway 18 proved to be 
some kind of territorial landmark separating the old-time flat foot 
dancers and the more modern clog-team style dancers. Likewise, the 
old type mountain "square" dances (which are in fact done in large 
circles) appeared to be danced north of this line and Western-style 
square dances were danced more to the south of this line. As the 
study area fell north of Highway 18, my fieldwork represents the 
traditional flat foot dancing and the "mountain" style square dancing. 
These two traditions are, like those of music and dance, inter¬ 
mingled—they are often found together. Square dancers may do flat 
foot steps while executing the patterns of the square dance, and at 
most dances, called square dances are interspersed with numbers which 
are played just for flat foot dancing. Primarily, however, flat foot 
dancing is done solo, and, therefore, the dancer needs neither a partner 
nor a group of people. It can be done (and is done) in the home, on 
the street, on a stage, in a parking lot, or anywhere "dancing music" 
is heard. It can be much less formal than any kind of dancing that 
requires a partner or certain number of people, because it can be done 
alone. This does not mean that it is not often done en masse, or in 
fact in couples—some dances in the Blue Ridge bring dozens of flat- 
footers onto the floor at once. For the sake of description, this 
essay will treat flat foot dancing and square dancing in separate 
sections, although the two traditions are interwoven in many ways. 
5 
In studying and trying to document any kind of traditional 
dance, I feel it is especially important to keep in mind the concept 
of "dance event" and to try to deal with what has been called the 
"dance culture" (as opposed to trying to isolate the performance 
of the dance from the culture). Dance anthropologist Joann Keali- 
inohomoku has proposed this notion of her term "dance culture:" 
By this term, I am referring to an entire configuration, 
rather than just a performance. By dance culture, I mean 
the implicit as well as explicit aspects of the dance and 
its reasons for being; the entire conception of the dance 
within the larger culture, both on a diachronic basis through 
time and on a synchronic basis of the several parts occurring 
at the same time. A dance culture, like the greater culture 
of which it is a part, must be researched for answers to the 
same questions asked by the good journalist—that is, what, 
4 
when, where, why, and how? 
To examine the dance tradition, one needs to examine the culture 
in which it exists, and in addition to seeking a description of 
the event, to determine the function which the dance serves within 
its culture. To effectively do this would take much more time than 
we had in the Blue Ridge region, but an effort was made toward 
this end. 
Certainly, the kind of traditional social dance seen in the 
study area does not have the same kind of readily identifiable 
function as, for example, a ceremonial war dance done by the 
Kwakiutl Indians. I maintain, however, that it does reflect the 
values of the culture of which it is a part, and that in the area 
studied, the dance has been to some degree revitalized through a 
6 
conscious effort on the part of the tradition bearers. My research 
showed that the dance traditions examined may be stronger in many 
ways now than they were earlier in this century, though they are 
representations of "old" traditions. Again, the function of the dance 
is never clearly defined—beyond perhaps saying that it is fun. 
This seems to be true for other types of social dance, as well. 
Sociologist Thomas Cottle, conducting a study of social dancing 
in the United States, found that the participants could not easily 
define the function of the dance, and he feels that this "inability 
to articulate function indicates the very deep and not fully under¬ 
stood meanings of dancing."5 In the case of the dance patterns observed 
in the Blue Ridge, at least one function seems to be to serve as a 
regional identifier—to demonstrate one's ties to the home area. This 
appears to be true of both flat foot dancing and square dancing. 
Flat foot dancing has been done in the mountians for at least 
one hundred years, though indications are that the tradition is much 
older than that. Many of the people I talked with in the area remember 
their grandparents and parents flat foot dancing either "around the 
house" or in more formal dance situations—usually at a "frolic" or 
"house party." Although the precise antecedents of flat foot dancing 
are not known, it appears to bear a relation to the step dancing 
done in England, Scotland, and Ireland, and to that done in Nova 
Scotia. The dance as found in the mountains of Virginia and North 
Carolina seems to be a blend of these dance traditions and the in¬ 
fluence of black "buck" dancing. Some scholars have suggested that 
there has been some American Indian influence as well. 
The term "flat foot" apparently derived from the way a "good 
dancer moves his feet almost parallel to the floor, and low to the 
7 
floor. Though the motions used are heel and toe taps shuffles, the 
"good" dancer does not lift his foot very far off the floor. The 
emphasis in the dance is on the feet themselves and the torso and arms 
are usually motionless. This description refers to the "older" 
dc 
way of stepping, and many of the modern flat foot dancers f-o not dance 
in this style or use these criteria for judgement, though they may 
still use the term "flat foot" to define the dance they do. 
In discussing the skill of a flat foot dancer, the word "smooth" 
seems to be used more often than any other. I heard from several 
different people of dancers so smooth that they could dance with a 
glass of water on their heads and never spill a drop. This is a 
reappearing motif in the area, and Clinton Iroler, a flat foot dancer 
from Fancy Gap, Virginia, claims to have seen men who could do this. 
Mr. Iroler is one of many dancers who aim for this kind of smoothness 
in their steps: 
A smooth dancer don't have to pick his feet up off the floor... 
that's jumping when you get to jumping up and down—anybody can 
jump up and down—but to dance...I always thought anybody'd 
could dance could set a glass of water on their head and 
dance smooth enough to not spill it off—now he's a dancer. 
Mrs. Ruth Holbrook, of the Trap Hill section in North Carolina, told 
me of a man who danced "so smooth that he danced right off the 
porch one time and never missed a step"—and the porch floor was several 
feet above ground level. 
This quality of smooth, low-to-the-ground stepping is the main 
difference between the kind of dancing known as "flat footing" and 
the more modern dancing known as "clogging." Clogging is more wide¬ 
spread and well-known, and while western North Carolina appears to be 
8 
the true "stong-hold" of the phenonmenon, it can be found all across 
£ 
the United States. Clogging steps are generally faster than those of 
flat foot dancers, and doggers are known for a loud, heavy beat. 
Most modern clog dancers use metal taps on their shoes to accentuate 
the rhythm and to create a louder sound, whereas many flat foot 
dancers try deliberately to dance softly and quietly. Luther Boyd, 
of Meadows of Dan, Virginia, is a fine flat foot dancer who tries 
not to "drown out" the sounds of other dancers: 
I don't like to make much racket... Sometimes I pull my shoes 
off to keep from making more racket than they do." 
Other flat foot dancers dance in sock-feet or with soft-soled shoes, 
while still others have special dancing shoes—almost always with a 
leather sole. 
Perhaps because of the informal nature of flat foot dancing and 
because it is most often a solo dance, there are almost as many 
different styles of the dance as there are dancers. The traditional¬ 
ists hold up the values mentioned above—little upper-body motion, 
feet parallel to the floor, feet close to the floor—but there are 
many flat foot dancers who do not share all or any of these values. 
Some dancers say "you're supposed to move your arms," or "you're 
supposed to kick your feet up off the ground." Part of these ideals 
seem to be regionally pronounced. Today, flat foot dancing is 
performed in a more public setting than in the old days, and this has 
perhaps done a great deal to lessen the regionality of the style. 
At a Sunday afternoon gathering at Mabry Mill on the Blue Ridge 
Parkway, flat foot dancers from diverse places may dance side-by-side. 
A certain amount of exchange is likely to result from this, although 
9 
most of the dancers that I interviewed seemed to agree that the ability 
to dance and the individual style are "born in you." 
When I asked differhe,t dancers how they learned to flat foot, the 
answer was usually something like, "I just picked it up." Clinton Iroler 
said, "It's just natural in me." Luther Boyd's response was "I always 
have enjoyed it and had it in my bones," and yet he did not do very 
much flat foot dancing until he was almost sixty years of age. 
Both these men agree that dancing style is very individualized. Mr. 
Boyd maintains that there "ain't no two people that dances just 
exactly alike." Neither Mr. Iroler nor Mr. Boyd believes that one 
dancer can pattern his steps after another and Mr. Boyd further states 
that "I believe if you tried to pattern after somebody you'd make a 
mess out of it." 
In the Blue Ridge today, one can witness flat foot dancing in 
numerous places and situations: occasionally on the street, at a 
local store, anywhere there is music to be heard, and it does not 
necessarily have to be live music. Clinton Iroler used to dance to the 
music on the radio every morning, although he says "of course we 
don't have no music now £?n the radio] like we used to." The barber 
shops in Galax and other towns are good places to find local musicians 
and usually wherever the music is being played, there are dancers as 
well. In the early twentieth century, most flat foot dancing was 
done in private homes, either "just around the house" or for a more 
formal gathering. Dances or "frolics" were held at various times 
throughout the year, occasionally for a "wood getting or corn shucking 
or for a Christmas party. At these dances, both flat foot dancing and 
"squares" and "reels" would be combined with games and other recreation. 
Most of the people I interviewed felt that these "frolics" died out 
10 
primarily because of the widespread use of automobiles. When trans¬ 
portation made it possible to go further afield, apparently the desire 
for the house parties with neighbors faded. 
The tradition of flat foot dancing did not die at the same time, 
however, and today is viable, if in a slightly different context. Just 
as the Fiddler's Conventions in the area have served to help keep the 
string band tradition alive, the dance competitions which are associated 
with them have helped keep the dancing tradition alive. The idea of 
"contest" or "competition" has created a more formal, stage-and- 
audience orientation, and has made flat foot dancing more of a 
public spectacle, but many of the dancers who started out dancing in 
the parlor have made the transition to the stage. At the annual 
"Old Fiddlers' Contest" held in Galax in August of 1978, there 
were 183 participants registered for the flat foot contest.^ Just 
as much of the best music at the Contest is heard in the parking 
lot and around the campsites, much of the best dancing takes place 
off the contest stage. 
A more recently organized and less formal dance event is that of 
the regular Sunday afternoon dance-and-music get-togethers at Mabry 
Mill, on the Blue Ridge Parkway near Meadows of Dan, Virginia. This 
affair, which began rather spontaneously about 1974, is loosely 
organized by the local musicians who want to get together and play 
music. The Park Service did not organize the event, but has allowed 
it to continue every Sunday afternoon in the summer and has contri¬ 
buted somewhat to its success by working the musicians and dancers. 
In 1978, the Park Service provided boards (small portable platforms) 
for the dancers to dance upon. This event is perhaps the most striking ' 
example of the local conscious effort of preserving—or at least 
11 
exhibiting—traditional music and dance. Luther Boyd never danced 
very much until these get-togethers provided him with both the music 
and the setting in which to dance. He does not dance at home because 
"it knocks things off the wall" and he says that Mabry Mill, the Patrick 
County Fair, and the Fiddlers' Convention at Stuart (Virginia) are about 
the only places he has ever danced. Anyone is welcome to "get on the 
boards" at Mabry Mill and frequently both the dancing boards and the 
ground around them are crowded with dancers. The dancers range in age 
from about two years of age to well into their sixties. Both men and 
women dance and, although there are local favorites (for example, Mr. 
Boyd), many of the dancers just happen through while driving along 
the Parkway, and stop to participate. 
Perhaps the most common setting in which flat foot dancers appear 
today is that of the community dance. As mentioned earlier, flat foot 
dancing is an integral part of both the square dance as danced in the 
area, and of the dance event. That is, steps are done as part of the 
figure dance, and also every few tunes at a dance are given over solely 
to flat foot dancers—dancing with or without partners. Sometimes 
at these dances there may be as many as fifty people on the floor at 
one time flat-footing in their own individual style. 
There are numerous community dances held regularly in the region, 
and these range in size from a group of maybe twenty or thirty to 
crowds that number in the hundreds. Many of the dances are held on 
a regular basis—for example, every Saturday night—and others are 
more sporadic. The publicity for the dances is minimal and someone from 
outside the area has to ask around to find out when and where dances 
are to be held. More than once while working in the area I drove to 
a place where I was told I could find a dance, only to find the building 
12 
locked and dark. Even the regularly scheduled dances are occasionally 
pre-empted for some other event; the Blackberry Ridge dance usually 
held on Saturday nights near Fancy Gap, Virginia, was cancelled twice 
while we were in the area so that a group of coon hunters could have 
a supper at the shelter there. All of the local dances were cancelled 
during the week of the Galax Fiddlers' Convention. 
These community dances have replaced the smaller traditional 
dances that were held in private homes early in this century, but many 
of the people that I interviewed remember the earlier dances. In 
at least some parts of the region, for example around Pine Ridge in 
Surry County, North Carolina, there were dances at least once a week. 
The dance was usually a culmination of a day's work, such as a barn 
raising, a corn husking, or a wood getting. Sometimes the dances were 
held for purely social reasons, as for an ice cream supper or part of 
the Christmas celebration, but the ones most frequently remembered are 
those that followed some community work function. As long as the 
community worked together, apparently the tradition of "house 
dances" remained strong. Everyone agrees that the availability of 
the automobile was the main factor in the decline of this tradition. 
With the new mobility offered by the use of the automobile, young 
people could leave their home neighborhood and just "drive around" 
until they found a dance to attend, and this apparently created trouble 
with the people whose "home territory" they invaded. We can assume, too, 
that the arrival of the automobile also heralded the decline of 
much of the communal work effort, with machine replacing man. Thus, 
one of the primary functions of the "frolic" was reduced. 
Almost no dances are held today in private homes in the region. 
The only "house dances" that I heard of in the region were those 
13 
given periodically by Dix Freeman, of the Pine Ridge vicinity. Mr. 
Freeman remembers the dances his parents held in their home, and over 
the last ten years he has held many dances in the old house. He 
and his wife, Charlie Mae, live in a house trailer across the road 
from the old homeplace, and have enjoyed holding "old-time" dances 
in the near-empty building. Some interior walls ^aljijve been torn 
out to enlarge the usable space (both for dancing and for storing 
tobacco), and the house easily accomodates six to eight dancing couples 
and musicians. The Freemans invite their friends and neighbors to the 
dances and deliberately dance the old way. They do the dances that 
were danced in the area earlier in this century, and feel that an 
"old country dance just doesn't feel right" if it is danced in a big 
hall or community building. 
These dances at the Freeman's seem to most closely approximate the 
old house dances that were once common in the area, although there 
are some differences. The music that is played today is different, 
for according to Mr. Freeman, in his father's time only the fiddle 
and banjo provided the dance music—today a larger band including 
guitars, mandolin, and even a bass play for the dances. Also, the 
Freemans hold the dances for the sole purpose of having "a good old 
time dance" and the house is used almost exclusively for the purpose, 
although Mr. Freeman houses a fiddle collection in one room and Mrs. 
Freeman stores her canned goods in the kitchen of the house. The 
dances are the result of a conscious effort on the part of Dix 
Freeman to recreate what is to him the "best" kind of dance. The 
dances are important to the folklorist because they represent examples 
of the way dances were in the old days, and are just as important 
because they demonstrate the deliberate effort being made to 
t 
14 
maintain the dying tradition—it is obvious when listening to Dix 
Freeman that he values the old ways and that, if he can not preserve 
the tradition, he at least makes an effort to resurrect it occasionally. 
The larger community dances that are common in the area provide 
a new setting in which to dance the old dances. The figures called at 
these dances are some of the same ones that were called at the old 
house dances and apparently the figures are danced in much the same 
manner as in the early part of this century. Newer dances have been 
added to the regional repertoire, but according to Mr. E. G. Branscome, 
the caller at the Fancy Gap Elementary School dances, most people prefer 
and request the old dances. The figures most commonly danced in the 
area include "Adam and Eve," "Lady Round the Lady," "Georgia-Alabam," 
"Right Hand Over," "Chase the Squirrel," and "Golden Gate." Most of 
the people who regularly attend the dances know all of these figures, 
and at many of the dances, the caller never gives the individual calls, 
but simply announces what the dance will be. His main function is to 
determine and call the opening and closing sequences of the dance. 
During the summer and fall of 1978, one of the dance events that 
was an integral part of the traditional life in the Blue Ridge was the 
regularly scheduled dance held at the Fancy Gap Elementary School on 
Friday nights. I had first heard about this dance event from two 
flatfoot dancers, both in their seventies, who said it was the best 
place to see "good old-time dancing." This dance is sponsored by the 
Fancy Gap Elementary School P.T.A., and has been a regular community 
event since about 1970. While the dance is often "worked" by a certain 
group (for example, the Sixth Grade class, or the local Cub Scout Pack), 
the format for each dance is the same. An admission charge of $1.25 is 
collected at the door, the dance proper being held in the school 
gjannasium/cafeteria. Refreshments are sold inside the cafeteria, and 
15 
the proceeds from both the attendance and the sale of refreshments cover 
not only the fee for the band (the band gets half the door money), but 
have over the years provided much in the way of equipment and "extras" 
for the school. Between 1970 and 1978, the P.T.A. was able to raise over 
$7,000 from the Friday night dances, and this money has provided for such 
items as a new dishwasher for the cafeteria, a P.A. system for the school, 
and a new fence around the outdoor basketball court. 
Evidence of the "community spirit" of the dance, the crowd is made 
up of people of all ages—one two-year-old girl was pointed out to me 
as having been at the dance every week of her life since she was two 
months old. Others attending the dance are well into their seventies. 
In the summer months, some of the Chicano migrant workers who work in 
the area also attend the dances, and appear to be quite welcome there. 
They are some of the most eager dancers. Not everyone who attends the 
dance event gets out on the floor to dance, of course, and the spectators 
tend to sit around the edge of the room in folding chairs, watching the 
dancing and talking with each other. While the crowd might number over 
two hundred, an average of thirty-to-forty couples execute most of the 
dances. 
Two local bands provide the music for the Fancy Gap dances, playing 
on alternate Friday nights. The "Misty Mountain Ramblers" from Hillsville 
and Fancy Gap play one week and the "Peach Bottom String Band" from 
Independence play the next. As might be expected in a region where the 
string band enjoys renown, many of the dancers (and spectators) voice 
strong preferences for one band or the other. Some say, for example, 
that the "Peach Bottom String Band" is "better to flat foot to," but 
both bands are considered "house bands," and at least some members of 
the band not performing on a given night will attend the event as dancers 
16 
and/or spectators. 
Mr. E. G. Branscome, a truck driver who lives at Fancy Gap, called 
the dances each time I attended. He has been calling dances for several 
years and learned to call from another dance caller who had learned in 
a school. Mr. Brancome knows many more dances than he usually calls at 
Fancy Gap, but he says that most people prefer to dance the "old ones 
that everybody knows." Mr. Branscome and his wife started attending 
the dance in the beginning because his wife Lois works at the Fancy 
Gap school. He says he likes to dance because "it's good exercise . . . 
I look forward to it every Friday and Saturday night . . .It's a 
good clean thing to go to." Unlike callers at some other dances in the 
area(for example, the Fairview Dance near Galax), Mr. Branscome never 
uses a microphone to call dances and instead calls from the floor as 
he is dancing. He says he "just calls louder" if the band is "too loud." 
He told me that twice over the years he has lost his voice while calling, 
but each time there was someone dancing who was able to take over for 
him. Mr. Branscome says that at least eight to ten couples are needed 
to "carry a pattern out, but they never get too big for me. He once 
called a dance for 110 couples, and says that the Fancy Gap dance often 
will have fifty or more couples "after the crowd gathers in. The size 
of the crowd is one of the obvious major differences between the old- 
time dances that were held in private homes and the community dances 
held today. 
Because of the large number of couples dancing any given dance, the 
method of moving around the floor through the figures is somewhat haphazard. 
The call is given to begin the figure (for example, "Chase the Squirrel") 
after a formulaic opening sequence. While dancing the figure, the dancing 
couples move about from one couple to another (it takes two couples to 
17 
execute a figure) in any way they choose. At some dances there is more 
of an orderly approach to this (half of the couples move in a clockwise 
direction, the others move in a counter-clockwise direction, so that 
each couple faces a specific direction and "meets" other couples), but 
at the Fancy Gap dances it is customary to just search around for a 
"free" couple to dance with. One advantage to this method of choosing 
couples is that it eliminates the need for an even number of couples 
for a given dance—there are no specified "active" and "inactive" couples 
or "odd" and "even" couples as there are for contra dances. There are 
other dance events in the Blue Ridge where the dances are done only with 
an even number of couples, so that half are designated "odd" and the 
other half "even," but I never observed this at the Fancy Gap dances. 
In spite of the apparent lack of order in choosing couples at these 
dances, most couples manage to dance with all the others before the 
dance is over. This "democracy" also carries over to the choice of 
individual dancing partners—husbands do not necessarily dance with 
their wives, for example—and most people will dance with many different 
partners on a given night. 
When the caller feels that the dance has gone on long enough, or 
that all the couples have had a chance to dance with all the others, 
he will signal with a call, usually "Swing your partner and promenade." 
Once all the couples have caught up and are promenading around the 
room in an orderly circle, the caller will proceed with the closing 
sequence of his choice. The closing may take as much as three times 
longer to execute than the central "figure" sequence, and is the 
least regimented of the parts of the dance—the caller usually varies 
the closing a great deal from one dance to the next, although there 
are some standard ingredients. The opening sequence is more regimented 
18 
and, in fact, always begins with a circle to the left and then "halfway 
back" to the right. This is so standard that at the Fancy Gap dances 
the call to "Circle left" is not even given aloud—when the caller says 
"Grab your partner," everyone knows to join hands in a large circle 
(the man is always on his partner's left) and move in a clockwise 
direction around the room. After the circling left and right, the call 
is usually given to "Swing your partner and promenade," and this is 
frequently followed by other calls (for example, "Gents go forward 
and the ladies fall back") before the call is given to dance the actual 
figure of the dance. During the central sequence, the dancers are left 
to their own sense of timing to execute the figure—it is not called 
out by the caller after his initial announcement to begin the figure. 
Because the majority of the dancers participating at the Fancy Gap 
dances know all the figures well, this does not present a problem. 
As stated earlier, the couples move about the room as they choose, 
dancing with most of the other couples before the figure sequence is 
called to a close. 
I have chosen to use the Fancy Gap dance event as an example for 
description because it is typical in most ways of the many community 
dances held in the Blue Ridge, although there is perhaps more of an 
intimate feeling at the Fancy Gap dances than at some of the larger 
ones. Most of the residents of the Fancy Gap community seem to take 
a great deal of pride in their dance event, and are pleased that the 
Fancy Gap dances enjoy a widely known "good reputation." The regular 
dances serve many functions in the community—some more obvious than 
others. As noted earlier, the dances have been a money-raising venture 
over the years, and are also a chief form of weekend recreation for 
19 
community residents of all ages. One of the more subtle functions that 
the dance event serves is to announce to the larger area some of the 
values that are important to the residents of Fancy Gap. The participants 
are deliberately maintaining the old dance traditions and are proud 
that the little community of Fancy Gap has become known for its "old- 
time" dances. 
NOTES 
The study area includes the region between Rocky Knob in 
Virginia and Doughton Park in North Carolina on the Blue Ridge Parkway; 
and it includes parts of Carroll, Floyd, Grayson, and Patrick Counties 
in Virginia and parts of Alleghany, Surry, and Wilkes Counties in 
North Carolina. 
2 For a general essay on folk dance, see Joann Kealiinohomoku, 
"Folk Dance," in Richard Dorson, ed., Folklore and Folklife (Chicago: 
The University of Chicago Press, 1972), pp. 381-404. 
3 
For an overivew of notation systems as they relate to the 
study of folk dance, see Andrea Greenberg, "The Notation of Folk 
Dance: A Survey," Folklore Forum 5:1 (January, 1972): 1-10. 
^ Joann Kealiinohomoku, "Dance Culture as a Microcosm of Holistic 
Culture," in Tamara Comstock, ed.. New Dimensions in Dance Research: 
Anthropology and Dance—The American Indian (New York: The Committee 
on Research in Dance, 1974), p. 99 
Thomas Cottle, "Social Class and Social Dancing," Sociological 
Quarterly 7:2 (1966), p. 192. 
For a discussion of clogging in western North Carolina see 
Stephen March and David Holt, "Chase That Rabbit," Southern Exposure 
5:2-3 (1977), pp. 44-47. 
^ This figure is not necessarily an accurate indicator of the number 
of old-time flat foot dancers in the area because many young people 
registered for the dance competition simply in order to be able 
to camp in the participants-only camping space. The total also includes 
a number of individuals who are members of a clog team.