Library of Congress
Radio broadcast with Jack Dempsey, Jim Corbett, and Gene Tunney? (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms0905
Radio broadcast with Jack Dempsey, Jim Corbett, and
Gene Tunney? (Transcription)
W12 Side A <unintelligible text>
The history of boxing blazes with names like Sullivan, Leonard, Johnson, Ross and other
great champions. But in boxing's roll of honor none stands above those of Jack Dempsey
and Joe Lewis. The date July 4, 1919. The heavyweight champion of the world, a hulking
man named Jess Willard. The challenger: Jack Dempsey: "The first thing I recollect is
seeing big Jess stand over the corner looking in great shape and very confident and I
didn't know whether I was going to be in a fight or a foot race, I mean I thought I was
gonna mark him up in the first round but after seeing him I thought I'd better fight for my
life." And fight for his life he did, winning the title in one of the most spectacular bouts
of all time. In 1927 a prize fight gripped the imagination of the whole world. "Ladies and
gentlemen, main event, ten rounds, for the heavyweight championship of the world.
Introducing from Salt Lake City, Utah, wearing white trunks, weighing 187 and 1/2 pounds,
former heavyweight king, Jack Dempsey." That was the famous long count when <gap>
got off the canvas, was still standing when the fight ended. After the fight, Dempsey said,
"Well my thoughts was most of me would never get up, but unfortunately he did and won
the fight and more power to him. A great boy and a great champion. <gap> comment:
"Inspite of the fact that I was hit seven times in succession in the seventh round in my
contest with Jack Dempsey in the world's heavyweight championship was one of my
luckiest nights, as a matter of fact, the luckiest night of my life." Before Dempsey, one of
the most stylish of the champions was Gentleman Jim Corbett: "When I was 17 years old,
I was the amateur heavyweight champion of the Pacific Coast, and <gap> <9?> years
Library of Congress
Radio broadcast with Jack Dempsey, Jim Corbett, and Gene Tunney? (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms0905
<gap> after that, I won the heavyweight championship of the world, and it only shows what
a boy can do, when he just takes care of himself.