Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine,
Tennessee (Transcription)
Start M57 B(1)
M She tells me that you've seen Bigfoot.
K Yeah.
M I wanted to ask you about that.
K Yeah. I've been called a fool. I've been called a lot of other things, but really, see, the
reason why I don't care to tell it, like if anybody else see it, I, they's been other people
besides me. They's a lot of whole people besides me seen it, but uh like a lot of 'em won't
admit it, but I guess when, you know, like when I was little, you know, I used to go uptown
some and ride a motorcycle, and everybody made fun of me up there anyway because I
was littler than they was and everything else. (uh-huh) Somebody always cut me down,
made fun of me anyway. So I figure, you know, what the heck? A few more years of being
called a fool, that's not as bad as them, you know, up there, but yeah, I've seen it, down
there. Well, when we was little, we went walking through the woods, me and my cousin
did, and we found two great old big cave entrances. W-, we walked across, we walked up
to one, and it was about yay big around, you know, K encloses a circle of three to four foot
diameter with his hands. (uh-huh) and then we walked on out through there, you know. We
started to go down in there, but we was just little. We figured, you know, we got down in
there, well, Momma had always told us you go in a cave, you know, nine, nine times, out
of ten, you find a big old whole that you never get out. So that sort of scared us, and we
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
walked on out there and we found anonther cave entrance, and it was a straight line, you
know, We walked to it. But it
35
VIII2-5
was a long ways to them woods. Them woods don't look like they're very thick, but they
are. We walked down through yonder a little ways more and found another hole, so we
seen the size of it, and it was about as big as the other one, so we decided we'd walk
back, you know, and uh, so we walked back to look for the other one, and we walked a
straight line just like we had and like I'm, I still to this day know them woods like the palm
of my hand, anywhere I want to go in 'em, I mean. You know, I know about every tree in
there. I don't know what kind they are, but, you know, I know about where they're located.
(uh-huh) And uh we walked a straight line right back to where that other one was first, you
know, when we first sighted it, and it wasn't there. Something, it was covered up some
way, and we never have found 'em since then, but I've got, I've got, you know, they's,
they's a few, quite a few people seen it. Like I said, you know, not many of them'll tell
about it, because the people calling 'em Fool and everything (uh-huh) Yeah, I think they is.
I've seen it.
M Well, what does it look like and what
K About, I'd say about eight, nine foot tall. It's covered with hair about two inches long, and
the face, I, can I, I know, I can see the face in my mind, but you can't really describe it.
It's something that you, that you know what it looks like. You'd know it if you ever seen it
again, and, but even like, even like I said, if you was to see it and then run back up here
and tell me, you still couldn't describe it. It's just that kind of face. It's sort of an old man
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
looking face. That's about the only thing you can think of. (hmm) It looks something like an
old man and it's face is, just looks like hide, like raw, you know, real tough hide. (uh-huh).
And it stan-, like I said, and it stands about eight or nine foot tall. It's a big ole thing.
M Does it make any noise?
K Yeah. You make it mad,it'll make a, it's a growling, have you ever went in and seen one
of these movies? Any of the Bigfoot movies?
M No, I haven't seen any
K Well, before we went to the movies,
45
VIII2-6
M I'll have to tell you though, I just heard about Bigfoot. A week or two ago i just happened
to turn on TV Saturday, and there was a adventure series (oh yeah) on there now, Bigfoot
and Wild Boy.
K Yeah, they, uh it, see, we heard this growling sound down there one time, you know,
and we didn't really know much about, you know, what it was or anything like that. We
figured, you know, it was just some kind of, maybe a dog, you know, had a possum treed
or something. You know, just anything, (uh-huh) but then we went to the movies and uh,
of <deleted> quite a few other people, but uh we went to the movies, me and I forget who
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
else <gap> and uh it, well, you know, I heard the same growl, and I recognized the growl
cause that's just something you don't forget. It's not the wailing type of growl that they
make, but it's a, it's a growl, and they've compared it with every animal, they said, and they
ain't another animal can make a sound like it. It hits certains tones that you just, nothing
can e-, nothing else can hit. (uh-huh) It's, it's thowed a stick at us before, for aggravating it.
M You said it was the caves that were no longer there?
K Huh?
M You said that something was no longer there.
K Yeah, it was the caves. Like we just, it was the same day and the same minute. We
walked by one minute and they were there, we walked back the next and they're not.
M And you've never seen 'em since?
K Huh-huh, never have. I don't go back up in there much.
M And where about is this?
K You know down here at the crossroads? I can taKe you to it. It's right down here at the
crossroads and you make a right and you go up that away, and then there's this uh big
patch of woods right there on the road, on the side of the road.
M Hmm. Is that anywhere near the lead mines?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
K No, huh-huh. The lead mines you go straight on down through there. Now, they's
54
VIII2-7
weird stuff happened down there. They's one thing that pertains to Bigfoot down there,
but I didn't see it. Uh uh, <unintelligible text> and his girlfriend was down there one time,
uh and they went down there, you know, and was talking, and they heard something
splashing, and they turned around and looked, and they said it was a real tall thing but it
was humped over and the back of its hands was walking through that water and it'd splash
as it went <gap>. In the world today I don't disbelieve nothing unless, you know, they've
got evidence against it. I don't particularly believe everything, but I mean I don't disbelieve
everything either.
M Well, yeah, I don't think anybody has disproved that there are dragons in Douglas Lake,
but
K Dragons? That is farfetched right there.
M Yeah, but then again
K There is a dragon, though. There is a dragon, but it's not like fire-breathing and all this.
I've got a book right up here. You want to see it? You ever heard of 'em? See, I'm a wild,
I'm a great admirer of all kinds of animals.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
M You mean about the Loch Ness kind of thing or what?
K No, huh-huh, it's a, it's a dragon on this island, across the waters. It's not one of them
great big tall ones, you know. You know, it's not one of them fairly tale dragons. #60-6 is a
discussion of the Kodomo dragons and about other animals that eat their own kind.
M What do you do on a typical day?
K Uh well, you mean like when I get back from school? Like, well, here's what I usually do
when, like Monday through Friday. Like when I get out of school, I uh come back and drop
<unintelligible text> and <unintelligible text> off here, and that's, <unintelligible text> my
little brother and <unintelligible text> my cousin. He's the one back there cutting wood right
now, (uh-huh) and then I go up there, straight up there and get <unintelligible text>, my
girlfriend, and we'll come back here, and uh I, and, but she, at first, when we first got the
rabbits, you know, she'd go back there too, but she don't much like to go back there now,
but I go back there and
69
VIII2-8
feed the rabbits. We have eight rabbits. We did have nine. One of 'em got loose and run
away, (uh-huh) we got eight, eight rabbits set up (?) so I go back there and I feed them
and make sure, you know, they're all right and everything and then give the cow some hay
and the pony, and then come back up here, and we usually sit there and watch TV a little
bit. That's it. That's the whole day. Sometimes we go to the movies or something like that.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
M Yeah, what do you do when you want to have a good time?
K Uh it's all according to what you call a good time. (yeah) Hmm, well, like uh, what I do,
what, what do you mean, what would the best time, what would I have the best time doing.
(let's say) If I could do anything I wanted to, what would, what would the best thing, what
would I like to do the best?
M That's another question.
K Okay.
M Okay, answer that one first.
K Okay.
M What would you do?
K All right, I'd like to, what I'd like, What I'd like, what I'd like to do for even as much as,
you know, one day maybe. (uh-huh) 'SI like to just around, you know, just like go down
to the zoo and then let all the animlas loose or something like that, or maybe, or maybe
raise 'em or something like that, because there is a lot of animals down yonder in the zoo
the law just won't let you have here, and uh that and hold a snow leopard. I'd like to hold a
snow leopard for oncet.
M That and what?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
K Hold a snow leopard. Hold one up or something like that. Even see one close up, that'd
be, and be able to take picture of it, that'd be, that'd be good enough for me.
M A snow what?
K A snow leopard.
78
VI112-9
M A snow leepard?
K Snow. S N O W (yeah) leopard. They
M Oh, leopard. Oh, oh, oh.
K They're uh
M I never heard of 'em.
K Uh they come on Johnny Carson one time and they said uh, Mar-, you know that guy
that's Marvin Perkins, (uh-huh) and there's something like five hundred left in the wild
and seventy feamles and eighty males in captivity, and that's all there is left of 'em. And
they're, they're, they're the prettiest kind of cat. They're prettier than any cat I've ever seen
in my life. They're uh, uh a brownish color with sort of a whitish colored spot on it, blurry
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
spots, (uh-huh) and their paws, they, like what they do is they up in them high mountains
across the seas. I can't remember what the mountain was. But like uh, say, you know, a,
a regular leopard have a hard time going up a hill with, you know, a real deep snow. (uh-
huh) Well, these things can retract their claws like that, and they'll just slide down, ski like
we ski. They ski down the side down the side of a mountain. That's, that's the way they
catch their prey. (hmm) They're almost, they're, they're almost extinct but, well, he said
when he brought it on there he said would probably be the last people to ever see one, this
generation that's watching that show, cause that's how bad they are gone. (uh-huh) And
what I call having fun. Okay.
M Well, let's say in White Pine, what do you do for a good time?
K Without leaving White Pine, right? Watch TV. Maybe, maybe walk back, you know, like
one time, it's, you know, peaceful back there in the barn, and like uh, like I said, if you're
standing back there by yourself in the barn, like one time when I went back yonder , and
you, I had, you know it's, it's not really a seat really. It's part of the manger that comes out,
and it's a hard position to get in cause you got to sit with your legs way up in the air, but
<unintelligible text> was up here watching uh TV or doing something
8
VIII2-10
and uh, talking to Momma, I guess, and, and I went back there that day. You know, it's just
a good thinking place or it's a good place to relax. I mean you just set there (uh-huh) and
the cows, all the, if you ever set close to a bunch of cows chewing, well, it's just, you know,
relaxes you. And then your dogs are all laying in there, you know, a couple of cats,and the
rabbits are right outside. They're all peeking in at you, and that, that's a good way, that's
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
the best way I ever found to think is just to walk back up through the woods or (uh-huh)
something like that, but for a good time and not leave White Pine, it's either ride around or
watch TV, usually watch TV, cause they a good stuff been coming on TV here lately.
M What's your favorite course up at the High school?
K Well, it was a tossup between uh auto mechanics and Bible (as) Literature, (uh-huh)
and uh we's sitting there and we got to talking, a whole bunch of us, you know, and every
time, you know, like, say well, like everyting in there was interesting and she could tell us
a little bit about it, but, you know, like when she wanted to go in detail, we wouldn't have
enough time to, because the course just lasts for a semester, (uh-huh) so I got to thinking
maybe a petition might do good, you know, so I set down up there in mechanics one day,
and <unintelligible text> didn't have me nothing to do, so I'd write down my thoughts and
some good points tha t they couldn't argue me against, and uh, let's see, <unintelligible
text> and uh they was two or three others helped me word some of it, and by the time we
got through with it, it was a page. Just had a front page and we had fourteen signatures,
and I was, like since, you know, like I say, to get the petition started, I figured, you know,
to get people to sign it, the person who thought it up ought to sign first, but then again I
thought well, maybe I shouldn't, you know, cause they're going to think, well, this person
right here's blackmailing everybody else into it, and so I's the third signature on it, instead
of the first.
M What were you petitioning for?
K For Bible class to last a year. (oh) Cause see we all, we all like the Bible class so much
that <gap> wanted a class for a whole year. And we almost got it. They was eight
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old white male, White Pine, Tennessee (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms6504
97
<unintelligible text>
V1112-11
people that stopped us from getting it, and that's it. (hmm) I mean all through school they
always tell you, you know, take the course you like best, and when you find the course you
like best, they take it away from you.
M Uh-huh. Tell me why you like it best.
K Huh?
M Why do you like it best?
K It's interesting. It's got a lot of stuff in it, and it, well, it's not, it, like everything nowadays
is like, you know, nobody 'sk-, nobody nowadays can seem to tell the truth, you know?
I mean everybody seems to want to have to lie sometimes, but uh in there, that's what
you find, the truth, and then like the people that's in the Bible are just interesting to know
about what they did back then, because now that's an interesting, interesting time, and it
just seems like, I don't know. It just seems it'd, you know, been all right to live back then.
I know it'd been hard to live in, (yeah) but it's uh been a lot better because all you had to
worry about's somebody throwing a spear at you or shooting you with the bow and arrow
or something like that. NOwadays, you know, you got to worry about somebody pushing a
button and that's pretty bad.