American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Pinelands Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/023) 
afc1991023_17_168 
Documentation - 
Thatcher, Elaine - 
Final Report 
Dec. 26, 1983 
Dear Mary, 
Here is my report and two of the tape logs I did. 
I did not bother 
correcting my numerous typos on the logs because I figured they would 
be keypunched into the computers and the typed copies would be discarded. 
I hope that's okay. 
The report, of course, is in more of a final form, 
as far as my abilities as a typist allow. 
Have a nice trip, and I'll look forward to seeing you in January. 
That 
is, of course, assuming that I can ever escape this frozen wasteland. 
We 
do have a bit of snow here. 
Take care. 
Cordially, 
PINELANDS FOLKLIFE PROJECT 
FIELDWORKER'S REPORT 
Elaine Thatcher 
December 21, 1983 
When I first arrived in the pines of New Jersey, I was overwhelmed by 
the strange juxtaposition of civilization and wilderness--how the wilderness 
was permeated with signs of human life, and vice-versa. 
I was amazed at 
the existence of so many trees in such close proximity to huge cities. 
I 
was impressed with the green and the dense undergrowth in the forest. 
Every-
thing was grown over and covered. 
It was a landscape to which I was not 
accustomed. 
I am used to wide open spaces, vistas, and just a few trees. 
I am fond of agricultural landscapes--fields and fences and outbuildings 
and cultivated trees around houses, all in contrast to mountains and forests 
and deserts. 
In a recent issue of Landscape which Jens Lund showed me, there was 
an article called "You'll Love the Rockies," or some such thing, written by 
an Englishman. 
He told of his disappointment with the Rocky Mountain land-
scape because there was so much of everything: 
too many trees, too many 
rocks, and all at once. 
There was not enough variety in any given view to 
make it aesthetically pleasing to this man. 
He preferred views that contained 
variety--a meadow, a house, a copse, a hill, a stream, all together. 
I felt 
much the same way about the pines. 
The miles of vertical greenness were some-
what overwhelming, and I welcomed the landscape I found around Hammonton and 
the other agricultural areas of the reserve. 
There was variety I could 
understand and appreciate. 
There was also the hand of man in harmony with 
2 
nature--not necessarily in harmony with wilderness, but with nature. 
People 
had learned how to live in this part of the world with success. 
I noticed the ways people presented themselves through their houses and 
yards. 
There seemed to be two main ideas about how to do a yard: 
Approach Number One: 
Set yourself off from the surrounding wilderness 
by trimming, manicuring, and planting unique and non-native plants. 
Approach Number Two: 
Try to blend in with the wilderness by surrounding 
your house with only native plants. 
This is known as the "low mainten-
ance look." 
We learned that the pattern seemed to be for natives of the region to 
favor Approach Number One, and for urbanites escaping the city to favor 
Approach Number Two. 
It is my belief that everyone has a cultural desire 
to set him or herself off from the surrounding environment--to express 
individuality and control over environment and resources. 
One type of 
yard obviously expressed this need more than the other type, although both 
required care and tending and planning. 
My gut feeling was that the people 
who had lived in the pines for generations had a deep understanding and love 
for the region--a type of integration with the environment--that was not 
being recognized by wilderness advocates. 
Those who landscaped their yards 
with the low maintenance look and who made strong efforts to preserve native 
flora and fauna did not recognize or understand the generations-old methods 
of using and managing the pinelands. 
They did not have the integration with 
the environment that I felt in the lives of such people as Eileen Homiller 
and Carl Liepe, whose yards are filled with non-native plants. 
There had to 
be a trade-off somewhere, in my view. 
Both lifestyles had to have elements 
of integration and control in equilibrium. 
On first glance, the low maintenance yard looks more integrated, and the 
3 
manicured yard looks more controlled. 
I began to think about the lifestyles 
of the two groups based on the fieldwork I had done. 
The lifestyle of 
many natives of the pines seemed to be based on productive diversity and 
cottage industries using local resources. 
Any given family had several 
sources of income and activity. 
The Putiris are a good example: 
they run 
a farm market, which is their primary economic activity, and it is based 
on mostly local resources. 
In addition to their straight marketing activities, 
they also make preserves of various kinds and grave blankets. 
Sal, Jr. sells 
insurance and is also the sign and pumpkin artist at the market. 
Sal, Sr. 
is a town councilman of long standing and has served as mayor. 
Ralph is 
active in local religious groups including the Gideons and is the only member 
of the family who does not appear to have another source of income. 
He is 
also the owner of the market, so probably spends most of his time running it. 
The Putiris have cousins who are also in the farm market business, and many 
relatives are farmers who supply produce to the markets. 
Other relatives 
like Charlie Palmieri help out at the market during certain seasons. 
Charlie 
makes grave blankets for the Putiris at Christmastime and is a construction 
worker by vocation. 
He had been laid off, however, when we met him, and 
was working night shift at a bakery. 
This is a family-based economic net-
work. 
Another example can be found in Warren and Eileen Homiller. 
They are 
less diverse economically, because Warren has a good job in Philadelphia. 
But 
Eileen still involves herself in productive activities such as a part-time 
job taking care of an elderly man and home production of food (gardening, 
freezing produce). 
Their productive diversity can be seen in community ser-
vice. 
Both are volunteer fire fighters, Eileen has been on the ambulance 
squad, they are active in school and church activities. 
In addition to such 
4 
community service, Eileen also knows and enjoys the woods. 
She does not 
know everything by name, but likes to walk in the woods and dries flowers 
and arranges them for decorating her house. 
In contrast to this lifestyle of productive diversity and cottage 
industries there is the lifestyle of many of the newcomers: 
a single source 
of income from employment outside the pines, often with lathe corporate or 
government agencies, and a loss of traditional skills related to productive 
use of local resources. 
The higher, urban-based income dispels the need for 
cottage industries and other sources of money. 
It also makes it possible 
to buy more services. 
Some of the women at the Pinelands Garden Club were 
saying they would like to get a paid fire department rather than the volunteer 
one. 
Activities become more leisure-oriented than need-oriented. 
Social 
life is largely centered around work, urban friends, and others within the 
same income bracket. 
It is essentially an urban lifestyle transplanted to 
a rural setting. 
In other words, there is less integration with the pines 
environment than can be found in the lives of many natives, in spite of their 
high-maintenance yards. 
The value for wilderness is an urban value. 
It is longed for by people 
who are tired of cement and carbon monoxide. 
People who live with wilderness 
or near-wilderness on a daily basis often see it differently. 
Wilderness 
is productive at a low level of intensity. 
You can gather blueberries, mush-
rooms and sphagnum moss, and you can hunt some game, but it is very difficult 
to make a living from wilderness alone. 
Bill Wasowich is one of the few who 
can do it, and he is seen by our society as something of a freak, as the recent 
Life magazine article attests. 
Wilderness is valued by people who have access 
to not only the frustrations, but the conveniences of city life. 
On the 
other hand, Charles Dupras regretted how May's Landing has gone downhill 
because they no longer have an Acme market and a movie theater. 
Frank Gray, 
5 
a lifelong resident of New Gretna, told me that the town had improved over 
his lifetime, because the casinos at Atlantic City brought in more people 
and hence more services. 
Obviously, concepts of progress differ among 
residents of the pines. 
It is my feeling that the Pinelands National Reserve is a product mostly 
of urban values and may even be considered somewhat classist, since so many 
of the decisions have been made by outsiders who are often richer or better 
educated than many people who have been affected by the legislation. 
The 
assumption is that the locals were not managing their land properly, so 
someone stepped in for them. 
(I am not forgetting, however, that there are 
local people who support the reserve, but almost none of my informants were 
in this category.) 
It is, on a less critical level, the same phenomenon as 
occurred with the American Indians: 
a more powerful culture group imposed 
its beliefs on a less powerful group or groups. 
With that said, I want to 
emphasize that my feelings are mixed on the subject of the reserve, but I 
think it is of value to stand back and see it in the context of cultural 
process. 
It is simply another chapter in the same story. 
Systems of Thought and Aesthetics 
It seems to me that there are three classes of attitudes toward the 
environment: 
1. 
Total preservation of the wilderness condition of the pines. 
This 
approach is espoused by Elizabeth Woodford and other environmentalists. 
The assumption is that nature is good, culture is bad. 
Some outside 
users (tourists) will hold to this idea. 
2. 
Appreciation, use and protection of the environment. 
This approach 
is exemplified best by Cliff Frazee, and to a smaller degree, Carl 
Liepe and Helen Zimmer. 
I would guess that the majority of tourists 
6 
fall in this category. 
It is a view of the wilderness with a frame 
around it and captioned, "Wilderness." 
It consists of beautiful views, 
small privately-owned parcels of woodland, and a couple of state parks. 
It involves management and intervention in the environment to keep it 
from getting out of hand or endangering people: 
controlled burning; 
cutting and planting plants for aesthetic and otherpurposes (like wind-
breaks); 
and more and more, it includes replacement of resources. 
This concept is midway on the nature-culture continuum. 
It is an appre-
ciation and protection of nature along with the idea that nature is there 
for mankind to use. 
3. 
Total use or transformation of resources. 
This is tied up with the 
concept of unlimited good. 
I think the Putiris 
would fall into this 
category. 
They do not value total wilderness; indeed, it is something 
to be feared at times. 
Nature is primarily a source of income and sus-
tenance, and the needs of people are more important than trees. 
Culture 
is more important than nature. 
Probably some outside users of the area 
feel this way, but I imagine they are few, since most of them come for 
the outdoor recreation that is available. 
These categories roughly correspond to some of the zones outlined in 
the Pinelands Management Plan. 
The problem is that the people who subscribe 
to the three systems of thought do not fit neatly into the zones set forth 
by Pinelands. 
Systems of thought and aesthetics can be better understood in the context 
of some of the other observations I made during the fieldwork. 
Family and Social Networks 
Many marriages are between natives of the pines region and non-natives 
(the Homillers, the Floyd Wests, among others). 
Benjamin Allen met his wife 
because her family regularly came to the pines from Long Island for vacations. 
Many others followed a similar pattern: 
someone met an outsider and they 
moved to the pines. 
I heard people talk about "getting sand in your shoes," 
causing you to have a strong desire to return to the pinelands once having 
been there. 
The way these families relate to the land accounts for part of the "one 
space, many places" concept of the pines. 
Family and social networks help 
to create a sense of place for residents of the pines. 
I, because of my 
cbse involvement with the Putiris, became intensely aware of the area as an 
Italian enclave. 
Kinship, as well as religion and ethnicity would be a 
useful way of organizing our thinking about the region. 
Gender 
I was interested in women and the woods, although my work in this area 
was sketchy. 
Men are more likely to work in the woods than women. 
The 
only work that women seem to do in the forest is gathering of plants for food 
and decoration. 
Men harvest cedar, cut firewood, and mine sand, among other 
things. 
Men also pursue active recreation in the woods through hunting and 
fishing. 
This is usually in the society of other men. 
The women I talked to 
stay away from the woods except to go on well-known paths near familiar places. 
They often walk alone or with a pet and enjoy the natural beauty of the forest. 
Of course, there are other uses of the woods that both men and women 
participate in: 
canoing, hiking, camping, driving around. 
Can a woman be a 
good woodsman? 
(woodsperson?) 
It seems that some of the skills associated 
with that title are not ones cultivated by women. 
Women tend to stay on fa-
miliar ground and have a somewhat passive knowledge of the forest. 
Men may 
be more active in their understanding and use of the land. 
I can't really 
elaborate on the subject further, because I don't have a complete understand-
8 
ing of the skills of a woodsman. 
Are there women who have these skills? 
How are they viewed? 
It was obvious from our interview with Cliff and Lucille 
Frazee that he did not consider the woods an appropriate part of her sphere. 
The questions are interesting. 
The past in the present 
my main informants all had strong ties with the past in the pines. 
All 
were from families that had been there for a long time. 
This may say more 
about my interests than about the kinds of people who generally populate 
the region, but certainly what the pines were has a lot to do with what 
they are in these people's lives. 
I have elaborated somewhat on this 
subject in my notes on the Putiris and cemeteries and the ruins of Amatol. 
Newcomers to the area have only the present, the immediate environment, 
and their own cultural backgrounds to draw from in relating to the region. 
The nativeshave those things plus a real blood connection with the people 
and places that were the pine barrens. 
They see more than people who see 
only a biosphere. 
Yards and houses 
I had a conversation with Christine Cartwright one day about yards, and 
she told me that Brad Thompson had said that locals would never put farm 
machinery, carts, and the like on display in a front yard as yard art. 
I 
saw a farm in Nesco that did have such a display, and I questioned Brad's 
statement. 
But it would be interesting to know why he felt such a practice 
was non-native. 
The yard surrounding the home in which the Pinelands Garden 
Club met the day we visited with them contained artifacts like an old cider 
mill and a wagon. 
They had not belonged to her family, as far as I could 
tell. 
They expressed a connection with the past that was more generalized 
than the past that was symbolized (for the Putiris) by Amatol and St. Mary's 
9 
Cemetery. 
Because it was more general, it was also a more romanticized past. 
There was nothing romantic about the old family home on Pine Road that Ralph 
Putiri showed us, but there was something focused and meaningful about it 
for the Putiri family. 
Christine and I also talked about the concept of lawns--to have or not 
to have. 
Denny Doyle, the manager of the Tru-Blu Cooperative, told Christine 
that locals just mow what's there rather than seeding or buying sod. 
Sod 
farming upsets berry growers because it hogs the water supply and changes 
the pH of the aquifer. 
(Jens had heard people say that sod farmers are 
upsetting because they can earn more producing sod than producing food.) 
We had seen that many farmers had lawns around their houses, and speculated 
that the type of cultivation done by truck farmers was more compatible 
aesthetically with lawn cultivation than berry cultivation. 
Truck farming 
requires more intervention in the environment than berry farming. 
The latter 
tends to work with what's there; the former requires more manipulation and 
tending. 
Brad Thompson had told Christine that his family likes to drive 
around on Sunday afternoons and admire truck farms and orchards. 
Might 
truck farmers find sod farms aesthetically pleasing in the same way? 
Houses and yards gave good clues about people's attitudes toward the 
environment. 
The Putiris' house contained almost no decorative items from 
the forest. 
Most of the furniture is conspicuously store-bought, shiny, and 
fine, though not expensive. 
Their yard is outlined with rhododendrons and 
dogwoods, and is filled with non-native plants. 
It also has some plaster 
artifacts in it: 
a bird bath, an urn, and a small rabbit. 
The Homiller's 
yard is similar in feeling to the Putiris', but their house is full of dried 
flowers that Eileen has gathered from the woods. 
The Homillers' furniture 
is more along the lines of comfortable country, with overstuffed chairs covered 
with throws. 
Both houses are comfortable and lived-in, but they represent 
10 
different attitudes toward nature. 
The home in which the Pinelands Garden 
Club met, on the other hand, was furnished with expensive antiques and was 
very much magazine material. 
It was not a house to be comfortable in. 
The 
woman who lived there made wreaths of native materials for a local Christmas 
tree farm, and she really knew her plants. 
I con't recall, though, if there 
were decorative items made from local plant resources in her home. 
Policy 
I'm not sure I am ready to make statements about policy implications. 
Certainly some of the land restrictions have had effects on Italian families 
who have traditionally married only when homes are ready to move into. 
Clara 
Paolino and her husband had to give their son far more land than they had 
planned so he could build a house in accordance with the rules. 
This upset 
the tax payments in the family and reduced the acreage that Clara and her 
husband could use. 
Small parcels of land rendered unusable by acreage restrictions are 
beginning to erode the tax base in Mullica township because owners are letting 
their taxes lapse and the land is reverting to the township. 
The Italians 
in the region have traditionally been agressive and successful businessmen 
and farmers. 
Building and land-use restrictions are freezing much of the 
new business activity, but it is hard to say what the long-term effects of 
that will be. 
People are resilient, and they will eventually adapt to the 
rules. 
Some will probably move away to places where they can buy and sell 
freely and build homes where and how they please. 
Culture is not something that can have a fence put around it and be 
put on display like a historic building. 
It must change in order to live. 
By freezing cultural activity in any way, we change it. 
It will not follow 
the direction in which it was originally going, but it will keep going. 
11 
In my fieldnotes (PFP83-FET1029), I discussed a French system of parks 
that is attempting to preserve cultural resources. 
Farmers may be subsi-
dized for repairing old thatched barns, but not for building new, more 
efficient ones. 
Under this kind of preservation, they may end up with a 
bunch of picturesque barns that cannot meet modern farming needs. 
This 
may result in further economic depression of a region and thwart one of the 
stated goals of the French parks: 
to help economically depressed areas. 
worse, it may really be a sophisticated form of antiquarianism. 
Traditional 
barn building may be picturesque and wonderful, but at some point, utility 
has to be the important factor over aesthetics if the farmer is to remain 
a farmer rather than a museum keeper. 
I bring up this example because it 
graphically points out the need for continual research and keeping tabs on 
cultural phenomena in a protection area. 
Our proposed case studies can 
help in this, but I think that research updates should be conducted every 
five years or so. 
I did not hear any specific examples of Pinelands policies seriously 
threatening lifestyles at present. 
They are definitely inconvenient, but 
people will adapt. 
I did hear rumors of old people committing suicide 
because they could not sell land they had planned to use for their retirement 
income. 
I did not get proof of this--I didn't pursue it at the time. 
But 
if it is true, then retirement income for farmers should be a Major concern 
of policymakers. 
Retirement income is not a direct concern of the Pinelands 
Commission, but problems in this area may be a direct result of their actions. 
If this is so, it warrants active and responsible interest. 
On the lifestyle reinforcement side, the reserve will make it possible 
for people to continue to enjoy the woods as a source of food, decoration, 
and other pleasures. 
Through ensuring the continued existence of the woods, 
the reserve legislation ensures the continued existence of resources for 
12 
such activities as grave blanket making and plant gathering. 
Because of the 
protection of the aquifer, berry agriculture will be able to continue, bring-
ing money into the region. 
Berry agriculture is also an important part of 
foodways and local symbolism, and these will be protected by the legislation. 
The fact that growth has pretty much been frozen at its present levels 
means that the general appearance and ambiance of the region may not change. 
At least it will not become more:urbanized. 
It may, in fact, become less 
urbanized than it is, and some of the cultural resources available at present 
may disappear because of people moving out. 
(I admit, less urbanization than 
at present is very remote.) .Interpretive efforts must be based on continuing 
research so that old phenomena are recognized as part of the past and new 
ones are seen as valuable additions to the regional culture. 
Personal responses 
I really enjoyed working on this project. 
My only comment would be 
that next time, I would make sure that I had more time of my own. 
Part 
of the difficulty was that Sue and I lived with the project/ day and night 
because our quarters were at the office. 
This meant that we could never 
escape from work, and I was incredibly fatigued by the last two weeks. 
I was frustrated that I didn't get more work done in my areas of 
yardscapes and women's work. 
We were behind schedule on switching from 
geographical areas to thematic research areas, so that was part of the 
problem. 
However, the work we did in our geographical areas was very 
valuable in gaining a sense of the region. 
I don't know if we really 
could have shortened it. 
One of the things I really enjoyed was the chance to do team fieldwork. 
I worked with a number of the other fieldworkers, and mostly with Sue, and 
found the experience rewarding in terms of personal satisfaction and pro-
fessional results. 
It makes me realize how much one can miss when working 
13 
alone. 
Light from more than one angle gives a much more balanced and true 
image. 
This being my first experience with east coast culture, I enjoyed the 
chance to compare and contrast it with the west. 
It intensified and 
verified some of my observations about the west and made it possible to 
see how things I had overlooked or taken for granted in one region were 
totally foreign to another. 
One of my most consistent fieldwork experiences 
in every place I've worked is to ask a question about how something is 
done and get the answer, "Oh, just the regular way." 
The discovery of 
how many "regular" ways there are to can fruit or notch logs is one of the 
joys of fieldwork. 
Product development 
I think a presentation on yards could be interesting and informative. 
It could include measured maps and photographs of different styles of self-
presentation in landscaping. 
They could very graphically contribute to the 
"one space, many places" concept. 
I would recommend using examples such as 
a rural suburban low maintenance yard, a gatherer's (piney's?) yard, a truck 
farmer's yard, an Italian middle class yard, a German middle class yard, etc. 
A nice exhibit could be built around the different concepts of the woods: 
food source, aesthetic resource (for decor and/or personal engoyment), men's 
domain, a place to be feared, a place that is safe, a source of medicine or 
therapy, a recreational resource. 
Non-woods (agricultural land, housing, 
business, water) could be treated in the same manner using similar categories. 
Some good tapes might be (without checking to see what their quality is) 
RET008 (young boy describing fishing and crabbing on the Mullica), RET012 
(Carl Liepe on using native plants). 
A good interview on women's work would be RET016-017 (Clara Paolino 
14 
on cooking and canning). 
Others: 
RET018-021 (Warren and Eileen Homiller 
on fire companies, the woods, and community involvement). 
RET022-024 (Rabbi 
Abel Respes on his conversion to Judaism and the pines as refuge). 
Sue's 
tapes RSS005-006 (Sal Putiri telling stories about getting started in business 
and anecdotes about customers and family experiences). 
There are good 
things on all the Putiri tapes that could be used for presentations on 
using the pines, ethnic groups in the pinelands, the fruit business, family 
and religious traditions. 
Helen Zimmer's interviews (Sue's tapes) would also 
have lots of material on concepts of the woods and women's work. 
As far as case studies go, I think the Putiris would make excellent 
prospects because of their total involvement in the community and their 
membership in a prominent ethnic group. 
The fact that they run a fruit 
market increases the interest. 
Not least importantly, I think they would 
be willing to participate. 
The one thing where they come up short is in 
the fact that there is no female member of the family now. 
The Homillers of Lower Bank are another family I would like to know 
more about because of their involvement in the fire and ambulance companies 
and their church and other community activities. 
Eileen is an eighth-gen-
eration resident of the pines and is married to a city boy, making for more 
interesting data. 
It would be interesting to see how they balance urban 
and popular culture influences against the long-standing traditional culture 
of the pinelands. 
Do they perceive any conflict? 
Both these families 
would be interesting to study from the standpoint of changes in traditional 
behavior. 
It might be desirable to document the lives of a suburban-type family, 
too, but I don't know of any offhand, and I'm not sure I would want the job. 
If someone friendly and willing to participate could be found, it would 
only add to the breadth of our understanding and give us more credibility. 
15 
On the subject of articles for future publications, I can think of some 
possible subjects. 
Sue and I are already planning to co-author an article 
on the construction and use of grave blankets. 
Three other subjects pique 
my interest: 
women and the woods (using different concepts of the woods 
as my framework), yardscapes as expressions of values, and something based 
on the ideas expressed in the first six pages of this report. 
It might 
be called something like "When senses of place conflict," or "Productive 
diversity and sense of place." 
It would require more thought.