Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West
Virginia (Transcription)
M8 B(2)
INF: Uh, when she's drinking she does. When we lived at Oakvale, she got out of the uh,
she had Bobby Thorton in there and she's about 78 years old and sometime she gets so
drunk and she doesn't even know what her name is. And one day she got Bobby Thorton
the next store neighbor to bring her up there on the house and if I had seen her before
she seen me I'd have locked the door on her. (laughter) And she was so drunk that <gap>
instead of getting out of the car, she rolled out, rolled down the main street, we lived right
on the highway, and we had three or four little steps that come from the main road down
into the yard and then you had a walkway and then you had to walk up three or four more
steps to get to the porch and she crawled up there (laughter). Right there in front of all the
neighbors, and everything and the people (that lived) next store, the neighbors, I'd been
there for about six year, and knowed them pretty good, and they come <unintelligible text>
to laughing me out of that <unintelligible text>, I was so glad to be moving. (laughter)
FW: Did you have to take care of her when she was drunk?
INF: Uh, no, I run her off one time I got rid of her. She come down, when she'd get, she
wouldn't say anything hateful to me when she was drinking
-10-
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
but she was pretty bad you know bout bowwing around the younguns. And, uh, I'd put
up with it just about as long as I could and she come down there one day and she had a
fifth of whiskey, and hid it behind the badmitten (?) and she didn't think I seen it and I was
trying to put the washing on the line and she was supposed to <unintelligible text> about
renting a house and my old man said if you want rid of her, said, you're gonna have to
run off yourself, she's my mommy and I ain't gonna do it so when he picked up his dinner
bucket and walked on out to work I went and I looked at her and she, all the kids was in
school except that one, and uh, she had this whiskey bottle cap off and she was trying to
give my little girl some of it and I told her not to do it to her. So I <knows?> she was gonna
do it to her anyhow and I sneaked around the side of the corner there from the kitched
where she couldn't see me and I see her give it to her and I guess the stuffs hot or burned
her when she took a drink of it she just spit it all over, Mrs. White just up and slapped her,
knocked her clear across the house, so I just went <unintelligible text> the front door and
kicked her hind end out in the road. (laughter)
FW: Well I don't blame you.
INF: And she's not come back no more. But uh, since then they found out she's had skin
cancer on her face and it's done eat through her jaw from this side on to the other side
and it's eating on her gums where her teeth was at and they had to send her to Roanoke
to that hospital. And they couldn't do nothing for her there so they had to send her to
Blacksburg. And they let her come home for a few days and when they took her back they
found out she had cancer in her stomach and now she's feeding herself baby food through
a tube that they got inserted
-11-
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
in her stomach. And she was home about a week and then they had to put her back in
there, as far as I know she's still in there now.
FW: She's still in the hospital? Where, down in Charlottesville?
INF: Uh huh. Yeah she's still in there.
FW: Does she still drink?
INF: When she can get it.
FW: Still, yet, do you think she would
INF: Yeah, she's
FW: Is she an alcoholic?
INF: Well, she's drunk as long as I've knowed her.
FW: What about her husband?
INF: Well, uh, my old man's brother, he got hurt when he was in the Army years ago, and
he was married and had two little girls and his wife walked off and left him a long time ago,
he never did get married anymore, and they live down there on Dears Run and he got
drunk down there one day and shot and killed that old man on the floor.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
FW: killed his father?
INF: Yeah. And uh, he left, he went to the Pen and I don't know how long he was in I went
up to the hearing, he stayed two year in jail waiting for trial, him and uh Richard's mommy
both, before they ever had a trial, and they got called about two weeks ago that they'd
found him dead on the street in some part of Cleveland somewhere up in there. And uh,
my old man went down, where he was in the Army, they thought the Army would pay for
going up there and getting him and bringing him back here so they could have his funeral
here and have him buried in the family plot and when they went to the funeral they found
out they had to have five hundred dollars along with the money that you know the Army
would put up, and so you know my old man went out and tried
-12-
to get the rest of his brothers and sisters to go together you know to get the money to bring
him back here and they said that where he was at was good enough for him for him to
leave him uphere the county put him away reel <unintelligible text> so I guess???
FW: Did you ever know what happened, what became of his wife or
INF: Uh, no, the last I heard she was married again. They lived down there under the hill,
he was mean to his daddy
FW: Did he mean to kill him or was he just drunk?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
INF: No he meant to do it, he was just that way. They lived, used to live way down in the
woods. about three miles in the woods, wasn't but one house down there it was theirs, and
uh, when me and my old man was first married we stayed down there.
FW: Were you afraid of your brother-in-law then?
INF: I was scared to death of him. My old man had to go, he didn't have no regular job
then, he was working for a man up on the hill up there from him, and uh, everytime that
Richard's Mommy and daddy getting ready to go to the store to go to get groceries have to
go to town or anything Charles would be there. He'd pretend like he'd be up in the woods
you know or something and when they'd leave he'd come back in the house and that was
after my frist son was born, and he'd come back there in the house messing around where
he didn't have no business and I finially told Richard if he didn't find a place for us to go
that I was just gonna go back to the house where my parents was becasue I wasn't gonna
put up with that stuff. But he was just that way, he was just regular devil is all it was to it.
He got down, got down there drunk one time and took a stick of stove wood and beat that
old man with it and he lost the hearing in that one ear and he cut big places all in his face
and he could never hear out of that ear no more. And he was just naturally, well they said
he got shot in the head when he
-13-
was in the Army, and that was what was wrong with him. Yeah, there was something
wrong with him, he was little off. But I believe that if he hadn't got, even went and spent
a day in the Army I believe he'd have still been in that shape cause he was just naturally
mean.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
FW: You mean before he went to the Army?
INF: Yeah. Daddy got me a radio the year before I got married, one of these a transistor
radios? And he went upstairs, we stayed upstairs, slept upstairs, and Richard's brother
slept in one room upstairs and we slept in the other room, and my radio come up missing
one day and he had a box that he'd made hisself and had it out in the hall and he had on it
do not open if you do you're gonna get killed, you know, had it wrote in red, ink you know
to make it looked like blood, you know red paint, and we caught him gone one day and my
old man went out there and broke the lock off and found my radio in there, he'd stole my
radio and didn't want me to get in the box, <gap> I reckon, you see I'd see it.
FW: What did he do when he found it. Did you take the radio?
INF: Yeah, I took it. (laughter) It was mine.
FW: Did he say anything to you about it?
INF: Well, a couple days after that I woke up one morning and heared him and his mommy
and daddy down stairs, you know, arguing and I didn't pay too much attention because
they's always fussing over something and he come upstairs and me and my old man and
the baby was still in the bed asleep and he come upstairs and got to raising cane and
my old man got out of the bed and he pulled a knife on Richard and threatened to cut his
throat and Richard somehow or another got the knife from him and threatened to cut his
throat and Charles told him that if he'd let him up that he'd go along you know and leave
him alone and the minute Richard turned him loose he turned the knife back on him again
so we
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
-14-
wasn't there very long we left. And his daddy was bad about getting drunk and messing
his clothes you know and his mommy was a dirty cook anyhow everytime you went to eat
something you'd find a hair in it. (laughter)
FW: Oh, Lord, how did you stand it?
INF: Uh, I stayed down there about a year most of what she was, well, I think she'd do it
for spite towards me.
FW: Was she jealous of you?
INF: Uh, I don't know what was wrong with her, on top of staying drunk all the time. I'd
get up you know and do my part of the work, you know I'd keep the dirt rolling while I
was there. And everytime I'd wash the dishes and clean the kitchen up she was back in
there running more dish water and she'd <gap> rewash the dishes and rewash <gap>
everything over again, and if I'd do the laundry she'd do the laundry you know go back and
do the same thing over again that I done ironed and put away. And she come down to the
house one time when she moved out of her house, she got drunk and sold everything she
had, and when she got sober she didn't have no place to go so her other brother, her boy,
got her rented a house trailer for her and she didn't have no washer in it. So I was doing
her washing for her and I told her to write down you know what she give me, you know
sheets and pillows cases so when I done my washing I wouldn't get my sheets you know
and things up with hers. And I done her washing there for about a month and I had to buy
the washing powders and everything and she never paid me for doing it and then she up
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
and accused me of stealing her sheets and I told her to do her own sheets from now on.
(laughter) I didn't do her washing no more.
FW: Well, did her husband fight this son back, did he ever try to fight him?
-15-
INF: Uh, no, see he was old, he was about 80 years old, Charles wasn't but about 39 and,
uh, he had a one of them old timey double barrel shot guns that shoot them big round, I
call em golf balls, I don't know what they are, big round things? They're something like a
big steeley (?), something like a big marble? And he shot him with that and just blowed his
head right off his shoulders.
FW: He shot his daddy with it?
INF: Uh, huh, yeah. And I, me and mommy and Richard went up there to the house a
couple of weeks after that to get her some clothes you know to take to the jailhouse with
her because he didn't, Charles was accusing her and she's accusing him.
FW: Oh, he accused his mother of doing it? He did it to get out of it?
INF: Yeah. So they all had to stay in jail you know until the trial come up and me and
mommy and Richard went up there to her house to where the shooting took place to get
her some clean clothes to take to the jail with her, and he had shot him so, being it was so
close when he shot him, that there was pieces of his skull still in the ceiling, in the wall?
And they rented off of Andy Wiley, and uh, we went up there here a while back, my old
man and I went there to go hunting, and they, still wasn't nobdy yet in the house, and they
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
done painted the house three or four times and their blood stain and everything still on the
walls and everything. And she give me a table after she got out of jail you know and got
straightened up, that I didn't pay any attention to it til after my old man brought it home it
was one little corner table, and it had pieces of his brain underneath the table part of it and
I was scared to stay in the house, I threatened to eat and sleep on the porch til he got rid
of it..
FW: Oh, I don't blame you.
-16-
INF: I finally kep it, it's still down at the house but I keep it in the closet, I don't (?) <gap>
(laughter). I don't guess there's anything on it, you know, I ain't heard nothing, you know,
(?) hants or nothing, I know that, I've always heard that if somebody is murdered you
know, in a house you can't get rid of the blood?
FW: Uh, huh, I have too.
INF: And, uh, he's been dead about six or seven year now, I reckon. And she's never been
able to rent the house no more.
FW: Really? People are afraid to stay in there?
INF: Well, she had one woman to go up there and had two little kids and her husband
drove a tractor and trailer, he was gone most of the time and she stayed there three days
and moved out.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
FW: Why, did she ever tell anyone <unintelligible text>?
INF: Uh, well, they've tried to paint the house, they've paint it, you know, changed the color
in it you know, paint it three or four times and the blood stains still there, we went up there
a little while back and looked at it. But when she got out of jail she thought she'd be brave,
you know, and go up there and, well, she really didn't have no place to go cause all the
furniture and everything was in there, that's Richard's momma, and she went up there and
uh, set there in the hammock and was up there in the house one night watching television
about a week after she got out of jail she had them paper blinds <gap> on the wall and the
way the wind blowed I reckon or maybe something happened to the blind, it shot from the
bottom you know of couse she had it pulled clear to the top?
FW: She took it to the ceiling?
INF: Yeah, she said nearly had a heart attack and so she finally left out of there and went
and stayed with Curren (sp?), Richard's other brother. And
-17-
then a couple weeks after that they went over and moved her stuff out and then, I guess it
was empty about two months til this other family moved in and they wasn't there but three
days and they moved out and it's been about six or seven year now it ain't been nobody in
the house.
FW: And they can't get anyone to rent it?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 27 year old white female, West Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1606
INF: No. And it's a nice home you know, they remodeled the inside of it and fixed it on the
outside and it's just nice as it can be. And you know those neighbors around, Richard's
daddy's brother and his wife and all their kids you know built homes up there and they're
living down there? It's right there where there's plenty of neighbors, but they still can't get
nobody to live in it.