"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr05
"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941
AFS 6361A
Cut A1
Interviewer: There is some confusion and some hysteria following the first impact of the war news
here. Full realization of what war means has yet to come. Negro opinion has been varied and a great
amount of concern has been expressed over the Negroes place in the defense. But now that the
country needs all of its citizens and Negroes are anxious to take their place in a democratic effort
to defend democracy. We have here some national citizens to express their reactions to the first
war news. The first person you will hear is the Reverend W. J. Faulkner, Congregational minister and
president of the national branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Reverend W. J. Faulkner: This sudden and unfortunate attack of the Japanese on our country
has revealed in stark outline a tragic attitude of unpreparedness and selfish indifference on our
part to the real dangers confronting our nation and our democratic way of life. Too long have we
been divided at home. For we have been dissipating our vast strength and straining our national
unity through labor conflicts and class bickerings. And in practices of stupid and costly racial
discriminations, our enemies have conspired to destroy us.
I earnestly hope that at last we have become struck wide awake to the real threats to our national
safety at home and abroad. And that we will be galvanized into effective action by uniting all of our
people and resources on a basis of equality into one invincible army of patriots who will work for the
triumph of Christian democracy and brotherhood throughout the world.
Cut A2
Interviewer: The next person you will hear speak is Miss Fadie France, native of Denver, Colorado,
YWCA secretary in Nashville.
Fadie France: Japan's aggression was an expected act. We must take into consideration, the Japanese
ruthless aggression towards China throughout the past four years. One can see the fact that Japan
is an aggressive nation. However, this particular act was not entirely of Japanese making. This war
situation [disc skips] had to reach a head soon the United States [disc skips] was bound to enter this
war. Just what the fuse was [disc skips] supposed to be was the only uncertain factor.
Rather than Japan's aggression I would say, Japan's obedience to instigated commands by the Axis
powers. As some of the others who are not active participants or witnesses of the last world war, the
"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr05
actual horror or seriousness of combat has not dawned on me of yet. Just a mild excitement that
naturally comes with mass action, the usual response of an individual to group psychology. Because
of this follows my reaction to Japan. Being just another of the uninformed masses I have a feeling of
resentment toward Japan for her treacherous, sly attack on the United States, words and thoughts
put into my mouth by radio news commentators and writers of newspaper articles. Yet an actual
hatred for Japan herself does not exist within me. She is the tool of stronger powers. My resentment
is definitely directed toward them. I impatiently await the finish of Japan so that the Axis powers, the
motivating factors for this recent aggression, can be stopped in their murderous attempts to thwart
the cause of democracy and liberty. Their greedy attempts to rule the world only ??? of our country.
My faith and belief in superiority of the United States is childlike in its entirety. Even though the
treatment of minority groups has been and is still unfair, my loyalty to my country is unlimited and
unbounded.