UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  FR. SEAMUS FINN
CONDUCTED BY:  MARIO MONTANO
DATE:  OCTOBER 27, 1987
S = SEAMUS
M = MARIO
LFP-MM-A011
M:  Okay, well you know I just wanted to talk to you about your experiences here in Lowell with
the community.
S:  Uh huh.
M:  I was informed that you were very active in the community, that you know people, you visit 
people's houses, that you know some of the politicians here, some of the leaders from Lowell.  
Just to have an idea of your own personal opinions, or views about the situation here in Lowell.
S:  Okay.  Well basically I think, let me see, I go back a good ways in Lowell.  I went to, I 
finished a couple of years of high school here after I moved from Ireland.  Then I was away 
studying for a number of years and I have been back here now for about, going on five years, 
although my family has resided here continuously (M:  Umhm) in the in between time.  And um, 
I think a couple of things have uh, couple of things stand out for me.  Obviously when coming to 
Lowell from a very small rural background, this seemed like a very intimidating and a very big 
city.  And then I remember my brothers and I when we were starting to go to high school, (M:  
Umhm) we were I think astounded by first of all the number of people our own age in the 
schools, but also I think just different names.  Names that obviously we didn't grow up around, 
whether they were Polish names, or French names.  And different accents.  I mean people 
obviously thought our accent was funny, but they thought, I mean we thought the same thing 
about a whole lot of other people as well.  And I think after stepping away from the city for 
awhile and coming back to it and coming back to it any number of times in the early 70's to work
at a bilingual camp, and it was a kind of, call it Camp Unitas, Unitas (M:  Umhm) and did it for, 
did it for a few years.  Summer camp mostly with Hispanic kids and Anglo kids.  And there was 
a lot of activity around there.  And we brought in, or engaged some of our family in helping with 
it, but also some friends that I had grown up with.  And for the first time, I think then was the 
first time that I started to move around the city a bit and actually visit people in different 
neighborhoods in different areas.  One became very conscious of the fact that Lowell is a city 
that developed very much around ethnic lines, but then also whether, I think also around class or 
economic factors.  
Can remember the, on Fayette Street, on Chestnut Street, on High Street, trying to understand 
something about all the Hispanics moving into that area, which was already a predominant, a 
quite heavily, a Polish area.  And seeing the density that's involved over there with housing and 
certainly the amount of problems that were involved with the relationship of a new language 
being introduced into Lowell and a new set of customs and traditions that were very different 
from any who had been here before.  And I remember those camp times, we just, we were 
struggling along I think to get the kids to interact and relate, but when it came to any number of 
things we were always kind of just groping for answers even just to the very simple stuff.  I mean
if uh, preparing food and lunches and stuff like that during camp, whether or not, how was one 
going to satisfy the average young american child's taste in food.  And a lot of these young 
Hispanic folk were from Puerto Rico.  (M:  Umhm)  They had, most certainly had a very 
different kind of diet.  So it was kind of a, it was a real kind of search there to try and find some 
common ground in terms of food that the folks would like.  And it is always a problem with kids 
anyway as to what exactly they are going to like and when they are going to like it.  But I think 
that was, those years there in camp were extremely informative for me.  Just about the city and 
the way it's I think put together and the difficulty that new folks moving into this city encounter.  
And in those times it was mostly, [clears throat] it was mostly around the Hispanic community.  I
think that is one of the things that is important I think in the way that I look at Lowell now is 
probably.  Spent just about a year in Puerto Rico in l976, 75-76, and did some additional 
traveling down there in the Carribean, but I think in just that time there, for the first time got 
some sense of what I think the whole U.S., Puerto Rico relationship is about.  Both from a 
cultural point of view, from a political point of view, but also from a, I think from a strategically 
military point of view.  It's a, it began I think then to strike me as saying this is a real, this is a 
real dilemma.  Folks are not, are not a state, they're a commonwealth, they're not independent.  
And that comes into so many discussions that I had with people down there and so many 
conversations.  And then it went on from there the number of different ways in which in a lot of 
ways I think their lives were just taken over from the Spanish to the Americans and continued to 
be controlled.  Particularly on the one hand we, you would get for instance our experience in 
Lowell was to say, well so many of these Hispanics they want food stamps and they're on 
welfare.  On the other hand you go to Puerto Rico and the folks will say, well the Americans 
came and took our island.  And they continue to do that.  They, I continue to go down to Puerto 
Rico once or twice a year and certainly things like the increased militarization of the island by 
the United States and by the Armed Forces of the United States does not in my estimation help 
the identity of the Puerto Rican at all in terms of who they are and what they are.  So I suppose 
we, I can remember some discussions that we had about this both in Puerto Rico and up here.  
And I think now my, I kind of, I guess when folks uh, when folks  up here say well they offer 
some of those great generalizations about the Hispanic and their work patterns, or whatever else, 
there is a certain sense in which I guess I end up saying at least in relation to Puerto Rico that it 
is our way, or the U. S. way of paying rent for the island for what we, what we used it for and 
what we continue to do down there and at the real expense I think, of the Hispanic identity.  
The other I guess more up to date here is I think obviously the Hispanics in Lowell today are, 
you know, they, they're different in a lot of ways than the Hispanics that I met and worked with 
in Puerto Rico, but they've also, you noticed they've also been here, I guess they've also been 
here now going on twenty or twenty-five years it would seem, a large number of them.  Because 
I remember like l967, 68, 69 that being a time when more and more Hispanics started coming to 
Lowell.  And I think one of the things that we just did a leadership training program with a 
number of, with about forty-five or fifty of them last uh, last April and May, with some eye to the
present political campaign, the election this year, was to begin to try and probe some capacity for
leadership, or some interest in the electoral process in a city like Lowell.  And I guess what I 
learned during that leadership thing, presentation that we did over at the center was that wow, 
they are still after twenty to twenty-five years just really intimidated by the structure and the 
process.  So many of the adults who might have the ability to enter into political campaign and 
be candidates, they feel real limitation because they don't understand any English, or they 
understand very little and so they feel really like their hands are tied because of that.  Then 
access to the system and to the structure, so little of it is translated for them.  When you think 
about you know, an example would be when you think of Lowell as a one newspaper town, they 
really have no way of accessing you know, what is going on in the, in the political forum if they 
can't, if they can't read the newspaper, or if one of their kids isn't going to read it to them on a 
regular basis.  Same thing about other mediums, radio or television, although there is some 
Hispanic stuff coming in here, there is no real, it's taken this long to begin any kind of 
programming in Spanish that they are going to be able to relate to.  So I think that struck me a 
great deal there in April and May, that that's still a real stumbling block.  
I remember one of those sessions we had a long discussion just about city government and 
school committee in Lowell.  And I don't think there was, there might have been one or two 
people in that room that actually understood what the Plan E form of government in the city of 
Lowell is for the city council and what the relationship is between school committee and the city 
council.  And  that I think, at least I had the sense that after twenty or twenty-five years the 
Hispanic community should be further along in participating in the political process and able to 
present a candidate to that process.
M:  What are the reasons for not?  I mean let me give you an example.  I mean that same 
problem has been brought up that they don't have and they're sort of flabbergasted by it and 
astounded that they don't have a candidate.  And some people claim that it's because the Puerto 
Ricans, it's a [unclear] culture that moves back and forth from Puerto Rico, here.  Back and forth.
I mean it is not like they say Cambodian or other ethnic groups who come here to set roots.  And 
for instance there were the Irish came, then the other groups came and they all sort of probably 
stopped at the Acre when they just arrived.  
S:  Sure.
M:  But then they moved ahead to somewhere else, I mean to buy their houses and everything.  
But now the Acre I mean it's predominantly Hispanic, Puerto Rican and they move to the island 
and another Hispanic relative takes over that.  They pass the apartment over.  And it is just like 
maybe Lowell is home away from home.  I mean maybe that is that relationship I think.  And I 
was talking to some other leaders, for instance Jose Nieves registers a lot of them to vote.  (S:  
Yeah)  Okay, he says he now registered a lot, but they don't go to vote, they don't vote.  (S:  
Umhm)  So they still don't know, like you said, they still don't know how the system operates.  
That they can make a difference by just voting,     by being a block, a voting block. 
S:  No, I think that certain (--)
M:  And they intimidate the language and also that there is this, both ways there is a lack of trust,
incompetence.  (S:  Umhm) Both ways it works you know.  Like cops don't go into very, they 
take a long time to go into the Acre.  So in Hispanic community, because they are afraid, you 
know.  And of course Puerto Ricans talk louder and they do a lot of, you know, they get angry 
and all this, that's what he was saying and they get intimidated by that.  And that is one thing etc 
(--)
S:  I can sympathize with them being intimidated by the political process, because I think it's, I 
think the political process is set up basically to intimidate anybody who is not in the inner circle 
of it.  I mean we have an organization of churches in the Merrimack Valley.  There must be at 
least twenty-five or thirty churches in Lowell that cooperate together with the ethnic covenant.  
(M:  Umhm)  And I mean we've gone down to city hall to either research documents which are 
public records, which are suppose to be available for the public record.  And folks will give you 
such a hard time about accessing those, that I can imagine somebody doing that who has a you 
know, some real deficiency in language and is already anxious about you know, their ability to 
present what they want, or to ask the right question, or to find the right person that is going to 
answer the question for them.  So I can, I can really sympathize with that.  I don't get the 
impression walking around places like city hall and other departments in the city that, well there 
have been added some bilingual folks to some of those departments, there's a number of them 
that still have no person who is there to interpret or to translate what somebody in Spanish, or 
Cambodian, or Laotian is going to ask them.
M:  The other also problem, or I mean that, that I would like to talk to you about is you 
mentioned the Ethnic Covenant.  It is a group of churches, right?  (S:  Umhm)  Different kinds of
churches and got together because they have a common concern for the social good of the 
community.
S:  Right.
M:  I mean what does it take?  This is very rare, I mean this Ethnic Covenant, this group.  What 
does it take I mean, to get all, I mean when all the churches get together and say hey, let's get 
together and do something good, I mean because, they said because the city was in a lot of 
trouble?  I mean it seems like all of you had the same problem.
S:  Well, basically our, I think um, (--)
M:  I mean this is religion sort of (S:  sure) getting into politics, I mean all different.
S:  The origin of it, or the, I should say the inspiration of it was out of Boston with Cardinal 
Medeiros and the other leaders, trying to present some,  a covenant in Boston to deal with the 
school issue in the late 70's.  And the ethnic covenant began in that kind of fashion.  I think 
around l982 three or four of us kind of said it needs some more power and it needs some more 
energy.  And we made a determined effort to go to I would say every church in Lowell, 
regardless of denomination, or of size, or of tradition, or whatever, to try to I think, bridge the 
gap between I'd like to say, I like to I guess to say we're bridging the gap between  people's 
perception, or particularly religious people's perception of charity and of justice.  There's a long 
tradition, a long history in most of the churches of being charitable, of doing good works.  There 
is not a long tradition that one can see as easily I think, of them promoting equal rights and 
promoting justice or empowering people.  It is always the sense of, well out of your abundance 
you should give a portion to somebody else.  So if times are good for you, give some to poorer 
folks in the city, or to Jamaica, or to Mexico, or to Ethiopia, wherever.  But no real sense, or no 
real attempt on the part of churches to analyze you know, why, particularly in Lowell I think, 
what we found when we began as just walking around the city and talking to people, is why there
is such a deplorable housing condition in this city.  I mean it was unbelievable for, mostly for 
Hispanics and for Southeast Asians.  I mean folks, too many folks living in a standard size 
apartment, because that's all that they can afford.  Folks living in apartments that are way 
underneath the code regulations.  Folks getting increases of rent almost every, you know, three 
months rather indiscriminately.  Landlords violating the law in terms of notification for rent 
increases and notification if somebody is going to be evicted.  So we found in, that was in 82, 83,
and 84, we found this whole, this whole sub-culture of folks just living in deplorable housing 
conditions and finding no way to address it, but working harder and working more hours to be 
able to pay the rent.  And it was with that kind of case that we went and talked with some of the 
churches.  And some of the churches in town had been helping some refugees from Southeast 
Asia to get settled and they were finding the same thing.  They would go around looking for an 
apartment for them and couldn't find them.  So I think what we tried and what we have thus far 
been somewhat successful in doing, is to get the different churches in different areas of the city 
to look at their neighborhoods, to look at the, at the, at the conditions and situations in which 
their members are living and say you know, what are some of the reasons why this goes on and 
what are some of the ways in which you can address it?  And it's been, it's a slow struggle for 
that kind of, that kind of analysis to be made.  And also it is a very slow struggle, it's been for us, 
to get folks to cross parish boundaries.  You can talk about the catholic community, which has 
about fourteen parishes in this city.  People identify with a parish church and with a 
neighborhood.  They don't think about you know, what's going on over at St. Michael's, even 
though it is in the same tradition, but that is in Centraville.  Or if you're in Sacred Heart, what's 
going on over in Pawtucketville at St. Jeanne D'Arc, because that's a French church.  So there's 
that, amongst the catholic community alone there is very little interaction and we found very 
little cooperation on issues. That, alongside of that, then what about between the catholic and the 
protestant community?  I mean right where we're sitting here there's the Sacred Heart Church.  
There's the Methodist Church down at the corner here, one block, 7th Day Adventist Church 
around the corner on the other side.  The Spanish community gathers down at [unclear] down, 
two or three blocks down on Gorham Street.  So the place is darted with places where folks get 
together in whatever, in varying sizes and numbers for worship on Saturday, or Sunday and had 
very little tradition of cooperating or working together on social justice issues, or particularly 
issues that dealt with why or how do you address a problem, the one that I mentioned, although 
there are a couple of other ones that stand out just as clearly as the housing one.  And I think 
breaking down some of those barriers and some of those walls for us has been a real challenge.  
And I, it's obviously becoming more of a challenge now, because we feel we can have at any one
gathering some folks who are speaking English, some folks are speaking spanish and then 
Cambodians, Laotian, Vietnamese.  And that's, for a city this size, that is a large mix of folk who 
are going to come together to try and address an issue.  And, and anybody knows, anytime you're
even going for, you've only got two languages operating how much more difficult that is to get 
folks to concentrate and to work on something when they're trying to listen across, across 
different languages.  So I think the covenant has been you know, somewhat successful in trying 
to focus on the housing issue.  We've began now as a group of churches and will hopefully in the 
springtime start building about more than thirty units of housing in the city.  We've worked quite 
a bit with the city administration to revamp their entire code department so that a number of the 
apartments are more, are supervised more often by the code department, and landlords are 
required to follow the law.  We've still been stymied by the state legislature and by our own 
representatives for four years running on a housing court, which is one of the real dilemmas for 
folks that say, well you should, you know, you should hold out against the landlord and the 
increase.  And if he has to go to court, go to court and get a judgement.  Well, it is nearly 
impossible in this area for somebody to go to court and get a decision from a judge about who, 
about who is in violation of the law, because there isn't, there is no housing court up here.  So 
you have a dispute, with between your disagreement between you and the landlord.  You go 
down to Lowell District Court, you could go down there at 8:30 in the morning and still be there 
at 5:00 in the afternoon and still not get the case heard, even though it was appointed for that day
that the case would be heard.  Simply because the rule of the court is that all criminal cases 
would come before housing cases.  So it's a crazy system.  So it's, you know, we tried a few 
times to, you convince somebody to do that, which means that person has to take a day out of 
work usually, for which they are not getting any pay.  And they are going to sit there all day and 
try and get a decision on their case, and no decision.  So they've lost a days pay and they're still 
not any closer to a, to a resolution of what the problem is.  So we've still (--)
M:  So then that touches from the other issue that you mentioned, is the question of justice.  (S:  
Umhm)  That do you think these people, I mean the Hispanic people, not only the Hispanic, but 
the people that are poor regardless of race, they have been exposed to poverty for ah, let's say for
more a generation or two, do they believe that such things work, that the justice system works?  
Or they do see it as being stacked against them?
S:  I would say that they basically perceive it as being stacked against them.  That would be my, 
my perception of how they see the thing.
M:  Because the man, this person going to court for the day and losing their days pays and 
coming out and you know, you say, well thank you for coming, you know, I'm sorry you didn't 
get.  (S:  Umhm)  He probably sort of like has a smile on his face to himself and say, I knew it 
would never work.  (S:  Umhm)  I mean, but you know, these people want me to come, but you 
know, there is no such thing that, you know the rich (--)  One of the thing is that, that you hear 
almost among the poor throughout third world countries, different countries, is that the rich 
control.  (S:  Umhm)  Okay.  I mean there is a close association between being rich and power.  
S:  Right.
M:  I mean that you don't have to go and take a political science course to know that.  (S:  
Umhm)  I mean, so they become very realistic about it and realize all the energy that is involved 
and they themselves.  So I mean, (S:  Sure) and that leaves your group, the Ethnic Covenant with
a big responsibility.  That you are fighting for housing, you are going bucking the system.  I 
mean you go to city hall and (--)
S:  Nobody likes to do, no, most folks I find in churches do not like to do that.  Do not like to ask
questions.  They do not like to make an analysis.  They don't like to investigate what a situation 
is, or what a problem is.  And because most of the time it means that they are going to have to 
meet power with power and we kind of shrink at that.  We're, we're not use to that.  To say we're, 
we're use to saying well, can you make a donation to give some food or some clothing to 
somebody, but you address somebody and you say, well this person has human dignity, they have
rights, they deserve equal protection under the law, therefore, okay, this should happen.  That's, 
that's the kind of language that even though it's part of the american constitution and what, and 
what the country is about, that most folks do not like to engage it.  And particularly I find 
religious people they're a little squeamish about, even though my reading of the scripture is that 
it's got an awful lot to say about justice and about the social context in which the community 
lives, very little of that gets translated into, or very little of that gets communicated.  It's  much 
more, a very much more personalized, individualized kind of, it's almost like a, it's almost like a  
spiritual capitalism that focuses very much more on the individual and not on the community.  
Very much more on the personal and not on the communal.  And therefore the public good, or the
common good, or the social good gets short changed in most of the, in most of the discussion.  
And I think that's, you brought up I think the other thing that stands out very clearly and 
probably in these last few weeks, it's ah, last few months is the education thing.  I mean you don't
have to do a, you don't have to do a huge analysis of the city to notice where the best schools in 
town are.  Where the newest schools in town are.  And you we can walk within, within a mile of 
here and see some of the worst schools I'm sure that you'll see anywhere in the country.
M:  That is what, as an outsider, this is something that I found out, I mean right away, is that the 
problem is there for everyone to see, it's obvious.  Not like you know, it's hidden.  No, it's not 
hidden.  That it's sort of covered up, or (S: Umhm) it's difficult to see.  No, I mean poor housing 
is poor housing.  No matter wherever you go you can see it.  (S:  Right)  And here you might say,
well maybe they'll paint the outside and fix a couple of windows to hide, you know, what's 
inside.  No, I mean it's there.  I mean the schools I've been through, walked through some 
schools that I didn't think they were schools, but I saw the little things the children make on the 
windows, and things, I mean they were all (--)  Once I walked into one and I couldn't believe, I 
mean the inside.  Then I have been told that some kids were being taught class in a janitor's 
closets in [unclear].
S:  I've seen that happen around town.
M:  Yeah, so that they had some Hispanic kids in the, in the closet you know, in the janitor's 
closet.  You know, here's where they're having classes for them.  And the question of that of 
housing.  It is so obvious the problems, the problems of schools is so obvious too.  The problems 
of drugs, (S:  Umhm) it is out, it's out in the open.  I mean it's hard not to notice, that's what I say.
S:  Yeah, and I think that's the, that's one of the battles that we've certainly, the Covenant has 
certainly had in the last four or five years.  And we have had it with a lot of downtown people.  
We have had this ongoing discussion and you see it nearly every campaign that's around, is the 
question about you know, who gets the most attention from the business community and the 
political community.  Is it the downtown, or is it the neighborhoods?  And I mean it is clear that 
this has become a good climate for business folks, which is fine and there isn't any, I don't have 
any problem with you know, the business sector, or the private sector being given an opportunity 
to rebuild the city from what it was say back in the early seventies.  The other side of that 
however is, which is a long tradition, a long standing tradition in New England is that what is, 
what responsibility does the business community have to the area, or to the social environment, 
or the context in which they are going to do their business?  And so there is this massive 
redevelopment downtown, all kinds of historical revitalization and preservation all over the 
place, but nothing, nothing happens in the neighborhoods.  Although every political candidate 
says that they're for the neighborhoods.  All, everybody that runs for city council says we want to
promote and revitalize our neighborhoods.  They never get around to it.                    
M:  What I hear a lot also about Lowell, this is be before I came, that there was some miracle 
going on.  You know, economic and development.  I mean the way they portrayed it was that it's, 
was great, that it was going you know, just off, just breaking at it's seams.  (S:  Umhm)  And 
when I came I was impressed, because I was brought downtown you know, by people I saw.  I 
says, "Oh this is beautiful", but the minute I walked two blocks on each side (S:  Umhm) it's sad. 
(S:  Umhm) I mean it is obvious that the miracle would you say, is not going to neighborhoods 
then, that's not going to the local people in Lowell.
S:  Right.  And it's one of the, it's one of the, one of the arguments that we've had a real hard time
making in Lowell.  I, because of my work I travel all over the country and down to the Carribean
and Latin America quite a bit and a number of communities have been very successful with 
making the social argument to the private sector, or a linkage argument.  Boston has certainly 
been very successful with it, of pointing out that if a developer is going to do such and such a 
project, a percentage of the project, or a percentage of the investment has to be similarly invested
in one of the neighborhoods, either in housing, or in a park, or in a school, or whatever.  And 
anytime we've brought that argument up in the city it has never gotten anywhere.  There has been
no attempt.  My estimation, at some points there was land given away in the city to attract 
business, which probably at a point was important, but if indeed the economic miracles has 
worked as much as everybody wants to tell us that it has and show us that it has, then it's time 
also I think, it's time also to demand some social responsibility from the folks who have, who 
have made the money, because it is certainly obvious around here that there are an awful lot of 
people who have made an awful lot of money in the last, in the last fifteen years.  And the 
standard of living and the level of living around here compared to other places in the country that
I go to is, is unbelievable.  I mean there are houses here in Lowell that you know, that are worth, 
they're probably worth about a hundred, say a hundred and thirty thousand.  Out in Duluth, 
Minnesota these days, up there in the iron range you could be buying them for about sixty-five 
thousand dollars, probably half the price.  A different time and a different era.  And so there is a 
lot of money around here and there is a lot of profit being made by people in real estate, by 
people in different parts of the business sector, by people now attracting all sorts of different, 
different new tourists kinds of attractions into the area and touting this as a revitalized tourist 
area.  There is a lot of that stuff happening and it has been good for business in the area.  And so 
I think it, I think it's very very far, very far down the road that we should have been addressing 
and still need to address that issue, of how much they should put back into the community.          
M:  I can't help but to, but listen to you talk.  You mention that to make the conclusion that there 
is a lot of class discrimination.  You mentioned the historic preservation of buildings and all this 
history sort of need history.  Sort of museum history and all this beautiful things and attracting 
tourism and all of this.  And that's, I mean it tends to be historic, a very middle class affair.  I 
mean the cuteness, it is just a little cut.  I mean I don't see people downtown going to the 
museums, or checking the Museum Brush with Art, or there or something.  I don't see people 
adoring a historic building (S:  Umhm) like middle class people do.  I mean you know.  I mean 
you know, saying, "oh that is a beautiful building".  Probably we can say that it's beautiful we've 
probably been exposed to architecture history, or have friends that do that, and so you value, I 
mean you see that.  But, I mean this whole thing has sort of been geared to one particular class, 
this whole economic boom or development.  I mean I don't see Hispanics or Laotians, or let's say
even Irish working class people working in the state park.  (S:  Right)  I mean for working class 
[unclear].  It is people who have good annunciation of English.  They make it a point.  (S:  Sure) 
It's clean, no accent.  We don't want an ethnic accent, yet they tend to celebrate ethnicity.
S:  Umhm, and that's a real, I think that's, that's, I, we ah, I suppose in the (--)  I do a bunch of 
work around here during the year with school kids from about, I don't know, about thirteen 
different schools.  There's three or four of us that have put on a musical every year with about 
one hundred and twenty kids in the cast.  And that brings us in contact with schools in every 
neighborhood and town.  And I think we've assembled a good crew of people that do a quality 
job.  And so for that reason I've always been attracted to the theatre and to the arts and to some of
the cultural events going on around town.  Certainly I think one of the things that bothers me 
quite a bit about it at the moment is the strange linkage that I see between, between the private 
sector and culture and between public officials and culture.  
M:  Public officials and culture, yeah.
S:  Yeah.  I think it always, it always bothers me a great deal when politicians get too near 
cultural development, because immediately, immediately I think of some kind of, some of the 
controlling factors that are involved there, some of the funding factors that are involved there and
why some of the decisions are made about what gets promoted and what doesn't get promoted 
when it's coming out of the public sector.  So you know, in some of the, where does that leave, 
you know, the cultural energy that's in the neighborhoods amongst the smaller groups of people.  
They're not in the mainstream, they're not the money people, they're not the high profile, high 
image people.  And so they're kind of relegated to their own areas in the city and they are not 
touched by a lot of that historical revitalization stuff that's going on, or promotion of culture and 
art that's going on.  It doesn't in my estimation, it simply does not reach them, because they're 
not, they're not up front, they're not out front where most of the, obviously most of the political 
folks want to be.
M:  Do you find it a problem you know, let's say, when you get a couple of those say French 
Canadians, or Portuguese, or Hispanics,  take them out of their neighborhood to go downtown to 
Lowell to sing to people that, that do not belong in their neighborhoods.  I mean, I mean for a 
lack of a better word I would say appropriated.  (S:  Right)  The culture is appropriated (S:  But 
[unclear]) and brought to another setting, because people don't want to go to this sort of dirty 
neighborhood, or this phobia about other people who are different.  They might knife you, they 
might steal you, so let's bring them over here for (--)                 
S:  Sure, I mean we've, they've (--)
M:  Do you find that to be also involved with politics?  
S:  Yes.  There's certain number of places that have been designated, or set up where you can, 
you know, where different groups are Hispanic or Cambodians, or Laotians, or Irish, or French 
Canadians go to perform for you know.  Whether they want to consider themselves cultural elites
or the whatever of the city, I mean that's what it is.  I mean if it doesn't, somehow if it doesn't 
happen between the Auditorium, the Hilton and the Museum Brush With History area down 
there, it doesn't seem like it should be happening.  And we still haven't really crossed that bridge 
in my estimation.  And I, I worry that, I'm not sure that some of the present directions are going 
to do that, at least as I see them.  I don't, I hear people still saying yeah, we want to get the stuff 
out of the downtown and into the neighborhoods and I, after three or four, four or five years 
being back here now, I don't see that step being made, or that bridge being built.
M:  Even any intention of doing it?
S:  Huh?
M:  Do you see any intentions of?
S:  I don't see, I guess I see something (--)
M:  You know, concrete intention, not only just talking, but (--)
S:  No.  No, I just see talking about it.
M:  Talking about it.
S:  No, there's, I think there's been some, there probably has been.  What I've noticed is there's 
been some attempt through some of the funding programs, some of the Arts Lottery Council and 
some of the grants to give some money to some neighborhood groups.  At least they are listed in 
there and that is probably one of the ways.  It's not, it's not obviously a very personal way and it 
is not obviously a culturally appreciative kind of way in which somebody is actually going to go 
and try and see the ways that other folks are different from them.  It's, it's simply, well here's 
some money so that we can help you to, you know, to, for you to develop whatever program that 
you wanted to develop.  (S:  Umhm) But it doesn't necessarily integrate it into what the city is 
trying to promote or revitalize.
M:  Could you explain a little bit more about your group, your  drama group?  You said that you 
have a group of twenty students, or people that you go through neighborhoods performing, or (--)
S:  Sure, one of my (--)
M:  You said that you have an interesting drama, right?
S:  Yeah.  One of my jobs is to, is to, I'm the coordinator, Director of Justice and Peace Ministry 
for the Oblates at Mary Immaculate.
M:  The coordinator of peace?
S:  And Justice Ministry for the Oblates of Mary Immaculate in, actually in the United States 
region.
M:  Do you know of an Hispanic priest called Roberto?
S:  Roberto (--)
M:  Let's see, he's from San Antonio.
S:  Penya.  Roberto Penya?  Roberto (--)
M:  He use to be the President of the Hispanic Association.  (S:  That's him)  He was in my 
hometown.  (S:  Oh yeah?)  He was an Oblate and he worked very hard.
S:  He was down when I was with him there about three or four  weeks ago.
M:  Oh, can you tell me where he is at?  The last time I saw him he was in a hospital.  He was 
beaten up badly.  (S:  Uhuh)  He had over sixty stitches all over his face.
S:  He is in Houston.
M:  He is in Houston now?  
S:  Umhm.
M:  I will write to him.
S:  He's in Houston.
M:  You don't happen to have the address in Houston right?
S:  No, but I can look it up for you.  (M:  Okay)  I have it a (--)  So one, I think one of the things 
we were faced with, the Oblates have a long, (M:  The Oblates of Mary Immaculate?) 
Immaculate, yeah. We have a long standing tradition in Lowell.  The Oblates have been here a 
hundred years, more than one hundred years, and staff seven, seven parishes in the city.  So we 
wondered about how we were going to do any kind of Peace and some Justice education with 
students.  Particularly we wanted to start with kids in the parochial school system of which there 
are ten schools, which is about oh, 2500 kids.  So I think the choice was, you are going to try and
go from classroom to classroom to classroom every year, which would take an awful long time 
and an awful lot of energy, or we would try to construct something that, a vehicle which would 
deal with all of those schools together.  And basically we chose the latter.  And the way we 
decided to do it was to find a musical, or a theatre presentation that we could prepare over a 
period of about five months, usually from November to April.  And would it be possible for us to
find a piece that we could expand the roles?  There are not a lot of, not a lot of theatre pieces that
are written for, written for kids who, that would accommodate the kind of numbers we wanted to 
deal with.  So we would take a piece, expand it so that we could have a cast of about one 
hundred and twenty.  And that would allow us to have some participation from every school, all 
of those ten schools, and at the same time prepare some materials so that the teachers could use it
in the classrooms during the year, either by (--)  We always have done musicals, so there would 
always be three, four, five songs that we would prepare tapes for that the teachers could use to 
teach the whole, all of the students.  And then involve as many of the students as wanted in all of 
the other things that you need for a good production.  Making posters, taking care of tickets, 
costumes, all of that sort of stuff.  And uh, so we did, let's see, our first effort was with a play 
called "Peace Child".  That was in l985, in '86 we did a piece called "Alice in Blunderland".
M:  "Alice in"?
S:  "Blunderland".  And in '87 we did the "Velveteen Rabbit".  
M:  "Velveteen"?
S:  Yeah.  So the first, the first two are basically a direct address on the peace issue.  "Peace 
Child" is an address about the, addresses the issue of Soviet,  U.S./ Soviet relations.  "Alice and 
Blunderland" addresses the whole question of nuclear um, nuclear waste, nuclear power, 
particularly of the missile type.  And "Velveteen Rabbit", we decided to take a more interior kind 
of journey and addresses the question I think, of self appreciation and self confidence and 
relation, and those being an important dimension of being able to be friends with somebody else. 
There are two things that stand out as important about what we've done with those productions 
for us.  First of all was to, I think to put on a good piece and to help kids to develop some of their
skills, because we take kids from second grade up to as far as the twelfth grade.  So that teaching 
them some skills and helping them to develop some of those skills was an important reality.  The 
other one equally important for us was to get neighborhood parochial schools across the city 
inter-relating with one another.  The parochial schools tend pretty much to follow along the 
parish lines in the city.  There is the Polish school, there is the Irish school, the French school, 
there is the, I guess those are the predominant ones.  And there are some mixes, but basically 
without ever really knowing what's going on with the other schools.  There is not again a 
tradition of them cooperating.  The principles would meet monthly, or bi-monthly, or something 
like that, but very little interaction amongst the kids, amongst the parents, amongst the teachers.  
And it doesn't seem like it made, it didn't seem (--
M:  Umhm.
S:  So that was an important part for us, to encourage that inter-relationship between the different
neighborhoods and the different ethnic groups.  
M:  The way you are describing the city of Lowell along parish lines, then it is possible that for 
instance, a French Canadian kid can be in school for one to six and not having met an Hispanic, 
or talked to him, or played ball with him?
S:  Very possible. 
M:  It's very possible.
S:  Still very possible.
M:  [Unclear]  So what you are trying to do is break that down.  (S:  Yeah)  To educate each 
other, for kids to know, hey, you know, they're here, we're here, we're catholic.
S:  Umhm.
M:  I'm saying, because I was sort of very surprised to know that there were anglo-catholics.  (S: 
Umhm)  I always thought of them as being protestant when I was a kid.  
S:  Sure.
M:  And when I first saw this family, he was an altar boy and I saw this family come to church.  I
thought that there was something wrong.  I mean I felt like they were intruding.  I remember that 
made a big impression on me.  Of course later I did find out that of course they're, (S:  Yeah) 
they are.  So you are trying to break that?  (S:  Umhm)  It sounds like a little bit of political 
theatre (S:  Right) what you are doing.  
M:  Folk political theatre. There is a lot of that, that you see in Mexico and the southwest.  And 
you see in other communities too, in other parts of the world that you're using that kind of a, of 
method of art singing using their own culture too.
S:  And that's why I think I don't, I've spoken with some people about that.  That's one of the 
things certainly that, I guess that  concerns me a little bit about Lowell.  Why that?  I guess I 
spent a year, I spent five years in a town up in Vermont, in Brattleboro, Vermont when I was first 
ordained back in '76 to '81.  One of the things that struck me about that town was there were at 
least, it's only about ten thousand people in the town.  There were three active theatre groups 
there.  And you could go to a presentation oh pretty much year round for four, or five dollars, or 
six dollars, whatever, something of that sort in that kind of price range.  Come to a city like 
Lowell that you know, obviously has as lot more people and it's a lot more ethnically diverse, 
and has you know, that each of which have rich tradition in theatre and in drama and in music, 
and you don't find a lot of that kind of stuff, or at least I didn't find it happening here.  And but 
not only didn't I find it happening, what is happening here, the good theatre and the good music I
think is too expensive for the average person.  It's just out of their reach. One of the things, one 
of the reasons that we wanted to get into working with the younger kids, but also at some points I
guess I've had some, I've had some  visions, or some dreams about that there, that some real 
neighborhood theatre groups would come to life in the city and yet I don't see them.  And it 
seems to me that there's got to be lurking out there and probably I haven't looked hard enough, or
haven't found it, there's got to be some in this mixture of people, in this diversity and richness of 
traditions, there's got to be some of that stuff out there, because it (--)
M:  Well it's very rich.  (S:  Yeah)  There is, I mean, material to use for a theatre group.  I mean 
by that, it's everyday life cultures.  (S:  Right)  There are problems that people can identify with.  
You know where that is?  I was sort of going over what you mentioned about the kinds of plays 
you had.  They are about national and international issues.  They sort of are very correlated with 
the National Vatican, or the Cardinal's Letters to be involved.  Is that where you decided, once 
the church decided that they had a responsibility to deal with justice and (--)
S:  That certainly was some of my inspiration for them.  That's certainly some of my, some of 
my, I think why I set out looking for a couple of plays like that.  I think, we've also wanted to, 
really would like to do a piece and then we're looking for something to do this year.  We'd like to 
do a cultural piece, an intercultural kind of piece.  I think we've focused, I mean I've poked 
around here and there looking for something that would deal with the Hispanic and the Anglo 
presence as it's reflected in Lowell, but at least a piece that would speak to that, or we've also 
tried to look at another angle and this is coming out of my own roots.  We've tried to find a piece 
and I have seen a number of them, but I'm not sure that I've found one that fits what we want to 
do, that speaks to the question of the Irish in America.  We've looked at a number of pieces on 
the Northern Ireland thing and that's, that's a real life situation that I think comes up with some 
strange misperceptions once it gets translated into the, into the American Irish psyche over here.  
And I would like to find if there is a way of which one can look at either the Irish in america, or 
something about one of the, a localized conflicts between cultures and and between traditions.  If
we could find a piece that would do that, we would like to do it in Lowell, because I think this is 
the right place to do it.  
M:  I mean this is definitely a place for the ethnic groups, where immigrants come to.  (S:  
Umhm)  You mentioned the Irish.  I was very struck by the similarity (S:  Umhm) between the 
Irish and Mexicans (S:  Umhm) in this country.  (S:  Umhm)  Both have come to this country 
because of maybe economic reasons.  
S:  Yup, for the most part.
M:  And live undocument, they have a lot of [unclear] undocumented workers.  And also the 
Irish, like the Mexicans, fill in a lot of the unwanted jobs.  In Boston it strikes me that I see in the
Irish newspaper ads that say, "need live in mate to take care of the children" a lot.  (S:  Umhm)  I 
mean it's just out there.  And also that they do a lot of the carpentry and electrician work.  They 
don't have a license or anything, but they are cheap to hire.  You know how expensive it is in 
Boston.  
S:  Sure.
M:  And I've never been exposed to that, only to Mexicans you know. And I lived on the border.  
And to see this happening even at the airport where the INS is sort of taking some of the Irish to 
the side.  (S:  Yup)  You know I see that with the Mexicans by the border patrol INS go through 
San Antonio literally picking them up.
S:  Sure.
M:  And I see that in Boston and I never had been exposed to, (S:  Huh) to something to seeing 
white people, white, (S: Yeah) being picked up.  It is always someone that looks brown or 
Hispanic.  So that caught my eye a lot, because my neighborhood is Irish (S:  Sure) and I see 
them there a lot.  
S:  I come from a very small town in Ireland.  The population isn't a thousand people I bet you.  I
bet you there are, there are twenty-five I guess, guys alone between the ages of eighteen and 
twenty-one or twenty-two who are all illegal, who all live within three houses of each other in 
East Boston, and all within the last you know, all within the last twenty-four months.  
M:  And it is a very difficult situation to be in, you are very vulnerable.  One is like, I've seen the 
same thing happen with Mexicans where Mexicans, that is discriminate against undocumented 
Mexican workers.  (S:  Sure)  I see it in Boston where they, in a very joking way, but joking is a 
way to express regretion, you accept it, is the way that they talk bad about the undocumented 
Irish workers.  (S:  Umhm)  Other Irish as well, you know.  (S:  Yup)  They are cheap.  Buy them 
a case of beer and they will paint the whole house.  (S:  Umhm)  You know, they are vulnerable, 
or you can always threaten them, you know, that your only going to pay so much, but then you 
say, "I want to report you" and so they accept whatever.  (S:  Yup)  That it's a very vulnerable 
situation for a human being to be in, because you can report those people to the government.  I 
mean when you are abused by this system you just can't go to them.
S:  And it's I think at the moment, in this area as I see it, it's not, I often wonder and I have often 
said that to some of the Irish guys in Boston and even some of the Hispanics in Lowell here who 
are illegal, who would not be from Puerto Rico, while you know, the economic boom is going on
here, I mean the climate is, it's not great, but it's okay.  But you know, if it ever went back to 
what it was in a city like Lowell, or in the area here, back to what it was ten, fifteen years ago 
when jobs were much scarcer than they are now, it could get very nasty.  It could get very hostile.
M:  Between ethnic groups?
S:  Well between ethnic groups, but also between those who are legal and those who are not 
legal, (M:  Yes, because one is going to work cheaper) because of competition for jobs.  And you 
know people turning on each other and stuff like that.  And that certainly happens from time to 
time in the work place.  If somebody feels like somebody who's working for less than what they 
are and working too fast, or too hard, the easiest way to do is to you know, call INS and tell them
that there, that there, you've got illegals working there.  And all of a sudden you know, there is a 
whole brew hall unveiled.  So.
M:  You did mention about your drama play and you said that you were trying to now, we talked 
about how you focused it on the national issues, (S:  Umhm) or internationals, but even 
something about Lowell.  Are you planning to do something about Lowell?  Become more local 
to highlight some of the problems?  (S:  If I could)  For instance, the education problem is very 
serious.  I mean I don't know what children think about it, but I know that they think and worry 
about it.  They might not be able to express it, but I mean having to read and hear and see on TV 
the problem in Lowell and the scandals in the towns.
S:  If I could find somebody, if we could find somebody to write you know, a show for us for this
year we would do it.  And we haven't done that.  There is some talent around that would address 
it, but I think that's one of the places where issues like the education issue needs to be addressed. 
And it probably can be addressed as well, if not better, by children. 
M:  To the community as well.
S:  To the community .  Then all of the debate that's going on and the haranguing that's been 
going on in the last number of weeks and months around here, that I think they would do an 
extremely good job if somebody could, or had the time to orchestrate their you know, their 
thoughts on it and their images of it.  I think it would be really worthwhile.  And like I said, if we
could find somebody to do that I would love it in the next couple of months, because we are 
getting close to the time.  December and January when we actually need a text and need a show 
and as of the moment we don't have one.  
M:  As coordinator of the Peace and Justice Ministry you would assume that you were, you were 
and and currently are I mean, sort of training many the political tactics.  By that I mean, I'm sort 
of basing it on the priest back home where the Archdiocese, or the (Patrick Flores) the priest are 
very political and organized in each parish.  (S:  Right)  They go to city hall.  They were trained 
by, in [unclear] tactics.  (S:  Right)  You know, how to disrupt a symphony (S:  Umhm) with 
people, how to get more money from city.  And also they have COPS.  Citizens Organize 
[unclear], which is very powerful in San Antonio (S:  Umhm) and in other parts where they even 
endorse candidates.  (S:  Right)  Candidates have to come and address them.  (S:  Umhm)  I 
mean in those tactics it seems that, were you sort of training that too much?  
S:  Yeah.   (M:  Or not in train, you were?)  That's pretty much what we, I mean that is what a 
large amount of my background is in.  Although not as, I'm pretty familiar with the COPS and 
the IAF stuff, and the Olinsky organizing methods, both in Texas, but also in, down in the New 
York area in Brooklyn and there's also some other people that work on it down in, the same style 
out in San Fernando Valley, in California, but (--)
M:  You mentioned IAF?  What does that stand for?
S:  Basically that's the Industrial Areas Foundation, (M:  Umhm) which is the organizations, the 
corporation that Olinsky followers set up.  Actually he may have set it up in conjunction with 
them before he died.  I am pretty sure, I'm sure that's the way it happened.  But I guess yeah, my 
training and my interest is in that area where the mission of the church interacts with the society. 
So it's not very, I don't spend a lot of time on matters that are internal to the church, although I 
spend some time on those issues.  A larger amount of my time is what are the, what is going on, 
what kind of quality of life issues in the community need the church to be present in order to 
speak a word of some kind of biblical value into those situations, whether it is housing, 
education, or crime, employment, any of those kinds, in those kinds of areas.  Immigration, 
refugees, foreign policy issues, but not a lot of that, but some amount of that.  So it's an attempt 
to try and make what the, you know, church teaching and the biblical tradition make that come 
alive in the society, in what's going on.
M:  So it's religion in practice (S:  Umhm) what you are interested in put it into.
S:  Yeah.  And finding as you mentioned, finding I think, finding and developing imaginative and
creative ways in which the church community can speak to those issues.  It's on the one hand, it's
fine to, it's important to have a document like the pastoral letter of economic justice for all, 
which the bishops developed and wrote last year, the mission of the church in the U. S. society, 
but then how do you actually take it and make it work?  
M:  Now in the past there has been several problems that priest in your situation have (S:  Uh 
huh) confronted very seriously, life threatening, (S:  Umhm) is that in essence the priest now is 
getting the people organized to challenge the political system (S:  Umhm) that is there and that 
rubs the wrong way for many politicians. 
S:  Right.
M:  Even catholics (S:  Umhm) that are in power, or they claim to be catholic, right?  And some 
towns priest get beaten up, priest get kicked out.  Sometimes people put a lot of pressure on 
priest and they tell people not to go to his service, (S:  Right) or they won't give them credit, or 
they can reclaim their car, or their living room.  They, you know, there's a lot of pressure that 
they get out sometimes.  The pressure is so great that they get transferred, move, because they 
said the wrong thing.  I mean what according to in the pulpit, or in their homily.  (S:  Sure, that's)
Do you find, do you foresee that?  Have you found that to be the case in with you, that (--)     
S: I don't think so.  Well I don't, because, for two reasons basically, is that I am not specifically 
attached to the pastoral ministry of a parish, while I live here at Sacred Heart I am not 
specifically on the staff of the parish.  I think a pastor doing my kind of work has a much more 
difficult road to hoe, because on the one hand he has got all of the institutional demands that are 
out there on a parish in terms of keeping it solvent.  And fund raising and keeping buildings 
maintained and keeping people coming to church, maintaining membership and taking care of all
of those needs.  I don't have that responsibility and therefore in a place like Lowell I like, I work,
I'm more likely to work with a group of parishes than I am with a single parish.  And more likely 
to work with people who are interested in the area that I am working in and therefore have some 
commitment and solidarity to doing it.  Therefore, that because I have that specific ministry with 
the Oblates it gives me a great amount of freedom.  And also I get criticized from time to time 
for issues that I am involved in and for causes, and for things that I promote, but I figure that's 
part of the job.  I mean if folks don't agree, that's fine.  I don't expect them to agree with 
everything that I, everything that I may think, or everything that organizations that I work with 
may want to promote.  I think that's what, you know, that's what makes for a good healthy public 
debate on issues and I think is what's, you know, that's seriously lacking.  That's really seriously 
lacking in a city like Lowell.  
There is, I remember back four or five months ago I was talking with some friends of mine and 
would have loved for this political campaign to create some kind of forum where the issues were 
seriously debated by candidates and the electorate, some public forum where there is a real 
debate about the different issues involved.  That doesn't happen enough around here.  It doesn't 
happen in my estimation enough in the churches, it doesn't happen enough in the city as a whole.
And there is a kind of, a certain kind of lethargy about the whole thing.  You look at, I mean I go 
to San Antonio there fairly frequently.  I was there just a couple of weeks ago.  And you look at 
the kind of energy and anger and power in an organization like COPS has, or what similar type 
organizations down in the valley.  They've got, you know, what always strikes me about those 
places is in that it is mostly poor people and so they have reasons to be angry and they know 
why, you know, they're hurting, but they have a great sense of solidarity and commitment to each
other.  And so therefore they have great courage and determination to accomplish something, 
whether it's in the political process, or whatever.  Places like Lowell I think sometimes there isn't 
that kind of energy and that kind power, because there's too much money around here.  And there
isn't any real anger and there isn't any real sense of folks feeling well, you know, there isn't any 
real courage or determination to say, you know, quality of life issues need to be addressed, you 
know, let's clean up the school system.
 
M:  You are aware in San Antonio the Mexican American Center formed by the catholic church, 
right?  (S:  Yup)  I mean that serves as an intellectual think tank (S:  Right) for the organizers for 
even cultural events.  They sponsor neighborhoods, or painters, or sponsor (S:  Uh huh) things 
like that.  Being the fact that Lowell is so rich in it, you know, different groups and everything 
that a center like that, like an intercultural center which gives the impression of being very 
legitimate.  You know, we do school work, some research, we have priest, we have teachers from
the community (S:  Yup) and we sort of sit down and think over the,  what are the political 
issues.  And we have people that come to talk.  I mean, we have music, we have you know, very 
diverse, so you won't be attacked at saying you are just a bunch of radicals.  
S:  Sure.
M:  I mean, something like that.  I mean for instance, San Antonio has helped to give a lot of 
credibility to whatever they do.
S:  Yeah.
M:  Because they say well, we brought professors here to lecture. You know, sort of just say that 
we're not just a bunch of (S:  Yeah) disenchanted citizens.  (S:  Umhm)  I mean that also helps I 
believe, to, when you get something like that going.  And there is nothing like that in Lowell, 
right? 
S:  No.  Something like that, there is room for something like that in Lowell, given (--) 
M:  There is a need for something like that?
  
S:  Oh yeah.  I think there is.  For some real solid attentiveness to the cultural, you know, to the 
cultural traditions and heritages groups in the area.  And that is not really happening.  I mean at 
least I don't see it happening.  It's, there are, how you would orchestrate it, that would be a real 
challenge, because you would be dealing with so many different cultures and so many different 
traditions.  But how does one actually get in touch with that?  And how, you know, where is there
room in the city, or where is there places in the city where that discussion and that handing on of 
those traditions continues, or that communication of them.  I don't see it happening a lot.  There 
isn't any real good centers for that.  And that's an important, that's an important dimension
(M:  Also that) of the live of the community, especially this community.
M:  I believe that Lowell complicated more things than San Antonio, because of the different 
ethnic groups.  There you have historically has been Mexican.  (S:  Umhm)  And here you have 
so many ethnic groups, that how do you, like you said, get them to understand each other?  (S:  
Right, sure)  From one point to another.  I mean, just talk, having them in a room is so very 
difficult, you know.
S:  Umhm.
M:  That that's what's also so unique about Lowell.
S:  Yeah.  And we just had an Ethnic Covenant event there last Saturday night.  I'm sure it is the 
first time I have been at an event in Lowell where we had five or seven pieces of entertainment 
afterwards that covered, it was Cambodian, Vietnamese, French Canadian, Italian, Irish.  Five 
different presentations either of comic, or music, song, or dance.  Would usually be 
predominantly an Irish presentation, or a French Canadian presentation, or a Polish presentation, 
or a Southeast Asian event.  And that kind of stuff doesn't happen often enough, for my, for my 
judgement anyway.
M:  But then again we find ourselves sort of in a situation where you mentioned a little bit about 
the politics of culture.  You have events you know, that are taken away from a neighborhood and 
brought to a downtown to a neutral setting for them to be done.  And you mentioned your 
skepticism when politics, or politicians get involved (S:  Umhm) in culture and in cultural 
events.  So I mean, the whole thing about culture is, it's also very political.  (S:  Sure)  I mean, 
one thing I've noticed this, okay, my own personal views, you have the National Folklife Festival
here and  people, outsiders tend to view this as something beautiful, or cute.  You bring them 
someone who can play the guitar, someone that can make something (S:  Umhm) and you 
celebrate their culture.  
S:  Umhm.
M:  But not their social conditions.  
S:  Right.
M:  Where they find themselves, tend to view the folk as being happy people.  (S:  Umhm)  And 
you don't want to show the pain and the suffering.  
S:  Right.  Yup.
M:  That seems to be a case that I have found here.  (S:  Umhm)  I mean not only here, but we 
find that all over the United States.
S:  Sure.
M:  But then it's different like let's say, well I went to a festival here, the Puerto Rican Festival 
(S:  Umhm) and that was community organized, community funded (S:  Right) by them, only by 
them.  Now they say that the politicians are coming into it to do politics.  There were some 
politicians there.  
S:  Sure, I am sure there was.
M:  There had never been.  You know this is the fifth or seventh year, but it's the first time they 
showed up (S: Umhm) to talk and eat Hispanic food and see, talk to the people.  And one of the 
worries is that it might be, the whole festival might be appropriated (S: Umhm) once they offer 
them funds, city funds, here's $5,000.
S:  Yeah.  Well that's (--)
M:  And then they don't, they find themselves the organizers sort of torn apart.  Do we keep it to 
ourselves, or do we accept the money?  Now when you accept money, what kind of (--)  
S:  What are the conditions?  What are the, what strings are attached to it?  [Laughs]
M:  See, so that's, that's a reality that (S:  Umhm) they find themselves in. 
S:  Well it's always, I mean it's always astounding to me I think that certainly some of the great, 
some of the great writers and some of the great theatre folks and musicians and stuff always have
difficulty.  They always have difficulty with, in the political environment.  And we you know, 
always point to maybe some of the problems that some of the great artist in the Soviet Union 
have and therefore they want to liberate themselves from that and come to America.  We don't 
spend near enough time analyzing how they're controlled by the political system over here, and 
how you know, how some, how the politics can you know, has, can have such a detrimental 
effect on the development of a culture.
M:  Yeah, to me I find it at times very difficult to accept the fact that you can give asylum to a 
dancer right away within twenty-four hours and it's fine, okay, but you can't give asylum to some
Salvadorian refugees, or Guatemalan refugees, that their lives are threatened, their existence is 
threatened, not their performance, their art.
S:  Right.
M:  But it's life in this world. 
S:  Well thank you very much.
M:  Hey well, thank you.