UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  MANUEL BARROS, SR.
CONDUCTED BY:  BARBARA FERTIG
DATE:  NOVEMBER 1987
B = BARROS
F = FERTIG
LFP-BF-A003
B:
He ah, these fellows were in cahoots with him, like you know.  (F: uh-huh)  And they 
were relatives or something like that, so they paid him off and they, they burnt, they burnt the 
whole bread.  It happened I think in two days, two times in a row that the bread was burnt.  So 
my father--he had to come--there's, there was another baker.  He had to get like fifty breads off 
one, (F: uh-huh) fifty breads off another, (F: yeah) or something like that.  And, they did it twice 
or three times and then my father closed.  Closed the bakery.
F:
And then what did he do? 
B:
He went back to the mill.  I used to--them days you, you bring lunches, and I used to 
bring the lunch to my father.  Used to call it the Massachusetts Mills where (F: uh-huh) I think 
it's where the Lowell, the old post office is.  Right across the Hilton, I think.  (F: oh yeah, yeah)  
I think, (F: yeah) I think that's the Massachusetts-- you know I kind of-- (F: yeah, uh-huh)  He 
worked in the Appleton and he worked in the Massachusetts Mill.  (F: uh-huh)  I used to bring 
lunches to him there, you know.  My mother used to make a lunch and I used to bring the lunch 
to him.  Then he got, he got sick.  He, he got ah, pneumonia.  
F:
From working in the mill?
B:
No.  He, he got--no, he, he--I don't know what happened there.  I think uh, uh, I think 
he was still working there.  I think he was still working.  And he got sick.  (F: uh-huh)  You 
know, he got sick and uh, and then he had a toothache or something like that and he, he was 
getting better.  Doctor says "I can't take you to--until ah, until ah you feel better."  So he, he 
thought he felt better, he had his tooth pulled and he, he got a relapse, (F: oh!) and he shouldn't 
have done it, (F: yeah) shouldn't have done it, but--  [pause: 5 sec.]
F:
So then you didn't go right into a bakery from, from your father's bakery?
B:
No.  My father already had, (F: had l--) had left, he had left it all.  (F: yeah, mm-hm)  
Because he come over here and then the mills were closing.  More mills were closing and he ah, 
he, he got out.  He got out and uh--  A lot of times things happen, you don't know--I mean I, I 
don't know what hap-, what ah happened, I don't know what he, he, th-th, wh-what ah, I think he,
they paid him, they bought his partner, part of, you know.  (F: uh-huh)  Because he was no baker.
He was a salesman.  (F: ah-huh)  And see, they all, and they had to, when they emerged with this 
one here, they had two or three of them outside.  (F: uh-huh)  They'd been out there for years, 
see.  (F: uh-huh)  So ah, he, he just left, took his money and left and then he got, like I say, he got
sick and ah, he got pneumonia and he died.
F:
Did--growing up did you want to be a baker?  Di-was that your--
B:
I uh, always had [chuckles] intention to be a baker.  (F: mm-hm)  Because I, I, I 
always worked my, with my father and I worked with this, worked uh-- [tells someone who 
interrupts that the person he is looking for has left through the back door]  So we ah--what are 
we talking about?
F:
Oh!  Ah, we were talking about you wanting to be a baker [both talk]
B:
Oh yeah.  Well, I used to deliver bread house to house like I told you.  (F: mm-hm)  
The baker, which the one of these partners--they had five partners here, see.  (F: uh-huh)  I was 
working here and, and I uh, I used to work on the counter, and then a baker got sick, I come 
inside and started to read, you know, formulas and started to make cakes.  And ah, then one of 
the partners went away to the old country.  He says "I'm going to go to the old country".  He says
"I want you to bake inside and do, do the, the route," (F: mm-hm) you know.  So I started to learn
the route, you know.  And root or route, whatever you call--
F:
Whichever.  (B: wh-I, I don't know--)  I know what you mean.
B:
Yeah.  What do they call it, root, huh?
F:
It would depend--you know, it really depends on which part of the country you're 
from.
B:
Yeah?  Oh.
F:
Yeah.  [both talk]
B:
Well, anyways.  I'll, I was starting to deliver house to house something--  [both laugh]  
When I started to deliver house to house, I met this fellow, he, he was ah, ah, well in them days 
you call them like a section man in the mill.  There used to be the Lowell Silk Mills in Lowell, 
see.  (F: uh-huh)  And he was a section man, you know.  He's ah, very, very nice.  His name was 
Lawrence, Frank Lawrence.  And ah, I says to him--he says to me "What do you intend to be 
when you grow up?"  When--I says "I'll never grow up.  I'm going to be short."  He says "When 
you get older."  He say--I says "Well, I want to be a baker."  He says--I say "I want to own my 
own bakery."  He says "Don't wait until you're too old."  So I says "Okay."  So I made up--I don't
know how the heck it was.  I was work--oh, then I worked two, three years in ah [Brockeman's], 
a little longer probably, in [Brockeman's] Market.  (F: mm-hm)  They had a baker shop.  A big, 
big bakery.  And I, I was one of the top bakers there, you know.  And ah, I was working there and
ah, it goes up Gorham Street, it goes up Gorham Street and there's a empty baker.  The baker 
shop closed.  I went inside to the--ask the guy "I'd like to start a bakery."  He says "Okay."  He 
says I'll do this, I'll do that, I'll make it bigger for you.  I say "How much you going to charge 
me?"  He says "Well, sixty dollars a month," you know for rent.  I says "Hmmm."  I says "Well, 
I'll see."  This guy across the street had a bakery and he says "What do you want to do first, open 
a bakery?"  I says "Yeah."  "I'll sell you mine."  [both laugh]  So, so ah I get in business for a 
thousand dollars.  [both laugh]  So I bought the bakery, you know.  I bought the baker shop and 
then I got, which was very, very important, was the sugar ration.  You know, you had to have a, a,
a ration?
F:
Yeah, I remember, I remember. Going for ration coupons, yeah.
B:
Yeah.  So I had, I had a chance to buy it.  Sugar ration.  And his baker shop was named
Veterans' Bakery.  That's a good name.  I says "Oh, that's a good name."  See.  So I got--I 
couldn't buy it.  Because I had to be a, a veteran.  I was not a veteran.  I was deferred so many 
times.  I had deferment tickets [unclear]  (F: hmmm)  Because I was a, claimed essential.  I 
wanted to go.  (F:mm-hm)  And they wouldn't let me go.  This is gospel truth.  I went to the um, 
oh it's called the board, draft board.  (F: dra--yeah)  The draft board.  I say "I want to go."  I say "
I want, I want to come back and I want to get a good job.  I want to be a baker in a, in a hospital 
or in a government hospital and get all the benefits--no benefits at that time you know-- (F: yeah)
get all the benefits and every thing like that.  It can't--you're claimed essential.  You're 
claimes--the boss, the owner of the b-the boss or the owner of the [Brockeman's] Market said 
"All the bakers are gone.  The on--you're the only one now left there," he says, "and a, a couple 
more, and we need you."  We, we, y-, y--the people working in ah, ah in the places, they need, 
they need bread they (F: mm-hm) need this and that.  (F: mm-hm)  You had to have somebody to 
make bread for them, you know.  (F: mm-hm)  So, I didn't--I couldn't go, see.  So, there I was.  
You asked--I get mixed up there a little bit now.  What were you talking about first?  When you--
F:
Oh I was just--we were, we were talking about you going into the bakery business. 
B:
Yeah.  (F: yeah)  And then, that's when I went up, I went up I says "I--wh-I can't go."  I
went up to and I asked the guy about the ration I--but I couldn't go where I was no veteran.  So I 
had to call my brother-in-law, you know, and make him a partner.  (F: uh-huh)  But it was just a 
partner in name.  I (F: mm-hm) put it in a, a lawyer's office.  (F: mm-hm)  I had to make him 
fifty-one percent owner, (F: wow) and I was forty-nine percent (F: uh-huh) owner, see.  (F: 
mm-hm)  So I could get the thing or else I would never get into business.  (F: mm-hm)  And so, 
from there, after a certain time, my brother-in-law, he wanted to go out.  He wanted to--he went 
into the Marines.  No, he already h- he already had--this is already come back.  Yeah, he ca-he 
came back because he was wounded.  He wanted to go into post office, you know.  (F: mm-hm)  
And then he couldn't get into post office.  Then he opened up his own business, oil business.  Th-
so I stayed with the whole, the whole shebang, but I already had so many years that-- (F: 
mm-hm) I think the sugar ration was already gone.  You (F: mm-hm) didn't have to. Or I was 
established that I could get it, (F: mm-hm) you know what I mean.  (F: mm-hm)  I could the 
thing so--  And I stayed and then one day this guy approached me.  He wanted, he was 
going--this baker shop was, was falling apart, see.  I was on Gorham Street.  This baker shop was
kind of--the guy couldn't handle it.  (F: mm-hm)  He's a good s--
F:
This is the Lusitania.
B:
Yeah, the Lusitania.  Couldn't handle it because he didn't know br-cakes and things 
like that.  All he knew was the, he was a bread baker and delivery, good delivery man.  (F: 
mm-hm)  Good uh--so he asked me if I wanted to buy it.  So I bought it for sixteen thousand 
dollars at that time.  (F: mm-hm)  So it must be twenty-nine, thirty years ago or suh-in, in that 
vicinity.  The day I bought it--no, a week after I bought it somebody approached me, wanted to 
give me twenty-five thousand dollars for it.  I would have made six thousand dollars.  I says to 
my wife "What do you say, would you make six thousand dollars, would I--"  She says "No."  
So, so we kept it, so we kept it, we kept it all that time.  (F: mm-hm)  But she worked, my wife 
worked side by side.  And some people say well, she was bossy.  But I h-had to have somebody. I
had to have somebody push me, and (F: ah-huh) she, she's a pusher.  (F: ah-huh)  That's why I 
never handle the money.  That's why (F: uh-huh) we have what we have, see.  (F: mm-hm)  
Because ah she's, because she was that way.  If she was too easy or she was the type that (F: 
mm-hm) went out and spent money on clothes and this and that, you know, but she was never the
type.  (F: mm-hm)  If I say we're going to save ten, she'll save twenty, you know.  So, that's--But 
ah we never went without.  We never traveled, but we always had a, a Cadillac.  We always had 
a--  I have a junk for my ah little city car, like you know.  (F: mm-hm)  But we got a Caddy in the
garage.  (F: mm-hm)  And that--if you travel, you spend four thousand, three thousand.  You go 
four times, you got the price of a Caddy.  (F: yeah)  See, so the people that travel haven't (F: 
uh-huh) got a Caddy.  The-th-- (F: uh-huh) we have a Caddy.  (F: uh-huh)  That, that's the only 
thing--that's the enjoyment we had out of life.  (F: uh-huh)  And we have a good family so we 
ah--that's what--she doesn't like to travel.  And well, just like now an airplane is tipped upside 
down someplace, you know.  (F: yes, yeah, yeah)  Ah, when we, we went to Jamaica once, we 
went to Las Vegas three times, we went to ah Bermuda three times.  And then after that we were 
tr-airplane, DC-10 and the motor fell off of it. (F: yeah)  DC-10 this--  Uh we, we went to, the 
last time we went to Jamaica, yeah, the last trip we made with Jamaica, coming back we was on 
a DC-10, and she didn't say one word until we hit Lowell.  She was afraid, (F: yeah, yeah) she 
was afraid.  So, she says "You can go if you want to.  I-I don't want you to go, but if you want to 
go, go.  I don't want to--I'm scared.  What's the sense of me going on--ah, ah I'm scared and I, (F:
mm-hm) I don't feel good and--"  but she hasn't, she--I says "You don't feel g--"  She hasn't felt 
good for a long time, too, she's ah, she's been sick. 
F: 
Well--
B:
Keep asking me more.
F:
Yeah!  Well um, let me ask you about something that isn't just about you, but it, there 
still is a Portuguese band in Lowell, is that right?  Are any of (F: yeah) your friends in it?
B:
No, I don't--ah that, see, it's a, it's a different ah generation, (F: uh-huh) you know, 
that, that come in.  (F: uh-huh)  And ah, ah I wouldn't know.  (F: okay)  See, I wouldn't (F: 
uh-huh) know--I know there is a band.  (F: uh-huh)  I know there is a band.  But ah, it's a 
different eh group.  See, all my group is ah, I kn-once in a while I'll see them in the baker shop, 
"Hi, hiya Barry, hi, hi."  And they, they'll wave at me, (F: uh-huh) you know.  They'll say "You're 
still at it.  Gee, you're still at it."  I says, I says "What do you want me to do, hang round 
barrooms?  I says "That's probably why I, I'm seventy-four, I'm still hanging around."  I says "I 
don't--"  A-it's a different--  I know they h--they still, they still have a band.  I even joined a band.
I started, first I started with a violin, (F: uh-huh) and then gave that--ah c--the bakery business 
didn't leave me--ah, eh, y-I--you're married to it.  (F: uh-huh)  You're home and somebody'll say 
"Gee, I forgot a birthday cake couldn't you--" you know, (F: oh, yeah) this and that, see.  Ah, 
you're home Sundays uh say "Jesus, ah, you know, my, my son--" ah this and that.  In them days, 
you know.  In th-I'm talking about them days.  (F: uh-huh)  Now there's a baker shop ah, 
eh--Demoulas has, you know, they have birthday cakes, they have (F: yuh) this and that.  But, we
were like a community bakery, you know, and uh s-I, I'm, I was home, and my wife never said 
no.  
F:
So people would call you at home--
B:
Call me at home.  Th-and, and I'd, I, I'd, I'd be Sunday sometimes you eh, eh--make 
them, come down and make a cake.  You know, I'd always have some cakes baked off, you know.
(F: uh-huh)  Or if I didn't have a baked off, I'd have a sheet cake.  I'd cut it in half and put it 
together, and decorate it and--I never said no.  My wife never said no, you know.  (F: uh-huh)  So
we'd always ah, always have a cake.  Even when we worked for the other fellow.  I used to live 
three or four houses u-up--  They'd go up my house and get me to make a cake, (F: uh-huh) you 
know.  Uh, even bir-wedding cakes I've gone as far as make uh--get up, get up early on a Sunday
morning, and make a wedding cake, and, and cool it off and deliver it.  Uh, m-decorate it and 
deliver it, (F: mm-hm) you know.  
F:
Who made your wedding cake when you got married?
B:
I made my own.  [laughs]
F:
You made your own.  [laughs]
 
B:
But I mean, ah, see, see, decorating--see when I used to decorate a cake, I 
used--decorating it--they used to consider pretty good.  But the way people decorate a cake now, 
it makes my decorating look sick, you know what I mean.  Because it, it's more fancier, it's (F: 
uh-huh) more thing, it's more, you know, it is--uh, uh, uh it is.  Like my, my daughter-in-law, she,
she went to school to learn how to decorate.  My son, too.  They, they'll (F: uh-huh) decorate a 
cake that--I, I don't want to decorate a cake, you know (F: uh-huh, uh-huh) what I mean.  I don't 
feel like decorating a cake there, because mine--you could decorate a cake any old way.  "Oh, 
jesus," people say, "ah--" they--you know.  They didn't see so many.  But now, they go here, they 
go to, ah there's so many places they go and they see wedding cakes all over. (F: right) And they, 
they'll see this and they'll see fountains and everything like that, y--  (F: yeah)  I used to make my
own one time with steps, I made a steps, you know.  But i-it was steps.  (F: uh-hm)  But I mean 
ah, if they make a steps they're going to make it l--artistic, you know what I mean.  (F: yeah, 
yeah)  Eh, th-, because there's so many around and they, they look at this and they look at that, 
and they better theirs all the time, see.  (F: mm-hm)  So mine makes them look--theirs make 
mine look sick.  [both laugh]  And I admit it, you know.  (F: mm-hm)  I admit it, see, I admit it, 
you know.  Because in them days you could decorate a cake ah (F: mm-hm) any old way, you 
know.  (F: mm-hm)  
F:
Well, is there anything else that I should know about the Portuguese neighborhood 
here, that you know? 
B:
Well, years ago the Portuguese people that came from the old country, they wanted 
their kids to work.  You know.  
F:
They didn't want them to go to school you mean?
B:
The majority of them.  (F: yeah?)  But there was some that say "My--want my kids to 
get--have an ed--my boys or my (F: mm-hm) children to have an education.  (F: mm-hm)  See?  
Now, nowa-, nowadays they still have some that come but they want, they haven't, they, they, 
they're going to school, night school.  (F: uh-huh)  They go to night school.  There are still some 
that are hungry for, for money. They want to--they say "Well, what am I going to do?  Go to 
college and spend this and that, and I'm not going to get nothing out of it."  But there is--they, 
and they are some that came from the Azores and Madeira, or something like that.  They had 
schooling and they went right into school, a school system.  They have uh--  [yells]   What's, 
excuse me, what's that Laura's Inn that ah--  (woman in background: It's a bilingual program.) 
Bilingual.  (F: mm-hm)  They go bilingual.  And they, they--also there was a fellow that came 
from Port--from Madeira.  Came from Madeira Island.  He was a, a musician.  He even had his 
own band.  (F: mm-hm)  And he went into the school system, he took out a--I think he, he's--I 
don't know if he's Americanized already.  (F: mm-hm)  He's been here for quite a while.  Both 
him and his wife, and they're teaching music.  Now that's two that I know.  (F: mm-hm)  And 
then, and these other bi-bilingual, she says?  (F: yeah)  They, they, they teach, they, they help the 
kids--
F:
They help them to learn English?
B:
Learn English, yeah.  So, so that's--
F:
Your father and mother must have wanted you to go to school, right?
B:
They couldn't--they, they couldn't--
F:
They couldn't?
B:
There was no--
F:
So you were--
B:
There was no, no money.  There was no money around.  I, I worked, I worked when I 
was going to school.  I used to deliver bread before I went to school and I used to deliver bread 
(F: yeah) after school--  (F: yeah)
F:
But you went to school.
B:
I went to schoo--I went as far as the--I took, I got as far as the one year in night 
school, night high.  (F: mm-hm)  I graduated from the Butler School, they call it, the ninth grade.
(F: uh-huh) And I went as far as uh, I went um, one more year in, in Lowell High and then they 
didn't have no money to, to graduate.  I went two years, (F: mm-hm) night high.  They didn't 
have no, no ah money to--the school systems, you know with the teacher--  (yeah)  And, and the 
school stopped,               
F:
The school stopped?
B:
Yeah.  So I, I would have, I would have graduated the night school.  (F: ah-huh, 
ah-huh)  One more--a few more months.  (F: mm-hm)  It started then ah something happened 
ah--  (F: ah-huh)  Then it--and then I think they opened up again and I says "Aw."  You know, 
you get dis-(F: mm-hm) disgusted, you know.  (F: mm-hm)  But ah thank God I didn't, I didn't 
need it, you know what I mean.  But ah--and I only had one, one boy; we only had one boy, 
Manny, you see.  And uh, we, we tried to force him to go to school.  He, he went as far as a 
Boston University, Boston (F: yeah) University.  He graduated.  He says "Now look, Pa and Ma. 
this is as far as I'm going to go.  I'm not a, a scholar.  If I, I want, I want you to know I appreciate
your trying to send me to school."  He says "But this is as far as I'm going to go.  I'm not a, a, a 
scholar," you know.  (F: mm-hm)  A guy who--a genius, eh he says, so--we did pretty good.  (F: 
ah-huh)  I mean ah--
F:
So at that point he came in the business with you?
B:
Yeah.  He came in the business and then I dis--I was, when I was sixty-two I had ah, I 
had two hernias, you know.  And ah--three hernias. 
I had a-- (F: wow) bic-bilical, ah bilica, (F: yeah, yeah I know) belly button (F: yeah)               
And uh, two--and I didn't know, but she said ah, I had, I thought I had emphysema.  I sneezed 
and sneezed and sneezed and sneezed, and I--op--you know, opened myself up.  And uh I had 
Dr., doctor just died a short time ago, Dr. [Tai].  He knew I had to lift or drag bags and he put like
a web, (F: ah-huh) it's like a web.  I never had any trouble.  I bowl and everything like that.  (F: 
oh yeah?)  Never had any more trouble (F: uh-huh) with it.  I still lift--I can lift up a hundred 
pounds yet, my age.  (F: oh boy)  Yeah.  So.  
F: 
So at that point you sold the business to him?
B:
Eh when I was sixty-two (F; yeah) I says, I was kind of, you know.  Y-can--I came to a
point where I had, I had worked hard all my life, you know and I says "Look, I'm going to sell 
it."  And he s--so he says "I'll buy it."  So I said what the hell.  (F: mm-hm)  Then I sold the 
building, you know.  So that gives me a little check every month.  So that's my social security, 
(F: ya-huh) you know.  (F: uh-huh)  And my wife, she still likes to work, but she's been sick, you 
know.  She, she's had a cold and uh, she-e-e, she gets tired, you know.  I said "Rose, what do you 
want to work for?  Take that check; enjoy yourself with it."  You know.  But she can't keep still.  
She (F: uh-huh) wants to work.  She-e-e--if a dust falls and she cleans if (F: yeah) before it f-- (F:
yeah) touches the--I, I had to write a note this morning, I get up early this morning and I, I lit up 
the--I have a st-wood stove and a-a porch, a (F: yeah) nice porch all large windows; and I--it was
quarter of seven--I lit the thing then.  Naturally wood always leaves a little thing there.  I opened 
up the, the thing that put ah some wood in some--sss--not ss--uh black stuff come out of there 
and I, I swept a little bit.  So I left a note, I says "When I come back from the bake shop I'll 
sweep, I'll sweep the porch for you."  [both laugh]  She has a fit.  So--
F:
Well, maybe we should wrap this up now.  And I'd like to ask you, are, are you, either 
you or Manny, jr. going to be in tomorrow?
B:
I'll ah, I'll be here tomorrow, yeah in the morning though. 
F:
Yeah.  The reason is that I'm going to be in the neighborhood with our staff 
photographer.  And he's a much better photographer than I am, so can he come in and take a 
cou--a few photographs?
B:
     it's a good thing because I didn't shave.  [both laugh]  No, but see ah, ah, I don't 
know what time your photographer comes in, see.  See I come in at five o'clock in the morning 
and (F: uh-huh) nine o'clock he, he sends me home, see.  
F:
Nine o'clock he send you home.  Who sends you home?
B:
My son.  (F: oh)  So, he doesn't want me to work-- (F: uh-huh) Then that's enough; 
that, that's (F: yeah) all I want.  (F: yeah)  Nine, ten o'clock, y-you know.  (F: yeah)  And that's 
ah--I don't want to work eight, nine, ten, twelve hours ah-- (F: sure) you know. (F: sure) I, I've 
done it--  (F: sure)  I'll do it.  If he needs me, like yesterday he needed me, I, I come in (F: yeah) 
and (F: uh-huh) I work, see.  (F: uh-huh)  I'll work, because (F: yeah) i-if he says ah, you know, 
I'll work.  But I mean ah--it's to make an appointment, what time your, your photogra--
F:
Well, actually it's going to be between ten and eleven that we're going to be here.  Is 
that too late?
B:
Well, I'll, I'll ah--if I go home, all he has to do is just call me, I, because I'll come 
down in ten minutes.  (F: oh!)  Takes five, ten minutes.  (F: okay)  All right?
F:
Okay.  Fine.  Because I'd like to get some good pictures of you; and maybe we can get 
one of you at the oven.
B:
Well, I've--have you got a clean, white hat for me?  [both chuckle]  
F:
Okay, I'm going to turn this off now.  (B: yeah)