American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Pinelands Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/023) 
afc1991023_12_097 
Documentation - 
Blair, Bonnie - 
Field Notes 
Folder 97 
Bonnie Blair 
1983 Fieldnotes 
Contents 
October 6 
1 
October 7 
3 
October 13 
6 
October 14 
8 
October 20 
17 
October 22 
20 
November 3 (part A) 
22 
November 3 (part B) 
29 
November 4 (part A) 
32 
November 4 (part B) 
35 
November 4 (part C) 
39 
November 5 
41 
November 6 (part A) 
45 
November 6 (part B) 
48 
November 9 
53 
November 10 (part A) 
56 
November 10 (part B) 
59 
November 12 
62 
November 16 
70 
November 18 
75 
November 19 
82 
November 20 
86 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1006 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: BUENAS TARDES. 
TODAY, THURSDAY, 10/6/83 BONNIE BLAIR AND 
CARL FLEISCHHAUER WENT TO VISIT "JIMMY" RIVERA, WHO RAISES 
CHICKENS AND SELLS EGGS, AMONG OTHER THINGS. 
HE AND HIS FAMILY 
LIVE IN G—WHITESBOG; 21GT, JUST OFF OF ROUTE 530, ON WHITE'S BOG 
ROAD. WE ASKED HIM IN ENGLISH IF THIS WAS THE PLACE TO BUY EGGS, 
AND HE SAID HE HAD BEEN SELLING THEM, BUT HIS HENS HAD RECENTLY 
STOPPED LAYING, SO HE NO LONGER HAD THEM TO SELL. 
HE GESTURED 
TOWARD HIS SIGN, THE WORD "EGGS" PAINTED ON THE TOP RAIL OF HIS 
FRONT YARD FENCE, AND SAID HE HAD PAINTED IT OUT, SO THAT PEOPLE 
WOULDN'T STILL THINK HE HAD EGGS FOR SALE. 
HE HAS ABOUT A DOZEN 
LAYING HENS, AND WAS GETTING JUST OVER TWO DOZEN EGGS PER DAY UP 
TO A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO; NOW THEY HAVE ALL STOPPED LAYING, AND 
HE GETS ONLY A COUPLE OF EGGS A DAY, AND HAS TO BUY THEM FOR HIS 
FAMILY AT THE SUPER MARKET. 
HE WORKS IN THE,CRANBERRY BOGS 
"ACROSS THE ROAD", AND HAD A LARGE PLASTIC BAG FULL OF WET 
CRANBERRIES SITTING IN THE YARD ON TOP OF AN OLD METAL IRONING 
BOARD WHICH HE SHOWED ME (BB), OPENING THE BAG SO THAT I COULD 
SEE THAT THEY WERE WET. 
HE OFFERED EACH OF US A BERRY TO TASTE, 
WITH A WARNING THAT THEY WERE SOUR. 
SOMEWHERE ALONG IN HERE, I 
HAD ADDRESSED HIM IN SPANISH, AND THE CONVERSATION HAD CONTINUED 
IN SPANISH. 
(EVERYTHING ELSE IS REPORTED FROM CONVERSATION IN 
SPANISH, UNTIL THE END OF OUR VISIT.) 
JIMMY IS PUERTO RICAN, AND HAS BEEN IN THE MAINLAND ABOUT 30 
OR 31 YEARS. 
WHEN HE FIRST CAME, HE WENT TO NEW YORK, AND ALSO 
SPENT SOME TIME IN FLORIDA. 
HE HAS BEEN IN NEW JERSEY, IN 
WHITESBOG FOR ABOUT 20 YEARS. 
HE SAID THERE IS NO COMMUNITY OF 
PUERTO RICANS IN WHITES BOG, ONLY HIMSELF AND THE MAN ACROSS THE 
ROAD, WHO HAS BEEN THERE SINCE 1954; NEAR GLASSBORO JIMMY HAS A 
"CUNADO" WHO HAS BEEN THERE ONLY A FEW YEARS, BUT JIMMY THINKS 
THERE ARE MORE PUERTO RICANS OVER THERE. 
EXPLAINED OUR PROJECT AND OUR INTERESTS TO JIMMY, AND 
ASKED IF HE WOULD ALLOW US TO MAKE TAPE RECORDINGS AND TAKE 
PICTURES WHILE TALKING TO HIM, SOMETIME AT HIS CONVENIENCE. 
HE 
SAID THAT IF WE WERE REALLY INTERESTED IN A PUERTO RICAN 
COMMUNITY WE SHOULD GO OVER TO GLASSBORO, SINCE THERE WERE ONLY 
THE TWO MEN IN WHITESBOG. 
I SAID WE WOULD REALLY LIKE TO TALK TO 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 1 
HIM AS WELL, AND WOULD BE INTERESTED IN HEARING WHAT HE HAD TO 
SAY ABOUT LIFE IN THIS REGION AND HIS LIFE IN PARTICULAR. 
HE 
SAID IT WOULD BE FINE, IN THAT CASE, AND THAT WE SHOULD COME BACK 
ON A SUNDAY, SINCE HE IS BUSY WORKING EVERY OTHER TIME, BUT ON 
SUNDAYS HE IS GENERALLY THERE UNLESS HE GOES TO GLASSBORO TO 
VISIT HIS CUNADO (BROTHER—IN—LAW). 
WE ARRANGED TO COME BACK ON 
SUNDAY, 10/16, AND HE SAID HE WOULD SEE IF HE COULD GET THE MAN 
ACROSS THE ROAD TO TALK WITH US ON THAT DAY TOO. 
I ASKED ALSO IF 
CARL MIGHT TAKE A FEW PICTURES OF THINGS WHILE WE WERE THERE NOW, 
BUT HE DISCOURAGED US, SAYING THAT HE HAD A LOT OF WORK YET TO DO 
BEFORE DARK. 
OTHER TIDBITS INCLUDED IN THE CONVERSATION: 
THE MAN ACROSS 
THE STREET HAS 22 CATS. 
HE LIKES CATS A LOT, BUT HE DOESN'T LET 
THEM IN THE HOUSE BECAUSE THERE ARE TOO MANY. 
JIMMY AND HIS 
FAMILY HAVE A FEW CATS TOO. 
THEY ALSO HAVE A DOG, A SMALL 
POODLISH MODEL WHO LIVES IN THE HOUSE. 
THE DOG AND CATS AND 
CHICKENS ALL SEEM TO GET ALONG FINE. 
CATS DON'T GENERALLY BOTHER 
THE CHICKENS, WHO RUN FREE IN THE YARD AND ROAD EDGES, BUT ONE 
CAT DID ATTACK A CHICKEN A WHILE BACK, SO JIMMY GOT RID OF HIM 
(THE CAT) BECAUSE HE WAS "NO GOOD."(PARAPHRASE/TRANSLATION). 
A WOMAN CAME TO THE DOOR, AND OPENED THE DOOR TO LET IN ONE 
PARTICULAR CHICKEN, WHOM SHE SAID WAS HER PET. 
SHE ADDRESSED US 
IN ENGLISH, AND SEEMED TO HAVE NO SPANISH ACCENT (IN CONTRAST TO 
JIMMY, WHOSE ENGLISH HAS A MARKED ACCENT). 
JIMMY SAID THE 
CHICKEN IS HER PET, AND IS TAME. 
IT HAS BEEN ALLOWED TO GO INTO 
THE HOUSE SINCE IT WAS A LITTLE "POLLITO" (BABY CHICK), AND COMES 
WHEN IT IS CALLED. 
THE WOMAN (RELATIONSHIP?) TOLD US THE 
CHICKEN'S NAME IS "PRECIOUS," AND JIMMY SAID HE TEASES IT WITH 
HIS FOOT TO GET IT TO FIGHT, AND IT PECKS AT HIS SHOE IN 
RESPONSE. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 2 
INUM: 
PFP83-FBB1007 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Many calls, few immediate results. 
Mary Ann Thompson, a 
local native who is an environmentalist and a lawyer, and the 
daughter of one of the local cranberry farm owners, gave me 
directions to her father's bogs on G-Birches Road; 23GT. 
The idea 
was to find Orlando Torres, whom Carl photographed last year 
working in the bogs, and see 
if he would be willing to be 
interviewed and to put me 
in touch with other Hispanics too. 
Mary Ann said he is related to "all the Torreses" who live 
in Hog 
Wallow and work cranberries for Bill Haines. 
Lunchtime visit, talked very briefly to two women working at 
a sorting table, and explained why I was there. 
They said 
everyone was working a far bog this day, and wouldn't be back in 
at lunchtime, so best thing would be to come back between 4:30 
and 5:00 when the crew knocked off work and came back to the 
packing house. 
Also had a short conversation with George 
Marquez, who drives a small group of workers in each day from 
Philly in his station wagon. 
He said he would be willing to be 
interviewed on tape, though not this day, and we set up a time 
next Friday, 10/14 at 10:00 a.m., 
in the packing house. 
I gave 
project cards to both Marquez and the women in the sorting room. 
Tom Carroll was with me, and he and I both took some pictures, 
mostly to become familiar with the cameras. 
Many telephone calls. 
Mary Ann Thompson first. 
Curious 
thing was that she said that she didn't know where Orlando Torres 
lived, and that I would have to find him by showing up at the 
packing house at lunchtime, or some such plan. 
Turns out, when I 
did meet up with him at the end of the work day, that he lives 
right there on the place, not 200 yds. from the packing house. 
Ernie di Stefano, a lawyer in Hammonton, grew up 
in the 
Pines and gave me the names of two Puerto Rican friends whom he 
grew up with, and whom he still plays softball with, and has as 
clients (apparently). 
No specific addresses, just area 
instructions for finding them; the area seems to correspond with 
Hog Wallow, and one of them is named Torres, so this may cross-
check with Mary Ann Thompson's mention of relatives of Orlando 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 3 
Torres. Third reference is an older ("elderly") man named 
Hipolito Aquindo who speaks mostly Spanish and is "very 
colorful." 
Didn't locate any of these people today. 
TX02: Ricky Rodriguez is the president of the G—Woodbine; 34GT 
Ambulance Squad. 
He seemed not too thrilled at my call but did 
finally agree to meet with me next Thursday, 10/13 at the 
ambulance building to talk about Hispanic culture in the area and 
to see if he could think of anybody I should talk to 
TX03: 
Many calls to the Hispanic Association in G—Lakewood; GT did 
not get me 
in touch with director Lydia Gonzales. 
Last advice 
was that the best time to call would be Tuesday morning. 
St. Anthony's Roman Catholic Church (Iglesia San Antonio) 
has phone numbers in Lakewood, Castleville and Tom's River. 
The 
person to talk to, according to the secretary, 
is Fr. Bianchi, 
and he is away on vacation until 10/25. 
They have Spanish 
language masses in Lakewood at 12:00, and in Jackson at 10:45 
every Sunday. 
Will aim for one of those on Sunday 10/16 (same 
day I try to meet with Jimmy Rivera for taping). 
TX04: Msgr. William Reynolds of St. Raymond's Roman Catholic 
Church in G—The Villas; GT is recommended as an authority on the 
Hispanic community of the Camden Archdiocese (does this include 
the Pines?). 
Called 3 times, each time to have my name & number 
taken by a secretary who said she would have him call back, but 
phones were often busy and no one here a lot of the time, so 
didn't ever get in touch with the Msgr. himself. 
TX05: George Marquez also told me that there are several Puerto 
Rican families living in G—Tabernacle; 25GT, across the street from 
the school. 
No follow—up today. 
TX06: Went back to G—Birches Road; 27GT bogs at 5:00 and visited 
briefly with Orlando and Hazel Torres, to explain project and set 
up a time for taped interview. 
He also suggested Sunday as the 
best time. 
Difficult to get to folks who must work every day but 
Sunday; at this time of the season, harvest in full swing, many 
are even working seven days a week. 
If Orlando Torres has next 
Sunday (10/16) off, we may try to do our talk then, though I 
would like to press for another time if 
it's possible for him. 
He also suggested that on Thursday when I come back to the Pines 
I should go out in the bogs with them for the morning, and said 
he could arrange for that. 
TX06: For variety, I accompanied Tom Carroll to visit decoy 
carver Hurley Conklin. 
Kept to the background and left 
conversation to the two of them; no photos or taping. 
Groundwork, I guess, 
is begun. 
The real talk should start 
next week. 
TX07: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 4 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 5 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1013 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: 
Appointment with Ricky Rodriguez, president of the 
volunteer ambulance corps in G—Woodbine; 34GT, Atlantic County, 
about 1 hr. 45 min. south of here. 
No answer to call to 
reconfirm before going down, and no Mr. Rodriguez upon arrival. 
Waited at ambulance service building about 20 minutes, and asked 
a group of young men standing around the nearest corner if they 
knew Mr. Rodriguez or knew where I could find him. 
They said he 
had just gone by in his car a few minutes before I arrived, on 
his way out of town. 
They also offered to sell me some cocaine 
to pass the time away while I waited for him to come back. 
I 
declined to pursue that conversation any further. 
Went around the corner to P&J's Bar on the main street 
(route 557) to inquire. 
Bartender said Mr. Rodriguez is very 
dependable, and does what he says he'll do, so "He must have got 
called out." 
He told me how to find Rodriguez's house, and gave 
me his phone to call. 
Still no answer. 
I went around to the 
house to 
leave a note to facilitate the next attempt. 
Since my 
directions had been clear, but had not included a house number, I 
stopped when I saw a Puerto Rican—looking man coming out of a 
house, and asked him where Mr. Rodriguez lived. 
This turned out 
to be Mr. Rodriguez's brother—in—law, as well as his next door 
neighbor. 
His brother—in—law (who did not introduce himself by 
name) works in Atlantic City, and was just leaving for work. 
He 
took me into Rodriguez's yard to knock on the door, confirmed for 
me that no one was home, and suggested that I go and talk with 
his wife, Mr. Rodriguez's sister. 
He then left, and I left a 
note on the door, along with a project business card. 
As I went 
out the gate, the two small dogs who had been 
in the yard ran out 
so I gave chase for a while, to no avail. 
The dog incident did allow me to meet Nati Rodriguez, Mr. 
Rodriguez's sister (? the surnames don't fit the kinship 
described to me). 
She said that the dogs got out all 
the time, 
and always came back, and not to worry. 
Her brother, she said 
had a pinched nerve in his back, as a result of having been hit 
on the spine in the ambulance during an emergency call. 
It had 
troubled him ever since, and he has not been able to work for a 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 6 
year. 
She thought that he probably had a doctor's appointment, 
and wouldn't be back until 
late afternoon. 
We had a brief 
conversation in Spanish, about the cursillistas, a group of which 
Rodriguez is a member. 
She said she doesn't really know what it 
is, but that it has something to do with the Catholic church, and 
she 
is not a member; 
I should really talk to him about it, she 
suggested. 
I also met the Rodriguez's neighbor, an older, white—haired 
man who introduced himself only as "Lee." 
He has lived 
in 
Woodbine since "I got tangled up here" after the war, 
in 1946; "I 
been here ever since." 
He says he has been "about everywhere 
there is," during the 20 years he was in the Navy, but has stayed 
in Woodbine these past 37 years. 
He thinks it is a "no—account" 
town. 
I tried to get him to elaborate on that, but had trouble 
communicating my questions. 
Lee is, he roared at me, "hard of 
hearing." 
(Understatement.) 
He has a hearing aid which he 
bought in The Villas, and which cost $800.00, but "it ain't no 
account at all. 
I just don't use it." 
He owns his house, and 
lives by himself, and he fixed up a small apartment in an out 
building, which he rents to a woman and her new baby. 
He has a 
truck and an Oldsmobile, and lets his tenant use the Oldsmobile 
to do her shopping. 
He also has a Great Dane as a guard dog, who 
likes to ride in the truck. 
Lee doesn't like the dog all that 
much because he 
is too big, and "I don't trust him." 
He also 
told me not to worry about Rodriguez's dogs, that they got out 
all 
the time and always came back after an hour or so. 
Lee said 
that he would be sure to put them in the yard when they came 
back. 
I gave him a project business card too, and asked him if I 
could come back and talk to him about his life in Woodbine. 
He 
said I could come any time, but I couldn't convince him that I 
was not some kind of bill collector who just stopped to chat 
during my rounds. 
How will 
it work to try to tape record an 
interview with shouted questions? 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 7 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1014 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Return visit to the cranberry bogs owned by Mr. Thompson, 
on G—Birches Road; 23GT, off of county route 532, between 
Chatsworth and Tabernacle. 
Went to talk to Orlando Torres today in the bogs. 
Our 
taping/interview date is for this coming Sunday, but he had 
invited me 
in the meantime to come "out in the water" with the 
cranberry harvesting crew to have a look around. 
He provided me 
with a pair of waders in the proper size, and I followed the 
pickup trucks which took the men out to the bog, along a sand 
road to a place they referred to as "Burk's". 
Many members of 
the crew told me their falling in the water stories, and advised 
me to be very careful not to fall 
in or step in a ditch which 
could be over my head, or, just as bad, deeper than the top of my 
waders (armpit high on me). 
Orlando introduced me to his next 
door neighbor, a young man named "Davey", who also warned me 
against falling in, 
and further advised me to "stay next to 
someone white" (gesturing toward three black Haitian men who work 
on the crew, and who Davey claims will not stop to help you up 
if 
you fall 
in, unless someone tells them they have to). 
I asked the surnames of several of the men to whom I was 
introduced, and with one exception, they all said "I just go by 
(name)," or "they just call me (name.)" 
They weren't interested 
in my last name either, and when I introduced myself, some kind 
of response came as soon as my first name was out of my mouth. 
The only person who supplied his last name was George Marquez, 
whom I had met briefly last week (see PFP83—FBB1007), and who is 
Puerto Rican; he works in the packing house, never in the fields. 
On the subject of falling in the water while working the 
bogs, I was told that (1) you can't swim with your waders full of 
water, and they do fill up fast; (2) you can't take them off 
under water in order to be able to swim, because the water 
presses them tight against your legs as soon as you step into the 
bogs; (3) you just have to fight your way out of the deep spot to 
some ground where you can stand, and then have someone help you 
out of the water to empty your waders; (4) you have to stay wet 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 8 
the rest of the day, because the schedule and the boss(es) don't 
make room for going back to change clothes, and you freeze, but; 
(5) 
it's better not to take your waders off once you're wet, 
because they help to keep you warm. 
(After all the talk about falling in, I decided not to take 
camera equipment out into the water with me, and had already 
decided against recording equipment, 
both because I had no idea 
whether the work could accommodate it, 
and because I didn't want 
to risk dropping it 
in the water, 
so these notes are 
reconstructed from memory and a few scribbles made during the 
course of the three hours I was in the water. 
It turns out that 
a cassette recorder would have worked out fine; live and learn.) 
Today was payday, and checks are disbursed before the crew 
leaves the packing house for the bogs. 
Orlando is of the opinion 
that it gives good incentive for being in a good mood at work to 
get the check before going out. 
His money, he said is all but 
spent. After rent and groceries he has "just enough left for 
gas." 
This was said in a matter-of-fact way, and with good 
humor, and he teased Davey, "Don't it make you want to get 
married and have kids?" 
Davey (younger than Orlando) shook his 
head and said "nuh-uh," to which Orlando replied, "It's good for 
you." 
George Marquez drives himself, his wife, Bea, and three 
Haitian men out to Birches from Philadelphia six days a week 
during the cranberry harvest. 
They arrive at the packing house 
at roughly eight o'clock. 
Orlando and Davey, and an older man 
named Bob live on the place, and the rest of the crew show up in 
their own cars. 
The beginning of this day was fairly loosely 
organized, perhaps partly because the man who was bringing the 
paychecks was a bit late; Orlando said things are pretty relaxed 
there, anyhow. 
A 4-wheel drive pickup truck was loaded up with 
boards for penning the berries in on the water, and crew members 
got in the back, on top of the boards, for the ride to the bogs. 
There were 7 people in the back of the truck, and Bob and Davey 
in the cab. 
I followed behind in my own car, and Orlando stayed 
behind, to get a ride with "Pudgy" whom he expected to come soon, 
and with whom he had left his waders the day before. 
The drive took us across Route 532 from Birches Road, along 
many sand roads. 
The roads were small and pitted, but obviously 
much used, at least recently. 
At the bog, the crew got out of 
the back of the pickup and deposited lunchboxes and plastic bags 
(extra clothes?) along the dikes. The crew had all put their 
waders on back at the packing house, except for Bob, Davey, and 
Orlando (and me); these three all also turned out to have some 
special sort of function on the harvesting crew, and Bob never 
did get into the water, though he had waders there. 
Davey stayed 
out of the water and out of waders that morning too, and walked 
around the edges of the bog, splashing the berries away from the 
edges with his rake, so that the men in the water wouldn't have 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 9 
to go too near the edges, and risk stepping into the deep ditches 
which ring each bog. 
The rest of the crew had been in the water for about five 
minutes when Orlando arrived; they seemed just to be getting the 
feel of the place, and testing out the bottom. 
Orlando 
instructed me 
in putting on the waders, and helped me with the 
suspenders, then led me into the water. 
He was informative about 
the hazards without being alarmist, and helpful without really 
babysitting me. 
Though I had urged him not to pay any undue 
attention to me, and said that I did not want to slow down the 
work in any way, he managed throughout the morning to keep up a 
conversation with me, and was as solicitous as a host during the 
whole venture. 
The water in this bog was about mid—thigh deep, for the most 
part, though there were several small drainage ditches running 
through it where the depth was from hip to waist deep. 
These 
were not marked in any way (no stakes, as Orlando had said some 
of the bogs had marking deep water), but I gradually discovered 
that they showed a different color on the surface of the water, 
because there were no vines growing there. 
One of the Haitian 
men (whom I believe was called Sam, though he declined to tell me 
his name himself) told me that I had to be sure to walk carefully 
and that the way to learn what the land was like under the water 
was to "watch out (in the sense of 
'see') with your feet." 
Orlando told me that this was a good bog to work, 
in terms of 
depth of the water, since it didn't have too many holes, and even 
the ditches weren't too deep. 
There are those that are better, 
the newer ones, because they are dug out with a backhoe and 
graded flat before being planted, so that the ground is very even 
underfoot, and there are no 
low spots to hold water during the 
growing season; 
it 
is these low spots that account for the small 
ditches that run through the bog, which are dug for drainage 
during growing. 
There are also bogs that are worse, having very 
uneven ground, or very deep places, and one which connects 
directly with a reservoir, whose border drops off sharply, and is 
only marked by a row of stakes sticking up out of the water; 
in 
that bog, 
it 
is very easy to fall 
in over your head, and really 
get into trouble. 
As far as anyone knew, though there is concern 
about falling in, 
and it 
is clearly a hazard, no one has ever 
drowned in the bogs. 
The worst feature of this particular bog, especially from 
the point of view of that morning's work, and the fact that "he" 
(the boss, evidently) wanted it cleared out by 11:00 a.m., was 
that the water was not quite deep enough, and the vines were 
especially tall, because they had not been pruned when they 
should have been. 
The harvest is quickest and easiest when the 
water level clears the tops of all 
the vines by several 
inches. 
When the vines are too near the surface, or break the surface, 
berries get caught up in them as the boards sweep over, and those 
berries will be pulled under, and float to the surface again 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 10 
behind the boards; they will have to be gathered up with a rake 
and pulled toward the boards, one of which will then be lifted up 
and dropped down on the other side of the getaway berries. 
The 
problem appears to be a common one, but there is griping about 
how it slows down the work. 
Orlando is the acknowledged crew boss out at the bogs, 
though that is not his official position, and he doesn't get paid 
"any more for it;" that is, he 
is not specifically hired and paid 
as a foreman. 
He 
is plainly expert at what he does (even to the 
untrained observer's eye), and closely watches every aspect of 
the harvesting procedure, so that he can give instructions which 
will co—ordinate the efforts of all the crew members efficiently. 
With the exception of Davey, all 
of the crew members appear to be 
older than Orlando, and many are clearly many years his senior. 
He issues instructions to everyone in a conversational and 
friendly tone of voice, regardless of how many times the same 
directive may have been given. 
Though he mentioned to me that 
sometimes he has to tell people several times to do something 
before they will respond, he says it doesn't really frustrate 
him, because "if they don't want to do 
it, there's no way I can 
make them; there's nothing I can do about it." 
During this 
morning he did not raise his voice at anyone; he did not appear 
to have a plan for the work day that might have been very 
different from the way things were actually going. 
At one point, 
a man whom I had not seen yet drove up 
in a dump truck and asked 
how long Orlando thought they would be until they were done, and 
0. 
replied "until we get them all 
in." 
The newcomer said "He 
wants it done by eleven," and 0. said that it would get done when 
it got done. 
He showed no signs of quickening the pace of the 
morning's work. 
Crew members who were near to one another carried on 
snatches of conversation as the work went on, and the older men 
occasionally jibed one another. 
The three Haitian men talked 
quite a bit, and loudly, laughing often. 
They spoke French, and 
(Sam later told me) sometimes "Creole." 
Very rarely, they 
addressed another crew member in English. 
Towards the end of the 
morning, I had a chance to talk with Sam. 
He and his wife live 
in Philadelphia, where they have been for just about two years. 
They came to the States so that his wife could go to school to 
get a degree in chemistry. 
At the end of this (fall 1983) 
semester, she will have an associate's degree from "Community 
College" and then will continue for two years at Temple (they 
hope) for "the further degree." 
Sam was a teacher in Haiti, and 
will return to his profession when they go back, as soon as his 
wife finishes her studies. 
He said it 
is very hard to go to 
school when the professor doesn't speak your language and you 
don't speak his, but his wife is very smart and hard working, and 
"make(s) the effort." 
I told him I imagined that it must be very 
difficult to come to a country whose language and customs are so 
different from your own, and to find that you also couldn't work 
in the profession for which you were trained. 
He agreed that 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 11 
there are "many problems" and a lot of "hardship", but said that 
they know it 
is "only for a time," and that they will go back to 
Haiti. 
Things will be better when they go back than they were 
before they left, because with a degree from the U.S., his wife 
will be able to get a very good job. 
He said they struggle, and 
sometimes "have to move a lot," but "you find solutions, too." 
I asked him what language he and his friends had been 
speaking, and he said French, and Creole. 
"You understand?" he 
asked, and I said no, that the French I had studied was only out 
of 
books. 
"It's not the same French," he said. 
He said he 
found English difficult, and "changing all 
the time," but that it 
was easier to translate from Creole to English than from French 
to English, because the French was "too formal." 
French, he 
said, 
is a "good language," but in Haiti people speak Creole 
"when you want to tell your thoughts and ideas." 
He likes the 
work in the cranberry bogs because it 
is outside, and the weather 
is beautiful. 
This is his second or third cranberry season ("two 
or three, yes" he replied when I pressed him for clarification by 
asking "two seasons, or three?"). 
Orlando grew up on Bill Haines's cranberry farm, 
in 
Chatsworth, "so I been around cranberries all my life." 
He 
didn't work in cranberrying until he was "older," and then, he 
was working for his dad, who was the foreman. 
His father, he 
said, 
is a big man, tall and barrel chested, and with a deep 
voice. 
Workers at Haines' used to call him "Castro," referring 
to Fidel Castro, because of his sternness and his way of giving 
orders, together with his being Hispanic. 
Orlando didn't like 
working for him, because he would make an example of him to the 
crew, to prove that he wasn't giving him any special treatment on 
account of being his son. 
In general, 0. doesn't like that way 
of working with other people, and doesn't think that bosses have 
to be "tough" to be good, and 
in particular, he found it "no 
good" to have to relate to his dad that way, so he quit working 
for Haines and came to work at Birches (though not necessarily 
right away; there may have been other jobs in between). 
On 
occasion, his father has been "borrowed" over to Birches to 
straighten out a crew who wouldn't work. 
"You'd think that 
people wouldn't want to work for someone like that (i.e., a harsh 
boss, 
like his dad), but for some reason, there's a lot of them 
that do." 
Orlando used to work in a boat building yard, and liked the 
work immensely. 
He feels he had a great aptitude for it, because 
he rose through the ranks very quickly, and was in a supervisory 
position, training new workers, within seven months. 
He had not 
had any formal training in cabinetry or woodworking, though he 
does it on his own, and has "a feel for it." 
He used to paint 
and draw quite a bit when he was younger, and would have liked to 
do that for a living, but "you can't make a living at it, 
really." 
He was good at it, but "I gave that up, some time ago. 
I just gave it up, for personal reasons." 
After he had worked at 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 12 
the boat yard for nine months, he was laid off, and shortly after 
that, the company went out of business. 
When they reopened some 
months later, they had moved to another town, and Orlando no 
longer knew anyone else working there, so he had no way to get 
there, and was unable to take a job there again, though he would 
very much have liked to. 
He does not have a driver's license, 
and does not drive, except for drivin around the farm, or driving 
the farm and harvesting machinery. 
He has a problem with his 
vision, and is "legally blind" and so ineligible for a driver's 
license. 
His wife, Hazel (anglo) does the driving, but she can't 
be driving him all 
over the place to work, because she also 
works, at the packing house (with Bea Marquez; they are the only 
two women, and they work at the end of the conveyer belt, 
handpicking any bad berries which may have been missed by the 
sorting machinery, just before they go off the belt and into the 
cannery's crates). 
I was surprised to hear about the extent of 
Orlando's 
vision problem, since he had his eye on every detail of the 
morning's operation, and was on top of everyone's positions with 
respect to each other, the berries on the water, the wind ("You 
want to go with the wind; you have to work with Nature."), the 
elevator, the trucks coming and going, and the parked tractor 
which would someti-me have to be moved (it was he who moved it). 
He does have a noticeable wavering motion of both of his eyes, 
but nothing in his manner betrays a serious visual 
incapacity. 
Whatever it is, 
he has his own system of working within its 
limits. 
He said one thing that he especially likes about the 
work in the cranberry bogs is that no one holds his vision 
problem against him there; "nobody treats me any different." 
Besides working in the shipyard, Orlando also worked at the 
"nut farm" for a while, 
the New Lisbon State School, but he 
didn't like it there, "couldn't take it any more." 
When I told 
him that that was where we were staying, he 
looked shocked. 
Then 
he said, "Oh, 
in the apartments up there? 
Don't worry, they 
won't bother you there, they don't let them out that far." 
Most of what Orlando likes about the bogs is being outdoors, 
and being in such beautiful surroundings. 
He asked me several 
times during the morning if I didn't think it was beautiful 
there, and said it just makes him feel so good to be there, 
it's 
so peaceful. 
(A couple of days ago, when we first met briefly, 
and I told him I lived in Philly, he and Hazel had said that they 
lived "up 
in Pemberton" for a couple of years, and nearly went 
crazy. 
They were so glad to be able to come back to Mr. 
Thompson's place to live, where it was peaceful and quiet, and 
you 'Knew your neighbors." 
"Up there " (in Pemberton) they had 
had houses very close by them, and said that they could hear 
people talking all night long, and people passed by so close to 
their windows that they always felt bothered.) 
Orlando's father had not "believed in guns or hunting," and 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 13 
none of the kids in his family grew up hunting. 
Once he and some 
other boys had cornered a deer in a cranberry bog and run her 
down with their dog, but that was his only hunting experience 
while he still 
lived at his parents' house. 
They did take the 
deer home, though, and suffered no reprisals, because "we were 
pretty young, just about 14 or something, and I guess he figured 
we just got lucky." 
Now, he 
likes to hunt, though he does not 
hunt for sport at all. a does not own a hunting license or 
permit, and sees no reason why he should have to. 
He hunts only 
for food, and does not take more than he needs. 
As far as he 
is 
concerned, the land belongs to the people who live there, and 
they know how to take care of 
it, 
It 
is their right to have what 
they need from it 
in return. 
He does not think that hunting 
permits should be sold at all: 
people who live 
in the area don't 
need them and shouldn't have to have them, and people who come 
here only to hunt shouldn't be allowed to. 
Orlando feels 
strongly that too many people come here from the cities and from 
other places, just to take what they want and then go away. 
They make trouble for the people that the place "belongs to." 
For example, he says, they are causing part of "this building 
moratorium," which has made it so that only rich people from 
somewhere else can afford to buy enough land 
in one place to meet 
the minimum building requirements. 
"People who've lived here all 
their lives can't build their own house." 
Orlando and Hazel would like to have a place of their own 
here, "but the way things are now, we'll probably never get it." 
His father and mother rent from Haines, and though his father's 
mother (sic) owns a place in Puerto Rico, and they have all been 
there to visit a couple of times, they wouldn't want to go there 
to 
live. 
Really, they feel more closeness to this region, and 
Orlando personally finds Puerto Rico too "old fashioned" for his 
taste. 
Also, 
it's too hot. 
Orlando has trouble sleeping anyway, 
and always sleeps with windows open to have fresh air, and 
in 
Puerto Rico it's too hot to sleep, even with the windows open. 
Though the bog—harvesting work is seasonal, Orlando works on 
the cranberry farm the year around. 
He 
is 
involved in planting, 
greenhouse culture of new shoots, machine maintenance and repair, 
building upkeep, pruning, spraying, every operation, apparently, 
which the growing of cranberries entails. 
The harvesting crews 
have been composed of the same men, give or take one or two, for 
the time that Orlando has been working at Birches (about two 
years). 
They don't seem to get any more skill or interest in the 
work, 
in Orlando's opinion, though they have done it before, and 
should know about it by now. 
He figures that's why he does what 
he does in the harvest, because he watches what goes on and 
Iearns from that. 
No matter how hard you try, he said, you always leave some 
berries behind. 
When the season is poor, as 
it 
is this year 
because of the drought, or when a bog 
is partially harvested 
already, and the crew is there to finish up, the work is more 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 14 
frustrating, because "you have to work just as much, but you 
don't get as many berries." 
Of the berries that are inevitable 
left behind after the bog 
is harvested, he says, "You have to 
leave some berries for the deer; that's the excuse I always use." 
A further thought on difficulty in trying to talk with the 
Haitian men: 
problems about work or immigration status which are 
best left alone, 
in their opinion? 
Reluctance to give names, 
and requests by one not to be photographed may relate to their 
worry that I will/may somehow make trouble for them in their stay 
here? 
One had no answer on the subject of being photographed, 
one said ok, but wouldn't stand still for a second for a 
portrait, and the third refused. 
Only the man who refused to be 
photographed was interested in talking with me. 
Maybe another 
try later, after my face is more familiar. 
A few additional observations: 
George refers to Puerto 
Ricans as either "Puerto Ricans" or "Spanish", and to Anglos as 
"Americans." 
His wife, Bea, who is Black, 
is also "American." 
Bea does not speak Spanish, so George hardly ever does any more, 
either; 
they do not eat Puerto Rican style cooking at home. 
George identifies his parentage as Puerto Rican, but isn't 
strongly identified with the Puerto Rican community in 
Philadelphia at all. 
They don't live in either of the major 
Puerto Rican settlements in Philadelphia, but rather in South 
Philly, 
in a predominantly Black and Italian neighborhood. 
They 
have both been coming out to the Pinelands to work at G—Birches 
Road; 25GT during cranberry harvest season for 22 years. 
Bea used to be a beautician, and owned her own shop at Broad 
and Christian Streets in Philadelphia. 
She had four operators 
working for her. 
She sold the shop a few years ago, because it 
was too much work, and she was not so interested any more. 
The 
job at Birches is her only job now. 
She and Hazel Torres 
(Orlando's wife, who 
is Anglo) are the only women who work in the 
harvesting operation. 
They work at the final stage of the 
sorting process, 
in a small room built around the end of the 
conveyor belt. 
There is a doorway on each side of the room, 
which they cover with plastic when the weather is cold, and they 
keep a small electric space heater in there to warm their feet 
and generally warm up the room. 
(When I came back in from my 
morning in the water with the harvesting crew, Bea took me 
in to 
the little sorting room and put the heater on for me to warm my 
feet; even though the day was not very cold, and I had managed to 
avoid getting wet, she felt that "you get a chill from the water" 
and she wanted me to warm it off before beginning my interview 
with George.) 
Hazel and Bea sit across from one another, on 
either side of the conveyor belt. 
As the washed and mechanically 
sorted berries pass by, they hand pick any trash and bad berries 
that the sorting machines might have missed, throwing them into a 
rectangular wooden box at their feet. 
The conveyor belt goes 
through a small opening in the wall of the sorting room and 
delivers the berries into a chute or spout which funnels them 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 15 
into the 950 pound crates for shipment to the cannery. 
Bea 
loves the countryside around this area, and enjoys the pace of the 
work 
in the sorting room. 
She would like to be able to buy a 
house out here, and says that if they should ever win the 
lottery, then "when my number come up, that's what it'll be for." 
Sometimes she and George joke about going to Atlantic City to try 
to win money, but they wouldn't really do it, because "you can 
really lose everything, there." 
People there watch the machines, 
she says, so that they know when to play to win; you can't just 
go there and win by sheer luck, unless you really know how to 
play the machines. 
Bea declined to be interviewed or 
photographed. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 16 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1020 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NMOG: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Interview with Orlando and Hazel Torres, G—Birches Road; 
(note: mailing address is via Vincentown, but the place is 
situated in the Tabernacle township. 
See also RBB002-005.) 
25GT 
This evening Joseph Czarnecki went out to the Torres's house 
with me to photograph. 
They were quite willing to have him 
unplug the TV to plug in his lighting setup, with the proviso 
that they could turn it on again at 8:00 to see the lottery 
number drawn 
They play regularly (Hazel gets the tickets.) 
but 
haven't ever "hit." 
The living room is divided longitudinally 
down the middle by a load bearing partition which is wall halfway 
up, and supported by columns the rest of the way. 
There is a 
wide, open doorway between the two parts of the room. 
It 
is all 
called living room in a general way, but the part which houses 
the TV (the back portion) 
is where they usually sit. 
The front 
portion is the "living room, really," with a couch, coffee table, 
and armchair which Orlando built. 
It has no lights, because they 
took out the oul flourescent panels which were in the dropped 
ceiling. 
Orlando's planned project for this winter is to remove 
the dropped ceiling, fix the plaster, and install some lights. 
Orlando has done a lot of work on the house. The furniture 
is built of cedar planking, as 
in the sheathing on a partition 
between the kitchen and dining area, which is 
like the living 
room partition. 
The kitchen cabinets, which he also made, are 
plywood. 
Above them is a scrolled plywood soffitt. 
Hazel makes 
jams and cans some. 
She gave me a pint of wild grape jelly, from 
the grapevines outside the house, 
they were planted, but have 
"gone wild." 
Orlando's parents live 
in Chatsworth. 
From his description 
is sounds like they live together, but he refers to their house 
as "mom's house". 
He appears to be closer to her than he 
is to 
his dad. 
He speaks mostly Spanish with his mother, and speaks 
Spanish with his father, too, unless they are going to "talk 
politics or cranberries. 
In that case, he speaks English, 
because they are likely to get into an argument, and he can 
express himself more easily and creatively in English when 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 17 
arguing. 
Hazel grew up 
in Chatsworth also, but is enough older than 
Orlando that she didn't really know him there, though she knew 
his brothers and sisters. 
She and Orlando met when they both 
worked at the State School 
in New Lisbon. 
She was married once 
before, and talks freely about that. 
She is 30 or 31, and 
Orlando is 24. 
He says he used to drink and "be wild", but "she 
straightened me out" (i.e., Hazel). 
He doesn't drink any more. 
He really likes being married and a father, and thinks it 
is a 
far better way of 
life than being a wild young man on his own. 
He 
is very tender and expressive with their children, and both he 
and Hazel are firm but indulgent (at least when I've been 
around.) 
They feel strongly that growing up 
in the woods, as 
they did, 
is the best way for kids to grow up; there is always so 
much to do. 
Yet, at a certain age (adolescence) 
they both 
mentioned that "there's not a lot to do around here." 
That's why 
some of the kids, and especially the boys, drink and drive around 
and act wild. 
Both of them feel that the Pinelands legal restrictions on 
building, and the increased public usage of the area, have made 
detrimental changes. 
Basically, the problems fall on the people 
who have lived there for a long time. 
They find that they can't 
make use of what seems to be rightfully theirs. 
In the case of a 
family that wants to pass on lands to children, for instance, 
they have to pass on parcels which may not meet the requirements 
which will allow the children to build homes on them. 
The dream 
of being able to own your own home becomes ever more difficult to 
achieve. 
Hazel's father was always "a real woodsman", and she 
grew up knowing about the woods and the water around here. 
Things have really changed now, especially in regard to 
restrictions on using the available resources. 
You have to have 
a permit to fish in places where they used to fish and fool 
around all the time when they were kids. 
You can't build on your 
own land, or you have to be really clever to do 
it. 
She told me 
about one man 
in the area who, 
in order to circumvent building 
restrictions, knocked out all the inside walls of a large 
building on his land, built an entire house inside of 
it, under 
the cover of the original building's exterior, and then took off 
the old building's outer walls. 
The new structure occupied 
precisely the same ground as the old one, and was only enough 
smaller to have allowed the subterfuge to be carried out. 
Orlando recognizes that his family heritage is Puerto Rican, 
but does not identify himself particularly with Puerto Rico, or 
with Hispanic culture or foodways. 
He associates some of these 
things with his parents, but his own identity is connected to the 
Pines, and to this part of New Jersey. 
Puerto Rico has no home— 
value for him; home is here. 
(One of his co—workers told me the 
other day that if I was interested in "Spanish" culture I should 
talk to Orlando because his dad is Puerto Rican; apparently 
Orlando is not seen as Puerto Rican by many of his friends, 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 18 
either. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 19 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1022 
TX01: Went to check out a flea market G—Southampton; 23GT at the 
junction of routes 206 and 530, on the advice of Christine 
Cartwright, who thought on the basis of what she had seen passing 
by there a couple of weeks ago that the flea market might be made 
up mainly of Hispanic vendors. 
As 
it turned out, there were no 
Hispanics among the vendors this day, nor did I see any Hispanic 
browsers. 
There were only seven vendors set up at the time I was 
there, about 10:00 a.m. 
They were set up on folding tables of 
various sizes in front of their vehicles,vans, station wagons, 
and trucks. 
None that I spoke with was from the immediate area, 
and two were from Pennsylvania, one from Bucks county and one 
from Chester. 
The land on which the market is set up each 
Saturday is owned by the WE CADO (pronounced "wee—kedu"), which 
is either a farm or an association of farmers who raise horses 
and sponsor horse shows; different vendors gave me different 
interpretations of the nature of WE CADO. 
A sign along route 206 
at the site reads:"WE CADO FLEA MARKET EVERY SATURDAY FOR INFO 
894-9760." 
Would—be vendors call and make arrangements to rent a 
space at the site, and then show up and display their wares. 
Items offered for sale ranged from old dishes and appliances 
through homemade beadwork to linens from family attics to costume 
jewelry to store—bought pencils and pens, paper and cloth 
bookmarks, small plastic earrings, and pencil sharpeners, erasers 
and such sundries. 
The weather was fine and crisp, but not too 
many people were shopping there. 
One vendor told me that it 
is 
considered a good site to set up because it 
is a major 
intersection, and a lot of passers—by will stop just out of 
curiosity, but that sales were very varied from one week to the 
next and you could never count on a good day, or predict when one 
might be. 
TX02: On my way back from the flea market I stopped at a small 
International Food and Gift shop G—Pemberton; 21GT on route 530, 
which advertised "Spanish Products" and "Philippine Products," 
and had store window signs advertising "guineos verde (sic) y 
verduras; carne de cabro (sic,)" green bananas (grammatically 
incorrect form) and goat meat ("goat" 
is known to me to be used 
in feminine form, "cabra", though this may be a difference 
between Mexican and Puerto Rican terminology). 
The owner of the 
shop is an American Air Force man, whose wife is Filipino. 
They 
stock a huge variety of Philippine, Thai, and Korean foodstuffs, 
as well 
as Caribbean and Puerto Rican items. 
Behind the cash 
register are bumper stickers in Spanish extolling the virtues of 
"PR" (Puerto Rico) and/or the Antilles, as well as the adolescent 
rock group Menudo, posters and cassette tapes of Menudo, record 
albums of Hispanic pop singers, and window decals from various 
Latin American and Caribbean nations. In the rear of the store, 
as well as 
in a small display case near the front, are healing 
soaps and salves, potent oils and incenses, prayer cards, manuals 
for palm reading, and scented candles and sprays with healing or 
magical properties (Luck, Hex—Ban, etc.). 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 20 
The owner introduced himself to me only as Joe, and seemed 
hesitant to give his last name, as he wasn't quite convinced that 
I wasn't from some one of the agencies with which he has recently 
been embroiled in trying to get permits to make some alterations 
to his property. 
He and his wife bought the small store a few 
years ago and set it up to serve the ethnic communities which 
develop around the military bases. 
(With the exception of the 
Puerto Ricans, these are ethnic communities made up almost solely 
of women, American servicemen's wives. 
The Puerto Rican 
community includes many men as well, since Puerto Ricans are 
American citizens, and many Puerto Rican men serve in the armed 
forces and so are stationed at Fort Dix and McGuire.) 
At the 
time they bought there, they were not aware that they were within 
the boundaries of the Pinelands Reserve; the northernmost border, 
it turns out, runs down the middle of the street (route 38/530) 
in front of their store. 
Their plan was to expand the small 
building by adding rooms at the ground floor level 
to make more 
room in the store, and adding a second story in which to live. 
The financial feasibility of the whole project rested on their 
being able to 
live above the store. 
However, they have been 
denied permission to make the changes, and are now caught in a 
no—win circumstance. 
they don't feel that they can afford to 
continue to pay rent on a house somewhere else and maintain the 
store building, yet the store is their business and their 
livelihood. 
To make matters worse, there was a major 
misunderstanding at the time of their original negotiations for 
building permits. 
Joe claims that they were told that in order 
to have a permit issued they had to submit plans from an engineer 
or architect for the proposed changes to the building, and also 
had to have a feasibility study done by a professional company on 
making the appropriate septic system changes to accommodate their 
new uses. 
They have so far invested $7,000 in these studies and 
plans, only to be told when they appeared with plans in hand that 
they live 
in a restricted area and would not be allowed to build 
at all. 
The irony 
is heightened by the fact that their neighbor 
across the street is not in the Pinelands area, and can do what 
he pleases when he pleases with his property. 
Had they known 
they were within the Reserve area, they would never have bought 
in the first place. 
Now, they have invested their life's savings 
in a deadlocked undertaking, and feel they are damned if they do 
and damned if they don't make a move. 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 21 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1103a 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: 
(Interview with Juan Herna'ndez, at the Puerto Rican Social 
Action Club, 2147 West Chestnut Avenue, Vineland, N.J.; tel. 696-
9850. 
The interview was conducted in Spanish, though the 
occasional word or phrase came in 
in English. 
Quotes appear in 
the language in which they were spoken.) 
G—Vineland; 39GT. 
I located the Puerto Rican Social Action Club by going 
through all the telephone books serving our area with a few key 
words in Spanish (alianza, asociacio'n, concilio, unio'n) and 
English (Association, Cultural, Hispanic, Latin, Puerto Rican), 
looking for organizations that might be able to help me locate 
Hispanics. 
The man who answered the telephone was Juan 
Herna'ndez, who was at the Club setting up for a benefit function 
scheduled for November 5 and 6, to raise money for victims of 
fires (house fires). 
He invited me to come down to the club, and 
said that Vineland has a very large Puerto Rican community; he 
himself, he said, was not really the one to talk to, because he 
wasn't all that well 
informed, but I should try to make an 
appointment to talk with the president of the Club. 
The best 
thing, he suggested, would be for me to come to the benefit 
during the weekend and meet the president there in person. 
I 
told him I would do that, but that I would also like to speak 
with Herna'ndez himself, 
if he would be willing. 
After some 
exchanges of formalities and disclaimers of his ability to really 
be of any help, he agreed that he did have some strong feelings 
about the situation of Hispanics in Vineland, and would be glad 
to meet with me at the club. 
We agreed to meet in the afternoon 
of this same day, at the club building. 
(When we did meet, Herna'ndez declined to be tape recorded, 
both at an 
initial and at a later request, so I let the matter 
drop. 
He felt strongly that while he was willing to express his 
personal opinions to me, he was not a qualified spokesman for the 
community as a whole, and so didn't want any 'official' record 
made. 
For that, he again referred me to the president of the 
club. See PFP83—FBB1103 for some thoughts on this matter.) 
The club building is a large rectangular cinder block 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 22 
structure at the end of a small sand drive and expansive sandy 
parking lot, just off of the dead end of West Chestnut Ave. 
West 
Chestnut is a major thoroughfare through a good deal of Vineland, 
but at its western end, 
it becomes residential, and then almost 
rural 
in appearance, with few houses and a good deal of wooded 
land along the last mile or so. 
It ends at a fence, beyond which 
are blueberry fields, and the drive to the Club gives off of the 
left side of the very end of the avenue. 
Inside, the clubhouse 
is very plainly finished, with no identifying artworks, "typical" 
decor, etc. 
A sign over the door (outside) announces in Spanish 
that the building is the home of the Club Puertorriquen — o de 
Accio'n Social, and the Liga de Do'mino Borinquen (Do'mino League; 
Borinquen is the Arawak or Taino Indian name [differing opinions 
as to source] for the island the Spaniards called Puerto Rico). 
architecture 
Herna'ndez estimates that about 1/3 
of the population of 
Vineland is Puerto Rican, and puts that number at about 22,000. 
(Msgr. Reynolds later opined that this number is too high by a 
few thousand.) 
The members of the Club "se Ilevan bastante a la 
cultura" (are very devoted to [their] culture), but all 
in all 
"hay poca cooperacio'n" (there is 
little cooperation) in the 
Hispanic community. 
The Club has only 100 or so members, 40 of 
whom are members of the Liga de Do'mino, and are main contributors 
to the support of the club. 
They meet every Sunday, at the Club 
building, from 1-7 p.m., for 22 weeks of the year. (I gathered 
that they do not meet during the coldest months because of the 
cost of heating the building, which on this day was appreciably 
colder inside than the day was outside.) 
The Liga sponsors events whose proceeds go to the Club, and 
also makes outright donations to help defray operating expenses. 
The Club was built on this location in 1975, and the monthly 
expenses, including mortgage payments and utility costs run to 
about $1,000 to $1,500. 
All 
of this money must be raised each 
month, as the Club has no capital and no treasury upon which to 
draw. 
Herna'ndez says that they are behind now in their payments, 
and that the effort of keeping up with the payments has become 
too great to be maintained, since the membership is so small, and 
out of that the number who "se dedican" (dedicate themselves [to 
working there]) 
is even smaller — maybe five at most. 
At present 
the Club building and its grounds are for sale. 
Herna'ndez is sad 
and somewhat disgusted about the sale, but also feels that the 
time has come to admit that the effort to keep the club alive is 
not worth it. 
The Club was founded in 1956, when the first Puerto Ricans 
arrived in Vineland. 
There were about 200 of them then, and they 
had come to work in agriculture, though many quickly also took up 
employment in the food processing and clothing factories in the 
area. 
Of the 200, a group of 75 joined together and founded the 
Club, dedicated to keeping their ties with Puerto Rico strong, 
and to providing them with their own place to have their own 
Blair--$3 Fieldnotes 
page 23 
kinds of gatherings. 
Of those 75, three are still 
involved in 
the Club; others are in the area, but no longer active, and 
others have died, moved away, and/or returned to Puerto Rico. 
Activities at the Club include meetings, fundraising events 
for various causes, political speeches and organizing events, 
dances, wedding receptions, and parties for various occasions. 
The hall 
is donated for any sort of meeting or fundraiser which 
involves the Hispanic community, and the sponsoring group need 
only pay the heating and utility costs for the time the hall 
is 
in use (set up and clean up, as well as working the bar, 
is done 
by Club members, without recompense). 
For receptions and 
parties, and any private dances, the hall 
is rented, on a sliding 
fee scale. 
Herna'ndez feels that the hall 
rental 
is a bargain and 
the situation there ideal, especially compared to the "American" 
clubs which rent halls; these charge at least $500, and the 
allotted time is usually from 9 pm to 1 am, 
including the clean 
up time, which means that the function has to end at midnight, 
in 
order for the clean up to be accomplished and the last people out 
of the hall by one. 
This is not really good timing for Puerto 
Rican style parties, which typically run from 8 pm to 2 am, with 
the party in full swing the whole time; to have to stop a party 
at midnight is to have to stop just when things are really 
getting good. 
The other great thing about the Club hall, 
Herna'ndez says, 
is the location; because it 
is so rural, they 
never have to worry about disturbing people, or getting 
complaints about the band. They can dance all night if they want 
to, without bothering or being bothered by anybody. 
The Liga 
de Do'mino is the mainstay of the Club. 
The Liga has 40 members, 
making up six regular teams. 
Dominoes, says Herna'ndez are an 
important "deporte social" (social sport). 
The Liga does 
apparently have its own treasury, with funds of about $5,000; but 
they have more than once given $1,000 to $1,200 to the Club in a 
single month. 
Most of the events currently scheduled at the Club 
are benefits for other purposes or groups, such as fire victims 
in the Vineland area (10 such families were given financial 
assistance and temporary housing, food and new clothing last 
year, through the auspices of the joint Anglo/ Hispanic aid 
committee); another frequent worthy cause is the raising of 
funeral expenses for families who cannot afford to properly bury 
someone. 
Herna'ndez feels that these are the worthiest of causes, 
and that you can't begrudge people these services; still, he 
feels bitter that everyone turns to the Club when they are 
in 
need, and so few turn out to help the rest of the time. 
The Liga 
helped raise the funds which have purchased half the necessary 
land, adjacent to the Club building, to construct a ballpark, 
about 4 and a half acres; but there isn't enough money for the 
other half, nor enough to keep the club operating anymore 
regardless of the ballpark plans; that effort has been for 
naught, and Herna'ndez feels certain that it could work, but for 
the lack of interest in the Puerto Rican community there. 
If 
there are 22,000 "hispanos", and even half of them donated just a 
dollar to the Club, the entire picture would change. 
Social 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 24 
events at the Club just don't draw. 
Part of the reason, he 
feels, 
is that Atlantic City is so near, and 
it takes people away 
from town to seek their amusements and to spend their money. 
It 
has been a lifesaver for a good percentage of the Hispanics in 
Vineland in terms of employment (he calculates that about 10,000 
work in the hotels and casinos in Atlantic City; his own daughter 
does), but is a big part of the problem of the lack of community 
identity and community support for organizations like the Club in 
the town i 
tse I 
f 
. 
The biggest problems for Hispanics in Vineland are 
unemployment and housing. 
Herna'ndez estimates that unemployment 
in the Hispanic community runs about 16 to 18%. 
The major 
employers are the factories -- clothing, steel, and food 
production -- and of these Progresso Foods is the largest single 
employer of Puerto Ricans in Vineland. 
Herna'ndez used to work in 
a clothing factory near Hammonton but it went out of business two 
years ago, and since that time he has been unable to find work, 
with the exception of about 4 months out of the year when he can 
work 
in agricultural jobs. 
The situation is very humiliating, 
since he 
is an honest man with a will to work, and he 
looks all 
the time, but can't find anything; "es fuerte; 
la situacio'n es 
muy fuerte." (It's a ve 
daughter 
-- who 
li 
"nunca se ha casado" (s 
must make his own inabi 
humiliation, 
in a value 
and does provide for hi 
has contributed a great 
del bolsillo" (money ou 
feels a strong commitme 
which it stands, and fi 
contribute the time whi 
up and clean up work for club functions, and also works the bar 
during events; there is no pay for the work. 
In addition, he 
helps to organize events, works on various committees, and 
is a 
member of the Liga de Do'mino. 
He 
is out of a job, but not out of 
work. 
ry, very tough situation.) 
(His wife and 
ves at home, even though she's 22, because 
he's never married) -- both work, which 
lity to find work an even greater personal 
system which holds that a real man can 
s family.) 
During his unemployment, he 
deal of time and energy, and even "dinero 
t of [his own] pocket) to the Club. 
He 
nt to the Club and the social goals for 
nds that it 
is 
important for him to 
le he can. 
He does almost all 
of the set 
Housing is another major problem. 
It 
is scarce, for one 
thing, and even the so—called low cost housing is very expensive, 
with rents 
in the $250 to $300 range, plus heat and utilities. 
In addition, the available housing is often in poor condition, 
being owned by landlords who rent only for the money, and who 
don't maintain the buildings. 
Most of the housing is also too 
small, since a good deal of what is available and affordable 
turns out to be rather recently constructed apartments, all with 
a two bedroom floor plan; yet it 
is not uncommon for a Puerto 
Rican couple to have 6 or 7 children, so that many families are 
forced to live with 9 people in a two bedroom place. 
Herna'ndez 
and his wife are among the fortunate exceptions. 
They own their 
own house, and 
it 
is an older house, well built, with four 
bedrooms. 
They had only two children, and the oldest, a son, has 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 25 
married and moved away; even with their daughter still 
living at 
home, they have bedrooms to spare. 
Most of the Puerto Ricans in Vineland, Herna'ndez says, are 
"individualistas;" they identify themselves with their heritage, 
but also with their desire to better their personal condition. 
There is not a sense of unity among the Hispanic population in 
town, no self—identified community. 
Only a couple of times a 
year is there any evidence of such a thing: 
on January 6th, the 
Di'a de 
los Reyes (Day of the Three Kings), when the Puerto Ricans 
traditionally celebrate their Christmas, and 
in Hispanic Heritage 
Week, the 25-30th of July, when celebrations begin on July 25th, 
the day of the signing of the Puerto Rican constitution. 
On the 
Reyes, the Social Action Club sponsors a big party for the 
children of the community, providing gifts for everyone, as well 
as music and food for all; they also have a party for the 
children on Hallowe'en (not traditionally observed in Puerto 
Rico), so that the children can all come in costume and get candy 
without having to go out in the streets (not safe). 
The Heritage 
Week has several sponsors, including the Liga de Do'mino, The 
Comite' del Festival Puertorriquen"o (Puerto Rican Festival 
Committee), and the Casa PRAC (Puerto Rican Action Committee, 319 
Landis Avenue, Vineland, 08360, tel. 692-2331). 
During the week 
there are speeches, dances, dinners, political events, 
businessmen's lunches, and a parade. 
The Farm Workers 
Corporation also has its annual party at the Club, sometime in 
the late fall. 
We talked at length about the employment and housing 
problems, which Herna'ndez stressed repeatedly were his greatest 
personal concerns on behalf of Hispanics in Vineland. 
His other 
great heartache is the indifference of Hispanics to each other's 
shared troubles and to the desire that a few of them feel 
to 
foster a strong, unified, and Puerto Rican identified community. 
He mentioned the Puerto Rican community in Woodbine, made up of 
about 600 people, as a model of unity and organization, as well 
as of dedication to their own traditions. 
Other topics briefly discussed: 
Most Puerto Rican families in Vineland still eat the foods 
they were brought up on before they or their parents came to New 
Jersey. 
There are about 15-20 small Hispanic owned businesses 
which supply the needed foodstuffs. 
You can even get some of the 
dishes in ready made form nowadays, though most people still 
prefer to make them from scratch, because it tastes so much 
better that way. 
There is no care in the ready made dishes, and 
you can always tell the difference. 
Herna'ndez has a Mexican 
friend in Hammonton, who eats very spicy foods. (We had talked 
about my having lived in Mexico, 
in explanation of my being able 
to speak Spanish, and when the topic of food came up, he asked me 
which I liked better, Puerto Rican cooking or Mexican. 
I had to 
confess that my heart really belongs to the Mexican way of 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 26 
cooking, since it was what I had grown up with. 
Mexican cooking 
is often very "picante" (hot/ spicy), using a variety of kinds of 
chiles; Puerto Rican cooking, 
in contrast, 
is quite mild, using 
flavoring spices, but few peppers.) 
He himself has tried Mexican 
cooking on several occasions, but doesn't really like it very 
much, and the hotness bothers him. 
Anyway, he said, 
"picante" 
is bad for you: 
bad for your stomach, and bad for your health. 
It 
is amazing to him that even the littlest children eat it 
in 
Mexico, for he 
is convinced that it 
is unhealthy, no matter what 
you get accustomed to in terms of flavor. foodways 
On the subject of music, he said that there are two "grupos 
hispanos" in Vineland, one really good, and one sort of on the 
way up. 
They don't really play the plena type of music, but more 
salsa and "musica popular". 
These are the kinds of bands people 
prefer, because you can dance to them. 
The Catholic church is not very active in the community, 
although it has a substantial Puerto Rican congregation, and one 
mass is said in Spanish each Sunday. 
There is a Cursillista 
group connected with the church, and most of 
its membership 
consists of those who used to be "del Santo Nombre" (the Holy 
Name Society, the men's organization of the church), which is now 
largely defunct. 
This group, however are focused on the church 
and its concerns, and don't really involve themselves in the 
larger community. 
Political action in the area is minimal among Hispanics, who 
have no representation in city or county governments. 
Out of 
10,000 eligible voters in the Vineland Puerto Rican community, 
only 2,00 or 3,000 bother to vote. 
They don't realize, Herna'ndez 
said, that they need to vote in order to gain for themselves as 
well 
as for the community as a whole, the very advantages they 
are seeking. 
They are unaware of their number, and the effect 
that they could have on 
local politics. 
According to Herna'ndez, 
there are 22,000 Hispanics in Vineland, 15,000 in Hammonton, and 
600 in Woodbine; all these communities are close enough to one 
another geographically to have good and easy communication and 
organization. 
In addition, of the approximately 14,000 migrant 
agricultural workers in South Jersey, some 6,000 to 7,000 are 
Hispanic, and their needs should be taken into account by the 
permanent Hispanic residents too. 
After remarking again how the work of the many is always 
done by the few until they can no longer carry on, Herna'ndez 
repeated that he and the other four men who have worked so hard 
for the last 6 years to keep the Club afloat are pretty well 
resigned to the fact of 
its sale, but they are determined to keep 
up "una lucha hasta la u'ltima 
para que los Puertorriquen'os 
tengamos algo en Vineland" (a struggle to the end, so that the 
Puerto Ricans may be able to have something in Vineland). 
During the course of my conversation with Mr. Herna'ndez, the 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 27 
president of the club happened to drop in. 
He had been called 
out to deal with the telephone man, who was installing extra 
lines for the weekend "marathon" fundraiser, which will be a 
call—in pledge event with live radio solicitation and coverage. 
Runners will be dispatched to the addresses of callers to pick up 
their pledges. 
The president was introduced to me by title, by Mr. 
Herna'ndez; he shook my hand, but declined to give his name, and 
evidently viewed me with some suspicion. 
He was quite cool 
to me 
throughout our brief exchange, and though he had plainly heard 
Herna'ndez and me speaking Spanish, and the introductions had been 
made in Spanish, he addressed me only in English. 
As my first 
explanation of the project and its aims, following our 
introduction, had been in Spanish, his reply in English had 
something of the tone of a reprimand, and marked rules for our 
discourse. 
He continued to address me 
in English and Herna'ndez 
in Spanish, even though Herna'ndez and I continued to speak to 
each other in Spanish. 
The president gave me a capsule summary of the Puerto Rican 
community in Vineland. 
In his portrait, they were very committed 
to their heritage and to a sense of unity, listened to their own 
jibaro music (the 'country' music of the interior of Puerto Rico, 
showing Spanish influences, as contrasted to the bomba and plena 
styles of the coastal region, which are very African in rhythm 
and instrumentation), got together for parties, and always only 
spoke Spanish to each other, and 
in their homes. 
It sounded very 
different from Herna'ndez' portrayal, and struck me as sort of a 
"press release" type of statement. 
I said that I would like to 
arrange to speak to him further, but he would not offer an 
appointment time. 
Then he said "well, you'll have to take me out 
to 
lunch, or maybe to dinner where we can talk, and I'm 
expensive; you can use your government money, my taxes." 
1 said 
maybe it wouldn't work out after all. 
It was not a pleasant encounter. 
Though I am accustomed to 
being met with caution and even suspicion, and carefully 
calibrated before being given any real 
information, this is my 
first experience with outright hostility. 
The rules of Anglo/ 
Hispanic politeness may block my entry into many situations, but 
they also usually forbid outright rudeness in an interchange. 
I 
doubt that I will pursue an interview with this man. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
rX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 28 
INUM: 
PFP83-FBB1103b 
TXO1: Thoughts on the subject of making entrance into the 
Hispanic communities: 
As mentioned in the mid-point meeting, the best person to 
survey the Hispanic community anywhere is not an Anglo, and 
perhaps also not a woman. 
Among Puerto Ricans (a contrast to my 
experience with Mexicans and Mexican-Americans), being an Anglo 
who speaks fluent Spanish is not necessarily met with enthusiasm; 
it 
is almost like being presumptuous, or improperly claiming 
privilege, not to mention the fact that it automatically deprives 
the interviewees of the privacy of talking among themselves in 
front of an outsider without being understood. 
Proper lines of authority ought to be recognized and 
respected in making inquiries. 
In family situations, the man 
should always be addressed with a request for information before 
the woman is; women who are addressed first will usually respond 
with something like "it's up to him", or some other way of 
passing the request back to the proper person. 
If a woman who 
makes such a response is pressed, out of respect for politeness 
to the interviewer/guest to agree to be interviewed without first 
obtaining her husband's consent, the interviewer may be provoking 
trouble for her at home. 
Also realized, after talking to Hernandez, that there has 
been a pattern of referral/deferment among many of the Hispanics 
whom I have approached. 
Those who are not very significantly 
anglicized, or who are not community leader types like Lydia 
Gonzales, have without exception mentioned someone else to me who 
was likely to be a better person for me to talk to; typically, 
this person is very close by, and has some form of "seniority" 
over the person to whom I have made the initial request, in the 
same area in which my questioning began. 
For instance: 
-Jimmy Rivera, 
in Whitesbog, said that he would be glad to 
talk to me about living in the Pines, but that the real 
person I should talk to was the man across the street, who has 
lived here 10 years longer than Jimmy. 
-George Marquez said that he would be glad to tell me what 
he could about the cranberry packing house, but I really should 
talk to the foreman. 
-Tom Santiago, who answered the phone at the Puerto Rican 
Civic Association in Hammonton said that he only worked 
there, and I should really talk to the President and/or 
other officers of the club. 
-Juan Hernandez, of the Puerto Rican Social Action Club in 
Vineland, said that he cold only give me his opinion, but the 
president of the club could give me some real 
information. 
-Leon Torres, who owns a farm and farmstand in Buena, said 
that he would be willing to talk with me, but that I should 
really talk to the farmer next door, who farms 90 acres. 
(His 
wife had also told me "it's up to him," when I asked her what she 
thought of the possibility that I might interview them.) 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 29 
It 
is 
important to members of the community at least to 
acknowledge these lines of authority (as well as being a polite 
strategem for getting out of the interview request.) 
Often the 
mere expression of willingness to talk to the suggested person AS 
WELL as to the original subject of the request will bring about 
an expression of willingness to comply. 
A further manifestation of this same thing, perhaps (and 
also an expression of the longer "timetable" of conversational 
relations in getting to be familiar with and to the Hispanic 
community) 
is the refusal to have an agreed—to interview taped. 
The disclaimer usually is that the person to whom you are talking 
is not really a qualified spokesperson for the community, or is 
merely expressing a personal opinion, or is willing to chat, but 
doesn't have THAT much to say. 
Puerto Ricans, unlike Mexicans, are American citizens; their 
rights of travel to and from the mainland are not restricted, do 
not require visas or passports. 
Undocumented Puerto Rican 
workers are not "undocumented" 
in the same sense that Mexican 
undocumented workers are, though the common Anglo notion of 
Hispanic agricultural workers does not recognize this 
distinction. 
Undocumented Puerto Rican workers are most likely 
so because of considerations of welfare eligibility and income 
tax status of their families. 
They are understandably not too 
keen on having Anglo government workers trying to get a clear 
picture of their activities. 
It 
is a double bind for the 
community, because the census doesn't accurately reflect their 
numbers, and many feel that this is detrimental to their ability 
to have their needs met as a group, or to gain public recognition 
of the difficulties of their situation; at the same time, there 
are many who can't afford to be counted, because it might 
adversely affect the tight financial situation of their families. 
Single, or at any rate, unaccompanied, women cannot 
acceptably meet with Hispanic men in many circumstances; worse if 
the woman is an Anglo because of the stereotype of the single, 
independent Anglo woman as someone who may be a romantic 
thrillseeker (a handy meld with the male Latin Lover image). 
Rumors may impugn the character of the Hispanic man as well as 
the outsider Anglo woman if the two are seen together without a 
third party present. 
Chaperonage is a good idea in arranging 
appointments, and makes many situations much more conducive to a 
real exchange of information. 
Rumors will be rife anyway. 
The day that Orlando Torres 
took me out into the bogs with a harvesting crew, one of the crew 
members told Orlando's wife, Hazel, that Orlando had had a 
girlfriend out in the bogs with him that day. 
(She knew better, 
fortunately.) 
Word is also around that I have asked Orlando to 
"fix me up" with a brother of his; this brother and I have never 
met, and apparently the brother himself is the source of the 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 30 
s 
t 
o 
r 
 . 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 31 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1104a 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: 
(Telephone conversation with Monsignor William Reynolds, 
of St. Raymond's Church, 25 East Hudson St., The Villas, N.J., 
08251; tel. 886-5366.) 
Msgr. Reynolds was for several years the director of Spanish 
diocesan activities for the Diocese of Camden, which comprises 6 
counties: 
Atlantic, Cape May, Gloucester, Salem, Cumberland, and 
(?); 
Burlington and Ocean Counties are not included. 
Msgr. 
Reynolds identified the Hispanic population of the diocese as 
almost entirely Puerto Rican, and the Puerto Rican communities in 
the diocese which are also a part of the Pinelands as Egg Harbor 
and Hammonton, 
in Atlantic County; Vineland, 
in Cumberland 
County; and Woodbine, in Cape May County. 
Additionally, he said 
there is a small community in Atlantic City "around the inlet", 
but he didn't think that qualified as part of the Pinelands. 
In 
other areas, he said, there are Puerto Ricans who live 
in many 
towns, but they are few and are "mixed in," and do not identify 
themselves with one another as a community, nor live there in 
sufficient numbers to warrant a mass in Spanish in the local 
church. 
Spanish language masses are said in each of the towns 
which he named to me as having significant hispanic populations, 
and these masses also serve the Puerto Ricans who live 
in the 
nearby 
towns, such as Landisville, Millville, and Bridgeton. 
According to Msgr. Reynolds, Puerto Rican migration to the South 
Jersey area began in the very late 1940's and early 50's, and was 
centered on agricultural work. 
In the mid-50's, permanent 
populations were established in the Vineland, Hammonton, and 
Woodland areas, where year round employment was available in 
clothing and food processing factories; Progresso Foods has a 
processing plant in Vineland which still employs a large number 
of Puerto Ricans. 
Woodbine had clothing factories, as did 
Vineland, but these have now either gone out of business or moved 
to other locations out of the area. 
There also has been 
(he 
wasn't sure if there still 
is) 
a basket works and a box factory 
which employed many Puerto Ricans in the Vineland and Hammonton 
areas, as well as a brewery in Hammonton (still there). 
Most of 
the factory work in the 50's and 60's was in clothing and 
in food 
processing. 
In Salem County, where factory work was not 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 32 
available, the Puerto Rican population remained seasonally 
migrant, and tied to the agricultural timetable. 
Msgr. mentioned the "Cursillista" movement which is now so 
strong a force in the Hispanic communities. 
The term is derived 
from the "Cursillo de Cristianidad", or little course in 
Christianity, which Msgr. Reynolds described as "like a retreat 
that you make once in a lifetime." 
He says is differs from the 
usual catholic retreat in that it 
is very "experiential", or 
experience centered. 
Rather than having a formal structure in 
which someone in an official capacity lectures to a group of 
participants, the cursillo is conducted by a team of 
participants, who exchange accounts of their experiences, and use 
techniques of visualization, drawings, and so on to express to 
one another their personal experience of Catholic Christianity. 
the early 50's by a group of young lay men 
in their 20's who 
"wanted to make an impact on the community." 
It has migrated 
from Spain to the U.S. via Mexico and up through the Southwest, 
as well as through the island of Puerto Rico and into the 
mainland by way, principally, of New York City. 
The cursillo lasts for four days, and is "very 
experiential." 
The first three days consist of the group 
exchanges and "psychological techniques", and on the fourth day 
"you live 
in the cursillo". 
People who have experienced it are 
cursillistas and help to organize the community and to arrange 
for other cursillos. 
There is also a follow—up, called the 
ULTREYA ("the Beyond," i.e., the life beyond the cursillo); this 
roup meets once a week, 
in the Puerto Rican parishes. 
There are 
also American (sic) cursillistas and ultreyistas (they use he 
Spanish names), but they only meet once a month "because they're 
harder to get together." 
The secretariat of the Cursillo n South 
Jersey meets once a month in Linwood. 
Msgr. Reynolds uses them 
as his main network of communication with the entire Puerto Rican 
population of the area; he claims that if you want the news out 
to the community within a day or two, all you need to do is make 
it known to the Cursillo. 
Msgr. Reynolds referred me to other priests in the Diocese 
who have or have had substantial contact with the Hispanic 
population, and who could be most informative about the history 
of the various communities. 
This list is: 
*Fr. Pat diBono, 
in Woodstown, tel. 769-0004, who was one of 
the first to work with the migrant farm workers in the 
Camden Diocese; 
*Fr. Ron Falatico, of the Vineland Spanish Catholic Center 
at 8th and Almond Sts. 
in Vineland, tel. 692-8992; 
*Fr. Longo, formerly the Vicar of the Camden Diocese, and 
the first to organize hispanic church activities in the 
Camden area; he now lives at Villa Pieta, on Shore Road in 
The Villas, tel. 927-5600, and 
is "the patriarch of the Puerto 
Rican community here;" 
*Fr. Dan diNardo, of "St. Joe's pro—Cathedral" (town?), tel. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 33 
964-2776. 
In addition, he referred me to two people who have a good 
perspective on current affairs in the Puerto Rican communities, 
though he feels they may lack the historical perspective: 
*Fr. Jose Rebaque, of St. Joseph's in Hammonton, tel. 561-
0180, a Spaniard, a Pallatine Father, and a recent 
arrival 
to the Hammonton area: 
*Sr. Guadalupe, a Puerto Rican nun who works with Fr. 
diNardo. 
Finally, Msgr. reynolds suggested that we consult the 1980 
U.S. census information for a fairly precise breakdown of the 
populations of the counties we are interested in, and he pointed 
out that special efforts were made in that census, 
in this area, 
to employ census takers of the same ethnic backgrounds as the 
groups being surveyed, so that information would be more 
complete. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 34 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1104b 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Interview with Lydia Gonzales, director of the Hispanic 
Association of Ocean County, 223 2nd Street, Lakewood, N.J.; tel. 
(201) 367-0619. 
Interview conducted largely in English, with 
some shifts into Spanish. 
Any quotes appear in the language in 
which they were spoken. 
According to Ms. Gonzales, the 1980 census showed 8,444 
Hispanics living in the whole of Ocean County. 
She feels this 
figure is 
low, owing to the number of undocumented workers and 
unreported family members who are 
in the area; naturally, their 
presence is not reported "for obvious reasons" (i.e., because of 
welfare and income tax problems which would then arise for the 
families involved). 
Ms. Gonzales thinks there are 5,000 
Hispanics in Lakewood alone, plus another 900 to 1,000 in 
Jackson; 
in South Tom's River there are about "200 some" 
Hispanics who, although their number is small, make up a 
significant percentage of the population of the small town. 
In 
addition, she has recently become aware of about 10 Puerto Rican 
families in Pine Lake and Pine Lake Park (Manchester Twp.). The 
Hispanic Association of Ocean County is the agency that serves 
their needs, although there is also a "competing" agency in 
Lakewood, just a block down the Street. 
This is the Latin 
Community Organization, and apparently there is some ill will 
between the agencies. 
The Hispanic Association of Ocean County 
is the older of the two, and the formation of the newer 
organization represents, 
in Ms. Gonzales' mind, the ascendency of 
certain personal political interests against the best interests 
of the Hispanic community as a whole; she feels it has created 
something of a rift in the leadership of the Hispanic community, 
and obliged them to play politics instead of devoting their 
entire energy to the needs of the community. 
The Hispanic community of Lakewood is a permanent community, 
and 
is almost entirely Puerto Rican, although there are also 
about 40 Mexicans. 
Juan Carlos Gonzales, who is Mexican, and is 
Lydia's brother—in—law (therefore her husband is also Mexican?) 
was suggested as a contact there. 
He works for the Ocean County 
Board of Social Services, and 
is also a drummer in a band called 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 35 
Los Internacionales in Lakewood. They are all Mexicans, but they 
have learned to play Salsa music because the Puerto Rican 
population of the town aren't interested in turning out for a 
band that plays "rancheras." 
Most of the employment of Hispanics in Lakewood is 
in 
factory work and "unskilled labor" 
in the hotel and restaurant 
and hospital businesses; unemployment is high, and adequate 
housing is a severe problem. 
In Jackson, most of the employment 
is agricultural, though the community there is also permanent, 
not seasonally migrant. 
The Hispanic Association of Ocean County sponsors a DIA DE 
LOS REYES (the Day of the Three Kings, January 6th) parade and 
fiesta. 
Christmas is traditionally celebrated on the Three 
Kings' Day 
in Puerto Rico, and the Association sponsors this 
event in an effort to keep the tradition alive on the mainland 
too, and to teach the children born here about home customs, "to 
let them know that there is a lot of good about their heritage. 
They need to know that their heritage is good, and what it 
is, 
so 
they don't lose themselves." 
Last year, three men dressed as the 
Magi rode through the streets on horseback, gathering the 
onlookers into a procession which they led to the hall where the 
party was held and gifts distributed to the children. 
There is 
also a Hispanic Heritage Parade held in the summer, which is 
sponsored by the competing organization, the Latin Community 
Organization. 
Ms. Gonzales has a quarrel with them about their 
politics and community consciousness in the conduct of this 
parade, because each year their Grand Marshalls are Anglos; 
it 
strikes her as unseemly to have a parade celebrating Hispanic 
heritage but led by Anglos, and she has no sympathy with the 
LCO's alleged contention that they can't find Puerto Rican 
residents of sufficient distinction to be named Grand Marshalls, 
or that they are better serving the Puerto Ricans by "making 
alliances" with the Anglos in this way. 
There is a Puerto Rican assemblyman, Jorge Rod, from the 
Jackson/Lacey Township whom her organization is supporting with a 
fundraising dinner/dance tomorrow night, 11/05; the dance will be 
held at the Forked River House in Forked River. 
Gonzales feels 
that the Puerto Rican community as a whole are politically 
uninformed and unconcerned, because "it's hard to convince people 
who are cold and hungry that it might make a difference if they 
vote." 
Not many of the Hispanics in Lakewood do register or 
vote, so representation is poor for their needs; they have "no 
voice." 
In Lydia's opinion, the community members are self— 
identified with Puerto Rico and their Puerto Rican heritage, but 
not with each other so much, as a unified community. 
The HAOC 
(AHCO, 
in Spanish acronym: Asociacio'n Hispana del Condado de 
Ocean) tries to foster a sense of community identity and unity by 
putting people with the same problems and needs in touch with one 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 36 
another and forming subsidiary organizations and committees 
(e.g., she 
is currently encouraging the formation of a Hispanic 
Businessmen's Association, to be allied with the Lakewood Chamber 
of Commerce). 
In this way, they hope to unify a number of small 
groups and eventually to get them all working together to form a 
strong sense of community and Puerto Rican identity. 
There are 
small grocery stores (bodegas), as well as special foods sections 
of the chain supermarkets, which stock the ingredients for Puerto 
Rican style cooking, and most people still prefer to make their 
sofrito from scratch (though ready—made is available), because 
"it always tastes better." 
Comida criolla is mixed in with 
"American" cooking in most households. 
Lydia mentioned that she 
had heard that there was a Puerto Rican Community in Woodbine 
that was very unified and very committed to their heritage, and 
to community action, and who run, among other things, the first 
aid station and ambulance service there. 
[Ricky Rodriguez, whom 
I missed once, and have a second appointment with for 11/09, 
is 
the chief of that ambulance service.] 
The word is that in 
Woodbine they keep their houses "the old way, with their sagrada 
corazo'n (Sacred Heart portrait of Jesus) and their plastic 
flowers and everything, and still really cook the old foods all 
the time." 
Gonzales would like to see much more of that in 
Lakewood. 
The church which offers Spanish masses, St. Anthony's 
sponsors certain events, but Lydia feels that those are much more 
for and within the church than community directed. 
It 
is her 
general 
impression that the Catholic Church has its own interests 
in the community, and spends more time on those than on anything 
else, doing very little "outreach." 
About half, or "slightly 
more than half" of the Hispanics in Lakewood are Catholic. 
The patron saint of Puerto Rico is Our Lady of the Immaculate 
Conception (nuestra senora La Inmaculada); the AHOC hopes to 
sponsor the first annual patronada (celebration of a patron) this 
Spring on her feast day,w with a procession and party. 
I had asked Lydia if there were people to whom she thought I 
should speak, and she referred me only to other community leader 
types, with the exception of her brother—in—law, Juan Carlos. 
This 
is something of a problem in talking to organization people, 
once they are interested in seeing to 
it that the interviewer 
gets the full political picture from the most informed. 
I have to 
get in touch with her again and press the point of wanting to 
talk with some "ordinary" people. 
She did give me a copy of the 
HOC's list of Puerto Rican Agencies throughout the state of New 
Jersey, and it included two within the Pinelands: 
Casa PRAC (Puerto Rican Action Committee) 
319 Landis Ave. 
Vineland, N.J. 08360 
Tel. (609) 692-2331 
Executive Director: Eva Dominguez 
Spanish Speaking People Community Center, Inc. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 37 
303 Sumner Street 
Landisville, N.J. 08326 
Tel. (609) 697-2967; 561-5539 
Executive Director: Lydia Munoz 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 38 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1104c 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Brief conversation this morning, while walking the dog; 
came across a man and his wife and several children at the foot 
of the fire tower just outside the headquarters G—Lebanon State 
Forest; 27GT building. 
Kids began to play with the dog, and the 
man struck up a conversation with me, asking if I worked in the 
Forest. 
I explained the project, and he said that he and his 
family were a part of the local 4—H, and that a couple of project 
people had been to their Halloween party last week to take 
pictures. 
He was familiar with (and sympathetic to) our aims. 
He volunteered that he and his wife were "sort of professional 
campground livers," and that they had lived in campgrounds in the 
Pine Barrens for 10 years, between 1971 and 1981; for about half 
of that time they lived 
in the Chip's Folly campground in New 
Gretna (Bass River Twp.), "way back 
in the woods." 
They had 
tented for a year and a half, then bought a small trailer; after 
about five years they bought a small mobile home to live in, but 
their living cost for housing, he said was "not $250 a month, but 
more like $250 a year." 
He said that they had really felt the impact of the creation 
of the National Reserve, because the combination of "publicity" 
and the opening of the land to public use had made a tremendous 
change in the "traffic", not just on roads but all over the land. 
Taxes and property values have risen, he said, so that people who 
lived here for years and got their living from the woods were no 
longer able to live 
in their own homes, because they couldn't pay 
their taxes; people who owned land and were living from the woods 
and making changes in their buildings bit by bit can now no 
longer build on their own property. 
Even as a non—property— 
owner, he felt that their lives had been drastically affected by 
the changes. 
Traffic had increased in the campgrounds to the 
point that they were no 
longer the deep woods haven that he and 
his family had loved. 
Many outsiders came in, 
in 
large 
recreational vehicles, and they were careless with the land, 
leaving trash around, trespassing everywhere, and making lots of 
noise. 
Firewood theft also became a major problem, spurred on 
in 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 39 
invasion of privacy, and 
benefits of woods I 
i 
fe. 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
part, he thought, by the 
increasing fashionability 
who live "out here", 
like 
maintain "the balance" 
in 
cut only as much as they 
stuff. 
He himself had cu 
trees; when you could see 
always had express permis 
are "clearcutting whole a 
that the firewood thieves 
who out for their own use 
"Anybody that has a picku 
come 
in and cut, and they 
energy crisis of the late 70's, and the 
of wood heat in urban areas. 
People 
his wife and himself, know how to 
the woods. 
When they cut wood, they 
need, and they cut only the appropriate 
t only "standing deadwood and diseased 
that they were diseased," and he had 
sion for his cutting. 
Nowadays, people 
reas, just anywhere." 
He feels strongly 
are outsiders, small—time entrepreneurs 
and to have a few truckloads to sell. 
p truck and a chainsaw" 
is 
liable to 
cut on private as well as public lands. 
TX02: He and his wife now own a small house on G—Rancocas Creek; 
21GT, where they have lived for the last two years. 
There are 
several families there, all 
of whom own their houses. 
The houses 
face onto the water, and between them and the "main road" stand 
10 acres of woods which are "federal woodlands", and so "can 
never be cut." 
Although they preferred their former arrangement 
of 
living in the campgrounds, they feel that the life they loved 
there has been permanently spoiled by all the changes in usage, 
and under the circumstances they are better off where they now 
are. 
It still 
isn't "deep woods," but the tree belt between 
their home and the traffic provides a sense of protection from 
some of the 
still 
lets them enjoy 
page 40 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1105 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Elaine and I went, mostly as tourists, or as fieldworkers 
taking a break, to the Christmas Bazaar at St. Ann's Church in 
G—Brown's Mills; 21GT; we did take cameras, though, so we were sort 
of partly on the job (see ET notes on this same event). 
We 
arrived at about 2:30 or so to the bazaar, which was held in the 
basement of the Church Hall. 
The function had been going on 
since 8:00 am. 
We were met almost at the door by a woman from 
the Altar and Rosary Society, the sponsoring group. 
We explained 
our purposes, and were given permission to photograph, along with 
the admonition that we should have come earlier, since much of 
what they had had for sale was gone by now. 
The Altar and Rosary Society is a women's group of the 
church (they do not have the Sacred Heart Society which is a 
women's organization in many Catholic churches). 
They sponsor 
various events during the year, including bus trips (destinations 
unspecified), a Communion Breakfast on May Day, and this October 
they had their first Living Rosary (a gathering in which the 
rosary is formed with people in the places of the rosary beads, 
and the rosary is recited, each "bead" reciting the prayer which 
corresponds to her position; all the participants were women and 
girls, with the exception of Father Jay Bowden, who was the 
cross.) 
The "big thing" for the society is the Bazaar. 
The 
women who are members begin meeting in April to prepare for the 
bazaar. 
They meet every Friday, and work on the hand crafts 
which will be donated for sale at the bazaar. 
Everyone makes 
whatever she most likes to make, and the women exchange ideas 
with one another. 
Jewel Petry, who met us when we arrived, says 
she doesn't have a talent for handwork, but she gives ideas to 
those who do, and they execute them. 
Works still on display when 
we arrived included crocheted christmas ornaments, pumpkins and 
thanksgiving decorations, crocheted afgahans, pot holders, 
doilies, coathanger covers, slippers, hats, mittens, shawls; 
there were also doll clothes, an enormously thick pine cone 
wreath, baked goods (whole cakes for sale, as opposed to slices 
to be eaten on the spot), dolls, and a table of commercially 
produced religious articles including statuettes of Jesus, St. 
Francis and St. Ann, prayer cards, medallions, rosaries, car pins 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 41 
(medallions with prongs on the bottom, presumably to stick into 
the dashboard of a car), dashboard figurines, and Bible coloring 
books. 
Proceeds from the bazaar are used to pay for acquisition and 
maintenance of all 
the furnishings of the altar of the church: 
linens, altar cloths, chalices, candles, candle holders, banners, 
draperies, flowers, the priest's vestments, and "anything Father 
should need." 
They may buy a new tabernacle for the altar in the 
near future, though it 
is not certain whether they will or not. 
There is talk of building a new church one day, since the 
congregation has grown from its original number of 200 to 1200 
families. 
Of these, about 800 ore active in the church. 
Raffle tickets were being sold for two separate raffles. 
One, with tickets selling for fifty cents apiece, was for the 
door prizes: 
first prize a matching crocheted afgahan and 
pillow, second a nativity scene worked in needlepoint style 
on three dimensional plastic backing, so that the standing figures 
appeared to be made only of yarn, third a combination radio and 
cassette tape player. 
The second raffle, with tickets at a 
quarter each, was for a crocheted Christmas Tree Skirt. 
The 
maker of all the crocheted raffle prizes was the same woman, Jane 
Washkewicz (RD2, Box 105-45, Wrightstown, 08562; Wrightstown 
Borough, 28), who was also wearing a very handsome vest of her 
own crafting. 
She said that she uses commercial patterns, but 
not the colors that are suggested with them. 
Instead, her 
husband picks out the color combinations and suggests them to 
her. 
She feels that a lot of her success in needlework is owing 
to his taste in colors and skill at selecting good colors and 
good combinations. 
The cafeteria was offering a menu of homemade vegetable beef 
soup (by the quart, bowl, and cup), hot dogs, coffee and tea, 
cupcakes, and brownies. 
We met Jane Kane, a nun who had moved to the area in August 
to work 
in the parish and at Deborah Heart and Lung Hospital. 
She wore lay clothing, and did not introduce herself to us as 
"sister" anyone, though a few of the women present addressed her 
as "Sister." 
She had worked for the past 12 years in a hospice 
in Washington, D.C., and was acquainted with Erica Brady through 
the hospice. 
She knew Erica also worked for the Library of 
Congress, and sent regards to her by way of us. 
She asked us in 
lowered tones, because "I don't want to offend anybody" 
if we had 
ever heard about "pineys", and pointed out to us a woman who had 
worked in a social service agency in the area who had dealt with 
"pineys" among her clientele; Ms. Kane had never seen one 
herself, but she understood that even now there were people 
living not too far from here who were basically "just like 
Hillbillies." 
Though church bazaars are presumably open to the public at 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 42 
large, I was given to wonder if those who usually come are mostly 
parishioners of the sponsoring church; Elaine and I were spotted 
as outsiders immediately, and greeted when we were barely in the 
door. 
It 
is not that we weren't made welcome, but rather that we 
were somehow singled out; everyone else who came and went while 
we were there seemed to be acquainted with the vendors. 
As we 
were preparing to 
leave, Elaine was taking pictures of signs 
posted near the door, including the Bingo Rules. 
This suddenly 
caused a great deal of consternation, and a woman came out from 
behind the food counter to find out what she was doing. 
Elaine 
explained herself and mentioned the names of several of the women 
to whom we had spoken about the fair and about taking pictures. 
At this point Mrs. Petry appeared to see what was the matter, and 
was distressed by the pictures taken of the signs; the bazaar was 
one thing, she said, but picture—taking permission did not extend 
to the signs. 
She felt that Father would be angered by 
it, and 
that we could not leave without talking to him. 
This made it 
somewhat awkward for us, not only in that we had committed a 
transgression of whose nature and gravity we were unaware, but 
also in that we were ready to leave, had outdoor photographing we 
wanted to do before dark, and Father Jay was meeting with 
someone, and scheduled to hear confessions immediately afterward, 
at 4:00. 
Mrs. Fletch (her name) Bossert, the president of the 
Altar and Rosary Society, deftly provided us with an out in this 
sticky situation by inviting us upstairs to see the church. 
The main church building was built 75 years ago, on another 
site, and was later moved to the present site. 
The church hall 
is 
in an attached annex building which was formerly a barracks at 
Fort Dix. 
It extends out at right angles from the altar of the 
main church, so that congregants sitting in both sections can 
hear and see, though those in the annex "have to 
look at the side 
of his face." 
The draperies behind the altar are changed 
seasonally, with different colors signalling advent, Christmas, 
Easter, and seasonal times. 
We talked with Mrs. Bossert about the upset over the Bingo 
pictures (something to do with regulation, and licenses, and the 
fact that it's 
in Father Jay's bailiwick) and the fact that 
Father Jay was tied up and we really couldn't stay any longer. 
We assured her that we would call him to clear up the matter, and 
she seemed to think that was fine. (Elaine called later, and 
it 
was.) 
foodways, (celebration) 
TX02: On the way back to HQ we stopped by the roadside to talk 
with a ranger from our station (W. Scott) who was supervising a 
group of men cutting firewood. 
They were cutting under the 
G—Lebanon State Forest; 21GT home—owner firewood program, 
in which 
people apply for a cutting permit. 
Applications are taken in 
August, and about 800 to 1,000 people apply for the 500 available 
permits; selections are made by lottery. 
Those who are selected 
may cut a cord of wood for a fee of $10, on certain designated 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 43 
plots. 
A ranger is on hand to supervise, and to check off each 
permit as the cord limit is reached, and to make sure that people 
restrict themselves to one cord (4'x4'x8' of stacked wood). 
In 
this particular plot, any and all oaks could be cut (there were 
mostly white and black oaks, some red oak). 
The idea is to clear 
out all the oaks in this stretch, since the foresters feel that 
they have been badly damaged by gypsy moths in the last few 
years, and need to be taken out to 
let the pines take over their 
land. 
The order of succession apparently begins with pines, 
which grow to a certain height, meanwhile providing the shade 
that the young oaks need to become strong; then the oaks pass the 
pines in height, and crowd them out by taking the available 
sunlight. 
When the oaks are cut out, the pines thrive again. 
The "rotation" 
is about 20 or 30 years. 
The group who were cutting right where we were consisted of 
Bob Cherry, the permit holder, and his father—in—law, 
brother— 
in—law, son and neighbor. 
Cherry said this had been "a good week 
for cutting," by which he explained that he meant that the 
lots 
on which cutting could be done were near the roadways and fairly 
clear of underbrush. 
A couple of weeks ago he had been cutting 
on a rainy day, 
in deep woods, 
in swampy ground; the combination 
of circumstances made the job so rough that he quit before he had 
even cut a full cord ( it had also been a long trek from the 
cutting grounds to the nearest place that he could bring in the 
truck. 
We also chatted with Bob, his neighbor, and Mr. Scott (the 
ranger) about chemical dumping in New Jersey, and how alarming 
the practice was, as well as how very widespread. 
Mr. Scott said 
that there is a large dumping site just off of route 72 near the 
pygmy forest, and the plot of ground around there is just dead 
and barren. 
Cherry's neighbor said that the practice had been 
for the chemical companies to buy a parcel of ground, and just 
use 
it as their own private dump; no one had bothered to think 
about where the stuff went once it was out of sight under the 
ground, about the water table and which way the streams ran. 
He 
said there was one stream north of here which at one time had 
been so highly concentrated with certain chemical pollutants that 
"they said that at night you could just go out there and develop 
your film in 
it; 
it was that kind of chemical." 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 44 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1106a 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: 
Went to look for St. Anthony's Church in G—Jackson; 48GT, on 
Rte. 528, to go to the 11:00 a.m. Spanish Mass. 
I followed 
directions I had checked out with Father Bianchi, the priest of 
St. Anthony's, but I evidently had something mistaken, as I was 
not able to find the church. 
(Ironic, since St. Anthony is the 
patron saint of 
lost things!) 
TX02: Having given up on St. Anthony's, I returned to G—Whitesbog; 
21GT, to visit with Jimmy Rivera, whom I had first gone to see on 
October 6th. 
At that time, he had said that he really couldn't 
talk to me at any time except on a Sunday, because the cranberry 
harvest was at its height, and he was working on the berries six 
days a week, and sometimes seven. 
The ideal time would be after 
the harvest was finished (Nov. 1st), but he said I would be 
welcome to drop by any Sunday and he would talk with me 
if he 
could. 
This was the first time I had been able to be here on a 
Sunday. 
As it turned out, no one was home, but his neighbor 
across the street (to whom Jimmy had referred me as being also 
Puerto Rican, and better to talk to, since he had been here 
longer) was out chopping wood in his yard. 
I had been by his 
house once before as well, and found no one home, so I went to 
talk with him. 
He told me that Rivera had left for Puerto Rico 
that very morning, to go to visit his father. 
His brother—in—law 
had come to pick him up 
in his truck and drive him to the airport 
at 9:00. 
Rivera's wife and son did not go with him, but they 
weren't home either. 
His step—daughter, who is about to have a 
baby (apparently any day now) had gone to stay with her sister in 
Pemberton for the day. 
Rivera's neighbor's name 
is Adelio Garcia, and his mailing 
address, like Rivera's, 
is 120-30 White's Bog Rd., Browns Mills, 
N.J.; he has no telephone, but uses Rivera's when he needs one 
(Rivera's number is 893-6252). 
He invited me 
into the house, so 
we could be warm while talking (though the day was very mild for 
this time of the season), and took me through the kitchen into a 
small 
living room which was more than amply heated by a parlor— 
sized wood stove. 
The couch and two armchairs in the room were 
each covered with a blanket or quilt (for what purpose? to 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 45 
protect them from wear? to cover worn upholstry?). 
There he 
introduced me to a black woman of about his age (in her 60's), 
introducing her only as Selina. 
They have lived together for 
many years now. 
Selina is stooped in her back and cannot 
straighten up, and seems to move with some difficulty. 
She does 
not speak or understand Spanish; Garcia continued to speak to me 
in Spanish even after we went into the living room, pausing from 
time to time to explain one thing or another to Selina in 
English, 
in which he gets along fine, but if far from fluent. 
I 
made arrangements with them to come back on Thursday, Nov. 10 to 
talk at some length. 
They invited me to stay then to talk, but I 
had an appointment in Vineland which kept me from it. 
Garcia 
said that he was going to be working on the last remains of the 
cranberry harvest through Wednesday, but that after Wednesday he 
would be home most of the time. 
In the course of our 15-20 minute conversation after the 
interview time was set up, he asked me 
if I was "puertorra" (a 
shortened form of Puertorriquena), and explained to me how, even 
though most of the people on this side of the world speak 
Spanish, not too many "norteamericanos" (North Americans) do. 
The Spanish that people speak, he said varies from place to place 
and words may be the same in sound but different in meaning from 
one country or region to another. 
He gave me the example of two 
words used in reverse of each other in two regions of Puerto Rico 
(I didn't note them, but they were the equivalents of "pot" and 
"kettle", and the point was that in one village what is called 
"pot" 
is called "kettle" 
in the other, and vice—versa). 
These 
are merely differences of dialect, though, and people can still 
understand the different kinds of Spanish everywhere, 
in most 
cases. 
There are times, he said, when a word is so different in 
meaning from one place to another that people have to really 
explain themselves; then there also are those words which are 
fine to use in one place but are obscene or strong in another 
place and may get you in trouble. 
Garcia draws social security, 
in the amount of $385 per 
month, and does some cranberry harvesting as well, but he 
is 
careful not to earn too much, because then his social security 
check will be cut by the corresponding amount. 
"Cuanto mas Bane, 
mas me descuentan el 
cheque." he said (The more I earn, the more 
they take out of my check). 
It doesn't make sense for him to 
earn very much money, because he's just working against himself. 
He 
is allowed to earn $1600 without its affecting his check, and 
he 
is careful to stay within that limit, at least on paper. 
Garcia said that Rivera has many family members still 
in 
Puerto Rico, and that he had gone for a visit, and planned to 
stay two or three weeks. Garcia himself still has a brother in 
Puerto Rico, but both of his parents are dead; visiting parents 
is the main reason for going back to Puerto Rico, he said, and he 
himself hasn't been back in about 5 years. 
TX03: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 46 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 47 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1106b 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Returning to the Puerto Rican Social Action Club in 
G—Vineland; 39GT, at the invitation of Juan Hernandez, whom I 
interviewed there on 11/3/83 (see PFP83— FBB1103). 
He had 
suggested that I come down on Sunday for the second day of the 
Maraton, a fundraising event to benefit fire victims. 
The 
Maraton is sponsored by the Fire Aid Society, a voluntary 
organization which came into existence last year, at the time of 
the first marathon fundraising event. 
A year ago November, a 
block of business buildings in downtown Vineland burned, and some 
80 people who lived 
in the apartments on the upper floors were 
left homeless; almost all 
of them were Hispanics. 
In the wake of 
the fire, an emergency committee was formed, which, with the help 
of a local 
radio station, began a fund drive which raised $4,000 
in relief money in 48 hours. 
This year was the first anniversary 
of that drive, and the second annual Maraton. 
In the year since 
it was formed, the Fire Aid Society (a joint Anglo and Hispanic 
venture) has incorporated itself as a non—profit organization, 
and written by—laws and elected officers. 
They plan to make the 
fund drive an annual event. 
Members to whom I spoke emphasized 
the fact that no other community they know of has a Fire Aid 
Society, and they are proud of the community—minded people who 
serve in this volunteer organization. 
When I arrived at the Club, Juan Hernandez was waiting just 
inside the door, and he promptly introduced me to his wife and 
the two women who were serving cake ("birthday" cake for the 
Society) and coffee, officers of the Society, the chief of the 
volunteer Fire Department, officers of the club, and everyone 
else who was within handshaking distance. 
He had asked two of 
the "young professional" members of the Club to be 
in charge of 
me at the Maraton, a lawyer named Jose, whose last name escaped 
me 
in the din, and the man whom I later interviewed, Ivan Arcaya. 
Arcaya works in the rehabilitation division of the Department of 
Labor in Vineland, and also runs a small private consulting firm, 
through which he helps local, mainly Hispanic, businesspeople 
with their taxes, accounting, and operational troubles, and 
serves as a Notary Public. 
(Ivan Arcaya, 569 N. 2nd St., 
Vineland, N.J. 08360, tel. (609) 696-5361.) 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 48 
The fundraiser was held in the Club, whose hall had been 
provided free of charge for the event. 
The hall was set up with 
long tables covered with white paper table cloths along either 
side of the room, and in rows toward the back. 
On the stage was 
a large table where the MC/Announcer/DJ, Sonny Lugo of Radio Rey, 
a Spanish language station that broadcasts from Vineland, had his 
microphone and turntables arranged. 
Lugo kept up a fairly 
continual patter promoting the Fire Aid Society and urging radio 
listeners to come down to the Club and/or to telephone with a 
pledge. 
In addition, community members would from time to time 
take the microphone to announce the status of the contributions, 
and to thank participants, local business who had made cash or 
service donations, and to urge the continued success of the fund 
drive and its sponsoring organization. 
Just as I had gotten set 
up to interview Arcaya, a man arrived at the table saying that 
Lugo insisted that I come up to the stage and introduce myself 
and address the crowd and radio listeners. 
I was introduced (to 
my relief) by Arcaya, and briefly explained, 
in Spanish, the 
purposes of the Project, and wished the Society great success in 
their drive. 
News that the Library of Congress had a 
representative in the crowd was very warmly received, and several 
people mentioned to me during the course of the couple of hours 
that I was there that they felt very proud to have such an 
interest taken in their community and their activities. 
In front of the stage, a large area of the floor had been 
cleared for dancing, and for the performances which made up the 
afternoon's entertainment. 
These were provided by two groups of 
teenaged girls who modeled their style and their routines after 
the popular Puerto Rican soft rock group (a promoter's creation) 
called Menudo. 
(Menudo is aimed at an adolescent audience, and 
is made up of teen—aged boys, who must leave the group when they 
turn 18, to be replaced by someone younger. 
They have 
choreographed dance routines, and a lead "singer" who lip—synchs 
the words to a previously recorded song. 
They do not sing 
themselves or play instruments.) 
The groups who performed at the 
Maraton this afternoon called themselves Angeles de Menudo 
(Angels of Menudo; advisor: 
Alicia Rodriguez, 794 E. Walnut Rd., 
21—M. Vineland, N.J., 08360) and Propiedad de Menudo (Property of 
Menudo; adviser: 
Elsie Arroyo, 506, S. 8th St., Vineland, N.J., 
08360). 
Both groups are self—sponsored, and get an older (mid 
20's) female adviser to help them coordinate their activities and 
to critique their dance routines. 
Propiedad de Menudo has, 
according to the flyer which they gave me (printed in English), 
meetings every other Monday from 5-6:00 pm.; they describe 
themselves as "a curricular organization in which Fan Club 
members share interest (sic) and ideas in order to advance and to 
update the latest on MENUDO." 
The girls are costumed in up—to— 
the—minute disco fashions. In one group they wore snug fitting 
black slacks which stopped short of the ankle, together with 
white stockings and black flats, and red tunic tops cinched at 
the waist with thin, double black—and—rhinestone belts. 
The 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 49 
other, larger group (Propiedad) had two rows of dancers costumed 
in similar attire, but with white tops, and a center row costumed 
in striped leotards with attached tennis—length skirts; this 
group also had a ballerina in a blue satin and tulle stage dress, 
who was featured on pointe in certain routines. 
Each group had a 
lead "singer" who lip—synched the words of a Spanish language 
soft rock song with a female lead vocalist; the lead singer used 
a microphone (as do Menudo's "singers"), and 
in some cases 
actually sang parts of the song, generally choruses. 
For these 
enthusiastically received performances, the house lights were 
turned down and spotlights were turned on the dancers; a 
revolving mirrored globe on the ceiling reflected blue and red 
spotlights. 
During the couple of hours that I was there, roughly 200 
people were circulating; of these, perhaps a third were a 
changing population, and the others were there the whole time. 
Most people were seated at the tables, and there was a large 
contingent mostly made up of men, who stood at the rear of the 
building, near the entry and the cake and coffee window; 
everyone was engaged in 
lively conversation with many people 
nearby. 
On Saturday, there had been beer served at the bar in 
the rear of the hall, but on Sunday the bar was not open; the 
on l 
y refreshments on this day were coffee and tea, and the 
"birthday" cake. 
Arcaya and I set ourselves up at the table 
nearest the door, 
in an effort to be out of the way of people 
trying to socialize, as well as to try to get our microphones out 
of the direct line of the radio announcer's speakers. 
Though 
this was a somewhat more sheltered location than many, and we 
were out of the circulation of socializing traffic, there was no 
way at all 
to get out of the sound of the radio and the music. 
Arcaya and I had spoken Spanish, as I had since my arrival 
with anyone Hispanic at the Club (I met three of the roughly 
dozen Anglos whom I saw circulating there, and later on two more 
Anglo politicians who had come in to put in a good word and shake 
some hands just before election day); but when we began the 
interview set—up, he began to speak in English. 
It is my rule 
with anyone who knows that I am comfortable in both languages to 
follow the language lead of the interviewee, so the interview was 
conducted in English. 
After the interview was over, and I had packed up and begun 
to make my farewells, Arcaya recalled several other details of 
community life which he wanted me to make note of: 
In Utuado, the Puerto Rican village from which some 75% of 
Vineland's Puerto Ricans come, storytelling is a big social 
pastime, especially among the older men. 
This interest is 
reflected in the socializing of the men, and particularly the 
older men, 
in Vineland. 
The Club and the Domino League are major 
settings for the exchange of stories, as are small visiting 
parties in the homes. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 50 
Cockfights are a very popular sport in Vineland, though they 
are held privately, and "advertised" by word of mouth only, since 
they are illegal, and the law enforcement officers tend to crack 
down on them. 
Many people raise fighting cocks, which are bred 
for that purpose only, and it 
is not illegal to raise or own the 
cocks. 
The fights are held "privately", usually in someone's 
garage or basement. 
Women do not attend, only men, and there is 
heavy betting on the outcomes. 
Arcaya finds the sport no more 
brutal than boxing, though he 
is not a fan of either, and cannot 
understand why there should be such a strong objection to 
it; 
in 
particular, he finds it strange that the law enforcement motive 
is not one of prevention or regulation 
of gambling, but of 
prevention of cruelty to animals. 
Also in that vein, he said that he thinks that Puerto Ricans 
are very superstitious, and says that there is a large and very 
active cule of Santeristas in Vineland. 
Santeristas or Santeros 
are practitioners of a religion called Santeria which is similar 
to the African religion which Arcaya called "macumba." 
It 
is a 
voodoolike religion, involving animal sacrifice and the 
sacramental use of animal blood, trance and spirit possession, and 
magically empowered amulets and charms. 
At one point, the high 
priest of the Santeros was president of the Puerto Rican Social 
Actin Club. 
The catholic church is both knowledgeable of and 
opposed to the Santeros, and pretending there are no such people 
in Vineland. 
Among the Catholic churchgoers, there are numerous 
cursillistas and a large group of Charismatics (Carismaticos); 
there are also many pentecostals in the Hispanic community. 
Community religious events not unusually unite many members of 
these groups in the procession of the Muerte y Pasion (recrestion 
of the Passion and death of Christ) at Easter time, the skits at 
Christmastime and on Three Kings Day (January 6th), and the 
parrandas, or caroling outings at Christmastime. 
In the 
parrandas groups of carollers go from house to house, singing the 
canciones tipicas (typical, 
i.e. traditional, songs) of the 
season, most of them in the jibaro or country style (from the 
interior regions of Puerto Rico). 
They are expected, and at each 
house they will be invited in to have hot rum, and traditional 
foods which have been already prepared for them. 
The parrandas 
are held during the 12 days of Christmas, between the 24th of 
December and the 6th of January. 
(celebration). ethnicity 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 51 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 52 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1109 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NMIO: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Went back down to G—Woodbine; 37GT today to interview Enrique 
Rodriguez. 
He 
is president of the volunteer ambulance corps 
there. 
He seemed willing, on the phone, when I called to 
reconfirm before leaving HQ, but also embarrassed or uneasy. 
It 
did turn out to be one of the more uncomfortable interview 
sessions I have had so far. 
He was perfectly amiable, but shy, I 
guess, or something, and 
it was hard to phrase questions in ways 
that would get more than yes or no answers, or something like an 
unelaborated "not really." 
I had to work not to suggest answers, 
and to bear the embarrassed silences when I was waiting for him 
to say more. 
I guess he's just not much of a talker; or perhaps 
he's cautious of outsiders and curiosity—seekers. 
He did 
arrange, both this time, and at our previous appointment which 
fell through (see PFP83—FBB1013), to meet with me at the 
ambulance corps building, rather than at his home. 
This is 
entirely in keeping not only with the desire to maintain privacy, 
but with the impropriety in Hispanic culture of meeting with a 
single (and/or unaccompanied) (chaperonage is still at work here, 
somehow) person of the opposite sex at your home; especially when 
your neighbors know you and mind your business, and it would not 
escape their notice. 
As mentioned in PFP83—RBB008, I thought at one point that 
the embarrassment might somehow be connected to language, so I 
asked (in Spanish) 
if we could converse in Spanish. 
That made no 
difference to the ease of 
interaction. 
Mr. Rodriguez, as 
president of the Ambulance corps, deals with the community at 
large all 
of the time, and not just with Hispanics; he 
is quite 
accustomed to speaking English in all kinds of situations,and has 
great facility in 
it. 
Rodriguez is active 
in the church (St. Casimir's) and 
in the 
Cursillo movement, I was told by Msgr. Reynolds of St. Raymond's 
church in the Villas. 
Rodriguez gave me an understanding of what 
the Cursillois all 
about, but never made any personal references 
or mentioned his own involvement in any way. 
In general, the 
tone of the interview was set by this willing and polite way 
in 
which he was brief but informative, while revealing very little 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 53 
about his personal experiences or opinions. 
He also referred me, 
as 
is proper in the Hispanic community, to persons more 
authoritative, or in more appropriate positions than he to answer 
certain questions, 
notably about the uses of 
land 
in the area. 
For this he not only referred me to Jose Rodriguez, but also 
phoned him and asked him if he could take the time to drop by and 
talk with me a bit, as he did do. 
The person to whom he referred me to get the best 
information about the ambulance corps was his sister—in—law, 
Jeannette Irizarry. 
At the time he and I were talking, she was 
out in the ambulance on a call. 
She did drop in 
later, though 
she couldn't stay at the time. 
We did chat briefly, though, and 
she told me that things are pretty rough with the ambulance corps 
just now. They serve an area of 6 communities, and have at 
present only 7 members, total. 
They are really pressed, 
distributing all the work among those 7, since none of them has 
that as their sole occupation because it 
is volunteer. 
Everyone 
also has to hold some kind of paying job. 
Rodriguez is the 
exception at the moment, because he 
is drawing compensation for 
his back injury, which also keeps him from being able to work; at 
the same time, 
it keeps him from being able to go out in the 
ambulance, so his part as one of the 7 is 
in manning the radio at 
the building, making referral calls, and doing paperwork. 
The 
town of Woodbine provides workmen's compensation insurance for 
the corps' workers, but no salary, and no operating funds, 
they 
have to raise all 
of the operating expenses themselves, which 
they do by means of bake sales, flea markets, and occasional 
marathon fund drives. 
They are worried about the fact that there 
is no money provided for the town, because it makes an already 
difficult job even more demanding, and as it 
is there are few 
enough people who have the time and are willing to do the work. 
There are already some towns in the near area whose local 
ambulance companies have folded for these reasons, and they have 
to draw on the services of adjacent towns; this only aggravates 
the problems for those services, and it gets to be a vicious 
circle. 
Anyone interested in being a member of the corps must 
take EMT training, on their own time and money. 
When they have 
completed the course and been certified they are eligible to work 
on the corps; 
it 
is then incumbent upon them to maintain their 
certification by taking the required refresher courses every 
three years. 
The nearest place to take the course is 
in Mays 
Landing, so they also have to have some way to get there. 
The 
ambulance corps has members who are Hispanic, Anglo, and Black; 
it 
is a point of real unity, but then inter—group relations are 
not really a problem in Woodbine, anyway, as 
it 
is a tight—knit 
community. 
Ms. Irizarry finds work on the ambulance corps very 
demanding, but sees it also as a great good and a civic duty. 
Things are getting tougher and tougher, though, and she has her 
doubts about how long they can hold it together with the current 
financial situation and only 7 qualified volunteers. 
I took a picture of Rodriguez with the ambulance that was 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 54 
parked inside the building, and he recommended that I wait, 
if I 
could, until the new ambulance came back from its outing, that 
was the one I should really take a picture of. (I neglected to 
ask where the funds came from to purchase a brand new ambulance; 
things that seem so obvious in retrospect so easily escape my 
notice at the moment that it counts.) 
When they came in, 
he 
declined to be photographed with the new ambulance, since he 
doesn't really work in 
it; rather he insisted that Ms. Irizarry 
pose beside the new vehicle. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 55 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1110a 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Interview with Adelio Garcia, 120-30 Whitesbog Road, 
G—Browns Mills; 21GT, N.J. 
Also present was Selina Aides, the 
woman who lives with him. 
She is black, from Virginia, and does 
not speak Spanish. 
Garcia was the principal 
interviewee, and we 
spoke almost only in Spanish, though he used a few words in 
English consistently in a hispanized form; 
Mrs. Aides appeared 
not to mind that we were sitting right in front of her, speaking 
a language that she does not understand. 
Occasionally one or the 
other of us would address her directly in English, though when I 
tried to do this, Adelio usually interrupted her answer and began 
to explain it for me 
in Spanish. 
See PFP83—RBBO10-012. 
It was a rainy day today, and we sat in the living room of 
the house, 
in which Selina had been sitting, reading the paper by 
the window, when I arrived. 
There was no light on 
in the living 
room, and Adelio and Selina both appeared to find that customary; 
it was fairly dark inside. 
At one point, Selina did say that if 
I wanted to turn the light on, just to 
let her know, but I didn't 
take her up on her offer. 
The living room is about 12 feet square, and the walls and 
ceiling are painted blue. 
The woodstove was fired up to top heat 
"to take the chill out, from the damp weather", and the room very 
hot to my taste. 
Selina turned the damper down when I came in, 
and as the interview progressed, the room cooled off. 
Several 
pictures are hanging in the room, but it was too dark to make 
most of them out, and I neglected to scrutinize them later when I 
was wandering in preparation for leaving. 
Over the couch, which 
is directly opposite the woodstove, hangs a large framed mirror, 
To the right of 
it 
is a framed picture of Martin Luther King, 
behind which a seed necklace hangs from the same nail. 
To the 
left of the mirror is a frame full of wallet—sized pictures of 
children, who turn out to be the children of all 
of their friends 
from Rome, a farmworkers camp where they used to 
live. 
(Rome is 
not on the maps nor in the Gazeteer, but I didn't ask them about 
where it was with any precision; somewhere in the cranberrying 
area, and not too far from White's Bog, because they used the 
store in Browns Mills then too.) 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 56 
The house 
is I—house in shape, one room deep. 
The kitchen 
door is the entry, and 
it 
is around back, with respect to the 
road. 
The living room gives off of the kitchen, and the bedroom 
off of the living room, 
in a straight line; curtains close the 
doorway between the living room and the bedroom. 
There is a 
window in the front and back walls of the living room, and both 
are curtained and have a small table set under them. 
The back— 
facing window has a lamp on 
its table, but this was not on, nor 
was the overhead bulb. 
Next to that table is a 24" TV set, and 
beside that a stack of stovewood. 
(See photos) 
The front— 
facing window has on 
its table a large electric fan, stacks of 
papers, bottles of cough syrup and prescription syrup of 
Selina's, for allergies, and a few figurines. 
In front of 
everything was a framed picture of James, the step—grandson of 
"Jimmy" Rivera, who lives across the road. 
(Adelio and Selina 
both spoke of James with tremendous affection, and they regard 
him as something of a child of their own; they love him dearly.) 
Every shelf or table surface in the room had a lace edged linen 
covering, and the chairs and couch had blankets covering their 
upholstery; I don't know if this is to protect or to conceal the 
applied upholstery, or for warmth, or what. 
Adelio was very willing to be photographed, but he took off 
his jacket first. 
Evidently he wanted the photos to be like 
portraits or something, and the jacket was out of place for that. 
Selina declined to be photographed, because she wasn't "dressed." 
She also didn't move away or get up out of the chair where she 
sat, so I took no pictures of that whole side of the room. 
She 
has evident back trouble, and walks slowly, stooped from the 
waist. 
Yet, when I asked if her back troubled her, she said 
"sometimes;" it 
is apparently not high on her list of medical 
complaints. 
She and Adelio have lived together "for a long 
time"; it seems like something approaching 20 years, from other 
bits of conversational 
information. 
She has a beautiful, slow, 
thoughtful speech, very much the style and usage that I associate 
with older Blacks in the rural South. 
I think she wears a wig, 
but I could not be sure. 
She gives the impression of great 
acceptance and patience, and I was very touched by her rejoinder 
when Adelio told her that he was telling me about the days in 
which he used to drink heavily. 
She shook her head, and held up 
both hands, palms outward, and said she was glad that was past. 
It was matter—of—fact, uncritical, and heartfelt. 
They were both 
very frank in talking about the hardships that the drinking had 
caused. 
Adelio did most of the talking when I was there, 
understandable, since we were speaking Spanish, and it was he 
whom I had specifically come to see. 
He 
is an easy and 
enthusiastic talker, who repeats often for emphasis, and often 
summarizes a long explanation when it 
is done, as 
if reflecting 
on 
it and restating its main point. 
He gives lengthy and ample 
answers to questions, making an interviewer's job comfortable and 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 57 
easy. 
I felt that he would have be perfectly willing to have me 
go on for even longer than I did, and he 
invited me to come back 
at any time, 
if there was anything further he could do for me. 
"Estamos aqui a la orden," he said, when I left (we are here, at 
(your) orders]; one of those lovely polite formalities in which 
Spanish abounds. Hispanic, ethnicity 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 58 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1110b 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Went down to the G—Buena; 02GT Market for the third time 
today, hoping to interview Irene Torres, as we had arranged in 
our brief conversation yesterday. 
Today, though, things seemed 
to conspiring to prevent our interview. 
It was raining hard, and 
blowing, and rainwater was blowing in on us and on Irene's kids, 
who were out of school for today and tomorrow owing to two days 
of teachers' conferences. 
The kids were bored stiff, and were 
running around, cutting up, and knocking over occasional baskets 
of vegetables. 
Irene was 
in charge of the stand all alone, as 
her dad was not feeling well, and her husband, Leon, had left for 
Puerto Rico yesterday, having received the news that his father 
had just died. 
She was 
in a rancid mood with her kids, and not 
in the mood to talk, but trying to be polite enough to give it a 
try anyhow. 
As luck would have it, a Mr. Ed Scott (Edwin L. 
Scott, Sr., 954 N. Main St., Williamstown, N.J. 08094) dropped in 
and quickly monopolized the conversation. 
I had arrived at 
around 3:00 p.m., and Mr. Scott came in about 15 minutes later. 
By 4:00, Irene decided to close up the stand early 
and go home, 
since no one was coming in (she had had three customers all 
day 
long) and everyone who was there was wet and miserable. 
All 
in 
all, 
it was the best thing that we did NOT try to go ahead with 
the interview. 
I did get a chance to exchange a few words with 
her about her needlework, and to agree with her that I would call 
her on the phone to make a new date. 
The farm stand will only be 
open one more week, but we don't necessarily have to meet there; 
in fact, 
in view of her enthusiasm about talking about her 
needlework, it would probably be best to make arrangements to go 
to her home some evening, instead. 
Mr. Scott lives in Williamstown, as do the Torreses. 
He is 
retired, but works for them at the farmstand every summer because 
he enjoys the work, and has to have something to do. 
This is 
particularly ironic 
in view of the fact that Scott is apparently 
quite well off, and likes to spend money lavishly. 
He owned 
(until day before yesterday) an expensive car, 
in his 
description: upwards of $10,000, he did not hesitate to say. 
On 
Tuesday night, 
it was stolen from his carport, right beside his 
house. 
In 
it were a number of other costly items, 
including a 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 59 
Minolta camera and lenses, a pair of special corrective 
spectacles, an FM radio, and a brand new jacket ($72) which he 
had bought for an upcoming trip to California, and hadn't even 
had a chance to wear yet. 
He had pulled up to the farm stand in 
a brand new Dodge pickup truck of the sort that appear to be 
styled as half—car, half—truck, saying that he had just picked it 
up this morning from the dealer. 
I asked if 
it was to replace 
the stolen car, and he said that if the car stayed stolen it 
would be a replacement, but if the car should be returned, he 
would keep the truck, because he needs a truck, anyway. 
He 
flashed a hefty roll of twenties for Irene to whistle at, and she 
observed that if she had his money she wouldn't be 
in the 
farmstand business. 
Mr. Scott is 
"an old Coney Island Man from way back," he 
said, and is handy with cards and dice. 
Larry Torres, Irene's 
husband's son by his first marriage, had a tiny pair of dice, 
about one—quarter inch across each face, that he had gotten out 
of a gumball—type machine, and Scott took them up and showed us a 
few tricks. 
One of these he repeated three times, all 
successfully, with me as his mark; I couldn't fathom how it 
worked. 
The procedure was that the dice were rolled (the first 
time, he manipulated the dice, but the second two times, he 
stepped away and turned his back, and I rolled them), and their 
faces added up and the sum told aloud to Mr. Scott. 
Then I was 
to pick up one die, pick any face, add that number to the first 
number (silently), then roll the die, add its new face to the 
cumulative sum, and add the faces of the nice as they now showed 
and announce that sum only to Mr. Scott. 
He then told me the 
silent sum which I had reached through my other additions, 
correctly, each of three times. 
He got a big bang out of that, 
and out of the fact that I couldn't figure it out. 
He has a 
similar trick with cards. 
He 
is something of a card—counter, and 
has a way with the dice, and says they won't allow him at the 
blackjack and craps tables in Atlantic City any more. 
He 
is a 
friend, he said of Edie Adams, and a number of other Hollywood 
types, through his grandchildren, who live out in California, and 
several of whom (there are 18 of them) "are millionaires; 
I 
don't have to 
lie about that." 
He also has 8 great—grandchildren 
in California, and goes out to visit them twice a year. 
Mr. Scott said that a representative of Disney World is 
looking at a large tract of 
land on the west side of route 206, 
across the road from the Torres's market, with the idea of buying 
it for an amusement park development. 
Scott advised Irene Torres 
that if anyone came around inquiring about buying her place, she 
should "hold out," because before it 
is all 
over, there will be 
millions of dollars flying around. 
A friend of Scott's is the 
current owner of the land 
in question, and according to Scott, 
his more than $7,000 in taxes for this year has been refused by 
the town fathers, who are "trying to make some kind of a deal; 
they don't want to take it from him; they got some kind of a deal 
up their sleeve." 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 60 
When he found out that I was there to interview Irene, Mr. 
Scott said "You want an interview? 
I'll give you an 
interview," 
and immediately swung into a tired set of nigger—and—jew jokes. 
I explained to him that I wanted information from Irene about the 
farming business, and other details of daily life 
in the area, 
very ordinary stuff. 
He advised me, as Irene herself had done 
the day before, to 
interview Leon Torres about the farm, since he 
really knew about it; 
Irene said, "I only married him three 
years ago," by way of explanation of her professed ignorance of 
the farming business. 
Mr. Scott said, "she don't know from 
Shinola." 
I also mentioned that I understood that she did 
sewing, and I really wanted to hear what she had to say about 
that, and Scott at once started to praise her skill 
in needlework, 
saying I must surely see 
it and photograph it, and urging Irene 
to agree to talk to me about it. 
Just before I left, Mr. Scott told my fortune, and 
reiterated an earlier interest in taking me out to dinner. 
His 
fortune telling abilities did not include forseeing the 
probability of that dinner's ever coming to pass (nil). 
All 
told, though he annoyed me at first, and interfered with my 
ability to talk to Irene Torres, Ed Scott ("they call me Big 
Daddy") did provide great entertainment, and probably derailed 
what would have been an abortive interview effort anyway. 
He is 
quite a character in his own right, and would be worth an 
interview, perhaps by a person of more masculine 
charms. 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 61 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1112 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NMOS: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: (First part accompanies PFP83—RBB013, interview with Elvin 
Rodriguez, president of the Puerto Rican Civic Association, 
in 
Hammonton.) 
I met with Elvin Rodriguez in the parish hall of St. 
Joseph's church in G—Hammonton; 11GT. 
He was there, along with a 
few other men and three adolescents, setting up the hall for a 
party for tonight. 
The main event at this festivity will be the 
election and announcement of the queen of the Puerto Rican 
community here. 
Candidates are teenaged girls from Hammonton and 
vicinity, though one 
is from Atlantic City, because there were 
not enough candidates from the immediate area, so they opened it 
up a bit. 
There are six candidates in all. 
I will not be able 
to be here tonight, but Joseph Czarnecki will be here to 
photograph the event. 
There will be food and drink, and dancing 
to three bands, two from Philadelphia, and one from Hammonton. 
No one seemed to know the name of the local band, and only one of 
the Philly bands were they sure of, a group called Orquesta 
Muralla, who play salsa. 
This is one of two major annual 
fundraising events for the Civic Association; the other is the 
coronation of the Queen, to be held on December 3rd. 
They expect 
to have 300-400 people here tonight. 
I spoke with Rodriguez, and with another man, Juan Angel 
Torres (a member of the Civic Association) for about half an hour 
or so. 
As 
is usual with such first meetings, Rodriguez would not 
invite me to meet him at his home, but set us up to meet here, at 
the hall. 
Neutral ground. 
The interview was short because they 
had so much to do. 
they expected to be working on the 
preparations for most of the day. 
The hall was already decorated 
with crepe—paper streamers and big autumn leaf—cutouts; these 
were not their own decorations, but some that had been put up in 
the hall for another event and left for general seasonal decor. 
They did not plan to put up any other type of decoration, though 
they did plan to arrange the tables and chairs, leaving a large 
open area in the center of the hall for dancing, and to cover all 
the tables with white paper. 
this part was the kids' job. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 62 
Rodriguez speaks a very rapid and localized/regionalized 
Spanish, sometimes hard for me to understand. 
In addition, he 
mumbles a bit; the conversation was not difficult in the main, 
but the tape 
is very trying to 
listen to for translating 
purposes. 
Tom Santiago was also there for a while, setting up the 
liquor and soft drinks; his son Tommy was one of the adolescent 
workers. 
Santiago is very active in the Civic Association, and 
in the church, and appears to be a leading figure in the 
community. 
Nevertheless, when I talked to him on the phone, he 
declined to meet with me until after I had talked to Rodriguez, 
because he 
is not an officer of the club, and Rodriguez is the 
president. 
Over and over I encountered this careful observance 
of the proper conduct with respect to authority and position. 
Santiago was much too harried and busy to sit and talk today, but 
he was very welcoming and courteous, and said he would be glad to 
meet with me at some other time. 
Too bad it 
is so 
late 
in the 
game, because that "other time" 
is not likely now to fit into our 
schedule. 
Hazards of the profession, I guess, and especially so 
in making contact with a Hispanic community in which there are 
definite steps, and leisurely timing, 
in getting close enough to 
someone to interview them. 
When it was time for me to go, there was a bustle of 
farewells. 
In properly polite Hispanic form, everyone whom I had 
met said goodbye to me individually, and shook my hand. 
They 
invited me to come to the party, and to come back any time. 
Rodriguez also insisted that he serve me something to drink, and 
asked me to wait just long enough for him to go get the key to 
the 
ice machine, since all the sodas were room temperature. 
I 
waited. 
When he came back with the key, I selected 7—Up, and he 
lifted a bottle of gin and said he would make me a "Mist." 
I 
looked at my watch (it was 12:10), and he pooh—poohed me, saying 
it was plenty late in the day for something light. 
He fixed the 
drink, and I sipped for a while, and then took my leave again, 
saying I would have to take the rest of the drink with me, 
if 
that was ok. 
Of course it was. 
Two men helped carry all 
the 
gear out to the car (I could get used to this courtesy!), and 
wished me a good drive back. 
This was the warmest of the 
encounters I have had so far, except possibly Adelio Garcia, who 
was also very unconditionally welcoming. 
I listened to salsa on 
the radio on the way out of town, 
in the mood for the party. 
TX02: On my way back up route 206 toward HQ, I saw some hunters' 
orange hats through the brush, just north of G—Lake Atsion; 22GT, 
in Shamong Twp. 
As I passed it occurred to me that I hadn't seen 
any hunters the whole time I had been out here, so I turned 
around and went back. 
I drove down a car—path a ways, behind a 
stand of brush, and parked the car next to some hunters' truck. 
I addressed two men who seemed to be together, with their 
springer spaniels, and asked them if they would mind if I took 
some pictures. 
Fine, they said, though they seemed disinclined 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 63 
to stand still for them at first. 
I explained the project, and 
said I would send them prints. 
The two were Roy Livingston, of 
306 Temple Blvd., Palmyra, N.J., 08065 and Chuck Folk, of 508 
Camden Ave., Magnolia, N.J. 08049. 
Livingston is white, and Folk 
is black; Folk has a small earring in one ear. 
(Need I say that 
I was tickled to have found The Folk, at last?) They appear to be 
in their mid—thirties, and have been hunting buddies for a number 
of years; they met out here. 
Today is the first day of the 
season for game birds and small game (rabbits, squirrels), and 
they were hunting for pheasant and grouse. 
They had seen only 
one bird so far, a grouse that Roy's dogs flushed, but they were 
too close to other hunters at the time to fire. 
They asked me 
what I knew of hunting (nothing) and whether I was familiar with 
the woods around here (no). 
If I had the time, they said, I 
could come with them, and they would show me around the woods a 
bit. 
I thought that was great, and locked up the car, 
leaving 
Nagra behind as too much to deal with, grabbing camera gear for 
the trip. 
Only later, when we were out in the middle of the 
woods, on foot, did 
it occur to me that there might be something 
alarming about my being out in the middle of nowhere with two 
armed men whom I had never set eyes on before, and no one else 
in 
the world having the slightest idea where I was or with whom. 
Yipes! 
The thought made me a bit nervous, but it was too late to 
do much about it then. 
As it turned out, they were gentlemen in 
every degree, and were apparently getting a charge out of showing 
a woman 
with a sort of gee—whiz attitude what life was like out 
in the woods. 
The day was bitter cold, the ground wet. I had on 
sneakers, soon soaked. 
They inquired often about my 
(dis)comfort, and we all took occasional pulls at the brandy 
bottle they had 
in the truck. 
In the gunning seasons, Chuck and Roy hunt together, and are 
usually within a few hundred yards of each other through out a 
day's hunting. 
They are also both bow hunters, during the bow 
season for deer. 
On these outings, they most commonly are not in 
sight of one another for the best part of the day, but they still 
consider it hunting "together." 
They start out together, and end 
up at the Pic—a—Lilli bar together (on Route 206) drinking and 
talking about the day. 
They invited me to join them there at the 
end of this day, 
if I were still 
in the area. 
We headed south on route 206 a couple or three miles from 
where we had met, and then turned of east on a sand road. 
The 
sand road branched and forked, and I soon lost all sense of 
direction. 
The area of woods we were in during the afternoon was 
"near" Quaker Bridge, north and northwest of 
it, 
in Shamong Twp. 
This area had been burned by a forest fire this past summer, and 
neither of them had been back 
in there since the fire. 
Over and 
over again during the three hours we were out, Roy expressed his 
amazement at the changes the fire had made in the terrain, and 
in 
the visibility. 
He pointed out many places where normally you 
couldn't see more than a few feet, or get through except by 
crawling on your belly, 
if then, which were now open, all 
the 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 64 
underbrush having been burned out. 
There were a lot of places 
where he said that he had never before had any idea what the 
lay 
of the land was really like, because you could never see the 
ground, or see far enough through the dense woods to know how 
things related to one another. 
There was wet ground which turned 
out to be a small shallow river that he had before conceptualized 
as unrelated patches of surface water or marsh. 
there was one 
place where he saw the actual proximity of his deer stand to the 
sand road, and was amazed that it was only twenty feet or so; he 
had gotten so 
lost in there once, trying to find the road from 
the stand, that it had taken him hours to find the roadway, and 
had been well after dark when he finally came out of the brush. 
The truck was Chuck's, a Dodge Ram, pretty new. 
He drove it 
with a vengeance, and Roy told him which side of every large 
road—wide puddle was the shallow or more easily traversible side: 
"keep to the left on this one; this one, you gotta go right 
through the middle, and gun 
it, don't slow down." 
For some of 
the roads we were on, and for some that he suggested that we try, 
Roy had names, Bottle Road, Deer Road. 
I asked him how many 
people used those names and he said maybe four: 
Chuck and 
himself, and two relatives of his. 
Bottle Road was so named 
because his uncle had found many old bottles out there in the 
sand. 
These were just made—up names, he said, that meant 
something to them, but wouldn't to anyone else, but they were 
ways of talking about where you were, had been, or planned to go. 
We drove to certain spots, then got out and struck off 
through the woods to try to get to places where Roy had deer 
stands. 
The deer stands are small platforms, braced to the 
trunks of pine trees, and he uses them for bow hunting. 
Some we 
could not get to, because the ground was so wet between us and 
them. 
One he could not locate, because the woods looked so 
different. 
One that we came to was burned in the fire, and only 
the charred 2x4 supports remained. 
this one also turned out to 
be about a hundred yards from a stand which belonged to someone 
else, and which Roy had been unaware of before today; 
it had been 
burned too, but the access ladder, made of pieces of 2x4 nailed 
to the tree trunk, was till there. 
Sometimes the fires burn 
worst in the tops of the trees; what's highest up 
is most 
completely destroyed. 
The new growth of the pines, and some of 
the oaks, comes up at ground level, ringing the charred old 
trunks like a crown. 
New needles, very green, also sprout from 
parts of the blackened trunks. 
Roy estimated that this ground 
would be as thickly grown in as it ever was within about four 
years' time. 
However, by then, 
it won't be the hunting ground it 
used to be, because the deer will have moved to better feeding 
grounds, and also more people will have begun to use 
it — those 
to whom ease of access means a lot 
in selecting hunting—places. 
The highest of Roy's deer stands was in an area not too 
severely burned, and he went up to have a look around. 
The stand 
is nothing more than a platform big enough for one person to sit 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 65 
or crouch on, 
look around and shoot from. 
Roy invited me to go 
up and take in the view, but I declined, not being a big fan of 
heights. 
He went up, and exclaimed about the view, and about how 
absolutely changed everything was. 
He had been coming here for 
years, and was seeing a lot of things for the first time. 
Chuck 
reached him up one of my cameras on a forked limb, and Roy took a 
few pictures from up on the stand. 
they joked about his not 
using up too much of the film that their tax money had paid for 
on one single view. 
At one place, the road was deep, fine white sugar sand. 
There had been a lot of talk about getting stuck and getting lost 
throughout the outing; I'm not sure how much of that was 
realistic and how much was for my benefit, as impressionable 
tenderfoot. 
At this place, we did get stuck, trying to pull off 
and park the truck for another hike. 
This caused much less 
consternation than satisfaction for Chuck, who extolled the power 
and virtues of his truck, and roared backwards and forwards a few 
feet or inches at a try, until 
in about twenty minutes we were 
free of 
it. (What a truck, etc.!) 
a Rash of getting—stuck—and— 
having—to—walk—out—for—miles—to—get—to—the—main—road stories 
followed, with a few getting—lost stories thrown in for extra 
effect. 
It sure enough happens, and it 
is often frightening and 
always a hassle, but there is much pleasure in the telling 
afterwards, if these two are any measure. 
Roy hunts with a bow, 
in the proper season, but he 
is not 
really of one mind about it. 
The problem is that you have to be 
so good, so precise, 
in order to kill a deer rather than wounding 
it, perhaps fatally wounding it, but in such a way that it gets 
away and dies slowly later. 
That is pointless, since the animal 
suffers, and the meat is 
lost. 
the very worst thing that can 
happen is to "spine" the deer, that is, have the arrow hit him in 
the spine. 
this causes great agony, and the deer will 
lie down 
and writhe on the ground, trying to catch the shaft of the arrow 
in his mouth to pull 
it out, or roll over on 
it to try to break 
it off. 
They bellow and snort and moan in pain, and it 
is a 
terrible thing to see and hear, the more terrible because the 
spinal 
injury cripples them, so that their efforts are even more 
difficult and ineffective. 
When you spine a deer, Roy said, you 
really HAVE to get down in the brush and try to find him and kill 
him properly, no matter what time of day 
it 
is, 
or how difficult 
the trailing task. 
Their suffering is too terrible, and you just 
can't leave them to 
it without trying your utmost to put an end 
to 
it. 
Two years ago, he only hit one deer during bow season, 
and he spined it. 
It was a horrible experience. 
It was a big 
buck, and he went wild trying to get the arrow out, but he was 
crippled too. 
He crashed off into the brush, flopping around, 
and leaving blood everywhere. 
At one point, Roy caught up with 
him, where he was lying, 
looking glassy—eyed. 
He had nothing 
with which to administer the coup de grace except a skinning 
knife, and he thought he'd better cut his throat, but the buck 
threw his head around when Roy tried to get close, and he was in 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 66 
danger from the horns. 
Finally he managed to get a grip and 
tried to cut his throat, but it didn't work; he wasn't fast 
enough or smooth enough to finish it off, and the buck managed to 
get to his feet and plunge off into the brush again. 
Roy felt 
sick. 
He knew that he had done a terrible thing, and that he 
couldn't right the situation because he was scared and sickened, 
and not equipped. 
He went home, and didn't hunt this year in bow 
season. 
He's thinking about giving it up, 
really, now, because 
the risk of inadvertent cruelty to the deer is too great. 
You 
really have to be good to do 
it cleanly. 
(The experience 
obviously made a big impression on him, just as his detailed 
story of 
it made a big impression on me,) 
Throughout the 
afternoon, Roy did most of the talking, and was the principal 
guide. 
He liked to talk about the woods, and didn't mind talking 
about himself either: his son, his recent divorce, and how it's 
probably better that way, etc. 
Chuck spoke more in the joking 
vein, and didn't talk about himself at all, or invite inquiry; 
his only references to himself were in hunting and getting—stuck 
stories. 
When we got out of the truck and walked around, Roy did 
not take his rifle, but Chuck did; he also carried a knife. 
Once, 
as we passed the brandy, Roy teased him about not drinking too 
much, since "you black folks get dangerous when you drink too 
much and have a knife in your belt." 
(Cheerful talk for the girl 
scout guest to hear.) 
Chuck just said "come on, man." 
Chuck 
told me to keep my eyes open for deer, since we were likely to 
see some here at this time of the day; they would be on their way 
back to their sleeping grounds from their feeding grounds. 
Both 
men spoke with certainty about the directions in which the deer 
move at which times of the day, where they feed and where they 
rest relative to where we were. 
At one place we saw deer tracks 
in the roadside sand, and Roy pointed out to me that the tracks 
pointed on both directions, meaning the deer had gone over and 
come back already; this was unusual for so early in the 
afternoon, he said. 
He asked Chuck what he would do 
if he saw a 
deer with that rifle 
in his hands, and Chuck made a face of mock 
insult and pointed out that we had a representative of the 
government with us, and how could he talk like that. 
Joke, 
ha,ha; but in 
all seriousness, there is a lot of people taking 
deer out of season. 
There are even places where, 
if you ask the 
right person, they can tell you to come back at a certain hour 
and they'll have some venison to sell you. 
What people are 
allowed to do, and what they really do, Roy said, are sometimes 
not the same thing; 
it's like that anywhere, marijuana, for 
instance, and that sort of thing. 
At one of the more brushy, less burned—out places, Chuck 
excused himself and headed into the leaves to "go to the laddies 
room." 
By then, I had to pee 
in the worst way, but I wasn't 
about to yield to the impulse under the circumstances, another 
hazard of the trade. 
Roy and I hung around the truck and talked 
about the dogs. 
Both dogs appeared to be his, but he only called 
one of them by name, Max. 
He doesn't really like them, and 
doesn't believe in having dogs for pets. 
Not that there's 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 67 
anything wrong with it, they're just a pain. 
He only keeps them 
because he uses them for hunting, so most of the year they're a 
pain; his son likes them though. 
These are good dogs, with 
pedigrees. 
They flush out the birds, which are shot on the wing 
by the hunters, and than they go find them in the brush after 
they've fallen and bring them out. 
It's very rare that they 
can't find one after it has fallen, though sometimes it takes 
them a long time. 
If you get tired of waiting for them, and feel 
ready to give upon this particular bird, 
it's nearly impossible 
to convince the dogs to give up the search. 
They really have 
one—track minds. 
TX03: Roy had suggested that we go towards G— Batsto; 26GT on the 
sand roads, and that we go to this one place where there were 
some ruins of an old forge, and a swamp where there was bog iron. 
The road that he had in mind was completely flooded, though, and 
impassable, so we gave it up. 
On our way out to the main road, we passed a cabin where a 
man called "Uncle Dave" had once lived. 
He was a real woodsman, 
the kind who live out there all alone, and live off of the land. 
When he had gotten old and sick, he had treated himself with 
plants and things. 
Roy's cousin tried to get him to go to the 
doctor with him, but he wouldn't do 
it. 
He just had his own 
ways, and figured when his time had come, that was it. 
He died a 
few days later. 
It was too bad, 
in a way, Roy thought, but still 
you have to respect a man like that, who really feels determined 
about his way of living. 
TX04: On the way back to where I had left my car, we detoured 
down a road that ran along G—Lake Atsion; 22GT, to have a look at 
the public camp grounds there. 
Chuck finds this spot to be a 
particularly nice one for camping, and he comes down in the 
summers sometimes to spend a day or two. 
Lots of families come 
here camping, and some stay the whole summer. 
There is swimming 
and boating, and a peaceful and well—maintained campground. 
Both 
men feel that the park service does a good job of keeping up the 
campgrounds, and that most people are respectful 
in their use of 
them. 
The real shame is the people who come down and just go out 
in the woods anywhere and everywhere, vandalizing, breaking trees 
for the hell of 
it, 
and leaving trash and beer bottles 
everywhere. 
These are people who come from outside, and who 
don't come to hunt or anything. 
they don't know anything about 
the woods, and have no respect for them, and they are spoiling 
the land, and making things ugly and ruining the woods for the 
hunters and people who live here. 
Roy 
is an outsider too, and he 
really appreciates having a place to come to to get away from the 
city. 
It angers him that people are careless this way, and that 
they give a bad name to all outsiders with the locals; 
it hurts 
his reputation, too, even though he doesn't do those things, and 
sides with the locals in their opinions about it. 
We got back to my car, and said our farewells, and they 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 68 
debated about whether or not to go out for birds once more today 
or not. 
The repeated their invitation to me to join them at the 
tavern later on, and said that if I ever wanted to go out 
hunting, or touring the woods with them again, I should just let 
them know. 
It was all very friendly, and I left feeling pleased 
with the whole adventure, but also aware that in some ways it 
might not have been a very wise thing to do, and that I had been 
lucky 
in my choice of companions. 
The more I thought about it as 
I drove back north, the more shocked I felt at myself; 
if I had 
it to do again, I probably would be more conservative, and make 
plans to come back another time, accompanied, but all things 
considered, I'm glad I went on this one anyway. 
TX05: On the way back to HQ, I drove north on 206 to G—Pemberton; 
21GT, to stop in at the little International Foods Store again, 
and take some pictures. 
The owners' names are William and Myrna 
Dager (Rte. 1, Box 119, S. Pemberton Rd., Pemberton, N.J. 08068). 
They gave me the address so I could send prints, and I recalled 
that the first time I was here, the man had said, 
in response to my 
inquiry, that his name was "Joe." 
I guess he was taking no 
chances on my not being from the Pinelands Commission, about whom 
he had spoken bitterly that time. 
The latest news on their 
building struggle is that they have arranged to buy two more 
acres at the rear of their parcel to make up the minimum 
building—lot size. 
Together with a variance for the shape of the 
lot and amount of road frontage and a couple of other details, 
which they feel assured of getting, this will enable them to get 
their building permit, and expand the store and add their second 
story to 
live 
in. 
All's well that ends well, they now seem to 
feel, though they are still derisive about the (to them) needless 
hassles. 
I bought a shiny metallic bumper sticker there that 
reads "I (heart) PR," a find. (PR stands for Puerto 
Rico.) 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 63 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1116 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM03: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Went to meet today with Fr. Jose' Rebaque, who 
is the priest 
of St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church in G—Hammonton; 11GT. He 
is a 
Spaniard, and he serves the catholic contingent of the Puerto 
Rican community in Hammonton; he conducts a mass in Spanish at 
12:15 each Sunday. 
We met at Bishop Eustace Preparatory School 
in Pennsauken, N.J., where he teaches high school Spanish two 
days a week. 
Bishop Eustace is run by the Pallotine Fathers, the 
order of which Fr. Jose' 
is also a member. 
We were scheduled to 
meet at 3:00, to talk for half an hour before his 3:30 am class. 
As 
it turned out, he had been held up 
in traffic, and got there 
at about 3:15, so we talked for a bit, and then I went to his 
first class with him, and after that to the second one, where we 
talked some more while the students took an exam. 
Fr, Jose' estimates the Hispanic population of Hammonton at 
about 3,500, of whom about 1,700 are Catholics who actually 
practice in the church. 
He finds that the Hispanic community is 
not unified as a whole, and that they have close contact with 
each other only 
in small groups most of the time. 
The one core 
group who are active in almost all Hispanic affairs are the 
members of the Puerto Rican Civic Association. 
The church has 
made an effort to promote community closeness by offering 
gatherings for coffee and/or lunch after mass, but has met with 
little success. 
In many cases, both members of a couple are 
working, and Sundays are the days when they can accomplish their 
housework, errands, and so on; their time is very limited, and 
they don't seem to be interested in or able to spend more of 
it 
in and around the church 
in social activities. 
According to his perceptions, there is pretty good Anglo— 
Hispanic cooperation in the town. 
One exception that he noted 
was 
in the church youth group. 
There, he said, the Hispanic kids 
invariably dropped out of the group when they reached a certain 
age, early teens. 
There didn't seem to be a way to forge a 
connection between them and their Anglo counterparts that he had 
hit upon. 
However, he formed an all Hispanic youth group, and 
that seems to work very well; kids participate, and remain active 
in 
it. 
They seem to have some sort of strong identity as 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 70 
'other', though he isn't sure that they identify as Hispanics 
particularly. 
Many don't speak Spanish at all, and others speak 
it, but are not very comfortable with it. 
Their home language 
may be Spanish, but their school 
life and their life with their 
friends is conducted in English. 
A lot of them understand 
Spanish well, and their parents speak it to them at home, 
sometimes exclusively, but they can't or won't speak it 
themselves; they will answer their parents in English a lot of 
the time. 
Many of the kids lose their capacity to speak or 
understand Spanish altogether. 
He thinks a part of the problem 
may be the generally low level 
of education in the parents' 
generation. 
Many, 
if not most, of the Hispanics 35 to 40 and 
over lack education above the grade school 
level, and there are 
many who do not read or write. 
The president of the Civic 
Association, for example (Elvin Rodriguez) doesn't read or write; 
when he has checks to disburse, he signs them, but his wife makes 
them out for him. 
Fr. Jose' 
is very concerned about the number of 
people who are "uneducated" 
in his Hispanic congregation. 
Many of the members of the Civic Association are also active 
in the church, and there are a certain few who are the leaders 
in 
everything, and are very committed. 
For the most part, however, 
the Hispanics seem to him to remain a bit aloof; they are 
reluctant to form strong ties, or to commit themselves to 
responsibilities which must be formally observed. 
There are many 
who like to enjoy the fruits of others' 
labors, but who don't 
want to be bothered with the work themselves. 
For instance, he 
said, many people turn out for the Civic Association's events 
when they are free, but not when there is an admission charge, or 
when they might have to be involved in the planning and 
organization and clean—up. 
This sounds to me 
like a 
characteristic of any group anywhere, but Fr. Jose' seems to feel 
the problem is particularly bad in, 
if not endemic to, the Puerto 
Rican group. 
Fr. Jose' also criticized many of the people 
who are leaders in the community for showing a lack of what he 
called "initiative". 
His example was that even when they plan 
something, they are constantly checking with him to see 
if 
it 
is 
a good idea, or 
if he thinks everything is all right with it. 
To 
me, this is a sign of how central the church, and a proper 
catholic life, are to people; to him, 
it shows a lack of 
confidence or maturity, an inability in a sense to make decisions 
and carry them out responsibly without constantly verifying that 
they are doing the right thing. 
The Puerto Rican community here has certain very strong 
characteristics. 
One which drove Fr. Jose' crazy when he first 
got here was the casual sense of time. 
People used to drift into 
mass sometimes when it was nearly over, and be surprised that 
they had missed it; they seemed to feel that they could just show 
up any time at all 
that was convenient to them. 
He had to stress 
again and again that when he said 12:00 he meant just that, and 
that he would not wait for them. 
If they wanted to keep their 
appointments with him, or hear the mass, they would have to be 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 71 
punctual. 
Still when he makes appointments with them, he 
stresses that they are meeting on "American time, not Puerto 
Rican time." 
Even at that, 
it 
is not unusual for people to fail 
to show up for an appointment on time, or at all, and not to call 
to say they have to cancel or be 
late. 
(We all have our crosses 
to bear.) 
The Hispanics in Hammonton have a strong sense of "lo 
nuestro," what is ours. 
They patronize a particular store, owned 
by a Hispanic (Angelo Rodriguez) 
for their groceries, and always 
use the same undertaker (an Italian man named Pete Carnecele) 
because he "understands the way they do things." 
This sense of 
time—structure is a large part of that. 
They think of St. 
Joseph's as "their" church. 
Fr. Jose' finds that the Hispanics 
really maintain their own food habits, and have a diet that is 
much more Hispanic than American. 
They do 
it without thinking of 
it as something to do on purpose, but it 
is so ingrained that 
they maintain it even down to their choice of coffee; 
if he 
serves American coffee, they just end up not drinking it, 
and the 
next occasion, one of them will bring the strong espresso—style 
coffee to prepare. 
He just stopped buying American coffee for 
Hispanic church functions, because it was wasted. 
The Puerto Ricans like drama and grandeur in their religious 
observations. 
They have a musical group who play at every mass, 
using guitars and drums and a "guiro" (gourd rhythm instrument). 
There is a chorus of about 30 to 40 people who sing in the 
masses, different songs each week, and they have a repertoire 
right now of some 125 to 130 songs. 
At the youth group meetings 
they sing also. The Spanish mass is 
longer than any of the 
English masses because of all 
the singing that is worked in to 
it. 
(What I didn't find out until 
later was that Fr. Jose' also 
sings in the mass.) 
The church sponsors dramatizations for various Holidays in 
the Spanish masses. 
These include church holidays such as 
Saints' feast days, Anglo observances like Mother's Day and 
Father's Day, and major (multi—affiliational) holidays like 
Christmas and Easter. 
They don't really do much for the Three 
Kings' Day here, but they will have men dressed as the three Magi 
at the mass nearest that day (January 6th), and they will give a 
short reading or enactment. 
The major dramatization at St. 
Joseph's is of Christ's nativity. 
It takes place on the Sunday 
just before Christmas, and they have players who dramatize the 
search for lodging, the birth, the announcement to the shepherds, 
and the arrival of the shepherds. 
The dramatization takes place 
before the altar, 
in front of the congregation, and the angel 
choirs enter to the left of the altar to sing. 
The shepherds 
come 
in from the right of the altar rail 
to pay homage to the 
live infant who plays the newborn Jesus. (I didn't think to ask 
him if they also have live animals in the church for this event.) 
There are some other "typical" cultural activities still 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 72 
played out, though on a fairly small scale. 
Some people still 
make parrandas at Christmastime, but they are few, and generally 
not right in the town. ("Parranda" literally means a revel or a 
carousal, a marching about, of unspecified nature, but in common 
usage it refers only to the house—to—house singing and playing 
which happens at Christmastime. 
The ambulatory musicians are 
invited in to the houses where they have sung, and offered food 
and drink. 
After a short visit they setout again, maybe joined 
by new members from the household where they have just been.) 
They also do a reduced version of the Passion of Christ at 
Eastertime, making a small circuit of a couple of blocks 
around the church. 
It 
is very fervent, though, and they have a 
small cross for the children to carry, as well as a great heavy 
one that the adult men take turns carrying, as they make the 
route, stopping every so many paces to recite the stations of the 
cross, which they dramatize as well 
as reciting. 
More secular 
pursuits include a bit of private cockfighting inthe outlying 
areas — though it 
is big 
in Atlantic City. 
Of course, 
it 
is not 
legal, but people do 
it quite a bit there anyway, under cover, 
and there is vigorous betting and gambling connected with it. 
People also play the numbers, although the enthusiasm for the 
legalized state and local 
lotteries is small compared to the 
illegal activity surrounding the numbers from Puerto Rico, which 
people follow by radio, and bet on avidly. 
I asked Fr. Jose', as I had on the phone in earlier 
conversations, 
if he could recommend to me any people in 
particular to whom I should speak in gathering information about 
Puerto Rican culture 
in Hammonton, and 
in the South Jersey area 
in general. 
As before, his reply was a regretful one that there 
really wasn't anybody, because they were all 
very uneducated, and 
couldn't really tell me very much. 
He didn't seem to be able to 
think of a soul 
to whom he could refer me. 
I don't know if this 
is because the church has a party line, and he doesn't want me to 
seek out different views, or 
if he thinks I only want 
sophisticated cultural analysis, or 
if he honestly thinks that 
maybe they don't know how they live (don't have any culture?) 
I 
couldn't figure it out, but every time I brought the subject up, 
I got the same kind of response, accompanied by a sigh that 
seemed to indicate that he and I were, 
in this regard, operating 
under the same burden. 
It was not at all malicious, just earnest 
and weary. 
Fr. Jose' speaks English to me when we meet face to face, and 
Spanish to me on the phone. 
The first time he spoke to me on the 
phone, our conversation was 
in English, and as far as I can 
recall, I said nothing in Spanish, nor mentioned that I spoke 
Spanish. 
When he called me back later that same day, though, he 
addressed me 
in Spanish right off the bat; I was quite surprised. 
Ever after that the pattern has been that he speaks Spanish to me 
on the phone, though when we met today, he addressed me 
in 
English, and kept up the conversation in English the whole time. 
I wonder what determines when people who speak two languages 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 73 
choose one or the other; this often comes up 
in the bilingual 
fieldwork situation. 
My usual tack is to greet in the native 
language, unless all other contact has been in the other, and 
then to follow the lead of the informant in choosing language 
Sometimes switches are made, though, and I still don't see a 
regularity in the reasons across cases and situations. 
religion, ethnicity, foodways, (celebration) 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 74 
INUM: 
PFP83—FB61118 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Visit to Mr. Joseph Wilson, historian of the G—Hammonton; 
11GT 
Historical Society. 
He lives at 643 Bellevue Avenue, 
Hammonton, N.J.08037 (Tel. (609) 561-0888), where I visited him. 
The Hammonton Historical Society has no building, and 
is not 
listed inthe phone book. 
Fernando Melendez, whom I met at St. 
Joseph's parish hall when I went to interview Elvin Rodriguez, 
had also consented to an interview, on the condition that I first 
listen to a tape recorded interview with him made 5 years ago by 
someone from the Hammonton Historical Society. 
I located Mr 
Wilson by calling the Hammonton library after calls to 
local 
Information, the town clerk, and the Chamber of Commerce in 
Hammonton had turned up nothing. 
The librarian referred me 
to Wilson right away and gave me his number. 
Wilson appears to be 
in his late 50's or early 60's. 
He 
lives 
in one of the early houses Hammonton, a house which he 
referred to as a "bungalow." 
It has a stone floor in the large 
entry room, and was filled with a marvellous clutter. 
Wilson 
conducted me straight to the back room, off the kitchen, through 
a curtained doorway, saying that it would be warmer there. 
It 
was a small room, wood panelled 2/3 of the way up three walls, 
and having a large fireplace for a fourth wall. 
A woodstove 
stood on the hearth, and heated the room. 
We sat at a large 
table, apparently the dining table, to talk. 
Wilson has a vivid 
speaking style, punctuated with muttered remarks and reminders to 
himself, comments on what he's just thought or said, and 
reflections about what or who else might further illuminate the 
inquiry. Mr. Wilson 
is a former editor of the Hammonton News. 
Wilson explained that Hammonton has had a large Italian 
community since the 1880's; he believes they are mostly from 
Sicily originally. He referred me to a December, 1905 article in 
National Geographic which focuses on southern Italy and the 
reasons for the large scale migration from there to the United 
States. Also, there is a Department of Labor study on Hammonton, 
in about the same era, written by Margaret Mead's mother, who was 
from here. Most of the Italians who first arrived in the area 
worked in agriculture, and many were themselves small farm 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 75 
owners. Through successive generations there has been much 
consolidation of the farms, until there are only about 250 farms 
in the area now; most are pretty large scale operations. In North 
Hammonton, there are only five very large farms; they represent 
the holdings of dozens of former smaller farms. The Italian 
American farmers were "horse farmers" (i.e., using horse—drawn 
vehicles and tools) until the Second World War. Rapid and large 
scale mechanization after the war enabled and encouraged 
consolidation, which in turn created a need for more pickers to 
operate the larger harvests--especially in the case of crops like 
blueberries, which "can't be picked by machine." In response to 
this need, there was a large importation of agricultural workers 
in the early '50s, mostly from Puerto Rico. In this area, the 
importation of labor was handled through a US government agency 
which set up a labor camp facility in Glassboro; they handled the 
transportation and contracting out of P{uerto Rican laborers. 
They had big barracks at their place where everyone stayed until 
they were hired out. 
In blueberry picking, which is a major agricultural 
occupation near Hammonton, workers were not then paid by the 
hour, but by the pint or quart. 
A good picker could earn quite a 
bit, and a few workers managed to earn enough to stay in the US 
during the off—season, and those were the ones who first began to 
get themselves established in this area. 
Many workers worked the 
same farms year after year, returning to Puerto Rico during the 
winter months, and farmers helped our those whom they got to know 
well; some of these also got to be 
in a position to stay year— 
round. 
Some of the farmers also went to Puerto Rico during the 
winter, after a couple of years of this program, to have a look 
around and do their own recruiting. 
Many of these farmers, 
if 
not most of them, were Italian—Americans. 
Arthur Giletta, now 
president of Atlantic Blueberry Co., employed a lot of Puerto 
Rican workers early on, and still does; there 
is a lot of 
travelling back and forth between the island and the mainland 
among both the seasonal and the more long term Hispanic 
residents. 
Some of the larger farmers began to keep Hispanic 
workers on a year—round basis, to work at planting, pruning, 
maintenance, etc. 
(There are about 12 such permanent workers and 
their families at Atlantic Blueberry now.) 
They soon sent for 
their families, and a community was quickly established. 
This 
was greatly facilitated by the legal relationship between the US 
and PR, which allowed free travel, without need of visas or 
passports. 
Wilson feels that, 
in the main, Hammonton is a very tolerant 
community, and that while there is not a lot of fraternizing 
between the Anglo and Hispanic communities, there is also very 
little hostility or hard feeling. 
There was, at first, and the 
local dominant group gave the newcomers a hard time, as they seem 
to do everywhere, but any serious harrassment or hard feelings 
died out in the first decade or so, he thinks. 
There is 
little 
intermarriage yet between the communities. 
Wilson feels that the 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 76 
situation of the Puerto Ricans in Hammonton today may be 
analogous to that of the Italians 100 years ago: 
they are not 
yet a stabilized community, not yet integrated into the local 
economy in ways that are profitable to them, many still 
live 
in 
the poorer areas, and in the "lower end of town." 
However, there 
are beginning to be some prominent figures among the Hispanics in 
the town, and there are some successful and well—established 
Hispanic business and professional men. 
The Hammonton 
Presbyterian Church has a Hispanic minister, Reverend Herna'ndez, 
and a Hispanic congregation of about 60 (most of the Puerto 
Ricans in the area are Catholic.) 
There is a good contractor in 
town named Rivera, who has set up his own business here, and 
is 
well—patronized--though mostly by Anglos, since few Hispanics in 
the area are 
in a financial position that would allow them to 
make use of a contractor. 
There is a Hispanic grocery store on 
Railroad Ave., run by a family named Echeverri'a; they have a 
tremendous trade in the Hispanic community, and also many Anglo 
customers. 
More and more Hispanics are forming their own small 
businesses--mechanics, gas stations, stores--and going into the 
ministry and into teaching. 
Wilson estimates that there are about 4,000 Hispanics in 
Hammonton. 
The great majority are employed in factories and 
in 
agriculture. 
There is a cookie factory which employs a lot of 
Puerto Ricans. 
There used to be a clothing factory which was a 
major employer--Hammonton Park Clothes--but the Chinese clothing 
factories have put them out of business. 
This factory employed a 
large number of Puerto Rican women, especially, most of whom now 
work 
in offices in janitorial, clerical, secretarial and 
receptionist positions. 
Families working in agriculture can do 
fairly well financially because of family structure and approach 
to the work: 
pay isn't that high, but several members of one 
family will be likely to be working in the same farm, and all 
their wages are contributed to the management of a single 
household. 
Few Hispanics own their homes, as yet; mostly, they 
live 
in farm—owned, "company houses," such as those at Atlantic 
Blueberry, 
in the cheaper housing available around Wharton Park 
(just south of Hammonton), and 
in apartments downtown, upstairs 
of commercial establishments. 
There is a lot of travel back and 
forth to Puerto Rico, and though Atlantic city has an airport 
with flights to and from PR, most of the travel 
is by way of New 
York and Philadelphia. 
There used to be a Hammonton Civic Action 
Council, with Anglo and Hispanic members, which was mostly aimed 
at meeting the needs of Hispanics, who constituted the majority 
of the town's poor people; Rev. Herna'ndez was a member. 
It 
is 
defunct now, though. 
There was also a regularly appearing 
Spanish column in the Hammonton News, which ran for 2 or 3 years, 
about 10 years ago; 
it ended when the man who wrote it moved back 
to Puerto Rico. 
There are as yet no Hispanic city officials, or 
candidates for such offices. 
Of Fernando Mele'ndez, Wilson 
observes that he is "the guiding light of the Puerto Rican 
community," and that his family is well 
liked and well respected 
in Hammonton. 
They were the first "very assimilated" Hispanic 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 77 
family in the area; his brother Angel was a policeman in town for 
a while. 
Wilson's daughter Brenda, a junior in Hammonton High School, 
observed that the Puerto Rican girls, especially, tend to stick 
together in the school, and are very outspoken and well—dressed. 
Brenda thought there was not animosity or discomfort between 
Anglos and Hispanics at the school, they just hang around with 
different people. 
One of the head cheerleaders is Puerto Rican. 
In all, Wilson estimated, there are 200 or 300 Hispanic kids in 
the high school. 
In the early stages of the Puerto Ricans' arrival 
in 
Hammonton, there were a number of fights at local bars, and 
Puerto Ricans often were the brunt of 
local verbal and sometimes 
physical abuse, as well as of police annoyance with the 
disturbances in which they were involved. 
Nowadays, however, 
they are not singles out as a target for any particular sort of 
harassment. 
There is one thing that comes up over and over, 
though, and that is motor vehicle violations: 
"Damn, they get in 
there and they'll drive off without a license." 
Wilson took out 
the Court Record/Police Log section of this week's Hammonton 
News, and sure enough, there were four cases of driving without a 
license (one also without insurance) with Hispanic surnames. 
He 
says 
it 
is very common still for newcomers from Puerto Rico to be 
met in their city of entry by people offering to sell them a car 
and "papers," cheaply; the whole deal will cost maybe a hundred 
or a couple of hundred dollars, and the unsuspecting customer 
will be told that the car is 
licensed, 
insured, and ready to go, 
and that they need nothing else in order to operate it. 
The 
cars, he feels, are probably stolen and repainted, and this 
is a 
good way for a car theft ring to dump their hot goods. 
The 
insurance papers are bogus, and so are the license plates--or 
else the plates are actual plates, but they are expired, or not 
registered to the particular car, etc. 
Of drivers licenses, 
nothing is said. 
There is also some place, apparently in 
Illinois, to which you can send by mail for license plates, and 
there is a similar hype about how they provide you with 
everything you need for a single fee; at any rate, there is a 
large number of Hispanics running around with bogus Illinois 
plates on their cars. 
Another reason so many of them get stopped 
for motor vehicle violations is that they may take a farm truck, 
one that works fine, but is not registered for use on the roads, 
to do some small errand or meet some emergency; again, they will 
be driving without a license, and without registration or 
insurance. 
There seems to be a persisting difficulty in getting 
across a very complex understanding or acceptance of the legal 
constraints on driving, which many Hispanics (Wilson feels) view 
as 
largely a personal and practical matter. 
After leaving Wilson's house, I went to the Library, on Egg 
Harbor Road, where I listened to the tape of Mele'ndez' 
interview 
with the Historical Society representative (not identified), 
Blair--$3 Fieldnotes 
page 78 
recorded in June, 1978. 
I include here, only those data from 
that tape which were not included in my own interview with 
Mcle'ndez: 
Fernando Mele'ndez and his older brother Angel (called 
Angelo, to be a more acceptable name to 
local ears) started 
Hammonton High School 
in 1950. 
They both graduated in 1954. 
Fernando then went to work in a local grocery store (leaving farm 
work) and his brother joined the army. 
They both gave money to 
their family from their earnings, and this helped to enable the 
purchase of the property where Fernando Mele'ndez and his wife and 
children now live, on Old Forks Road (also called Cemetery Road). 
Mele'ndez' mother worked on the farms until 
1955, and after that 
worked at William B. Kessler as a handsewer; his father worked at 
the Easton brewery when he left agricultural work. 
In 1957 his 
grandparents returned to Puerto rico, where they still 
live. 
That same year Fernando got married to his wife Blanca, and they 
built a house next door to Fernando's parents. 
His brother Angel 
also married that year and bought his own home. 
Mele'ndez started the Puerto Rican Civic Association in 1957; 
the impulse was 
in response to some bad press about Puerto 
Ricans. 
In 1957-58 almost all 
the Hispanics in the area were in 
farm labor; about that time, the state began to pass some 
regulations favoring better working and living conditions for 
them, and the farmers called a mass meeting in Trenton, to see 
what they could do to protect their own interests in this 
regulation agitation. 
The Hammonton News, 
in 
its coverage of the 
Trenton meeting, carried some offensive remarks from a local 
farmer about the Puerto Ricans. 
Fernando organized a small group 
of 8 or 9 men, the beginnings of the Civic Association, to devote 
themselves to countering the negative stereotype of Hispanics 
which was current in the area. 
They held their original meetings 
at the VFW hall, which they got to use rent free 
in exchange for 
Puerto Rican volunteer help on some VFW jobs and projects. 
They 
held meetings there through 1969, when they bought the warehouse 
on Old Forks Road. 
At that time the building was about 20x50 
feet; 
it had no utilities whatever. 
They added the utilities, 
and a 50x50' addition in the first year. 
All the funds for the 
purchase and work came from member dues, fund—raising events, and 
donations, and all 
the labor was voluntary, from members of the 
Puerto Rican community. 
The goal 
of the organization is to aid 
members of the Hispanic community and to promote better relations 
between the Hispanics and other local 
residents. 
Nowadays, the 
Civic Association is 
involved in many charitable donations, 
special funds donations (such as the $500 donated to the Wm. B. 
Kessler hospital building fund), and in—kind services grants, 
such as the lending of their facility to a stat—run day care 
center for needy children. 
The Civic Association also served as counselors to the 
founding of the Latin Youth Club in 1976, and has a Women's 
Auxiliary of about 12 members. 
They hope to make more public 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 79 
recreational use of their facility, especially for youth groups, 
and to develop senior citizens' facilities--especially activities 
and socializing opportunities for during the winter months, when 
people tend to become isolated because they always stay indoors. 
Melendez said there were "racial problems" 
in accommodation 
between the Puerto Ricans and the "locals," but that adjustment 
problems get easier as more and more Hispanic families come. 
The 
Hispanics do stick together in times of need, and can be counted 
on to help each other out. 
Family information: 
father--Bias, mother--Mary; 
grandfather--Emilio, grandmother--Julia; brothers--Angel(o), 
Rau'I, Rafael, and Blas (born in the U.S.); sisters--Gilda 
(pronounced Hilda), and Gloria. 
Mele'ndez' father died 
in 1964. 
Angel(o) 
is the oldest; he and his wife Ramonita have 5 children 
the oldest of whom is now at Trenton State College (1978). 
Fernando is the second oldest. 
He and his wife Blanca were 
married in the Bronx 21 years ago (1978), 
in 1957; she 
is from 
Guayani'a, 
in Puerto Rico. 
They also have five children; the 
oldest boy 
is 
in Alabama University, and the oldest girl 
in 
Fairleigh Dickinson University. 
Y 
When Fernando graduated from high school 
in 1954, he worked 
as a store clerk in a Quaker store for a year. 
Then he became an 
attendant at Ancora in 
1955. 
He had a one—year training course 
as a psychiatric technician at Trenton State Hospital; he worked 
at Ancora for 6-1/2 years. 
From there, he went to William B. 
Kessler (an "office group") where he was still working at the 
time of this interview. 
He also has a small business of his own, 
a bar on Hammonton Road in Winslow, called Freddy's Capi—Q 
Tavern. 
He first bought the liquor license for the place, then 5 
years later bought the land and built his own building. 
He has 
been in the Naval Reserve for 12 years; his brother Rafael was 
killed in action in Viet Nam in 1970. 
(The Library, and the Historical Society of Hammonton, would 
be glad to allow the Library of Congress to copy this tape, and 
two others they have with Hispanic members of the community.) 
TX02: 
In the evening, I went with Mal O'Connor to the home of 
George and Catherine Heinrichs, in G—New Gretna; 15GT. 
Mal had 
arranged to go talk with Heinrichs about the gunning club of 
which he 
is a member and a guide, and I went along as an 
additional equipment handler. 
The Heinrichs' 
living room walls 
are painted a rich green, and there is a scent of pine or spruce 
oil 
in the air--very noticeable. 
In the living room are several 
pieces of furniture--a desk, two lamps, and a small set of 
shelves, which definitely look homemade: 
lovingly and carefully 
homemade. 
They turn out to have been made by George's father. 
Heinrichs was the principal speaker in this evening, as he was 
the person expressly being interviewed, and Mal O'Connor did most 
of the questioning. 
They had met once before, I think to talk 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 80 
about the sneakboxes Heinrichs builds; at any rate Heinrichs had 
been interviewed also once before by Elaine Thatcher from the 
Folklife Project. 
He was unruffled by all 
the equipment, and 
found it humorous that he was a veteran of this treatment. 
His 
wife Catherine sat in a chair which was at right angles to, and 
facing, his; she said little. 
It was an 
interesting 
characteristic of their interaction--at least on this occasion--
that whenever a question was directed to Mrs. H., Mr. H. would 
interrupt her and finish her answer, a few words into a phrase; 
e.g., every time she would begin "well, I just . . ." 
he would 
come 
in with "Oh, she . . ." 
and finish out the explanation. 
The 
only time that I was able to involve her in an exchange was when 
George Heinrichs and Mal were looking at the "Jersey Devil" 
picture, taken by Mr. Heinrich's nephew; they were talking 
intently about the picture, and Catherine Heinrichs had moved out 
of her chair (to get the picture and hand it to GH) and so could 
talk to me without talking across GH, and we had a brief chat 
about the picture, and the horror of the death of the four 
firemen in the fire in which the picture was taken. 
Small talk, 
but with whole sentences. 
GH, Mal O'Connor, and I later went to the Nottingham Gun 
Club to have a look around, and I carried the tape recorder and 
engaged GH in conversation and questions while Mal took pictures. 
GH was very accommodating, and appeared to enjoy being able to 
provide this glimpse into the club to two outsiders. 
The 
picture—taking was a really lengthy and involved operation, and 
we were at the club for a couple of hours, 
late at night. 
Mal 
repeatedly offered apologies, and encouraged GH to tell 
us when 
he'd had enough, or asked 
if 
it were time to stop now. 
At every 
such moment, GH said with enthusiasm that he should go right 
ahead and get everything he wanted, not to worry about the time 
or about him, and once even pointed out "You don't get a chance 
like this very often." 
He was clearly enjoying himself, and that 
did a lot to facilitate the talk and picture—taking. 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 81 
INUM: 
PFP83—FBB1119 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NMO1: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TXO1: Went to speak with Fernando Melendez this morning, at his 
home 
in G—Hammonton; 11GT, N.J. 
adjacent to the kitchen and the 
is a large ell, with the dining 
less. 
The youngest of Melendez 
watching TV in the living room. 
but not off, and she did, for a 
Hazel Torres's house, I did not 
the house be changed to accommodate the tape recorder. 
Partly 
this 
is due to embarrassment and a desire not to infringe too 
much; I feel that the interviewer has to go the extra distance a 
lot of the time, unless the surrounding sounds would really make 
a recording effort futile. 
The other part of the decision comes 
out of my interest in 
including the normal ambient noise as 
interesting information. 
It 
is often the case, for instance, 
that the normal Hispanic household interaction is much "noisier" 
(by Anglo standards) than that of the Anglo household; many 
activities may be going on at once, and many people talking at 
once, and this is 
important information too. 
It 
is often 
annoying in transcribing or logging tapes, but is great for 
giving a "soundscape" of the interview site. 
We sat at the dining table, 
living room. 
The configuration 
table at the right angle, more or 
five children, Lisa, age 9, was 
He asked her to turn it down, 
while. 
Here, as at Orlando and 
ask that any other routines in 
Melendez is a very savvy man, well—versed in Hispanic 
history in the area, and knowledgeable in matters of education, 
finance, business, and local politics. 
He 
is often called upon 
by the Hispanic and Anglo communities to serve as a liaison 
between them. 
He founded the Puerto Rican Civic Association, and 
is still 
its business and financial adviser. 
He 
is one of the 
few Hispanics in Hammonton who owns his own home, and he also 
owns his own business and its building and land, a small tavern 
in the adjacent town. 
He speaks very fluent and idiomatic 
English. 
He 
is adamant about the necessity for higher education, 
and intends for all 
of his five children to go to college; two 
are there already. 
One of the conditions of our interview was 
that I listen to the Hammonton Historical Society's taped 
interview with him (made five years ago), first, to see what I 
could learn from it, 
and what I wanted to know more about. 
He 
asked me right away 
if I had done that, and 
if 
it had been 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 82 
helpful 
(I 
had, and 
it had). 
He was more than willing to talk in 
detail about anything I asked, but volunteered little beyond 
that; I was expected to know what I wanted to know. 
His next 
door neighbors are Hispanic too, he said, but didn't say that it 
was his mother, as the Hammonton Hist. Soc. tape did; maybe it's 
not any more, but I think it 
is, 
as a woman of the right age to 
be his mother came over from next door while we were talking, and 
walked in the back door into the kitchen, without knocking. 
when 
she saw that we were talking, she said something in Spanish to 
Lisa, then said in English, 
in the direction of Melendez, "I'll 
be back later, and left. 
While we were talking, the phone rang twice. 
Both times, he 
said "Lisa" and she got up to answer it. 
Once it was for him, 
and he excused himself and went to the phone, explained that he 
was involved in something, and asked the caller to call back. 
When he wanted some more coffee, he asked Lisa to heat it up and 
bring it to him. 
There was nothing imperious or imposing about 
his tone or manner when he asked it, but it definitely had that 
about it (which I can't describe any better than this) that I 
recognize from Mexico as a father's right to be served in his own 
house. 
Melendez allowed me to photograph the outside of his house, 
but declined to be photographed himself. 
He 
is growing a beard 
in anticipation of the Nativity drama in St. Joseph's church, for 
Christmas, 
in which he will play the part of St. Joseph. 
He 
grows a beard for the part, but doesn't think he 
looks good 
in 
it, 
and especially not when it 
is only two weeks old; he didn't 
want to be photographed for the record with this stubble. 
ethnicity, family 
TX02: From Hammonton, I went down to G—Buena; 02GT, to see 
if I 
could catch up with Irene Torres. 
I really wanted to talk with 
her, and I have been unable 
in my previous three short visits to 
get the opportunity. 
The first time, she said it was up to her 
husband, and he wanted me to call and make arrangements, but I 
didn't get them on the phone. 
The second time, she was there 
with his oldest son, and she had too much work to do, as Leon 
(her husband) had just had to leave for Puerto Rico because his 
dad had died, and she and "Lee" (Leon, Jr.) had to run the place 
themselves. 
The third time, 
it was cold and rainy, and she was 
in a terrible mood, and on top of that Mr. Scott was there and 
wouldn't stop trying to get me to interview him instead. (See 
FBBII10b). 
Today, still 
no 
interview, though I at least got to have a 
fairly lengthy conversation with her, and some interchange with 
Leon as well. When I arrived at the market, Irene was sitting in 
the car, 
in the passenger seat in front, and crocheting. 
She was 
making red Santa Claus suits, trimmed with white at the collar 
and cuffs, for commercially made, plastic Santa Claus dolls. 
she 
dresses them, puts a black belt and boots on them, gives then 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 83 
cotton hair and a beard; there are also Mrs. Claus dolls, for 
whom she crochets red dresses, trimmed in white, and gives them 
cotton hair and little glasses. 
She sells these, for Christmas 
tabletop decorations, through a word—of—mouth network. 
Her 
crocheting is very even and good—looking, and she 
is fast. 
She 
makes other things as well, for other seasons, or just for 
general decoration, among them, many—tiered crocheted full skirts 
for display dolls. 
As she worked, Leon's youngest son, Larry, 
stood near the window and kept up a conversation with her. 
His 
little dog, Susie, kept on climbing up on the back of the seat 
and onto Irene's shoulder, crowding her face, and licking it. 
Periodically, Irene would yell 
"Susie, get down!", or tell Larry 
to take her off of her, but she never missed a stitch; she had 
sort of a philosophical good humor about it. 
She has a tiny dog 
of her own, a chihuahua, whom she dresses in crocheted pants and 
a jacket in the cold weather. 
I didn't ask, but I'd be willing 
to bet that she made them. 
The Torreses own their farm and stand. 
Irene's father 
started it, and still works it along with them; he appears to be 
in his mid-60's. 
It started out as a flower growing operation, 
and then they branched out into vegetables later. 
Some of the 
vegetables there they grow, and others, 
apples, sweet potatoes, 
and some of the varieties of squash, they buy wholesale from 
other farmers to sell at their stand. 
They had hoped that last 
week would be the final week they were open for the fall season, 
but they didn't sell enough of what they had left. 
this is the 
final week, regardless of how the sales run. 
What is 
left they 
will sell cheap, through newspaper ads and word—of—mouth, for 
horse and cattle food. 
While I was there, an older Polish woman, 
who spoke very little English but gestured wildly and made great 
and comical faces in getting her point across, came by to collect 
split and spoiled vegetables for her horses. 
Irene and Leon and 
Larry all 
treated her with great affection, and teased her and 
laughed at her face—making. They had a vivid interechange 
involving lots of pointing and very few words, and began dumping 
baskets full of vegetables into the back of her station wagon. 
Many baskets of sweet potatoes and several split pumpkins and 
squashes went in. 
No money changed hands. 
After the fall season is over, they take a very short 
breather for about a week before setting into the Christmas tree 
business. 
they grow and sell them, and sell greens to people who 
make wreaths. 
The real vacation is 
in January, when the 
Christmas season is over; they have about a month. 
In February 
they start the greenhouse culture of the flowers and vegetable 
plants that they will set out for full—scale farming when the 
weather is warm enough. 
Come summer, the market is really 
beautiful with all 
the flowers, and crowded with customers. 
People stop to take pictures all 
the time; that's the real time 
to take pictures, Leon told me, not now when there isn't anything 
here. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 84 
They continued working the whole time we were chatting, and 
were in motion almost every minute. 
they seemed to know exactly 
what needed doing at every moment, and coordinated their efforts 
without talking about them very much at all. 
The biggest job 
of 
this afternoon was the sorting of a couple of huge crates of 
sweet potatoes (the size of the 900 lb. crates of cranberries 
that the packing houses send to the canneries). 
The potatoes 
were looked over one by one, and any bad ones thrown out. 
Those 
with soft places or one bad end were cut,and the bad part thrown 
away; the remainder of 
it went into a basket to be sold as fodder 
or foe "deer bait." 
It isn't really legal 
to set out bait food 
for deer so that you can shoot them while they eat it, but people 
do 
it all 
the time. 
farm market 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX09: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 85 
INUM: 
PFP83—FB61120 
DATE: 
CWRK: 
EVNT: 
NM01: 
NM02: 
NM03: 
NM04: 
NM05: 
NM06: 
NM07: 
NM08: 
NM09: 
NM10: 
TECH: 
TX01: Carl Fleischhauer and I went to G—Hammonton; 11GT to tape 
record the Spanish Mass at St. Joseph's Church, Third Avenue, 
in 
Hammonton. 
Fr. Jose' Rebaque is the priest there; he sings a good 
deal 
of the Mass, and he repeatedly expressed his regret that 
this was the day we had to record, because he had a very bad cold 
and felt his voice was neither strong nor sounding very good. 
He 
let us in to the Church between the 9:00 and 10:00 a.m. English 
Masses, when there was a free hour, so that we could get all 
our 
wires strung and whatnot. 
He uses microphones himself at the 
altar and lectern, and 
in front of the chorus, and there are a 
dozen or so speakers running the length of the church, some 
placed on either side of the congregation. 
He let us put our 
altar and lectern mikes right next to his own, and 
in addition we 
set up a mike in front of the chorus section, to their left, and 
one by the musicians, to the right of the chorus, 
in the front 
pew. 
The Spanish Mass is at 12:15 every Sunday, and always 
involves a lot of music. 
Fr. Jose' said that he has some Anglos 
who come to the Spanish Mass just because they like the music. 
It 
is what is commonly called (and he called it this, as did 
Fernando Melendez, when I spoke with him yesterday) a "guitar 
Mass." 
The instrumentation is typical of Jibaro music--guitars, 
drums and Guiro (gourd rhythm instrument)--but many of the 
melodies were of the Peter, Paul and Mary "folk" school; some 
sounded purely jibaro, but they were in the minority. 
The chorus 
is made up of young people aged 8 to 17, and the 
majority of them are girls. 
At present there are 25 members, and 
they have a repertoire of some 125 to 130 songs. 
They vary the 
program every Sunday, selecting songs which accompany the themes 
of the masses and feast days. 
Fr. Jose' has nothing to do with 
the selection of the musical program, he says; 
it 
is all up to 
Carmen Santiago, the choir director. 
She plans the program in 
advance, and tells him what it will 
be; he 
is a soloist in many 
of the verses of the songs, and also sings and chants a good 
portion of the Mass, 
instead of saying it. 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 86 
The chorus occupies the first four pews on the left side of 
the aisle (as you face the altar). 
The musicians sit in the 
first pew, right front corner, nearest the aisle; the drummers 
sit out in front of the first pew, owing to the space 
requirements of their instruments. 
The musicians were Joe Torres 
and Victor Bermu'dez, guitars; Michael Torres (son of Joe) and 
Tommy Santiago (son of choir director Carmen), drums; Anibal 
Munoz, guiro; and Luz Rodri'guez, tambourine (Addresses follow at 
end of notes). 
The chorus has two practices each week, with the 
musicians--Fridays in the evening, and Sunday mornings before the 
Mass. 
They have been in existence for 8 years, come April. 
Among the musicians are members of two different trios who play 
popular and jibaro music 
in the area (no formal names for the 
trios); Bermu'dez is also just forming a new band, of 5 or 6 
members (no name yet) to play popular and jibaro music. 
After the Mass, we went to the rectory to thank Fr. Jose' and 
get some of the names of the readers from him. 
I also called 
Natividad ("Nati") Rodriguez, 
in Woodbine to tell her we were 
running a little behind schedule; we were slated to be at her 
house in Woodbine at 2:00 to chat and photograph, but after the 
Mass and packing up the equipment, we were about an hour behind. 
It turned out that her mother had had to go 
into the hospital the 
night before, and she was planning to go to visit her 
in the 
afternoon, so we had to cancel our visit. 
She was very friendly, 
addressing me as "hija" (daughter), and expressing her 
willingness to try again for another time, and this should be 
pursued if there is further interest in the Puerto rican 
communities in 
later phases of the project. 
Since our appointment with Nati Rodriguez was cancelled, we 
had no reason to rush. 
Fr. Jose' 
invited us 
into the dining room, 
where he was eating his lunch, and showed to seats at either side 
of the long, 
linen—covered table at whose head he sat, eating a 
lunch prepared for him by Josephine (last name?), an older, 
white—haired woman who works at the rectory in a combination 
secretarial/housekeeping capacity. 
She brought us coffee and 
cookies, and we had a leisurely conversation with Fr. Jose', 
later 
moving into one of the rectory counselling rooms when he had 
finished his dessert and tea. 
(Carl had pictures of the dining 
room.) 
Fr. Jose' 
is a member of the Pallotine Fathers, a community 
started by and named after St. Vincent Palloti (see ephemera 
file). 
The community was started in the 1850s. 
He undertook his 
study in Germany, and after taking his vows, taught in a seminary 
in Spain, his native country, for a few years. 
He found the work 
of teaching and supervising high school aged boys 
in seminary 
entirely too taxing, and not at all 
to his liking, and requested 
a re—assignment from his regional "headquarters" 
in south 
Germany. 
They had also had a request from St. Joseph's Church, 
which 
is under the administration of the Pallotines, for a 
Spanish speaking priest to serve the Hispanic community in 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 87 
Hammonton, so they sent him here. 
He has been here two years, 
and likes the area fairly well. 
He finds certain regrettable 
qualities in the Puerto Ricans as a group, and expresses this 
pretty straightforwardly, but without hostility or deprecation; 
he compares them wistfully to the Mexicans, with whom he has also 
worked, on an assignment in Texas--they don't stack up to the 
warmth, hospitality, and genuine religious fervor of the 
Mexicans, 
in his opinion. 
It struck me funny to hear a priest 
find fault with his congregation (they're not supposed to feel 
like that, are they?), yet he does not strike me as a priest who 
would seem inaccessible or unsympathetic to his flock, from their 
point of view. 
He 
is very down—to—earth, and has a shirt—sleeves 
approach to his profession. 
His greatest exasperation with his 
Puerto Rican parishioners seems to be 
in their sense of timing, 
and appointment making and keeping. 
He has succeeded in getting 
across the point that the mass starts on time, and those who wish 
to hear it must be there at that time, but still has frequent 
missed and late—arriving appointments, without calls to advise 
him that people can't come or will be 
late. 
There are two 
different views of what time and appointments are all about 
operating here, as there are between the Puerto Ricans and the 
AngIos. 
St. Joseph's Church, now serving the Puerto Rican community, 
used to be the main church for the Italian community in Hammonton 
(the Pallotines are originally an Italian order, or as Fr. Jose' 
said, "community" themselves). 
Masses were said there in Italian 
up to two or three years ago; there is no call for them now, 
because there are so few people remaining in town who speak only 
or even mostly Italian. 
In the parking lot of the church is 
an 
image of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, one of the saints to whom the 
church is dedicated. 
The image is the "original" statue of Our 
Lady of Mt. Carmel (an aspect of the Virgin Mary) and was brought 
here from the town of Gesso, 
in the province of Messina. 
(This 
piece of 
information as to the provenience of the statue was 
supplied by a second woman in the kitchen, whose name I did not 
get; she told us with evident pride that she and her family had 
been to Gesso, and had personally seen the place that the statue 
had come from.) 
The Feast Day of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel 
is July 
16th, and there are great festivities in G—Hammonton; 11GT from the 
Saturday before to the Sunday after July 16th; on the 16th, there 
is a procession of the statue through most of the streets of 
town, and 
it takes hours from start to finish. 
Tens of thousands 
of people come to Hammonton for this event. 
Fr. Jose' estimates 
that average attendance runs to about 45,000 people; 
last year 
there were only 20,000, owing to the extremely hot and 
oppresively humid weather at the time; 
it was a disappointing 
turnout. 
Everyone of Italian heritage who has ever lived 
in 
Hammonton, and who can make it back at all, he said, comes to 
this celebration; 
it 
is the largest that the church or the town 
has. 
Fr. Jose' also told us that there is a small community of 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 88 
Mexicans living just north of Hammonton, and some of them come to 
Mass at St. Joseph's. 
He gave us the name of one Mexican man who 
might be willing to talk to us. 
I withhold it for the moment, 
however, because of the extremely ticklish situation of most of 
the Mexican community here as illegal workers. 
Their lives are 
very hard indeed, according to Fr. Jose'. 
They are mostly very 
poorly paid and offered bad housing, about which they cannot 
really safely complain because they could be deported if they 
become noticeable or 
if they aggravate the wrong people. 
It 
is 
doubly bad, because many of them just stay 
in the house all 
the 
time when they are not working, trying to keep a low profile; 
they are really sort of penned—in. 
There is some animosity 
between them and the poorer Puerto ricans, because the Mexicans 
are willing to work for the lowest wages, and 
in a sense they are 
under—bidding some of the legitimate Puerto rican workers. 
Being 
an 
illegal worker--undocumented for tax purposes and 
in the 
country without legal papers--means taking whatever you get, and 
in a lot of ways. 
If they are apprehended, they will be 
deported, but for many of them, this is no serious deterrent, 
just a setback. 
They will just turn around and come right back, 
and even may come back to the same area, or one very nearby. 
While they are here working, they liver very frugally, even for 
the little that they get paid, so that they can send money back 
to their families at home. 
Sometimes, after enough money has 
been sent home to pay for a passage, another family member will 
come here and join them, also illegally. 
It would be fruitful to 
pursue this community for study, 
if access can be gained in such 
a way (if at all) as not to place them in jeopardy. 
religion, ethnicity 
ADDRESSES: 
Carmen Santiago (choir director) 
(wife of Tom Santiago, See PFP83—FBB1112) 
Box 29, N. 3rd St. 
Hammonton, NJ 
08037 
Tommy Santiago (drums) 
son of Carmen and Tom Santiago 
Joe Torres (guitar) 
608 Fairview Ave. 
P.O. Box 89 
Hammonton, NJ 
08037 
Tel. 
609-561-2891 
Michael Torres (drums) 
son of Joe Torres 
Victor Bermu'dez (guitar) 
882 2nd St., Apt. 4 
Hammonton, NJ 
08037 
Tel. 609-561-9030 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 89 
Anibal Munoz 
(guiro) 
RFD 
Box 417 
Hammonton, NJ 
08037 
Luz Rodri'guez (tamboutine) 
5 West Adams Circle 
Hammonton, NJ 
08037 
TX02: 
TX03: 
TX04: 
TX05: 
TX06: 
TX07: 
TX08: 
TX03: 
TX10: 
Blair--83 Fieldnotes 
page 90