UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  GEORGE MERRITT
CONDUCTED BY:   MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:  AUGUST 20, 1987
G = GEORGE
M = MARTHA
LFP-MN-R016-R017
M:  [unclear] with George Merritt.  M-E-R-R-I-T-T?
G:  Right.  
M:  O.K.  So, why don't you tell me how you got, well, first tell me where your from.  
G:  I'm originally from Lowell.  
M:  What part?
G:  The Highland section of Lowell, I was born and brought up in the Highland section of 
Lowell.  
M:  Do you know how your family got to Lowell?  
G:  Ah, yeah.  My, my mother and father were both born in Lowell.  And my father's parents 
were both born in Lowell.  Ah, my mother's parents, her mother was born in Ireland, and her was
born in Taunton.  And they're of Irish descent, yeah.  
M:  And on your father's side?
G:  My grandfather was from England, Edinborough, England.  And my grandmother's, my 
grandmother on my father's side was, her parents were from Ireland, both of them.  
M:  So do you know why they came to the Highlands?
G:  They originally settled in the Lower Belvidere.  Both sides of my par, yeah, both my parents 
families originally settled in Lower Belvidere.  In the Concord Street, Pleasant Street area of 
Lower Belvidere.  And then (--)
M:  Was that an Irish section?  
G:  Yes, it was in those days.  Yeah.  Ah, ha.  
M:  And then they just moved around?  
G:  Then they moved.  You know, my mother as a young girl moved to a farm in Dracut.  She 
was actually brought up on a farm in the Kenwood section of Dracut.  But then later on as they 
got older they left the farm and moved back to the city again.  
M:  They gave up the farm?
G:  Well, her father died when she was young.  And left her mother with seven young children 
and they had to give up their farm and move back into the Lowell area.  
M:  Did they work?
G:  Yeah, my grandmother did.  Yeah.  Wasn't any welfare in those days.  So if your husband died
and left you with seven children you had go off and go to work.  She was a matron for Keith's 
Theater.  She was a matron at the theater, when they had the live theater in Lowell.  Keith's 
Theater downtown Lowell, she was a matron there.  
M:  What did a matron do?  
G:  Cleans up and takes care of the, the building like a custodian.  They had matrons.  Rather 
than male custodians they had female matrons that you know, kept the theater clean and in order 
I suppose. 
M:  And ah, when you moved to the Highlands.  Was that after lower Belvidere or were (--)
G:  Well, yeah.  They, I never lived in Lower Belvidere.  They did but, you know there's I 
suppose as they, well, I don't know why they moved.  Well, I, there wasn't many homes I don't 
think in the Highlands when my mother was young.  Or my father was young.  But that where 
the newer homes were being built in the Upper Highlands and that's where, where they moved to.
M:  Did they care what section?  Or was it, you know (--)
G:  It wasn't an ethnic, for ethnic reasons.  No.  I'm sure it wasn't.  Because there was a mix of, in
the Highlands there were all different ethnic groups.  There were Jewish, there were, when we 
were kids growing up there were a lot of Jewish in our neighborhood.  A lot of Protestant in our 
neighborhood.  A lot of Catholics, in our neighborhood.  
M:  In the Highlands?
G:  Yeah.  
M:  Is that where you live now?
G:  No.  I live in Chelmsford.  Yeah, I lived in the Highlands when I was first married.  And then 
I moved to Chelmsford.  I wanted a larger home and I, we moved to Chelmsford.  
M:  Ah, oh wait a minute.  Do you know how your parents met?  
G:  No, I really don't.  They came from the same neighborhood.  And I'm sure they knew each 
other all their lives.  They came, they only lived two streets ap, you know from each other all 
their lives when they were young kids growing up.  So, I wouldn't know exactly where they met. 
M:  Probably just in the neighborhood.  
G:  Probably at a dance.  [laugh] 
M:  Yeah.  Actually that's why I asked because a lot of people did dance.
G:  Yeah.  Probably.  
M:  Church dance.
G:  Church dance.  Or maybe a sporting event, or something like that.  Yeah.  
M:  What's the church in the Highlands?
G:  I always belonged to St. Margaret's Parish.  St. Margaret's Parish in the Highlands was the 
parish I lived in all my life.  Ah, ha.  
M:  And then jumping years ahead.  How did you get involved in the occupation your in now?  
G:  Working in the cemetery?  Well, I ah, the cem, my predecessor in the cemetery John Meagher
the man, he was superintendent before me.  
M:  Was that Meagher 
G:  John Meagher, his name was.
M:  Was he in the police department too?
G:  No.  That's another Meagher.  This is M-E-A-G-H-E-R it's spelled differently.  In o, in over a 
hundred years there's only been three superintendents of the cemetery.  Including myself.  There 
was myself, I've been here since 1965.  John Meagher succeeded his father in 1923.  So he was 
superintendent from 1923 to 1965.  And his father was superintendent from about 1887 till 1923. 
So in over a hundred years there has been only three superintendents.  
M:  Did the second, did the first and second Meaghers both die?  
G:  Yes, they did.  Yeah.  Ah ha.
M:  And that's why the vacancy?
G:  Yeah, when the, well, I succeed, actually  before I became the superintendent I was the 
assistant superintendent.  And I succeeded a Frank Redding who had been the super, er, the 
assistant to John Meagher for many years.  The job was available.  I heard it was available.  And 
I applied for the job and I was hired.  
M:  Where you were the assistant.
G:  Right.  As the assistant.  Shortly after I was hired as the assistant superintendent Mr. Meagher
took ill, and he died about a year later.  And then I succeeded him the following year.  
M:  And how did you get the, I mean start, I'm just sort of interested in your interest in the 
cemetery.
G:  Well, I really took it as an interim job.  I was at the time I took the job I was working for a 
floor covering company.  And I was considering going into business myself.  In the retail floor 
covering business in the Lowell area.  And I had just taken this job as an interim job.  And then 
as things turned out ah, the ah, like I said the superintendent died ah, he took ill about six months
after I started here.  And he died a year later and I was appointed superintendent of the cemetery. 
So I've been here since.  That's
M:  Did you see it in the paper, or did someone tell you?  Or you knew somebody?
G:  Yeah, I knew someone that ah, yeah was, it was made known to me that there was a job 
available.  It was never really advertised in the paper.  And I applied for the job to the director of 
the cemetery and I was hired.  
M:  What did you do?  And what do you do? 
G:  Well, my main responsibility is to, I'm the day to day manager of the cemetery operation.  We
have ah, in addition to St. Patrick's Cemetery we also operate St. Mary's cemetery in North 
Tewksbury.  Which is our newest cemetery.  That was founded in 1960.  We opened that in 1960.
That was just five years before I became employed here.  Um, like all cemeteries eventually all 
your space was sold out and you have to expand.  We had no room to expand in this area here.  
We're completely surrounded by a residential you know, by residential or by a home, by homes.  
And there was no room for us to expand.  So we purchased, in the late fifties, we purchased a ah,
a track of ah, over a hundred acres of land in North Tewksbury.  So we could expand the 
cemetery.  And we've just developed a, we have developed about thirty-five, forty acres of land 
out there now, for the, for the new cemetery.  
M:  How many acres do you have now?
G:  We have sixty-five acres here.  Sixty-five acres of land.  cemeteries, first burial, recorded 
burial we have was 1832.  And um, we do an average of probably seven hundred to seven 
hundred fifty burials a year.  In this cemetery.  But it's dropping off here because it's increasing in
Tewksbury.  We're doing now about a hundred a year in Tewksbury.  And we're doing probably 
six-fifty to seven hundred a year in here.  
M:  Why does somebody choose this over Tewksbury?  One over the other.  
G:  Well, there's a lot of people that are interested in purchasing cemetery property um, rather 
than split up their families.  Their parents are buried here.  Their grandparents are buried here.  
And some would still like to come to St. Patrick's.  But at the present time we're, we're not 
completely out of lots for sale but, we've only got probably three to five more years of lots 
available for sale in here.  And then, right now people have a choice.  They can either choose to 
come to St. Patrick's Cemetery, or they can choose a lot in St. Mary's Cemetery.  But St. Mary's 
Cemetery will be the future cemetery for the Catholic population in Lowell.  
M:  And is there any reason why it is outside Lowell?  
G:  Well, it wasn't avail, there was no land available, that would be suitable for cemetery use 
within the greater, within the Lowell area.  So, we were fortunate to find a, a large enough tract 
of land that met our needs as close to the line as we did.  It's just over the line.  It's only five 
hundred yards over the line.  Over the Lowell line in North Tewksbury.  Out off route 133.  
M:  And um, when did the cemetery start?
G:  This cemetery?  1832.  [Telephone rings in background].  Was the first recorded burial.  The 
cemetery was founded by the pastor of St. Patrick's Church.  
M:  From the Acre.
G:  Yeah, in the Acre right.  Yeah.  That was, where ever you, you know if you go through the 
towns or you go through, anywhere you go you'll always find in a Catholic Church or a Catholic,
an old Catholic Church you'll find a burial ground behind it.  That was a very, very important 
thing to Catholics in those days.  That they be buried in consecrated ground.  Close to the church 
and with, with the faithful.  They we're always buried together.  Course there is a distance 
between us and St. Patrick's cause the situation existed then and when they started the church 
there wasn't available land close to the church for cemetery use.  So they purchased an acre of 
land.  They started with an acre of land.  Out here on Gorham Street.  And eventually they 
acquired more and more land.  Until they owned the full sixty-five acres that we have now.  
M:  Does St. Patrick's still own the cemetery?  
G:  No.  The cemetery is owned and operated by the Archdioceses of Boston.  
M:  Are there any other Catholic cemeteries in Lowell?  
G:  Yes there are.  There's a ah, St. Patrick's like I say was the first Catholic cemetery.  And when
St. Patrick's Cemetery was founded, and up until recent years it was a requirement that you be 
buried in a Catholic cemetery.  In those days there was no choice.  You had to be buried in a 
Catholic cemetery.  Provided there was one available.  Today they've relaxed those regulations, 
and they don't require it.  They still encourage it, but they don't require, that's not a requirement 
for, for Catholic burial, that you be buried in a Catholic cemetery.  Um, St. Patrick's Cemetery is 
originally founded like by St. Patrick's Church.  To take care of the Irish Catholic Population.  
And then as the fr, Cana, the French Canadians came down from Canada.  In the, I guess they 
started coming here in the forties or the fifties, 1840, 1850's.  The early French settlers were also 
buried in St. Patrick's Cemetery.  But then as the French Population grew in Lowell, they started 
their own cemetery which is St. Joseph's Cemetery in East Chelmsford.  Which is only a half of 
mile from here.  On River Neck Road in East Chelmsford.  
M:  And who owns that one?
G:  That again is owned well, that is, comes under the jurisdiction of the Archdiocese of Boston.  
But I think the property is actually owned by the Franco-American Oblates.  Which is an order of
priests that staff the parishes, the Franco-American Parishes in Lowell.  they actually own the 
cemetery I think.  
M:  Would that have been associated with one of the French Churches?
G:  Yes.  Originally it was, that again was founded by the pastor of St. Jean Baptiste Church on 
Merrimack Street.  I think, I can't think of what his name was.  Father um, (--)
M:  And do you still have ties to St.  Patrick's Church?  
G:  No, we don't.  No.  We did up until about 1950.  Traditionally the director of this cemetery 
was always the pastor of St.  Patrick's Church.  But in 1957, no, yeah, about fifty-six or 
fifty-seven Monsignor Hyder was appointed pastor of St. Patrick's Parish.  And at that time he 
got involved in purchasing the land in Tewksbury to expand this cemetery.  He only stayed as 
pastor of St. Patrick's for one year.  So rather than, he was transferred to St. Margaret's Parish as 
the pastor.  So rather than ah, appoint the incoming pastor of St. Patrick's the director of the 
cemetery.  They decided in Boston at the Archdioceses that it would be better if they left 
Monsignor Hyder as the director.  Where he was involved in, in a big project of developing a 
new cemetery and locating new land, etc.  So he went back to St. Margaret's Parish and he stayed
as the director of the cemetery till he died in 1975.  And in 1975 he was succeeded by the pastor 
of St. Margaret's Parish Monsignor Jakel.  
M:  Oh, so it just switched churches.
G:  Yeah, so it just kind of switched churches, yeah, yeah.  
M:  So it's staying with St. Margaret's?
G:  Right.  Well, I don't know.  I mean ah, it doesn't necessarily have to stay with anyone.  
Monsignor Jakel is the pastor today, and he's been the pastor since 1975.  [phone rings in 
background]  and I'm sure he'll be the director until he either retires or is transferred from St. 
Margaret's Parish.  And then who will be named after that I really don't know.  
M:  And is that the person that you would report to?
G:  I report to directly to er, Monsignor Jakel.  Yes, the director of the cemetery, yeah.  
M:  What does it mean, I guess the difference between this, or why don't you tell me.  I would be 
guessing.  What would be the difference between a Catholic Cemetery and say a Public 
Cemetery?  
G:  Well, a, a pub, there really are three classifications of cemeteries, really.  There's, there's  
church operated cemeteries, there's private cemeteries that are usually owned by a lots owners 
corporation.  There usually owned by the people that own the lots.  And then there's of course 
public cemeteries.  I, I think here's, there's a law in Massachusetts, I'm not sure of this.  But I 
think there's a law in Massachusetts that requires every municipality, wether it's a town or a city 
to provide burial place within a town for it's, it's people.  [phone rings in background] But the 
church is involved in the cemetery because the church ah, the burial of the dead is, is a sacred, is 
sacred to the Catholic Church and always has been.  Traditionally it's been a, something that's a 
religious rather than just a social you know, responsibility.  It's a, it's a religious responsibility.  
M:  And what does it mean that you have consecrated ground?  That's where (--)
G:  Well, it's just blessed.  It's ah, again I think they still do consecrate cemeteries.   
M:  I, again, (--)
G:  Well, it means that they, that they, it's made a sacred place by a blessing.  By the Archdioc, or
the Archbishop of the Diocese.  Or the Archbishop of the Archdioceses concentrates the ground 
and makes it a blessed place or a sacred place.  It's a ritual of the Catholic Church.  And I don't 
know if they really require that you be buried in concentrated ground now.  I don't even think 
that they even require that.  But they did at one time.  
M:  Are there any non-catholics in there?
G:  Yes, we do allow non-catholics to be buried here.  We don't solicit non-catholics to buy 
cemetery property in our cemeteries.  But we will allow a non-catholic be buried in the cemetery.
In a lot.  Ah, you know so the family ties won't be broken.  Like years ago if you were a catholic 
and your husband was non-catholic, you could be buried in the cemetery but your husband 
couldn't.  So, we have situations in, right in this cemetery where a husband may be buried here 
and his wife was not allowed and she had to be buried in another cemetery.  But that, they don't 
require that any more.  
M:  Where would she go?  The Edson?  
G:  Most likely to the Edson or to the Lowell Cemetery.  Yeah.
M:  Are those the two public ones?  No.
G:  Yeah, no, the Lowell Cemetery is a private cemetery.  It's a private cemetery over on 
Lawrence Street.  The Edson Cemetery and the Westlawn Cemetery are the public cemeteries in 
Lowell.  The, the active ones today.  There are a number of other cemeteries throughout the city.  
Small burial grounds.  Like down on School Street.  And there's one on Hildreth Street.  And 
there's one out by the Lowell General Hospital.  These were, and there's one on Mammoth Road. 
Just little, small um, cemeteries that were, I don't know if they were originally started or owned 
by the city, but at, for one reason or another the city took over the responsibility of maintaining 
them and taking care of them.  And they still do today.  They cut the grass, and they maintain 
them, you know they see that they're not abandon.  
M:  There in effect, in effect city cemeteries.  
G:  Yeah, they're operated, yeah, they're maintained by the city.  
M:  Are they active?
G:  No.  No, really the only t, city, the only cemetery in the city are the, that are as active is the 
Edson Cemetery and the um, Westlawn Cemetery.  
M:  Someone asked me, and I didn't know.  They said maybe you could ask today.  Where do the 
new Asian, the new Asians Immigrants get buried?  
G:  We, I really don't know.  I think that the Edson Cemetery is probably burying some Asians.  
Ah, we don't, again I don't think too, too many of the Asians that are populating the city of 
Lowell now are Catholics.  If they were Catholics, you know, we would.  And if they came to us 
that's, [phone rings in background] I'm sure they would be buried in our cemeteries.  But the um, 
we do have some, ah, Spanish speaking.  We have a Puerto Rican population.  Quite a few 
[phone rings in background] buried in this cemetery, and in St. Mary's.  But, we haven't had that 
many Asians.  I think we may have some.  I think we may have some buried at St. Mary's.  But 
they would only come to us if they were Catholics, you know.  See we, we enjoy a tax exempt 
status.  I mean were not taxable.  Ah, and the reason were not taxable is because this is a 
religious situation for us.  And if we buried other than the, other than catholics, you know we 
could jeopardize our tax exempt, sit, you know status.  
M:  Then you'd become a business?
G:  Then we'd become a business exactly, right, right.  I mean today like any other b, you know it
has to be run like a business in one respect.  But we are at, were a charitable, were a charted 
charitable non-profit organization.  Were not, no individual or group of individuals shares in any 
of the profits.  That the cemetery makes.  
M:  You don't make any profits?
G:  No, no we set our charges so that we well, break even.  You know,we have, naturally we have
to take in more money than we spend.  But, we can't spend more money than we take in.  So we 
have to adjust our charges to meet our, our expenses.  
M:  And um, how would you say that the cemetery is divided up?  How is it organized?
G:  We, you mean the physical lay-out of the cemetery?  
M:  As opposed to what?
G:  Is that what you mean?  The physical lay-out of the cemetery?  
M:  Yes.  
G:  Well, the cemetery, you take a, the piece of land and you section it off into sections.  And um,
it's, it's, and you develop as you, you develop a section as it's needed.  And um, if that's what you 
mean.  
M:  Did somebody landscape it?  To start with?
G:  Well, each as the sections are designed and laid out, then there landscaped at that time, yeah, 
ah ha.
M:  Who designs them?
G:  I, I do that.  Me in con, myself in conjunction probably with a landscape architect.  Or with a 
firm that specializes in designing cemetery sections.  
M:  Is there an over all plan?
G:  Yes, there is an over all master plan.  Yeah.  And we (--)
M:  And who comes up with that?   
G:  The ol, the master plan for our new cemetery in Tewksbury was drawn up by my predecessor 
John Meagher.  And we have a master plan that we work from.  
M:  What about this cemetery?
G:  This cemetery well, there really wasn't a master plan drawn up at the time that the cemetery 
was acquired But, as they went along, now we do have a master plan of everything that's been 
developed, you know.  And broken down into sections and then the sections are broken down 
into lots, and the lots are broken down into graves.  So we know.  We have a system, a book 
system, and of course like everyone else were computerizing now.  But we have a map system.  
And a book system by section.  So that we can locate the graves for burials.  
M:  Are the sections the same size?  
G:  No there all different in size, yeah.  I don't think there's one section that's exactly the same 
size.  You know, y, years ago they used to design large sections.  Today they seem to be smaller 
sections so you can move your equipment in and out easier.  Course years ago everything 
everything was done by hand, years ago a person bought a piece of property, or bought a 
cemetery lot.  And it was ah, they paid a fee for the land.  But it was, it's up to them to maintain 
it.  And that went on for almost a hundred years.  And it was, and, but in the I'd say in the 
twenties, in the early twenties they adopted a, ah, perpetual care plan in this cemetery where you 
bought the land and then you paid an additional fee for perpetual care.  That's for the 
maintenance and the upkeep of the land.  And that's when the cemetery started taking care of 
their own property.  People used (--)
M:  One fee for (--)
G:  Yeah, one fee for everything.  People used to come you know before Memorial Day with 
their lawn mowers and sickles and cut their own grass.  Some people did it once a year, some 
people used to come once a week and cut the grass and take care of the lot, you know.  But today
we don't allow people to come in and their, any maintenance at all.  No cutting, no trimming, no 
planting, nothing.  Everything's done by the cemetery under the Perpetual Care Plan.  (--)
M:  We can't plant flowers?
G:  Well, we do allow flower beds on certain lots.  Depending on the size of the lot.  The type of 
the lot.  But flower beds are planted ah, with the understanding that the family plants the flower 
bed but they have to water it, weed it, and maintain it themselves or, if it becomes unsightly we 
remove it.  
M:  And well, I guess what I'm saying is who decides what section, I was trying to understand.  
Say, there's a big section here.  And there's a triangular section and there's a small square.  I mean
how does it, how does it happen that this gets partitioned of into a square and the land next to it 
forms a large triangle.  And the land next to it (--)
G:  Well, I think basically if everything was exactly the same essentially it, I mean what you 
attempt to do when you develop a cemetery is to, is to make it essentially pleasing, as well as, 
practical or functional.  So you know if every section was exactly the same size with the road 
plans exactly the same you wouldn't ah, you know it wouldn't be as ah, essentially pleasing as 
you know, and for landscape purposes.  And but what I meant was that smaller sections today is 
the, we can maintain them easier.  We can move our equipment in out of smaller sections than 
you can larger sections.  And you do less damage to the turf.  See, everything today is done with 
heavy equipment.  The graves are dug with a back hoe or a back hoe that's specially designed for 
digging graves.  We remove the excess sand and ah, ah, fill ah, on trucks, with dump trucks.  
Um, all the lawns and everything else are maintained with large power mowers, you know.  And 
um, (--)
M:  [unclear]
G:  The sections have to be designed in such a way that we can move this equipment in and out 
of these sections, you know.  Easily.
M:  [unclear]
G:  Right, right.  Yeah.  And ah, years ago everything was done by hand.  Graves used to be dug 
by hand.  And um, today it's, it's like every other business.  You know, everything is done with 
big equipment.
M:  Did you use any other cemeteries as a sort of line model?  
G:  Not really.  There, when, like, the two new sections that we've, that we're putting in.  We're in
the process right now of designing and laying out two new sections at St. Mary's Cemetery.  And 
we've hired a firm in the Buffalo New York area that specializes.  They're an engineering firm 
that specializes in designing and, design and lay out of cemetery sections.  Yeah, Greever and 
Ward there one of the largest in the country.  In fact they do most of the cemetery design and lay 
out in, in the major cemeteries in the eastern part of the country.  And they've just completed a 
plan, you know two new sections for us at St. Mary's.  They design it, and they give us the plan, 
and then we, we did it ourselves really.  We sub-contracted it all out.  We hire a clerk of the 
works to run the job.  And he hires the heavy equipment to come in and is there on a day to day 
basis with the equipment.  And we work from the plans, the grading plans and so forth.  
M:  Are there a lot of [unclear] plans?
G:  Not really.  No.  No, we usually, they'll usually submit two or three plans.  When it comes to 
the point where we're deciding on the section plan the, the lay out in design of the section is one 
thing and then the section plan where you divide the section into graves, we have a lot of input 
into that.  You know, whether we want two grave lot or three grave lots, four grave lots, or six 
grave lots, you know.  Most people today, you know, buy only for their own needs.  Years ago 
people used to buy what they call large family lots.  They'd buy a lot for six, eight, or ten burials. 
Today not too many people do that.  And we don't encourage them to do it either.  Because 
people are very mobile today and you know,there's a death in the family and ah, a person comes 
up thinking they have to provide for all their children with their wives but, twenty years from 
now or fifty years from now they could be somewhere else, you know.  And there not going to 
come back to Lowell to be buried if they live in Texas or in Florida or California.  So we 
encourage people to provide just for their own needs, unless they have a particular situation 
where they know their going to, but we don't like the idea of a person buying an eight or a ten 
grave lot and then fifty years from now find out there's only two people buried in it.  
M:  What do you do then?
G:  Well, there's nothing you can do about it.  Because we've entered into a contract with them 
and, we have that situation right now in St. Patrick's.  We have a tremendous number of lots in 
St.  Patrick's Cemetery that were bought fifty and sixty and a hundred years ago.  With um, you 
know a lot that would accommodate say eight, or ten or twelve or fourteen adult burials.  There 
may be only three or four or five or six burials in the lot.  And the family, there's no family left in
this area and those, they'll never be used so it's really wasted land.  If we could reclaim all the 
land that we have in St. Patrick's Cemetery ah, you know, in sold lots available space, available 
space in lots that are, you know were sold years ago, we could you know, expand the life of this 
cemetery a good many years.  
M:  Are those eternal contract spaces?  
G:  Yeah, they are.  They're perp, it means in, perpetuity.  Just what is um, says perpetual.  We ah,
and we do that today.  But, again like we say we don't encourage people to buy large lots.  We 
just encourage them to but what they feel their needs are.  So as a result of that we have to design
our sections with a lot of two grave, and three grave, and four grave lots.  And a lot of people still
in this area are very traditional.  They still want to be able to put an upright monument on the lot.
So it, it takes a lot of planing.  Especially if your dealing with monument lots for two, and three, 
and four burials, to design it in such a way that the monuments can be placed in the section and 
still be able to move our equipment in and out of the sections.  
M:  Is there a particular orientation for the head of (--)
G:  Yeah, normally on a monument, what we call a monument privilege lot.  Which is a 
memorial which is above the ground, rather than a flush type marker.  On a monument privilege 
lot the monument usually is at the,at the head of the lot.  On a flat marker lot, the flat marker is 
usually at the foot of the lot.  
M:  Why is that?  Is there a reason?
G:  I don't know why.  I really don't.  
M:  What about east, west, north, south?
G:  No.  There's no, nothing, no.  Usually ah, ah, I don't think that w, whether it's east, or west, or
north, or south that it plays any important role in, You mean in, as far as the design of the 
section?  
M:  Well, I remember when I was in California, having talked to a person who ran a cemetery in 
Monterey.  
G:  Ah, ha.  
M:  And he said that he had a friend who was Moslem (--)
G:  Yeah.
M:  Who bought two lots because it was so important that the body face (--)
G:  [unclear] Yes, I think that,that's true, yes.  In fact I had a um, I don't know wether they were 
Chinese or Japanese burial at St.  Mary's Cemetery, about three years ago.  And I remember 
being with the family, and that was important to them, that the, that the design of the lot or that 
the lot be facing a certain direction.  So that, ah because see it was very important to him to know
where the sun was rising and setting.  And he was able to find a lot.  You know, that met his, his 
needs.  
                           END OF TAPE ONE
G:  Now, we've seen, yeah, yeah, we see toys, and little stuffed animals, and things like that on 
baby's.  Yeah.  Tell you the truth though we don't have that many babies buried.  There's not that 
many baby's die today, like they used to years ago.  
M:  Is there a special (--)
G:  You went through our own old records you'd see almost every card, ah, you know master 
card for the lot, and lots that were bought prior to the turn of the century.  There's always three, 
or four, or five sometimes, infants, you know, stillborns and infants.  
M:  We found in our family three babies we never knew were born in your nest alone.
G:  Yeah, almost everybody lost you know, two or three children.  A, a lady, a woman would 
have ten kids, and then she'd have three or four more that were buried, you know that never 
lived.  But today it's very unusual.  We don't have a baby every couple of months sometimes.  
Maybe a half a dozen a year.  You know, young babies.
M:  Is it the same as when an adult dies?  The same service, funeral?
G:  No.  Most people, if it's a, if the baby is still born or dies shortly after birth, they usually don't
have a funeral so to speak, or a, they wouldn't have a wake service or funeral.  Usually the 
funeral director just, if the baby never left the hospital, the funeral director would just pick the 
infant up at the hospital, and then bring the baby and bury her in the family lot.  Sometimes the 
family request that they be here for the reading of some committal prayers.  But, um, you know 
unless it's over a year, unless the child would be over a year, if a child was three, or four, or five 
years old I don't think they'd have a wake service, but they'd have maybe a mass at the church 
and then a committal service at the cemetery, you know.  
M:  Would they have the funeral (--)
G; There's very, very few (--)
M:  cars all along?
G:  Yeah they do, Yeah.  Some people do and some don't.  Some people they just have, just the 
parents and the grandparents and maybe a couple of aunts or uncles, and some other children 
might come.  But, you know, it's usually limited to just the immediate family.  
M:  Doesn't a priest have to baptize those stillborn babies?
G:  Oh, yeah.  I think they do, yeah.  Yeah.  I still, I still think they do in the cemetery.  I don't 
know if they baptize stillborns.  But a full term baby that was born would be baptized, yeah, 
either conditionally or unconditionally I'm sure, you know.  Well, I think that um, they would 
baptize the baby.  You know there always priests and specially in catholic um, hospitals.  That 
would ba, baptize the baby anyways you know.  If they knew that the parents were Catholics and 
there was a chance that the baby was going to die.  You know, but you don't hear too much of 
that any more.  
M:  And if the funeral director buries, you know does the service does a priest come with him?
M:  Yeah, usually.  Yeah, they usually will have a priest come for a baby, yeah.  
M:  And that happens with the family that's not [unclear].
G:  Well, sometimes they'll just bring the baby up.  Yeah, and they'll call us ahead of time and 
we'll just open the grave.  And they'll, the funeral director will just bring the baby up and place 
the baby in the grave and then we just, you know, bury it.
M:  Is that (--)
G:  Bury the baby.
M:  Is that, be a Catholic baby?
G:  Oh sure, Mmmm.  Sometimes parents come.  Sometimes they don't.  You know.
M:  Is there a special section for children?
G:  We do have a special section, what we call St. Vincient De Paul Section.  Which is a burial 
place for babies.  A lot of times a baby will die or, in the past ah, you know, like I say years ago 
when there were a lot of babies.  Families didn't want to purchase a lot just to bury the baby.  So 
we'd bury the baby in the baby section, with all of the rest of the babies.  We have one section 
down there it's just nothing but babies, in the whole section, you know.  Yeah, that's some thing 
that's provided by the cemetery.  The people don't, they don't buy it, or pay for anything, you 
know.
M:  [unclear].  
G:  You just provide that.  No.  We just provide that as a place, if a person chooses not to buy a 
lot for the burial of a baby.  We'll provide a space.  At no charge.  We don't charge anything for it.
M:  And that's true today?
G:  No.  Just for babies, sure today, yeah.  We still make burials in the St. Vincient Section.
M:  And how old ?  I mean under what age?
G:  Under a year.  We won't bury anyone, any over a year.  If it's over a year they have to 
purchase a lot.  Yeah.  
M:  So it still happens that they [unclear].
G:  Oh yeah.  Occasionally we'll have a request for a burial in the St. Vincient Section but not 
very often.  There's usually some, either if they don't want to buy a lot.  Their parents have a lot.  
An uncle or an aunt has a lot.  You know, so they'll use a lot.  
M:  And it doesn't take up all the space.
G:  No.  A baby doesn't take up a adult space in a lot.  In other words you could bury three or 
four infants in a lot and still not take up a space.  
M:  Do they have special kinds of symbols on their graves?  
G:  I've never seen any, no.  No, sometimes an angel, face of an angel or something like that, you
know.
M:  Or a lamb.  
G:  Or a lamb, yeah, yeah.  A lamb, yeah.  Mmm.  
M:  Could you maybe show me on this ah, map.  Ah, tell me about the different sections.  
G:  Well, Yard One, years ago, when they started the cemetery rather than call it a section they 
called it a yard.  This, this is the earliest area, right here, Yard One.  And this right here is the Old
English Cemetery, right here.  That's like that, that's the Old English.  And then this is where we 
first started making burials right here in Yard One.  
M:  Old English, because English people were buried there?  
G:  Well, there's, there's a, there's a fence here now.  And I'm sure they had some sort of a 
separator at that time too.  There's a chain link fence there now.  But the first burial that we show 
was buried about right there in 1832.  The first burial we record is right there.  And then we of 
course, we like I say they acquired an acre of land which was probably just this little area right 
here.  
M:  Yard One (--)
G:  They had Yard One and Two.  I think Yard One and Two probably takes up a couple of acres 
of land.  Then they bought this land here and they developed Yard Three.  And then Yard Four, 
and they just went Yard Five, Yard Six, and then I guess instead of going to Yard Seven, Eight, 
Nine, Ten, they started for some reason numbering the sections, or designated the sections with 
numerical, you know numerically.  So now they have section A B C D like that E F G H I J like 
that.  And that's the way they did it.  That's our service area.  Our ser, this is our Chapel right here
in the center.  A lot of people choose now with th, and we, again we encourage people to use our 
Chapels for the Internment Service rather than go to the grave side.  Especially in the wintertime.
Because we can make it a lot safer and a lot more comfortable for the families when they come 
to the cemetery if everybody uses the com, the one, the Chapel to hold the service in.  And then 
see we open the grave, the grave is open ready to receive the burial.  We hold the service in the 
Chapel and then as soon as the family leaves we take the casket and the remains and bring it 
right to the, make the burial.  But this, especially in the winter time we don't have to do a lot of 
clearing and cleaning up and so fourth you know to accommodate the cars and the people to 
stand at grave side.  We can just plow in, you know enough for us to get our equipment in to 
make the burial.  We use the Chapel for the Interment Service.  And this is being encouraged all 
over the place.  
M:  You encourage the dir, the funeral directors, the funeral director (--)
G:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Encourages the family to use the Chapel rather than ah, you know it's warm, it's
heated it's ah, it's clean, it's neat.  And it's large enough to accommodate funerals today.  And we 
can control the traffic better.  And you know, it's, it's, all around it's a much better situation.
M:  Do people take to this idea?
G:  Oh, yeah.  In the beginning they didn't, but now ah, again initially started that encouraging 
people to use our Chapel.  See that Chapel was built in 1920.  And for forty years it was never 
used.  It's just, just a feature in the cemetery.  It really was never used for anything other than just
you know an ornament, or a feature.  And um, (--)
M:  What was it built for?
G:  Just a, little, small Irish Chapel.  You know.  And ah, we remodeled the Chapel, the interior of
it.  And you know, we's modernized it.  We put carpeting on the floor.  And we paneled the walls.
And we really made it presentable.  And now and then we started using it, and before you know 
it people are using it in the summertime now.  Now, in our new cemetery in Tewksbury we built 
the Chapel out there, [unclear] Chapel.  And now I would say, in the winter time from November
first until April thirtieth, it's very, very seldom that we have a request for an outside service.  You 
know, everybody uses the Chapels.  Yeah.
M:  What was their original objection?
G:  Well, they, they just didn't like the idea of not being at grave side.  And there are some people
that still feel very strongly about it.  
M:  Do they actually see the lowering of the casket?
G:  No.  Well, they can if they request it.  But again we very seldom get a request for that.  When 
a fam, we ah, on an outside interment the casket is placed on a lowering device.  And it is left on 
the lowering device during the service up above the ground, above the open hole.  Which we 
cover with artificial grass, you know.  Then when the family leaves, we lower the body down 
into the grave.  But we very seldom get a request for ah, you know, for the family to be present 
when we lower it.  If they want it, we'll do it.  
M:  Do they ever want to throw the first shovel of dirt?
G:  Ah, occasionally we'll have that request to, but very, very seldom.  Very seldom we have a 
request like that.  
M:  Do the, now, given that what 90% of the burials here are Catholic.  Is that a good (--)
G:  Oh, yes, yeah.  That's a (--)
M:  More than that?
G:  No, I'd say 90%.  
M:  Ah, the only difference would be an ethnic difference.  
G:  Right.
M:  Or an age difference.
G:  Right.  
M:  So would the ethnic groups differ in their services? 
G:  The, we had a, a, an Irish person buried in this cemetery about three months ago.  Born in 
Ireland.  Very strong Irish family with two or three sons that were priests, and that's the first 
request that I've heard of for a number of years that they be witness the lowering of their father's 
casket into the grave, and that the sons would shovel on a couple of shovels of dirt.  You know.  
You very seldom get a request for that.  
M:  Now, what would, O.K. again, back to that would the Portuguese, and the French, and the 
Polish, and the Irish, have the same kind of service?  Or are they going to be real different? 
G:  I'd say the service is identical.  Very, very, very seldom there's any difference.  
M:  What happened? 
G:  Cause sometimes you'll have requests like people will come and you know they'll have 
singing.  Some want to do a little, you know sing something.  Or occasionally today you'll have 
like a member of the family will want to say something after the prayers are read, the interment 
prayers.  We see more and more of that.  We had a prominent person buried here a few years ago.
They asked if they could bring in a public address system and set it up and they hired a public 
address company to come in, a system company to come in and set up a public address system 
and each son and daughter of the deceased had something that they wanted to say.  And they 
each passed the mike from one to the other.  And spoke of their mother and how they (--)
M:  Was there a large crowd?
G:  And how they loved her, and how enjoyed her, and what their mother meant to them.  Oh 
yeah, it was a big crowd.  In fact the ah, Ambassador of the United Nations was here.  It was 
very, I wouldn't want to tell you who they were, but, yeah, um, what's his name.  The mayor of 
Atlanta, Georgia there.  He was here.  And um, a number of other prominent people.  Some 
senators were here.  The Governor of New Hampshire was here.  And um, they each passed the 
mike from one to the other.  And they had something to say about their mother.  Their mother 
was a very important part of their life and they wanted to express that at the time.  And they, 
each, each one of them did.  And there was a big family, like ten or twelve kids.  And they each 
said something, you know.  But, being that was a one time thing.  We've never had that request 
before.  (--)
M:  What's a typical service like?
G:  Typical service is just the family assemble and the priest reads the committal prayers which 
are you know written for him to read.  He reads them right out of a book.  And occasionally s, if 
the priest is familiar with the, friends of the family, or their familiar with the family.  They may 
say something other than what's written down, you know.  They may make some sort of a, a 
remark, you know.  And then the service is over.  
M:  And there are flowers.
G:  Yeah, there's flowers, at grave side, yeah.  Ah, ha.
M:  Any special kinds of flowers?
G:  No, I don't think so, no.  No I don't think so.  Roses I suppose.  Usually the casket piece is 
roses.  You know it's just placed on by the, they call it the casket piece.  It's the large piece that's 
placed on the casket.  And it's usually sent from the whole family like, you know.  Other than that
I don't think there's any special type of flowers.  
M:  And people, do they still dress in black? 
G:  No.  Very, very seldom.  Years ago women used to wear black dresses and, although you do 
see the Portuguese people.  And the Italian people.  They still wear black.  And they'll wear black
for six months or a year after their husband dies.  But most people today, I mean they dress in 
just, very casually.  You see a lot of people.  Most men are in shirts and ties.  But not black ties, 
they're, you know.  And um, women dress, you know in every day street clothes.  They don't 
wear any special mourning clothes, like they used to years ago.  Wear veils and everything else, 
but oc, you'll see that today though in some people. 
M:  Any wailing?
G:  No.  I've never seen that.  No, I've never seen that.  They used to hire them I understand years
ago.   Professional wailers that would come and they'd walk the casket so, so far and then they'd 
wail and, they don't do that any more.  It's like the wake services and the old T.D.  [unclear]  
Pipes, and the smoking of the pipes and all that stuff at the Irish Wakes.  
M:  Smoking pipes?
G:  Sure.  Well, years ago ah, I know myself my grandmother was waked in our house when we 
were a kid.  She did, she wouldn't, she would not go to a Funeral Home.  And she made that very
clear before she died.  And my grandfather was waked.  In fact both my grandmothers and my 
grandfather were all waked and I remember their sisters and brothers, like my old aunts and 
uncles and stuff.  No Funeral Home for them.  
M:  Did you have to stay up all night beside the body?
G:  Well, my grand, when my grandmother died her sister stayed up with her all night long.  We 
went to bed.  She was waked in our home when we were a kid, when we were kids.  And her 
sister never left her.  All night long she stayed with the body.  Years, I mean I've heard my mother
tell me that when she was young.  When my um, like when her, her grandmother lived with her 
when she was a youngster.  And um, when she died her mother and her brothers, they washed the
body.  And this was Irish.  They washed the body.  They wouldn't let the body go out of the 
house.  The funeral director used to come.  Today if a, if a fu, if a wake service is held in a home.
The funeral director will pick up the body, take it to the funeral home, embalm it, dress it, and 
bring the casket with the body in it to the home.  Years ago the funeral director used to bring 
everything to the home.  He did the embalming.  He did everything right in the home.  He 
brought his kit with him.  But then, I know my mother said, when she was young that's the way 
her p, grandparents were.
M:  So it was  still a funeral director.  It wouldn't have been family that did it.  
G:  But then again, people died in their homes in those days.  Nobody dies at home now.  A 
person dies, even if they're dead they'll take them to the hospital to pronounce them dead.  
M:  [laugh]
G:  Or they die in a nursing home, or they die in a hospital.  Very, very few people die at home.  
You know unless somebody has an illness that you know, a long, long illness and they do die at 
home.  But, most people either die in a hospital, or they die at a, in a nursing home.  
M:  And when the people were waked at home would the, would their friends still bring all these 
flowers? 
G:  Well, yeah.  They sent the flowers.  I suppose at one time they used to bring the flowers.  
Then as florists delivered.  They started delivering the flowers.  But they used to have feeds.  
Like they'd have meals.  They'd be, they'd be, somebody would be cooking in the kitchen all the 
time.  And they'd, while the wake was going on they'd have ham sandwiches and coffee, and I 
suppose beer or whatever they drank and, ah, they sat around and the men sat in their room and 
smoked their pipes.  And the women used to put pipes out with the tobacco and everything.  I 
remember when I was a kid, you'd go to a funeral home, the funeral homes would have cigarettes
out.  You know, because they used to say that the only reason that they came to the wake was to 
grab some cigarette.  
M:  [laugh]
G:  They'd go to the wake and on the way out they'd grab a fist full of cigarette or cigars. 
M:  And alcohol? 
G:  I, oh yeah, they used to serve, not in the funeral homes.  I don't think they ever served 
alcohol.  But in the homes they did.  I mean after the wake service was over.  The family would 
congregate together and they'd smoke their pipes and drink their beer and eat food I suppose.
M:  And did the women smoke cigarettes too?
G:  I don't know.  I don't think so.  Not according to Virginia Slims.    
 
M:  [laugh]
G:  [laugh]
M:  Come a long way, didn't they?  Can you show where the St. Vincient De Paul Section is?  
G:  St. Vincient De Paul Section is right in this area right here.  Just about in this area here. And 
we have another section here. We have a gate right here, believe it or not. And we have another 
section right here. 
M:  Does that mean St. Vincient De Paul is in yard three? 
G:  This is Yard Three, right.  This is about the size of St. Vincient De Paul Section right here 
where all the babies are.  
M:  Can you describe that verbally.  How big it is? 
G:  Well, it's probably ah, a quarter of an acre of land.
M:  In square? 
G:  Yeah, in square.  Yeah, it's pretty square.  Down behind that, we used to, we have a gate here. 
And we have a right of way on to Court Street.  And believe it or not, they used to call this the 
Suicide Gate.  People that died and were not entitled to Christian Burial, this, in other words this 
is all consecrated ground.  But this area here is not consecrated ground.  
M:  Very corner of Yard Three (--)
G:  The very corner of Yard Three.  And it's, it's where they buried people that committed 
suicide.  Or people, a person committed suicide today, 90% of them, I've never heard of a person 
being refused Christian Burial.  Because they committed suicide.  Evidently they assumed that if 
a person commits suicide they are not in their right mind and there not responsible.  But years 
ago if you committed suicide, or if you had a marriage that was a bad marriage or if you were 
known as ah, as an undesirable person you would not be allowed Christian Burial.  And I think at
that, in those days the pastor could determine whether you'd be entitled to Christian burial or not.
And in other words if he didn't see you at church every Sunday, he could decide that you weren't 
entitled to Christian Burial.  You couldn't be buried in consecrated ground.  So they used to take 
them in the Suicide Gate.  And we have that marked right on our maps.  
M:  Ah, when was the last burial there?
G:  Suicide, we never had, we haven't had one there for years that I know of.  But there are 
people buried in it.  See we, we would not refuse a person burial in the cemetery.  Because we 
don't control it.  It's the parishes that control it.  So in other words if a person is given a mass at 
the parish then we accept them, you know.  But, I've never heard of a person well, recently in 
New York Cardinal Cook refused Christian Burial to a, to a Mafia guy or somebody like that, 
you know.  And um, I know it's been done before in Chicago and in other big cities where a 
person that was involved in the under world, or a person that was um, associated with some kind 
of organized crime ,would be refused Christian Burial.  And they wouldn't be allowed to be 
buried in consecrated grounds or in the church.  You know, but we've, I've never heard of it being
done here.  But it has been in the past.  Not since I've been here.  
M:  You say it's marked on their map.  What map? 
G:  On our diagrams right out there in the office.  
M:  What are,are (--)
G:  Unbaptized babies, we had a section for baptized babies and unbaptized babies.
M:  Within the St. Vincient De Paul Section?
G:  No, no.  St. Vincient De Paul is only for baptized babies.  There's a sec, a special section for 
unbaptized babies.
M:  Where's that?
G:  Behind St. Vincient De Paul Section.  
M:  Oh, but before the Suicide Gate? 
G:  Yeah, yeah, right, down right in that same area.  
M:  Can one tell by walking through?
G:  No.  No, I mean there, our diagrams show it on the map.  And we can locate it because the 
graves are numbered.  But, and it's shown on the plan out there.  Where the unbaptized babies 
were buried.  Where the undesirable and suicides were buried.  And where the baptized buried in 
the St. Vincient Section.  Then they had other areas through out the cemetery that were called 
like ah, welfare areas, you know.  Where if a person was indigent.  And if they had no, we would 
provide them a lot.  But, it was in a certain section.  
M:  Where is that section?
G:  Well, it's scattered through out down in yard three.  Not any one given area.  But, in, in, 
through out Yard Three there are some areas where they buried indigent people.  Today it's like a 
paupers field.  We don't have that today.  If a person dies and they don't have adequate funds to 
provide for a cemetery lot we'll provide them a lot.  And it could be right next to you.  You could 
have paid a hundred and, you could have paid a thousand dollars for your lot.  We'll provide 
them a lot right aside of you at no charge.  You know, that's the way we do it.  [ phone rings in 
background]
M:  Who pays for it?
G:  Well, the cemetery absorbs the cost of it, yeah.  If a person is unable, well, nobody really dies
indigent today.  Because the city provides some sort of funds for a person who can't afford a 
decent burial.  And a funeral director like has like thirteen hundred dollars to work with.  And we
will reduce our charges.  In other words our normal opening charge today is ah, three hundred 
and fifty dollars, and a hundred, say a hundred and eighty five dollars for one of our cem, 
cemetery concrete containers.  If a per, if the funeral director calls us and says I have a welfare 
situation here where we only get thirteen hundred dollars, we reduce our charges to a hundred 
dollars for the opening and fifty dollars for the box.  So I mean we recover something but it isn't 
adequate to, you know to meet our expenses.  But, we work along with them like that, you know.
M:  And what else?
G:  To reduce our charges.
M:  What other sections? 
G:  This is our Shrine section right here.  That's a (--)
M:  Section G? 
G:  Section G yeah, that's an oval shape section with a Shrine of the Blessed Mother in the 
center.  And all the lots around it are two grave lost with flat marker privileges only.  But, that's 
all sold out, that's all sold out.  All this, almost this whole cemetery is sold out.  
M:  Why are some of them square, and some oval? 
G:  Well, that's the way they designed it.  I don't know.  
M:  Is there a section for the Portuguese? 
G:  No.  Well, Section J there's a lot of Portuguese people buried in Section J.  And again it's 
because it's the last section that we've allowed monuments in.  And they all want to be buried 
where they can put a monument, So, I'd say the majority of people buried in Section J are 
Portuguese.  
M:  What about (--)
G:  Quite a few in F.  Pardon me?
M:  What about the French?
G:  The French, well again, these lots were sold in the eighteen thirties.  There are French people 
scattered all through this area here.  
M:  Yard Five?
G:  You know in Yard Five.  In this part of Yard Five you'll walk through there and you'll see 
some monuments with French names on them.  But at ah, shortly after that was sold out they 
started their own cemetery.  So we very seldom have French people come here now.  
Occasionally we will.  But, for the most part French people are buried, they use St. Joseph's.  
[Excuse me].  St. Joseph's Cemetery.  
M:  The Polish Lithuanians? Are they in any special place?      
G:  Ah, no.  [pause in conversation] O.K.  [someone comes into room] See ya.  
M:  So are they in any special place?
G:  No.  No just scattered through out the cemetery.  
M:  And I guess the Irish ah ?
G:  Again the same thing scattered through out the cemetery.  Most of the Polish people today do 
go to the Holy Trinity Cemetery.  Which is directly behind us.  But we still bury most of the 
Lithuanians.  
M:  Oh! you do? They don't go to Polish Cemetery?
G:  No.  No they don't.  No.  
M:  And where are they? 
G:  Again no, no particular area.  Just, you know scattered through out the cemetery.    
M:  What about the Hispanics? 
G:  Same.  Well, I'll tell ya, it's only in the last fifteen or twenty years would it be that we've had 
any Hispanics in this area.  And um, the Hispanics that are buried here are probably, most of 
them are buried in Section E, or Section H, or Section G, or Section F.  Mostly in this area here 
because that's the last area that we've had available.  No, this areas been sold out for years.  So 
you know, yeah.
M:  All right.  Thank you.