Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt
County, Kentucky (Transcription)
Begin M20 B(8) The next excerpt comes from W 103.
RESPONDENT: And I went to my first year of school at Caney, in Hardship, Kentucky, and
from on to the eighth grade I went to Marie Roberts at Laws Creek. And I went to ( ) for
two years and a half and I quit and got on the Youth Corps.
QUESTIONER: Did, she was telling me you had gotten married?
R: Yeah. I'm married to <unintelligible text> ( ).
Q: And it's, were you born and raised here in the county?
R: I was borned at ( ), Kentucky. I've lived where I lived right now ever since I was three
years old. And I'm 18 now.
Q: And why don't you just tell me about what you're doing here.
R: Well, we collect taxes and we've got to keep them on record. We've got to type and
things like that.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
Q: And what about, you know, your first couple of years of school? You told me where you
went, but what was the school like? Was it a one-room schoolhouse or were there ...?
R: Well, where I went to Caney, there was, where I had a school at, they was two rooms
there, but they was a bigger school on up from there where the second to the eighth grade
went. And we had outside bathrooms up there for the, but I think they've improved on that
now and got inside ones.
C 40 page 33
Q: And what about your family, your brothers and sisters? How many do you have?
R: I have four sisters and one brother. I've got a brother and a sister younger than I am,
and the rest of them's older than me.
Q: And what about your folks? What do they do?
R: My father, he's a disabled veteran. He's got his leg off.
Q: From World War II?
R: I think he was in World War II, but that wasn't where he got his leg off. He got it shot off.
Q: What happened?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: Well, he went and took this man some potatoes, my mother's uncle, and he was drunk
and a-shooting and just hit him by accident.
Q: So did he go into Lexington to the hospital? Where did they take him?
R: I think, he went to the veterans' hospital, I think.
Q: And what about your mom? What does she do?
R: She's just a housewife.
Q: And where do they live now?
R: Lost Creek.
Q: Is that, is it, how many people live in that area? Is that sort of like a small community or
is ( )?
R: It's just a small place. It's not too big. It's close to Flintville.
Q: How far is that from Jackson?
R; Ten miles.
Q: And what about in the area? Is there like a church in the
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
C 40 page 34
area, or ...?
R: There's about three or four churches and the post office. And the Riverside Christian
Training School is up there.
Q: And does everybody in the community more or less go to church?
R: Not everybody! Some of them does and some of them doesn't.
Q: So what church do your folks go to?
R: My father doesn't go to church. And Mommy, she goes to the Pentecostal church.
Q: Is that up in the area?
R: Yeah.
Q: In the area where they live, do people feel like they're sort of one big family? Is
everybody related to everybody else, or are there sort of, you know, little divisions in the
group of some people who are, they think they're different or whatever, how...?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: Everybody, not everybody's kin to everybody, but they friendly with everybody and get
along good together.
Q: What are, you haven't lived a long time, but in your lifetime what do you see as some
of the changes that you've noticed, you know, either in the way people act or the way they
dress, or you know, schools or buildings, or just, you know, are there new buildings in
town, just what are the changes that you've noticed?
R: Well, in schools, some of them's got new methods of teaching and mental retarded.
They got a school for them now. They've improved on the homes and put bathrooms in
them and things up there where we live at. Things like that.
C 40 page 35
Q: What about in your house? What's your house like? The one you grew up in.
R: Well, the one I grew up in. I live in it right now.
Q: OK, the one your husband lived in.
R: Yeah. It's got five rooms. It's not got no inside bathroom, it's got a outside bathroom.
And it's got a outside well. I got no water inside.
Q; Oh, but you get good water though.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: Yeah, it's good drinking water. But my father and mother, they've got water in their
house. They just bought it about nine months ago. And they've put a bath in it and things
like that. And improved on it.
Q: Oh, I didn't understand. So you live in the house you grew up in, but your folks left it
and left, you stayed in it?
R: Yeah.
Q: OK, did any of your brothers and sisters live with you and your husband?
R: No, they all live, they's two that's not married, and they stay with Mommy and Daddy.
Q: How old are they?
R: My sister, <unintelligible text> , she is 16, and my brother,<unintelligible text>, he's 11.
He goes to Marie Roberts, and my sister goes to ( ).
Q: So, what do you think they'll do? Like your sister, you know, if she's at ( ) now? Does
she plan to get married soon?
R: I don't know. She's got a boyfriend, but she don't get along with him too good.
Q: What, did your folks know the person that you married?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
C 40 page 36
Before, you know, long before you were dating him?
R: No, we went toghether for about ten or eleven months before we got married.
Q: Where did you meet each other?
R: In church. (laughs)
Q: And so is he from the same place you're from?
R: He's from Haddox, it's about a mile below Lost Creek.
Q: So, did his folks know your folks?
R: Yeah, his father's dead, and his mother moved to Mt. Sterling. But they come up all the
time and visit and everything.
Q; What does your husband do?
R: Works on the state highway.
Q: What kind of a job is it?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: He flags, mostly.
Q: Does he, is that sort of a constant job, or is it all year round?
R: Yeah.
Q: What do some of the kids do around here and what kind of entertainment is there? You
know, like if somebody wants to go out. What do the kids do regularly for recreation?
R: Mostly go to the drive-in, when the ball game seasons is in. We all go to ball games
and .... There's not no movie theaters or nothing like that to go to.
Q: Do a lot of kids leave, like looking for work or something?
R: Yeah, most of them. They go different places, to Chicago and Ohio and places like that.
Q: Can you think of some of the teachers you've had in the past?
C 40 page 37
Can you think of any one in particular that you thought was really bad?
R: Bad?
R: Yeah. Just where you didn't like the class, or you didn't like the teacher.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: I had one teacher, Miss ( ), I, her class was boring. I didn't like it.
Q: What kind of class was it?
R: It was, she taught all the classes. It was when I was in the fourth grade. The rest of my
teachers I liked pretty well.
Q: So, what do you plan to do now? You know, like in this job? I think they told me down in
the office that you had taken the GED?
R: Yeah, I took it and I passed it. And I don't know what I'll do after I quit working here.
Q: What did, you know, like you said you quit and then, you know, obviously you sort of,
maybe your ideas changed or something, I mean you wanted to come back, you know,
through this program? Sort of, tell me about, you know, your ideas on, you know, sort of
what you thought about when you quit, and I mean like how, maybe, your ideas changed
or something, to come back to this program? Sort of how do you see this program now?
Why did you come, you know?
R: Well, it was something to do and I was just sitting home all of the time. I thought I could
get my diploma on it and things. And I might, if I can get into school I might, after I finish
this I might try to go on to college. Been thinking
C 40 page 38
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
about it.
Q: Just, do you want to teach or something?
R: That's mostly what I wanted to do.
Q: Does your husband, is he happy that you're, I mean does he agree with your ideas on
it?
R: He don't never say nothing about it. He just lets me do what I want to.
Q; Can you think of things you've heard some of your, oh, maybe your grandparents,
or maybe aunts and uncles, talk about the county, or things that have happened in the
county,sort of, you know, part of the history of the county or different people coming in and
out?
R: Yeah, my grandma used to talk about it, and she used to tell stories about it all the time.
But ...
Q: Can you remember any one she'd tell?
R: No, not, they said one time that they had a, it was some kin, a granny or something, she
said that he rode a bear and hit it with a pine knot or something. Said he got on his back
somehow and said he couldn't get off and it was trying to bite him. So every time he'd turn
around and try to bite him, he would knock it, she said he got a pine knob off a tree and
would knock it in the head with it every time it turned around.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
Q; Just listening to some of those tapes, you know, you hear some of the stories that the
old people tell, and it's so funny. And, you know, of course some of them'll be telling about
things like witches and different things. Tell me about, like, say, in some of your younger
days, sort of, you know, the kind of
C 40 page 39
a schedule you'd have growing up. Did you have to work out in the garden? Or did you
farm, or just sort of, you know about that.
R: Yeah, we had to work in the garden. We had to hoe the corn and we had a cow, and we
had goats. And hold the cow's tail for Mommy while she milked it.
Q: Were times sort of hard, you know, a few years ago? Have things gotten easier for your
family? Or just sort of thinking about the whole, like, some of the old people were talking
about how hard, you know, things used to be when they were young. You know, nobody
had any money, times were really hard. So how do you feel about that? How are things for
your family?
R: Well, they was pretty good. And they still are.
Q: Does your dad get like a pension from the government?
R: Yeah. He gets a veterans check and then he gets Social Security check where he had
all of his Social Security paid in. And they got along pretty good.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
Q: And what about you and your husband? Is it sort of hard starting out? You know, a
young married couple.
R: Yeah, it is in a way.
Q: How do you sort of work it? Do you, I guess, you know, do you sort of put your money
together? Do you have sort of a budget? Or how do you divide up your money?
R: You know, we pay our bills and take out so much to buy our groceries with, and we split
what we got. Divide it between us and we spend it however we want to spend it.
Q: Tell me about your mother, sort of what kind of person she
C 40 page 40
is. Sort of how, you know, sort of growing up in the county maybe. Her brothers and
sisters, or just, you know.
R: She's 51 years old. And she's got one brother living. And two sisters living. And one of
her brothers went and killed another one of her brothers.
Q: Oh, really? What happened?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: They was just fighting, I reckon. And he's been dead about oh, before I was born. I just
hear them talk about it. We never did know of his young ones till about a year ago when
they started coming down and seeing us. And they come down to us all the time now.
Q: Do you see your other relatives?
R: Yeah, most of them. They live around us.
Q: How did the relatives, did they visit each other, or did they have like big Sunday
dinners, or how do they?
R: Oh, they just go around to each other's houses and see them.
Q: You remember about your folks telling about any of the early feuds in the county or
anything like that?
R: No.
Q: I mean like, you said that your folks are ( )
R: Yeah.
Q: You know, I've heard a lot about, there's a lot of ( ) here in the county. What are some
of the family names that are sort of, you know, long-time families in the county? What are
some of the big, you know a lot of people with the same name?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 18 year old white female, Breathitt County, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2808
R: Oh,<unintelligible text>, and then the <unintelligible text>, May( ). There's a few
<unintelligible text>