Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old
female, Pennsylvania (Transcription)
M48 A(2)
Do you do a lot of canning? Yes, we do all our canning and everything in canning. Canned
peaches and applesauce, pears and all the vegetables. Some meats. I have a freezer
though too. Helps. don't -- I don't freeze alot. I mean just some for a different taste. You
<unintelligible text> like dry apples and I just dried a whole bunch of apples the last two
weeks we did alot of apple dying. And corn we dry our corn. A lot of corn we dry. Beans
alot of people some people dry beans but I didn't do too much yet, myself. I can mine
or freeze them. We're not so much of bean eaters. We eat more corn and peas. And, of
course, the corn I dry some, I can some and I freeze some. I like the kidney beans those
would be dried, too. Yea. I didn't think about that. Those you leave out til they are dry on
the stalk before you bring them in. And, the navy beans, <unintelligible text> There's some
things that dry out on the plant, then I get them in like a soybeans Those dry out on the
plants and then I take a big barrel and put my cut em off and shake these in
6.
150
there and they fly out of the shell then. That's the way those get dried. And, of course,
I have some popcorn that's dried out, too. I raise my own popcorn. It's a special kind of
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
corn, it's just a corn. It look -- well you know how the popcorn looks when you buy it, well,
the cob is maybe about this big and it's a special -- it's just popcorn. It's called popcorn.
You buy as the seed as popcorn. Popcorn is just a little round kernel where a regular field
corn is -- field corn isn't a round kernel, it's more square shaped. Much bigger kernel. And
that wouldn't pop. Yea, I know. I wonder -- I wonder too already but I -- where did you read
that journal about that popcorn -- is it a farm journal? I think. On a page where it said that
what makes the corn pop is when you put it in a big heat, it had a lot of moisture inside
and that moisture -- what did it say -- expands? -- The moisture that's in that kernel when
it gets to the heat, it gets so much pressure that it just pops. It pops like <unintelligible
text>. The moisture is what does it. But then of course you can't understand why the other
corn doesn't pop. I don't know if it's more dry, you know that would have moisture in too.
-- The field corn doesn't have such a tight shell on the outside -- it doesn't build up enough
pressure <unintelligible text>. Yea, that could be too. I often wondered about that too.
Popcorn has that little round kernel -- it's more, more tight. Where the other might be right
where the kernels on to the cob, it had a little stop that it really looks like it's open. Where
the popcorn's just all around -- <unintelligible text> it's more all around, you don't really
have any opening there. So that's maybe what makes it pop. Yea, we eat alot with butter
and salt.
7 173
when they come home Sunday evenings or any time they want a pan of popcorn. How do
they put sugar on it? Oh, you mean they use sugar instead of salt. Well, we made popcorn
balls that would be sweet, too. Yea, it's like a molasses and sugar you boil together and
water, well sugar and water you boil together and it <unintelligible text> like a molasses
then you put this on the popcorn. And you can make a sugar popcorn, too. Now we make
the sugar popcorn sometimes and that is -- that is like you'd use a -- you take sugar water
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
and cook til it only gives a soft ball when you put it out -- drip it out on the cold water. Now
like when we drip it -- we take a glass of cold water and we cook our sugar and water
together and we drip in there and then we can see how hard it is -- if it's real soft then we
put it on our corn and just roll it around and around each kernel stays separate -- it doesn't
stick together like a ball. When you want to make a ball you have to drip it in the water and
if it gives a hard kernel -- a hard ball in there -- then it's hard enough for the popcorn balls.
That's the way we make -- we eat it with sugar like that then too sometimes. But here I
don't have to do that. I just have to make a pan full with butter and salt. And everyone eats
it. Yea, we made we used to make -- big big the big container -- what the -- copper kettle,
big copper kettles full, at home. We used to all go together and snits them up and dry them
up and then we used to put them in and cook them and cook them and cook them til they
were. We, well, we had we had our furnace built on the inside. Now some people used to
do it on the outside but we had ours still in the wash house. We had a thing built with the
8.
202
kettle in it so everything fitted in there but we did it inside but just the same way as outside.
And, of course, here now we don't do too much -- we don't have a big copper kettle so
we just go together and do it. Yea, we make soap. I use a lot of homemade soap. That's
different ways of making soap now too. I usually melt my lard and the hot water and lard
and melt everything, then you put your caustic soda in and cook it up, oh, I don't know
how long, <unintelligible text> 'til you take you spoon and you dip it and it comes down and
comes in like a form of big bubbles. Then they say the soap is ready. And, sometimes I,
we take lard and make a cold soap with it. We don't heat it up, we just take the lard and
water and then we put -- I think we put banner lye in there, I just forgot about it -- I have
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
a recipe for it and you put banner lye in that I think, then you just stir and stir and stir until
it gets thick and you let it set, then you cut it before it gets real hard. And, of course, your
soap -- like before we use it you maybe lay it on the attic for about a year. That's so it dries
out. Even my soap that I buy in the store. I lay them up on the attic for about a year then
they don't wash away so soon. And you have more soap. You get more suds from it. I
use to work at a place and she always -- she never used the soap or she'd never go in
the store and buy a soap bar and use it right away. She said it washes down to fast -- it
washes away too fast -- it's soft. And when you lay it on the attic like and let it dry out real
good a you can use it a long time -- it doesn't wash away so fast and still you have a lot of
suds -- you have all you need. It makes it more <unintelligible text> I guess, worth more
when you lay it away like that. Oh, yes, it's better on
9
228
your skin than your bought soap is. No, it's not too strong but you can of course,
<unintelligible text> it just depends how you long you let your soap in your water how
much suds you're gotta make with it, you know, when we put it in the water I just put it
in til I have a nice foam on top and then I take it out again. Now if you let that in til it gets
real strong it might be too strong for the skin, but it just depends how strong you want
your soap. And, like for washing I use alot for washing. To do the family wash, and I like
it better, almost better than the bought soap. It takes out the stains and things in your
clothes better than bought soap does. Or else if you have to use a lot of bought soap.
Maybe you have to put a cupful in -- well I just put in -- I just put one piece of soap in and
I let that in for my whole wash. Then I have my washing done for the week. With all -- one
soap. <unintelligible text> Yea, when we had colds, I don't know a -- mom use a -- if you
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
had it real bad -- we used to take a pail of hot water -- well, I mean as hot as you could put
your feet in -- take a bath -- a mustard bath or else a hot pepper bath. She used to put a
little bit of hot pepper in or else mustard in the water and we'd sit there and put our feet in
-- that was the best remedy. That's a good home remedy. And if we had a bad chest cold
we would do that and then she'd still grease us on our tubes like. And we just have Vicks
or <unintelligible text> there's different kinds of things you can use -- Mom used to have
the Vicks and things you buy in a store with that. And she used to make a plaster from --
we used to take a teaspoon of mustard and two teaspoons of flour and one teaspoon of
mustard and mix that together and make a plaster like and we'd put it on a rag and put it
on
10. 255
the chest and let it lay on about a couple of minutes and we'd take it off again and we'd
make it warm and then you'd put it on then you'd put it on a couple of minutes -- it blisters
when you let it on too long. So we took it off a couple minutes and put it back on again
for maybe five minutes or so and left it lay about five minutes and then we'd take it off.
Some people have a lot of faith in taking a brown paper <bag?> and just put the more in
the brown paper bag and put that up over your chest. I never did that. It sounds to me like
I don't know like that it might not have too much effect but some people say that they have
alot of results with that. Probably the heat -- Well, it might be the heat, I don't know neither
what but they use the brown paper bag and heat it and put it on and mom used to have a
tar when we were small, she used to have a tar, I don't know where she got it or it looked
like black, <unintelligible text> and she used to put that on and put a heavy cloth on over
the chest and that's the way she did then some and you can make plasters different ways.
If we just had common colds we never bothered -- it will go -- it will take its course
<unintelligible text>. But when we had some and it started getting bad on the chest you
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
know then we'd always make a plaster. No, we never a -- honey and lemon -- that's what
we always -- mom always used when we had a cough a real good cough then she used
honey and lemon -- no certain amount she just maybe took a half cup of honey and put
maybe a lemon a whole lemon in and she'd mix that up and we'd just take a teaspoon
every now and then. It's like a -- I guess the sugar <unintelligible text> -- I mean the sugar
syrup to make your throat like smooth so it's not so coarse when you cough or whatever.
Well we always put salt on. Some people used to <unintelligible text>
11.
232
put mud on they didn't make but if you're with salt -- take a -- make a mud <unintelligible
text> a little bit <unintelligible text> -- a little bit wet with your mouth and just put it on there.
That's all we ever did. We never had too much trouble with that. Of a what? No. That's
something we never we never practiced. Is it a little bit like the faith healing or -- is that
wh_? Something like that. That's something -- We never -- I only knew one family that
they used to say -- that did that and they aren't even around here anymore. So I don't
know. It's something that we just never did. Well my mom used to talk about that but it's
something we don't know anything about neither. My mom used to say that years ago they
had people coming to the door and she said -- always said -- don't look them in the eyes.
They used to have they called them gypsies. gypsies They called them gypsies. Yea,
they said don't look them in the eyes and then they can't do you anything. <unintelligible
text> but I don't know it was something that <unintelligible text> you just don't know too
much about anymore. No more than the old natives that lived around here <unintelligible
text> Yea, we heard people talk about that they were a little bit more superstitious about
things like that -- the older -- maybe the older people that lived, used to live around here.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
They thought things like that but something -- my parents never believed in. We just didn't
believe in that. Yea, he can tell maybe a little bit about the hailstorm <unintelligible text>
had or don't you remember anything of that. Well, yea, we had that hailstorm when I was
still at home and it <unintelligible text> just about ruined the crops. For the time being. The
corn grew out of it, most of it again. The tobacco
12. 325
<unintelligible text> crop was pretty well ruined <unintelligible text> what had been out
already. <unintelligible text> had to replant again. Yea, it was small. Yea, it was a big --
some of them big as golf balls. Yea, and as for drought well we just didn't experience that
around here. Of course my parents talked about it in the 1930's that was before our time.
<unintelligible text> Of course have a lot of water and -- We never had much trouble here
-- We're too high, I guess. That usually happens in the winter and the crops aren't out.
Well, of course, a couple of years ago, my bother-in-law down here, he lost part of a crop
being that it <unintelligible text> Some places where it's low and they have a lot of water
and, of course, they'll lose the crop, You know, it's bad. The place where we used to live in
Lancaster there we lived close to a creek and there we had flood trouble. It used to come
up to the house all the way all the way around the house. Just depends on the people
-- some people might make a dinner every now and then and maybe they might have a
turkey or something or -- Most of the time we here just have ordinary meals. Sometimes
we get together like family would get home with my parents and we'd all be there for
dinner. Well like Christmas even on a week day we'll have church in the forenoon. Yea,
we have church regardless. You know if it's Sunday but if it's a week day we have church,
too just like <unintelligible text>. Well <unintelligible text> some people do but we here,
it's something we just never practiced at home -- and every now and then I'd make them
something and one year I painted all their tractors and their wagons what they had and
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
painted them up and they thought they had Christmas. And, there's a lady -- a neighbor
<unintelligible text> that usually comes and she gives them gifts. Gives them
13. 365
a little something we can use or wear. Or eat. But other than that we never made a big
fuss about, you know like that. We don't do too much for birthdays neither we bake a
cake, sometimes we <unintelligible text> need the cake anyway. We'll bake them a cake
and of course sometimes we -- they pull each other's ears. I don't know how it arised.
But I know at home when we used to, <unintelligible text>, to see who gets up first and
remembers the other birthday, we'd go and pull their ears til they <unintelligible text> were
up to the age they were now. Everybody could. Of course, what when they were too big
they didn't let the younger ones do it. You hada and if you were all big you hada take it on
a <unintelligible text>. That's the only thing we mostly had for birthday and I don't know
why that was ever started. It just something we learned from somebody else. That a, no
that's very little practiced. We were at one reunion now since we've married and that was
a on my Dad's side on his dad's side and there was one that lived in Missouri and his
dad's sister and she kinda had all the relatives together so she could meet them all. And
they called it a reunion too and then they had a covered dish dinner. And, other than that
we never practiced reunions. Well, when we -- when we have when we wanta see our
relatives we <unintelligible text> you know maybe eight or six or eight or whatever you
want to invite -- six or eight or ten families at a time and then we have them for dinner.
That's how we get to meet alot of our relatives -- relation that we don't very often see.
Other than that we don't have, we don't have anything special I mean like a big gathering
or so.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 38 year old male and 34 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5602
END