UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  ANTOINE LANGLOIS
CONDUCTED BY:  ELEANOR WACHS
DATE:  AUGUST 19, 1992
A = ANTOINE
I = ELEANOR
O = OTHER
LFP-EW-A002
TAPE BEGINS WITH INTERVIEWER:  This is November 7th.  And this is November 7th, and 
this is the Lowell Folklife Project, and I am talking with Mr. Antoine Langlois.  So why don't we 
talk, why don't we start by me asking you about your (--)  How did you start working in wood?
A:  I started (--)  I was living on Varnum Avenue and there was a man named Charlie Holmes.  
He use to have a factory on Broadway.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  And uh, one day he had an ad in the paper
looking for, advertising for young man to run, so I was him.  [I:  Hmm.]  When he saw me, he 
recognized me.  And he said "don't you live on Varnum Avenue?"  I said, "yeah."  He said "I 
thought I saw you go by once in awhile."  So I get a job there.  I worked there for him for about 
four years.  [I:  How old were you at the time?  Young, a young man?]  Uh, about twenty.  [I:  
About twenty?]  Yeah.  Uh, I worked four years.  And uh, at that time they were building Saint 
Rita's Church.  [I:  Yeah.  Uh hmm.]  And uh, due to the fact that there was no carving around 
Lowell, they had to send the cars into this company that I worked for.  [UNCLEAR]  And they 
had uh, they were doing the carving for the church.  And then they would send the pieces to us.  
And then from us to go to install in the church.  [I:  Uhm, what was the name of the company 
again?]  Charlie Holmes?   [I:  Charlie Holmes?]   Yeah.  Holmes.  [I:  Uh hmm.]   And then 
[UNCLEAR]  A.J. Pollard has been gone to a fire.  And we had to remodel all the counters, and 
new counters for the new store, and everything new after the fire.  So I came (--)  Oh, about five 
years I was working there.  And he says to me, he says, uh, "you seem to be interested in gothic."
He said, "every time I get some gothic your always there looking at it and examining it."  I said, 
"I do, I love it."  Well before you know it, "it's getting quiet now and you're closer to the last man
in, I will have to let you go first."  Well I said, I understand that.  He said "why don't you go see 
this man in Cambridge?"  So I went down, and he told me to see a man by the name of 
Pellegrini.  So I did went down there.  So I spoke with him.  Well he said, "if you want to come 
to my school to learn the [UNCLEAR] then we will see later on if there is any chance for you to 
get a job, then I will get you a job."  At that time I didn't go up the fourth floor though, I was just 
downstairs.  So he gives me his address.  He address was 168 Dartmouth Street in Boston.  He 
had a private studio there.  He was teaching.  So I went in there for three years and studied the 
[UNCLEAR].  [I:  Uhmm.]  And the same time designing.  And after three years he said to me 
"are you busy Friday?"  I said no.  "Well you come in tomorrow morning"  that was Thursday 
night, that was my last lesson.  He said "you come up the shop where you met me before and ask 
for me and I will come down and get you and bring you upstairs."  So I said, "all right."  So I 
went over the next day, and I called for him so we could go up and he came down, then we went 
upstairs.  And when I saw that door, with all those beautiful designs and statue and well I was 
completely sick.  And I said, "this is what I like."  He said "so how would you like to work 
here?"  I said, "I would love it."  He said "All right you can start Monday."  That Monday I went 
in and I was there for thirty years.  [I:  Ha, ha, ha.  What was the man's name again?]  Ernest 
Pellegrini.  [I:  Pellegrini]  Yeah.  
I:  Was there anybody in your family, or does anybody in your family work with wood?  
A:  Not wood.
I:  What kind of job did your father do?
A:  He was a stone mason.  [I:  Oh.  Okay.  Uh huh.]  No.  Nobody (--)  I had an uncle who 
worked on wood, but on top of that, uh, my father was a stone mason.  In those days they use to 
make cellars out of concrete.  Concrete cellars, I mean the stone.  Course in there they just mix 
cement block for a cellar, which is not too good, although the granite is still the best for 
foundation.  And then, well after I was over there I got interested.  And not only do they do 
church work, but they done a lot of custom built furniture.  And over there if they make a table 
for you, what they will do after the table is done, they will deliver it to your house until they are 
gone, so it will work.  Nobody else is going to have another table the same.  [I:  Yeah.]  And they 
done a lot of work, a lot of mansions up towards Peabody and all through there, and up through 
the south, they are the ones to put them up.  As a matter of fact, the last mansion they built was in
1937.  They built a mansion that was [UNCLEAR] of Omaha, Nebraska.  Well, the job had to be 
done on a certain date.  Start on a certain date and end on a certain date.  There was so much 
delay that, you know, the company had to hire some architecture to close their own to come work
this out.  Well we had our men.  We had Blis(?), and we had Kirkland(?), and the two small 
brothers, see.  So they were the drawing.  But the old man Blis, he was the master.  Oh what a 
designer he was.  He even had the curtains for that mansion.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  How many threads 
to the square inch.  And he made sure it was going to be in, because he went over to look at the 
material and check on it. 
I:  So was he the person you learned most from?
A:  Huh?
I:  Did you learn most of your work from him?  
A:  Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  I could get anything I wanted from him.  Somebody else could get 
nothing.  [LAUGHING]  I can see the day he was 89 years old.  Then he was 6 foot, slim, and he
only had one apple at noon.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  And he would be going on the shipping (--)  Go on 
the scale and make sure he wouldn't gain, see.  So, I don't know (--)  We made that uh, those 
furnitures, we done the whole thing.  The outside, the inside, everything.  He has pictures that 
shows what the Mansion would look like in the winter, what it would look like in the summer, 
and what it would look like in the fall, and in the spring.  [I:  What were some of the kinds of 
things that you made first when you were first starting out?]  The inside of that room, that vase 
there, and then there is the lamp.  That was my second piece there.  [I:  Oh, really.  Uh huh.]  
[UNCLEAR]  I know this woman, she had a lot of cows, black and white cows.  So she wrote 
down, she said as far as the upholstered chair, I will have my own cows die.  So she had a couple
of cows killed.  She had the leather treated, and also they wouldn't smell like cow, [UNCLEAR]. 
And she sent it over, and they upholstered all the upholstered chairs with that and you would be 
surprised how beautiful it was.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  It was really beautiful.  And then one time she 
ordered a [UNCLEAR] table for the barn.  She had to be Louie the 14th.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  It had to
be exact with a marble top.  Well there is some in Paris in a book on Louie the 14th, and they got 
it.  And they made it exactly (--)  She used it [UNCLEAR] in a room in a barn.  When she gets 
back from horse back riding she can go and powder her nose, you know, and have a smoke.  
[LAUGHING]  
I:  Tell me a little bit about your work for the church, for your church.
A:  Well, this one here?  [I:  Yeah.]  Oh, well (--)  [I:  Is this St. Jeanne,  St. Jeanne D'Arc?]  St. 
Jeanne D'arc, yeah.  Yeah.  I had made a pew, you know, in those days and days gone by they had
the pew (--)  They had three priest.  They will have three priest for a funeral let's say.  And there 
was a pew, the three priest would sit together, see.  Well I had made one English Oak, and it was 
suppose to be (--) It was a copy from some other Cathedral in England, you see.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  
With two little angels on the end, on both ends.  What the color is, I don't know.  but they kept it 
for quite a few years.  And (--) Well I think they probably, one reason of poverty.  In those days 
they had [UNCLEAR] investment to save the mass.  And they had to lift them and pull them 
over.  Probably they got caught up on that angel, see.  Now, they have separate seats now.  They 
don't have anymore rules [UNCLEAR]  So I imagine that's why they changed.  That's why they 
got rid of it, see.  And then, well, that's about all I did for this church.
I:  Could you tell me a little bit about, uh, this story, about this piece?
A:  Oh.  Yeah.
I:  Yeah.  Do you recall (--)  How did you come to make it to begin with?  Did one of the people 
at the church ask you, or was it (--)
A:  It was a pastor, Father Lehouligr.  [I:  What was his name?]  Lehouligr, L-e-h-o-u-l-i-g-r.  [I:  
Uh huh.  And this was when, in the 1930's?]  Uh, no, that was 38, yeah 38-39 somewhere around 
there.  Then he asked me, he said "I'd like to have a Crucifix" He said.  He knew I was working, 
so he had come over.  [I:  Was that your (--)  That's your church, right?]  Huh?  Yeah.  [I:  That's 
your church.]  He was my pastor.  So, I said "I will see what I can do with it."  So I went in and I 
asked him how much it would cost me to have a block of wood.  It would have to be glued of 
course, we can't get [UNCLEAR] like that.  [I:  Uh hmm.]   Stab a block of wood through uh, 
because I want to make a crucifix.  [I:  Uh hmm.  What kind of wood did you use?]  Line wood.  
[I:  What kind?]  Line wood.  [I:  Lion?]  Line, l-i-n-e.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  [O:  Do you mind if I 
move these pictures to photograph that lamp?]  What?  [O:  Do you mind if I move the 
photographs so I can photograph the lamp?]  No.  [I:  We will put everything back, just exactly 
the way it was.  Is that your family?  Your grandchildren?  Yeah.]  They told me they wanted a 
cross, so I bought it, I bought the lumber.  [I:  Uh hmm.]   And, I, [UNCLEAR] after my days 
work.  I would stay an hour. [I:  You did it in the shop in Boston?]  Yeah.  [I:  Uh huh.]  Well part 
of it.  [I:  Part of it?]  When it came for the finish, I took it over here.  I mill it.  Then after I got 
through the milling, [UNCLEAR]  [I:  What do you mean when you say that you mill it?  What 
does that involve?]  Planning, cutting, square all, and all this.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  So, I done that.  
And after that was ready I glued everything up [UNCLEAR] that was a block about 14x14 
square, six foot long.  After I glued all of the pieces together,  then we had a big oven in the 
middle of the floor with live steam.  And we shoved the lumber in there.  When we pulled it out, 
it was good and hot, because when you put this through it is hot, but it cools off awful fast.  [I:  
Oh.]  And if the wood is longer then it keeps the outside of that, but if it cools off it is no good, 
see.  So I splat it with a [UNCLEAR] and shove it under the press and press button and the press 
came down, the glue was coming all over, and I left it under the press for a week.  [I:  Uh huh.]  
Then I took it off and I let it set standing up, so it dries up, because it is like dampness now, see.  
[I:  Hmm.  So it could dry?]  Yeah.  [I:  How big of a piece is it?]  Huh?  [I:  How big?]  14x14.  
[I:  Uh hmm.]  14 by like 6 feet.  So, I let it stand up so it could, uh, dry out.  And after it dried 
up, I, then I measured the templet, sliced it wherever I had to cut off, you know, and I leave just 
enough, an inch, so I can work.  In wood carving you take off.  In clay work you add on, see.  So,
when I got down to the dimension that I wanted to get, then I took it and shoved it in my car and 
I took it home.  I was living on Second Avenue.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  I had a nice big attic.  I shoved it 
in my attic, and that is where I did all my carving.  I was working up there for about eight 
months.  [I:  Oh, in the attic.  Second Avenue in this neighborhood.]  Yeah.  That's Second Street 
is across the bridge.  [I:  Yes.]  You know there is the police station, [I:  Uh huh.] that is the first 
house on Second Street.  [I:  Did you grow up in this neighborhood as well?]  Oh, yeah.  Oh, 
yeah.  As a matter of fact, I was born right across from the Filling station.  Two family home.  
Then I, uh, worked on that until I got pretty near finished, so, the kids use to come up at night.  
But somedays you can't work on that stuff.  Somedays (--)  Until your in the mood don't touch it. 
I:  What kind of mood do you have to be in?
A:  You have to have this in your mind and say "I am working on that."
I:  Concentrate?  
A:  Oh yeah.  If you go outside of that (--) Many a days, I would be over at the shop, we'd be a 
half a day sometimes, 3 quarters of a day we wont do nothing.  Just take a book and read.  [I:  
Hmm.]  They rather see us do that then spoil a whole block of wood.  Because there is a lot of 
money involved there, see.  [I:  Yeah.]  So, then we, uh, work on that.  After I get pretty near 
done, I hire Mr. Peppin, was a [UNCLEAR], and he has his own shop on Third Avenue.  [I:  
What is his name again?]  Peppin.  [I:  P-e-p-p-i-n?]  Yeah.  And he said to me, he said "Well," he
said, "okay," he said, "we're going to, uh,", he said, "as long as you make that," he said, "I am 
going to make the cost.  That was a great help.  So he told me what kind (--) He said, "what kind 
of lumber are you going to use?"  I said "I am going to use oak.  [I:  Oak?]  So I went down, [I:  
Uh huh.] and bought the lumber.  He had the planner, so the only thing was the finishing, see.  [I:
Uh hmm.]  So I bought the lumber [UNCLEAR] and I took it to the shop on Third Avenue.  And 
then we ran it to the planner.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  All the wood (--) He made the cross.  He is the one 
who made the cross.  And when I as ready, I took my (--)  He came over with his truck, and we 
took the Jesus, and he took it down to his place.  I have the arms (--) I didn't have no arms, of 
course, that was separate.  The rest of it was all one piece.  
I:  Okay, so in this piece, the arms here were separate and then put in when it was mantled.  
A:  The arms were separate.  This part here was separate, also this part here.  That was separate.  
[I:  Uh huh.]  See.  This I had to glue that, and this I glued the arms, there is two down here, and 
there are two down here.  [I:  So both arms, okay.  Uh huh.]  And then Mr. Pepin made the cross. 
[I:  Cross, uh hmm.]  So we put a little finish on and we got two on holy thursday at 2:30 in the 
morning.  Mr. pepin use to be one of those men's that collects all the money at the church there.  
He said "I got the key to the church, we will pick it up there today, or tonight.  So that tomorrow 
night we have the settlement."  All right.  [UNCLEAR] the Jesus, I put the finish.  At 2:00 in the 
morning we are putting it on the truck.  So we had a sheet, a white sheet that covered it.  We are 
going up White Street, the hill there.  I told Pepin, I said "If anybody gets up and looks in there 
windows they will say there is a body going up."  [LAUGHING]  So we went to the church.  We 
put it in the back of the church, see.  The next day was Good Friday.  In those days they were 
having all of those ceremonies at night, see.  So finally at night they have the ceremony, 
[UNCLEAR] Paul, they carry the cross all through the church, way up to the front.  And then 
they [UNCLEAR] into the walls.  
I:  So what happened recently.  You were asked to repair the crucifix?
A:  They had, uh, (--) Somebody, uh, they had a new pastor, and somebody demanded that they 
be, uh, put (--)  [SNAP OF PICTURE BEING TAKEN]  Don't take pictures of me, now.  If I find
one (--)
I:  No, don't worry about it.  He's listening (--)
O:  I am making sure that the shot isn't overriding the microphone.  Is it?
I:  Well, it probably will make a little noise but we are not worried about it.
A:  So, uh, I don't know what happened.  I was, uh, (--) Somebody told him.  Well the man who 
sold the crucifix is still living.  Oh, yeah.  And they told him where I was living, but the pastor 
never got in contact with me.  Not this pastor another one.  
I:  Uh huh.
A:  So, I don't know what it is all about.  Uh, it never bothered with me.  I never seen him and he 
never called me.  So, I don't have any business to call him.  I said let him call me.  In the mean 
time, I think he decided to have something done because it was pretty dirty in there.  So he 
decided to have a painter put a coat of [UNCLEAR]  I will say, though, that much, who ever had 
done it was a professional.  He was a good painter and he did a very good job.  I cant complain.  
Whoever had done it was a real professional painter.  He had a beautiful job, see.  [I:  Uh huh.]  
The only thing is it was red.  It was reddish see.  Well, then to top it all.  The past 15-20 years, 
they don't heat up the church any more, see.  Unless there is a funeral, they put a little heat.  [I:  
Oh.]  But, uh, it costs too much money, see.  And, of course, it accumulated a lot of dampness.  
And, of course, just like any thing else there is dust.  And the dust dissolve, and stick there.  Well
that's what happens with dirty again.  And then to top it off, they decided to renovate the church, 
see.  Well, when they decide to renovate the church, that was a different story.
I: When was this pretty recently?
A:  Uh, just about a year ago.  Just about this month I think.  Because they didn't have Christmas 
Mass there, midnight mass.  They didn't have it then.  It was just about a month.  About this time 
of the year.  So, he went to work and the decided to put a peak on the roof.  It was a flat roof, and
they decided to put a peak.  Well they were having a lot of trouble with flat roofs leaking.  Of 
course, the church needed painting, and they took the job, they started the job for a long time.  
They started the job right about the time they wanted to, uh, when we had those two snow storms
[I:  Yeah.] and cold weather and heavy snow.  Before Christmas, that was the time (--) On the old
roof there was a hole there, and the snow went in there, and the water, all the sanctuary, the panel
along the wall, that all came off and him standing up he was getting all the water all over his 
body.  So, there was a water log there, see.  So this new pastor probably asked somebody who 
made the crucifix?  [unclear]  He's still living.  He should be the man that cuts it up, see.  They 
had a [UNCLEAR], he's from Boston, I don't know who he is.  I met him before.  He said that is 
a beautiful piece of work but he said at that time is was reddish, you know, you go to have 
something to bring it out.  Well, I said, in the first week it was white.  And besides that I have the
black cross.  They use the same cross, the only thing they put the finish of black off.  Mines was 
kind of ducal black, see.  Well the black and the white, well gees it spread right out.  But they 
wanted to get this light color.  So that's why it didn't show up as much.  So they asked me if I 
would take the job.  I said yeah sir, I would be delighted.  I said that is the first time that I touch 
it but it is going to be the last time.  I wont touch it anymore after this.  [I:  Yeah.]  So, I started 
working on it around May.  I didn't work everyday, some weekends I wouldn't work at all.  I 
would do something else.  So, I would work on it until, uh, well just about last week.  Last 
Monday, I think, or Tuesday.  No, I think Tuesday.  Because I had to go Monday and they took 
pictures of that.
I:  So, it must have been some seen bringing it from the garage to the church.
A:  They have a photograph of that, a Sun photograph of that.  He wanted us to lift if up.  I said 
not me.  
I:  How much does it weigh?  It must be pretty heavy.
A:  That is heavy.  I said, you can't lift that up.  But I said, if we were a big bunch of men, if I 
known, then I would have taken more beautiful pictures.  Then you could see the whole thing.  
The length work.  It never comes out as good as people were finding out.  
I:  Can you tell us about the other religious quavering that you have?  The big piece of Mary that 
you have in the other room.
A:  Oh, that statue here, yeah that's the statue of the Virgin Mary.  I made that for my wife, which
she became my wife.  She was my girlfriend, then.  The other cabinet, you know, well that 
cabinet there, there is history in that.  That was from my (--)  I wasn't married then.
I:  That was a gift?  
A:  A gift.  She was working the factory, you know.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  And around Christmas (--)
I:  Which factory did she work in?
A:  She use to work in the [UNCLEAR] they use to call it.
I:  What is it called?
A:  Hub.
I:  Hub, uh hmm.
A:  And, they uh, the girls the next month, the boy friends bought them gifts and sewing cabinets 
and [UNCLEAR] and all that.  And she was [UNCLEAR] it don't bother me.  So, I didn't bother 
with it.  But I do believe when they had bought that [UNCLEAR] that they bought there 
girlfriend, he had told me that he had paid $33.00.  In those days that was a lot of money.  I 
believed him.  Oh, yeah.  Positively.  My wife thought he had lied.  I said, no, he did not lie.  In 
those days, before Christmas, you pay top price.  Even today, see.  A lot of people are smart 
today.  They buy it in the summer.  There Christmas gifts in the summer.  So they are all set, see. 
Or they have bargains, you know.  So, one came, she had invited a few girls to go and see it.  So 
they had gone, see.  And one came in February.  Well in February in those days they use to have 
the [UNCLEAR] you see.  Well they use to drop to $29.00, see.  So the girl happened to go by 
the window and noticed the same style and looked about the same as she had, and she said they 
must have lied at us.  She just told me $29.00, she said that he paid $33.00.  So, you know.  My 
wife was telling me that I should make one.  Nobody is going to know what it is worth, see.  And
that is what I did.  [UNCLEAR]
I:  And when did you make the statue?  At the same time?  
A:  No, the statue was made, uh, the statue was made five years up.  
I:  Uh huh.
A:  Five years up.
I:  How long were you married?
A:  Who me?  Well not too long.  [I:  Uh huh.]  A little while.  Four years.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  
I:  When did you, uh, when did you (--)  So, have you made these religious carvings over here?
A:  Over here.  At the house.  Oh, no, I didn't do these.  
I:  So, they are not related from work at all?
A:  No, no, no.
I:  Why did you pick (--)  Why do you think you picked, uh, uh, the religious idea as a theme?  
How come (--)  What enjoyment did you get out of carving the religious (--)
A:  Well, the only enjoyment that I get out of it is that it is something that I like.  I like religious 
things, see.  And, uh, that's all.  Religious thing or good furniture, that I like.  [I:  Uh huh.]  And 
every time I see a good piece, I want to look (--)  I am going to show you a piece that was made, 
I then made it with a [UNCLEAR] where I worked, in 1902, a dining room set.  [I:  Oh.]  You 
know (--)  Now 1902 people were working for $4.00 an hour in the Mill.  From 6:00 in the 
morning till 6:00 at night, see.  This was paid for $1,000.  [I:  Hmm.]  I think it's (--)  I am not 
sure, but I think it's Tom E.G.(?) 
I:  Uh.  Uh hmm.
A:  You know.
I:  Uh hmm.
A:  1934, [I:  Uh hmm.], I had, uh, we use to have [UNCLEAR] twice in Boston.  Big 
department stores, some similar to white.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  [UNCLEAR]  There was a Mr. 
Anderson, he was the head of the Furniture Department, see.  And we had over here, the French 
fellow, Almanzor Dupuis, they use to be the French teacher at Lowell High School, see.  They 
both call me.  They say can you take a day off?  A half of day off, in the afternoon?  I say yeah, 
why?  He said, we want to go to that auction.  Because they had a big add in the paper, you 
know, Almanzor Dupuis over here, he was interested in a chair that he had seen the picture.  He 
wanted to take a picture of that.  I said all right.  And then, the other fellow, he was interested in 
that dining room set.  So they got together, the dining room set was made in 1902, he said it's a 
dandy.  He had seen the picture of this, see.  And I have a picture of it, see.  So, we went to the 
auction.  The chair that Almanzor was looking for, he thought $400 would be nice.  In those days
that was a lot of money.  It went up to $600, see.  [I:  Uh hmm]  And that dining room set, it's 
almost unbelievable but there's something that you will never see again.  It could not be made.  
Today if you had to make it, you would have to get that price.  After we get to it I am going to 
show you a picture of it.  
I:  Okay.
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
SIDE TWO BEGINS WITH INTERVIEWER:  Side two, November 8, 1987.  Let me ask you 
some questions about, like growing up in Lowell.  What was it like when you were a boy 
growing up in Lowell?  What was it like?  What was nice about it?  What kinds of things did you
(--)  What did you do as a boy growing up in Lowell?
A:  Play baseball, [I: Yeah.] football.  Over at that church at the corner when you come out from 
the bridge there.  We use to play football and jump onto the stairs.  Today, you pay me, and I 
wouldn't dare go across, see.  [I:  Hmm.]  And in the back there was a field there.  We use to play
football at this time of the year.  And at the end of the summer we would play baseball.  [I:  Uh 
hmm.]  I use to do a lot of running.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  I had a friend of mine, he was living on Helas
Court(?) and we had a hook, a barrel hook, you know, to keep rolling and we use to run from 
Mammoth Road way up to Richardson Farm and come back.  We were taking a good sweat, see. 
[I:  Hmm.]  We use to do that at least 4 times a week.  Sometimes 5 times a week, see.  Because 
at night when we go home, no more going out, we have to stay in and study.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  So, 
that's what we did.  Stay home and study, we got homework.  
I:  Did you come from a large family?
A:  No, no.  I was the only one.  
I:  Oh.  Did you parents grow up in Lowell, too or were they born in Canada? 
A:  They were born in Canada.
I:  Uh huh, where?
A:  But there ancestors came from oversees.  
I:  Uh huh.  Where did they come from?  Where did they (--)
A:  Uh, my mother ancestor came from Scotland.
I:  From Scotland?  Uh hmm.
A:  My fathers ancestors came from Paris.  Well not Paris but [unclear]
I:  Oh.  Oh [unclear]  Uh huh.  Where did they come from in Canada?
A:  In Canada they came from, uh, Saint Raymond, [I:  Saint Raymond.] [unclear]  That is 
between, uh, Quebec City and Montreal.  It is a small town.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  
I:  Did you ever go back there as a child or as a young man?
A:  Yeah.  Yes.  That's one of my greatest thrill of my life when I was over there.   That's where I 
found out that the Canadians don't like to be beat by another Canadian.  They always thought that
they would beat the other fellow.  And if you got a Packet I'm going to get a Cady(?) to beat you, 
see?  I was about seven years old and my mother had a sister, Saint Basil, see, that's not too far 
from Saint Raymond.  
I:  Basil?
A:  Basil, yes.  So, the sister was dieing, so she got a phone call, if you want to see her alive you 
better come now.  So, my father said, well, at that time I was about five years old.  I was in 
kindergarten, anyway.  And at that time, there was no kindergarten, so my father said take him 
and go to town and go see your sister.  And once something happens, call me and I will go down 
for the funeral, and we will come back together.  Well, never-the-less she lived all through the 
holidays, she lived through the last part of January almost.  We were there six weeks.  So, she 
had a brother that use to be a mountain police, you know, in Canada, see.  But now he was 
stationed at the paramount building in Quebec City, see.  So, he came to see his sister.  And to 
see his mother, and said why don't I take him with me to Quebec and my mother said do you 
want to go or not?  And I said sure.  I use to play with the kids there and one time I went into the 
barn and I saw the sled.  Well if you say sled to a kid you don't know what the hell you are 
talking about, see.  Oh, I said, gee what a beautiful sled.  The kids are looking at me saying well 
what's that?  This, this, this. That is beautiful.  Come, come to my barn, my fathers barn.  We got 
a better one.  Two's enough, [unclear], he had a better one.  [LAUGHING]  So, anyway, so I 
went to Quebec, well I enjoyed that.  Everyday my uncle would take be to the paramount 
building, see.  Because that was the main lobby to the guard, see.  So, we went, I mean we took 
the trolley, see.  So we are getting a ride.  She use to live at Stodo Cona.  Well, Stodo Cona 
would be a small town like Cambridge and Boston.
I:  What is the name of it again?
A:  Stodo Cona.  S-T-O-D-O  C-O-N-A. 
I:  Uh huh.
A:  So, we use to go there.  Uh, naturally, where there was a fire station not too far, that would be
his office.  You know, the private station.  And they had part of the building would be the police 
department and the other part would be the fire department.  So, we went in, and I looked 
around.  In those days I had horses in Canada, see.  They had the sleigh, you know, the regular 
sleigh.  And sometimes they use to take the horses off and give them exercise, you know.  And 
they would take me along.  That was the greatest time in my life.
I:  That is great for a little boy.
A:  So, that is why I will never forget it.  That was back when they had the world fair, you know. 
I was in Quebec City.  
I:  You went back?
A:  I went in September and I saw my aunt that was living, they are all dead now.  And I saw the 
fire station and I went in there.  None of them were living but one of them just retired.  If he was 
there, he would have recognized you, see.  That was a great trip.  Today they have trucks going 
everywhere. 
I:  Oh, of course.  Of course.  How was this area changed over the years?  
A:  Well this spot here changed a lot.  
I:  How?
A:  Well there was no building here, there was just an open field.  Up that little street when you 
come there, there is a little street there on your left, well the last house, that was the end of it.  Up
here there was nothing but a pasture.
I:  Who lived in this neighborhood?  Mostly people of French descents?  Or no?
A:  No, it has changed quite a lot.
I:  What was it when you were growing up?
A:  Well it was about the same, small cottage, some of them have two  kids, three kids, some of 
them five, you know.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  The [unclear] hasn't changed at all, see.  Very little, see.  
Uh, but this part here, now this part here, that must, (--) See this building over there, that is a 
friend of mine, he built that house.  Well this [unclear] was suppose to go to University Avenue, 
see.  But this follows [unclear] get a hold of the engineers, City Hall, so they changed the plans, 
see.  So they could build here, see.  [I:  Uh huh.]  that is how they started, see.  [I:  Uh huh.]  the 
two first ones were over there.  One you can get to by the other way.  But if you go straight up 
here, you will be landing on University Avenue.  And you go right down.
I:  Have you lived here long?
A:  Me?  Over here?  Well I lived here fourteen years.  I came in here she was only 8 months old.
[I:  Oh.]  This building.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  I don't like to move.  I hate to move.  [I:  Yeah.  I 
understand.]  So anywhere that I lived I stayed quite a while.  I don't move every week.  I can't 
see people moving every week or every month.  Course, some people say it is cheaper to move 
then to pay rent.  [LAUGHING]  Maybe it is.  I don't know.  I never tried it.  I was expected to 
move today too.  
I:  So the kinds of things you did with wood carvings, you've done mostly furniture, right?  And 
you've done religious carvings.  Are there other types of carvings that you did?  What kinds of 
things, when you were doing carving not at the shop, when you were home, you know, after 
work.  That is when you did most of your religious carving?
A:  Yeah.  
I:  Did you give some away to friends?  Did you (--) What (--)
A:  Yes.  A few of them.  I made a (--) I was surprised that (--) We use to have a pastor at Saint 
Jean the Baptist Church, that is on [unclear] , see, by the boats there.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  He was 
going to be stationed in the Philippines, see.  And we were pretty friendly together, so, just 
before he left he said to me, he said, you know what I like?  I said what if I make a little statue to
take along with you, see?  He said yes.  He said, you know what I like?  I said, no.  To my big 
surprise, he's a Canadian.  He said, I like to have Thomas Moore.  What?  Thomas Moore, I said, 
who is he?  I don't even know who that is.  An Irishmen?  [LAUGHING]  He said, Thomas 
Moore is a lawyer, and on the account of his faith, he was put through the, what do you call it, 
cup to burn or something like that, see.  He was a lawyer, see.  Uh, well you got to get me a 
picture.  He said, I will get you a picture.  So, he got me a picture.  And I duplicated that 100%.  
So in the mean time there was a young man, I was a good friend of his fathers while he was a 
lawyer, It became his job after a while.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  And, uh, this young man there, he got me 
(--)  I kind of liked him because very few young man that goes to college, well he graduated 
from Harvard, goes to those big colleges, and still observe the ceremony they have on Holy 
Thursday.  When I was a kid, on Holy Thursday, my mother, we start at noon.  And we visit 
seven churches.  Walking. 
I:  You went to all the different churches?
A:  Different churches.  Seven.  
I:  All the French Churches you went to or all the churches?
A:  Any church.  We went to (--)  Over here where [unclear] it use to be Saint Columbus(?)  We 
were around when they built that.  And, uh, so my mother would take me, but I wouldn't kick and
I wouldn't squawk, because I kind of like the walking and I knew I was going to have an ice 
cream soda on the way back, see.  So, see that was worth the walk.  I didn't [unclear] around with
here.  And when we came back we came over the bridge you came over.  Well in those days there
were no mall there were some little stores.  One Barber Shop, and one [unclear] with a soda 
fountain.  And that was it.  Now they took that down and put a mall in the middle, see.  So, my 
mother said, why don't we go in here and have a little ice cream.  Oh, good.  I had my soda.  I 
was satisfied.  But now they don't do that, now you go to just one church there is a ceremony.  I 
don't know.  In those days everything was different.  In those days they wouldn't have the 
exercise at night they would have the exercise before noon, in the morning.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  And 
see, when they had the exercise, they were at night, you would just go in and visit the church.  
People would walk here and walk there.  
I:  At night?
A:  At night, yeah.  but they don't do that no more.  [I:  Hmm.]  And then the old people started to
get scared, a lot of the old people getting hurt.  
I:  When did that stop?  When did that practice stop?
A:  I would say right after World War II.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  But that faded out, see.  [I:  Uh huh.]  
See, during World War II, there was not too many going on, see.  So, that faded out, see.  The rest
of times.
I:  Are there other, uh, traditions that you remember that people don't practice anymore?
A:  Oh, by the way, yeah, I am telling you about this young man, on Holy Thursday, I was going 
to the Immaculate Conception, I was walking, too.  Who is coming out of the Immaculate right 
after his fight, Oh, Christ that is young Eno(?).  Uh, [unclear]  he would visit the Immaculate 
Conception, he was going to the shrine at Saint Joseph's and we met him.  
I:  What is his name again?
A:  Eno(?).
I:  Eno(?).  Uh hmm.
A:  So, I said, well gees, a young man, Harvard graduate, then his evening going around the 
church.  And I knew he was very small [unclear] to Thomas Moore.  Because when he came out 
of the service, World War II, he met me.  And he asked me, he said, Mr. Langlois, could I borrow
some tools from you?  I said sure.  What do you want?  Oh, he said, I need plain saws, clamps, 
and (--)  I said all right.  So, he came over and I gave him what he wanted, I had everything.  He 
said I am building my own office where Fred C. Church is, 24 Merrimack Street.  So, upstairs.  
So, he went upstairs, [unclear]  and he built his own office, you know.  [I:  Hmm.]  After he was 
through, just about a year after that.  Just around Christmas.  A couple of days before Christmas I
asked him to bring me down town at night to do my last minute shopping, and who do I see, him.
You got to come home.  No, I can't go now, I want to get the bus.  I didn't have a car then, see.  
He said I will take you home but you have to see my office.  At the same time we took the tools 
over.  So I went up to see his office and I looked around and I see you have Thomas Moore all 
over the desk.  There's another act of Thomas Moore.  [LAUGHING]  So, I decided to make one.
I made one for him.  He's still got it.  
I:  That's funny.  Funny how Thomas Moore came (--) Weird.  Okay.  Has, uh, (--) Are there 
other, uh, (--) You've made the religious [unclear]  But how did you get to carve the thinker?  You
know, we pointed out the thinker.  
A:  The thinker?
I:  Yeah.  When did you make that?
A:  Oh, this isn't too old.  I made that about 18 years.  And the same way with the Monk.  You 
know the [unclear]  Monk.
I:  Yes.  When you carve, let's say that painting of Jesus, do you carve from a picture or do you 
have a scene in your head?
A:  Well, I look at picture and then the first thing that I do is go for the head.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  
Once I get that head done the way I like it, [I:  Uh huh.] the rest is nothing.  You can put any kind
of mark, you know, the body, you know.  But the most important, you get the head done.  Once 
that head is done, well, it is nothing at all.  [I:  Yeah, uh huh.]
I:  So you look at a photograph and then you keep it in you mind?
A:  Yeah, that's all, that's right.
I:  Uh huh.
A:  Like I said, you have to have it in your mind if you want to do it.  If don't get it, then don't 
touch, because you are going to spoil it, see.  [I:  Uh hmm.]
I:  And you have to be in the right frame of mind you said.
A:  Can't do that if you had a bad night.  [LAUGHING]  
I:  Are you a religious person?  You could say?
A:  Well, half and half.
I:  Half and half.  Uh hmm.
A:  Course, I wouldn't tell that to the pastor, you know.  
I:  Of course not.  We won't say anything.  
A:  Certain things I believe, and certain things I don't believe, see.  [I:  Uh hmm.]  Certain things 
are good, certain things they give bad examples sometimes, see.  [I:  Uh hmm.  Uh hmm.]  
I:  Okay.  So was it the same with the thinker?  That you had thought of the picture?
A:  In two or three places I saw them in Museums, see.  And someday I said I am going to make 
one of them.  And I made two of them.  And then I had company from New Bedford, 
Germany(?) and I gave them some.  Then I, uh, made the [unclear]  [I:  The Monk?]  the monk, 
uh, I kept that one, see.   The coffee table you seen there, well that is all maple.  Maple wood 
[unclear] (--)
I:  Are you working on anything now?
A:  Now, I am, uh, as I say, a picture plan.  I have one piece here, the other piece over the shelf.  I
am going to show you how much wood (--)
I:  Okay, wait one second.
A:  Oh, I was going to walk away with it.
I:  Walk away with it.  Okay, lets see.  Oh, I see.  So you drew the (--)
A:  Do this part, then do the leaf on each side. 
I:  So the design you sort of have in your head, right?
A:  Oh, yeah, oh yeah.  Now, are you going to put that thing in?
I:  Yeah.  We will put you back on tv.  [LAUGHING]  Okay, so you have (--)  Who's the frame 
for?  Oh, that is a big frame.  Yeah.  Who is the frame for?  
A:   For the frame I want to make a picture.  [I:  Uh huh.]  And, uh, (--)
I:  Another religious picture?
A:  No, no.
I:  Oh.
A:  That wont be no religious picture.
I:  So, what kind of tools do you use?
A:  Regular carving tools.
I:  Just regular carving tool.  Uh hmm.  Uh hmm.
A:  If I had some here I would show you but I don't have them here.
I:  Yeah.  I understand.  You sort of have the design in your head.
A:  [unclear] go in here.  And this will be dug out.  And then I am going to make this moves that 
there and this moves that here.  And over here like a book.  [I:  Uh huh.]  There is two leaves 
there.  Two leaves here and two leaves over here.  And then I have two more leaves of [unclear] 
over here.  See, like a leaf there.  
I:  So you have to know how to draw too.  Not only carve.
A:  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.  In just a minute I will show you some of the drawing.  [I:  Okay.]  I show
you that's it (--) At the same time you are going to find out that is a pretty set.  You know how 
much it is worth sell?  $23,000.  [I:  Wow.]  That's in 38.  Excuse me.  
I:  So you got the designs here.  Just to the frame?
A:  Yeah, that is the side board.  
I:  Oh yes, uh huh.  That's some piece.
A:  Huh!  That is suppose to be the side board, see.  The top is an inch and a half thick.  [I:  Uh 
hmm.]  Black and gold, see.  These in here (--) there is a button the same way (--)  I didn't show 
you that.  My Bamboo desk, I have a button.  [I:  Uh huh.]  I press on that and there is a secret 
draw.  The draw comes right out.  
I:  Oh.  You can put your important papers in that.  
A:  Yeah.  Anything you don't want the old lady to see, your love letters.  [LAUGHING]  You 
press the button over here.  See.  You press the button over here.  See over here there is a cover.  
[I:  Yes.]  See the (--)  There is a stick that goes right in the center, right down to there.  [I:  Uh 
huh.]  Right underneath here is the spring.  When I press that button, that releases the spring, and 
that pushes the button up, the cover goes up.  The cover comes up and then you put your spoon, 
your knife, your fork all along.  And then you set it down.  It locks.  
I:  When was this made again?
A:  1902.
I:  1902.
A:  Yeah.
I:  So this must be worth a fortune today.
A:  I am telling you it would cost $2,000 if you happen to make it today.  Just the top alone 
would cost over $1500 at least.  [I:  Yeah.]  Because that is 7 feet long.  [I:  Yeah.]  And those 
cabinets here, see, these were all carved.  [I:  So (--)]  These cabinets here, It's for your linen.  [I: 
Oh.]  Table linen and things like that, see.  
I:  Very compact.  So did you design the piece? 
A:  Huh?
I:  Did you design this piece?
A:  No.  I didn't design it, but if I had a place big enough I would make one.
I:  I am just putting it over here.
A:  There is the dining table.  I built that set.  
I:  It is beautiful.
A:  Oh yes.
I:  But you made similar things to this.  
A:  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.
I:  Yeah.
A:  There is the chair, and one for this.
I:  Yeah.  You can see the (--)
A:  $400 and the side chair was $300.
I:  What year was that?
A:  1902.
I:  So they are all from the same.  Well today they are worth (--)  They would be in a museum 
today.
A:  Oh yeah.  I wouldn't be able to [unclear]  I was surprised when that price went up.  Mr. 
Anderson had told me, I will go as high as $18,000.  But when it (--)  And then I had all the old 
finish on it.  The old French polish they call it.  [I:  Yeah.]  The young people today would never 
have the ambition at all.  
I:  The ambition to polish it.
A:  They use to have about 20 coats.  A piece like that before it gets out of the factory, it would 
be at least 6 months just to finish it.  But they should coat and let it dry.  Give it plenty of time to 
dry.  But and then after you get it to your home, the first year you are suppose to give it one coat 
a month.  [I:  Oh.]  And then it go down to at least one coat a year after so many years.  [I:  
Yeah.]  But then when you got the finish so hard, there is nothing to scratch.  [I:  Yeah.]  When 
this set came over, you would think it was (--)  Here is the new set they were selling today to 
some people [unclear]  I went way ahead of them, see.  That is for the beauty, see.
I:  Do you miss doing that kind of work?
A:  Oh yeah.
I:  Yeah.
A:  I loved that.  Oh, I loved that.  [I:  Huh.]  The most (--) I have a lot of books.  My good friend
Mr. Blis(?) gave it to me.  [I:  Uh huh.]  There is the [unclear].  
I:  Yeah, that is pretty.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Very interesting.  Just the old patterns.  You don't see this 
kind of quality today.  I mean you don't see anything near it.
A:  No, Well that's what makes our company.  After the war they came out with that plastic.  I 
agree plastic stuff is easy to maintain, [unclear] But it hasn't got that rich quality of wood.  You 
see, wood is warm.  [I:  Yeah.]  Metal is cold, see.  So that is the difference.
I:  That is why all the religious paintings that you do have a very warm beautiful quality.
A:  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.
I:  Yeah.  Yeah.
A:  So that is the difference, see.
I:  Okay, I need (--)  Is there anything else you want to tell me about your work?  The work with 
the church?  Or the religious?
A:  No, well, uh, the biggest piece that we ever made while I was there, the biggest piece that we 
ever made, it was a big panel.  It was 7 feet long and 6 feet wide.  Twenty inch thick, see.  [I:  Uh
hmm.]  And the good lord, at the age of 12, teaching the doctors, giving them there lesson, and 
that was 20 k gold.  
I:  So who bought it, a Rockerfella(?)
A:  I don't know.  I don't think it is Rockerfella(?).  But I (--)  It went to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.  
I wouldn't be surprised if the Mullen family bought it, see.  they paid for it.  that went to a 
Cathedral.  But don't ask me who paid or from who.
I:  Well, let me just ask you another question.  We are going to the church after this.  Are there 
other things that you have made that are in the church?  
A:  No.  No.  That is the only thing.  
I:  Okay.  Just in case we do look.  You know, take a look.  Thank you very much for talking to 
us.  It was very helpful.
END OF TAPE