American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_10_148 
Reports - 
Andrea Graham: "Italians in Nevada" 
lA-t
-i 
i 
e- 
,.k. 4--A, 
QEp•R r 
4--
Italians in Nevada 
Benny 
Damele works 
cows 
like 
any 
other northern Nevada 
buckaroo , but he is also an artist with an axe, and he has a glass 
of wine with dinner every night . Louis Gibellini is a former 
champion hard-rock single-jack driller and 
still 
competes 
in 
contests at the age of 82; he also has a pair of homemade wooden 
skis he used to get around in the mountains near Eureka. Victoria 
Pradere of Dayton lives a quiet small -town life, and still makes 
traditional Italian cookies , and ravioli for Thanksgiving dinner. 
These 
folks 
and dozens 
of 
others 
are Nevada 's Italian-
Americans , first, 
second and third generation descendants 
of 
Genoese and Tuscan immigrants who came to America to earn a good 
living, or to escape from hardships in the old country. They do not 
have a high profile in the Silver State--they are ranchers and 
miners and housewives like the people around them--and they are 
modest about their history and heritage , so it takes some time and 
a sharp eye to draw out the elements of their ethnic background 
that have been carried down in their lives. 
There are two major pockets of Italian settlement in Nevada. 
In the western and northern ranching and farming valleys Italians 
were originally known for their produce that supplied the mining 
towns in the surrounding hills. Many of these people came from 
Tuscany, and very large number from the area of Lucca . They farmed 
in the Truckee Meadows around Reno, Dayton Valley, Mason Valley and 
Fallon, and were prominent in other businesses and banking as well. 
In these communities today Italian names are common in all walks 
of life. Italians were also known as grocers and businessmen in 
mining towns such as Virginia City. The northern Nevada ranching 
town of Paradise Valley is an isolated pocket of Italian settlement 
as well , 
and known for the distinctive stonework of Italian masons. 
The other main area of Italian settlement in the state is in 
east central Nevada around the town of Eureka. Complex ores bearing 
silver and lead were discovered there in the mid-1860s, and an 
efficient smelting process for extracting the minerals finallly 
developed by 
1870. 
The smelting process required charcoal to 
obtain a high heat, and the labor to provide the charcoal came in 
the form of northern Italian and Swiss men who came to Eureka in 
the hundreds throughout the 1870s . The men were called charcoal 
burners, or carbonari in Italian . The hills around the town were 
denuded of trees for a radius of fifty miles by the charcoal 
burners, who lived in camps , cut pinion into four-foot lengths and 
stacked it into pits , covered it with dirt and baked it into 
charcoal. 
When the two large Eureka smelters shut down around 1890, the 
charcoal burners were out of work , literally overnight. Many no 
doubt returned to the old country, as they had originally planned. 
Others went to California , to established Italian communities. But 
some stayed and joined the occupations of their American fellows, 
becoming ranchers, miners, or businessmen in town. 
Benny Damele 's grandfather came to Eureka in 1879 and worked 
as a charcoal burner for ten years. During the hard winter of 1889-
90 he stayed on a ranch, 
and never went back to burning coal. 
Shortly after that he sent for his wife and three children in 
Italy, and they leased a ranch for a few years before buying their 
own place, which they paid for in two years with the help of the 
two oldest boys. They had another son and three daughters, and 
settled in at Three Bar Ranch, to raise cows and hay, and sheep for 
a time. Their descendants also stayed in ranching, and in the first 
half of this century there were Damele ranches in an almost solid 
line between Palisade on the north and highway 50 between Eureka 
and Austin on the south. Today there are two Damele families still 
in the cow business, Benny on the Dry Creek Ranch, and his cousin 
Leo and son Tony at Sheep Creek fifty miles to the north. 
Dry Creek was bought by Benny's father in 1943 and Benny now 
runs it, with the help of a hired cowboy and his wife and son, the 
Eddys. Benny likes the old ways. He prefers a stockade fence to one 
made of boards becuase it is easier to fix. He rides a classic 
northern Nevada buckaroo saddle, uses fancy silver bits and spurs, 
and makes his own horsehair mecartys. He knows his ranch like the 
back of his hand, can tell you the Indian names of the surrounding 
mountains, and sees himself as a caretaker of the land. Fooling 
with horses is his hobby--training them, riding without a halter-
-and he raises Curly horses, an ususual Russian breed with a small 
but enthusiastic following and a national association headquartered 
in Ely, Nevada. Benny's house has no electricity, although in the 
last year has installed solar panels to run a few lights at night. 
He has gas heat and a fire in the fireplace every evening. He feeds 
with horses in the winter, and he knows his ranch could be self-
sufficient if the fuel truck could not get through, or power lines 
were down. 
What makes Benny Italian? His mother was not Italian, but she 
learned to cook traditional food from his father's relatives, and 
Benny recalls pasta stretched the length of the kitchen table. 
Benny has polenta in his cupboard, and always offers his guests a 
glass of wine. He puts fresh dandelion greens in his salads in the 
spring, and recently tried an old family recipe for dandelion wine. 
Another cultural trait he has carried on is a fondness for working 
with an axe. The carbonari depended on their skill as axemen to 
survive--their whole day was spent on the sides of steep hills 
cutting trees for charcoal, and more than one person has remarked 
on how straight their cuts were. Benny's father Peter was a master 
with an axe, and Benny has carried on the tradition. He talks about 
how important sharpening is, and how you need to make the tool do 
the work to make the job as easy as possible. Benny prefers an axe 
to a chainsaw for cutting firewood or fenceposts. And he has an old 
hand-forged charcoal burner's axe he shows off proudly. The ability 
to work hard when necessary and the art of really relaxing and 
having fun are combined in ideal proportions in Benny Damele. Most 
of that is Benny himself, but all the Dameles I met seem to have 
those abilities, and perhaps those traits have something to do with 
their large Italian family and its traditions. 
One of Benny's closest friends is Arthur Biale, who is retired 
from running a hardware store in Eureka that was originally started 
as a general store by his grandfather in the early 1900s. John 
Biale came to this country in 1885, worked for a short time in a 
charcoal camp, and then on various ranches and mines. A chance 
encounter in Utah got him into the shopkeeping business, and when 
he had the opportunity to start his own store in Eureka he took it. 
John's son Albert was born in 1906, and at 84 has an incredible 
memory for details of life in the town in the early part of the 
century. Al started working at the store as a boy, and eventually 
took it over, spending his life there at the center of community 
goings-on. 
He recalls the cooking at his Swiss grandmother's 
boarding house as a prominent element of his Italian past, and 
talks about her testing the temparature of the outdoor bread oven 
with a bit of brown paper. 
Al turned the store into a hardware business, 
which was 
eventually taken over by his son Art, and is now run by Art's son-
in-law. The store building was originally a saloon run by Al's 
grandfather, so the business has been in the same family now for 
about 100 years, the only such business in Eureka. 
Since Eureka came into being as a mining town, naturally some 
of the Italian carbonari became miners after the need for charcoal 
was gone. The mining town of Prospect, just a few miles south of 
Eureka at the Diamond Mine, was almost completely occupied by 
Italian families around the turn of the century. Louis Gibellini 
was born there in 1908 to Swiss-Italian parents, went to school 
with Borgna and Vaccaro children, and helped tend the garden and 
watch the livestock when he was growing up. His family moved to 
Eureka in the 20s, but he later worked as a hard-rock underground 
miner at the Diamond and Windfall mines. Louis used hand drills 
underground, a skill all but lost today. Single-jack drilling is 
done today only in contests, but Louis is one of the few entrants 
who has actually worked with hand drills. He held the world record 
for years, and still enters the championship contest held in Carson 
City on Nevada Day, every October 31. He keeps a steady rhythm for 
the ten minutes of the timed event, and always drills a respectable 
depth, although he says he doesn't exert himself like he used to-
-he has had his day, but he likes to remind the young kids that he 
is still around. 
Louis takes it pretty easy these days, 
opening his bar, 
Louie's Lounge, only when he feels like it, and living comfortably 
off the payments he gets from a mining property rich in tungsten. 
His 
daughter 
knows 
her 
mother's 
Italian 
recipes, 
and 
his 
granddaughter in San Francisco keeps a collection of old family 
photos as a reminder of her Nevada heritage. Food is, of course, 
a large element of Louis' memories of life in Prospect and Eureka. 
His 
family always had a bread oven, 
long gone now, 
and his 
grandmother made wine and grappa in the rock cellar, and stored 
cheese and sausage there as well. 
Italian food is a big part of John and Roberta Damele's life 
still. John is Benny's cousin and Leo's brother, and he and Roberta 
live in town now after retiring from the ranching and farming 
business. Roberta was a Merialdo, and although her mother was not 
Italian, she learned from her husband's mother how to cook the way 
he was used to. Roberta has several file boxes full of Italian 
recipes, and John assures that she is a very good cook. She has 
cutters for ravioli andf a large spoon with drain holes for lifting 
ravioli out of the water. She uses traditional Genoese seasoning, 
not a lot of garlic, but plenty of basil. Most of the Italians in 
the Eureka area were from near Genoa, or from across the Swiss 
border. A number of grave markers in the Catholic cemetery specify 
a place of birth, and not a few are in Italian. 
Across the state, in Dayton, food is again the clearest marker 
of Italian ethnicity for Victoria Pradere. Her parents came from 
Italy in the 1920s--her father was running from trouble with 
Mussolini's men--and joined 
an already thriving community of 
Italian truck farmers serving Virginia City and Carson City. At one 
time, Victoria says, essentially all the farms and ranches in the 
Dayton area were owned by Italian families. She recalls the late 
summer celebration of Santa Maria Day, when ranchers would all have 
open house featuring tables of homemade food, and music for dancing 
in the evening. 
People came from Italian communities all over 
western Nevada and even California to join the festivities--it was 
like a big family reunion. Santa Maria Day celebrations gradually 
died out with the war and as Italians began leaving the area, but 
it has been recently revived with a mass, parade, and community 
arts and crafts show. 
In contrast to Italians in other parts of the state, those in 
Dayton kept their language longer. Victoria's parents ran a store 
for awhile and always spoke Italian with their customers. Victoria 
herself is fluent, and writes to relatives in the old country in 
their language. The high percentage of Italians in Dayton and the 
rural nature of the community seems to have contributed to this 
phenomenon, whereas in Eureka, for example, there were people of 
all nationalities and the setting was much more urban, with more 
interchange between groups, so English became a necessity. In the 
charcoal camps, of course, Italian was spoken, but those who moved 
to town or stayed after the smelters shut quickly lost their mother 
tongue. 
Another small pocket of Italian and Swiss settlers exists in 
southeastern Nevada, in Lincoln County, where Italians also worked 
as charcoal burners; stone charcoal ovens are still standing near 
the mining camp of Bristol. The Swiss-Italian Delmue family later 
turned to ranching, 
and the original property is still in the 
family, run by brothers Pete and Joe Delmue. Architecturally the 
Delmue Ranch is unique in the state, as far as we know. It sits in 
a rocky canyon with a strange, 
lunar 
feel, 
and most of the 
buildings are built of rock. There is an alpine-looking barn built 
in 1888, a big stone house that the family moved into on Christmas, 
1900, and a huge stone and railroad tie barn built in 1916. They 
were all built by Joe Delmue, Pete's grandfather, who came from the 
town of Biasca in the Italian area of Switzerland. 
The 
Delmue 
ranch 
was 
a center 
of 
Italian 
and 
Swiss 
brotherhood. Pete says Italian miners from the neighboring town of 
Pioche used to come to the ranch during their vacations and help 
put up hay just for a chance to be with their countrymen and get 
some fresh air. The ranch must have reminded them of home, too, 
with the barns and house just like those in the old country. The 
cooking was done on a fireplace at the rear of the big central room 
in the house, and a cellar cut into the rock behind was cool in the 
summertime. 
Old Joe Delmue was a builder, 
and his grandson Pete 
is 
carrying on that tradition in his own way. Pete built two homes in 
Panaca, the Mormon farming town to the south of the ranch, and is 
now putting the finishing touches on a house in Panaca, which he 
says will be his last. The house is built of massive logs brought 
from Idaho and Wyoming, and is filled with old stuff from the 
ranch. 
The latest addition is a stone patio with a barbecue 
surmounted with three iron wheels. A terraced rock garden drops off 
from the patio, and colored stones out front are arranged in an 
arrowhead shape. Another decorative arrangement of rocks, twisted 
wood and artifacts is in the planning stages as well. Pete can't 
seem to sit still--he always has to be building something. He is 
gradually cutting back on his cattle business, but he will never 
stop building. He salvages materials from the ranch, building a 
loading chute with railroad rails that formed rafters on an old 
barn, and hauling rocks and old gear to decorate his new house. 
Like Benny Damele, he has a heritage of hard work and physical 
skill as well as an artistic eye for the unusual and an acute 
awareness of his environment. 
As with Benny, 
some of that is 
personality and family heritage, but the approach to life and work 
seem to have a deeper tradition in their Italian roots as well. It 
wil be interesting to see if these traits appear in other Italian 
communties and individuals in the West. 
fh. 
I 
ft'i 
r" - 
/t
,. 
d - 
. 
C, "L_- 
a 
s 
k 
ITALIANS IN NEVADA: BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Cofone, Albin J. 
"Themes in the Italian Settlement of Nevada," 
Nevada Historical Society Quarterly, Vol. XXV No. 2, Summer 1982. 
Pp. 116-130. 
Cof 
one, Albin J. "Reno's Little Italy: Italian Entrepreneurship and 
Culture in Northern Nevada," Nevada Historical Society Quarterly, 
Vol. XXVI No. 2, Summer 1983. Pp. 97-110 
Cofone, 
Albin J. 
"Italian Images in Northern Nevada Writing," 
Nevada Historical Society Quarterly, Vol. XXVII No. 4, Winter 1984. 
Pp. 260-267. 
Earl, Phillip I. "Nevada's Italian War," Nevada Historical Society 
Quarterly, Vol. XII No. 2, Summer 1969. 
Eureka's Yesterdays: A Guide to a Historic Central Nevada Town. 
Reno: Nevada Historical Society, 1988. 
Gardella, Louie A. La Zappa. Reno, Nevada Agricultural Foundation: 
1989. 
Graham, Andrea and Blanton Owen. Lander County Line: Folklife in 
Central Nevada. Reno: Nevada State Council on the Arts, 1988. 
Grazeola, Franklin. "The Charcoal Burners War of 1879: A Study of 
the 
italian Immigrant 
in Nevada." Masters Thesis 
in History, 
University of Nevada, Reno, 1969. 
History of Nevada. 
Oakland: 
Thompson and West, 
1881. 
Reprint 
Berkeley: Howell-North, 1958. 
Luster, Michael and Blanton Owen. In a High and Glorious Place:  
Folklife in Lincoln County, Nevada. Reno: Nevada State Council on 
the Arts, 1987 
Molinelli, Lambert. Eureka and Its Resources. 1879. Reprint Reno: 
University of Nevada Press, 1982. 
(Vintage Nevada Series) 
Paher, Stanley. Nevada Ghost Towns and Mining Camps. Las Vegas: 
Nevada Publications, 1970. 
Shepperson, Wilbur S. Restless Strangers: Nevada's Immigrants and 
Their Interpreters. Reno: University of Nevada Press, 1970. 
Interviews from University of Nevada-Reno Oral History Program: 
Mosconi, Joseph. "Reflections on Life in Truckee, Verdi and Reno, 
1900-1960s." 1985. 
Herrera, 
Rose and Ciriaco. 
"Rose and Ciriaco Herrera: 
Life in 
Eureka, 1920s-1950s." 1988. 
Isola, Louis J. 
"Immigrant: I Made Good in the United States." 
1980. 
Ginocchio, 
Andrew. 
"Andrew Ginocchio: 
The Ascent of Reno Iron 
Works." 1987. 
Gardella, 
Louie A. 
"Just Passing Through: 
My Work 
in Nevada 
Agriculture, Agricultural Extension, and Western Water Resources." 
1975. 
Merialdo, 
Peter 
B. 
"Memoirs 
of a Son 
of 
Italian 
Immigrants, 
Recorder and Auditor of Eureka County, Nevada State Controller, and 
Republican Party Worker." 
1968. 
(Peter Merialdo was Roberta 
Damele's father) 
s 
r-' 
1, 
--a, " 
Ge-n+t
f  U S 
1880 Census, Eureka County, Nevada 
Ruby Hill: no Italians, mostly English, Irish, Welsh. 
North Ruby Hill: Itlaian charcoal burner, Swiss teamster. 
New Town: Italian baker 
South Ruby Hill: Italian and Swiss woodchoppers and coalburners, 
but very few. 
Fish Creek Wells: Italian coalburners; sheepherder. 
Antelope Valley: Swiss coalburners, including one named Gubileni. 
Williams Range: Swiss and Italian coalburners, including several 
named Delmue. 
Prospect Mountain: 
lots 
of different nationalities, 
including 
Mexican, Hessian, Danish, English. 
Willows Range: italian and Swiss charcoal burners, several Delmues. 
Fish Creek Mountains, Spring Valley, Secret Canyon, Cedar Creek: 
lots of Italian and Swiss coalburners. 
Eureka: 
Italian and Swiss saloonkeeper, 
hostler, 
photographer, 
crystallizer, refiner, teamster, fruit peddler, blacksmith, boots 
& shoe maker, boarding house, farm worker, restaurant, coal dealer, 
cook, tinsmith, knife grinder, miner, refinery worker, day laborer, 
farmer, banker, printer, storekeeper, bookkeeper, butcher, furnace 
worker. 
Alpha: Italian and Swiss coalburners 
Mineral Hill: Italian miners 
Pine Station: Italian miners and coalburners. 
I was looking in the census to see if there were any Italian 
stonemasons and found none in 1880.