Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson,
Kentucky (Transcription)
The first excerpt is taken from original tape W 101. Begin M20 B(7)
RESPONDENT: I was born on May 22, 1954 in Lexington, Kentucky at the Good
Samaritan Hospital. I'm an only child.
QUESTIONER: That's surprising, because there are a lot of big families around here.
R: Yeah, not that many though. They've mostly died away.
C 40 page 22
But there's still, you know, just one. Well, I have a little foster sister. We took a little girl in
to raise. So I got her. That makes two of us now. I live down at Pambo, it's just about a
mile, mile and a half out of Jackson.
Q: ( )?
R: No, I live in Pambo. You have to go around a big curve before you turn down and go to
the lake.
Q: Oh, I didn't know that there was like a little community there.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
R: Yeah, there's not many there, but you know, enough of us. There's about, oh, I guess
twenty families. Or maybe less. We have a church, and then right out from my house is
where I went to my first year of school. It's a one room school house, made out of wood,
white. We had grades one through eight there, I think. One teacher, she taught us all.
She's retired now. She had to retire because of arthritis. It drew her so bad.
Q: And she had to teach all different grades?
R: All different grades, mm-hmm. Well, one thing I'll never forget about that, we were
studying the word "nothing", and, you know, she was writing it up on the board. And she
went "no", she was dividing it into syllables, "thing". And she says that's "nothing". And I
kept wanting to call it "no-thing".
Q: Yeah, sure! (laugh)
R: Yeah, and there's a, I didn't want to school and I tried to go home and tell Mommy that--
I'd go home for lunch, you know, 'cause it was so close, and I'd go home and tell her well,
Mommy, there's no more school the rest of the day. Teacher let us off.
C 40 page 23
Q: Did she believe you?
R: Uh-uh. She'd have to walk me back to school, and I'd cry. But I'd, you know, run home
the demons, but she'd bring me back.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
Q: What about your folks? What do they do?
R: Well, my father drives a gas truck for Standard Oil Company in South Jackson. And
Mommy's just a housewife. She used to work before she got married, and then when she
got married she used to work in the theatre that used to be in Jackson before it burned
down, selling tickets. And then she worked at The Red Ones clothes shop down in town.
But she's not working anything now. She's been sick. And then we took in a little foster
child, so that don't make for her to want to work. But Daddy drives a big truck.
Q: Did they go to school in ( ) County?
R: Yeah, Mommy went up to Jackson City, and went to ( ) County. Downtown.
Q: Is Jackson City a high school or a grade school?
R: It's a grade school. Or, and high school. It's the city school for all those, you know,
who live in the city. And then there's ( ) County, that's for, well down there they have high
school and then they have the seventh and eighth grade. And we have the LBJ school,
which is grades one through six. And there's a fabulous school, you ought to go see it.
Q: Yeah, I saw it from just the outside, it looked beautiful.
R: Beautiful inside, carpet, and they have TV sets all through there. And they have in
certain spots, I think they call them "the pit", or something or other, they have steps. And
then
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
C 40 page 23
there's a place down there where the teacher sits and the children sit on the steps, you
know, and it's all carpeted. It's beautiful in there. The governor has picked it as his school,
you know. It's been represented as the governor's school. And they have all these modern
things. Well, first graders taking home ec, and agriculture, so you can imagine...
Q: The boys too?
R: Well, like for six weeks, the girls will take home ec, and the boys will take agriculture.
And then they'll change over. The boys will take home ec and the girls will take agriculture.
And they have typing over there, you know. About the second or third grade they start out
with typing.
Q: It's great. These kids are going to be so much smarter than us.
R: Uh-huh! (laughs) That hurts!
Q: Well, did your, how far did your folks go in school?
R: Mom graduated, and I think Dad got as far as eighth grade. But he's smarter than her!
(laughs)
Q: Well, you know ( ) in school. Where are you in school now?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
R: Where am I in school?
Q: Yeah, how far?
R; I'm just a freshman. Second semester.
Q: Do you want to finish up at least?
R: Yeah, I plan on going to Lee's next semester, next fall, and next spring semester, and
then transferring to Eastern. It's down at Richmond, Kentucky. College down there. Either
C 40 page 25
there or Moorehead, one. But I think Eastern. That's where I'd like to go.
Q; Were your folks born and raised in the county?
R: Yeah, both of them were, I think. My mom has a twin sister, but they don't even look like
sisters, let alone twins. Yeah, they were both born and raised in ( ) County. Daddy's dad
was a schoolteacher for a long time. Then he died.
Q: Have you always lived downtown, then?
R: Eighteen years! (laughs) Well, when I was first born we lived up in town for maybe
about two weeks. And then we moved down there.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
Q: Do, well, I'm sort of interested in, do the people now handle, do they feel like they're a
part of Jackson? Or do they feel like they're sort of a little separate community?
R: Feel like they're part of Jackson. I mean, the community isn't really that close, you
know. We know everybody that lives around us, but really there's not that much interaction
between people. I mean, sometimes you can see, you know, maybe they'll come visit you,
and sometimes they don't. Most of the people work down there. So the only free time they
have is in the night, and then they like to spend that with their families. If there isn't, you
know, church or something like that that they go to.
Q; Does everybody around here, says there's one church down there. Does everybody
more or less go to the same church? I mean everybody going to that church instead of
coming to town?
R: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Q: Tell me about your little sister.
C 40 page 26
R: Well, she's be three in July. And we got her right before Christmas, and when we got
her she couldn't walk or talk. She was, well, at a year they said she could walk and talk just
like any other normal child. At sixteen months, she just started going back. Her parents
had mistreated her and fed her cow's milk all day. And all she had for breakfast was just
the yellow of an egg.
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
Q: So she had no strength ( ).
R: No strength, was anemic, you know. She was just helpless. So we got her, and we
took her to the doctor for a check-up twelve days after we got her. And he could tell such
a great change in her just in those twelve days. And he says, before you know it she'll be
walking. And that night she started walking. But when the social worker brought her in,
they sit her down on the couch, and she just sit there, mouth wide open, and her eyes, she
was real dark under her eyes and had a real funny, strange look out of her eyes. And just
played with her fingers. So they had this old dress on her that looked like it was about a
four or five or six year old's. So they brought some more clothes for her. So I put a little
pants suit on her and got down on the floor with her and started playing with her. About
thirty minutes after she got there. And she just started laughing you know, and ( ). So the
worker came back that night to fill out some papers for my mom and dad, and he couldn't
believe it was the same child, you know.
Q: Offering just a little attention ...
R: Love was all she needed.
C 40 page 27
R: So now she's a character.
Q: What are some of the things she does now?
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
R: Well, she's learning now, she's beginning to learn how to talk now. And she'll holler,
if she wants Mom, Mom'll be like, she'll put her to bed in the evening for a nap. And
when she wakes up, if Mommy's not there, she'll go, "Hey Mom!". You know, Mommy'll
go get her. And Daddy's got her now where she'll start showing her muscle, and say
<unintelligible text>, show your muscle." And she'll just hold up her hands, you know, and
act like she's showing her muscles. And we got her a Rocky pony and a inchworm the
other night. And she went wild over those. She didn't want to get off. But she eats, she
loves to eat. She'll run to the table before you get there and she'll sit in her high chair. And
she's, you know, learning how to use her spoon and fork. And she loves milk. She can't
pronounce the "i", she'll say "mulk". "Mulk", you know. But she's something else.
Q: That's great!
R: She has blonde, curly hair and brown eyes. And she's real clear-complected. You can
see everything, you know every little touch or dimple.
Q: Can you think of some of the things that even just, you know, in your lifetime that you've
seen change in the county? Changes that you've noticed? In terms of people, the way they
dress, the way the act. Or even like buildings ...?
R: Oh, the dresses have change a lot! They've got a lot shorter! A lot of girls carry it to the
extreme, though. Some have, you know, gone out when they're not wearing bras. And
then just
C 40 page 28
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
recently the girls, you know, were allowed to wear pants-suits down at ( ) County. They
never had before, but the Board, I guess, kind of felt sorry for them. And they kept
protesting. They had a lot of girls to be suspended from school. But they finally decided
to let them, you know, wear them. But it seemed like everything happened, all the good
things happened after we graduated our class. And they, you know, we were know as
one of the happiest and wildest classes that had ever been knowed at ( ). I remember my
freshman year, we was putting on a play for our English class. And our math teacher had
gone with the seniors to Washington,DC, so we has some other teacher in there. So we
decided we was going to put this play on for the other class. And so our administrator over
the building where we were caught us. And we were all out there in sheets, you know,
running down the hall. It was a ( ) play that we was going to rehearse. I never will forget
that. And we had this boy with us and he says what are you trying to do, make him a star
or something the other?, you know. We really had some good times down at ( ). But the
teachers haven't changed that much. The teaching has. I mean, like I think it was in sixth
grade, they started teaching us modern math. And it's real hard. All these angles and stuff
like that, you know, you have to learn. That really bugged me. Math used to be my favorite
course, but in high school, seemed like it changed. The teacher, we had one teacher in our
junior year, sophomore and junior year, she would teach us this long, drawn-out way to do
things. And then she got pregnant and had to leave school so we had this other
C40 page 29
one to come in to teach us. And he showed us such short, simple methods. That, you
know, we'd been doing all this other stuff and just for nothing, really.
Q: ( ).
Library of Congress
Oral history with 16 year old white female, Jackson, Kentucky (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2807
R: Yeah, they were glad to get rid of her, though. We got, in grade school, we got a rid of
a lot of our teachers, you know, got on their nerves. We kept one for one day. Got rid of
him if we didn't like him, you know. Get on his nerves. We had a lot that'd throw 'rasers
at us. We had one teacher that'd throw erasers and chalk at us. But the schools have
changed a lot. I mean, you know, there's just so much different techniques of teaching that
they teach. The buildings haven't changed that much really, except for LBJ. It's the most
modern school, you know, we have. The buildings are still just as cold as ice on a winter
morning.
Q: Can you think of some teachers you have had that you really didn't like? You know, you
thought were bad teachers or maybe even one in particular?
R: Let's see. Well, that math teacher kind of bugged me. But as far as really disliking any
of them, hmm. I don't think so. I mean, you know ...
Q: Nobody stands out in your mind as being just unusually bad?
R: No. I had one that cut-up with me a lot. He was my history teacher. Called me
"Giggles". I'd get tickled every day and he'd send me out to the hall to stand. (laughs)
Q: What about, what do all of the young kids around here do? What kind of recreation?