"Man-on-the-Street", Burlington, North Carolina, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr10
"Man-on-the-Street", Burlington, North Carolina, December 8, 1941
AFS 6366B
Unidentified Man: Well, I think that in the first place that we, our whole efforts should be centered on
the fact that we've got to win this war, regardless of what it takes. If it takes — if we eat two meals a
day we do the same work or if we eat one meal we do the same work. But I see no reason why that
we shouldn't have three meals [at minimum to whoop (?)] Japan.
Unidentified Man: Plenty to eat here.
Unidentified Man: There's plenty here and there's nothing in Japan we need. They — clean up all the
Japanese in this country so they can't do us in the dirt. Not just through the duration of the war, but
all of them we get we just pen them up and keep them. Keep them where they won't give anybody
else no trouble.
Unidentified Man: Such fellows as this — those envoys they had over here that pulls a slick trick like
that I don't think he ought to even be allowed to get back to this country.
Unidentified Man: One thing's sure they can't put any dependence in what Japan says anymore.
Unidentified Man: That's right.
Unidentified Man: They'll offer peace terms why, the only peace terms they need is a shotgun
sticking right in the face and both barrels popped and then pull both triggers, that's what I think.
Unidentified Man: You can't take the final say.
Unidentified Man: You can't take a man's word for anything that — when a man is trying to negotiate
a peace, pretending to be negotiating a peace and then attacking the four or five possessions of the
United States at the same time before it was ever presented.
Unidentified Man: Well, what will happen, in my opinion, is when the thing gets tight enough, they
see that they're going down, then peace is what they'll want. But the peace that this country will have
to offer, in my opinion, is when the last one's killed that, every man that has ever held an office or
had anything to do with promoting this thing, to see that he is put under the ???.
Unidentified Man: I think the whole damn bunch of [lullas (?)] ought to be before a ??? possibly
eliminated ???.
"Man-on-the-Street", Burlington, North Carolina, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr10
Unidentified Man: Every cabinet member that they have had that favored war — now if the fellows in
the past that quit their jobs because they didn't want to go to war, we can kind of feel for them. But
sure this set up that they've got now, we'll just take them one by one and see that they never give
anybody else any trouble.
Unidentified Man: Well if they put everyone out of China and in fact if there's any of them left put
them on the island where they belong and leave them there and then never let them come over
here again any of them. Far as those in Indochina why, French Indochina is just a puppet of Hitler.
Because of the Vichy government doesn't have a word to say. What they say is just a mouthpiece of
Hitler, everything they said from them. They're just a slave to Hitler, that's all.
Unidentified Man: Yeah well all the Chinese people are over there though. They never have given any
trouble why should one want to go over there? It's just greed, that's all it is.
Unidentified Man: Free French help them clean out French Indochina and turn it back over to the
Free French and then run Hitler out of France and run Japan out of China and all the possessions
that they're holding now including French Indochina and drive them back on the island and let's see
if we don't kill and I don't think they'll ever [venture (?)] to ??? now. When you get to it.
Unidentified Man: Well, I tell you I don't think there's ever been so much of this anyway. If it hadn't
been for a few of those damn Germans that got over there and got mixed all up in that Japanese
government anyway.
Unidentified Man: Well, that was Japan's chance. She thought Hitler had a good chance of winning
this war. She knew darn well she couldn't whip America. She thought Hitler was going to whip
everything over in Europe in a few months and be over here to help them. She got herself penned up
and she couldn't get out. The only way she could get out was by fighting her way out and she's going
to know in a few months that she has made the saddest mistake of all when she attacked the United
States.
Unidentified Man: Well, I don't think that the war on the United States is going to be what will
happen to Japan and Hitler. It's just a question of the people and I'm satisfied that every man and
woman in the country will stand behind it and make any sacrifices necessary.
Unidentified Man: And they have quite a navy I guess.
Unidentified Man: And stick to it to the last one is out.
"Man-on-the-Street", Burlington, North Carolina, December 8, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr10
Unidentified Man: We can wait, just like a fella waiting for [a turkey in the blind (?)]. We just keep on
manufacturing stuff until we kill the last one if necessary.
Unidentified Man: Don't have to kill them all in six months or a year.
Unidentified Man: No, no, there ain't no time limit. No bag limit, kill as many as you want [laughter].
Unidentified Man: That's one damn good thing about it, ain't it?
Unidentified Man: There's one thing about this, there's no limit to the hunting season.
Unidentified Man: No, you can kill as many as you want, anyway. When they said that there was
about three or four minutes while this Kurusu is delivering his emperor's message declaring war.
Two minutes would have been enough for me, I'd a killed that son of a gun while they was there.
Unidentified Man: Well, I just don't feel right about it, and I think that — I know that our
representatives [like Mcfall (?)] would have suffered likewise, but we just won't lose a man there. That
way it's lose one under the gun.
Unidentified Man: No . . . we want to take what we got over in Japan we'll go get these anyhow when
we finally go over there and clean the island up.