Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old
female, Pennsylvania (Transcription)
Yea Do you remember...a bad storm...?
Speaker: Yes, we had storms like that. Well we had that one summer when it rained so
and we had the wheat on shocks. Yeah, that was one of the first -- one of the aaa, I guess
the third or the fourth year that we were living here. Well we had rented the farm and
farmed it for shares -- half of the crops -- we hadda give -- half of the wheat, the corn, the
oats and barley, but then the hay was all mine and the milk was all mine because they
were my cows. And a we had to binder -- we bindered the wheat and the oats and the and
the barley and we set it on shocks So one year we just got done bindering it, we didn't
have
7. 206
it all shocked yet -- Well she was on the tractor and I was on the binder to operate the
binder, so it rained and I went out after it gave up raining and I started shocking this grain
up. The wheat up before I had it all shocked it all shocked up it started to rain again and
that way it rained for almost two weeks. Just continuous -- and sometimes during the day
we'd had thundershowers -- one thundershower after the other. You'd think now this is the
clear up, just kept on raining. And so of course I said to her, I don't know, I just don't like
this because the landlord they hadda mill and they ground their wheat up for flour. I said I
don't like this -- I'm afraid they're gonna complain about it because can't get the wheat off,
so, we needed, she needed flour and I went over to the mill, to Sekonia, and I went in and
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
well when I came in he was real talkative then he asked me do you have the wheat in and
I said, no, I have it on shocks. Well you just let it set, he said, it wasn't ripe any sooner, you
couldn't get it in -- just leave it set, he said, til it's good and dry. If you take it in before it's
good and dry you cannot keep it and we cannot keep it. And I said yea but the it's starting
to grow out -- the wheat is starting to sprout. Some of the shocks were just green. I thought
oh boy -- so this was good when one day it gave nice weather and we had nice weather
it dried. Then she was on the on the tractor to pull the wagon from shock to shock and I
forked them up on the wagon so I had two wagons -- one big wagon and a little wagon --
and I hooked the
8. 235
Speaker: little wagon behind the big wagon and then the children were on the wagon
they load it, then I forked the caps what were over the top of the shocks I forked on the
little wagon because those were only two sheaves to a shock and the others were eight
sheaves to a shock, so I forked the caps on the the little wagon and the good wheat on the
big wagon so of course it was good we brought it in, one time we thrashed the good load
first then we thrashed the little load, next time we came in we thrashed the little load, then
the big load and that way we kept the wheat alone, separate then. Well there was a little
bit in the thrashing machine that didn't come all out so after I had that all off all thrashed in
and I came over to the landlord and he said do you have the wheat in and I said, yes, I do.
Then I told him how I did it. Alright he said now you have half of the good wheat and half of
the poor wheat and we'll take the half of the poor wheat for our share and half of the good
wheat. So he was fair to me there and I was well pleased then. Then I took of that wheat
then to sow the good wheat and that was real good. I had good wheat then to sow then.
And he said well you were smart there doing it that way. I said it made us extra work but
we had something that way. Well then he they used the bad wheat then to make scratch
for the chickens -- feed for the chickens and birds and I used mine also for my chickens
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
and for the pigs. Yea, so that's the way we worked then that year. We had bad bad wheat
and good wheat. Yea. Yea. Yea, we always have one. I do yet.
9. 270
Speaker: Well since we're only the two of us we I don't plant as much. But I always planted
peas and carrots and red beets and string beans and planted cabbage and cauliflower and
broccoli and corn sweet corn, what else, radishes, lettuce, onions I would plant-- all kinds
of vegetables like that. Right. Years ago I did all canning but then when the freezers came
I did freezing. Oh yea, I do that too. Dry sweet corn and string beans. Yea, that's what I
dry. No, I have a drier now where you put water in the inside and then the top, you know,
is filled the whole thing is metal and then you lay your things on this metal drier. And then
you dry it that way. That's how I dry mine. Then you put that on the stove, just so that it's
hot -- that the water stays hot. Just so it keeps the water warm. Hot, you know so that then
it dries real nice. Oh yea, that I forgot, sure. Dry apples too. Dry apples to make sweet
apples and those you use for snits and knep. Oh, I like that. He loves that. I just love that.
But in other words I can eat anything, I'm no <unintelligible text>. Well we were brought up
at home you had to learn to eat or go away from the table hungry. Well she often said what
shall I make. And I said you know I don't care what you make I never complain. Ever since
we're married I never complain why did you make this or why did you make that -- I never
complain. Once and a while I'll say now I could eat this or I could eat that but otherwise I
will not complain from her cooking. Yea, I, I good to get along in cooking,
10. 304
Speaker: And now now you can freeze parsley. Years ago you dried it. I don't dry parsley
anymore. I always freeze it. I like it better frozen. Yea, You can freeze parsley. You
can freeze peppers also. Years ago we used to dry those too, you know to put to put in
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
pickled cabbage or something but they're much better frozen. And the parsley's much
better frozen. I don't dry anything like that anymore but apples and corn and string beans.
These are the things of days. Oh really. No I didn't. Yea. Yea. Oh I believe that yea. Yea,
I believe that, unhuh. Yea. I never did that. Not I myself but my grandmother -- I used to
help my grandmother do it. And my mother used to do it, yea. When I was at home -- But
I myself didn't do it. I always bought my butter. At home I had to churn butter too but since
we're farming we never did. No. My mother did. She made that pot cheese or cup cheese
she used to make that. They're similar -- there's not much difference. No, I don't. I often
said already I <gap> wish I'd know how she made it but I know she made it but I don't
know how she made it. Sometimes I think she did. But I wouldn't know. Well see it's -- I'm
away from home for 44 years. And I know my mother used to make cottage cheese, too.
Years ago. Yea, she would take the milk and set it in a crock, in such a earthenware crock,
gallon crocks, and she would leave it set in there until it would get real sour -- you know
thick -- they called it thick milk -- then when that was thick we had a woodburning stove
years ago you didn't have electric. She would set it on the back part of that stove until it
would
11. 344
Speaker: get good and be warm it was -- then she would stir it once and a while and then
it would get like little lumps in it -- then when that was like that she would take it off the
stove and pour it in a cloth and tie it together and hang it up and let it drain til all that water
all that buttermilk or milk would come out of it and then when it was cold and all dripped
out there was your cottage cheese in there. Oh yea. Yea, that used to be good -- when
she would take it out of the bag -- she would put it -- we didn't have a refrigerator those
years, you had a ground cellar which was very cold, you know and you kept all your things
in there, you know like your pies, your custards, and your cheese, your butter, everything
you'd keep in there. Your milk. So she would put it in a dish in a big dish then and when
she would want to use it she would milk or put a little milk and a little bit of salt in there
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
and you then you'd just put a little at a time in so it would get real nice and smooth and --
oh yea that used to be good. That cottage cheese. We have a ground celler. Yea, yea,
we'd keep out potatoes in there and carrots and for the winter -- Apples. Apples -- Now few
years ago she bought apples, we didn't store keep apples over the winter <unintelligible
text> we just bought them as we needed them and then cold storage apples I used to
get the hives and I couldn't we couldn't understand from what and I get the hives. So I
doctored and I was with a doctor and he couldn't understand either so it happened that I
stayed away from the apples for a couple days then I was alright. The n
12. 375
I started to eat apples again and I an apple a day or something like that when I'd go out in
the field I'd take an apple along out in the field. Then I started to get them again. Well now
I said to her now I believe I get it from the apples. Why she said I wouldn't know why and
you don't get it Other times and I said these are storage apples. So this was good I stayed
away from them again. We tried a couple of times and I found it out I said yep, I believe
it's from the apples. So now we get apples in fall and we put them in our ground cellar. I
don't have no trouble now. Then she works over at <unintelligible text> at the dairy and
then one day a woman came in with a little boy and she said to the little boy, aren't you
in school today? And the mother said yea, guess what, I just come from the doctor and
he has hives from apples, storage apples and she said, ahh my husband has is the same
way. Now if we store apples in the ground cellar for winter I have no problem. Right. Yea,
yea. it's really something but that's the way we discovered it. Now I told the doctor then
later on that I think I know where I got my hives from From what? And I told him. But then
she happened to say something at the place where we got the apples -- oh no we don't
put nothing in the storage room, but we didn't say anymore then. Well when that other
fellow where we got some apples from out at <unintelligible text> Maple Creek he said it's
a certain kind of a gas like, you know, that they have in there and I said then well that must
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
be what does this, you know. It must like react in his system. Yea. <unintelligible text> you
go ahead tell her.
13. 420
Speaker: Well my mother used to years ago you had geese, you know, you know what a
goose is? She would take that fat out of the goose and fry that out and put in a bottle or a
jar or something -- when we would get a cold you know on our chest and on a sore throat
she would give us a tablespoon of this goose fat with some brown sugar on and I used to
hate it. And we had to gargle our throat with sage tea and put it alum in it. Yea, it draws
your mouth. Well I hated that too. I hated that too. And then she would grease our chest
with that goose fat and then she's lay a piece of flannel on your chest. Well evidently we
got rid of our cold -- I don't know what did it but something. That's what we -- that's what
we had. And there's another remedy -- Sore throat and my dad then my mother would say
you've gotta gargle your throat tonight, you know and -- And there's another remedy that
she has -- Oh yea but that's now that wasn't years ago. That's just now. Why if you have a
tickle in your throat you have to cough every once in a while, You have a Bad cough, and
she takes one part of honey -- extracted honey -- one part -- the same amount of whiskey
and same amount of lemon. Lemon juice. Lemon juice All equal amounts. Yea, and mix
that up. One fall I had it so bad just a little tickle -- I had a cough -- he was Coughing all the
time. I was coughing practically all the time and I was harvesting corn -- He couldn't sleep.
I couldn't sleep and day it would bother me all the time so she mixed that and I had a little
bottle, stuck this little bottle in my shirt pocket while I was out in the field and it started
tickling that I was gonna
14. 426
Library of Congress
Conversation with 66 year old male and 63 year old female, Pennsylvania (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms5605
Speaker: cough I just take the bottle and take a little swallow -- just so I had something
going through my throat. Well then that went good for a while, pretty soon it started tickle
again and I did the same thing -- Well I I got rid of it. And she said that a woman came in
over at <(many)?> Brothers and had to cough so and she asked her, don't you know a
good remedy for cough and she laughed a little bit and said yes, I can give you a remedy.
I don't know and she said she was with a doctor and the doctor couldn't help her and I had
been with a doctor, too, and he never could help me in coughing -- so of course she told
this woman that. Later on she came in she said your remedy worked real good. She said
now I'm rid of my cough once, she said, I had it for 2 month already. So -- Yea, There was
a woman in yesterday and she was coughing so then she said now what did she ask for
if we had? I forget what she asked if we had it in the store. Some sort of cough medicine
but I don't know what kind. She said I have this bad cough and she was coughing away
she said I can't lay down to sleep she said I have to sit on a chair. She said and I have the
second bottle of cough medicine and some other pills from the doctor and I can't get rid of
it and I looked at her, I said, shall I tell you what's good for that? And she said cut my head
off? I said no and I told her I said you go and get yourself some honey and lemons and
whiskey and I said mix equal parts together and I said whenever your throat tickles don't
be afraid to take it I said that is no harmful things to take. If you have cough medicine