American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Jean Lafitte National Historical Park collection ( AFC 1985/022) 
afc1985022_01_011 
Final Report 
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
Memorandum 
TO 
: Alan Jabbour, Director 
American Folklife Center 
FROM 
: 
Mary Hufford 
Folklife Specialist 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
DATE: April 30, 1986 
suBJEcT: Travel to Jean Lafitte National Historical Park, New Orleans, Louisiana 
December 12 - 21, 1985 
Report and Recommendations 
Background 
In aid- December of 1985 I visited New Orleans to explore the 
possibility of a cooperative effort between the American Folklife 
Center and Jean Lefitte National Historical Park. Alan Jabbour, 
director of the Center, and James Isenogle, Park superintendent, 
had discussed the desirability of joint efforts since the Park was 
created in 1978. This particular visit arose out of Jim Isenogle's 
interest in the Pinelands Folklife Project, sparked by an article 
that appeared in the February 1985 issue of Folklife Center News. 
This was not the park's first consultation with £ olklife 
agencies and folklorists. 
Shortly after the park was formed, it 
contracted with the National Council on the Traditional Arts to 
produce an ethnographic overview of the Mississippi Delta region. 
Nick Spitzer, then serving as director of the Louisiana Folklife 
Program, directed this effort, which resulted in a solid collection 
of essays on cultural groups and subregions in South Louisiana. It 
is nay understanding that Louisiana State University plans to 
publish the collection, which currently augments the archive of 
scholarly reports that the Park is developing to support its work. 
Nick Spitzer also consulted with the Park from time to time in his 
- 1 - 
Jean Lafitte 
position as Louisiana State Folklorist, and the Park worked with 
the Folklife Pavilion during the 1984 World's Fair in New Orleans. 
The Park 
Jean Lafitte is an innovative park, in that its mission is to 
interpret South Louisiana history and culture, while physically 
owning and managing very little of the area in its purview. 
Establishing a presence therefore constitutes a greater challenge 
for this park than for most. The Park's administrative offices are 
on Canal Street in New Orleans. It actually owns two conventional 
units, one in Chalmette, the site of the Battle of New Orleans, and 
one in Barataria, a marsh area being developed for recreational and 
scientific use. It also manages an interpretive center in the 
French Quarter, in which it is establishing a folkli£e center 
for exhibits and programs. The rest of the Park will crystallize in 
satellite centers like the Isleno Center in St. Bernard Parish. 
The satellite centers are established through cooperative 
agreements between the Park and local communities. With the 
exception of the Center for Traditional Boatbuilding, developing in 
Thibodeaux under Ray Brassieur's supervision, all the centers are 
organized around ethnic communities and themes, a structure that 
was closely followed in Nick Spitzer's report. Other centers 
underway will present Cajun and Creole culture in Eunice and 
Lafayette, and Chitimacha heritage in Charendon. In the cooperative 
agreements, the community generally provides a place, and the Park 
provides technical and interpretive services. I was quite 
impressed with the Park's practice of working with local 
communities and what we might call " indigenous" interpreters. 
2 
Jean Laf itte 
As a national park, Jean Lafitte is unique in having created a 
position for a folklorist. The position, which emphasizes 
administration over research and fieldwork, is currently filled by 
Tom Tankersley. Tankersley, a military historian by training, is 
clearly interested in the contemporary culture of the region, but 
inclined to delegate the research to professional consultants. 
The Park steering committee, comprising George Neusanger, Mike 
Strock, and Tom Tankersley, representing biology, history, and 
folklife respectively, forms the bridge between research and 
interpretation. Tom Tankersley worked with me throughout my visit 
to explore the possibilities for projects and to refine their 
focus. 
I went to New Orleans with a number of questions in mind. What 
is the Park's mission via a via folklife and how does it carry it 
out? Where does the Park's folklife mission intersect with the 
American Folklife Center's? What can the Center contribute to the 
Park's work in the region in general? What can the Center 
contribute to the Park's work in subregions like Plaquemines Parish 
and Barataria Marsh? What bearing do folklorists' methods of 
research and presentation have on the Park's mission? CI am 
thinking especially of those research methods and modes of 
presentation taking form through the public- sector folklife 
network.) What should the Center's role be in developing the 
research and presentation centering around a community of Dalmatian 
oysterfishermen in Plaquemines Parish? Who would the researchers be? 
With these questions as a backdrop, I would like to divide my 
discussion of the trip into three parts: 
1) The Dalmatian community and Plaquemines Parish 
3 
Jean Lafitte 
2) Cultural aspects of natural resource management and 
interpretation: Barataria Marsh and the Isleno Center. 
3) Summary and recommendations: a regional £ olklife 
newsletter and a Plaquemines Parish project. 
The Dalmatian Community and Plaquemines Parish  
"We had a sign down there: ' The end of the world"' ( Irvan 
Perez) 
If the sign in St. Bernard Parish told the truth, then 
Plaquemines Parish would have to be over the edge. By all 
appearances it is a challenging place to inhabit. Most of what one 
sees on a map is below sea level. The main road is centered on a 
swath of land that is never more than a mile wide, and runs for a 
hundred miles between two levees that keep the Mississippi River 
and the Gulf of Mexico at bay, except during severe storms. David 
Cvitanovich told us that Plaquemines and St. Bernard Parishes are 
in the highest risk zone for hurricanes in the country. " You know 
what's bad about this place," he said, 
You're in a soup bowl. You're in a pot. And if you have 
a wall there, and a wall there, once that water gets 
in, where does it go? As long as it doesn't come over 
that levee it's fine. But once it comes across that 
levee, say if you got a tidal wave like Hurricane 
Betsy . . . 
This spit of land, a mile wide by a hundred miles long, has 
historically supported a striking array of diverse cultural groups 
from four continents, including Native Americans, French, Black, 
Italian, Creole, Vietnamese, and a colony o£ Dalmatian oyster 
fishermen that pre- dates the Civil War. Our contacts with the 
- 4 - 
Jean Lafitte 
Yugoslav community were arranged by Pat Pugh, the Director of 
Tourism for Plaquemines Parish. We spent a Sunday with David 
Cvitanovich of Belle Chasse, who works as a guide for the oil 
companies. He generously guided us on a five- hour windshield tour 
o£ Plaquemines Parish, which included stops at a cemetery and at a 
dock for oyster luggers and shrimp trawlers. On Thursday we spent 
three hours eating lunch at Tom's Place ( in Empire) in the company 
of some delightful and lively elders in the community, including 
Motto Farac, Zeljko Franks, Zidko Rosandich, Matt Ficovich, and 
others whose names I did not get. 
This brief exposure, supplemented by conversations with Ray 
Brassieur and Joe Guillotte, regional scholars whose work has 
touched on the community, convinces me that the group is well worth 
a study. But some may question whether it is appropriate to make an 
apparently wealthy and powerful group the focus of a federally 
funded study in Plaquemines Parish, and I hope the Park will be 
mindful of this in designing the research and presentation. I would 
also add that my impressions are based on an extremely small 
(and, for all we know, atypical) statistical sampling. The 
following observations should therefore not be taken as efforts to 
generalize, but only to identify themes that emerged in our 
conversations with a small number of people, and to note 
interesting topics for further investigation. 
Most of the Yugoslays in Plaquemines Parish come from the 
Peljesac Peninsula on the Adriatic Sea, from villages like 
Igrane, Ston, Trpanj, and Duba, where, as Cvitanovich put it, 
"the Louisiana oyster industry is still centered." Colonists from 
those communities struck out for Louisiana before the Civil War 
5 
Jean Lafitte 
in search of a better living. As Zeljko Franks said, " Why do I 
left? You know what they say in Yugoslavia: ' Kruk trbuh.' That 
means ' Stomach after the bread.' In other words, you going where 
you can get food or a better living." Families in the homeland 
continue as their beneficiaries. " Plaquemines Parish was the 
benefactor to that whole coast," Cvitanovich said. 
The pattern, according to the gentlemen we spoke with at 
Tom's Place, was that rather than divide a small homestead among 
three sons, a family would suggest that one or two of the sons 
pull up stakes and put them down somewhere else. Those electing 
to emigrate might come to Plaquemines Parish and work for 
several years for a relative before going into business for 
themselves. Zeljko Franks, for example, began in oysters and 
diversified: 
I went in finance, went to shiploading, real estate and 
things like that. . . . You see, when you come down to 
Empire, if you look on the right hand side you see the 
Dock Side Loading and Shipping? That was mine. That was 
the one I first started at. Loading the ships, loading 
grain, loading coal, loading everything that goes out. 
Entrepreneurship seems to comprise as much of a way of life for 
them as oystering. " Wherever a Yugoslav sets his foot," said 
Motto Farac, 
He ain't getting out of there without making money. 
They know how to make it, they know how to save it. And 
they're no bother to nobody. 
And I'd say ninety-nine 
percent of them are that way. 
Yugoslays, we were told, hardly work for other Yugoslays 
6 
Jean Lafitte 
beyond the first two years. David Cvitanovich said that the 
shucking- house work force comprises " mulattoes and Vietnamese." 
With evident admiration he added, 
The Vietnamese are taking over the fishing industry. 
They are a really effective work force. They're not 
wasteful and it kind* brings a lot of jealousy from the 
American people. They pool their money, they're very 
resourceful, they're not wasteful. 
Despite his claim that his people prefer to be called 
"Dalmatian" rather than " Croatian" or " Yugoslav" -- both of 
which can be politically charged terms -- Cvitanovich continually 
used the term " Yugoslav" to describe both the language and the 
culture. 
He divided them into three categories: 
those that are born over there and came over here, the 
most recent ones: then you have the first generation 
ones [ i.e. those born over here, of parents born over 
there]; and also you've got the second generation ones 
-- the ones from a hundred years back, you know. Maybe 
their grandfather came from the old country, and they 
kind of intertwined into the population of the Delta." 
Dalmatians with whom I spoke referred to themselves as 
"Slavonians," " Yugoslays," and " Slays." " You take Leander Perez, 
what he used to say about the Slays," said Motto Farac. "' That's 
my people.' That's how much he thought of the Slays." They 
referred to non- Yugoslays as " Deltans," " Americans," " Natives," 
"Blacks," and " Sabines" ( as well as " Italians," " French," and 
"Vietnamese"). 
The Deltans call the Dalmatians " Takos," a term that, 
7 - 
Jean Lafitte 
according to Vujnovich ( the author of Yugoslays in Louisiana), is 
the Yugoslav response to " Kako si?" ( How are you?) Yugoslays, not 
wishing to appear boastful, reply " Tako, tako" ( so-so). In a 
story related by 
David Cvitanovich, however, it began with a 
violent incident between the Dalmatians and the Italians in the 
last century: 
This is just an old wives tale, but you remember 
that picture [ in Vujnovich's book] of the Yugoslav tug-
of-war team? Well, " tako" means " do it like that." This 
is hearsay, but the story must be good, because it's 
been out almost a hundred years. 
They had the tug-of-
war championship, and Yugoslays share a border with 
Italy, and Yugoslays have been at war with Italy for 
hundreds of years, back and forth from the time o£ the 
Venetians and Turks. 
There have always been border 
squabbles and resentment -- like now Trieste is in 
Italy, where before Trieste was in Yugoslavia, you 
know. I'm talkin' about in Austria-Hungary times. 
It's 
tough. So we had a tug-of-war championship and it was 
the Italians against the Yugoslays, which were the 
Austrians -- at that time Yugoslavia was part of 
Austria-Hungary, the Hapsburg empire. 
Well, they had the Yugoslays were poor fishermen. 
They were all in bluejeans and dungarees, and the 
Italians were braggadocious [ sic]. They were all in 
tuxedos, okay? 
And on each team they had an anchorman, 
and the anchorman had the rope tied around him, and 
what happened was when the Italians tied the rope, they 
8 
Jean Lafitte 
tied a slip knot around this guy, and by puttin' a slip 
knot -- the Yugoslays were far stronger than what the 
Italians were -- they put a slip knot, and the guy 
started squeezin', and the Yugoslays were Pullin'. And 
they had resentment, like a local rivalry. And what 
happened, with the tight rope, he started bleeding. And 
they seen the blood comin' out of him and they started 
saying " Tako! Tako!". 
and ever since that that's why 
they call them Takos. 
The contrasts and connections between the two peninsulas -- 
Peljesac and Plaquemines -- are interesting to ponder: the rocky 
homeland that has stood for centuries on the Adriatic Sea, and 
the satellite colony on land that is subsiding into the Gulf of 
Mexico, where they can hardly even keep a tombstone in place. 
Perhaps one of Plaquemines Parish's most enduring monuments is on 
the Dalmatian Coast. David Cvitanovich showed us a picture of a 
church towering over the other buildings in the Yugoslav 
village of Igrane. 
This church is on top of the town, and around the end 
o£ World War I this fellow became very prominent here. 
His name is Motto Parun and he was a merchant down at 
Olga. . . . In the old times the river boats used to ply 
the river and . . . the fishermen would bring the oysters 
to the front, and they had these big sheds and you'd 
sell your oysters to a broker, and a broker would make 
arrangements with dealers in New Orleans, and he would 
have the riverboat come up. He was the fellow that 
wheeled and dealed all this stuff. . . . Well, he didn't 
9 
Jean Lafitte 
have any children, and he sent $ 18,000 back then to 
build a bell tower on the side of the church. 
He had 
the bells made in Italy, and they were sent over, and 
on the front part of the bell tower they have where it 
was donated by Motto Parun, a native of Igrane, but he 
made his fortune in Olga, Plaquemines Parish, 
Louisiana, U.S.A. 
Olga, the site of the first Dalmatian colony, no longer exists. 
"It's just a thing in everyone's mind," said Cvitanovich. It was 
destroyed in a hurricane, as was Ostrica, another major early 
settlement. 
The memorializing of Plaquemines Parish in Igrane takes on a 
heightened significance when one considers how vulnerable 
Plaquemines Parish is in the eyes of its inhabitants. Hurricanes 
Betsy ( 1965) and Camille ( 1969) are temporal markers. I constantly 
heard things located in time " before Betsy" and " after Camille." 
"Everything down here," said Cvitanovich, " is measured in before 
the storm and after the storm." 
The elements are against you. 
This place is washin' 
away, more and more. Plaquemines Parish is not going to 
be on the face of the map in fifty or sixty years, with 
the subsidence and the constant erosion, encroachment 
of the sea. I'd hate to say Plaquemines Parish won't be 
here in 50 years, but Plaquemines Parish as we know it 
will be drastically changed, and it's not inviting for 
someone to spend big dollars and stay in this 
business. 
He pointed out that there is no such thing as an old house south of 
- 10 - 
Jean Lafitte 
Empire because of the hurricanes. Hurricane Camille left seven out 
of five thousand structures standing. " It was like somebody passed 
there with a big broom," said Cvitanovich. " And that's what's sad. 
There's no building of history." The past wiped out by hurricanes 
is partly retrievable in Yugoslavia. " We lost our home in Betsy and 
Camille," said David Cvitanovich, 
and all our pictures of children were lost, and the 
only pictures we ever had were the ones that were in 
Yugoslavia, and . . . when I was a kid in Yugoslavia in 
1967 I seen pictures of Plaquemines Parish in the 
1900s, you know, o£ a wedding in Olga, which, Olga 
doesn't even exist anymore. 
There's a shell of a 
couple o£ buildings left and a couple of fishermen's 
camps, and at one time they had 800 Yugoslays livin' at 
Olga, and this whole area had a bunch of people, and I 
seen a picture where everybody had the big handlebar 
mustaches and the wide brim hats and they were all 
stocky, strong people. 
But, of course, my visit to Empire was prompted not by what 
Louisiana has sent to Yugoslavia, but by the Park's interest in 
what survived and developed in Plaquemines Parish from the Peljesac 
Peninsula. Members of the older generation still speak a Dalmatian 
dialect of Croatian as their first language. One can hear on my 
field tapes ( LFPAMHO14-016) that the men at Tom's Place addressed 
me in thickly accented English between rapid sequences with each 
other in their mother tongue which, Motto Parun pointed out, is 
passed down matrilineally: " All the people whose mothers are 
Yugoslav, all the kids speak it." 
Jean Lafitte 
David Cvitanovich, in his thirties, is fluently bilingual. 
But he gave the Dalmatians mixed reviews on their ability to 
maintain their culture, lamenting, for example, the absence of 
traditional dancers and the failure of some children to pick up 
the language. " It's a shame there's a void in the Yugoslav 
culture in this respect of nobody carrying on things." Yet Empire 
remains significant enough as a Yugoslav outpost to draw the 
bearers of official culture -- music and dance performers from 
Zadar and Dubrovnik on tours of the United States. Only the 
outsiders to the community are able to " discover" it as a forgotten 
enclave. 
On the other hand, he offered strong evidence of continuing 
cultural commitment in the community. Having observed that there 
were no local " performers," he commented 
that it only takes a 
little wine to get " all kind of music" out of local people. 
Like my cousin, he's got the tug in Venice right now, 
and he's a beautiful singer. They get four or five of 
'em together, they huddle up and they start singing 
really beautiful songs. Old songs. I remember as kids 
we learned old songs. We know a few of ' em in a group. 
I£ I'd a been born over there I'd've picked up more. 
This suggests the notion advanced by historic- geographic 
folklorists that cultural retentions are stronger at the 
periphery ( which in this case would be Empire) than at the core 
(Dube). We sampled some of this singing on Thursday in a spirited 
session at Tom's Place, which may be heard on the tape. ( AMHO16) 
According to David Cvitanovich there are no Yugoslav 
Saturday schools in the Parish, but he hopes to pass along the 
- 12 - 
Jean Lafitte 
language himself: " If I settle down and have a family I'd love for 
my children to be able to speak Yugoslav, cause I think a person 
with two languages, that's two personalities all in itself." 
And 
apparently other parents have the same commitment, if children are 
as fluent as he suggests: 
What I like is in Empire, you'll see little Yugoslav 
kids playin', and not one of ' em speaking a word of 
English. They're all singing in Yugoslay. To me it 
reminds me o£ my childhood. 
He recalled that being ridiculed in school for speaking Yugoslav 
made him reticent to speak it in public as a child, but he 
continued to speak it at home. 
David Cvitanovich pointed to other signs that set the 
Yugoslays apart from their American neighbors: 
We have a big Yugoslav picnic in Fort Jackson. Four or 
five hundred people come and barbecue the pigs and all 
and they have the bocci ball games, and the young 
Yugoslays will play soccer. And they play . . . 
"briAkula." It's a card game, and you have to use the 
Italian deck of cards. I think there's 42 cards in a 
deck. 
Olive oil and lemon are, he said, essential elements in Yugoslav 
cuisine. And the architecture has some distinctively Yugoslav 
elements: 
See these brick houses here? Those are two Slavich 
brothers from Duba. These are brick houses, nice 
houses. See now this one's got a little bit of Yugoslav 
architecture, you see, with the stone on the front 
- 13 - 
Jean Lafitte 
here. 
But the most fundamental distinction between Yugoslav homes 
and the homes of Deltans had little to do with imported features of 
design. During our tour, it appeared that most non- Yugoslays in 
Plaquemines Parish lived in trailers, and the permanent homes of 
the Deltans were certainly more modestly appointed than the solid 
brick houses that Cvitanovich called to our attention. " The local 
Deltans are jealous of the Yugoslays," he said, " cause the 
Yugoslays got all the biggest and best homes down here." 
This big house here was our neighbor in Yugoslavia, 
John Taliancich. He built this house by himself . . . this 
is second- generation Yugoslavia. . . . These two houses 
here, these are all Yugoslav oysterfishermen. 
So you 
know, Yugoslav fishermen, they're all successful. 
It appears that Dalmatian oystermen have enjoyed success, the 
magnitude of which is not generally associated with the folk 
communities that government agencies study. I began to wonder 
whether their language has remained integral for so long because 
their way of life both sustains them economically and keeps 
three generations interacting. Young Yugoslays, according to 
Cvitanovich, still choose to go into oysters, in contrast to young 
Islenos who are not replacing their trapping forebears on the 
marshes. 
"You can't make the money on a regular job that you can make 
on oysters," said Cvitanovich. " Now these people, some of ' em make a 
hundred thousand dollars a year." 
For business reasons, 
Cvitanovich feels he has to speak the fishermen's language: 
I think it's a necessity. In my business, dealin' with 
- 14 - 
Jean Laf itte 
the fishermen, for the oil companies with the rigs and 
all, once you start speakin' to the fishermen in their 
native tongue, right away you've broken a barrier. 
Barrier maintenance -- both environmental and cultural --
seemed critically important in our conversations with people. The 
maintenance of order is marked in part by perennial battles against 
intrusions. There are the levees -- 640 million dollars worth, 
according to Cvitanovich -- that keep the water in its proper 
place, most of the time. The old levees, covered with indigenous 
willow trees, wax myrtle, maple, and oak, are distinguishable from 
the new ones covered with Chinese tallow trees from Southeast Asia. 
But the levees are ineffective against salt water intrusion or 
pollution, caused in part by oil companies digging canals through 
the marshes. ( George Neusanger mentioned that the water hyacinth, 
an escaped weed from South America, could purify polluted water, but 
it tends to clog up the channels, making them impassable.) David 
Cvitanovich reported that a group o£ oystermen, believing cattle 
excrement to be a major source of pollution, are suing an Italian 
rancher who owns eighteen miles o£ waterfront property. 
Cultural barriers are perhaps more impenetrable than 
environmental ones. Certainly hurricanes cannot break them down. 
Cvitanovich observed that under the Perez regime " Justice" meant 
"Just us." 
Perez, of course, drew national attention in the 60s 
when he threatened to incarcerate civil rights leaders in Fort 
St. Phillip if they set foot in Plaquemines Parish. Racism is a 
very real part of the picture there. The schools are integrated, 
but the cemeteries I saw were not. One tombstone proclaimed: " Only 
persons of white blood to be buried in this tomb." 
We later 
- 15 - 
Jean Lafitte 
learned that this message was intended to dispel a rumor that the 
deceased had an ancestor from Africa. One of the people we 
interviewed told us, sotto voce, how control over the knowledge of 
who had black ancestry was lost. The Catholic Church, according to 
this account, used to keep strict genealogical records, whereas the 
Protestant churches did not. Very fair- skinned blacks found that by 
changing their names and their religious affiliations they could 
pass for white. The person who told us this did not wish to be 
identified as the source of this information, which seemed odd to 
me since there were no names mentioned, and it seemed to be a 
simple statement of how things were. The topic appears to be highly 
charged. 
This is as true of South Jersey as it is of Plaquemines 
Parish, but in South Jersey we were not studying a single cultural 
group. ( Again, we do not know whether this group is as powerful 
as my short visit seems to indicate.) The interactions among 
Yugoslays and the other groups will be important to note. For 
instance, Richard March, a folklorist fluent in Croatian, reported 
that while visiting a Yugoslav friend in Plaquemines Parish 
about ten years ago he saw " the proverbial black man speaking 
Croatian in a restaurant." 
At any rate, on a number of levels, the established order 
seems to be of the most precarious sort. The levees that hold back 
the waters also keep the river from depositing the annual layer of 
silt required to keep the parish above sea level. The levees also 
periodically turn the place into a giant bath tub. This situation 
has an unnerving side effect: the dead will not stay put. The 
airtight caskets, many of them held down by large concrete 
- 16 - 
Jean Lafitte 
tombstones, are all numbered so that it they pop out of the ground 
during a flood they can later be properly repositioned. I was told 
that in some instances the floating 
caskets have saved people from 
drowning -- an odd gift of the dead to the living. In one instance, 
according to Cvitanovich, the deceased continued a feud with a 
living adversary: 
It was funny. Mr. Jack Arnold had a welding shop on the 
lower side of the cemetery over there, and his uncle 
had died a short time before the storm. And he and his 
uncle quarrelled for years. They didn't speak for 
years, didn't get along, and do you know that when the 
storm came, his uncle's casket landed on top of the 
welding shop. And it was so funny -- he said, " That old 
son- of- a- bitch didn't have any use for me when he was 
livin', but he had to come back and see me after he 
died!" 
- 17 - 
Jean Lafitte 
Regional Aspects o£ Culture: Oysters, Oil and Oranges 
Cvitanovich characterized Empire as the hub of Louisiana 
where oysters and oil are concerned. It also appears to be the 
center for Yugoslays in the parish. A great deal of wealth, 
both economic and cultural, seems to be invested in boats, which, 
in contrast to homes, can be anchored upriver during severe storms. 
Thus boats have histories that buildings don't have. Cvitanovich 
briefly introduced several hundred vessels docked in the basin 
at Empire. He said that one of them, the " Perfection," is a cypress 
schooner that has been working for more than a century. 
According to Cvitanovich, the oyster boat represents an 
investment in the neighborhood of $ 250,000. He observed that most 
of the wooden boats we saw were made of cypress, and he also 
identified some that were made of aluminum, steel, and fiberglass. 
The typical oyster boats, he said, have high bows for fighting the 
weather, flat bottoms with propeller shafts for minimizing the 
draft, cabins in the stern, dredges in the bow, awnings for keeping 
the oysters cool in the sun, and hinged aluminum flaps on the sides 
that are raised when seed oysters are propelled overboard for 
planting. He commented that one important Yugoslav contribution to 
the technology is the use of water guns in the planting process, 
enabling them to hose the oysters onto the seed beds rather than 
shovel them, which of course conserves time and manpower. On the 
third Sunday of August each year the oyster season begins with the 
blessing of the fleet -- a festive occasion on which the boats are 
decorated and attendance numbers in the thousands. The blessing of 
the fleet also marks the start of the second shrimp season. 
The vessels all have names of course: Miss Joyce, Mali 
- 18 - 
Jean Lafitte 
Jozo ( which means " Little Joe"), Captain Kuzman, and Tino. 
Cvitanovich observed that boats used to be named for the owners' 
mothers, but that now people may name them for other family 
members, or even after themselves. The Tino had a black stripe 
painted on the side. " You know what that means?" said Cvitanovich, 
It means the owner of that boat got killed. He was a 
young guy. He was twenty-three years old and he went 
into the old country one year for the summer, it was 
1973. So now his brother-in-law owns the boat, his 
sister and her husband, and they always put a black 
stripe in mourning. 
We glimpsed some interesting facets of local oyster biology 
and classification. The sex life of oysters was of consuming 
interest, as was the topic of the effect of oysters on human sexual 
behavior. 
"You see, I'm going to get you interested in the oysters," 
said Motto Farac. " This oyster that you just ate, that was a female 
oyster." 
"How do you know?" I asked. 
"Because they're fat. If you get a skinny oyster, that is a 
male oyster. . . . A male changes to a female, a female changes back 
to a male. They don't have to mate or anything." 
The folklore about oysters is that, as aphrodisiacs, they 
effect the opposite condition in humans. " They say if you eat the 
right oysters," said Motto Farac, significantly, " you goin' huntin'." 
"You know what the doctor told me?" laughed Zeljko Franks, who 
has a heart condition, "' You can eat three oysters. Watch it."' 
Cvitanovich identified three different kinds of oyster 
- 19 - 
Jean Lafitte 
shell: 
If you have a long thin narrow shell, kinds hard to 
open, that means the oyster's growin' fast. It's 
growing too fast. 
They call that a " coon oyster" here. 
And your pretty, real attractive oyster is called a 
"cockleshell oyster". . . and then you have a deep, 
cup- type oyster, they call that a " cup oyster." 
And 
it's different types of formation -- the reef, the salt 
content, the currents that do that. 
The ability to open such shells quickly is a skill celebrated at 
the Orange Festival competitions. 
Motto Farac introduced the 
proprietor of Tom's Place saying, " This is your king 
oystershucker, Tommy. 
Now he'll take an oyster and put it behind 
his back, and he'll say, ' Here. It's open. "' 
Unlike the annual Orange Festival, which sounds as though it 
is alive and well each November, the citrus industry seems to be a 
skeleton o£ its former self. Groves that used to average 5,000 
trees now contain 400. It was hard to find a bottle of orange 
wine for sale. Hurricanes, competition with the oil industry for 
labor, and a spate of recent freezes have combined to demolish most 
of the groves. Cvitanovich's godmother ( his father's sister) was 
the first orange queen in Plaquemines Parish in 1947, a pioneer in 
the making o£ orange wine since 1933. She lost 8,000 trees, 
according to Cvitanovich, to Hurricane Betsy. " When mama came 
here," he recalled, 
She worked in orchards for my aunt. There was miles of 
orchards. The blossoms you smell ' em for miles. The trip was 
really nice to go down there when I was in second grade. And 
- 20 - 
Jean Lafitte 
the freezes hit [ in the sixties] and after that it just 
diminished. 
Oil is in trouble for different reasons. As Cvitanovich 
pointed out, there is no dearth of it in Plaquemines Parish: 
"This place floats on oil." Other countries are affecting its 
value. " Everytime that OPEC barrel comes down a dollar," said 
Cvitanovich, 
It chokes Louisiana a little bit harder and harder. 
. . . What's really hurtin' Louisiana is that Louisiana 
got so dependent on oil. It's almost addicted to oil. 
The tax system in Louisiana is geared up on oil, and 
everything else. Once the price of oil starts goin' 
down . . . taxes in Louisiana are going to skyrocket. 
What Tom Tankersley called " the vulnerability theme" works on a 
number of levels. The risks and the stakes seemed to me to operate 
on an enormous scale, with hurricanes and mineral wealth 
outweighing each other at different times. I found myself wondering 
what motivates people to stay there when they have to keep starting 
over. Some people don't stay there, of course, and others lose 
their will to begin again. Cvitanovich observed that his father 
went from riches to rags because of Hurricane Camille: 
You take Hurricane Camille, it ultimately killed my 
father. Here my father was, he was fifty-eight years 
old when the storm hit. He paid his last house note two 
weeks before the storm. He had a little barroom. He had 
eight or ten little rent houses. He had a couple boats 
workin' for the oil company. Sittin' on top of the 
world and two weeks later he had one boat left working 
- 21 - 
Jean Lafitte 
for the oil company. He lost everything he ever owned. 
. . . So, the big strain on him, he wound up dying . . . 
about eight months after. 
He also hinted that the Yugoslays were long ago prepared for 
Plaquemines Parish in their skirmishes with Camille's precursor, 
Attila the Hun: 
There is nothing guaranteed in life. Down here you had 
to be hard to survive. You had to have a will to 
survive. . . . Yugoslavia was more or less the battle-
ground of Europe, with Attila the Hun and everything 
else, and you had to be tough to survive, and Yugoslays 
were tough to survive. Oyster industry's a very tough 
industry. . . . People lost, but they had persistence. 
They came back and they built it up again. 
In this light it is also interesting that what I would 
consider big-time gambling was described as a popular pursuit --
gambling not only at cards and bocce ball, but in casinos. The men 
at Tom's Place enthusiastically recalled islands in the Adriatic 
Sea where they used to go for gambling, and they look forward to 
legalized gambling in Louisiana. " I'm gonna tell you right now," 
said Motto Farac, " I looked at the news last night, and I looked at 
the news this morning. If that goes through what he's got in mind, 
bringing gambling back in the state, I'm for it, one hundred 
percent." 
"Oh, I'm for that, too," said Zeljko Franks. 
"I told my wife when we went to Las Vegas night," continued 
Mr. Farac, 
you see, honey, you see how everybody likes to gamble 
- 22 - 
Jean Lafitte 
and all that? Now why they wanna keep that away from 
us, send us to Las Vegas, Reno, or whatever?" We went 
on the dice table, we didn't get off of it. We stood at 
the dice table for five hours. Me, her, my son and 
daughter-in-law, my daughter, and everything else, 
shootin' and rollin' them dice. 
And I mean, rollin' ' em 
now. Money. I had $ 200 worth of chips, she had $ 200 
worth of chips -- well, between the family we had over 
a thousand dollars worth of chips. We lost all that and 
bought more chips. 
I would be curious to know the degree to which gambling figures as 
a cultural symbol for members of this community, just as, according 
to Joe Guillotte, ducks are important symbols of Isleno life and 
values. 
- 23 - 
Jean Lafitte 
SOME CULTURAL ASPECTS OF NATURAL RESOURCE 
MANAGEMENT AND INTERPRETATION 
The Barataria Marsh Unit 
Two subthemes emerged during my visit that merit 
discussion here, though they may not have any direct bearing on a 
project with the Dalmatian community in Plaquemines Parish. One 
concerns the relationship between official ( scientific) and 
unofficial ( folk) views of the environment, and the other 
concerns the relationship between folklife research and the 
Park's educational mission. The first theme, an important one in 
the Pinelands Folklife Project, is of greatest relevance in Jean 
Lafitte's Barataria Marsh unit. 
The Park manages 8,000 acres of marshland in the Barataria 
unit, much of it considered prime trapping land. While the 
marshes are protected as a recreational and educational resource 
for visitors, they continue to serve as an economic resource for 
trappers, some of whom also live on Park property under a 
grandfather clause agreement. " It's unique," said Danny Horton, a 
native Baratarian who works in the Park's maintenance department. 
"It's one o£ the only national parks you can hunt and trap in." 
This notion of protecting trapping ( and by extension, a way of 
life) within a recreational wilderness area raises some intriguing 
questions. 
How is it possible for Jean Lafitte to permit trapping 
when at the same time a controversy is raging over the ban on 
trapping along the proposed Ozark Scenic National River in 
Missouri? How can trappers be seen as cultural resources in 
- 24 - 
Jean Lafitte 
Louisiana and not in Missouri? What is the nature of Jean Lafitte's 
commitment to trapping? 
The protection and presentation of trappers as 
resources 
within 
park setting, is, as George Neusanger pointed out, both 
complicated and controversial, a subplot within the larger 
national conflict between economic and recreational land- use 
values. 
Because canoeists do not want to see nutria caught in 
traps, trapping is now banned on the Priest Canal, which is a canoe 
trail. But even in the marshes, where trapping is permitted, 
trappers do not manage the marshes according to traditional means, 
because their goal in marsh management -- which is to maintain the 
marsh in the early stage of succession that muskrats love -- is 
different from the Park's goal, which is, as George Neusanger said, 
to manage it as an ecosystem. 
In speaking with two old-time trappers, Ursin Coppel and Irvan 
Perez, I realized that they hold very clear and precise notions in 
their minds of what a healthy marsh should be. Such a marsh is a 
cultural product, no less than a decima or a pirogue, and it merits 
documentation ( and perhaps physical conservation in some form). 
Their notions are grounded not only in economic necessities, but in 
moral, aesthetic, and perhaps even ethnic values. They saw 
themselves as caretakers of the land and judged fellow trappers by 
how they handled the marshes. " When I was trapping the land," said 
Ursin Coppel, who paddled from Crown Point to Barataria in a 
pirogue more than fifty years ago, 
I had it in good order . . . . I always took care of the 
animals. I never let it get too thick, or nothin' like 
that, and after I left there I went to work in the 
- 25 - 
Jean Lafitte 
shipyard during World War II. 
The people that had the 
land after that didn't trap it enough. 
The animals got 
so thick in there they killed most o£ the grass. 
Now 
it's nothin' but mostly ponds in the same land. 
When I 
went back about 20 years ago, the land looked like it 
was ruined. You could see the animals, like the 
muskrats as far as the eye could see. You could see ' em 
runnin' there, because there was no more grass. The 
grass was dyin' out. 
Traditional methods of managing marshes and muskrats include 
trainasse ( canal) digging ( both to ease passage by boat and to 
concentrate the water supply), burning off the marshes at the 
beginning and end of the season to encourage fresh growth of 
forage ( three- cornered grass), calculating the muskrat population 
to determine how many adult muskrats can be taken, and protecting 
the mothers and young rats from the traps. 
In the Park, of course, burning is prohibited, and while 
trappers may use the existing trainasses, they are not allowed to 
dig new ones. Danny Horton, who is a proficient hunter and 
trapper, mentioned that people used to use machines called 
"trainasse diggers" -- " just something that the local people came 
up with" -- specifically tailored for the ,job. The practice of 
burning, according to Horton, evolved from a technique originally 
used to uncover alligator holes: 
They found by doing that that the grass and all would 
come back and it made a better habitat, and they'd 
start burning their land every year after they finished 
trapping. 
If you don't burn, the grass dies and cire 
- 26 - 
Jean Lafitte 
[wax myrtle) comes in and the habitat changes into a 
scrub brush habitat. 
Thus the wax myrtle becomes an indicator of the loss of trapping 
territory. It grows abundantly where there has been no burning. The 
trainasses function as a shelter for the animals during the control 
burns. Coppel observed " If you don't burn, the marshes rot 
out." George Neusanger pointed out that ecologists are divided on 
the subject, with most o£ them in favor of manipulating vegetation 
by controlling the water levels rather than by burning. 
Both Ursin Coppel and Irvan Perez described methods of 
trapping that kept the muskrat population stable, whereby they 
would circle the marsh systematically through the three-month 
season. " I'd go around and make a big circle," said Coppel, 
and then, as the winter goes by, you're coming in all 
the time. So you got mostly the whole block of the 
animal. Not many gonna get out. . . . Now if you go all 
over in there, then you're gonna just run them out of 
the land. I've seen old men do that -- just trap all 
over on the land, and they wouldn't catch half as much 
as what I'd catch. . . . If you do the right thing . . 
. make a circle, don't disturb all of the place, well, 
you can trap and trap all winter. 
The trapper, like the ecologist, participates in a system of 
environmental literacy. The landscape he creates and manages is a 
complex text that he can read and make sense of. Signs on the marsh 
tell him where the young muskrats are, when it's going to rain, and 
how many rats he should take during a season. He has to leave 
enough rats for future fur crops, but he does not want the 
- 27 - 
Jean Lafitte 
"eatouts" that result from overpopulation. " The trapper that 
traps and tries to take care of his land," said Irvan Perez, 
he never sets his traps too close to the nest. He 
doesn't want to catch the mother nest where the mother 
has little ones. 
They avoid that to begin with. She's 
what they call a flat -- she don't have much pelt on 
her, much fur. One reason is she's nursin' the little 
ones. . . . A good trapper can tell just by looking at 
the hole or the run whether it's little rats or big 
rats, not necessarily by the footprint, but by the way 
they ate. 
The little ones, just like kids, are 
mischievous. 
They'll tear up everything, and turn it 
upside down, where the big rat'll get out of the holes, 
and go a piece and eat and then come back. So when you 
see it all tore up around the hole you know it's a 
small rat and you leave it alone. . . . And you see . . . 
a trapper can tell about twelve hours before that it's 
gonna rain. If you go that mornin' and you see these 
nests that's all worked, covered with mud and new 
grass, you can rest assured that come night it's gonna 
rain. 
The relationship between people and marshes was reciprocal in 
other ways. While the people kept the marshes in shape, the marshes 
kept them in shape, too. Trappers kept their weight down during the 
rigorous winter months, and as Irvan Perez jokingly observed, the 
washboards used in the camps to do laundry kept the women slender, 
too. " We used to say that at one time they never had no fat women, 
cause that extra side on the scrubbin' board was keepin' them in 
- 28 - 
Jean Lafitte 
shape." 
The ethnoecology of the trapper -- that is, his view of how 
the ecosystem functions -- is worth studying. Irvan Perez 
commented that trappers used to be aided by migratory geese that 
would " cultivate" the marshes each year. " Geese'll plow land just 
like a tractor," said Perez, 
they'll just turn it over. 
Maybe three or four hundred 
geese'll get in a given area and they'll work, they'll 
keep turning it. 
They'll eat the three- cornered grass, 
but in other words, they're cultivating this property. 
And the following year the grass grows green again 
because they'll cultivate and fertilize at the same 
time. When the geese quit comin' down here we started 
losin' the land. 
They have stopped coming, he said, because of sanctuaries 
established along their flyways further north. Perez also 
complained that sprays used in mosquito control have upset the 
natural balance ( practically echoing word for word the complaints 
of outdoorsmen in New Jersey), destroying the mosquito hawks 
(dragon flies) that used to control the mosquitos. " I'll tell you 
what keeps the mosquitos under control," said Irvan Perez, 
your mosquito hawk. . . . You see, the marshes, they'd 
have plenty of mosquitos one day and all of a sudden, 
every blade of grass would have a dragon fly on it. 
And in a day or so they wouldn't have any more 
mosquitos. But here's something else that the mosquito 
control does, it kills all the dragon flies, so when 
the mosquitos do come up they have an open field. 
- 29 - 
Jean Lafitte 
The Park does not permit the use of such sprays in the 
Barataria Marsh unit. Would it be possible for the Park to 
wield some influence on behalf of trappers and crabbers who fall 
outside of the park's physical jurisdiction, but well within its 
interpretive domain? 
Obviously, trapping and vernacular landscape management 
provide rich topics for interpretation, and the Park has developed 
them. But visitors will probably learn more about trapping as a way 
of life at the Isleno Center in Poydras than at the Barataria Marsh 
Unit. 
- 30 - 
Jean Lafitte 
The Isleno Center 
The Islenos (" Islanders") were originally Spaniards who came 
from the Canary Islands in the late 18th century to settle in 
what is now St. Bernard Parish. Their heritage, as displayed in 
the Isleno Center, is inextricably tied to the way of life on 
the Delta marshes of Delacroix Island and St. Bernard Parish. 
As Joe Guillotte beautifully conveys in his report to the Park, 
entitled Masters of the Marsh, the way of life afforded by the 
marshes enabled the Islenos to define and figure forth their 
heritage and values. 
This way of life is represented in the museum through 
artifacts like decoys, traps, muskrat pelts, taxidermic specimens 
of muskrats and ducks, diagrams of the seasonal round, historic 
photographs of the trapping camps, and, most importantly, through 
interpreters who, like Antonia Gonzales, are members o£ the 
community. 
On the day that I visited, the displays were supplemented by 
the aroma of traditional foods cooked in the center's kitchen by 
women in the community. The feast, which featured a caldo from the 
Canary Islands prepared by Louise Perez, tortilla espanola, and 
chicken and shrimp paellas prepared by a woman from Spain, was put 
on for a visiting delegation from the Lafayette area, led by Ann 
Savoy. This delegation of a dozen people or so was exploring the 
possibilities for a Cajun cultural center in Eunice. Following the 
meal Frank Fernandez ( whom they call " el toro negro") introduced 
Irvan Perez as a great duckhunter and singer, observing that in 
Spanish there is no way to express the concept " to miss a duck" --
- 31 - 
Jean Lafitte 
when one is a great duckhunter, one only " cripples" or " kills." 
Included among the displays was a miniature trapping camp, 
rendered in extroardinary detail by a man in his 40s named 
Fabra. A young man named Ralph Seregna, who apparently has not 
trapped much himself, was nonetheless launched by these details 
into vivid descriptions of that vanishing way of life. The scene 
centered around a gray board- and- batten structure placed on 
stilts in the marsh mud. One man is seated in front of the cabin 
skinning rats, while another fleshes them with the help of an old 
clothes wringer. The finished hides hang on hangers on an outdoor 
wall. A freshly baked loaf of bread cooling in the window and 
red long johns, bluejeans, and shirts hanging on the line remind 
us of the homemaker's role in the enterprise. 
Cotton smoke billows from the chimney and an outhouse with a 
half moon in the door stands in the rear. Irvan Perez commented 
that the only thing he might add to it would be a flying bird or 
two overhead -- a seagull and some ducks, and maybe a crane. There 
is a pirogue with some decoys in it pulled up on the bank, and the 
vegetation included marsh grasses like " three- square" and wax 
myrtle bushes, called " mangos" by the Islenos and " cir4s" by the 
French. Danny Horton later told me that this bush is instrumental 
in the harvest of soft-shelled crabs: 
They catch them in the cires -- the wax myrtles. 
They set the bushes out and they put them in the water, 
and the crabs go in the bushes to hide when they're 
going to shed their shells. So, when they go to pick up 
the bushes, if they haven't already shed their shells, 
they're fixing to, so they put them in what's called the 
- 32 - 
Jean Lafitte 
crab car, and they lose the shells in there and they 
just get them out and you got soft-shelled crabs. 
It is an interesting method for cultural interpreters to ponder, 
since the craft that would provide a focus for interpretation, 
like netmaking or even netmending, is absent. A natural resource 
would have to serve as the focus. But the true locus of the 
artistry is somewhere else, a point Irvan Perez drove home when he 
said of crabbing: 
That's an art in itself, because when you scoop up a 
crab, you got three choices -- you got to tell if it's 
a skinny one, and it goes in one basket; if it's a fat 
one it goes in another one; and if it's ready to shed, 
or if it's a buster, it goes in another basket. You got 
three baskets, see, and it's about that fast. 
When you 
hit the crab like a tennis racket -- you want it as 
shallow as you can use it without having that crab get 
away from you. 
A cultural interpreter lamenting the dearth of old-time 
craftspeople to present at festivals is in a sense like the tail 
wagging the dog, since the interpreter's job is to interpret what 
is there -- to reflect back at the community its own notions of 
what is good and beautiful, and its means for expressing those 
notions. A fiberglass pirogue or a taxidermic nutria can serve as 
effectively to focus cultural interpretation as a netmaking 
demonstration. 
Tom Tankersly mentioned, for example, that Antonia Gonzalez's 
husband Herman would be a good resource, but he was not quite sure 
how to use him. One of Herman's claims to local fame is his ability 
- 33 - 
Jean Lafitte 
to build a pirogue in eight hours. But both Mike and Tom 
agreed that his use of a skill saw and marine plywood would 
regrettably disqualify him in the public eye from inclusion in 
traditional crafts demonstrations. " People would be upset," said 
Mike Strock. " They would say, ' That's not traditional . . . making a 
boat in eight hours . . . where's the personal touch? Where's the 
craftsmanship?"' 
The same issues, of course, plague the presenters o£ 
traditional music. Mike commented that younger musicians who 
apprentice to a well-known traditional accordionist clash with him 
when they want to change the music. Performance traditions need 
roots, but the roots are supposed to nourish the branches, not 
stunt them. The real question is not how to use Herman, but 
how to redefine some of the research parameters and modes of 
presentation. If the reason for documenting and presenting 
tradition- bearers is to conserve local knowledge, it would seem 
that the modes of presentation should fit the knowledge and skills, 
rather than vice versa. What is needed are additional modes of 
presentation, and new ways of looking at tradition- bearers as 
cultural resources. Herman Gonzalez and others like him, including 
Danny Horton, Ursin Coppel, and Irvan Perez, could actually be 
regarded as indigenous manager/interpreters who can work in 
partnership with professional managers and interpreters willing to 
acknowledge their virtuosity. 
There are good and bad indigenous managers who may be gauged 
according to subtle but rigorous standards. It is up to 
professional managers and interpreters to discover what those 
critical canons are. 
For example, Ursin Coppel said that he got 
- 34 - 
Jean Lafitte 
his first job as a carpenter in Barataria not by demonstrating his 
skill, but by answering a question his prospective employer put to 
him: 
I said, " Well I come to see about a job." But everybody 
told me you couldn't buy a job. So he said, " What do 
you know about carpentry?" So I told him, I said, " You 
know, I built my first boat myself." So he asked me 
about the inside/outside of a plank, you see? So I told 
him. He said, " You know more than the old man. Well 
come here with me, you know that much. . . . A good logger 
needs a good head to learn a thing, that's all. 
Otherwise I don't guess I'd know how to sign my name. 
In the presence o£ tests about carpentry and criteria for 
artistic crabbing one is reminded of Frost's line, in the poem, 
"Two Tramps in Mudtime": " Except as a fellow handled an axe they 
had no way of knowing a fool." The tensions between economic and 
recreational interests in the marshlands are likewise reminiscent 
of the quandary Frost describes in that poem. Professional 
management is making it possible for one person's source of income 
to be another's therapeutic release. 
One implication of this is that environmental issues are also 
cultural issues, and that environmental resources and cultural 
resources are often too narrowly defined by policy makers and 
interpreters -- they are arbitrarily separated, when, to borrow 
another image from Frost, they ought to " make one in sight" as two 
eyes working together. 
- 35 - 
Jean Lafitte 
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
Jean Lafitte National Historical Park is in a position that 
most state and federal folklife agencies might envy: its mandate 
is to document and interpret a true cultural region. 
At the same 
time, the Park's position is difficult because, since models for 
this kind of cultural conservation do not exist elsewhere in the 
Park Service, it must devise innovative programs and structures 
consonant with procedures that govern research and presentation 
in other Parks. 
Thus far the Park has carried out its mandate by sponsoring 
high- quality scholarly research, developing cooperative 
agreements wiith interested communities, and featuring regional 
tradition- bearers in performance and workshop- oriented contexts. 
While all of these represent what I consider to be enlightened 
directions in the Park Service, Jim Isenogle said, during my 
meeting with him on the last day, that he would like to see the 
centers achieve a greater degree of integration within the 
communities. 
Jean Lafitte is clearly a different kind of park, with a 
regional constituency that is perhaps more significant than its 
national one. The centers are as much for the local people as 
they are for national and international visitors. While many 
national parks have been established with visitors more in mind 
than local people, the cultural centers in Jean Lafitte are for 
the local communities themselves. Although the centers will 
obviously comprise a way for visitors to the New Orleans area to 
experience aspects of local culture that they would otherwise 
- 36 - 
Jean Lafitte 
miss completely, it may also be difficult to draw visitors away 
from New Orleans to centers in Empire or Charendon. 
Jean Lafitte is already serving as a mediator between these 
centers, which we might regard as centers for the conservation of 
local knowledge, and the larger region. The Park faces a special 
challenge, however, when it comes to conveying an impression of 
itself as a constellation of centers to this broad regional 
constituency. I found myself puzzling over the relationship 
between research and presentation in the Park's programming. How 
can the Park make the most effective use of the scholarly 
research at its disposal? How are the scholarly reports actually 
being used? Are they really the most vital genre for the park's 
purposes? The ones I have seen do not really seem to have 
recommendations, but rather are means of conveying information 
that does not convey well in performance settings. How can the 
information in these reports be re- presented in a more accessible 
way to the public? 
A Regional Folklife Newsletter 
One way to develop the Park's public educational mission in 
the region while strengthening its diffuse profile would be to 
institute a quarterly newsletter. The newsletter, in a funny way, 
would resemble a cooking technique that Danny Horton described to 
me. Horton, who has cooked a lot of wild game in his time, said 
that wild meat will not cohere in the form of a sausage or a patty 
unless some fat from domestic animals is added to it. Thus when he 
makes hamburgers out of deer meat ( he impishly calls them " bambi 
burgers"), he adds pork fat to hold it together. The Park plays a 
similar role in holding together the cultural centers that 
- 37 - 
Jean Lafitte 
highlight the region's pockets of traditional culture. But the 
Park still needs some mechanism whereby it could show itself all at 
once, repeatedly, to strengthen the public perception o£ it as a 
strong presence in the region. 
Through a newsletter the Park could increase its network of 
contacts in the region. The mailing list itself would be an 
indicator of the Park's impact within the region. The newletter, 
which could be called " The Lafitte Skiff" would make the satellite 
centers cohere conceptually in the minds of its readership while 
providing a mechanism for sharing among the centers. Less ephemeral 
than brochures and program notes, and more accessible and flexible 
than scholarly reports, the newsletter could become in time a 
valuable record of the region's ongoing cultural life. It would 
also become a cherished record for those people and communities 
that become its subjects. I am always surprised at the magnitude a 
particular newsletter assumes in the minds of those who are 
featured in it. When the snapping turtle piece came out in Folklife 
Center News Tom Brown called from New Jersey to ask for fifty more 
of those " books." And, although, as Nick pointed out to me in 
December, it may not be a book culture in Louisiana, everyone I 
spoke with alluded to written materials on the culture: the 
Yugoslays cited Vujnovich at every turn, Perez proudly mentioned 
Guillotte's Masters of the Marsh, and Cvitanovich referred to 
several National Geographic articles. The Park's interpretive work 
is not simply to translate cultural materials for outsiders, it is 
also to help construct a mirror for those indigenous interpreters 
who are the Park's collaborators. 
The newsletter would contain calendars of events, feature 
- 38 - 
Jean Lafitte 
articles on aspects of culture, and could also serve as a way to 
gather information on traditions and tradition- bearers in the 
region. For the cost of an editor- writer and a budget for design, 
photography, printing, and mailing the Park could fulfill in a very 
dynamic way its mandate to document and present regional culture. 
The first issue could have articles, say, on the folk 
landscape of the trapper's marsh, the making of Mardi- Gras Indian 
costumes, and Plaquemines and Peljasac: two peninsulas. The 
newsletter is where the significance of ducks as Isleno symbols, 
as Joe Guillotte writes of them, could be richly conveyed to a 
broader audience. It could also solicit memories and legends 
associated with Fort St. Phillip, alligator stories, Hurricane 
Betsy, forecasting the weather from animal behavior, and a folk 
etymology and onomastics column, in which could be considered 
things like names for boats, camps, ethnic and subregional 
groups, and specialized vocabulary used by various occupational 
groups. There could also be a celebrations column that interprets 
various local festivals and events, like the orange festival, the 
pirogue races, All Saints Day, the blessing of the fleet, and 
variations in Mardi Gras celebrations. There should, of course, 
be a foodways column. The newsletter could even stray into issues 
like the series on oil and its impact on culture that appeared in 
the Wall Street Journal several years ago. 
The newsletter would help to solve the problem that 
Tom Tankersly put his finger on when speaking about Herman 
Gonzalez. It could be used to develop a proper folklife 
perspective among those who partake o£ the Park's programs, on 
whom Herman Gonzalez's talents would not be lost. The challenge 
- 39 - 
Jean Lafitte 
for interpreters would be to prepare the audiences to appreciate 
the folklife resources as they are. 
A Project in Plaquemines Parish 
Given that the Pinelands Folklife Project attracted the Park 
to us in the first place, it might seem to make sense for us to 
work with the Park in its Barataria Unit. But while that 
remains an option in the future, it is not the best course for 
the Park to pursue at this time, as Jim Isenogle made clear 
during a meeting on my last day in New Orleans. As a fledgling 
Park catering to a large and diversified region, it is more 
important for Jean Lafitte to identify new resources than to 
develop an old one. Seen in this light, Jim's impulse to 
establish a Yugoslav center in Plaquemines Parish makes a great 
deal of sense. 
I find myself a bit anxious about the ethnic theme however, 
for reasons implied in the first two parts of this report. I worry 
that the ethnic theme is not open-ended enough. Given that centers 
always have peripheries, we must be concerned about who will end up 
at the periphery of all of the centers in the region, becoming, de 
facto, a miscellany of people who do not fit the officially 
sanctioned categories. This could be the fate of the trapping and 
fishing community in Venice that David Cvitanovich called 
"Sabines," and of the Baratarians, who, from what I can tell, are 
seen as a kind of cultural hodge-podge. ( In the Barataria Unit, 
nature is interpretively at the center, and culture is at the 
periphery.) 
In contrast, cultural centers that are organized for " places" 
(or subregions, or parishes) would be open to the inclusion of all 
- 40 - 
Jean Lafitte 
groups in proximity. There are problems with this approach, too. One 
is redundancy -- that is, Cajun and Creole materials would appear 
in many parish centers, although they could be consolidated into 
exhibits or programs that would travel around to the centers. 
Another problem is that people in South Louisiana do often store 
their identities in ethnic compartments, and ethnic groups provide 
some grassroots " action units" for the Park to work with. But 
if the Park follows this particular native scheme of organization 
too closely, in the long run, it can unwittingly reinforce some 
unfortunate lines of discrimination. 
So, given that the Park needs to strike out in another 
direction, Plaquemines Parish is a good place to go. The question 
remains, does the Park want to create a Yugoslav Center, which 
would certainly be easy, or does it want to establish a Plaquemines 
Parish Center and launch it with an exhibit or program on 
Yugoslays? I find myself favoring the second alternative, even if 
the programming for now focuses on the Yugoslav experience in the 
Delta. 
With these thoughts as a backdrop, Jean Lafitte should 
undertake a project to document the Dalmatian oystering community 
in Plaquemines Parish. Due to limitations currently placed on our 
staff and budget, our best contribution to the project would be 
giving advice and technical assistance -- helping to shape it, but 
not doing it all ourselves. 
The project should seek to establish a cultural center --
perhaps in Belle Chasse if Empire is really destined to subside 
within fifty years. In the short term I would advise developing a 
public product such as an exhibit, which could find a permanent 
- 41 - 
Jean Lafitte 
home in the center or an attractive publication. The ideal 
audiences for this exhibit will be students and teachers, and 
curricular materials and teacher workshops should be important 
collateral products. The initial fieldwork should be spread out 
over the course of a full calendar year so that a full range of 
seasonal activities may be documented. 
Important components of 
this project will be: 
1) the placement of local tradition- bearers on an advisory 
committee; 
2) the development of a public product such as an exhibit; 
3) the creation of a cultural center in Plaquemines Parish. 
The project should establish an advisory committee composed 
o£ local people and representatives from the Park, the office of 
tourism and recreation where the state folklorist will be working, 
the American Folklife Center, and other cultural specialists with 
experience in the region, like Nick Spitzer and Barry Ancelet. If 
Richard March were unable to do fieldwork, I would recommend that 
he be appointed to the advisory council. Ray Brassieur should be 
consulted on the matter o£ Yugoslav representatives on the 
committee. 
The project should emphasize high- quality documentation. One 
of its most important contributions will be the creation of an 
archive of the images and sounds of local life. In our own archive 
at the Folklife Center the sound recordings and photographs are as 
heavily used as the reports and fieldnotes. In order to be really 
useful, the taped interviews must be richly logged, and preferably 
transcribed. The Center would lend high quality sound- recording 
equipment to the project. The project budget should provide for the 
- 42 - 
Jean Lafitte 
services of a professional photographer. 
Even if the project does create a Yugoslav center, other 
groups in the parish should not be ignored. The Dalmatian 
community interacts in one way or another with all of the 
cultural groups in Plaquemines Parish. Other fieldworkers should 
be hired to document folklife in the Black, Creole, French, 
Italian, and Vietnamese communities. This documentation could be 
cross-referenced, or stored, at the appropriate centers elsewhere 
in the region. For example, the Center for the study of Cajun and 
Creole Culture, or the Italian museum that I recall Tom and Mike 
were discussing, could take copies of some of the materials. 
The project will need a director to coordinate the fieldwork 
and the final products. The director will design the research, 
synthesize the materials, and produce the exhibit. The director 
should be hired for eight months during the fieldwork phase, 
which would include two months for preliminary research and 
planning, three months to develop and help carry out fieldwork 
assignments, and three months to synthesize the materials and 
plan the presentation phases. 
The project will also need an administrative coordinator. 
The Park should contribute Tom Tankersley as the administrative 
coordinator, who will work with the director on various aspects of 
the project, including record- keeping, budget design and 
management, fundraising in the Yugoslav community, helping to 
identify local resources and people, helping to organize the 
archive, and facilitating the development of a center. By the way, 
he is also good in the field. 
In addition to the director, the project will need one 
- 43 - 
1 
Jean Lafitte 
fieldworker with a specialty in Dalmatian culture. He or she 
should speak Croatian fluently. I have attached resumes for three 
folklorists I know who answer to that description. Although they 
all have full-time jobs, they probably could do fieldwork for two 
or three weeks at a time. 
A great deal could be accomplished by 
someone like Richard March, Yvonne Lockwood, or Robert Leibman 
during a two or three-week visit at each season of the year. 
The other major fieldworker should be a regional specialist. 
In fact, it should be Ray Brassieur, who is already at work 
documenting the Yugoslav boatbuilders for the center in 
Thibodeaux. I read his essay in Spitzer's ethnographic overview 
and went to visit him at his home in Martinville. I like his work 
and think he is perfect for the job. If the project becomes more 
expansive, then the director may wish to consult with other 
fieldworkers conversant with, for example, Afro-American culture 
in the Delta, or the culture of Vietnamese immigrants. Each of 
the two major fieldworkers should be allowed time for three 
months of fieldwork and at least one month for organizing and 
submitting the documentation. Contracts for additional 
consultants may vary according to what is needed from them. 
I have also attached other documents that I hope will be 
useful, including the following: 
1) Pinelands Folklife Project proposal, work plan, and budget; 
2) Notes for media documentation; 
3) Qualifications, salary, and job descriptions for 
administrative coordinator and fieldworkers on Pinelands Folklife 
Project; and 
4) A draft of the Pinelands Folklife Project final report 
- 44 -