American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_074 
Documentation/FieIdnotes -Taylor, David: IAW-DT-F072089.A to IAW-DT-F072089.B 
T DOCUMENT[ IAW-DT-F072089.A] 
DOCTYPE( Fieldnote] 
Fieldworker( Taylor, David] 
Date[ 7/20/89] 
Informant/Event( Ciolino, Dominic] 
Coworker[ Frank, Russell] 
Site[ 1] 
Yesterday, I called Capt. Gaspare ("Gasper") Guarrasi and arranged to meet 
with him at 8 a.m. this morning at his boat, the Nonna Maria II. 
I arrived a 
little before 8 and waited for him. 
By 9, he hadn't arrived. 
I strolled around 
until 9:30 and he still didn't show. 
I figured he had either forgotten our plan, 
or something else had come up. 
I hadn't left my phone number with him, so he 
would not have been able to reach me. 
I figured I call him later on and see if 
we could get together at another time. 
Nevertheless, I always feel disappointed 
when an interview falls through and a little irritated as well. 
Russell was talking with various fishermen around the docks this morning 
and I spoke with him briefly a couple of times and he walked around the dock 
trying to make contact with potential informants. 
After I had given up on the 
chance of interviewing Capt.'Guarrasi, I sought out Russell and we walked around 
together. 
He told me he wasn't having much luck either. 
We agreed that it's 
difficult to predict fishermen's activities, and admitted that we hadn't acquired 
a good understanding of the general pace of the work. 
He wondered if activities 
were occuring even earlier in the morning; starting at about 5 a.m., perhaps. 
We joked about an all-night "stake-out" of the dock to get the real story of what 
goes on down there. 
As we walked back in the direction on the Nonna Maria II, I spotted Dominic 
Ciolina (whom I met last night at the Italian-American Club). 
He was standing 
between a couple of cars and talking with four or five other men in Italian. 
There were all opposite the purse seiner Sea Queen, and I recalled that Dominic 
had told me that he worked on this boat as a deck hand. 
I told Russell that it 
might be possible for us to interview Dominic today if he was free. 
I called over to Dominc and moved closer to him. 
He remembered me and I 
introduced him to Russell. 
In Italian, Dominic explained the we were conducting 
research into Italian traditions to the man standing closest to him. 
I hadn't 
heard him say "Christopher Columbus," so I explained the Columbus connection of 
the project to his friend; who did understand English. 
Dominic asked what we were doing today, and I said we were looking for 
someone to talk with. 
I asked him if he had any time to talk with us, and said 
he would and asked if we wanted to go over to his house. 
We asked if we could 
talk there on the dock and he said that would be alright with him. 
I remember 
Russell explained that we wanted to take some photos of him by the boats. 
Incidentally, 
the men Dominic was 
talking with were apparently his 
crewmates. 
I asked if they were going out fishing today, and Dominic said he 
didn't think so. 
I said they'd probably go tomorrow. 
The other men drifted off and Russell and Dominic and I sat on the edge of 
the dock between the Sea Queen and the Nonna Maria II. 
I set up the martantz 
portable tape recorder and began the interview. 
To say the least, Dominic is a 
good talked; very expressive and full of stories and opinions. 
He gestured 
frequently throughout the interview. 
At one poinbt during the interview, a young fisherman walked up and stood 
near us and contributed a few comments and nodded in agreement with some of 
Domi.nic's statements. 
When he left, after five minutes or so, Dominic told us 
that he was a member of his fishing crew. 
At another point in the interview a 
man drove up in a pick-up truck and looked in our direction. 
Dominic explained 
that this was Mr. Russo the owner and captain of the Sea Queen. 
Since Russell 
was conducting the interview at this point, I got up and went over to Russo and 
explained why we were talking to Dominic. 
Russo didn't have too much to say. 
I asked when he would be going out fishing again and he said he wasn't sure, but 
probably sometime within the next couple of days. 
While I asked questions during the interview, Russell got up and took a few 
photos of Dominic and me, and later on I did the same when Russell was doing the 
FO•ic•7.r 
questioning . This seemed a comfortable arrangement that allowed us to share the 
chores 
As 
oner would expect, 
there was a certain amount of ambient noise 
throughout the interview (cars and trucks driving by and the like), but based on 
the monitoring I did, I think the general sound quality will be fine. 
We concluded the interview after abnout an hour and a half. 
I recall that 
it was then a little before noon. 
We thanked Dominic and he drove off for lunch. 
Russell and I both thought this was a very satisfying interview that yielded a 
great deal of detail about the process of purse seining. 
The interview is recorded on IAW-DT-AO02 & A003. 
1-A L; 
- 
Fo r 
,-20 q` 
t, 8 
T DOCUMENT[ IAW-DT-F072089.B] 
DOCTYPE[ Fieldnote] 
Fieldworker[ taylor, david] 
Date[ 7/20/89] 
Informant/Event[ comparsi, dominic] 
Coworker: 
Site[ 1] 
This afternoon at 2:00,'I drove over the office of Comparsi Realty at 605 
West 6th Street, San Pedro, CA 90731, to interview Dominic Comparsi, an informant 
recommended by John Barbieri. 
Comparsi is a retired banker. 
He worked for the 
San Pedro branch of the Bank of America (formerly the Bank of Italy) for over 40 
years, and I was eager to learn the extent to which the B of A assisted Italian-
American entrepreneurs 
in San 
Pedro, 
following the example of the bank's 
president A.P. Gianini. 
I also wanted to ask Comparsi about various strategies 
used by local Italian-Americans to advance along the economic ladder from 
fishermen, for example, to independent businessmen on land. 
Since Comparsi is 
now a realtor, along with his son Vince, I wanted to ask about recent trends in 
the development of San Pedro; especially in-migration and concomitant escalation 
of property values. 
Comparsi greeted me warmly and started talking immediately. 
I asked if I 
could set up the tape recorder and he said, "Go ahead." 
He sat behind his desk, 
and I sat in a chair directly in front of him. 
I place the tape recorder on the 
desk, to my right, and clipped a lavalier mike to Comparsi's shirt. 
On the wall to my left were a number of photos, certificates, and other 
memorabilia from Comparsi career in banking and invovlement in a number of civic 
organizations and charities. 
The interview went 
n