UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  MARY HOGAN
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:  
H = HOGAN
N = NORKUNAS
LFP-MN-R003-R004
H:  This is Mary Hogan and we are at 564 Wilder Street.  
N:  What story were you just going to tell me?  
H:  Oh.
N:  Don't be shy.
H:  About what?
N:  About [Ada      ].
H:  Oh, she was my chum when I was going to school when we were kids.  At the Varnum and, 
uh, [there is an echo in the background]
N:  [beginning of the sentence is unclear] Let's go and then start at the beginning O.K.  Where 
were you born Mary? 
H:  In Lowell, in Varley Avenue.
N:  Varley Ave?
H:  That is off Lakeview Avenue.  Up 
N:  Is that the Street you said is not there any more?
H:  Yeah.  The buildings aren't there any more it is a big, I don't know what's in there now.  It 
used to be an ice cream plant.  But, uh, we lived there till I was about eighteen and then we went 
to West Sixth Street from West Sixth Street we went to Christian Hill, up at the [Reservoir] 
House.
N:  At the what?
H:  The Reservoir.  You know the reservoir up in the top of Sixth Street well we lived in that 
house that belonged to the city.  My father worked for the Water Works and, uh, and then he got 
married and moved down to Seventh Street.
N:  How long did you live on Seventh Street?
H:  Thirty-nine years.  Then my husband died.  So I sold the house to Rose Mary and then Ralph 
bought this house, Ralph got married and bought this house.  And then I came here.
N:  And how did your parents get to Lowell?
H:  Well my father lived in Lowell, was born and brought up in Lowell.  My mother was born in 
High Park, Boston, you know.  Suburb of Boston.  And, uh, it was a cousin of my mother's that 
introduced my father, you know, to my mother.  They got married in Lowell.  My mother came 
and settled in Lowell.  
N:  Are they Irish or?
H:  They are Irish.  My father's people, my grandpa O'Neill came from, I think from Galloway.  
And I think my mother's people come from County Clark if I am not mistaken.
N:  Did you know your Grandparents?
H:  I just remember my mother's mother.  She was a little lady with a   I can just picture the black
dress and the big, the apron, you know.  The long aprons that they used to wear over their dresses
and the big patch pocket on the side.  I can just barely remember that, you know.  
N:  Did they live with you?
H:  My Grandmother lived with us for a while, and then passed away.
N:  Now what about your Grandfather?
H:  My Grandpa O'Neill, he lived with us for a while and then he took sick and he had to go to 
the hospital, and I guess he died at the hospital.  But, uh,  
N:  Do you know why he came to Lowell from Ireland?
H:  Oh, gee no.  I suppose he thought he was going to reach the pot of gold.  Like everybody else
that come from Ireland.  
N:  What did they do in Ireland?
H:  Oh, I couldn't tell you that I really don't know.  But 
N:  What did he do when he got here?
H:  They worked in the mill!  And my father's mother died and my Grandpa O'Neill reared the 
three boys and they lived in the boarding house!
N:  Which one?
H:  Oh.  Oh, the corporation, it was over in the mills there.  And, uh, my father went to work 
when he was twelve years old in the mills.
N:  Do you know which mill?
H:  No, I don't know which mill.
N:  Did his father get him the job?
H:  Um.  In the wool Was it a woolen mill or a cotton mill I have forgotten now to tell the truth. 
But, they all worked in the mills.
[can hear music in the background]
N:  Did your parents?  Your father did when he was a boy, right?
H:  No, my father worked for the Then he went to work for the city of Lowell he worked the 
Water Works.  Retired from the Water Works.
N:  What about your mother?
H:  My mother stayed home and took care of the children. 
N:  How many were you?
H:  Well there would have been nine, but five boys died.  So I had two sisters.  My Sister Rose 
she was a golfer and a school teacher.  My [Stella] was a nurse.  And I was just me that is all.  
[laugh]  And my brother was in the navy.  You know, he enlisted in the war  the day after Pearl 
Harbor.  That is about all really.
N:  Did you grow up Catholic?
H:  Sure!  St. Michael's.  
N:  Did you go to Catholic School?
H:  No, we went to the Greenhalge School on Ennell Street. 
N:  Ennell Street?
H:  You know, where Brian works in the fire department, you know, on West Sixth Street well it 
is a Street down from there and up, Ennell Street.  And then from there we went to the, uh, 
Seventh Grade at the Varnum it was a Junior High then.  Then it was from there to High School.
N:  Lowell High?
H:  Yup.  That was it.
N:  How come some kids went to the Catholic School and some didn't?
H:  Oh, I don't know really.  See we lived way down Lakeview Avenue and it was quite a walk to
St. Michael's although when we got older we had to walk to the Varnum which was up the hill, 
you know.  But we didn't go to St. Michael's.
N:  Did you go to church there?
H:  We went to church and Catechism.  You know, on Sunday.  Yeah, after mass on Sunday.  
After eight o'clock mass we went downstairs to the basement for catechism.  Every Sunday, yup. 
N:  Tell me a little bit of what your street was like?  Let's start at the beginning.
H:  Well Lakeview Avenue which this was cobblestone road and they had the trolley cars going 
down Lakeview Avenue and in the summer they would have the open cars, you know, the trolley 
cars, the open cars.  And, uh, well naturally there weren't to many automobiles.  But I can 
remember in a snow storm, you know, we would have a big snow storm and the snow would be 
so high on the sides that you couldn't see across the street.  The snow would be so high on the 
banks, the snow banks.  And it took a while for it to disappear, you know.  When that 
disappeared you knew spring was here for fair.  
N:  And who lived on the street?
H:  Well let's see, you mean on Varley Avenue or? 
N:  Well where was the first place?
H:  Varley Avenue.  Well there were three families of O'Neills and there was no relation.  Three 
O'Neill families.  There was a Martin family.  And, uh, Mrs. Blackburner came from England.  
She lived in England, you know, and moved over here.  And Mrs. Bouchard and Mrs. Coughlin.  
It was a block, you know.  Two big blocks.
N:  Were they mostly Irish and mostly French or?
H:  Well mostly Irish where we, on Varley Avenue.
N:  And who else?
H:  And French.
N:  Any Polish?
H:  No, Belgian.  Two Belgian families.
N:  What did they call that section of the city?
H:  Uh, Centraville that was.
N:  Was there any subdivision like back Centraville or?
H:  No, no just Centraville.  Although up on the hill they called it Christian Hill.  Why I don't 
know.
N:  And you lived there until how old?
H:  Oh, I was probably sixteen years old when we moved to West Sixth Street.
N:  Why did you move?
H:  Well, umm, my sister graduated from college and we needed more room, you know.  It wasn't
very big, you know, a block tenement so then we moved into a cottage.
N:  Did you rent them?
H:  Yup, we rented them.  Until I got married and then we bought the house on Seventh Street.
N:  And when you say your father worked for the Water Works is that the one down by West 
Sixth Street?
H:  Yup.  He worked, uh, from, uh, twelve midnight to eight in the morning.  When he first went 
there I guess he worked days pick and shovel, you know, but then he got this job at night.
N:  What did he do?
H:  Emergency man.  You know, like say there was a fire, you know, in the middle of the night 
well he would have to go and make sure that the, uh, hydrants were open, you know, for the 
hoses and all that.  They always had to go to a fire or any kind of an emergency.  So 
N:  And you would walk all the way to St. Michael's?
H:  Yup.
N:  The whole family?
H:  Yup.  All went to mass on Sunday morning.
N:  And who went to that church, to St. Michael's?
H:  What do you mean who went?
N:  Well would it be people from the whole city?
H:  No, just Centraville.  Just the Centraville section would go to St. Michael's.
N:  Because wasn't there a French church too?
H:  We lived next door to the French church on West Sixth Street.  
N; Did you go to that then?
H; Well once in a while.  It was very convenient you know.
N:  But instead 
H:  Most of the time we went to our own church we had to go
to, you know, our own church.
N:  Because I am just wondering if that is an Irish church or if they separated the churches like 
that Irish, French 
H:  No. 
N:  Isn't there a Polish church down there?
H; There is a Polish church on Lakeview Avenue.  But that isn't a Catholic church it is a National
Catholic or something, you know, I don't think, they don't believe in the Blessed Mother.  I really
uh   The polish Catholic church is on High Street, you know, on Belvidere.  
N:  Because somebody told me that you wouldn't find many names except Irish names at St. 
Michael's a long time back.  But then 
H:  Well I imagine that would be true, you know,
 and then they married Polish, you know, and 
N:  But your neighborhood was mixed Irish and French 
H:  Irish and French.  Mostly a French section down there.
N:  How did you end up in that part?
H:  Oh, my Grandpa O'Neill owned property on, umm, Lilly Avenue and then, um, after he died 
there was a man by the name of Duffy and he owned Varley Avenue and my father rented a 
tenement from him.  They were friends of my Grandpa O'Neill's.  So that is how we landed in 
Varley Avenue.
N:  Were there any parks around there?
H:  Well, uh, across the street there was a field.  You know, and they would have in the summer 
they would have the play grounds.  And there was an instructor Agnes Dudley used to be the 
instructor down there.  And 
N:  At the play ground?
H:  Yeah.  And then they would be  And there was one at the Greenhaldge.  We would walk up 
there to the Greenhaldge School to the play grounds.  You know, they would have crafts and 
things for the kids that weren't interested in sports.  So it was interesting.
N:  And where did you do your shopping?
H:  Now wait a minute.  Well on Lakeview Avenue there was a market.  It used to be Gordan's 
Market they used to have one on Bridge Street to.  And then there was a Vermont Butter and Tea 
Store and, uh,  That is where we went shopping.
N:  Did you know the owners?
H:  No.  Nope.  I think the Gordan's Market that we used to go to was there was, they were 
brothers and they had the Gordan's on Bridge Street and now I think they are Alexander's now.  I 
think it was Gordan's that owned Alexander's.  Or there is a relationship there someplace let's put
it that way.  
N:  What about downtown did you ever go downtown?
H:  Well I went downtown on Saturday evenings that was the deal.  [laughs]
N:  What was at downtown?
H:  And you couldn't   It was so crowded down there on a Saturday night you could hardly walk 
on the sidewalks.
N:  What streets?
H:  Merrimack Street.  You know where, uh, what is it now not McDonald's, oh
N:  [phone rings] Do you want to get it?
H:  No, they will get it upstairs.  Not McDonald's, the uh, Burger King is it downtown where 
Brigham's used to be?
N:  I don't know what it is?
H:  You know downtown where Brigham's used to be in the square?
N:  What square?
H:  Down Merrimack Square downtown.  You know whoisits Raymond's wife  
N:  Yeah, Doris  I know where the Brigham's is 
H:  Remember she used to work there, not    They just moved to where she is now but they 
moved   They were up further between Prescott and Central.  Well that used to be D.L. Page's 
years ago.  And that is that clock you know everybody met in front of D.L. Page's.  In front of the
clock that is what    You know I will meet you downtown.  Where?  Down by the clock.  That's 
and it is still there as far as I know it is still there.
N:  What would you do?
H:  I would just go down shopping and pay bills.  Stop at the five and ten and have an ice cream. 
N:  Is that Woolworth's?
H:  Woolworth's or Krescee's.  There was two then.  Then they had another one, uh, up further a 
dollar store.  But these were five and tens.  And then come home.
N:  And this would be on Saturday nights?
H:  Yeah.  We were something.
N:  Would you go down there during the week?
H:  No, not to often.  No.  Saturday night was the night to go downtown.
N:  Where would you buy your cloths?
H:  Pollard's.  They had a McCarney Store in Lowell then.  Cherry and Webb's.  Bon Marche.  
Now it is Jordan's.  They had a lot of stores downtown years ago, clothing stores.  They had a 
Lincoln Store, I used to work in the Lincoln Store.  
N:  What was that?
H:  It was a, you know, you could buy cloths there and shoes, house wares, you know, kitchen 
utensils and all that.  That is about the size of it.
N:  Did you go around Lowell much?  Were there other parts of Lowell that you would go 
strolling through?
H:  Well, uh, Sunday night was a big deal when I was a kid.  Not every Sunday night but my 
mother and father would take, would go for a walk and I would go with them.  And they would 
walk up to back Central Street to the Opera House Pharmacy and buy a brown bottle it was a 
cough medicine called the Brown Bottle.  And then have hot chocolate and then walk back home.
That was a big deal when we were kids.
N:  Why did they go up there for that?
H:  Because that was the only place you could get it, you know.  It was something like Father 
John's, you know, it was on the same idea as Father John's Cough Medicine.  But we liked it 
better than Father John's.
N:  Isn't that a Portuguese section?
H:  Yeah.
N:  Was it then?
H:  No, I think it was Irish then, mostly Irish then but then the Portuguese people settled down.
N:  Where did the Irish live in the city?
H:  Well the Acre.  In Centraville.  As far as I know a lot of Irish people in the Acre, you know, 
over in St. Patrick's.  In fact, uh, I think my father came from St. Patrick's Parish, you know, 
when he was single he lived over in that section.  And then they moved to Centraville.
N:  How would you describe Centraville?  What's boundaries?
H:  Oh, gee.  Well I don't know where the boundary is on Lakeview Avenue.
N:  Maybe it is Lakeview Ave?
H:  Well Lakeview Avenue to, uh, maybe the Navy Yard in Dracut and then it would go up 
Pleasant Street and then as far as Bridge Street you would just go beyond DeMoulas' and that 
was about the Lowell line there.  And then down the Boulevard I don't know how far down the 
Boulevard.
N:  What Boulevard?
H:  The Lawrence Boulevard.  I don't know how far down Lowell is there.  Not to far down I 
don't think.  It was a nice section, it was a nice section.  
N:  And then people tell me about different parts of it.  Like Christian Hill and so forth.
H:  Well Christian Hill and then, uh, the lower part of Centraville like from Bridge Street down 
they called it the lower part of Centraville that is where we used to live the lower part.  And then 
we went up, uh, oh, I don't know 
N:  Was West Sixth Street the lower part too?
H:  Yup.  From Bridge Street down, you know, and then from Bridge Street up.
N; Now what was where you lived on Seventh and Methuen what was that called?
H:  Christian Hill.  
N:  Oh, that is Christian Hill?
H:  Yeah.  They used to say, uh, below Bridge Street was poverty row and up Bridge Street was 
quality hill. You know, that was their saying years ago. [laughs]  Well that is all I know.
N:  Did you get any idea that your neighborhood changed over time?
H:  Well, no I can't say any change really.  I can see now a change so, you know, the Cambodians
and the Puerto Ricans and what have you.
N:  Live down which side?
H:  This is of late year, you know.  But, uh, years ago there was no change it was Polish people 
and Greek people and Irish people and, you know, they all, uh, lived down that way.
N:  Did they mix up together?
H:  Yeah.
N:  Did they marry each other?
H:  Sure there were a lot of Irish girls married Polish fellas, you know, and visa versa.  
N:  Was your husband Irish?
H:  Yup.
N:  How did you meet him?
H:  Oh, I knew him for years, you know, from school I knew him.  And I don't know we Going to
ball games and all that.
N:  Baseball games?
H:  Yeah.
N:  Did they have baseball games?
H:  Oh yeah, he played baseball, he played football.  And 
N:  In school or after?
H:  School.  Yeah, he was a great football player more so than baseball.
N:  Do you remember what, uh, buildings seemed important to you then? I mean were there any 
things that you remember thinking wow?
H:  Well I can remember at the corner of Bridge and West, Bridge and Lakeview Avenue there 
was a big building there, it was really a big building.  And, uh, then they took it down and made 
the highway and then years after that they took the other building down on the other corner.  That
was  a big change as far I can recall and then when they took down the, what was over there, oh, 
bar room [Jake] where the Dunkin Donut is now.
N:  On Bridge and  
H:  And they took down those buildings there to put in Dunkin Donut's.  That was a big change.
N:  Did you ever shop on, uh, Bridge Street?
H:  Yes.  You know, you go down to Wright's Market and, uh,  
N:  Once in a while or you would always go there?
H:  No, not all the time we would go out   Oh, DeMoulas came out Bridge Street and that is 
where most of the people did their shopping unless an emergency, you know.  You would always 
go to Wright's Market during the week or something like that.  But usually  Years ago before, uh, 
DeMoulas came we used to go to the Giant Store on Broadway.  Do you remember that?
N:  Yeah. 
H:  Well that was a Friday night deal you would go over there they had everything but the 
kitchen sink in that store.  So 
N:  What do you think of what they are doing downtown now?
H:  Well I think they are doing a lot, really a lot of changes.  And the Market Mills I haven't been 
there but I mean from what I can see from going by in the car it is quite a place I guess.
N:  Did you go on any of the tours?
H:  No.  Dorothy did.  [laughs]  She said it was o.k.  I couldn't go I got Arthritis in the knee and I 
can't go up and down.  I would land in the water if I ever got in a boat for crying out loud.  But 
N:  Because I was wondering if you think that they are   You know they are trying to show how 
Lowell was.  And I wondered if you think they are doing it right or?
H:  Oh gee, Martha, I really don't get downtown that much, you know.  
N:  Did you when you when you lived on Seventh Street?
H:  No, I didn't go to much to the city either, really, you know.
N:  You could pretty much get everything in Centraville that you wanted?
H:  Well unless you really needed clothing and stuff like that you would go downtown but I mean
I was never much for leaving the house till, you know, to go to work but that is it.  
N:  Where did you work?
H:  Diamond Taxi. 
N:  Where were they?
H:  On Warren Street where, uh, I don't know what is in there now but there is Condos up over it.
N:  Where is that?
H:  Warren Street, you know where the Hilton is?  The end of Warren Street that is where I 
worked where the Diamond Taxi used to be.  And that is all changed to.  
N:  Did they go all over the city?
H:  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.  
N:  Did you used to do these sort of craft things that Dorothy does too?
H:  Oh sure.  Crocheted.  [laughs]  Crocheted and knit, embroidered.
N:  How did you learn?
H:  Well my mother taught me how to crochet.  In fact my mother used to do   You know they 
used to make those   Well I don't think you would remember them but, uh, tops for the kitchen 
curtains you know, crochet them and sew them on to the material and then hang them in the 
kitchen.  It used to be the kitchen curtains and all that.  And my mother we used to sew.  Make 
the kids cloths and that.
N:  YOu made the kids cloths?
H:  Yup.
N:  What did you get the fabric from the mills?
H:  Downtown or go to Billerica to get the cloth out of the Faulkner Mills or you could get it at 
the Navy Yard, the Navy Yard Mills.
N:  Where was that?
H:  Right out Lakeview Avenue you know where the lights are.  You know you go down Bridge 
Street you go out Lakeview Avenue and those lights the first set of lights well then you take your 
left and all there is all mills there, woolen mill there.  
N:  Did you ever buy it in stores or?
H:  Yeah, you could buy material in the stores, Pollard's, uh, Pollard's, the Lincoln store had 
material.  I don't know about Jordan's I mean Bon Marche.
N:  Do you have any other things you made in the house here?
H:  No, they are all stacked away.  See after Ernie died, you know, I had to pack everything and 
Mary moved in and my things were in storage and they were all packed away you know doilies 
and things like that.
N:  Do you still do it?
H:  Yeah, I have made five afghans.  I have given five afghans, you know, to my five 
granddaughters so they will, you know, have it.  And, uh, oh, I have made a lot of afghans.
N:  Do you have any here?
H:  No, I gave them all away.  All away.
N:  But your daughter would have one right?
H:  Rosemary would have four because she has four daughters.  She got four different afghans 
over there that I have made for them.
N:  Did you ever paint or draw?
H:  Oh no, I would love to be able to paint.  I watch that program on in the afternoon I forgot it is
on channel two and it is very interesting.  I really do get a kick out of that.  Do you paint?
N:  No, not really.  Pock around once in a while.
H:  Oh, that program is very interesting.  But I think they have a class for the elderly down at 
Smith Baker if I am not mistaken I think I read that in the paper.
N:  Do you go to any of these senior citizen things?
H:  No, I am a mope.  No, I, uh, sometimes I think I would like to go but then I  Of course you 
see everybody you know when you go to those affairs.  You know they all come from the 
different, uh, housing projects and you, it could be interesting.  But   When you don't drive so 
you are stuck.
N:  Did you get close to anybody in the church?   Any of the priest in St. Michael's?
H:  Well, not what you would call really close.  Years ago it is not like now, you know, now they 
are so friendly and, you know.  But, uh, just to say hello and you know what I mean.  But uh 
N:  Would they ever come up to [sample] and bless the house or?
H:  Oh, they would come when my mother was dying Lord rest her soul.  Fr. [Kernen] came and 
when my uncle died Fr. Feeney came, you know.  But I mean like for a social visit they only 
came when you had, when you really trouble.  Fr. Crowley would come to see my mother 
END OF SIDE ONE
BEGINNING OF SIDE TWO
[the first few second of the tape is filled with echoes]
H:  And then we would go back home again.  That was a big deal and then we would walk over 
to Walker Street to my Aunt Lizze's and that was a big deal it was walking we didn't have a car.  
It was all walk.  
N:  The whole family?
H:  Not the whole family like myself and my brother would go, you know, with my mother and 
father my Sister Rose and my sister Lille they would stay home and be doing their homework 
and things like that, you know.  But then many a time we all hiked over to see my Aunt Lizze's 
[unclear].
N:  Where is she?
H:  On Walker Street.  
N:  Is that in Centraville?
H:  No, this is Wilder, Walker from the Boulevard.
N:  What section are we in now?
H:  The Highlands.  Johnny [     ] could tell you about the Highlands because he was born and 
brought up in the Highlands.  You know around here.  
N:  When you moved to Seventh Street when was that about?
H:  Uh, I think it was in forty seven.
N:  Who lived there then?
H:  On Seventh Street?  What do you mean in my house?
N:  No, on the street.  
H:  Well down at the corner were the Quinn's then the Crow's and then Mrs., the Rilley's and then
us, and then the Polish people and then the Croteau's lived where the Stillwagon's live now and 
then Mrs. Johnson.  They all were old residence, you know what I mean, they lived there for 
years.  And then, uh, I have forgotten who lived at the corner house near Dorothy.  But then the 
Halls lived in Dorothy's, you know, before Dorothy moved there.  And, uh, they were there for 
years, you know what I mean.  They 
N:  Did you know the neighbors?
H:  Oh sure.
N:  Did you visit?
H:  No.  No. Not like years ago, you know.  Years ago you had a neighbor but I never went 
visiting anyway.  Well I would go over to Dorothy's but, you know, not that often really.
N:  Where would people get together?  Would you go out?
H:  I didn't go to much.  You know the kids were small and you didn't go out like they do now, 
you know.  
N:  Did you have other relatives in the city?
H:  I had an Aunt on Walker Street.  And then I had an Aunt who lived up on Queen Street.  See 
my mother's people came from Boston, you know.  And it was just my father's people that we 
had in Lowell.
N:  Would you go see them?
H:  Just my Aunt that is all.  This is Martha remember Martha.
?:  No, I don't.  [sentence is unclear]
?:  Put on pick and shovel when he didn't support the right man.
H:  Oh, you don't talk about that stuff.
?:  It is interesting.
H:  That isn't 
N:  We need you as a prompter.
?:  That is the interesting stuff about Lowell.  The rest of it is 
H:  That is not interesting.
?:  All right I will talk to you later ma.
H:  O.K.
?:  Went to the congressman down there and they were laughing when they heard that.  It 
happened didn't it?
H:  It is true though.  
N:  What is it?
H:  Well, um, I can't say names for God sack. 
N:  You don't have to say any names just tell the story.
H:  Well there was this man running for mayor and my father, you know, worked for the city.  
And he asked my father if he would work for him, you know what I mean, campaign for him.  
And my father said no that he was campaigning for somebody else.  And the next day they took 
my father off the job that he was on nights, and they took him off that job and they put him out 
on the road, you know, digging ditches.  Because my father didn't    This was after the guy got 
mayor.  He did get mayor.  So they took him and put him out in the road digging ditches.
N:  Do you think it is a political city?
H:  I do.
N:  Who runs it?
H:  Oh, I don't know.  But if you are not in forget it.
N:  People tell me the Irish still run the city?
H:  Oh, I don't know, I don't know to much about it now, it is you know, this was long ago, this 
happened long ago.  But it is a true story.  He didn't get out and campaign for him so he was 
taken off that job and   But a couple of days after that he got back on his own job again.  So you 
know what they say it isn't what you know it is who you know.
N:  Did any of your family run for politics?
H:  No.  No.
N:  Did you belong to any clubs like the East End Club or?
H:  My father did.
N:  What did he belong to?
H:  He belonged to the East End Club, he belonged to The Elks.  Ernie belonged to the East End 
Club, he belonged to the Elks, you know.
N:  Did he bring you down?
H:  Oh yeah.  They would have functions and we would go to them, you know.  But I mean.. It 
was a slow life nothing exciting about my life.
N:  Any other clubs Mary?
H:  No.  No.
N:  And did the church ever do anything that you went to?
H:  Well they would have the Bazaars, you know, Christmas Bazaars and all that and I would go 
there, you know.  Or when they would have their reunion, you know.  They have had their 
reunions for a hundred years.
N:  Reunions?
H:  Yup.
N:  What are they?
H:  You know, all the parishioners get together, you know, you know like you would have a class 
reunion well that is what they would have like a reunion.  And they would all gather and 
everybody would go over to the auditorium.
N:  If you have been going to church for so many years ?
H:  No, you would just,  We had a hundred anniversary not to long ago.
N:  Oh, of St. Michael's?
H:  Yeah, it was there one hundred years.  That is the extent of my life now I am here and  
N:  I wish I could see I am going to shut this off 
END OF THE TAPE