American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project collection (AFC 1982/009) 
afcl982009_ll_133 
Final Products - Fieldworkers' Essays - Tom Adler 
Toward An Ecology of Folk Housing in 
the East-Central Blue Ridge 
Thomas A. Adler 
Toward An Ecology of Folk Housing in 
the East-Central Blue Ridge 
Along the East-Central Blue Ridge in Virginia and North 
Carolina,^ old folk houses are lived in and new ones are built 
and modified by men and women whose deepest understandings about 
appropriate lives lived in appropriate dwellings are constantly 
evolving. If we attempt to describe the folk housing of the Blue 
Ridge as a whole pattern that would make sense to both those residents 
and ourselves, we will be forced into some sort of holistic, perhaps 
ecological, approach to the subject. A cultural region like the 
Blue Ridge is naturally not governed by the same sorts of rules 
as a biological ecosystem. In fact, it might be argued that the 
arbitrary study area of the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project 
is not at all an enclaved or isolated architectural ecosystem, 
but it nonetheless is a useful data domain from which to approach 
the problem of constructing a cultural ecology of traditional 
housing. 
Students of tradition usually begin by assessing the 
pattern of architectural forms on the land. In the Blue Ridge, 
the morphotypology of houses has been better documented than in 
most other regions. Accordingly, I shall begin by presenting a 
brief summary of the principal traditional house-types found in 
our study area, and will introduce some Individual examples which 
will be discussed later in this essay in less formal and (hopefully) 
2 
more human terms (see Fig. 1). 
Fig 1. The Study .Area and the Houses 
Square cabins and rectangular cabins constitute the 
simplest units of traditional housing in the local inventory. In 
our area, square cabins are significantly outnumbered by rectangular 
ones, although most small sheds and "can-houses” are square, and 
the square also appears commonly as a room module within larger 
houses. The most visible example of a square cabin near the Parkway 
2 
is an anomalous or at least an unusual one; the Puckett Cabin, which 
is maintained as a National Park Service exhibit, illustrates the 
rare appearance of a gable-end entrance. A more typical cabin 
that at least approximates a square shape is the tiny full-dovetailed 
3 
h 
log house once lived in by Miss Minnie Thompson, now standing 
vacant and overgrown with its lO’xll' interior a decaying stew 
of cobbler’s tools, old magazines, and the detritus left by 
curious hikers and other wanderers. 
Rectangular cabins exist in a number of variant forms 
noted or recorded by American Polklife Center fieldworkers. The 
smallest and oldest of these might have been "the old Andy Long 
house," named for a long-time owner who died about 1962."’ Roy 
Woody and his daughter Linda Woody Overwater of Laurel Springs, 
N.C., diagrammed and described to me the oldest house they knew 
of; this much-vandal!zed cabin was apparently a story-and-a-half 
or two-story log house built in "seventeen hundred and something," 
and it was: 
...real small, very small, with a low ceiling. There 
was three rooms downstairs. It was a teeny little house. 
If you were bigger than me, you'd have a hard time 
gettin' up that teeny little stairway. It could be 
fixed up, but it's just so far back off Peak Creek Road 
that nobody'd want to live up there in the winter. 
But you talk about a beautiful setting— There's 
mountains on three sides, you know, and it's right down 
in the valley, just like a bowl. Protected from the 
weather real good. It didn't get the wind like we got 
here, for instance, and it was a real warm place. 
A slightly larger rectangular cabin variation is the 
two-story subtype which Howard 
W. Marshall has designated the 
Stack House (Fig. 2). Built 
about 1870, the Payton Akers 
house^ is a l6'xl8' half- 
Fig. 2A 
dovetailed log stack house 
4 ft. 
Fig. 2B 
4 
with elaborate Gothic trim belying its pole rafters, unusual 
round log plates, and lack of any wall-covering in the upper room. 
Several more rectangular single-pen houses were documented 
in our study area; examples range from the two-and-a-half story 
8 
I8|,x22|* house built by Henderson Crouse^ to the old Slusher 
house, the first log house in the Floyd area to be built with 
9 / v 
nails, and ultimately (on a scale of increasing size) to the 
original 20,x26’ log house (Fig. 3) 
□ 
now used for hay storage on Ernest 
10 
Jarvis's farm near Ennice, N.C. 
Other double-pen or 
larger Southern Mountain house 
types showed up in our study area 
in many materials other than log, 
and seemed also to exhibit complex and confusing formal variations. 
_/V. 
\J 
_n 
A 
a 
1 
1 
8 
--—-J 
6 FI. 
Fig. 4 
Sitting behind a curiously Georgian- 
modified I-house11 built in 1895 was 
an older and smaller saddlebag house 
(Fig. 4) with a gable-end addition, 
called the "little house" by Bridgette 
Smith, granddaughter of the I-house 
builder. Tw° more frame saddlebag 
houses were documented by Howard Marshall at the Mam Clement 
12 
farm in Patrick County. V/hile one of these was a relatively 
new house, the other was old enough to have been transformed into 
5 
a rear ell when an I-house "addition" 
was made in 1901 (Fig. 5)* 
il very small and simple 
frame board-and-batten double-pen 
house (Fig. 6) near Floyd, Virginia 
was built in 1931 by its present 
occupant, Roy Vfeddle.^ A much 
grander two-story double-pen house, 
the Hall house (Fig. 7), seemed 
almost as recent to Blanton Owen 
and myself, even though it was 
of half-dovetailed hewn log construction. 
Fig. 7 
No dog-trot houses, to my knowledge, turned up in our 
area; since I did not really expect to see any example of this 
predominantly Deep South type,^ I was quite surprised to hear it 
functionally described as having been part of the repertoire of a 
6 
former log-house builders 
(How big did you build /Tog house_s7? Well, they's 
different sized. Some v?ants all the way from twelve 
by sixteen /To7 sixteen by twenty-four. And sometimes 
you'd build two and leave a space in the middle here, 
and it'd be open at each end, ahd'd be floored in 
there, used as a floor. And the kitchen in one end, 
the sleeping quarters in the other end. .And sometimes 
we'd box it up at each end and make a room in the 
middle. The house standin* now at the meadow place, 
the Joe Caudill place, now, is done the same way.l° 
Built in I876, the B.D. Akers farmhouse^ is a heavy- 
timber framed house of the "Tidewater" or hall and parlor 
type (Pig. 8); it has an original 
kitchen ell with painted walls 
and ceiling, yet lacks interior 
paint in the main rooms. 
By far the most common 
folk house type of the Blue Ridge 
(as in the rest of the Southern 
Mountains) is the I-house. Numerous 
I-houses were noted on the landscape 
in our area, and the particular 
examples we documented in some detail revealed both predictable 
Pig. 8 
Pig. 9 
7 
therefore amplify oar understanding of the building process itself. 
Ninety-two-year-old Ward Compton, who runs a store at Tuggles Gap, 
near Floyd, built the Bunyan Mciilexander place in 1923 with Mr. 
Me .Alexander, and described it as "the first type of house they 
built after they quit making log ones." Tom Pruitt, who had 
built many houses for neighbors in the Doughton Park vicinity, 
explained to me that such houses as his own balloon-framed I-house 
were built only to very general specifications; the builder's 
customer would simply request a 
certain size to suit his needs 
(". . .32'x28', and so many rooms 
and the plan and details were then 
left to the builder. Although 
I-houses with central hallways and 
end chimneys predominate, we also 
noted a few central-chimney I-houses, 
for instance, the Ernest Jarvis 
"W 
Vi gag I 
N 
*n: 
Fig. 10 
house (Fig. 10), and even the hall-less subtype with two front 
19 
doors which is isomorphic with a two-story double-pen dwelling. 
An interesting aspect of Blue Bidge folk house morpho- 
typology is the propensity some types have for occurring in 
fractional forms like the 2/3 I-house (which could be seen in a 
few Galax and Hillsville examples) or in additive forms. A most 
striking and unusual example of the creation of a large house from 
several smaller types is the magnificent Dehart house, which 
originally consisted only of the rear tee (a hall-and-parlor house 
8 
built by Flemin Dehart), to which a huge front facade addition 
20 
was made between 1900 and 1905 (Fig* 11)• 
The house essentially integrates 
three complex units of folk 
housing (two hall-and-parlor 
types and a central-hall I-house) 
into a single impressive 
structure, the longest dimensions 
of which are 72,x51'! 
8 FT. 
Although the seven types 
n , -Fig* 11 
illustrated thus far are clearly 
the dominant formal units of traditional housing in the Blue Ridge 
of the Virginia-North Carolina border, a number of other forms 
help to fill out the visible axis of vernacular housing. Though 
they are not usually considered part of the Southern Mountain 
repertoire of old traditional house types, simple pyramid houses. 
bungalows, and one-story Georglan-nlan houses also cropped up along 
the small roads vie travelled vihile looking for and at old dwellings. 
Moreover, the repertoire of old house types is increasingly being 
supplemented (if not supplanted) by a host of nevi, modern, and 
popular types: brick "ramblers'' and ranch houses, builders' 
planbook houses. A-frame vacation homes, and the now-ubiquitous 
mobile homes (still universally called "trailers"), vihich may 
represent a financial Investment nearly as great as that required 
to build a modest I-house seventy-five years ago. 
In introducing these modern types for consideration here, 
9 
I am not attempting to somehow subvert the basic conception under 
which most folklorists rightly approach folk architecture. The 
types which have been painstakingly established as traditional 
by geographers and folklife researchers allow us to identify and 
treat an individual building as a worthwhile object of study 
even when that building lacks a human interpreter. Houses which 
are morphotypologically "folk" can be studied as special kinds of 
enduring texts, and therein lies their tremendous value. But just 
as a written text reduces an oral performance from a lively and 
compelling process to an analytically-accessible abstraction, the 
focussing of a folklorist’s attention too closely on houses as 
manifestations of traditional types reduces the people for whom 
houses exist completely out of the picture. Thus, while I can 
agree with Glassie that "...a modern brick bungalow, located in 
a lonely hollow, built and inhabited by an herb doctor who tells 
marchen learned from his mother and plants by the moon is not folk..., 
I have also come to feel that we owe that same herb doctor (whom 
we would willingly label "folk") a debt of understanding which 
includes exploring his reasons for building such a house and 
describing some of the actions-becoming-traditions which are 
subsumed under that general verb "inhabited." To begin to work 
on the payment of that debt of understanding, the remainder of this 
paper will survey some of the factors and forces which help to 
context the houses documented in the Blue Ridge Folklife Project. 
The "ecological" whole that ought to become our object of 
10 
study (rather than Just the houses) might be idealized as a 
system of three aspects. A complex ongoing pattern of growth 
and change in the external vision and internal meaning of local 
architectural landscapes emerges from the dynamic interaction of 
DWELLING, BUILDER, and DWELLER. The essential interaction is a 
kind of communication; of course, any house communicates a 
simultaneous group of ideas to all those who see or enter it, 
but it seems right to suppose that a particular house will speak 
in special ways to the man who builds it and the man (and woman and 
child) who lives in it. A builder and a dweller understand and 
reciprocate the house’s silent messages by re-enacting them in 
other buildings and translating them into the attitudes and patterns 
of inhabitation that cluster around any house. These, in turn, 
are ultimately crystallized as memories, which our friends and 
informants in the Blue Ridge could share with us. Since some 
such memories — particularly those of builders — center on matters 
of form and construction, they offer a logical extension to the 
survey of forms. 
Old houses bind time. Any old house will serve as a 
powerful symbol of the local generalized past; but a particular 
old house can awaken memories and stimulate explanations by the 
men who built in the old styles long ago. Memories brought forth 
and shared with young outsiders often center directly on constructive 
processes. Since log construction constitutes the main "pioneer" ' 
building technology of the Blue Ridge, some of the very oldest 
house-builders I met, like Harrison Caudle, spoke to me extensively 
11 
about their own work building houses of logs: 
I guess I’ve built around seventy-five or maybe 
eighty log houses myself. You cut your timber and 
you saddle it out. You cut it on a forty-five degree, 
straight down here. .And this other*n’s cut on the 
degree and straight down, and that saddle goes down 
like that. Called "saddling the house." And every log— 
it's saddled up. The log end sticks over that way 
and you build it up, and then— The wall plate here 
is a big log, and you bore a hole through your long 
rafters, and a peg goes down there, and it comes 
together up here. Instead of nailing it, there’s a 
hole bored, and pegs went through it. .And then you 
split shingles and boards and put them over there, and 
made homemade nails, and nail 'em on. I made a 
lot of nails.22 
Much more frequently, the reminiscences of traditional 
house-building centered on other mens' work, and on the ways in 
which they might go about the house-building tasks which seem 
most difficult or mysterious to a modern resident. Sometimes the 
"they" referred to were implicitly the earliest settlers in the 
area, but often "they" were the immediate ancestors of the speaker. 
Perhaps Ernest Jarvis had his father Kemper, his grandfather Ira, 
or even earlier ancestors in mind when he spoke to me of "the old 
people" and their notch-cutting abilities: 
Now, one man didn’t do all that. It's hard to tell 
how many was a-workin' when they hewed these logs 
out. It's hard to tell. It's hard to tell how many 
it was when they put them together here. But I don't 
know how they matched these /notches7 here, whether they 
laid that up there, or whether they cut that when it was 
on the ground. 'They may have done this on the ground, 
and laid it up there and it matched that. They may have 
measured that, you see. They'd have to, I'd say, 'cause 
you couldn't cut this notch out while that was up there. 
But it takes a pretty good skill to do that. They've 
measured this here; see the slope on this? See, they 
just put up a log at a time; they've had to measure that. 
'Cause you can't lay the log up there and do that. I'd 
say they put up, like, this log, and then this'n'd be the 
next one; they just measured that some way, and then 
12 
sawed that out. See, that’s been sawed out. Now 
they sawed that out and then put a wedge In here and 
busted that. They knowed just how far to saw down 
here to match this piece, is vihat they’ve done, ilnd 
they just saw it down, then take a wedge and bust it 
out. It’ll bust right out. VJhen it's green, it’ll do that 
Well, they're still building log houses. But they 
build 'em out of different logs to what they used to 
build 'em. They used to hew their logs a certain 
thickness, enough to get enough face on ’em, you know, 
that they could put ’em one on top of the other. .And 
they notched 'em at the ends, and they locked ’em in, 
some way. And pegged them with pegs.... A lot of houses 
now are sawed out; them was hewed with an axe. Yeah, 24 
and they’re asphalt, too— They're creosoted, I mean. 
In the course of reminiscing about construction methods 
used in old houses, direct contradictions may occur. When I 
asked about how many men it would take to put up a log house, 
Harrison Caudle said with a smile, "One man can build it if he’s 
stout. All alone.... Just pick up /the logs/ by natural strength. 
But speculating on the same subject, Ernest Jarvis emphatically 
stressed the need for neighbors and kin to cooperate: 
One man couldn't have. It’d be impossible for one 
man to have done that back when that was built down 
there like that. Why, I don’t know how many it would 
take to put them logs up there like that. There's 
more than one done that, now. I’ll tell you.^5 
Most of the older generations of house-builders in the 
Blue Ridge seem to have worked with at least one assistant or 
helper. Two men could certainly accomplish much more than one, 
especially when it came to moving heavy logs or framing timbers 
into place: 
My Dad built that house — three stories. Had four 
fireplaces. (Did he build it by himself, Daddy?) Well, 
I doubt that. They had help because, you know, his 
brother built a house at about the same time just up the 
road here a ways, so I imagine they helped each other. ° 
23 
13 
In some cases, a builder might have a regular helper 
of known abilities, but most often a skilled carpenter viould 
work with the man who wanted the house built: 
Martin Harmon helped me build our house, the big 
end of it. He done most of the work. (Did somebody 
design ’em? Or did you copy ’em off other houses?) 
Well, you just figure out sort of how you wanted it 
and you just build it, mostly.2'7 
It seems likely that the skilled carpenter/builder would 
have dominated the informal process of designing vernacular houses, 
particularly when working with a would-be house owner who had less 
construction experience. Thus a few prolific builders could 
consistently shape a local folk architectural landscape, and the 
scene of work itself could come to be a locus for the effective 
transmission of house-building lore. Local specialist builders 
like Tom Pruitt, Harrison Caudle, Martin Harmon, Ward Compton, 
and Wallace "Dad” Spangler28 may be significantly responsible for 
the pattern of house forms which is found in our area, but there 
are aspects of house construction which are widely known in the 
area and which would have been incorporated into the building 
methodology of any farmer: 
They say that you can bust one of the shingles, you 
know, split one out that’s on that house— If the 
point of the moon’s turned up, that they'll turn up. 
I've heard that. And they said that they had a time 
when they went out and split them.... .And they say 
that they always split them when the point of the moon's 
turned down, so they would turn down, the shingles 
on there.2' 
I can take you today — if the roof's still on — I 
can take you right today and show you a building, we 
covered half of it in a different time of the moon, and 
half of it turned up. .And I got the almanac and went to 
the signs and looked. .And when we put them on that 
turned up, the moon was a-pointin' up.3° 
14 
After a while my inquiries into old buildings and old 
methods of building began to make clear to me that the builders 
themselves really preferred to relate concrete matters of 
construction, rather than abstract matters of form; no coherent 
system of house typology was ever alluded to in anyone's statements. 
The pattern of traditional forms in the Blue Ridge is suggested 
primarily in the houses themselves. Builders and dwellers might 
at most refer to "a two-story with a front porch, like you see 
a million of," or sometimes to a "double house." But an 
awareness of traditional forms is present even where a system of 
formal terminology is not, and that awareness can be alluded to 
tangentially, as in Ed Severt's account of how hard the work of 
house-building could be: 
I helped that feller build that house from scratch. 
And we put nine truckloads of rock— He had a '28 
Chevrolet truck, and we hauled nine loads of rock, 
and when we got up to the hearth-rock — that's down 
here at the floor — when we got it up, we put nine 
loads of rock up to the ceiling in the chimley. But 
it’s a double chimley, had a fireplace in two rooms. 
Right there in the middle of the house. Just a house 
with a double chimney. Some of 'em didn't even have a 
double chimley; just a little old two-room house with 
a chimney in the end. You can heat the house better 
if it's in the middle of the house.31 
If the rationale for a particular type of house — the 
saddlebag — is for Ed Severt simply a matter of heating efficiency, 
the rationale for other houses may be more complex ( or at any 
rate, less explicit). Every house serves a complex assortment 
of functions in the eyes of both builder and dweller. For a 
builder, the house is an economic and artistic product which can 
communicate his mastery of a craft or trade to the dweller and the 
15 
wider community. For the occupants, a house provides the 
sheltered (heated) living space foregrounded by Ed Severt, 
and also comprises room for storing clothes and other personal 
possessions, a multipurpose set of interior work spaces, and 
a symbol or emblem of the family visible to those within and 
without. Any of these functions might be singled out and 
emphasized as the primary rationale for a house by a given 
builder or inhabitant. 
Storage space, for example, seemed to be on the mind 
of Roy V/eddle when I asked him about the building of his 
small two-room house (which was crammed full of beds, tables, 
chairs, a wood range, and assorted wardrobes in lieu of closets): 
Well, my Daddy helped me a little bit, and my 
brother and all. I hadn’t built the whole thing. 
Tain't done yet. Just kind of an old boxed-up 
thing. I had to get somewhere to put our junk.32 
The storage space available in old houses often 
was used for large quantities of foodstuffs, particularly when 
a "can house" (also called "dwellin’ house" or "cellar") was 
not available. Before Kemper Jarvis built a separate can house 
into the hillside facing the front (!) of his I-house, the 
only closet in the house was filled up with food: 
Right in here's where we used to keep the cans— 
before that dwellin’ house? Kept the cans. Kept 
'em covered up with quilts and stuff. Hit would 
be about everything you could get out of a garden: 
tomatoes, beans, sweet potatoes....33 
Likewise with an eye to storage, the rooms and porches of an old 
dwelling might shelter a kitchen safe or two, a series of dressers, 
a large wardrobe, or other pieces of case furniture providing 
storage space for small everyday objects. 
In addition to storage, every house offers space for 
sleeping. VJhile modern houses like D.J. and Janet Keith’s brick 
"ranch-style" tend to contain a number of small rooms specifically 
designated as "bedrooms" and more-or-less specialized for that 
function in their interior arrangements, many old houses (particularly 
the little ones) contain a smaller number of rooms used for a 
greater number of purposes. TJie idea of a separate, personal 
bedroom for each married couple and child, to be used only for 
the "private" functions of sleeping and dressing seems to be a 
modern one. Yet the sharing of sleeping and working areas in old 
houses must not be seen as the inevitable result of limited space; 
paradoxically, many old houses in our area contain rooms or whole 
floors which were never occupied, or only sporadically used to 
put up an overflow crowd of visiting family, friends, or neighbors. 
The sleeping rooms in many old houses were frequently left unheated, 
but usually could be heated if desired. Yet some of the upper rooms 
in larger houses showed no provision for any sort of heat, which 
may account for their not being normally utilized. Several informants 
who described life in old houses "in the old days" commented on 
the relationship between heat and the sleeping arrangements: 
Upstairs, now, uh— I never did sleep upstairs. And 
none of my family did. But my Daddy’s brother and sisters, 
some of them stayed upstairs now. They slept up there, 
but I didn't. We always slept in these rooms here. Now 
my mother and daddy slept in here, and tvio sisters; 
and I know I'd go in there, and when you opened 
the door, that was just like the North Pole!3^ 
17 
You had to be tough to survive. You really did. 
We had knotholes in the floor, and absolutely 
no insulation and nothing under. The wind’d come 
up through there, and— I remember my Grandmother 
takin' a snuff-box lid and tackin’ over a hole! 
And you talk about bein’ cold— iind I remember one 
time my brother and I, we busted out the window, 
you know, the window right beside our bed. And 
the first snow came, and the next morning we took 
the quilt and dusted the snow off. You know, it 
had snowed right on us.35 
The common existence of unoccupied rooms on the second floors 
of old houses suggests that even fifty or sixty years ago 
there might have been beginning a movement towards one-story 
living arrangements. This movement finds its logical fruition 
in the several sorts of single-story dwellings (including the 
modern trailers, ranch houses, and brick "ramblers") which are 
coming to dominate the new house construction of the region. 
This lack of specialization in the rooms of old houses, 
of course, was never absolute, though single-room log cabins 
have been occupied up until relatively recent times within the 
area. Most of the daytime functions within the older houses 
centered around the fireplace, the chief internal wellspring 
of heat and light: 
...you can see the house just below there, and you 
go there and see and there's a fireplace in each 
one. They cooked in the fireplace. Had a skillet and 
lid; they baked the bread. And the fireplace had a 
crane, you'd turn it around like that, and hang the 
pots on it and turn it over the fire to cook in.3° 
Pll tell you, when it was wintertime, see, and 
/the door/ was closed, I'll tell you that it was 
pretty dark in there. 'Course, that lamp, it wouldn't 
burn a gallon of kerosene in, probably, two or three 
days, or twenty-four hours. And that big fireplace, see, 
they's a lot of light by hit, too, in the wintertime.3/ 
18 
We’d all sit In a big circle around the fire in the „ 
big fireplace. And she'd be tellin' these stories. 
The kitchen (and/or fireplace) continues to be an informal center 
of many homes. Even in those larger houses which contain a 
formally-designated "living room," it was evident during the 
course of fieldwork that many families carry on the bulk of their 
own work and conversation in or near the kitchen and the hearth. 
As strangers, we might be initially led into the front room or 
formal parlor of a house, but many of my own subsequent interviews 
(and those of my colleagues of which I know) took place in the less 
formal setting of a back room or kitchen. 
One of the factors which makes the discussion of a whole 
region's vernacular housing complex is the great range of 
economic considerations which are linked to and revealed in 
the dwellings. While some of the larger and fancier I-houses 
and Georgian-plan houses in the area had plastered walls, carefully 
panelled wooden walls, or even walls with extravagant murals painted 
on them, the older and poorer dwellings might be characterized 
by unpainted or tarpapered exteriors and newspaper linings, both 
of which lent insulation to a log house or crudely boxed-in shack: 
They papered their house inside, to keep 'em warm. 
They used old nevispapers, and magazines, and made a 
solution of flour and water, or corn starch and water, 
and they papered everything with old newspapers. There're 
some of 'em still on the walls over there. Some of 'em 
are dated, you know, but they were dated in the 1920's. 
But they've been papered, probably— No tellin' how 
many times.39 
There was this feller— He was a married man, but he 
batched. Had a little building, oh, as big as a truck 
bed, I guess, and if it come up a rain we'd go in that. 
He had him a little cot in there to sleep on, and a stove 
19 
he cooked on. A heater or something, I don’t 
remember. But he had it covered with tar-paper, 
we called it, and that hailstorm beat every bit 
of the roof off of that, down to the naked boards.^"0 
The total range of houses in the Blue Ridge, as in 
other regions, is in fact much greater than is usually revealed 
in formal type studies. People in our study area have lived 
for extended periods not only in buildings built to be houses, 
but also in schools, churches, barns, sheds, shacks, and other 
unlikely structures. The 10'xl2’ can house sitting about twenty 
yards behind a large tee-extended I-house on the Tasker Martin 
farm^-*- showed signs that it had been inhabited regularly over 
an indeterminate but lengthy period. We can usually discover 
very little about the use of such non-houses as dwellings, but a 
few hints do emerge, now and then, in some recollections: 
They decided the old log /school/ house wasn’t good 
enough. They got fancier and fancier as the years 
went along. Well, they wanted to sell the old log 
house. It had a chimley to it. That’s where I started 
school when I was just a shaver of a boy, and a little 
one at that! I went one year or two years in the 
old log house.... Her uncle bought that old log 
schoolhouse now, and moved it down on the river and 
put it back up. But you see, it was already notched. 
Ml he had to do is just lay it back up and peg it 
together at the corners, ilnd me and her lived in it 
since vie been married. We livgd in that old log 
schoolhouse...just one /room/. ^ 
And in pointing out an old log granary to us, Ernest 
Jarvis recalled how it had been used to put up guests when an 
overflow crowd at a house-dance might spend the night: 
They stayed in there. There vias no fireplace to this 
one. When they had company or something they would come 
out here, and they stayed in there. Probably some of 'em 
could stay in there when there wasn't. But they could 
just put quilts in there and it wasn't too cold. .And 
they stayed in there, and slept.^3 
20 
A step upward from living in a shack, converted can-house, 
log school, or granary would be to live in a very small and 
simple house, like the square cabin of Miss Minnie Thompson 
mentioned above. The poorest of the old houses that existed 
in the East-central Blue Ridge in times past have not survived 
into the late twentieth century, but they still live in vivid 
memories. Consider Harrison Caudle’s tale of a childhood 
adventure which could not have taken place in a more substantially- 
built dwelling: 
V/hen I was six years old I killed my first bear. Out 
over here at the Old Hickory Flat. We didn’t have a 
floor. Vie built a wall down on the ground, just took 
the topsoil off and took red clay dirt and pat it out 
and it was just like brick. When it dries it’s hard. 
The bear dug his nose under there, and they was up on the 
mountain pickin' berries. They used to have to pick 
berries, huckleberries and blackberries, and dried 'em 
in a dry-kil*. I was tendin’ to the little fellers 
there for ’em, and there was an old muzzle-loadin' 
shotgun, with slugs I guess that big, both barrels 
double-charged with powder. I pulled both triggers, I 
don't know how. Got him right between the eyes; I got 
him though. They said he weighed oyer six hundred 
pounds. And it like to killed me.^ 
If life in the smaller old houses — and the limited 
heated portions of even the larger ones — was sometimes cramped, 
dark, cold, or difficult, it was also intimate, socially warm 
and integrative. Neighbors, who might well be relatives too, 
would not only swap the work necessary to build houses and outbuildings, 
but would also get together in each other's completed homes for 
cooperative work activities like corn-shuckings, funerals, and 
the house-dances which were once a mainstay of Blue Ridge social 
life. Almost every interview which touched on life in the old 
21 
houses included references to dancing in the larger rooms, sometimes 
in more than one room at a time, while a band of local string 
musicians held forth from a corner or from the adjacent hallway: 
I've seen 'em square dance in here, right here. They'd 
take the table and lay it up on the bed back there, 
move them beds around, and they'd square dance. You 
ever been to a square dance? Well, they'd square-dance 
right here. They had plenty of room, or they went in 
that other room; see, they's big rooms here, they had 
plenty of room. i\bout four couples, or six couples, 
I remember that.^5 
The reminiscences of informants about the patterns of 
life in their old houses are fascinating, multivalent statements, 
less descriptive than an old photograph of a room Interior might 
be, but also more personally meaningful and hence more deeply 
useful as an indicator of the relationship binding a house and 
its occupants. Problematically, most people's memories make their 
faces light up with associations that are too rich to be fit into 
the answers called forth by an interviewer's prodding questions; 
most dwellers' mental maps — their personal understandings of 
the meanings and values of the divided internal spaces of a house — 
"exist on an emotional rather than a rational level.Occasionally 
vie see revealed in a conversation a hint that the rooms of an old 
house will hold different meanings and memories , in relation with 
their bygone functions: 
Up here over the porch were one little room here and 
one here; medicine rooms. That’s what we called 'em 
when we were kids, because when my Dad— Mter he died, 
there was thousands of bottles of medicine, and my Mom 
always used to say "Don't touch any of those bottles of 
medicine, it might be poison." Because he doctored a lot 
of people. They'd come to him if they had a sick cow, 
or horse, or if they were sick.^7 
22 
The uses of the particular spaces enclosed in a dwelling, 
like medicine rooms, canned-goods closets, or rooms for square¬ 
dancing, represent the most specialized kinds of dwelling functions. 
It should be evident from the last two quotes that the rooms and 
spaces enclosed or defined by a house have richer meanings for the 
people who live in them than they ever can for a mere observer 
or note-taker who comes on the scene too late to see people engaged 
in the day-to-day business of living in their house. The artifacts 
that remain in an old, abandoned house may faintly echo the patterns 
of storage, but they can never reverberate with the complex personal 
meanings of a lived-in house. 
Another complicating factor is change in the house itself. 
In a good many cases, old Blue Ridge houses display manifold 
evidence of alterations or additions. The house-typologist can 
read into the Ike Dehart house and the Adam Clement house some 
intriguing patterns of units in combination; that is, he can 
see in those examples that dwellers who wanted bigger houses often 
created them by addition from a repertoire of forms the typologist 
has already discovered. But the motives for addition may remain 
hidden; even more frustratingly, it is very difficult to spot those 
types of alterations which began with the subtraction or destruction 
of part of an old house. On the Jarvis farm, for instance, the 
central-chimney I-house (which was carefully documented in its 
present condition) had actually undergone some significant alter¬ 
ations during Ernest's youth: 
Well, now, that porch on the house there, that was a 
wood porch.... And we went an poured cement, made a 
23 
cement porch out of that. Built the lower part on 
there, and that changed the house, and put the cement 
porch on the lower side. See, that used to be just 
a— You just walked right out those two back doors... 
just walk right on a wood porch there, and step off. 
But all that, they’ve changed that. They was two 
/doors/ in the back there. You know where you go in 
the kitchen from one of them there? Vfell, that's been 
kindly changed. V/here the cook stove been settin', well, 
they's one door here to your left that walked right out 
on a wood porch. They was another door and you walk 
right out of it to come out of the kitchen. The kitchen 
and the living room was all together on that house. 
The new kitchen addition on the rear of the Jarvis house clearly 
declared a specialization of the rooms’ uses; where the north 
first floor room had been "kitchen and living room all together," 
it became a living room/bedroom after the kitchen and shed were 
added over the old wooden porch. 
An even more complex and less usual type of alteration 
was made on the old Woody house because of a change in the 
road's orientation with respect to the house: 
When this house was built the road come right up 
the mountain here.... Well, our house was facing this 
way, see, facing the road. Well, about 1900 they 
changed, and put the road on that side, so we had to 
change our house. Well, we didn't have to, but we 
did. My oldest brother was in the Navy at that time, 
and he come home on furlough, and he got some help 
with the other brothers, and they tore out the kitchen. 
See, the kitchen faced that way, towards the road, and 
there was a big fireplace and a chimney.^9 
Such a reorientation of the house to the road as was 
described by Roy V/oody (l.e., tearing off the rear kitchen tee 
when it faces the new road, so that an "acceptable" I-house facade 
is maintained) reinforces the obvious point that the dweller's use 
of any house is affected signlficantly by his perception of the site. 
Each site has a social as well as an environmental meaning. By 
24 
tearing off the kitchen addition, the Woody brothers effectively 
re-oriented their house socially after a disorientation had been 
effected by the road crews. That the Woody brothers felt such 
pressure to change their house under the circumstances seems all 
the more remarkable since many Blue Ridge houses viith formal and 
Imposing facades (especially I-houses and Georgian-plan houses) 
are often surrounded by footpaths and other signs which reveal 
that the families inhabiting them avoid the front door. There is 
another minor paradox here; if the Woody’s feelings can be assumed 
to be representative, a house must not be sited with its back to 
the road, and yet dwellers and friends don’t really want to use 
the front facade they’ve taken so much trouble to build and maintain. 
.An important part of the social meaning of a house’s site 
(and one which may bear on the apparent paradox noted above) arises 
from the identity and relationship a dweller maintains with his 
neighbors. Early Blue Ridge dwellers, particularly, needed to 
have good relations with their neighbors in order to make possible 
the cooperative modes of both work and play that have already 
been mentioned. But good neighbors also came from the pressure 
to subdivide the large early holdings into smaller farms which 
could be deeded to male children, who built their own houses 
adjacent to the "old home place" and thenceforth participated in 
the work-swapping and mutual support. The resulting pattern of 
settlement in many outlying areas typically featured a cluster 
of houses, sometimes compact and sometimes diffuse, but all belonging 
to relatives of greater or lesser degree. The death of older 
25 
generations coupled with persistent outmigration from the region, 
however, has left many houses empty of kin, and filled now with 
only strangers or memories: 
My aunt lived over there /across the valley/, ^ind 
this feller bought the house up when the boy, he 
wanted to move up on the ridge. And the house was 
built in 1926. I remember it had an outfit kindly in 
the gable end up there, and it had ”1926— This house 
built in 1926.” He sold it to a neighbor, lives right 
up above me there. He sold out. So he got it now, 
and that was the rest of the buildings. They left 
and never got ’em out, and he lives up on the hill 
up there. And that's my uncle's place up there; it belongs 
to my cousins up here.50 
My Daddy's old farm, it had a tenant house. My oldest 
brother, he built it, and he moved in it, lived a while. 
Then my other oldest brother, he moved in it, lived 
a while. And I reckon me and her was the last two that 
ever lived in it that I know of. It was across the river 
from my Daddy's house.51 
That old Bart has got three or four stout grown sons, 
and every one of 'em got a brick house right on the 
same ridge with their Daddy. Just strung right out 
along the ridge.52 
The selection of a house site involves more than the 
question of what land is available.53 Within a given farm's 
acreage, early house builders almost always favored sites that 
were sheltered from the wind (as with the Andly Long house). 
Ridge top settlements like the one spoken of above are usually 
more recent, and reflect both improved heating and insulating 
technologies and the growing pressure for building sites. 
Even more Important than being out of the wind was being near to 
a good source of drinking water: 
See, when this place was built here, they went to 
water. See, that's why they built this, to get close 
to a spring. Anymore they don't pay attention to that; 
they just have a well dug. But the old people, they'd 
26 
go build close to water, now. You’d be surprised 
if you could see some of the places where houses 
have been in this country-- where they'd take it 
to get close to a spring.5^- 
If plenty of water was available, as on the Woody 
farm (which has five potable springs), the original house site 
could have been selected for its proximity to the road. When the 
new Woody house was being planned, its precise site was chosen 
by a unique method that guaranteed both warmth and a view: 
When vie were kids, my Mom used to say that she'd like 
a house over here, on the hill. You see, we lived in 
the valley, right down across the creek here, which is 
only a hundred and fifty yards, you see. But the cows 
always went up here to get out of the bad weather, 
right over, under the hill, you see? .And that was an 
indication that /this site/ was a good warm spot. And 
then of course, with the view and everything, too, 
was one of the reasons.55 
The desire for a scenic view was incompatible with a sheltered 
site for the builders of most old houses, but it has come to be 
an important and feasible desideratum — if not the chief one — 
in selecting the site and aspect of new houses. 
New houses and trailers are being added to the vernacular 
landscape of the Blue Ridge at an astounding rate, finding great 
acceptance because of their stylish comforts, their easier upkeep, 
and their contemporary organization of living spaces. The former 
residents of old houses who bring in trailers or build one-story 
brick "ramblers" in order to live more comfortably near the main 
highways almost inevitably edure ambivalent feelings about the old 
homes they've left. The venerable, abandoned I-houses and cabins 
of the area carry the full symbolic weight of "the good old days 
when times were bad." In fact, old houses possess a powerful 
nostalgic value even for those who don't personally recall their 
27 
Inhabitation, hn old house may functionally become a barn, but 
in memory it always remains a home. Janet Keith's parents moved 
out of their old house and filled it with hay; even so, Janet 
maintains it in her memories, which she can jog as needed or desired 
by glancing at an artfully composed color photo kept on the wall 
of the living room in her own new home. The feeling that her 
grandfather's home was embodied with a personal historic Import 
transcending its present rude use prompted Janet Keith to in¬ 
vestigate it more closely a few years ago: 
Vfhen I was in early high school...! did a thing on the 
family, recording what he knew, and going over the 
farm and taking pictures of the house that my grandfather 
built, the first in the area to be built with nails. 
i\nd one of the elders of the church had come by and said 
to my grandfather that he was going to kill Elder Game's 
daughter by building her a house like that. It wasn't 
going to hold up /because of7 the fact that he had 
used nails rather than the wooden peg and so forth, 
log construction that had been done, or was being done, . 
in the area before that time. That house still stands.5° 
Similarly, although Ernest Jarvis has moved to a more 
easily maintained brick house near the main road to Sparta, he 
feels compelled to wander back over to the old home place freq¬ 
uently, and gamely insists that his old buildings are still 
valuable to him even if only for storing hay or his ancestors' 
keepsakes. Although old log buildings can be rebuilt when they 
begin to decay and tumble down, Ernest Jarvis has resisted the 
temptation to sell off the homes which are emblems of his 
family's presence: 
That old house — we used it for a wood house. And 
it's just about gone. 'Cause I thought about tryin' 
to fix it up, when that'n started failin', but it's 
too far gone to do most anything with. 'Course, you 
28 
could take them logs and turn 'em right over, you 
know, on the outside? Inside-outside. i\nd still 
make a nice cabin out of it. There was a boy asked 
me about that. He was settin' right up there one 
day, he said, "Sell me that old house." And I said, 
"I use that, to put hay and stuff in." But see, you 
can turn them right over; you just have to cut 'em 
off here, where they're notched out. See, you could 
make a nice cabin; one room log cabin's what could 
be made, kind of like that'n out yonder. But he 
looked at it; he thought he could. I told him I 
didn't want to tear it down, now. But hit's about gone.57 
I don't want to sell it.... And I want to make it to 
my boy, I'm gonna— I told 'im the other day,I'm 
gonna change this, and make it to my boy, but I'm 
gonna fix it where he can't sell it till he gets 
old enough to know what he's doin'. .And I don't 
believe— If he takes up with it like I have, he 
won't never sell it either.58 
It should be clear from the many quotes above that 
the folk architecture of a given region has nearly as many levels 
of meaning as there are dwellings and occupants in the region. 
Some kinds of architectural meanings can, indeed, be read 
directly from the form and fabric of representative houses, but 
there is a larger and ultimately a more important set of meanings 
which arises only from the fact of human occupancy itself. 
But occupants generate meaning from more than their patterns of 
use: their eating, sleeping, storing, cooking, dancing, altering, 
and decorating. If we analytically imagine! the house only to 
be, as Le Corbusier suggested, "a machine for living in,"^^ 
then we are too rigidly following his further injunction to 
"shut our eyes to what exists."^0 The old house-builders of the 
Blue Ridge created machines for living, but in the course of 
occupancy, the dwellers (which group includes the builders) have 
29 
modified both their dwellings and their own memories and 
understandings of how they did live and how they should live. 
The complete context of human occupancy, in the sense that can 
become holistic and ecological, involves both "the effects of 
occupancy on the house /and7 the effects of the house on the 
occupants.^* VThere a prescriptively functionalist architect or 
builder might see houses serving only as shelters, receptacles, 
and enclosed living spaces, the man or woman who actually lives 
there is bound through time and tradition to a region, to the 
sight of his neighbor's houses and his own, from within and without. 
He understands that his house fulfills those purely mechanical 
functions, perhaps some well and some poorly, but he also 
senses that his building embodies some affective functions 
which make the house a home. A house can be summed up as 
a type of artifact, complex but finite; but a home yields 
endless reflexive perspectives on and for the lives of its 
inhabitants. V/hile the quoted memories of Ernest Jarvis, Roy 
Woody, Ed Severt, Janet Keith, Roy Weddle, Harrison Caudle and 
others knowingly speak to such home-related matters as construction, 
cooking, sleeping, storage, keeping warm, rebuilding, work, 
and play, they have only outlined the intertwined factors which 
bind together a region and a people with an individual and his 
home. Their words must inspire further (and more systematic) 
inquiry into such ecologies; meanwhile, folklorists like 
myself, attempting to make sense of the sense of place which 
individual houses integrate would do well to reconsider 
29 
, and their ovm nemories and 
modified noth their d,.e ■ they should live. 
nnderstandings of ho« they c. . can 
. hmnen occupancy, in the se.^« 
The complete contex ^ effects of 
Viol istlc end ecological, involves both the 
become holla ^ ^ effects of the house on the 
occupancy on the house _a architect or 
, 61 vrhere a prescriptively functionalist arch! 
occupants. - shelters, receptacles, 
builder might see houses serving ^ ^ llves 
and enclosed living spaces, the - ^ the 
there is bound through time and ° an4 v,lthou,. 
- “ “;r ' 
He understands that hi - t h als0 
-in pnr^ SO^B IDOOrlj f bU ^ 
^ d-drvvic oerhaps some v^ell and so...« i 
functions, per.. . ^^^pctive functions 
th!(t his building embodies some affective 
" T the house a h^. 6 house can be summed up as 
uhlch ra e . lt . but a home yields 
. type of artifact, complex but fi 
a type oi lives of its 
, reflexive perspectives on and for 
endless reflex! ^est Jarvis, Hoy 
. , vfhile the quoted memories 
inhabitants. While ^ We441e, Harrison Caudle and 
VIoody, Ed severt, Jan.’ ho_e.related matters as construction 
others singly speah to su h 
cooking, sleeping, storage, ^ factors -ich 
and Play, they have ohly ^ ^ ^ 
- — 8 ^°n;::r ::r(end more systematic, 
home. iheir ^ folklorists like 
Inquiry into such ecologie., ^ of plaoe „hlch 
myself, attempting to make sen.e 
ir'ys well to reconsider 
individual houses integrate vioa 
30 
James .Agee’s half-mystic assertion: 
...that a house of simple people which stands empty 
and silent in the...morning sunlight, and everything 
which on this morning in eternal space it by chance 
contains, all thus left open and defenseless to a 
reverent and cold-laboring spy, shines quietly forth 
such grandeur, such sorrowful holiness of its 
exactitudes in existence, as no human consciousness 
shall ever rightly perceive, far less impart to another.. 
Thomas A. Adler 
September, 1980 
62 
• • 
Footnotes 
1 This essay was written for the American Folklife Center of 
the Library of Congress, which in cooperation with the National 
Park Service undertook the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project 
in August and September of 1978. I joined the Project in early 
September in order to help with the considerable architectural 
documentation job that had been undertaken. I would like to 
acknowledge special debts of gratitude I owe to Blanton Ovien and 
Howard Marshall, who brought me quickly into the light of their 
early findings and helped me see what needed to be seen in our 
study area. Figures 2, 3, 5* 8, and 10 are based directly on the 
field drawings made by Howard Marshall. 
2 The Puckett Cabin, located east of Fancy Gap at Mile 189.8 on 
the Parkway, was the home of local midwife Mrs. Orlean Hawks Puckett 
from 1865 until 1939. 
3Henry Glassie, "Southern Mountain Houses: A Study in American 
Folk Culture," unpublished M.A. Thesis, (Cooperstown: State 
University of New York College at Oneonta, 1965), p. 150. 
^ Miss Thompson’s cabin lies in the woods near the end of Patrick 
County (Virginia) highway 678, north of V/oolwine. 
3 The Andy Long house is in the woods in Ashe County (North Carolina), 
a few miles southwest of Laurel Springs. 
^ Interview with Roy Woody, Jean Woody, and Laura Woody Overwater, 
Sept. 26, 1978. 
7 The Payton Akers house, documented by Howard Marshall, is between 
Gladesboro and Hillsville, on Carroll County (Virginia) highway 670. 
® The Crouse farm is visible from the Blue Ridge Parkway near 
Air Bellows Gap, just off Alleghany County (North Carolina) 
highway 1131. 
9 The Slusher house, childhood home of Janet Keith, is just outside 
our area, lying a mile or two northwest of Willis, in Floyd County 
(Virginia). 
Ernest Jarvis’s farm near Blevin’s Crossroads in Alleghany Co. 
was one of a number of architectural focal points for our project, 
and was extensively documented by various American Folklife 
Center fieldworkers. 
H The striking Brooks I-house is on Wilkes County (North Carolina) 
highway 1737> northwest of Traphill. 
12 The Adam Clement farm is near Carter's Mill, in southwestern 
Patrick County. 
32 
13 Pat Mullen and I visited the Weddles on a preliminary trip 
along Floyd County highway 804; their small house lies about 
midway between Union and Shelor’s Mill. 
1^ The Hall house is in Carroll County, on highway 674 north of 
Fancy Gap. Although I have classified this house as a double¬ 
pen type, Blanton Owen saw it as a hall-less I-house. Cf.Fn. 19. 
13 Glassie, "Southern Mountain Houses," p. l69f. 
16 Interview with Harrison Caudle, Sept. 21, 1978. 
I? The B.D.Akers farm holds a number of interesting old buildings 
which were measured by Howard Marshall. It is located near the 
intersection of Carroll County highways 674 and 682. 
^ Interview with Tom Pruitt at his home on Alleghany County highway 
1131, Sept. 21, 1978. 
19 Glassie, "Southern Mountain Houses," pp. 199-201. 
20 Several multiple-unit dwellings coexist on State Highway 40 
in Patrick County, east of Woolwine. The Dehart house represents 
the financial success of a family who ran an early legal distillery 
on the same site. Despite its evident grandetir, the house was 
barely saved from the bulldozers about to raze it when its 
present occupants, Leah and Morley Wheeler, agreed to restore 
it and to permit tours through it. 
21 Glassie, "Southern Mountain Houses," p. 5. 
22 Harrison Caudle, Sept. 21, 1978. 
23 Interview with Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
2^ Interview with Ed Severt, Sept. 26, 1978. 
25 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
2^ Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
2? Interview with Dewey Keith, Sept. 24, 1978. 
28 Thomas Carter, "The Joel Cock House: Meadows of Dan, Patrick County, 
Virginia," Southern Folklore Quarterly 39 (1975), 329-340. 
29 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
3° Ed Severt, Sept. 26, 1978. 
31 Ibid. 
33 
Interview with Roy Weddle, Sept. 15* 1978. 
33 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13» 1978. 
34 Ibid. 
35 Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
38 Harrison Caudle, Sept. 21, 1978. 
37 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13* 1978. 
38 Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
39 ibid. 
Ed Severt, Sept. 26, 1978. 
^ The Tasker Martin farm was another architectural focal point for 
our work. It is located in the Red Hill community on U.S. 58, 
between Hlllsville and Laurel Fork, Carroll County. 
^2 Ed Severt, Sept. 26, 1978. 
^3 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13> 1978. 
^ Harrison Caudle, Sept. 21, 1978. 
^5 Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
^8 Robert Sommer, Personal Space: The Behavioral Basis of Design 
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1969), p. l8o. 
^7 Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
^ Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
5° Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
51 Ed Severt, Sept. 26, 1978. 
52 ibid. 
53 Cf. Robert Keber, "Site Selection of Pre-19^0 Mountain Houses," 
in Carolina Dwelling (North Carolina State University, 1978?),p. 198. 
5^ Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 1978. 
55 Roy Woody, Sept. 26, 1978. 
56 Janet Keith, Sept. 24, 1978. 
5? Ernest Jarvis, Sept. 13, 19?8. 
58 ibid. 
59 Le Corbusier, Towards A New Architecture, translated by Frederick 
Etchells (New York: Praeger Publishers, i960), p. 10. 
60 Ibid., pp. 106-7. 
61 Roger L. Welsch, "The Meaning of Folk Architecture: The Sod 
House Example," Keystone Folklore 21 (1976-7), 36. 
62 James Agee and Walker Evans, Let Us Now Praise Famous Men (New 
York: Ballantine Books, 1972), p. 121.