American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Et
hnic Heritage
i
 i
and I
La nguage
i
 
I
1 MIII)
O KsUI
 
GREEK
 
(
Buffalo, NY)
 
I
 
THE SCHOOLS OF THE HELLENIC ORTHODOX CHURCH
 
OF THE ANNUNCIATION
 
BUFFALO, NEW YORK
 
Lydia Fish
 
American Folkilfe Center
 
Ethnic Schools Project
 
April-July, 1982
 
How shall we sing the Lord's songs
 
upon an alien soil?
 
Psalm 137
 
The first Greek settlers in Buffalo arrived in 1894.
 (
And,
 
with great historical appropriateness, opened a candy store.)
 By
 
1910 about ten families and approximately two hundred single men were
 
living in the area.
 The first church, Evangelismos (Annunciation)
 
was incorporated in 1911 and the first Greek School was established in
 
1916.
 I
t met at the church on Oak Street and was, from the first, a
 
weekday afternoon rather than an all—day school.
 Subjects in these
 
early years seem to have been limited to the reading and writing of
 
Greek and the study of the Orthodox faith.
 Early teachers were the
 
priest with an occasional layman; religious instruction and language
 
instruction obviously went hand in hand.  Unmarried girls and married
 
women of the community begin to be mentioned as teachers in the 1920's.
 
A
.P. Theodorides took over as principal in 1933 and added history,
 
geography and penmanship to the curriculum.
 In the late I'-
hundred and fifty children were enrolled in the school.
 C
i
 
after regular school; at first every day and later on two or three
 
afternoons a week.
 (
Some religious instruction seems also to have
 
been given on Saturdays.)
 In 1937 the church purchased a cultural
 
center several miles from the church on Delaware Avenue, close to the
 
site of the present church; classes were held there for a while and then
 
moved back downtown to an annex school close to the Oak Street church.
 
In 1952 the church moved to its present building, which is still more
 
or less downtown, but in a much more elegant neighborhood.
 (
The Oak
 
-2--
Street area is now hardcore inner city.)
 The new church, a beautiful
 
stone building in a style best described as parish Gothic, was
 
originally North Presbyterian Church and was built in 1904-1906.
 A
 
1
-andsome stone parish house is attached to the church and for twenty
 
years the Greek School and Sunday School classes met there.
 In 1972
 
a Community Center was completed in the same location, with a gymnasium
 
for games and dancing and classroom on the first floor.
 There are
 
presently 756 families that  are dues-paying members of the parish and
 
approximately two hundred more that  do not support the church, although
 
members may show up from time to time at services, social events or. the
 
Festival.
 
In 1945 a very able priest, Fr. John Pallas, became pastor of
 
the church and the organization of the Greek School and Sunday School
 
as they are today began.
 Before that time it is virtually impossible
 
to distinguish between the Greek School and the Sunday School, which
 
seem to have had completely overlapping personnel.
 The r
eason for the
 
separation of the two schools was very probably that it was no longer
 
possible to conduct religious instruction entirely in Greek and to
 
assume that all the children could understand it.
 (About this time the
 
Archdiocese stopped printing Sunday School books in Greek, so it was
 
obviously a national trend.)
 
The first teachers in the Greek School were the priest and an
 
occasional highly educated layman, who often also acted as choir
 
director.
 Although educated teachers were sought (Mrs. Pappas, the
 
present principal of the Sunday School, remembers that the priest asked
 
if she would teach in the Greek School as soon as she arrived in Buffalo
 
S
 
S
 
-3-
S
 
S
 
as a bride in 1929) ,
 the memories of some of the youngsters who
 
attended the school in the 1950's and 1960's would seem to indicate
 
that some were recruited who had no more qualifications than an ability
 
to speak the language and a strong sense of dedication to the preserva-
tion of Greek language and culture among •the younger generation.  At
 
this time there are six
. teachers employed by the school:
 four Greek
 
(male) students who are attending the University of Buffalo, one
 
mother and one trained teacher.
 In the early days people who had brought
 
books from Greece used them in teaching; in the 1930's a Greek School
 
library was established.  Presently the children buy their textbooks,
 
which are published in Maryland.
 
The school is financed by tuition payments and some fund-raising
 
activities.  For some years there was a Creek School Board; more
 
recently the school has been run by a Parents and Teachers Ocganiza-
tion, which has conducted raffles, candy sales and bake sales, and
 
puts on an annual dance to raise money for the school.  This year the
 
Parish Council has taken over the responsibility for the school, which
 
George Pappas, the Greek School principal, feels is a mistake; since
 
they also instituted a tuition raise at the same time the parents feel
 
that they no longer need to donate their time.  Presently the students
 
pay fifty dollars tuition per year, with twenty-five dollars for books
 
and supplies.
 The Greek university students are paid twenty-five
 
dollars per week, Mrs. Serkizes, who has taught for five or six years,
 
is oaid thirty dollars per week and Mrs. Pullman, who is a qualified
 
teacher, is paid forty-five dollars per week.  The Philoptochos Women's
 
Society contributes some money every year, usually a few hundred
 
dollars.
 
-4-
George Pappas is the only administrator of t
ue school; he
 
makes decisions about curriculum and so forth in consultation with the
 
teachers and the  '
greatly weakened" P
.T.O.
 (They recently abandoned a
 
new series of textbooks which they had been using and went back to a
 
former series because the new ones were considered too difficult for
 
the children.)
 If the school had more money he would like to purchase
 
more teacher aids (
some really good tape recorders, for example) and
 
hire more qualified teachers.
 
Formerly, the classes were grouped only by age; the children
 
started Greek School in the first grade at six and finished the sixth
 
grade when they were twelve.
 This year, however, tests were given and
 
the students were placed according to their level of proficiency.  Th
 
textbooks are published by Theodore C
. Papaloizos Publications; there
 
i
s a complete curriculum, with workbooks.
 Presently the Archdiocese
 
i
s working on a language curriculum and George Pappas is using their
 
first-grade reader this year.
 The main emphasis is on language teaching;
 
there are no special classes in history, geography, literature or art.
 
Little bits of all of these are sandwiched into the language lessons
 
in the textbooks, along with some classical mythology and a fair amount
 
of material on Creek calendar custom.
 (
It might be a fascinating
 
project to go through the textbooks of all these
, ethnic schools for
 
folklore material.)
 
Several holidays are marked by special school programs.
 The
 
last Sunday in January is Greek Letters Sunday, which is dedicated to
 
Greek language schools and celebrated in North and South America.
 (
If
 
this project is continued, I think that this holiday, as well as Greek
 
independence Day, should be thoroughly documented.)
 The most important
 
is Greek Independence Day, which is celebrated on March 25,  the Feast
 
S
 
S
 
- ) -
S
 
S
 
S
 
of the Annunciation.
 This celebration is an almost 7erfect example of
 
the identification of Greek ethnicity in this country with the Orthodox
 
faith.  March 25 is the date of the beginning of the Greek revolution
 
of 1821 against the Ottoman Empire.
 This day was deliberately selected
 
because it celebrates the bringing of the good news to the Virgin by
 
the Archangel Gabriel.
 Since it is also the name day of the parish i
t
 
is a very important day in the life of the community.  After the Divine
 
Liturgy there is a procession of the officers of all the parish organiza-
tions and the program in the Community Center is followed by a dinner
 
for the entire community.
 (At which fish is served; after all, it is
 
Lent.)
 There are speeches, some of them in Greek, by adult members c
 
the parish, usually with patriotic themes, or extolling the glories o
 
Greek culture, with heavy classical emphasis.  All the children in the
 
Greek School also participate in the program, reciting little religious
 
or patriotic poems, singing religious songs or Greek folk songs, and
 
putting on a play about the beginning of the revolution in 1821.  The
 
teachers of the Greek School carefully coach the children for this
 
occasion; Andreas Zapatinas, a Greek university student who taught at
 
the school, says they are the same songs and poems which he remembers
 
performing as a child in Greece.
 
The teachers at the Creek School are not specially trained, un-
less they are certified teachers.
 There are occasional workshops; (
-
,
-
-
Ice
 
the author of the texts which are presently used conducted one in
 
Buffalo and the teachers recently attended one in Rochester.
 There are
 
many more of these workshops and seminars in the New York City area,
 
where there are, of course, many more Greek schools.
 
Changes in curriculum and attitude over the years are, of course,
 
-6-
inevitable.
 en the Greek School in Buffalo was established it was
 
giving essentially religious instruction to children to whom Greek was
 
a functional language.
 As the Greek immigrants became more assim i
lated
 
into the American mainstream culture less and less Greek was spoken in
 
the home; the children, even though they might speak only Greek until
 
they entered kindergarten, quickly learned to speak English and used it
 
to communicate in most of their daily activities.  Many Greeks married
 
members of other ethnic groups, so children often grew up in homes who.
 
one parent spoke no Greek at all.  The Greek School is now attempting
 
to teach children to read and speak a language which they may not hear
 
at all outside of the Liturgy (which is koine, rather than demotic
 
Greek anyway) or their social contacts in the parish.
 Religious
 
instruction has been taken over by the Sunday School and there really
 
isn't time to do more than give very basic language instruction in two
 
hours a week.
 I think Fishman is right in pointing out that attending
 
a mother tongue school is an almost obligatory second generation ethnic
 
experience; that it is the non-immigrant ethnic child's unique way of
 
being an American, whether or not he is of non-E glish language background.
 
This would explain something which puzzled Andreas Zapatinas, a young
 
Greek university student who taught in the Creek School for several
 
years.
 He says that it was never made clear to him what the school
 
was trying to accomplish; if they were really trying to t
each t
he
 
children to read, write and speak Greek, it was clearly impossible tu
 
do so in two hours per week.
 If they were trying to teach t
hem their
 
Greek heritage, why wasn't there more emphasis on Greek li
luroture, art
 
and history?  He especially could not understand why modern Greek
 
history wasn't taught at all.
 His questions make a good deal of sense;
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
-I -
if the school is trying to establish language proficiency it is not
 
succeeding particularly well, if it is trying to teach the children abou t
 
S
 
Greek culture, it is not doing very well either.
 But Andreas is comparing
 
this school to Greek education in Greece.
 If the school consciously or
 
unconsciously (
and I suspect it is the latter) is trying to help the
 
children work out their identity as ethnic Americans it is doing a
 
superb job.
 Greek ethnic identity in this country has always presented
 
certain problems, whether looked at from the point of view of esoteric
 
or exoteric stereotypes.
 The Greek immigrants in the late nineteenth
 
century arrived in a country which had undergone a classical revival
 
(
upstate New York is dotted with towns with Greek names) and "knew" all
 
about Creeks.  Since the American stereotype of Greeks was based on
 
fifth—century Athens, Buffalonians probably vaguely expected people in
 
togas.
 The men who danced in skirts, worshipped in churches which must
 
have struck good Irish Catholics as absolutely bizarre, and specialized
 
in running candy stores and ice—cream parlors must have come as something
 
of a shock.
 Some of what puzzled Andreas in the Greek School curriculum
 
may have arisen from an attempt to understand an ethnic image which
 
somehow includes Socrates and Zorba.
 (This same dichotomy is apparent
 
at the Festival, where some of the girls wear nineteenth century peasant
 
costumes and some wear adaptations of Classical robes.)
 
Some of the changes in attitudes over the years are purely a
 
result of demographic changes.  When Buffalo Greeks began to move out
 
of the old neighborhood near the church on Oak Street in the suburban
 
diaspora it was no longer possible for the children to walk t
o Greek
 
School every day, or even several days a week.  -
 Although the Greek
 
School in Buffalo is located about as centrally as i
s possibie, i
t i
s
 
-8-
still very inconvenient to transport children to it more than twice a
 
week.
 (Most children who attend the Greek School also attend Sunday
 
School.)
 Children who were attending suburban schools had most of their
 
social life with non-Greeks and were involved in many activities outside
 
of the parish.
 (
This probably also explains the gradual demise of all
 
the youth organizations except Jr. GOYA.)
 There were some attempts to
 
cope with this problem; in the late fifties and sixties satellite
 
schools were opened (usually in Episcopal churches) in the Highgate
 
area, in Depew, Lockport and Niagara Falls.
 
Most parents who I talked to said.that they wanted their children
 
to attend Greek School so they "would understand better who they were,"
 
"would learn about their heritage" or "would be able to communicate
 
with their Greek relatives."
 (
This, incidentally, is probably more of
 
a factor than one would think.  The Greek idea of family includes a huge
 
network of people related either by blood or by spiritual ties; being
 
a godparent (kounibaro) establishes a real family relationship.  Many
 
of these relatives are in Greece and there is a great deal of visiting
 
back and forth.)  Having children attend Greek School does not require
 
a huge financial commitment, but it does invclve a tremendous commitment
 
in time and effort
..
 Suburban parents have to sacrifice an entire Satur-
day morning to drive the children to Greek School and dance classes,
 
since Buffalo public transportation virtually does not function on
 
weekends.
 (The Greek School meets from ten until noon and the dance
 
classes meet immediately afterwards.)  Most parents help the children
 
with their homework, which can be very difficult if the parent does not
 
speak Greek himself; one of the parents I interviewed, Theo Pappas,
 
described struggling through her son's first and second grade homework
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
-9 -
0
 
S
 
with the aid of a dictionary.
 The only parent I talked to who had been
 
to Greek School herself was Victoria Pantelis, who went every afternoon
 
after school as a child in Brooklyn.
 The school, which was affiliated
 
with a Greek Orthodox parish, hired a full-time professional teacher.
 
She received excellent training and still speaks fluent Greek.  Most of
 
the parents seem fairly satisfied with their children's progress,
 
although there were quite a few complaints about lack of discipline.
 
The students, for the most part, complain bitterly about the
 
Saturday classes (
they would much rather be watching cartoons), the
 
homework and the tests.  However, every one I talked to agreed that
 
learning to speak Greek was a good thing and the graduates decide, in
 
retrospect, that it was worth all the suffering.  The only regrets I ran
 
across were from students who dropped out or felt that they hadn't made
 
the effort to really learn the language.
 Graduates of the school have
 
the chance to take the Regents'  Examinations in Greek and receive three
 
high school credits if they pass.
 Since these tests are taken at the
 
ninth or tenth grade level, several years after they have finished
 
classes, special review sessions are held each year in June before the
 
exams.  Not a lot of students take these exams, but the ones that do
 
usually do well.  Most of the students agree that they would send their
 
own children to Greek School.
 
The comparison between Greek School and mainstream education will
 
depend somewhat on which t
eachers a child has had.
 Almost all of them
 
prefer either the parents or the qualified teachers to the Creek univer-
sity students.
 This is rather ironic, since the school makes such an
 
effort to recruit them; the principal says that he much prefers to hire
 
teachers who have finished high school in Greece.
 These young men know
 
-10-
Greek very well and some of them are very conscientious teachers, but
 
I suspect the problem is that they do not relate very well to the Greek-
American experience.
 If these classes are at least partly a way of
 
working out an American way of being ethnic (and I do think Fishman i
s
 
right about this) then this makes perfect sense.
 
Most of the children I talked to have two more or less distinct
 
social lives, although there is some overlap at festivities like
 
birthday parties and one invites one's American friends to the Festival.
 
hough some of the suburban schools now have a dozen or so Greek
 
L
idren in them at any given time, most of the socialization with other
 
Greeks is on weekends or at church-related activities in mid-week, such
 
as Jr.  COYA functions or dance rehearsals.
 
Another manifestation of the move to the suburbs is the growth
 
of private classes in the homes of teachers or students.  Private tutor-
ing in Greek has gone on from the beginning, but in the past ten years
 
private classes have grown to the point where there are probably more
 
children in these than in the Greek School.
 Presently there are two
 
teachers taking private classes, one of whom teaches in the Greek
 
School.
 (
There is, naturally, a little ill feeling about these classes
 
on the part of the Greek School and, until recently, it was a matter of
 
policy never to hire a teacher who also conducted private classes-)
 
Each teacher has four classes, which meet once a week on a week night
 
for an hour.
 Estimates of class size range from six to twelve students;
 
the teacher receives $2.50 per hour per student.
 Since there are
 
currently only forty-five students in the Greek School, these classes
 
conscitute a serious threat to its continued existence.
 
Several reasons are given for sending these students t
o these
 
-
 
C ISSSLS.
 I
lIC  :
)
r 1dry  o  i
s L
  
parents do not have to make the long trek f
 
and the children have their Saturday mornings free for other activities.
 
The children receive more individual attention and discipline is better.
 
One Greek School graduate suggested that perhaps some parents object
 
to the religious content of the Greek School lessons and prefer to
 
send their children to non-church-sponsored classes.
 
It would be interesting to see if this situation is found in
 
other ethnic communities.  The Church of the Annunciation cannot be
 
taken as a typical example, because many parents became very concerned
 
about the safety of the neighborhood after Fr. George Pantelis was shot
 
in the church during a burglary in 1979.  Attendance in the Greek
 
School classes fell off sharply and is only now beginning to pick up.
 
Probably no ethnic group in America identifies itself in terms
 
of religion; to a great extent, to be Creek-American is to be Greek
 
Orthodox, however loose the ties with the Church may become.
 Native
 
Greeks, largely because of historical experience, tend to see themselves
 
as "Orthodox Christians" (as opposed to the Ottoman Moslems) rather
 
defining themselves by ethnicity; Greeks began to think of themselves
 
as "Greeks" only at the formulation of the Greek state about 1825.
 The
 
immigrants who came to this country quickly established churches, around
 
which the community activities, including the school, coalesced.  The
 
Sunday School, which is now responsible for the religious education of
 
the children, only separated from the Greek School in the mid-1940's,
 
largely because of language problems; it was no longer possible t
o gi c
 
religious instruction only in Greek.  The fact that most Orthodox Churches
 
are in communion with each other probably contributed to  the identification
 
- '
12-
of Orthodoxy and ethnicity.
 In many American towns early immigrants
 
simply went to whatever Orthodox church was nearest; Greeks, Syrians,
 
Russians, Armenians and Bulgarians prayed together in storefront
 
churches.
 The first wedding in the Greek community in Buffalo was
 
performed in St. Peter and Paul Russian Orthodox Church.
 Therefore,
 
Sunday School is a very real part of a second-generation Greek-American
 
child's ethnic education.
 
The first teachers were the priest and some laymen who had been
 
educated in Greece.
 Trained teachers were used whenever possible. Later
 
mothers were brought in to assist the teachers.  The Archdiocese provided
 
a curriculum from the late 1940's, but at first this was just little
 
pamphlets printed in Greek.
 Before that time Mrs. Pappas had to find
 
her own books (often in Greece) and write synopses for the use of her
 
teachers.
 
In
 
the early 1950's the Archdiocese started providing text-
books in English, but until a few years ago there was not one for every
 
grade.
 Over the years Mrs. Pappas has built up an excellent reference
 
library for the use of her teachers.
 The subjects taught haven't
 
changed much over the years; as she points out, the Orthodox Faith
 
hasn't changed.
 I have looked over most of the textbooks used in the
 
school and have been quite impressed.
 In some grades the subject
 
the relationship of Christianity to everyday life and I think the
 
diocese has done a commendable job of c
ackling such very modern
 
problem s as sex and drugs.
 The books on the Church holy days and
 
Saints days, the sacraments and the Creed are really excellent.
 Film-
strips and films are also available from the Archdiocese.
 
The children do not pay for their books, nor are thc  t
 
paid:
 "
"T
Th
he
ey
y 
 are paid by the smiles of the children.
 For about fifteen
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
-I -
 
S
 
S
 
years the Sunday School was supported by the fund-raising a
ctivities of
 
the Parents and Teachers' Association and the Mothers' Club; -
,
.ore
 
recently the Parish Council has taken over financial responsibility
 
the school.
 Unless the teachers are certified, they serve an apprent
 
ship wich an experienced teacher; girls often help their mothers.
 
Mrs. Pappas is an indefatigable recruiter; every year she enlists
 
future teachers in the Sunday School graduating class and it was she
 
who found Nick Kadounas, who is now very ably assisting helping Theo
 
Pappas in teaching the senior class, serving as a cantor and discovered
 
that he is a formidable Biblical scholar.
 There are some local and
 
regional workshops and seminars for Sunday School teachers, but basically
 
each parish is on its own and Fr. John Artemas feels that some national
 
coordination might be helpful.
 
As is the case with Greek School, having a child attend Sunday
 
School requires a commitment on the part of the parent.
 The family has
 
to be at church, often having driven in from the suburbs through the
 
really unspeakable Buffalo winter weather, by ten o
'clock.
 Since most
 
of the children who attend Sunday School also attend Greek School they
 
have probably done this on the preceding day.  Also, Fr. John and the
 
Sunday School teachers agree, it takes a spiritual commitment; it
 
isn't much help dropping the children off at Sunday School if the
 
parents don't attend the Divine Liturgy.
 Parents should take time t
o
 
discuss the Sunday School lessons with their children and pray with them.
 
(A lot of Orthodox religious custom  is domestic; many Greek grandmothers
 
light incense every morning, burn it in every room in the house and say
 
a prayer.)
 Intermarriage is very common in the Buffalo Greek community,
 
Fr. John estimates that 80 to 90 percent of all marriages he :erforms
 
-
14-
are mixed marriages.
 Usually the children are baptized intc the
 
Orthodox faith and often the non-Orthodox parent converts, but if this
 
does not happen the Orthodox parent must make a special effort to see
 
that the children are brought to Sunday School.
 
Religious holidays are observed in the Sunday School, often
 
with essentially non-religious customs such as the cutting of the
 
Vasilopita (
the New Year's bread) and Easter bread or the cracking of
 
red-dyed Easter eggs.
 Children take part in the preparation for the
 
great feasts at the church, helping the women of the parish decorate
 
the epitaphion (
the flower-decked bier on which the cloth icon of the
 
entombment of Christ is placed on Holy Friday), dye the Easter eggs
 
and tie them up in tulle for distribution after the Divine Liturgy on
 
Holy Saturday night, and make the palm crosses which are distributed on
 
Palm Sunday.  At one time the young girls were given lessons in preparing
 
the communion bread (
prosphoron), which is traditionally baked at home
 
by Greek Orthodox women.
 The liturgical year is a superb teaching
 
device; with the passing of the seasons the child sees acted out the
 
great drama of the redemption.
 The ceremonies of Orthodoxy are very
 
literal; the flower decked Cross is carried in procession on Holy Cross
 
Day and the children remember that St. Helena found the Cross in a bed
 
of basil because on that day great tubs of basil are placed on the solea.
 
The church is filled with the fragrance and each parishioner is given
 
a handful to take home.
 The climax of all the ritual comes in Holy
 
Week.
 During the matins of Holy Monday, called the Bridegroom Matins,
 
the priest carries an icon of Christ through the darkened church to re-
mind the faithful that, "The Bridegroom comes at midnight."  During the
 
matins of Holy Thursday they are anointed with oil in memory of the
 
woman who anointed Christ's feet.
 The reading of the Passion Gospels
 
on the evening of Holy Thursday is interrupted by a procession with a
 
_
1 3-
0
 
S
 
cross, which is then set up on the solea for veneration.
 On Holy
 
Friday the icon of the crucified Christ is taken down from the cross,
 
wrapped in a white cloth, and placed on the altar by the priest.
 The
 
icon of the entombment is then placed on the epitaphion and the people
 
come forward to venerate the icon.
 At the Church of the Annunciation
 
there is a very pretty local custom; little girls bring baskets of rose
 
petals and scatter them over the icon.
 They are called myrophores
 
(myrrh-bearers) and represent the women who brought spices to the tomb
 
of Christ.  (Mrs. Pappas initiated this custom, with Fr. Pallas.
 She
 
remembered that her mother had always decorated the epitaphion in the
 
little chapel in her family home in Greece and had her and her sisters
 
gather flowers to lay on the icon.)
 Afterwards the children crawl under
 
the epitaphion as a symbol of dying with Christ.
 The same symbolism is
 
continued in the evening service when the entire parish, carrying lighted
 
candles and singing, carries the epitaphion in procession around the
 
block.
 As they reenter the church, the epitaphion is held high so that
 
everyone walks under it.
 As they enter the brightly lighted church
 
they are sprinkled with rose water by the altar boys.
 Before the Divine
 
Liturgy on Holy Saturday night, the lighted Paschal candle (
the light of
 
Christ)  is carried into the darkened church and everyone lights candles
 
from it.
 
The altar boys are the most active participants in the  Divine
 
Liturgy, since they actually assist in the service.
 There are about
 
forty of them at present, divided into teams of eight.
 They get a little
 
formal instruction by the priest, but mostly learn from what one of them
 
describes as  '
on the job training."  They start with undemanding jobs
 
like carrying candles and work up to assisting the priest.
 Girls
 
-
16-
traditionally take no part in thc services, but there is no canonical
 
reason why they cannot be lay readers and Fr. John often asks girls t
o
 
read the lesson or the Epistle.
 
The third set of classes associated with the Church of the
 
Annunciation is the dance classes.
 There has always been some sort of
 
dance instruction associated with the church; one of the Greek School
 
graduates I talked to remembered being taught dancing by his Sunday
 
School teacher and Mrs. Pappas told me about arranging some Greek
 
dancing at a formal ball at the Albright Knox Art Museum.  However, it
 
was always more or less informal until Tina Kalen started her Greek
 
Ethnic Society nineteen years ago.
 She came her from Constantinople in
 
1957 and was looking for some way to "carry her flag" in America.
 She
 
talked to children who she saw dancing at weddings and parties and
 
finally got a class together.  By now she has about 35 students, divided
 
into juniors, seniors and young adults.  Tina and her troupe are a
 
familiar sight at ethnic festivals in the Buffalo area and the costumed
 
dancers are one of the main attractions of the Hellenic Festival every
 
year.
 They are not particularly professional, since she takes anyone
 
who wants to dance,regardiess of talent, but they dance with great verve
 
and enthusiasm and are obviously having a wonderful time.
 
She teaches them the familiar Greek dances which are danced at
 
weddings, parties at the church and family gatherings: the syrtaki, t
he
 
tzamiko, the kalamatianos, the syrtos and the hasapiko.  Her technique i
s
 
very unusual; she more or less talks them through the steps of a dance.
 
If there are little ones who don't know the steps at all she turns them
 
over to an older .
child who teaches them.
 For class and rehearsals she
 
uses recorded music, but for the Festival there is always live music.
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
_1 7-
0
 
The classes (which meet together) are held in the gymnasium of the
 
Community Center, right after the Greek School on Saturday afternoons.
 
(
She used to have class on weekday evenings,
 :
o
 
students are also in the Greek School, she :juod
 
venient to meet on Saturdays.)
 Like the Greek School and Sunday Schoo
 
a child's attendance at the dance classes involves real commitment on
 
the part of the parents.  Not only do the children have to be driven
 
to the church for classes and rehearsals, but the parents also have to
 
get them to performances.  Most of the costumes which are worn by the
 
children are made by their mothers; the purchase of a foustanella is a
 
major expense.
 
The children enjoy the dance classes and most of them have a
 
marvellous time re presenting the Greek community at local festivals.
 
Learning to dance has immediate and obvious value for the children, since
 
these are the dances which are danced at parties.  However, like most
 
of the ethnic learning experiences of young Greek-Americans, this one
 
has religious overtones.
 The Greek Ethnic Society is involved in more
 
than ethnic display events; it also has charitable functions.  Very few
 
immigrants are now arriving in Buffalo, but quite a few Greeks come for
 
medical treatment at Buffalo's many hospitals.  Many of them have little
 
money, do not speak English and have no way of getting around the city.
 
Tina visits these patients and their families (who often accompany them),
 
translates for them, drives them to and from the airport and raises money
 
for their expenses.
 The children from her dance group and their mothers
 
help her in these activities, visiting the sick and running little errands
 
for them.
 
g
t
 
8-
The Hellenic Festival is a big event, not only for tne Greek
 
community, but for all of Buffalo.
 There are, of course, many other
 
ethnic festivals in the city, but none of them gets the kind of media
 
coverage or attracts such a devoted audience; many Buffalonians go every
 
year.
 "Are you going to the Greek Festival?" is a common question around
 
the third weekend of May.
 "Speak to me about that after the Festival"
 
is as common a proverbial expression in the Greek community in Buffalo
 
as "Talk to me after the Paijo" is in Siena.
 (And is the main reason
 
most of the interviewing for this project had to be done after May 16 1)
 
This year the festival attracted 13,000 people and made a profit of over
 
$75,000.  However, the meaning of the Festival for those who work at it
 
is much deeper than a fund-raising or even an ethnic display event.
 
Working together for the five months that it takes to plan and present
 
the Festival both reinforces the sense of community and passes it on to
 
the children.
 Until I started these interviews I had no idea how
 
much the Festival is regarded as a teaching device, not only for the
 
Buffalo community at large, who will be shown what it is to be Greek-
American, but also for the youth of the Creek-American community.
 
The Festival was originally the brainchild of Fr. George Pantelis,
 
who had initiated a similar Festival in his last parish in Knoxville.
 
The first Festival, in 1977, contained many of the elements of other
 
Greek festivals around the country:  Creek music and dance, food,
 
cultural exhibits and imported objects for sale.
 Francis' Home Bakery
 
(
Polish) in North Tonawanda turned its facilities over to the women o
r-
the parish on Monday of every week and the pastries and moussaka were
 
-19-
cooked there, then sent to frozen storage.
 Parishioners worked to turn
 
the basement of the parish house into a nightclub (
the Taverna) and to
 
decorate the gymnasium (
the plaka) and the Sunday School classrooms,
 
which functioned as boutiques.
 The response was overwhelming--when
 
the Buffalo newspapers printed the telephone number of the reservations
 
chairman (
dinners at the Taverna require reservations) his telephone
 
lines burned out from the overload and the telephone company sent out
 
an inspector to see if someone was booking horses from that number.
 I
 
remember an occasion on the second year of the festival when the mayor
 
arrived to cut the ribbon for the opening (
I was functioning as a
 
community photographer by that time) and, before he was fed lunch, was
 
pounced upon by Fr. George and taken along to the office to place a
 
call for help to the sanitation department to remove the stacks of gar-
bage which were threatening to overwhelm the parking lot.  Originally,
 
the festival was planned for three years only, but in the fall of 1979
 
Fr. George was killed in a burglary and the parish decided to continue
 
the Festival in his memory.
 By now it is a Buffalo institution.
 
Many of the features of the Festival, could, of course, be
 
found in any Greek church festival.  The ethnic festival network would
 
make a fascinating study in itself, incidentally--festival planners
 
visit festivals in other parishes to get ideas and Priscilla Carcales,
 
the church  secretary, who also acts as Festival coordinator, gives
 
workshops for people who want to plan festivals and this spring spent
 
several days at the church at Jamestwon helping them put on their first
 
festival.
 One enters the Festival through a Greek blue and white striped
 
t
ent, where there are counters for selling souviaki and salads and a bar
 
-
:
i0-
which sells beer, wine and ouzo.
 There are tables whore one can sit
 
and a small platform where the children from the dance classes perform
 
at regular intervals.
 There is a band at all times and often people
 
will get up to dance informally.
 The entrance is guarded by boys
 
wearing foustanellas.
 At the opening of the Festival Fr. John does a
 
little service at the door to the tent and then goes around all the
 
buildings sprinkling the rooms and the workers with blessed water. The
 
ground floor of the Community Center is turned into a little shopping
 
arcade, with boutiques selling Greek clothes and souvenirs, records,
 
wine, jewelry and groceries; many of us stock up on Greek spices for
 
the year at this time.
 There is also a little boutique selling
 
religious items and books, incense, and icons, which never makes much
 
money, but which is considered very important as a teaching device.
 
Last year Tom Krestos and I prepared a slide and cassette show which
 
was also used this year which showed domestic religious customs:  Tom's
 
grandmother censing the house, his nephew praying in front of the family
 
icons, his sister carefully putting her wedding crown away in the cup-
board with her icons, a flower from the epitaphion and a red Easter
 
egg, and the children of the family cracking Easter eggs.
 Upstairs the
 
gymnasium has been very elaborately transformed into the plaka, where
 
there are little booths selling souvlaki, pastichio, spanakopita, tim -
pita, moussaka, souzoukakia, rice pilafi, Greek salads, rizogalo,
 
loukour
nades and coffee.
 There is also a bar which sells beer, wine and
 
ouzo and does a landcffice business.
 There is a large stage for dancing;
 
a band p
lays constantly and the children from the dance classes perform.
 
Off-duty workers or people from the Creek community who are not involved
 
in the festival often drop in for a drink or a cup of coffee and get up
 
to dance.
 Sometimes people from ethnic groups with similar dance styles
 
S
 
S
 
will exhibit ethnic solidarity by performing; one of my favorite memories
 
is of a very large Russian Orthodox priest dancing with a very tiny
 
blonde Greek girl.
 The floor of the gymnasium is packed with tables,
 
but, if the crowd is not too dense, the dancers will often start a line
 
dance around the edges of the tables and ask the spectators to join in.
 
On the ground floor of the parish house there are various cultural and
 
artistic exhibits, as well as a bake shop where one can buy pastry to
 
take home.
 This year a very successful addition was the"Dare to Say it
 
in Greek" booth, where a pretty girl in Greek costume would write any-
thing you wanted in Greek for a dollar.
 (
She said that the most original
 
request she got was for a sign saying "You c a n
 take this job and shove
 
it.")  This booth was a great hit, not only with the general public, but
 
with the children of the community.  Upstairs there are other cultural
 
exhibits, including movies about Greece (
this year just little travelogues,
 
but Fr. George used to order a beautiful film about Mt. Athos) and an
 
exhibit of icons (mostly reproductions).  The first year the icon room
 
was done was in 1979, when Fr. George and I spent about twenty four hours
 
putting it together.  He brought items up from the altar (
hand crosses,
 
chalices, thuribles and so forth), which were displayed in glass cases
 
and which were object of great interest for the Roman Catholic and
 
Protestant visitors.
 Similarly, the single greatest attraction of the
 
Festival every year is the church tours, which are conducted by women
 
of the parish, altar boys, older children from the Sunday School and,
 
occasionally, by the priest.
 (This year I did a few.)
 
This year over five hundred volunteers worked on the Festival.
 
The preparation  of food started in January and i
n
v o
l
v e
d
 mostly the older
 
women of the parish, although younger ones who do not have jobs often
 
go along and receive very practical lessons in traditional cooking--I
 
remember making my first  tray of baklava at the bakery, under very
 
close supervision.  Later men were involved in assembling the Greek
 
village  '
set" for the plaka and cutting up the meat for souviaki.  By
 
opening day the children are also hard at work.
 The dancers and the
 
boys who act as "guards" at the entrance have the most spectcular
 
positions and are the ones who are most likely to appear on television.
 
(The dancers are not supposed to do any other jobs, since the dancing
 
is extremely tiring, but they occasionally sneak off, get out of costume
 
and pitch in at the Pepsi counter or the souviaki line.)
 Some of the
 
altar boys assist Fr. John at opening ceremony and help out with church
 
tours.
 Other children are employed as couriers, especially if they have
 
mothers working in boutiques, to run errands and take messages between
 
the boutiques and the church office (
the nerve center of the Festival)
 
or the cashier's office.
 They may also help to sell food or soft drinks
 
in the plaka or the tent; the souvlaki line seems to be the most
 
prestigious position.
 Trash pickup is the lowliest job, done mostly
 
as an entry level position or if you are not lucky enough to have a
 
mother working in a place where you can be employed.
 The best place t
o
 
work is the Taverna.
 Every evening there are three seatings for dinner;
 
a superb dinner is served and the diners are treated to a Greek night-
club perform ance, with music, singing (Lynne Nanos is the featured
 
chanteuse) and dancing by the older dancers, plus a spectacular male
 
dancer who comes from St. Catharine's every year.
 The Singing Waiters
 
are an especially popular attraction.
 Girls in adaptation of classical
 
Greek costume act as hostesses.
 Unfortunately, these really desireable
 
positions are open only to young adults; since liquor is served, only
 
people who are twenty-one or over are supposed to work in the Taver i.
 
However, some very favored children who hay
 
Taverna kitchen do manage to sneak in as di
 
The months of preparation and, most especially, the three days
 
of intensive working together create a strong sense of community among
 
the Festival volunteers, some of whom have worked together since the
 
first Festival.
 It is seen, of course, as a chance to display, with
 
pride, the Greek heritage to Buffalo, but it is also seen as a chance
 
for the children of the community to learn more about that heritage.
 
It became very obvious in the course of the interviews for this project
 
that parents are very anxious for their children to work during the
 
Festival and will often call friends who are working in a favored area
 
to see if they can use any assistance from little Sophia or George.
 
This experience, like the language school, is a way of working out a
 
particularly American way of being ethnic, especially as the Festival
 
is  very  obviously a display event, designed to point out the wonder-
fulness of being Greek to a mainstream American audience.
 (With the
 
ironic addition of the fact that a mainstream audience in Buffalo i
s
 
likely to be composed of other ethnic groups.
 Comments such as
 
Serbians have a pastry very much like this one" are commonplace during
 
the Festival.)
 
0
 
-24-
I f
irst came to the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
in the spring of 1978.  At that time I was working on a project involving
 
documenting ethnically based liturgical parishes in Buffalo.
 Fr. George
 
Pantelis was extremely interested in what I was doing and suggested
 
that if I really wanted to understand the Orthodox traditions I should
 
record the entire liturgical year.
 For a year I taped and photographed
 
the great feasts, spent an enormous amount of time at the church, and
 
came to know the Greek community in Buffalo.
 The patience, tolerance,
 
generosity and friendship displayed towards me by these wonderful people
 
are impossible even to describe.  Thanks to them, and especially to
 
Fr. George, I have come to know and love the glories of the Orthodox
 
Liturgy and the warmth and individuality of Greek character.  When, after
 
Fr. George's tragic death, Fr. John Artemas came to the parish he made me
 
as welcome as his predecessor had, and has been of enormous help in this
 
project.
 To him, and to all the parishioners of the C
hurch of the
 
Annunciation, especially the ones who gave me interviews, I owe my
 
deepest thanks.
 Special thanks are also due to my friend Priscilla
 
Carcales, secretary of the parish, who has answered endless questions over
 
the years, translated, spelled words in Greek, and kept me supplied with
 
coffee and pastry.
 
And, finally,  1
1 would like to thank Tom and Jenny Putnam, who
 
served as research assistants on this prolect
 and without whom i
t would
 
never have been completed, and Pat Warner, who typed the entire thiog.
 Tom
 
and Jenny logged the tapes, proofread the manuscript, recorded many of the
 
interviews, took photographs, drove me all over Niagara Frontier and
 
provided endless encouragement.
 Pat Warner not only did her usual magnificen.
 
job of typing, but also kept track of all the various components of the
 
manuscript.
 
BUFFALO,
 
Lydia Fish
 
Ethnic Schools Pcoject
 
Apcil-July,  1982
 
(Revised foc publication,
 
August,  1983).
 
How shall we sing the Lord's songs
 
upon an alien soil?
 
Psalm 137
 
The first Greek settlers  in Buffalo arrived  in 18941.
 
By
 
1910 about ten families and approximately two hundred single men
 
were living  in the area.
 The first church,  Evengelismos
 
(Annunciation),  was  incorporated in 1911 and the first Greek
 
School was established in 1916.
 It met at the church on Oak
 
Street and was,  from the first,  a weekday afternoon school.
 
Subjects in these early years seem to have been limited to the
 
reading and  writing of Greek and the study of the Orthodox faith.
 
Early teachers were the priest with an occasional  layman;
 
religious instruction and language instruction obviously went
 
hand in hand.
 Unmarried girls and married women of the community
 
begin to be mentioned as teachers in the 1920's.
 A. P.
 
Theodorides took over as principal  in 1933 and added  history,
 
geography and penmanship to the curriculum.
 In the late 1930's
 
two hundred and fifty children were enrolled in the school.
 
Classes met after regular school; at first every day and later on
 
two or three afternoons a week.
 (Some  religious  instruction
 
seems also to have been given on Saturdays.)
 In 1937 the parish
 
purchased a cultural center several miles from the church on
 
Delaware Avenue,  close to the site of the present church;  classes
 
were held there for awhile and then moved back downtown to an
 
annex school close to the Oak Street church.
 In 1952 the church
 
moved to its present building,  which is still more or less
 
downtown, but  in a much more elegant neighborhood.
 (The Oak
 
2
 
Street area is now hardcore  inner city.)
 The new church,  a
 
beautiful stone building  in a style best described as parish
 
Gothic,  was originally North Presbyterian Church and was built in
 
1904-1906.
 A handsome stone parish house  is attached to the
 
church and for twenty years  the Greek School and Sunday School
 
classes met there.
 In 1972 a Community Center was completed in
 
the same location,  with a gymnasium for games and dancing and
 
classrooms on the  first floor.
 There are presently 756 families
 
that are dues-paying members of the parish and approximately two
 
hundred more that do not support the church,  although members may
 
show up from time to time at services, social events or the
 
Festival.
 
In 1945 a very able priest,  Fr. John Pallas,  became pastor
 
of the church and  the organization of the Greek School and Sunday
 
School as they are today began.
 Before that time  it  is virtually
 
impossible to distinguish between the Greek School and the Sunday
 
School,  which seem to have had completely overlapping personnel
 
and curricula.
 The  reason for the separation of the two schools
 
was very probably that it was no longer possible to conduct
 
religious instruction entirely in Greek and to assume that all
 
the children could understand  it.
 (About this time the
 
Archdiocese stopped printing Sunday School books  in Greek,  so  it
 
was obviously a national  trend.)
 
The first teachers in the Greek School were the priest and
 
an occasional highly educated layman,  who often also acted as
 
choir director.
 Although educated teachers were sought (Mrs.
 
Pappas,  the present principal of the Sunday School,  remembers
 
that the priest asked if she would teach in the Greek School as
 
3
 
soon as she arrived in Buffalo as a bride  in 1929), the memories
 
of some of the youngsters who attended the school  in the 1950's
 
and 1960's would seem to indicate that some teachers were
 
recruited who had no more qualifications than an ability to speak
 
the language and a strong sense of dedication to the preservation
 
of Greek language and culture among the younger generation.
 At
 
this time there are six teachers employed by the school:
 four
 
Greek (male) students who are attending the University of
 
Buffalo,  one mother and one trained teacher.
 In the early days
 
people who had brought books from Greece used them in teaching;
 
in the  1930's a Greek School  library was established.
 
The school is financed by tuition payments and some fund-
raising activities.
 For some years there was a Greek School
 
Board; more  recently the school has been  run by a Parents and
 
Teachers Organization,  which has conducted  raffles,  candy sales
 
and bake sales, and puts on an annual dance to raise money for
 
the school.
 This year the Parish Council has taken over the
 
responsibility for the school,  which George Pappas,  the Greek
 
School principal,  feels is a mistake;  since the council also
 
instituted a tuition raise at the same time the parents feel that
 
they no longer need to donate their time.
 Presently the students
 
pay fifty dollars tuition per year,  with twenty-five dollars  for
 
books and supplies.
 The Greek university students are paid
 
twenty-five dollars per week,  Mrs. Serkizes, who has taught for
 
five or six years,  is paid thirty dollars per week and Mrs.
 
Pullman, who is a qualified teacher,  is paid forty-five dollars
 
per week.
 The  Philoptochos Women's Society contributes some
 
4
 
money every year,  usually a few hundred dollar-s.
 
George Pappas  is the only administrator of the school; he
 
makes decisions about curriculum and so forth in consultation
 
with the  teachers  and  the  "greatly  weakened"  P
.T.O.
 (They
 
recently abandoned a new series of textbooks which they had been
 
using and went back to a former series because the new ones were
 
considered  too difficult  for  the  children.)
 If the  school had
 
more money he would like to purchase more teacher aids  (
some
 
really good tape  recorders,  for example)  and hire more qualified
 
teachers.
 
Formerly,  the classes were grouped only by age;  the children
 
started Greek School  in the first grade at six and  finished the
 
sixth grade when they were  twelve.
 This year, however,  tests
 
were given and the students were placed according  to their level
 
of proficiency.
 The textbooks,  which the children purchase,  are
 
published by Theodore C.  Papaloizos Publications,  there  is a
 
complete curriculum,  with workbooks.
 Presently the Archidiocese
 
is working on a language curriculum and George Pappas  is using
 
their first-grade  reader this year.
 The main emphasis  is on
 
language teaching;  there are no special classes  in history,
 
geography,  literature or art.
 Little bits of all of these are
 
sandwiched into -the language lessons in the textbooks,  along with
 
some classical mythology and a fair amount of material on Greek
 
calendar custom.
 
Several holidays are marked by special school programs.
 The
 
last Sunday in January is Greek Letters Sunday,  which is
 
dedicated to Greek language schools and celebrated  in North and
 
South America.
 The most  important  is Greek  Independence Day,
 
5
 
which  is celebrated on March 25,  the Feast of  the Annunciation.
 
This celebration is an almost perfect example of the
 
identification of Greek ethnicity in this country with the
 
Orthodox faith.
 March 25 is the date of the beginning of the
 
Greek  revolution of  1821 against the Ottoman Empire,  deliberately
 
selected because it celebrates the bringing of the good news to
 
the Virgin by the Archangel Gabriel.
 Since  it  is also the name
 
day of the parish it is a very important day in the life of the
 
community.
 After the Divine Liturgy there  is a procession of the
 
officers of all  the parish organizations and the program in the
 
Community Center  is followed by a dinner for the entire
 
community.
 (At which fish is served;  after all,  it  is  Lent.)
 
There are speeches, some of them in Greek, by adult members of
 
the parish, usually with patriotic themes, or extolling the
 
glories of Greek culture,  with heavy classical emphasis.
 All  the
 
children in the Greek School also participate  in the program,
 
reciting little  religious or patriotic poems, singing  religious
 
songs or Greek  folk songs,  and putting on a play about the
 
beginning of the  revolution  in  1821.
 The teachers of the Greek
 
School carefully coach the children for this occasion;  Andreas
 
Zapatinas,  a Greek university student who taught at the school,
 
says they are the same songs and poems which he  remembers
 
performing as a child  in Greece.
 
The  teachers  at the Greek School are not specially trained,
 
unless they are certified  teachers.
 There are  occasional
 
workshops;  once  the author of  the texts which are presently used
 
conducted one  in Buffalo and the teachers  recently attended one
 
6
 
in Rochester.
 There are many more of these workshops and seminars
 
in the New York City area, where there are, of course, many more
 
Greek schools.
 
Changes in curriculum and attitude over the years are, of
 
course,  inevitable.
 When the Greek School in Buffalo was
 
established it was giving essentially religious instruction to
 
children to whom Greek was a functional language.
 As the Greek
 
immigrants became more assimilated into the American mainstream
 
culture less and  less Greek was spoken  in the home; the children,
 
even though they might speak only Greek until they entered
 
kindergarten,  quickly learned to speak English and used  it to
 
communicate in most of their daily activities.
 Many Greeks
 
married members of other ethnic groups,  so children often grew up
 
in homes' where one parent spoke no Greek at all.
 The Greek
 
School is now attempting to teach children to read and speak
 
language which they may not hear at all outside of the Liturgy
 
which is koine,  rather than demotic Greek anyway)  or their social
 
contacts  in the parish.
 Religious  instruction has been taken over
 
by the the Sunday School and  there  really isn't time  to do more
 
than give very basic language instruction in two hours a week.
 
I think Fishman is right in pointing out that attending a
 
mother tongue school  is an almost obligatory second generation
 
ethnic experience;  that it is the non-immigrant ethnic child's
 
unique way of being an American, whether or not he is of non-
English language background. 2 
This would explain something
 
which puzzled Andreas  Zapatinas, a young Greek university student
 
who taught  in the Greek School  for several years.
 He says that
 
it was never made clear to him what the school was trying to
 
7
 
accomplish;  if they were  really trying to teach the children to
 
read, write and speak Greek, it was clearly impossible to do so
 
in two hours per week.
 If they were trying to teach them their
 
Greek heritage,  why wasn't there more emphasis on Greek
 
literature, art and history?
 He especially could not understand
 
cwhy modern Greek history wasn't taught at all.
 His questions make
 
a good deal of sense;  if the school is trying to establish
 
language proficiency it is not succeeding particularly well,  if
 
it is trying to teach the children about Greek culture,  it is not
 
doing very well either.
 But Andreas in comparing this school to
 
Greek education in Greece.
 If the school consciously or
 
unconsciously (and  I suspect  it is the  latter)  is  trying to help
 
the children work out their identify as ethnic Americans it is
 
doing a superb job.
 Greek ethnic identity in this country has
 
always presented certain problems,  whether looked at from the
 
point of view of esoteric or exoteric stereotypes.
 The Greek
 
immigrants  in the late nineteenth century arrived in a country
 
which had undergone a classical  revival  (
upstate New York is
 
dotted with towns with Greek names) and "knew" all about Greeks.
 
Since the American stereotype of Greeks was based on fifth-
century Athens,
Buffalonians probably vaguely expected people  in
 
togas.
 The men who danced  in skirts, worshipped  in churches
 
which must have struck good Irish Catholics as absolutely
 
bizarre, and specialized in  running candy stores and  ice-cream
 
parlors must have come as something of a shock.  Some of what
 
puzzled Andreas in the Greek School curriculum may have arisen
 
from an attempt to understand an ethnic image which somehow
 
8
 
includes Socrates and Zorba.
 (This same dichotomy is apparent at
 
the annual parish Hellenic Festival,  where some of the girls wear
 
nineteenth century peasant costumes and some wear adaptations oi
l
 
classical  robes.)
 
Some of the changes in attitudes over the years are purely a
 
result of demographic changes.
 When Buffalo Greeks began to move
 
out of the old neighborhood near the church on Oak Street in the
 
suburban diaspora it was no longer possible  for the children to
 
walk to Greek School every day,  or even several days a week.
 
Although the Greek School  in Buffalo is located about as
 
centrally as  is possible,  it is still very inconvenient to
 
transport children to it more than twice a week.
 (Most children
 
who attend  the Greek School also attend Sunday School.)
 Children
 
who were attending suburban schools had most of their social life
 
with non-Greeks and were involved in many activities outside of
 
the parish.
 (This probably also explains the gradual demise of
 
all  the youth organizations except Jr.  GOYA.)
 There were some
 
attempts to cope with this problem;  in the late fifties and
 
sixties satellite schools were opened  (usually in Episcopal
 
churches)  in the Highgate area,  in Depew,  Lockport and Niagara
 
Falls.
 
Most parents with whom I talked said that they wanted their
 
children to attend Greek School so they "would understand better
 
who they were,"  "would learn about their heritage" or "would be
 
able to communicate with  their Greek  relatives."
 (This,
 
incidentally,  is probably more of a factor than one would think.
 
The Greek idea of family  includes a huge network of people
 
related either by blood or by spiritual  ties;  being a godparent
 
9
 
(
koumbaro)  establishes a real  family relationship.
 Many of these
 
relatives are  in Greece and there is a great deal of visiting
 
back and  forth.)
 Having children attend Greek School does not
 
require a huge financial commitment,  but it does  involve a
 
tremendous commitment in time and effort.
 Suburban parents have
 
to sacrifice an entire Saturday morning to drive the children to
 
Greek School and dance classes,  since Buffalo public
 
transportation virtually does not function on weekends.
 (The
 
Greek School meets from ten until noon and the dance classes meet
 
immediately afterwards.)
 Most parents help the children with
 
their homework,  which can be very difficult if the parent does
 
not speak Greek himself; one of the parents I interviewed, Theo
 
Pappas,  described  struggling  through her son's first and second
 
grade homework with the aid of a dictionary.  The only parent I
 
talked to
 
Pantel is,
 
Brooklyn.
 
who had been to Greek School herself was Victoria
 
who went every afternoon after school as a child in
 
The school, which was affiliated with a Greek Orthodox
 
parish,  hired a full-time professional teacher.
 She  received
 
excellent training and still speaks fluent Greek.
 Most of the
 
parents seem fairly satfsfied with their children's progress,
 
although there were quite a few complaints about lack of
 
discipline.
 
The students,  for the most pact, complain bitterly about the
 
Saturday classes  (they would much rather be watching cartoons),
 
the homeowrk and the tests.
 However, every one  I talked to
 
agreed that learning to speak Greek was a good thing and the
 
graduates decide,  in  retrospect,  that  it was worth all the
 
10
 
suffering.
 The only regrets  I can across were from students who
 
dropped out or felt that they hadn't made the effort to  really
 
learn the language.
 Graduates of the school have the chance to
 
take the New York Regents'  Examinations  in Greek and receive
 
three high school credits  if they pass.
 Since these tests are
 
taken at the ninth or tenth grade level,  several years after they
 
have finished classes, special  review sessions are held each year
 
in June before the exams.
 Not a lot of students take these
 
exams, but the ones that do usually do well.
 Most of the
 
students agree that they would send their own children to Greek
 
School.
 
The comparison between Greek School and mainstream education
 
will depend somewhat on which teachers a child has had.
 Almost
 
all of them prefer either the parents or the qualified teachers
 
to the Greek university students.
 This  is  rather ironic,  since
 
the school makes  such an effort to recruit these young men; the
 
principal says that he much prefers to hire teachers who have
 
finished high school  in Greece.
 These university students know
 
Greek very well and some of them are very conscientious teachers
 
but I suspect the problem is that they do not relate very well to
 
the Greek-American experience.
 If these classes are at least
 
partly a way of- working out an American way of being ethnic (and
 
I do think Fishman is right about this) then this makes perfect
 
sense.
 
Most of the children with whom I talked have two more or less
 
distinct social  lives, although there  is some overlap at
 
i
festivities  like  birthday parties and one  invites one's American
 
friends to the  Festival.
 Although some of  the suburban schools
 
11
 
now have a dozen or so Greek children in them at any given time,
 
most of the socialization with other Greeks  is on weekends or at
 
church-related activities  in mid-week,  such as Jr. GOYA functions
 
or dance  rehearsals.
 
Another manifestation of the move to the suburbs is the
 
growth of private classes in the homes of teachers or students.
 
Private tutoring  in Greek has gone on from the beginning, but in
 
the past ten years private classes have grown to the point where
 
there are probably more children in these than in the Gree
 
School.
 Presently there are two teachers conducting private
 
classes,  one of whom teaches  in the Greek School.
 (There  is,
 
naturally,  a little  ill feeling about these classes on the part
 
of the Greek School and, until  recently,  it
 was a matter of
 
policy never to hire a teacher who also conducted private
 
classes.)
 Each teacher has four classes,  which meet once a week
 
on a week night for an hour.
 Estimates of class size range from
 
six to twelve students;  the teacher receives $2.50 per hour per
 
student.
 Since there are currently only forty-five students  in
 
the Greek School,  these classes constitute a serious  threat to
 
its continued existence.
 
Several reasons are given for sending these students to
 
these private classes.
 The primary one  is that they are more
 
convenient; parents do not have to make the long trek from the
 
suburbs every week and the children have their Saturday mornings
 
free for other activities.
 The children  receive more  individual
 
attention and discipline  is better.
 One Greek School graduate
 
suggested that perhaps some parents object to the  religious
 
12
 
content of the Greek School lessons and prefer to send their
 
children to non-church sponsored classes.
 
It would be interesting to see if this situation is found in
 
other ethnic communities.
 The Church of the Annunciation cannot
 
be taken as a typical example,  because many parents became very
 
concerned about the safety of the neighborhood after Fr.
 
Gen r
'
 
Pantelis was shot  in the church during a burglary in 1979 .
 
Attendance in the Greek School classes fell off sharply and is
 
only now beginning to pick up.
 
Probably no ethnic group in America identifies itself so
 
much in terms of  religion; to a great extent, to be Greek-
American is to be Greek Orthodox,  however loose the ties with the
 
Church may become. 3 
Native Greeks,  largely because of
 
historical experience,  tend to see themselves as "Orthodox
 
Christians"  (as opposed to the Ottoman Moslems)  rather defining
 
themselves by ethnicity;  Greeks began to think of themselves as
 
"Greeks" only at the formulation of the Greek state  about 1825.
 
The immigrants who came to this country quickly established
 
churches,  around which all community activities,  including the
 
school,  coalesced.
 Therefore,  Sunday School is a very real part
 
of a second-generation Greek-American child's ethnic education.
 
The first teachers were the priest and some laymen who had
 
been educated  in Greece.
 Trained teachers were used whenever
 
possible.
 Later mothers were brought in to assist the teachers.
 
The Archdiocese provided a curriculum from the late  1940's,  but
 
at first this was  just little pamphlets printed  in Greek.
 Before
 
that time Mrs.  Pappas had to find her own books  (often in Greece)
 
and write synopses  for the use of her teachers.
 In  the early
 
13
 
1950's  the  Archdiocese  started  providing  textbooks  in English,
 
but until a few years ago there  was not one  for every grade.
 
Over the years Mrs.  Pappas has built up an excellent  reference
 
library for the use of her teachers.
 The  subjects  taught haven't
 
changed much over the years;  as  she points out,  the Orthodox
 
Faith hasn't changed.
 I have  looked over most of  the  textbooks
 
used  in the school and have been quite  impressed.
 In some grades
 
the subject  is the  relationship of Christianity to every
'
 
and I think the Archdiocese has done a commendable job o
 
tackling such very modern problems as sex and drugs.
 The books
 
on the Church holy days and Saints days,  the sacraments and the
 
Creed are  really excellent.
 Film-strips and films are also
 
available- from the Archdiocese.
 
The children do not pay for their books,  nor are the
 
teachers paid:
 "They are paid by  the  smiles  of  the  children."
 
For about fifteen years the Sunday School  was supported by the
 
fund-raising activities of  the  Parents  and  Teachers'  Association
 
and the  Mothers'  Club;  more  recently the Parish Council has taken
 
over financial  responsibility for the school.
 Unless  the
 
teach &rs are certified,  they serve an apprenticeship with an
 
experienced teacher;  girls often help their mothers.
 Mrs.  Pappas
 
is an indefatigable  recruiter;  every year she enlists  future
 
teachers in the Sunday School graduating class and  it was she who
 
found Nick Kadounas,  who is now very ably assisting helping Theo
 
Pappas  in teaching  the senior class,  serving as a cantor and
 
discovered that he  is a formidable Biblical scholar.
 There are
 
some local and  regional workshops and seminars  for Sunday School
 
14
 
teachers,  but basically each parish is on its own and Fr. John
 
Artemas feels that some national coordination might be helpful.
 
As  is the case with Greek School, having a child attend
 
Sunday School requires a commitment on the part of the parent.
 
The family has to be at church, often having driven in from the
 
suburbs through the really unspeakable Buffalo winter weather,  by
 
ten o
'clock.
 Since most of the children who attend Greek School
 
they have probably done this on the preceding day.
 Also,  Fr.
 
John and the Sunday School teachers agree,  it takes a spiritual
 
commitment;  it isn't much help dropping the children off at Sunday
 
School  if  the parents don't attend the Divine Liturgy.
 Parents
 
should take time to discuss the Sunday School lessons with their
 
children and pray with them.
 (A lot of Orthodox religious
 
custom is domestic;  many Greek grandmothers light incense every
 
morning,  burn  it  in every room in the house and say a prayer.)
 
Intermarriage is very common in the Buffalo Greek community,  Fr.
 
John estimates that 80 to 90 percent of all marriages he performs
 
are mixed marriages.
 Usually the children are baptized into the
 
Orthodox faith and often the non-Orthodox parent converts,  but
 
if this does not happen the Orthodox parent must make a special
 
effort to see that the children are brought to Sunday School.
 
Religious holidays are observed  in the Sunday School,  often
 
with essentially non-religious customs such as the cutting of the
 
Vasilopita  (the New Year's bread)  and  Easter bread or the
 
cracking of  red-dyed Easter eggs.
 Children also take part in the
 
preparation for the great feasts at the church,  helping the women
 
of the parish decorate the epi
.taphion  (the flower-decked bier on
 
which the cloth icon of the entombment of Christ is placed on
 
15
 
Holy Friday),  dye  the Easter eggs and tie them up  in tulle for
 
distribution after the Divine Liturgy on Holy Saturday night,  and
 
make the palm crosses which are distributed on Palm Sunday.
 At
 
one time the young girls were given lessons  in preparing the
 
communion bread  (prosphoron),  which is traditionally baked at home
 
by Greek Orthodox women.
 
The liturgical year is a superb teaching device;  with the
 
passing of the seasons the child sees  acted out the great drama of
 
the  redemption.
 The ceremonies of Orthodoxy are very literal;
 
the flower-decked Cross  is carried  in procession on Holy Cross Day
 
and the children  remember that St. Helena found the Cross  in a bed
 
of basil because on that day great tubs of basil are placed on
 
the solea.
 The church is  filled with the fragrance and each
 
parishioner is given a handful  to take home.
 The climax of all
 
the ritual comes in Holy Week.  During the matins of Holy Monday,
 
called the Bridegroom Matins,  the priest carries an  icon of
 
Christ through the darkened church to  remind the faithful
 
that,"the Bridegroom comes at midnight."
 During the  matins of
 
Holy Thursday they are anointed with oil  in memory of the woman who
 
annointed Chirst's  feet.
 The  reading of  the  Passion  Gospels  on
 
the evening of Holy Thursday  is  interrupted by a procession with
 
a cross,  which  is then set up on the solea for veneration.
 On
 
Holy Friday the icon of the crucified Christ is taken down from
 
the cross,  wrapped  in a white cloth, and placed on  the altar by
 
the priest.
 The  icon of  the entombment  is then placed on the
 
epitaphion and the people come  forward  to venerate  the  icon.
 At
 
the Church of  the Annunciation  there  is a very pretty local
 
16
 
custom;  little girls bring baskets of  rose petals and scatter them
 
over the icon.
 They ace called myrophores (myrrh-bearers)  and
 
represent the women who brought spices to the tomb of Christ.
 
(Mrs.  Pappas initiated this custom with Fr.  Pallas.
 She
 
remembered that her mother had always decorated the epitaphion in
 
the little chapel in her family home in Greece and had her and
 
her sisters gather flowers to lay on the icon.)
 Afterwards the
 
children crawl under the epitaphion as a symbol of dying with
 
Christ.
 The same symbolism is continued in the evening service
 
when the entire parish,  carrying lighted candles and singing,
 
carries the epitaphion in procession around the block.
 As they
 
reenter the church,  the epitaphion is held high so that everyone
 
walks under it.
 As they enter the brightly lighted church they
 
are sprinkled with rose water by the altar boys.
 Before the
 
Divine Liturgy on Holy Saturday night,  the lighted Paschal candle
 
(
the light of Christ)  is carried into  the darkened  church and
 
everyone lights candles from it.
 
The altar boys are the most active participants in the
 
Divine Liturgy,  since they actually assist in the service.
 There
 
are about forty of them at present,  divided into teams of eight.
 
They get a little formal instruction by the priest,  but mostly
 
learn  from what one of them describes as "on the job training."
 
They start with undemanding jobs like carrying candles and work
 
up to assisting the priest.
 Girls traditionally take no part  in
 
the services, but there  is no canonical  reason why they cannot be
 
lay  readers and  Fr.  John often asks girls to read the lesson or
 
the Epistle.
 
The third set of classes associated with the Church of the
 
17
 
Annunciation is the dance classes.
 There has always been some
 
sort of dance instruction associated with the church; one of the
 
Greek School graduates I talked to remembered being taught dancing
 
by his Sunday School teacher and Mrs. Pappas told me about
 
arranging some Greek dancing at a formal ball at the Albright
 
Knox Art Museum.
 However,  it was always more or less informal
 
until Tina Kalen started her Greek Ethnic Society nineteen years
 
ago.
 She came here from Constantinople  in 1957 and was looking
 
for some way to "carry her flag" in America.
 She talked to
 
children who she saw dancing at weddings and parties and finally
 
got a class together.
 By now she has about 35 students,  divided
 
into juniors,  seniors and young adults.
 Tina and her troupe are
 
a familiar sight at ethnic festivals in the Buffalo area  and the
 
costumed dancers are one of the main attractions of the parish
 
Hellenic Festival every year.
 They are not particularly
 
professional, since she teaches anyone who wants to dance,
 
regardless of talent, but they dance with great verve and
 
enthusiasm  and are obviously having a wonderful time.
 
She teaches them the familiar Greek dances which are danced
 
at weddings, parties at the church and family gatherings:
 the
 
syrtaki,  the tzar
niko,  the kalamatianos,  the syrtos and the
 
hasapiko.
 Her technique is very unusual;  she more or less talks
 
them through the steps of a dance.
 If there are little ones who
 
don't know the steps at all she turns them over to an older child
 
who teaches them.
 For class and  rehearsals she uses  recorded
 
music,  but for the Hellenic Festival  there  is always live music.
 
The classes  (which meet together)  are held in the gymnasium of
 
13
 
the Community Center,  right after the Greek School on Saturday
 
afternoons.
 (She used to have class on weekday evenings,  but,
 
since most of her students are also in the Greek School, she found
 
that it was more convenient to meet on Saturdays.)
 Like the
 
Greek School and  Sunday  School a child's attendance at the dance
 
classes involves real commitment on the part of the parents.
 Not
 
only do the children have to be driven to the church for classes
 
and  rehearsals,  but the parents also have to get them to
 
performances.
 Most of the costumes which are worn by the
 
children are made by their mothers;  the purchase of  a foustanella
 
is a major expense.
 
The children enjoy the dance classes and most of them have a
 
marvellous time representing the Greek community at
 
local  festivals.
 Learning to dance has  immediate and obvious
 
value for the children,  since these are the dances which are
 
danced at parties.
 However,  like most of the ethnic learning
 
experiences of young Greek-Americans,  this one has  religious
 
overtones.
 The Greek Ethnic Society  is  involved  in more than
 
ethnic display events;  it also has charitable functions.
 Very
 
few immigrants are now arriving in Buffalo,  but quite a few
 
Greeks come for medical  treatment at Buffalo's many hospitals.
 
Many of them have little money, do not speak English and have no
 
way of getting around the city.
 Tina visits these patients and
 
their families  (who often accompany them),  translates for them,
 
drives them to and from the airport and  raises money for their
 
expenses.
 The children  from her dance group and their mothers
 
help her  in these activities,  visiting the sick and  running
 
little errands  for  them.
 The Greek School classes,  the Sunday
 
19
 
School classes,  and the dance classes ace clearly defined,  formal
 
means of transmission of Greek culture to the children of the
 
community.
 They also function as a means of letting the children
 
work out their particular third-generation form of ethnicity as
 
they wrestle with such questions as,  "Why do we celebrate
 
Independence Day on March 25 as well as July 4?" and "Why are
 
services in our church different from those in Roman Catholic and
 
Protestant churches?"
 The fourth,  and certainly the most
 
spectacular, means of educating the children in their heritage and
 
permitting them to present it to the Buffalo community at large
 
is the annual parish Hellenic Festival.
 
The Hellenic Festival  is a big event,  not only for the Greek
 
community,  but for all of Buffalo.
 There are, of course, many
 
other ethnic festivals in the city, but none of them gets the
 
kind of media coverage or attracts such a devoted audience;  many
 
Buffalonians go every year.
 "Speak to me about that after the
 
Festival"  is as much a proverbial expression in the Greek
 
community in Buffalo as "Talk to me after the Palio"  is  in Siena.
 
In 1982 the festival attracted 13,000 people and made a profit of
 
over $75,000.
 However,the meaning of the Festival for those who
 
work at it is much deeper than a fund-raising or even an ethnic
 
display event. Working together for the five months that it takes
 
to plan and present the Festival both reinforces the sense of
 
community and passes  it on to the children.
 The Festival is
 
regarded as a teaching device,  not only for the Buffalo community
 
at large, who will be shown what it is to be Greek-American, but
 
also for the youth of the Greek-American community.
 
20
 
The  Hellenic  Festival was originally the brainchild of Fr.
 
George Pantelis,  who had initiated a similar Festival  in his
 
last parish  in Knoxville.
 The  first Festival,  in  1977,  contained
 
many of the elements of other Greek festivals around the country:
 
Greek music and dance,  food, cultural exhibits and  imported
 
objects  for sale.
 Francis'  Home Bakery  (Polish)  in North
 
Tonawanda turned  its facilities over to the women of the parish
 
on Monday of every week and the pastries and moussaka were cooked
 
there,  then sent to frozen storage.
 Parishioners worked to turn
 
the basement of  the parish house  into a nightclub  (the  Taverna)
 
and to decorate  the gymnasium  (the plaka)  and the Sunday School
 
classrooms,  which functioned as boutiques.
 The  response was
 
overwhelming--when the Buffalo newspapers printed the telephone
 
number of the  reservations chairman  (dinners at the Taverna
 
require  reservations)  his telephone lines burned out from the
 
overload and the  telephone company sent out an inspector to see
 
if someone was booking horses from that number.
 I remember an
 
occasion on the second year of the  festival when the mayor
 
arrived to cut the  ribbon for the opening and, before he was  fed
 
lunch,  was pounced upon by Fr.  George and taken along to the
 
office to place a call for help to the sanitation department to
 
remove the stacks of garbage which were threatening. to overwhelm
 
the parking lot.
 Originally,  the festival was planned for three
 
years only,  but  in the fall of  1979 Fr.  George was killed  in a
 
burglary and the parish decided to continue the festival  in his
 
memory.
 By now  it  is a Buffalo  institution.
 
Many of  the  features of  the  festival could,  of  course,  be
 
found  in any Greek church festival.
 One enters  the  Festival
 
21
 
through a Greek blue
 
counters for selling
 
beer,  wine and ouzo.
 
small platform where
 
at regular intervals.
 
and white stciped tent,  where there ace
 
souviaki and salads and a bar which se Is
 
There are tables where one can sit and a
 
the children from the dance classes perform
 
There  is a band at all times and often
 
people will get up to dance informally.
 The entrance  is guarded
 
by boys  wearing  foustanellas.
 At the opening of the festival Fr.
 
John does a little service at the door to the tent and then goes
 
around all the buildings sprinkling the rooms and the workers
 
with blessed water.
 The ground floor of the Community Center is
 
turned into a  shopping arcade, with boutiques selling Greek
 
clothes and souvenirs,  records,  wine,  jewelry,  and groceries;
 
many Buffalonians stock up on Greek spices for the year at this
 
time.
 There  is also a little boutique selling  religious items
 
and books,  incense, and  icons, which never makes much money, but
 
which is considered very important as a teaching device.
 (
In
 
1981 Tom Krestos and I prepared a slide and cassette show for
 
this boutique which showed domestic religious customs:
 Tom's
 
grandmother censing the house,  his nephew praying in front of the
 
family icons,  his sister carefully putting her wedding crown away
 
in the cupboard with her icons,  a flower from the eiptaphion and
 
a red Easter egg, and the children of the family cracking Easter
 
eggs.)
 Upstairs  the gymnasium has been very elaborately
 
transformed into the plaka,  where there are little booths selling
 
souvlaki,  pastichio,  spanakopita,  tiropita,  moussaka,  souzoukakia,
 
rice pilafi,  Greek salads,  rizogalo,  loukoumades,  and coffee.
 
There  is also a bar which sells beer, wine, and ouzo and does a
 
22
 
land-office business.
 There  is a large stage for dancing;  a band
 
plays constantly and the children from the dance classes perform.
 
Off-duty workers or people from the Greek community who are not
 
involved in the festival often drop in for a drink or a cup of
 
coffee and get up to dance.
 Sometimes people
 
with similar dance styles will exhibit ethnic
 
performing;  one of my favorite memories is of
 
from ethnic groups
 
solidarity by
 
a very large
 
Russian Orthodox priest dancing with a very tiny blonde Greek
 
girl.
 The floor of the gymnasium is packed with tables,  but,  if
 
the crowd  is not too dense,  the dancers will often start a line,
 
dance around the edges of the tables and ask the spectators to
 
join in.
 On the ground floor of the parish house  there are
 
various cultural and artistic exhibits, as well as a bake shop
 
where one can buy pastry to take home.
 In 1982 a very successful
 
addition was the "Dare to Say it in Greek" booth,  where a pretty
 
girl in Greek costume would write anything you wanted in Greek
 
for a dollar.
 (She said that the most original  request she got
 
was for a sign saying "You can  take  this  job and  shove  it.")
 
This booth was a great hit, not only with the general public, but
 
with the children of the community.
 Upstairs there are other
 
cultural exhibits,  including movies about Greece and an exhibit
 
of  icons  (mostl'  reproductions).
 The first year the  icon  room
 
was done was in 1979, when Fr. George and I spent about twenty-
four hours putting  it together.
 He brought items up from the
 
altar  (hand crosses,  chalices,  thuribles and so forth),  which
 
were displayed in glass cases and which were the object of great
 
interest  for the Roman Catholic and Protestant visitors.
 
Similarly,  the single greatest attraction of the  festival every
 
23
 
year is the church tours, which are conducted by women of the
 
parish,  altar boys,  older children from the Sunday School and,
 
occasionally,  by  the priest.
 
In  1982 over five hundred volunteers worked on the festival.
 
The preparation of food starts  in January and  involves mostly the
 
older women of the parish,  although younger ones who do not have
 
jobs often go along and receive very practical lessons  in
 
traditional cooking.
 Later men are  involved in assembling the
 
Greek village "set"  for the plaka and cutting up the meat for
 
souviaki.
 By opening day the children are also hard at work.
 
The dancers and the boys who act as "guards" at the  entrance have
 
the most spectacular positions are are the ones who are most
 
likely to appear on television.
 (The dancers are  not supposed  to
 
do any other jobs,  since the dancing  is extremely tiring, but
 
they occasionally sneak off, get out of costume and pitch in at
 
the Pepsi counter or the souviaki line.)
 Some of the altar boys
 
assist Fr. John at opening ceremony and help out with church
 
tours.
 Other children are employed as couriers,  especially if
 
they have mothers working in boutiques,  to run errands and take
 
messages between the boutiques and the church office (the nerve
 
center of the Festival) or the  cashier's office.
 They may also
 
help to sell food or soft drinks  in the plaka or the tent;  the
 
souvlaki line seems to be the most prestigious position.
 Trash
 
pickup is the lowliest job, done mostly as an entry level
 
position or if you are not lucky enough to have a mother working
 
in a place where you can be employed.  The best place to work is
 
the Taverna.
 Every evening there are  three  seatings  for dinner;
 
24
 
a superb dinner is served and the diners ace treated to a Greek
 
night-club performance,  with music,  singing and dancing by the
 
older dancers,  plus a spectacular male dancer who comes from St.
 
Catharine's every year.
 The Singing Waiters are an especially
 
popular attraction.
 Girls in adaptation of classical Greek
 
costume act as hosteses.
 Unfortunately,  these  really desireable
 
positions are open only to young adults;  since liquor is served,
 
only people who are twenty-one or over are supposed to work  in
 
the Taverna.
 However, some very favored children who hay
 
mothers working in the Taverna kitchen do manage to sneak in as
 
dishwashers or kitchen help. 4 
The months of preparation and, most especially, the three
 
days of intensive working together create a strong sense of
 
community among the festival volunteers, some of whom have worked
 
together since the first festival.
 It is seen,  of course,  as a
 
chance  to display,  with pride,  the Greek heritage to Buffalo, but
 
it is also seen as a chance for the children of the community to
 
learn more about that heritage.
 It became very obvious  in the
 
course of the interviews for this project that parents are very
 
anxious for their children to work during the festival and
 
will often call friends who are working in a favored area to see
 
if  they can use any assistance from little Sophia or George.
 
This experience,  like the language school,  is a way of working
 
out a particularly American way of being ethnic,  especially as
 
the festival  is very obviously a display event,  designed to point
 
out the wonderfulness
-of being Greek to a mainstream American
 
audience.
 (With the  ironic addition of  the fact  that  a
 
mainstream audience  in Buffalo  is likely to be composed of other
 
25
 
ethnic groups.
 Comments such as "We Serbians have a pastry very
 
much like this one"  ace commonplace during the festival.)
 
The Greek community is quite conscious of the value of the
 
festival as an educational device.
 The brochure which was passed
 
out  to every festival visitor in 1983 states:
 
For our young people the Festival has provided a tangible
 
expression of their heritage and culture.
 The Festival
 
gives our youth a sense of self-awareness and security
 
and their roots.
 They a e tomorrow's leaders,  helping
 
and being leaders today.
 
The Hellenic Festival,  like the Greek School,  the Sunday
 
School, and the dance classes,  is a public and more or less formal
 
method of teaching the children of Greek-American families their
 
ethnic heritage.
 In addition to serving as a means of
 
instruction,  the festival also provides the children with an
 
opportunity to better integrate their ethnic school classroom
 
experience by presenting  it to the general public.
 Because of
 
the constant feedback from the festival audience their
 
particiular form of second and third generation ethnicity can be
 
seen in relationship both to mainstream American culture and to
 
that of other Buffalo ethnic groups.
 
Participation in the festival,  like attendance at the
 
classes,  represents a conscious attempt on the part of the
 
parents of the community to educate their children  in Greek
 
traditions.
 This  involvement by the children,  however,  serves also
 
as a reinforcement of the parent's knowledge of  these  traditions,
 
and, occasionally, as an informal means of  indoctrination for the
 
parents,  especially  if either one  is a second or third generation
 
Greek-American or has married into the community.
 One woman, of
 
26
 
Scottish Presbyterian background,  who is especially active  in
 
parish affairs, told me that she learned to speak a little Greek
 
while helping her three sons with their Greek School homework.
 
Mothers who come from Polish or Italian backgrounds learn about
 
Greek costumes while making costumes for children participating
 
in the dance group and discover that Greek Easter eggs are  red
 
when their children bring them home from Sunday School.
 
The ethnic schools in the United States  raise many
 
fascinating questions  for scholars  in the fields of education,
 
linguistics,  sociology,  and anthropology.
 For the  folklorist,
 
however,  perhaps the most  interesting aspect of these schools is
 
that they challenge some of our most fondly cherished notions
 
about folklore:
 that  it is spontaneous,  unselfconscious,  and that
 
it passes from one group or generation to another without formal
 
instruction.
 Probably the greater part of ethnic tradition in
 
this country is transmitted in a domestic context,  although even
 
this  is not necessarily an unconscious process;  carrying out the
 
decision to say grace at the table every night in Greek,  for
 
example,  will  involve a certain amount of time and effort.
 
However,  the parents of the Greek-American community in Buffa1 ,
 
like those of many-ethnic communities around the country,  have
 
very consciously chosen to pass on many of their most cherished
 
traditions in a formal eductional contest.
 No one who knows
 
these children can doubt that the process has been,  to a
 
considerable degree,  successful.
 Perhaps  it  is time for
 
folklorists to take a long look at the process by which a group
 
decides how and to what degree it will integrate with the
 
American mainstream.
 I think we shall find that the  folk,  as
 
27
 
usual,  know quite well what they ace doing!
 
FOOTNOTES
 
For the reader who is unfamiliar with the history of Greeks in
 
this country the best general  introduction will be found in the
 
article on Greeks  in the Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups
  
(Cambridge,  Mass.:
 Harvard University Press,  1980),  which
 
includes a short bibliography.
 
2  Joshua A. Fishman,  "Ethnic Community Mother Tongue  Schools  in
 
the  U
.S.A.:
 Dynamics  and  Distribution,"  International Migration
  
Review 14,  no.  2 (Summer,  1980):  243.
 
The best short  introduction to the Orthodox churches  in this
 
country can be  found  in the article on the Eastern Orthodox in
 
the Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups. 
'
 A nice description of children's  roles  in ethnic festivals was
 
published by Elena Bradunas  in her article, "From the  Familiar to
 
the Unknown:
 A Fieldworker'S Progression." Roger Abrahams makes
 
some interesting comments on ethnicity as performance  in his
 
article on folklore  in the Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups.
 
Passport to the Annual Hellenic Festival: 
1983 
(Buffalo,  New
 
York:.  Hellenic Orthodox Church of  the Annunciation,  1983)
 
6  George A.  Kourvetaris has written an excellent description of
 
the Greek-American family and has compiled a really superb
 
bibliography on the subject.
 "The Greek American  Family,"  in
 
Ethnic Families in America, second edition,  ed. Charles H.  Mindel
 
and Robert W.  Haber  (New York:  Elsevier,  1981).
 
I first came to the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the
 
Annunciation in the spring of 1978.  At that time I was working
 
on a project  involving documenting ethnically based liturgical
 
parishes  in Buffalo.
 Fr.  George Pantelis was extremely
 
interested in what I was doing and suggested that if I really
 
wanted to understand  the Orthodox traditions  I should  record the
 
entire  liturgical year.
 For a year  I taped and photographed the
 
great feasts, spent an enormous amount of time at the church, and
 
came to know the  Greek community in Buffalo.
 The patience,
 
tolerance,  generosity and friendship displayed towards me by
 
these wonderful people are  impossible even to describe. Thanks to
 
them,  and especially to Fr.  George,  I have come to know and love
 
the glories of
 the Orthodox Liturgy and the warmth and
 
individuality of  Greek  character.
 When,  after  Fr.  George's
 
tragic death, Fr. John Artemas came to the parish he made me as
 
welcome as his predecessor had,  and has been of enormous help  in
 
this project.
 To him,  and to all  the parishioners of  the Church
 
of the Annunciation,  especially the ones who gave me  interviews,
 
I owe my deepest thanks.
 Special thanks are also due to my
 
friend Priscilla Carcales,  secretary of the parish,  who has
 
answered endless questions over the years,  translated,  spelled
 
29
 
words in Greek,  and kept me supplied with coffee and pastry.
 
And,  finally,  I would like to thank Tom and Jenny Putnam,
 
who served as research assistants on this project and without
 
whom it would never have been completed, and Pat Warner,  who
 
typed the entire thing.
 Tom and Jenny logged the  tapes,
 
proofread the manuscript,  recorded many of the interviews,  took
 
photographs, drove me all over Niagara Frontier and provided
 
endless encouragement.
 Pat Warner not only did her usual
 
magnificent job of typing, but also kept track of all the various
 
components of the manuscript.
 
30
 
THE SCHOOLS OF THE HELLENIC ORTHODOX CHURCH
 
OF THE ANNUNCIATION
 
Buffalo, New York
 
Final Report by Lydia Fish
 
The first Greek settlers in Buffalo arrived in 1894. By 1910 about
 
ten families and approximately two hundred single men were living in
 
the area. The first church, Evangelis
s (Annunciation) was
 
incorporated in 1911, and the first Greek school was established in
 
1
916. It met at the church on Oak Street. From the first it was a
 
weekday afternoon rather than an all-day school. Subjects in these
 
early years seem to have been limited to the reading and writing o
f
 
Greek and the study of the Orthodox faith. Early teachers were the
 
priest and an occasional layman; religious instruction and language
 
instruction obviously went hand in hand. Unmarried girls and married
 
women of  the community begin to be mentioned as teachers in the 1
920s.
 
A
.P. Theodorides took over as principal in 1
933 and added
 
history, geography, and penmanship to the curriculum. In the late
 
1930s
, two hundred and fifty children were enrolled in the school.
 
Classes met after regular school, at first every day and later on two
 
or three afternoons a week. Some religious instruction seems also to
 
have been given on Saturdays.
 
In 1
937 the church purchased a cultural center several miles
 
away on Delaware Avenue, close to the site of the present
 
church. Classes were held there for awhile and then moved back
 
downtown to an annex school close to the Oak Street church. In 1
952
 
the church moved to its present building, which is still more or less
 
downtown but in a much more elegant neighborhood. The new church, a
 
beautiful stone building in a style best described as parish Gothic,
 
2
 
was originally North Presbyterian Church, built in 1
904-1906. A
 
handsome stone parish house is attached to the church. For twenty
 
years the Greek school and Sunday school classes met there. In 1
972 a
 
community center was completed in the same location, with a gymnasium
 
for games and dancing and a classroom on the first floor. There are
 
presently 756 families that are dues-paying members of the parish and
 
approximately two hundred more that do not support the church,
 
although they may show up from time to t
ime at services,  social
 
events, or the festival.
 
In 1
945 Father John Pallas became pastor of the church. The Greek
 
school and Sunday school a
s they are presently constituted began after
 
Father Pallas's arrival. Before that time it is virtually impossible
 
t
o distinguish between the Greek school and the Sunday school, which
 
seem to have had completely overlapping personnel. The reason for the
 
separation of the two schools was probably that it was no longer
 
possible to conduct religious instruction entirely in Greek and assume
 
that all the children understood it. At about the same time the
 
Archdiocese stopped printing Sunday school books in Greek, so it was
 
obviously a national trend.
 
The first teachers in the Greek school were the priest and an
 
occasional highly educated layman, who often also acted as choir
 
director. Although educated teachers were sought, the memories of
 
some of the youngsters who attended the school in the 1950s and 1960s
 
indicate that some teachers were recruited who had no more
 
qualifications than an ability to speak the language and a strong
 
sense of dedication to the preservation of Greek language and culture
 
among the younger generation. Today there are six teachers employed
 
by the school: Mrs. Pullman, a trained teacher, Mrs. Serkizes, who has
 
taught at the school for five or six years, and four Greek students who
 
attend the University of Buffalo. Mrs. Pullman is paid $45 per week,
 
Mrs. Serkizes receives $30 per week, and the Greek students receiv
 
$25 weekly.
 
The school is financed by tuition payments and some fund-raising
 
activities. For some years there was a Greek school board; more
 
recently the school has been run by a Parents Teacher Association
 
(PTA), which conducts raffles, candy sales, and bake sales, and puts
 
on an annual dance to raise money for the school. This year the
 
parish.councjl has taken over the responsibility for the school, which
 
George Pappas, the principal, feels is a mistake. Since the council
 
instituted a raise 1
1
 in tuition, the parents feel that they no longer
 
need to donate their time. Presently the students pay $50 tuition per
 
year, with $25 for books and supplies. The Philoptochos Women °s
 
Society usually contributes a few hundred dollars each year.
 
George Pappas is the only administrator of the school; he makes
 
decisions about curriculum and so forth in consultation with the
 
teachers and the "greatly weakened" PTA. If the school had more money
 
he would like to purchase more teacher aids (
some really good tape
 
recorders, for example) and hire more qualified teachers.
 
Formerly, the classes were grouped only by age —the children
 
started Greek school in the first grade at six and finished the sixth
 
grade when they were twelve. This year, however, tests were given and
 
the students were placed according to their level of proficiency.
 
The textbooks are published by Theodore C
. Papaloizos
 
Publications in Maryland. They offer a complete
 
workbooks. The Archdiocese is currently working
 
language books and George Pappas is using their
 
this year.
 
curriculum, including
 
on their own series of
 
first-grade reader
 
The main emphasis of the school i
s on language teaching. There
 
are no special classes in history, geography,  literature, or art.
 
Little bits of all of these are sandwiched into the language lessons,
 
along with some classical mythology and a fair amount of material on
 
everai holidays are marked by special school programs. The
 
last Sunday in January is Greek Letters Sunday, which is dedicated to
 
Greek language schools and celebrated in North and South America. The
 
most. important holiday, however, is Greek Independence Day, which i
s
 
celebrated on March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation. This
 
celebration i
s an example of the identification of Greek ethnicity in
 
this country with the Orthodox faith. March 25 is the date of the
 
beginning of the Greek revolution of 1821 against the Ottoman Empire.
 
That day was deliberately selected because it celebrates the bringing
 
of the good news to the Virgin by the Archangel Gabriel.
 
Since Greek Independence Day is also the name day of the
 
parish, it is a very important day in the life of the parish community.
 
After the Divine Liturgy there is a procession of officers of all the
 
parish organizations and the program in the community center is
 
followed by a dinner for the entire community. Speeches are given,
 
some of them in Greek, by adult members of the parish. They usually
 
have patriotic themes or extol the glories of Greek culture. All the
 
children in the Greek school participate in the program, reciting
 
little religious or patriotic poems, singing religious songs or Greek
 
folksongs, and presenting a play about the beginning of the revolution
 
in 1
821. The teachers of the Greek school carefully coach the
 
children for this occasion. Andreas Zapatinas, a Greek university
 
student who taught at the school, says they are the same songs and
 
poems which he remembers performing as a child in Greece.
 
Changes in curriculum and attitude over the years are, of
 
course, inevitable. When the Greek school in Buffalo was established,
 
i
t was giving essentially religious instruction to children to whom
 
Greek was a functional language. As the Greek immigrants became more
 
assimilated into the American mainstream culture, less and less Greek
 
was spoken in the home. Even though they might speak only Greek until
 
they entered kindergarten, the children quickly learned to speak
 
English and used it to communicate in most of their daily activities.
 
Many Greeks married members of other ethnic groups, so children often
 
grew up in homes where one parent spoke no Greek at all. The Greek
 
school is now attempting to teach children to read and speak a
 
0
 
language which they may not hear at all outside of the Liturgy (which
 
is koine,  rather than demotic Greek anyway) or their social contacts
 
in the parish. Religious instruction has been taken over by the
 
Sunday school, and there really is no time to do more than give very
 
basic language instruction in two hours a week. Classes meet from
 
1
0:00 A.M until 1
2:00 noon on Saturdays and are followed by dance
 
classes.
 
Some of the changes in attitudes over the years are purely a
 
result of demographic changes. When Buffalo Greeks began to move out
 
of the old neighborhood near the church on Oak Street, it was no
 
longer possible for the children to walk to Greek school every day,
 
or even several days a week. Although the Greek school in Buffalo i
s
 
located about as centrally as possible, it i
s still very
 
inconvenient to transport children to it more than twice a week.  (Most
 
children who attend the Greek school also attend Sunday School.)
 
Children who were attending suburban schools spent most of their
 
so dal life with non—Greeks and were involved in many activities
 
/ outside of the parish. There were some attempts to cope with
 
V
 inconvenience of the school/s location. In the late 1950s and 1960s
 
satellite schools were opened (usually in Episcopal churches) in the
 
Highgate area, in Depew, Lockport, and Niagara Falls.
 
Most parents interviewed said that they wanted their children
 
t
o attend Greek school so they would understand better who they were,
 
would learn about their heritage, or would be able to communicate with
 
their Greek relatives. The Greek idea of family includes a huge
 
I
 
network of people related either by blood or by spiritual ties. Being
 
a koumbaro (godparent) establishes a real family relationship as
 
well. Many relatives remain in Greece, and there is a great deal of
 
visiting back and forth.
 
Having children attend Greek school does not require a huge
 
financial commitment, but it does involve a tremendous commitment in
 
time and effort. Suburban parents have to sacrifice an entire Saturday
 
morning to drive the children to Greek school and dance classes, since
 
Buffalo public transportation virtually does not function on weekends.
 
Most parents help the children with their homework, which can be very
 
difficult i
f the parent does not speak Greek himself. One of the
 
parents I interviewed, Theo Pappas, described struggling through her
 
IV
 
son s first and second grade homework with the aid of a dictionary.
 
The only parent I talked to who had been to Greek school herself was
 
Victoria Pantelis, who went every afternoon after school as a child in
 
Brooklyn. Most of the parents seem fairly satisfied with their
 
children s progress, although there were quite a few complaints about
 
lack of discipline.
 
The students, for the most part, complain bitterly about the
 
Saturday classes  the homework, and the tests. In short, they would
 
much rather be watching cartoons. Every one I talked to agreed that
 
learning to speak Greek was a good thing, however, and the graduates
 
feel, in retrospect, that it was worth all the suffering. The only
 
regrets I ran across were from students who dropped out, or felt that
 
they had not made the effort to really learn the language. Graduates
 
/
of the school have the chance to take the Regents/ Examinations in
 
Greek and receive three high school credits if they pass. Since these
 
tests are taken at the ninth— or tenth—grade level, several years
 
after they have finished classes, special review sessions are held
 
each year in June before the exams. Not a lot of students take these
 
exams, but the ones that do usually do well. Most of the students
 
agree that they would send their own children to Greek school.
 
The comparisons made by the children between Greek school and
 
mainstream education depend on which teachers the child has had.
 
Almost all of them prefer the other teachers t
o the Greek university
 
students. This is rather ironic, since the school makes such an e
ffort
 
to recruit them. The principal says that he much prefers to hire
 
teachers who have finished high school in Greece. The young men know
 
Greek very well, and some of them are very conscientious teachers, but
 
I suspect the problem is that they do not relate very well to the
 
Greek—American experience.
 
Most of the children I talked to have two more or less distinct
 
social lives. There is some overlap at festivities like birthday
 
parties, and children inviting A
merican friends to the festival,
 
however. Although some of the suburban schools now have a dozen or so
 
Greek children in them at any given time, most of the socialization
 
with other Greeks is on weekends or at church—related activities such
 
as Jr. GOYA (Greek Orthodox Youth Association) functions or dance
 
rehearsals, during the week.
 
Another outcome of the move to the suburbs is the growth of
 
private classes in the homes of teachers or students. Private tutoring
 
in Greek has gone on from the beginning, but in the past ten years
 
private classes have grown to the point where there are probably more
 
children taking private lessons than attending Greek school.
 
Presently there are two teachers in Buffalo giving private classes,
 
one of whom teaches in the Greek school. There is, naturally, a little
 
ill feeling about these classes on the part of the Greek school and,
 
until recently, it was a matter of policy never to hire a teacher who
 
also conducted private classes. Each teacher has four classes, which
 
meet for an hour on a weeknight. Estimates of class size range from
 
six to twelve students; the teacher receives $2.50 per hour per
 
student. Since there are currently only forty-five students in the
 
Greek school, private classes constitute a serious threat to its
 
existence.
 
Several reasons are given for sending students to private
 
classes. They are more convenient and parents do not have to make the
 
long trek from the suburbs every week. The children have their
 
Saturday mornings free for other activities. They also receive more
 
individual attention, and discipline is better. In addition, one Gr e<
 
school graduate suggested that perhaps some parents object to the
 
religious content of the Greek school lessons and prefer to send their
 
children to non-church-sponsored classes.
 
l
u
 
Sunday school is a very real part of a second-generation Greek-
American chil  s ethnic education. The first teachers of the Greek
 
Sunday school in Buffalo were the priest and some laymen who had been
 
educated in Greece. Trained teachers were used whenever possible.
 
Later mothers were brought in to assist the teachers. The Archdiocese
 
provided a curriculum after the late 1
940s, which first consisted of
 
little pamphlets printed in Greek. Before that time Mrs. Pappas, the
 
present principal of the Sunday school, had to find her own books
 
(often in Greece), and write synopses for her teachers. In the early
 
1
950s the Archdiocese started providing textbooks in English, but,
 
until a few years ago, there was not one for every grade.
 
Over the years Mrs. Pappas has built up an excellent reference
 
library for the use of her teachers. The subjects taught have not
 
changed much; as she points out, the Orthodox Faith has not changed.
 
I have looked over 1most of the textbooks used in the school and have
 
been quite impressed. In some grades the subject is the relationship
 
of Christianity to everyday life, and I think the Archdiocese has done
 
a commendable job of tackling such very modern problems as sex and
 
drugs. The books on the church holy days and saints days, the
 
sacraments, and the Creed are excellent. Filmstrips and films are
 
also available f
-rom
. the Archdiocese.
 
The children do not pay for their books, nor are the teachers
 
paid:  "They are paid by the smiles of the children." For about
 
fifteen years the Sunday school was supported by the fund-raising
 
activities of the PTA and the Mother7s Club. More recently the parish
 
ii
 
council has taken over financial responsibility for the school. Unless
 
the teachers are certified, they serve an apprenticeship with an
 
experienced teacher; girls often help their mothers. Mrs. Pappas is an
 
indefatigable recruiter. Every year she enlists future teachers from
 
the Sunday school graduating class. She found Nick Kadounas, for
 
example, who is now very ably assisting Theo Pappas in teaching the
 
senior class and serving as a cantor.
 
As in the case with Greek school, having a child attend Sunday
 
School requires a commitment on the part of the parent. The family has
 
to be at church by 10:00 A
.M.,
 
through the really unspeakable
 
the children who attend Sunday
 
have probably done this on the
 
often having driven in from the suburbs
 
Buffalo winter weather. Since most o
f
 
school also attend Greek school, they
 
preceding day as well. Father Artemas
 
and the Sunday school teachers also
 
commitment too; it is not much help
 
Sunday school if the parents do not
 
ideally should take time to discuss
 
agree that it takes a spiritual
 
dropping the children off at
 
attend the Divine Liturgy. Parents
 
the Sunday school lessons with
 
their children and pray with them. Intermarriage is very common in the
 
Buffalo Greek community, Father Artemas estimates that eighty t
 
ninety percent of all marriages he performs are mixed marriages.
 
Usually the children are baptized into the Orthodox faith and often
 
the non-Orthodox parent converts; but if this does not happen, the
 
Orthodox parent must make a special effort to see that the children
 
are brought to Sunday school.
 
V
A
 
vasilopita (
the New Ye
Js bread) and Easter bread, or the cracking
 
L
Religious holidays are observed in the Sunday school, often with
 
es sentially non— religi o us  c us t o m s ,
 s
uc s
 a
s the cutting of the
 
of red-dyed Easter eggs. Children take part in the preparation for the
 
great feasts at the church, helping the women of the parish decorate
 
t
he epitaphion (
the flower-decked b
ier on which the cloth icon o
f
 
the entombment of Christ i
s placed on Holy Friday), dye the Easter
 
eggs and t
ie them up i
n t
ulle for distribution after the Divine
 
Liturgy on Holy Saturday night, and make the palm crosses which are
 
d
istributed on Palm Sunday. At one t
ime the young girls were given
 
l
essons in preparing prosphoron (
the c
ommunion bread), which i
s
 
traditionally baked a
t home by Greek Orthodox women.
 
The l
iturgical year i
s a superb t
eaching device. With the passi
 
o
f the seasons the child sees acted out the great drama of the
 
r
edemption. The ceremonies of Orthodoxy are very l
iteral. The flower
 
decked cross i
s carried in procession on Holy Cross Day, and the
 
children remember that S
t. Helena found the cross in a bed of basil,
 
b
ecause on that day great tubs of basil are placed on the soles
, (
?).
 
The church i
s filled with the fragrance. After the service each
 
Parishioner is given a handful to take home.
 
The climax of the yearly ritual comes in Holy Week. During the
 
matins Of Holy Monday, called the Bridegroom Matins, the priest
 
carries an icon of Christ through the darkened church to remind the
 
faithful that, "The bridegroom comes at midnight." During the matins
 
o
f Holy Thursday they are anointed with oil in memory of the woman
 
I-)
 
/
 
anointed Christfs feet. The reading of the Passion Gospels on the
 
evening of Holy Thursday is interrupted by a procession with a cross,
 
which is then set up on the solea for veneration. On Holy Friday the
 
icon of the crucified Christ is taken down from the cross, wrapped in
 
a white cloth, and placed on the altar by the priest. The icon of the
 
entombment is then placed on the epitaphion and the people come
 
forward to venerate the icon. At the Church of the Annunciation there
 
is a very pretty local custom; little girls bring baskets of rose
 
petals and scatter them over the icon. They are called myrophores  
(myrrh-bearers) and represent the women who brought spices to the tomb
 
of Christ. Mrs. Pappas initiated this custom with Father Pallas. She
 
remembered that her mother had always decorated the epitaphion in the
 
little chapel in her family home in Greece, and she and her sisters
 
gathered flowers to lay on the icon. Afterwards the children crawl
 
under the epitaphion, a symbol of dying with Christ. The same symbolism
 
is continued in the evening service when the entire parish, carrying
 
lighted candles and singing, carries the epitaphion in procession
 
around the block. As they reenter the church, the epitaphion is held
 
high, so that everyone can walk under it. They are sprinkled with rose
 
water by the altar boys as they enter the brightly lighted church.
 
Be?ore the Divine Liturgy on Holy Saturday night the lighted Paschal
 
candle (the light of Christ) is carried into the darkened church and
 
everyone lights candles from it.
 
The altar boys are the most active participants in the Divine
 
Liturgy, since they actually assist in the service. There are about
 
forty of them at present, divided into teams of eight. They get a
 
little formal instruction by the priest, but mostly learn from "on the
 
job training," as one says. They start with undemanding jobs, like
 
carrying candles, and work up to assisting the priest. Girls
 
traditionally take no part in the services, but there is no canonical
 
reason why they cannot be lay readers and Father Arteinas often asks
 
girls t
o read the lesson or the Epistle.
 
The third set of classes associated with the Church of the
 
Annunciation i
s the dance classes. There has always been some sort of
 
dance instruction associated with the church; one of the Greek school
 
graduates I talked to remembered being taught dancing by his Sunday
 
school t
eacher, and Mrs Pappas told me about arranging some Greek
 
dancing at a formal ball at the Albright Knox Art Museum. Classes were
 
always more or less informal, however, until Tina Kalen started her
 
Greek Ethnic Society nineteen years ago. Kalen arrival in Buffalo from
 
Constantinople in 1
957, looking for some way to "carry her flag" in
 
America. Talking to children dancing at weddings and parties, she
 
finally got a class together. She now has about thirty-five students,
 
divided into juniors, seniors, and young adults. Tina and her troupe
 
are a familiar sight at ethnic get-togethers in the Buffalo area and
 
the costumed dancers are one of the main attractions of the Hellenic
 
Festival every year. They are not particularly professional, since she
 
takes anyone who wants to dance, regardless of talent. They dance with
 
great verve and enthusiasm, however, and are obviously having a
 
wonderful t
ime.
 
Kalen teaches her students the familiar Greek dances for
 
weddings, parties at the church, and family gatherings: the syrtaki, 
the tzamiko, the kalamatianos, the syrtos and the hasapiko. Her
 
technique is unusual, since she more or less talks them through the
 
steps of a dance. If there are little ones who do not know the steps
 
at all, she turns them over to an older child for instruction. She
 
uses recorded music for class and rehearsals and live music for the
 
festival. The dance classes are held in the gymnasium of the community
 
center, right after Greek school on Saturday afternoons. Like the
 
V
 
Greek school and Sunday school, a child/s attendance at the dance
 
classes involves real commitment on the part of the parents. Not only
 
do the parents have t
o drive their children  to the church for classes
 
and rehearsals, but they have to get them to performances as well.
 
Most of the costumes worn by the children are made by their mothers,
 
since the purchase of a foustanella (
 ? )
 is a major expense.
 
The children enjoy the dance classes, and most of them have a
 
marvellous time representing the Greek community at local festivals.
 
Learning to dance has immediate and obvious value for the children,
 
since they learn the dances for parties. Like most of the ethnic
 
learning experiences of young Greek—Americans, this one has further
 
ramifications. The Greek Ethnic Society is involved in more than
 
ethnic display events —it also has charitable functions. Very few
 
immigrants are now arriving in Buffalo, but quite a few Greeks come for
 
medical treatment at Buffalots many hospitals. Many of them have
 
little money, do not speak English, and have no way of getting around
 
the city. Tina visits these patients and their families (who often
 
ME
 
accompany t
hem), translates 
 
for them ,
 drives them to and  from
41-
airport, and raises money for 
 
;
T
expenses.  The children 
.
 
dance group and their mothers help her with these activities, visiti
 
the s
ick and running l
ittle errands for them.
 
The Hellenic Festival is a big event, not only for the Greek
 
community, but for all of Buffalo. There are, of course, many other
 
e
thnic f
estivals in the city, but none of them gets the kind of media
 
coverage o
r a
ttracts such a devoted audience; many Buffalonians go
 
every year. "Are You going to the Greek festival?" i
s a common
 
around the third weekend of May. "
Speak t
o me about that
 
f
estival" i
s as common a proverbial expression in the Greek
 
i
n Buffalo, l
ike "Talk t
o me after the Palio" i
s in Siena.
 
This year the festival attracted 1
3,000 people and made a profit
 
of over $75
,000. T
 ,
he meaning of the festival 
i
 who L
aJ
1
U
 
i
s much deeper than a fund-raising or even an ethnic-display event,
 
h
owever. Working together for the five months that it takes to plan
 
and present the festival both reinforces the sense of community and
 
passes i
t on to the children. Until I started these interviews I had
 
no idea how much the festival is regarded as a teaching device, not
 
only for the Buffalo community at large, who will b
e shown what i
t i
s
 
t
o b
e Greek-American, but also for the youth of the Greek-American
 
[('1iI'II U11)I
!.
 
Al
 
The festival was originally the brainchild of Father George
 
Pantelis, who had initiated a similar event in his last parish in
 
Knoxville. The first festival in 1977 contained many of the elements
 
of. other Greek festivals around the country: Greek music and dance,
 
food, cultural exhibits, and imported objects for sale. Francis' Home
 
Bakery (Polish) in North Tonawanda turned its facilities over to the
 
women of the parish on Monday of every week, and the pastries and
 
moussaka were cooked there, then sent to frozen storage.  Parishioners
 
worked to turn the basement of the parish house into a nightclub (
the
 
taverna) and  to decorate the gymnasium (
the plaka) or market
 
place. The Sunday school classroom functioned as boutiques. The
 
response was overwhelming. When the Buffalo newspapers printed the
 
telephone number of the reservations chairman (dinners at the taverna
 
require reservations), his telephone lines burned out from the
 
overload and the telephone company sent out an inspector to see if
 
someone was booking horses from the number. Originally, the festival
 
was planned for only three years. In the fall of 1979 Father Pantelis
 
was killed in a burglary, however, and the parish decided to continue
 
the festival in his memory. By now it is a Buffalo institution.
 
-
 Many of the festival's features could, of course, be found in any
 
Greek church festival. The ethnic festival network would make a
 
fascinating study in itself. The festival planners visit festivals in
 
other parishes to get ideas and Priscilla Carcales, the church
 
secretary, who also acts as festival coordinator, gives workshops for
 
people who want to plan similar events. She spent several days this
 
spring at the church in Jamestown helping them put on their first
 
festival.
 
One enters the festival through a blue-and-white striped tent,
 
where there are counters selling souvlaki and salads and a bar selling
 
beer, wine, and ouzo. There are tables where one can sit and a small
 
platform on which the children from the dance classes perform at
 
regular intervals. A band plays at all times and people will get up
 
often t
o dance informally. The entrance i
s guarded by boys wearing
 
foustanellas.
 
At the opening of the festival Father Pallas does a little
 
service at the entrance to the tent and then goes around all the
 
buildings sprinkling the rooms and the workers with blessed water. The
 
ground floor of the community center is turned into a little shopping
 
arcade, with boutiques selling Greek clothes and souvenirs, records,
 
jewelry, wine, and groceries. There is also a little boutique selling
 
religious items and books, incense, and icons, which never makes much
 
money, but which is considered very important as a teaching device.
 
Upstairs, the gymnasium is elaborately transformed into the plaka, 
where there are -little boths selling souvlaki, pastichio,
 
spanakopita, tiropita, moussaka, souzoukakia, rice pilaf, Greek
 
salads, rizogalo, loukoumades, and coffee. There is also a
 
upstairs bar, which sells beer, wine, and ouzo and does a fine
 
business. There is a large stage for dancing; a band plays constantly
 
and the children from the dance classes perform. Off-duty workers or
 
people from the Greek community who are not involved in the festival
 
often drop in for a drink or a cup of coffee and get up to dance.
 
Sometimes people from ethnic groups with similar dance styles will
 
exhibit ethnic solidarity by performing; one of my favorite memories
 
is of a very large Russian Orthodox priest dancing with a very tiny
 
blonde Greek girl. The floor of the gymnasium is packed with tables,
 
but, if the crowd is not too dense, the dancers will often start a line
 
dance around the edges of the tables and ask the spectators to join
 
in.
 
On the ground floor of the parish house there are various
 
cultural and artistic exhibits, as well as a bake shop, where one can
 
buy pastry to take home. This year a very successful addition was the
 
"Dare to Say It in Greek" booth, where a pretty girl in Greek Costume
 
would write anything you wanted in Greek for a dollar.  She said that
 
the most original, request she got was for a sign saying "You can take
 
this job and shove it." This booth was a great hit, not only with the
 
general public, but with the children of the community. Upstairs in
 
the parish house there are other cultural exhibits, including movies
 
about Greece and an exhibit of icons, mostly reproductions.  The IDf
l
 
room first became part of the festival in 1979, when FathPr Pant
Hs
 
and I spent about twenty-four hours putting it together. He brought
 
items up from the altar (hand crosses, chalices, thuribles and so
 
forth), which were displayed in glass cases and were the object of
 
great interest for the Roman Catholic and Protestant visitors. The
 
Single greatest attraction of the festival every year is the church
 
tours, which are conducted by women of the parish, altar boys, older
 
children from the Sunday school and, occasionally, by the priest.
 
This year over five hundred volunteers worked on the
 
festival. The preparation of food started in January and involved
 
mostly older women of the parish. Younger women who do not have jobs
 
often go along and receive very practical lessons in traditional
 
cooking. Men were involved in assembling the Greek village "set" for
 
the plaka and cutting up the meat for souviaki.
 
By opening day the children are also hard at work. The dancers
 
and the boys who act as "guards" at the entrance have the most
 
spectacular positions and are the ones who are most likely to appear o
n
 
television. The dancers are not supposed to do any other jobs, since
 
the dancing is extremely tiring, but they occasionally sneak off, get
 
out of costume, and pitch in at the Pepèi counter or the souvlaki
 
line. Some of the altar boys assist Father Arteinas at the opening
 
ceremony and help out with church tours. Other children are employed
 
as couriers, especially if they have mothers working in boutiques, to
 
n
'errands and take messages between the boutiques and t e church
 
V /I  
office (the nerve center of the festival) or the cashie  8  officer.
 
They may also help to sell food or soft drinks in the plaka or the
 
tent; the souviaki line seems to be the most prestigious position.
 
Trash pickup is the lowliest job, done mostly as an entry-level
 
position or if one is not lucky enough to have a mother working in a
 
place where one can be employed. The best place to work is the
 
taverna. Every evening there are three seatings for dinner. A superb
 
dinner is served and the diners are treated to a Greek night-club
 
performance, with music, singing and dancing by the older dancers,
 
plus a spectacular male dancer who comes from St. Catharine Y
s every
 
year. The singing waiters are an especially popular attraction. Girls
 
in an adaptation of classical Greek costume act as hostesses.
 
tunately, these really desirable positions are open only to young
 
since liquor is served. Only people who are twenty-one or over
 
are supposed to work in the taverna; however, some very favored
 
children whose mothers work in the taverna kitchen do manage to
 
sneak in as dishwashers or kitchen help.
 
The months of preparation and, especially, the three days of
 
working together intensively create a strong sense of community among
 
the festival volunteers, some of whom have worked together since the
 
first festival. It is seen, of course, as a chance to display the
 
Greek heritage to Buffalo, but it is also seen as a chance for the
 
children of the community to learn more about that heritage. It became
 
obvious in the course of the interviews for this project that
 
parents are very anxious for their children to work during the
 
festival and will often call friends who are working in a favored area
 
to see if they can use any assistance from little Sophia or George.
 
This experience,  like the language school, is a way of working out a
 
particularly American way of being ethnic, especially as the festival
 
is very obviously a display event, designed to point out the
 
wonderfulness of being Greek to a mainstream American audience. The
 
Buffalo audience is often composed of other ethnic groups, so comments
 
like "We Serbians have a pastry very much like this one" are
 
commonplace during the festival.
 
I first came to the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
in the spring of 1978. At that time I was working on a project to
 
document ethnically based liturgical parishes in Buffalo. Father
 
George Pantelis was extremely interested in what I was doing and
 
suggested that if I really wanted to understand the Orthodox traditions
 
I should record the entire liturgical year. For a year I taped and
 
photographed the great feasts, spent an enormous amount of time at the
 
church, and came to know the Greek community in Buffalo. The patience,
 
tolerance, generosity and friendship displayed towards me by these
 
wonderful people are impossible even to describe. Thanks to them, and
 
especially to Father Pantells, I have come to know and love
 
glories of the Orthodox Liturgy and
 
Greek character. When, after Father
 
John Artemas came to the parish, he
 
predecessor had, and has been of
 
him, and to all the parishioners
 
especially the ones who gave
 
Special thanks are due to my
 
the parish, who has answered
 
translated, spelled words in
 
and pastry.
 
the warm1
 ,
 h
 
Pantelis y
s
 
made me as
 
the
 
and individuality of
 
tragic death, Father
 
welcome as his
 
enormous help in this project.
 
To
 
of the Church of the Annunciation,
 
me interviews, I owe my deepest thanks.
 
friend Priscilla Carcales, secretary of
 
endless questions over the years,
 
Greek, and kept me supplied with coffee
 
Finally, I would like to thank Tom and Jenny Putnam, who served
 
as research assistants on this project and without whom it would never
 
have been completed, and Pat Warner, who typed the entire report. Tom
 
and Jenny logged the tapes, proofread the manuscript, recorded many of
 
the interviews, took photographs, drove me all over the Niagara
 
Frontier and provided endless encouragement. Pat Warner not only did
 
her usual magnificent job of typing, but also kept track of all the
 
various components of the manuscript.
 
THE SCHOOLS OF THE HELLENIC ORT!CDOX
 TCT
 
OF THE ANNUNCIATIOi
 
Buffalo, New York
 
Final Report by Lydia Fish
 
The first Greek settlers in Buffalo arrived in 1
894. By 1910 about
 
ten families and approximately two hundred single men were living in
 
the area. The first church, Evangelismos (Annunciation) was
 
incorporated in 1911, and the first Greek school was established in
 
1
916. It met at the church on Oak Street. From the first it was a
 
weekday afternoon rather than an all—day school. Subjects in these
 
early years seem to have been limited to the reading and writing of
 
Greek and the study of the Orthodox faith. Early teachers were the
 
priest and an occasional layman; religious instruction and language
 
instruction obviously went hand in hand. Unmarried girls and married
 
women of the community begin to be mentioned as teac hers  in the 1
920 s
.  
A
.P. Theodorides took over as principal in 1
933 and added
 
history, geography, and penmanship to the curriculum. In the late
 
1
930s two hundred and fifty children were enrolled in the school.
 
Classes met after regular school, at first every day and later on two
 
or three afternoons a week. Some religious instruction seems also to
 
have been given on Saturdays.
 
In 1
937 the church purchased a cultural center several miles
 
away on Delaware Avenue, close to the site of the present
 
church. Classes were held there for awhile and then moved back
 
downtown to an annex school close to the Oak Street church. In 1
952
 
the church moved to its present building, which is still more or less
 
downtown but in a much more elegant neighborhood. The new church, a
 
beautiful stone building in a style best described as parish Gothic,
 
2
 
was originally North Presbyterian Church, built in 1
904-1906.—*-
years the Greek School and Sunday school classes met thcro. In 1
972 a
 
t'v
 iS
 - T
o
Th
 
community center was completed in the same location, with a gymnasium
 
for games and dancing and a classroom on the first floor. There are
 
presently 756 families that are dues-paying members of the parish and
 
approximately two hundred more that do not support the church,
 
although they may show up from time to time at services, social
 
events, or the festival.
 
In 1
945 Father John Pallas became pastor of the church. The Greek
 
School and Sunday school as they are presently constituted began after
 
Father Pallas's arrival. Before that time it is virtually impossible
 
t
o distinguish between the Greek
chool and the Sunday School, which
 
( .
 
seem to have had completely overlapping personnel. The reason for the
 
A
 
separation of the two schools was probably that it was no longer
 
possible to conduct religious instruction entirely in Greek and assume
 
that all the children understood it. At about the same time the
 
Archdiocese stopped printing Sunday School books in Greek, so it was
 
obviously a national trend.
 
The first teachers in the Greek School were the priest and an
 
occasional highly educated layman, who often also acted as choir
 
director. Although educated teachers were sought, the memories of
 
a
 
some of the youngsters who attended the school in the 1950s and 1960s
 
indicate that some teachers were recruited who had no more
 
qualifications than an ability to speak the language and a strong
 
3
 
sense of dedication to the preservation of Greek language and culture
  
 
C?)
 
among the younger generation. Today there of  six teachers employed
 V
1  v
i  7
 
r
.
 
by the school: Mrs. Pullman, a trained teacher, Mrs. Serkizes, who has
 T
 
taught at the school for five or six years, and four Greek students who
 C
 
-
4
 
attend the University of Buffalo. Mrs. Pullman is paid $45 per week,
 
Mrs. Serkizes receives $30 per week, and the Greek students receive
 c - 
u ci'
 
$25 weekly.
 (
1
1
 I
r  C
4
 
1
'
 
O
C
 
e
 
The school is financed by tuition payments and some fund-raising
 
activities. For some years there was a Greek school board; more
 c
 
3
.n4j
 1
 ;r
 
recently the school has been run by a Parents Teacher Association
 " 
A
 
(PTA), which conducts raffles, candy sales, and bake sales, and puts
 e
T
 
'
i
 C)
 
on an annual dance to raise money for the school. T
l1i.
 
,
e
, the
 
parish council 4&9 taken over the responsibility for the school, which
 
George Pappas, the principal, feels is a mistake. Since the council
 
instituted a raise in tuition, the parents feel that they no longer
 
need to donate their time. Presently the students pay $50 tuition per
 
0.
 n
 .
S
 
year, with $
-5 for books and supplies. The Philoptochos
 
/
 
Society usually contributes a few hundred dollars each year.
 
George Pappas is the only administrator of the school; he makes
 
decisions about curriculum and so forth in consultation with the
 
teachers and the "greatly weakened" PTA. If the school had more money
 
he would like to purchase more teacher aids (
some really good tape
 
recorders, for example) and hire more qualified teachers.
 
4
 
Formerly, the classes were grouped only by age —the children
 
started Greek School in the first grade at six and finished the sixth
 
grade when they were twelve. This year, however, tests were given and
 
the students were placed according to their level of proficiency.
 
The textbooks are published by Theodore C
. Papaloizos
 
Publications in Maryland
 ey offerSa complete curriculum, including
 
workbooks. The Archdiocese is currently working on their own series of
 
language books and George Pappas is using their first—grade reader
 
this year.
 
The main emphasis of the school is on language teachingj there
 
are no special classes in history, geography, literature, or art.
 
Little bits of all of these are sandwiched into the language lessons,
 
along with some classical mythology and a fair amount of material on
 
Greek calendar customs.
 
Several holidays are marked by special school programs. The
 
last Sunday in January is Greek Letters Sunday, which is dedicated to
 
Greek language schools and-celebrated in North and South America. The
 
most important holiday, however, is Greek Independence Day, which is
 
celebrated on March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation. This
 
celebration is an example of the identification of Greek ethnicity in
 
this country with the Orthodox faith. March 25 is the date of the
 
beginning of the Greek revolution of 1
821 against the Ottoman Empire
 
deliberately selected because i
t celebrates the bringing
 
of the good news to the Virgin by the Archangel Gabriel.
 
5
 
OP
 I
 'v
 
Since reak I
rid
'e
- endonee Day is also the name day of the
 
parish, it is a very important day in the life of the parish community.
 
After the Divine Liturgy there is a procession of officers of all the
 
parish organizations and the program in the community center is
 
followed by a dinner for the entire community. Speeches are given,
 
some of them in Greek, by adult members of the parish. They usually
 
have patriotic themes or extol the glories of Greek culture. All the
 
children in the Greek school participate in the program-,réciting
 
little religious or patriotic poems, singing religious songs or Greek
 
folksongs, and presenting a play about the beginning of the revolution
 
in 1821. The teachers of the Greek school carefully coach the
 
children for this occasion. Andreas Zapatinas, a Greek university
 
student who taught at the school, says they are the same songs and
 
poems which he remembers performing as a child in Greece.
 
Changes in curriculum and attitude over the years are, of
 
course, inevitable. When the Greek school in Buffalo was established,
 
i
t was giving essentially religious instruction to children to whom
 
Greek was a functional language. As the Greek immigrants became more
 
assimilated into the American mainstream culture, less and less Greek
 
was spoken in the- home. Even though they might speak only Greek until
 
they entered kindergarten, the children quickly learned to speak
 
English and used it to communicate in most of their daily activities.
 
Many Greeks married members of other ethnic groups, so children often
 
grew up in homes where one parent spoke no Greek at all. The Greek
 
school i
s now attempting to teach children to read and speak a
 
6
 
language which they may not hear at all outside of the Liturgy (which
 
i
s koine, rather than demotic Creek anyway) or their social contacts
 
in the parish. Religious instruction has been taken over by the
 
Sunday school, and there really is no time to do more than give very
 
basic language instruction in two hours a week. Classes meet from
 
1
0:00 A.M until 12:00 noon on Saturdays and are followed by dance
 
classes.
 
Some of the changes in attitudes over the years are purely a
 
result of demographic changes. When Buffalo Greeks began to move out
 
of the old neighborhood near the church on Oak Street, it was no
 
longer possible for the children to walk to Creek school every day,
 
or even several days a week. Although the Greek school in Buffalo is
 
located about as centrally as possible, it is still very
 
inconvenient to transport children to it more than twice a week.  (Most
 
children who attend the Greek school also attend Sunday School.)
 
Children who were attending suburban schools spent most of their
 
social life with non-Greeks and were involved in many activities
 
7outside of the parish. There were some attempts to cope with
 
inconvenience of the school/
 s location. In the late 1950s and 1960s
 
satellite schools were opened (usually in Episcopal churches) in the
 
Highgate area, in Depew, Lockport, and Niagara Falls.
 
Most parents interviewed said that they wanted their children
 
t
o attend Greek school so they would understand better who they were,
 
would learn about their heritage, or would be able to communicate with
 
their Greek relatives. The Greek idea of family includes a huge
 
7
 
network of people related either by blood or by spiritual ties,, being
 
a koumbaro (godparent) establishes a real family relationship as
 
well. Many relatives remain in Greece, and there is a great deal of
 
visiting back and forth.
 
Having children attend Greek school does not require a huge
 
financial commitment, but it does involve a tremendous commitment in
 
time and effort. Suburban parents have to sacrifice an entire Saturday
 
morning to drive the children to Greek school and dance classes, since
 
Buffalo public transportation virtually does not function on weekends.
 
Most parents help the children with their homework, which can be very
 
difficult if the parent does not speak Greek himself. One of the
 
parents I interviewed, Theo Pappas, described struggling through her
 
sonPs first and second grade homework with the aid of a dictionary.
 
The only parent I talked to who had been to Greek school herself was
 
Victoria Pantelis, who went every afternoon after school as a child in
 
Brooklyn. Most of the parents seem fairly satisfied with their
 
children 7s progress, although there were quite a few complaints about
 
lack of discipline.
 
The students, for the most part, complain bitterly about the
 
Saturday classes, the homework, and the tests. In short,  they would
 
much rather be watching cartoons. Every one I talked to agreed that
 
learning to speak Greek was a good thing, however, and the graduates
 
feel, in retrospect, that it was worth all the suffering. The only
 
regrets I ran across were from students who dropped out,  or  felt that
 
they had not made the effort to really learn the language. Graduates
 
8
 
f
r
 
of the school have the chance
 to take the Regents/ Examinations in
 
A
 
Greek and receive three high school credits if they pass. Since these
 
tests are taken at the ninth- or tenth-grade level, several years
 
after they have finished classes, special review sessions are held
 
each year in June before the exams. Not a lot of students take these
 
exams, but the ones that do usually do well. Most of the students
 
agree that they would send their own children to Greek
chool.
 
The comparisons made by the children between Greek 5c.o i  i
:ii
 
mainstream education depend on which teachers the child has had.
 
Almost all of them prefer the other teachers to the Greek university
 
students. This is rather ironic, since the school makes such an effort
 
to recruit them, ¶he principal says that he much prefers to hire
 
)
 
teachers who have finished high school in Greece. The young men know
 
Greek very well, and some of them are very conscientious teachers, but
 
I suspect the problem is that they do not relate very well to the
 
Greek-American experience.
 
Most of the children I talked to have two more or less distinct
 
t
 
social lives  Xhere is some overlap at festivities like birthday
 
parties, and children inviting American friends to the festival s 
-however. Although some of the suburban schools now have a dozen or. so
 
Greek children in them at any given time, most of the socialization
 
with other Greeks is on weekends or at church-related activities such
 
as Jr. GOYA (Greek Orthodox Youth Association) functions or dance
 
rehearsals, during the week.
 
9
 
Another outcome of the move to the suburbs is the growth of
 
private classes in the homes of teachers or students. Private tutoring
 
in Greek has gone on from the beginning, but in the past ten years
 
private classes
 
children taking
 
Presently there
 
have grown to the point where there are probably more
 
private lessons than attending Greek school.
 
are two teachers in Buffalo giving private classes,
 
one of whom teaches in the Greek School. There is, naturally, a little
 
ill feeling about these classes on the part of the Greek
 
hool and,
 
until recently, it was a matter of policy never to hire a teacher who
 
also conducted private classes. Each teacher has four classes, which
 
meet for an hour on a weeknight. Estimates of class size range from
 
six to twelve students; the teacher receives $2.50 per hour per
 
student. Since there are currently only forty-five students in the
 
Greek 5chool, private classes constitute a serious threat to its
 
existence.
 
-
 -iven for sending sudents t
o pr i v o t e
 
i
venient and parents do not have to make the
 
long trek from the suburbs every week. The children have their
 
Saturday mornings free for-other activities. They also receive more
 
individual attention, and discipline is better. In addition, one Greek
 
school graduate suggested that. perhaps some parents object to the 
r
re
el
li
ig
gi
io
ou
us
s 
 content of the Greek School lessons and prefer to send their
 
children to non-church-sponsored classes.
 
I
 
Q
 S
 L
:
:
�
 V
-
'
_
 -
T
 9
 0
1
 
Probably no ethnic group in America  identifies  itself so much
 
in terms of religion;  to a great extent,  to be Greek-American is
 
to be Greek Orthodox,  however loose the ties with the church may
 
become.  03
 Native Greeks,  largely because of historical
 
experience,  tend to see themselves as "Orthodox Christians"  (
as
 
opposed to the Ottoman Moslems)  rather than defining themselves
 
by ethnicity;  Greeks began to think of themselves as  "Greeks"
 
only at the formation of the Greek state about 1825.
 The
 
immigrants who came to this country quickly established
 
churches,  around which all the community activities,  including
 
the schools,  coalesced.  Therefore,  Sunday School  is a very real
 
part of a second-generation Greek-American child's ethnic
 
education.
 
2
 
Sunday School in Buffalo were the priest and some laymen who had been
 
educated in Greece. !rained teachers were used whenever possible.
 
Later mothers were brought in to assist the teachers. The Archdiocese
 
provided a curriculum after the late 1
940s, which first consisted of
 
little pamphlets printed in Greek. Before that time Mrs. Pappas, the
 
present principal of the Sunday school, had to find her own books
 
(often in Greece), and write synopses for her teachers. In the early
 
1
950s the Archdiocese started providing textbooks in English, but,
 
until a f
ew years ago, there was not one for every grade.
 
Over the years Mrs. Pappar has built up an excellent reference
 
library for the use of her t
eachers. The subjects taught have not
 
changed much; as she points out, the Orthodox Faith has not changed.
 
I have looked over most of the textbooks used in the school and have
 
been quite impressed. In some grades the subject i
s the relationship
 
of Christianity to everyday life, and I think the Archdiocese has done
 
a commendable job of tackling such very modern problems as sex and
 
drugs. The books on the church holy days and saints1 days, the
 
sacraments, and the Creed are excellent. Filmstrips and films are
 
also available from the Archdiocese.
 
paid: "They are paid by the smiles of the children." For '
iTi1T'
 
1
1
 
council has taken over financial responsibility for the school. Unless
 
the teachers are certified,  they serve an apprenticeship with an
 
experienced teacher; girls often help their mothers. Mrs. Pappas is an
 
indefatigable recruiter. Every year she enlists future teachers from
 
the Sunday school graduating class. She found Nick Kadounas, for
 
example, who is now very ably assisting Theo Pappas in teaching the
 
senior class and serving as a cantor.
 
As in the case with Greek school, having a child attend Sunday
 
school requires a commitment on the part of the parent. The family has
 
to be at church by 10:00 A.M., often having driven in from the suburbs
 
through the really unspeakable Buffalo winter weather. Since most of
 
the children who attend Sunday school also attend Greek school, they
 
have probably done this on the preceding day as well. Father Artemas
 
and the Sunday school teachers also agree that it takes a spiritual
 
commitment too; it is not much help dropping the children off at
 
Sunday school if the parents do not attend the Divine Liturgy. Parents
 
ideally should take time to discuss the Sunday school lessons with
 
their children and pray with them. Intermarriage is very common in the
 
*vi
e, ?
SC
.rt
 *h  - 
Buffalo Greek community, Father Artemas -
 estimates that eighty to
 
I
'
 
ninety percent of all marriages he performs are mixed marriages.
 
Usually the children are baptized into the Orthodox faith and often
 
the non-Orthodox parent converts; but if this does not happen, the
 
Orthodox parent must make a special effort to see that the children
 
are brought to Sunday school.
 
1
2
 
/
 
( 
Religious holidays are observed in the Sunday school, often Kith
 
essentially non-religious customs, such as the cutting of the
 
vasilopita (the New YearYs bread) and Easter bread, or the cracking
 
of red-dyed Easter eggs. Children take part in the preparation for the
 
great feasts at the church, helping the women of the parish decorate
 
the epitaphion (the flower-decked bier on which the cloth icon of
 
the entombment of Christ is placed on Holy Friday), dye the Easter
 
eggs and tie them up in tulle for distribution after the Divine
 
Liturgy on Holy Saturday night, and make the palm crosses which are
 
distributed on Palm Sunday. At one time the young girls were given
 
The.
 
lessons in preparing prosphoron (the communion bread), which is
 
traditionally baked at home by Greek Orthodox women.
 
The liturgical year is a superb teaching device.  4
'
ith the passin:
 
of the seasons the child sees acted out  the great drama of the
 
redemption. The ceremonies of Orthodoxy are very literal3 he flower-
decked cross is carried in procession on Holy Cross Day, and the
 
children remember that St. Helena found the cross in a bed of basil,
 
i Th
 m e.
 
because on that day great tubs of basil are placed on the solea (
?).
 
The church is filled with the fra ranc /. fter the service each
 
parishioner is given a handful to take home.
 
The climax of the yearly ritual comes in Holy Week. During the
 
matins of Holy Monday, called the Bridegroom Matins, the priest
 
carries an icon of Christ through the darkened church to remind the
 
faithful that,  "The bridegroom comes at midnight." During the matins
 
of Holy Thursday they are anointed with oil in memory of the woman who
 
1
3
 
/
 V
 
V
 anointed Christ/s feet. The reading of the Passion Gospels on the
 
evening of Holy Thursday is interrupted by a procession with a cross,
 
which is then set up on the solea for veneration. On Holy Friday the
 
icon of the crucified Christ is taken down from the cross, wrapped in
 
a white cloth, and placed on the altar by the priest. The icon of the
 
entombment i
s then placed on the epitaphion and the people come
 
forward to venerate the icon. At the Church of the Annunciation there
 
is a very pretty local custom; little girls bring baskets of rose
 
petals and scatter them over the icon. They are called myrophores  
(myrrh-bearers) and represent the women who brought spices to the tomb
 
IYY.I%j
 '
ta.b.S
 
of Christ. (rs. Pappas initiated this custom with Father Pallas. She
 
remembered that her mother had always decorated the epitaphion in the
 
little chapel in her family home in Greece, and she and her sisters
 
gathered flowers to lay on the icon.)Aftqrwards the children crawl
 
under the epitaphion, a symbol of dying with Christ. The same symbolism
 
is continued in the evening service when the entire parish, carrying
 
lighted candles and singing, carries the epitaphion in procession
 
around the block. As they reenter the church, the epitaphion is h i
 
high, so that everyone can walk under it. They are sprinkled with rose
 
water by the altar boys as-they enter the brightly lighted church.
 
Before the Divine Liturgy on Holy Saturday night the lighted Paschal
 
candle (the light of Christ) is carried into the darkened church and
 
everyone lights candles from it.
 
The altar boys are the most active participants in the Divine
 
Liturgy, since they actually assist in the service. There are about
 
forty of them at present, divided into teams of eight. They get a
 
1
4
 
little formal instruction by the priest:, but mostly learn from "
on the
 
job training," as one says. They start with undemanding jobs, like
 
carrying candles, and work up to assisting the priest. Girls
 
traditionally take no part in the services, but there is no canonical
 
reason why they cannot be lay readers and Father Arteinas often asks
 
girls to read the lesson or the Epistle.
 
The third set of classes associated with the Church of the
 
Annunciation is the dance classes. There has always been some sort of
 
dance instruction associated with the church; one of the Greek 5chool
 
graduates I talked to remembered being taught dancing by his Sunday
 
School teacher, and Mrs.Pappas told me about arranging some Greek
 
dancing at a formal ball at the Albright Knox Art Museum. Classes were
 
always more or less informal, however, until Tina Kalen started her
 
Greek Ethnic Society nineteen years ago. Kalen arriv Z' in Buffalo from
 
O. f
l )
 
Constantinople in 1957 /looking for some way to "carry her flag" in
 
America. Talking to children dancing at weddings and parties, she
 
finally got a class together. She now has about thirty-five students,
 
divided into juniors, seniors, and young adults. Tina and her troupe
 
are a familiar sight at ethnic get
 
tgethcr3- in the Buffalo area and
 
r&% f
l
 
the costumed dancers are one of the main attractions of the Hellenic
 
Festival every jear. They are not particularly professional, since she
 
takes anyone who wants to dance, regardless of talent. They dance with
 
great verve and enthusiasm, however, and are obviously having a
 
wonderful t
ime.
 
1
5
 
V
 
Kalet teaches her students the familiar Greek dances for
 
weddings, parties at the church, and family gatherings: the syrtaki, 
the tzamiko, the kalamatianos, the syrtos and the hasapiko. Her
 
technique is unusual, since she more or less talks them through the
 
steps of a dance. If there are little ones who do not know the steps
 
at all, she turns them over to an older child for instruction. She
 
uses recorded music for class and rehearsals and live music for the
 
festival. The dance classes are held in the gymnasium of the community
 
center, right after Greek school on Saturday afternoons. Like the
 
Greek
chool and Sunday School, a child/s attendance at the dance
 
classes involves real commitment on the part of the parents. Not only
 
do the parents have to drive their children  to the church for classes
 
and rehearsals, but they have to get them to perfor
,
 
Most of the costumes worn by the children are made
 
since the purchase of a foustanella (
 ? )
 is a major expense.
 
The children enjoy the dance classes, and most of them have a
 
marvellous time representing the Greek community at local festivals.
 
Learning to dance has immediate and obvious value for the children,
 
since they learn the dances for parties. Like most of the ethnic
 
learning experiences of young Greek-Americans, this one has
 thi -
ramifications. The Greek Ethnic Society is involved in more than
 
ethnic display events —it also has charitable functions. Very few
 
immigrants are now arriving in Buffalo, but quite a few Greeks come for
 
medical treatment at Buffalc
 many hospitals. Many of them have
 
little money, do not speak English, and have no way of getting around
 
the city. Tina visits these patients and their families (who often
 
The Greek School classes,  the Sunday School  classes,  and  the
 
dance classes are clearly defined,  formal means of transmission
 
of Greek culture  to  the children of the community.
 They also
 
function as a means of letting the children work out their
 
particular  third-generation form of ethnicity as  they wrestle
 
with such questions as,  "Why do we celebrate Independence Day on
 
March 25 as well  as July 4?"  and  "why are services  in our church
 
different from those in Roman Catholic and Protestant churches?"
 
The fourth,  and certainly the most spectacular,  means of
 
educating the children in their heritage and permitting them to
 
present  it to  the Buffalo community at  large  is  the annual parish
 
Hellenic Festival.
 
3
 
1
7
 
F
 
The
 stiva1 was originally the brainchild of Father George
 
Pantelis, who had initiated a similar event in his last parish in
 
Knoxville. The first festival in 1
977 contained many of the elements
 
of other Greek festivals around the country: Greek music and dance,
 
food, cultural exhibits, and imported objects for sale. Francis' Home
 
Bakery (Polish) in North Tonawanda turned its facilities over to the
 
women of the parish on Monday of every week, and the pastries and
 
moussaka were cooked there,  then sent to frozen storage.
 Parishioners
 
worked to turn the basement of the parish house into a nightclub (
the
 
taverna) and  to decorate the gymnasium (
the plaka or market
 
')
 
place-)
e Sunday school classroom Vunctioned as boutiques. The
 
response was overwhelming. When the Buffalo newspapers printed the
 
telephone number of the reservations chairman (dinners at  the taverna
 
require reservations), his telephone lines burned out from the
 
overload and the telephone company sent out an inspector to see if
 
someone was booking horses from the number. Originally,  the festival
 
3
r
 
was planned for only three years  In the fall of 1979 Father Pantelis
 
was killed in a burglary,
 and the parish decided to continue
 
the festival in his memory. By now it i
s a Buffalo institution.
 
Many of the festival's features could, of course, be found in any
 
Greek church festival. Tl
r
— r  r
i
 
J
 
1
8
 
simiiar e v e n ,
.
 
fect-i u'
il  
One enters the festival through a blue-and-white striped tent,
 
where there are counters selling souvlaki and salads and a bar selling
 
beer, wine, and ouzo. There are tables where one can sit and a small
 
platform on which the children from the dance classes perform at
 
regular intervals. A band plays at all times and people will get up
 
often to dance informally. The entrance is guarded by boys wearing
 
foustanellas.
 
At the opening of the festival Father F1±a- 'u
 
service at the entrance to the tent and then goes around all the
 
buildings sprinkling the rooms and the workers with blessed water. The
 
ground floor of the community center i
s turned into a
 shopping
 
arcade, with boutiques selling Greek clothes and souvenirs, records,
 
jewelry, wine, and groceries. There is also a little boutique selling
 
religious items and books, incense, and icons, which never makes much
 
money, but which is considered very important as a teaching device.
 
Upstairs, the gymnasium is elaborately transformed into the plaka, 
S
 
where there are little  et
-h6 selling souvlaki, pastichio,
 
spanakopita, tiropita, moussaka, souzoukakia, rice pilaf, Greek
 
salads, rizogalo, loukoumades, and coffee. There is also a
 
upstairs bar, which sells beer, wine, and ouzo and does a fine
 
business. There is a large stage for dancing; a band plays constantly
 
and the children from the dance classes perform. off -duty workers or
 
UK
 
people from the Greek community who are not involved in the festival
 
often drop in for a drink or a cup of coffee and get up to dance.
 
Sometimes people from ethnic groups with similar dance styles will
 
exhibit ethnic solidarity by performing;  one of my favorite memories
 
is of a very large Russian Orthodox priest dancing with a very tiny
 
blonde Greek girl.  The floor of the gymnasium is packed with tables,
 
but,  if the crowd is not too dense,  the dancers will often start a line
 
dance around the edaes of the tables and ask the spectators  to
 
join
 
On the ground floor of the parish house there are various
 
cultural and artistic exhibits,  as well as a bake shop,  where one can
 
buy pastry to take home. This year a very successful addition was the
 
"Dare to Say It in Greek" booth,  where a pretty girl in Greek costume
 
would write anything you wanted in Greek for a dollar. ( She said that
 
the most original request she got was for a sign saying "You can take
 
this job and shove it.")
 This booth was a great hit, not only with the
 
general public,  but with the children of the community.  Upstairs in
 
the parish house there are other cultural exhibits, including movies
 
about Greece and an exhibit of icons, mostly reproduc�i��­
, ,;
.  T
lhl , 
20
 
single greatest attraction of the festival every year is the church
 
tours, which are conducted by women of the parish, altar boys, older
 
children from the Sunday school and, occasionally, by the priest.
 
This year over five hundred volunteers worked on the
 
festival. The preparation of food started in January and involved
 
mostly older women of the parish. Younger women who do not have jobs
 
often go along and receive very practical lessons in traditional
 
cooking. Men were involved in assembling the Greek village "set" for
 
the plaka and cutting up the meat for souvlaki.
 
By opening day the children are also hard at work. The dancers
 
and the boys who act as "guards" at the entrance have the most
 
spectacular positions and are the ones who are most likely to appear on
 
television. The dancers are not supposed to do any other jobs, since
 
the dancing is extremely tiring, but they occasionally sneak off, get
 
out of costume, and pitch in at the Pepsi counter or the souvlaki
 
line. Some of the altar boys assist Father Artemas at the opening
 
ceremony and help out with church tours. Other children are employed
 
as couriers, especially if-they have mothers working in boutiques,  to
 
run errands and take messages between the boutiques and the church
 
/ office (the nerve center of the festival) or the cashie  s officer.
 
They may also help to sell food or soft drinks in the plaka or the
 
tent;  the souvlaki line seems to be the most prestigious position.
 
Trash pickup is the lowliest job, done mostly as an entry-level
 
position or if one is not lucky enough to have a mother working in a
 
place where one can be employed. The best place t
o work is the
 
2
1
 
taverna. Every evening there are three seatings for dinner. A superb
 
dinner i
s served and the diners are treated to a Greek night—club
 
performance, with music, singing and dancing by the older dancers,
 
plus a spectacular male dancer who comes from St. Catharine s every
 
year. The singing waiters are an especially popular attraction. Girls
 
in an adaptation of classical Greek costume act as hostesses.
 
Unfortunately,  these really desirable positions are open only to young
 
adults, since liquor is served. Only people who are twenty—one or over
 
are supposed to work in the taverna; however, some very favored
 
children whose mothers work in the taverna kitchen do manage to
 
sneak in as dishwashers or kitchen help.
 
The months of preparation and, especially, the three days of
 
working together intensively create a strong sense of community among
 
the festival volunteers, some of whom have worked together since the
 
first festival. It is seen, of course, as a chance to display the
 
Greek heritage to Buffalo, but it is also seen as a chance for the
 
children of the community to learn more about that heritage. It became
 
obvious in the course of the interviews for this project that
 
parents are very anxious for their children to work during the
 
festival and will often call friends who are working in a favored area
 
to see if they can use any assistance from l
ittle Sophia or George.
 
This experience,  like the language school, i
s a way of working out a
 
particularly American way of being ethnic, especially as the festival
 
is very obviously a display event, designed to point out the
 
wonderfulness of being Greek to a mainstream American audience. The
 
22
 
Buffalo audience is -
c
-€tcn  omposed of other ethnic groups, so comments
 
like "We Serbians have a pastry very mi
ll 1i e  thi
 uie' '
ire
 
commonplace during the festival.
 
I first came to the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
in the spring of  1978. At that time I was working on a project to
 
document ethnically based liturgical parishes in Buffalo. Father
 
George Pantelis was extremely interested in what I was doing and
 
suggested that if I really wanted to understand the Orthodox traditions
 
I should record the entire liturgical year. For a year I taped and
 
photographed the great feasts, spent an enormous amount of time at the
 
church, and came to know the Greek community in Buffalo. The patience,
 
tolerance, generosity and friendship displayed towards me by these
 
wonderful people are impossible even t
o describe. Thanks to them, and
 
especially to Father Pantelis, I have come to know and love the
 
glories of the Orthodox Liturgy and the warmth and individuality of
 
Greek character. When, after Father Pantelis's tragic death, Father
 
John Artemas came to the parish, he made me as welcome as his
 
predecessor had, and has been of enormous help in this project. To
 
him, and to all the parishioners of the Church of the Annunciation,
 
especially the ones who gave me interviews, I owe my deepest thanks.
 
Special thanks are due to my friend Priscilla Carcales, secretary of
.
 
the parish, who has answered endless questions over the years,
 
translated, spelled words in Greek, and kept me supplied with coffee
 
and pastry.
 
The Greek  community  is quite conscious  of  the value of  the
 
festival as an educational device.
 
4
rhe brochure which was passed
 
out to every festival  visitor  in 198 7 states:
 
For our young people the Festival has provided a tangible
 
expression of  their heritage and culture.
 The Festival gives
 
our youth a sense of self-awareness and security and their
 
roots.
 They are  tomorrow's  leaders,  helping  and being
 
leaders today.
 
The Hellenic Festival,  like  the Greek  School,  the  Sunday School,
 
and the dance classes,  is a public and more or  less  formal method
 
of  teach
 
i
 the children of Greek-American  families  their  ethnic
 
heritage.  g In addition to serving as a means of  instruction,  the
 
festival  also provides  the children with an opportunity to better
 
integrate their  ethnic school  classroom experience by presenting
 
it to the general public.
 Because of  the constant  feedback  from
 
the festival  audience their particular  form of  second and third
 
generation ethnicity can be seen  in relationship both to
 
mainstream American culture and to  that of other Buffalo ethnic
 
groups.
 
Participation  in the  festival,  like attendance  at the
 
classes,  represents a conscious attempt on the part of the
 
parents  of  the community  to educate  their children  in Greek
 
traditions.
 This  involvement by the children,  however,  serves
 
also as a reinforcement of  the parents'  knowledge of  these
 
traditions,  and,  occasionally,  as an  informal means of
 
indoctrination  for  the parents,  especially  if either  one  is  a
 
second or  third generation Greek-American or has married  into  the
 
community.
 One woman,  of  Scottish Presbyterian background,  who
 
is especially active  in parish affairs,  told me that she learned
 
to speak a little Greek while helping her  three  sons with  their
 
Greek School homework.
 Mothers who come from Polish or  Italian
 
backgrounds  learn about Greek costumes while making costumes  for
 
children participating  in the dance group and discover  that Greek
 
Easter eggs are  red when  their  children bring  them home  from
 
Sunday School.
 
The ethnic  schools  in  the United States  raise many
 
fascinating questions  for  scholars  in the fields  of education,
 
linguistics,  sociology,  and anthropology.
 For  the  folklorist,
 
however,
 perhaps  the most  interesting aspect of these schools
 
is
 that
 they
 challenge  some of our
 most
 fondly
 cherished
 
notions
 about
 folklore:
 that
 is
 is
 spontaneous,
 
unselfconscious,
 and
 that
 it
 passes
 from
 one
 group
 or
 
generation
 to-another without  formal
 instruction.
 Probably
 
the
 greater
 part
 of
 ethnic  tradition  in
 this
 country
 is
 
transmitted
 in
 a domestic context,
 although
 even
 this
 is
 
not
 necessarily
 an
 unconscious process;
 carrying
 out
 the
 
decision to say grace at  the table every night  in
 Greek,
 for
 
example,
 will
 involve
 a certain amount of  time and
 effort.
 
However,
 the
 parents
 of
 the
 Greek-American
 community
 in
 
Buffalo,
 like
 those
 of many ethnic communities
 around
 the
 
country,  have very consciously chosen  to pass on many of their
 
most cherished  traditions  in a formal  educational  contest.
 No
 
one
 who knows  these children can doubt  that  the
 process
 has
 
2
.
 
23
 
Finally, I would like to thank Tom and Jenny Putnam, who served
 
as research assistants on this project and without whom it would never
 
have been completed, and Pat Warner, who typed the entire report. Tom
 
and Jenny logged the tapes, proofread the manuscript, recorded many of
 
the interviews,  took photographs, drove me all over the Niagara
 
Frontier and provided endless encouragement. Pat Warner not only did
 
her usual magnificent job of typing, but also kept track of all the
 
various components of the manuscript.
 
a
-
.
 
I think Fishman  is  right  in pointing out that attending a
 
mother tongue school  is an almost obligatory second generation
 
ethnic experience;  that  is  is the non-immigrant ethnic child's
 
unique way of being an American
 whether or not he is of non-
English language background.
 2
 This would explain something
 
which puzzled Andreas Zapatinas,  a young Greek university student
 
who taught in the Greek School  for several years.
 He says  it was
 
never made clear to him what the school was trying to accomplish;
 
if they were really trying to teach the children to read, write,
 
and speak Greek,  it was clearly impossible to do so in two hours
 
a week.
 If they were trying to teach them their Greek heritage,
 
why wasn't there more emphasis on Greek literature,  art, and
 
history?
 He especially could not understand why modern Greek
 
history wasn't taught at all.
 His questions make a good deal of
 
sense.
 If the school  is trying to establish language proficiency
 
it  is not succeeding particularly well;  if  it  is trying to teach
 
the children about Greek culture,  it  is not doing very well
 
either.  But Andreas  is comparing this school to Greek education
 
in Greece.
 If the school,  consciously or unconsciously  (
and I
 
suspect it is the latter),  is trying to help the children work
 
out
 their
 identity as ethnic Americans  it is doing
 a  superb
 
job.
 
1
 
been,
 to
 a considerable degree,
 successful.
 Perhaps  it  is
 
time
 for
 folklorists to  take a long  look at  the
 process
 by
 
which a group decides how and  to what degree  it will  integrate
 
with  the American mainstream.
 I think we shall  find  that  the
 
folk,  as  usual,  know quite well  what  they are doing!
 
FOOTNOTES
 
(
1)
 For  the  reader  who  is  unfamiliar  with  the history of  Greeks
 
in  this country  the best general  introduction will be  found  in
 
the article  on Greeks  in  the Harvard Encyclopedia of  Ethnic
  
Groups (Cambridge,  Mass.:  Harvard  University  Press,  1980),  which
 
includes  a short  bibliography.
 
(
2)
 Joshua  A.  Fishman,  "Ethnic Community Mother  Tongue  Schools
 
in  the U.S.A.:  Dynamics and  Distribution,"  International  
Migration Review 14,  no.  2 (
Summer,  1980) : 243.
 
(
3)
 The best  short  introduction  to  the  Orthodox  churches  in  this
 
country can be  found  in  the article on  the  Eastern  Orthodox  in
 
the  Harvard Encyclopedia of  Ethnic Groups.  
(
4)
 A nice description of  children's  roles  in ethnic  festivals
 
was published by  Elena Bradunas  in her article,  "From the
 
Familiar  to  the  Unknown:  A Fieldworker's  Progression."  Roger
 
Abrahams
 makes
 some  interesting comments on
 ethnicity
 as
 
performance
 in
 his
 article  on
 folklore
 in
 the
 Harvard  
Encyclopedia of  Ethnic Groups.  
(5)
 Passport to  the Annual Hellenic Festival: 1983 (Buffalo,  New
 
York:  Hellenic  Orthodox Church  of  the Annunciation,  1983).
 
(
6)
 George A.  Kourvetaris has written an excellent description
 
of  the Greek-American  family and has  compiled a really superb
 
bibliography on  the subject.
 "The Greek American  Family,"  in
 
Ethnic Families in  America, second  edition,  ed.  Charles  H.  Mindel
 
and  Robert W.  Haber  (New York:  Elsevier,  1981).
 
THE SCHOOLS OF THE HELLENIC ORTHODOX CHURCH
 
OF THE ANNUNCIATION
 
Buffalo, New York
 
Final Report by Lydia Fish
 
Row shall we s
ing the Lord s songs
 
upon an alien soil?
 
Psalm 137
 
History of the Greek School at the Hellenic Orthodox Church of
 
the Annunciation
 
The f
irst Greek settlers in Buffalo arrived in 1
894. VBy 1
910 about ten
 
families and approximately two hundred single men were living in the area. The
 
first church, Evangelismos (Annunciation), was incorporated in 1
911, and the
 
first Greek school was established in 1
916.
 
The school met at the church, on Oak Street. From the first i
t was a
 
weekday afternoon rather than an all-day school. Subjects in these early years
 
seem to have been limited to the reading and writing of Greek and the study of
 
the Orthodox faith. Early teachers were the priest and an occasional layman;
 
religious instruction and language instruction obviously went hand in hand.
 
Unmarried girls and married women of the community begin to be mentioned as
 
teachers in the 1920s.
 
A
.P. Theodorides took over as school principal in 1
933 and added history,
 
geography, and penmanship to the curriculum. In the late 1930s 250 children
 
were enrolled in the school. At first classes met after regular school every
 
day, and later on two or three afternoons a week. Some religious instruction
 
seems also to have been given on Saturdays.
 
2
 
In 1
937 the parish purchased a cultural center several miles away on
 
Delaware Avenue,  close t
o the site of the present church. Classes were held
 
there for a while and then moved back downtown to an annex school close to r
 
Oak Street church. In 1952 the church moved to its present building, which is
 
still more or less downtown but in a much more elegant neighborhood. The new
 
church, a beautiful stone building in a style best described as parish Gothic,
 
was originally North Presbyterian Church, built between 1
904 and 1
906. For
 
twenty years the Greek school and Sunday school classes met in a handsome stone
 
parish house attached to the church. In 1
972 a community center was completed
 
in the same location, with a gymnasium for games and dancing and a classroom on
 
the first floor. There are presently 7
56 families that are dues-paying members
 
of the parish and approximately 200 more that do not support the church,
 
although they may show up from time t
o t
ime at services, social events, or the
 
festival.
 
In 1
945 Father John Pallas became pastor of the church. The Greek school
 
and Sunday school as
 
arrival. Before that
 
Greek school and the
 
they are presently constituted began after Father Pallas's
 
time it is virtually impossible to distinguish between the
 
Sunday school, which seem t
o have had completely
 
overlapping personnel and curricula. The reason for the separation of the two
 
schools was probably that it was no longer possible to conduct religious
 
instruction entirely in Greek and assume that all the children understood i
t.
 
At about the same time the Archdiocese stopped printing Sunday school books in
 
Greek, so it was obviously a national trend.
 
3
 
Teachers
 
The first teachers in the Greek school were the priest and an occasional
 
highly educated layman, who often also acted as choir director. Although
 
educated teachers were sought, the memories of some of the youngsters who
 
attended the school in the 1950s and 1960s indicate that some teachers were
 
recruited who had no more qualifications than an ability to speak the language
 
and a strong sense of dedication to the preservation of Greek language and
 
culture among the younger generation.
 
Today there are six teachers employed by the school: Mrs. Pullman, a
 
trained teacher, Mrs. Serkizes, who has taught at the school for five or six
 
years, and four Greek students who attend the University of Buffalo. Mrs.
 
Pullman i
s paid $45 per week, Mrs. Serkizes receives $30 per week, and the
 
Greek students receive $25 weekly. The teachers are not specially trained,
 
unless they are certified teachers. There are occasional workshops such as one
 
conducted by the author of the texts presently in use and another recently
 
presented in Rochester. There are many more workshops and seminars offered in
 
the New York City area, where there are, of course, many more Greek schools.
 
School Administration
 
The school is financed by tuition payments and some fund-raising
 
activities. For some years there was a Greek school board; more recently the
 
school has been run by a Parent-Teacher Association (
PTA), which conducts
 
raffles, candy sales, and bake sales and puts on an annual dance to raise money
 
4
 
for the school.  In 1
982 the parish council took over the responsibility for the
 
school, which George Pappas, the principal, feels is a mistake. Since the
 
council instituted a raise in tuition, the parents feel that they no longer
 
need to donate their time. Presently the students pay $50 tuition per year,
 
with an additional $25 fee for books and supplies. The Philoptochos Women's
 
Society usually contributes a few hundred dollars each year.
 
George Pappas i
s the only administrator of the school; he makes decisions
 
about curriculum and so forth,  in consultation with the teachers and the
 
"greatly weakened" PTA. If the school had more money he would like to purchase
 
more teachers'  aids (some really good tape recorders, for example) and hire
 
more qualified teachers.
 
Classes and Curriculum
 
Formerly,  the classes were grouped only by age--the children s
tarted Greek
 
school in the first grade at six and finished the sixth grade when they were
 
twelve. This year, however, tests were given and the students were placed
 
according to their level of proficiency.
 
The textbooks used are published by Theodore C
. Papaloizos Publications in
 
Maryland, which offers a complete curriculum, including workbooks. The
 
Archdiocese is currently working on their own series of language books and
 
George Pappas is using their first-grade reader this year. The main emphasis of
 
the school is on language teaching; there are no special classes in history,
 
5
 
geography, literature, or art. Little bits of all of these are sandwiched into
 
the language lessons, along with some classical mythology and a fair amount of
 
material on Greek calendar customs.
 
Several holidays are marked by special school programs. The last Sunday in
 
January i
s Greek Letters Sunday, which is dedicated to Greek language schools
 
and celebrated in North and South America. The most important holiday, however,
 
is Greek Independence Day, which is celebrated on March 25, the Feast of the
 
Annunciation. This celebration is an example of the identification of Greek
 
ethnicity in this country with the Orthodox faith. March 25, the date of the
 
beginning of the Greek revolution of 1
821 against the Ottoman Empire, was
 
deliberately selected because it celebrates the bringing of the good news to
 
the Virgin by the Archangel Gabriel.
 
Since the Feast of the Annunciation is also the name day of the parish, i
t
 
i
s a very important day in the life of the parish community. After the Divine
 
Liturgy there is a procession of officers of all the parish organizations and a
 
program in the community center,  followed by a dinner for the entire community.
 
Speeches are given, some of them in Greek, by adult members of the parish. They
 
usually have patriotic themes or extol the glories of Greek culture. All the
 
children in the Greek school participate in the program, reciting little
 
religious or patriotic poems, singing religious songs or Greek folksongs, and
 
presenting a play about the beginning of the revolution in 1
821. The teachers
 
of the Greek school carefully coach the children for this occasion. Andreas
 
Zapatinas, a Greek university student who taught at the school, says they are
 
the same songs and poems which he remembers performing as a child in Greece.
 
6
 
Changes in curriculum and attitude over the years are, of course,
 
inevitable. When the Greek school in Buffalo was established, i
t was providing
 
essentially religious instruction
 
language. As the Greek immigrants
 
mainstream culture, less and less
 
they might speak only Greek until
 
to children to whom Greek was a functional
 
became more assimilated into the American
 
Greek was spoken in the home. Even though
 
they entered kindergarten, the children
 
quickly learned to speak English and used it to communicate in most of their
 
daily activities. Many Greeks married members of other ethnic groups, so
 
children often grew up in homes where one parent spoke no Greek at all. The
 
Greek school is now attempting to teach children to read and speak a language
 
which they may not hear at all outside of the Liturgy (which is koine, rather
 
than demotic Greek anyway) or their social contacts in the parish. Religious
 
instruction has been taken over by the Sunday school, and there really is no
 
t
ime t
o do more than give very basic language instruction in two hours a week.
 
Greek language classes meet from 10:00 A.M until 1
2:00 noon on Saturdays and
 
are followed by dance classes.
 
Some of the changes in attitudes over the years are purely a result of
 
demographic changes. When Buffalo Greeks began to move out of the old
 
neighborhood near the church on Oak S
treet, it was no longer possible for the
 
children t
o walk to Greek school every day, or even several days a week.
 
Although the Greek school in Buffalo is located about as centrally as possible,
 
i
t is still very inconvenient to transport children to it more than twice a
 
week.  (Most children who attend the Greek school also attend Sunday school.)
 
Children who were attending suburban schools spent most of their social life
 
with non-Greeks and were involved in many activities outside of the parish.
 
There were some attempts to cope with inconvenience of the school's location,
 
7
 
however. In the late 1
950s and 1960s satellite schools were opened (usually in
 
Episcopal churches)  in the Highgate area, in Depew, Lockport, and Niagara
 
Falls.
 
Parents
 
Most parents interviewed said that they wanted their children to attend
 
Greek school so they would understand better who they were, would learn about
 
their heritage, or would be able to communicate with their Greek relatives. The
 
Greek idea of family includes a huge network of people related either by blood
 
or by spiritual ties, and being a koumbaro (godparent) establishes a real
 
family relationship as well. Many relatives remain in Greece, and there is a
 
great deal of visiting back and forth.
 
Having children attend Greek school does not require a huge financial
 
commitment, but it does involve a tremendous commitment in time and effort.
 
Suburban parents have t
o sacrifice an entire Saturday morning to drive the
 
children to Greek school and dance classes, since Buffalo public transportation
 
virtually does not function on weekends. Most parents help the children with
 
their homework, which can be very difficult if the parent does not speak Greek
 
himself. One of the parents I interviewed, Theo Pappas, described struggling
 
through her son's first and second grade homework with the aid of a dictionary.
 
The only parent I talked to who had been to Greek school herself was Victoria
 
Pantelis, who went every afternoon after school as a child in Brooklyn. Most of
 
the parents seem fairly satisfied with their children's progress, although
 
there were quite a few complaints about lack of discipline.
 
8
 
Students
 
The s
tudents, for the most part, complain bitterly about the Saturday
 
classes, the homework, and the tests. In short, they would much rather be
 
watching cartoons. Every one I talked to agreed that learning to speak Greek
 
was a good thing, however, and the graduates feel, in retrospect, that it was
 
worth all the suffering. The only regrets I ran across were from s
tudents who
 
dropped out, or felt that they had not made the effort to really learn the
 
language. Graduates of the school have the chance t
o take the New York Regents'
 
Examinations in Greek and receive three high school credits if they pass.  Since
 
these tests are taken at the ninth or tenth grade level, several years after
 
they have finished classes, special review sessions are held each year in June
 
before the exams. Not many  students take these exams, but the ones that do
 
usually do well. Most of the students agree that they would send their own
 
children to Greek school.
 
The comparisons made by the children between Greek school and mainstream
 
education depend on which teachers the child has had. Almost all of them prefer
 
the other teachers to the Greek university students. This is rather ironic,
 
since the school makes such an effort to recruit them. The principal says that
 
he much prefers to hire teachers who have finished high school in Greece. The
 
young men know Greek very well, and some of them are very conscientious
 
teachers, but I suspect the problem is that they do not relate very well to the
 
Greek-American experience.
 
9
 
Most of the children I talked t
o have two more or less distinct social
 
lives, although there i
s some overlap at festivities like birthday parties, and
 
children invite American friends to the festival. While some of the suburban
 
schools now have a dozen or so Greek children in them at any given time, most
 
of the socialization with other Greeks is on weekends or at church-related
 
activities such as Jr. GOYA (Greek Orthodox Youth Association) functions or
 
dance rehearsals during the week.
 
Another outcome of the move to the suburbs i
s the growth of private
 
classes in the homes of teachers or students. Private tutoring in Greek has
 
gone on from the beginning, but in the past ten years private classes have
 
grown to the point that there are probably more children taking private lessons
 
than attending Greek school. Presently there are two teachers in Buffalo givif
lg
 
private classes, one of whom teaches in the Greek school. There is, naturally,
 
a little ill feeling about these classes on the part of the Greek school and,
 
until recently, it was a matter of policy never to hire a teacher who also
 
conducted private classes. Each teacher has four classes, which meet for an
 
hour on a weeknight. Estimates of class size range from six to twelve students;
 
the teacher receives $2.50 per hour per student. Since there are currently only
 
forty-five students in the Greek school, private classes constitute a serious
 
threat to i
ts existence.
 
Several reasons are given for sending students to private classes. They
 
are more convenient and parents do not have to make the long trek from the
 
suburbs every week. The children have their Saturday mornings free for other
 
activities. They also receive more individual attention, and discipline is
 
1
0
 
better. In addition, one Greek school graduate suggested that perhaps some
 
parents object to the religious content of the Greek school lessons and prefer
 
to send their children t
o non - church--sponsored classes.
 
Probably no ethnic group in America indentifies itself so much in terms of
 
religion; to a great extent, to be Greek-American is to be Greek Orthodox,
 
however loose the ties with the church may become
JNative Greeks, largely
 
because of their history,  tend to see themselves as "Orttiodox Christians" (as
 
opposed t
o the Ottoman Moslems), rather than as Greek by ethnicity. They began
 
t
o think of themselves as "Greeks" only after the formation of the Greek state
 
around 1
825. The immigrants who came to this country quickly established
 
churches around which all the community activities, including the schools,
 
coalesced. Therefore, Sunday school is a very real part of a second-generation
 
Greek-American child's ethnic education.
 
Sunday School at the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
The first teachers of the Greek Sunday school in Buffalo were the priest
 
and some laymen who had been educated in Greece. Trained teachers were used
 
whenever possible. Later mothers were brought in to assist the teachers. The
 
Archdiocese provided a curriculum after the late 1
940s, which first consisted
 
of little pamphlets printed in Greek. Before that time Mrs. Olympia Pappas, the
 
present principal of the Sunday school, had to find her own books (often in
 
Greece), and write synopses for her teachers. In the early 1950s the
 
Archdiocese started providing textbooks in English, but, until a few years ago,
 
there was not one for every grade.
 
1
1
 
Over the years Mrs. Pappas has built up an excellent reference library t
or
 
the use of her teachers. The subjects taught have not changed much; as she
 
points out, the Orthodox faith has not changed.
 I have looked over most of the
 
textbooks used in the school and have been quite impressed. In some grades the
 
subject is the relationship of Christianity to everyday life, and I think the
 
Archdiocese has done a commendable job of tackling such very modern problems a
s
 
sex and drugs. The books on the church holy days and saints' days, th
 
sacraments, and the Creed are excellent. Filmstrips and films are als
 
available from the archdiocese.
 
The children do not pay for their Sunday school books, nor are the
 
teachers paid:  "They are paid by the smiles of the children." For about fifteen
 
years the Sunday school was supported by the fund-raising activities of the PTA
 
and the Mother's Club. More recently the parish council has taken over
 
financial responsibility for the school. Unless the teachers are certified,
 
they serve an apprenticeship with an experienced teacher; girls often help
 
their mothers. There are some local and regional workshops and seminars for
 
Sunday school teachers, but basically each parish is on its own. Father John
 
Artemas, the current pastor of the parish, feels that some national
 
coordination might be helpful.
 
Mrs. Pappas, the Sunday school principal, is an indefatigable recruiter.
 
Every year she enlists future teachers from the Sunday school graduating class.
 
She discovered, for example, that Nick Kadounas, a university student from
 
Greece who was serving as cantor, was also a formidable Biblical scholar. He i
s
 
now very ably assisting Theo Pappas in teaching the senior class.
 
1
2
 
As i
s the case with Greek school, having a child attend Sunday school
 
requires a commitment on the part of the parent. The famil
 
by 10:00 A.M., often having driven in from the suburbs thr
.
 i
 
unspeakable Buffalo winter weather. Since most of the children who attend
 
Sunday school also attend Greek school, they have probably done this on the
 
preceding day as well. Father John Artemas and the Sunday school teachers agree
 
that it takes a spiritual commitment too; it i
s not much help dropping the
 
children off at Sunday school if the parents do not attend the Divine Liturgy.
 
Parents ideally should take time to discuss the Sunday school lessons with
 
their children and pray with them. Intermarriage is very common in the Buffalo
 
Greek community, Father Artemas estimates that eighty to ninety percent of all
 
marriages he performs are mixed marriages. Usually the children are baptized
 
into the Orthodox faith and often the non-Orthodox parent converts; but if this
 
does not happen, the Orthodox parent must make a special effort to see that the
 
children are brought to Sunday school.
 
Religious holidays are observed in the Sunday school, often with
 
essentially non-religious customs, such as the cutting of the vasilopita (the
 
New Year's bread)  and Easter bread, or the cracking of red-dyed Easter eggs.
 
Children take part in the preparation for the great feasts at the church,
 
helping the women of the parish decorate the
 
on which the cloth icon of the entombment of
 
dye the Easter eggs and tie them up in tulle
 
Liturgy on Holy Saturday night, and make the
 
epitaphion (the flower-decked bier
 
Christ is placed on Holy Friday),
 
for distribution after the Divine
 
palm crosses which are distributed
 
1
3
 
on Palm Sunday. At one time the young girls were given lessons in preparing the
 
prosphoron (communion bread), which is traditionally baked at home by Greek
 
Orthodox women.
 
The liturgical year is a superb teaching device; with the passing of the
 
seasons the child sees acted out the great drama of the redemption. The
 
ceremonies of Orthodoxy are very literal; the flower-decked cross i
s carried in
 
procession on Holy Cross Day, and the children are reminded that St. Helena
 
found the cross in a bed of basil, because on that day great tubs of basil are
 
placed on the solea, the raised platform  at the front of the church in front
 
of the icon screen. The church is filled with the fragrance of basil, and after
 
the service each parishioner is given a handful of the herb t
o take home.
 
The climax of the yearly ritual comes in Holy Week. During the matins of
 
Holy Monday, called the Bridegroom Matins, the priest carries an icon of Christ
 
through the darkened church to remind the faithful that "The bridegroom comes
 
at midnight." During the matins of Holy Thursday they are anointed with oil in
 
memory of the woman who anointed Christ's feet. The reading of the Passion
 
Gospels on the evening of Holy Thursday is interrupted by a procession with a
 
cross, which is then set up on the solea for veneration. On Holy Friday the
 
icon of the crucified Christ is taken down from the cross, wrapped in a white
 
cloth, and placed on the altar by the priest. The icon of the entombment is
 
then placed on the epitaphion and the people come forward to venerate the icon.
 
At the Church of the Annunciation there is a very pretty local custom —little
 
girls bring baskets of rose petals and scatter them over the icon. They are
 
called myrophores (myrrh-bearers) and represent the women who brought spices t
o
 
the tomb of Christ. (Mrs. Pappas initiated this custom with Father Pallas. She
 
1
4
 
remembered that her mother had always decorated the epitaphion in the little
 
chapel in her family home in Greece, and she and her sisters gathered flowers
 
to lay on the icon.) Afterwards the children crawl under the epitaphion, a
 
symbol of dying with Christ. The same symbolism is continued in the evening
 
service when the entire parish, carrying lighted candles and singing, carries
 
the epitaphion in procession around the block. As they reenter the church,  the
 
epitaphion is held high, so that everyone can walk under it. They are sprinkled
 
with rose water by the altar boys as they enter the brightly lighted church.
 
Before the Divine Liturgy on Holy Saturday night the lighted Pascha]. candi
 
(the light of Christ) is carried into the darkened church and everyone ligiit
 
candles from it.
 
The altar boys are the most active participants in the Divine Liturgy,
 
since they actually assist in the service. There are about forty of them at
 
present, divided into teams of eight. They get a little formal instruction by
 
the priest, but mostly learn from "on the job training," as one says. They
 
start with undemanding jobs like carrying candles and work up to assisting the
 
priest. Girls traditionally take no part in the services, but there is no
 
canonical reason why they cannot be lay readers, and Father Arteinas often asks
 
girls t
o read the lesson or the Epistle.
 
Dance Classes at the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
The third set of classes associated with the Church of the Annunciation is
 
the dance classes. There has always been some sort of dance instruction
 
associated with the church; one of the Greek school graduates I talked to
 
1
5
 
remembered being taught dancing by his Sunday school teacher, and Mrs. Pappas
 
told me about arranging some Greek dancing at a formal ball at the Albright
 
Knox Art Museum. Classes were always more or less informal, however, until Tina
 
Kalen started her Greek Ethnic Society nineteen years ago. She arrived in
 
Buffalo from Constantinople in 1957, and was looking for some way to "carry her
 
flag" in America. Talking to children dancing at weddings and parties, she
 
finally got a class together. She now has about thirty-five students, divided
 
into juniors, seniors, and young adults. Tina and her troupe are a familiar
 
sight at ethnic festivals in the Buffalo area, and the costumed dancers are one
 
of the main attractions of the parish's Hellenic Festival every year. They are
 
not particularly professional, since she takes anyone who wants to dance,
 
regardless of talent. They dance with great verve and enthusiasm,  h
owever,  and
 
are obviously having a wonderful t
ime.
 
Tina teaches her s
tudents the familiar Greek dances for weddings, parties
 
at the church, and family gatherings: the syrtaki, the tzamiko, the
 
kalamatianos, the syrtos and the hasapiko. Her technique is unusual, since she
 
more or less talks them through the steps of a dance. If there are little ones
 
who do not know the s
teps at all, she turns them over to an older child for
 
instruction. She uses recorded music for class and rehearsals and live music
 
for the festival. The dance classes are held in the gymnasium of the community
 
center right after Greek school on Saturday afternoons. Like the Greek school
 
and Sunday school, a child's attendance at the dance classes involves real
 
commitment on the part of the parents. Not only do the parents have to drive
 
their children to the church for classes and rehearsals, but they have to get
 
them to performances a
s well. Most of the costumes worn by the children are
 
1
6
 
made by their mothers, since the purchase of a foustanella, the short, full,
 
white skirt worn by the soldiers of the palace guard and male members of
 
Greek-American dance troupes, is a major expense.
 
The children enjoy the dance classes, and most of them have a marvellous
 
time representing the Greek community at local festivals. Learning to dance has
 
immediate and obvious value for the children, since they learn the dances for
 
parties. Like most of the ethnic learning experiences of young Greek-Americans,
 
this one has religious ramifications. The Greek Ethnic Society is involved in
 
more than ethnic display events —it also has charitable functions. Very few
 
immigrants are now arriving in Buffalo, but quite a few Greeks come for medical
 
treatment at Buffalo's many hospitals. Many of them have little money, do not
 
speak English, and have no way of getting around the city. Tina visits these
 
patients and their families (who often accompany them), translates for them,
 
drives them to and from the airport, and raises money for their expenses. The
 
children from her dance group and their mothers help her with these activities,
 
visiting the sick and running little errands for them.
 
Other Forms of Education
 
The Greek school classes, the Sunday school classes, and the dance classes
 
are clearly defined, formal means of transmission of Greek culture to the
 
children of t
he community. They also function as a means of letting the
 
children work out thier particular third-generation form of ethnicity as they
 
wrestle with questions such as
 " W
h y
 do we celebrate Independence Day on March
 
25 a
s well as on July 4?" and "Why are services in our church different from
 
1
7
 
those in Roman Catholic and Protestant churches?" The fourth, and certainly the
 
most spectacular, means of educating the children in their heritage and
 
permitting them to present it to the Buffalo community at large is the annual
 
parish Hellenic Fesitval.
 
The Hellenic Festival is a big event, not only for the Greek community,
 
but for all of Buffalo. There are, of course, many other ethnic festivals in
 
the city, but none of them gets the kind of media coverage or attracts so a
 
devoted audience; many Buffalonians go every year. "Speak to me about that
 
after the festival" is as common a proverbial expression in the Greek community
 
in Buffalo as "Talk to me after the Palio" is in Siena.
 
This year the festival attracted 13,000 people and made a profit of over
 
$75,000. The meaning of the festival for those who work at it is much deeper
 
than a fund-raising or even an ethnic-display event, however. Working together
 
for the five months that it takes to plan and present the festival both
 
reinforces the sense of community and passes it on to the children. The
 
festival is regarded as a teaching device, not only for the Buffalo community
 
at large, who will be shown what it is to be Greek-American, but also for the
 
youth of the Greek-American community.
 
The Hellenic Festival was originally the brainchild of Father George
 
Pantelis, who had initiated a similar event in his former parish in Knoxville.
 
The first festival in 1
977 contained many of the elements of other Greek
 
festivals around the country: Greek music and dance, food, cultural exhibits,
 
and imported objects for sale. Francis' Home Bakery, a Polish baker  in North
 
Tonawanda, turned its facilities over to the women of the parish on Monday of
 
18
 
every week, and the pastries and moussaka were cooked there, then sent to
 
frozen storage.
 Parishioners worked t
o turn the basement of the parish house
 
into a nightclub (
the taverna) and to decorate the gymnasium (
the plaka or
 
market place) and the Sunday school classrooms, which functioned as boutiques.
 
The response was overwhelming. When the Buffalo newspapers printed the
 
telephone number of the reservations chairman (dinners at the taverna require
 
reservations), his telephone lines burned out from the overload and the
 
telephone company sent out an inspector to see if someone was booking horses
 
from the number. Many of the festival's features could, of course, be found in
 
any Greek church festival.
 
Originally,  the festival was planned for only three years, but in the fall
 
of 1979 Father Pantelis was killed in a burglary and the parish decided to
 
continue the festival in his memory. By now it is a Buffalo institution.
 
One enters the festival through a blue—and—white striped tent, where there
 
are counters selling souvlakj and salads and a bar selling beer, wine, and
 
ouzo. There are tables where one can sit and a small platform on which the
 
children from the dance classes perform at regular intervals. A band plays at
 
all times and people will get up often to dance informally. The entrance is
 
guarded by boys wearing foustanellas.
 
At the opening of the festival Father Artemas does a little service at the
 
entrance to the tent and then goes around all the buildings sprinkling the
 
rooms and the workers with blessed water. The ground floor of the community
 
center is turned into a little shopping arcade, with boutiques selling Greek
 
clothes and souvenirs, records, jewelry, wine, and groceries. There is also a
 
1
9
 
little boutique selling religious items and books, incense, and icons, which
 
never makes much money, but which is considered very important as a teaching
 
device. Upstairs, the gymnasium is elaborately transformed into the plaka,
 
where there are little booths selling souviaki, pastichio, spanakopita,
 
tiropita, moussaka, souzoukakia, rice pilaf, Greek salads, rizogalo,
 
loukoumades, and coffee. There is also a upstairs bar, which sells beer, wine,
 
and ouzo and does a fine business. There is a large stage for dancing; a band
 
plays constantly and the children from the dance classes perform. Off—duty
 
workers or people from the Greek community who are not involved in the festival
 
often drop in for a drink or a cup of coffee and get up to dance. Sometimes
 
people from ethnic groups with similar dance styles will exhibit ethnic
 
solidarity by performing; one of my favorite memories is of a very larg
 
Russian Orthodox priest dancing with a very tiny, blonde, Greek girl. T
 
of the gymnasium is packed with tables, but, if the crowd is not too dense, the
 
dancers will often start a line dance around the edges of the tables and ask
 
the spectators to join in.
 
On the ground floor of the parish house there are various cultural and
 
artistic exhibits, as well as a bake shop, where one can buy pastry to take
 
home. This year a very successful addition was the "Dare to Say It in Greek"
 
booth, where a pretty girl in Greek costume would write anything you wanted in
 
Greek for a dollar. (She said that the most original request she got was for a
 
sign saying "You can take this job and shove i
t .")  This booth was a great hit,
 
not only with the general public, but with the children of the community.
 
Upstairs in the parish house there are other cultural exhibits, including
 
movies about Greece and an exhibit of icons, mostly reproductions. The icon
 
room first became part of the festival in 1979, when Father Pantelis and I
 
20
 
spent about twenty-four hours putting it together. He brought items up from the
 
altar (hand crosses, chalices, thuribles and so forth), which were displayed in
 
glass cases and were the object of great interest for the Roman Catholic and
 
Protestant visitors. The single greatest attraction of the festival every year
 
is the church tours, which are conducted by women of the parish, altar boys,
 
older children from the Sunday school, and, occasionally, by the priest.
 
This year over 500 volunteers worked on the festival.
 
food started in January and involved mostly older women of
 
women who do not have jobs often go along and receive very
 
traditional cooking. Men were involved later in assembling
 
"set" for the plaka and cutting up the meat for souvlaki.
 
The preparation of
 
the parish. Younger
 
practical lessons in
 
the Greek village
 
By opening day the children are also hard at work. The dancers and the
 
boys who act as "guards" at the entrance have the most spectacular positions
 
and are the ones who are most likely to appear on television. The dancers are
 
not supposed to do any other jobs, since the dancing is extremely tiring, but
 
they occasionally sneak off, get out of costume, and pitch in at the Pepsi
 
counter or the souvlaki line. Some of the altar boys assist Father Artemas at
 
the opening ceremony and help out with church tours. Other children are
 
employed as couriers, especially if they have mothers working in boutiques, to
 
run errands and take messages between the boutiques and the church office (the
 
nerve center of the festival) or the cashier's officer. They may also help to
 
sell food or soft drinks in the plaka or the tent; the souvlaki line seems to
 
be the most prestigious position. Trash pickup is the lowliest job, done mostly
 
as an entry-level position or if one is not lucky enough to have a mother
 
working in a place where one can be employed. The best place to work is the
 
21
 
taverna. Every evening there are three seatings for dinner. A superb dinner i
s
 
served and the diners are treated to a Greek nightclub performance, with music,
 
singing and dancing by the older dancers, plus a spectacular male dancer who
 
comes from St. Catharine's every year. The singing waiters are an especially
 
popular attraction. Girls in an adaptation of classical Greek costume act as
 
hostesses. Unfortunately, these really desirable positions are open only to
 
young adults, since liquor is served. Only people who are twenty-one or over
 
are supposed to work in the taverna; however, some very favored children whose
 
mothers work in the taverna kitchen do manage to sneak in as dishwashers or
 
kitchen help.
 \
,,/
 
The months of preparation and, especially, the three days of working
 
together intensively create a strong sense of community among the festival
 
volunteers, some of whom have worked together since the first festival. It is
 
seen, of course, as a chance to display the Greek heritage to Buffalo, but it
 
is also seen as a chance for the children of the community to learn more about
 
that heritage. It became obvious in the course of the interviews for this
 
project that parents are very anxious for their children t
o work during the
 
festival and will often call friends who are working in a favored area to see
 
if they can use any assistance from little Sophia or George. This experience,
 
like the language school, is a way of working out a particularly American way
 
of being ethnic, especially as the festival is very obviously a display event,
 
designed to point out the wonderfulness of being Greek to a mainstream American
 
audience. The Buffalo audience is often composed of other ethnic groups, so
 
comments like "We Serbians have a pastry very much like this one" are
 
commonplace during the festival.
 
22
 
The Greek community is quite conscious of the value of the festival as an
 
educational device. The brochure which was passed out to every festival visitor
 
in 1
983 states:
 
For our young people the Festival has provided  tangible
 
expression of their heritage and culture. The Festival
 
gives our youth a sense of self-awareness and security
 
and their roots. They are tomorrow's leaders, helping
 
and being leaders today.\4/
 
The Hellenic Festival, like the Greek school, the Sunday school, and the
 
dance classes, is a public and more or less formal method of teaching the
 
children of Greek-American families their ethnic heritage.5 In addition to
 
serving as a means of instruction, the festival also provides the children with
 
an opportunity to better integrate their ethnic school classroom experience by
 
presenting it to the general public. Because of the constant feedback from the
 
festival audience, their particular form of second- and third-generation
 
ethnicity can be seen in relationship both to mainstream American culture and
 
to that of other Buffalo ethnic groups.
 
Participation in the festival, like attendance at the classes, represents
 
a conscious attempt on the part of the parents of the community to educate
 
their children in Greek traditions. The involvement of the children in all the
 
forms of education offered by Buffalo's Greek community also serves as a
 
reinforcement of the parents' knowledge of these traditions, and, occasionally,
 
as an informal means of indoctrination for the parents, especially if either
 
one is a second- or third-generation Greek-American or has married into the
 
community. One woman of Scottish, Presbyterian background, who is especially
 
active in parish affairs, told me that she learned to speak a little Greek
 
23
 
while helping her three sons with their Greek school homework. Mothers who come
 
from Polish or Italian backgrounds learn about Greek costumes while making
 
costumes for children participating in the dance group and discover that Greek
 
Easter eggs are red when their children bring them home from Sunday school.
 
Conclusions
 
I think Joshua Fishman is right in pointing out that attending a mother
 
tongue school is an almost obligatory second-generation ethnic experience;  that
 
it is the non-immigrant ethnic child
 
or not he i
s of non-English-language
 
which puzzled Andreas Zapatinas,  the
 
i
s unique way of being an American, whether
 
background .
'
\ rhis would explain something
 
young Greek university student who taught
 
in the Greek school for several years. He says it was never made clear to him
 
what the school was trying to accomplish —if they were really trying to teach
 
the children to read, write, and speak Greek, it was clearly impossible to do
 
so in two hours a week. On the other hand, if they were trying to teach them
 
their Greek heritage, why was there not more emphasis on Greek literature, art,
 
and history? He especially could not understand why modern Greek history was
 
not taught at all.
 
His questions make a good deal of sense. If the school is trying to
 
establish language proficiency it is not succeeding particularly well.  If it is
 
trying to teach the children about Greek culture, it is not doing very well at
 
that either. But Andreas is comparing this school to Greek education in Greece.
 
24
 
If the school, consciously or unconsciously (and I suspect it is the latter),
 
is trying to help the children work out their identity as ethnic Americans,
 
however, it is doing a superb job.
 
The ethnic schools in the United States raise many fascinating questions
 
for scholars in the fields of education, linguistics, sociology, and
 
anthropology. For the folklorist, however, perhaps the most interesting aspect
 
of these schools is that they challenge some of our most fondly cherished
 
notions about folklore —that it is spontaneous, unselfconscious, and that i
t
 
passes from one group or generation to another without formal instruction.
 
Probably the greater part of ethnic tradition in this country i
s transmitted in
 
a domestic context, although even this is not necessarily an unconscious
 
process; carrying out the decision to say grace at the table every night in
 
Greek, for example, will involve a certain amount of time and effort. The
 
parents in the Greek-American community in Buffalo, like those of many ethnic
 
communities around the country, however, have very consciously chosen to pass
 
on many of their most cherished traditions in a formal educational context. No
 
one who knows these children can doubt that the process has been, to a
 
considerable degree, successful. Perhaps it is time for folklorists to take a
 
long look at the process by which a group decides how and to what degree it
 
will integrate with the American mainstream. I think we shall find that the
 
folk, as usual, know quite well what they are doin
g
  
1For the reader who is unfamiliar with the history of Greeks in this
 
country the best general introduciton will be found in the article on
 
Greeks in the Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups (Cambridge,
 
Mass.: Harvard University Press,  1980). It includes a short
 
bibliography.
 
2The best short introduction to the Orthodox churches in this country
 
25
 
can be found in the article on the Eastern Orthodox faith in the
 
Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups.
 
A nice description of children's roles in ethnic festivals was
 
published by Elena Brdunas in her article "From the Familiar to the
 
Unknown: A Fieldworker's Progression." Roger Abrahams makes some
 
interesting comments on ethnicity as performance in his article on
 
folklore in the Harvard Encyclopedia of Ethnic Groups."
 
4Passport to the Annual Hellenic Festival:  1983 (Buffalo: Hellenic
 
Orthodox Church of the Annunciation,  1983)
 
5George A
. Kourvetaris has written an excellent description of the
 
Greek—American family and has compiled a superb bibliography on the
 
subject. "The Greek American Family," in Ethnic Families in America,
 
second edition, ed. Charles H. Mindel and Robert W. Haber (New York:
 
Elsevier, 1981).
 
6Joshua A
. Fishman, "Ethnic Community Mother Tongue Schools in th
 
U
.S.A.: Dynamics and Distribution," International Migration Review,
 
Volume 14, Number 2 (
Summer 1980), p
.  243.
 
first came to the Hellenic Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
 
in the spring of 1978. At that time I was working on a project to
 
document ethnically based liturgical parishes in Buffalo. Father
 
George Pantelis was extremely interested in what I was doing and
 
suggested that if I really wanted to understand the Orthodox traditions
 
I should record the entire liturgical year. For a year I taped and
 
photographed the great feasts, spent an enormous amount of time at the
 
church, and came to know the Greek community in Buffalo. The patience,
 
tolerance, generosity and friendship displayed towards me by these
 
wonderful people are impossible even to describe. Thanks to them, and
 
especially to Father Pantelis, I have come to know and love the
 
glories of the Orthodox Liturgy and the warmth and individuality of
 
Greek character. When, after Father Pantelis °s tragic death, Father
 
John Artemas came to the parish, he made me as welcome as his
 
predecessor had, and has been of enormous help in this project. To
 
him, and to all the parishioners of the Church of the Annunciation,
 
especially the ones who gave me interviews, I owe my deepest thanks.
 
Special thanks are due to my friend Priscilla Carcales, secretary of
 
the parish, who has answered endless questions over the years,
 
translated, spelled words in Greek, and kept me supplied with coffee
 
and pastry.
 
Finally, I would like to thank Tom and Jenny Putnam, who served
 
as research assistants on this project and without whom i
t would never
 
have been completed, and Pat Warner, who typed the entire report. Tom
 
and Jenny logged the tapes, proofread the manuscript, recorded many of
 
the interviews, took photographs, drove me all over the Niagara
 
Frontier and provided endless encouragement. Pat Warner not only did
 
her usual magnificent job of typing, but also kept track of all the
 
various components of the manuscript.