Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin,
Connecticut (Transcription)
CAL SURVERY OF AMERICAN DIALECTS CASSETTE NO. C 29 SIDE A
Begin SA 1) The first excerpt is taken from original tape W 75.
QUESTIONER: Would you tell me about the differences (laughter) in localisms when you
went to Maine?
RESPONDENT: Well, I'll see if I can do it. (laughter) It seems so easy, I know. That's a
fact!
Q: That's a fact!
R: Yeah, that's a fact!
Q: And you heard that?
R: Oh yes, I was a part of it!
Q: Now, down here they call it "barnyard".
R: Well we call it barnyard, oh yes, we speak of it. We believe in the ace of spades. And
so we call it, we have no, being used to it, being brought up that way. We never think of
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
nothing else, you know. We just simply call it just what it is. So we used to get it by the
trainload--oh, a hundred cars at a time! The stocking yards are full of them. Huckleberry
Branch out here, why the sidings are just full of it, you know.
Q: Where did you get it from?
R: New York.
Q: New York?
R: New York. Livery stables and private barns and so forth, they'd draw it down. And they
had an arrangement at the docks to dump it
C 29 page 2
into these boats. And then they had their cars, the gondolas that they'd run-in and load
them--eighteen cars, twelve cars, fifteen cars. And they would come up out here,you know,
great trainloads of it.
Q: You mean that they'd send up the Connecticutt River?
R: Yeah. And ...
Q: And then you went to Maine ...
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
R: When I went up to Maine, and at the table my cousin ...
Q: You sat down at the table to eat?
R: They would have a (microphone drops) small garden. And they'd have a local farmer
bring in a little manure. For the garden, you know. And he would take, they didn't have a
big enough place to plow, you know, so they'd spade it. And they would ask if the dressing
had come there. "What?" "Has the dressing come today? Did the man bring over the
dressing?"
Q: For the garden.
R: That was alright. And then, about two seconds afterwards, the gravy, the gravy brought
in on the table. "Dudley, would you pass the dressing please?" Can you get it? Well, it's a
fact! And that's the way it goes, you know.
0: And that's a localism. Different areas where use different words.
R: Expressions, yeah, and what have you. Seems to me so strange.
Q: Now let's talk about the fields.
R: Preparations in the fields. Oh yeah. Yes, they, spreading
C 29 page 3
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
over manure, we call it "getting out the manure." And we use from, oh, I will say, six to
twelve cords. I'll make it broad there. Ten to twelve cords was the usual. And that was
spread and plowed under. If we was using tobacco stems instead of the manure, they
were spread and plowed under.
Q: Tobacco stems is another kind of fertilizer.
R: Yes, yes it is. Would you call that a basic fertilizer? You would, wouldn't you? It's the
base that we start on.
Q: The base.
R: Yeah, the humus and the, of course the stems, they're very strong on potash. While
the manures run very high in, well, everything, except the sulfuric acid or the super-
phosphates, you know. We had other ways, but that's called a complete pool of milk.
(unintelligible) And that, and then the plowing, after plowing harrowing. And we used to
think that you plowed, and you should harrow, starting early enough in the afternoon to
harrow over what you plowed. To seal in the cover crop, if you had any, the green growth.
That keeps it from souring, keeps the worms from coming in.
Q: Is that right?
R: Yeah. And then your ground was ready for the fertilizer. For the crop, and the fertilizer
of course consisted of the cut savory, used in combination, and generally the tobacco cut
right in, then finally it was cast upon, (inaudible), dried ground fish, super-phosphate, lime,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
dry ground fish. Each one of those took a stop. The (unintelligible) of humus was very slow
about
C 29 page 4
acting. Cotton seed meal next to dry ground fish next to that. The super-phosphate and
potashes took their place slowly. The nitrogen or nitrate of soda was the first thing to act.
Each one just stepped right along with the things he had tossed in. And those were put
on at least six days or ten days before transplanting a setting. On account of burning or
damaging the roots. of small plants.
Q: You would burn the plants if it was too soon?
R: Yes, yes. (unintelligible). We called them "fatty burn". And then the fields were then
ready for harrowing after the fertilizer was put on. We used to harrow, a wheel harrow, and
harrow with a meeker (sp?) harrow, and smooth it.
Q: Harrow and smooth it.
R: Yeah. They had what we call "sodder." That's a word ...
Q: Sodder?
R: "Fadder".
Q: What's that?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
R: Well, you would take, for instance, those stairs. You see those stairs there? You'd take
those stairs and turn them right over so that the edges were this way, reach down to them
and draw them.
Q: And that's called ...
R: That's a quick expression of "flatter". We would take a two-inch by ten and saw it just
like you would for stairs. Put planks on, and drag that over and smooth the ground out just
like this floor.
C 29 page 5
Q: (inaudible)
R: And we used to call them "flatters".
Q: Who pulls that? Is it a horse or a tractor?
R: Yes, either one.
Q: Either one.
R: Anything that would make it move--horses, tractors, mules, anything you make it move.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
Q: So that it moves just like a (unintelligible).
R: Oh, my. The most wonderful garden. I think I should say that you ought to see this silky,
beautiful, level, nice, and we had, of course, various areas. We had the wheel harrow ..
Q: The what?
R: Wheel harrow. And the double-acting wheel harrow, whicht they use today. We had the
meeker harrow, and we had the Acme harrow, and we had a slant, spike-tooth harrow.
Q: All these different pieces of equipment?
R: The wheel harrows would do a rugged, heavy job. And then they were generally put
on the Acme harrow. And they dragged harrow the teeth would slant. They were iron
teeth about that long. And they slant. And they put them in angled a little bit. They do a
wonderful job. And then the meeker was a square frame with four rows of discs about four
inches apart. And they would go over and the smoothing board came from the middle, and
that would do a nice job.
Q: And the what?
R: Smoothing board. Sometimes this flatter they'd call a smoothing
C 29 page 6
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
board. That is another name for it. Some would call it smoothin board. Generally in this
section it's known as a flatter. And that was used down South, but here, too. See, we used
to have colored people from Virginia, Georgia, Carolina, all those places.
Q: When they came up, they called it a smoothing board. But everyone here called it a
flatter.
R: You get a lot of expressions. That's what changed, the expressions, because down that
way, this would be so-and-so, and if you had a gang of those people working for you, you
soon learned that what you know it as, if you could express it as what they knew it as ...
Q: You might as well use their word.
R: Sure! It changed our language quite a bit. Are you comfortable. Do you want another
chair?
Q: I'm fine.
R: I'll be glad to get you ..
Q: That's fine.
R: Then the field is ready for the tobacco plants to be transplanted. Now when we used to
do it by hand, after we got all this worked out to now, we had a marker, they called it the
gozzling marker.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
Q: The Gosley marker?
R: Gosley, yeah.
Q. Gosley.
R: And it was just three boards with a spreader. And three plows,
C 29 page 7
one plow on each board. They called them double ( ) board plows. Small ones, miniature
plows. Hitch your horse on, and make three marks
Q: Three marks.
R: Little furrows, that's all. Then, if they wanted to, this swift shoer, it would put on a
small amount in that mark. Then, they would have what we called the ridger, which was a
machine like two wings.
Q: The ridger.
R: That would draw the earth up into a little mound. And there was a, we call it "pan", that
is a metal pan that dragged along. It would just smooth the top of that.
Q: Oh.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
R: And that made the ridge, that little smooth place on top, probably five or six inches
wide. Then we had a marker, which was a wheel with nubs on it, and you'd push that over.
Every time the nub came down, you would make a dent, make a mark. Then we'd drop the
plant there. And you'd take your fingers and open it, in the soft earth, and put the plant in
and crush it down. Make a little cup. Then they come along with a pail and a dipper with
water in it.
Q: And this is all by hand.
R: We did it by hand.
Q: Is that right!
R: And we stepped from there up to where I'm talking about, the transplanted the machine.
And that, of course, was, well, three
C 29 page 8
wheels with a barrow on it, and three seats underneath, and you hitched on the team ...
Q: Three sheets for three (unintelligible).
R: Yes. Yes. One sat up on the barrow to drive it, the other two sat down to drop the plants
in.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
Q: To drop the plants in.
R: And, you never saw one of them?
Q: I never saw one. What are these people called?
R: There, were call them droppers or setters.
Q: Droppers and setters.
R: Setters, yeah. I think there was one or two other names which doesn't come to me just
now, but ... Oh they, the Irish wasn't storming yet. We should take you down to show you
one.
Q: Well, maybe tomorrow.
R: Yes, they were, they were very interesting. I should (unintelligible) studying it. You
should see it. It isn't going now as of yet.
PAUSE IN TAPE. RESPONDENT RESUMES SPEAKING.
R: As the plants are ready now for the field, about six inches high, with, like, four to six
leaves, had pulled out and kept straight, putting boxes or baskets, ready to go out to the
tobacco transplanter, set the machine, and they, roots, they must have a good bunch of
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
roots at the bottom. If not they, and a good stem, or they're discarded, and the setters
have to do that.
Q: That's that the setters separate them out?
R: Yeah. Yeah, they have to separate each plant. They have a
C 29 page 9
deuce of a job, and they have to work like lightning.
Q: They have to get them in fast before they ...
R: Yes. When you (unintelligible) you get used to it. And it is, it's very close work. You
have to be very careful. You have to work both hands, your eyes and judgement, too. Any
time. They pu in the machine, opens the row. And puts in the water. The plant is set into
that.
Q: The water first?
R: Well, no. The water calmed. The machine opens the ground. Makes a little furrow,
it's called. And the plant is put in there and the water comes at the same time. It's all
synchronized, altogether. And the motion of the machine overhead causes soil to roll in
against the root. And as the plant stands still, it's covered-in. And set.
Q: As the machine moves along?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 80 year old male, East Berlin, Connecticut (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms2301
R: That all will be set. Also, we space them. A row is about three feet, six inches, a
standard row apart. And about 24 inches, the plants are apart.
Q: So the machine can pass.
R: Yeah, so the cultivators and other machines can go through. We figure roughly six-
thousand plants an acre.
Q: Six thousand to the acre.
R: Yeah. And in and afternoon, a single-row setter will set two acres, maybe better, maybe
two and a half. And of course a double-row setter sets twice as many. They spray the
ground with chlordane,