American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Colorado Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/031) 
afcl991031_01_054 
Floward W. Marshall - "Colorado Project: Director's Report" 
* * draft * * 
* * draft 
COLORADO PROJECT 
Extended consultancy, August 1980 
Director's report; H. W. Marshall, February 1981 
An exploratory team field research project conducted by the American 
Folklife Center in cooperation with the Rocky Mountain Continental Divide 
Foundation, Frisco, Colorado 
Subject: traditional life and work on family ranches in the lower 
Blue River valley, Summit and Grand Counties, Colorado 
Focus: material culture and local history 
Field team: H. Marshall, E. Dettmer, B. Orbach 
Local coordinator / Foundation representative: J. D. Farr 
* Not for quotation without permission * 
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington DC 20540 
postcard, branding, Colorado, 1894 
This report contains several components: an abstract, sections of 
discussion on the formulation of the project, on background and planning, 
on internships, on the work itself, and on financial conditions, followed 
by my recommendations for further involvement by the Center. But rather 
than a comprehensive treatment, the report is thought of as a working 
paper containing the project's profile but discursive commentary as well. 
Those wishing specific details or tabulations of things are encouraged 
to examine the files themselves, where media documentation and written 
matter stemming from the fieldwork are kept. Copies of this report will 
be transmitted to the Foundation in Colorado, the interns (Dettmer, Emrich, 
Orbach), the Colorado Historical Society, and other interested parties 
outside the American Folklife Center. 
1 
2 
Abstract 
To assist the Colorado foundation in plans to develop an outdoor museum 
and educational center for high mountain life, work, and environment, 
I designed a brief, two-week-long exploratory field trip serving to 
demonstrate methodology and accomplish other goals in the lower Blue 
River valley. I was aided by a team of graduate student interns: Elke 
Dettmer from the University of California at Berkeley, Ron Emrich from 
Columbia University (historic preservation program), and Barbara Orbach 
from the University of California at Los Angeles. Emrich was unable to 
participate in the field research but helped with background research 
through his summer activities in Denver. Research centered on material 
culture, local history, and ranching traditions. A system was devised 
and tested for the collection of small artifacts for the new museum 
organization. The proposed museum will include a working family ranch 
an 
of the early twentieth century.^operating small-scale hardrock mine, 
and a separate interpretative center. The Foundation is now seeking 
appropriate ranch property to acquire for the outdoor "living history" 
resources. 
sections. The museum will "preserve" both tangible and intantible cultural ^ 
I will report to the Foundation and make recommendations for the 
future. Fieldworkers Dettmer and Orbach have presented their materials 
to the Center. Various courtesy photographs and thank-you letters have 
been sent by me and the interns to people in the study area. The current 
3 
Folklife Center News (3:4, October 1980) carries a story summarizing 
the summer's fieldwork. A reference set of documentary materials 
garnered during the research will be made available to the Foundation 
as the nucleus of their ethnographic archive. I have been asked to 
remain involved with the Foundation as consultant following my forthcoming 
move to Kansas State University. I will do so. I recommend additional 
assistance by the Folklife Center as the new local organization gets 
its framework constructed and activities in motion. A proposal for a 
summer 1981 component follows this introductory precis; the next round 
would explore the subject of hardrock mining in the upper Blue River 
valley in the classic gold rush districts near Breckenridge. 
Background; Introduction 
My intention in this report is to convey the Colorado project's facts 
and figures, but moreover to convey a sense of how the field trip went 
and give glimpses of what we recorded and the knowledge gained. Samples 
of the field documentation are incorporated (pages copied from fieldnotes), 
and some of the interns' writings are added to offer examples of their work. 
In design, the Colorado experiment and demonstration study follows 
the lines developed in similar projects, notably in Georgia and Nevada. 
Though graduate student "interns" were solicited rather than "professional" 
folklorists, these students were expected to deliver the same materials (logs 
to photographs and tapes, Interview report forms, fieldnotes). In addition, 
the interns were asked to present the materials from their pre-field background 
4 
research and a prose statement separate from the chronological field 
diary ("fleldnotes") that would offer the students' evaluation of and 
thoughts on the internship experience. At the Folklife Center, support 
was rendered by the director, the deputy director, and media equipment 
and supplies handled by the media specialist. Back from the field, I 
handled all tape duplication, logging, and other miscellaneous secretarial 
chores as the collection was arranged for storage and retrieval in the 
Center. 
The past summer's work initiates an on-going program by the 
newly-formed Rocky Mountain Continental Divide Foundation, an energetic 
coalition of people, in Summit County for the most part, who have pondered 
the unfulfilled dream of a proper outdoor museum of "high mountain" 
cultural and environmental history. The organization has been galvanized 
by John and Leslie Farr of Summit County (Breckenridge). Mr. Farr is the 
owner of an insurance management company in Frisco, Colorado, and a scion 
of an important pioneer family. He is knowledgeable on all subjects 
pertaining to alpine living and history, and, called "Colorado Farr," 
contributes regular columns ("From the Summit") in a local newspaper on 
diverse themes in the region's history and personality today. He typifies 
the sort of locally-based person some researchers call a "prime source" and 
I call "the county oracle." His vision and understandings of the potential 
configuration of the Foundation's work and future are crisp and eloquent. 
Its success largely rests on the Farrs' shoulders at this date, although 
numerous other people, innovative businessmen mainly, share the 
5 
dream and will be drawn into active roles as properties are sought 
and work laid out. The 1980 fieldwork project resulted from Farr's 
meeting with me in Santa Fe, New Mexico, in dune, 1979. I presented 
a workshop on field research for outdoor museums at a conference of 
the Association of Living Historical Farms and Agricultural Museums. 
He attended, found the discussion intriguing, and discussions followed 
on potential museum-related programs for the new organization in 
Colorado. The Foundation requested a consulting visit, and the first 
of two took place in August, 1979. The second visit took place in October, 
1979. I reported on the consultancies to the Rocky Mountain Folklore 
Caucus at the American Folklore Society convention in Los Angeles in 
October (and again made a presentation, summarizing the 1980 research, 
at the Caucus meeting at the AFS convention in Pittsburgh, Oct. 1980). 
During the two brief consultancies in Summit County, I met with 
groups of people interested in the future museum and organization. I 
made presentations formally, on the work of the American Folklife Center 
vis-a-vis museums, to the Summit Rotary Club, the main businessmen's 
club in the region. I suggested that they consider beginning the long 
job of building the organization by arranging for an exploratory field 
research project of modest scale but ambitious style. They then asked 
for such a demonstration project for the summer of 1980. I presented 
the situation and consultancy report to the Folklife Center's board of 
trustees at the spring meeting, and the projects committee endorsed the 
concept. The local organization contributed substantially by providing 
local transportation and lodging. 
6 
The project contains features answering several of the Folklife 
Center's stated goals: assistance to the field, research and archival 
service, and model programs. The project, designed at the Center, offered 
a vigorous and productive response to a small organization that lacked 
other resources. In getting their innovative museum launched, a collaboration 
of this sort with the Library of Congress is seen (by Coloradoans) as an 
important factor in promotion of the fledgling Foundation and its goals. 
It is the kind of "assistance to the field" that costs relatively little 
but yields much, particularly in a state and region without a state 
folklorist or folklore program andjvithout a ready coterie of professionals 
willing to pitch in and assist a new and untried foundation. "Research and 
archival service" was initiated in the background study and the 
provisions made for the nucleus of the Foundation's research archive. It 
seems to be a "model program" in its experimentation with folklore 
graduate student interns, its collaboration with a museum foundation, and 
its concentration on material culture. It further offered the Folklife 
Center an opportunity to administer activity in a new state and section 
of the nation. 
Stated differently, the Colorado project was designed to accommodate 
four goals. These four factors invest the Colorado project with ingredients 
not present or not appropriate in previous Folklife Center projects. 
1. The fieldwork was a demonstration of our methodology. 
2. The program provided basic field research as the initial 
step in the organization of a future outdoor museum of Rocky Mountain 
traditional life, work, and environment. 
3. The project focused on material culture in its family, 
community, and historical matrix. This emphasis is due to the 
7 
main needs of the new museum. Though few artifacts were collected, 
the emphasis on material culture is a correct starting point, and 
it yielded high public awareness and public relations values. 
Ranchers in the county now know that professional researchers and 
educators are interested in studying (and the museum in acquiring) 
the broad mass of everyday artifacts and objects. 
4. The field team was composed of me plus two graduate student 
interns selected through a process of analysis of background, credentials, 
and statments made about their concern with the region, outdoor 
museums, material culture, and local history. References and 
recommendations were solicited from Alan Dundes (Dettmer's principal 
advisor at Berkeley), and D. K. Wilgus (Orbach's advisor at UCLA). 
This marks the first Folklife Center project to involve interns 
1n this fashion. I sought interns, in addition, from the West who 
anticipated careers or further work there. A third Intern, Ron Emrich 
(graduate student in historic preservation at Columbia University, 
with experience in Colorado) was to join the team in the field. But 
Emrlch's schedule could not be made to fit the field trip, so he missed 
the heart of the internship experience. 
Background; The Study area 
Ours is a huge nation. It 1s not yet well-charted by those who record 
cultural history. There is ethnographic coverage of well-known communities, 
groups, special scholar's backyards, but there remain vast spaces with 
little or no documentary visibility. Researchers often find themselves 
8 
discovering and recording scenes for the first time in what seem to be 
small communities--say, a Colorado valley. As new places are studied, 
the work necessarily leans toward the basics of our profession, collection, 
classification, analysis. First things first. Part of our interest in 
this section of Colorado grew from knowing that little folkloristic 
research had been accomplished here. At times I actually felt like I 
was treading the same ground first charted by John Wesley Powell during 
his reknowned expedition in the 1860s, particularly when we were working 
in the meadows (recording hay harvest, architecture, landscape) slanting 
into the shadow of the Gore Range and the 13,000-foot peak named Mount 
Powel1. 
The work done in this section of Colorado's Western Slope has for 
the most part been in geology, local history, native American archaeology, 
physiology, and alpine environmental research. Our fieldwork adds another 
dimension to the comprehension of land and life in this interesting place 
that is undergoing rapid commercial, economic, and social change. For 
the purposes of the Foundation, oui^dnd of work as folklorists is vital 
to their mission. They recognized the opportunity to do field research in 
the community before the museum gets built. Such chances are rare. 
The Foundation's wish to engage in ethnographic research in the 
earliest developmental stages of the museum indicatel^hat I can only 
call wisdom. A valid research base may allow the organization to avoid 
some of the misunderstandings and presentational errors that afflict 
the best of museums. 
9 
The section of Summit County we concentrated on is known as "the 
lower Blue"--the Blue River valley running north from Silverthorne to 
Kremmling. Within that stretch of valley about forty miles long, we 
looked closely at a fifteen-mile section containing pioneer ranches and 
cultural landscape from the northern edge of Silverthorne's urban creep 
to the northern edge of Green Mountain Reservoir, following Colorado 
state highway 9, where the old settlement of Lakeside was located before 
the Denver Water Board built this cpftfcial water project in 1943 and 
flooded this part of the valley at nearly its widest and most productive 
spot. The project took prime ranches and lands out of use, but some of the 
original owners moved their operations and original buildings up 
the slopes to the west--as with the Knorr brothers, descendents of 
the Guyselman and Knorr families, German pioneers who were instrumental 
^ ... 
in settl ing and developing parts of the county--in mining and commerce 
as well as cattle ranching . (This ranch was one of the principal ones 
we visited.) A rather dusty and random new settlement called Heeney has 
sprouted up near the dam and chief section of the reservoir, north of 
the Knorr ranch, where a scattering of modest summer vacation homes 
and fishermen's cabins and a store have been built. Summit meets Grand 
County a bit further north toward Kremmling. Kremmling is a classic 
high country ranching town (pop. c. 750) that services the agricultural 
community as cattle shipping point, railroad terminal, business area^nd 
where the famous Middle Park Fair and rodeo take place each September. 
10 
The Blue joins the Colorado.River as the Blue valley opens out into 
the Kremmling area of Grand County just south of town. The Colorado 
itself rises in Grand County, with headwaters at Grand Lake to the east. 
The region was surveyed principally by Major John Wesley Powell during 
his federal Rocky Mountain expeditions of 1867 and 1868 that aimed at 
physiologic and physiographic study and documentation (but which took in 
the cultural as well as the environemntal scene). The famous early 
photographer William Henry Jackson made invaluable photographs here 
during the later Hayden party survey in 1878. 
Our study area runs northeast from Dillon and Silverthome in Summit 
County (the highest county in the U.S.), and is bounded by the steep Gore 
Range on the west and the Williams Fork Mountains (lower, sparsely-treed) 
on the east. It is a narrow, fertile valley nourished by strong creeks 
(the Rock, Boulder, Slate, Cataract) coming down from the high peaks in 
the Gore Range. The winter snow pack provides the main source of ground 
water replenishment to keep hay meadows, cattle, and the citizens of 
metropolitan Denver alive. But people here are lucky in most years, 
since the moisture available in this montane-to-subalpine valley 
is quite plentiful by any standards. The two big reservoirs built by 
the Denver Water Board (Green Mountain; Dillon) provide the flatlanders 
while sufficient supplies remain for the high country people's needs. 
Future pressure from intensive development and growth, chiefly in the 
tourist industry and in the massive development of Western Slope oil 
shale and coal resources, will undoubtedly lead to some tough dealings 
11 
between the burgeoning populations on both sides of the Divide who 
depend on Blue valley water. Fortunately, winters are long (in normal 
years providing much snow / snopack), the elevation 1s very high, and 
there is low humidity and good moisture retention. As the typical alpine rancher 
likes to say, there are two seasons here: "winter and the Fourth of 
July." Elevations here range from about 7,750 feet at the Knorr Brothers 
ranch on the Green Mountain Reservoir to Gray's Peak, at 14,270. The 
Continental Divide traces along the southeast and south edges of Surmrit 
County. The agricultural growing season is short, from about the middle 
of May to September. Early pioneers were frustrated in their attempts to 
cultivate the high meadows and plant the familiar crops known back in 
Missouri or further east, and livestock grazing (cattle and sheep) soon 
became the principal focus of the economy. 
"Farmers" became "ranchers" here. Most of the settling was done 
by ordinary homestead claims , but in a number of cases families 
acquired their property by buying unusable or unproductive "prospects" 
(gold or silver mining claims) on the lower end of the Blue. The gold 
and silver booms of 1859 and the 1860s opened up the high Rockies in 
like 
Colorado to settlement and development just ^ California a decade before. 
Similarly, cattle ranching got its start as an industry to service the 
boom towns and gold rush camps scattered up every gulch and creek. it was 
12 
found that the best mining was to be done in the original strike sections 
of the upper or southern Blue valley in the Breckenridge districts. It 
is in the old mining areas in the pinched side valleys and several open 
places where streams flow that the modem tourist industry is flourishing, 
but housing developments of all kinds and vacation home developments are 
seriously and quickly eating away at the old cattle ranching domains. Sizes 
and numbers of ranches (especially the family units) have steadily decreased 
since the Depression, and the pace of growth in "Ski Country, U.S.A." 
means further elimination of the original cultural landscape of the 
nineteenth century. It is precisely that historic cultural landscape 
so full of imagery and meaning for people today that the Foundation and 
new museum hope to document, explain, and represent. 
Like much of the West, federal agencies administer large amounts of 
Summit County's public land. There, 77% of Summit County land is owned by 
the government (approx. 300,000 acres), and the rest (approx. 91,000 acres) is in 
private hands. Most of the public lands are within Forest Service 
governance, and a growing amount of private land is under development by 
various business enterprises in answer to the booming winter sports industry. 
Ranchers who settled the valley arranged their operations 
down close to the road from Silverthome to Kremmling (following the 
Blue River) with hay meadows rising up behind the ranches on successively 
higher levels to treeline where the cleared grazing meadows melt into 
lines of pine and quaking aspen at the margins of the Forest Service lands. 
Several Scandinavian pioneers clustered their ranches in the wide spot in 
13 
the narrow valley where Slate Creek joins the Blue. Danish immigrant Charlie 
Lund's ranch is there. As elsewhere, ranchers turn out their cattle in 
the summer months, grazing them on the high meadows they own or lease 
from the federal government. Most of the sagebrush and rabbitbrush-covered 
ground that was part of the Bureau of Land Management (in lower elevations 
lacking much tree cover on the eastern side of the valley) have for 
convenience of administration been incorporated into Forest Service 
management sectors and ownership. Relationships between local ranchers 
and Forest Service officials seem good in Summit County. Both parties 
fear for the coming changes brought about by the leisure and tourist industry. 
Blue valley ranchers lease the grazing allotments from Arapaho National 
Forest by the usual fee-and-permit system, which encloses the relatively 
tiny amount of private acerage on three sides. It is not the National 
Forests that seem in peril of loss through the pace of development today; 
it is the family ranches. 
More than about Summit County or about Grand County, the project 
and the museum it worked for is about Middle Park. Middle Park is one of 
Colorado's three distinct physiographic parks, North, Middle, and South. 
Middle Park is the less open and clearly-seen of the group. Most of Middle 
Park is in Grand County, and in Summit County the Blue River Valley provides 
its main open feature. These parks range in a huge geologic trough from 
Wyoming down through Park County west of Colorado Springs, three big bowls 
of landscape set down under the towering, snow-capped peaks of the Front, 
Park, Gore, and other ranges of the "southern" Rocky Mountains. The Continental 
14 
Divide meanders back and forth and around, working its way up through 
Colorado into Wyoming, lacing a jagged line of tough, scenic, bare 
peaks through Middle Park. Denver, down in the "flat land" at a mile's 
elevation, is about eighty miles east of Frisco and Breckenridge, the 
centers of Summit County. The new Eisenhower Tunnel, an impressive 
engineering feat, cuts under Loveland Pass and the Divide, making 
Interstate 70 a significant pipeline into the high country. (Maps attached.) 
In the research and orientation phase, two particular books were 
helpful in becoming acquainted with matters of "history" largely construed. 
These were books about the local conditions of settlement and cultural 
development, on ranching mainly and on mining mainly, respectively: 
Robert C. Black's prize-winning Island in the Rockies: The Pioneer Era 
in Grand County, Colorado (Granby, Colo., The Country Printer, Inc., 
1977), and Mary Ellen Gilliland's Summit: A Gold Rush History of Summit 
County, Colorado (Silverthorne, Alpenrose Press, 1980). Books written 
locally often have a fascinating way of reflecting the main process of 
thinking about history. Black, a history professor at Temple Buell College 
(Denver) and summer rancher in Grand County near Tabernash, gives a very 
fine and well documented treatment which centers on ranching, community 
life, and local events of legendary stature. In Grand County, mining had 
relatively little to do with the eventual personality of the place. Ranching, 
tourism in the Teddy Roosevelt style, and the development of Rocky Mountain 
National Park were important features in the early times. In Summit County, 
Mary Ellen Gilliland of Breckenridge focuses appropriately on hardrock 
mining and does not seem to aim at comprehensiveness. Summit barely 
mentions ranching, to the consternation of people in the "lower Blue" some 
distance from the great mining camps near Breckenridge. Reverend Mark 
Colorado Project 
Marshall map 
Nov. 1980 
| 
| 
Study Area 
Continental Divide ..... 
Southern Rocky Mountain ///// 
Province (physiographic) 
■ 
X 
C ' ' 
Albert N. Williams. Rocky Mt. Country 
NY: Duell Sloane & Pearce 1950. 
. .r,4 
h 
WtMtttef 
'Of 5 
r NrttfcM, 
N kr<5NAC 
Shttvw aty, 
a -modi 
i '7r2) 
Woifocd Mtn 
9<ro —^ 
peaceful 
Granby 
_,7939) 
Troublesome 
vC3ii^ 
Kret^ml' 
Elkdai. 
rte<jer4ao 
j <8 2 34> 
Fraser 
j8574j 
wond^ui 
Berthou4 
lift^on 
■ FOREST 
TJONAL 
Idaho Spn 
rntjutn- 
iCjut 
loorecfala 
'Jeffer: 
\ (949‘ 
ODswvjl 
ladvflle * 
loisar 
■airplay 
15 
Felster's Blasted, Beloved Breckenridge is an excellent, local book that 
treats the hardrock mining history. Douglas S. Walter's University of 
Colorado masters thesis (Environmental Design), Historic Sites in Summit 
County, Colorado, 1s also excellent and contains planning recommendations. 
I also tracked down things like the truncated Colorado Folklore (put out 
by Ben Gray Lumpkin and Arhur Campa, mainly, in 1952-53), various numbers 
of Colorado Magazine (organ of the state historical society in Denver), 
cattlemen's association histories and brand books, and works old and new 
by Ora Brooks Peake, Baron Walter von Richtofen, Sidney Jocknick, Mary 
Lyons Cairns, Carolyn Bancroft, Lula McQueary, Wallace Stegner, Terry 
Mangan, Nell Pauly, LeRoy Hafen, Duane Smith, Albert N. Williams, W. F. Stone, 
and others that helped directly or fired curiosity about the Colorado 
Rockies. Dettmer and Orbach made 3ood searches and turned up valuable 
publications in their respective libraries at Berkeley and UCLA, 
Numerous local people like John D. Farr and rancher Karl Knorr regard 
James Mlchener's Centennial as a valuable and encompassing view of 
Colorado's history. I agree. 
It is important to remember that "background research" as such 
was limited by the scope and goals of this exploratory field study. Yet, 
a basic understanding, particularly of the existing historical record, 
was vital. From the time I picked the interns, Dettmer and Orbach, I 
began papering their mailboxes with memos and scraps of bibliography as 
a device to assist their orientation to the region and people. As always, 
copies of all these memos and blurbs of information went to Farr at the 
Foundation in Frisco. Farr and others consistently lamented the lack of 
a holistic, democratic history of their county (Summit). They see, 
very beautifully, that the invention of a solid educational Institution 
(their proposed museum and center) is a way of writing their own history. 
16 
The Internships 
From the beginning, I considered the development of graduate student 
Internships to be vitally important. This stress surely mirrors my own 
Interest in upgrading graduate folklore student fieldwork skills through 
the hard knocks of rigorous team research. But the stress on internships 
was meant to highlight this area of future work for the Folkllfe Center. 
We have long talked of internships on field teams, and this project 
was designed with two or three positions in mind. I further thought that 
graduate students as interns would nicely serve to spread the news of the 
new Colorado organization and its future endeavors among that important 
audience. The interns came from the West, and were people who claimed 
a concern for the region, for material culture, for museology, and for 
gaining in-field experience working side by side with an experienced 
f1eldworker. 
Significantly limiting the Internship program here was the lack of 
financial support for the students. After worrying about this, we decided 
to move ahead and invite carefully selected students to join the team. We 
thought that despite the lack of fee or support, the students would find 
the investmqfit of their own capital to be worthwhile, given the special 
nature and potential utility of the field trip. We had no money in hand 
to offer 1n support of the students, and furthermore considered this an 
experiment with formal internships in the field. It seemed worth the risk. 
17 
We think the results for the students were worth the Investment. But 
I would now argue strongly for appropriate compensation for future 
interns. The system tried in Colorado for two weeks succeeded, and I 
recommend further experiments. 
The students were as much like apprentices as interns, but still 
were treated completely as full-fledged professionals. I staged several 
particular teaching performances in order to clearly set forth n\y methods 
of work (in recording architecture, in preparing interview report forms, 
various field reports and logs). One of the most Interesting and useful 
performances for the students was beyond my powers--my appearance and 
discussion at a breakfast meeting of the Summit Rotary Club. It was a 
speech 1n which I discussed the Foundation's proposed museum, its mission 
and expectations, and the work Dettmer, Orbach, and I were doing. The 
audience was a rather typical collection of Rotarians, from the sagacious 
local character-politician famous for his oldtime pharmacy and folk 
remedies to the newest polished young businessman seeking a life in 
glorious Rockies. To say the least, it was an eye-opening experience for 
the two women. 
An additional reason for picking the students I did was the hope 
that they might continue being Interested in the region. Both have yet to 
write PhD dissertations. Both could arrange more fieldwork here. Both 
could make stellar contributions to the Foundation's mission while at the 
same time satisfying certain graduate program requirements. Continuity 
18 
1s vital for the Foundation. I have recommended, and will pursue the 
recommendation, that a regular contract be made with Orbach for her 
to return to Summit for two months of research and work in 1981. Her 
work would include the creation of an archive, certain public relations 
chores, her own field research (in family folklore, mining, foodways 
primarily), and other duties. Details of this arrangement are under 
discussion; the Foundation will offer local support, and UCLA can be 
tapped for her travel in-and-out of Denver. 
There was a formal exchange of correspondence with the interns 
that spelled out the situation and expectations. (Copy of Dettmer letter 
from Marshall attached.) They learned about fieldwork methology, various 
strategies of involvement with local people, technical matters of sound 
recording, photography, and material culture documentation. By visits 
to museums in the region (Grand County Museum, Hot Sulphur Springs; 
the Holzworth Homestead in Rocky Mountain National Park near Grand Lake; 
the Summit County Historical Society museum, Dillon) we saw what activities 
have been pursued and the students were asked to critique the three museums' 
operations and presentations of information. 
In the beginning, I thought of John Farr as a kind of intern, too. 
Part of, the value for the Foundation was in the demonstration, but, 
more than that, in the participation. Due to the needs of his business 
operation, Farr could be with us only briefly in the field. I continually 
discoursed at length, mostly late at night, with Farr on each day's labors 
and findings, but I missed having him with us more. He will attempt to 
arrange h1s schedule for fuller actual participation during the summer, 
1981 component (if the component materializes). 
AMERICAN FOLKUFE CENTER 
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20540 
July 8, 1980 
Dear Elke: • - 
This letter confirms oUr conversations about ^ “/ving^an 
intern on the Colorado project ''^“ldwork program, since the field time 
tended consultancy than a regular ^1 P ^ . are different. The 
is short, the end-products modest, and other of our field 
essential outcome of tne fieldwork shouio Foundation, and a vivid 
StS^^ Wion from which future research 
and development can evolve. 
s-t 
and work. Their plans include 9 anyeducational and interpretive 
tury, a hardrock mining demonstrat , -- d administrative departments 
center where collections, research, education, ana aa ^ and cuUu. 
would be housed along with static exhibitions of peg 10 I^ ^sentations. I 
ral history serving as backSround for the 1 vlnghehistOnyngPand Qf 
have agreed to serve as consultant not on y P -n August to provide tne 
future center, but to conduct two we ^ region the Foundation expects even¬ 
working example of folklife researc . | Rocky Mountains, roughly from 
tually to speak for is comprised of the southern j Qf Colorado at 
northern New Mexico to southern Wyoming, with th h^h £ounty> and parts 
the heart. Their local region in^es Sumnn the "Middle Park" physiogra- 
of other counties in what is known m tradit ^ « ™el0Cality 0f interest is 
Dhic region. Within Middle Park, their f Grand County over about 
the Blue River Valley of Co“n * dthe Colorado River). I have enclosed 
nv^l^aps^^e^u th^look J the scale of the study area. 
The August work will be ™ th= ^ckenridge'as'main town cen- 
Blue River Valley with the towns of Frisco and Brecke 9$ ^ being made by 
ters. We will be housed near Brec enr^ 9 address is Outdoor Museum, Box 0, 
the local coordinator, John D. Farr. H 668-3500 The dates are Monday, 
>r;S -r • 
rrinupr<;ationS. 
Your responsibilities include (1) preparation of pre-fieldwork back¬ 
ground research on the cultural history and folklife of the area, (2) typed 
daily notes of your activities during the fieldwork (which may be in journal 
form), (3) typed fieldnotes including maps, drawings, lists of people contacted, 
informant data, etc., (4) logs to photographs taken and tape recordings made, 
and (5) your assessment of the internship. These materials should be presented 
to the Center by December 1, '1980. It is understood that the fieldworker retains 
no copyright or other proprietary rights to the recordings, photography, or other 
materials prepared or gathered during the project. Every reasonable effort will 
be made to fully credit work when it is used, published, or placed in an archive. 
All ethnographic materials will eventually become part of the permanent collec¬ 
tions of the Library of Congress. We encourage you to use information gathered 
and ideas generated during the fieldwork in scholarly essays and articles and 
request that appropriate credit be given to the American Folklife Center, Library 
of Congress. Xerox copies of written materials and other materials will be made 
available to fieldworkers. A reference set of archival materials may be made 
available for purchase by the Foundation in Colorado. 
The Center will provide all media stock, certain equipment, and field 
supplies. You should supply your own cassette recorder, camera system, type¬ 
writer, and other equipment as appropriate. In addition, the Center will pro¬ 
vide blank cassette tapes with which to make duplicates of the original reel-to- 
reel recordings made in the field. You may retain the cassette duplicates for 
preparation of fieldnotes, reports, and for other purposes. We will report to 
your university after completion of the research and the receipt of your materials 
I have attached to this letter a description of the internship system 
at the Library of Congress, based on the standard material distributed by the 
Archive of Folk Song, but incorporating references to the American Folklife 
Center. 
I am looking forward to seeing you jn Colorado on August 18. I will 
be in touch concerning other particulars of the fieldwork situation. You should 
now forward a letter to me accepting the internship as we have' discussed it. 
Thank you very'much. 
Best regards, 
/ 
Howard W. Marshall 
Folklife Specialist 
Enclosures: 
Colorado study area maps 
Sample bibliography 
Folklife Center materials 
Ms. Elke Dettmer 
2533 Mil via Street 
Berkeley, California 94704 
Cc: William Murtagh, Columbia University 
Alan Dundes, University of California, Berkeley 
John D. Farr 
Joseph C. Hickerson 
Gerald E. Parsons 
19 
In the future, even in so brief a field expedition, it would be 
beneficial to employ a team member to be designated as administrative 
assistant as well as fieldworker. The burden of mundane and unpredictable 
jobs needing attention throughout the project was fairly wasteful of time 
and energy. Grub work always is. I now believe that, whenever possible, 
an administrative assistant position should be factored in field projects 
from the earliest stages of design and development. 
With Orbach and Dettmer, while I hoped for moments of pause and 
reflection during the daily march, such times were too few. In a short trip, 
twelve days of actual fieldwork, we felt compelled to keep hustling into the Jeep 
and off down the road. We felt as though we should take advantage of 
every minute. The bulk of materials reflect that hard pace of research. But 
we should have declared more and longer moments "off," and this human 
need can be built into the calendar in the future. The interpersonal 
pressures are always great in team fieldwork, but they are heightened 
by a perceived need to get a maximum amount of work done in a little bit 
of field time. Furthermore, there might have been more time spent in 
formal instruction periods for the interns, although there were late 
evening sessions and special on-s1te crash courses on matters like coping 
with the Nagra recorder while stumbling along behind Ma McKee as she 
changed water in a hay meadow3and like the intensive, Illuminating teach-in 
on "how to record a building" using the old log assayer's office at Tiger 
as the target of our affection. 
20 
Elke Dettmer and Barbara Orbach were extremely capable and 
energetic fieldworkers who easily embraced the team research mode. 
Resourceful, skillful, they made significant contributions to the project. 
Moreover, they became valuable colleagues and, finally, friends. 
Suggestions of the Work Accomplished 
The goals have been stated. We meant to provide the Foundation with a 
respectable sample of traditional life and work in the ranching country 
that would be a milestone for future documentation. 
We picked three ranches to concentrate on—the McKee ranch ("the old 
Johnson place"), Charlie Lund's ranch ("Slate Creek Ranch"), and the Knorr 
Brothers ranch. 
By narrowing the ground to cover, we got better quantitative control, and 
succeeded in achieving a valid record of three ranches that speak for others in 
the valley. Close understanding of several perceivably important ranches 
seemed more useful with our goals than scattered, patternless collecting over 
the whole region. It wo*ld be good to have the chance to get total quantitative 
control. Jim Deetz and Ned Dethlefsen accounted for nearly every gravestone 
in their New England historical archaeological study. That takes time, and 1t 
helps to be able to limit the target. We got near total quantitative control 
over folk architecture on ranches in the Paradise Valley Folklife Project. It 
21 
is rare to achieve that. So the selection of particular scenes to document 
becomes by necessity the result of a more arduous process than it may seem. 
Picking the McKee ranch (the old Johnson place), the Lund ranch, and the Knorr 
Brothers ranch might have seemed casual. It wasn't. On my previous scouting 
trips (consultancies), and through background reading and discussions with local 
historians like John Farr, I had a pretty clear notion of where to aim our 
Jeep. 
One of the pieces of understanding the two field interns gained was how 
those choices work out in the daily grind of research and dealings with sensitive 
people. There is almost always a casual nature to my approach to families on 
ranches that might best be described as "laid back." But interns, Dettmer 
and Orbach, found quickly that my personal style (my way of finding 
acceess to people and things) was not haphazard, that a casual or 
meandering conversation full of small talk did in no way mean a casual 
or meandering or unfocussed set of specific goals and strategies. 
It is often said that the basic and most valuable kinds of fieldwork 
are simple collecting and participant-observorship. I find that in 
our work, we combine the two approaches to good advantage. With a 
team of researchers, all can be done. At the Slate Creek community 
square dance that I. W. McKee called, the three of us took turns performing 
all the chores: running the Nagra tape recorder, photographing the 
dancing, and serving as someone's partner in the dance itself. Our voices 
crop up on the tapes, our mugs pop up in the photographs. Yet the tape 
runs on, "collecting" all. We have particular plans drawn—say, the 
22 
recording of the special Texas-based brand of squaredance calling I.W. 
« 
McKee calls "hash." That's "collecting," going after the set goal. But 
the scene encountered, full of noise, life, action as always, draws us 
wonderfully in. Like it or not (I like it), we become "participant-observers 
Rigorous description is the hallmark of good ethnography. I shun 
"samples." I prefer picking a small thing and accounting for everything 
in it. "Less" becomes "more," as the fine grain comes to light and 
the possibility for authentic, detailed historic truth emerges. We seem to 
have kept old jenny of historic-geography flying, despite folklore's slouch 
toward anthropology. But successful fieldwork is not magic. It's common 
sense. 
Our collecting methodology is reminiscent of the classic 
Irish method that yielded such vast corpora—"shotgun collecting." 
Though seemingly indiscriminate (indeed sometimes so), this style of 
collecting allows the broadest of visions. Get it down. We'll be glad 
later. For our work, though, Dettmer and Orbach knew from the start 
leads. . .. . 
that if we lacked precise and numerous our goal could be precisely 
set forth: achieve a usable and valid exploration of the regional 
character and settlement history of the study area. For us, context 
and community were important. We sought an understanding of the *sense 
of place" in the lower Blue River valley of Middle Park. I think we 
' / v 
23 
got it. The field notebooks are jammed with scribbled records of 
things and conversations, notations rendered that allow for conceptual¬ 
ization and generalizations about the character of traditional life and 
work in the high Colorado Rockies. Even with so modest a field expedition, 
we should not quail from declarations of patterns perceived or messages 
deciphered. 
Our field expedition coincided with haying season, and brought 
us the chance to document the entire process of harvest and haystack 
building. Over several days' time, we recorded the operation as conducted 
very largely with traditional equipment (much of it homemade) on the Knorr 
Brothers' ranch. We photographed the process, from mowing ripened meadows 
of" 
through the final enclosing ^the finished loose haystack with "elk panel" 
(to keep beasts away) and skidding of the "stacker" to its resting place 
at the cleaned meadow's edge. It was a fascinating experience for us, 
and indeed was the first such event for Dettmer and Orbach. After the 
photography was complete and the haying done, I returned to the same hay 
meadow and mapped rt in the fieldnotes. I also documented the stacking 
device ("stacker") the Knorrs built (See attached page from fieldnotes). 
We had earlier documented "Ma Kee" "changing water" in upper hay 
meadows on the old Johnson place (McKees lease it), seeing how the intricate^ 
efficient,and traditional system of irrigation channels works, from 
the "head" wher^'t gushes out of Boulder Creek at^the upper end to where 
the water flattens and spurts out across the^hay meadow l maturing^) 
in small arteries carefully opened and closed by the irrigator using a 
common ditching shovel. Mrs. McKee's favorite chore is working alone 
24 
with her feisty pup "Killer" up high on the curve of the mountain, "chasing 
water" in the fresh air above the river and ranches down below. It reminds 
one of calendar phot<yaphs of the Alps. I will say it—it is idyllic. 
No "noise" but for the wind, the grazing cattle, the wet slop of the 
the shovel opening and closing the watercourses. The view was fine. 
The calendar Loma McKee gave me the first day down the Blue at 
their ranch was used as the rope of knots. I pencilled in projected or 
planned activities for each day ahead, then at the end of each night 
I pencilled in what really occurred. In that way, we kept a tight, provocatively 
visual summary of the team's progress before us at all times. As each little 
square was scribbled up with notes, we went through the familiar pattern 
of anticipation, excitement, disappointment, expectation, anguish, injury, 
glee, exhaustion, and the final days' sense of serene accomplishment that 
comes when that calendar shows the nearness of the end of the trip. 
I have included below portions of the interns' daily fieldnotes. They 
convey how the work went. I arbitrarily inserted half of each intern's 
fieldnotes, the first six days by Orbach and the last six days by Dettmer. 
I have also included Orbach's notes on the formal moments of teaching ("lessons"). 
Like this report, fieldnotes are not meant for publication. My instructions 
for their preparation were few; they were to be d1ar*y-likp, Informal, and 
should describe and address matters the students thought important or 
Interesting for the record. Fieldnotes are not conceived of as finished 
compositions. 
(c. 80 pages of fieldnotes follow here) 
Dec. 19, 1980 
Barbara Orbach 
1314 Franklin St. 
Santa Monica,CA 
90404 
Colorado Internship Report 
Contents: 
1) Background Research and Annotated Bibliography of Works 
Consulted (CO80-BO-BR) 
2) Daily Fieldnotes (C080-80-FN) 
3) Supporting Materials 
sketches (C080-BO-FN a—i) 
lessons (CO80-BOrL 1—11) 
copies of county documents (C080-BO-D) 
interview report forms (5) 
sketched family trees (2) 
4) Journal (C080-BO-J) 
5) Assessment 
NOTE: ?ages 1-37 and "lessons" 
incorporated (copies) into 
project director's report, 
February, 1981 
CO80-BO-FN 8/18/80 
Day 1—18 August, 1980 
Arrival in Frisco, Colorado. Met at bus station by 
John Farr. 
Orientation lunch with Rusty Marshall, Elke Dettmer, 
and her friend, Eben Stromquist. Rusty described the 
germination of the project, which took place at an ALHFAM 
meeting in 1979. There member John Farr introduced himself 
as a person interested in starting up a living history 
museum based in well-researched local history in his own 
region of Colorado. As their discussion progressed, the 
i de tSe museum developed .into onr composed of a working 
ranch from the period around the turn of the century and a 
mine—both representative of the economy and lifestyle of 
the area comprised by Grand and Summit counties. 
Rusty's tasks on this trip, as he explained it, are to 
demonstrate the field techniques used by folklife researchers 
and to generate local interest by explaining the project 
to possible sponsoring agencies such as the local Rotarians. 
After lunch John Farr gave us a jeep tour of the parts 
of the two counties we will primarily be concerned with. 
The tour started at Dillon Reservoir. Here he introduced 
an issue that would recur throughout the tour: ’^ater. The 
reservoir supplies water to Denver, as well as serving 
recreational purposes. 
The area below the reservoir on Route 9 going north used 
to be meadow land used for cultivation hay. As Farr recounted, 
ranching grew up only as a satellite to the mining industry 
in this region in an era of supply difficulties and heavy 
C080-BO-FN 8/18/80 
-2- 
freight expenses. It was the development of irrigation that 
allowed ranching to prosper and continue as a relatively 
profitable enterprise until the 1950's. During the '60's 
and increasingly now, the land formerly devoted to meadow 
is too valuable for development purposes to continue as such. 
The single main problen when contemplating starting up a ranch, 
however, is in obtaining sufficient water rights to make it 
We drove up the the AMAX (Climax?) "Henderson" mine, 
where molybdenum, a mineral used for hardening metals, is 
mined. Farr stressed the uniqueness of the mineral—one of;' 
the few the U.S. is enough in excess of to expott—and the 
ecological soundness of the mine. The mine employs about 
4,000 people in the area. 
Continuing past the mine, we passed through a wide valley 
with much meadowland and two or three apparently quite 
old ranching complexes. Most of the hay appeared to be 
already cut and stacked, but just beyond the Williams' Fork 
Reservoir ( a back-up reserve for local water supplies) were 
able to watch a group stacking hay in what Rusty and John 
refer to as an "overshot" or "beavertail" stacker. This is 
a fairly loose form of piling the hay in a small enclosed 
area compacted by a wooden pole frame. The operation involved 
four people, one driving a machine that combed the hay into 
long rolls, two driving old tractors that scooped up the hay 
and placed it in mounds, and another pushing the hay up 
the slanted gate and onto the top of the stack. The meadow 
where this took place in the vicinity of Troublesome. 
CO80-BO-FN 8/18/80 
-3- 
We returned by way of Kremmling, along Route 9 south 
to Green Mountain Reservoir, along its west bank through Heeny 
and back to Frisco. 
Dinner with John and Leslie Farr at their home. Leslie 
told us about her background: she moved to Colorado from 
Florida, taught school in North Denver, met and married 
John Farr ten years ago in Boulder and moved with him to 
Frisco 9 years ago. 
John Farr sells insurance in Fisco, is also involved 
in community affairs and has a strong interest and an 
expertise in local history. He writes a column on that 
subject in the local newspaper, and is known as J.D. "Colorado" 
Farr. He and Leslie have spent the last six years building 
their three story log home. 
coso-Bo-Li 
Day 2—19 August, 1980 
Business orientation with Rusty and Elke: 
—Interview report forms, photo logs, and recording 
logs distributed and explained (official designation 
for the project: C080-(initials)-abbreviation and #) 
COSO-Bo-ul. 
—Media introduction 
—- 
Drove to Kremmling for shopping and look around. Noted 
wood structure across from park on left as one faces it and 
"smithie" structure. Lunch at Grand Old West Restaurant, 
(clientele seemed mostly locals; all had cleared out by the 
time we left at 1:30 p.m.) 
CO80-BO-FN 8/18/80 
-4- 
«fo«: 
orn-to- |/i-H 
, 
Visit to the McKee ranch ("Old Johnson Place"). 
Elke and I talked with and recorded Mrs. Loma Rae McKee and 
her sister-in-law, Dris McKee abo^ut their personal and 
family histories and their experiences of ranch and community 
life. (Tape incomplete due to technical difficulties) 
Loma indicated that the term "randh" could only be 
loosely applied to their situation. Dick and Loma McKee 
own jointly with I.W. and Vera McKee 44 acres of what used 
to be the "Old Johnson Place", which was sold to Blue River 
Highlands Corporation who then sub-divided it and sold 
it in lots. While Dick and Loma run an excavating business, 
I.W. (who also runs a dump truck business) and Vera do the 
ranching, utilizing land leased across the highway to pasture 
cattle they tend for a rancher in Lyman. Colo. 
Interesting aspects of Loma's experience of living with 
her husband, two children and her in-laws in Silverthorne 
(the community they identify as their home) that emerged during 
our discussion were: 
1.) Her experiences with high altitude cooking. Cooking 
takes much longer at this altitude. Loma uses a 
pressure cooker to cook many foods because it is 
so much faster. She and her mother-in-law preserve 
some vegetables for the winter by canning. They 
drive down to Pueblo and but the Vegetables (the 
growing season is too short to grow most vegetables 
here), canning them in glass jars with metal rim 
lids when they get them here—a process that goes 
on for days. Loma noted that vegetables such as 
C080-80-FN 8/18/80 
-5- 
green beans are more risky to can than tomatoes 
because they don't have any acid in them. She 
% 
uses the pressure cooker to can the vegetables, and 
she recounted one anecdote about how a jar of 
tomatoes exploded when she lifted the pressure cooker 
lid. She said the tomatoes ended up all over everything. 
Now she's always very cautious about opening the 
pressure cooker, putting on several layers of 
coats for protection, she noted laughingly. They 
freeze okra for later use 
When asked if they preserve fruits as well, Loma 
explained that, as most of the fruit comes from 
Grand Junction, updess someone they know is driving 
through and can pick some up, it is just too long a 
drive to be worthwhile. 
Loma said they buy some pork, but not much 
beef from the local grocery sotres, because it is 
is too expensive. She said that her husband, Dick, 
normally shoots an elk every year, which provides 
them with meat through the winter. She then mentioned 
hunting licenses and that Dick was lucky enough this 
year to draw a license to shoot a male elk, which 
* 
is more difficult to obtain than licnses to shoot 
females. This would provide them with more meat; 
unfortunately, although Dick enjoys hunting, he 
is too busy now vith the excavating business to 
take time out to do it. 
We asked how they had the elk dressed arid butchered. 
C080-BO-FN 8/19/80 
-7- 
on their own property. (Loma and Dick are awaiting 
permission to move their mobile home to a different 
site on the property.) Loma and Dick send their 
two children to the Frisco school rather than to 
Sliverthorne. This had something to do with the 
respective bus schedules, but Loma also mentioned 
that she preferred the Frisco schools for academic 
reasons. 
Because so many family members live on or near the 
property (three of the McKee siblings and their 
families are staying here temporarily) and they 
are in constant communication (the older McKees' 
phone is even connected to ring in Dick and Loma's 
house as well so that they can answer if no one is 
home next door), they do not get lonely. Doris mentioned 
that when she would phone from New York* if no one 
answered, she would become very concerned, because 
it was so unusual for no one to be home. Indeed, 
both Doris and Loma indicated that the communal arrangement 
can get wearing at times, that sometimes they long 
for some time alone. Loma stated early in the interview 
that "You can't ge£ away from in-laws here!" 
The family gets together regularly for potlucks, 
usually on Friday nights, and usually with some kind 
of theme such as Mexican food or fish. (They mentioned 
that it is'Ma ’Kee" that likes to fish, but she seldom 
does it unless Dick goes along, and he has been too 
busy.) 
Loma's parents live in Colorado (Buena Vista?) 
C080-BO-FN 8/19/80 
-6- 
She said they had once had it done for them by a 
butcher, but it didn't come back "clean", so now 
they do it themselves. They skin the carcass, carve 
it up using no special cutting technique, rinse it 
under running water in their kitchen, and freeze it. 
This was a pocess she learned by trial and error. I 
asked her if she did anything with the hide. She 
said no, they just throw it away, although she and 
her inother-in-law have said they should try to tan it. 
Loma stated that although she cohid never shoot an 
animal, butchering it does not bother her. 
2.) Perspectives on family and community life 
Both Loma and Doris agreed that they lead a 
pretty isolated existence here; they don't watch 
television not* do they take a paper, and they generally 
find out about news three days>after it happens by 
hearing about it in town; for example, they only 
heard about the eruption of the volcano, Mt. St. Helens, 
in eastern Washington when they noticed white ash 
drifting down to the ground and asked someone in 
town about it. 
They don't consider themselves very involved in 
the community. This is partly because its inhabitants 
are seasonal—few stay through the winter. In their 
opinion "money" (i.e. monied interests) run the 
community; Loma expressed her resentment that the 
county can tell them what they can and can't do 
CO80-BO-FN 8/19/80 
-8- 
but she doesn't see tklBm too regularly. Both Doris 
and Loma mentioned vacationing (separately) with 
the McKee relatives in Texas almost annually. 
3.) Recreational activities 
Loma mentioned a relay horse race (three relay 
stops with anywhere from one to three riders participating) 
that "they" (Dick, a sibling, and a neighbor riding) 
were in recently. It was followed by a barbecue and 
dance. It was attended by local people—most of whom 
they knew—and was "real fun". 
They dojtf not attend the rodeo in Kremmling. In 
fact, Kremmling is too far away for most of their 
activities. 
Doris spoke enthusiastically about dancing. She 
mentioned that I.W. (her father) "teaches" (i.e. calls?) 
as Slate Creek Schoolhouse on Th.x^rsday nights. livery 
other Friday there is a dance in Kremmling. On 
Friday nights they go dancing in Dillon at "D.I." 
(old Dillon Inn). Doris distinguished between the 
dancing events. Thursday and every other Friday nights 
are just square dancing. Usually only I.W. goes— 
even "Ma 'Kee" doesn't always go, because she can't 
dance, as I.W. is occupied with calling. Friday 
nights at "D.I." are "just dancing" (i.e. informally 
to a country-and-western band) 
l/\rer*itu> rtpor-t 
Arm 
4.) McKee family history 
C080-BO-FN 8/19/80 
'»AVtci/iCw r«^or> ^Ofn\ 
» * 
-9- 
While Doris was giving us information for an 
interview report form, she started to recount an anecdote 
about her great-great grandfathert being killed in 
a shootout. We later came back to it and she and 
Loma tried jointly to put together the details 
of this ancestor, a Choctaw Indian who followed the 
"Trail of Tears“ when the tribe was removed to 
Oklahoma Territory. His name was Smallwood, He 
became some sort of peace officer in Oklahoma Territory 
and was killed in a shoot-out (Doris was careful to 
say these might not be the true details, implying 
t 
that the facts might have been cleaned up over the 
generations). His wife died in childbirth either 
three weeks before aSr three weeks afterwards, 
leaving their son to be adopted by his aunt Mary 
Smallwood McKee, which is how they come by the 
family name. 
Doris brought out a gramed copy of a newspaper 
clipping from a 1930’s edition of an Oklahoma 
paper recounting aspects of the tale. A clean, 
typewritten copy done by Doris is also available. 
5.) Former name for the ranch: the "Old Johnson Place". 
Ed Johnson is still alive, they believe, and living 
\i: in Denver. 
Coto-fio-i/r-i** 
Photographed the McKee ranch buildings (while chatting 
with Cori McKee; according to Cori, she is not allowed to 
C080-60-FW 8/19/80 
-10- 
go up to the stream above the corrals without an adult 
because there has been a bear there.) 
Corl 0.1*0 ><««* me CLogBo.-U.-^-l) And sho^J /*ve Kc Ad, 
I.W. MeKee pulled in in his dump truck as we were leaving. 
Dinner in Breckenridge at the Gold Post Restaurant with 
Rusty, Elke, and Eben. 
Father Dyer Community Church—historical pageant. Vignettes 
from the life of Father William Dyer, itinerant preacher in 
the region of Breckenridge ca. 1880. Written by local 
author using Dyer's autobiography, Snowshoe Itinerant, and 
the work of former pastor, Mark Feister as sources. Performed 
by the community theater group. Very well attended, apparently 
mostly by community members, who gave it and its author a 
very favorable response. 
Debriefing (reviewing the activities of the day—mostly 
the interview with the McKees and the technical difficulties) 
and media session (the ins and outs of the Nagra tape 
recorder) with Rusty Marshall. 
Possibilities for tomorrow: 
Return to McKee ranch: 
re-interview Loma 
accompany Doris and/or Mama McKee on ranching activities 
inventory tack house 
go with Ron Emrich to County Record Office for research 
Day 3—20 August,1980 
9 a.m.—return to the McKee ranch, we inquired of the 
C080-BO-FN 8/20/80 
-11- 
family (women mostly gathered in the parents' home, son-in-law 
Wes repairing equipment in the yard) what the day's 
activities were to be. Those present were: Vera McKee, 
daughters Mary (whom we at first assumed to be Doris as 
they resemble each other closely), Doris and Vera, sow-in-law 
Wes Dunaway, children Cheri, Cori, Rodney, Michael (and 
one other—Julia?) belonging to the various McKee siblings. 
They did a sort of quick roll call, assigning themselves 
tasks: (mother) Vera irrigating, Wes cutting wood, Doris 
hauling wood, Mary staying at the house, from what Iocould 
understand. Daughters.Marj and Vera (Dunaway—Wesr wife) 
were new acquaintances whose identities we didn't sort out 
until later in the day. 
Rusty and I accompanied Vera McKee ("Ma 'Kee") to 
the hay meadows across the road, leased by them from Wheaton 
College. As we drove her and her dog, Killer, up in our 
vehicle, we clarified some information. 
The McKee family moved up to Colorado from Texas 
y^r(j__ t/plcuAed +Har +^1 y <keco^Jtt. vkty Wv<»> i'V vouict improve tix. Ki-auHx. 
in 1962. I.W. worked at the Climax (Leadville) mine until W", 
CXsufct 
he took a medical retirement because of a flabbitus condition. 
The kind of dance calling I.W. does is called "hash"—it 
is for formal squaredincing as in competitive or performance 
dancing. 
. , Rusty photograhed and I interviewed Vera as she 
|Vv^t>*-.co»o-6o-0A-A-x 
worked on the irrigation ditches in this ("middle"?) meadow. 
to-Mix 
^ —ira'^ '"'T,:on 
We discussed the irrigating process, matters of land management, °^eri 
her own history and the flora and faunav as she completed 
(XC t ots 
r>\< 
CO80-BO-FN 8/20/80 
-12- 
her irrigating tasks and took ua on a walk along a 
ditch outlet from Boulder Creek. Rusty collected 
flora specimens as we walked. Vera left us in the 
"upper" hay meadow. Rusty recorded an old log structure— 
an animal shelter he believed—while I attempted to nurse 
my Rollei camera, which was suffering from a jammed shutter. 
Returned to the McKee ranch buildings.-' On the way 
back down to the highway we met Wes DSmaway, who was 
finishing up the wood cutting and breaking for lunch. 
As we came out towards the highway. Rusty noticed an 
old seeder abandoned in the field onlour left which he 
wished to remember. 
Elke 
Lunch in Kremmling. a obtained the phone number of 
Olga Hill, a contact suggested by Loma McKee because 
Ms. Hill's family once owned much of the ranching land 
in the tsalley. Elke tried to phone, but there was no 
answer. 
Briefly observed the layout of the central area 
of Kremmling around the' the city park which is represented'] 
on Sanborn's Insurance map of 1914. Noticed a log livery 
stable, the old hotel (green with a false front, now 
part of it is used by the Masonic Lodge), Dan Hoare's 
"Village Smithie", and some back alley log structures. 
Noted that all were tagged and dated, presumably as 
historical landmarks, suggesting that some historical 
research has already been done on the town buildings. 
C080-BO-FN 8/20/80 
-13- 
Karl Knorr'a ranch. Knorr is a contact suggested by 
John Farr. The house and barn complex contains a number 
of log structures. Rusty met Mrs. Knorr at the house. 
We met Mr. Knorr, his brother George, Mrs. Enders (lives 
in the white house across the road; her family ranched 
in the area before sffle was Dorn) in the hay field where 
they, with one other worker, were stacking hay using a 
beaver tail stacker. After many photographs and a brief 
chat with Knorr and Mrs. Enders, Rusty arranged to return 
Friday to watch them put up "green hay" in the next meadow 
over. 
co«oH Architecture lesson—recording assayor's cabin, Tiger 
C0*0- SO- ffija- . 
Road- with Rusty Marshall. Learned the techniques of 
photographing a building for recording purposes, and of 
how to look at a building and transcribe its features into 
floorplan and notes for future reference. 
This babin seems to have seen much use, even recently, 
(coto-bo- u*«t/r-v) 
as there was much trash lying around both the interior 
and the exterior. A rusted vehicle of some sett lay 
outside the door of the reat addition. Interesting (unexplained) 
features were a rectangular window set with the long 
edge parallel and quite near to the floor in the rear 
half of the structure, and the suggestion of a formal, 
movable entrance to the upper loft area. We speculated 
as to why the front half of the building had been more 
roughly builcft than'the rear, as suggested by the chinking, 
flporing and ceiling quality. Perhaps the front portion 
C080-BO-FN' 8/20/80 
-14- 
(Or vice versa?) As we left, Rusty uncovered a tattered 
canvas bag, possibly fox carrying ore to be assayed. 
This building has been acqdred by the Summit County 
Historical Society for preservation on a different site. 
Dinner at home with Elke. 
Day 4—21 August, 1980 
Discovered mechanical bungle with the Minolta—two 
black and white rolls probably no good. 
Morning meeting at Farr home with Rusty and Elke. Ron 
Emrich will not be coming——his research notes will be arriving 
in the mail and we will have to tackle the county records 
research ourselves (!) 
pkofos: 
Visit to Summit County Historical Society Museum 
(403 La Bonte, Dillon, Colo. 468-6079). 
Examined artifacts lying in'; the front yard: remnants 
of an old plow, axle to a wagon. In the side yard: wooden-staved 
pipe, a fire engine? a buckboard with an extra spring 
and decorative woodwork edging (so far in a state of 
disreapair. 
Continued around to the back of the restored sbhoolhouse 
that houses the museum, glancing only briefly at a 
cabin (vintage 1920?) that looks as if it has just been 
moved to the site andiis in an early stage of restoration. 
We concentrated on the log house facing it. We photographed, 
C080-D0-Fi>i 8/21/80 
—15*» 
measured and recorded the building, as well as commenting 
on the restoration technique, which was faulty at various 
points: for example, something other than the appropriate 
broadaxe or adze had been used on replacment logs in 
an effort to imitate the hewn shaping of the original 
logs, while new log access-ways leading under the house 
and new log slab siding on the old rear addition loudly 
proclaimed the recent restoration work. ++*«. bu f - 
; !' I*- ' Jo* BJ • 
Ms. Rebecca Waugh, who supervises the museum (her 
title?) joined us briefly as we worked. She exchanged 
credentials with Rusty—she has museum training and 
formerly worked in an art museum—and expressed some 
interest in our work. She invited us to look at the 
i 
indoor exhibits when we were tnrough outside. 
The inside of the museum, like the outside, is 
obviously in a state of flux. The building is a restored 
schoolhouse tnat was rescued from the Dillon town site 
before it was flooded by the reservoir. The interior 
space consists of one large and one medium-sized room 
plus a 2 or 3 room addition for offices, restrooms and 
storage. 
The large front room is complete; it is restored as 
a classroom ca. 1884—dominated by rows of old schooldesks, 
front blackboards and mannequin student and teacher 
positioned in stances to evoke an educational atmosphere. 
Lining the edges of the room are collections ranging 
from an old iron stove and coal bin, to a washstand 
sporting linen towels and homemade soap, to a reconstructed 
C080-BO-FN 8/21/80 
-16- 
kitchen witn canned products and utensils artfully arranged 
on the table. Interspersed with these were glass exhibit 
cases containing clothing, memorabilia from schooldays 
(e.g. programs from graduation exercises), stereoscopes, etc. 
In the front as one walks in the door is a large round table 
witn a display of pamphlets and postcards copied from 
historical photograpne of the region, on sale to the visiting 
public. 
A large display on one side of the room supplied information 
about the restored cabin we had recorded outside. It had been 
removed intact from a site in Montezuma, where it had 
been built in 1885 by the husband of Lulu Myers, a local school 
teacher. The cabin is referred to as the "Lulu Myers cabin". 
According to the photographs in the news clippings, the original 
back shed addition did not have log slab siding. 
The rear room of the museum was in disarray, with kitchen 
equipment, farm implements, mining tools, riding equipment, 
and blacksmithing tools all stored in unordered proximity to 
one another, presumably awaiting exhibition space. 
We quickly photographed what we could of the museums's 
interior, purchased some postcards, and badte Ms. Waugh 
-a 
good-bye (she was occupied with a middle-aged woman who had 
come in on historical society business). 
By putting together what information we had gathered 
from Ms. Waugh, we concluded that she works on the local paper 
as well as running the museum. 
Stopped at the "Junktique", a thrift store in Frisco 
-17- 
located in a two story structure with side ell, the front 
walls built with hewn logs, the rear portions with unhewn logs. 
Aside from an assortment of cast-off clothes and utensils, it 
offered a few rusted nails and implements that the proprietress 
said they had acquired in an estate sale when they had bought the 
building. She indicated that they would be moving shortly, 
as the building had been sold (to the Historical Society?). 
Returned to Farrs' for lunch. Straightened up film and 
tape deposits, packaged flora and fauna from McKee hay meadow 
8/20/80. 
Returned to intern house, worked on field notes. 
Dinner at Farrs, house with John Farr—Rusty Marshall's 
birthday celebration. 
tc^e-ee- umi/t (in—Vi) 
/!<•-•'> square dance at Stae creek Schoolhouse—the "4-Squares", 
I.W. McKee calling/teaching, 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 
Attended by 5 men and 6 women: 
Mr. and Mrs. Lang McDonald 
Silverthorne 
Harvey and Evie Hediund 
Box 873, Frisco (phone: 668-2%22) 
Vera and Wes Dunaway 
Box 546, Silverthorne 80498 
Florence White 
Silverthorne 
Duane and Alice Eix 
Dillon 
Paul and Fran Tomosko 
CO80-BO-FN 8/21/80 
-18- 
Vera McKee appeared about 9 p.m. 
Vera McKee and Mrs. White were wearing spuare-dance 
dresses, one other woman wore a skirt, and the other women 
dressed casually in slacks. 
Elke and I spoke to Vera Dunaway about the dresses. 
She indicated that all own them, oyt mostly wear them for 
the special occasions of the big dances, such as that to 
oe held in Kremmling Friday week; they don't necessarily 
wear them at tnese practices. They buy the dresses at 
special shops or snake them themselves; Vera* and one of 
the other women discussed loaning a pattern. (Vera 
Dunaway's comment was, "If I had gotten my dress taken up, 
I'd be wearing it tonight.") 
I.W. called, talking the "squares" of either five or 
six couples through tne maneuvres over a microphone, as 
well as managing the music—a selection of 45's played on 
a portable turntaole with speakers. After each of the dances, 
the couples would gather in a huddle, raise up, and shout 
"Thank Y0UL1 ". I.W. would allow breaks after every three 
or four dances, when the dancers could mill around and chat 
and partake of the coffee, iced tea and cookies that the 
women had brought. 
This event allowed us to clarify the McKee family relation 
ships; Vera Dunaway, Wes' wife, is I.W. and Vera McKee's 
daughter—mother is referred to as "Little Vera" and 
daughter as "Big Vera" in order to avoid confusion. 
During the breaks, Big Vera would sometimes lead a less 
or 
formal dance like the "Hokey Pokey", danciff^ alone across 
CO80-BO-FN 8/21/80 
-19- 
the floor in a kind of schottische Step when nobody 
else would join her. -She also initiated the taking up 
of the collection ($3.00 per person) during the longer, 
half-time break. 
The first lh hours I.W. devoted to simpler dances 
(partly on our account?), patiently talking even novice 
fieldworkers through the sets. At about 9:30 p.m., 
after a long break, he embarked on a series of more complex 
dances of the kind that are danced competitevely by 
squaredance clubs. He rehearsed these dances with the 
couples who joined in (at least one couple sat out) much 
more explicitly than those earlier in the evening, even 
turning the music off in order to guide the douples through 
a pattern that tney were to rerneaper thereafter, while calling 
less frequently through any particular dance. The shift in 
the pace of the calling and the intensity of the dancers' 
concentration indicated that this portion of the evening, at 
least, represented their serious attempt to become a group 
capable of performing formally. 
During these more complex dances, I spoke with the 
couple that sat out in chairs along the wall (the Tomoskos?), 
who were there for the fist time. They had come with friends, 
and, other than one other couple whom they recognized from 
dances held at Frisco High School during the winter, they 
knew no one else there. They said the group had been 
organized about six weeks before, but that preparations for 
their daughter^ wedding had prevented them from attending 
before. When I asked the husband if he planned to attemd 
CO80-BO-FN 8/21/80 
-20- 
regularly, he shagged and aaid he enjoyed the dancing. He 
had moved out to Colorado from hew Jersey about 12 years be¬ 
fore; he mentioned that a different kind of dancing was 
done in the East. 
All of the dancers were most cordial to us, making 
sure that each of us got a chance to dance (Rusty, 
especially, was regarded with relish, as they were short one 
man), answering our questions readily, asking some of 
thiir own, and joshing us about all the photographs we 
were taking. We left at about 9:30 p.m., before the 
dancing session had ended. 
Rusty made a short speech over the microphone before 
we left, explaining a hit more about our project and 
thanking them all for their cooperation. He aleo took 
the opportunity to persuade I.W. McKee to stand for a 
family portrait with "Little Vera", "Big Vera", and 
Wes Dunaway. 
Day 5—22 August, 1980 
Briefing with Rusty and Elke in the car on the way 
out to the McKee ranch. The morning's plan; comprehensive 
recording of th^ings"planted" on the McKee ranchstead—those 
immobile ofjects that represent samples of the cultural 
landscape. Ideally we would pace off the ranch yard 
(placement of and distances between ranch buildings); 
had we the skills necessary, it would be preferable to make a 
topographical diagram of the lay of the land in this region 
where elevation and water flow are so vital. 
CO80-BO-FN 8/22/80 
-21- 
When we arrived at the McKee's, Vera McKee and her 
daughter Mary were awaiting the veterinarian, as one of the 
colts belonging to their neighbors, Paul and Nell Callahan 
(Box 185, Silverthorne, CO 80498), had injured its leg. 
The colt had not been handled much by humans, and it had 
reportedly taken six adults wrestling with it the night 
TV»‘* wols wKy Vtr* wo, \a>c +© T-k* ^ict* 
before to bandage the wound.h They expressed their concern 
that the bandage was now too tight and commented quietly to 
each other about the colt's movements throughout our 
conve rsation. 
Rusty, Elke, Vera, Mary, and I conversed informally as 
we stood in the corral between the two barns. They explained 
that they had purchased tne property from Blue River Highlands 
Corporation. They knew that it had belonged to a Mr. and 
Mrs. Ed Johnson now living in Denver, whose phone number they 
have. They thought the property must have been homesteaded 
by Johnsorls|wife' s family; at any rate, the place had been 
referred to as the "Old Johnson Homestead". 
I.W. and Vera are currently renovating their house, 
and Vera mentioned that they nad discovered newspapers 
dating from the 1920's under the wallpapering in the 
kitchen. 
We also reviewed some of the ,,cKee family history 
with them. Mary, with some assistance from Vera told again 
about how the Choctaw relatives moved from Tennessee to 
Oklahoma Territory on the Trail of Tears and how son 
John (?) Smallwood left college and followed them, walking 
60 days to reach his distination. He married and was eventually 
C080-80-FN 
0 
-22- 
killed in a shootout; his wife died in childbirth three weeks 
later. The son was adopted by his aunt, who had married into 
% 
the McKee family. Vera stated that the name McKee was actually 
of French origin, the story being that it was found to be 
too long when the family immigrated and was shortened to 
McKee. She added that it might simply be a story, that 
perhaps the name changed in order to coyer up the tracks 
of some outlaw member of the family. When I made some 
comment to the effect that this might be an unpleasant 
discovery, she replied to the contrary, that she thought 
it would be exciting to have an outlaw ancestor. 
We also ascertained that they do- not brand their 
horses, though some of those they keep for the Callahans 
already have brands. 
Rusty and Elke went to record Log Barn #2. I followed 
Mary and Vera over beside the corral where they sat with 
the neighbor, Mrs. Callahan, waiting for the vet. 
for** i took information for the interview report form 
from Vera, as well as trying to clarify once more the 
Choctaw Indian story, which had us all confused in terms 
of the number of generations involved. Mary brought out 
the framed newspaper clipping and a typed copy of the 
article, which had been written in the 1930's for a local 
Oklahoma newspaper, in honor of 100 years of continuous 
residence by the Smallwood/McKee clan. It related that 
in 1834, William Smallwood left his home in Missouri to 
attend school in Kentucky. Dissatisfied with the rations 
-23- 
of goat meat he was fed there, he returned to Missouri, 
only to discover that his family, who had "Choctaw 
blood" .in tneir veins had departed for Oklahoma Territory, 
where they were entitled to a parcel of land. William 
Smallwood followed, married Narciani Bearfield there 
and in 1837 settled on 40 acres of land outside Soper. 
Their daughter, Mary Smallwood, married John Davis 
McKee and had seven children by him. It was she that the 
article revolted around, describing her food customs, and 
her surviving family. 
Step by step Vera and I proceeded from this document: 
Mary Smallwood McKee took in ner nephew, Isaac (Smallwood) 
McKee, who eventually became the fatner of I.W. McKee. 
Vera left to reshuffle cars in the yard, so I continued 
the conversation with Mary. Her full name is Mary McKee Joecks. 
Her permanent home is in Denver, wnere, she explained, 
"rtfter seven years of oeing a white collar worker, I just 
quit." She had been a funeral director for four years. 
We spoke about her relative preferences between 
Denver and the ranch. While she at first fctated that she 
liked living in Denver because it is exciting, she later 
commented that she would prefer to live on the ranch, that 
she wouldn't miss the city because she could always get 
there, as it's only a 1*2 hour drive. Whe noted that her 
friends urge her to sell her house in Denver and move up 
to the ranch, but she claims that the cost of living is 
too high up here for her to do so. As it is, she will 
probably stay until January. 
-24- 
We discussed the "D.I." (Old Dillon Inn), the place 
she, her sister Doris and Doris' boyfriend go to dance on 
% 
Friday and Saturday nights. She says they check around 
to make sure it's going to have a country and western band, 
that she wears her Levi's and a nice shirt, and that it 
usually starts getting active around 11 p.m. 
We talked about horseback riding. She referred to 
her childhood years which,. >until the age of 12, were spent 
on ranches, making her familiar early on with riding and 
ranch work. A fall from a horse discouraged her from riding 
for several years. But, she said, seeing everyone going 
off riding every day this summer determined her to take 
up riding again. Wow she rides every day; they can ride 
almost anywhere over the hills, as they have an understanding 
with the propert^olders. This, weekend she, Doris, and 
Doris' boyfriend plan to ride out for an overnight campout. 
As we waiting for the vet, I asked her what they keep 
on hand for doctoring the animals in emergencies. She named 
Phearson's (sp?) ointment and a spray-on application used 
to wash away dead skin—both obtained from the vet—as well 
as compresses and bandages. 
For awhile Wes stood nearby chatting with the neighbor. 
Wes works up at the mine; he explained that he is free 
during the day because he is on a late shift, and that 
the shift changes frequently. 
X v« NWy ow rU ^ if W 
vvcxKt WtJW-t W. ejec>d*4 -fo ou cLuu, ™ 
The vet, John Coburn (DVM, 106 Eagle Ave., Kremmling, 
phone; 724-3633) arrived. (Note; neither Nell Callahan 
(. 
-25- 
no r Wes Dunaway knew the name of the ve£; I finally obtained 
it from Dick McKee.) Coburn was noted by Vera McKee to 
% 
be the nearest—and practically only—large animal vet 
in the area. He also raises quarter horses and hays, 
according th Vera. 
,i co»«>-i!»-icnjy(o(i-33j i watched fend photographed the doctoring session. Coburn, 
with the help of I.W. and Wes Dunaway, roped the foal. 
Because it haa newer been handled and was very skittish, 
they decided to tranquilize it. The deal’s mother, Caroline, 
who was running with it in the corral, was disturbed by 
the maneuvers, so they roped her as well, and she stood 
protectively over the foal throughout the proceedings. 
After administering the tranquilizer, the vet spent 
over two hours cleaning the large gash on the colt's leg 
with a green antiseptic liquid and strips of yellow 
towelling and then suturing the wound. He hadn't reached 
the bandaging stage before we had to leave. Assisting in 
the doctoring session were Vera McKee, Nell Callahan, 
Mary Joecks, an assistant of the vet's and, at times, Wes 
ACHtk mcKtt 4 X-w. MStKc*. 
Dunaway. They all quietly looked on as they held lead 
ropes, handed instruments, or soothed the animals, occasionally 
making comments or asking questions of the vet about how 
much blood loss the colt could sustain and what they 
should do the next time for first aid in a case like this, 
ox joking with Mrs. Callahan about her smoking habit. 
We left at 1:30 p,m. 
Lunch beside_Slate Creek, utilizing creek water fo 
CO80-BO-FN 8/22/80 
-26- 
feed our thirsty radiator. 
»K>»:COIO 50-3(1-3) 
lao - eo-v Nt. 
Arrived in Kremmling with ailing radiator, left the 
car at the CONOCO station to be fixed. 
We recorded the log jail in the Kremmling city park 
(on Park Street). Interesting features were the double 
thickness doors, which Rusty explained are common to 
buildings requiring extra protection or insulation, e:g. 
icehouses, smokehouses and jails. Notiaeble on both the 
internal and external surfaces of the right wall (as one 
faces the building) was a patch that had been filled 
by replacement hewn logs, (Rusty's suggestion: someone 
had broken out of the jail at that spot ?). Decorative 
features included a shigled gable and verge ("barge") 
notches 
board (a trim bordering the roof); hewn ^ and nail 
holes suggested that it had onee had vertical boards 
covering the square-notch cornering, a feature not installed 
in the present restoration. The interior walls were 
hung with memorabilia—framed photographs and news clippings 
of Kremmling events; a guest book sat on a stand in the 
center of the room. 
Icc^o-eo-L-i. 
On the way to Knorr ranch—photography lesson: film 
and camera lenses. 
Visit to the Knorr ranch. 
We photographed the completion of one hay stack and 
the beginning of another. Elke and Rusty talked with 
C080-BO-FN 8/22/80 
-27- 
Karl Knorr and Mrs. Enders and identified those participating 
in the haying, and the machines they were using. 
The four people working in the hay meadow were: 
Karl Knorr (aqe 67. Owner of the 
Blue River .Route property; 
Dillon, CO 
George Knorr 
Kremmling, CO 
Greg Knorr 
Kremmling, CO 
(Mrs.) Pat Enders 
Blue River Route 
Dillon, CO 
phone: 724-3898 
(age 68^. Karl's brother. 
Usually works on top of 
the haystack, also runs 
the buckrake) 
(senior in high school. 
George's grandson. will 
work weekends after school 
starts in order to pay off 
his truck) 
(Lives in white house across 
from Knorrs'. Her family 
(the Henry's) were formerly 
ranchers in the area.) 
The Knorrs own four "slide stackers" (otherwise known 
as "overshot" or "beavertail" stackers), all of them 5-7 
years old. They are homemade from lodgepple pine logs, 
some of which have been "treated". The sloping part of the 
stacker up which the hay is pushed has a slope of 45°. 
The process appeared to be as follows: 
The slide stacker is driven into place in front of 
already prepared wooden staves held together by baling 
wire. The "wings" (side gates) are unfolded towards the back 
and a "back stop" (a flat pole gate constructed the height^ 
and width of the front stacker) is moved into place by one 
of the trucks after three initial loads of hay have been 
dumped into place to start off the mound. 
Then the other drivers go to work in earnest, Greg, 
driving what he called "just a •rig* Crake'?)—a vehicle 
-28- 
trailing a circular, combirg fixture—combs the hay into 
long rolls. Mrs. Enders and George Knorr then push this 
hay into larger piles near the stacker using "buckrakes"— 
vehicles made out of what Mrs. Enders believed were the 
machinery from "World War II cars", or, in the case of 
the one she was driving, an old ambulance with only 2-wheel 
drive. These are turned backwards and run with a fan-shaped 
board attachment--the rake. 
Karl Knorr, driving the "plunger truck", then pushes 
the accumulated mounds up the sloping gate of the stacker 
(rimmed with tires for easier pushing and retraction of the 
metal arm of tne plunger truck) and over onto the accumulating 
haystack. 
They began the new stack at 5:15 p.m. Karl Knorr said 
that it takes not more than 1 or 2 hours to fill up a 
stacker. They have at least three more haystacks to go, 
one in a very steep hay meadow across the road, which 
promises to be the most difficult. 
By riding in the plunger truck with Karl Knorr and 
chatting with him briefly in tne meadow, Rusty discovered 
more information about haying and the Knorr family. Karl 
claims that he has never missed the ramp in driving the 
plunger truck; he angles the plunger alternately to the 
right, the left, and the center to distribute the hay 
Rusty ebstfuei tWi" 
evenly.A In order to remember which direction to angle it, 
for moves a nail to right, left, or center in his ashtray 
after each plunge. 
Karl said that he and his father built the first buckrake 
CO80-BO-FN 8/22/80 
-29- 
in 1935 using the chassis and engine of a 1923 Dodge car. The 
front rake is made from white ash hoards. These are difficult 
to obtain now, so Knorr doesn’t expect the buckrakes to continue, 
in their present form anyway, for much longer. Alternate terms 
for the buckrake that Karl Knorr is familiar with are "bullrake"— 
a term his father, william (Wilhelm), who came to Breckenridge 
in 1883--used, and also "sweeprake". 
Knorr was also versed in log buildings. His uncle had 
been a "skilled logman" and nad ouilt a number of the log 
buildings in the area. He nad alternate terms for cornering 
methods: saddle notching="saddle and rider", square notching= 
"flat dove-tail", a method that usually doesn't hold the logs 
together, so you have to nail them. His uncle could dove-tail 
in such a way that the logs were locked together and nailing 
was unnecessary. 
Dinner in Kremmling at the Corner Cottage. Searched 
unsuccessfully for the local cemetary. Stopped at the Old 
Dillon Inn at about 8:30 p.m. on the way towards Frisco-r- 
crowded, but no band. Home. 
Day 6—23 August, 1980 
Morning briefing with Rusty and Elke at our house— 
scotched plans for Hot Sulphur Springs folk festival and drive 
to Grand Lake in favor of continuing the recording of the 
McKee buildings. 
On the drive to the McKee's., I reviewed Rusty's notes on 
C080-BO-FN 8/2J/80 
-30- 
Log Barns wl-2 from yesterday. Notations included the 
fact that Barn #1 has a modern roof with little gapping 
between its board roofing materials, while Barn #2 has 
the original roof, with wide gapping, as wdl as a plate 
that protrudes aoout 2 feet. Rusty hazarded the guess 
that this was for butchering purposes. 
I.W. was in tne yard when we arrived at the McKee's. 
Rusty spoke with aim about the buildings, questioning him 
afcnwtheir names and more striking features, e.g. I .W .'s opinion 
was that the protruding plates on Barn #2 were not for 
butchering purposes, rather , they represented a part of 
an intended extension of the ouilding that was never carried 
out. I.W. pointed out as the most interesting structure 
the remains lying across the road from Barn*3, because 
it had hand-hewn logs and seemed the oldest. I.W. had no 
special name for what Rusty calls a "Dutch door"—the 
double door on Barn #2. When Rusty asked I.*. if he had 
ever built a log building, I.W. laugned and said, "I'm 
not a carpenter. I can't even build a good hog pen." 
I.W. suggested that Ed Johnson, whose wife's father 
homesteaded the land, he believed, would be the logical 
person to get in touch with about the forms and uses of 
the various nuildings. 
I went into I.W. and Vera's house to find out Ed 
Johnson's address and phone number. Mary was sweeping the 
living room, an uncluttered space with dining table, some 
soft chairs, and a couch at the gar end with a cupboard 
and shelves on which sfani family photographs. 
C080-BO-FN 8/23/80 
-31- 
Vera read me the information on Ed Johneonc from the 
front cover of the Denver white pages where it had been noted 
down: 
Ed Johnson 
54th Ave. 
Denver, Colo, 
phone: 424-6552 
Vera mentioned that she was fetling lazy today. I 
asked how much longer the doctoring session bad taken 
yesterday. She replied that tney finished suturing, applying 
ointments and bandaging about 45 minutes after we left. T 
asked after her dog, Killer, whom she had said yesterday 
was "trying to get distemper" the previous day. She answered 
that he was fine and that she was just about to give him his 
pill. I thanked her for the address and went out to 
join Rusty and Elke on Log Building -rf3 
I photographed this building and took a few notes. 
Interesting feature was its door and windows on the south 
side, which had all been covered over oy replacement wood. 
Access is now through a gap in the east end. The barn is 
now used for storing baled hay. 
We moved on to record Log Building #4. This was more 
fi/v 30- 
of a challenge both to examine and to photograph because it 
I -4 
is in partial ruins and is set on a steep uphill slope above 
the road that goes by the McKee place. An interesting feature 
was the roofing method. Unlike the gabling method on the 
other McKee buildings or any pf the other log structures 
[ we have recorded, this one employed 7" solid log purlins 
and a 5" center ridge pole to support a very low roof. The 
structure is connected by log extensions to the fencing 
CO80-BO-FN 8/23/80 
around it. 
The entire structure has caved in and is leaning 
precariously on the slope. Rusty speculated that there is 
a portion of the front wall missing. We discussed what 
it could have been used for; Elke suggested that it was 
the earliest dwelling of the homesteaders, abandoned for 
roomier quarters. Rusty suggested that it had been a 
workshed of some sort. I wondered aloud why it would have 
been built on such a slope-r-we tentatively decided that 
it had been constructed before the road below it to the 
east was cut and had simply utilized the natural slope. 
While we were recording Building #4, the McKee's neighbor, 
Paul Callahan, (Box 185, Silverthorne) came up the road 
on his 3-year old horse, Dumas. Rusty commented on its 
stumpy tail and mane; Callahan explained that it is of 
a special breed and will soon be registered to breed. 
As Rusty and Callahan introduced themselves and 
continued to converse, we discovered that Mr. Callahan lives 
on the property up the road from the McKee's bearing to 
the left. He bought the 40 acre property three years 
ago, their house was completed in January, and they have 
the property up for sale now. Mr. Callahan was born in 
Oklahoma and moved out to California at the age of 14; 
he lived in the area around Bakersfield—Wasco, California. 
In response to Rusty's question about whether he played any 
instruments, Callahan mentioned that he played guitar and 
banjo, that he had played lead guitar for Buck Owens' band 
-33- 
for several years, travelling all over California with hern. 
Mr. Callahan works for Schroeder (sp?) Excavating 
("dirt work", he called it) until late in the evenings. 
Rusty ascertained that he has Sundays off and made a date 
to come hear him play on Sunday afternoon. 
.„j .cow-**-its* j»-tO*'-1) 
Partially photographed McKee Building #6—Elke 
finished my black and white roll. Rusty recorded. 
ISoi*»y ZVUXfct. Wi» 1.CUV +0 Oi V* wn i/> »U-«_ 
Left McKee and headed into town for lunch. Stopped 
at Frisco Pharmacy to get sometning to staunch the bleeding 
from a small cut on my knee that refused to coagulate. There 
Rusty introduced Elke and I to Bo Bogan, pharmacist and 
proprietor. Bogan first counseled me to apply pressure to 
the cut; when he understood that this nadn't proved 
sufficient, he gave me a small vial of iron sub sulfate, 
a greenish-yellow powder with the instruction to mix it 
with a little blood and spread it on the wound—"It will 
hurt like hell, but it will stop the oleeding". It is 
frequently used by barbers when they nick their clients, 
according to Bogan. 
Bo Bogan runs a drug store solely devoted to selling 
pharmaceutical supplies. His special interest and expertise 
is in high altitude health and nutrition. He discussed this 
subject with us and the couple that had been visiting with 
him when we arrived. He believes that inefficiency in 
obtaining oxygen is the critical factor in altitude discomfort 
and that this can be nutritionally controlled. His recommends- 
C080—BO-FN 8/23/80 
-34- 
tion is that one not eat any protein for two weeis prior 
to coming to the mountains, nor for two weeks after arriving, 
lie explained by drawing me a diagram that in metabolizing 
protein, NH^, or ammonia ia produced. Normally this 
ammonia is secreted through the urine and the lungs, but 
in the mountains, where urine ourput decreases, more of 
the ammonia must be secreted through the lungs, thus competing 
with the oxygen and other elements that must be processed 
through that organ. The ill effects of th. is competition 
produce the symptoms familiar to attitude sickness— 
dizziness, nausea, lack of appetite, headache, and the 
inability of the blood to clot. 
When he discovered that I am a vegetarian, he replied 
that that was my problem right there, "You can't have all 
that cellulose, you see,"adding a chemical explanation of 
how cellulose inhibits blood coagulation. (According to 
Bogan, it takes 30-60 days for the body to beocme adjusted 
to the altitude.) He said that my diet is completely 
wrong for the mountains. "it's all right for the flatlands," 
he noted, "but up here you need carbohydrates... junk 
food: potato chips, ice cream, bread—but no bran, cornflakes, 
peanut butter..." Cheese was on his list of acceptable foods, 
as were other dairy products ("they're mostly fat", he said) 
and potatoes. "But none of those other vegetables," he 
cautioned. He also put his seal of approval on piazar 
"...just fine—but don't have sausage on it, just cheese!" 
When Rusty asked him when he was going to write a book 
about his high altitude guidelines, he showed us the only 
book published on the effects of highgaltitude on the body; 
nowhere does it mention high altitude nutrition. He spoke 
despairingly about the workshop he has taught in previous 
years on the subject, usually under the sponsorship of 
various colleges. This year he couldn't find anyone to 
sponsor it. He had originally arranged with a ski club 
to hold the workshop, but they had reneged, apparently 
because they feared it would injure their business. The 
common sequence as Bogan outlined it is that a man flies 
in from Chicago or somewhere for a skiing vacation, comes 
immediately up from Denver airport, checks into his hotel, 
hits the slopes and is admitted to the hospital for 
heart stress all in the sans day. They usually end up 
flying him home, but still, the companies don't want to 
lose that $5,000 ticket t>y preparing him beforehand. 
Bo noted that the pharmaceutical companies also 
wouldn't support him in his drive to educate, because It 
is too cheap and easy—there's no money in it for them." 
We suggested that he try getting in touch with the 
Sierra Club, a non-profit conservation and outdoor recreation 
organization. He brushed off the suggestion—"They're 
interested in conservation—but not in conserving humans. 
No one is interested in conserving human life." We thanked 
Bo for the iron sub sulfate and all the information. 
Returned to Farrs' for lunch. Rusry and Elke went 
back out to McKees'. I read; 
Black, Robert C., Island in the Rockies (to the end, finally) 
Walter, Douglas S., Historic sites in Summit County, Colo;. 
-36- 
A .Consultant Report to the Board of County Commissioners. 
University of Colorado: College of Environmental Design 
May 1976. 
(A master's thesis) Short piece on ranching history. 
Recommended to commissioners research on local 
ranching and preservation of local ranch buildings. 
Also^listed useful newspaper sources and their 
locations: 
Daily Journal (Breckenridge) July 22, 1880- July 16, 1889 
Summit County Journal (W ) July 1883-Present 
State Historical Society: Dec. 11, 1897-1972 
Summit County Library: Dec 11, 1897-1926 
Breckenridge Bulletin (W) Sept. 22, 1889-June 30, 1906 
Summit County Liorary 
Dinner with Rusty and Elke at the Gold Pan Restaurant 
in Breckenridge. Afterwards, a short walking tour of the 
main drag. 
Return to Parrs'. Attempt to dub CO80-BO-R1&2. No 
success (problems with the main cassette machine). The 
recording w«s badly distorted by wind anyway, so the 
decision was made to do a comprehensive log^of the interview 
and forget tne dubbing. 
oto-eo-i-j Media lesson and pnotography lesson. 
Day 7—24 August, 1980 
Worked on notes. Typed up Loma/Doris interview. Read 
r 
Articles of Incorporation for Rocky Mountain Continental 
Divide Foundation and Rusty Marshall's Proposed Schedule 
for setting up the High Mountain museum (written in 1979), 
Also read report on the Paradise Valley Project, which 
discusses the distinction between "study" and "survey". 
f 
C080-BO-FN 8/24/80 
-37- 
Drove out to Callahan's, on the way pinpointing Knorr's 
ranch and McKee's ranch on topological maps. George Knorr, 
the elder brother's portion of the ranch was covered over 
Mountain 
by Green \Reservoir. 
Visit with Mr. and Mrs. Paul and well Callahan. Mr. 
Callahan played some country and western tunes for us on 
his guitar and his banjo (Rusty joining in on guitar), and 
he played us some material recorded by his nephew. 
The Callahans said that they don't feel isolated 
up on their property, despite the fact that it's a bit 
inaccessible by (private) road, especially during the 
winter. (They noted that there was Dnly one day last 
winter that Mr. Callahan couldn't get out to the highway to 
go to work, and that was because ioma McKee's car got 
stuck at the bottom of the hill.) They enjoy the quiet. 
They bought the property for investment purposes. They 
hope to sell and move to Colorado Springs, where their 
son is stationed. 
They keep some horses, mostly for fun. 
Packed up and descended the Callahan's road in a 
rainstorm—stimulatingly slippery. 
Dinner at home. Rusty came by afterwards. Informal 
ofo-Bo-L-n instructions for tackling the County Courthouse tomorrow. 
R5C0RDINS LOGS—INSTRUCTIONS (8/19/80) 
1. ) Mark tape box immediately (cassette—mark tape) with. 
persoii/people interviewed, date, (casette—whether 
one or both sides), and code for profect: 
. C080-initials-C? (cassette ,#) 
e.g. C080-30-C1 
2. ) Nagra ft full track mono 7k i^s— 
Original reels should NOT be messed with except 
for 2 times: recording, dubbing. 
Cassette used for listening. 
3. )Field notes=transcriotion (or sometimes a tame log) 
which acts as primary referrant 
4. )Tape log—Index # (indicate if taken from counter on 
cassette machine) ft outline/transcription 
5. ) Delta file—for embarrassing materials. Notate in margin of 
log 
C080-30-£2 8/19/80 
MAPS 
1.) Accumulate maps: 
A. ) County—available from State Dept, of Highways 
and Chamber of Commerce. 4 plus 9 supplements 
Supplements 
covering target area. show eoned area, developed 
areas, town areas (e.g. supp. #9=Kremmling) 
B. ) Topographical ("Topos") 
C. ) Forest Service and Federal Highway Administration 
(general highway map). Updated continuously. 
D. ) Sanborn Insurance Maps— (e.g. for Breckenridge 
and Kremmling) Compiled ca. 1900 by Sanborn 
Insurance Co. for "developing towns"—sent to 
chambers of commerce as promotional device. 
Color coded for type of structure, construction 
style and material 
2.) Use maps to trace routes and visits completed during 
fieldwork period (magic marker) 
C080-BO-L-* 
MEDIA LESSON #1 (8/19/20) 
THE NAGRA 
1. ) floor mike stand preferable—movable for capturing 
all voices 
2. ) prefer electricity (save batteries) 
3. ) pistol grip mike holder good especially for outdoor 
recording. Also comes with adaptor thread for attaching 
to top of floor holder 
4. )SONY microphone—battery should be in only when recording. 
7/indscreen available 
5. )*3ennheiser microphone (best quality). Screw black holder 
on. Place battery in end. "Ein"="on" (onl/- when recording) 
look for red flash to check for on. 
3 mike patterns: 
1. circular (picks up all around) 
2. semi-directional (mostly speaker, also interviewer) 
—kidney shaped pattern 
3. shotgun (for outside—recording speaker only) 
Choose and attach to top of mike. Clamp mike in holder 
S.^Mike cable—attach one end to back of mike, other to 
machine ^Careful not to bend cord, especially when coiling. 
7. ) Reels—empty on right (unscrew silver holders) 
Use Scotch 208 tape, inches /second. One way onl.yl 
*..} (tape last k hour). Lever at lower right opens gate. 
Thread tape through gates—straight—roll a bit by 
hand onto emoty rsel. Close gate. To carry—put screws 
back on. 
8. )Numbers on lower right knob indicate minutes of tape 
C080-B0-L-3 
NA'IRA—(cont.) 
expended. 
9. )Inside pockei--oonnaot cable (looping with plenty of 
slack) To unplug, push button on left. 
10. )Inside pocket on right=power source (“external"* electicitv) 
switch 
11. ) Earphones—right hole 
12. ) Battery test (as long as red) 
13-) Mike level—look to meter, stay our of red 
14. )Playback—keep swithU to right if listening through earphones 
15. ) "diwst" switch—for checking how recording is going 
16. )If "external" power source—screw power cable into 
connection, right side pocket 
17. )Test (first stop on control switch) check raster (subtle 
indicator. Want peak to be towards middle of meter- 
check both voices of speaker and interviewer. Adjust levels. 
18. ) Record (next stop on control switch) 
19. )CAUTION—DO NOT TOUCH CABL3 OR MIKE (= interference) 
20. ) To rewind—open gate—turn to "playback" ("fast" if 
a lot to rewind) Rewind only when raady to dub. Avoid 
rewinding on battery at all costs. 
21. ) "Direet" switch—if hear echo in earphones, proves its 
recording 
22. ) When taoe ends, remove and store in hot, marking immediately 
23. ) To use counter—set at 30 
24. ) for forward or fast forward—close gate and use "playback" 
or "fast" 
25. ) To hear—switch to "playback" (4...?) 
os > Th»-m volume and meter controls down when not m use 
1. ) Photograph first: 3/4 shots (diagonals) and head on 
shots of the four walls. Best single shot=3/4 view 
of front. 
2. ) Walk around and get a feel for the structure 
3. ) Concerned with form first, details second 
Bssentials: 
floorplan, elevation (volume), verticals and horizontals. 
Enable one to sort the structure under donsideration for 
diffussion, provenance,etc. 
4. ) Details to note on log building: 
A. Cornering ("corner timbering", or "corner notching") 
"saddle notching"—corners don't fit flush, not all 
"locked" 
B. Type of logs 
C. Chinking—note material used. (Usually wood splits 
and a sealer—manure, mud) 
D. Look for foundation, corner stone 
S. Note whether it had been sided (usually logs finished 
evenly, door sticking out, corners finished flush) 
P. Sills—bottom logs. The four principle members 
upon which the building rises 
G. Plate—top framing member. The top bearing logs on 
the sides, the members that begin to carry the roof 
H. Rafters—support roof. Not*1 how joined at plate 
"rafter footing" and especially how rafter couples 
join at oeak (important element for identification. 
C080-B0-L-</ 
-2- 
A.rchitecture—8/20/80 
e.g. Bjri^isrh style couples butted flush at peak) 
I. Floor joists—principle member supporrting floorboards, 
run parallel to rafters between the sill and the next 
log. 
J. Ceiling joists—support ceiling boards. Usually 
ca. 15" apart. 
K. Note sub-flooring if possible, and flooring method 
L. Ceiling method, roofing 
("decking" is nailed onto the rafters, usually 
"shingling" laid on top of decking) 
M. Note partitioning or evidence of former partitions. 
Clues: placement of door frames, baseboards, hinge 
plates, irregularites in flooring 
N. Take nail samples, if possible. 
Cut nails —squared with tapering shape. Were cut 
out of long sheets of iron. 
Hewn logs—Method: 
"snap a line" with tautly-held, chalked string oi>other. 
This creates a straight line guide on the log, which 3 
is then chopped diagonally with a felling axfe,("scored") 
to the chalked line. The broadaxe is then used to 
peel the diagonal chips crsatdd by the felling ax© 
without cutting through the grain of the wood. This 
produces the smooth, finished edge of a hewn log. 
■m 
LESSON,; (8/21/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
Typology—based on main portion of structure, without additions 
" cab in" = "single pen house" jjflarshall} ; "single cell house 
[English tsxnn) . One room or volume—a 16 foot bay 
is standard in British and N. European building. 
Sometimes single pen houses feature partitions— 
simply note this as a detail if the structure was 
originally conceived as a single pen form. 
Usually a cabin is no more than 1^- stories high 
(the upper story usually serving as a sleeping loft) 
"2 story cabin''—if two full stories and single pen = "stack^iouse" 
Structure of logs hewn inside and out is traditional of 
British/Midwestem log building 
"Toenailing"— nails driven diagonally downwards into log 
cornering 
sf. 
L33S0N (8/23/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
Cornerstone and sills—noted because necessary ingredients 
in building. Method used helpful in tracking down 
the structure in historical-geographic terms 
e.g.-in cold Haw England, houses sit directly on the 
ground because it keeps the house warmer. 
* In Piedmont, Ga. houses are set tip on stones 
because in this moist,hot climate it allows 
more air to circulate 
-For barns it is important to have air circulating 
to keep the hay dry, and to set it off the ground, 
in order to keep rodents out. 
'•Bucks"—heavy sawn boards placed /•-■rtically inside doors 
and windows to lend support 
roofing arrangement: rafters—decking—shingling/covering; 
arrangement varies with 6thnic origin. 
This feature hasn't been analysed yet. By late 19th 
century, roofing arrangements were almost all standard. 
Before that, there was considerable variation in the 
thickness or thinness of members, in the gapping, etc. 
LBS50N (8/23/80) 
PHOTOGRAPHY 
Cleaning lens—rub gently with lens paper. Never blow on 
lens to remove dust. Never touch lens—susceptible 
to scratching. 
Filters—for everyday, sharpening, increases clarity 
U.V. (ultraviolet)—hage filter. Screw in front of 
lens. 
Skylight filter 
Filters also protect lens from scratches, dust and 
fingerprints. 
Vivitar filters O.K. 
Shoot at slowest soeed possible to clear ut> "depth of field" 
(subject and background both clear) 
usually shoot ca. 1/125 or 1/250. Find your own 
"jiggle speed" 
"Hot shoe"—charged plate for flash 
Ethnographic photography=record photography 
L5SS0N (8/24/80) 
PRIMARY R5S3ARCH 
County Courthouse 
Abstacts of property ownership and exchange—legal papers 
recording when property changes hands 
Probated wills—records of exhhange of aatatB.-i Inventoried. 
Abstractors 
Private office—surveys and 'orks up legal documents for 
an exchange of property. Maps and records. 
County Extension Agent 
Federal employee. Farmers' Home Administration—one in 
every county. 
Agricultural Extension Agency (sometimes through universities) 
—hilps ranchers ranch better* Information and 
consultation services for agricultural work, e.g. 
branding information 
Arapaho Rational Forest Service (Frisco) 
Supervisor—possibly consult about ranch history. Received 
a grant*to do history of ranching in the National Forest? 
?• 
Churches 
Church records—not likely. Few records kept, not many ranchers 
attended. 
Summit County Library 
Newspapers. Secondary research. 
LESSON (8/26/80) 
ARQHITBCTURS 
w I house"—at least two rooms wide, two full stories high. 
Three bays broken up by two windows and a door, 
or "classic I-house: five bays (two windows on 
either side of the door) 
Term employed by Kniffen (?), possibly because 
a characteristic structure in midwestern states 
of Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa, or because plan 
resembles an "I". 
little Dixie version: with narrow central hall. 
LESSON (8/27/80) 
ARCHITECTURE 
"fcuck"—both framing and support. Can sae nails actually 
driven into the logs (e.g. along doors and windows) 
'•framing'1—simply decoration 
"summer beam"—supporting beams, usually in center going 
horizontally across the structure. Used 
to support the next story or the ceiling. 
Joists join with it. Provides weight distribution. 
Rare in houses from the last couple of 
centuries, especially in log houses. 
Sometimes used in floor system. 
j - 
fUu^W iff- — c^ct- •/>\'^ 
(_(✓£> o 
0£TTM£& 
c ■— 
riaorg'o 
\x>Vif?- 'AiczS^cu-y ** r<z.'tu.rv\ 
On Recording a Building (Asseyor's cabin at Tiger, defunct mining town) 
1 - Take fotos, get a feeling for the place 
Concentrate on form - floorplan/elevation/volume (include vertical 
with horizontal measurements) 
Later to be sorted out according to diffusion, ethnic origin 
Log buildings - cornering particularly, important 
This cabins still on original site, but extensively remodeled, re¬ 
worked; was an asseyor's office (stores, public buildings tend to 
have doors on small side, as here - private houses generally have 
doors on long side) — It is right on the road, another indication 
for a 'public* building 
The most essential fotos: 3/^ Ihot of front side, then diagonal 
and head-on of all walls. 
Rough floor, no foundation, just built on dirt — not as carefully 
done as 'real' house. 
Pines soft wood, alpine, cannot be cleaved easily, is notched 
here: saddle-notching (predominant Western tradition, whereas in 
East mostly used for 'scruffy' buildings, outhouses = low grade) 
logs are left round, less neat looking; some logs are 'locked', 
others are not; some have great nails, spikes driven through them. 
Lodgepole pine (predominant tree here) - saddle-notching works fine, 
slightly twisted look 
Chinking — fine, sandy gravel and wood splits sealed with some 
bonding agent (or adobe if that not available, but really the 
elevation is too high for adobe — it does not work well here) 
( 
- One log on front is squared—perhaps it was planned to be sided 
originally (but* logs stick out too much, would be a lot of trouble 
to do) 
- Building is built right on to the ground, no foundation - another 
Indication that building is not very important; bottom members are 
sills (4 principle members on which the building rests) 
S»7^® 
- Plates: (on top ofyvbearing walls that carry the building, support 
1ttrer the^ncttb ^loor^crr- the roof)- here plates have been squ ared, 
flattened on 3 sides; 
- Tools to flatten log: felling axe and broad axe; ***■ 
ls_t step: stand on new log and make chalk line stralght/saore^rs (use 
string, tighten and snap, several people working on either end) 
2nd step: Chop log with felling axe diagonally deep enough to meet 
line = scoring, leaves series of wood chips at intervals 
3rd step: with broad axe (sharp on one side only) go along line: 
peels of the wood chips; flatten 3 sides only-- bottom not necessary^ 
n 
F 
<r 
bt^xA 
0 
C *r*rC/>+ 
-- 
Page 2 
- Plate has to hold rafters, easier to set rafters on flat surface, 
saves time and Is more efficient, “besides being more traditional. 
- Rafters are sawed straight across, tailing sticking through, toe- 
nailed right through rafter into plate; about 2* apart 
- 3111s are often hewn, too. ^ fo S'Vem- 
- Floor joist = principal member supporting floor, between sill and 
next log 
- Rafter couples are butted f]uish_a^ the peak (imp. - indicates ArrAA^c^" 
origin), stabilized bjr^c^ftar beams (1x6 boards - only- 
higher ones are original, others are ’junk’ nailed up later) 
- Pine log joist hewn flat on top only (to nail in florr boards), 
rough circle sawn lumber, random size floor boards 
- Sub-floor has wide 1x3 boards (fancier house would have smaller 
boards that more likely would be joined together by tongue and groove) 
some of upper floor has tongue and groove, later addition, typical 
mining camp ’upgrading' (junk all thrown together) 
- Front room was probably reception; second room probably a little 
nicer with l/2"x 5 1/2" tongue in groove pine floor 
- Decking = l"x5 1/2" about 2" gaps, decking nailed to rafters; 
shingles on top now replaced with asphalt 
- originally only basic log walls, everything else came later; pe¬ 
titions - perhaps 2 doors in the middle of building, looks like a 
3-room house; perhaps upstairs was floored 
- nails—good indicators; cut nails are squ^are, not ancient, are 
still being made now„ Nud £©*. 
- 
- ceiling joist in second room — probably original, supported attic; 
front room may or may not have had ceiling. 
- Second room window—maybe ride-in window? (strange shape) 
- Back-end added later, but not too much later 
- Entrance at bottom of drawing (be consistent - always keep this 
the same)^ 
- Draw first, then measure; roof pitch: angle of bottom of roof 
where it meets side wall = 55° (unusually steep) ;wewe;(part of wall 
where it meets roof) is low, 6’. 
NOTE: These pages, for 8/24/80 to end of field trip, 
incorporated (copies) into project director's report, February, 1981 
Fieldnotes C080-ED p. 1 
8/25/80 
Our morning starts with a flat tire that Leslie Farr points out 
to us just after we take off. We are really putting a lot of 
miles on the old jeep, and all the tires have suffered. We leave 
Barbara in Breckenridge to explore the town and to look for court 
records and other historical-statistical material. Rusty and I 
go on to the McKees once more to record the log buildings Nos. 
5A, 5B, and 5C (see attached drawings). When we arrive I ask 
Mary McKee if we may have access to the interior of the main house 
later, and she says that will be fine. But later, when we knock 
at the door again, ’Ha' McKee is less friendly; she is just about 
to do her laundry and does not want us in there. It seems that 
we have overstayed our welcome, especially when Mary tells me out¬ 
side that 'Ka' feels her privacy is being invaded. Rusty and I 
now feel quite uncomfortable and leave for the Knorr ranch. 
We arrive just when Karl, Greg and Mrs. Knorr finish their lunch, 
a full hot meal as one finds it in Germany, not just sandwiches. 
We are invited to join them for coffee and brownies, or rather 
'tannies' as Mrs. Knorr calls them. They remind me of my mother's 
Christmas cookies back in Germany. I get the recipe from Mrs. Knorr 
and I promise to send her my mother's recipe, also to send her some 
of the cookies I make every year around Christmas time. We have 
a friendly conversation. 
We arrange to come 
again that evening for a tape recording session with Karl Knorr. 
We also get permission to visit the "Old Dave Doig Place", property 
of the Knorrs, an old log cabin that I had noticed before from the 
Heeney road on their upper hay meadow at the edge of the forest. 
According to the Knorrs, Dave Doig's first building burned down. 
The present log cabin was probably built around 1915* Dave Doig 
died quite a few years ago. The cabin was sold to Karl Knorr before 
Dave died, but Dave continued to live there until his death.. It 
has been vacant now for about 15 to 18 years. Dave Doig's three 
children are still alive, all between 70 and 75 years old, but they 
do not live around here. There is a spring nearby, but no electri¬ 
city. 
When Rusty and I get to the Dave Doig cjtoin, two of the ranch hands, 
father and son Puliian, are Just cutting the grass on that meadow 
(slides C080-ED-11, Nos. 29-31)• I draw and measure most of the 
building, with Rusty supervising and adding details. We are both 
excited about this find, a two-story I-house, two rooms to each 
floor, and I want it for the museum, if not for myself. One of 
the upstairs rooms is patched up enough so that the roof is water¬ 
tight and it seems that occasionally somebody stays there overnight. 
We take along one strange contraption, a piece of wire.mesh attached 
to a wooden handle, the use of which we cannot guess. Karl Knorr 
8/25/BO 
p. 2 
later identifies it as a homemade fly swatter. 
We go home to meet Barbara, to eat, and to relax. By dark we 
return to the Knorrs. With Rusty conducting the interview, Karl 
Knorr talks for hours until we have four tapes filled (C080-HM- 
Rl, 2, 3, 4). At the end Mrs. Knorr provides coffee and snacks. 
Their marriage reminds me of the familiar plot of a Western movie: 
Mrs. Knorr came to Heeney as the *schoolraarm' before she married 
the rancher. Before we leave they show us their game room, and I 
suddenly realize that these ‘simple ranchers’ whom I thought I knew 
from the interviews and from observing their work in the hay meadows 
lead a dotible life: they have game trophies from Africa and Alaska. 
Apparently they are used to travel during the winter season, when 
there is not much work to be done and they are making plans to visit 
one of their daughters who is now living in Alaska. We arrange to 
come back the next day to look at the log house and the furniture 
which Mrs. Knorr promises to show us, a remnant of the original ranch 
that was moved to its present position across the street from the 
Knorr's main house, along with the log building rented by the Enders, 
when the Green Mountain reservoir was created in the early 40s and 
flooded the original Knorr ranch. 
Attached: 
Floorplan and drawing of West Bent - Log building No. 5A,B,C McKee Ranch 
Floorplan and details - Old Dave Doig Place, Knorr Ranch 
Interview Report - Karl Knorr 
Notes on talks and interview with Karl Knorr 
,oi/wc! 
Log fHcb-. # fT A 
tap (.03 !o^ S»^ , . 
5- supperr p«*.+^- 
Ve^fcaL leg Cv^ui) 
2*£ sUWs -hop 
ivwe< 
Ita^1 
0uW 
£ 
rV 
2' t")" &v\ els 0 l/-ta 
U«> 
u \\ If 
J- 
s 
\\\t u 
r^ 
r 
M \ f 
M'l 
Wi 
■Waiu/mL s 
X 
lopt 
X: 
\_ 
\a/«s4- 6ewf 
0 U^"S \cCc_ 
loo/^^g 2jx^-b 
r a^fVcv: 
t yiST'S \' 
/• ^ ' 
A. i/P^! 
—-“V* 
_/ \ 
U»C 
C OWQ- W^H^> 
log IMfWw'aefS? 
^"~-J 
T ^ 
/A. 
-'Vvi y 9 . w :r\y o^c6, ^ We^r^ ^ TOO 
y?0^5\ Voly lov^vl-4" C*.l^ "H/v*. SG/rv\_(> 4"\/yv^ ^ 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
Full name: Karl Her 
Nickname: v\ov\t_ 
Colorado project 
Interview Report 
Date: <6(36 (%0 Fieldvorlter: Ruit-y fWiMl 
Place: R*orr BrofW Rcwc^ C°ntact suggasted by; >U D. (W 
Address: R.U/« KA ( Box 5$, Dillov\# 6olo. 
Telephone number: ^olA- 3>SOO 
Occupation: Kibwc-U^ 
Other skills and activities: 
Date of birth: l/J-l^ 101^ 
Place of birth: 
'Dlwi/tr 
A ra 
City 
C 0 10 rd X 0 
Count 
State 
U ■ S. A • 
Nation 
Formal education: Gr5^0.1 .> UVttsW 1" , 
U>gK ScIaooL (n &reik^vr^e OmcI CoLL^s l9r^a Co(_U*5 ? 
Religious affiliation: viowjt y -^AAkar w'd.S L-uA^e/row 
Fraternal, community, professional organizations: Valley ^ AotlCg r<p l*/*r * . 
yA^SOCiaJ'Low, v\o*/ mifgel a/v\A Vva/iwcA ^ioMU "Ru'K SAoc£g rower? /-kSOc<a> u>n 
— Wr ka? beew pre-Sida^V a*\JL S«crAlary 
Travel and changes of address: 
1+ yeors o£ Wsckool \v> AorA CoAlw\$ o-Fl/'^rwiie ke ka.s ctl^oys 
Liv'e^i w'rF^’wv 6 or 1 wulej of AW rawck • 
YW Vlworr* Vrcu/eJl ov.ce or Ai^.c^ cv year oy kwwA'w^ or 
|rx^5 CAWy tWi k<u^ Ad Afnc^.^ or Ao IaViA Akur clawgMer 
\w Al as Ka • 
Spouse's full name, age, place of birth (etc. as appropriate): 
"2_ora ~)ea^v\ \-\ood t loor* 19S.M- iw Lc>/\0 wn o aI ( Colorado 
_ c n^f A0 AW aria aS a S-cK ool AecLcUa^- (w l 9 £>; <=>Aj2. AaygUA 
^or A. yt«rs. aA AW LaKasU* $cUool aA VW^ey kef>re *W got vna-rrv*^- 
Date and place of marriage: G[ / \ 9 Mr'S ( K«AUo^''iA CUwctU 
Children's names: X douA0V\Ve<S 
Kc^ew C A.V.*.? (c«.) 
\AeFevt "bO C At>vA CoFA^O 
(over) 
Family or ethnic heritage (as described): 
„ ^ , VilWelvw l^v\orf 
Father' s name: *•' 
Date and place of birth: '/’f * <a*rnLy 
Occupation: NUvu/r, Fre^V\W( Saloon propfieW, Ra^cWiW 
Notable events (date of immigration, etc.): |wwt0}f<*kA U-S. be^ort 
W was Yea/fJ> ol«l 0-i/oid vv^li+ary <^&rv|CC- 'vi £»fcrwia*\.yj^A->S0 
OM wcU , air, <Jc T>io*>f, +W*4- liVeJi Vu<e aUe^Ay; Vu-<YnrWa cw M«** >' 
Mohr's name: Coriwwe GuySfclwxflu* , , ( . 
Date and place of birth: 6/J1/IUI ^ret-lfWi-V , (oUf^Jo 
'"jobanv> klw off 
Fa/r w\cy ^ 
ELiT-aWf-'VU FPv^'V'9‘1 
Occupation: 
Notable events: 
PATERNAL grandfather’s name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation: 
Notable events: 
Paternal grandmother's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
MATERNAL grandfather’s name: W.'U'lO^ ArmsWg (^ay^Uctw 
\[/<& I \Z\CA bJo^ SOUa/ , \v\^'-awid 
Date and place of birth: / ^ ^ 
•bwru'tyor, UwJye/T - ^ 
Occupation, notable events; J *3 I . * i v * 
WorV- ok waVav rv^WVs J Wvw\syLv/A/m«.'- £>ia+x.W Oaa y 
Maternal grandmother's name: ^cunty “^)av\jL 
Date and place of birth: 3/iW/ |S«3 SuAUVa*', ' * * 
Occupation, notable events: 
Other relatives: 
KaW^L greed" p>r«^A(ctFW •. 
,, l( - 0»v\otr : 
M v\*L <3 r**F - 9 : 
b<xn \ 
9 re**- f^v^.oW: 
born ’• 
G wy seb vyvtua ( (aA/T^O-W, 
ScbraU ,Arm^rovN0, 
A<WU>ov\ K<-^i Sw.Uvv/(Ur( UcW* 
L0w»v''^sl B’VA-Fv'iAr' , SuJAvv/OM t ' **** 
(A 
(Form T/80/hwm) 
C080-ED 
8/25/80 
Notes on talks and Interview with Karl Knorr 
p. 1 
Karl has about four slide stackers on his ranch to build haystacks- 
? homemade lodgepine poles; they are between 5 and7? year's 
°Jd* ?he ramp angle is 45°; after the first few loads of hav 
buck heaps” as he calls them, are pushed in by the buck rakes 
directly from the back,the "back stop” is put in nlaee x. , . 
begins by "plunger truck” that pushes the "buck heaps” un th^-r^1*5 
EventuaHy George Knorr climbs on top of the haystack to*distribute 
It takes between 1 ?nd 2 hour^totil 1 onehlysttl* 
When finished, the side gates ("wings”) are folded up and the slide' * 
stacker is moved to the next meadow, pulled by a tractor. 
raJce”1^ *ermS T°r the the original term was "bull 
„ e » the most common term now is "buck rake”, and another term is 
sweep rake . He and his father Wilhelm built the first one in tMs 
ysi^g the chassis and the engine of a 1923 Dodge car 
The buck rake driven by Mrs. Enders may have been an old ambulance 
from or before World War II. It is driven backwards. * 
When commenting on log buildings, Karl called saddle notching 
saddle and rider', square notching "flat dovetail - they don’t hold 
ogether, you have to nail them”. His uncle was a skilled "lop-man” 
out needing°nalls^ ^ ^ ^ that thS l0SS l0Cked together with- 
phe original Knorr Ranch was on the site of the present Green Mountain 
Reservoir. Some of the log buildings built by his father and grand- 
b ?UyS^}rnan’ hlS ra°tner*s father) were saved and moved to their 
present location on logs and sleds in the winter of 1942/43, before 
the reservoir was created. re 
The ranch now has about 300 cows. Beginning June 1st they are grazed 
Service Land, the William River Mountain (nicknamed Blue 
dimSJJ ^mRnt); td\^ttle drive is about 6 miles long around the 
WS ^et there within a day. Before and after the grazing, 
nf ?re gathered again in the fall, they spend a few days ° 
of transition in a cow camp, a fenced-in area of about 40 acres. 
Tb* coJntrJr n^ody stays out with the cows, except maybe for fun. 
The Knorr Bros, brands are: n* 
Flying Diamond 
dating about 1940 
Lazy Kover, Lazy W 
dating about 1900 
by William Knorr 
3 
2™r,oanCh W°fk COnsists of irrigation beginning in May, when the 
QbiS4-S?£oA to raise a hay crop. The oldest water rights go back 
to about 1880 and they have plenty of water here, nice big cheeks 
from the mountains? Catarac, Outer, Black Creek. His father built 
some ditches, others were even built before. 
C080-ED 
p. 2 
I 
8/25/80 
Notes on talks and Interview with Karl Knorr 
The land is all glacier moraine, full of rocks, and the rule is, 
according to Karl: "Hay what you can, miss what’s too tough." 
The meadows are indeed full of small islands of tall grass hiding 
rocky areas that are avoided hy the hay crews. 
When asked about the possibility to stop haymaking because of rain, 
Karl commented: "It's like old Ben Franklin used to say, 'Make hay 
when the sun shines', and I've found no better substitute." 
Much hay has to be raised to feed the cattle for six months during 
the severe winter here in the high Rockies. Karl does not do much 
work besides feeding the cattle every day during the winter, except 
to go over the machinery. But in the spring all the jobs happen at 
once, the fences have to be mended where elk has gone through, 
meadows have to be irrigated and the new calfs are branded in'nay 
before going out to graze. 
Branding is now done by propane torch, rather than using a wood fire. 
At the same time his calfs are earmarked and a double serum is 
administered against malignant edema and black leg. The male calfs 
are castrated with a short blade knife. The testicles are collected 
and later cooked and eaten as "Rocky Mountain oysters". Additionally 
the calfs are de-horned by applying a paste. 
Karl's father immigrated to the area to avoid military service in 
Germany. Because of my German background, he brought out the photo 
of a distant German relative, a young woman named 'Elke' who had 
written to him in an effort to keep contact; an older photo from 
Germany, dating about 1930, shows the family of his father's brother, 
August Knftrr, at Biederkapp, Germany. He seemed interested in his 
German background, but apparently has never made an effort to visit 
Germany or to meet his relatives there. 
Fieldnotes COBO-SD 
8/26/80 
p. 1 
We attend the Rotarlan breakfast meeting, Rusty to give a speech 
on our fieldwork project and Barbara and I to record it. I use 
my Uher tape recorder and realize only afterwards th^t something 
went wrong and nothing got recorded at all. We certainly have had 
our share in technical problems! However, we recall and discuss the 
speech later. Rusty introduced the idea of establishing a ranching 
museum in the Blue River Valley, as he had done previously at an¬ 
other Rotarian meeting here. He explained what we had achieved 
during the last week and why we focus on ranching rather than on 
mining (which has been done already). He cited other museums which 
operate along this line and emphasized that this short fieldwork 
period can only be the first step, that there is much more left to 
do. The time slot that the museum will represent is still open to 
discussion; it will probably be between 1920 and 1940, but suggestions 
are welcome. The museum should be run by a ‘real’ working ranch 
family, not just by students on their summer vacations. The period 
will represent the second generation of settlers in this area, the 
ranchers, and it is so close to the present that some people will 
still remember it. But there will also be ’old grandpa*, the pioneer, 
who is still working his placer mine up on the hill. Rusty stressed 
that we need a good, suitable piece of land, and that a museum can 
be a tax shelter. The rotarians, many of whom were younger than I 
would have expected, seemed receptive and interested and asked several 
questions. Robin Theobald in particular inquired about the mining 
aspects of the museum; his family owns the (closed) museum in Brecken- 
ridge and he seemed to be willing to cooperate once the museum will 
be established, especially since he also owns a mine. 
Back at the Farrs house Barbara and I do our laundry and more paperwork 
I start logging the artifacts, mostly nails we have collected from 
various log buildings. In the afternoon we drive to the Knorr ranch 
and Mrs. Knorr opens the old log building across the street for us, 
which she has turned into an. antique shop (slides G0B0-ED-12, Nos. 1-6) 
About 80# of the items originally belonged to the Knorr family and 
she is selling them so that the money can be divided equally between 
the Knorr heirs. Some of the better items, however, are marked ’not 
for sale' and she keeps them for her own daughters. Mrs. Knorr plans 
to auction the whole lot off in September, since the shop is too much 
trouble and the Enders have complained =about being disturbed by po¬ 
tential customers knocking at their door. I have to restrain myself 
from buying any of the items, but I know that I have not much money 
and no room in the car to take anything home. Barbara and I record 
the upstairs, Rusty draws the downstairs rooms. The house closely 
resembles Dave Doig's cabin that we recorded yesterday. 
As we head back home we stop at Slate Creek again, where I had tried 
to find Charlie Lund earlier but found the place deserted. Now I 
meet Pauline, the young blonde housekeeper, who tells me that he has 
8/26/80 
p. 2 
gone to the movies this evening. I leave our card and a brochure 
and tell Pauline that we will be back the next morning before Charlie 
goes out to do his haying. 
In Frisco vre have a salad supper at the Pizza Hut. Rusty draws 
'souvenir pictures' for both of us—the feeling is strong that this 
fieldwork is drawing close to its end. My picture is a map of the 
U.S. with Bloomington looming large; we have talked a lot about 
where I should go on for my Ph.D. in Folklore and this is his first 
choice, with Austin ('Austin Island') in second place, Philadelphia 
a problematic third choice. After supper we spend some time in the 
rather nice library at Frisco. The books on Summit County that I am 
looking for are much in demand and many are lent out at this time. 
Fieldnotes C080-ED 
8/27/80 
p. 1 
We get to Slate Creek In the morning In time to meet Charlie Lund 
before he takes off to the hay meadows. Barbara and Rusty go on to 
record the Knorr ranch buildings, while I stay to interview Charlie 
and his housemates and to record the ranch buildings. Charlie was 
born on the island of Bornholm in Denmark, which is of special interest 
for me (I grew up in Northern Germany close to the Danish border). 
However, his family brought him here at the young age of two and he 
does not seem to remember anything peculiarly Danish, He is 79 years 
old, looks like an old hobo and mumbles, so that I can hardly under¬ 
stand him. Later I get more information on him from Pauline and 
Cheri, two pretty young women who live on his ranch and seem to take 
care of the house work and the cooking. 
Charlie is the last surviving member of his family. Fauline Ballard, 
the young blonde woman, arrived here in December of 1977 to take care 
of his last remaining sister Esther, who was then dying of cancer. 
Pauline originally comes from Massachusetts; she found out about this 
job from friends and she came here as to ’the land of opportunities’, 
working as a nurse and as a cook. After Esther died, she simply 
stayed on and now she lives in the old schoolhouse. This particular 
morning she was busy baking cookies and pies; later on she helped with 
the haying and in the afternoon she was riding one of the horses. 
Cheri Welden, the brunette woman, came here from Iowa in May 1979, 
to substitute for Pauline who was on vacation. She simply got 
'addicted* to the life on Charlie Lund's ranch and stayed on. She 
now occupies the old milk shed, one of the log buildings. This 
morning she is spinning wool and dying wool in big enamel pots 
that are boiling on the kitchen stove. Charlie Lund look s on 
seemingly pleased. 
I follow Charlie Lund around as he is feeding the chickens and the 
pigs (slides C080-ED-12, Nos. 8-23). The pigs apparently are Pauline's 
idea. Charlie teeters back and forth while climbing over the fence 
into the pigsty so that I get scared he may fall, but he manages 
quite nicely and eventually he drives off to the hay meadow on his 
tractor. 
Pauline, Cheri, and a number of their friends that show up on the ranch 
during the day are quite friendly. I thoroughly enjoy my first ’own' 
project during this internship as I photograph, measure and draw the 
ranch buildings (see attached drawings and slides COBO-ED-12, Nos. 
24-32 and C080-ED-13, Nos. 1-32). All the buildings, except for the 
already established old homestead, were built by the Lund family 
after 1918. I do not recognize any particular Danish influence, they 
seem to just have copied what everyone else had already built in the 
area. Moreover, it is a fairly isolated site with few new buildings 
8/27/30 
p. 2 
to disturb the original setting. There is the old schoolhouse and 
the teachery, and the community hall where I. W. McKee calls at the 
square dance practice on Thursday nights. All together, for me this 
is the ideal site for our museum, 800 acres complete with the old 
homestead, milk house, ice house, tool shed full of old tools, even old 
skis, cow barns and horse barn, shutes, old fences, horse sled, and 
other ranching equipment. All this belongs to Charlie Lund, an old- 
timer with no apparent heir. It is food for thought, to say the least .. 
Rusty and Barbara arrive early in the afternoon and help me to finish 
recording the buildings. For once we get home fairly early. 
Attached: 
Charlie Lund Ranch, Slate Creek - List of buildings, map of ranch 
buildings, and individual drawings of buildings Nos. 1, 3, 5. 6, 7, 
8, 10. 
C080-ED 
8/27/80 
Charlie Lund Ranch, Slate Creek 
List of Buildings 
#1 
The old log homestead built before the ranch was acquired 
by the Lunds family in 1918. It originally occupied the 
site of the present main ranch house, but was moved in 1040 
when the new house was constructed. John, the ranch~hand 
lives here since last April. 
#2 The main ranch house built in 1940 of stones that the Lunds 
got themselves. 
#3 Old log milk house, now occupied by Cheri. It features an 
old icebox. 
#4 Log woodshed Includes a pig pen. 
#5 The old log ice house is now a grainery and a chicken coop. 
if6 Log toolshed with pig pen. 
#7 Log cow barn (7-A) and log horse barn (7B). 
#8 Log cowshed for cows that are calfing, also calfs. 
#9 Shed housing tractors, equipment. 
#10 Log field barn and machinery shed. 
Additional log buildings at Slate Creek include the old schoolhous 
the teachery (painted white), an old bar, the community .hall; all 
are in the vicinity of the ranch across Slate Creek. 
Co Sro - e o 
C^O/rl'i- ^a//ic!/i ( SCa>«- CreW^- 
ou « O'/’/i- - V** l 
exfsfeA tadfotx ^c^j*.vrjeX VW YTtvitVi Oo«fore_ I^4-q) 
or'cjiv«*My- Wav OVA «>v^ of prtse^V W~-v >cvtt, vn®u*A w'axx 4vv\i was. bu’.tV 
^o.i'ow/i l/ivo) — v<o'ai Vw_ rau-AcU. Vv|wA. "1>.'a Ii\j«s vv\ iV 
Ivir^ ('/■<,>(- ) <- 
v'd'C.i,*A 
L- 6 U95 D 
A 
V>0 
|l iv (-'O n 
A-a w>VV 
av/w ',5*'»- 
3vivt,Afpivj + *•*•'-** 
>1 
S'- 
*y 
S'51 
X w 
S*«-rS 
> s, 
•; ; 3 pa*/ 
, 5, ?•>! I >J'(■-, 
-13' 
■VV 
- 3 
roOr/\ 
E3S3!EI 
"r 1 1 
t* “I"T 
La»</' aAA\V<ova 
vs 
-U'h- 
4 4 
<* 
Vi 
^ -yfeV'!' 
^>.'c 
i£lo 
C»'d ^ 
Ti V^'v 
£'3 
5 0" 
3*\o off S*** 1° 
Y paMc- 5j.A w'»vi /0s> 
CatJu^ 
pa<v> *-'oV\ 
&-IZ' looa. ri* 
3* i 
Cvpe<//) e»«l<W\o** 
—S ^ «*a>//x/ '"Jt 
3 V* ; 
W 
4 .1 
r,_W' -^ | f|”»' "Wr ^X^-3'C-^ -• | 
3'J 
5"» 
•4-'o 
-C P“^* ... , 
Jaih »/l 
Jl'J. »// ^r’■/-*• 3 
bOM. Sr\-3vUL ov> (WrU./ SvsU_ 
cl\a.t-w^, * C»-ir.» .e<4 Pv"-“i{ ( -r.i»J$paL|7W'’ 
fogS-=- S~ U ( f IcAV»/y\ «A. Oy.l^d(_, f L'a.*V» 
'P’S vda. -» flaV ti’wn| C-«**\cnV ic—^ 
.. oCdL Lvv\o'xi»^t. floor ... ...... 
—'••oof toml v/ilV r^il Va/ f(vptr Ca0 sVw^W* 
•reef >VVA- j;.~-r -v; ;; 
'OfSVjw'S - a<4«t ( £.V^S( vy>iSt. ]•«*.'£ 
otdL '&'**-( fl*a_ wall piper . 
OVUL tft-r ckcrJ ^3 CsoaVV.’O ' t * 
I'JO -Vp Vat- plaj-X , of r7>of- 
faf-lPrS'/ eot/wA ’°y Aja'Xpzpe*-' 
l CCoSs on Cv'^rvi-K^ WO-IL 
Ct\l^3 ]VsV> . proVr^-ll_Vt» _■_ 
(JiaVuA*- 
^ *V_.» SpaCtA. _ W .. 4 .... 
vTjfv-s Js-UvdLAAj. •* 'oty*-* w*a > *-xl, 
•g>r< 
e«t*f A 
t sr 
Co&o - ££ 
( 
T1W/41 >TU5-rWvVA" ov\ _ COy'v^' S^o v^S 
V*.u Lof.W qjoove. 
Yi3 C^\{tvV*»o^ ...__ 
1 Vo roof- pUte_ 
Viv> Y'ao^' ”V>° 
i‘ — l1 U> 
joi'sVs 
‘^CSct 
raf{e<s .. 
... . C«lL»v^ - t>ftLc«U .V-o Vfiy Lfpt-_ 
... cl*vV:... fLoor_______'.__■_._ 
Iw cuP tv\io <JvU. + pVo.Ve^_ 
W^V (X/rZ X-V^VVt*>«A CWov*y»<j(. doo* 
0 
L 
xA 
u 
V t f 
(X/a cU t iy_x ■->/'- / 
/ * C 
Graw>e^-y — 4t- 
CoT’ Oj vwaAAy 4-'a«_ ) t«. 'aovW ^ 
(3>’ ^ 
V/OOot !>Wj 
L. *' 
'/\ o'j« 
c c 
p^ 
CMl’C 
IW 
osa-Ms 
floiV 
y»l S? - 1^' 
cAv^lc*vj C»*w) 
U/of^- Hot'Sa 
S4-oA>1*5 
C ^<-aS 
'P '^° Q 
la.- Vir£vcj.L C2 xr<> 1 
co&o- £P 
Cow h,\VL'u.^ r0^rA ”7/^ 
Uorse B XT'A —- La<^ ]pUcj. -H' 1 & 
C jpa/rf C.0u/( pour-p V\oiri-C_ loot-* ( 
If***, fiVil Wtvli* 
l'* V 
X r• - • v » 
?• 'S \ ■' 
•vv'oo^v V * £ i | 
J r^ui fWI i j 
u^y ^ am' TS 
f*-Ja^<v t! VrnWj 
(O W«U £to 
9’ ^ 
■j--- 
U' 
_ : 
Vv* 3Ua 
C^VA^'t" CCjOK 
\yav* 
fes! \ ■ 
i*s 
t 
VJ 
* X'i L-f/n /.-. 
6'C 
r 
<^VxU- 
lAi*~ i^V 
SV*U. 
Csr»>wJ iVoAAt "T 
5' 
i 
L’S-9' 
T" 
/V * rJ 
*? • 1 
2?p7FH.; 
ly lo-fP dlocVt 
U\ {lily 1rv\cvV 
love. c^^tU -sat'- A 
* 
IS’G 
|, -n.4 ?;uu V>* ^ «' 
A 
f«v.C*. 
4-5^<u,c5'(c»s 
I'M- | j 
toari, 7**^ v'** ! 
V Wot«J} ' -f3v>C? 
hyf 
1 ()’ Mzp 
10' “ 
\ 
/\ 
¥' poU ; 
i /h 
IS I 
bCt ^ fc“tJt 
\ 
p / 
-4- 
: - fi**'*z*~; ?• 
Fieldnotes C030-ED 
8/28/BO 
The morning is spent writing and sorting through our materials. 
Later we get together with Rusty to decide who will write and 
send courtesy prints of our photos to whom. Then we meet once more 
with John Farr, who has been very busy and spent little time with 
us during the fieldwork period. He takes us on another jeep tour, 
this time on a rough trail to a deserted mining town, Rexford, and 
to the top of Wise Mountain. Barbara interviews him in detail while 
he is driving. 
At Rexford we look at the ruin of a mill and we measure and record 
a former mule stable (slides C080-ED-14, Los. 1-17). More mining 
holes occur all over the mountain, up to the very top of it (slides 
C080-ED-14, Nos. 18-30). 
We return to the Farrs* house for a good-bye dinner. I call Charlie 
Lund and am glad that he agrees to be interviewed this evening. 
Rusty, Barbara, and I arrive at the Slate Creek ranch when Charlie 
Lund is still sitting at the supper table eating trout with Cheri and 
two young men. Meanwhile we set up the Nagra equipment in his living 
room that looks like it is rarely used. Eventually he joins us and 
I interview him (slides C080-ED-15, Nos. 1-10). I complete the inter¬ 
view form I had started on the previous morning and I ask him mostly 
about things that I had already learned from Pauline and Cheri. His 
short, precise answers fill just about one tape. Except for the 
'Luchtfisk', a special fish dinner eaten at Christmas time made from 
dry fish bought at Denver, he does not recall any typical customs 
from Scandinavia that his family may have preserved. Again, we wonder 
about the live-in situation at his ranch. Rusty feels that 
all these ’hippies* have taken over the place for possibly less than 
altruistic reasons, whereas I feel that Charlie Lund rather enjoys 
their company and that they treat him nicely. 
Attached: 
Interview form - Charlie Lund 
Summary - Charlie Lund Interview 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
Colorado project 
Interview Report 
Date: 
Place: SUfe &(Uac\a 
Address: g,lut v/e< , billow 
Telephone number: ty'QS' 
Occupation: 
Full name: U oW 
Nickname: C lh CK Ia 
Fieldworker: t: L Kl 4 ^ VyU/r' 
Contact suggested by: 
YUir^- YLvxocx' awl 
33c?Uv\ • lr &/v" C 
Other skills and activities: 
Date of birth: % f XO j ( 0 0<^ 
Place of birth: 
B^Q.r >0 lo 0 Uvi__ 
City County 
-W\ fl/r ^_ 
State Nation 
Formal education: VWrow.gV\ groA^ " Cre.e K ScUool 
Religious affiliation: j^fo l"cwvl' C {"OY wi>r ty CcOwwi- (K 
"HaJL S U_^W Vyri.'Y l" WV'X ^ 
Fraternal, community, professional organizations: 
Masons 
Travel and changes of address: f > , 
fJow Vvt lotUv^s 4t> ol -Kou^el clu-W k\i i^ugUikors 
Sco4Vv (W. ^)ea/v>w«W«. MoSM- CK«S f a^‘ily,j -W^- ?*^v**n , kU. +WV 
OWa r**cW We, 'ouO- wnw +WAy Iwc Jvv T>^wv/^ <vW sp^ o*1/ 
\Ajea^^«w^ Wore.) j 'VvowV w\ovv-^-k CkcvA A. is 0owa0 +o . 
Spouse's full name, age, place of birth (etc. as appropriate): 
Y\ 0 A-«_ 
Date and place of marriage: 
Children's names: 
(over) 
Family or ethnic heritage (as described): 
Father'3 name: ?«-W Luaaol ( *|Ui 1^10 
Date and place of birth: 'WAa^'In¬ 
occupation: S^o ^-V^ioa< wo^k., r'a^clxu^ 
Notable events (date of inmigration, etc.): 
\wv>v\.\^r0ii«uJL -H> T^'W-ow (v> 10 0 tf 
Mother’s name: CexilloL Si/ev\Sow 
Date and place of birth: ^ W£j^4v\ 
Occupation: 
Notable events: Mo*W» broils «/« m fi'rtl, 
4- Wy Coa^*- -Vo j'oiw V\va~n 
PATERNAL grandfather's name: —* 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation: 
Notable events: 
Paternal grandmother's name: - 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
MATERNAL grandfather's name: - 
late and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
Maternal grandmother's name: —' 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
r 
Other relatives: 
X broVWs, £vvuL 0^<K t sltxye/A ow 4ki*_ ro^tk 
Vw*.y c\UA; vuu/K w\«>rr\«4 
o s\sWs, «~ck. ^ bsnuJ-y 
ivv T>.vAcurr'^; MUU 
Wvl rcAjCkUW*.* CU"«- VLO M oWoL . 
(Form T/80/hwm) 
COftP-ED 
8/28/80 
Summary - Charlie Lund Interview 
P. 1 
Charlie's family came to Breckenridge in 1904 to join a maternal 
uncle who had immigrated earlier. At first Charlie's father helped 
his uncle to work in timber, until they could get a homestead. 
Their first homestead held l60 acres and it joins the present ranch 
on the uphill side. In the beginning they had a few cows, some hay, 
chickens, and pigs. 
His father died in 1912; Charlie worked the ranch together with his 
two brothers, and his mother. In 1918 they acquired 
the present ranch, which now comprises about 800 acres. At one time, 
for about fifteen years from the 1930s to about 1940, they kept 
1,000 head of sheep; this was more work than cattle and people had 
to come in to do the shearing. The sheep eventually were sold 
because they created too much work. 
Nov: the ranch has about one hundred head of Herford cattle, the 
brand is the reversed L Bar, JL, without other markings. Through 
the 1930s they also kept 18 Holstein milk cows. The old milk shed 
and the old icebox still exist. The cream was sold to Denver in 
10-gallon cans which were picked up by the stage driver whenever 
they were full. 
There were quite a few Scandinavian homesteadsaround Slate Creek, 
many were just 160 acres; but now there are less people and larger 
ranches. Arvid and Hermann Christensen lived across the road, but *■ 
later they moved to Krenmling. Charlie's mother, who died in 1926, 
talked Swedish, but the children never did. V.hen Charlie went to 
school in the old schoolhouse where Pauline lives now, the population 
of Slate Creek was fairly big and up to 30 children attended school. 
The only Scandinavian custom Charlie remembers is the special 
"Luchtfisk" dinner celebrated around Christmas time, consisting of 
a type of dry fish that can be bought in Denver. In the summertime 
preachers came to hold, service in the schoolhouse a few times. 
There were local dances, music provided by fiddlers and piano 
players. The Community Hall was built around 193? l>y 0CC boys. 
T 
In the 1940s 300-400 acres of the ranch were sold. For ten years 
they ran a dude ranch for a few guests, often the same people came 
back every year. Somebody ran it for them, using cabins across from 
the main ranch. Charlie now still has six horses, two of them a 
team of Belgian work horses. He uses them in the winter to bring 
hay on sleds to feed the cows. 
The ranch was always a family operation with the addition of one 
or more ranch hands. Charlie now has one ranch hand, besides Pauline 
abd Cheri. In the winter he just feeds the cattle. He is semi- 
retired and travels In the winter he gets out more often and he 
sees Arvid Christensen in Kremmling quite regularly, sometimes goes 
to Denver. He is now planning a trip to Peru. 
C080-ED 
p. 2 
8/28/80 
Summary - Charlie Lund Interview 
Charlie learned the local method of haying by means of a stacker 
and plunger from the other people around here. All log buildings 
other than the old homestead were built by Charlie and his brothers; 
his sister helped design the buildings. They used lodgepole pines, 
axe, and saw. The corneas are overlapped, he does not know what 
that is called. They pulled the logs up with horses and a pulley, 
tied a rope to the far end of the log and get the horse to pull. 
The old homestead was moved to its present location by jacks, when 
the present main house was built. 
The water rights date from the 1890s, they came with the place and are 
on record in Breckenridge; Slate Creek and Boulder Creek run on 
the property; they have to irrigate, dig ditches. In the winter ice 
was cut with an ice saw into about 501bs. blocks from the pond and 
the creek here; they were transported by sled and horses to the ice 
house and covered with saw dust. Charlie used to go downhill skiing 
every Sunday during the winter, but he never made his own skis. 
They switched to gasoline tractors long time ago, but he does not 
remember when; the telephone also arrived long time ago. Electricity 
was installed around 19^5 or 1950. He still has many old tools, the 
ice saw and a cant hook, but never uses them any more. 
Fieldnotes CORO-ED 
8/29/BO 
On our last day of fieldwork Rusty takes us on our longest drive, 
past Kremmling to the Rocky Mountain National Park. Here Barbara and 
I are sent off to critique the so-called 'working ranch' museum of 
Holzwarth (slides C080-ED-15. Nos. 11-25)• A friendly ranker in 
jeans and flowery shirt, cowboy hat offers us freshly baked sour¬ 
dough bread in the original Holzwarth kitchen. Here we also sniff 
some dandelion wine, the recipe of which is available to be copied. 
Additionally to the main house, some dude ranch style guest cabins 
and a taxidermist shop can be visited. Five people (four rangers, 
two of whom are women, and a student from Indiana) run the ranch 
and demonstrate such activities as rug-makinm, soap-making, bread 
baking, wood cutting, and doing taxidermist work. Chickens, goats, 
and pigs are borrowed from neighbors. The whole project is run on 
very low funds and a lot depends on the initiative of the staff. 
Obviously the emphasis of this park is raore/^the natural than on the 
cultural aspects of the area. Rusty personally remembers the Holz¬ 
warth place from his younger days and tells us that it once was a 
beautiful ranch. All the newer buildings were leveled when the 
place was Incorporated into the park and the remaining quaint old 
buildings make a somewhat incomplete ranch, he record our critique 
on tape as we drive on. We agree that this is not really a 'working 
ranch' because it does not demonstrate the normal daily activities 
on a ranch. 
Our next stop is at Grand Lake, where Rusty shows us the cabin his 
grandparents built. He spent summers of his childhood here and is 
obviously very much attached to the place (hence his special interest 
in the Rocky Mountain area). V/e have lunch and buy a good-bye present 
for John Farr at the little town of Grand Lake; gradually we are 
getting into a f are we 3.1 mood. 
Next we visit the Grand County museum at Hot Sulphur Springs (slides 
C080-ED-15, Nos. 26-33). Compared to the one in Summit County, this 
museum Is much better organized. It Is more spacious and has a 
particularly good section on skis. In addition to the historic 
material it has a special exhibition of a photography contest, thus 
drawing local people to visit the museum repeatedly. 
Bad<- in Frisco we say good-bye to Bo Bogan. VJe do not go back to 
the McKee ranch, but I call Dick and Loma to thank them and the rest 
of their family for their cooperation. Eben has returned from his 
climbing trip with my car, and I am relieved. In the evening Rusty, 
Barbara and I present gifts to the Farrs, including an artifact 
made of the defective piece of hose from the jeep. Once more we try 
to dub tapes, but again it does not work. Barbara and I listen to 
the most important tapes and make notes for ourselves. Rusty promises 
to make dubs for us in Washington. 
Fieldnotes COBO-ED 
8/30/80 
In the morning we pack up and clean the house, then.we take 
our leave from Rusty and the Farrs. Barbara joins me and Eben 
on our drive back to California. It is the end of a good and 
very enjoyable fieldwork experience. I hope to come back for 
more work on the Blue River Valley working ranch museum project 
in the next years. 
25 
Such is the style and content of the team members' fieldnotes. 
I am now inserting portions of information from my observations and 
daily round--a comment|on the placement of stairways in two log houses, 
and a discussion on the nature of artifact collection. 
26 
On the Transmission of Traditional Phenomena: A Message in the Stairs 
This simple note concerns the process of mediation that occurred 
in the building of traditional houses in the Blue River valley of 
Summit County. The houses are ranch dwellings from the turn of the century, 
made of round pine logs, square-notched at the corners, without exterior 
weatherboarding. 
In architecture, as in other realms of cultural expression, certain 
customary ways of arranging and ordering behavior follow the course of 
settlement and regional history. But it is no simple process of uprooting 
and repotting. In the transplantation dynamics, an old living thing often 
modifies and rejuvenates itself in the ecology of a fresh landscape 
that shows a complicated pattern of movement and variation. There is 
simple retention, often visible in obvious traits of surface structure 
and in the neighborly, formal exterior of, say, houses. The alterations 
that develop in new environments or new ethnic configurations are 
often in the deeper structure, the interior and personal spaces. It is 
like that in the case of the traditional Anglo-American house 
type scholars call the "I house" when found in our fieldwork in Summit 
County, Colorado. The I house (an essential folk dwelling form consisting 
in plan of a house one room deep, two or more rooms wide, the principal 
entry in the "long side'i^hat aligns parallel to the ridge of the roof) 
has come to be known as the farmer's mansion where recorded and anlyzed 
in the East, South, and Midwestern United States. Geographer Fred Kniffen 
is responsible for its terminology, and Henry Glassie's publications have 
27 
made it a familiar part of the repertory of American folk house types. The 
placement of stairs is a secondary feature; it does not define the type. 
The character of the I house when carried into the alpine Colorado 
valley we visited surprised me. That is, some of the details of the house's 
personality here surprised me, like stairway placement. In I houses I have 
studied (especially in the Midwest, the source area for many Colorado 
pioneers), there are hundreds of recorded examples of the type, but most 
have their stairs located "customarily"—near the center of the house, 
and usually at the very core in a central hallway or on a center partition 
wall. Based on the sample documented in 1980, the case differs in Colorado's 
Blue River valley. Here, in these houses which from the outside appear to 
be perfectly "normal" two-room-wide I houses, the stairs are positioned 
not in the middle but off on the edge of the structure. Two examples out 
of a half-dozen we observed in the study area that were recorded intimately 
by Dettmer, Orbach, and me, have stairways placed this way: In the Guyselman- 
Knorr house, the stairs are placed againts the far north wall. They may 
have been relocated (after the house was moved from the Green Mountain 
reservoir project site in the 1940s) from the west wall. In the Dave Do1g 
house, the stairs are placed against the west wall. The Doig log house is 
several miles south down the road toward Silverthorne. Both stairways are 
enclosed "boxed-in stairs" in the larger room of the two-room I houses. 
Both dwellings are made of horizontal, round pine logs 8-11 inches in 
diameter and joined by the square-notching method at the corners. The 
corners are locked with 6-inch spikes in diagonal toenailing. The log 
bearing walls are chinked but uncovered and unpainted on the exterior; 
various wallpaperings insulate, cover, and dress up the interior walls. 
28 
Both houses are topped by gable roofs protected by rived shingles. 
There are no room additions, and no front porches. Side or rear 
doors were used in the daily round of comings and goings. They are now 
vacant but in fine condition. Both were intended as permanent, substantial 
family dwellings on growing ranches, and are preeminent examples of Rocky 
Mountain folk housing. 
A simple thing like the placement of stairs, far from being 
incidental or reckless, could be thought of as a result of the provocative 
interaction of people settling into a harsh environment. An old design 
process was situated in a new landscape. The result was modification, 
control, attempts at comfort. Like changing the motifs in a tale, place 
names in a legend, the shape of finials on a chair. At roughly 9,500 
feet, in the cold, snowy vale of the Blue River where winters under the 
Gore Range last nine months, people tinkered with their materials, tools, 
and built environment in order to make a more comfortable and good fit 
with the natural one. So they shoved the stairs over agains the coldest 
outside walls. They then put the brick flue on the interior common wall 
(between downstairs rooms—kitchen and living room) so the same chimney 
could service stoves in both rooms and so the stairway (an enclosed, 
closet-like space for passage only) would not absorb heat radiating out 
from the woodstove in the center of the house. The stairs were furnished 
with doors to further trap the stairwell and prevent heat from being 
sucked up (and wasted) into the upstairs sleeping rooms. 
29 
The simple relocation of the stairs in alpine log I houses is 
a nice instance of how the machine of life, the home, undergoes fine-tuning 
in the course of cultural history. Such glimpses inside the ordinary 
world of tradition and innovation are, to rny mind, important parts of 
the regional personality that the Foundation's future museum and 
educational center should conserve, present, and interpret. 
30 
K---«-^ 
Go/SeLHAN - KNOK^ r WouStf 
S<kop,ez - NoTcM£D lo&S, p.'Nf. C 00. 
seos. RAmcH 
SuMmr ro. colo. 
A wo ^80 £/>, So 
DAVf DO 16 I Wo'jse 
5QuA(?<r-MoTc^ffO Lo&D P<M£. C. \^fS 
Kno/^R. 6*oS. l^ivictA 
Sunnrr co_ cclO. 
auo i?Qo /H*\M, ED 
mo ft. 
AJ 
'XLA/V-£/L'~N 
\co% 
^ l ^-' c . ("V^O t>^ lyj (t’u'J»*Sjvv^/v^ ^/W.P.^ | g£ j^ 
\Co2C> 2&W 
0n/4, »-#v^8 
'l/fU-V^- txuyo ^ 
S^'i\k-LA 1(5^0 
fliesr ftoo^ 
(Tv*' «nri 
^ AXmJ SlT^ j 
^U. W(fW ri^rrj-^ ,'Y\ 
CivlwTLv^ *1<,'cxUA tfT\ (o»» 
,^r 
Wi-i'n ^.u/w — tp 
!0 J'-Sy.J ~0 '<jf t/p&rnA ^’8H\ 
t^'t-seWs. 
4utK toalW 
4-3 
SW ?* !t'!^ 
1 o 
4 ~pD-v^l/ A(JW-0 
1. Ill 1 , / 
• <W» 1wrr> 
2r*5 X5~2 | -X X 7f-n> 
j J' ‘ 
ItY* <■ ’ T' ^ior^Sa p/*\$ . 
w£ r^4 <(y\ WWri a<o^)V aj- 
c ffv*J'v9' , * ;^4, . 5,fk4 , 
%ua* ■ U Lwa j>. 1Xi{-Le^. 
JLv^ ,' 1 , 1 ' 
c*av«^ 'Mill tfxwiifi * 3|E>Kt afixe sktfci in 
-^rjWrr ^ tv-Kw*- 
OuX^ij ^o\VV 
35 <=*> Kj&T 
Lots- 
’*4 /a^™ ., 
. 
^4/U^>4.a *Wl * **~&j 
*£"• ***% 
b. .it ' 
0! d l yl-WtA 
Pxip CUeji>— ; iw^rt^ T;*^i 
- n a ,/*De, ,r«^fts-t «tq ig 
-^tn j^ t>a-f k'O^ 
^'r*~^' {(^ O IwYP.ij 
|» (•£*»■«* jj-JU s fd0jTp,\«irec"fS I 
<- ^ S’ie-t O 
stVjSk^ l*^^ |>-f / I 
13 Cao^d ) 
^ FD/Bo $jCC<5V^ -^1 (‘■y'— j 
TFT 
<r 
k- 
(j'c^ r5 ^>l<XCp 
it 
2'“'' ?r*v* lQ^y .fL* :^u 
Vyt rvCttU^^j (^fce^vb cO^ CSVXOX^ < <^aoo^as^oJ 
^<l^ytgjji 
DtXb 
\AV^ 
mWj 
£o?0 
7. S Ar^ 
6/-t~ IS 
(,o ^ 
5"P^—Zl-S 
.({w^3 S'Zl/VMxi ^ ^ 
2 I 
2 ' U&4 
(/ 
4'2 
f'C'k 
K 
i~l T 
t i-j 
lo 
Ua/\A 
PIT 
2<; 
i « 
S-^wv> | 
2-2 
r°‘ 
'-j*4 
*tUv 
X . \ 
(*^-\xg 
™- 
4*7“ 
/• 
-S’ x 
/ 
•1-71 
_Ir_ 
0 l i f /"(M ) 
boi /' V 5-9 
Z-4 4-/0 
4- | 
^ SaS b 
t**A* C<5H«. si^pfC p :pt (?*l" 
JV^Mka, txM^d -A 
Kir Irlv/. s.e^rCa -vi 
0j3 4 (7(58^2 rjj- i-0*^>? . 
z-S 
4-< 
Aj 0 
z_ «iie t»'-'-W'/A 
Sai l\ ^ 
2." ”7 0^ *f 
*f Uo/* 
pafccH 
cP^s 
fr*^0 txrJlAjV. C(PJAiA sWi ,^N^> 
1 Ij r&oid 
l ir / t^-ZMfrf -pxrs'Uyr*! racj/vUdL. 
3"Vs- StfvV~Q- Cft-iJL^V^ 
4 " pcw-«_5 A-aTT^^ 
-- Sw^AT^ /#» (7 ^ 4- X IjJ: m *ke) i'aipo 
2. ^Wi Jbfbh ^ 2 ' ^ SjloJr - 
- '• I X ^ —I * ‘O YtrJ’^,;J) 
Ulajji' po-\^4*.(Sv* ho > . 
S.a^> U vjvdrfu) 2 
f*~£* «i -P-*1 
jbfs4s jlX..<jt7u»ota 
‘jjJJ j 'joJL. 
pU^S-, tvtojTA )w, -/jjO 
f S^/eS 
Avxici ^ SHfc*' C kififti/Y' 7 
l < I 0 V^vLcJ Jaj S _ 
f' ^ 1M|,'lt ^ &Jrta4^ 
/4q° 
^ ~^y> A<yr> *- jb <■. I ^ 
blAf’r'l J Sr\/'AjJ‘-> ^ Ccn-Oj ff\OjvJJtS‘j 
- -fen t«sMur, 1 ^ 
(£>v 
£Vl<«- pe.4V'VK»Av 
A ✓ 
n^iJi ctajxh Y1<|. 
31 
The Subject of Artifact Collection: Chiefly about Nail Types 
As essentially material culture fieldworkers, much like members 
of the future research department staff at the future Foundation museum, 
we kept our eyes peeled for important artifacts relevant to the mission. 
We encountered many fine ones. They ranged from the homemade snow ski 
at the McKee ranch to pieces of agricultural equipment left in the back 
a 
rim of^hayfield (beautifully preserved due to the climatic conditions of 
great altitude and low humidity) to entire buildings now vacant and 
seemingly available for collection. But our purpose was not chiefly 
collecting per se, since were were identified as the Library of Congress 
exploration team only. The several artifacts we collected were a miscellany. 
The one feature easily available for collecting was nails, and I made an 
effort to pick up (off the ground, in trash or junk piles, and such likely 
locations) an example of each nail type we determined to be used in the 
construction of different kinds of buildings in the study area. I recorded 
each type, and we scrounged up examples of the types recorded. (See nail 
documentation from fieldnotes, attached.) The nail|:ypes ran the predicted 
gamut of mid- to late nineteenth century sizes and manufactures: 8d common 
cut wire nails up to 6-inch spikes for locking corners of log buildings and 
attaching door and window bucks. 
We invented our own classification system for the few artifacts. We 
further developed a coding system, much like the sort I have used in the 
past and like the system Dettmer learned working in historical archaeology 
at Berkeley. Thus, the code began with the overall project designation, 
C080, then followed with "art." with a number (artifact site number_), and 
32 
a capital letter and numeral. For example, a rived shingle from the 
historic log assayer's office at the site of the gold rush town of 
Tiger (near Breckenridge, Summit County), picked up off the ground nearby, 
appears in code as: C080-art.l-A. And for the second nail we collected 
at the same site (nails being category "C"), it was logged as C080-art.l-C2. 
A nail found on the ground at the McKee ranch (artifact site "2") appears 
as C080-art.2-A. The simple system works. 
The artifacts were placed in ziplock bags, tagged, and placed at 
the Foundation's headquarters near Breckenridge (Farr residence). In all, 
we collected in this miscellaneous fashion 25 artifacts. 21 were nail 
types, forming the basis of a potentially useful nail typology and chronology. 
Nails can become a valuable category, since there is so much confusion 
in the public mind over "historic" or "antique" nails. It is wrongly 
assumed that all square-cut nails are very old and that round common nails 
are new. Both types were used by the mid-nineteenth century (and both types 
prevail today) in the West, and indeed we recorded the existence of both 
types in the same structure dating from first settlement in the 1860s and 
1870s. 
The four artifacts not nails were: that Tiger shingle, two 
illuminating samples of log building chinking made from cattle excrement and 
plant fibers, and the grimy, tattered remnant of an original gold ore 
assayer's sack found in rubble at the Tiger town site. 
Our curiosity about old junk always has its rewards and its perils. 
After I had what folks used to call ^caniption fit" over that homemade 
snow ski the McKee children showed me lying out in the sagebrush pasture, 
I predicted to Dettmer and Orbach that it would experience instant 
Marshall 
Orbach 
Dettmer 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
Colorado project / R.M.C.D.F. 
Artifact Log Collection No. C080-art.l 
Dates 8/20/1980 
Place: Asseyor's Office, Tiger (defunct Mining Town) 
Summit County, Colorado 
Artifacts ? 
C080-art.l-A Shingles 
C080-art.1-B^ Chinking 
C080-art.I-B2 Chinking 
C080-art.l-Ci Nail 
C080-art.I-C2 Nail 
C080-art.I-C3 Nail 
C080-art.I-C4 Nail 
C080-art.l-D Piece of wood with nail 
CO&D'O/rM- % 
Ore SacK 
33 
revaluation by the family. It did. Here is an intriguing observation: 
at first, we could have tossed the unwanted, junked old ski in the back 
of the Jeep and merrily hauled it off t<? the Foundation's treasure room. 
But instead, I showed it to the McKees (recent arrivals from Texas with 
no knowledge of traditional alpine ski making), and explained how interesting 
it was to us and how good it would be for Mr. Farr's community museum to 
have stuff like this.... Bingo. They decided to hang on to the ski, 
and placed it gingerly up against the side of the house for all to admire. 
Such are the experiences of the researcher. Such plunder may indeed be 
accumulated, but I considered formalized collecting to be outside our 
job of the moment. We trust John Farr will stop by and make some sort of 
arrangement to obtain the ski. (See attached fieldnote page; ski.) 
Artifact collection is absolutely vital to the life of the Foundation 
and its museum of the future. Farr and I are confident that materials will 
be available and forthcoming. But the announcement that we are "collecting1' 
anything in the way of "antiques" and old stuff must wait until the 
Foundation really opens for business. There is as yet no storage or 
curatorial facility or staff. Miscellaneous small artifacts will simply 
be tucked away in ziplocks for the time being. Farr believes that 
ranchers like the Knorr brothers, interested in local history, will be 
helpful in the gathering of all manner of artifacts, from buckrakes to houses. 
Yet oh, how I cherished that ski. 
x.w.n ^I*-*-*. 
r.o -&<r* ,xo 
■V I Y-fni~L~rv<*e, Co £<0A3S 
\ P - ISejt /v-^w-cJ'v l—"0\\ '\L**s* pL 
\ ___- - L (lA&A C*W v 
y{ - •” - 
ac» 
rvAcU 
sX \ \ 
<3> ItfVjCA 51 IAX 
a 
I vaj H-U-^-e r*^s-eJl\ S’ <3^i "$T&'»-^t 
^ ^ ~ I O £)' ( V/tAjf" Wtf"Vi^Q. 
~^w Sl^o. <,-Y^i Sv*~w^> Co- 
X-70 a^\ • 
(^?W> 4(£-^>3S 
AC - 
tyTc - 
i n (jt+sj4 Os^J^j CSjSX n j j 
tXc - A k> ybk/v\ Pye/\‘-5 t(jv^ S^iri iX 
ru*Wrsr C^~^-cJ\ CPy^-\ s^Cgr i£&o — — 'w-oJLP <^A/ua<J ■(<? rrr-C/v-^Yj^ 
l~c ^ l-—- skrr^^ /h cfc Wevt- ") - 
/^/iu p*e S*<i'-5 a7~ CUcr(i1e LuviA r^v»c^ (sioJ**. G.aek.') . 
((INSERT in Feb. 81 director's report)) 
C080 Summit, Grand Counties, Colorado (the high Rocky Mountains) 
artifacts / buildings recorded by Barbara Orbach (UCLA), 
Elke Dettmer (UC Berkeley), Marshall (AFC/LC), 18-30 Aug 80: 
1. Fleshutts log cabin at Holzworth Homestead outdoor museum, 
Rocky Mt. National Park (Grand County) 
2. log town jail "restored" by Grand County Historical Society, 
in town square, Kremmling, Grand Co. 
3. I. W. McKee ranch ("Old Johnson place"), on Blue River, Summit County 
homemade snow ski (or sled runner?) 
log barn #1 
log barn #1 
log barn #3 
log building (house?) / wreckage 
3 log bldgs, built end to end 
log shop 
4. Columbine Ranch (Wheaton College / Smith) — log cattle shelter 
in upper hay meadow near Boulder Creek (land leased by McKee); Summit Co. 
5. log mule stable in old mining town site of Rexford, North Fork of 
Swan River, near Breckenridge, Summit Co. 
6. family graveyard on Blue River near Heeny / Colo. 9 junction, Summit Co. 
7. Knorr Brothers Ranch, on Green Mt. Reservoir near Heeney, Summit Co. 
log I house (Judge Guyselman) 
older log house 
log "feed rack" 
log bunkhouse 
"old Dave Doig place" -- log I house and outbuilding 
haying equipment -- hay stacker, plunger, stack yard; and hayfield red. 
8. Charlie Lund ranch, Slate Creek, on Blue River, Summit Co. 
0) 
artifacts recorded, contd. 
CO 
(Lund ranch) (all but8 and 10 by ED) 
ranch plan 
log homestead, house 
log milk house 
log wood shed 
log icehouse / granary 
log tool shed 
log cow barn 
log cow barn #2 (bldg. 8) 
log equipment shed (bldge #10) 
9. log assay office at site of gold mining town of Tiger, on 
county road near Farr house, near Breckenridge, Summit Co. 
10. Lula Myers log stack house ("cabin" to the Historical Soc.), "restored" and 
moved to historical society grounds, Dillon, Sunmit Co. 
that makes about 25 buildings and 6 or so "artifacts" documented / recorded 
for Rocky Mountain Continental Divide Foundation archives (research base) .... 
Marshall c 
1 ' Sept 80 
tf A~JU 
ICXH S U: 
CXH 
_u__ 
baXkrrr 
L5A^( 
kO-‘ 
#*> vf** 
•>®c. 
— Mof T> SCAl£ ^ 
A ^ ^V 
5 ^v'^' 
£ 
■J-- jz ~ - 
&* ‘H 
l(©-^ 
ui)r/Vi»p*J 
v-:cK 
fv^-Sx^c ,*n n»^ ^^'se w/ 4>' 
r>>6^- rrt^. H^ct". A-/a«-j 
6'- 'otj p'(A»^ t^4 »x b*^A fc»ll/jfa*U 
i r 
ccis v*v«4_-t f*v*»xw"j 4- s+|iki 
*0 uhSi'Jei 
4'fe6 slU*ki- \ 
logs- 
S+rcUi jrrA. 
rk/*kf>y 
“5' k«,gl' npw*^ £_i 
2.^-7 — 
u , 
Jov«rv>tv(l 5 ^ 
rc^^/- 
t" Ik4 SpacoV iockT^ \<,j 12' 
rooj-i'^ b<is« C!o^i^*<Sy) 
(oj/3 'ru*v*Ji-«'*A ['i 
V'JHS 
^x7 
Ki£Sl 56*4 T «5 ^ 
'*£r 
^.■W/udj^U 
■cr-i^r^ 
ovyA*«j p'aXa 
' 1»' J. 
«W^«Vs 
“out 
at .*U£f$ . 
i^'-La look.>2 £3 
^OaJ? t< a<5\A 
—- 
g-4g 
^ ^-U"[xis> sK.'is $k»f 
WWs-V;>|3 (<3-4. )(|I'(s>jX l</krc^) 
- .,_ S>4 Uryi''t: -fcwi f’aS.^farv 
S*je O^tTj fw»/W ■'—4- 
jlo tW-K cjr>«i 
ru^U) 
Co^O 24 *^3 Sw~. 
Cd- Qjt$aiiO 
0»d / 
^Itol 'a / r*^r o," Q f 
© wfrt <sr-«ur^'. /^rvjiU^ V (A-V" (5) tuetcviks 
mm p'i^i Jo -Jr**-*" vf zfaciKa^ (5) 
puj^a* •+• *fn>f < ^ryVO »fW5 ^ ov^*- 
■SW^'4/'.S-+«r:<<W <T<'4t> .J'UoU' 
t‘JA-§ d\ ^ ~)' A 
p\0,j ^ JouJ^v^tt 'A>\r£_ 
tel-(r> 
0<6 vu ifl <?! SA 
/a *)&m 4 3 ^ s&w a 
'■oo^i — 4k» «\.Aj sau^rA 
1 Ww 
«rre ov^oU-iVi^ti ^4- belt 
" ~ Qr-'*'*) 
/ V" , 4- pob^ 
vfront /if 
poWv A)0V*^ S fJrA)1 
’ aWep 
»fU 
CnXyi^i '1** jinllS. K«kX>^. W/ cWtVY 
Sf*-<ksM'' 
U « 
p^Ki* 4rv<W 
(?<*stas fi*j> p/le> 
u , 
c UA oamtUsv 2z.*-v* ?-4*^ 
<'"(6C**y) 
St At 
vv^vfl/ 
C fKC ov> a*r W s' Xj± J j 
J 
<2 
—..-.— —. ^ ° _ 
(ao~-v<jv*4 <£ 
•i+VKkjiA <$=. <tS S-iiLC-k cjtl^AS 
0*i 
t 
4 -Ao -6;ao 
^ M-*-ftyv^Jl f^gvj ^ 
Cj-b 
' *+&** MS 
-S-'T^ jL V\ 
rA 5l«jlt (24-c^v- 
R€Z 
Delbnur 
KIUUIV \ 
KODAK l*AF.tTYTUM'50t\3 
*»$ 
ijj ra 
*»■ * i 
mk 
IS 
i M 
jy>t ’■*< 
u*' j 
1 - 
■K'l .aTvfl 
1 ]5#* 
-"2 $§p3£] 
*** 
- • 'J- ' 
V v mT< • 
jfe»fc£ifeilK^3 
kodak »»*«»» rn-M »o*3 
'•* *■ 
—> 4 A -*-5 
KODAK SAFETY FILM 5063 
KODAK SAFETY FILM 5063 
KODAK SAFETY FILM 5063 
KODAK SAFETY FlLl 
T .»--> L_VS£i^Hj8kw«t 1 
1 i^rWfeSfeSl 
,1 nfjst.&an 
|3f!ygJH^HHBRffHG 
r -_ 
fe^~' - * ■.^ -. ^; - ;^rj 
.<■.-_ ' fc«^.iR2rj 
j£J |i| 
■ / ^Matr*. 1/ ^- 'tStmmU 
\jMSZ2*a 
; V' 
BBMBfeflSlfc" 
|y.'r:vtwir ..„£» • - 
I3A ->• 14 -*■ 14 A 
KODAK SAFETY FILM 5063 
-> 15 —3* 15 A 
KODAK SAFETY FIL M 5063 
KODAK SAFET 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
Full name: 
Colorado project 
Nickname: 
Interview Report 
Fieldworker: 
Date: 
Contact suggested ■by- 
Place : 
Address: 
Telephone number: 
Occupation: 
Other skills and activities: 
Date of birth: 
Place of birth: 
City County 
State Nation 
Formal education: 
Religious affiliation: 
Fraternal, community, professional organizations: 
Travel and changes of address: 
Spouse's full name, age, place of birth (etc. as appropriate): 
Date and place of marriage: 
Children’s names: 
(over) 
Family or ethnic heritage (as described): 
Father's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation: 
Notable events (date of immigration, etc.): 
Mother's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation: 
Notable events: 
PATERNAL grandfather's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation: 
Notable events: 
Paternal grandmother's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
MATERNAL grandfather's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
Maternal grandmother's name: 
Date and place of birth: 
Occupation, notable events: 
Other relatives: 
(Form 7/80/hvm) 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
General subject description: 
Colorado project 
Photo leg 
Roll or slide holder number: 
Pate: 
Fieldwcrker: 
Photographer: Camera./equipment: 
Frame / image ft 
Identification 
(Form 7/80/hwm) 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
General subject description: 
Colorado project 
Recording log 
Tape number: Fieldworker: 
Date: Recordist: 
Persons interviewed: Location: 
Cassette: _mono _stereo _Dolby 
_Nagra II or E full track mono 7*5 ips 
_Nagra IV-S stereo half track 7*5 ips 
_sync machine _non-sync 
_stereo/two channel recording 
_Uher half track mono 7*5 ips 
Microphone type and sound source: 
Left or microphone 1: 
Right or microphone 2: 
Stereo set-up: tip to tip _two sources, two microphones 
_other (describe belowl 
machine 
_ recorded as mono 
Index # 
Outline of material 
(Form 7/80/hwm-cf) 
34 
Expenditures for the Two-Meek Field Trip, Aug. 1980 
The Folklife Center budgeted $ 2500 - 2800 for the project in fiscal 1980. 
The amount spent, carried into fiscal 1981, was $ 1227.81. 
There are two kinds of expenditures: (1) cash outlay to cover staff 
travel, per diem, miscellaneous expenses, and (2) use of materials 
drawn from Center inventory (film stock, raw tape, office supplies). 
In addition, there were in-kind contributions such as the use of sound 
recording equipment and a camera tripod for copy work. 
Breakdown of paid-out expenditures 
1. Marshall travel in and out (Denver), meals and 
miscellaneous per diem $516.25 
2. Media work-up in Washington (Asman lab; Image lab), for 
developing and contact sheet preparation, duplicate 
slide production, courtesy prints distributed by 
fieldworkers 
3 invoices as of Feb. 1981 (Asman, 2; Image, 1) 611.61 
3. Shipping of recording equipment (air freight) 100.00 
TOTAL $ 1227.81 
Substantial savings came through the contributions from the Foundation at 
the local level in Colorado. Provisions were made for local transportation 
and local lodging for Marshall. Inexpensive arrangements were made for 
the interns to lodge in a vacant summer house near the Farr residence; 
the interns paid the owner $ 10.00 per day rent (12 days each; $240 total 
for use of intern quarters for duration of field trip). 
35 
Materials drawn from office Inventory Included: 
1. Two boxes reel-to-reel raw tape (24 reels); 12 used. 
2. Two boxes 5" reel-to-reel tape provided for Dettmer's 
Uher recorder; 2 used. 
3. Two boxes cassette tapes for notetaking, backup recording, 
dubbing of original reels for fieldworkers and local 
organization; approx. 50 used. 
4. 50 rolls black-and-white film (Tri-X); 33 rolls used. 
5. 50 rolls color film (Kodachrome 64 plus some Ektachrome 200); 
30 rolls used. With processing mailers (Kodak). 
A reference set of documentary materials will be made available to the 
Foundation, for which reimbursement will be made to the Center. This 
set might include dubs of all field recordings, a set of contact sheets 
for black-and-white photography, a selected set of duplicate color slides, 
and selected courtesy prints. Xerox copies of all fieldnotes, reports, 
and miscellaneous materials will be provided at no charge to the Foundation. 
It is anticipated that substantial use of black-and-white photographs 
will be called for by the Foundation, and the production of a duplicate 
set of negatives is under consideration. A wide array of materials are 
exptected to be employed by the Foundation in various promotional and 
publication programs in the future. 
36 
Summary; Recommendations 
This report constitutes the chief vehicle for dissemination of basic 
information about the Colorado project, 1980 component. 
The brief, intensive exploration we accomplished, rattling full-tilt 
through the lower Blue valley in a new appreciation of four-wheel-drive 
Jeeps, was a mere sample of the enormous range of traditional cultural 
materials on these family ranches. It is a region where we may, as 
Dorson would say, cast our net wide and gather in a rich harvest. Our 
work is a beginning. 
The work offers a clear example of how folklorists proceed in research 
problems and ambitions, and thus the "exploratory study" yields its truest 
product. The future of the Foundation and its proved museum rest in part 
on the ability to achieve authentic representations and interpretations of 
alpine life and environment. Fieldwork is the key^nd our modest stint 
in studying tradition's imprint in the environment in this region can 
be thought of as a pilot study, or stalking horse, for further projects. 
Much of the work we do is plainly documentary. The set goal is 
moreover the development of holistic ethnography, the accrual of life 
histories (of artifacts, people, landscapes) that remind me of the grand 
gentlemen, Krohn, Aarne & Thompson and their historic-geographic 
37 
method (so intricately applied to ancient stories by them and applied 
to material culture lately by Glassie) that remains a cornerstone of 
folkloristics. Fine. But there can be little follow-through 
for us as fieldworkers 1n Colorado; little archetype search or comparative 
analysis is possible since our job of last summer is complete. (The 
three of us intend further research in the region.) The goals of the 
field experiment--of the proposed museum—are mainly diachronic. We want 
perceptions of time, of innovation over the generations in Middle Park in 
all the region's theaters—mining, ranching, engineering, logging, 
tourism, the outdoor life. Synchronic, contemporaneous, communicative, 
structural studies or psychological or stylistic analyses can and should 
follow, after the harvest comes safely in. 
Community and family life in this fascinating natural environment 
are the heart of the project. So, finally, more than some scholar's 
revelations, context is the key to what I would think to be the best 
representation of Rocky Mountain life and work on the land. 
In the Public Eye: The project has maintained a high profile since 
my first consultancy trip and Rotary Club talk in August of 1979. Mr. Farr 
and I planned it that way. The Foundation's creation and their quite 
substantial plans for an outdoor museum of rui'al and small town life, 
together with a interpretative center with all the trimmings and academic 
quality, is news. I was interviewed over the local radio station, and 
I in - 
r. 
Ppge 10-Summlt SontlnelSeDtember 3.19flO 
Folklife Center 
, ' ' ' ' •* ' r • 1 
Completes Research 
v 
Tht?;team of research folklorists from the 
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress com¬ 
pleted their ranch research for the Rocky Mountain f' 
Continental Divide Foundation. The team, which is 
winding up exploratory research programs along the 
lower Blue River Valley, is headed by Dr. Howard 
"Rusty” Marshall. He was assisted by Elke Dettmer 
from the University of California at Berkeley and 
Barbara Orbach from UCLA. 
Marshall is serving as consultant to the foundation 
to develop research and master plans for the future. 
Marshall, whose family used to ranch in Grand 
County, also has property in Grand Lake since 1904. 
‘He has a doctoral degree in folklife from Indiana 
University and is a folklife specialist at the American 
Folklife Center, Library of Congress with particular 
expertise in outdoor museums, material collection 
and local history. 
Marshall has co-produced an exhibition on nor¬ 
thern Nevada ranching at the Smithsonian Institution 
in Washington, D.C. that opens this October and he 
has authored a book that accompanies the exhibit. In 
addition to his duties at the Library of Congress, 
Marshall also teaches periodic folklife courses at 
Georgetown University. 
The research team documented aspects of contem¬ 
porary life and work as well as the history of the Blue 
River Valley ranching of earlier generations. They 
conducted extensive recorded interviews with several 
ranching families, photographed ranch work and 
recorded architectural details of traditional ranch 
buildings. ’■ >'} 
The purpose of this research is to provide the 
Rocky Mountain Continental Divide Foundation 
with a pilot study for future work in the high Rockies 
alpng the Continental Divide. The project next sum- 
mfr is planned to concentrate on mining in the 
southern end of Summit County. 
jThe foundation was organized last year with a goal 
of developing an outdoor museumr living history 
museum. This museum will preserve, present and in- 
tcrprt.ln both living history and other educational 
exhibits of the traditional life and environment of the 
high Rockies. 
The museum founders hope to educate patrons, 
local residents and citizens from across America 
about the many aspects of nature and man in the high 
altitude environment. Anyone interested in the 
project can write the foundation at Drawer O, 
Friscb, 80443 or contact the foundation director, 
John D. Farr at 668-3277. • *- >. ■ 
Farr stated, "This was an exciting start to our 
project and Rusty Marshall was the perfect man to 
head the team. His background to the Colorado 
Rockies and his professional training are a unique 
blend of what this foundation needed to get going. 
Hopefully the project for next year will be expanded 
with his leadership.” 
38 
stories ran in both local papers following nr\y visits. (Re: attached copy 
of 3 Sept 80 Summit Sentinel story.) It is important in the early stages 
of this gigantic program to spread the word that it is serious business 
with tangible regional impact, that we are getting started in the right 
way, and that everyone's help is welcomed. 
When a master plan is prepared later, it will be printed in 
illustrated brochure form and distributed widely. It will both declare 
philosophy and embrace the business community for appropriate support. 
Recommendations 
The Folklife Center should continue to assist the Rocky Mountain 
Continental Divide Foundation. The Library of Congress connection is vital 
to such organizations as they develop programs, philosophy, and search for 
meaningful, achievable ways to become established educational institutions. 
The Foundation has declared a concern for folk culture. They recognize 
the enormous importance and values of folklife for the proposed outdoor 
museum of alpine life, work, and environment. 
In the future, certain connections will be made to the Colorado Historical 
Society and a variety of preservationsists and professionals on the state 
level. I made inquiries and contacts during the planning stages for the 
1980 project component. These state connections will be pursued by John 
Farr. It is possible that state assistance can be arranged via the 
39 
State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO, Art Townsend, Denver), but I 
should say that the current Interior Department budgetary and reorganization 
processes give us pause. It may well fall again to the locals and the 
federal agency as the prime movers, with the state offices inactive or 
not responsive. I hope welds can be made with the state offices and 
programs, as well as with university people concerned with the sort of preservation, 
research^and outdoor museum being conducted and projected. 
If the testimony of the Colorado Foundation is worthy, the 
project was a success. I believe it was indeed successful. The field 
time was too brief. We raced against the clock to get the work done. 
Further field research is now in order, whether as a programmatic 
activity by the Folklife Center or through efforts of the fledgling 
Foundation in Colorado. Farr is determined to press forth with longer 
and extensive research programs of many kinds over thejtoming years. He 
embraces my particular notions of what their museum might be like, and 
agrees that it would be best if a very substantial amount of field 
research and collecting activity could proceed before the Foundation 
declares the museum open for business. Farr thinks of the research phase 
in terms of five or more years, composed mainly of blocks of summer 
work similar to but longer than the 1980 exploratory study. The Foundation 
will need serious continuity and further assistance from the Folklife 
Center, in the provision of consultant services (if appropriate) and 
in the provision of media equipment loans (quite critical). Following 
40 
rny change of jobs this summer, I will be retained by the Foundation as 
consultant. My base at Kansas State University will allow access to 
Colorado, and I will be able to remain helpful. 
The character of further assistance from the Folklife Center is 
yet to be drawn. My recommendation follows, briefly figured and in 
recognition of available funding and resources: 
(1) Arrange a contract with Barbara Orbach of UCLA for 
six to eight weeks, summer 1981. Her travel in-and-out can be 
provided through a UCLA graduate student fund. Her local 
transportataion and miscellaneous expenses can be provided by the 
Colorado foundation. The Center contract would thus entail a 
fee, plus coverage of lodging and per diem. Her duties would include 
the development of the Foundation research archive (in consultation 
with the Archive of Fclk Song, where she served an internship), her 
personal fieldwork^related to mining, family folklore, other topics), 
community outreach activities, a potential Inventory of an important 
artifact collection in Breekenridge, and the preparation of various 
reports and materials. She could arrange UCLA graduate credits. 
(2) Continue 1n-k1nd help by the loan of media equipment 
and by the provision of basic media supplies from inventory. 
i 
(3) Arrange with me to serve as consultant and advisor, 
to include time in the area for one to two weeks 1n early August. 
The vital research date is August 9, the annual reunion day for the 
local high school; the event draws people back to the county, and 
offers opportunities for oral historical research on obsolete 
methods of hardrock mining and other matters. 
41 
(4) Arrange for a new Intern to work 1n the field while 
I am there, or while I am there plus additional time as Indicated 
to assist and be instructed by Orbach. Support should cover 
travel in-and-out, per diem, and an appropriate fee. Duties would 
echo those of the 1980 interns. 
By fiscal 1982, the Folklife Center may wish to increase or reduce the 
degree of cooperation and involvement with the Rocky Mountain Continental 
Divide Foundation. It may be appropriate to create a larger project that 
would include participation by Colorado organizations and academics, offices 
of the Departemnt of Interior, and other parties. Other courses of continued 
assistance and action certainly exist. 
10. Civil .to Veteran "Uncle Jake" George U. Hu 
below Present Park Lleadows in Breckenridge. 
end 
:e" George 11. Hunter. Building* 
n Breckenridge. 
Summit Historical Society 
ATTACHMENTS 
postcard, c. 1880 
SUMMIT SENTINAL 
(Breckenridge, Colo.) 
15 Aug 80 
From 
The Summit ^ 
m-jA m 
RyJ.D. "Colorado"Farr | r 
Monday Is A Holiday 
Aug. 4 is an official holiday in Colorado because 
it’s Colorado Day. I firmly believe every business not 
catering to tourists should be closed. A good three 
day weekend to enjoy our blessings in the high 
Rockies is well worth it. 
This is a special holiday to me for several reasons. 
My family just celebrated being in Colorado for 100 
years. Much of Summit is celebrating 100 years. I am 
celebrating one year of doing this column-much to 
the surprise of my editor. 
On Colorado Day 1 suggest you visit South Park 
City, if you haven’t already, and take visitors with 
you. It is one of the last real places in the west. 
A special project takes place this month when a 
period of field research will be undertaken for the 
Rocky Mountain Continental Divide Foundation. 
The research will be done by Dr. Howard “Rusty” 
Marshall and two assistants. Marshall is with the 
American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. 
The emphasis this year will be on the lower Blue or 
north end of the Summit County. 
The foundation is a non-profit corporation 
dedicated to preserving and interpreting the history 
of the high Rockies. Current plans are for three to 
five years of summer field research. Any projects 
needs solid research to be successful in the long run. 
Marshall will present a program to Rotary in late 
August. 
1 do hope you enjoy your 1980 Colorado Day and 
that you appreciate this great state. Considering all 
things in this world and in much of the United States, 
we live in a blessed place. 
From 
The Summit j 
-A m iik) 
BvJ.D. "Colorado"Farr 
\ 
I 
Do your ever wonder where the water eoes from 
Lake Dillon? Okay so don’t care where the 
water goes. Anyway, here is a trip tfeat you can make 
in a day. It is all in the high Rockies, all in historic 
areas, and there are beautiful vistas of aspen. You 
can take this trip in either direction. However, I 
recommend taking the direction discussed due to the 
views and angle of the sun. 
Take lnterstate-70 to Georgetown. Go through 
Georgetown and head for Guanella Pass. This a good 
gravel road. About three miles out of town is road to 
the right. This is the old main road to Summit County 
j This is the Argentine Pass road that entered 
Summit County in Peru Basin. This pass can only be 
hiked anymore. It is hard to visualize crossing this 
road with a team and wagon. 
The Argentine Basin had several good mines. The 
old ghost town of Waldorf was one of the best 
Colorado until relic seekers and careless campers 
destroyed it. 
The Argentine Central Railroad came from Silver 
Plume around the mountain and the train ‘‘switched 
back” to the top of the mountain. This was a great 
tourist attraction for years. It was the highest that a 
standard steam train operated on in North America. 
You can hike the old gra*de with the rotting ties clear 
to the top. On a clear day you can see Denver. 
Return to the main road and proceed up the , 
Guanella Pass. You will pass one of the oldest and 
one of the newest hydro plants in the area. 
The Cabin Creek project uses spare power to pump 
water uphill to a storage reservoir. The water is 
dropped back down the pipe to generate power for 
peak demand. It is one of the more unique power 
projects around. 
, We may see many more small hydro projects in 
Colorado in the future to meet peak demands. It is 
clean, pollution-free power. It won’t be cheap power, 
hov<jever. The environmental concerns cost money. 
Shortly you cross Guanella Pass. There are several 
campgrounds in the area for picnics and camping. 
Just over the pass is the small family ski area of 
Geneva Basin. It is a great ski area. 
Follow the road down to Grant on Highway 285. 
Turn right, up to South Platte River. The east portal 
of the Roberts Tunnel is a short distance away. The 
water coming out of the tunnel bore is from Lake 
Dillon. This is the longest tunnel in the world, stretch¬ 
ing over 26 miles. It has a dog leg in it and was 
drilled to fit the curvature of the earth. 
Following the highway up the road is the grade of 
the Denver, South Park and Pacific Railroad. The 
upper or north end of South Park at Kenosha Pass 
has a great view. Stop for a minute and study the 
geography. 
The road continues to Como, which is just to your 
right. The old railroad round house still stands. You 
can take the road at Como over Boreas Pass and 
come home to Summit County. However, if you con¬ 
tinue on 285, in a short distance, the highway goes 
over Red Hill. This is a hogback ridge that cuts right 
down the middle of South Park. The town of Hartsel 
sits along the east side of Red Hill where one branch 
of the Platt* cuts the hogback. 
If you haven’t yet visited South Park City, now is a 
good opportunity to do so. The museum closes Oct. 
15. It i$ still one of the best in the west. 
You now take Highway 9 up to Hoosier Pass. It 
was the view from Hoosier Pass, looking north over 
the Blue River Valley, that prompted one old-timer 
to call it “the softly beautiful valley” - your home. 
%%■ -. 
* 
Tiger Assay Office 
Mining History Reborn 
by Monica Martin 
School children from the town 
of Tiger once sang, 
Oh time will tell the tale, of the 
richness of the ground. 
Lead, gold and silver shipped out 
yearly. 
And there’s pretty rainbow trout in 
the water all around. 
Tiger, the place we all love dearly. 
This prosperous mining town 
flourished during the 1900’s under 
the direction of the Royal Tiger 
Mines Company. Although the 
song and part of the town’s history 
have survived in “Summit, A Gold 
Waugh estimates the cabin dates 
back to the 1860’s. Studies are 
being done to evaluate whether the 
assay office began as a family 
dwelling, she said. 
The intact “ghost town” sur¬ 
vived until the 1970’s when the 
U.S. Forest Service burned the 
historic mining building in an ef¬ 
fort to extract transient people 
living there, according to 
Gilliland’s accounts. 
The old assay office structure 
survived the fire and has been 
placed on French street as the 
beginning of a future museum 
park, Waugh said. 
Traylor a descendant of the 
original town’s purchasers with 
Royal Tiger Mines Company, and 
a $20,000 donation from the to\vn 
of Breckenridge. A lot of land for 
the small park is also being leased 
from Breckenridge. 
The new commission, formally 
organized in Ofctober, is working 
on a totally volunteer basis to 
complete the project, Waugh said. 
“It’s a neat community project 
and I want to get the momentum 
going,” she added. 
After the roof, cylinder glass 
windows and matching wallpaper 
are replaced in the structure, a 10- 
The Tiger Assay Office is currently being restored on French St. in Breckenridge. The 
cabin is all that survives the town of Tiger, once a prosperous mining site, (photo by 
m. martin) 
Rush History of Summit County, 
Colorado” written by Mary Ellen 
Gilliland, only one building still 
stands reminiscent of that boom 
time. 
In order to preserve the history 
of this once rich mining town, the 
The wood log structure will be 
surround by a Victorian home, 
miner’s cabin, Klack Placer cabin 
and possibly a hook and ladder 
truck from the Breckenridge Red, 
White and Blue Fire District collec¬ 
tion, the administrator said. 
foot smokestack will be placed on 
top, the administrator said. An 
additional smelter will also be 
rebuilt in the second phase of 
reconstruction, Waugh added. 
She envisions future theater 
production, poetry reading and 
October 1980 
Volume III, Number 4 
RAGS, PAPER, AND THE --- 
PRINTED PAGE BUNKHOUSE ON THE MALL 
Workshop Series Exhibit on Buckaroo Life 
I'he Folklife Center is organizing a 
series of symposia-workshops at the Li¬ 
brary of Congress to demonstrate and 
discuss four traditional crafts: the 
weaving of rag rugs, paper cutting, 
bookbinding, and the decoration of 
eggs. In November Irene Miller will 
bring her Union Custom loom from 
Oakland, Maryland to explain how her 
“hit and miss,” “striped,” and “twisted” 
rag rugs are produced. The rugs are 
made in three stages: first the rags or 
filler, which may be the remnants of 
family clothes, plastic bread wrappers, 
or funeral ribbons, are stitched to¬ 
gether; next the rags are woven into the 
warp on the loom, and, finally, the 
fringe is tied off. Mrs. Miller has been 
making rugs for 40 years and has de¬ 
veloped a distinctive, highly recogniz¬ 
able style. 
In early December the Center plans a 
paper-cutting workshop to present 
Polish. German, Chinese, Japanese, 
and Latin American paper-cutting 
traditions. The program will demon¬ 
strate paper-cutting techniques, ex¬ 
plain the different approaches used, 
and discuss the historic development of 
papercuts in each culture. 
BUCKAROOS IN PARADISE 
Cowboy Life in Northern Nevada 
Exhibit publication; see p. 6. 
The time-honored skill of bookbind¬ 
ing by artisans will be the focus of a 
symposium in February, and several 
weeks before Easter the popular egg¬ 
decorating workshop held by the Cen¬ 
ter a few years ago will be repeated. For 
f urther information, contact Ray Dock- 
stader, Deputy Director, American 
Folklife Center, Library of Congress, 
Washington, D.C. 20540. 
A photograph of buckaroo Herb 
Pembroke of fering onlookers a dip of 
snuff greets visitors to “Buckaroos in 
Paradise: Cowboy Life in Northern 
Nevada.” This exhibition of approxi¬ 
mately 250 original artifacts, including 
an entire bunkhouse, explores a tradi¬ 
tional way of life in the American 
West—the “cowboy trade” as practiced 
in Paradise Valley, Nevada. The exhibi¬ 
tion opened at the Smithsonian’s Mu¬ 
seum of History and Technology 
(recently renamed the National Muse¬ 
um of American History) on October 1, 
1980, and will be on display for six 
months. Fieldwork for the exhibition 
was provided by the major field re¬ 
search project conducted in Paradise 
V alley by the American Folklife Center 
over a two-year period. 
The exhibit views the life of the buck¬ 
aroo from three major perspectives. 
First is the geographical and historical 
setting in which the cowboys have 
worked in the valley since the 1880s. 
Second are the tools and materials used 
by buckaroos in their work, in crafts, 
and in other activities. Third is a view 
Continued page 4 
FOLKLIFE CENTER NEWS 
a quarterly publication of the 
American Folklife Center 
at the 
Library of Congress 
Alan Jabbour, Director 
Ray Dockstader, Deputy Director 
Elena Bradunas 
Carl Fleischhauer 
Howard W. Marshall 
Folklife Specialists 
Peter T. Bartis, Folklife Researcher 
Eleanor Sreb, Executive Assistant 
Brett Topping, Administrative Secretary 
Doris Craig, Clerk-Receptionist 
Sebastian LoCurto, Staff Assistant 
Tel: 202 287-6590 
Archive oj Folk Song 
Joseph C. Hickerson, Head 
(ierald E. Parsons, Jr., Reference Librarian 
Patricia M. Markland, Indexer-Secretary 
Tel: 202 287-5510 
Washington, D.C. 
Managing editor: Brett Topping 
DIRECTOR’S COLUMN 
Perhaps because the American Folk- 
life Center was created in the Bicenten¬ 
nial year, this column has often cited 
1976 as a benchmark. But with the pas¬ 
sage of each succeeding year I am more 
persuaded that it was a benchmark not 
only for the Center but for the cultural 
life of the nation generally. 
For folklorists working in the public 
sector, festivals provided the chief 
imaginative focus and the chief public 
forum for professional energies in the 
early and middle 1970s. The Smith¬ 
sonian’s Festival of American Folklife, 
begun in 1967 and elaborated during 
the early 1970s to a culmination in the 
summer-long Bicentennial Festival, led 
the way, and a host of state, regional, 
and metropolitan festivals were influ¬ 
enced by the Smithsonian’s model 
effort. Celebration of the Nation’s di¬ 
versity suited the national mood, and 
“folk festivals” (I am of course speaking 
of the modern multicultural genre, not 
the community-rooted folk festival 
which it complements) were catapulted 
into national prominence because they 
both reflected and informed the mood. 
A scant four years have passed, but 
the mood has changed, and so have the 
focal activities of folklorists working in 
the public sector. Festivals go on, of 
course, at both the local and the na¬ 
tional level—and there are signs that 
they may rise again into national promi¬ 
nence. But many folklife professionals 
have been spending more time and 
energy on another kind of presenta¬ 
tion, the exhibit. Folk art and folklife 
exhibits are suddenly proliferating in 
the nation’s museums, libraries, cul¬ 
tural centers, and other public places. 
Although they are sometimes accom¬ 
panied by workshops and live demon¬ 
strations, they of course lack the 
celebratory intensity and human inter¬ 
action of live presentations like festi¬ 
vals. What they seem to offer instead is 
a quality of serenity and reflectiveness, 
accessible to individuals or small groups 
rather than large festive crowds. 
For those of us involved in the pro¬ 
duction as well as the viewing of exhib¬ 
its presenting American folklife, it is 
worth observing that exhibits have 
tended to fall into two categories. One 
type tends to be organized like an 
anthology from a state, region, or other 
grouping, and to separate for the sake 
of contemplation the various folk cul¬ 
tural strands present within that larger 
unit. As we contemplate the separate 
strands, we are struck by their beauty 
and vitality—-just as we were struck in 
the anthology-like regional folk festi¬ 
vals by the beauty and vitality of the 
various ethnic or subregional traditions 
presented there. The Center’s 1978 ex¬ 
hibit of Georgia folk art and folklife 
tended toward this approach. A second 
type of exhibit adopts a more integra¬ 
tive approach to folk culture; it places 
more emphasis upon demonstrating 
how the various strands of folk culture 
work together in recombinant cultural 
fashion to synthesize new and complex 
cultural wholes. Our recent “buckaroo” 
exhibit perhaps belongs to this type. 
But whether folk art and folklife ex¬ 
hibits isolate or integrate, anthologize 
or synthesize, they exploit a quality of 
communication that seems in harmony 
with the contemplative mood that has 
set in since the Bicentennial. That they 
have come into national prominence of 
late doubtless results from the fact that, 
like “folk festivals” a few years back, 
these exhibits are both reflecting and 
informing the current national mood. 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
Edward Bridge Danson, Arizona, 
Chairman 
Janet Anderson, California, Vice Chairman 
Raye Virginia Allen, Washington, D.C., and 
Texas 
David E. Draper, California 
Ronald C. Foreman, Jr., Florida 
Wayland D. Hand, California 
C. John Sobotka, Jr., Mississippi 
St. John Terrell, New Jersey 
Ex Officio Members 
Daniel J. Boorstin, The Librarian ol 
Congress 
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smith¬ 
sonian Institution 
Livingston L. Biddle, Jr., Chairman, Na¬ 
tional Endowment for the Arts 
Joseph I). Duffey, Chairman, National En¬ 
dowment for the Humanities 
Alan Jabbour, Director, American Folklife 
Center 
9 
FOLKLIFE CENTER NEWS 
PUBLICATIONS CURRENTLY 
AVAILABLE * 
Publications of the American Folklife 
Center: 
No. 1—Folklife and the Federal Govern¬ 
ment: Activities, Resources, Funds and Ser¬ 
vices by Linda Coe. 147 pp.; $2.75. Mail 
order with remittance: Superintendent 
of Documents, Government Printing 
Office, Washington, D.C. 20402; stock 
no. S/N030-000-00091-9. 
No. 3—-Folklife and Fieldwork by Peter 
Bartis. A 25-page layman’s introduc¬ 
tion to fieldwork and field study tech¬ 
niques. 
No. 4—Ethnic Broadcasting in the 
United States by Theodore C. Grame. A 
165-page study of the history of ethnic 
radio and summary of field survey. 
No. 5—Maritime Folklife Resources. A 
129-page indexed directory of institu¬ 
tions across the country with maritime 
folklife holdings. 
No. 6—Buckaroos in Paradise: Cowboy 
Life in Northern Nevada by Howard W. 
Marshall and Richard E. Ahlborn. 120 
pp.; $7.95. A companion publication to 
the Smithsonian exhibit, including an 
essay on buckaroo life, a catalog of ex¬ 
hibit artifacts, and numerous photos. 
Mail order: Information Office, Li¬ 
brary of Congress, Washington, D.C. 
20540. 
American Folklife Center. A general 
brochure on the Folklife Center. 
Where to Turn for Flelp in Folklore and 
Folklife. A brochure listing government 
programs offering financial, technical, 
or research support for folk cultural 
projects. 
Folklife Center News. A quarterly 
newsletter. 
* Unless otherwise indicated, available 
from the Center upon request at no 
cost. 
GREETING CARDS 
The American Folklife Center has 
published four new greeting cards fea¬ 
turing photographs from the 1978 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project. 
Packet of six cards and envelopes, no 
greeting—$3. 
Tumbling Star—quilt section by Mrs. 
Lura Branscome Stanley, Laurel Fork, 
Virginia. Red and dark green on white 
quilted background. 
Yo Yo Quilt—section of quilt by Mrs. 
Elizabeth Smith, Surry County, North 
Carolina. Multi-color. 
Cutting Carrots for Canning—Mrs. 
Carrie Seven, Alleghany County, 
North Carolina. Full color. 
Lone Star Quilt—by Mrs. Carrie 
Seven, Alleghany County, North Caro¬ 
lina. Multi-colored star pattern on blue 
background. 
Calf branding—roping calves for 
spring branding in Humboldt County, 
Nevada; Paradise Valley Folklife 
Project, 1978. Full Color. Packet of six 
cards and envelopes—$2.75. 
Wooden creche or Nativity scene— 
on display at the Folklife Center; 
carved by Gloria Lopez Cordova of 
Cordova, New Mexico. Natural wood 
colors with blue background. Packet of 
six cards and envelopes—$3. 
Order cards front the Information 
Office, Library of Congress, Washing¬ 
ton, D.C. 20540. Prices include post¬ 
age; orders must be prepaid. 
3 
OCTOBER 1980 
BUNKHOUSE ON THE MALL 
Exhibit on Buckaroo Life 
Continuedfrom page 1 
into the bunkhouses where buckaroos 
have spent their leisure hours. 
Like much of the West, northern 
Nevada is rugged country, dry and 
sparsely populated. For many decades 
Paradise Valley has offered a tradi¬ 
tional, rural way of life, anchored in 
cattle raising and farming. The years of 
national growth after W'orld War II 
brought improvements in communica¬ 
tion to valley ranches and a growing 
dependence on machinery; the work¬ 
ing conditions of the buckaroo began to 
change rapidly. Yet, despite the social 
and economic pressures of modern 
ranch life, the buckaroos have main¬ 
tained many of their traditional ways, 
sustained by a sense of independence 
and inventiveness. Taken together, the 
artifacts and images in the exhibit offer 
a glimpse of what life in Paradise Valley 
has been, and what it continues to be 
today. 
The section on geography and his¬ 
tory offers an overview of ranching in 
the area from 1875 to 1945. An old 
medicine chest, portraits of early valley 
settlers, and an 1880 lithograph of a 
Paradise Valley ranch lend a period 
atmosphere to the display; the items set 
against these backdrops include old 
furnishings, pieces of clothing such as 
leather and brass cuffs and “cowboy 
boot” shoes from a rancher’s wardrobe, 
books, ledgers, and other objects which 
capture the flavor of ranch life. 
“Tools and Crafts” contains exam¬ 
ples of leather and rawhide work, in¬ 
cluding saddles, halters, and stirrup 
“taps,” a hair rope, branding irons, bits, 
and spurs. These are used by working 
buckaroos and many are made by them 
during their free time. A few of the 
more complicated halters and bridles 
are displayed on models of horses’ 
heads. Still photographs are used in this 
section to show some buckaroo activi¬ 
ties in detail. 
The bunkhouse recreates the look 
and feel of a bunkhouse or line camp 
cabin in which buckaroos live on the 
main ranch or on the range. The build- 
4 
FOLKLIFE CENTER NEWS 
Spade bit with lady’s leg design. 
ing itself, a board and batten structure 
built by the Recanzone family for their 
ranch hand “Coyote John” Schneider 
about 1920, was bought by the Smith¬ 
sonian from Robert Cassinelli and 
transported back to Washington for the 
exhibit. Its principal occupant is a life- 
size model of Chuck Wheelock, seated 
on a bunk with a cup of coffee in his 
hand. The mannequin was sculpted in 
clay by the Smithsonian’s Vernon Rick¬ 
man from a photograph of Wheelock, 
Inside the bunkhouse: 
mannequin wearing Chuck 
Wheelock’s clothes, 
Howard W. Marshall, 
and visiting Paradise Valley 
rancher, Leslie Stewart. 
combined with measurements taken 
from his clothes. The figure was then 
cast in fiberglass and outfitted in the 
clothing. Although seated inside the 
bunkhouse, the figure is wearing a hat, 
because no one remembers seeing 
Chuck Wheelock at work without one. 
The bunkhouse is furnished with items 
which have seen recent use in daily 
buckaroo life: the bed, a bench and 
table, various styles of hats, a “warbag” 
and pouch for personal gear, reading 
material, and cooking utensils. 
Complementing the principal exhibit 
sections are an eight-minute film clip of 
a fall roundup and cattle drive on the 
9b Ranch, maps, and still photographs. 
The curator of the exhibit is Richard 
E. Ahlborn of the Smithsonian’s Com¬ 
munity Life Division; Deborah M. Bretz- 
felder designed the presentation layout. 
The director of the field project for 
the Folklife Center was Howard W 
Marshall. 
OCTOBER 1980 
BUCKAROOS IN PARADISE 
Exhibit Publication 
The excerpts and photographs on 
these pages were taken from the 120- 
page publication Buckaroos in Paradise: 
Cowboy Life in Northern Nevada prepared 
by the American Folklife Center to 
accompany the exhibit of the same 
name on display at the National Mu¬ 
seum of American History. The richly 
illustrated publication rounds out the 
exhibit portrait of buckaroo life in Par¬ 
adise Valley through a detailed essay on 
certain aspects of contemporary bucka¬ 
roo life and the development of that 
style of life, followed by a catalog for the 
exhibit artifacts. 
The publication essay "Buckaroos: 
Views of a Western Way of Life” by 
Howard W. Marshall opens with a brief 
description of the region and a short 
history of Paradise Valley. From the 
start, the valley had both family and 
Buckaroos at a bar in Paradise Valley. 
corporate ranches. In the early days 
large numbers of buckaroos were hired 
on all ranches, while today it is the cor¬ 
porate ranches who use most of the 
hired labor and help keep buckaroo 
traditions alive. The essay examines 
such subjects as the Spanish influence 
on the terminology of the buckaroo 
trade, and outlines the broad range of 
skills and abilities needed to manage 
livestock, create and maintain horse- 
gear and other equipment, make hay, 
paint fences, and bake biscuits. It delves 
into some of the customs and attitudes 
which determine buckaroo dress, de¬ 
scribes the line camp cabins and bunk- 
houses, and tells something about what 
buckaroos think of their lives. 
A complete list of exhibit artifacts 
prepared by Richard E. Ahlborn fol¬ 
lows the essay. Grouped into the three 
main exhibit topics, “Background to 
Buckaroo Life,” “Tools and Crafts,” 
and "Bunkhouse," the artifact entries 
are listed under subtopics such as “cos¬ 
tume,” “foodways,” and “saddlery.” 
Each entry gives a description of the 
item and approximate date when it was 
produced, with measurements and 
other information. The publication is 
generously illustrated with photo¬ 
graphs of buckaroos at work and dur¬ 
ing their free time, of valley ranches, 
and line camps, historical photographs, 
and pictures of many of the exhibit arti¬ 
facts. 
The catalog was published through 
the Center’s Elizabeth Hamer Kegan 
Fund, greatly assisted by a generous 
donation from the Garvey Kansas 
Foundation of Wichita, Kansas. 
b 
FOLKLIFE CENTER NEWS 
Tex Northrup. 
Buckaroos in Paradise: Cowboy Life 
in Northern Nevada can be purchased 
for $7.95 from the Information 
Office sales counter at the Library of 
Congress, and by mail from the In¬ 
formation Office, Library of Con¬ 
gress, Washington, D.C. 20540. 
In the Great Basin range cattle industry, the vaqueros 
came first—not Anglo or black cowboys, but Hispanic Cali¬ 
fornia horsemen. In the Spanish colonial days before the 
cattle business developed, vaqueros worked mostly for hide 
and tallow companies in California. Later, as Anglo ranches 
and herds were being built up, the European-American 
pioneers employed Mexican vaqueros, and the vaquero 
traditions of horsemanship, equipment, and language 
greatly influenced other working cowboys. By the time the 
open-range cattle business reached its heyday in the gen¬ 
eration after the Civil War and family and corporate 
ranches were thriving in northern Nevada, vaquero was the 
word used for cowboy. The legacy of expertise imparted by 
the oldtime vaqueros lives on in Paradise Valley, in the 
riatas and horsegear made by traditional “rawhiders” like 
Frank Loveland and the everday use of Hispanic 
California-style, center-fired saddles with “taps” covering 
the stirrups. 
Vaqueros were probably not a year-round fixture of the 
local scene in the early days in northern Nevada. They 
drove herds into the territory, providing breeding stock for 
ranchers, but the earliest farmer-ranchers did not or could 
not use many hired riders. Families helped neighboring 
families with cooperative labors, and the community’s dif¬ 
ferent herds of cattle “ran in common” on the open range. 
The first full-time, wage-earning vaqueros were probably 
employed by the big companies that for dif ferent reasons 
bought out small ranches in the county, slowly acquiring 
title or control of huge tracts and many small ranches that 
became “headquarters,” foreman’s homes, or buckaroo 
camps. Outfits like the Milpitas Land and Live Stock Com¬ 
pany (with holdings in California, Nevada, and Idaho), 
Miller and Lux, and the butchering firm of Godchaux and 
Brandenstine (with headquarters in the San Francisco 
area), typified the large corporations that were influential 
alongside the family ranches in Nevada’s growth. In time, 
the absentee-owned companies of the early days and later 
locally run corporations like the McCleary Cattle Company 
were bought out by corporations like today’s Nevada Gar¬ 
vey Ranches, Inc., with head offices in Wichita, Kansas. 
Buckaroos live most of the year in some sort of house on 
the home ranch, but those who work for the big corpora¬ 
tions spend weeks at a time out on the rangelands tending 
the cattle. They go to and from the camps in trucks, hauling 
horses, equipment, and supplies as they go. The buckaroo 
camps are without plumbing, electricity, or other luxuries 
of civilization. Working “on the mountain” and “on the 
wagon,” many men like it that way. There is solitude, there 
is work, there is the land. 
Many a long afternoon on the mountain (working cattle 
through the BLM or Forest Service grazing allotment) is 
spent in camp, when the day's work is done, and the hours 
are whittled away by an assortment of pastimes. Dave Hil¬ 
ler, a Nevada Vaca corporation cowboy in 1979, spent 
hours making horse gear from miscellaneous materials sal¬ 
vaged from the home ranch. The steel spurs he makes are 
not for the cases in the stores in town, but for his job. 
Bunkhouse f urniture is homemade out of lumber high- 
graded from the ranch, and some buckaroos make their 
own riatas, macardies, and hackamores as well as lead ropes 
and other equipment. There is a great pride of workman¬ 
ship in everything handmade, whether a piece of equip¬ 
ment is created from scratch or decorated to make it one’s 
own. 
OCTOBER 1980 
COLORADO CONSULTANCY 
The American Folklife Center has 
been assisting the Rocky Mountain 
Continental Divide Foundation in Col¬ 
orado to do research and develop plans 
for an outdoor museum of high alti¬ 
tude life and work. The foundation, 
made up largely of residents of Summit 
County, Colorado, expects eventually 
to develop living history and other mu¬ 
seum displays to interpret the southern 
Rocky Mountain region from northern 
New Mexico to southern Wyoming, 
with the high country of Colorado's 
Middle Park at the heart. 
Center staff member Howard W. 
Marshall is assisting the foundation in 
the planning and design of the future 
museum. During August he conducted 
two weeks of fieldwork in the Blue 
River Valley area of Colorado, working 
in and near the towns of Frisco, Dillon, 
and Kremmling. The brief exploratory 
field visit was intended to locate re¬ 
sources for the development of the 
museum and to help the foundation 
implement productive research tech¬ 
niques. Accompanying him were three 
interns who exchanged their research 
and interviewing services for the 
experience of participating in the field 
project: Elke Dettmer, a folklore grad¬ 
uate student from the University of 
California at Berkeley, Barbara 
Orbach, a former intern in the Archive 
of Folk Song now studying at UCLA, 
and Ron Emrich, training in historic 
preservation at Columbia University. 
Local services and assistance were pro¬ 
vided by John D. Farr of Summit 
County, representing the foundation. 
Throughout their two-week field trip 
Marshall, Dettmer, and Orbach docu¬ 
mented traditional architecture and 
material culture on several pioneer 
ranches in the 9,000-foot Blue Valley. 
They also interviewed local residents 
about ranching history and aspects of 
regional folklife, such as hay meadow 
irrigation techniques, homemade snow 
skis, traditional German cooking, and 
construction of log houses and out¬ 
buildings with lodgepole pine. The 
team was in the valley during the hay¬ 
ing season and was able to photograph 
the mowing and traditional hay stack¬ 
ing procedures on the Knorr Brothers 
ranch from start to finish. Emrich con¬ 
ducted archival research on the field¬ 
work area in Denver. 
The Rocky Mountain Continental 
Divide Foundation plans to continue 
field research to establish a broad docu¬ 
mentary base of information before the 
museum master plan is completed. 
Marshall spoke to the Rocky Mountain 
Folklore Caucus at the October meet¬ 
ing of the American Folklore Society in 
Pittsburgh about his work, and is pre¬ 
paring a report for presentation to the 
foundation. 
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20540 
OFFICIAL BUSINESS 
PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $300 
FIRST-CLASS MAIL 
POSTAGE & FEES PAID 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
PERMIT No. G-103 
ISSN 0149-6840 Catalog Card No. 77-649628