Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27,
1939. [Textual Transcription]
Credit to Florida Federal Writers Project.
(Made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. Stetson Kennedy, intermediary,
interviewer, operator.)
RECORD 16.
(3536)
Item:
1) CALINGA Sung by Adelpha Pollato. Calinga is a nickname given to a Cuban woman of
bad reputation.
CALINGA
“Toma, toma, toma calinga, Pa la vieja, palo y jeringa. Si calinga se muriera, Calinga
resusitara. Toma, toma, toma calinga, Pa la vieja palo y jeringa.”
The following verse, though not of the same song, is usually sung with it;
“Yo me voy pa el otro mundo, Mi mulata dime adios, Yo me voy pa el otro mundo, Mi
mulata dime adios. Debajo el escaparate, Te dejo los calzoncillos, Se los dedico a tu
abuelo, Que no tiene fondillo. Yo me voy pa el otro mundo, Mi mulata dime adios.
CALINGA (English translation)
CALINGA
Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
“Here, here, here Calinga, For the old lady: stick and enema. If Calinga should die, Calinga
would live again. Here, here, here Calinga, For the old lady: stick and enema”. “I am
leaving for the other world, My mullato, bid me goodbye, I am leaving for the other world,
My mulatto, bid me goodbye, Under the wardrobe I leave my underpants, I dedicate them
to your grandfather, Who has no buttock”. I am leaving for the other world, My mullato, bid
me goodbye.”
Item:
2)
“LA CUCARACHA” (THE COCKROACH)
Sung by Edith Kennedy, Adelpha Pollato, Amado Valdez, also playing the claves and
maracas. Local improvisations for the popular song “La Cucaracha.” The original verse is
sung, and followed by the improvisations.
Original:
“La cucaracha, la cucaracha, Lla no puede caminar, Porque le falta, Porque no tiene,
Mariguana que fumar.”
Improvisations; “Las muchachas de West Tampa, Tienen mucha simpatía, Usan muchos
trajes buenos, Con la barriga basía,”
(Repeat original)
“Las muchachas de West Tampa, Usan mucho coloretes, No se lo untan con la mota, Se
los ponen por paquetes.”
(Repeat original)
Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
“Las muchachas de Ybor City, Son bonite y bailan bien, 2 Pero tienen un defecto, Que no
se lavan los pies.”
(Repeat original)
“En la playa de Palmetto, Sacaron un tiburón, Y del buche le sacaron, Un negrito en
camisón.”
(repeat original).
“LA CUCARACHA”
With improvisations. (English Translation)
“The cockroach, the cockroach, Now she cannot walk, Because she lacks, Because she
has no, Mariguana to smoke.
The girls of West Tampa, Have much personality, Use many good clothes, With the
stomach belly empty.
The girls of West Tampa, Use much rouge, They do not put it on with the puff, They put it
on by the packages, The girls of Ybor City, Are pretty and dance well, But they have one
defect: They do not wash their feet.
In the beach of Palmetto, They took out a shark, And from its stomach they took A little
Negro boy in a gown.”
3) “Señora Santana” sung by Adelpha Pollato. A song about a child who had an apple and
lost it, and someone tried to give him another, but he wanted the one which he had lost.
“SENORA SANTANA”
Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
Señora Santana, porque llora el nino, Por una manzana, que se le ha perdido, Yo le dare
una, yo le dare dos, Una para el nino, y otra para vos, Yo no quiero una, yo no quiero dos,
Yo quiero la mia, que se me perdio.”
(English translation)
“Senora Santana, why does the child cry?” “For an apple, which he has lost.” “I will give
him one, I will give him two; One for the child, and the other for you.” (The child;) “I do not
want one, I do not want two; I want mine, which I have lost.”
4) “Para Subir al Cielo” sung by Adelpha Pollato.
“para subir al cielo Se necesita Una escalera grande Y otra chiquita.
Si quiere que te quiera Traime bonbones Asi es como se endulzan los corazones.
Si quiere que te quiera, Linda Cubana, Ponte le salla corta A la Americana.”
(English translation)
“To ascend to the skies, It is necessary A large ladder And another small.
If you want me to love you, Bring me bon bons. That is how the hearts are sweetened.
If you want me to love you, Pretty Cuban, Wear your skirts short, Like the Americans.”
5) “Chiquitín” story and song by Amado Valdez.
“Pa la Havana me voy, Te lo vengo ha decir, Que me han hecho sargento De la guardia
civil.
“Donde vas, Chiquitin?” “Al cafe de la union, A tomar chocolate Y a bailar, Pantalion.”
Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
(Translation)
“To Havana I am going, I have come to tell you, I have been made sargent, Of the civil
guard.
“Where are you going, Chiquitin?” “To the cafe of the union, To drink chocolate, And to
dance, Pantalion.”
Item:
6)
“Tranquitro” by Amado Valdez. This is a taunting song made up by the children of Ybor
City, and was used to mock the rhythm of the peculiar walk of an Italian vender of crabs
who lived in Ybor City about 20 years ago. The song was sung by the children to taunt
him, and then they would run away. The last rendition of the song on the record, by
Amado's wife, is the most accurate.
TRANQUITRO
Tranquitro, tranquitro, Tranqui, trique, trique, tro.
7) “Where Goest, Alfonso Twelfth?” an old Spanish ballad sung by Pollato and Amado
Valdez. It is reported to be well known in Cuba.
DONDE VAS ALFONSO DOCE?
Donde vas Alfonso Doce? Donde vas triste de ti? Voy en busca de Mercedes Que ayer
trade no la vi. Ya Mercedes esta Muerta, Muerta esta que yo la vi. Cuatro duques la
llevaban Por las calles de Madrid Por las calles de Madrid.
Library of Congress
Record made in Ybor City, Tampa, Florida, August 27, 1939. [Textual Transcription] http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0035
Al subir las escaleras Alfonso se desmayo; Y las tropas le decian: “Alfonso, tened valor”.
“Alfonso, tened valor”.
Las luces del palacio Ya no quieren alumbrar Porque Mercedes ha muerto, Y luto quieren
guardar, Y luto quieren guardar.
Las campanas de la iglesia Ya no quieren repicar replicar Por que Mercedes ha muerto, Y
luto quieren guardar.
WHERE GOEST, ALFONSO TWELFTH?
Where goest, Alphonso Twelfth? Where goest so very sad? I am going to see Mercedes
Who late yesterday I did not see Mercedes is now dead Dead for I saw her. Four dukes
were taking her Through the streets of Madrid Through the streets of Madrid.
When climbing the stair-case Alphonso swooned away; And the troops would say to him:
“Alphonso, have courage”. “Alphonso, have courage”.
The lights of the palace They do not want to shine For Mercedes is dead, And mourning
they wish to keep, And mourning they wish to keep.