Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia
(Transcription)
<unintelligible text> 21 Tape #4---Side 1---page1---26 February 1976 Begin M29 B(3)
Speaker: I'm <unintelligible text> and I was born March 9,1917. So...
(Where were you born?)
Speaker: I was born up in the Nass Valley. The old old village what they call ((phonetic))
Kit-lac-axtansk. Which they now call New Eiange.. . After the flood they have a new village
now. And that's New Eiange. So I come from the Nishga Tribe.
(When did you come down to work in the cnanery?)
Speaker: Goodness, my mother always did travel back and forth. Like I said, she worked
on nets and she worked for <unintelligible text> so we used to leave up the Nass there a
around March and go down to Inverness and she'd start in April so I spent more time on
the Skeena River than I did in Nass Valley.
(How did you come down?)
Speaker: Well, In those days when I was a young girl, we used to go by sled. You knpw
from eiange we used to use canoes down to wherever the ice would be and then they'd
draw these canoes up on the ice and they used dog teaas sometimes you know the
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
people would pull and we'd have all our supplies on there and we'd go right down to what
they call Fishery Bay. Thats the place where they get <olichens?> now you know in those
days, they still did at that time and fromathere we would get a boat. My mother wouldhget
a boat to take us down to Kincolith and then we'd stay over night there and she'd hire a
boat from Kincolith that would take us to old Arondale Cannery and then from there we
would catchceither the Caomsen, the Cardena, the Catala down to Prince Rupert or right
by Inverness there and that's how they worked it. It was pretty cold in those days too, so
thats the way people travelled in those days, as far back as I can remember. I don't know
about the early days, before the steamers, I guess then used canoes, but at the time I was
growin up that is what we used to do. And then the my mother would start around April and
work on nets there at Inverness.
(Who owned Inverness?)
Speaker: Well, I couldn't say who owned it. Well they were <unintelligible text> people.
They owned the cannery. And before that, I don't know who owned it the place, if I
could rememeber tha far back because they did say that somebody did have it before
<unintelligible text> until they sold to Canadian Fish.
(Did you used to help your mother?)
Speaker: Well, that is how I learned to work on nets is helping my mother. I used to
Inthose days, they had linen nets and I used to salvage them, you know, put salvage on
them and those nets then were oiled and at tha time those nets well there were women,
Japanese women, whoev er lived in the cannery used to take contracts and they'd contract
salvaging nets and I can remember I was realy young and I used to make my own needles
and the cannery crew took pity on me I guess they used to dash up and have their lunch in
half an hour and they'd be all there sitting there helps me fill needles and after supper they
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
would come down to our house and help me fill needles . I used to have about 50 needles
because when your working on contract you know you can't waste time. If you are fst you
get more nets you know. If your slow you loose out on nets because there's a lot of people
taking contractsin those days.
(What do you mean by filling needles?)
Speaker: They have needles, net needles. You have to fill them with twine that they use to
salvage nets you knw, so I used to get a lot of help with that.
(How old were you then?)
Speaker: Oh gosh. Well actually, I must have started when I was nine years old.salvaging
but then I still worked, I worked in the cannery when I was ten years of age. I started then.
(Cleaning fish?)
22 <unintelligible text>---Tape #4---Side 1---page 2---26 February 1976
Speaker: Well, we used to pile cans in trays you know, get cans open, these cans have
them ready for the hand fillers and at that time I was getting 15 cents an hour. All hours.
There was no overtime pay. It was straight 15 cents an hour and I can remeeremember
when the season was over, $70 I would clear. And that was big money in those days when
I was goin'. Of course, like I said, everything was cheap and my mother she used to get
$75 a month. That's net work and then they raised it latter to $85 and that was the rate
of allong the Skeena here. The ones that had more seniority used to get $85, but then it
depended on how fast you worked you know if you were a fast net hanger, why you get
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
$85 a month and the beginers they used to get $75. It depepnded on the net boss. If he
thought a person was capable of doing it, then the starting rate was 75. But then that was
way before the union.
(Were there a lot of children around your age then?)
Speaker: Oh, yes,there were a lot of them. they used to use children to work, piling cans
in trays. It was more or less like play to young kids. As long as they were geting money
for it they enjoyed it and then too there was a very bunch of tired little kids like myself but
that was money in those days. Theeres quite a difference now. I often tell my children that.
At the rate of pay that beginners get whether they know how to do it or not. I think in the
earlier days it was harder to get work. You had to know how to do the job and nobody paid
for you to learn. You just had to get out there and learn on your own. Now thikngs are a lot
differnt as Isee it. I don't knowe how other people would see it, but I've lived it and theys
how I know. All you have to do know is go to the U.I.C. ...
(Was your father fishing?)
Speaker: No. My father was never a fisherman. He was a bookkeeper so well I didn't see
too much, I don't remember too much of my own parents because they both died after
I was born so my own mother apparently was a net woman too, but the one that I call
mother was the one who acctually brought me up like I more or less called her mother.
So in the days when I was growing up,she taught me how to hang nets and a lot of things
about net work
(The fishermen would bring their nets in with a big rip in it?)
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Speaker: Yes. On the weekend. And at that time too that was all, there was no overtime
straight through All you had to do wasdash home have your lunch and then you go back
to work again, but now there's a difference... Looking back on it...we were happy. ...you
didn't get that much money in the pocket when the season was over...the more we make,
the more the, you want to buy and we want to get everythign nice for our homes.
(Did anybody have power boats or were there still some people sailing)
Speaker: 0h. At the time I was a child, it was sailboats. And I can rememebr standing
on the dock,it impressed me somuch, I often think about it now, how beautiful it was to
me. That's through the eyes of a young girl. But gust imagine from the skeena here you
see how wide the Skeena is and how far it is and way outside there and I can remember
at Inverness we'd see the packer with maybe 12 or 20 sailboats in tow and they'd drift
through the river here yo know from the canneries up above here...but they had their own
flags. We'd all run down by the wharf...I can remember there was an accordion player in
one of the boats...wouoften heard these sailboats, they'd take up their instruments. ...I
often think of that. ...allthese, they let these sailboats outside...imagine those men...all they
had in these sailboats was a tent...it was a tough life...you fished 5 days a week then and
they'd all tie up. It was how many fish they'd caught...
(What sort of things would go on on weekends when they were in?)
23 <unintelligible text>---Tape #4---Side 1---pafe 3---26 February 1976
Speaker: Well at that time I can remember...they used to hold dnaces. They never used
to go to Rupert, to Prince Rupert on the weekends. ! Port Essington was the town in
those days. I can remember 1st of July all the people along the Skeeanwould go to Port
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Essington...a dance in the old hall there and talking about weekends the men used to
on dances...and we used to walk from Inverness on the track, mind you there's no high
way...and we';dhave a whale of a time and there would be a dance as far as Carlyle or
Claxton...the company would run their packer.
(What kind of music was it?)
Speaker: Well, they didn't have jazz in those days. They did have theit own jazz...
(What kinds of instruments would they have?)
Speaker: Well, they have the same kinds of instruments that they have today. They had
guitasr, they had saxaphones...but I still like the old songs...You would never go to a
dance without an evening gown (??)...I can't remember in those days ehen there was any
conflict between people.
(What did the cannery sound like?)
Speaker: Well for mending nets we have a separate building so theirs no sound except
when your pulling the line that's about the only sound there is but working in the cannery,
you see I worked both, I started from thecannery of course I worked with my mother
helping herein the net loft but then I worked in the cannery, mind you there's a lot of niose
in the cannery, steam there and the machinery going clang clang clang so you get all that
noise all the time.
(Who worked inside the canneries?)
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Speaker: All women hand filling in those days, though there was more women, course
they had lot of men that was pitching fish and the cannery workers that was loodin after
the machines and so there was quire a few people working in the cannies but then there
was more work. See now there's less work. Every year this conservation allong the
Skeena...fishermen were out five days a week.
(Can you remember some real big runs?)
Oh yes I can remember but I wouldn't say exactly what year. But in those days when I was
working in the cannery I thought there was big runs every year because there seemed to
be no end to it. Half of the times you used to work til one and two o'clock in the morning
and that was every day. Sometimes you worked on sundays if their was that much fish
asnd there was no conservation in those days yet there was a lot of fish.
(Would you go back to the Nass every winter?)
Speaker: Well, you mean my own holm town? Well they don'thave it anymore after the
flood... But no, I don't think I would want to go back...I do go back to visit...
(How 'bout in the 20as and 30s?)
Speaker: Well, I did every year because I worked down here...Next week hering stasrts...
always go home, then when fishing starts they come back down again....
(Whart time of year would you pack up and go home...?)
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Well at that time I used togo home around October. and spend the winter up there but I
don't thik I''d do it anymore.
(Did the same people, did a lot of people from yourvillage come down and work at this
cannery, I mean, Inverness?)
Speaker: No, they're scattered all over. You see there's North Pacific Cannery. In those
days it used to be ABC, belonged to ABC and Co. and then Sunnyside Canney and then
Casiar Cannery so you see people worked for different companies. As soon as I get
word from them...0h there's a lot of them that come from the Skeena here and the Nass,
Kincolith, Port Simpson...All the areas from the Skeena here...
(Were there Chinese people from Vancouver?)
24 <unintelligible text>---Tape #4---Side 1---page 4---26 February 1976
Speaker: Oh yes, yes there were a lot of Chinese. You don't see them anymore. That's all
gone and donewith. Automation has taken over.
(What parts of the cnnery did they work in?)
Speaker: Well mostly they worked in the cannery. Tey pitched fish. They did all sorts
of things. They were actually the main people who did everything in the cannery, that's
besides the mechanics and the engineers.
(They were all white?)
Library of Congress
Oral history with 53 year old female, British Columbia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms3703
Speaker: Yes well mostly. The mechanics and the engineers were all white. The Japanese
like the natives they were fishermen and canneryworkers , Japanese women.
(Where thereChinese men and women?)
Speaker: Just the men. M...Mostly Japanese women. They workde in the cnaneries. But
not the Chinese women. I often used to wonder why they never did come to the cnaneries
to work. ANd I'm talkin'about the days when I was growing up.
(Did you have much in common with them?)
Speaker: The Chinese? Well of course, we worked with them. That's just what I was
sayin'earlier...you had to learnto get along with people. ... I nknow theres a lot of
descrimination...Far more so in those days when I was growing up. Then today there's
still descrimination now but in a subtle way. In those days the native people just took
whatever was given tothem and that was it. They were more or less quite about it. They
wouldn't fight accept because if they did try to fight back they'd say "okay there's the door".
So its more or less you just have to take it...but not any more.-.becaude the fisherman's
union came in... that';swhy...all the people...there are some tat would say that the union
is this or the union is that, but that isn't so. If you have to work under certain conditions
where ther's wo many different r races and there's discrimmination there you've gotta
have somebody to look after things asnd that's what the union did...they stomped out that
descrimination. ...Under thair constitution there will be no discrimination...so I say that it is
a lot better today that in was in the earlier days.
<unintelligible text> End M29 B(3) END OF TAPE.