Library of Congress
[Letter to Harold Spivacke] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.cor057
[Letter to Harold Spivacke]
Lomax A
Hotel Albert 64 University Place New York City October 26, 1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke Music Division Library of Congress Washington, D. C.
Dear Harold:
The enclosed letter from Mrs. Flanders indicates that she is at last ready for the Archive to
send it's recording machine to Vermont. Since we have discussed the desireability of this
trip at length I will at this point merely discuss the details of the trip.
(One) I can be in Springfield, as requested, on the morning of November 3rd, and be free
to work with Mrs. Flanders until the 13th, at which time I must be back in New York City.
(11 days)
(Two) I shall use my own car for travel and for carrying the recording equippment, and
should not imagine that the mileage for the trip should total more than fifteen-hundred
miles, including the distance between New York and Washington.
(Three) I am sorry to inform you that both the machines which I might have expected to
be able to borrow are not free for this period. Miss Barnacle's machine is in use, and Mr.
Halpert informs me that the only way to get the loan of his recording machine is for you to
make a request direct to Colonel Summerv e i ll i e . Rental of a machine for nine days is
out of the question because of the expense involved and I should therefore recommend
that a new machine be purchased for the Archive, preferably equipped with a two speed
turn-table motor and a one-b cutting head.
Library of Congress
[Letter to Harold Spivacke] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.cor057
Jean Evans will hand to you, next week, Miss Corse's latest letter about the Florida folk-
song work. I reckon Her only additional request was for the loan of our BC-AC Genemotor
for use in recording the songs of the fishing fleet en scene.
The Rick a rd records are to be found in boxes numbered 2589 to 2728. They were made
in Kingsville, Texas, and I think they will be found at the beginning of the series. It might
be a wise idea to stall a little bit and find out from father what records were promised Mr.
Rick a rd, although there may be so few as to make this not of great importance. (Father
will write airmail.)
I have had great trouble in locating a person to sing shanties for my next CBS program. I
think, however, that I shall be able to put together an annual report tomorrow and have it
on your desk by Saturday morning. I can be reached here until next Wednesday morning,
after which time my mail should be addressed c/o Helen Harkness-Flanders, Smiley
Manse, Springfield, Vermont.
Yours, Alan Lomax Alan Lomax
p.s. Sidney Robertson has made a set of copies of her Gold-Rush records which were
expressed to me some days ago, care of the library. Please rush them along, express-
collect, care of the Hotel Albert assoon as they arrive, because they will contribute greatly
to the success of my next performance.