American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Colorado Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/031) 
afcl991031_01_039 
Journal - Barbara Orbach 
OaA*»-*X«. 
C080-B0-J 
JOURNAL 
Day 1—18 August, 1980 
Rusty, in our lunchtime conversations, noted that 
John Farr is the ideal person to initiate a living history 
museum project, because he is well-connected, well-off, 
knowledgable about the area, has decided views on local 
history and its uses, and is well-known and well-thought 
of locally. I had only one click of wariness when in 
the course of our driving tour,John mentioned locating the mu 
near 1-70 does he share the kind of booster attitude I've 
found about the area even on the UCLA library shelves? 
Day 2—19 August, 1980 
The most exhiliarating thing about today is discovering 
that people are willing to talk about themselves and 
discovering their wonder at your interest in them and 
in their significance to learning about American culture 
and American history—even as it is happening. 
Cautions: First day feedback from Rusty—mustn't act 
so shy, especially around John D. Farr. Reserve is suspect 
around here (?) 
Interview Concerned about the amount of my intrusion 
in conversation——distracting? Bad steering? 
Dealing even with a certain fellow-worker—not expressing 
my views (on ecology and politics especially) too loudly or 
specifically. I think I slipped a few notches with Rusty 
by putting forward "vague liberal view of world food 
Pr°klem——and blaming all on hard-working rancher". On the 
other hand, for my own personal growth, I think it's 
• : 
•— -.'- 
C080-BO-J 8/19/80 
important to take my stands and let them be known (when 
asked) if I'm to be judged accordingly. I can only be me. 
May have to agree to be what I consider pushy, in 
order to weasel my way into activities of interest or import. 
Day 3--20 August, 1980 
Rusty and I accompanied Vera McKee ("Ma 'Kee") to the 
hay meadows and taped and photographed her as she used a 
shovel to dam up the drainage from the ditch in some spots 
and open it at others to allow the water to flow downwards 
across the field. 
She then took us on a walk along the ditch to an 
upper hay meadow. As flora and fauna were plentiful along 
that route, she responded to our questions by naming as 
many as she could. This was the part of our encounter that 
she really seemed to warm to--perhaps partly because of 
her personal delight in her surroundings. She seemed to 
relax and began to offer information unasked, almost eagerly. 
Just before we set off on this walk, she answered a 
question of Rusty's avout planting habits--whether she timed 
her planting by the phase of the moon or other such method. 
She said no, but then mentioned that her father had and 
recounted a story of his own pea-planting experience that 
had proven to them that the phase of the moon really did 
effect the plant's growth and development. This seemed to 
be the point in the interview when she initially warmed 
to our discussion. 
She impressed me as a reserved, but warm personready 
to respond with whatever help or information is needed--when 
CO80-B0-J 8/20/80 
3 
asked. Her recurring phrase is "whatever...". Her description 
of her work also impressed me as very independent, self-sufficient, 
even solitary. When asked about who maintained the ditches 
and how often she replied that just she worked on them every 
day or every other day, with I.W. sometimes helping in 
spring. Maybe she gets off on coming to this beautiful 
place by herself (that is—with her constant companion, her 
dog, Killer)? 
She most be interviewed again for her personal and 
family history, for more specifiers on. her ranching techniques 
(tools, timing, guidance) and for her perspective on 
her lifestyle and the community. 
I was curious to know why Rusty paid so much attention 
to the gauge of the wire used in the fencing. We started 
talking about the coming of barbed wire fencing to the 
range, and Rusty explained that barbed wire represented 
not only a technological innovation, but a complete change 
in the message communicated by the fencers, i.e. it wasn't 
any longer just a guide to keep animals out, but a bald 
defensive (offensive?) measure—an intriguing thought. 
He also mentioned that when cowboys first encountered the 
barbed wire, they assumed it could simply be ridden thgough 
like other fencing; often they or the cattle they were 
driving got entangled and their bleached bones were found 
years later. 
Our last task of the day was a combination architecture 
lesson and session recording as old assayors' log cabin 
on Tiger Road. This proved very interesting, with many 
new terms added to my vocabulary: 
CO80-BO-J 8/20/80 S 
"corner timbering" 
"corner notching" method of finishing corner of log 
"cornering" structure 
saddle-notching—cornering, method: rough interlocking 
of log ends common in western U.S. 
"sills"—4 principle members upon which the rest of 
structure rests 
"plates"—top bearing logs on sides of structure 
"broadaxe" or "adze"—axe sharpened on one edge, used 
for stripping off wood to finish 
the edge of a log 
"snap a line"--snapping a taut string to mark a straight 
line on material (log), preparatory to 
hewing 
"floor joists"—principle members supporting floor 
boards. Usually parallel to rafters 
"ceiling joists"--support ceiling boards 
"collars"—stabilize ceiling boards--usually placed at 
peak 
"tongue-in-groove"--method of florring—finished edges 
fitting together 
"cut nail"--cut out of a long sheet of iron, not necessarily 
old 
More than the terms was simply starting to understand the 
process (makeshift or otherwise) by which a structure was 
made. This is precisely the kind of explanation that folklife 
museums should be devoted to--at once allowing previously 
observed features of structures we have all seen fall into 
place and, at the same time, prompting us to look more 
closely at all structures we encounter, speculate on how 
they were made and why in that fashion. 
A single example of how Rusty's explanation did that 
for me was when he mentioned that business buildings usually 
have their doors at the ends of the buildings, while 
CO80-BO-J 8/20/80 
residential structures usually have them on the sides—a 
feature I've unconsciously absorbed but never thought about. 
(The suggestion that there is more behind that general rule 
is intriguing—remember to ask for a mini-lecture.) 
My conversations with Rusty today about the general 
philosophy of doing folklife research were thought provoking 
for me. For instance, when we discussed that his having 
set Vera McKee to thinking about her father's planting 
customs and how she doesn't follow them—even though they 
work—will change her view of herself. Rusty pointed out 
that such is the effect of folklife researcttr-quite opposed 
to research of, for instance, anthropologists, who don't 
wish to have any effect whatsoever on their subjects. 
When I think about it, my interest in folklife lies largely 
in changing people's views of themselves and their relation 
to the world by allowing them to see their own connection 
to the past, to their contemporaries and to compare and 
accept the trad’tions of others with their own. 
The word "context" came up in our conversation. I'm 
finding that,much as I was steeped in that concept in Leeds— 
perhaps because of it—that code word for a whole way of 
exploring and analysing folklife materials still holds a 
lot of power and excitement for me. Rusty, waving the 
handful of grasses he had collected on our walk wifcfhrVera 
through the hay meadow as punctuation, explained that if 
he were to apply any label to the kind of approach he takes 
in his folklife research, it would be'contextual". 
Also we discussed rhythms—the difference between the 
hatural rhythm, the sort of task-oriented, self-determined 
C080-BO-J 8/20/80 
pace by which some of the McKee family members work (brought 
to mind by recalling how they assigned themselves tasks 
spontaneously and almost casually at 9 am this morning) 
as opposed to the sort of clock regulated eight hour day 
more familiar to especially the average city person. (Some 
of the family, like Wes, who holds a regular rjob at the 
Henderson mine and also does the ranch work, experience 
both.) A living history museum with a working ranch and a 
mine on one site could really provide a powerful impact on 
the visitor by pointing out the contrast between the long 
hours clocked by miners meeting needs created by an industrializing 
society and the long hours worked by ranch workers completing 
the tasks created by the needs of the moment. Sometimes, too, 
it can be eye-opening simply to realize that not all lives 
are broken up into eight hour blocks of work, leisure and 
sleep. (Note that Rusty also pointed out that the rhythm 
by which the folklife researcher works is more akin to 
the task-oriented, self-determined pace by the very nature 
of the work, by the necessity to catch events and personalities 
at odd moments and to step back and reformulate at other 
moments. I wonder how I, so accustomed to living my life 
on a quarterly basis, would respond to the less regulated 
rhythm of either the rancher or the folklife researcher.) 
Ivcarried away from the work today some practical notes, e.g.: 
1) When rdconnoitering, always try to get the names 
and, if possible, relationships of all the people present 
(e.g. at Knorrs). Useful for making later contact and 
for understanding the dynamics of the situation. 
C080-BO-J 8/20/80 
1 
2) When interviewing, always press for clearest 
possible identification of people, places or things 
mentioned as well as the simplest, most broken 
down explanation of any particular event or piece 
of equipment. Not only helpful for own understanding, 
but also for future listeners, 
3) Always try to slip in identification of the site 
(each time it changes) and the person being 
interviewed when taping. 
Day 4—21 August, 1980 
While waiting for the Summit County Historical Museum 
to pen, Rusty shared some of his personal experiences, as 
did Elke. I listened. I'm 
beginning to feel like you can never do folklife research 
properly unless you've taken a winding road to the field. 
(All those accumulated experiences go in support of your 
skill and sensitivity as a researcher?) 
We examined the artifact, laying outdoors on the museum 
grounds. In front was the remnants of a plow and one axle 
to a wagon (both identified for us by Rusty). I questioned 
the validity of placing "old things" out in the middle of a 
yard, where they can only be identified as "old things"— 
bearing no recognizable relation to a tool or vehicle 
except to the trained eye. Rusty suggested their value in 
lending "mood" to the place. Also on the grounds were a 
wooden staved pipeline of some sort, a fire engine, and 
a buckboard ( in disrepair). Rusty helped me in zeroing in 
©h the more interesting and curious features of these 
.- rwrl»'MawMimT*“r"*‘‘*r' .IMWUfettiCMtMddMHWMHtpMHfilB 
aCiUkt-M... 
C080-BO-J 8/21/80 
artifacts (e.g. the extra spring and decorative woodwork on 
what appeared to be simply a run-down buckboard.) 
Two structures have been set up in the rear grounds 
of the museum. One appeared to be maybe vintage 1920— 
anyway, we ignored, it. 
The other was a restored (deserving quotation marks) log 
house—a single pen Stackhouse made from pine logs. It 
served as the occasion for another architecture lesson and 
building recordeing practice. Rusty talked about typologies 
(suggested ">Henty Glassie's Patterns of Folk Housing in Middle 
Brunvand's Studies and Types of the Southern 
Virginia, -foie appendix inty, noting that this speciman 
folk 
belonged to a lower Midwest^building tradition, similar 
to those found in Missouri and Tidewater,Virginia. (Note: 
typology-is done on the basis of the main portion of the 
building, excluding any additions.) Rusty pointed out (with 
appropriate expletives) where the back shed addition had 
recently been sided with pine slabs. This was merely the 
beginning of its restorative primping. From the difference 
in chinking materials, we could see where the space occupied 
by a fireplace (later discovered to be a stove) had been 
covered upt Next to this was a botched attempt to imitate 
the hewn log effect, although it had apparently been attempted 
with a felling axe rather than a broadaxe, as the edges 
were very rough. In this area, too, a window had been 
set in--a six sash variety that didn't match the four sash 
ones on the opposite side. A^lso on this side were a 
number of newly-built appendages, apparently for stocage, 
abutting off the main house wall and leading down to a 
lower level. They did not blend in well with the rest of the 
CO80-BO-J 8/21/80 
°\ 
building. 
We met Mrs. Rebecca Waugh, the director (?) of the 
museum, a young woman who seemed to take) at best, a professioni.1 
inteiest in our project-^-she offered basic information on 
the collections and extended further help, if needed, in 
rather a stiff but courteous way. (Rusty took away from 
this - encounter an impression that she dislikes us and our 
work already; I'm reserving judgement—I think she did feel 
tense and under the critical eye in our presence.) 
The exhibits inside the museum are not complete, nor is 
the space large. scription of m!6eunm interior contained 
in field notes 3 The whole impression of the front room 
that I received was of the honest attempt to evoke an era, 
but of hopeless and distracting clutter that made it difficult 
to see anything in relation to anything else. X bo.1 
some doubt as to the consistency of the age of the collected 
items, which dispelled any evocativeness for me. 
Oversell, the museum represented an institution in 
flux (apparently Mrs. Waugh, with her professional training, 
has only recently taken over)—a poor time to judge its 
overall quality and interpretive or evocative success. 
Certainly its collections and restorations do not now 
represent a very discriminating culling of the aspects of 
Summit county history, as I, , < M iC"* , wi$h a very 
jumbled view of the trades and lifestyles practiced in the 
area, a view dominated by the schoolhouse impression (with 
those rows upon rows of proudly displayed--and space consuming— 
desks), as if all was summed up on that one autumn day when 
the student entered the classroom and dutifully copied off the 
C080-BO-J 8/21/80 
The historical society of Summit County does seem most 
active, even aggressive. They have already acquired the log 
assayor's cabin we recorded ^yesterday, as well as a log building 
now housing the Junktique, as we discovered when we stopped 
there to peer over the "junk" (consisting of the usual 
thrift store clothes—books—utensils, as well as some 
rusted tools, recognizable only to Rusty, acquired during 
the estate sale of the house), I was amused as we prowled 
through the store that Rusty could identify almost any 
object we held up. It must be something to be able to 
look at an object out of its normal context and net only 
see it in relation to its associated members but also say 
something about its quality and probable past. 
The square dance was fun. I was interested to see 
that "Big Vera"--who hasn't loomed large in our visits to 
the McKee's ranch—was one of the leading spirits here. 
Not only did she dance solo, "oblivious" to her audience, 
but she determinedly led the "Hokey Pokey" and collected the 
money from the couples. It would be interesting to find 
out what part she has in organizing and running this 
weekly event. It was also fun to see the kind of kidding 
affection between her and her mother as they discussed their 
nicknames, "Big Vera" and "Little Vera". 
This session seemed like a social affair (although 
it turned out that at least one couple, the Tomoskos (?) 
was there for the first time and didn't know the McKee's 
at all). I was impressed with how warmly we were received, 
especially with the intrusion of all our equipment and flashing 
C080-BO-J 8/21/80 
i 
cameras—they only laughingly wondered aloud what we could 
want all the pictures for and didn't we want our pictures 
taken? We also benefitted from the fact that they were 
ready to welcome Rusty on any terms as long as he would 
plug up the hole in their set. 
I had forgotten (and here rediscovered) all the non-verbal 
communrication that goes on for me in square dancing, with 
all its face-to-face contact, and the impressions you pick 
up with each grip of the hand or twirl. in nearly every 
square dancing situation I've been in it has been a sort of 
out-of-time moment of intimacy with strangers. One friendly 
corner kept assuring me they were going to "warm me up"; 
it took me fully two turns around the set to figure out 
that he was responding to my (as always) ice-cold hands. 
After we left, Rusty, Elke and I chatted about this 
aspect of dancing and, again, about how different our approach 
of leaping into the heart of the action (the Hokey Pokey!) 
is from that of an anthropologist, who would, most likely, 
sit in a dark corner and scribble notes furiously. 
Day 5—22 August, 1980 
Briefing with Rusty Marshall and Elke in the car on the 
way to McKee's ranch. We discussed the relative virtues of 
possible periods the working ranch should be set in. Rusty 
threw out the date 1931, because that would allow for the 
use of buckrakes such as those used for haying at Karl 
Knorr's ranch. Utilizing old Model T truck frames, they 
represent an era of technology less familiar than the 
horse-drawn or man-drawn implements that preceded them. 
'sss^steiassr- awnn—rfin-i-wpsE m 
C080-BO-J 8/22/80 
Interesting to note was that from the information Rusty has 
received from John Farr, while 1931 spells DEPRESSION 
to those of us who Know our American history in general 
terms, the Rocky Mountain ranching industry had experienced 
their sl^jump starting in the dacade before and was starting 
to pick up by 1931. It would be interesting to know the 
actual economic and social dynamics of this "early depression 
what factors of supply, demand, and natural phenomena 
affected it and how it, in turn, affected the local community 
Because the '20's and '30's fall in about the middle of 
the span of years of widespread ranching activity in the 
valley, because they constitute what Rusty termed the 
"classic period" for Colorado ranching, after the initial 
ground- and consciousness-breaking labors of the 1880's 
had long been complete, this might indeed be the ideal 
period to capture at the living history site. (Note that 
the reading I did this morning, the pamphlets on the 
Holzwarth Homestead and the reconstructed hotel site 
chose precisely the era of the 20's in their efforts to 
evoke, in these cases, the spirit of the/catereruMto tourists 
at the time.) 
We discussed the problem of what is "historic", or, 
more properly, what is of historical interest. Rusty 
explained the criteria adopted by antique dealers—anything 
50 years or older constitutes antique, a principle at one 
time adopted by the National Historic Register, He pointed 
out the absurdity of trying to apply the same standard to 
different sections of the country. Historic should be 
thought of in terms of particular regions and their 
C080-BO-J 8/22/80 
"settlement history". His rule of thumb is that it takes 
two generations for interest to be sparked about an era, i.e. 
people tend to interest themselves in their grandparents' 
experiences rather than their parents', a rule borne out 
by my own attitudes. I'm interested in my parents' personal 
experiences, but less in re-creating for myself t£ifcircumstances 
they grew up and married in. On the other hand, to be 
pragmatic, one must plan ahead in initiating a museum. 
By the time it can hope to be completed (say, 10 years), that 
second generation will just about be ready to come around— 
so maybe one should aim for the '40's (the "4-Squares" dance 
group and the lifestyles of some of our contemporary local 
acquaintances are already evocative of that unreasonably 
idealized era). 
We arrived at the McKee's ranch and, after a few minute's 
conversation with Vera and Mary, who were waiting for the 
veterinarian to arrive to treat their neighbors' horse, Rusty 
and Elke disappeared to record Log Building #2. I pro¬ 
crastinated as long as possible by getting out my camera 
and notes, then I stood stock-still in the middle of the 
yard, plunged in doubt. I could see Mary, Vera and the 
neighbor, Mrs. Callahan sitting and chatting casually as 
they waited beside the corral and I realized that this was 
a perfect opportunity to collect more information. But 
I was stuck both by my own shyness and the feeling of 
what right had I to go intruding on the work--or the rest- 
even of these tolerant people; how would I feel if some 
stranger kept fluttering around in my path asking naive, 
personal, or downright stupiid questions? On the other hand, 
C080-BO-J 8/22/80 
what right had I to waste time? So, I took a deep breath 
and went over and conversed with them, trying to shore up 
the holes in what I understood about the family history. 
I managed to further muddle the Smallwood-McKee lineage)- 
someho^John Smallwood—I'm sure they had mentioned that 
narae-.gets lost in the shuffle) with all my pointed questions 
until I dared not muddy the waters further. They brought out 
a transcript of that newspaper article detailing the 
family history of Mary Smallwood McKee recorded as she 
continued to inhabit their farm in the 1930's—100 years 
after the first settlement; it, for the moment, seemed to 
clarify things. At any rate, I.W.'s family history appears 
to be of greater general interest than Vera Everett McKee's 
side of the tree. She could tell me little about them 
(note--I did a poor job of preparing the way for that 
interview report form and must improve my style in collecting 
that information). Mary seemed pretty receptive to talking 
with me about any and everything, but I couldn't get away 
from the feeling that Vera was merely being obliging and 
was glad to escape when she had to leave suddenly to go 
help jockey vehicles in the yard. 
I spent over an hour watching and photographing the 
horse doctoring session after^the vet came. What a relief 
to switch into the comfortable and familiar mode of quietly 
observing—I could photograph forever 1 Besides which, the 
doctoring proved really fascinating (if a little gory). 
The vet spent over two hours cleaning and sewing the wound— 
he hadn't reached the bandaging stage by the time we left 
at 1:30. I was impressed not onlyobout how caredul, gentle, 
CO80-BO-J 8/22/80 
I 
but how equally gentle and patient 
and patient^the onlookers holding horses and bandages were 
(Vera McKee, Nell Callahan, Mary Joecks, vet's assistant and, 
at times, Wes Dunaway and Dick McKee). All were intent 
on this one problem, which demanded a good deal of cooperation; 
the cooperation even extended to the animals, as rather than 
putting Caroline, the colt's mother, out of the way when she 
showed signs of distress as they approached the colt, they 
roped her and allowed her to stand over the colt during the 
entire procedure--which she quifetly did. The vet and assembled 
helpers quietly passed information about horse injuries and 
medicines, and joked with Nell about quitting smoking (Mary 
had to make a special trip into the house to fetch cigarettes 
for herself and Nell at one point)$. suggesting that she 
take up chewing tobacco,as they worked. (Note that Nell 
must not be very involved in the care of the horses she 
and her husband own,as I was surprised to discover that she 
had no idea of the name of the vet when I tried to obtain it 
from her and it was Vera, not she, that took the initiative 
in holding the colt (squatting right .next’to it while Nell 
held Caroline from the end of a lead rope) and in dealing with 
the vet.) 
At the Knorr's later in the day, Rusty really went gung— ho 
for information from Karl Knorr (while I, as per usual, hung 
back) Point of order: all the information hnd "quotable quotes" 
(some real gems) that Rusty relayed to us are his to report, 
right? (Information collection could become a real competitive 
business in certain personality combinations, couldn't it?2 
We had dinner in Kremmling at the Corner Cottage--many 
locals eating there, the staple fare: hamburgers, the standard 
attire: "Cat" hats. 
C080-B0-J/8/23/80 
Day 6—23 August, 1980 
Nicked myself with the razor this morning, band-aided 
it. 
Bridfing with Rusty at our house. Scotched plans for 
Hot Sulphur Springs folk festival and Grand Lakd tour in 
favor of working on recording McKee buildings. 
On the way to the McKee's, we checked the tires and 
radiator (demonstration for ignorant Barb) and Rusty got 
drawing 
us architect's pencils for/ recordings , 
I reviewed Rusty's architecture notes on Log Buildings 
#1 and #2 at McKee's--we discussed matters of architecture 
and typology. 
When we arrived at McKee's, I went into the older 
McKees1 house to ask Vera McKee for the address and phone 
number of Ed Jonnson, the former owner of the ranch. (Note: 
often when we arrive in the morning and knock on Loma and 
Dick's trailor to announce our presence, the children 
tell us that everyone (the women) is over in the other 
house; it's the congregating point?) 
Recording of Log Buildings #3,^#4 (with me 
happily doing record black-and-white photography) and 
meeting with neighbor Paul Callahan, who rode by on his 
horse. 
I started to photograph the log building we had chosen 
to do next (#6), but noticed that my knee had begun to 
bleed again, so I went to sit in the car and put it up, 
using the time to put my notes in order. By the time 
Rusty and Elke had completed recording the building, it 
still hadn't stopped bleeding, so we drove into Frisco and 
'-y—r'fttf nfi#-' 
rase* 
O 
CO80-B0-J 8/23/80 
stopped in at the pharmacy of Bo Bogan, an acquaint^ce of 
John Farr's, to see if we could get something to 
make the blood clot, presuming that the high altitude 
was affecting it. 
Bogan is an older man who runs a pharmacy solely devoted 
to selling parmaceutical supplies (i.e., no toys or beach- 
walkers here). His specialty is high altitude health. He 
put some iron sub sulfate in a bottle for me (a kind of 
service I haven't seen in a long time), saying that it is 
what barbers used to use when they nick their clients 
(how appropriate!) The instructuins were to "mix it 
with a little blood and spread it on; it will hurt like 
hell but it will stop the bleeding". 
We stood around and chatted with Bogai and his lady 
visitor/client about his ideas and hopes for high altitude 
nutrition. He said that my diet-'was completely wrong 
for the mountains. "It's all right for the flatlands" 
he noted, "but up here you need carbohydrates, junk food-- 
potato chips, ice cream, bread (but no bran), corn-Plakes, 
peanut butter,,," Cheese was on his list on acceptable 
food ("mostly fat" he said) as were other dairy prodcuts 
and potatoes—but "none of those vegetables!" he cautioned. 
He also put his seal of approval on pizza—"just fine— 
but don't have sausage on it, just cheese!" I was interested 
to hear what he had to say, even if if was delivered a bit 
pedantically. But my own ego and pride in my nutritional 
know-how introduces some doubt as. to the degree of his 
expertise. For instance, I'm not sure that cheese is 
proportionally less protein that all the meats I was cautioned 
C080-BO-J 8/23/80 
\x 
to avoid, and certainly some dairy products are shore 
protein than fat. I could see how any kid (or grown-up?) 
coming to the mountains and being put on Bogan's Rocky 
Mountain diet, would think he'd come to Disneyland—all 
ice cream and potato chips. Frankly it turns my stomach. 
(Note: try to get a copy of Sierra Club publications 
for Bo Bogan and establish a contact between them. Rusty 
suggested that it would be wonderful if we could write 
up his counsel for the magazine Sierra or even JAF. Hmmmmm) 
Armed with my iron sub sulfate (which stopped the 
bleeding immediately) we returned to Farr's house for lunch 
(Bauernfrtihstuck a la Elke^l Afterwards, I rested (feeling 
annoyed that not only mechanical breakdowns, but physical 
ones(too, keep hindering my doing this fieldwork business), 
read up on local history (finished Black's book on Grand 
County and looked at Douglas Walter's work on local 
historic preservation possibilities—very enticing). From 
the reference notes, I concluded that the Summit County 
Library—which houses some of the old time newspapers— 
and the Summit County Courthouse would. be fruitful for 
conducting backup research--perhaps Monday. 
Black's book, which concentrates on Grand County, really 
did emphasize ranching as dominant in the local economy. It 
was interesting to read of Kremmling as a bustling trade 
center during the years after the railroad came, when the 
area experienced what Black termed the "golden age"of 
ranching (p. 329). This period before the First World 
War was also when Kremmling became the site of the Grand 
County fair and rodeo event. His description of these years 
r> --- m>—mr i' 
C080-BO-J 8/23/80 
and the succeeding years of economic slump (1920-1930) 
were most evocative, making it all the easier to picture 
a museum portraying this period. Interesting, too, was 
his rather poetic description of how the cultural landscape 
may remain unchanged, while the people who exist 
within it may be undergoing less visible change: 
Throughout the twenties the earlier Grand County--its 
pole fences and privies, its eaves dripping ice water 
on winfer afternoons, its hay stack-centered 
style of living--lingered on with all the 
strength of a culture that:had been tested 
and found workable. Change rested less upon 
the landscape than in the minds of the inhab¬ 
itants" (Black, pp. 363-4) 
If that depiction is accurate, how can our museum capture 
the sense of that statement (that forms remain unchanged 
while their function or the attitudes towards them alter, 
and yet that the forms, too, excercise their power over 
the way people think and act) and that the converse is 
also true (that people take up new tools or methods of 
doing things while maintaining traditional attitudes and 
beliefs--witness Vera McKee and her firm belief in the 
efficacy of planting by the moon, although she doesn't 
practice it)? The museum should be able to do more than 
show how a ranch worked in 1920, it should evoke these 
attitudes, the sense of the period when autos were becoming 
popular in the county and its ranchers were feeling the 
effects of a distant market slump, but within which the 
legacy of 50 years of ranching in the region and the legacy 
extending through the links of migration from other parts 
of the U.S. and of Europe and Canada still excercised their 
power over the life that was created here. My hope would 
C080-BO-J 8/23/80 
be that such a museum would be attractive and different 
enough to provoke in its visitors some of the realization 
I have had through merely one week of watching and 
listening to the McKee's and the Knorrs—that the same 
process is still at work today, that the ties to the past, 
particularly with people who work with the land and with 
animals are still strong. 
Day 7--24 August, 1980 
Read the Articles of Incorporation for the Rocky 
Mountain Continental Divide Foundation—legalese. Also 
read an extract from an inter-office report on the Paradise 
Valley Project discussing "study vs. survey". Conclusion: 
surveys (overviews of the cultural landscape) are sometimes 
helpful and necessary, e.g. for "salvage folklore" situations 
such as the Bureau of Land Management or the Army Corp 
of Engineers are required to conduct before development 
of an area. Studies are m^re concentrated dfforts which 
attempt to actually analyze and make some sense of a par¬ 
ticular area or phenomenon. 
This piece, together with some thoughts Rusty had noted 
down in July about the approach to this project — an attempt 
to see what happens with the ranchers, the long-term 
residents of this mountain community who remain through 
all the comings and goings of miners and tourists and 
shopkeepers^ at any particular historical moment—even if that 
moment is now. 
I'd say that our foray falls somewhere in between a 
study and^fli.survey. We are concentrating on two particular 
C080-BO-J 8/34/80 
ranches ranker tnanjsimply noting down, and bridfly 
photographing alV-^ie ranches in the area in order to 
create some sort of color coded map of ethnic origins, or 
percentages of land holdings, etc. Nevertheless, in our 
short two weeks here, we can do little more than document 
the material casings of these ranches and attempt to peer 
inside at the life histories, the lore, the ctaftsmanship 
and the celebrations that make these log memorials live and 
breathe. It may be presumptuous to hypothesize some higher 
"meaning" in Karl Knorr's use of Model T car bodies for 
his haying work, or in Vera McKee's life choice to spend 
her working days alone alongside an irrigation ditch in 
a blossoming hay meadow, but I believe the glimpses we 
catch of these people make only tantalizing missing pieces 
to a mass jigsaw puzzle. 
Visit to Callahans--Mr. Callahan used to play lead 
guitar with Buck Owen's band in California. With not 
too much persuasion he brought out his guitar (not the one 
he had used in his professional work)—a battered and dusty 
old thing, very resistent to being forced back into tune 
(even with Rusty giving aid and comfort as Mr. Callahan 
struggled with it). He later brought out a banjo, which he 
said he had taught himself to play. It came out in the 
course of the conversation that he had abandoned the band¬ 
stand when he remarried because his new wife didn't like it; 
Neil, sitting in the corner, nodded complacently in confirmation 
of this '.statement. 
Mr. Callahan's fingers seemed stiff as they played over 
the frets, his voice was hoarse as he half belted, half 
C080-BO-J 8/24/80 
z 
wheezed out the songs (I couldn't get out of my mind the 
idea that he had just finished a huge Sunday dinner and 
had no room left to breathe,{ that he might be hit by 
apoplexy on the spot), and his memory was so rusty that 
’■j>T 
he ran out of lyrics after cranking out^a few lines. He 
had real difficulty even coming up with a tune he still 
remembered. He was both apologetic and sheepish'as he 
played, and yet he manfully perservered. 
I was interested to see how much Mr. Callahan warmed 
to his audience; despit 10 years away from the bandstand 
and with fingers stiff from roping horses all day and 
lack of practice, his mood and his fingers picked up as 
he went along. 
Nevertheless, it was a rather awkward situation. The 
Itise 
idea had been to^pop m and say hello, although that was 
an alteration of the plan that had been discussed with 
Callahan the day before. The idea was not a good one; 
K> Cyl« iae-iX. h> f«rri. 
we felt t.,TM ai Rost-y . I was surprised when Elke 
Cxi (akt« /fi^j i. Hy 
proposed to record the/^instrumentals. Although I actually 
enjoyed the opportunity to work with Elke setting up the 
Nagra with no possible recourse to Rusty, and although 
I truly enjoyed watching Callahan rediscover some tunes buried 
in his memory, the experience depressed me. This was 
clinched when, after^running through the rain and barely 
slamming the car doors, Elke and Rusty proceeded to commiserate 
about how awful the experience had been. 
I suppose it was partly a hurt that some of the 
pleasure I managed to find in the experience was dampened 
by their negative opinions, but I was really aaddened to 
CO80-BO-J 8/24/80 
discover that, particularly Rusty, could praise Callahan's 
playing and play good ol1 boy relisher of Callahan's nephew's 
mediocre forty-five ("I'd really like to have one of those...") 
and then step out the door and pan the whole thing. 
It disillusions me in terms of life choices. Elke 
mentioned today her conclusion that doing folklore (folklife) roco-nk 
involves some skill as con artist. I can deal with that; 
I unconsciously exercise my own style of con evei^day. But 
I can't go into a field where one has to relinquish Sincerity 
and I'm wondering if those are the very rules of the game. 
Maybe the necessity of purposely and purposefully carrying 
on onging, sharing relationships with people of vastly 
different backgrourids and ideals means you have to smile 
yijVe- 
and say nice things, while inwardly snickering or cringing— 
which isn't much different than doing it with your companions. 
I don't know, maybe I do that every day with every situation 
anyway and I'm just spcuting idealistic drivel—but is this 
really a business where you can be genuinely nice to people 
and feel successful too? 
Rusty returned after dinner (w/ beer). I think we all 
share a mildly down mood. Talked more about backgrounds. 
Between elke and her business background and Rusty and 
his people-of-the-soil roots, I'm getting slapped with 
new perspectives (I'm tired of that word) all the time. 
I'm dog tired of feeling like the naive one, though. 
Also, reading Rirsty's hastily scribbled ponderings and 
John Farr's legal mandates, I alternately feel hopeful about 
the idea of a museum, an attempt to capture the "cultural 
personality of a region..in a geocultural context", to see 
CO80-BO-J 8/24/80 
"how culture ticks rather than watching the clock", etc—to 
O'vvke connections with our concept of the past etc, etc, etc,— 
phrases that at times excite me, until they roll out to the 
point of emptiness and I sink down muttering, what's it 
a little more about 
all for? Is it really so people all over can know-how 
things work (and don't workand what creates meaning 
for other lives; or is it so more touris^ts stop off 1-70 
and generate business for Frisco? Is is so folklorists 
and students can really discover how tradition works and 
sort-out and analyze while meeting real people; or is it 
so people back in Washington can look at a Jphoto layout 
and know that we tried? Is is so Vera McKee and George Knorr 
can know that the'stupid feds recognize that they are 
worth more than the taxes for the ground they stand on 
and that they are the real sinew of American culture and history- 
som^ething they've known all along; or is it so some folklorist 
racking his brain for a thesis topic can retreat into 
the offices of the folklife center and claim he's discovered 
"traditional culture"? What's it all for? 
Day 8—25 August, 1980 
A.M.--Solo trip to County Courthouse in Breckenridge. 
Not too fruitful a visit in terms of actual information 
about the McKee and Knorr properties or their former 
inhabitants, but interesting for me in terms of learning 
the offices, domains, and attitudes of the county record 
keepers. a) so for getting hands on materials and realizing 
how technical such records are and how prepared one must 
be before attempting to examine them. 
CO80-B0-J 8/25/80 
first stop: County Clerk and Record Office. I asked 
for Ms. Arlys Ward, County Clerk, to whom I had been referred 
by John Farr. I was sent to her office, which lies inside 
the Motor Vehicles Office. Neither she nor her secretary 
were in. I waited. Her secretary (Colleen?) arrived and, 
after listening to my explanation that I was doing research 
on two particular ranches in the areo^and wanted to see 
any records pertaining to them, but specifically probated 
wills and records of property exchange,,sheAtook me across 
the hall to the County Assessor's Office. ^The clerk who 
waited on me looked singularly unenthused. She had difficulty 
understanding that I wanted to see records on exchanges 
(note: correct word is "transfers") of the McKee property 
("Old Johnson Homestead") on the Lower Blue. Finally she 
searched for the McKees' name on her microfiche index 
and went in search of their card, which, she said, should 
list all of the previous owners of the property. The card was 
not where it was supposed to be filed, although she agreed 
that there was no way it could have gone out of the office. 
After asking some of the other office people, she secured it; 
it was a white record card (I deduced from scattered comments 
that white cards represent residential property, green 
card?are for another classification including ranch property). 
It carried a legal description, valuation and photograph 
(taken in the winter) of the property. This was stapled 
to a yellow diagram card with measurements and groundplan 
of the buildings and a description and evaluation of 
each building listed on the back. I took notes and had 
the diagram xeroxed ($1.25), although the layout of the 
C080-BO-J 8/25/80 
groundplan did not look the slightest bit familiar, on the 
theory that I might not be looking at the diagram correctly 
and that*building arrangement might have changed since 
the ass<3sment was done. (Note: the card was not identified 
in any way, either by code number or name, except by being 
stapled to the record card so identified.) 
I also, requested the record cards for the Knorr ranch 
and for the property belonging to Wheaton College (the 
McKee hay meadows leased from the college). The clerk 
was unable to find the card for Wheaton College, but 
advised me to take down the book/page numbers listed on 
the microfiche inde^, which refer to deed books filed 
in the County Clerk and Record Office across the hall. 
The Knorrs appeared at least 5 times of the microfiche 
guide. I was given 3 cards listing their properties. I 
selected the card for a 695 acre tract on Blue River Rt., 
most likely 
as the one/;referring to the ranch we've been recording. 
I took down pertinent information (legal description, 
valuation), but because I was unsure of the site, I did 
not have a erox of the diagram of the 5 cabins on the 
property made. 
ad a question about the coding system on the evaluations 
of the McKee buildings—an assortment varying from "A" to 
‘'poor", with one "10" noted in the middle. I asked 
another of the office workers . She couldn't interpret 
it and went into a back office and brought out a young 
man (the county assessor?)' to answer my questions. 
He proved relatively helpful. After peering at the rating 
chart in question, he concluded that the "10" was an error. 
C080-BO-J 8/25/80 
He explained that the huildings are examined and subjectively 
rated be the assessor on a basic poor-average-good scale.. 
He also explained somewhat the manner in which the 
Assessor's Office works (or doesn't work). Assessments 
are suuposed to be done every four years, but he noted that 
they are considerably behind schedule, partly due to the 
high rate of employee turnover in the office. Moreover, 
properties with poor access are likely to be attended to last. 
Based on the handwriting on the McKee record card, he 
believed that the McKee assessment had been done by an 
employee no longer with the Office (initials: "J.V.H." or 
"H.T.H."), probably ca. 1976. I mentioned that the groundplan 
diagram didn't resemble the actual layout from wnat I could 
tell; he responded that the buildings could easily have 
been torn down or new buildings put up since the assessment. 
Not only did he answer my questions, but he also searched 
more diligently than any office person heretofore for 
an older record card for the McKee property that would 
cite the previous transfers, commenting as he did so that 
some of the record cards were incredibly misfiled. 
He expressed interest when I explained that I was 
researching these ranches for a projett on ranching history 
in the area, in the interest of starting a working ranch 
museum. He allowed me to loo& at some of the photographs 
of old buildings on the outdated record cards he was flipping 
through. He suggested that I get in touch with local 
historian and author, Mark Feister, about "Bill's Ranch" 
(a subdevelopment started by "bill" during the Depression). 
I left a RMCDF card with hi^m and went across the hall to 
the County Clerk and Record Office. 
CO80-BO-J 8/25/80 
'it 
After explaining my mission, I was shown to "the 
vault", a storage room opening off bhe main office area 
whose walls were lined with small binders--the dded books— 
.canvas-covered, 
and large'leather-bound tomes—the reception (registry?) 
books dating from the late 1800's to 1977. After 
brief explanation and instructions from a hoarse voiced, female 
office person (name?) I was left to examine the books. 
I found deed records for the transfer of the Knorr 
property from (mother) Corinne Knorr to George, Karl, 
Greta, William and Gordon Knorr, dated 1 August, 1967. The 
deed book that was cited as listing the McKee property 
transfer (176/893) was not only rnis-labeled, but was not 
paginated to p. 893 (at which point I began to feel that 
the McKee property was destined to be^buried "inaccessibly" 
on the Lower Blue). 
The office lady, though unable to solve this mystery, did 
show me how to go back through all the General Reception-- 
Grantee books, which list all transactions recorded with the 
county ca. 1880-1976. I was to look for a "Warranty Deed" 
listing Blue River Highlands, whom I knew to be the-former 
owner of the McKee property, as grantees; then, by looking 
at the corresponding "grantor" recorded in the adjoining 
column, I could see whom they had obtained the property 
from. Following this process for each grantee cited, I 
could trace the transfer of the property backwards to the 
original owners. 
I was able to trace the incorporation of Blue River 
Highlands—a partnership between Cjarence A. Decker and 
N. Marcus Bishop—in 1968, and a correction warranty deed 
C080-BO-J 8/25/80 
for the property (cited as Lot 3-4 S3 VRS STS S4 T4S R78W), 
but I searched back through the grantee books as far as 
1904 and never managed to see either Decker's or Bishop's 
name listed as >. acquiring the property. 
Trying a different tack, and a longshot at that , I 
searched through the late 1800's and early 1900's for 
record of a "Johnson" or "Edward Johnson" as either grantee 
or grantor of the property, but there were simply too many 
Johnsons (lots of Scandinavian sounding names in those years) 
for such a haphazard search. Besides,which, we don't 
know if Johnson really was the earliest holder of the 
property. 
Knowing that Karl Knorr's father, William Knorr, had 
acquired that property in the early 1900's, I was able to 
find a reference to the release of that property to William 
Knorr, dated 10 October, 1903, in Grantee book tt9. That 
notation referred me to deed book #78, p. 269, where I 
read and partially copied the "instrument" whereby this 
legal procedure, a release:of a deed of trust, gave William 
Knorr legal title to the land. Wading through the strings 
of legalese, much of which I couldn't understand, I found 
the most interesting parts of this document to be the 
exceptions stipulated in the property transfer—a "burying 
ground" belonging to W— A. Guyselman and a plot for the 
schoolhouse, While examining the reception books for these 
years, I noticed that the name "Theodore Knorr"came up 
quite frequently-^usually, from what I could t&ll, in 
reference to the transfer of town lots. William Knorr 
CO80-BO-J 8/25/80 
was listed in deed book #43, p. 78 in an indenture agreement 
involving a promissory note with Rudolph Levine, and also in 
book #93, p. 28 as the grantee for some town lots, dated 
6 Sept., 1908. 
While I was at it, I also examined the deeds for the 
Wheaton College property, According to deed book #208, pp. 
233-235, it was deeded over to the Trustees of Wheaton 
College, "an Illinois educational corporation" by Richard 
L. Smith and Betty J Smith for $10 on 1 June, 1971 (recorded 
23 June, 1971). On 6 Dec., 1971, deed book #213, p. 674 
recorded the Trustees transferred title of the property 
to Richard L. and Betty J. Smith for $10. There was still 
another citation for the college in deed book #148, p. 366, 
but I didn't have a cnance to look it up. 
All the deeds I examined were phrased in terms of very 
specific locational abbreviations (lots, sections, townships 
ranges). When I asked the office person if there was 
a map to which these referred that I could look at, she 
replied rather vaguely that no, there was no map they just 
referred to the sections... All the deeds reflected not 
only the transfer of lands, but the transfer of the attached 
water rights as well. 
I had concluded, after my wild goose chases for the 
McKee records and after I had been assured by the clerk sitting 
at the front desk that there is no other way to go about searching 
for them, that it would be faster and simpler to get 
di_]f0ctly in touch with Ed Johnson, whose address we already 
have, and/or with Clarence A. Decker (helpful office person 
had already told me that she believed that N. Marcus Bishop— 
C080-B&-J 8/25/80 
-31 
the other half of the partnership—had recently died). They 
could probably tell us whose hands the property had gone 
through and, if it were still desirable, we could use 
that information to return to the reception books. Yet 
another office person assisted me in obtaining the address 
of Clarence A. Decker from data on the 
McKee transfer records (microfiche). 
Feeling a little bleary) I stepped over to ArlyjWard's 
office to introduce myself. She is a youngish woman, very 
matter-of-fact in manner. She appeared to be very busy,.and 
I got the impression^cme is lucky to catch her in. Standing 
with her in her doorway, I briefly explained our project, 
mentioning John's name. I asked her if she had any other 
suggestions on steps I could take to get further information 
on the particular ranches I was looking at. She reviewed 
with me all the searches I had already undertaken; all 
she could suggest was thtt I consult the Summit County 
Abstractor (for a fee), because properties reviewed by 
the abstractor are listed by legal description, rather than 
by transfer of title, making them more accessible for 
my purposes. Otherwise, she recommended the Summit County 
Historical Society for information of ranching in general. 
She seemed mildly interested in the project; I thanked her 
and gave her a RMCDF card. 
I also checked with the District Court record office 
upstairs for records of probated wills on the families 
concerned. The clerk, a large, older woman, replied in an 
affronted tone that the records were there, but were not 
CO80-BO-J 8/25/80 
available to the public, regardless of the amount of time 
since the death of the person in question. "I vouldn't 
want strangers to be able to find out what I'd left behind, 
would you?" 
My impression of the county administrative offices 
was mixed. I felt very coolly received when I first arrived 
on my quest; -I attribute that partly to its being early 
on a Monday morning when office people were not yet into 
the swing of business, and partly to the fact that I have 
difficulty articulating precisely what I need and why in a 
convincing enough manner. I was pleased that I was allowed 
to spend as much time over the records as I needed. Although 
no one went out of their way to help me obtain information, 
they gradually warmed to answering my questions. (I think 
the clerks in the Clerk and Records Office were impressed 
that I spent so long poring over the reception books—working 
straight through the crucial lunch hour.) 
The records themselves I found exceedingly disorganized— 
partly a case of a stranger walking in on a new filing system 
which is bound to prove confusing, and partly the result 
of inefficiency. Reference systems for the materials 
seem incomplete at best. Finally, I've concluded, as I suspected 
before I ever set foot inside the door, that in order to 
get maximum use out of the facilities, one must know precisely 
what to ask for (not depending on the ignoramus act to 
^re¬ 
produce more expansive explanations and suggestions--it 
only produces suspicion) and have a good command of legal 
jargon, the lack of which limited my understanding of 
the documents. Also necessary: a set plan about what is 
worth xeroxing (far more efficient and accurate than copying 
CO80-BO-J 8/25/80 
33 
(budget) 
longhand) and moneyAto spend on said xeroxing. As I worked 
through the round of offices it occurred to me fittingly 
and was later driven home to me in conversation with Rusty 
that it-shelpful (witness these nameless notes) and important 
to collect people's names as you request help from them. ^^ 
Unfortunately, in my own little non^assertive way, I have V—— 
trouble asking for names and titles without making it sound 
like I'm contemplating reporting them to higher authorities. 
Interview with the Knorrs--Just spent the evening 
with the Knorrs. If folklore can provide as exhilarating 
moments as these, maybe I can stick to it. I'm feeling 
really good and good about what we accomplished for the 
first time this trip. 
Mr. Knorr had assembled excellent family photographs 
that had been taken by his mother. As he went through 
them, answering Rusty*s questions, my picture of ranching 
activities“-through the seasonal round and through the round 
of years—really gained dimension. 
I was interested to note Knorr's keen sense of the 
geology of his territory—that the rocks in his field were 
the result of glacial deposits. It reminded me of Michener's 
Centennial, which insists on relating a saga of the area 
starting foom this geologic base. Sure enough, Knorr 
mentioned his admiration of that very work and his belief 
(yyWtV' ca***- y.rs*-- s , Of tXa. rvOV t »/) 
in its accuracy. * 
Knorr's family history was exeeedingly interesting to 
me. Father William ("He was 'Wilhelm' there but 'William' 
when he got over here"--note: the family name seems to have 
originally been spelled Knftrr, according to a family photograph, 
CO80-BO-4 8/25/80 
although neither of the Knorrs seems to recognize it) came 
over from Germany in 1882-3 in order to avoid military 
induction. He came to Colorado, where an uncle was Already 
living. He came to mine. His brother Theodore followed. 
They ran a saloon together in Breckenridge: The Knocr 
Bros.' Pioneer Saloon. A momento of the saloon survives in a 
metal matchbox with the Rnorr dog, "0uke" pictured on 
one side and the saloon's name inscribed on the other. 
(My own interest in taverns and tavern life as an entree 
into social history pre-disposes me to latch onto this family 
venture. What was saloon life like? Was it purely a social 
gathering place? A place for transacting business? Who 
patronized it? Was it considered respectable by the citizenry? 
How much was it a family business (i.e. were the brothers 
married yet and, if so, did the wives work in the saloon)? 
Why did they get out of the business? etc., etc.,etc.) Theodore 
seems to have preferred the town life, judging from the evidence 
I saw in the reception books. 
There was originally a post office on the site of the 
Knorr property—the Lakeside P.0. From what I've read about 
locating post offices in those days, it was a pretty significant 
feature, opening possibilities for communication and trade. 
I was pleased to have an opportunity to hear fkusty 
conduct an interview. Things that struck me about his manner 
were that he first warned Knorr that the tape was tunning 
machine 
and then virtually made it seem as if there was no /\ there 
at all He expressed his CWn interests in the information 
being passed (also recognize that his curiosity and, in some 
ways, the interview was impelled by his Cwn recent experience 
CO80-BO-J 8/25/80 
in Nevada—e.g. comparison to Nevada terms like "buckaroo" 
and attitudes towards cowboys), pursuing subjects as far 
as he could and then calling the line of questions back. 
He followed a sort of double helix structure of discussion, 
talking on the one hand, about the photos Mr. Knorr had 
before him, using their random order (^>r§2|§Ambled by 
Knorr?) and their subject matter to lead the questions; 
interpolated with this was an attempt to discern the seasonal 
tasks of the rancher, following the cycle from spring onwards. 
At times this structure threatened to become confusing, but 
it also served to reduce the feeling (and tension) of a 
structured interview. Having the pictures in front of him 
really warmed Mr. Knorr to his tcpic--and occasionally even 
drew Mrs. Knorr over to look and offer quiet comments. 
(I was curious throughout to gain an impression of 
Mrs. Knorr. She remained studiously removed during most 
of the taping, reading a paper-back book in a recliner 
chair in the living room. But any suggestion of stand-offishnes 
was erased in those moments when she was drawn over by 
curiosity, . when she dug out extra photos and the 
family Bible for us to look at, or when she silently winked 
at me from the kitchen as she unloaded dishes and brewed 
coffee. She spoke of "Mother"--Karl's mother, Corinne— 
with obvious love and respect when she mentioned the care 
Corinne had taken to keep family records.) 
That Rusty wasn't adverse to continuing the tape 
while breaking up the formal dynamics as we chatted over 
coffee and cookies, impressed me with the attitude (hard 
for me to adopt) of letting the tape run no matter what. 
C080-BO-J 8/25/80 
^lso, he was careful to push for details on names and locations, 
especially in reference to the photos, no matter how 
irrelevant they might seem to the matter at hand. 
Naturally, as soon as the tape was off, the conversation 
picked up. The Knorrs showed us their trophy room--full of 
heads and horns captured in the U.S. and Africa. While 
Rusty and Mr. Knorr talked about ranching matters, Elke 
and Mrs. Knorr and I talked a little bit about her past. 
She discussed her experiences as a school teacher in a 
one room schoolhouse at Lakeside (now defunct town), where 
she h&d to do her won janitorial work as well as teach. She 
mentioned that she never hit a child as punishment--she 
simply let them sit it out and think about it (a method now 
hung with all sorts of behavioural and humanistic psychology 
j argon!) 
Both the Knorrs seemed quite warm, once you break 
through the initial reserve. They kept us there chatting 
until nearly 11, although we were concerned about getting 
out of their way as they have to get up early. Mrs. Knorr 
seemed reluctant to let us go at all; she proposed in her 
off-hand way that we should simply stay the night, as they 
have extra beds. I like her habit of winking at you, as 
if it's understood that everything's all in fun. 
Day 9--26 August, 1980 
Rotary Club meeting—I was impressed with the level of 
interest Rusty's talk about the museum aroused among these 
pracrU cal businessmen, as signalled by their to-the-point 
questions. It was something new being among those that are 
C08U-B0-J 8/26/80 
involved in running a community. 
It was a shame that the tape of the talk didn't cQme 
out. We reviewed the talk afterwards in the car, discussing 
the rhetorical techniques involved. Aside from the 
obvious one of addressing interests and matters close to 
the hearts of businessmen, e.g. taxes and tourism, there 
was the sort of one-two opening of frankly declaring his 
intention to "sell soap" (you can't con a businessman?). 
Also there was the listing of the living history museums 
in the western region, suggesting simultaneously the level 
of competition and of marketability there exists for such 
an enterprise. (Rusty admitted that he had purposely 
left out mention of the ranching museum opening in Boulder, 
which constitutes very real competition.) It was interesting 
to me that, in this setting, I could accept the purely 
pragmatic, entrepreneurial outlook (museum as "enterprise", 
involved in "competition") as inextricable from the more 
idealistic concerns that preoccupy me. 
One exchange that sparked me during the post-talk 
chatting was the idea of "recoverable history" (Rusty's 
phrase). I could picture a scene in which people who 
normally wouldn't concern themselves with "history", would 
get involved in the actual process, that unending struggle 
to get at a "true" recons^ructiop^'rwKx9hrna5iwa^§ssends out 
ripples of trying to fit it into the wider historical 
f,, •••**) 
context. We talked about how daring it would be to set up 
a museum set in the 1940's. I opined that that was too 
painfully recent—a sense even I, a child of the '50's 
have. Or is that my generational prejudice? 
C080-BO-J 8/26/80 
We went out to Knorrs. Mrs. Knorr was too busy 
to talk (preparing to entertain), so we gave har a gift 
of aanall can of Folger's coffee (fortuitously her brand!) 
and arranged to-talk to her tomorrow a.m. I'm beginning to 
really like the lady; in her understated way she really makes 
me feel safe (daughterly?). She gently patted my bottom 
as we stepped back outdoors. 
She seemed quietly hospitable as she stood on her 
front porch talking to us and allowing us to take her 
picture. She mentioned to Rusty that he would have to 
explain our project more fully to Karl, as he really 
doesn't understand what we are about. I was pleasantly 
surprised at her honesty. 
She was sorry that she couldn't spare the time to 
show us her antique shop, but she gave us the key and 
told us to go look around, mentioning a spot behind the 
stove that she believed to have the oldest newspaper wall 
covering. Her manner in discussing the shop, and more so 
in talking with Rusty and Elke about particular pieces 
when we returned with the key gave me the impression that 
she is a hard-headed business woman (and not about to 
donate her cast-offs to any museum). 
Those snatches Elke translated from the German language 
newspapers on the upstairs cabir. wall gave me one of those 
rare instants of time travel—Come to California and pick 
raisins! Learn to be a barber! Come to the promised land! 
Better yourself! 
This morning's turkey talk and my scraps of reading 
in the Colorado Cattlemen's history (must be an active group) 
C080-BO-J 8/26/80 
set me to musing on the way home about obtaining large-scale 
funding for this ranching museum project. I wonder how 
likely it would be to get funding from the likes of the 
Colorado Cattlemen, and what kind of onerous conditions 
would be attached? Rusty mentioned some other possibilities,e,g. 
Western Stockgrowers Association. He also posed the question 
of transportation--how would we get visitors from 1-70 to 
a ranch up the Blue? If mass transit were arranged in 
cooperation with the :Copper Mountain Project, who could 
use it in the winter, using electric jitney buses, it 
could be framed in terms of energy/conservation, "appropriate 
technology" and possibly attract. .. a grant from the 
Energy Dept. A lot to consider. 
Day 1Q--27 August, 1980 
Stop at Charlie Lund's ranch--cluttered kitchen scene, 
Charlie eating breakfast (mumbles and dribbles eggs down 
his stubbly chin) Charlie's speech was difficult to understand, 
and I wasn't sure how much of Rusty's "pitch" he was taking 
in. I didn't envy Elke the task of interviewing him. 
After we left, Rusty and I speculated about how the 
girls (Pauline and Sherri) ended up at the ranch. Rusty's 
hypothesis: "freaked-out MIT students" playing a back-to-nature 
trip, their own dyeing, etc. An interesting survival 
from the days of dropping out of society on a Rocky Mountain 
High—a phenomenon of the '60's and early '70's, and one 
very vivid to Rusty,apparently. I reserved judgement. 
Interview with Mrs. Knorr. On the whole, a leisurely, 
but full morning's work. My conversations with Mrs. Knorr 
C08C-B0-J 8/27/80 
*10 
about what she missed about her childhood, about her 
grandchildren and her regular communication with her 
children, and about her reliance, almost dependence on 
the mail were(to me(both articulated and unarticulated 
testimony to her feelings about family closeness. After 
a full morning of talking about her many activites^. experiencing 
some of them, seeing her pride in her possessions, her skills, 
and her family, and discussing her past and her views on 
the ranching, I gain the impression of her as a^elf-»contained/< c'ft :,*J' 
lady, contented with her lot. Yet, perhaps lonely and in 
need of people, too? 
Notes on interviewing: 
--Don't interrupt so much. If you leave empty space in 
the conversation, sometimes the other person will add 
more information to fill it 
--Try to stick to one subject and spin it out as far as 
it will go 
--Remember to persist about names, dates, locations, and 
spellings 
I was sorry to have to say good-bye to Mrs. Knorr 
Day 11-28 August,1980 
Read article: Rodnitzky, Jerom L., "Recapturing the 
West; The Dude Ranch in American Life" in Arizona and the 
West, col. 10, no. 2, summer, I960, pp. 111-126. 
Stirred up questions about our own project. In some 
ways we approximate the ideals first embodied in dudtranching-- 
of giving the non-rancher a taste of real ranching life. 
CUtiU-iiO-O ti/Z&/BU 
Some of the factors that allowed it to become a popular 
trfrtCA&t* 
viacation pastime/approximate some of the factors we expect 
, vu. 't°- 
to increase the visitation of a working ranch museuny?. The 
informality of ranching life attracted tourists; it offered 
a "trip through history, back through the life of a nation" 
(p. 124). In the 1940's the war created restrictions on 
foreign travel, thus increasing the dude ranches' popularity. 
In the 1980's, the gas crunch should limit long distance 
travel, driving people more intensively to local regions 
and local offerings for entertainment and instruction. 
What distinguishes the "working ranch museum" from a 
- As i 
daytime version of a working dude ranch? Bude ranches 
developed, according to Rodnitzky, they offered visitors a 
t\ 
chance to test the hoped-for reality against the popular image. 
They were not interested in testing these images of ranches 
and cowboys (gleaned from movies) against reality, but in 
seeing if ranch life lived uP to the image projected by 
the movies." (124_ "The dude went West to pretend rather 
than to play or relax. He was driven by the same charisma that 
drew the pioneers. But the .magic spell was temporary, and 
the reality was the unexciting job to which he would soon 
return." (123) I think I've been dedicated to the proposition 
of breaking up images of the ideal in ranch living with counter 
images of the mundane and back-breaking in ranch living. But 
images belong to the outsider; where does the insider's 
reality lie? 
Rodnitzky1s article also brought to the surface a 
concern that has been nagging me all along. When I looked 
at the histories of Colorado on the UCLA shelves. I was 
0/Z4/0U 
mildly distressed because all of them were purely narrative, 
with much of their attention focused on what happened, 
and little concern for how or why, or for fitting it into 
a wider historical framework. In the same way, there is 
too little analysis in what we do. I know we're only 
beginning to collect the facts and are hardly at a stage 
to sift and make grand conclusions. But we need to distinguish 
between the various sorts of information we're collecting 
and understand why they're important. We could start 
with ourselves and ask why we are so attracted by this 
ranching stuff in the first place. What images am I nursing? 
Looked at the AHLFAM newsletter--intriguing museum 
news, mentioning activities all over the nation. For the 
first time I'm seeing these museums formally connecting 
with economic history (Joyce Appleby, of'mercantilism fame, 
participating in a conference at _-Kagley Museum, 
Delaware!) Also mention of Boulder ranching museum-- 
seems already very much a reality and well-supported. 
Jeep ride with John Farr up to Rexford and Wise Mountain, 
overlooking the Blue River Valley. Redressed some of the 
imbalance created by concentrating on ranching these two 
weeks by examining mining sites and peering down mine shafts 
dug right through the tundra. As J.D. mentioned, the 
fascination of mining in the Rockies for people stems 
from the sheer technology of working and transporting 
in this altitude and terrain. 
As John vralked us through the Rexford site, and as 
he continued to drive and talk, I becanxmore and more aware 
of his wider vision of what he calls the "high mountains"— 
CO80-BO-J 8/22/80 
a vision encompassing geological formation, forest ecology, 
and human culture in one complex. 
His philosophy of forest management goes beyond even 
the concept of "controlled burning" that I have only recently 
become familiar with through P.R. from the Forest Service, 
which works by the theory that it is necessary to burn 
off +ike underbrush periodically in order to reduce fire 
risk and to allow new trees to -grow. John Farr believes that 
we should select unfavorable tree specimins--those that 
won't achieve good or straight growth--for/bur^ning as 
wellirhis would allow space and light for other growing kees 
and game. My instindt is to reject any suggestion of 
interfering in the natural cycle; yet John's argument 
is that once the land has been penetrated by man and the 
natural condition altered, it can never go back to a 
"natural cycle". It's an argument that makes me tnink-- 
and debate. 
Paradoxically, John showed a ready respect for those 
very interferes in the forest cycle. When he relates 
the fact that men chopped and burned trees somewhat in- 
discriminantly and mined and milled to the detriment of 
the landscape and the diversion of the streams, it is 
tempered by his acknowledgement of the limitations on 
their surveying information and devices and the reminder 
that everything they built, they built by hand at tremendous 
effort. 
This fact was driven home by the time we reached Wise 
Mountain--about 13,000 feet high--and gazed down mine 
shafts dug through the tundra and lined with notched logs. 
CO80-BO-J 8/2J/B0 
Two of them were cohered wiib log structures that to/myj 
mind, looked of as quality workmanship as those we 
seen below in the Blue River Valley. I marveled at the 
effort people had gone to to simply sample for mineral-bearing 
ore at the top of a mountain. I asked if there couldn't 
have been some simpler method of erecting diggings; John 
replied that cheap a human life was back then, there really 
vere greater safety measures taken to prevent accidents in 
these mines than in factories back East. I speculated 
that the kind of people that pursued the ore up into the 
mountains, meeting with discomforts and incredible set-backs, 
must have had a different attitude towards f rustration—indeed, 
an altogether different world-view. 
We made a (rather hairy) descent; interpolated with 
the tail-ends of the fanily history I was collecting from 
John was a history of his interest in this museum enterprise: 
his discovery and love of the high mountains; his disillusion¬ 
ment with federal land management agencies (Dfcpt. of Agric.); 
his understanding that any phenomenon—whether natural or 
cultural—has to be interpreted for visitors to be appreciated; 
his experience of other museums in the area; his meeting with 
Rusty Marshall, a person he recognized as not only having 
cogent ideas about open air museums, but also a real appreciation 
for John's own region. He continued to speak about his 
vision of the museum as a place that would interpret the 
area holistically, incorporating wildlife and natural history 
into the saga of human history in the area. He emphasized 
the idea of the interpretive center, where displays via various 
a 
would be available. 
This expanded by image of the museum, which had heretofore 
concentrated on the actual living history display, It was 
obvious that John had thought seriously about how the 
museum would support itself; his idea that the center 
would draw winter tourists as well as summer tourists and 
that it could serve to fill in the picture of the seasonal 
round of ranch work not visible in snow-covered fields 
a sound business 
through media display^ demonstrated 
sense (which I was already aware John had), but also a 
concern for providing as educational an experience as possible. 
I had a question, prompted by discussions with Elke 
about how successful communication could be between a 
real ranching family trying to get their work done 
and gawking tourists. John's answer surprised me, simply 
because it partially contradicted what Rusty had lined out; 
he would use students, e.g. interested drama students from 
universities, as interpreters. i4y initial reaction was, 
"How would they be able to convey the insiders' understanding 
of ranching?" But John's reasoning made sense: they could 
work in conjunction with the real ranchers, dealing with the 
toristj, and they (or their replacements) could provide a 
continuity that 
might not. That he had concerned himself with continuity 
was clear by his statement that a manual would be written to 
serve as a reference guide for authentic performance of 
ranching tasks. 
I was curious as to what John Farr hoped to achieve 
with this museum and asked him this point-blank. John's 
cotsu-iio-u u/n/ao 
*i\. 
answer was eloquent. He wanted people to take away some 
understanding of high mountain life—what it is and what 
it was. "I don't know why I think it's important, but 
I think it is important^*1 I used those same words once 
in trying to articulate to someone why I want others to 
care about history as much as I do. It moved me. 
I came down from the mountain overflowing in thoughts 
and impressions and quickly scribbled notes before they 
could drift away. With John's words and the full impact of 
water-trees-rocks-minerals-game-birds-men-animals, it was 
all starting to fit together. 
nevertheless, in my more hard-nosed moods, I have to 
ask myself if caring about and studying history will serve 
everybody as a path to human understanding; in the same 
way, I think we hate' to ask ourselves if a museum, no 
matter how good, can draw the average tourist, much less 
create the kind of understanding John idealizes. I wouldn't 
want to work towards building a revenue-creating Disneyland 
for the high Rockies. The idea of communicating the complexity 
of the mountains' natural and human lives appeals, but I 
must wonder how receptive the visitor will be. 
Note^-ln this tour John made mention twice of the 
Indian population in the area, orfe in reference to the 
immigration policy which created the problems for the Indians, 
and once in reference to the Utes' use of the high mountain 
area as a summering spot--a place both bountiful and beautiful. 
I was wondering if the Indians were to be totally left out 
of the picture. 
Interview with Charlie Lund. Strange atmosphere when 
CC80-BO-J ti/Z't/tiO 
we walked into Lund's kitchen about 9 p.m. and encountered 
Charlie and the two women, plys about 3 men whose faces 
blended into raucous laughter. 
We set up; Charlie came into the living room ((quite 
tidy and obviously unused, at least, in this season) and 
seated himself in the appointed chair. 
I didn't listen mucht as I was taking care of photography. 
One thing that arrested me through my camera lens was 
Charlie's hands. They were more broadened and calkused 
and roughened even than Karl Knorr's. Charlie straightened 
Elke and Rusty out on the various structures in the Slate Creek 
Schoolhouse complex. He also spoke briefly about when 
the ranch was used partLy as a dude ranch. I was interested to 
hear that someone else was in charge of the "dude" end of 
it; rather analogous to letting students run the tourist end 
of a working ranch museum? 
It was difficult to tell how foggy Charlie's memory 
was--he didn't remember precise dates, but he seemed to 
comprehend and answer all questions readily and to 
the point, with only his toothless pronunciation and grizzled 
air contributing to the impression of senility. I couldn't 
help but feel as we left and he shruggingly invited us to 
return to ask more question^ (warning us to give advance 
notice, as he is not always home--he's planning a trip to 
Peru!) that we probably weren't much different in Charlie's 
eyes from his young ladies who cook for him, and leave him 
to his own devices as long as they can keep to theirs--on his 
property. We all want something from him. What's really 
going on inside his mind? 
CO80-BO-J 8/27/80 
I was intrigued by Charlie's mention of the "Luchtfest"(?), 
a Christmas festival involving a special fish ("stockfish"?). 
From what Charlie recalled, it seemed to be one of the 
few elements of the Danish heritage his family hung onto 
after they arrived. Why did they divest themselves so fast? 
Day 12—29 August, 1980 
Chatting on the drive to Hot Sulphur Springs, we got on 
the topic of immigration history. Elke and Rusty talked 
aoout what they knew of the circumstances of German immigration. 
Elke spoke of the landless condition of many German laborers 
m the 19th century, and^of the large influx of Germans 
into the United States after the revolution on 1848 (?). 
It was this group., drawn from the educated classes who^1 
began German language newspapers and other intellecutal 
endeavors in the u.S. I was feeling regretful that I'm 
not more boned up on German history. But I found myself 
getting really excited about the possibilities of studying 
immigrarT history and immigrant traditions and material 
culture of exploring what makes people transfer themselves 
and what happens to their way of life whtn they do so. 
Visit to the Holzwarth Homestead. This was to be Elke*s 
and my chance to critique a living history museum. We walked 
into the restored cabin set at bhe beginning of the path to 
the homestead. The captioned displays inside detailing which 
families and Indians had lived in the area were long and not 
terribly interesting. Rusty was trying to keep his mouth 
shut, so as not to effect our critique of the museum, but 
he couldn't refrain from reminding us that this was the 
COSO-BO-J 8/29/80 
introductory interpretation—and, as we would find out, the 
only interpretation--offered to the visitor (other than the 
road sign which promises to show "how the first pioneers lived".) 
The cabin itself was poorly restored, as Rusty demonstrated 
at various points. Particularly noticable were wooden 
pegs driven into the door frames as bucfes--an effort,as 
Rusty described it, to imitate the nailless construction 
that would be authentic at Plimoth Plantation, but as 
we have seen, is not appropriate in Rocky Mountain log 
building construction. 
£Hke and I walked on along the patn to the homestead, 
pointing laughingly to the one horse grazing along the 
bordering fence as a fine example of "living" history. 
We came upon the homestead complex, taking in the goats 
and the assembled log buildings in a few camera shots. As 
we approached the main cabin, we noticed an older couple 
sitting on the front porch. Dike, under the impression 
that the place still serves as a dude ranch, wondered if 
they were g\&ts. We rather hesitantly asked if we could 
go into the house. They assured us we could. We stepped 
into a rather fustily decorated cabin, reflecting the tastes 
of the 1880's-1920's, I suppose. Nevertheless, the mix 
struck me as not particularly attentive to detail, or is 
it true that a family would have their best linens and 
photographs of themselves on display? It also struck me 
as odd that one room would feature two large beds, face to 
face as it were, unless it were to show off their heirloom 
bedclothes. f-——* «»*>'•» ^ 
The odor of baking sourdough bread draws one almost 
directly to the kitchen in the back of the house; indeed, we 
CVJ»OU— OVJ—U U/4L?/U<J 
spent a good 15 minutes there, giving the other two rooms 
of the cabin a cursory glance. In the kitchen we encountered 
one of the interpreters—a seasonal park service employee 
who has spent the last 3 years of his 6 year seasonal stint 
with the National Park Service at this site. He was quite 
willing to answer our questions, not put off in the least 
by our clipboards and clicking cameras, and he was disarmingly 
frank. 
S-vyc. 
He was dressed in jeans, .boots, a id shirt and a 
straw cowboy hat; he had the hearty coloring of one who 
spends his time outdoors. The heartiness extended to 
his manner as well—almost to the point of being forced. 
He explained that the interpreters do not try to 
impersonate the Holzwarth family members; they simply 
dress in appropriate style, "soft of". They"try the old 
methods" as their interests dictate; for example, tne 
young man we were talking to attmpted tanning animal skins 
and taxidermy "using Papa's1 books" ("Papa" Holzwarth 
made money on the side by doing taxidermy learned in a 
correspondence Course). The interpreters also make 
sauerkraut, dandelion wine and sourdough bread (using 
a recipe they picked up from a source other than the Holzwarth 
family). They also make lye soap. 
He said that none of the staff were trained specially 
for this work; there are five permanent employees this 
year: two women and three men, some of whom live in the 
surrounding cabins. At least one of the employees is 
from the Student Conservation Association. They also get 
volunteer help from the Youth Conservation Corps. The 
CG80-B0-J 8/29/8o 
season is now nearly over and some of the employees have left. 
Tne interpreters cover various sites on the premises on a 
rotating basis through assignments to "kitchen duty",'laundry 
duty" (doing the wash in old tubs located outside the 
back door of the "Mama" cabin), or "goat d utyr’. At each 
duty they meet and answer the questions of any visitors 
that walk up. He mentioned thay they used to run guided 
tours of the.homestead, but not as many peo;le could see 
the place per day as they can now accommodate ( on peak 
days they get up to 450 people). Besides, he felt that 
it was better to let people go through at their own pace; 
some visitors even enthusiastically join in on the chores. 
Other acitivites that were apparent were chopping wood, 
tending, a very small garden and, judging from the poke 
of material in'main house bedroom, rug weaving. 
What he impressed upon us is that whatever is done at 
the homestead is done on the initi ative of the employees: 
the livestock (chickens, 2 goats, rabbits, pigs) are eadged 
by them. They are also expected to maintain the buildings 
and environs. He pointed out where the foundation of the 
taxidermy shop is being eaten away by water and mentioned 
that the logs needed to be treated with linseed oil, the 
sod roofing on the ice house needed replacing, and the buildings 
needed to be rechinked. This is labor they are not trained 
for and, like their interpreter activites, it is learned by 
trial and error. 
He did comment that the staff is djiven ample time 
to study the period and the paritculars of the Holawarth 
Homestead history, and that they have access to 79 tapes made 
cuou-bu-j e/zy/tsu 
by Johnny Holzwarth about the life on the site when it was 
a working dude ranch. They also recently received a visit 
from Johnny himself. Because the National Park Service 
received the entire ranch intact, they had no need to look 
elsewhere for collections and can consult with Johnny 
Holzwarth about the placement of furniture, etc. (nix my 
comments oh the beds?) 
As we stood with the interpreter outside next to 
the taxidermy shop, he pointed to an old wagon in the main 
yard, mentioning that at one time they had brought visitors 
in by wagon. But they found that the visitors then became 
too preoccupied with the wagon schedule and how sooti they could 
return to their cars to enjoy the exhibits t(an interesting 
problem to keep in mind in tern's of our own mass transit 
solutions to the museum access problem). His feeling was 
that it was good to get tourists out of their cars for a 
little walk. 
Overall, he gave the impression of a valiantly hearty, 
politely bored employee, who was mildly dissatisfied with 
the form of the museum ("the dude ranch effect is ruined— 
one horse just doesn't make it") and even less tolerant 
of the museum's funding problems. As he succintaly put it, 
it simply isn't a priority site with the park service; 
his statements about the limitations and demands placed 
on the employees went is support of that. 
After a quick look at the guest cabins, we returned 
to the car and proceeded to critique the museum. 
I felt the young man's statement about the homestead— 
I ve gone as far as I can go with it"—went to the crux of 
U(0U-OU“0 &/ 4.2/ OU 
its problems. For as far as it goes, the staff does 
a fine job, but this "homestead", this sample of "pioneer 
life", this recreation of a "working dude ranch" simply 
does not go far enough. I took away with me the lingering 
memory of sourdough bread and butter and the leisurely, almost 
dejected air of the Yosemite tent cabins at noon. It it had 
been presented as if all the dudes were away on a day 
expedition, it might have passed. Yet, the museum makes 
no attempt to provide a full-fledged depiction of either 
a working ranch (no cows, no hay, no machinery) or of a 
dude ranch (no dudes, a solitary horse). In essence, 
the museum recreated nothing except scattered elements of 
old-timey life. 
Obviously, the museum's lack of ambition stems from 
its funding limitations and its position, from what I gather, 
as a step-child of the Rocky mountain National Park Service. 
As Rusty explained it, this park, unlike some in the 
East, is designated as a "nature park"--nature being 
wildlife, geology and Indians. Human history, or "culture" 
is of secondary importance here. While I understand the 
need for priorities in a system as large and diverse as 
the national parks, it is painful to think of the opportunity 
that was handed to them on a silver platter and at which 
they barely nibble. 
The interpreter had told us that the site had originally 
held some more modern buildings, which were torn down by the 
park when they inherited the property. In a sense, they have 
alteady annihilated some of their valuable legacy, because 
the newer buildings might have served both as contrast to 
COttU-BO-J U/2V/U0 
the homestead buildings and to graphically illustrate how 
the ranch continued to function until its closure. Rusty 
remembers when the deserted meadows we passed on the way to 
the site were tended much as the Knorr hay meadows we 
have observed, and from which we have learned so much, 
about one aspect of ranching and about the natural landscape. 
If the ranch could only be utilized fully as the "unnatural" 
resource that it is, it could allow the visitor to Rocky 
i 
Mountain National Park to make some significant connections 
between the natural environs and the sequence of human 
impact on them, of the kind John Farr suggests for his 
own region. In the process, it could come closer to achieving 
the goals (I assume) of the park service in heightening 
visitor awareness and understanding. 
Another feature of the homestead that Rusty pointed 
out that hadn't dawned on me is the problem of access. 
Though I fully sympathsized with the wagon/scheduling impasse, 
the half-mile dirt trail to the site effectively places it 
off-limits to wheel chair visitors--which is strictly 
illegal by federal law—as well as mo-king it an undesirable 
stop for many inactive, overtired, or child-saddled tourists. 
Overall, the museum suffers in design and in conception; 
it never seems to have gotten the benefit of prior planning 
and caring attention, so it buffets from year to year amid 
the whims of its current staff. This year it will draw 
over 18,000 visitors. Isn't it worth the consideration of the 
powers that ke? 
Visited Rusty's family home on Grand Lake. Beautiful 
site that it is, Rusty pointed out its flaw in lying too 
C080-BO-J 8/29/80 
J'J 
close to National Park territory, and thus being at the 
mercy of picknicking tourists. This explanation, compounded 
with the statements at the Holzwarth Homefctead about 
visitors' impertinence and precfcupation tounhed a nagging 
chord of ambivalence in me about tourism. Although I 
have so often been a tourist myself, and although I recognize 
tourists individually as members of the hjaman race, tourists 
en masse can't seem to avoid having a negative impact on 
an area. They can't avoid collectively tromping--eaen on 
the most hallowed ground—they need loos, food, information, 
and trash cans ad infinitum, and they seem to inevitably 
add up to mass inconsideration. So what are we doing 
putting historic preservation and promotion of tourism 
together in the same brilliant thought? 
Stopped at the Grand County Historical Museum in Hot 
Sulphur Springs. It didn't occur to me to compare it 
specifically with the Summit County Historical Museum in 
Dillon. Yet, like that one, it is located in a nicely 
restored schoolhouse building near the edge of town. 
Outside the building are log structures set at various angles 
and apparently in the process of being restored for museum 
display. Not much has yet been done on them. (I was interested 
to note that one of them seemed to have tattered canvas 
for chinking). 
The interior of the museum was nicely done, being contained 
in three uncluttered rooms that allowed free movement from one 
to another. 
The larger middle room housed a display of a current 
« 
local photography contest. I only glanced at it, but it 
did seem encouraging that this community activity was 
housed in the community's museum. 
We discussed this museum after we climbed back into 
the car. While Rusty and Hike commended the museum for 
its w&ll laid out, uncluttered displays-, with which I had 
to agree-, I couldn't help feeling a little disappointed. 
It is difficult for me to know what to expect from small, 
indoor local museums; I suppose the most they can really 
do is to leave one with certain impressions about the 
settlement of the region and dramatic points in its history 
(e.g. Hot Sulpur Springs" famed "shootout" knocking off of 
the feuding county commissioners), encouraging one to look 
fafther for a more comprehensive view. In all of this 
the Grand County Historical Museum succeeds. It seems 
that such museums would really hold more meaning for the 
"insider", the community member who could identify the 
sites pictured or recall the names mentioned and weave 
those references into a fabric of prior existence in the 
territory. This seems to be verified in terms of attendance 
at this museum; a glance at the guest book indicated that 
a large portion of the visitors are from the Grand County 
area. 
What different goals and forms the two museums we 
$ aW today take--the one an outdoor museum designed to 
involve the outsider in a whole style of living in order to 
create some understanding about a past reality, the other an 
indoor museum designed to touch off interest among insiders and 
ousiders alike in a past that can't be depicted in one coherent 
scene 
wou-bu-j a/^y/eu 
I wondered aloud whht kind of funding this county 
maseum, so car&fully and neatly Kept up, was receiving; 
Rusty speculated that they might be receiving a grant from 
the Association*for State and Local History. 
Rode through Kremmling and down the Blue River Valley, 
ticking off features—grasses, locations, etc. Finally I 
can feel on an emotional level what before I only understood 
on an intellectual level—what context is all about. I 
silently said good-bye to this place, feeling sad that 
just now, when I'm starting to understand things and feel 
on top of the project, it is ending. 
Stopped to say good by to Bo Bogan. watching him 
interacting with his customers, I got the feeling he is 
a true community resource. 
After dinner went to Farr's to settle up and for another 
attempt at dubbing the recordings. What a lesson in 
mechanical tyrannyl There just didn't seem to be any combination 
of wires and plugs that would produce the defeited result. 
It seems like no field trip would be complete without a 
goodly share of mechanical screw"ups and break-downs. I 
logged the Mrs. Knorr tape, immensely relieved that it, 
at leasi^ had come out (volume was a little low). It was 
interesting to critique my performance as an interviewer. 
As I had suspected with the Loma interview, i have a tendency 
to interrupt or interfere too soon and too frequently 
in the flow of dialogue, partly because by watching the 
person I'm talking to, I don't realize they have more to 
say. I did notice towards the end of the tape that I left 
larger pauses which Mrs. Knorr, perhaps feeling more comfortable 
C080-30-J 8/29/80 
by then, would fill. It's often the case that those pause¬ 
filling comments—afterthoughts tacked onto the direct 
answer to the original question—turn out to be the most 
insightful and eloquent and personal statements; for example, 
Mrs. Knorr's comments about not baking on gloomy day-because 
the bread doesn't seem to rise as far—perhaps she's 
simply different on gloomy days, really added another 
dimension to my perception of her personality-'-a competent, 
common-sensical woman with an underlying sensitivity to 
herself and others. 
Another thing I noticed about my interviewing manner was 
the frequent intrusion of my "appreciative guffaw". I told 
Rusty it was nervous laughter, which is in some senses 
true; I would like to reduce its intrusion on the resulting 
tape, but I also realize that it is my expression to my 
listener of myuappreciation and my attention, which I feel 
is extremely important. It is difficult to listen to an 
interview tape and not feel a little foolish, but I have 
to recognize that my comments and those personal statements 
I make are part of the interviewing process as it is happening 
and that without them, the resulting tape might demonstrate 
more craftsmanship and less about the person being interviewed 
The third thing that I noted about the interview is 
that I have improved about gathering information from the 
basics up* I still fooget to push for full names and 
spellings in casual conversation, but I was better about 
stepping backwards and having Mrs. Knorr describe a whole 
process, like butter-making, from scratch. Lastly, I did 
remember some of Rusty's cue words, like "rule of thumby 
for trying to discover personal customs that might not 
be mentioned if they were labeled such. 
Although I still hate a long way to go in conducting 
interviews, in putting the other person and myself at ease, at 
covering the whole body of material and of thinking quickly 
enough ahead to what subsidiary bits of information or new 
lines for discussion are opening up, I feel, too, that I 
have made some progress in the last 10 days. I mostly 
recognize the difference between being prepared—how much 
easier it is to ask Mrs. Knorr about yeast and bread baking, 
which I am familiar with, than to ask Mrs. McKSe about 
creating ditch outlets—and the huge degree to which feeling 
secure with the person you're interviewing (I trusted 
Mrs. Knorr to be sympathetic and not imposed upon) influences 
the success of the interview. Now it's a matter of persuading 
myself that folklife research is not always a process of 
imposing unwelcomely on people.. 
As I logged, I watched Rusty pack up, and I marveled at 
the incredible amount of planning and forethought and organiaation 
(tgoes into preparing for a field trip, and how that has to 
follow through to the packing to leave, so that as few 
details as possible get overlooked or mislaid. 
Rusty, Elke and I sat down for a quifct few minutes 
to evaluate how the 10 days had gone. I was feeling flooded 
with gratitude. I wanted both Rusty,, and Jbhn Farr to know 
in a real concrete way that the field work may be going 
to make the museum a reality, but it had alao borne fruit 
in a special way by teaching one person—me—so much about a 
region, different lifestyles, the process of doing fieldwork 
LOOU-CU-iJ O/^S/OU 
(and staring down mechanical difficulties) and about myself. 
I feel like I really had to confront my shyness—my greatest 
handicap—and push beyond it; Rusty, by creating an atmosphere 
of trust and mutual good feeling, g2ve me time and space to 
do that. 
We talked about next year, the hopes for more field 
time, the possibility of getting <§tants to continue the 
work with less painful extraction from shriveling pocketbook, 
and the fact that next year would concentrate on hardrock 
mining. 
In a way that is very difficult to articulate, I could feel 
now what was meant by an exploratory field trip, and could 
accept that while what we had discovered would not even 
be the outline for a definitive book on Blue River Valley 
ranch life (then or now), it had pointed directions, had 
signposted the path as it were (for future travellers^-like me?) 
Although on the surface hardrock mining exploration interests 
me less (somehow it lacks that poetic integration between 
the rhythms of man and nature and poses harder, more discontinuous 
lmages), I could feel that catch of wonder I first sensed 
as we stood over the shaft on Wise Mountain that 
people could have the drive to come so high to gamble so much. 
I yonder what fieldwork in an industry not soi much practiced 
anymore would be like--library work^ I thin|; with a gleam 
of those stacks and stacks of reception books listing mining 
claims at the County Courthouse. 
We talked about what we itfould change or add to the 
research arrangement. I tossed in a bid for Ron Emrich or 
someone equivalent,in the flesh to serve as a guide through 
the wilderness of county and historical records--my documented 
history bias still pleads for better grounding in actual 
written records. We all voted to*up the-ante to 6 weeks 
of field time, or 4 weeks at a minimum. |£ow it's simply 
a matter of molding those pipe, dreams into realities. 
I wondered aloud about how I could get more practical 
experience recording buildings; Rcsty suggested that the 
local societies for historic preservation who are constantly 
examining and recording sites to be put on the national 
register of historic buildings would probably welcome 
(even pay for?) help. 
Rusty §ave us a pitch about the opportunities for 
women working (skillfully) in the field of material culture— 
especially if they were to stow the quilts and turn their 
attention to something like buckrakes. I thing I've already 
been sold, though, from watching Rusty, I get the impression 
it will take several more experiences and much more ruminating 
to really get a feel for how important it is to record the 
activities and machinery used today, always looking to 
the future, to creating posterity for those 50 years hence. 
Day 13--30 August, 1980 
Early morning stop at Farrs' to drop off laundry, 
finish a roll of film and say good by. 
Rusty and I had a quiet talk. I was again impressed 
with his sudden flashes of sensitivity; it startles me 
^ ci>*+!-ax^ y 
to find that he seems to think intuitively about poeple and 
their culture as I often do, in terms of imagery and parallels 
perhaps everyone does and it's the only way it can be compre- 
u/ uvy 
y . 
hended. Anyway.* he was mentioning how much different it 
was to work with ranchers in Nevada, how their personalities 
seemed to reflect the hardness and the barreness of the 
terrain, and how that terrain shapes -.one's moods and actions. 
I was again struck by that gut level surprise and satisfaction 
to realize that it is true that people—no matter hww 
they live—are of a piece with their environment (using the 
caution of not thinking too behaviouristically or symbolically 
inaccrs* sii 
about the matter, mind you). This land is high) often 
hard, with expected and unexpected beauties meeting one at 
every turn; I think I've found the pe^ople—Vera McKee 
and the Knorrs especially—the same. 
We spoke about Mrs. Enders. Rusty sees the beauty of 
her ride on the machine. I responded to the sense of 
choreography in the whole haying operation. We're both 
waxing too poetic. 
Rus£y planted some more seeds in my fertile brain 
about studying hardrock mining lore with Wayland Hand 
and about concentrating on German folklore as an area 
study as preparation for studying German immigrant 
folklore. 
Said good-by^ Returned to the intern house to finish 
cleaning up and packing, and headed off down 1-70 West 
towards home