American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Pinelands Folklife Project collection (AFC 1991/023) 
afc1991023_12_106 
Documentation - 
Carroll, Tom - 
Final Report 
FINAL RFi-ORT 
FAST iW 
E 
PME AIDS FOLIZTr'E 7RCJECT '83 
Submitted by Tom Carroll 
Project Associate 
27 Decenber 1983 
As _1 review the 
ature of rZr fieldwork for the Pinelands r 
oiklife 
Project both on paper, thrmigh fieldnot es and take logs, and in rZr r'And, 
I am struck at once kNr the fact that most of it centered around garveys 
and decors. 
This, of course, fits in nicely with rTr interest in the folklife 
of Barnegat Bay, and as such is fortuitous. 
However, the manner in which 
I conducted rZr inquiry for the project, and the questions tha ? 
was .asking 
of the material and of the experience itself, do not fit with the work I've 
been doing on rZr own. 
It would seers, then, that a review of the origins and 
motivations behind the work that I did for the project nay be a useful way 
to begin this report. 
I visited Joe Reid for the first tine on the first, dater of fieldwork 
for the project. 
1 did so at 'Iar-y Hufford's suggestion. 
Joe was in his 
workshop in Waret.own, and a, garve;r was in progress t'.,ere. 
I asked Joe a 
number of routine questions, not having prepared in any war for the interview, 
and knowing very little about, garv eys and boatbuilding. 
Ho*,Mover, I 
was able 
to rely upon some knowledge that I had picked up in my work on decoys, know-
ledge which had specifically to do with the nature and use of white cedar. 
I think that the conbination of ny pointed questions about cedar and Joe's 
use of wood, and rZr genera]., but probably conpetent questions which arose out 
of rZr training as a folklorist, helped nake the interview somewhat succPssfttl. 
But two things happened ther(---I had begun rZr work, had organized it around 
the problem of cedar; and, r had net an individual in Joe Reid who was so 
knowledeabl e, so deeply commit+.ed ctLtitrall -r, socially, a.nd •)ar sonally to 
life in the ba r. 
T had -lade contact with, i think, a great ma.n. 
i 
do not ftIsh to -ake too -%Tch of this. 
iihat 1 dean in dPscri.bing Joe 
Reid in this :tanner is to say that he is a deeply comitt.ed, highly artl.cu7.ate 
number of his culture, a nan who has reflected on hi-s life and Pxparience in 
the particluar manner %n which these have bean rta.nifest, and has something 
important to sazr about i-t. 
People like Joe always ne^n to transcend their tine 
Carroll/PFP +83 Report/page 2 
on the part of the tree farmer, who can, if he wishes, cut the tree earlier 
and so realize a profit sooner. 
Other uses of the wood, as for decoys or 
for packing crates or roofing shingles, do not require such long tinber. 
This raises the problem of the differential usage of a sin -,le rPs ours e. 
A 
question then arises • How is this di ff erent,ial usage mediated within the 
culture? 
Who is involved in the mediation? 
How does Joe, for example, work 
out his needs wit' i 
the tree farmer? 
How does the farmer, in his turn, and 
other customers, in theirs, work out their needs with each other? 
Wood is 
involved in all of these transactions, which are :,.arked by soc-1
1_al relations 
and cultural factors as these prevail_ and are worked out within the community. 
These are questions that 1 
was not able to pursue in depth in rZr work 
for the project. 
I 
was, however, able to farm a preliminary conception of 
this probl_eri of diffPrential usage and begin to explore it in a preliminary 
nanner. 
That is, 1 
set out to catalog the various uses of cedar both in the 
pinelands and on the hay. 
Not only does cedar seen to bind people into 
relationships, but it also seen to mediate between the different technologies 
of the Woodlands, the wetlands, end the croplands. 
This latter set of 
relationships my not, in fact, be deep or especially significant, but it 
should be kept in mind as a potential subject of investigation. 
So, then, the idea that T 
would follow cedar around was born, 1 
think, 
in Joe Reid's workshop. 
The idea of mediation cane nuch later, too late to 
do nuch with it in tt,e first phase of the project. 
But it should, i 
think, 
be followed up at a later phase. 
T  wish to hake the point here that two 
possible levels of nediation are energing here: 
That which is done with 
or through cedar in order to establish the organization of heirarchies of 
usage; 
And that mediation between different technologies within the geo,;raphical 
sub-regions of the area. under study. 
These two "levels" of mediation may or 
nay not be parts of the sane systen, but both nay be explored and their 
potential_ interrelationships investigated. 
Carroll/Pre '83 Report/page 3 
The paint here i.s that cedar see-,s to occupy a. place of great significance 
in the traditions of the be.-,
,,- and the pinelands. 
It is a culturally saturated 
resource. 
And in this sense, perhaps the most obvious, and at the same 
time the most tenuous 
sense, cedar mediates in yet another way--between the 
domains of nature and culture. 
In a)_1 three cases or instances of :nedi_ation, 
cedar seer^.s to be deeply implicated. 
The nature of, and the interrelationships 
among, these aspects of mediation have yet to be worked out, or disproved. 
On the following dad-, Bonnie Blair and I 
visited Huri_ey Conklin in 
Manahawkin to talk about decoys. 
Decoys, of course, provide another example 
of the local use of white cedar. 
Iti- talk with Hurley was about sty-le, and 
about influences (sty-J_i_stie ones) at work in the local arving community. 
We 
also talked about. Hurley's own life and work. 
It was from Hurley, however, 
that 1 also got a strong sense of con-iitment to place. 
Hurled- seer's to 
have a chauva.nistic pride in the .3a.rnegat, Bay decoy, and is convinced of 
11 
their preeminence among all decoys carved in this coiurtri-. 
Hlu'ley's focus 
was on the object, the, decoy; Joe R(-id's focus was, I think, on wood and larger 
relationships that wood invokes. 
It is interesting to think of these two nen together, 
to compare and 
contrast them through their work. 
Hurley Conklin produces Barnegat Bay-stele 
decoys; they- are "working"" decors which are bouc-ht and sold for display 
purposes only . 
Joe Reid buLlds working garveys, ma.dP to order, for recreation, 
avocation, or occupation. 
Uses, that is. 
Joe's boats are soneti nes built 
wider than the traditional work garvey, bRcause that's how the customers 
want thee. 
!iurlPy Conklin carves lots of red-breasted mergansers, not because 
he likes them, but because, that's what his customers order. 
Hurley I 
.lt4.S ride 
the connPot,i_on betwe ,>n 
'his *-rork and the great and continuing interest in 
decoi-s; he is flourishing on that interest. 
Joe Reid thinks of hinself as 
.Part •)f a dziing tradi-tion, an -1 
wants to ra':(, sure that, the facts of that 
tradition are knovm and rPcorclPd bef gyre it, di_sa ppPars . He is not, a Romantic; 
he is 51.2'1,)1'- attenti-ve to t' 1P, significances Z'rh__cii sltrround him. 
ie, : 
-PStiOn if,, 
CarroRl/PF -C '83 Report/page 4 
What is the natiire of the difr'Prence bPtwP-m +.`iese len? 
This na;r be Worthy 
of further exploration. 
In rjNr work with Joe Reid, it cane out, that, he has built sca.l_e nodels of 
garveNrs, which he showed ne. 
T have since questioned hin about this, and 
he has said that he would like to build a nodeJ_ of every tlrpe of indigenous 
3arnegat :
,?azr boat now or fornprel.r in use. 
He says that he builds them for 
pleasure, that he considers this work a recreational activi-ty. 
lie adds that 
wizen he Was young he whi t 
t.led snall boats and other objects, and now that 
he is old he is returning to his childhood. 
He laughs at this thou;,ht, 
but the point is that Joe Reid has both personal and extra-personal reasons 
for Wanting to build these scale nodels. 
I'r,i 
sure that part of it would be 
recreational, but 1 think that the ranner in which he's chosen to recreate 
himself is significant. 
Joe does nothing casua.11.y. 
He is a shaper of his 
culture, not a passive bearer of it. 
j•ir exposure to Joe FLei_d's boat models started ne thinking about t^.e 
problem of what 1 have referred to in i%ir fieldnotes as the "dis,pl_ay" aspects 
of area ciilture. 
After 1 had seen Joe's nodels, T began t.o see 
then, as it 
seemed, all over the place. 
Sneakboxes in particular seemed to proliferate. 
And all. of these noJels are built to scale, are exact, replicas of the full-
size boats. 
The sneakbox models go so far as to have miniature decozrs in 
the giinning racks. 
And all- of these nodels are nade out, of Jersey white 
cedar, as are all of the orig!nal_s after which their are modelled. 
And they 
float; that is, 
, 
they are "working" models, as are the decoys. 
i 
net another m.an, Ed Hazelton, who also produced these boat models, 
and T asked him Why it, was necessary to use white cedar in naking then. 
He 
answered, "because that's our wood, Ton." 
He then added that T 
might as 
well asi< Prhy he wears shoes when he goes outside (,Jas Fed sug est3.ng that 
cedar i_s an aspect of civA-Iiza,+,ion in i3arne•;a+, :3a -,r?); and he also added that 
T 
mi ght as well ask whir it's necessary to take a glass of water (Was he 
Carroll/PFP 183 Report/page 5 
suggesting that cedar was an aspect of nature within that civilization?) 
Was Ed saving that cedar was, is, at the nexus of nature and culture in 
Barnegat Bay? 
Nothing more can be said about this here, but the problem 
demands fi,rther study. 
In any case, T began invest i_gating as l acts of "display" 
ay" in culture in 
bay and pink-lands areas. 
What 1 discovered is in my fieldnotes, but 
the 
the "discoverer" assembles itself into a question, or a series of questions, 
about a people's attitudes toward their tradi-tion, their culture, their history, 
their Pnvi_ronmPnt. 
It raises questions about their attitudes toward change, 
and that which accompanies it. 
This gets us back to the question of "working" 
decoys carved for displ.air purposes, which is what Hurler Con"din is doing. 
Hurley knows what he's doing, but the question is, do we? 
The i>oi_nt here 
is that these models ma.- not be sPuri_ous creations; in fact are most probably 
not spurious. 
And white cedar s 
eens to be implicated here as well. 
White cedar is an indigenous tree, and as such it platy a role in the 
people's sense of place. 
Nothing quit,(- like it grows anywhere else. 
Joe 
Reid Says that white cedar from local swamps is the best Wood bar none for 
boats. 
,ioreover, he can run down t 
,e list, of woods that, are si.mi_lar to White 
cedar, always naming thPm With r-•s l)ect to the places where th.01 , grow and are 
used as indigenous Vroods, and cri_ti.que them on the basis of the gtlal_itiP.s of 
JPrS(-1r -W -Ate, cedar. 
So, it seems that Joe, Reidlq conception of t.he, value 
of white cedar is tied to his conception of place, of what this place is, and 
to what other Woods and places are not.. 
White cedar is the principal Wood iisPd in t'1e construction of garners. 
The garvey is a local boat d(-si.gned and built to meet t;.ie demands of the local 
environment. 
i am not siig;esting here that the garvey is sui genAri_s; similar 
boats exist P1SPwhere. 
What 1  an sug;esti_ng is that t;ie garvey results from 
the conjunction of local_ resources and local_ conditions, and that there is 
an ai)preciation of this among local_ resi (lents . A s 
i_nilar armu ent can be 
Carroll /PFP '83 Report f 
na. ge 6 
Made for the Barnegat Ba.,r 
decoy, which is sI 
ely the product of the con-
junction of local materials and local_ conditions, as are other decors that 
are produced in other areas. 
TZr guess is that this sense of place is part 
of the ;.eritage of both the bayn,,en and the pi_neys . And it may be the persistence 
of this very sane sense of place which, in the face o£ cha-ncing conditions, 
contributes to the element of displair in local_ culture. 
But all of th -
i.s 
needs to be more fully worked out. 
1 do not have any sense that the foregoing discussion contains the 
germs of policy implications. 
1 have done Much of rlr work for the project 
in the bar ar ea, and the people 1 talked to these are principalltr concerned 
with the problems caused bar the nuclear generatinr- station at Forked River. 
This power plant has affected occupational act ivi+ties on the bay, but 1 
did 
not concentrate on any of the issues that, arose out of its existence there. 
The 7Ssl1As that SP.P,r1 to oCCllp•r the Minds o£ the people wThth wThoil 1 
Spoke 
have to do with the problem of change in °(-neral , 
some of which is precipitated 
by the coming of are of the iroun;er generati-on, who are turning their backs 
on traditional_ acti-rit;_es. 
Also of some concern are newcomers to the area--
people who live, but do not work, on the bay, and are therefore less closely 
tied to the envA.ronnent here. 
Joe Reid and others have talked to me about. the impact of change on the 
area, but their interest seers to he in mz7ling out the rature of the 
change and its signi—ficance for them. 
Joe is also interested in the past, 
in the history of people and activities on the bay. 
But this interest is 
reflective, not criti.ca.l.. 
At this point, policy doesn't seen to enter into it. 
1n terms of rry ex )PriPnce as a. rese;ArchPr on this project, 1 
would 
like, to make a few l)oints. 
First, T 
must salr that it w,as a very ,losi.tive 
experience. 
1 
Bret people, such as Joe, Reid and Ed P.azelton, With Whom i 
Carroll/PFF '83 Report/page 7 
will conti-nue to work. 
I 
was also able to work in terms the l_ar-er t•hP,nes 
which formed the bas i-s of the project, themes that permitted me to explore 
somewhat fanil_iar terri.tor.ir from an iinfamiJ.iar angle, which wa.s v 
. r 
•)ro- 
ductive . The nature of this product 
A 
1ri_t7r i-s, 
set out in the first part of 
this report. 
The tea.m fieldwork experi.ence is also, T bell-eve, a very t-,ro,?uc+i_ve and 
rewardi-ng one. 
Not onl•r does the i.ndiIri_dua.l researcher obtain leads and 
basic i_nfornAt,ion from other researchers, as tira.s t,'Za case on this project., 
but he is also made to see di.ff PrPn+, points of vi_Pw and different methods 
of approaching the materials at hand. 
This can provi.('LP 
l)erspec+.i.ves and in-
si,•'its that might not ot.herarisP have been obtained. 
It also provides access 
to additional ,.arts of the larger whole toward which all of us, as indivi-duals, 
are contributi-ng. 
This is an invaluable, research expP.r!_Pnce. 
However, I 
think that the team fi_el(iwork model. must ultimatel_jr be placed in the 1
)Pr-
spective of the indivi-dual's research project, because it spe• ,s 
t,o rye that 
the most si_ gni_fi_cant, i_nsi ;
;.hts, and the most i.mport.an+, anal_srses of a tradition, 
can only Pmerge from the contact of a si-ngle, inq ii.ri_ng mind with a people, 
a tradi_ti_on, or a set of artA.fac+,s. 
it, wotil.d sea"'l to 'Ie then that the proper shape for a project such as 
this one would take trle form of an hourglass, with broad input in +.''le beg-
inning, individual effort i-n the midc'•le, and broad effort, directed at 
s-vnt,hes i 
s , at the end. 
ay i 
ndi zri-dual_ effort, 
T  mean q number of 7-ndi-\ri_dup.ls 
at work on individual or clusters of research problems that have rasultPd 
from t,'1P, initial_ phase of the i.nqui.r3r. 
As T  have, already sug~est,pd , however, 
the team fi.el.r?work experience is an important part of thi.s overall_ process 
of research. 
On +I -L- nPgat. tre si.dP, T think that Mere should ha.zrn hepn much more 
interaction of a more for` Ai_ZPd, striic+i,.rPd na.tn.re a.nong the project fi.eld-
•.rorkPrs. 
Rp;mla_r mPeti_ngs shmil_d h<nve bean sc'nedill_Pd, at w'^.i_ch pr, I, s 
could have been discussed and insights shared . 
These, reeti_ngs would also 
Carro7.1/PFP '83 Report/pa.me 8 
have had the effect of providing greater unit-
ir to t`-_e research effort, and 
rnintai.ning a 
ti_Ighter focus on t,lie overall goals of the project. 
i 
am, not 
sure that this has not been accomplished, but neither an I certain that we 
have assurances that it has. 
In ier view, the po 1.Pntia.l henefits of the team 
fieldwork situation can be lost -,if  this kind of structure is not establ i 
S 
lied 
and ,iaintai.ned, and project objectives can swim out of view i.n the excitenent 
of research. 
The structure of t'Ze workload itself also presented problems. 
Surveys 
are an important part of fieldwork, but their are still problerrati_c at best. 
What is important in this phase, in rZT view, is prolonged contact of the 
researcher with the fi.eld, accom;.a.nied by continuous reflection b.r the researcher 
on experiences and events and people, encountered in t-'.he field. 
in ri•r view, 
the logging regltirerrents interfered with these 
 activities. 
1 am well aware 
of the problem of accounta bili.tIT to funding sources, but 1 think that the 
collection of "data" should have been secondary at this stage of the project. 
Rather, the formation of. valid working h%rpothes es , 
which arise out of the 
confluence of particular researchers encountering particular people and events 
should he enphas_i_Zed. 
in t:re context of particular research setti.ngs 
This My have been done in 
any case, but we need assurances that, our "data" are relevant. 
The ernpha.sis 
on the "particular" might have provided this. 
I'm not sure that the ,alrpres contributed to this problem. 
I 
wonder 
whether the public nature of t'.he log;.;i_n r 
process, along wi.th the electronic 
light and noise, didn't sonphow interfere with the reflective process described 
above. 
it mar be that the word processors should have been introduced at a 
later phase of the project, when the emphasis will.be less on the forr-Ation 
of working hypotheses and more on the collection of evidence that would support 
or refute those hypotheses. 
Tale word i;rocessc;rs ;^ake life much easi-er for the 
writer, and i embrace t,:zem on that ground. 
LMt perhaps we could have waited 
before we used them. 
1f we are primarily i_nterest.Pd in this initial phase in 
Carroll/?FP '83 Report/ page 9 
promotin,- intensity of contact hetween researcher and "field", and in the 
reflective process which must accompan,r it, then perh,-ps we should have 
waited. 
I do not riean to sound harsh or conderinator.- nere. 
i think that the 
pro"Pct has been astonishinglir successful, that the project's objectives 
are laudable and defensible, and that the work itself 
elf is well worth doing. 
I an only wondering, on paper, about how yre can best acconplish 
it. 
In terms of interviews, people, places, objects , 
etc. that could be used 
in an exhibit, 1 think that them are several things from rLy own work with 
the project that could be useful there. 
Of course, the dPco.irs come to n- nd 
at once, but I must register tiie caveat that decoy shows and exhibits have 
been clone before, an d that these, shows have been object or artifact-oriented. 
We would have to take special carp to present the decoys in a manner that 
would deemphasize their role as aest;:etic objects, and devise a 
way of 
presenting them that would reflect their special relationship to life and 
work in the bay. 
I think that the el_Pment of "display" in local_ culture would also work 
well in an exhibit, since it is centered in artifacts or objects. 
However, 
this subject would pose interpretive problems which would at least challenge, 
if not defeat, the curator or exhibit organizer. 
it na.y be worth some 
further thought, however. 
There are also some people who could play a role 
in such an exhibit, as interpreters or demonstrators. 
I an thinking here 
of joe Reid, Ed iazelt.on, and Hurley Con klin. 
I don't know how they could 
be worked in to such an exhibit. 
But each of tiem have enough presence as 
individuals to avoid being on exhibit t:".P1'lsplves. 
The c,uesti_ons tnat continue to tantalize me have already been set out 
earlier in this report. 
T 
an especiall•r ?ntgrested in the problem of display, 
Carroll/PPP •83 Report/page 10 
as 1 have described it here, as well as in the problem of nediations, in 
terms of all of which white cedar is implicated. 
I think that these are 
research questions that should be posed durin g; 
t'ie case studies phase of the 
project. 
I 
would be very much interested in davel(-)I)?ng an article for a special 
issue of a journal. 
Much more work would be needed, but I 
would like to 
explore the problem of riediations, of cedar, and of the possible connections 
of these with display. 
As I have noted, much more work is needed, but I 
an continuin g; 
with that work anyway because I 
think that t"'Iese are important 
research questions in any study of the area, and 
are currentDr involved in 
such a 
S 
tlldtj.