DII
S
SIST
 
THE AGBU ARMENIAN DAY SCHOOL
 
in
 
Watertown, Massachusetts
 
FINAL REPORT
 
by
 
JoAnn Bromberg
 
Prepared for the
 
Ethnic Heritage and Language Schools Project
 
American Folklife Center
 
Library of Congress
 
July 1982
 
4
0
 
JoAnn Brorberg
 
July 1
9, 1
982
 
Folklife Center
 
Library of Congress
 
Washington, D
. 
C
.
 
THE AGBU A EN T
hN DAY SCHOOL; W
2TER
1X N, MASSACHUSETTS
  
This report, sponsored and funded by the American Folklife Center,
 
Library of Congress, Washington, D
.C., is one of several pilot studies
 
for the Ethnic Heritage and Language Schools Project, conducted by
 
folklorists and ethnographers across the country.  These schools are
 
all *
x minity based, operate independently of the public ed u
cational
 
system and are designed to teach children the language, history,
 
literature, religious and ethnic traditions of their people.
 
The school selected for this study is the Armenian General
 
Benevolent Union (
A
U) School, of Watertown, Massachusetts, outside
 
the city of Boston.  The report describes the origin, purposes and
 
nrbership of the s
chool; its relationship to other Armenian language
 
schools which operate in Boston and across the country; its administrative
 
structure and hiring proceedures; and its financial and ed u
cational
 
policies.  The study focuses most sharply on significant educational
 
issues, as these issues are conceived to be relevant to what it means
 
to be an Armenian-Anerican; and on the curriculum-in-use, designed to
 
teach Armenian youngsters, growing up in the United States, about their
 
cultural heritage.
 
The AGBU t
c
t
hes Arrrenian as a second language to students who,
 
2
 
S
 
for the most part, co m fran lutEs in which Armenian is not spoken
 
as a primary language.  Inasmuch as the school serves the ainiuriity
 
as a private elementary school, teaching about the Armenian way of
 
life is integrated into the core curriculum; most particularly in
 
social studies.  Armenian dance, music, story telling traditions, fcoc
ays,
 
habits and custaze from all over the world are also taught.  Emphasis
 
is not only on the old traditions, indigizx)us to Arnenia,  but more
 
i
tatçoraxy custaxe are studied as well.  Differences between Middle
 
Eastern, Russian, Persian, Turkish and American-Armenian cultures are
 
explored, to help students gain cross-cultural awareness of their people.
 
School history. 
Following the lead of other ?
L
U sponsored day schools
 
which opened a few years earlier in Los Angeles, Detroit and Montreal,
 
the Watertown school was started as a nursery program in 1970.  The
 
intention of those who founded these schools was to raise a generation
 
of Armenian-Americans, competent in Armenian language skills and
 
conscious of their ethnic identity.
 
During its early years, the school was loosely administered by
 
the Executive Director of the AGBU New England District, Ha
p Atamian.
 
Mr. Atainian was a driving force behind starting the  school.
 The
 
educational program was developed by Mrs. Astrid Kadiaä rian, under
 
the guidance of Dr. Helen Vazneian, a Professor at the University of
 
Massachusetts, A
it
herst.  Mrs. Kacha
rian, frequently referred to
 
as the "
nother" and "mainstay" of the school, still directs the nursery
 
program.
 
As the children matured over the following decade, the school
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
3
 
expanded according to plan.  It is now a licensed but not yet
 
accredited school, covering nursery through sixth gr
es.  Currently
 
eleven teachers work under the supervision of Dr. Gloria Agopian, who
 
is trained as curriculum specialist and employed as principal
 Mrs.
 
Ellie Andreasian, the A
rmenian Studies Coordinator, and Miss Khatoun
 
Avagian, the music and kindergarden language teacher, are Armenian
 
l
anguage and culture specialists.
 
Enrolm ent. The first group of 14 children who enrolled in the school
 
cane fran pre t
hninantly third and fourth generation An
erican born
 
parents, living in Watertc n, Belmont, Newton and other neighboring
 
surburban Boston xmnunities.  Baptismal records of the St. Janes
 
Church were used to devise the first mailing  list.  Ini1-illy, a few
 
non-Armenian children attended the nursery program also.
 
In recent years the school population has shifted considerably.
 
'
Ibday, the school serves 7
4 f
amilies and 104 children, almost half of
 
foreign born parents.  This year's nursery enrollment is usefully cxuipar e
d
 
to the f
irst group, indicating the extent of the shift.  Originally, the
 
large majority of children cane fiat families where English was the
 
language spoken at lure; many parents did not know l
xxi to speak or
 
write A
rmenian.  Today, 21 children cc m fran families where Armenian is
 
the first language, 6 from American-Aimenian families which speak English
 
at har
e; other languages are Turkish, Iranian, Spanish and Japanese.  There
 
is  one Japanese child enrolled and two  children from mixed marriages
 
with Spanish and Greek fathers.
 
The recent influx of immigrants, drawn mainly from the war torn
 
Mid
iz
lle East, some f
rom Soviet Anrenia,  a few from Turkey, has contributed
 
4
 
to this change.  So, too, has the gradual withdrawal of many
 
American born f
amilies. For a variety of reasons, several parents
 
who enrolled their children when the program began, later decided to
 
transfer then to local public or more established private schools.
 
Many left after nursery school, following conventional practice  in
 
American schooling; others after kindergarden, first and second grades.
 
Pnding Proble m and recurring concern about school closing, teacher
 
turnover, accreditation, arranging transportation to and from
. school,
 
all played a part in shaping decisions to leave.  So, too, did the
 
srry that children would find it difficult to socializ
ze
e  easily with
 
non-Armenians if they were isolated in this way frcxn the mainstream of
 
American life.
 
There are recognized differences between American and foreign
 
born parents regarding public and private schcol education, and these
 
may also play a part in shaping choices to send children to the Ir m
enian
 
school.  Generally speaking, most American born parents, educated in
 
the public school systan, tend to feel more comfortable sending their
 
children to American schools.  Alternatively, many foreign born parents,
 
educated in private (
and predominantly Armenian) schools in their home
 
countries, find the small, ethnic school more congenial and safe; it
 
more closely resettles what they themselves experienced as children;
 
what they expect.  They worry, most particularly, about discipline
 
problems which confront the public school syst e
a; about their children
 
becoming "
too American
.", too quickly, and losing or shedding deeply held
 
values, beliefs and traditions considered to be integral to the Arnenian
 
way of life.  Despite these differences, recognized by parents within
 
the school, in terms of the larger Boston c
xxrmunity, the great majority
 
S
 
S
 
5
 
of families, foreign or American born, choose to send their children
 
to public schools.
 
P
A
U schools in North America. 
The Watertown school is one of five
 
Arnenian day schools in North Americ
a subsjdjzed by the AGBU, an umbrella
 
organization supporting a wide variety of Armenian cultural and social
 
institutions.  In 1978, according the an A
C
U report in their publication,
 
Iosharar-Mioutune, the P tJ supported 21 day schools across the
 
diaspora (
that part of the world which lies outside Anteniaj; others
 
outside the United States are located in Lebanon, Syria, Cyprus, Egypt,
 
France, Canada and Argentina.  The other four North American schools
 
are located in Los Angeles (
2), Detroit and ?
k)ntreal.
 
S
 
Other Armenian Day Schools. 
Along with the A MU sponsored schools there
 
are  several other Church related and independent Armenian day schools
 
which serve Armenian communities across the United S
tates.  (
See list
 
appended.)  Fl
or instance, the Armenian Relief Society, affiliated with the
 
Tashnag (
Dashnak) Party, helped finance and continues to support
 
an el tentary school in Detroit.  The Armenian Sister'
s School, in
 
Philadelphia ,  is run by the Roman Catholic Church.  The Teykeyian
 
Cultural Association started a school several years ago outside Los
 
Angeles, and there is a bbkhitarist Fathers school there also.  A nursery
 
school is currently being organized in Watertown, by St. Stephen's Armenian
 
Apostolic Church, and the Roman Catholic Church recently purchased a
 
building in Lexington, planning to expand their current nursery program
 
to second grade, next
: year.
 
In addition to the above, there are to independent day schools
 
6
 
operating in New Jersey and New York which, like the ?
JGBU schools,
 
are not affiliated with any church or religious organization. Financed
 
and administered independently of the A
( U, these schools are not
 
obligated to follow broad policy guidelines set by the Union Board.
 
The New York City school receives substantial annual contributions
 
from the
 
Afternoon and Saturday schools. In aMi
  
ticr
i to the day school there
 
are many more Afternoon or Saturday schools which provide Armenian
 
language instruction for children.  Sunday schools give religious
 
instruction.  For instance, St. James Church, which rents space to the
 
A
U school,  un ---
 a good, well attended Afternoon and Saturday language
 
program, with classes divided according to age and language ability.
 
Other programs, operating in poorer, less populated parishes, are
 
essentially a one teacher, one class affair, serving children of all
 
ages.  Generally, Afternoon school consists of to hour classes held
 
bmo times a week and is attended by children who live close by and can
 
walk.  Saturday school serves children who require transportation.
 
Until 1964, when the first A
C
U school was begun in Ice Angeles,
 
Afternoon or Saturday school was the standard node of educating youngsters
 
in their Armenian language and heritage.  Most of the American born
 
parents with whcxn I spoke had attended afternoon and/or Saturday school
 
as a child.
 
The A
( U school ctwt
iunities. 
Detroit and Boston are old-r, i
rore
 
established cxrrmunities, but about 90% of the newly arriving i
i
rinigrants
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
7
 
from Lebanon, Iran and Soviet Armenia settle in Los Angeles and Montreal.
 
Los Angeles has the largest and fastest growing population, and draws
 
the most recent arrivals, the Iranians, characterized as the wealthiest
 
of Armenian immigrant groups.  Estimates of the Armenian population
 
in these ccznmnities vary.  It : 
has been reported by some to be as high
 
as 200,000 in the Los Angeles area today, as compared to about 100,000
 
living in Greater Boston.  However,  it is difficult to determine how
 
exact these figures are.
 
The commonly given explanation for the newcomers marked preference
 
for Southern California is that the climate there most closely resembles
 
that of the home country.  By now, Irani and Soviet Armenian populations
 
are so large, that one of the day schools in the area, run by the Tashnag
 
Party, offers classes in Eastern and Western d
ialects.
 (The Antenian
 
dialect spoken in the Soviet t
kition and Iran —Eastern Armenian--differs
 
considerably frcin that spoken and written in other parts of the world —
 
Western Armenian.)
 There is also an Armenian college in the Los Angeles
 
area:  American Armenian International. college, affiliated with La Verne
 
College.
 
There are several Armenian day schools in the Los Angeles area beside-
,
 
the two A
C U schools.  All are thriving; some have waiting lists.  The
 
Watertown school, by contrast, is financially strapped and under enrolled.
 
(
Sec Finances.)  The maj q reason given for axrrrumity support of the
 
L.A. Armenian schools is parents' reluctance to send children to public
 
school classroo m which include large numbers of children fran other
 
minority groups —notably Blacks and b
lexican Americans.  The Detroit oorrrnunity,
 
while older and much less affected by the recent influx of immigrants,
 
is situated in a predominantly inner-city, working class neighborhood, and
 
8
 
faces a public school situation roughly equivalent to that in L
.A.
 
Consequently, community members in both cities are more willing to
 
support Armenian day scl-xx1s with financial contributions and by
 
sending their children; the academic need is more apparent and the
 
separation fran other ethnic groups in the city more real.  At present,
 
the Detroit school is the only A
U school which continues through High
 
School.  In large measure, this is made possible by the generous
 
support of Mr. Alex MaIx)ogian, wealthy benefactor of many Armenian
 
cultural institutions and the International President of the IGBU.
 
Given this background, the character of the Boston community and
 
the relatively few f
a m
ilies who elect to send their children to the P
LBU
 
school, comes into sharper focus.  The Boston community is older, more
 
entrenched, integrated and middle class, more "Anglo" than L.A. or
 
Detroit.  Parents living here are mostly 2
\
rrerican, not foreign
 
born.  And they have an academically reputable, predominantly white,
 
middle class public school system available to them.  Thus, if parents
 
choose to send their children to the AGBU school, it is because
 
they feel strongly that learning the Armenian language and history is
 
of central importance to their child's educational developtent and
 
social well being.  They seek a truly bilingual education and bicultural
 
experience for their children, and believe that the Armenian day school
 
can most appropriately meet this goal.
 
The difference in communities is significant in tenr
is of parents'
 
educational f
ocus  and e
aphasis.  For ins1 ace, in L.A. parents are
 
much less likely to question school authority regarding curriculum
 
i
ssues, feeling that the "
teacher knows best" how to educate children.
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
9
 
If parents do voice concerns, the focus will be Armenian culture; the
 
underlying question: "
Is the school Armenian enough?" By contrast, in
 
Boston, where parents are trained to involved themselves in the
 
education of their children, the core question tends to be: "
Is the 
school academically sound?"
 
School administration: the School Board. 
The school is directed by
 
an AGBU appointed Board, whose job it
- to supervise and support the
 
principal, provide basic policy guidelines which govern the operation
 
of the school and curriculum, and bring about financial security.  The 
Board is c
xlrçDosed of eight to twelve members, from diverse professional
 
backgrounds.  Appointments are made f
rctn the A
( U headquarters in New
 
Jersey, but recommendations cure f
rom the New England District Cczrtnittee,
 
based in Watertown
,.  Parent involv
r
ent is not considered to be an
 
essential ingredient of School Board activity, and there is no formal
 
policy which ensures parent participation as voting members of the
 
School Board.
 (
ugh one representative of the FnJ— see below—  serves
 
as an ex officio member.)  But appointments sometimes do serve this
 
purpose.  For instance, the current Board Chairman, Dr. Kevork Bardakjian,
 
a lecturer at  Harvard, is a parent.  Maroog Young, E
cutive Director
 
of the National Association for Armenian Studies and Research (
NAZSR), also
 
a parent in the school, served as the first Board Chairman.  Another parent,
 
Harry Dulgarian, a certified public accountant, was treasurer this year.
 
However, most generally, Board members are not affiliated with the school
 
in this way.  Last year's Board Chairman, Dr. Janes Ebt kj
 ian, a retired
 
educator who currently lectures in Armenian studies at Boston University
 
was never a parent —his children were in high school when the school began.
 
10
 
The basic criterion for Board nubership, and most especially the
 
Board Chairman, who plays the most active role, is a strong interest
 
in and c
xmni
 
1
niit to education and Armenian scholarship, and extensive
 
contacts within the xarmunity.
 
The school staff. The principal, Dr. Agopian, is responsible for
 
administering the school, guiding curriculum planning and development,
 
and 9 1  
 
ing with school-related child and parent issues as they arise.
 
Along with the Educational C
cmnittee  of the Board, she interviews
 
new teachers and supervises classrocan l
eaching. This year she also
 
taught 6th and 7th grade science.  Miss Kohar Melkisetian, the school
 
secretary, assists her with administrative chores.
 
Teachers who c
x*tprise the school staff are divided into Atnenian
 
language and regular classroom groups.  The three nursery teachers, who
 
operate that program fairly independently of the rest of the school,
 
oilprise one team.  The Armenian curriculum specialists form another,
 
and the regular school staff, all English speaking (
though not necessarily
 
American born), a third.  Within the groups there  is considerable
 
discussion of problems and exchange of ideas.  At the elementary level,
 
an effort is made to coordinate curriculum units, most particularly
 
in social studies.  The children are well aware that they have two kinds
 
of teachers, Armenian and American.  This awareness is reinforced by
 the
 
fact that they are required to speak Armenian to their Armenian teachers.
 
At the present time, regular school teachers neither speak nor  understand
 
Armenian; but in the past several were Armenian-Anericans.  While it is
 
preferred that the school hire Arirenian-Americans as teachers, this is not
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
II
 
the major criterion.  Rather, people are hired because they are
 
good teachers.
 
The Parent ¶
Lacher Organization (PTO. 
Suppl tenting the work of
 
the ?
L U Staff and School Board is an active P
]D.  Several parents
 
volunteer a great da1 of their time to various p
I
Lans; notably,
 this
 
year they worked on building and staffing a school library (
four mothers
 
spent 20-40 hours a week on this project) ,
supervising lunches, helping
 
with costumes and refreshments at school performances, and designing
 
a four page insert placed in two  local
 Armenian newspapers, to publicize
 
the school.  In addition, they sponsored several wall fund raising
 
events throughout the year which, along with a major fund raising uinner
 
held by the School Board, netted about $16,000 for the school.
 
The library is a significant ac ip1ishnent and serves as an excellen t
 
example of parents' couTnitment to the school.  This well used study
 
center for children was literally transformed from a dirty basement
 
storeroom, laden with old boxes, tables and chairs, into a freshly
 
painted, wall-lit work space, lined with shelves and well-displayed
 
hooks.  The assorted collection of about 3
00 books has grown to over
 
4
,000, catalogued according to  the ¶
tronto Public Library System
, which
 
is easy for children to use.  The parents who devoted their time to library
 
work each day, feel strongly that a school cannot operate effectively
 
without a l
ibrary to f
und students' research.  This is especially true
 
for immigrant children, whose parents have had little training in using
 
public l
ibraries  in  their hone countries.  Without the active support
 
of parents who attend to so many details of every day school life, the
 
smooth running of the school would be greatly diminished.
 
12
 
Finances. 
Alnost since the school began it has been beset by financial
 
proble m which drain Board members, teaching staff and parents of energy
 
and dampen their spirit.  The crucial issue is money, how to finance the
 
school, and who should take responsibility for this.  Up until now the
 
A
( U has been subsidizing the school, providing for almost half the
 
operating expenses: $100,000 of the $200,000 budget this year.  When
 
s
tarting the school, the P U administration expected it to b
*iE
 
largely self-supporting over time.  However unrealistic this expectation
 
may have been, in light of school cutnunity circumstances, they are
 
unwilling to continue carrying expenses as they have in the past.  They
 
c
annot stretch their own operating budget, year after year, to meet this
 
demand.  Feeling strongly that the Boston community should assume this
 
responsibility, last year they warned they would c
lose c'jn the school
 
if f
und raising alternatives were not forthcoming.  This dilemma, perhaps
 
intrinsic to the a
amity based ethnic day school more generally, led to
 
some turnover of teaching staff and the withdrawal of sate children by
 
parents who f
ind the year-to-year uncertainty disquieting.  This year
 
the situation has f
rçroved somewhat; only two teachers are unable to
 
return in the fall (
both for personal reasons not related to school) and
 
efforts to bring financial stability to the school have net with some
 
success.
 
In some part the improved financial condition of the school has cone
 
about through substantially increased tuition  Fees which started at
 
$
350 per year were raised to $800 the year before last and jumped to
 
$
1,000-$1400 this year, depending on parents income and how many children
 
they enrolled in the school.  Next year tuition is set at $1400, and the
 
scholarship fund of $5,000 will not offer much help for low income
 
13
 
S
 
f
amilies.
 In the context of what private school education costs
 
today, tuition is relatively low; but public education is free and if
 
parents want their children to learn Armenian language skills, they
 
can send them to Afternoon or Saturday school.
 
A continuing problem which is recognized by everyone connected
 
with the school is the salary scale for teachers.  This year -
 1
 aries 
ranged f
rom $7,000 to $10,000; hardly a living wage in today's
 
inflationary ecorrzty.
 
Overall curriculum design. 
The major focus of the Armenian curriculum
 
is language and history.  The bilingual competence —both spoken and
 
written —exhibited by the children is testimony to the effectiveness of
 
the teaching and curriculum design.
 
The school produces most of the Armenian curriculum materials it
 
uses.  For the past t
uv years, Dr. Agopian and Mrs. Andreasian have
 
been developing a xxnprehensive Armenian language and history curriculum
 
which can be used in the N U schools and others across the country.
 
Now in rough draft form, they hope to have a completed manuscript
 
f
inished next year. 
In aMition to work on curriculum for use in the
 
classroom, Dr. Agopian runs two workshops and s
eminars for Armenian
 
teachers from other parts of the country.
 
Translation problems and differences between spoken and written Armenian.
 
Translation f
rom English into Armenian is a problem; not only for
 
children but for adults in the community as well.  This is especi a
lly
 
true in regard to technical terminology; in many cases there are no
 
Armenian quivilents for English terms.  Also, there are 3
8 letters in
 
the Armenian alphabet; not 26 as in English.
 
But aside f
rom difficulties in translating English into Armenian,
 
1
4
 
a problem inherent in the translation of any language to another,
 
the considerable differences bewteen spoken and written Armenian
 
pose additional problems as well.  In some measure, these problems
 
are characteristic of any cont
orary linguistic crniunity; mambers acquire
 
f
luency in speaking but are not skilled in forma]. c
xrçosition.  But
 
i
nasmuch as Armenians have lived for so many decades as a minority
 
culture amid a larger society, their conversational skills are
 
affected by the c
knunant language of the country in which they live.
 
Conversations reflect this, as words, phrases, sayings from the larger
 
society (
Russia, United States, Lebaz n, Syria, France) are mixed with
 
Arnenian, even within the privacy of the home.
 
Also, differences bewteen spoken and written Armenian are more
 
c
xxaplex than in other languages
 Distinctions betv en sounds (
different
 
" p 
i s " 
,
 "
r's' and so on), which must be mate in written form, are barely
 
audible in spoken conversation.  Thus native speakers have difficulty
 
k
rowing what is phonetically correct and, in turn, writing the coLI eL L
 
form.  This situation is conçounded by differences between R tern and
 
stern di
a lects; differences which exist in both the written an
 
spoken language.
 
Classroom activity. 
The nursery program teaches conversational English
 
and Armenian; no formal instruction in reading or writing is given.
 
Here English as a second language is taught to Arnenian speaking children.
 
By kin
rgarden children learn f
undamentals of the written language,
 
having already mastered the hsic vocabulary and gained fluency in
 
conversationa]. skills.  In kindergarden they learn how to write the
 
Anrenian alphabet and to pronounce syllables of words which use given
 
letters.  They learn to 1
trurize and recite several poems and songs, and
 
S
 
S
 
15
 
to read given vocabulary items which correspond to pictures: shapes,
 
colors, numbers, fruits
 and so on.
 The Armenian and English curricula
 
are designed to a
zq
l
alent each other and teachers uurk together to
 
produce coordinated lessons.
 
Through the grades, children are grouped according to ability; two
 
g
roups in each class.  Some effort is made to individualize programs
 
for aca d
einica f
ly gifted children or slow learners, but no special
 
education services
 are available to children at the school.  With
 
rare exceptions, children's mastery of English is decidedly better than
 
Armenian.  Some explanations were suggested: all regular school
 
subjects are taught in English; for the most part, children speak
 
English outside the school; and, learning to write the Armenian
 
language is more difficult than English (
see Translation section.)
 
By first grade children begin reading and writing Armenian and they
 
continue to develop the listening and speaking skills learned earlier.
 
Recitation and written composition are a
iphasized, and children are
 
encoura
ged  to perform for other children in the ClaSSL aiul as wel
l a
 
for adults, at hantes or celebratjve events.  Formal introductic
 
to textbook learning of graun
iar and syntax begins in first grade.  Each
 
grade has a different level text.  The books being used, published in
 
Soviet Armenia, are not especially focused on Armenian traditions or
 
values, but they are designed for Armenian schools throughout the diaspora.
 
These texts are distributed without cost to the sc h
ools.  Considerable
 
mimeographed material, prepared by the teacher, supplements the texts
 
to enrich the curriculum.
 
In second grade children are introduced to literature and poetry.
 
They begin performing plays in the classroom and for others; many of these
 
16
 
have Armenian themes or are about famous Arzrenian people.  For
 
instance ,
 at graduation this year, several students performed in a
 
play about William Saroyan.  They enacted his visit to the school, four
 
years ago.
 
In third through sixth grades, written composition is stressed, and
 
s tudents are encouraged to sharpen their reading and vocabulary
 
skills.  Classroom instruction is sim i
lar to a standard American English
 
class.
 
During the time of the site visits, students in the upper grades
 
worked on a social stu'
s project designed by the Armenian Ethnic
 
Heritage Project for use in regular elementary schools.  Third graders
 
worked together to replicate a church (
in cardboard) which is located
 
in Turkish Armenia ;
 in this way learning same basic principles of
 
Armenian Church architecture.  Fourth and fifth graders, working with
 
plaster of paris, constructed a relief map of old Axmenia, locating
 
mountains and rivers and painting it.  Sixth and seventh graders
 
(
there vere t
wo in each class this year) made plaster of paris replicas
 
of ancient church crosses, copying designs ü n a text and carving them
 
from a mold.  This series, prepared by the Armenian Relief society, also
 
includes an 8
0 '
slide sh o
w, depicting many historical sites in Airr
enia.
 
The show serves as a general suxmiaxy for the project.
 
The bilingual program.
 
Armenian and/or English as a second l
anguage
 
i
s acquired by almost all members of the student c
rimiunity by kindergarden;
 
the exception being students who enroll late or those who have
 
recogniz
ed learning disabilities: the slow learners.  Foreign born
 
children who come into the school speaking little or no English become
 
c
xrpetent speakers quickly.  For most children this process takes less
 
S
 
S
 
S
 
17
 
than a year.  It is possible that ethnic schools such as this, which
 
serve both native and foreign born populations and concentrate on teaching
 
both languages to all, may be a good way to teach English as a second
 
l
anguage.  Also, it is clear to American born parents at the school
 
that their children acquire competency in Armenian language skills which
 
f
ar surpass those taught at the Afternoon or Saturday schools.  The
 
reason is obvious: these children enjoy greater exposure to the
 
Amenian language as it is taught daily, on a systematic basis.  Also,
 
through the social stuii c lessons, which provide a context for language
 
leraning, their curiosity' is sparked and nurtured about "
things
 
Arn niaii"
 
Perhaps the most effective piece of the bilingual and bicultural
 
learning process is the social talk among children who engage in
 
ongoi n
g exchange of meaning: asking questions, defining terms, telling
 
s
tories while playing and learning among themselves.  Certainly the
 
experience of Mrs. KachaôDrian, who has witnessed the shift in nursery
 
enroll m
snt over the past decade, suggests this to be the case.  During
 
the first years of teaching the program, she 6pent about twenty minutes,
 
d
'
 i
 ly, going over basic Armenian vocabulary and conversational skills.
 
She even prepared a mimeographed handbook for the many non-Armenian
 
speaking parents, to aid then in their supervision of 1
x
vrk lessons.
 
Today, that segment of the nursery curriculum is no longer useful.
 
The children teach one another conversational skills in both languages.
 
The performance aesthetic. 
There is an overriding jrfomiance aesthetic
 
at the school which is clearly evident in everyday classrocmt activity
 
as well as at the more public occasions.  Children are encouraged to
 
maorize, recite, write poetry, dance and sing, and their awareness of
 
AII
Ii
t
h
 (jL
L
 La.
e
 i
.A[I
 c
L
V
 L
 L
f
l
 
major ass e
nblies organized each year.  Some of these occasions are
 
in-school affairs, celebrating particular holidays or birthdays which
 
hold special meaning for Armenian people.  Other occasions are celebrat e
d
 
by the school c
cxrmunity at large, as children perform various songs,
 
plays, dances and poetry for the adults.  For instance, Vartanantz
 
is celebrated every February, to commemrate the 5th century battle
 
when Vartan Mainigonian headed the Armenian army that resisted the Persian
 
attempt to impose Zoroastrianisxn on the Armenian people.  The program
 
designed to celebrate this historical event is conducted aitpletely in
 
A
im nian.  Another special occasion comes in October, when the school
 
celebrates the Feast of the Translators, in commemoration of Saint Masrob,
 
Saint Sahag, and other translators of the 5th century.  Graduation
 
ceremonies are also celebrated with great fanfare, as students perform
 
in both languages, demonstrating their ne
norization and language skills.
 
All school children, nursery through sixth grades, take part in these
 
public performances.
 
Armenian culture and history. 
There are essential facts of A
rmenian
 
culture and history which are taught and explored with the children to
 
give them a richer sense of their heritage and ethnic identity.  One basic
 
text currently used in the school is The History of My Ancestors, prepared
 
by the Mel
dutarist Fathers and printed in Venice.  This text is supplemented
 
by many visual and written materials.
 
Students learn that Arrrenia was the first nation to convert to
 
Christianity, under the guidance of Gregory the Illuminator, in 3
01 AD.
 
They learn about the history of school and church ties; that wherever
 
Armenian people congregate, they build a church, a school and a
 
19
 
c
xirnunity center.  They learn that the Ai m
anian alphabet, invented
 
by St. Mesrob Mashtots at the turn of the 5th century, was designed
 
to Ar m
anianize Christianity: to spread Christianity to the Armenian
 
people who had converted a
 century earlier, but could not read the
 
Holy scriptures or understand the meaning of the prayers, liturgy, rituals
 
or scngs.  (
Portraits of both St. Mesrob Nashtots and St. Gregory are
 
represented in mosaic form at the entrance way to the St. James
 
Cultural Center, which currently houses the school.)  Through their
 
awareness of such things, a
nong many others, children begin to comprehend
 
the central place A
r m
enian literature holds in the language and history
 
of the world.
 
And, too, in a form appropriate for young children, they learn about
 
the  genocide of their people, the series of massacres by the Turks, which
 
took place at the latter part of the 19th and beginning of the 20th
 
centuries.  IN 1915 alone, one and a half million of the three million
 
Armenians living in Turkey were killed.
 
The parents of these children listened to the personal experience
 
s
tories of grandparents, great grandparents, great aunts or uncles
 
who lived through those times.  Most had been driven out or escaped
 
to other countries in the Mi 1  
e P
t before emigrating to the United
 
States or the Soviet Union.  These stories play a central role in
 
thinking and feeling about Ar m
enian ethnic identity, and powerfully
 
influence everyday fol lore, creative literature and other art forms
 
generated by Armenian-Americans today.
 
In particular, the pervasive ignorance on the part of other
 
Americans about this genocide which prefaced the widely publicized
 
holocaust of the Jews, creates for many young Anerican-Anrenians, an
 
2
0
 
e
notional and social identity which binds then together and separates
 
th e
n f
rczn other American ethnic groups.  At the N U school, this
 
shared s
ense of ethnic history provi
  the context for r
ia i
ly discussion
 
of current events.
 
The massacre itself  is discussed via a "
critical questionaire"
 
prepared by Mrs, Andreasian.  Other relevant discussion includ s
 
topics such as the recent Armenian terrorist killing of the Honorary
 
Turkish Consul, in C-ambridge, as well as international politics more
 
generally, and related historical events.  These children are aware
 
that whatever territory was saved frcfn historic Armenia  is under
 
Soviet control and that the greatest concentration of Armenians (
some
 
three mi nion) live there.  They wonder why the United States supports
 
Turkey, when the Turkish gover ment denies that the massacres ever
 
occurred, and for some, the a
irbivilence they feel about the United
 
States stance vis-a-vis Turkey, and Russia, is verbalized aloud, in
 
classroom talk
 
The school 's future. 
Throughout the past twelve years since the A U
 
school began, the voiced justification for its existence was to create
 
a generation of Armenian-AnEricans.  It is too early to determine whether
 
this hope will be realized; another 10-15 years will tell the story.  B
i±
 
it is clear to those who attend the school or know it well, that it
 
provides a f
amilial network for many who take part.  In some sense it can
 
be seen as a supplement to an extended family network.  Parents who
 
send their children to this school view lea r
ning the Armenian language as
 
an essential skill for their children to possess.  As one parent characteriz &
 
9
 
this feeling for ma: "
to have a skill is like a bracelet in the hand."
 
And most especially they want the children to absorb and treasure a strong
 
sense of their ethnic heritage.
 
JoAnn Bromberg
 
January 13,  1983
 
revised draft
 
Folklife Center
 
Library of Congress
 
Washington,  D.C.
 
THE AGBU ARMENIAN DAY SCHOOL; WATERTOWN, MASSACHUSETTS*
 
The school selected for this study is the Armenian General
 
Benevolent Union (
AGBU) School of Watertown, Massachusetts, outside
 
the city of Boston.  The report describes the origin, purposes,
 
and membership of the school;  its relationship to other
 
Armenian language schools which operate in Boston and across the
 
country; its administrative structure and hiring proceedures; and its
 
financial and educational policies.  The study focuses most sharply on
 
significant educational issues as these issues are conceived to be
 
relevant to what it i
reans to be an Anrenian-Prrerican; and on the curriculum-
in-use, designed to teach Irrr
ienian youngsters, growing up in the United
 
States, about their cultural heritage.
 
The AGBU school teaches Armenian as a second language to students
 
who come from both Ar m
enian and English speaking families.  Inasmuch as
 
the school serves the ca
unity as a private elenentary school, teaching
 
about the Arrrenian way of life is integrated into the core curriculum,
 
nost particularly in social studies.  Dance, r
misic, story-telling traditions,
 
foodways, habits and customs of Armenians from all over the world are also
 
taught.  Emphasis is not only on the old tr di  
tions,indiginous to Anienia,
 
but more contemporary customs are sti11  
ed as well.  Differences between
 
Middle Pastern, Russian, Persian, Turkish and Anerican-Arirenian cultures
 
are explored in order to help students gain cross-cultural awareness of
 
2
 
their people.
 
School history. Following the lead of other AGBU sponsored day schools
 
which opened a few years earlier in Los Angeles, Detroit and Montreal,
 
the Watertown school was started as a nursery program in 1970.  The
 
intention of those who founded these schools was to raise a generation
 
of Arir nian-Americans, competent in Armenian language skills, and conscious
 
of their ethnic identity.  The hope was that they would become active members
 
and leaders of their cairnunity.
 
During its early years, the school was loosely administered by
 
the Executive Director of the AGBU New England District, Hagop Atarnian.
 
Mr. Atainian was a driving force behind starting the school.  The educational
 
program was developed by Mrs. Astrid Kachadorian, under the guidance of
 
Dr. Helen Vaznaian, a Professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
 
Mrs. Kachadorian, frequently referred to as the "mother" and "mainstay"
 
of the school, still directs the nursery  program.
 
As the children grew oldpr over the following decade, the school
 
expanded according to plan.  It is now a licensed but not yet accredited
 
school, covering nursery through sixth grades.  Currently eleven teachers
 
work under the supervision of Dr. Gloria Agopian, who is trained as
 
cur"iculiin specialist and employed as principal.  Mrs. Ellie Andrea
.%ian
 
the Ar m
enian Stim9ies Coordinator, and Miss Khatoun Avagian, the music
 
and kindergarden language teacher, are Armenian language and culture
 
specialists.
 
Enrollment. The first group of 14 children who enrolled in the school
 
cane from predominantly 2nd and 3rd generation Am
erican-born parents, living
 
in Watert
n, Belmont, Newton, and other neighboring surburban Boston
 
3
 
curmunities.  Baptismal records of the St. Janes Church were used
 
to develop the first mailing list.  Initially, a few non-Ar n
enian
 
children attended the nursery program also.
 
In recent years the school population has shifted considerably.
 
Today, the school serves 74 families and 104 children, almost half of
 
these of foreign born parents.  This ye r's nursery enrollment is usefully
 
compared to the first group, indicating the extent of the shift.  Originally,
 
the large majority of children cane f
.wni families where English was
 
the language spoken at home; many parents did not know bow to speak or
 
write Armenian.  Today, 21 children care from f
amilies where Armenian
 
is the first language, 6 from American-Armenian families which speak
 
English at bone; other languages are Turkish, Iranian, Spanish, and
 
Japanese.  There is one Japanese child enrolled and two children from
 
mixed marriages with Spanish and Greek fathers.
 
The recent influx of i
r
rtiigrants
., drawn mainly from the war torn
 
Middle
, s
(xe fr o
m Soviet Anrenia, a few fr tt Turkey, has contributed
 
to this change.  So, too, has the gradual withdrawal of many American-born
 
families.  For a variety of reasons, several parents who enrolled their
 
children when the program beganlater decided to transfer them to i
c
 
public or more established private schools.  Many left after nurse--
school, following conventional practice in American schooling; others after
 
kindergarden, first, and second grades.  Funding problems and recurring
 
concern about school closing, tuition incr
ses (
last year it almost
 
doubled), teacher turnover, accreditation, arranging transportatt
hon to and
 
from school, all played a part in shaping decisions to leave.  So, too,
 
did the worry that children would find it difficult to socialize easily
 
with non-Armenians if they were isolated in this way fr ti the mainstream
 
of American l
ife.
 
4
 
There are recognized differences between American and foreign
 
born parents regarding public and private school education, and these
 
may also play a part in shaping choices to send children to the Armenian
 
school.  Generally speaking, most American-born parents, having been
 
educated in the public school system, tend to feel more comfortable
 
sending their children to American schools.  Alternatively, many foreign
 
born parents, educated in private (
and predominantly Armenian) schc ls
 
in their hare co
tries, find the small, ethnic school more congenial
 
and safe; it more closely resembles what they t
1exnselves experienced as
 
children and what they expect.  They sorry, most particularly, about
 
discipline problems which confront the public school system; about their
 
children becoming "too American", too quickly, and losing or shedding
 
deeply held values and traditions cons
 i1ered to be integral to the Armenian
 
way of life.  Despite these differences, recognized by pArents within
 
the school, in terms of the larger Boston conTmmity, the great majority
 
of families, foreign or ?
irerican-born, choose to send their children to
 
public schools.
 
N
U Schools in NOrth America. The Watertown school is one of five
 
Armenian day schools in North America subsidized by the A
(
U, the largest
 
Airrenian organization in the Diaspora supporting a wide variety of
 
Armenian cultural and social institutions.  In 1978, according to an
 
A
(
U report in their publication Hoosharar-Mioutune, the A
U supported
 
21 day schools across the diaspora (
that part of the world which lies
 
outside Armenia); others outside the United States are located  in Lebanon,
 
Syria, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Canada, and Argentina.  The other four
 
North American schools are located in Los Angeles (
2), Detroit, and I
Ybntre 1
. 
I
 
5
 
Other An nian Day Schools. 
Along with the AGBU sponsored schools
 
there are several other Church-related and independent Armenian day
 
schools which serve Anrenian communities across the United States.  For
 
instance, the Anrenian Relief Society helped f
inance and continues to
 
support an elementary school in Detroit.  The Armenian Sisters' School
 
in Philadelphia is nil by the Roman Catholic Church as is a b
iekhitarist
 
Fathers school in Los Angeles.  And the Tekeyan Cultural Association
 
started a school several years ago outside Los Angeles.  A nursery
 
school is currently being organized in Watertown by St. Stephen's
 
Armenian Apostolic Church, and the Armenian Sisters recently purchased
 
a building in Lexington, Massachusetts, planning to expand their current
 
nursery program to second grade next ye r. 
In addition to the above, there are three independent day schools,
 
operating in New Jersey, New York and Fresno, which, like the 2
U
 
schools, are not affiliated with any church or religious  organization.
 
Financed and administered independently of the AMU, these schools are
 
not obligated to follow broad policy guidelines set by the Union Board.
 
The New York City school receives substantial annual contributions fran
 
the A
U.
 
Afternoon and Saturday schools. 
In addition to the day schools there
 
are many more Afternoon or Saturday schools which provide AnTenian
 
language instruction for children.  Sunday schools give religious
 
instruction.  For instance, St. Jaires Church, which rents space to the ACBU
 
school, r
ims a good, well attended Afternoon and Saturday language program,
 
with c
l asses divided according to age and language ability.  Other progr n ,
 
operating in poorer, less populated parishes, are essentially a one teacher,
 
6
 
one class affair, serving children of all ages.  Generally, Afternoon school
 
consists of two-hour classes held two times a week and is attended by
 
children who live close by and can walk.  Saturday school serves children
 
who require transportation.
 
Until 1964, when the first A
U school was begun in Los  ngele
 
Afternoon or Saturday school was the standard mode of educating youngsters
 
in their Armenian language and heritage.  Mst of the American-born parents
 
with whan I spoke had attended Afternoon and/or Saturday school as a child.
 
The ABU school cormumities. Detroit and Boston are older, more established
 
communities, but about 7
0% of the newly arriving immigrants from Lebanon,
 
Iran and Soviet Armenia settle in Los Angeles and Montreal.  Los Angeles
 
has the largest and fastest growing population, and draws the Most recent
 
arrivals, the Iranians, characterized as the wealthiest of Armenian
 
immigrant groups.  Estimates of the Armenian population in these corrntunities
 
vary.
 It has been reported by some to be as high as 200,000 in the
 
Los Angeles area today, as compared to about 100,000 living in Greater
 
Boston.  However, it is difficult to determine how exact these figures
 
are.
 
The conironly given explanation for the newcomers marked preference
 
for Southef
fl C1 i
  
fornia is that the climate there most closely resembles that
 
of the hare country.  By now, Iranian and Soviet Ar m
enian populations are
 
so large, that one of the day schools in the area offers classes in Fstern
 
and Western dialects.
 (
The Armenian dialect spoken in the Soviet Union
 
and Iran —F steni Ar m
enian--differs considerably fiau that spoken and
 
written in other parts of the world--Western Armenian.)  There is also an
 
Armenian college in the Los Angeles area: Armenian International College,
 
affiliated with La Verne University.
 
There are several Armenian day schools in the Los Angeles area besides
 
7
 
the two AGBU schools.  All are thriving; some have waiting lists.
 
The Watertown school, by contrast, is financially strapped and under
 
enrolled.
 (
See Finances.)  The major reason given for community support
 
of the L.A.Aritenian schools is parents' reluctance to send children
 
to public school classrooms which incLi1e large numbers of children
 
from other minority groups —notably Blacks and Mexican A
irericans.  The
 
Detroit community, while olier and much less affected by  the recent
 
influx of immigrants, was situated until recently in a predominately
 
inner-city, working class neighborhood, and faces a public school situation
 
roughly equivilent to that in L
.A.  Consequently, community members  in
 
both cities are more willing to support Armenian day schools with financial
 
and by sending their children; the academic need is more
 
the separation from other ethnic groups in the city more real.
 
At present, the Detroit school is the only AGBU school which continues
 
through High School.  In large measure, this is made possible by the
 
generous support of 1
4r. Alex Manoogian, wealthy benefactor of many Armenian
 
cultural institutions and the International President of the AGBU.
 
Given this background, the character of the Boston ooirrrumity and
 
the relatively few families who elect to send their children to the AGBU
 
school car
es into sharper focus.  The Boston oorrrnunity is
, more
 
entrenched, integrated, and middle class, more "Anglo" than L
.A. or Detroit.
 
Parents living here are mostly American, not foreign born.  And they have
 
an academically reputable, predominantly white, mid 1  
e class public school
 
system available to them.  Thus, if parents choose to send their children
 
to the ?
A U school, it is because they feel strongly that learning the
 
Armenian language and history is of central importance to their child's
 
educational development and social well-being. They seek a truly bilingual
 
8
 
education and bicultural experience for their children and believe that
 
the Arrrenian day school can most appropriately net this goal.
 
The difference in oonTnunities is significant in terms of parents'
 
educational focus and emphasis.  For instance, in L.A. parents are much
 
less likely to question school authority regarding curriculum issues,
 
feeling that the "teacher knows best" h o
w to educate children.  If parents
 
do voice concerns, the focus will be Armenian culture; the underlying question:
 
"Is the school Armenian enough?"  By contrast, in Boston, where parents are
 
trained to involve themselves in the education of their children, the
 
core question tends to be : "
Is the school academically sound?"
 
School administration: The School Board. The school is
 rected by
 
an NBU-appointed Board, who job is to supervise and support the principal,
 
provide basic policy guidelines which govern the operation of the school
 
and curriculum, and bring about financial security.  The Board is composed
 
of eight to twelve members from diverse professional backgrounds.  Appointments
 
are made fran the AGBU headquarters in New Jersey, but re o
omxendations care
 
fran the New England District Camiittco, based in Waterto
.  Parent
 
involvement is not considered to be an essential ingredient of School Board
 
activity, and there is no formal policy  which ensures parent participation
 
as voting members
  of the School Board.
 (
Though one representative of the
 
P10--see bel o
w —serves as an ex-officio number.)  But a p in1ments sometimes
 
Gb serve this purpose.  For instance, the current Board Chai r
man, Dr. Kevork
 
Brdakji
-i
, a lecturer at Harvard, is a parent.  Manoog S
. Young, Chairman of
 
the Board of Directors of the National Association for Armenian Studies and
 
Research (
N MSR), also a parent in the school, served as the first Board
 
thariman.  Another parent, Harry Dugarian, a certified public accountant,
 
was tr
surer this yP r. However ,  most generally,  Board r
rembers are not
 
affiliated with the school in this way.  T
. st year's Board Chairman,
 
Dr. James Etnekjian, a retired educator, who currently lectures in
 
Armenian st
i 
i
d
 I
  
es at Boston University, was never a parent of an AGBU school
 
child —his children were in high school when the school began.  The basic
 
criterion for Board membership, and most especially the Board Chairman, who
 
plays the most active role, is a strong int rest in and commitment to
 
education and Armenian scho1arsh1p and extensive contacts within the
 
ooiTmunity.
 
The school staff. 
The principal, Dr
 Agopian, is responsible for
 
administering the school, guiding curriculum planning and develop ent,
 
and dealing with school-related child and parent issues as they arise.
 
Along with the Educational Committee of the Board, she interviews new
 
teachers and supervises classroom teaching.  This year she also
 
taught 6th and 7th grade science.  Miss Kohar f
rlkisetian, the school
 
secretary, assists her with administrative chores.
 
Teachers who comprise the school staff are divided into Armenian
 
language and regular classroom groups.  The three nursery school teachers,
 
who operate that program fairly independently of the rest of the school,
 
carprise one team.  The Armenian curriculum specialists form another, and
 
the regular school staff, all E glish speaking (
though not necessarily
 
American-born), a third.  Within the groups there is considerable discussion
 
of problems and exchange of ideas.  At the elementary level, an effort
 
is made to coordinate curriculum units, most particularly in social studies.
 
The children are well aware that they have two kinds of teachers, Armenian
 
and American.  This awareness is reinforced by the fact that they are
 
required to speak Armenian to their Armenian teachers.  At the present
 
time, regular school teachers neither speak nor understand Armenian; but in
 
the past several were Armenian-Americans.  While it is preferred that the
 
10
 
the school hire Armenian-Americans as teachers, this is not the major
 
criterion.  Rather, people are hired because they are good teachers.
 
The Parent Teacher Organization (
Pro). 
Supplementing the work of the
 
PBU Staff and School Board is an active PTO.  Several parents volunteer
 
a great deal of their time to various prograrr ; notably, this y
(-
-
;
;r they
 
worked on building and staffing a school library (
four mothers spent 20-30
 
hours a week on this project), supervising lunches, helping with costumes
 
and refreshments at school performances, and designing a four-page insert
 
placedin two local Anrenian newspapers in order to publicize the school.
 
In addition, they sponsored several small fund-raining events throughout
 
the year which, along with a major fund-raising dinner held by the School
 
Board, netted about $16,000 for the school.
 
The library is a significant accoir 1ishitent and serves as an
 
exce l
lent example of
 rents' corrmiiment to the school.  This well used
 
study center for children was literally transfo
.En d from a dirty baserrent
 
storeroom, laden with old boxes, tables, and chairs into a freshly painted,
 
well-lit work space, lined with shelves and well-displayed books.  The
 
assorted collection of about 300 books has grown to over 4
,000,(-catalogued
 
according to the Toronto Public Library System, which is easy for children
 
to use.  The parents who devoted their time to library work each day feel
 
strongly that a school cannot operate effectively without a library to
 
fund students' research.  This is especially true for immigrant children
 
whose parents have had l
ittle training in using public libraries in their
 
har
e countries.  Without the active supp rt of parents who attend to so
 
many deta ils of every day school life, the smooth running of the school would
 
be greatly diminished.
 
Finances.
 Almost since the school began it has been beset by f
inancial
 
11
 
problems which drain Board r
rembers, teaching staff,
 and parents of
 
energy and danipen
 their spirit.  The crucial issue is money, how to finance
 
the st
hool, and who should take responsibility for this.  Up until now the
 
AGBU has been subsidizing the school, providing for almost half the
 
operating expenses: $100,000 of the $200,000 budget this year.  When
 
starting the school
, the AMU administration expected it to beccue largely
 
self-supporting over time.  However unrealistic this expectation may have
 
been, in light of school camiunity circumstances, they are unwilling to
 
continue carrying expenses as they have in the past.  They cannot stretch
 
their own operating budget, year after year, to i
rcet this demand.  Feeling
 
strongly that the Boston community should assure this responsibility, last
 
year they warned they would close down the school if fund-raising alternatives
 
were not forth c
aning.  This dilemma, perhaps intrinsic to the co mmunity-
based ethnic day school more generally
., led to some turnover of teaching
 
staff and the withdrawal of saie children by parents who find the year-to-year
 
uncertainty disquieting.  This year the situation has improved somewhat; only
 
to teachers are unable to return in the fall (
both for personal reasons not
 
related to school) and efforts to bring financial stability to the school
 
have wet with son-c succ ss.
 
In some part the improved financial condition of the school has
 
come about through substantially increased tuition.  Fees which started at
 
$350 per year were raised to $800 the year before last and jumped to
 
$l,000-$1400 this year, depending on parents income and how  many children
 
they enrolled in the school.  Next year tuition is set at $1400, and the
 
scholarship fund of $5,000 will not offer much help for low income families.
 
In the context of what private school education costs today, tuition is
 
relatively low; but public education is free and if parents want their
 
children to learn Arrrenian language skills, they can send them to Afternoon
 
12
 
of Saturday school.
 
A continuing problem which is recognized by everyone connected with
 
the school is the salary scale for teachers.  This year salaries ranged
 
from $7,000 to $10,000, hardly a living wage in today's ec
orxmy.
 
Overall curriculum design. 
The major focus of the Armenian curriculum
 
is language and history.  The bilingual cor etence —both spoken and
 
written--exhibited by the children is testimony to the effectiveness of
 
the teaching and curriculum design.
 
The school produces most of the Armenian curriculum materials it
 
uses.  For the past two years, Dr. Agopian and Mrs. Andrea. ian have been
 
developing a comprehensive Anrenian language and his
tory curriculum which
 
can be used in the AGBU schools and others across the country.  Now in
 
rough draft form, they hope to have a completed manuscript finished next
 
year.
 
In addition to work on curriculum for use in the classroom, Dr. Agopian
 
runs two workshops and seminars for Armenian teachers fi iit other parts of
 
the country.
 
Problems of translation and teaching the written language. Translation from
 
English into Antenian poses problems for both children and adults in the
 
community.  For adults, this is especially true in regard to tech nical
 
terminology; in m a n y  cases there are no Anrenian equivilents for English
 
t eLiI
.
 In addition, two other circumstances hinder successful translation.
 
First, there are considerable differences between spoken and written
 
Armenian and second, throughout the diaspora (
Western) Arirenian has been
 
significantly influenced by dcminant culture languages.
 
As regards differences between written and spoken Armenian, these
 
problems are characteristic of any contemporary linguistic conrnunity; members
 
acquire fluency in speaking but are not skilled in formal composition.  But
 
13
 
since Anrenians have lived for so many decades as a minority culture
 
amid a larger society, their conversational as well as their written
 
skills are changed by  the language of the country in which they live.
 
Everyday conversation reflects this, as words, phrases, sayings from
 
the larger society (
Russia, United States, Lebanon, Syria, France) are
 
mixed with Anrenian, even within the privacy of the home.
 
In addition to the three factors sketched above which pose
 
difficulties for translation, students of the written langauge face
 
another problem :
 how to learn the rules for correct spelling.  Distinctions
 
between sounds (
different "p's", "k's", "r' 5"  and so on), which must be
 
made in written form, are barely audible in spoken conversation.  Thus
 
native speakers have difficulty knowing what is phonetically correct and,
 
in turn, writing the correct form.  And since certain sounds in Armenian
 
(
P,k,r,etc.) are represented by two rather than one letter, it becomes
 
difficult to remember which 1etti r represents what sound, in different
 
words.  This situation is conçounded by grarrinatical and syntactical
 
differences between Eastern and Western dialects; differences which exist
 
in both the spoken and written language.
 
Classroom activity. 
The nursery program teaches conversational English
 
and Armenian; no formal instruction in reading or writing is given.
 
Here English as a second language is taught to Armenian-speaking children.
 
By kindergarden children learn fundamentals of the written language,
 
having already mastered the basic vocabulary and gained fluency in
 
4
-
conversational skills.  In kindergardën they learn how to write the
 
Arrrenian alphabet and to pronounce syllables of words which use given
 
letters.  They learn to memorize and recite several poems and songs, and
 
to read given vocabulary ite m
s which correspond to pictures :
 shapes, colors,
 
14
 
nuirbers, fruits, and so on.  The Armenian and English curricula are
 
designed to complement each other, and  teachers work together to
 
produce coordinated lessons.
 
Through the grades, children are grouped according to ability; two
 
y
.wups in each class.  Some effort is made to individualize programs
 
for academically gifted children or slow learners, but no special education
 
services are available to children at the school.  With rare exceptions,
 
children's mastery of English is decidedly better than Airrenian.  Some
 
explanations were suggested
 all regular school subjects are taught in
 
English; for the most part, children speak English outside the school;
 
and, learning to write the Armenian language is more difficult than
 
English (
see Translation section.)
 
By first grade children begin reading and writing Armenian, and they
 
continue to develop the listening and speaking skills learned earlier.
 
Recitation and written composition are empahsized, and children are
 
encouraged to perform for other children in the classroom as well as for
 
adults, at hantes or celebrative events.  Formal introduction to textbook
 
learning of graJmar and syntax begins in the first grade.  Each grade has
 
a different level text. The books being used, published in Soviet l
½nrenia,
 
are not especially focused on Arrrenian tr 9i  
tions or values, but they are
 
designed for Armenian schools throughout the diaspora.  These texts are
 
distributed without cost to the schools.  Considerable mimeographed material,
 
prepared by the teacher, supplements the texts to enrich the curriculum.
 
In second grade children are introduced to literature and poetry.
 
They begin performing plays in the classi
'utu and for others; many of these
 
have Armenian themes or are about famous Armenian people.  For instance,
 
at graduation this year, several students performed in a play about William
 
Saroyan.  They enacted his visit to the school four y
cvrs ago.
 
15
 
In third through sixth grades, written a)rnposit on is stress e
d,
 
and students are encouraged to sharpen their reading and vocabulary skills.
 
classroom instruction is similar to a standard A
trerican English class.
 
During the tine of the site visits, students in the upper grades
 
worked on a social studies project designed by the Arnenian Ethnic Heritage
 
Project for use in regular elementary schools.  Third graders worked
 
together to replicate a church (
in cardboard) which is located in
 
Turkish Armenia, in this way learning some basic principles of Ar m
enian
 
Church architecture.  Fourth and fifth graders, working with plaster of
 
paris, constructed a relief map of old Armenia, locating mountains and
 
rivers and painting it.  Sixth and seventh graders (
there were two in each
 
class this year) made plaster of paris replic sof ancient church crosses,
 
copying designs fioitt a text and carving th e
n from a mold.  This series,
 
prepared by the Armenian Relief society, also includes an 8
0-slide show,
 
depicting many historic'l sites in Anr
en
.ia.  The show serves as a
 
general summary for the project.
 
The bilingual program. Armenian and/or English as a second language is
 
aaiñred by most children who have attended two years of nursery and
 
z
npleted the kir ergaraen program; the exception being students who
 
enroll late or those who have recognized learning disabilities: the slow
 
learners.  Foreign born children who cone into the school speaking little
 
or no English beccr
Le competent speakers quickly.  For most children this
 
process takes less than a year.  It is possible that ethnic schools such
 
as this, which serve both native and foreign born populations and concentrate
 
on teaching both languages to all, may be a ycud way to teach English as
 
a second language.  Also, it is clear to American born parents at the
 
school that their children acquire co n
petency in Antenian language skills
 
16
 
which f
ar surpass those taught at the Afternoon or Saturday schools.  The
 
reason is obvious :
 these children enjoy greater exposure to the
 
Armenian language as it is taught daily on a systematic basis.  Also,
 
through the social studies lessons, which provide a context for language
 
learning, their curiosity is  arked and nurtured about "things Armenian',
'
.
 
Perhaps the most effect piece of the bilingual and bicultural
 
learning process is the social talk a
nong children who engage in on-going
 
ex,
-,
change of meaning: asking questions, defining terms, and telling stories
 
while playing and learning about themselves.  Certainly the experience of
 
Mrs. Kachadorian, who has witnessed the shift in nursery enrollment over
 
the past decade, suggests this to be the race.  During the first years of
 
teaching the program, she spent about twenty minutes, daily, going over
 
basic Armenian vocabulary and conversational skills.  She even pre p
ared
 
a mimeographed handbook for the many non-Ar m
enian speaking parents in order to
 
aid then in their supervision of homework lessons.  Today, that segment
 
of the nursery curriculum is no longer useful.  The children teach one
 
another conversational skills in both languages.
 
The perfornaf
tce aesthetic. There is an overriding performance aesthetic
 
at the school which is clearly evident in everyday classroom activity as
 
well as the more public occasions.  Children are encouraged to memorize,
 
recite, write poetry, dance, and sing.  Con-petitions are held and prizes
 
are awarded to winners,
 ád the awareness of Ar m
enian history and culture
 
comes alive through the nine or ten major assemblies organized each year.
 
Some of these occasions are in-school affairs, celebrating particular
 
holidays or birthdays which hold special meaning for Armenian people.  Other
 
ocr si o
ns are celebrated by the school community at large, as children
 
perform various songs, plays, dances, and poetry for the adults.
 
17
 
For instance, Vartanantz is celebrated every February, to corrr
i norate
 
the 5th century battle when Vartan Mainigonian headed the Anrenian army
 
that resisted the Persian attempt to impose Zoroastrianism on the
 
A
Inenian people.  The program designed to celebrate this historic-:
;l event
 
is oond
ted ca-r
i
pletely in Armenian.  Another special occasion canes in
 
October, when the school celebrates the Feast of the Translators, in
 
carireir ration of Saint
 Mesrob, Saint Sahag, and other translators of the
 
5th century.  Graduation creirDnies are also celebrated with great
 
fanfare, as students perform in both languages, denonstrating their
 
r
rerrorization and language skills.  All school children, nursery through
 
sixth grades, take part in these public performances.
 
Armenian culture and history. There are essential facts of Armenian
 
culture and history which are taught and explored with the children to
 
give them a richer sense of their heritage and ethnic idenitty.  One
 
basic text currently used in the school is The  History of My Ancesters,
 
prepared by the Mekhitarist Fathers and printed in Venice.  This text is
 
supplemented by many visual and written materials.
 
Students learn that Armenia was the first nation to convert to
 
Christianity, under the guidance of Gregory the Illuminator, in 301 AD.
 
They learn about the history of school and church ties and that wherever
 
Anrenian people congregate  they build a church, a school ,
and a carinunity
 
center.  They learn that the Ar m
enian alphabet, invented by St. Mesrob
 
Mashtots at the turn of the 5th century, was designed to Aruenianize
 
Christianity
 to spread Christianity to the Armenian people who had
 
converted a century earlier but could not read the Holy Scriptures or
 
understand the meaning of the prayers, liturgy, rituals, or songs.
 (
Portraits
 
of both St. Mesrob Mshtots and St. Gregory are represented in nosiac form
 
18
 
at the entrance way to the St. James Cultural Center, which currently
 
houses the school.)  Through their awareness of such things, among
 
many others, children begin to oonprehend the central place Armenian
 
Literature holds in the language and history of the world.
 
And, too, in a form appropriate for young children, they learn
 
about the genocide of their people, the series of massacres by the Turks,
 
which took place at the latter part of the 19th and beginning of --the 20th
 
centuries.  In 1915 alone, one and a half million of the three million
 
Armenians living in Turkey were killed.
 
The parents of these children listened to the personal experience
 
s tories of grandparents, yieat grandparents, great uncles or aunts who
 
lived through those times.  Most had been driven out or escaped to other
 
oount
es in the MIddle East before emigrating to the United States or
 
the Soviet Union.  These stories play a central role in the thinking
 
and feeling about Armenian ethnic iden ±ty and powerfully influence
 
everyday folklore, creative literature, and other art forms generated
 
by Arxrenian-Americans today.
 
In particular, the pervasive ignorance on the part of other Americans
 
about tis genocide which prefaced the widely publicized holocaust
 
of the Jews creates for many young A  rican-A renians an emotional and
 
social identity which binds than together and se  rates them fran
 
other A
rrerican ethnic groups.  At t
ht
h AGBU school, this shared sense of
 
ethnic history provides the context for daily discussion of current
 
events.
 
The massacre itself is discussed via a "critical questionaire"
 
prepared by Mrs. Andre ssian. Other relevant discussion includes topics
 
19
 
such as the recent Armenian terrorist killing of the Honorary Turkish
 
Consul, in Cambridge, as well as international politics more generally,
 
and related historical events.  These children are aware that whatever
 
territory was saved from historic Ar m
enia is under Soviet control and
 
that the greatest concentration of Armenians (
some three million) live
 
there.  They wonder why the United States  
supports Turkey when the
 
Turkish government denies that the massacres ever occurred, and for some,
 
the ambivilence they feel about the United States stance vis-a-vis
 
Turkey, and Russia, is verbalized aloud, in classroom talk.
 
The school's future. 
Throughout the past twelve years since the
 
A
C U school began, the voiced justification for its existence was to
 
create a generation of Armenian-Americans who maintain their identity,
 
develop Armenian values, and serve their people.  It is too early to
 
determine whether this hope will be realized; another 10-15 years will
 
tell the story.  But it is clear to those who attend the school or
 
know it well that it provides a familial network for many who take part.
 
In some sense it can be seen as a supplement to an extended family
 
network.  Parents who send their children to this school vi i learning
 
the Armenian language as an essential skill for their children to possess.
 
As one parent characterized this feeling for me : "
to have a skill is
 
like a bracelet in the hand."  And, most especially they want the children
 
to absorb and treasure a
 s
trong sense of their ethnic heritage.
 
* I am indebted to several r
robers of the A
(
U School community for
 
their assistance in the preparation of this report.  Most especially I would
 
like to thank Dr. James Etire
.kjian, Dr. Kevork Bardakjian, Mr. Manoog Young,
 
Dr. Gloria Agopian, Mrs. Ellie Andreasian, Mrs. Astrid Kachaforian, and
 
Mrs. Bethel tharkoii1ian
 
The Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU)  School of Watertown,
 
Massachusetts is a day school which teaches Armenian as a second
 
language  to students who come from both Armenian- and English-speaking
 
families.  Inasmuch as the school serves the community as a private
 
elementary school, teaching about the Armenian way of  life i
s
 
integrated 
1
1
l
1
 the 
t
core 4
curriculum ,
 
Dance, music,  storytelling traditions,  foodways, habits, and customs of  
world
Armenians from all over the 
.
 are also taught.  Emphasis is not only
 
on the old traditions indigenous  to Armenia, but on contemporary
 
customs  as well. Differences between Armenian cultural groups in the
 
Middle East,  Russia, Persia, Turkey,  and the United States are also
 
explored in order to help students gain cross-cultural awareness of
 
their people.
 
While Detroit and Boston have older, more established Armenian
 
communities,  about seventy percent of the newly arriving immigrants
 
from Lebanon,  Iran, and Soviet Armenia settle in Los Angeles and
 
Montreal. Los Angeles has the largest,  fastest growing population,  and
 
draws the most  recent arrivals —the Iranians —characterized as the
 
wealthiest of  the Armenian immigrant groups. Estimates of the Armenian
 
population in these co m
munities  
some
 
2
 
The commonly given explanation for the newcomers' marked
 
preference for southern California is that the climate there resembles
 
that of their homeland. The number of Armenian immigrants from
 
Iran and Soviet Armenia living in southern California is now so large
 
that one of the day schools in the area offers classes in Eastern and
 
Western dialects of Armenian. (The Eastern Armenian dialect spoken in
 
the Soviet Union and Iran differs considerably from the Western
 
Armenian spoken and written in other parts of the world.) There i
s
 
an Armenian college in the Los Angeles area —Armenian International
 
College —which i
s affiliated with La Verne University.
 
History of the Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU) School of
 
Watertown, Massachusetts
 
Following the lead of other AGBU-sponsored day schools which
 
opened a few years earlier in Los Angeles, Detroit, and Montreal, the
 
Watertown school was started as a nursery program in 1
970. The
 
intention of those who founded the schools was to raise a generation of
 
Armenian-Americans  competent in Armenian-language skills, and
 
conscious of their ethnic identity. The hope was that they would become
 
active members and leaders of their community.
 
The school was loosely administered by the executive director of
 
the AGBU New England District, Hagop Atamian, during its early years.
 
Mr. Atamian was a driving force behind starting the school. The
 
educational program was developed by Mrs. Astrid Kachadorian, under the
 
3
 
guidance of Dr. Helen Vaznaian, a professor at the University of
 
Massachusetts, Amherst. Mrs. Kachadorian, frequently referred t
o a
s the
 
"mother" and "mainstay" of the school, s
till directs the nursery
 
program.
 
The school expanded according to plan as the children grew older
 
over the following decade. It i
s now a licensed but not yet accredited
 
school, covering nursery through sixth grades. Currently eleven
 
teachers work under the supervision of Dr. Gloria Agopian, who i
s
 
t
rained as a curriculum specialist and employed as principal.
 
The Watertown school i
s one of five Armenian day schools in North
 
America subsidized by the AGBU. The largest organization in the
 
Armenian diaspora, the union supports a wide variety of Armenian
 
cultural and social institutions. In 1
978, according to an AGBU report
 
in their publication Hoosharar-Mioutune, the AGBU supported
 
twenty-one day schools throughout the diaspora. Those outside o
f North
 
America are iccated in Lebanon, Syria, Cyprus, Egypt, Prance, and
 
Argentina. The four additional North American schools are located in
 
Los Angeles (2), Detroit, and Montreal.
 
Along with the AGBU-sponsored schools there are several other
 
church-related and independent Armenian day schools serving Armenian
 
communities across the United States. The Armenian Relief Society
 
helped finance and continues to support an elementary school in
 
Detroit, for instance. The Armenian Sisters' School in Philadelphia is
 
run by the Roman Catholic Church, as is the Mekhitarist Fathers school
 
4
 
in Los Angeles. The Tekeyan Cultural Association started a school
 
several years ago outside Los Angeles. In addition, a nursery school i
s
 
currently being organized in Watertown by S
t. Stephen's Armenian
 
Apostolic Church, and the Armenian Sisters recently purchased a
 
building in Lexington, Massachusetts, planning t
o expand their current
 
nursery program to second grade next year.
 
There are also three independent day schools in  
,
 New
 
Jersey, New York City, and Fresno, California, which are not a
ffiliated
 
with any church or religious organization. Financed and administered
 
independently of the AGBU,  these schools are not obligated t
o follow
 
broad policy guidelines set by the union board. The New York City
 
school receives substantial annual contributions from the AGBU, however.
 
There are many afternoon or Saturday schools in addition to the
 
day schools which provide Armenian-language instruction for children.
 
For instance, St. James Church, which rents space to the AGBU school,
 
runs a well-attended afternoon and Saturday language program, with
 
classes divided according to age and language ability. Other programs,
 
operating in poorer, less populated parishes, are essentially
 
one-teacher, one-class affairs, serving children of all ages.
 
Generally, afternoon school consists of two-hour classes held two times
 
a week and attended by children who live close by and can walk.
 
Saturday school serves children who require transportation.
 
5
 
Until 1
964, when the f
irst AGBU school was founded in Los Angeles,
 
afternoon or Saturday school was the standard mode of educating
 
youngsters in their Armenian language and heritage. Most of the
 
American-born parents with whom I spoke had attended such schools.
 
There are several Armenian day schools in the Los Angeles area
 
besides the two AGBU schools. All are thriving and some even have
 
waiting lists. The Watertown school, by contrast, is financially
 
strapped and under enrolled. The major reason given for community
 
support of the Armenian schools in Los Angeles i
s parents' reluctance
 
t
o send children to public school classrooms which include large
 
numbers of children from other minority groups —notably blacks and
 
Mexican-Americans. The Detroit community, while older and much less
 
affected by the recent influx of immigrants, was situated until
 
recently in a predominantly inner-city, working-class neighborhood. The
 
Detroit community faces a public school situation roughly equivalent
 
to that in Los Angeles. Consequently, community members in both cities
 
are more willing to support Armenian day schools financially and
 
by sending their children, because the academic need is more apparent
 
and the separation from other ethnic groups in the city more real.  The
 
Detroit school is the only AGBU school which continues through high
 
school at present. This is made possible in large measure by the
 
generous support of Mr. Alex Mancogian, the wealthy benefactor of many
 
Armenian cultural institutions and international president of the AGBU.
 
6
 
Boston's Armenian community i
s older, more entrenched, integrated,
 
middle class, and  Anglo  than that in Los Angeles or Detroit. Parents
 
living in Boston are mostly American born. They have an academically
 
reputable, predominantly white, middle-class public school system
 
available to them. Therefore, if parents choose to send their children
 
to the AGBU school, i
t is because they feel strongly that learning the
 
Armenian language and history is of central importance to their child's
 
educational development and social well-being. They seek a truly
 
bilingual and bicultural experience for their children, and believe
 
that the Armenian day school can most appropriately meet their goal.
 
There are recognized differences between A
merican- and
 
foreign-born parents regarding public and private school education, and
 
these may also play a part in shaping choices to send children to the
 
Armenian school. Generally speaking, most American-born parents, having
 
been educated in the public-school system, tend to feel more
 
comfortable sending their children to American schools. Alternatively,
 
many foreign-born parents, educated in private (and predominantly
 
Armenian) schools in their home countries, find the small, ethnic
 
school more congenial and safe, since it resembles more closely what
 
they themselves experienced as children and have grown to expect. They
 
worry particularly about the discipline problems which confront the
 
public-school system. They also worry about their children becoming
 
too American too quickly and losing or shedding deeply held values and
 
traditions considered to be integral to the Armenian way of life.
 
7
 
Despite these differences,  recognized by parents within the school, the
 
great majority of Armenian families in Boston, whether born in America
 
or abroad, choose t
o send their children to public schools.
 
The difference in attitude among Armenian communities across the
 
Country is significant in terms of the parents' interaction with the
 
school. In Los Angeles parents are much less likely to question school
 
authority regarding the school curriculum, feeling the  teacher knows
 
best" how to educate children. If parents do voice concerns, the focus
 
will b
e Armenian culture, the underlying question being "Is the school
 
Armenian enough?" In Boston, by contrast, where parents are trained to
 
involve themselves in the education of their children,  the c
ore
 
question tends to b
e "
Is the school academically sound?"
 
Almost since the school began it has been b
eset by f
inancial
 
problems, which drain board members, teaching staff, and parents of
 
energy and dampen their spirit. The crucial issue is money —how to
 
finance the school and who should take responsibility for it. The AGBU
 
has been subsidizing the school until now, providing almost half the
 
operating expenses or $100,000 out of a budget of $200,000 for the 1982
 
academic year. When the school began the AGBU administration expected
 
i
t to become largely self supporting over time. However unrealistic
 
this expectation may have been in light of the relationship of the
 
school to the community, the AGBU is unwilling to continue carrying the
 
expenses. They are not inclined to stretch their own operating budget
 
year after year to meet this demand. Feeling strongly that the Boston
 
community should assume responsibility for the school, they warned
 
8
 
last year that they would close down the school i
f fund-raising
 
initiatives were not forthcoming. This dilemma, which may be intrinsic
 
to community-based day-school programs in general, led to some turnover
 
of teaching staff and the withdrawal of some children by parents who
 
found the year-to-year uncertainty disquieting. In 1
982 the situation
 
has improved somewhat; only two teachers are unable to return next
 
fall, both for personal r
easons not related to the school, and efforts
 
to achieve financial stability for the school have met with some
 
success.
 
To some degree the improved financial condition of the school has
 
come about through substantially increased tuition. Fees, which started
 
at $350 per year, were raised to $800 in 1
980, jumping to between
 
$1,000 and $1,400 in 1
982, depending on parents'  income and how many
 
children are enrolled. Next year tuition is set at $1,400. The
 
scholarship fund of $
5,000 will not offer much help for low-income
 
families. In the context of what private-school education costs today,
 
tuition is relatively low. Public education is free, however, and, if
 
parents want their children to learn Armenian-language skill, they can
 
send them to afternoon or Saturday school.
 
A continuing problem which is recognized by everyone connected
 
with the school is the salary scale for teachers. In 1982 salaries
 
ranged from $7,000 to $
10,000, hardly a living wage in today's economy.
 
9
 
School Administration
 
The school is directed by a board appointed by the AGBU. The
 
board's job is t
o supervise and support the principal, provide basic
 
policy guidelines governing the operation of the school and curriculum,
 
and achieve financial security. The board is composed of eight to
 
twelve members from diverse professional backgrounds. Appointments are
 
made from AGB[J headquarters in New Jersey, but recommendations come
 
from the New England District Committee based in Watertown. Parent
 
involvement is not considered an essential of the school board's
 
activity, and there is no formal policy which ensures parent
 
participation as voting members of the board. Individual appointments
 
sometimes do serve that purpose, however. The current board chairman
 
Dr. Kevork Bardakjian, a lecturer at Harvard, is a parent. Manoog S
.
 
Young, chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Association
 
for Armenian Studies and Research (NAA5R), also a parent in the school,
 
served as the first board chairman. Another parent, Harry Dugarian, a
 
certified public accountant, was treasurer in 1982. Generally, however,
 
board members are not affiliated with the school. The basic criterion
 
for board membership, especially for the chairman, who plays the most
 
active role, is a strong interest in and commitment to education and
 
Armenian scholarship, a
s well as extensive contacts within the
 
community.
 
The principal, Dr. Agopian, is responsible for administering the
 
school, guiding curriculum development and dealing with school—related
 
child and parent issues as they arise. She interviews new teachers and
 
10
 
supervises classroom teaching, with the assistance of the board's
 
Educational Committee. During 1982 she also taught science in the sixth
 
and seventh grades. Miss Kohar Melkisetian, the school secretary,
 
assists Dr. Agopian with her administrative duties.
 
Teachers
 
The school's t
eaching staff i
s divided into Armenian-language and
 
standard curriculum teachers. The three nursery school teachers, who
 
operate that program fairly independently of the rest of the school,
 
make up one team. The Armenian-curriculum specialists form another, and
 
the remaining staff, all English speaking though not necessarily
 
American born, form a third group. There is considerable discussion of
 
problems and exchange of ideas within the groups. The children are well
 
aware that they have two kinds of teachers —Armenian and American. This
 
awareness is reinforced by the fact that they are required to speak
 
Armenian to their Armenian teachers. The present standard curriculum
 
teachers neither speak nor understand Armenian, but in the past several
 
were Armenian-American. While it is preferred that the school hire
 
Armenian-Americans as teachers, this is not the major criterion. People
 
are hired because they are good teachers.
 
1
1
 
Parents
 
Supplementing the work of the AGBU s
taff and the school's board i
s
 
an active Parent Teacher Organization (PTO). Several parents voluntee
 
a great deal of their time to various programs. Notably, this year they
 
worked on establishing and staffing a school library (four mothers
 
devoted between twenty and thirty hours a week to this project),
 
supervising lunches, helping with costumes and refreshments at school
 
performances, and designing a four-page insert placed in two local
 
Armenian newspapers to publicize the school. In addition, they
 
sponsored several small fund-raising events throughout the year which
 
netted about $16,000 in conjunction with a fund-raising dinner held by
 
the school board.
 
The library is a significant accomplishment and serves as an
 
excellent example of parents'  commitment to the school. This well used
 
s
tudy center for children literally transformed a dirty basement
 
storeroom laden with old boxes, tables,and chairs into a freshly
 
painted, well-lit work space, lined with shelves and well-displayed
 
books. The assorted initial collection of about three hundred books has
 
grown to over four thousand, catalogued according to the Toronto Public
 
Library System and easy for the children to use. The parents who
 
devoted their time to the library each day feel strongly that a school
 
cannot operate effectively without one to assist the students'
 
research. Without the active support of parents, who attend to so many
 
details of everyday school life, the smooth running of the school would
 
be greatly diminished.
 
1
2
 
Students
 
The first group o
f fourteen children who enrolled in the school
 
came from predominantly second- and third-generation, American-born
 
parents living in Watertown, Belmont, Newton, and other suburban
 
communities neighboring Boston. Baptismal records of the St. James
 
Church were used t
o develop the first mailing list. A few non-Armenian
 
children initially attended the nursery program also.
 
In recent years t
he school population has shifted considerably.
 
Today the school serves seventy-four families and one hundred and four
 
children, almost half of these of foreign-born parents. The present
 
nursery enrollment can be usefully compared to that of the first year
 
as an indication of the extent of the shift. In the first year the
 
large majority of children came from families in which English was
 
spoken at home; many parents did not know how to speak or write
 
Armenian. Today twenty-one children come from families in which
 
Armenian is the first language, and six from Armenian-American families
 
who speak English at home. Other languages represented among the school
 
children are Turkish, Iranian, Spanish, and Japanese; there is one
 
Japanese child enrolled and two children from mixed marriages between
 
Armenian mothers and Spanish and Greek fathers.
 
1
3
 
The recent influx of immigrants, drawn mainly from the war-torn
 
Middle East, Soviet Armenia, and Turkey, has contributed t
o the change
 
in the ethnic profile of the school's enrollment. So, too, has the
 
gradual withdrawal of many American-born families. Several parents who
 
enrolled their children when the program began later decided, f
or a
 
variety of reasons, to transfer them to local public or more
 
established private schools. Many left after nursery school, f
ollowing
 
the conventional practice in American schooling; others after
 
kindergarten, first, or second grades. Funding problems and the
 
recurring concern about the school's possible closing, tuition
 
increases (
it nearly doubled in 1
981), teacher turnover, lack of
 
accreditation, and transportation difficulties all played a part in the
 
decisions to leave. The worry that children would find it difficult to
 
socialize easily with non-Armenians if they were isolated from
 
mainstream American life also influenced some decisions.
 
Classes and Curriculum
 
The major focus of the Armenian curriculum is language and
 
history. The bilingual competence —both spoken and written —exhibited
 
by the children is a testimony to the effectiveness of the teaching and
 
curriculum design.
 
The school produces most of the Armenian curriculum materials it
 
uses. For the past two years Dr. Agopian and Mrs. Andreassian have been
 
developing a comprehensive Armenian language and history curriculum
 
14
 
which can be used in the AGBU schools and other Armenian schools across
 
the country. They hope to have a completed manuscript of the material,
 
now in rough draft, finished in 1
983.  In addition to developing
 
curriculum for classroom use, Dr. Agopian runs two workshops and
 
seminars for Armenian t
eachers from other parts of the United States.
 
Translation from English t
o Armenian poses problems for both
 
children and adults in the community.  I
t is especially true for adults
 
with regard to technical terminology;  in many cases there are no
 
Armenian equivalents for English terms.  In addition, two other
 
circumstances hinder successful translation. First,  there are
 
considerable differences between spoken and written Armenian; and
 
second, throughout the Armenian diaspora in the West the Armenian
 
language has be significantly influenced by the languages of the
 
dominant culture.
 
As r
egards d
irferen es between written and spoken Armenian, such
 
problems are characteristic of any contemporary linguistic
 
community--members acquire fluency in speaking, but are often not
 
skilled in formal composition. Since Armenians have lived for so many
 
decades as a minority culture amid larger societies, their
 
conversational and written skills have been changed by the language of
 
the country in which they reside. Everyday conversation reflects this;
 
words, phrases, sayings from the larger society —be it Russia, the
 
United States, Lebanon, Syria, France, or what have you —are mixed
 
with Armenian, even within the privacy of the home.
 
1
5
 
In addition to the three factors sketched above which pose
 
difficulties for translation, students of the written language face
 
another problem —how to learn the rules for correct spelling.
 
Distinctions between sounds (different "p's," "k's," "r's," and so on),
 
which must be written, are barely audible in spoken conversation.
 
Native speakers have difficulty knowing what is phonetically correct
 
and writing the correct form. Since certain sounds in Armenian are
 
represented by two letters, it becomes difficult to remember which
 
letter represents which sound in different words. This difficulty i
s
 
compounded by grammatical and syntactical differences between the
 
Eastern and Western dialects of Armenian, differences which exist in
 
both the spoken and written language.
 
The nursery program teaches conversational English and Armenian.
 
No formal instruction in reading or writing is given. The program
 
teaches English as a second language to Armenian—speaking children. In
 
kindergarten children learn the fundamentals of the written language,
 
having already mastered basic vocabulary and gained some fluency in
 
conversational skills. They learn how to write the Armenian alphabet
 
and pronounce the syllables of words. They also learn to memorize and
 
recite poems and songs and read words corresponding to
 
Pictures —shapes, colors, numbers, fruits, and so on. The Armenian and
 
English curricula are designed to complement each other, and teachers
 
work together to produce coordinated lessons.
 
1
6
 
Throughout the grades children are grouped according t
o ability,
 
with two groups in each class. Some effort is made to individualize
 
programs for academically gifted children or slow learners, but no
 
special education services are available to children at the school.
 
With rare exceptions, children's mastery of English is decidedly better
 
than Armenian. Some explanations were presented: all standard
 
curriculum subjects are taught in English; children speak English
 
outside the school for the most part; and learning to write the
 
Armenian language is more difficult than English.
 
chi I
 r
eri 5e4f1 r
eadi:ig  i
:iu
 r
 L
: I
AracJI eI ,
 
continuing to develop the listening and speaking skills learned
 
earlier. Recitation and written composition are emphasized, and
 
children are encouraged to perform for other children in the classroom,
 
as well as for adults at hantes or celebratory events. Formal
 
introduction to textbook learning of grammar and syntax begins in the
 
first grade. Each grade has a different level text. The books being
 
used, published in Soviet Armenia, are not especially focused on
 
Armenian traditions or values, but they are designed for Armenian
 
schools throughout the diaspora. These texts are distributed without
 
cost to the schools. Considerable mimeographed material, prepared by
 
the teacher,  supplements the texts to enrich the curriculum.
 
In second grade children are introduced to literature and poetry.
 
They begin performing plays in the classroom and at public events, many
 
of which have Armenian themes or are about famous Armenian people. For
 
1
7
 
instance, several students performed in a play about William Saroyan
 
at graduation in 1
982, re-enacting his visit t
o the school four years
 
ago.
 
Written composition is stressed in third through sixth grades, and
 
students are encouraged to sharpen their reading and vocabulary skills.
 
Classroom instruction i
s similar to that in a s
tandard American English
 
During the t
ime of my site visits, students in the upper grades
 
worked on a social studies project designed by the Armenian Ethnic
 
Heritage Project for use in regular elementary schools. Third graders
 
worked together to replicate in cardboard a church located in Turkish
 
Armenia, learning in this way some basic principles of Armenian church
 
architecture. Fourth and fifth graders, working with plaster of paris,
 
constructed a painted relief map of old Armenia, locating mountains and
 
rivers. Sixth and seventh graders (there were two in each class in
 
1
982) made plaster of paris replicas of ancient church cross, copying
 
designs from a text and carving them from a mold. This series —prepared
 
by the Armenian Relief Society —also includes a show with eighty slides
 
depicting many historical sites in Armenia, which serves as a general
 
summary for the project.
 
Armenian, English, or both are acquired as second languages by
 
most children who have attended two years of nursery and completed the
 
kindergarten program, with the exception of students who enroll late or
 
those who have recognized learning disabilities. Forei g
n-born children
 
1
8
 
who come into the school speaking little or no English become competent
 
speakers quickly; for most children the process takes less than a year.
 
It i
s possible that ethnic schools such as this, which serve both
 
native- and foreign-born populations and concentrate on teaching both
 
languages to all, may be a good way to teach English as a second
 
language. Also, i
t is clear to American-born parents at the school that
 
their children acquire competency in Armenian-language skills far
 
surpassing those acquired at the afternoon or Saturday schools. The
 
reason is obvious —their children enjoy greater exposure to the
 
Armenian language, since it is taught systematically on a daily basis.
 
In addition, their curiosity is sparked and nurtured about "things
 
Armenian" through the social studies lessons, which provide a context
 
for the language training.
 
Perhaps the most effective piece of the bilingual and bicultural
 
learning process i
s the social talk among the children who engage in an
 
ongoing exchange of meaning —asking question, defining terms, and
 
telling stories —while playing and learning about themselves. Certainly
 
the experience of Mrs. Kachadorian, who has witnessed the shift in
 
nursery enrollment over the past decade, suggests this is the case.
 
During the first years of teaching the program she spent about twenty
 
minutes each day going over basic Armenian vocabulary and
 
conversational skills. She even prepared a mimeographed handbook for
 
the many non-Armenian-speaking parents to assist them in their homework
 
supervision. Today that segment of the nursery curriculum i
s no longer
 
useful, because the children teach one another conversational skills in
 
both languages.
 
1
9
 
Their is an overriding performance aesthetic at the school which
 
i
s clearly evident in everyday classroom activity, as well as during
 
the more public occasions. Children are encouraged to memorize, recite,
 
write poetry, dance, and sing. Competitions are held and prizes are
 
awarded. Armenian h
istory and culture comes alive through the nine or
 
ten major assemblies organized each year. Some of these occasions are
 
class affairs, celebrating particular holidays or birthdays which hold
 
special meaning for Armenian people. Other occasions are celebrated '
n-
the school community at large, with children performing songs,
 
dances, and poetry for the adults. Vartanantz is celebrated every
 
February, for instance, to commemorate the 5th-century battle in which
 
Vartan Mamigonian headed the Armenian army that resisted the Persian
 
attempt to impose Zoroastrianism on the Armenian people. The program
 
designed to celebrate the historical event is conducted completely in
 
Armenian. Another special occasion comes in October, when the school
 
celebrates the Feast of the Translators in commemoration of St. Mesrob,
 
St. Sahag, and other translators who lived in the 5th century.
 
Graduation ceremonies are also celebrated with great fanfare as
 
students perform in both languages, demonstrating their memorization
 
and language skills. All school children, nursery through sixth grades,
 
take part in these public performances.
 
There are essential facts of Armenian culture and history which
 
are taught and explored with the school children to give them a richer
 
sense of their heritage and ethnic identity. One basic text currently
 
in use is The History of My Ancestors, prepared by the Mekhitarist
 
20
 
Fathers and printed in Venice. This text is supplemented by many visual
 
and written materials. Students learn that Armenia was the first nation
 
to convert to Christianity, under the guidance of Gregory the
 
Illuminator in 301 A
.D. They learn about the history of school and
 
church ties; wherever Armenian people congregate they build a church, a
 
school, and a community center. They learn that the Armenian alphabet,
 
invented by St. Mesrob Mashtots at the turn of the 5th century, was
 
designed to Armenianize Christianity —to spread Christianity to the
 
Armenian people who had converted a century earlier but could not read
 
the Holy Scriptures or understand the meaning of the prayers, liturgy,
 
r
ituals, or songs. Mosaic portraits of both St. Mesrob Mashtots and St.
 
Gregory are found a
t the entrance to the St. James Cultural Center,
 
which currently houses the school. Through their awareness of such
 
things, among many others, children begin to comprehend the central
 
Place Armenian literature holds in the language and history of the
 
world.
 
They also learn about the genocide of their people through the
 
series of massacres by the Turks which took place during the latter
 
part of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. In 1915 alone
 
1
.5 million of the 3 million Armenians living in Turkey were killed.
 
The parents of these children listened to the personal—experience
 
narratives of grandparents, great grandparents, and great uncles or
 
aunts who lived through those t
imes. Most of them had been driven out
 
or had escaped to other countries in the Middle East before emigrating
 
to the United States or the Soviet Union. Their stories play a central
 
2
1
 
role in the thinking and feeling about Armenian ethnic identity and
 
powerfully influence everyday folklore, creative literature, and other
 
art forms generated by Armenian-Americans today.
 
The pervasive lack of awarenes on the part of other Americans of
 
this genocide, which prefaced the widely publicized holocaust of the
 
Jews, creates for many young Armenian-Americans an emotional and social
 
identity which binds them together and separates them from other
 
American ethnic groups. A shared sense of ethnic history provides
 
the context for daily discussion of current events at the AGBU school.
 
The massacre itself is discussed through a "critical questionnaire
 
prepared by Mrs. Andreassian. Other relevant discussion includes
 
topics such as the recent Armenian terrorist killing of the honorary
 
Turkish consul in Cambridge  
,  as well as international politics
 
and related historical events. The children are aware that whatever
 
territory was saved from historic Armenia is under Soviet control and
 
that the greatest concentration of Armenians (some 3 million) live
 
there. They wonder why the United States supports Turkey when the
 
Turkish government denies that the massacres ever occurred, and, for
 
some, the ambivalence they feel about the United States' stance
 
vis-a-vis Turkey and Russia is verbalized in classroom talk.
 
22
 
Purposes of the School
 
Throughout the twelve years since its inception the voiced
 
justification for the existence of the AGBU school has been t
o create a
 
generation of Armenian—Americans who maintain their identity, develop
 
Armenian values, and serve their people. It i
s too early to determine
 
whether this hope will be realized —another ten to fifteen years will
 
tell the story. But it is clear to those who attend the school or know
 
it well that it provides a familial network for those who t
ake part; in
 
a sense it can be seen as a supplement to an extended family network.
 
Parents who send their children t
o the school view learning the
 
Armenian language as an essential skill for their children t
o possess.
 
As one parent characterized the feeling: "to have a skill i
s l
ike a
 
bracelet in the hand." Finally, they especially want their children to
 
absorb and treasure a strong sense of their ethnic heritage.
 
Acknowledgements
 
I am indebted to several members of the AGBU school community for
 
their assistance in the preparation of this report. I would especially
 
like to thank Dr. James Etmekjian, Dr. Kevork Bardakjian, Mr. Manoog
 
Young, Dr. Gloria Agopian, Mrs. Ellie Andreassian, Mrs. Astrid
 
Kachaforian, and Mrs. Bethel Charkoudian.
 
THE ARMENIAN GENERAL BENEVOLENT UNION (AGBU)
 
DAY SCHOOL
 
Watertown, Massachusetts
 
Final Report by JoAnn Bromberg
 
The Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU) School of Watertown,
 
Massachusetts i
s a day school which teaches Armenian as a second
 
language to s
tudents who come from both Armenian Qand EnglisI
peaking
 
families. Inasmuch as the school serves the community as a private
 
elementary school, teaching about the Armenian way of life i
s
 
integrated into the core curriculum, particularly in social studies.
 
Dance, music, storytelling traditions, foodways, habits, and customs of
 
Armenians from all over the world are also taught. Emphasis is not only
 
on the old traditions indigenous to Armenia, but on contemporary
 
customs as well. Differences between Armenian cultural groups in the
 
Middle East, Russia, Persia, Turkey, and the United States are also
 
explored in order to help students gain cross-cultural awareness of
 
their people.
 
While Detroit and Boston have older, more established Armenian
 
communities, about seventy percent of the newly arriving immigrants
 
from Lebanon, Iran, and Soviet Armenia settle in Los Angeles and
 
Montreal. Los Angeles has the largest, fastest growing population, and
 
'
pk
e c
 
draws the most recent arrivals--the Iranians -characterjzed as the
 
wealthiest of the Armenian immigrant groups JEstimates of the Armenian
 
population in these communities vary. It has been reported by some to 
S
 
be as high as 200,000 in the Los Angeles area, compared to about
 
1
00,000 living in Greater Boston. It is difficult to determine how
 
exact these figures are,
 i
ever. 
7 See
 
I
 
2
 
The commonly given explanation for the newcomers' marked
 
preference for southern California is that the climate there resembles
 
,
He vere
.-C
 
that of their homeland.1 7he number ?f Armenian immigrants from
 
Iran and Soviet Armenia living in southern California is now so large
 
that one of the day schools in the area offers classes in Eastern and
 
Western dialects of Armenian. (The Eastern Armenian dialect spoken in
 
the Soviet Union and Iran differs considerably from the Western
 
Armenian spoken and written in other parts of the world.) There is also
 
an Armenian college in the Los Angeles area--Armenian International
 
College--which i
s affiliated with La Verne University.
 
History of the Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU) School of
 
Watertown, Massachusetts
 
Following the lead of other AGBU-sponsored day schools which
 
opened a few years earlier in Los Angeles, Detroit, and Montreal, the
 
Watertown school was started as a nursery program in 1
970. The
 
intention of those who founded the schools was to raise a generation of
 
Armenian-Americans, competent in Armenian-language skills, and
 
conscious of their ethnic identity. The hope was that they would become
 
active members and leaders of their community.
 
The school was loosely administered by the executive director of
 
the AGBU New England District, Hagop Atamian,J during its early years.
 
Mr. Atamian was a driving force behind starting the school . The b
iig .
 
I
 
educational program
 
Astrid Kachadorian  under the
 
3
 
guidance of Dr. Helen Vaznaian, a professor at the University of
 
M
 
C' M M'u 
assachusetts, Amherst. Mrs. Kachadorian, i.c{uLzLl p'referred to as the
 
"mother" and "mainstay" of the school, I
s 
till directs the nursery
 
program 
j
 r
vf\
Ato e 6
e &L wr
\
 
The school expanded according to pla
as the children grew older
 
over  the following decadej It is now a licensed but not yet accredited
 
school, covering nursery through sixth grades. Currently eleven
 
teachers work under the supervision of Dr. Gloria Agopian, who is
 
trained as a curriculum specialist and employed as principal.
 
The Watertown school is one of five Armenian day schools in North
 
America subsidized by the AGBU. The largest organization in the
 
Armenian diaspora, the 4GB
 
Aunion supports a wide variety of Armenian
 
cultural and social institutions. In 1
978, according to an AGBU report
 
in their publication Hoosharar-Mioutune, the AGBU supported
 
twenty-one day schools throughout the diaspora. Those outsicie ot  i
T
'orLo
 
America are located in Lebanon, Syria, Cyprus, Egypt, France, and
 
Argentina. The four additional North American schools are located in
 
Los Angeles (
2), Detroit, and Montreal.
 
Along with the AGBU-sponsored schools there are several other
 
church-related and independent Armenian day schools serving Armenian
 
communities across the United States, Jhe Armenian Relief Society
 
helped finance and continu
/ o support an elementary school in
 
Detroit tfor instance .
JThe Armenian Sisters' School in Philadelphia is
 
run by the Roman Catholic Church, as is the Mekhitarist Fathers school
 
4
 
in Los Angeles. The Tekeyan Cultural Association started a school 
/
 
-
 -
-
'
 (h (4
 
several years ago outside Los Angeles. In addition
  nursery school V
iv
 
.
cu r nt1y b
-'ing ogani ed in Watertown by St. Stephen's Armenian
 
Apostolic Church, and the Armenian Sisters recently purchased a
 
building in Lexington, Massachusetts, planning to expand their current
 
nursery program to second grade next year.
 
There are also three independent day schools in  
,  New
 
Jersey, New York City, and Fresno, California, which are not affiliated
 
with any church or religious organization. Financed and administered
 
independently of the AGBU, these schools are not obligated t
o follow
 
broad policy guidelines set by the union board. The New York City
 
school receives substantial annual contributions from the AGBU, however.
 
There are many afternoon or Saturday schools in addition to the
 
day schools which provide Armenian-language instruction for children.
 
For instance, St. James Church, which rents space to the AGBU school,
 
runs a well-attended afternoon and Saturday language program, with
 
classes divided according to age and language ability. Other programs,
 
operating in poorer, less populated parishes, are essentially
 
one-teacher, one-class affairs, serving children of all ages.
 
Generally, afternoon school consists of two-hour classes held two times
 
a week and attended by children who live close by and can walk.
 
Saturday school serves children who require transportation.