AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
AFCCC-FLD5-3
Fieldnotes
Collection
Selected and converted. American Memory, Library of Congress.
Demonstrations [?] Calif Recordings NOTES ON SONGSRecord IA
1) The Loss of Mohee
Sung by Captain William Day, Oakland, California, March 28, 1939. Captain Day's memory gives
him trouble nowadays but he responded willingly to my interest in this widely-known song. The
microphone paralyzed him at first, though he had recited the text over, just the moment before.
Once started, however, he sang with the true folksinger's swing and vigor. I have heard the Loss of
Mohee in Mississippi, in Wisconsin and in North Carolina, where an old mountain singer who had
never seen a ship said of the disappointed lover: "So he set his sails backward To return o'er the
sea,And he sailed right awayTo his Loss of Mohee." "Mo-hee" has puzzled eastern commentators,
but Captain Day's version points plainly to Maui as the explanation.2) Billy boy
Sung by Captain William Day, Oakland, California, March 28, 1939. There is nothing unusual about
Captain Day's version of this but I liked the energy with which he sings it, and I had not recorded it
before in California.3) True Lover of Mine (Child's ballad lists No. 2)Sung by George Vinton Graham,
San Jose, California, October 21, 1939.
This is an unusally complete version, for America, of "The Elfin Knight", No. 2 on Child's ballad list.
Mr. Graham has contributed really priceless material to the Archive of California Folk Music. He is
over seventy but still a devil with the ladies. He took me and my project photographer to a Townsend
Club meeting one evening, where quadrilles were danced. In the course of the evening Mr. Graham
danced so persistently with one lady that her escort took offence. The lady took Mr. Graham's part
and after that I heard several times of an obviously increasing attachment. Finally however, Mr.
Graham seemed sodowncast during a recording session that I remarked on it. "Well," he said sadly,
"I been wanting to tell you, Mrs. R. The most awful thing has happened, -- what do you suppose?
Do you know my dearie's got a GLASS EYE!' "Oh, well," said I cheerfully, "Things could be worse, Mr.
Graham. You'll just have to walk on the other side of her." "I tried that; but y'know, things ain't the
same." You can see how it is the songs don't come out so good t'day." Mr. Graham spends a great
deal of his time alone in his odd shack in the country near San Jose, singing away at the top of his
lungs, so absorbed that it is difficult to get him to hear when I knock. He has recently had a card
AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
printed:George Vinton GrahamSinger of old singsto theUniversity of Californiaand theLibrary of
Congress[Esq.?]Composer ofPioneer PoetryRandell RoadSan JoseMayfair 106
2
NOTES ON SONGSRecord IB
1) Sally Brown, a Shanty
Sung by Captain Leighton Robinson, Shantyman, with Alex Barr, Arthur Brodeur and Leighton Mac
[Minnie?], Belvedere, California, October 12, 1939.
Captain Robinson is a mine of [?]-songs and shanties. He went to sea in 1888, sailing out of Cornwall
to San Francisco. He is in his sixties now, with wife, daughters and a grandson, and like so many
other Britishers, has made his home in Marin County. He has had a sailing boat at Belvedere for
years, and on Sundays it is often crowded with young people to whom he teaches the choruses of
the fine shanties he knows. He is a long-standing friend of Professor Arthur Brodeur, who drove over
with me to record the singing and joined in the chorus.
It is extremely rare nowadays to find a real shantyman whose voice is still as good as this. Captain
Robinson is very particular about relating the songs to the work done with them. "That's plenty long
enough to take a t'gallant s'l up," he remarked after a rather brief one. The shanties used for heaving
the anchor were too long for the disk, as I was informed with [?] when I inquired about this. "Do you
think 30 fathoms of anchor chain'll come up in 3 minutes, young lady? I'd like t'see you try it!" He
devoted such thought --- and gesture! --- to determine the right tempos.2) Buffalo, Buffalo.Sung by
Warde H. Ford, at Boomtown, Shasta Dan, California, December 26, 1938.Fragment of a song about
the death of McKinley.Play from the inside out. Use soft steel headline, once only.
This is an interesting fragment of song about the assassination of President Mc Kinley. The belt
referred to is the champion's belt (awarded to prize-fighters, and carried over by analogy to the
Presidency.) The project worker who typed the text for this song was distressed at having Mrs. Mc
Kinley so misrepresented. "Mrs. Robertson, it's a shame to preserve a song like that, -- honestly,
none of it happened that way at all," she said earnestly.
Record IIA
1) The Dark-Eyed SailorSung by Pat Ford, Boomtown, Shasta Dan, California, December 26, 1938.
AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
This is a song that was widely known during the gold rush, for it is included in several songsters
published in the Fifties, along with parodies: "The Dirty Miner". "The Lousy Miner". The texts printed
in the songsters fit this melody perfectly, so it seemed likely that this variant was very close to the
tune the Forty-Miners knew. This has recently been confirmed by the discovery in [Tuolume?] County
of an old-timer who learned the Dark-Eyed Sailor as a child, from his father, who came to Columbia
in 1850. His text is fragmentary but his tune differs by only one note from the one sung here by
Mr. Ford. It is unusual to find the same song 3 NOTES ON SONGSRecord IIA 1) continuedin printed
songsters and in the oral tradition too. In this instance we are fortunate in having a fragmentary
recording of a version only one generation removed from the printed text and a more complete
recorded version, in addition though the latter has come to California only recently from another
state. Neither of the singers who recorded this song for me had ever seen it in print.2) I ain't gonna
be treated this-a way. Sung by Warde H. Ford, Boomtown, Shasta Dam, California, December 26,
1938.
This is a song which has been sung by migrant workers for seventy years along westward-leading
roads in America. I first heard it mentioned by Dorothea Lange (Mrs. Paul Taylor), who was deeply
impressed by hearing it sung in one of the migrant camps where she was taking pictures. I inquired
for it and found that Warde Ford had learned it in Wisconsin from a Kentucky lumberjack. The
"cornbread and beans" of the southern version has been transmuted to "cornbread and cheese"
somewhere between Kentucky and California.
The two Ford brothers are part of a large singing family from Wisconsin which I have been studying
over a period of years. I have at least 150 songs gleaned from them now. Most of them had never
been recorded until I located part of the family in the construction camp at the Shasta Dam. One
brother still in Wisconsin has been writing down texts diligently, as dictated to him by uncles,
grandparents, parents and cousins. Warde and Pat knew tunes to most of these and have recorded
all they knew in the course of four or five sessions. I cannot resist mention of my first acquaintance
with Warde Ford, at a time when as was still in Wisconsin working for an undertaker. He asked me
whether I would like to drive with him to a near-by town, without explaining that all conveyance was
a large shiny hearse. I accepted because there is no better time for persuading a singer to recall his
repertoire than during a long drive; but the absored technical discussion of undertaking techniques
and the relative values of different embalming fluids was a trifle more than I had bargained for.
On this drive, however, he sang two rare Child ballads and a wealth of lumberjack songs, so I felt
well repaid.B 1) Andouni. (The Homeless) Sung by Ruben J. Baboyan, from the mountains of Van in
Armenia, at Fresno, California, April 16, 1939.
AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
This is an Armenian orphan's song. Mr. Baboyan is an unusually fine singer. He has been in America
for 30 years, and has tramped and worked all over the United States. He seems to move from one
group to another of his own people and he is famous among them for his singing. All the songs he
knows he learned in the mountains as a boy. The role of folk singer was traditional in his father's
family, and his father trained him to sing these songs in the pure Armenian style, free of any Turkish
'taint'. For the past several years he has been chef of the Hotel Fresno. He cannot read music.
4
NOTES ON SONGSRecord IIB
2) Juomalaulu (A Sailor's Drinking Song). Sung by John [Soininen?] from Finland, in Berkeley,
California, November 5, 1939.
Mr. Soininen is a masseur on Grove Street. He has had a little musicial training and prefers to sing
with the piano, but the friends who took me to his house reminded him that the piano is a 'frill'
he used to scorn. He knows hundred of songs but has trouble remembering the texts so he uses
Finnish songbooks as he sings. Finns all over the United States know of him as a fine Karelian folk
singer.5) Dark Clouds Played on the kirnata (clarinet) by Mesroub Takakjian, from Armenia, at Fresno,
California, April 23, 1939.
Play from the inside out. Use soft steel needles - once only. This is an Armenian folk tune, played on
a modern clarinet adapted to esemble the old kirnata, which is much more difficult to manage than
the modern instruments. Mr. Takakjian cannot read music. He is a sensitive shy man devoted to his
instrument. Unfortunately most of the tunes he knows were decried by his countrymen as Turkish
and they protested at my recording them, so I was not able to record as much of this very beautiful
playing as I should have liked.
FIRST INTERVIEW WITH FATHER EZISTO TUZZIFATHER EZISTO TUZZIPriest House, Church Lane,
San Pablo; CaliforniaInterview on February 9, 1939 1:00 to 3:00pm
Father Tuzzi is a most interesting man. He is very emotional and felt his converstion very deeply , [?]
especially when speaking of the singing of the populas populace at a Christmas mass that he sang in
Italy when he last visited there. Shortly after my interview with him he left for Italy to act as secretary
to a Cardinal at the election of the new Pope. For this reason it was impossiable impossible to obtain
records of his songs. However he gave me the words to the following song and street the song the
AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
Chimney-sweeper sings when he comes down from the Tyrol. Spazza Camino(Chimney Sweeper)
Spazza camino, spazza camino ho freddo, ho fame, son povericio.Efin da quando io, Sono nato ho
la mia Mon Ma abbondonato.Come l'angello che lascia il nido. He also gave me the [?] title to the
following songs. The first is sung at midnight mass of Christmas eve at the consecration when the
priest raises the Host. The second is a hymn to the Virgin Mary.
A Gesu Bambino(Tu scendi dalle stella O Re del Cielo.)
Baby Jesus (You come down from the stars, O King of Heaven)
Mira il tuo populo
Look down at your people, Oh beautiful Lady
[In 1938, on Petrero hill in San Francisco,/ one Sunday morning I heard children's voices coming
from the basement of a small wooden church, shginging "She'll be driving six white horses when
she comes!" in the [unmistake le?] uninflected tone quality of the white spirituals. I stopped to
explore and was amazed to find that these were Russian Molekan children, whose parents belong
to a schismatic sent that broke away from the Russian Orthodox Church in the time of Catherine
the Great, under the influence of the Protestant Reformation. Its adherents were exiled to what
is now Soviet Armenia, maintaining real cultural isolation 7 one member (and one only) in each
generation being required to learn the language of the surrounding people in order to conduct any
necessary business for the Russian group. They came to the United States [???] in a body about 1905.
[???] There Their religious and civil organization, as well as their doctrine, is surprisingly like that
of the early Puritans in New England. Civil and relgious authority are combined in a rotating group
of elders; weekly community meetings allow for opinions on most questions from everybody; no
dancing or drinking is permitted (the word Molekan means 'milk-drinker') and the older women still
wear a special shawl modestly covering their heads, with, at least on Sunday, the traditional long-
sleeved, high-yoked full white dress.
Realizing that their traditional psalm siging was bound to disappear under the influence of the
new language and its culture they cast about for music their children might adopt which would
fit into their background of religious belief at the same time that it had a place in contemporary
American culture. A proselytizing 'Holiness' missionary showed them one of the revivalist shaped
note [colletions?] published by the Stamps Baxter Company in Texas, and the Molekani, instead of
turning themselves into Holy Rollers, adopted the Holy Roller songs as embodying the compromise
they had been looking for. A new harmonium was an incursion from a slightly different level of
American religious culture, in the basement Sunday School room. Upstairs, however, the adults of
AFCCC-FLD5-3 http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1940001.afc1940001_fld5-3
the congregation continued to sing in the extraordinary dignified traditional way, occasional in ways
that belong to a pre-harmonic stage in the history of music, of immense musicological interest.?]