"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr38
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942
AFS 6438A
Mrs. Ann Johnson: Dear Mr. President, I'm Mrs. Ann Johnson, a district chairman in the Civilian
Defense Program of Nashville, and what I'm about to say may seem very personal. But unless there
be concerted action on the part of each individual there can be no grand and glorious finale.
During the First World War, like all other patriotic mothers, having sons eligible for military duty,
I threw myself unreservedly into every phase of wartime activity. Most eager to have a share in
destroying every agency then at work to prevent the world from becoming a real democracy. As
we failed in reaching our goal, today finds us involved in the most stupendous conflict the world
has ever witnessed, as we all realize. It is of great pride that I say, my only grandson has not only
volunteered his services, but today though miles and miles away from me, is doing active duty for his
Uncle Sam.
My only son, a physician and surgeon with years of experience, upon a bed of affliction is striving
with all of his might and main to hasten his recovery that he too may offer his services to his country.
What more can I say, but that I am here again. A grandmother then, a great grandmother now. After
a quarter of a century of [services (?)] from active military combat, but striving against every other
kind of handicap peculiar to my group lined up with the Civilian Defense Program in a very intimate
way to do my bit. Having a hunch from a spiritual angle that when this ruinous war, these strikes and
this bloodshed and discord cease and the most great peace shall come, that our children and our
children's children will most assuredly find a new world that will evolve out of this present chaos. A
saner and safer place in which to live.
Mabel McKee: My dear Mr. President, I am Mabel McKee one of the section leaders of the Negro
block organization. We just completed our national registration and as a whole our group responded
beautifully. For the six days of registration, our total being two hundred thirty-one. Of this number,
to my opinion, the most patriotic citizen to register was Walter Wright, age forty-seven years, of 1044
Jefferson Street. This man was formerly a city employee, an unskilled laborer. He suffered a paralytic
stroke three years ago rendering him unable to do manual labor. Each morning Mr. Wright would be
the first person to meet the registers and he would remain at the station all during the day, generally
standing at the door explaining to his fellow citizens the importance of registering and being a
patriotic American citizen. He said that he was happy to be a doorkeeper. This, we considered, a
wonderful tribute.
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr38
Our group of Negro women, as block leaders, pledge to our great United States our hearty support
through this time of national crisis.