UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  ADRIEN PAQUETTE
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE: AUGUST 25, 1987
A = ADRIEN
M = MARTHA
T = TOM RANKIN
S = SHARON BRITTON, LOWELL SUN, NEWSPAPER REPORTER
LFP-TR-A001
M:  And well ah, why don't we, can open  [laugh]  this window.  When you start let me know and
maybe I'll ask him.  O.K.  Why don't you start by just telling me when you joined the police 
force.  
A:  I took the exam back in ah, 1965,  [police radio in background]  and I started permanently in 
68.  Worked the Highland section, then ah, Centraville, I believe it was 1979 I began here.
M:  And you grew up in Centraville.
A:  Yes, I did.  On Beaulieu Street.  Which is next to St. Louis and Greenhalge School.  [Noise in
background, traffic, police radio, etc]  I went to Saint Louis School.
[THIS WHOLE PASSAGE IS REPEATED OVER AGAIN]
M:  Are you French Canadian?
A:  Yes, I am.  Parents were born and raised in Lowell.
M:  In what part?
A:  I'm sorry my mother was in Lynn until she was probably ten years old.  Moved to Upper 
Lakeview Avenue mostly when they were growing up.
M:  On Lakeview Avenue, would that be Little Canada?
A:  No, Little Canada is across the next bridge, Aiken Street.  That's gone.  That's all of 
University of Lowell and ah, what we call Cement City now.
M:  Now were there many French Canadians from Lakeview?
A:  Growing up, yes.  Mixture of Polish and French.  More to this area here.  This side here was 
Polish.  And a lot of them are still there.  Right along tavern, Tavern at the Bridge.  
M:  Can you stop the car?
A:  Sure.  [Trucks and other traffic passing, very noise]  Just cut right across and take a right.
M:  Ah ha, O.K.  It's August 19, 1987.  And we're in Centraville with Butch Paquette and Sharon 
Britton, Tom Rankin and myself.  Taking a tour of  [some confusion]  Sargent Paquette, I don't 
even know ah, (--)
A:  Officer.
M:  Officer.
A:  First name is Adrien, nickname Butch has stuck.  
M:  Oh, O.K.  If I break any traffic laws let me know without giving me a ticket.  [laugh]  O.K.
A:  As you can see all of these buildings are old.  
M:  Is this the French part?  This is Lakeview Avenue.  
A:  Today it's a mixture of everything.  We have other sections where the people have st, have 
remained but, these here more, more or less transient.  
M:  Are, this is a transient section?  
A:  Right.  People stay for six months a year, year and a half, then they move on.  
M:  And what's in here?  Looks like little bit of a project.  
A:  That's Lowell Housing Elderly.  
M:  Any special Ethnic Group that settles here now?  
A:  Well, mostly what we have is the Asians.  Can't keep up with them.  There are, everyday is a 
new family, two families, three.  I give them a lot of credit.  Some of them who have been here 
two or three years are buying a lot of property.  Which a lot of ah, born Americans have not been 
able to do up to this point.  
M:  Where do they get the money?  
A:  I have no idea.  You hear stories but I wouldn't duplicate them because I don't really know.  
M:  And when they, you said they are in and out, where do they come from and where do they 
go?  
A:  The transients?
M:  Yeah.  The transients are the Asians?
A:  No.  
M:  Oh, no, O.K.  
A:  No.  They become permanent fixtures.  I mean they, they live in a neighborhood and for 
some reason they're able to buy a lot of the homes that they're living in that they were renting.  
This here along, along here was a city dump at one time.  Before my time.  Back in the twenties 
(--)
M:  The V.F.W. Highway?
A:  Right.  That was built in approximately 1950-55.  These homes are very close together.  
Which meant that people walked to work in those mills over there.  [pause]  I'd have to say 
mostly Polish along here and French.  From here to Bridge Street.  You know where Bridge 
Street is.
M:  O.K.  One question about the transient before we go on.  I don't know really what a trans, 
what you mean by transients.  
A:  Well, maybe it's the wrong name, word for it.  A lot of families in Lowell now move on 
quickly.  I see it because of ah, rentals, rent disputes with neigh, ah, tenants and owners of the 
buildings.  They stay six months, don't pay the rents, move on to the next apartments where the, 
the owner doesn't know them.  And it will start all over again.  And the last landlord will chase 
them.  Just give up on them cause it just isn't worth the court fight.  
M:  Now where does the Asian community live in Centraville now?  
A:  We have a few in this direction on Aiken Ave, Aiken Avenue.  
M:  What section are we going in?  I don't even know.
A:  We're going into West Centraville now.  
M:  O.K.
A:  We get to the next intersection that's more or less West Centraville.  
M:  Should I take a right or a left?  
A:  No, continue down to the next intersection.  
M:  Tell me, you might see something (--)
A:  These Asians I'm going to show you are in a triple or four decker block.  They haven't bought
property yet.  When we get back to this end I'll show you some families who have.  We had 
problems a year and a half ago the whites were giving them a very hard time.  And the local 
police responded.  But some ah, people I don't know who's in charge of them on Lawrence Street
got to the Attorney General.  And they sent their people in.  A few people were charged with 
Civil Rights Acts.
T:  [question is asked, but it is unclear]  whites?
A:  Civil Rights?
M:  A few of the white people?
T:  White, white people were charged.
A:  Yes, yes.  You can take a right here.
M:  Sharon if you want to add anything feel free.
S:  No I feel, I feel like an observer really.  I don't  [the rest is unclear]  
M:  O.K.  
A:  Those I can have a conversation with.  I find them to be (--)
M:  This way, that way?  
A:  Right there.  That green block, some of the Asians I do have a conversation with seem to be 
very nice people.  That they are making a very hard effort to live with the rest of the people 
around.  But for some reason kids, neighborhood kids don't like what they, what they're 
achieving because, the new cars, the Trans-AM.  type of vehicle even Corvettes within a small 
amount of time.  Twelve, fifteen, eighteen thousand dollar cars are in front of their homes.  And 
these kids just can't understand how they're getting it.  They work two or three jobs.  
M:  Where do they work?  
A:  I don't know.  I was talking to a couple of little girls yesterday.  They got the job, they got a 
job down at the Hilton.
T:  Do you notice that there's any particular car that Asian kids buy?  You mentioned Trans-Am.  
A:  They this, they like this type of vehicle right here.  Irocs, Trans-AM, ah Corvettes.  And 
they're all legal.  They're insured to the hilt.  They have accidents, no problem.
M:  I'm just going to (--)
A:  O.K.  This was all French.  
M:  This is Ludlum Street.
A:  Back twenty, thirty, forty years ago this was all French.  Some of my school mates lived in 
these homes.
M:  And what is it now?  
A:  Ah, quite a few of them, quite a few of them are the same people.  Some have sold to others.  
I don't get to know them because I don't get called to their homes that often.  
M:  Do the families pass the houses down from one generation to the other?
A:  No I don't see that, no.  Maybe one in a hundred.  
M:  I'll just weave in and out I guess.  Is this a street that you know?  Or should I go up?
A:  O.K.  Why don't you go up to the corner and take a right.  
M:  And what about on the Asians.  Is there anything you notice about them that seems different 
to you?  Sort of not like the other groups your used to?
A:  For new people in this country they are very hard working people.  Which is something I 
haven't seen with some of the others.  I don't want to hurt anyone by saying this.  
M:  It's all right.  People make all kinds of  [laugh]  observations on the tapes with us and, (--)
A:  But being a police officer I don't want to say the wrong things.
M:  Ah, ha.  This is what str?
A:  I'll take you right down to Albian Street.  
M:  O.K.  And what street are we on now?  
A:  This is Hildreth.  This has always been a nice street.
M:  It's funny that the homes change.  You know you get these really nice homes and then you go
down a back street and there's all these tenements 
A:  These homes in here are only thirty years old.  So that's more or less new.  And those are the 
same people who moved in thirty years ago. They were mostly from Centraville. And they made 
this development. These Centraville people were able to buy and they stayed. Ah, take that 
second right. This is the Polish Club. The P.A.V. Polish American Vets. 
M:  What do they do there?  This way?
A:  They have a lot of nice times. Take a right please. Saturday night dances. They, they stick 
together. They follow bands, like they have a very good band here. They'll play here for three 
weeks then they'll play in Lynn or wherever. And these people will follow that band. 
T:  Polka Bands?
A:  Yes.  
M:  What street is this?  Albian?  
A:  Ah, this is Jewett Street.  This is mostly Polish, growing up.  Like in the forties.  
M:  My mother grew up back, right back in there.  Is it al, do you have to be Polish to belong to 
the Polish Club?  
A:  Well, I don't think so these days.  To be a member.  I don't think so.  With inter-marriage and 
name changes, women's names change and they still accept them.  
M:  And I saw kids hanging out here when I was walking around one night.  
A:  The neighborhood kids.  [trucks passing by in background]  
M:  In the stores too.  They hang out in there?
A:  Victoria, she bought that store about a year ago.  They're ah, Puerto Ricans, and they seem to 
be successful.  People still go in, shop, neighborhood store.  
M:  Has it always been around there?  
A:  A family affair.  Victoria's one of the daughters.  Which she's about eighteen.  Her father act, 
the parents actually bought it.
M:  Who had it before them?  
A:  I think he was Portuguese.  I'm sure he was Portuguese.  When I spoke to him I always had a 
difficult time understanding him.  
M:  Was that a family run place too?  
A:  Yes, yeah.  
M:  Now this is?
A:  This is West L.  Some of these people have been here for years.  
M:  These are little, tiny streets.  Now who lives around here now?  
A:  Still a lot of Polish.  
M:  And these are privately owned?  
A:  Yeah.  
M:  What part of Centraville are we in now?
A:  Just Centraville out, doesn't have to,(--)
M:  Know the name?  
A:  I wouldn't even brand this East Centraville.  It is too close to the other side.  This is Colburn 
Street.  This is Lowell Housing.  You have a lot of Puerto Ricans in here.  
M:  Oh, in these blue tenements (--)
A:  Not many problems they're well run.
M:  Now I'm lost.  [laugh].  Go around the block.
A:  This is West Sixth.  All Polish.  
M:  Where should I go?
A:  Want to go up Beacon Street?  Where more or less more affluent had lived.  
M:  O.K.  Take a right?  A lot of three decker houses.  
A:  Low, Centraville has it's share.  And it goes back a hundred, a hundred and fifty years ago, 
when people used to want to be as close to work as possible.  So they congested everything.  You
didn't need a drive way.  You didn't have cars.  
M:  And what's this big, but what's this mural?  This big building with the mural?
A:  That's our water, was our water department headquarters.  Now it's recreation.  We house, we 
put all our trucks in there?  
M:  So it's a, it's a storage area now.  
A:  Right.  Well, the base of operation for the park department.  
M:  And the mural?
A:  The mural was just a wall.  They finished it off and put the mural on.  I believe that eagle is a 
Polish emblem on their, probably on their flag.  
M:  Is that because this is thought of as a Polish neighborhood or?  
A:  Yeah, this would be.  I'd say sixty years ago mostly Polish here.  
M:  And I can see the French Church.  Is that down (--) 
A:  On this street, back there.  
M:  So the Polish and French seem kind of close together geographically anyway.
A:  Right.  That's St. Michael's Church, that's the Rectory, the white building.  That's St. 
Michael's Church, then schools across the street.  
M:  In here, I noticed in here that there seemed to be a lot of newer immigrants.  Is that so?
A:  Those two were put in two years ago, they're modular homes and ah, but I can see they're, all 
four, four ah, Spanish families.  
M:  O.K.  Now we're crossing over to, do they call this East Sixth Street?  If that's West?
A:  This would be the Ea, the beginning of the eastern part of Centraville.  This goes up to the 
reservoir.  At the top of this hill is a reservoir.  This has always been predominantly Irish people 
in this whole section.  Down there the buildings get run down so more or less the slum lords pick
them up and rent them to any one.  There's a turn over like every six months.  
M:  What streets would that be?  Second, Third, 
A:  Second, Third, Reed, the higher you go you don't see that turn over.  Because the rental gets 
more expensive there.  
S:  Wasn't this where there was a rather large thing on the Hell's Angles?  
A:  That would be Second Street.  That buildings, that buildings gone.  There was an explosions.
M:  [laugh, everyone joins in on the laughter]  
A:  It wasn't their fault though.  That was about fifteen years ago.  They had a, they were making 
drugs in the basement.  They had a laboratory.  That was raided.  Still a lot of Irish up here.  Like 
that long buildings the type that you will have transients come in.  I call them transients if there 
here for six months, a year, year and a half.  Then something happens.  I don't know if they raise 
the rent too high.  Then they have to leave. 
M:  So a lot of the buildings are owned by people who don't live here.
A:  A lot of them, yes.  This was our water supply up to about twenty years ago.  [police radio in 
background].
M:  And now, we don't it from the Merrimack, do we?  
A:  This is Beacon Street.    
T:  What's the reservoir used for now?
A:  I think holds the pressure for our fire hydrants.  [police radio and conversations going on in 
background].  
M:  So up here can you still say it's mostly Irish or?
A:  Yes, yes.  I mean you will see Polish, you'll see French, [police radio in background drowns 
out conversation].  
M:  Do the groups still stick together?  [long pause, listening to police report].  You know 
because people look oh, [unclear]  people will tell me how the groups once, will really net work. 
They'd really stick together.  And I wonder if that's true today.  No, people will remain to 
themselves.  They'll talk over the yard to a neighbor, couple of times, five times a year.  It takes a
year, year and a half to know your neighbors name.  
T:  Why do you think that is?  
A:  That's the way the whole countries gone, at least Lowell.  But when your, I see it out in 
Chelmsford, Westford, people just stick, stay to their own.  
M:  Their own meaning (--)
A:  The old block parties, people used to get together.  You don't see that any more.  Although 
they've been turning out at the city functions.  We have a carnival or entertainment.  We have 
good turn outs in the summer.  But as far as neighborhoods go they don't even know one 
another's names a lot of them.  
M:  When did that change?
A:  In my time.  I'm not that old.  I'm forty-four years old but when I was a kid, you'll hear this 
story countless times from the old timers that [truck passing by].  when you left your home you 
could leave it unlocked and no one, you'd be assured that everything would be there when you 
got back.  Your neighbors would be watching for your home and you'd do the same and, at night 
you'd just cross the street, your mother would cross the street and talk to the neighbor.  But today
they just don't do that.  They just stay home, watch television and,  That's the Robinson School, 
that's a nice park.  
M:  We see a lot of softball games here.  
A:  Soft ball, soccers picking up a lot.  
M:  Are those um, who plays on the softball team?  
A:  Softball?  
M:  Yeah.  Are they town leagues?  
A:  You have the Centraville ah, kids.  
M:  Because they always have uniforms on.  
A:  I don't come up here to see their games but there are Centraville kids who play up here and 
parents and businesses sponsor them.  
M:  And the Dracut line is some where here isn't it?  
A:  Way down the end take a right only a few yards.  Down this way it's only fifty yards.  Ah, I 
can't tell you who lives here, when I was growing up here.  
M:  So you wouldn't have come up here at all.  
A:  No.  No I didn't have any friends in this neighborhood so I wouldn't know who lived here.  
M:  Now this is up by Eighteenth St.  
A:  This is Nineteenth [unclear].  
T:  Why, why didn't you have any friends up here?  
A:  Well, I went to school at St.  Louis.  I imagine anyone who lived here would have went to St. 
Michael's.  
T:  And did you say that this was more affluent.
A:  In those days, yes.  
M:  Is this side of Bridge St.  (--)
A:  More or less when your on the other side of Bridge St.  This side of Bridge St. twenty-five 
years ago, you we're the more affluent.  Everybody else on that side were the same.  
M:  Is that still true?  
A:  Umm, no.  To a degree.  
M:  O.K., now we're coming up to Bridge St. again.  
A:  Ah, ha.  
M:  Should I take a left or go straight?  
A:  I'd go straight now.  There's two hundred condo units being built behind, in these woods.  
M:  I went to the Jersey Associates meeting last night and I think that must have been what the 
man was talking about.  
A:  Over building the neighborhoods?  
M:  Yeah.  He [unclear]  assured them that there weren't too many kids and there was, wasn't to 
much low income housing, enough to meet the law but, now where are we?
A:  This is Billings Street.  It will empty on to Hildreth at Ouellette's Funeral Home.  That's a 
well known landmark in Lowell.  
M:  Is that a French Funeral Home?  
A:  Yes, yes it is.  
M:  And do mostly French people go there still?
A:  I would say a lot of them.  Then you can cross the bridge to Laurin's and Martin's.  
M:  How long has he been there?  
A:  Leo J. Ouellette was the father.  I think he founded it.  He died several years ago but the boys 
took over.  Oh, this must have, I bet you it's a seventy-five year old business.  This green house 
on the corner belonged to one of my friends.  That's where he lived, Kenny Hand.
M:  It's a big house.  
A:  His aunt lived down stairs.  He and his parents lived upstairs on the second floor.  Now it's 
about four, four or five apartments in there now.  You take a left again.  
M:  O.K.  Now we're on Hildreth and Aiken.  
A:  When I graduated from St. Louis.  Going to school you go, you hang out after school with 
your own friends, your school mates.  I guess they, mine were all French up until the eight grade.
That's when I met Kenny Hand and Joe Powers whose parents still live here.  
M:  And they weren't (--)
A:  They were and ah, from the eighth grade through high school and I still see them now.  We're 
still good friends.  
M:  Where did you meet them?  
A:  I don't know how.  
M:  Oh, yeah.  What's this cemetery?  
A:  [unclear]  cemetery it belongs to Dracut.  They tell me, it's in Lowell but it belongs to Dracut.
Dracut cares for it.  If there's a police problem I'll call Dracut up and let them handle it.
T:  Laugh.  
A:  So I imagine this must have been part of Dracut at one time.  
M:  And their people are buried here.  
A:  You've got some old names there, a hundred and fifty years old Cornet this and Butler and ah,
[pause]  This white house on the corner is another friend of mine Neil Dowd.  Now there's three 
Irishmen.  As soon as I got out of St. Louis School I started talking to the Irish kids.  
M:  [laugh, laugh].  
A:  I went to Lowell High.  
M:  What's this little variety store?  
A:  Ah, when I was a kid that was a barber shop.  That's probably been a variety store for 
eighteen years or so.  
M:  Which way?
A:  Ah, let's go straight.  
M:  Do you remember what stores your family traded at?  
A:  Ah ha, take a right.  
M:  Here?
A:  This here brick corner this was a little store.  I forget the name of it.  
M:  And this is the corner of?
A:  Lilly (--)
M:  Lilly, what kind of store was this?  
A:  Variety, corner variety.  
M:  Do you remember who ran it at the time?  
A:  Ah, nope.  Now your going to see a Central Savings Bank where those trees are.  Those were 
all three or four tenements.  That whole triangular section was.  Must have been forty units in 
that little diamond where the bank sits.  
M:  Is that on the border of Little Canada?  
A:  Little Canada, Canada was directly across the bridge.  I could take you there.  
T:  How do they name these little squares?  Two streets across they'll be a sign that says, 
"Boudreau Square".  
A:  Ones mostly who died during the Korean or the World War II.  
M:  Now (--)
T:  People who lived close to that intersection?  
A:  They must have been Centraville people, yes.  O.K.  these were mostly French people in 
these blocks as I was growing up.  
M:  On Aiken Ave?  
A:  Ah ha, Lowell Provision used to be Curly's, Curly's Market when I was a kid.  Corner store 
you could run up a tab.  The next corner where the flashing light is, you see the gray, that was 
Gordon's Market, you could run up a tab there.  You go down every day buy a loaf of bread, a 
quart of milk, whatever you needed.  And it would be on the tab.  Come Friday your mother 
would go down and do her shopping and pay forty fifty dollars a week, whatever you had on the 
tab.  Which is the way, everybody lived that way.  
M:  Could you do the same for cloths and other household supplies?  
A:  No.  
M:  Were there any Jewish merchants in this part of town?  
A:  The Gordon's and the Curly's.  
M:  Oh, they were Jewish?  How about Frenchmen?
A:  To the left is Baribeault Market.  He's still there.  He's about sixty-five.  He's getting up there,
sixty-two, sixty-five years old.  He owns the whole, that whole property, rental units upstairs.  
M:  What street is this?  
A:  West Sixth.  Miguel's used to be Fred's Five and Dime.  You know the Five and Dime has a, 
you need a thread and needle and this and that.  He had all of that.  
M:  Now here's the Spanish Church.  
A:  The Spanish took this over maybe seven, eight years ago.  They're trying, they're doing a nice
job.  They're trying to remodel it, insulating, painting.  
M:  Was it a church before?  
A:  Ah ha.  Forget the name of it, First Baptist.  I think it was the First Baptist at one time.  This 
is Jack Kerouac's old stomping ground also.  And take the next left is where, I'll show you where 
I lived.  
T:  Did you know Jack Kerouac?  
A:  Nope.  I only read a couple of his books.  I intend to read more of them.  
M:  Do people think much of him?  
A:  We didn't even know them until 1970 or so.  
M:  Is that a school?
A:  That's part of St. Louis.  That's their high school.
M:  How come you didn't go to St. Louis High School?  
A:  Well, their high school was only for the girls.  
M:  Is it still?
A:  Ah ha, strictly girls.  
M:  Where do the boy's go to high school?  
A:  Lowell High if you want to state it that way.  This is, I lived on this side of this house.  The 
mayor of Lowell at that time lived in this house on the first floor.  
M:  This beige house?  
A:  On the right side.  
M:  And what street are we on?  
A:  Beaulieu.  B-E-A-U-L-I-E-U.  That was Mr. Ayotte that was the mayor, 1947-48.  
M:  Would you sit on your porch much?  
A:  Oh, yeah.  Every single night in the summer.  
M:  The whole family?
A:  Yeah.  Your friends would come over and play in the yard.  [unclear]  play in the street.  Play 
kick-the-can over there.  Morrissette's still live there, the first floor.  
M:  In the red house?  
A:  Her parents till they died lived on the second floor.  Stan Kadikis for a while lived on the left 
side of this building.  Her husband got killed in a jet plane accident in the fifties.  Well, he was a 
fighter pilot, tester, testing pilot.  
M:  And how long did you live here?
A:  I was born here, twenty-three years, and I got married.  
M:  Where did you move then?  
A:  My first home was in Pawtucketville on White Street.  A child came along.  It was too small. 
So we went to Orleans Street where my mother bought a home, right around that time.  
M:  Was that in Pawtucketville?  
A:  No that's Centraville.  One of the last streets in Lowell before you hit Dracut.  
T:  When did you decide to become a police officer?  
A:  Ah, I was about nineteen, twenty.  My brother-in-law was already one.  And I didn't know 
which way to go.  He says, "come on take the test and, he gave me the material.  He quizzed me 
on the blue book and, I did all-right [laugh].  If it wasn't for him I don't think I'd have come in 
this, in this field.  These were the Beland's in 144.  They've, they're still there.  
M:  144 what street is that?  [child yelling in background]
A:  Enell, [child yelling and playing in background]  they raised kids my age and we hung out.  
[unclear]  tree here all the time.  Walked the ledge of that school there.  Kids still do it.  
M:  Oh, this is Greenhalge School?
A:  This is the Greenhalge.  
T:  What kind of school is that?
A:  Public.  It's changed.  It used to be grade one through six or seven, six.  Now it's bilingual, 
they bus them in from all over town.  A lot of these people were here when I was growing up.  
The Bouches.
M:  What about this green apartment building?
A:  Up until about eight or ten years ago there was, families had been here for a long time.  Now 
it's, they've left.  You have people who stay two or three years.  
M:  So is this still part of your neighborhood as a kid?  
A:  Ah ha.  
M:  That we're in now?  
A:  Ah ha, yeah.
M:  What about the next street?  
A:  Ludlum, no I didn't have any friends, on it.  
M:  I want to go around the block.  So that I can take a right.  [pause]  Do people have gardens?  
A:  Gardens?  
M:  Yeah.  
A:  Up on the hill mostly.  You'll see some in Centraville.  I can't say mostly up on the hill.  But 
you know that their yards are so small, that they're limited what they can do.  If it's a retired old 
timer with his wife, he'll probably have a small garden.  [traffic noise and talking in background] 
If there are children in the yard that have to play, they definitely won't have one.  There isn't that 
much room.  
M:  I'm going to go up to Bridge Street I guess.  Just have you show me a few things on the main
street.
A:  Bridge Street.
M:  Yeah, except that, but if you have something, some other places you know that would be 
good.  
A:  [unclear]
M:  Yeah.  That would be interesting.  I, I really I get so lost when I go around in circles I don't 
know where I am.  
A:  O.K.  Just take a right.  [long pause]  
M:  Are these apartments?
A:  They sure are.  [pause]  I don't know if the owner, the owners are living in Boston or what.  
You never see them.  They have a manager who tries.  
T:  Is that a problem spot?  
A:  One of them.  Kid calls on the corner [traffic in background]  probably the major call.  As far 
as keeping us tied up doing these things.  Chasing kids, chasing kids, domestic, there around the 
clock.  Might be at four in the morning, might be twelve noon.  You can take your second right.  
Then we'll go up and down these little streets, [long pause]  We don't have any problems in this 
building.  I don't know if it's because it's just one building and the other ones so congested.  Or if 
the owners care about this one and they [unclear]  to the people.  
M:  Do the apartments have a different kind of turnover rate than the houses?  
A:  The apartments will have a higher turnover I believe.  You can take a left here.  This is West 
Eleventh.  I'm sorry West Tenth.
If you take a sharp left that would be West Eleventh. 
M:  My uncle lived in that green house for years and years.
A:  They just sold it.  
M:  Yeah.
A:  And went to Florida.
M:  Yeah.  That's my uncle.  My mothers brother.  Now what was this section like when you were
a kid?  
A:  It was good.  This whole area was good.  Not looking at it when I was a kid and on a police 
level.  I'll show you a couple on this side street here.  An absentee landlord.  He owns both of 
those.  And they look O.K.  on the outside but nothings been done on the inside, for years.  
M:  But do the same people live there for years and years?  
A:  Probably five years.      
M:  Now what was this section like when you were a kid?  
A:  It was good.  This whole area was good.  Not looking at it when I was a kid as on a police 
level.  Just didn't have the kind of crime you have today.  
M:  And McKenna that's another funeral home right?   
A:  Ah ha, they've been here since I was a kid.  Now they just, merged with Ouellette.  
M:  They merged with Ouellette?  
A:  There's talk about it.  There going to do it.  I don't know if it's, the transaction finalized yet or 
not.  But they are merging.  They're going to become one.  
M:  One company, but still have two places?  
A:  They're going to remain Ouellette's and McKenna's but they'll be the same owners.  I don't 
know how they're doing it.  
M:  And is there any group that owns that?  Is that (--)
A:  It was a family.  
M:  Yeah.
A:  Mckenna family.  
M:  So if that's on a, if the people that own it are Irish will they necessarily have Irish funerals?  
Or will it be anybody?  
A:  I'm sure that's, they will, they'll probably still have the same patronage.  The Irish will go 
here.  And the French will go up the other one.  
M:  Where are the Polish going?  
A:  Right around the corner.  
M:  Take a right? 
A:  Take a right.  [loud traffic in background Yeah, the father is giving up the reigns.  Giving it to
the son.  The son took it upon himself to build one in Dracut.  It's called the Dracut Funeral 
Home.  It's very nice.  I haven't been in it yet.  It's one of these modern type with four different 
rooms.  The Gacek's.  This one here.
M:  Gacek's on Bridge Street.
A:  They were here since I don't know when.  
M:  In the same, [truck passing by] in the same place?  
A:  Same place.  
M:  What's the difference between an Irish funeral, a French and a Polish?  
A:  Is this a joke? 
M:  [Everyone laughs, and laughs].
A:  I don't know.  [laugh] I've been to a few, I've been to a few Irish ones.  
M:  Now I have two questions I want to ask you about in particular.  Ones down here and ones 
up there.  One of them is Fruen's.
A:  Ah ha.  
M:  And it seems to me that that's a coffee shop.  Although it looks like a grocery (--)
A:  It's a variety store.  They sell a lot of coffee.  It's on a, people use Bridge Street, it's probably 
one of the most congested streets morning and night.  And it's a stop.  Either Store 24 or Fruen's, 
buy their lucky sevens and they get a coffee, get the Record.
M:  The Record? 
A:  All descend at night.  They do.  They, they, the old timers gather at three-thirty, shoot the 
breeze for a half hour or an hour.  Right out here.  They still, they sit on milk crates.  Wait for the 
Lowell Sun to come in.
M:  And in the morning too I see [unclear].  So there must be a group that comes in the morning 
and one in the afternoon.  
A:  Going to Raytheon or wherever, coming out of Dracut, Pelham, they stop here.  It's 
convenient.  
M:  But I only see men.  
A:  No, you see women who live in the neighborhood walk over.  Ah, for cigarettes, you know 
the usual, cigarettes, cigars, ah, newspaper, coffee.  These people have only owned it for two 
years.  I don't even know what the name Fruen's means.  I asked some people.  Ah, it goes way 
back.  I think, I think it's a Polish old, an old Polish name.  I could be wrong.
M:  Now did this coffee business start only when the new owners came in, or?       
A:  No it's always been, always.  This was a vacant lot up until six months ago.  Did a nice job on
this building.  
M:  When you see how vacant lots in this section does that necessarily mean trouble?  
A:  Mm, in what way? 
M:  People hanging out or drugs.  Or any kind of crime.
A:  No.  What the kids want are lights and to be seen.  They want the main drag.  This is Fourth 
Street.  Manning's, they've been in business for years and years.  They, I understand they just 
sold the building, the business.  They are like sixty-three, sixty-five years old.  And their kids 
don't want the business.  
M:  How about Carmen's Variety has that been around? 
A:  She's, she's only been here like three years.  
T:  You seem to know a lot of these st, stores.  Do you all try to stop in, get to know them?  
A:  Stores have problems, small problems now and then.  Ah, shop lifting, ah, bad check.  Do me
a favor.  Chase this guy ask him to get the money.  Ah, I don't want to go to court with the check. 
And you know.  Try to straighten it out.  Here's some Laotians at the bottom of this hill.    
M:  I never went down this far.  
A:  They keep to themselves.  See the formula?  Look a this.  You wouldn't be, believe how they 
live.  
M:  But the houses don't look so nice.  But the, the car is beautiful.  [long pause in tape] 
A:  This goes no where, the old First Street.  It comes back out to the highway.  There aren't 
many homes out there.  
M:  I have to bring you up to this house on Bridge Street.  
A:  Go back to the bridge.  I'll bring you down West Third, West Fourth and Albian.  
M:  Now it this Christian Hill where we are right now?  
A:  Yes, yeah.  It's all called Christian Hill up to the top, and over the other side.  
M:  I always see people on the stoop here.  What street is this?  Second? 
A:  Third.  
M:  Third.  [long pause on tape]
A:  I know up till ten fifteen years ago there was the same people who lived here for years and 
years.  Then something happened.  [pause]
M:  Then what happened?  
A:  I don't know what caused it.  The owners, people started be, began buying property and they 
didn't keep it up.  And it got lower and lower and they were satisfied with what ever rent they 
could get.  So they let anyone in.  
M:  Now this barber shop it runs, doesn't it?  On Bridge Street? 
A:  Ah ha.  It's open.  
M:  I never see anyone getting their hair cut.  
A:  Dezi is a night watchman at the Lowell Voke, ah, like  four to twelve.  And he work, he runs 
the barber shop in the day time form like eight in the morning till whatever, three or four in the 
afternoon.  East End Club 1919, buildings changed some.  Did a lot of work to it.  It's beautiful 
now.  
M:  It's a corner st (--)
U:  It's a yeah.  It's a real central point in the neighborhood, wouldn't you say? 
A:  Ah ha.  It's an anchor.  Lot of these, some of these people have been here for years.  But, it's 
becoming transient.  
T:  Who belongs to [unclear]
A:  Anyone wants to join.  A lot of Polish.  I believes Irish and polish founded it.  O.K.  this is ah,
more or less a troubled area.  Highly congested, a lot of children, a lot of teenagers, this is 
Lowell Housing this corner house.  
M:  And this, what street are we on now?  
A:  Why don't you take a right.  This is West Fourth and Albian.
Laotian bought this up about a year ago. 
M:  They bought it?
A:  They lived here first for a couple of years, then they bought it. Laotian, Cambodian, whatever
they are. 
M:  What about the Hispanics?
A:  These people have been here for years.  
M:  Oh, on forty-two? 
A:  This is Lowell Housing.  
M:  What does Lowell Housing mean, when you say that?
A:  They had, they had an idea.  Instead of congesting  two hundred families in one five acre plot
they figured they'd put them in the neighborhoods to integrate them, integrate them with the rest 
of the population.  [brakes squeal in background, sound of siren also] 
M:  Fifth Street Baptist Church? 
A:  This is new, a new building.  But, it's been here for years.  
M:  There are Baptists in Centraville? 
A:  Ah ha.
M:  I always think of Baptists as black I guess.  But that's not true.  Were there many blacks in 
Centraville?
A:  A few, yeah.  Mostly in those apartments on Hildreth.  I think you'd be best off going back 
down to West Third.  [siren in background, Adrien says,"testing" into the mike] 
M:  This is West Third?  
                        END OF TAPE  
A:  Dilapidated property.  He did a nice job.  Such as this one here.  New dry-wall, new walls, 
ah, new carpet. 
M:  This is West Third Street now? 
A:  Right.  But he only held them for three or four years and sold them off.  This building here 
will be coming down soon, Ecomonage Garage.  East End owns it.  
M:  East End Club?
A:  Yeah, East End Club also owned that property and they sold it to these people to build on.  
M:  So the East End Club was like a corporation.  
A:  [unclear] non-profit so they, they have to get rid of things. 
This is West Third, Albian again, Coburn Street. 
M:  What's this empty lot here? 
A:  In my younger days this was all Polish.  And that's their church over there.  
M:  The Dom Polski Club, how's that different from the Polish Club?
A:  Same people.  But this is a private men's club, or was.  And that was open.  Women could, 
were able to go into that one.  
M:  Oh, I see.  
A:  Jewett, Coburn, Fulton, Fulton's the next one parallel to  this one.  
M:  Do people from the Acre move over to Centraville after they've been in the Acre for a while?
A:  I can't say.  I can't pin point anyone, but I'm sure some do.  
M:  Because somebody told me lower Centraville (--)
A:  You get a lot of Greek.  A lot of Greeks from the Acre came to Centraville.  
M:  Really?
A:  Mostly above Bridge Street.  
M:  Is there a Greek population there now?  
A:  Yes, but they don't live one, next to one another, their scattered.  [long pause in the 
conversation] Fr. Morrissette, it's elderly housing.  That's only been there about ten years.   
M:  What is it named for?  
A:  Pardon me?
M:  Who is it named for?  
A:  Fr. Morrissette, a local priest.  He's still alive too.
M:  At the Saint Louis?
A:  No, ah, St.  Jean Baptiste, across the Aiken Street Bridge.
M:  Can I take a left at the end of this street?  
A:  Ah ha, that would be Bridge.  [Long pause on tape.  Traffic is very loud in background.] 
M:  I wanted to ask you about this block down here of yellow apartments.  
A:  The one with the pillars, or this one here?  I don't know anything about it.  I don't know 
anything about it outside of they're apartments.            
M:  Just a quiet building?  I guess you don't have to go there.
My grandmother lived here for years and years, and I always want to go up, that one right there 
834, and I always want to go up.  
A:  It's a quiet one.  There's another Lowell Housing.  
M:  The white one?  
A:  No the br, tan one.  You can tell by the siding.  They, they all, they were all built at the same 
time, they use the same siding, the same colors.  Dezi, the barber, just bought this house couple 
of years ago.  
M:  The green house?  God, what street is this?
A:  Thirteenth.     
M:  Thirteenth.  
A:  You have Ju, May, June or July.  
M:  Did you choose Centraville to work?  Or do they give that to you?  
A:  You can put in for an assignment.  This time around I was working the Highlands and the 
Acre and ah, a new chief was made.  For some reason he put me here.  So I didn't have any 
qualms about it.  I mean I knew Centraville.  I thought I'd try it.  
M:  And how (--)
T:  How long have you been in Centraville?  
A:  Since (--)  
T:  At working?
A:  Eighty-seven, five, five or six years.  
M:  Does it differ from the other parts of the city?  
A:  Some.  Centraville is more or less an island by itself.  I don't see any other policemen during 
the day because of the bridges.  That's the border.  Ah, Belvidere won't have quite as many 
problems as Centraville.  Pawtucketville won't have the same problems.  Centraville is a cut off, 
cut away area from the rest of the city.  It hasn't had much representation Because none of the 
city councilors have come from Centraville, or live in Centraville.  
          [This next section of the tape is confusing.]
S: Isn't that how Jersey Associates got it's name?  Ah, the first to, how Jersey is asso, how Jer, 
well how, well how Jersey [Traffic is quite loud in background.] relates to [unclear] city.  Is cross
the river from it.  
A:  I never heard it ex, explained that way.  But, I think it would be right.  
M:  No.  How'd you hear it?  
S:  How'd I hear it?  Am, I think it was somebody from Jersey Associates who told me.  Either 
that or my dad.  My dad was great [unclear] ah, the facts of little [unclear] 
M:  Or I heard there was a picture of this place and there were Jersey Cows in the front and it 
might have taken it's name.  
S:  It was a couple of, yeah, there's a couple of things.  But somebody, yeah, the other thing is 
there may have even been a Lowell Sun like sports writer or something he used to refer to 
Centraville  as Jersey.  It's just pretty silly but ah, [laugh].  
A:  I honestly feel that ah, Lowell, Centraville has been forgotten [pause] in the past twenty 
years.  Because it didn't have any representation from, there weren't any city councilors from 
here to, for input to get some money for this side.  Although we have two beautiful parks in 
Centraville.  They're well maintained.  
M:  What McPherson's and Gage?
A:  Yeah.  
M:  Does it feel separated from the city in any other way?  [long pause] Besides problems were 
different.  
A:  Well, you have, so I'm told, almost a third of the whole population of Lowell in Centraville.  
Being approximately 30-33,000                
thousand people.  And there aren't any of them that are rich.  You don't see the beautiful homes, I 
mean you see some nice homes.  But, you don't see the mansions, the swimming pools, ah, the 
nice beautiful lawns.  The half acre properties like you see in Belvidere or in the Highlands.  You
come down here at night and you better be careful along Bridge Street and West Third.  But, you 
see that in a lot of other sec, sections of the city.  Ah, how different, I can't, there's a lot more 
drugs in the Acre.  That's, that's where they all come from.  A lot more Puerto-Ricans there, very 
much, there always in trouble.  There's not a day that goes by your not involved with ten 
different Spanish speaking.  They break the law, more often than anyone else I've ever run into.  
M:  How come they never get over this way?
A:  They do.  We have a certain percentage.  But they seem to thrive in the Acre.  At one time 
they were at low, on lower Belvidere, Fayette and Andover, Concord Street.  Then the 
Portuguese people bought the property.  When they buy a piece of property they fix it up.  And 
they bought another one and another one.  And eventually they were all gone.  The Portuguese 
bought all those properties and made them nice.  
M:  On Fayette Street?  
A:  That's Lower Belvidere.  
M:  Can you tell from the outside of a house what kind of people live there?  
A:  Over there I can.  If you see a grapevine, in the summertime, you'll know it's Portuguese.  Ah,
some of the colors.  Ah, odd, odd  blues or, I don't know different kind of colors than we 
normally use.  They'll paint their foundations between the rock.  They'll paint it black, and then 
the foundation rock itself will be white.  And they like detail.  They take care of everything.  
M:  What about the um, some people put statues and other things in their lawn.
A:  Mostly Portuguese.  Along with French, Polish, but these days mostly Portuguese.  You see 
that on Back Central Street, Wamesit.  There a very, very together group.  Church, Saturday night
ah, flings out at Holy Ghost Park.  
M:  Holy Ghost Park?  
A:  They own property out there it's probably an acre or two acres.  Beautiful large building, nice
dance floor.  THey bring in their own bands from Fall River.  They have a following.  They fill it 
up.  And they crown the queen in the winter.  [unclear] In the summer when they have a party a 
weekend, it's a, it's a weeker.  I mean they start they start on a Friday night, Saturday, Sunday.  
It's coming up on labor day that will be a four day thing.  They'll have soccer games out on the 
field.  Good teams too, professionals.  
T:  And that's at Holy Ghost Park?  
A:  Ah, ha.
T:  When you get switched to a neighborhood and when you, you know were, came to the ah, to 
this part of town to work.  Does a police officer have, how does one figure out his way around 
the neighborhood             
and learn it?
A:  Get to your coffee shops, and you know everything.  Have a coffee, shoot the breeze for 
fifteen minutes, and your done, you've pick up what's happened the last minute.  Your gonna get 
the, your gonna pick up a name.  He's trouble, that's trouble.  Go down the gas station they'll tell 
you something else.  Every corner has a story.  
T:  Well, that's pretty much what we're doing on this project.  
A:  Ah, ha.  
T:  [laugh] Except (--)
M:  Looking for different kinds of information.  [laugh, laugh] 
T:  Looking for different kinds of information but that isn't where we find it.  [group laughs] 
M:  What are their coffee shops here?  Would you say Fruen's is one?  
A:  Not, how much they open up to you, ah, yeah, they'd be nervous.  If you come in with the 
microphones and this and that.  
M:  Well, yeah.  
T:  But, also what I was wondering is, how does one learn his, geographically his way around.  
You know, where the streets are, where the boundaries are?  Um, did you know that from 
childhood?  
A:  Ah, ha.  I knew that.  I know the whole city.  
T:  When you went, when you went to the Acre the first time, did you already know it?  
A:  I knew the Acre.  The Highlands I had trouble with cause  I didn't spend much time up there 
as a child.  When I was growing up.  It only takes four or five months to know every street, more 
or less every street in the city.  Pawtucketville I'm very weak on because I haven't spent that 
much time in there in twenty years.  Off and on filling in a job.  I know all the main drags and 
some of the sides but, a few, I hear them, I say's, "where's that?" [pause] I'd say it's a shot in a 
hundred that I won't know where, which one it is.  
M:  And will people talk to you?  I mean do you think people will, (--)
A:  Depending, what I'm there for, what purpose, what I'm looking for.  If I'm there to hurt 
someone that they know, or get information on someone, I won't get much information.  But, if 
I'm there to help someone.  Say hey this is going to be good for him you know.  He's got a case.  
He want's to get this guy in court.  He's the witness.  Oh, yeah, well you'll catch him at six 
o'clock tonight.  Because they don't know, I have summonses.  People have to appear in court.  
They have to deliver them like a, like a mailman.  Try to give it to them in hand.  Most people 
are working or away.  So we try to leave them in a mail box.  And people move so quickly.  
They're there for three or four months and there gone.  So you ask the neighbor.  What do you 
want them for?  I just, nothing.  There leery of it.  [pause] They think we're out to hurt 
everybody.  But then they know the people were talking about, and they say, "well maybe he is 
after him." [laugh]
M:  [laugh] Or maybe it's a good thing.  [laugh]
A:  So what do you think?  Is it any help?  Do you know your way around?  I can introduce you 
to the guy at Fruen's, if he's there.  
M:  Yeah, that's what, actually that would be great if you could take me to a few of the coffee 
shops.  Cause I did actually go in there.  
A:  I don't go in Dunkin.  Because all cops go in Dunkin.  [group laughs]
M:  But what else besides Fruen's around here?  Little Peach, don't people go there?  
A:  That's quick, in and out.  Got no benches, nah, that's not a hangout.  There just in and out.  I 
don't (--)
T:  Do you go to different place than the rest of the cops?  
A:  Pardon me?  
T:  You said wouldn't, you don't go in here because all the other cops were there.  Do you try to 
go to places where [unclear] 
A:  As well as a junkie.  No, I'd find a cop at Dunkin.  I'm not even a coffee bug.  I'll have one in 
the morning, that's it.  But I'll stop in the store and just talk to them.  
M:  So that's the way of keeping the tabs on the life of the community.  
A:  Especially Fruen's is a good source for me.  Because he lives on West Fourth, and  Friday and
Saturday nights are kind of wild down there.  Into a lot of drinking, maybe a little bit of drugs.  
So things happen.  There's always a fight.  Someone's windshield gets broken.  Someone's front 
door gets kicked in.  You can count on it.  Every Friday or Saturday night, something going to 
happen on West Fourth and Albian.  And the cruiser is probably handling a case up on the hill.  It
takes him three minutes to get down there, and the guys are gone and, that second shift is 
something else.  I've, I did it or ten years.  
M:  What shift do you work now?  
A:  This is days nine to five.  Second shift is five to one.  
M:  And then one to nine?  
A:  One to nine on the late shift.  They have it kind of rough till around three thirty- four in the 
morning, sometime later.  But those are one man cruisers, and you know you have some serious 
problems at two or three in the morning.  
M:  The cops don't always ride two together?  
A:  We used to.  It got a little expensive.  About eight or ten years ago we cut down to one man.  
So what they do is, if it's that serious a call, hold off have another cruisers back him up.  They 
both go in together.  
M:  Are you afraid in any parts of the city?  
A:  No, no.  
T:  Is there any parts of the city that one should be afraid?                                   
A:  Ah, ha.
M:  Any good advice for us?  
A:  I wouldn't want my wife, my daughter, or you people not knowing the city, to drive down 
Adams Street, after, well any time of the day or night.  Stay away from Adams Street.  Go around
it.  
T:  That's Adams?
M:  Is that in the Acre?
A:  That's the Acre.  Where they, the drugstores out in the city block.  
T:  That's mild [the rest of the conversation is unclear].
A:  Not necessarily just that street.  Anywhere along there.  It could happen, you could have the 
same people here on West Third or West Fourth at any given moment too selling.  When there 
high, twenty years ago we'd, all I can remember is two or three [unclear] here in Lowell.