"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr17
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6373B
Cut B1
John Lomax: I have in my hand here a telegram from the Library of Congress requesting the
reactions of some Dallas people on the Japanese aggression. I'd like to know Mr. Ruggles how that
announcement of what the Japanese were doing to us reacted on you as a World War veteran?
Dan Ruggles: Well, I don't think this was totally unexpected. Anybody that kept up with news events
should have anticipated an attack by Japan. It's totally in keeping with the methods employed by the
totalitarian powers, the unexpectedness of it. And as far as the war with Japan is concerned I think
that is something that the informed American public has been expecting to be something that would
develop ultimately for a period, say for the past thirty years. More especially during the past ten
years. Is that enough?
John Lomax: No. How did you come to that opinion?
Dan Ruggles: Well, that dates . . . there have been friction between the Japanese and the talk of the
yellow peril ever since for the past three or four decades. With the invasion of Manchuria in 1931
was the first aggressive step that really led the way as I understand it, have concluded to show Hitler
and Mr. Mussolini the way.
John Lomax: Well, you think then the Japanese are acting in concert with masters Hitler and
Mussolini then as I take it?
Dan Ruggles: Due to their pacts, they are in a way, but the Japanese have always acted primarily for
themselves. Their plans as to Asia and the fact that they believe that their domain should extend
over the east of the Asiatic [long pause] scope.
John Lomax: Well, what did you first think? What were your first thoughts when you heard of this
attack on Americans, Dan? What first came to you?
Dan Ruggles: Well, the first thing came to me is it was just something that could not be avoided it's to
be expected. We've made every effort in the world to avoid it, but it was something that was bound
to come owing to the world situation.
John Lomax: Tell us a little about yourself [unintelligible woman's voice in background]. Who are you?
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr17
Dan Ruggles: Well, [laughs] I'm a man that's really been a newspaper editor most of my life and ???.
And I've had a keen interest in international affairs and have kept track I guess, I've kept with the
best of the times. One good fact is that I say that I've mainly been employed and editing newspapers
and interested in international affairs primarily. [unintelligible woman's voice in background].
John Lomax: This is Dan Ruggles that's just been speaking. Mr. Ruggles lives in Forest Hills,
Dallas, Texas and has been for many years a newspaper reporter. This interview with Mr. Ruggles
occurred on December the ninth, 1941 and this recording was made for the Library of Congress in
Washington.
Cut B2
John Lomax: Mr. Ruggles wishes to add this for the word.
Dan Ruggles: Well, I think that the American people, must not come to a just conclusion either
through the early reverse in this war or otherwise that it's going to be an easy war. The Japanese,
naturally, have handicaps due to the Allied forces in the Far East now facing them, but the efficiency
of the Japanese military machine has been repeatedly [proven (?)] and they usually have had a very
excellent armed force. That was ??? [disc skips] through the testimony of officers, friends of mine,
who served with them in the Allied march on Peking.