UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  REV. ROBERT SOUCY
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:
R = REVEREND
M = MARTHA
LFP-MN-R037-R038
R:  Okay.
M:  Um, how your family came to the United States?  [R:  Uh huh]  You know, with, where they 
immigrated from?  Why?
R:  Okay.  Uh huh.  All right.  Um, my, my parents themselves were born in the states.  My, my 
father was born here in Lowell back in 1900.  And my mother was born in Sanford, Maine.  
Lived there for a short time.  Moved back to Canada with her family, and came back to Lowell 
when she was about nine or ten years old.  And has been in Lowell ever since.  My um, 
grandparents on my mother's side were uh, born and lived in uh, in Canada.  On my father's side 
they were born in the states.  Okay?  Um, myself I was born her in Lowell and grew up here in 
Lowell.  
M:  In what part?
R:  Right here in this parish in Centraville.  Right across the street here is where I grew up 
basically.  And I attended this particular school here and went to this church.  And was alter boy 
here.
M:  Oh, because they said you were a new pastor.
R:  I'm a new pastor in the parish as pastor here, but uh, it was like coming home in a way, you 
know?  Although I was gone from the time I entered the seminary in 1954 until I came back last 
year.  Um, so I was really away from the city as such, I would come back periodically to visit 
you know, family and relatives, and do weddings and baptisms for family members, but I really 
was not uh, no uh, involved in the parish as such until last fall when I came back as pastor, you 
know?
M:  Did you ask to come to this parish?
R:  Well uh, at the time that the pastor died here I wrote to personnel and I just said that I knew 
that they wanted someone who could speak french to come to Saint Louis.  And I told that them 
that if I could be of assistance I would be willing to come.  And um, but I did remind them that 
this was my home parish, you know?  And so I had no idea if they would want that.
M:  Do they have any feelings about putting a priest in their home parish?
R:  It's not usually done.  It's a, it's an unusual things.  It's uh, they tend to shy away from that.  
Uh, but apparently they felt that I had been away from the parish you know, long enough that it 
would not matter.  And because I still have you know, family in the parish.  I still have a brother 
and his wife.  And I have cousins and so forth, who still live in the parish and come to church 
here on a regular basis, you know?
M:  Why, why don't they want you in your own parish?
R:  I think they just uh, they feel that it might make it difficult for you in your ministry in you 
know, if you went in with family members, or people that were very close to you, or you know.  
And maybe for, on the part of the people too, you know?  People have sort of a shyness about 
approaching someone that they knew very well you know, for uh, for certain problems, or certain
difficulties in their lives and so forth.
M:  Oh maybe also because the outsider is always the expert, you know.
R:  Yeah, that's true too you know, yeah, yeah.  But uh (--)
M:  So your father was a french speaking person then?
R:  Umhm, umhm, both my mother and my father.  As a matter of fact even to this day my 
mother still lives in Lowell.  My father is deceased.  And my mother is uh, eight, she's going to 
be eighty-five next uh, next month.  And uh, I was just talking to her on the phone a few minutes 
ago before you arrived and we spoke in french, you know?  We always converse in french when 
I'm with my mother. 
M:  So that was the language in your house growing up?.
R:  Yup, exactly.  I uh, did not speak any english at all until I was about uh, you know, five or six 
years old.  Until I started playing outside really and coming to school, and (--)  But uh, before 
then we spoke french at home.  
M:  Was that a shock to come outside and not know what the other kids say?
R:  It was at first.  Although now in the area where I was living right here down the street, most 
of the kids spoke french a little bit, you know?  And so, but it didn't take long though for a kid to 
pick up english.  You know, I mean it became very uh, you know, second nature.  Uh, but the 
think is, is that I think that um, what happened is that if the french is not spoken in the home um, 
you know, the children don't pick it up, you know?  Even though, like I have neph...nieces and 
nephews uh, my brother and his wife are both french speaking, but they lived in a neighborhood 
where there was no french and so they never spoke french to them at home in the house.  So that 
consequently they don't understand any french at all, you know?  On the other hand my sister's 
children um, even though they don't speak french that much, they can if they have to, but they 
understand anything you say to them in french.  Because they didn't speak it that much at home, 
a little bit more than my brother, but they lived in an area where there was more french, see?  
And so it does uh (--)
M:  Is that, is that still a living language in this section?  
R:  Not as much.  Not with the young kids.  Not with the young kids.  With the old folks though. 
Like for example, I would say that oh, seventy-five percent, perhaps even a little bit higher, of 
the confessions that I hear are in french, french speaking people come to confession.  And even 
though they may speak english and everything else when it comes to confession they feel more at
home in confessing their sins in french.  
M:  Is that a particular age group?
R:  Um, I would say yeah, perhaps.  But um, people I'll say from maybe oh, fifties, mid-forties, 
fifty on, you know?  They feel comfortable, you know?
M:  What other things do they turn to french for Father?
R:  Um, their prayers.  When I went to high school, I went to you know, uh, uh, elementary 
school right here in the parish.  And the days were set up in at that time that we had a half a day 
of french, half a day of english at school.  And we said, we did, we studied our religion in french 
and we said all of our prayers in french.  And so when I went to high school, I went to Keith 
Academy here in Lowell, um, all of the prayers were in english and I didn't know my prayers in 
english.  I had to learn all of my prayers over again in english, because i didn't know them.  So 
consequently a lot of the people today uh, for example, the Act of Contrition then go into 
Confession, they never learnt it in english.  And so even, sometimes if they confess their sins in 
english they'll say their Act of Contrition in french.  When I was in Pepperell before I came here 
as pastor, I was pastor of Saint Joseph's Parish in Pepperell and it was a french parish.  But there 
were a lot of people that moved into the area from Lowell and the surrounding areas, Fitchburg 
and so forth.  And very often we would hear confession. Uh, they'd come in and say, "do you 
speak french father?"  I'd say, "yes."  They would confess their sins in french.  Or if they couldn't
confess their, or if they didn't confess their sins in french, they'd confess them in english, they 
would always say their Act of Contrition in french.  Just the way they were trained, you know?  
M:  What about in conversation, you know, their conversation with you?
R:  Oh there's a lot of french here and speaking.  After mass for example we greet the people as 
they leave church after mass, and um, a lot of folks will speak to you in french, you know, 
[unclear].  And of course on Sunday morning we have one mass, the ten o'clock mass which is 
celebrated in french, you know?  And uh (--)
M:  Do you celebrate that mass?
R:  Father Roger there, one of the associate priest and myself alternate on that.  Uh, what he does
however, he'll celebrate the mass in french, but he will preach in english, because he doesn't feel 
comfortable in preaching in french.  But I will preach in french at the ten o'clock mass.  And, but 
at the mass, most of those people at that mass will speak to you in french, you know?  They 
come to that mass because they, they want to go to the french mass.
M:  How many people go to that mass?
R:  Oh I'd say about a couple of hundred maybe huh?  [M:  Hm]  A hundred and seventy-five to 
two hundred.  It varies, you know?
M:  And what will there be at an english mass?
R:  Oh maybe, let's see.  Oh about four hundred maybe.  You know, four, four fifty, something 
like that, you know?  It's, it's one of the smallest mass [unclear], you know, for the ten o'clock 
mass.  The five-thirty mass on Saturday afternoon is not all that well attended.  Uh, maybe about 
the same as the french mass.  But the other masses are much better attended than that.
M:  But they still [few words unclear].
R:  Oh yes.  Yeah, uh huh.  And they really hold on to it.  The ones who, for the people for whom
it means something, they really hold on tight.  They really want it, you know?  They're always 
afraid when a, when a new pastor (--)  At the, at the parish meeting that they had before a new 
pastor was named, uh I wasn't there obviously, but uh, I, I hear now that was, that was one of the 
things that they, the people really spoke up for, you know?  Be sure they send us a french 
speaking priest, you know?  But they want, they want the, even though they don't use it all the 
time, they just want that feeling of knowing that there's somebody there that you know, speaks 
french and that they can you know, turn to and so forth.
M:  Would they care if it was France french, or Canadian french?
R:  Would they what?
M:  Would they care if you had come from France?
R:  No, not really.  I don't think so.  No, I don't think so.  No, I don't think so as long as they're 
able to, to understand, you know?  Umhm. 
M:  And do your, the other priest in the parish here, do they speak french also? 
R:  Uh, one of the priest, Father Jacque speaks french.  And uh, Father [Moore?] who is in 
residence here, even though is not French at all is able to carry on a conversation in french, you 
know?  Perhaps not a long conversation over, but he's able to you know, to say a few words and 
carry on.  As a matter of fact he did I guess once or twice when the pastor, the former pastor was 
sick, I guess did say, Father [Moore?] did celebrate Mass in french, you know?  Um, so people 
were happy with that.
M:  So he can do it?
R:  He can do it, yeah.  He feels a little bit awkward about it, do you know what I mean?  It's not 
something he don't want to do all the time I don't think.  But he can do it if he, if he has to I 
guess.  Yeah, uh huh.
M:  Father can you tell me something about the history of this church?
R:  Okay.  A little bit.  Um, the um, parish was established in 1904.  And um, when it uh, I don't 
know the exact dates of everything now, but I mean roughly, you know?
M:  It doesn't matter.
R:  Um, when it was first established the uh, people bought a small uh, someone donated a small 
piece of property and they built a small church.  I believe it was on two streets down on Beaulieu
Street.  And they kept that for a few years.  Then they bought this piece of property where the 
church is situated on now.  And the uh, church was built.  Uh, when the church was built the first 
permanent structure you might say it was a basement church with a flat roof.  And the idea was 
because they didn't have enough funds, enough money, um, eventually they would put an 
addition to it, or a top part of the church.  Well that took fifty years, you know, before they were 
able to do that.  In 1954 Monsignor [Duplicy?] who was the pastor here at the time um, finally 
carried the project through.  And but apparently the story that is told is that by the time the roof 
of the basement structure was not strong enough to support another church.  So what they had to 
do, they just took the roof off completely and they just continued the sides.  So if you look at the 
church you notice the basement part is uh, granite and the upper part is yellow brick.  And that's 
why,see.  So back in 1954 (--)  So I was just entering the seminary then in '54.  So actually they 
started in '53 I guess it was.  And so for that whole year, my last year here before I went to the 
seminary, we were going to Mass, to church at the uh, what is now the school cafeteria in the 
lower church hall.  And then for, for weekday masses, because it was a small chapel then and for 
evening masses, I mean for Sunday masses we would go upstairs in the parish hall on the third 
floor.  
M:  So before there was a church, well there was this basement church [R:  Umhm] and then the 
school came next? 
R:  The school came, right.  Um, I don't (--)  Well within just a few years the school started.  And
the Sisters Of The Assumption came um, to teach, and they've been teaching here ever since.  It's
a [unclear] time, you know?  We uh, this is still one of the few parishes uh, I think it's the only 
one in the city of Lowell and one of the few left in the archdiocese where we still have a parish 
high school.  We have a girl's high school.  A four year, what do you call it?  Saint Louis 
Academy.  And um, we have um, out of all of the teacher in the elementary school and the high 
school, we only have um, let's see, I think it's five, six, seven lay teachers you know, the rest are 
all religious, which is very um, surprising in this day and age.  
M:  Yeah.  How many teachers [few words unclear]?
 
R:  Well there are fifty sisters that live in the convent.  Now they're not all involved in the school 
work.  Some do other things, but they live in the convent.  But we, on the elementary level we 
have um, four from the Sisters of the Assumption, we have two Notre Dame Sisters who teach at 
the school.  At the Academy level we have uh, five uh, sisters of the, six sisters of the 
Assumption and one Dominican Sister who teaches there as well
M:  Oh that surprises me.  I thought when you're usually at a convent they were all from the 
same order.
R:  There are except that um, um, a few years ago when they needed some extra teachers um, I 
guess the sisters from different communities were available.  And so were hired by the parish to 
work in the school here.  They don't live here, they live elsewhere, but they teach here in the 
school.
M:  Oh, okay.  [R:  Uh huh]  But the teachers who live here are all the same order.
R:  Are all the same convent.  They're all sisters of the Assumption, right.  Umhm, umhm.
M:  Oh all right.  Okay.  And uh, do you know why at the time there was a need to start a new 
church here?  Wouldn't Saint Michael's, or one of the other churches have (--)
R:  Because of the French, huh?  See originally Saint Michael's would cover, Saint Michael's 
church covered this whole area all the way up to, well up to the New Hampshire line, really.  
And, but then when the French people you know, started coming in from Canada and settling this
section of the city of Lowell, they used to originally if they wanted to go to a french church, or 
such, they had to go to Saint Jean Baptist across the, across the bridge.  But then as the you 
know, number of them grew in this area they wanted their own church in their own parish, and 
their own french speaking priest, and so forth.  And so that's how this whole business began.  
And so that's why they established Saint Louis right here, which covered uh, you might say the 
same territory as Saint Michael, except that it was for, it was established as a national parish 
which was to deal or cater to the French speaking people.  And it covered all of the, the area of 
Lowell, Dracut, and way up to the New Hampshire line.  But then in 1927 Saint Theresa's in 
Dracut was established.  You might say as an off shut of Saint Louis Parish.  That was 
established as a French parish also in 1927.  Um, today uh, we still have people who come here 
from Dracut, especially in the Kenwood section of Dracut.  If they're from a French background, 
or were, even if they don't speak French themselves, if their family were French speaking they 
still hold on to this tradition and come, come here for the church.
M:  You know, that's when I, what is, what is [few words unclear].  In addition to language, 
strictly French language, are their things that you feel the parish does, traditional things, customs 
that are French?
R:  Umhm.  Um, I don't know really.  Um, (--)
M:  Might you have something at Christmas that would be a little different from what you might 
find at the polish church, or (--)
R:  Yeah.  I, the only thing I can think of is that no um, there's no, no, just the French hymns at 
Christmas.  Um, really.
M:  New Years?  Do you still celebrate New Years?
R:  Well I, not so much as a parish you know, I think individual families.  I know my family do.  
We always still get together New Years Day.  It's a very important celebration for us, you know?  
Um, parish wise, I don't think we do anything special for New Years.  At least we didn't last year.
No, and I don't think they've have in the recent past.  Um, no I don't think so.  Um, I really don't 
think there's anything you know, special besides being in the French element, you know?  
M:  Um.  [R:  Umhm]  And since you have kind of a unique perspective coming, growing up 
right here as a kid and now coming back, [R:  Umhm] can you talk to me a little bit about if you 
can remember what your perspective was of your neighborhood as a child?  [R: Umhm]  Who 
lived here, where you would go, what would they, what, what did you consider your 
neighborhood at the time?
R:  Okay.  I think uh, you know, well first of all as a child I think I considered you know, safe 
from uh, very very limited.  I would consider the neighborhood from Aiken Avenue to uh, maybe
uh, Stanley Street, or Jewitt Street.  Uh, and you know, the river and Hildreth Street.  That was 
the neighborhood.  That was where you know, I hung around and played and you know, had my 
friends and my school friends and so.  Most of the kids that came to school, the bulk came from 
that area.  Now in some came from a little bit, you know, beyond that too.  Like Beaver, 
Campaw, Lakeview Avenue.  But as a small child, I mean as a kid uh, I didn't go that far, this was
my neighborhood right here, you know?  And of course to me you know being brought up and 
growing up right across the street from the church you know, the church was a very important 
part of this neighborhood.  Uh, I used to you know, be here all the time.  I mean not only to go to 
school, but I used to be here to help the sisters out after school in the sacristy.  To help the priest. 
To run errands.  I remember one of my jobs as a kid was to um, um, go and pick up the alter 
breads every Saturday morning at the Franco-American School on Pawtucket Street.  I used to 
take my bike and go and get the alter bread for the week, you know?  And I used to uh, in those 
days they used to sell the trimmings for five cents a bag.  And you know the alter boys, I don't 
know if you're familiar with them, it's a, they're made like uh, it's unleavened bread, okay?  And 
they, what they used to make them is like a waffle iron almost, you know?  A flat iron like.  And 
you pour it, the sisters used to pour the batter.  We used to watch them make it.  Pour the batter 
on this thing and they press down the cover and it cooks it.  And but it comes like a very thing 
sheet, like a host today, but very flat. And then they have a punch and they punch out the host, 
the round, the small host and the large host.  But all the trimmings we left over, they used to sell 
those in the bag, five cents a bag.  See?  And I used to run and feed my goldfish with them, 
instead of buying goldfish food.  No really?  [Both laugh]  So that was my job, one of my jobs as
a kid.  Going to the orphanage and picking up the alter breads every Saturday morning.  
M:  Did they make for all the churches?
R:  They used to make for a lot of the churches in Lowell, right.  Of course they don't anymore at
all, you know?  But uh, also I remember, now don't ask me why, I don't know why till this day, 
whether or not they didn't have a freezer here at the rectory or what and they, but anyway every 
Sunday afternoon around quarter of five, five o'clock I would walk down to the little variety 
store at the corner of the street, Ennell Street, and I used to buy a quart of vanilla ice cream and a
pint of coffee ice cream and come to the rectory and bring it to the priest for their Sunday night 
dessert.  Every Sunday afternoon that was my job.  So I mean those were just little things that I 
used to do as a kid.  You know, I mean a little kid growing up, I mean that, you know, you might 
say kept me in contact with the, with the church, what was going on, you know?
M:  Are you the oldest son in your family?
R:  No, I'm the youngest of the family.  Uh huh.  I was the youngest.  Yeah.  There were, I had 
two brothers that were older and then a sister.  And then there was eight and a half years with no 
one.  Then I came along.  So. 
M:  Is it [unclear], or did most of the French families have one son that went into the priesthood?
R:  Oh no, I don't think so.  I don't think so.  Um, not most of the French families, but a lot of the 
French families.  A lot of the vocations in the Archdiocese, Boston of uh, people who um, spoke 
French, the priest for example, uh, a great percentage came from the parish of Saint Louis here in
Lowell.  Many of them, many of them.  We um, gave a lot of vocations to the priesthood, and 
also
the parish gave a lot of vocations to the sisters, especially the Sisters of the Assumptions, you 
know?  Many of them. 
M:  So that must be, that's something that was encouraged in a community.
R:  Yes it was.  It was.  And I remember as a, you know, as a young man before I entered the 
[unclear] high school that you know, there were a lot of uh, like you know, first masses, you 
know?  The priest were ordained to celebrate their first masses.  And then as an alter boy, of 
course in those days you know, the priest did not, we didn't have [concelebration?], no 
[concelebrated?] masses.  Priest said their private masses so to speak.  I remember as an alter boy
sometimes serving two, three, four masses on the same day.  Because I'd be in the you know, 
sacristy, another priest would come in from you know, to say mass.  I'd serve that mass.  Another 
will come in, he was home on his day off visiting his family, or, and he came over to say mass, 
you know?  And I remember as a kid also on a hot you know, summer afternoon going to the 
convent to uh, serve mass for the sisters because (--)  Well not so much mass, excuse me, but 
benediction in the summer day.  In the uh, summers the sisters used to study at Rivier College.  
And so what they would do, they would live here at the convent and also they would take in 
those sisters from other commun (--)  same community from other missions would come here 
because of the Assumption.  And they would set up the dorms for them on the schools, on the 
corridors of the schools.  And I remember setting up beds and all the stuff like that, you know?  
And so they'd be maybe you know, fifty, sixty sisters spending you know, a good part of the 
summer here going to Rivier everyday for classes.  The bus would pick them up in the morning 
and take them back in the afternoon.  And they'd have benediction in the afternoon.  I remember 
going there you know,  real hot days you know, and the sisters were all there.  Full [unclear] you 
know, full habit in those days.
M:  And the long (--)
R:  Long black dress and so forth.  And I remember you know, serving with the uh you know, 
also I was alter boy.  [Unclear]
the sweat pouring down my face you know, in the chapel.  [Laughs]
M:  What's the difference between the benediction and the mass?
R:  Okay.  Benediction is um, exposition.  You take the blessed sacraments which already has 
been consecrated, which is in a tabernacle, and you put it in an um, in a um, in a gold piece that 
you call a [monstrin?] which merely means to show.  And you put it on the alter.  You expose it 
you might say.  Then you say certain prayers in the presence of the blessed sacrament.  And then 
you take this [monstrin] and you bless the people with it.  In other words there's no actual 
changing of bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ at the benedictions.  It's just 
something that's already been done.  And you just take it and you might say, show it.  And then 
say some prayers, and then pull it back in the tabernacle, you know?  
M:  So the sisters would have benediction on the weekends?
R:  In, in the afternoon.  [Says french phrase]  In those days we didn't have afternoon masses, 
you know.  So we'd have morning masses.  They'd have mass early morning before they'd go to 
school. And then in the evening most of the time then they'd have benediction.  Maybe not every 
single day, but very often, you know?  Very often.
M:  And it would be the priest who would (--)
R:  Umhm.  And very often like especially uh, they would also come here and uh, have retreats 
for the sisters.  And so they'd have like uh missionary priests, like you know, Franciscans, or 
whatever come in and preach these retreats.  And then these retreats always ended with 
benediction in like in the end, at the end of the day, you know?  And so uh, we used to do that a 
lot too.    
M:  You know a lot of people have spoke to me about retreats, or missions, but I don't know what
happens during them.  
R:  Okay.  A retreat or a mission is merely a time set aside whereby um, the persons who are 
making this mission, or this retreat really you know, concentrate most of the time on matters that 
pertain to God, or pertain to religion, or their relationship to God and so forth.  Huh.  And of 
course you know, years ago parish missions as such were very popular.  Where a retreat master 
would come into a parish a stay for, sometimes they'd stay for you know, a couple of weeks, or 
three weeks.  And the first week they would have like uh, it was called the women's mission, you
know?  And it was just the women and the uh, that would go for this particular thing.  Another 
week they'd have the men's mission and it was just the men.  And then they might have another 
one for teenagers, or for the kids, or whatever the case may be, you know?  And uh, obviously in 
those days, I mean with those types of missions, that the people would come at night for the 
mission service and sometimes in the morning if they could make it they'd come for mass as 
well.  Um, parish missions as such have pretty well you know, disappeared around, you know, 
really as such.  But there's still you know, a type of a parish missions that goes on.  As a matter of
fact we're going to have one here in November.  I forget the exact date, but some part of 
November.  I think it's the last week in November, the first week of Advent.  And it's going to be 
a, a uh Dominican priest and a Sister of Notre Dame from um, he's from Washington and she's 
from Pennsylvania, Philadelphia I believe.  And they're going to come and for five days.  
Monday through Thursday they're going to conduct this parish mission.  Uh, and this, this will be
obviously opened to all parishioners.  I mean it won't be you know, just men or just women.  It 
will be everybody at once.  And there will be two services each day.  There will be one in the 
morning.  They'll be a morning mass around nine, or nine thirty followed by a silver bible study 
conducted by the sister.  And then at night there will be another service by the priest mostly, with
the sister participating, for those five days.  
M:  And when you said I guess their mission would be somewhat like the missions of old.  [R:  
Umhm]  Is it that the priest would come in the mission leader and give sermons for some hours?  
[R:  Umhm, umhm]  Or would there be discussions?
R:  No.  No.  In the past it was mostly uh, it was mostly a talk given by the missionary who 
might speak say for a half hour or forty minutes an evening, you know?  And then it would 
usually end with a silver, a little prayer service of one kind.  [Unclear] very often and with 
benediction of the blessed sacrament we talked about a few minutes ago.  Uh, because again in 
those days evening masses were not the custom.  And so uh, but it was mostly a missionary who 
would come and would speak, give a talk.  And it was, it wasn't no discussion type thing.  It was 
mostly his talking to the people, you know?  And one of the reasons, well a couple of reasons 
was that um, just to make it public for people to hear someone other than their own parish priest, 
you know, explain certain teaching of the church and talk about the teacher of the church.  And 
of course obviously and because of the times in which we you know, we lived then, the most of 
the talks were on matters of morality, moral issues you know?  And it was pretty much you 
know, well you know, your obligations as a catholic and what you should do and what you 
should not do.  Today when we have missions like the one we're going to have in November, it, 
the emphasis is not, I mean there is still a certain amount of [unclear] obviously, but it's more 
dealing with the scriptures.   The interpretation of the scriptures.  How they apply in our lives.  
And how we should respond to, to God's words and the scriptures.  And it's more of that kind of 
[unclear], but it's a more, it's a more positive approach I think to, to religion as I think all the 
teacher of religion is today more than in the past.  I think teaching of religion in the past was 
mostly uh, a series of you know, do this and don't do that, you know?  That's the way, that's the 
way it was.  That was the trend.  That was the emphasis.  I think it's uh, I think most of the 
people my age, you know, fifties or so would say that um, our, the religion that we learned as 
kids was pretty much a religion of fear, you know?  We, we obeyed and we did what was right 
because we were afraid.  Afraid of God and afraid of everything else, you know?  But today 
hopefully the emphasis is not so much on just of one being afraid, but of doing what we should 
be doing out of love.  Because we love God and we love our fellow human beings, and therefore 
we want to do the right thing.                      
M:  Do you see also a change in the, the values that this church encourages, or discourages since 
you were a kid and coming back now?
R:  Um, uh, in a certain extent.  I, I, to a certain extent I think that's, I think there is a change.  
Um, base, the basic values I think is uh, are the same.  That we are hopefully working our life 
here on earth uh, in such a way that you know, at the end of live we will be able to receive our 
eternal reward.  And that we say we believe in life hereafter and so forth.  But I think the uh, the 
difference perhaps is that we do not um, believe as much today, or give you this [unclear] we do 
not emphasize the eternal live so much to the rejection of life here and now.  We say I think 
today that you know, we have to live this live here to the best of our ability loving God, loving 
our fellow human beings so that one day this love of God will continue into eternity with him.  
Uh, I think in the past I think we had more of an emphasis you know, um, a piece of pie in the 
sky when I die, you know what I mean?  Way back then, you know what I mean?  But, so I think 
today there's more of an emphasis of the life now in union with eternal life.  And so I think the 
approach is a more positive approach, you know?  And the teaching of religion, I think the kids 
today. 
     I remember as a kid again, as I told you earlier, we studied our religion in french.  And we, 
the, we used to call it the catechism.  And we used to memorize questions and answers, you 
know?  And we might be able to you know, in school on Monday morning whenever the sister 
asked us to you know, to recite our lessons.  And she'd ask us a question and if we could repeat 
the words the way we memorized them, fine, it was great!  [Phone rings]  But the thing is I 
wonder at times you know, if we really understood just you know, what we were reciting back.  
Uh, obviously at times we did.  But I think at times we didn't also.  I think today there is less 
emphasis on memorizing facts, but more on the understanding of what is being taught and 
hopefully living it.  
M:  [Speaking in distance, cannot hear her]
R:  Umhm.  Yeah.
M:  Uh, [unclear]  Uh, I wanted to ask you too about uh, along those same lines, is the family 
relationship to the church  (--)  It sounds like you family for example was very involved with the 
church.  [R:  Umhm]   Is, is there a certain kind of relationship between family and the church 
today?  Especially here in this parish?
R:  Um, I think there is, there is with certain families, you know?  And not necessarily I think I'll 
have to admit, not necessarily just families who are of a french background because they're an 
[unclear] of the years.  You know, even in this parish here even though it's [unclear] there is a lot 
of french, there is still um (--)
SIDE ONE ENDS
SIDE TWO BEGINS
Begins with Reverend in mid-sentence:
R:  Explain it to me very often would say, uh?
M:  They're not sure, yeah.  [Both laugh]  Yeah, no one ever asked me to explain it.  That's how it
never came up.  [R:  Yeah, um]  Now what were you going to say about the family's relationship 
to the church?
R:  Okay.  I still think that they're um, you know, I think for families the church is still important 
and they're still involved in the church.  Um, because I see it here in the parish.  And I saw it in 
the other parish where I was stationed before.  That there are many you know, younger families 
who um, still get involved.  Not only through the kids in school, or in the CCD Program, but will
still get involved in the parish in other, in various activities, various means.  And so uh, I think 
the church is still uh, important to a lot of people, to a lot of families.  
M:  What would be the change thought?  Because it sounds to me like you were here every 
afternoon.  Will you ever see young boys over here helping the sisters, being alter boys?
R:  Umhm.  Yeah.  And we have like for example it might not be the same thing, but on the same 
idea, we have kids.  Like there's one kid who's going to come in in twenty minutes and there's a 
kid who's just uh, in the eight grade who's going to answer the phone from two to five, you 
know?  Uh, that's true he gets a little you know, stipend for doing that, but uh, we have kids you 
know, that answer the phone in the afternoon.  We have other kids that come in at night for a 
couple of hours to answer to phone.  And so they're involved maybe in different ways, but they're
involved still in the, in the uh, in uh (--)  Like the, well two of the kids who are answering the 
phones are also alter boys.  They serve at the alter.  Uh, so I think that there's still some 
involvement on the part of kids, you know?  And we still, we do still have alter boys.  Um, and 
so that is one area.  And uh, the kids from school.  You know, you see them after school you 
know, doing things for the sisters, or for the teachers in school, you know, helping out.  See 
another thing too of course is now, what was different for me was that I was so close.  You know,
I lived so close I didn't have to worry about school buses after school, you know.  You know, 
today many kids you know, they live further away.  They have to take the bus, or they can't stay 
after to help and they have to get home.  Otherwise if they miss their bus they'll have to walk.  
You know, so it's a whole different society in which you live obviously, you know?  But for me 
there was no problem, because I was right here.  I lived right across the street, you know?
M:  And what about the uh, the sort of Sunday visiting?  I don't know, do you drop by and see 
your parishioners, or?
R:  No.  No, not really.  Um, I think again uh, for a couple of reasons.  Um, like this morning I 
was out visiting people bringing communion to uh you know, half a dozen people at home.  But 
I've called them the day before, or the secretary had called them for me and told them, asked 
them if they'd like to receive this morning.  I'd be by between this time and that time.  And from 
that point of view.  The other thing is that uh, it seems to be um, well what's the word I want, not 
as popular just to drop in on people anymore in this day and age, you know?  There seems to be a
tendency even in our society you know, to uh, I don't know if you ever read Dear, Ann Landers 
of Dear Abbey?
M:  My husbands favorite part of the newspaper.  [Laughs]
R:  Uh, one of those anyway.  Recently I forget now, within the last couple of months, there was 
a particular article, a particular question on this.  And this lady was very upset because here 
minister had dropped in on her un, unexpected and you know, found her in her bathrobe or 
something at home.  And she was very you know, modified that he should you know, do that.  
You know, that he felt, she was asking whether or not you know, men of the cloth are exempted 
from this, you know?  Uh, from calling up before hand and to announce their visit and so forth, 
you know?  So I think where, I know I am, I'm more conscious of this today than I was, even 
when I was first ordained twenty-five years ago.  For some reason I don't, I hesitate just to drop 
in on people without first you know, calling up and say you know, gee I'd like to drop by.  Are 
you going to be in, or that kind of stuff, you know?  And so um, from that point of view you 
know?  Uh (--)
M:  Was it an honor in the old days to have a priest for dinner at the home?
R:  Yeah.  I still you know, I still um, and I have to say that not so much here since I've been in 
Lowell, but when I was in Pepperell where I'd been for eleven years when I left there, uh, you 
build up a certain relationship with people.  And uh, I used to go to different parishioners house 
for, for meals, you know?  As a matter of fact I still go back to some of these same people now.  
I'm going back Sunday night to uh, one of the former parishioners in Pepperell to have dinner 
with the family there, you know?
M:  They become your friends?
R:  That's it.  They become friends over the course of the years too, you know?  But it was 
certainly.  And I think it was an honor, and I still think it is an honor today.  But yet again, I think
we have to be realistic that, and I think for the, for the better, the priest is no longer on the 
pedestal the way he was you know, a few years ago.  There's no question about that, you know?  
And we shouldn't be anyway, because we're human beings too.  We're not perfect.  We represent 
Christ.  We do our work, but we're certainly you know, should not be put on a pedestal, because 
we don't belong on a pedestal.  We belong with the people, you know?  And so I think that's 
disappeared.  I remember even when I was a real young kid like you know, five years old and so 
forth.  And uh, as I say I 
live right across the street.  If I saw the pastor coming down the street, very often I'd go the other 
way, because I was afraid.  Because that's before I got too involved with the church and so forth. 
I didn't know him.  I just saw this guy with his black dress walking down the street.  And you 
know, he was scary, you know?  And so uh, but today you know, you don't find that, which is 
good.  I don't want that.  I don't want kids to be afraid of me.  I want them to be able to you 
know, to say hello and to uh, well to feel, to feel free and closer.  And I think consequently um, 
there has been a certain amount of you might say respect that has been lost if you can call it such.
And I think you, not for yourself personally as a human being, but for the priesthood you have to
you know, sort of keep a balance you know?  You don't want people to lose the respect for the 
priesthood, for the office.  And I think that's the danger that can come.  If you get very familiar 
with people, very you know, they could.  Uh, so it's a very ticklish thing you know?  So you have
to try to maintain that uh, you know?
M:  I'd see it too when I teach in colleges from time to time.  [R:  Umhm]  Keep the authority and
you'd bee friends.
R:  Well that's it you know?  Right.  And it's uh, it's difficult.  It's difficult to do.  It's difficult.  
And you got to remember though, you know, that even in those days I remember though, 
although I must say though, that uh, even though we were very much involved in the church and 
so forth, and my family, uh we really you know, the priest only came a few times to my house as 
such, you know, on the social basis you might say.  But I know in some families that the priest 
will go very often like on a Sunday evening.  Play cards, or whatever the case may be, you 
know?  And so they still have that uh, that balance you might say, that respect, you know, 
between the two.
M:  Yeah.  And then the other thing Father I noticed as I'm going into people's homes and 
interviewing, I noticed a lot of religious pictures, statues and metals.  [R:  Umhm]  It strikes me 
that I see many more here than in other parts of the country.  I wondered if you had any thoughts 
on that?
R:  Umhm.  Well I, I, I think it's a fact.  But I think, I don't know if it's just the french, or uh, if 
it's the European background, but they seem to be very much you know, um, still hold on to 
traditions of the past as far as you know, metals and statues and crucifixes and so forth.  Um, I 
don't know if you're (--)  I know a few weeks ago I went to the North End in Boston for uh, with 
some friends, priest friends, for dinner one Sunday night.  And it happened to be the Festival you
know, of Our Blessed Mother.  And they were carrying the statues around the streets you know, 
and that whole business, you know?  And I went into a church there.  The church were opened.  
The church was opened.  I went there uh, Saint Leonard's Church.  Well I was amazed in this day
and age that there should be so many statues still in the church.  And picture you know.  All the 
ceiling, all the ceilings were painted with religious pictures.  And it blew my mind!  I just really 
never expected anything quite like that in this day and age.  So I mean um, you know, there is 
(--)  And yet you know, that's the(--)  Now the priest that I was with um, had studied in Rome 
and he was familiar with the background.  And he said, well that's part of their tradition he says.  
You know that's, for them that's very important, you know.  And um, so I, I suppose the same 
thing you know, with these here.  They uh, they you know, they feel attached to you know, these 
things you know, to these statues.  And I think we have to be careful as you know, priest and as 
leaders in trying to inculcate you know, a sense of liturgy in the people.  That we can maintain 
some of the old, some of the past, not destroy it, and yet bring them along so that they do not 
become so taken up with these externals that this becomes their religion.  Because this is not.  
These are symbols of things.  They're not, they cannot be the thing.  Not the religion.
M:  It's just my impression that on a local level these do become their religion at times.
R:  Umhm.  Yeah.  And I think that, if that's the case then I think you know, we as leaders have 
missed the, the boat along the way and not you know, being able to bring them along to a point 
beyond that.  Where they can still have these things if they, if they feel that, but that these do not 
become you know, an in onto themselves, because they're not.  They're symbols.  They're 
representation.  They're helps.  All statues and picture and so forth, are suppose to be helps for 
people to lift their minds to God.  To worship God.  But when they become objects onto 
themselves, it becomes a little bit um, you might say, even a violation of the first commandment. 
We make of Gods these particular objects and they're not suppose to be.  They're suppose to be 
helps to, you know, help us pray and lift up our minds to God, you know?
M:  Do you explicitly address that in church?
R:  Absolutely.  Oh yeah, absolutely.  I remember especially when the you know, back in counsel
too, back you know, '63, '64, when those changes started coming in I think we had to do a lot of 
this in the, in the pulpit, you know.  To try to you know, teach people.  And especially when we 
started you know, taking away some of those statues from the churches.  And turning the alter 
around.  And there was a lot of [Catechesis?] that had to be done at that time.  And uh, you know,
I think periodically it's still important when the situation arises to be able to you know, address 
these matters.  Absolutely.
M:  Why do people put (--)  The other thing I noticed, outside the houses, many Madonnas I've 
seen in the yards.  
R:  Well I, I want to believe that it's because of the, it's a sign of respect of their love for the 
Blessed Mother and for the Madonna.  And therefore they want to express outwardly what they 
feel inwardly.  I hope that's the real thing.  It's not just a show, you know, for, for the sake of you 
know, showing off.  I hope that it's a real representation of their true feeling.  And so I think that's
all it is.  It's a, you know, it's a , it's a manifestation of their faith.  And at the same time you 
know, these things, these statues can be uh, a help to people.  For example if I'm driving by a 
street and I see a statue of a Madonna, well that should make me at least for a moment you know,
think of the Blessed Mother and think of things like that, you know?  For example, in church 
here (--)
M:  Oh, so it, for the people it's a portrayal of their own identity too?
R:  Yeah.  I think so.
M:  A public display.
R:  Sure, I think so.  I think so.  Yeah, yeah.  We have a, you know in our church doors are very, 
very open.  Glass, a lot of glass.  And so what we've done during Lent, we had put a spotlight on 
the crucifix inside the church and it would stay lit for a few hours.  And so as people were 
driving by they would see inside the church and see the crucifix, you know?  And I, a lot of 
people commented on it.  That they liked it, you know.  So we're looking into the possibility now
of establishing some kind of a permanent fixture on the inside of the church, on the timer that 
would go on for a few hours in the evening.  Like early part of the evening when it's dark, so that
if people drive by and they, they happen to look inside the church, they will see the cross lit up 
inside.  A cross with the light on it.  And it will remind them, you know?  It will give them a 
thought to think about Christ, or think about God and so forth, you know?  And so I hope that 
you know, with statues, or outside shrines, or grottos that that's the whole thing too, you know?  
     Um, I talked a few minutes ago about the thing in um, you know, the North End the other 
night.  Uh (--)
M:  I wish I had seen that actually, but I just couldn't.  
R:  Yeah.  I had never seen it before in my whole life, you know?  And so I had been to the North
End, but I had never seen this festival.  And again, and I certainly don't want to judge anybody, 
but you wonder you know?  It's a, it's an honor, it's a festival in honor of our Blessed Mother 
Mary, but you wonder how much of it is a real religious significance and how much of it is of a 
carnival nature, you know?  I don't know.  And again, because there are all kind of vendors all 
along the road, you know, selling all kind of things, you know?  And in addition to that, you 
know, they have like you know, bands in the parade carrying the statue.  And then you know, two
band were one in back of each other and each playing a different tune, you know?  Then they 
were carrying the statue and in back there was another band playing "Give My Regards To 
Broadway."  You know?  And so it was a little bit of a hogpog of all kinds of stuff.  And, and all 
of this, I said to myself now I, and this was on a Sunday night, I asked myself, as a matter of fact 
I said to the priest, one of the priest who was with me, I said, I wonder how many people went to
church today though, you know?  And so I don't know.  You know, again, you don't want to judge
anybody.
M:  Don't people walk barefoot also?
R:  I didn't notice.  I didn't see anybody.  But maybe they do.  I didn't, you know, it was so 
crowded I (--)
M:  I probably have this mixed up with the Festival of Saint Anthony in New York, where they 
bring the statue to [few words unclear].
R:  It could be.  As a matter of fact I think it's this coming weekend at the North End they're 
having the Festival of Saint Anthony.  And uh, they may you know, I don't know.  But uh, it was 
nice to see.  I enjoyed it.  But I'm just wondering you know, how much of it is of a religious 
nature and how much of it is of a carnival type nature, you know?  And there's, there's room for a
little bit of both you know, as long there's a, it's well balanced.
M:  Do you have any, anything along those lines here?
R:  No.  No.  I think in most local parishes you know, like well not quite the same.  In May, like 
on May first, to mark the opening of the Month of Mary, the month of May, we did have a 
special uh, we have a guest speaker, an Oblate Priest at church who gave a special talk on, on 
Mary and who showed slides of a living rosary you might say.  Slides of the rosary and so forth.  
And people pray the rosary.  And then we had a candlelight procession from the church to the uh,
convent yard where there's an outside statue of the Blessed Mother, where we had the crowing of
the Blessed Mother.  But that's an unusual thing.  It doesn't happen you know, on a regular basis. 
And in most parishes I think that any of these external like you know, processions and so forth 
are uh, for the most part I think uh, have disappeared.  You know, there might be an occasional 
one, but not on a regular basis, you know?
M:  Why?
R:  Uh, I think maybe uh, part of the um (--)  One, I think the reason is that maybe there's more 
emphasis I think today on you know, God himself, or you know, the Mass and the Eucharist and 
so forth, more than on these externals, you know?  I think in the past we had more uh (--)  And I 
think one reason was because we were not allowed to have evening masses, and so we could 
only have morning masses.  So if you wanted to do something special in the evening it had to be 
something like a procession, or something you know, to do with uh, uh, the Blesses Mother, or 
something like that.  But today where we can have evening masses and certainly in the Catholic 
religion there is you know, the mass is the prayer "par excellence".  And therefore it uh, I think 
there is more emphasis today you know, on the Eucharist itself and on Mass, and on Christ 
himself.   Not that these things are bad, but that they're, as long as they're kept in proper 
perspective huh.
M:  And here at the church do you have a particular reverence for Mary?  Is that why you had 
that ceremony specifically?
R:  Well yes, because (--)  Well not because where's it's peculiar or particular to here, it's just that 
uh, at the uh, the meeting of the parish Liturgical Commission the previous month one of the 
members had brought up the idea, well we could do something special for Mary to mark our 
devotion as a parish during this month of May.  And so we had agreed to uh, this particular plan.
M:  Is that Mary the Blessed Mother's month, May?
R:  Yes, uh huh.  Now May is the month dedicated to our Blessed Mother.  And October is the 
month dedicated to the Rosary of Our Blessed Mother.  So those are the two months usually that 
have Mary and you know, devotions.  Now I don't know what we're going to do yet for October.  
We will do something special at some point, uh, because this is the [Marion?] year you know, set 
aside by, by uh, Pope John Paul.  From beginning last June till next August he has set aside this 
year as a special year of devotion to Mary, or Marion year.  And so that we will do something uh,
you know, special during October and maybe even next May.  But what that will be I don't know 
yet.  We haven't worked out any you know, agreements yet, or any decisions.
M:  Do you do anything for Saint Louis?  
R:  Not really, no.  Nothing special.  There was a feast day of Saint Louis this week as a matter of
fact.  The twenty-fifth was the feast of Saint Louis.  And we had mass in the morning and so 
forth.  But no, nothing real uh, you know?  Uh, it's (--)  I don't know, I don't know if, I don't 
know if ever anything was done.  At least I can't remember.  Um, um, by way of being a Patron 
Saint um, whether or not anything you know will be done in the future, I don't know.  It's a 
thought.  But um, it's not the best time of the year you know, to have anything special like that 
because there's so many people away on vacations and so forth, you know?  That uh, I don't 
know.  But (--)
M:  What does Patron Saint mean Father?
R:  Okay.  Patron Saint is merely the person, or you know, the person after whom a particular 
church, or parish, or institution is named.  And we you know, supposedly uh, uh, he is our 
protector and we pray to him.  And also like when we say mass, like on the Sundays and so forth,
in the Eucharistic prayer we uh, mention his name as, in a you know, special reverence you 
might say.  Umhm.
M:  So he would have a special relationship to your church?
R:  Umhm, right.  Umhm.  Right, like Saint Joseph would you know, have.  And Saint, Saint 
Theresa's in Dracut, or whatever.  And our's is Saint Louis.  Umhm.
M:  And how is it that this church chose Saint Louis and someone else chooses Saint Michael's?
R:  I think I, I'm pretty sure, now I can't (--)  That the names are assigned by the Archdiocese, by 
the, by the officials themselves, you know?  Yeah, uh huh.  I don't think we choose.
M:  And on, just on back to processionals for just one second, [R:  Umhm] do you have 
processionals for First Communions or Confirmations?
R:  No processionals as such.  The kids do process into church, you know?  Like they'll gather 
either at the entrance of the church if the, if the weather is permitting, or in the back part of the 
church.  And walk in procession.  You know, down the main, down the aisle into their places, you
know?  That kind of procession we do.  But nothing uh (--)
M:  For both First Communion and Confirmation?
R:  Umhm.  Right.  Umhm.  Yup.  Umhm.  Yeah.
M:  Okay.  All right.  Because the reason I had asked you before about the statues is sometimes it
seems that there's a kind of uh, people localize their religion.  And so I know I've heard stories in 
Latin America where people had many superstitions, and the church came in, and they kind of 
combined the two.  [R:  umhm]  And I wondered if it was possible to talk about what happens 
here in this parish in terms of localizing [unclear].
R:  I don't think there's anything special.  No, I really don't.  I know what you're saying about you
know, Latin America and so forth. Uh, I really don't think there's anything similar to that that 
exist here in the you know, states.  And uh, I think here in this parish as well as I think in most 
parishes at least here in the states, or even in the Archdiocese that there is a, as I said earlier, 
there is a trend you know, away from though emphasis on you know, externals such as statues, 
etc, and more emphasis on you know, matters of uh, you know, of uh Eucharistic nature and so 
forth.  Umhm.
M:  I also wanted to ask you about the uh, cemeteries.  Do, do (--)  I have a particular interest in 
cemeteries.  Do most of the people from your parish choose to be buried in a particular 
cemetery?
R:  Most of our people from here are buried at Saint Joseph's Cemetery in Lowell, because it's 
the Saint Jo(--)
M:  In Lowell?
R:  Well Chelmsford actually.
M:  Oh, okay.  
R:  In Chelmsford but (--)  That's my two o'clock appointment.  I wasn't sure how long I'd (--)
M:  Oh, all right. [Unclear]
R:  It's all right.  I can go for a couple of more minutes.  Okay  
M:  All right.  Okay.
R:  Um, see Saint (--)  Again, Saint Joseph's Cemetery was established and I don't know when, 
but many years ago for the french speaking people of the city of Lowell primarily, see.  And 
therefore most of the people today who are from french parishes throughout the city, [unclear] 
and there are five french parishes in the city, all of them are buried at Saint Joseph's.
M:  Saint Joseph's?  
R:  Right, uh huh.
M:  Okay.
R:  While people who are from, the catholic people who are from you know, the other parishes 
all go to uh, Saint uh, Saint Patrick's Cemetery.  
M:  Okay.  And is there any special kind of headstone that the french community, [R:  no] or 
special kind of religious symbols that they tend to use on their headstones?
R:  No, not to my knowledge.  Nothing special I know.  It uh, I think the restriction you know, 
most cemeteries have restrictions as to what you can put up, or where you can put (--)  You know
some place it's only a flat stone, other places it's a headstone of such a height and that kind of 
stuff.  But I don't think of any.  No, I don't know of any special or particular you know, 
symbolism.
M:  Is one of the churches in charge of Saint Joseph's?
R:  Umhm.  Well no.  Saint Joseph's is an independent cemetery.  In other words it's not attached 
to any particular church.  Uh, the Oblate Fathers though, are the ones who are in charge of the 
cemetary.  
M:  Okay.  And then I'll just ask you one last question?
R:  How had Lowell changed since you were here as a boy, and now back again?  I mean there's 
been some pretty dramatic changes.
M:  Well there's been some, a lot of changes in Lowell.  Um, of course Lowell is always a very 
ethnic city, you know?  I remember as a kid you know, we had the different you know, the french
over here and Little Canada across the bridge, and then we had the Greeks and so forth you 
know?  And so we grew up with this mentality of you know, of a mixture of different kinds of 
people. Um, I remember, and then I think for a number of years there, I don't know exactly when,
but I would say in the, in the sixties and maybe seventies and so forth, Lowell took a, a turn for 
the worse you might say really.  You know, the city really went down in many ways, you know, 
once the mills started moving away.  And uh, some people moving with the mills, etc.  And um, 
but obviously, and I think we all agree that in the last say ten years or so, Lowell has certainly 
made a lot of progress and is coming back as a city. There are still areas that certainly need to be 
worked on.  And like uh, I was driving to the cemetary last week and you know, you drive 
through certain areas of the city and it really looked bad.  I mean they really need to be picked up
and you know, get something done.  And I, I think I have to say that this, this neighborhood here 
certainly is uh, not as nice looking as when I was a kid growing up.  And um, I don't, I think, I 
don't know for sure, but I think a lot of(--)  Well part of it is due to uh, you know, people who 
own these establishments, these buildings, and don't live in them and are away.  You know, slum 
lords, and uh, as long as they got the money that's all they want.  And they don't take care of 
them.  They don't bring them up and so forth, take care of them properly.  But (--)
M:  What would you see as the sort of bad sections of Lowell?
R:  Oh well I think um, I think right down the street here.  You know, on West Sixth Street right 
here I think.  That whole corner there.  You know, part of uh, Lilley Avenue, corner of Ennell 
Street and West Sixth Street there, I think that needs a lot of improvement, you know?  That's one
area.  Uh, the Acre, a section of the Acre in back of Saint Patrick's Church there as I drive by 
there.  Um, further up on um, on Gorham Street, you know, and so forth, I think there's a lot of 
area there that needs to be, that have to be you know, taken care of.
M:  And has Centraville itself changed ethnically very much?
R:  Oh I think so.  I think so.  Although the parish here I have not noticed any you know, great 
change in the ethnic makeup of the parish, but I think in the area I think you know, you might 
think of the whole city I mean you know, with the influx of you know, Asian people.  You know, 
they're coming from you know, the uh, Cambodia and Puerto Rico and so forth.  I mean certainly
you know there, there are more people living in the whole city of Lowell and um, we have one 
uh, we have a few Asians that belong to the church here.  [M:  Asians?]  Yeah, not many, but we 
have one young man.  I shouldn't say he's a young man, he's in his thirties, who is um, is um, 
Vietnamese and uh, he speaks, speaks french fluently.  And so he's one of our [lectors] at church, 
you know.  And he's only read twice.  He's just starting.  And last Sunday was the first time that I 
was here when he read.  And people loved him.  After mass it was great.  There was no (--)
M:  At the french service?
R:  Yeah, to hear the comments of the people.  You know, who was that?  You know, where does 
he come from, and so forth.  You know, he reads so well and so beautifully, etc, you know?  So it
was good, you know?
M:  Do you have any Hispanics?
R:  Um, no.  Not, not that belong to the parish, you know?  I think any of them that would live in 
the area would go to uh, maybe back to where there was a spanish mass, you know?  Like you 
know, there are three places in Lowell that have Spanish mass.  Immaculate Conception in 
Lowell, Sacred Heart Parish, and um, oh, there's the Spanish Center up on Gorham Street that 
have a french, I mean excuse me, Spanish masses for these people.
M:  Oh, okay.  [R: Umhm]  And this is my, I promise my very last question.  [R:  Umhm]  Do 
you have other ethnic groups that come to your church?
R:  No.  No.
M:  It's French, some Vietnamese, [R:  umhm] what else?
R:  The others are just uh, those that don't speak french are english speaking, that's all.
M:  So would you have Polish people, or Irish people that would be parishioners?
R:  Uh, there are a few you know, Polish people who actually don't belong here, they belong to 
uh, I know, I don't know where they officially belong.  Whether they belong to Saint Michael's, 
or for the Polish Church, but they live close by.  So very often they'll come to mass here, but 
they're not officially, they don't you know, they have not registered as parishioners here.  
M:  So most of your parishioners are, are still French? 
R:  Mostly, or at least the French background if they're not french speaking, you know?  [M:  
Okay]  Or the wife was French you know, and has married a non-French, or her family was 
french speaking and that married, she's married someone who's not French, but (--)  And they 
may not speak any french, but they still have that uh, connection you might say, you know?  
Yeah.  
M:  Okay, thank you Father.
R:  Okay.
end of tape