"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr33
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas,
January or February 1942
AFS 6433A
Cut A1
Co-ed: Mr. Roosevelt, I'm a co-ed here at the University of Texas. I'm from Mitchell County, way out
in West Texas. I'd just like to tell you how I feel about this war and how a lot of other girls feel. Last
summer and last fall, the war was a thing far way from me. All I thought about was having dates and
having fun. I read about it in the papers and it was romantic. I thought I envied the girls who had
boyfriends in the air corps, boys who'd go away to war. Now, it's very near to me Mr. Roosevelt. It's
real. Someone I care a lot for is going away to war. I don't even know where he is. But now I know
I have a definite part in this war. I don't know what that part is, but I'm willing to try to fit in. And I
want you to know that we're all looking to you. We have put ever so much faith in you. And I want
you bring us through and have a good world for our boys to come back to. Bill, if he ever comes
back, I want us to be like it was before he left.
Cut A2
Co-ed: Mr. Roosevelt, I'm a co-ed here at the University. I'm from Mitchell County, way out in West
Texas. I'd just like to tell you how I feel about this war. And I guess a lot of other girls feel the same
way. Last summer and last fall the war was a thing far away from me. We read about it and it was
romantic. I envied girls who had boyfriends in the air corps. Who had boyfriends who'd go away to
war. But now Mr. Roosevelt it has struck very near to me. War is real. Someone I care a lot for has
gone away. I don't even know where he is. He's made a great sacrifice. And now I know I'm a part of it
all and I'm going to have to make sacrifices too. Somewhere I fit in. What my part is I don't know, but
I'm willing to do anything I can. And I just want you to know that we're all looking to you with ever so
much faith. We want you to bring us through and help us to make this a better world for our boys to
come back to. Bill and all the rest