"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr45
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942
AFS 6445B:
Unidentified Man: You say when.
Carlos Ronstadt: I'm glad to have this chance, Mr. President to talk to you. I'm Carlos Ronstadt. I'm
born Tucson, Arizona, went to the University of Arizona, and have been in the livestock business all
my life and was raised in it. My father was raised in it before me. I'm on the same ranch that he lived
on, and I raised my family on it. My boy's gone to school there. [disc become unintelligible]
I was supposed to be a rugged individualist, but in reality they're not. They're most cooperative with
each other and in fact the cattle industry, or rather the livestock industry in the United States is I
think the most highly organized of any of the agricultural groups. They start from their counties
and they go right up to the national group, and as a result they achieve things that are pretty
near impossible. The industry is in a position today to go forward. It's not in an extremely strong
financial position, but it is in an extremely strong range position if you get what I mean. They serve
their ranges, they have followed the advice of the administration over the last ten years, [disc
skips] they've talked with their conservation programs, and they have allowed their [disc skips] self
sufficient and very, very strong. And they are in an excellent position to date to supply the meat [disc
skips] beef that our armed forces and civilian population needs, and in fact the seed for the entire
meat industry for the entire [disc skips].
Now there's one thing that comes to my mind very, very forcibly. I don't think the American [disc
skips] that we're in a war. I don't thing they have that real war effort [disc skips] by the number of
automobiles you see. It came to them very suddenly, but it didn't come home to them for some
reason or other. They don't think the Japs can harm us, Germans can harm us, when in fact they're
harming us considerably. And until something gets done to bring it home to them I don't believe that
they're going to put forth their maximum effort in this war.
Unidentified Man: That's it. ???. Here's a word to Bill Robson [disc skips] found a little piece of the wax
on here that I hated to waste Bill, so I'm [disc skips] a message to you. First of all these characters
that you hear in this assemblage of records, they're all authentic, unrehearsed, and I believe give
somewhat of a cross-section of what we're thinking and feeling out here in Tucson. They seem to
have a singleness of intent, especially expressed by Mr. Tom Ritchie. I hope this fills the bill and so
long.