Library of Congress
1939 Southern Recording Trip Report http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.tr0001
1939 Southern Recording Trip Report
1
Report of J. A. Lomax 1939 So. Rec. Trip Spring
From February 8,1939 until June i4,1939,I made a ballad-collecting criss-cross trip of
6502 miles through Texas,Louisiana,Mississippi,Alabama,Florida,Georgia,South Carolina ,
and Virginia and on into Washington,D. C. During this three and a half months,with
the assistance of Mrs. Ruby Terrill Lomax,I recorded on one hundred and forty-two
discs the music of more than six hundred folk tunes. Some were new to us, though
in many instances we re-recorded folk songs sung in a different manner,or slightly
different musically from already known material. In visiting the homes,schools and
churches of the Southern folk and recording their singing in their own locale, where the
singers felt at home, we carried out the theory of the Folk Song Archive of the Library of
Congress,namely,that folk singers render their music more naturally in the easy sociability
of their own homes,churches and schools. own people.
In field recording of folk songs much time is saved and work is made easier and
pleasanter,both for performers and operators, if two people work together. Mrs. Lomax
looked after the grouping and arranging of the singers and wrote down as much of the text
as she could catch from the singing,while I operated the machine.
In Texas among the people of Spanish origin , living in and a round Houston,Kingsville
and Brownsville on the Rio Grande River,we recorded several c o rridas,narrative Spanish
ballads recounting the virtues of local desperadoes. Other interesting songs of this type
which we recorded tell of the raid of United States Colored Negro Army troops on the city
of Brownsville during a riot,the first train robbery in Southwest Texas by Mexican bandits,
2 the experiences of migratory Mexican cotton pickers. In addition,we made records of
Library of Congress
1939 Southern Recording Trip Report http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.tr0001
a group of tuneful Mexican lullabies,the music of some running back to songs current in
Spain four hundred years ago.
At Falfurrias in Southwest Texas we found Frank Goodwyn who for many years roamed
the mesquite covered region of the King Ranch country. He sang cowboy songs in the
true ranch manner,among the tunes a famous Mexican cowboy song of the range and trail
entitled,in English translation, The Purple Bull. The music of another of the same type, The
Wet Buzzard, we were unable to secure. As in the case of other sections of the country,we
found a blind ballad-singer and guitarist in Brownsville the most valuable single source of
song material. Folk songs and folk singing throughout the ages have been the refuge,the
solace,the support of musical blind persons.
In the Bandera Mountains, northwest of San Antonio,Texas, descendants of early
Texans,yet living shut-in lives,increaded the Archive's store of cowboy songs and of
frontier fiddle tunes with singing accompaniments. Included also are several square dance
breakdowns where the fiddler,as he plays, chants the directions for the dance in vivid and
sometimes humorous rhymed couplets:
“Swing one,swing all eight, Swing 'em on the corner like you swinging on the gate Like you
swinging on the gate.”
“Swing 'em in summer,and swing 'em in the fall; Take a chaw terbaccer and balance all.”
Sister Joan of Arc,a member of the faculty of Our Lady of the Lake College in San
Antonio,introduced us to a Mexican tenant family near Sugarland, Texas. In this home
one Sunday morning we recorded the singing interludes of a 3 religious Mexican folk
play, The Good Thief, as well as some family songs preserved by the musically gifted
group,consisting of the father,the mother and ten children.
From a Negro,Henry Truvillion,who lives in the Sabine River swamps between Texas and
Louisiana,a former river rou s tabout,section hand and migratory worker,now the leader
Library of Congress
1939 Southern Recording Trip Report http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.tr0001
of a work gang that alternately lays down and tears up a railroad for timber cutters,we
secured a store of valuable work songs. These are the chanted directions that Truvillion,as
leader of the gang, intones,guiding the men into rhythmic efforts , and at the same time
entertaining them with the play of his fancy as he constantly rephrases the words of his
chants. Among his songs we at last found and recorded a descriptive ballad of the loading
of a Mississippi River steamboat.
At Livingston,Alabama,Mrs.Ruby Pickens Tartt again made available to us her Negro
friends,Doc Reed and Vera Hall,and many other singers who live near the provincial
churches in that section of the state.
In making the long journey we repeated our visits to Negro convict road gangs and
penitentiaries in Texas,Mississippi,Florida and South Carolina. The constantly shifting
penitentiary population makes new folk song material available among such groups. In the
solitude and loneliness of confinement the Negro recalls the songs that he learned as a
child,and readily learns others from his prison associates as they work together.
We also stopped for the third or fourth time at Murrell's Inlet, South Carolina, where
Mrs. Genevieve Chandler made possible the recording of additional songs of the unique
South Carolina Coast Negro's. Here also 4 Mrs. Emma Floyd sang for us more of the
songs that she had learned as a child in the mountains of North Carolina. The trip
yielded,moreover, an enlarged group of Negro play party tunes,and Negro nursery
tunes,some examples of jazz now becoming current in the religious services among
both the whites and the Negroes. In Toccoa Falls,Georgia, throught the offices of Ben
Robertson of Clemson,South Carolina, we attended nad made records a a tri-state
convention of white religious singers. Twenty thousand people were reported to be
present. The jazz motif was peominent in all the songs that seemed most popular.