Library of Congress
[Letter from Adrian J. Dornbush with letter to John A. Lomax on verso] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.cor033
[Letter from Adrian J. Dornbush with letter to John A.
Lomax on verso]
REGISTERED HEREFORDS
REGISTERED & PURE BRED RAMBOUILLETS
BROOME RANCH CO., INC. LOMA VISTA RANCH BROOME, TEXAS
P. O. BOX 28 SAN ANGELO, TEXAS
Mr. Adrian J. Dornbush April 27, 1939 1619 30th St. N.W. Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Dornbush:
I have received your airmail letter, stating that you have never heard from me, and telling
me that it will be impossible for expenses to be paid for more than four of our Cowboy
organization.
In the first place, I do not understand why you did not hear from me, for I wrote you a long
and uninteresting letter — and mailed it April 10th. In this aforementioned epistulary effort
I rambled on at some length about the history of our Cowboy aggregation, the source
of our numbers, and even went so far as to enclose a couple of pictures showing the
aggregation before they began to acquire a middle-aged spread. So perhaps it is just
as well that it went wrong in the mail. Maybe I didn't put enough postage on it, and Mr.
Farley's cohorts are holding it up there. I know that I did not add the “N.W.” to the Street
address; so perchance it went South East.
But all that is neither here nor there now, for under the set-up you have, it will be
impossible for the San Angelo Cowboys to be with you. We have a rule of long standing
Library of Congress
[Letter from Adrian J. Dornbush with letter to John A. Lomax on verso] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.cor033
and one that we never deviate from. It is not an original one, for I believe that the Three
Musketeers used it to advantage; but we never sing, play, cavort, or harrass the public
anywhere unless the entire 7 are on tap.
We appreciate the honor of being considered, and want to thank you, as well as our friend
John Lomax,—who in a weak and probably misguided moment, recommended us to you.
I hope that if in some future time we can be of any service, that you will not hesitate to call
on me.
I know you will have a highly enjoyable program in June, and wish you every success.
Very truly yours, H.W. BROOME
(over)
Mr. John Lomax:
The opposite side is a copy of a letter I have just written to Mr. Dornbush. I heard from
him some weeks ago, and in reply to his queries, wrote him on April 10th. Evidently he did
not get the letter for he has just written me saying that he had heard nothing. However he
stated further that they were short on money and could only pay the railroad fare for four.
Any others would have to pay their own, and all would have to handle their expenses to,
from, and at Washington.
There was nothing I could do but refuse; since with the exception of two of us the boys
are not able to finance themselves. Our going would also necessitate several taking
their vacation periods at a time when their respective and respected employers seem
constitutionally opposed to their doing so; which also entered into the matter. But the main
thing, of course, is that we will not perform anywhere unless the entire bunch are on hand.
We have had to change our singer, since the one we had originally and when you were
here, is out of town practically all the time, and he never could sing worth a damn, in the
Library of Congress
[Letter from Adrian J. Dornbush with letter to John A. Lomax on verso] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afcss39.cor033
first place. We are just breaking in the new boy, who has a marvelous voice, but doesn't
know enough of the numbers to be of any help to you in your recording. We are going to
keep working this Summer, and by next Fall will probably have a group of numbers that
will fit in with your work.
Sorry we will not see you in Washington, but let me tell you again how much I appreciate
your thinking of us, and recommending us so highly.
Harold H. W. BROOME