Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew,
Arkansas (Transcription)
Begin M37 B(5)
F: Uh-huh.
S: When we come here in the early day, I ain't kidding you I tell you there was I tell you
there was millions of flies here. And during the Civil War I used to tell and old man <gap>,
and he said the flies was so bad in them days, that they'd just like a swarm of bees.
Following that chuck wagon.
F: Um.
S: You ought to hear him tell that.
F: Chuck Wagon?
S: Yeah, the cook wagon - where they cooked you know. The
Subject #5---Page 15
chuck wagon they called it.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
F: Would you drive stock?
S: Huh?
F: Would you drive stock? <And?> have a chuck wagon?
S: You don't think
F: Or would that be in the lumber logs?
S: No, they'd have a wagon, a covered wagon, you know, a big covered wagon, they
would have four head of cattle or mules or something a-pulling it. They'd pull it you know
and cook and thats where the soldiers got all their food. You know from the chuck wagon.
F: Uh-huh.
S: And this old boy he was a cook on a chuck wagon, he said he was drafted into the
Army when he was 14 years old. And he made a cook. And you ought to hear him tell
about that Civil War. I used to love to hear old people tell about it. One old girl here by the
name of <unintelligible text>, and she said that she was married and had a family when
the war broke out. They had three little girls and her husband drafted in there. And if they
- if they bothered them or caused them a lot of trouble the government furnished someone
to guard them they wouldn't let their husbands come back. They'd be <gap>. And she said
that during the war - why she had one little girl starved to death. She said you couldn't
hardly get food, and when over - that they got the hungry you know
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
Subject #5---Page 16
why she couldn't get food to bring her back up, and she died. And she said after the war
and this is one I used to get the biggest laugh out of in there, she said they was short
of food and they short of covers and beds and everything like that you know <gap> and
she said if a woman come to stay all night with them, why her husband would get over
behind, and she'd get in the middle and the woman in front. All three in the same bed. I got
the biggest laugh out of that. And she said if it was a man they just reversed it. <gap>. I
really laughed when she told that. And she said the next spring after <hat?> war had over
with, said they'd just eat anything they could get as quick, as green stuff come up they'd
commence picking and salad you know and poke salad or anything else and said they'd
begin to eat out but when the little green things about like that she said boy it was rough
a-going. And I'll bet it was too. And if it hadn't of been for lots of wild game in them days -
there was lots of deer and everything in them days, and men would go out you know and
kill them. If it wadn't of been for that they'd been lots of people starved to death.
F: Yeah.
S: And I had another man say to me I kept him three years he was a blind man, and he
was just a boy nine years old when the war broke out. And he said he had one
Subject #5---Page 17
of the sweetest step-mothers that ever walked. And he said that him and her got out and
they farmed, and they had a horse and a cow, said they made three hundred bushels
of corn. And they had this corn in a big crib, and they said along come a bunch of
soldiers, and they took the horse, killed the cow, and skinned her cut and went down and
demanded her to get dinner for them, and said she cooked everything she had on the
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
place - meat and everything, and when they got one they just went outside and set the
house on fire and she run in and got a featherbed and throwed it out and one of the damn
soldiers throwed it back in and she run in and got it again and and he throwed it back and
the next time one of the soldiers said you son of a bitch you throw that back in he said I'll
kill you. And that all they say. They had a pile of lumber out there don't know why they
didn't set that on fire they was gonna build some more houses and said she took it, and
cut a forked pole you know like that and they dug hole and set it in the ground then turned
another pole down the popler and left this lumber up like this and then put two boards like
that across it and that was the house they lived in. And he said the way they slept they
took and got leaves and made a big bed of leaves in there and they'd take this old feather
bed that she saved for a cover. And he said that she turned them into the government
Subject #5--- Page 18
about it, and <gap> They said one day he was at the house and them soldiers come along
and shot him. Oh them was rough days, boy.
F: You mentioned something that I'm interested in too,
S: What's that?
F: A lot of people will be I know you've helped <Leon?> over here, you come in to build
part of his house? There's one thing about the Ozarks, like the old settlers built their own
houses, and so do the new people don't they.
S: Yeah, well I'll tell you what. When I come to this country there was <gap> of homestead
land here. Say a boy and a girl get married, and they go out here and take them up a
piece of land, and everybody in this world would help them build 'em a house. Part of them
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
would lay up the logs, and part of the would make the homemade shingles, and part of
them do one thing and then another. And then when they'd get it all done, they'd have
what they called a shindig. They'd have a dance you know and have a big time, and then if
he was an average boy he'd go over here and maybe some guy had a big crib of corn and
say, <unintelligible text> I wanna borrow ten or fifteen bushel corn he liked and make him
a crop. And that all he needed for bread, and maybe to give his horse here or two. And in
the Fall he'd pay it back. See. And that's the way they started out in life
Subject #5---Page 19
And people had a love for one another in this country. If somebody got sick, people would
go in and set up with the sick. And if somebody died, it wouldn't make any difference how
busy you was or how far behind you was you laid everything down part of them went and
set up with the corpse, part of them went and made coffer, part of them went and dug
a grave. And everything was free, gratis. No charge whatever. The only cost there'd be
would be maybe buy some cloth to line the casket and maybe a handle and thats it. The
rest of its all free. And when the Spanish flu went through here, in 1918, along there. They
even took the ceilings out of their houses and give them to one another to make caskets
out of.
Now that's the truth. Boy I went through it. Me and my dad we're we's bachelors then,
lived in that old house, right out there. And Daddy setting there one night and you'd get
on these old party telephone lines, we had them all through here in them days, and you
never heared such crying and begging and pleading. Oh somebody come mother's dead,
daddy's dead or brother and mother's dead you know and they'd lay there for weeks.
F: Did you have doctors?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
S: Huh?
F: Were there some doctors in Pettigrew that would come out?
S: Yeah, but gee whiz, there was so many sick people then
Subject #5---Page 30
rode day and night old <unintelligible text> died over there at Oark, I bet that old boy slept
more in the saddle then he did anywhere else. Had a good horse you know, there because
he'd got it. The horse'd take him back home, he wouldn't any more get back home than
be on the rode again. And by gosh when Daddy said now listen we can't set there on our
cans and listen at people beg like that and knowing they're a dying and all these things, he
said we've got to help them. Now he said we won't go in the house but we'll go take care
of the stock, cut their wood, gather up their eggs and milk the cow, and all them things,
and put it at the door where they can get it. Now what killed a lot of people they just like
me, they have this stock, and when they get to feeling a little bit better, they get out and try
to take care of it, and take pheumonia. And when they did, it was just death. Right down
there just above where you live there's a family name of <unintelligible text>, there was
nine of them, when they got done there was one. There wadn't nothing to hear four and
five dying in a family. And Daddy says we just can't set here and I said well Daddy if we
go we might catch it. He said it don't make no difference, we do and we die - we got to go
anyway. And you know we went every day and stayed all day long, and we took asafetide
you know what asafetide is
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
Subject #5---Page 21
F: What is that?
S: Stinkingest damn thing in the world. And we'd eat garlic, that's another one. Boy you
know you grow a smelly breath, running around eating garlic you know, boy its got an
odor. And we'd take black <gap> - and Vicks salve and stuff like that and we doctored all
the time just like we had it. And we went every day and we never did take it. We helped
- right here in our neighborhood, there wadn't but one died. But we saved lives because
we'd go and take and milk their cows and cut wood and do everything else you know. And
keep them from coming out in the cold and all that and we kept that right up for around two
months.
F: How many people would live in a township then, <unintelligible text>
S: Well I don't really know because every one of these old fields you see around had a
family anywhere from I'd say anywhere from four to 12 and 13 in a family.
F: And they were making a living right?
S: Huh?
F: They were making a living?
S: Oh, shoot boy when we come here everyone of these places had the most beautiful
apple orchards on them, and they'd take that fruit and dry, dry their peaches, dry their
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
beans, dry their pears, dry their pumpkin and everything like that. I didn't even know when
I was a kid a coming up til I come out here that you could do such a thing as
Subject #5---Page 22
dry a pumpkin. But they'd cut them in in ring, and peel them, pour out the little funnys in
the side inside them and it'd have <unintelligilbe text> sticks. It'd have a string tied on each
end of it, and they'd just untie it and run them there rings down that stick and hang them-
just let them hang there and dry. Tell me why people said I wadn't going to eat them, I said
why - they said hell they'd be a fly rooster. I said them days people didn't pay no attention
to them things like that. I guess it was alright but I said hell you grow up where you don't
pay no attention to that.
F: Yeah.
S: And when they'd get dry, they'd keep shoving them together and shoving them together
so they'd take up a lot less room you know and put more on the and of the stick. And then
when them gets good and dried you just take them off and snap them up in <gap> pieces
and cook them and they're a damned eating if they did have a little flesh on them.
F: Always plenty to eat, then.
S: Huh?
F: The Ozarks would grow food, wouldn't they?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 77 year old white male, Pettigrew, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4505
S: Oh, you bet your live, and I started to tell you the <Storok?> Nursery Company from
Louisiana started right over there.
F: Yeah.
S: Alright, they give you all the apple trees you want