"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr18
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6374A
John Lomax: This is John Lomax interviewing Mr. A. L. Cook of Forest Hills, Dallas, Texas and asking
his opinion about the unprovoked attack made on America by the Japanese. Mr. Cook, how do you
feel about this attack made by the Japanese?
A. L. Cook: Mr. Lomax, I feel the attack made by the Japanese on Hawaii and Pearl Harbor was very
uncalled for at the time being at President Roosevelt and Cordell Hull had been making every effort
for the last two months by which to work out a peaceful solution with the Japanese government by
which to continue with their trade and have a peaceful government with them and the United States.
But since they have attacked the United States, I feel that the president has all the rights and should
have it and congress should give it to him, all the right and power by which to prosecute war in every
phrase against the Japan government.
John Lomax: What business are you in, Mr. Cook?
A. L. Cook: I'm in the oil business.
John Lomax: Well, how is this war going to affect your business.
A. L. Cook: Mr. Lomax, I feel this way: don't know just exactly how it's going to affect my business, but
I do say this, that whatever it takes as far as my business is concerned, I'm willing to pledge it for the
peaceful solution, a permanent peace for the United States.
John Lomax: Well, how about your friends and acquaintances in Dallas?
A. L. Cook: Everybody that I have talked to since the attack of Japan on Hawaii and Pearl Harbor feel
like that the president had done everything that was in his power to try to bring about a peaceful
solution. Since that has not come about they are willing now to do anything by which to back up the
president of the United States in doing their part in the war defeating Japan.
John Lomax: Even if we have to raise a hundred and fifty billion dollars?
A. L. Cook: Yes sir. Even if we have to raise two hundred billion dollars. I might add right here Mr.
Lomax that I believe that the Japan government was not behind the move that they made altogether.
They have been prompted and pushed by the German government to make this attack for the
reason I believe they feel that their move on — the German move on Moscow — has come to a
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr18
standstill. And the Germans feel that that has come about by the help that the United States and
Great Britain has been giving them in the last four or five months. And he thinks, Germany feels, that
by giving aid to Japan and pushing Japan into declaring war on United States will handicap this aid to
Moscow or to Russia and will lessen his fight on the Moscow front. Not only that but we'll get Japan's
navy into the fight and we'll probably open up the Mediterranean to where he can send some help
to his men in South Africa.
John Lomax: Well you arrive at this opinion just from your general reading or from talks among your
friends or how?
A. L. Cook: From reading and also talks amongst my friends.
John Lomax: You haven't any acquaintances that have traveled throughout the world and brought
these opinions to you?
A. L. Cook: No sir, I do not Mr. Lomax. I've just gathered the information from the layman on the
street and my acquaintances.
John Lomax: Well you don't think there's any doubt about the loyalty of Dallas, Texas and Dallas
County and the whole state of Texas to the government in fighting the Japanese at this present time,
do you?
A. L. Cook: I feel like that the people of Dallas and Texas are going to be one hundred percent behind
the president in anythings he need. The Texans have one of the greatest commodities that will be in
use during the fight, which is oil. And they're willing to pledge that one hundred percent.