UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  VASSILIOS "BILL" GIAVIS
CONDUCTED BY:  DOUG DENATALE & DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  MARCH 23, 1988
B = BILL
D = DOUG
T = TAYLOR
LFP-DT-R014-R015
D:  Okay.  Let me start over and say that today is March the 23rd and this is Doug DeNatale and 
David Taylor speaking with Bill Giavis.  And ah, Bill, we were, before we ran into these 
recorded copies, ah I was asking you about your family store (--)
B:  My father started working on the grocery store in Gree, in Athens, Greece.  Um, the person 
who owned it was from his village in Arcadia, Greece.  That's in the southern part.  And ah, 
according to my father all the young men, all the personnel that worked in that store of which 
there were probably ah, thirty or forty, were all from his village.  The man ah, was taking them 
ah, to Athens to work in the store because ah, there was no employment in the village.  Um, my 
father worked there for a few years and um, in the meantime his ah, brother whom I was named 
after, Vassilios Giavis ha, ah, came to America.  Got a job in the mills and ah, wrote back and 
told my father to come to America.  Um, the man who owned the grocery store there did not 
want my father to leave.  He said, you should stay here, but my father wanted to come to the 
promise land.  So ah, he came to America and he worked with my uncle in the mill.  And ah, I 
think probably in 1905 they had a mill strike and they had no work.  So they had to walk out 
here, out Andover Street all the way to Tewksbury and work on the Trull Farm.  And they'd get 
fifty cents a day.  They didn't take the trolly because it would cost them.  I don't know if the fare 
was five cents to go, ah, five or ten cents.  So they'd lose half their pay on the trolly.  And they 
used to buy a box of ah, soda crackers and that was their lunch for the day.  
T:  But what was the name of the farm?
B:  Trull.
T:  Was the name of the farm?
B:  Yes.  As a matter of fact the house that we are now in was ah, was a Trull, a Trull house that 
owned all this land.  Um, this house used to live, ah used to be on the corner up there when you 
turned in on the street.  And about a hundred years ago they sawed it in half, and dragged it down
with oxen and put it in this location here.  And then all the land from here to the river ah, 
belonged to the people that owned this house.  Ah, about twenty years ago they started 
developing it and built all these houses.  All the houses from here back are all, used to be on Trull
property.  So um, after the ah, strike they went back to work ah, and they, my uncle worked, also 
worked in ah, one of the ah, other Greek Markets in the city.  And so did my father part-time.  
Then they decided to open their own store.  And in 1911 they opened the Giavis Market at ah, 
479 Market Street.  That's the painting that I did that's on the cover of the ah, Lowell Historic 
Preservation Book.  That would be right now um, where the empty lot is next to the ah, Olympia 
Restaurant.  Not as you face it, not to the right, to the left of it, further down the street.  Um, they
bought the, they eventually bought the building and ah, they were there ah, until oh, about 1920.  
And then they sold it and they built ah, they built ah, they tore down two buildings on the, the 
corner of Market Street and Jefferson Street and they built ah, a big building that had seven 
stores and fourteen apartments upstairs.  Fifty rooms all together with fourteen apartments.
D:  Wow!
B:  Um, and ah, business was pretty good.  Then my uncle got sick and eventually he died.  And 
then the great depression came along and the people who were living upstairs couldn't pay the 
rent.  They couldn't pay for the food.  So um, by 1936, 1937 my father, the bank took the 
property back.  And ah, in 1938 he had to move because the Lowell Housing Authority came in.  
They tore down all the so called Greek Town um, which was the original Lowell.  You know the 
Acre, um the heart of the Acre at the time.  And um, they put up the housing project in 1939.  
The brick buildings that are down there now.  
D:  (?) The North Common.
B:  The North Common Village, right.  Um, then he moved from there which was ah, 436 Market
Street.  He moved to a building ah, um, 391 Market Street.  And um, I started working as a 
youngster there.  We were there for thirty years.  In 1968 we bought the ah, property at the, the 
corner of the Market Street and Cardinal O'Connell Parkways, ah, Parkway.  And um, today it's 
the South East Asian Food Store.  
D:  Ah ha.
B:  We sold it last year (1987).  Ah, while we were in the ah, the sec, the third location ah, at 391 
Market Street, that was the only building we did not own, that our market was in.  Um, of course 
that was during the height of the depression.  And um, then when I got out of the army in 19 ah, 
54.  Um, I went to the store to help out and then I got married and started raising a family.  So I 
stayed there.  Actually I studied to be an artist.  I went to Massachusetts College of Art.
D:  So it was back then that you went to, so you had, you studied art back before at the time that 
(--)
B:  Yes.  When I got out of high school in 1947, I went to Mass College of Art.  Um, I was in the 
first graduating class that received a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Fine Arts.  Until that time they 
were only getting diplomas.  But the only, the Teacher Education Department was getting 
degrees.  But we got the first degree my, the class of 51.  And then in 52 ah, I was ah, drafted into
the army, and I ah, that was during the Korean War.  I spent 18 month in Japan.  I was in General 
Custer's Regiment.  
D&T:  [Laugh]
B:  The Seventh Calvary Regiment, ah and I painted Custer's Last Stand in the Mess Hall.  About
20 years later somebody had come to Lowell and he said that he had, they were still there.  
D&T:  [Laugh]
B:  In ah, [Getosi?], Japan.  That's about thirty miles from [Soporo?] on the Island of [Okio?].  
Um, then when we moved to our new location um, about 1975 I started painting part time.  Well, 
in 1970-71, I did  ah, what I called the Depression Series.  I did about twelve paintings of the 
buildings that used to be in ah, in the Acre that had been torn down to make way for the housing 
project.  And um, I hung them on the walls of my store.  And people would come in.  The people 
that were a little older than me, my age, or a little older would look up and remember all the ah, 
ah where they played and they'd remember the buildings.  Ah, there was ah, um, this writer from 
the Lowell Sun, his name was Charles Sampas.  He knew the whole history of the area.  And he'd
come in and start at one end of the store and go all around.  And he'd say now that's, that 
painting, that building ah, ah I remember there was a fire there and this old man that I knew 
jumped out of the second store window with his pajamas on.  
D:  [Laugh]
B:  Then he got to the next ah, building ah, George Koulaheras our School Committee member.  
He came in one time and he said, "You see that yellow building?  That yellow house there, ah, ah
when I was a young boy there was a fire there and I went in and brought this little boy out.  And I
got a, um, a badge from the Lowell Boy's Club of America ah, for saving his life."  So there were
a lot of stories.  But the older people that were as old as my father, you know our parents, they 
would come in and they didn't want to look at them.  I remember telling one man, "look, there's 
the building that you had your business in."  And he said, "I don't want to look at them."  And a 
lot of the others had said that.  So I said to him, "Why?"  He said, "Because I don't want to 
remember the hardships that we had."  Ah, the almost loss of ah, self-respect  that they couldn't 
earn a living.  That there was, they couldn't pay.  They'd go to the grocery store and ah, get 
groceries and were ashamed to walk out the door with them and tell the, tell the grocer to charge 
it.  But that's how everything was ah, it was a way of life at the time.  It had developed into a 
way of life.  It was a built in ah, welfare system.  They would go to the grocer and charge.  They 
would go to the milkman, the baker um, everything was charged.  And um (--)
D:  So that the reason that the people didn't want to see the paintings was they weren't (--)
B:  It brought back the memories of the hardships that they went through.  The, you know, our 
parents let's say, who had to ah, bring food to the ah, put food on the table and pay the rent.  Ah 
(--)
D:  So it was really that, more than the sense of loss, that the buildings were no longer around?
B:  Oh!  They didn't care about the buildings being gone.  They, they, it was that it brought back 
those memories.  That's why they didn't want to look those paintings.  They didn't want to be 
reminded of that period in their life.
D:  What was your motivation for painting them?
B:  Well, er, somebody had found a book ah, which ah, let's see. When I was about eight years 
old, that was in 1938, they were taking pictures of all the buildings because they were going to, 
the city was going to take them by Eminent Domain.
D:  Yeah.  
B:  So they had to photograph them.  You know, ah, record them.  And those, the pictures were 
put on a page with the description of the property, the assessed value, ah, where it was and ah, 
what condition it was in.  And um, somebody, I guess the, they had thrown one of the books 
away, or I don't know, somebody, somehow had gotten his hands on it.  And um, of course as it 
went from my hands to somebody elses hands they'd take out whatever pictures they wanted.  So
by the time I got it half the book was gone.  But fortunately there were enough pictures in it of 
enough places that ah, I was able to do some paintings.  I wanted to recreate ah, some of those 
buildings and portray them.  Because as we were children ah, of course we didn't have much, but
everyone else was in the same boat.  So we didn't miss what we didn't have.  Whereas (--)
D:  So you didn't have negative (--)
B:  No!  To us it was our childhood.  Ah, if we played baseball it was always a ball that had black
tape on it.  Or if we played ah, half the, three quarters of the games we played we,  was things we
made out of wood.  Ah, I remember they used to make those ah, guns that would shoot the ah, 
ah, rubber bands from the tire tubes.  
D:  Yeah, yeah.
B:  One fellow had made a rifle out of it.  He, as far back as he could pull it, then let go.  It had a 
clothespin that kind of held it, then pulled the clothespin, it would go off.  Did you ever see one 
of those?
D:  Sure.  Yeah.
B:  Ah, it was, we made all our toys.  Or we played games that didn't require toys.  Running, 
hops er, hopping ah, relieve-o, games that required no, nothing but ah how fast you could run or, 
how well you could hide.  
D:  Do you remember some of the names of the games that you played?
B:  Relieve-o, Little Red Hen ah, Were Going To The Woods To See If The Bear Is There, we'd 
walk up the street and say it, and the bear would turn around and say yes, and you'd run after it.  
D:  [laugh].
B:  If he said no, we'd keep going.  Um, Hide and Go Seek.  Uh, Peg, ah, it was, there was a little
stick and they had points on both ends.  You had a stick and you hit it.  It would fly up in the air, 
and then you'd hit on the way down.  Like you'd hit a baseball with a bat.  Ah, Peg, Stick Peg or 
something like that they called it.  We broke many windows that way.  And ah, they were all 
games like that.  I remember ah, one time one of the little guys hid in a barrel.  So they went over
and picked up the barrel and they rolled it on the street, and he rolled all the way down the street 
in the barrel.  He couldn't get out.  But ah, to us it was, relieve ah (--)  To the people my age and 
a little older than me, it was ah, just remembering our childhood, which to us was not a hard 
childhood because ah, all our friends were in the same boat.  Ah, we all had the same thing, or 
we all didn't have the same thing.  You know.  So we really didn't ah, mind.  I remember my 
father had, all the seven stores that he had, there were always three or four vacant.  And the ah, 
the Royal Theater used to go and hang their signs in the window.  The lithographed posters with 
Nelson Eddie and Jeannette McDonald.  And ah, for every poster we'd get one free poster, we'd 
get one free ticket.  So we were always going to the theater free.  We'd watch Mickey McGuire, 
Mickey Rooney as a youngster.
D:  Ah, ha.
B:  Mickey McGuire and His Gang.  All those cereals that they used to have every Saturday.  So 
ah, things weren't too bad for us as kids.  Um, but of course the older people didn't care to see 
them.  
D:  What, what would you ah, describe as the Greek area of the Acre.
B:  Well the Greek Area was ah, of course Market Street.  Um, and it embraced the area all 
around the North Common.  Um, well let's say Market, um, Dummer Street, all the way up 
Broadway, um, to let's say the North Common, Fletcher Street. 
D:  All the way up to Fletcher?
B:  Ah, and a little beyond.  And then up Fletcher and down um, oh, Bowers Street, Salem Street,
Cabot Street.  Of course on some of the, some of the areas were overlapped with er, French 
people, Irish, er, Polish.  But the heart of the er, Greek Area was Market Street, Jefferson Street, 
Suffolk Street, um, Dummer Street, Little Street those were all in the area around the church.  
Then a little further up what is now called the triangle um, Adams Street, Lagrange Street, 
Fletcher Street.
D:  So the Triangle is actually a distinct area?
B:  It was part of the Greek Area at the time.  Now it's the area that the ah, they've been having a 
lot of trouble with.  You know with the ah, drugs and the ah (--)
D:  But where is, how far back does the phrase "The Greek Triangle" go?
B:  It wasn't the Greek Triangle.  It was mostly called ah, The Greek Area.  Just like er, the 
French Area was called "Little Canada."  
D:  Ah, ha.
B:  Or like in other cities, not so much in Lowell, they would say Little Italy, you know.
D:  Ah, ha.
B:  You know, Boston, or wherever.  Actually Lowell does not have too many Italian people.  
Lawrence has more of an Italian population.  Lowell is ah, first Irish, then the next group is the 
French, then it was the ah Greek, although now I think very possibly there are more Cambodians,
ah South East Asians than there are Greeks.  Of course a lot of the Greeks have moved out into 
the Greater Lowell Area.  Ah, when they tore down the old Greek Area a lot of people moved out
into the suburbs.  Ah, they were really dispersed at that point.  They moved to ah, wherever they 
could find housing at the time.  Ah, affordable housing.  Because it was still in the, it was at the 
height of the, well the depression was beginning to end at that time, 1939.  Ah, then with the 
second ah, Second World War starting up ah, the ah, boys went into the army, ah, the defense 
jobs, factories ah, everything was gone into high gear.  I remember I used to cash checks, ah, not 
me but we used to cash checks at the store um, $21.00 a week was a good pay.  
D:  [Laugh]
B:  Ah
D:  What, when the Housing Project was built um, most of the population was dispersed.  Did, 
did people from the Greek Community go into the Housing Project?  
B:  No.  It was, it was er, at the time the Greek people claimed that there, this happened so that 
they could be dispersed.  So that they could break up Greek Town.  But when I looked at the 
pictures of those buildings, they were in bad shape.  I mean it was the original Lowell.  The old, 
old, I mean those were the oldest buildings in the city um, which belonged to the Yankees at one 
time.  Then the Irish, er, Irish Yankees owned them.  And then when the Greeks come in they 
started buying them.  So that um, they changed.  With each ethnic group that came into the city it
always seems as though that new group would be right in the oldest section of the city.  Because 
the others had graduated and moved out to the better areas.  And ah, now we have, in the hard 
core section there we now have the Puerto Ricans and the Cam, ah, the South East Asians.  Ah, 
and I'm sure some day they will move out too.  But ah, when they did build the housing project 
there, what, we called it the housing project.  It's the North Common Village I think is the proper 
name for it.  For whatever reason there were no Greeks, none of the Greeks were given, ah, given
ah, apartments there.  And it wasn't until maybe ah, half a doz, half a dozen years later that Greek
people started getting apartments in that area.  Um, there were enough vacant apartments and 
stores that all these displaced businesses could more or less um, locate across the street.  Like 
when we were, when my father's building was taken, ah, he moved almost diagonally across the 
street to a vacant store.  There were enough vacant stores to take in all these displaced 
businesses.  Sure a lot of them went out of business too.
D:  Was there much organized opposition to all this?
B:  Not really.  Who was going to oppose it?  The people involved in ah, the (--)  Let's say our 
parents did not have the ah, education, neither here nor from Greece.  Ah, most of them, my 
father had only a four, a fourth grade, up to the fourth grade he was educa, he only went to 
school up to the fourth grade.  Um, their children were too young to ah, be ah, have any 
influence.  They were all let's say, not too many of, they were twenty years old at the time.  So 
ah, they more or less took the verdict and ah, went along with it.  
D:  Yeah, I'm sure.  How did that affect the um, your families business?  When the people were 
dispersed like that did it have any effect?  
B:  Well um, all the stores, all the markets had their customers.  It meant that ah, well there was 
also delivery in those days.  So it meant that you er, you had to go further with the delivery.  
Before that most of the customers lived near the store.  You needed a truck to deliver groceries.  
Otherwise you would have lost those customers.  Of course wherever they moved, naturally 
when they needed something they would go to whatever market was near them.  They'd probably
come to our market once a week and shop, those that lived further away.  Saturday was our big 
delivery day.  
D:  Did you do any of that?
B:  Oh yes!  I uh, I used to deliver groceries.  I used to deliver groceries the ah, in those days the 
men did all the shopping.  
D:  Ha!
B:  More so than the women.  And on Saturday, their day off they'd spend it in the Coffee House.
The Coffee House would close at 10 o'clock and then they would dis, they would remember to 
buy groceries.  So they would come to the market.  We would be very busy from 10 o'clock until 
12 o'clock midnight.  Then from midnight until 1-2 o'clock in the morning we'd be delivering 
groceries.  Um, it was the way of life.
D:  What were the first jobs that you had in the store?
B:  Oh, I remember I was usually the one that would put up the potatoes.  If somebody wanted 
potatoes or ah, whatever.  I do, I would put up potatoes, or spinach in the bags.  I'd sweep the 
floor.  Ah, I'd help deliver groceries.  Ah, you almost did what ever you could at the time.  Ah, as 
far as cutting the meat goes, I didn't cut meat until after I came back from the service.  Just, we 
didn't go to school to learn how to cut meat.  We just, the customer would tell us how he wanted 
it.  What he, ah, where he wanted it cut and we'd just bang away with a the cleaver.  Um, of 
course when I first started ah, it would be, ah, make hamburg out of the meat.  [Laugh.]
D:  [Laugh.]
B:  After awhile it was, I'd split a lamb pretty good.  I'd get both sides of the marrow on the 
spine.  I'd divide it evenly, so...
T:  I was wondering, you mentioned that your dad came over as a mill worker.  How did, and his 
brother?  You said (--)
B:  Well they came here to work.  To get a job and ah, of course the only jobs available at the 
time was at the mill.  Um, that's when I would say a little before that when the workers at the 
mill were the farm girls.  The Yankee, the girls from the farms.  Ah, they had ah, places for them 
to sleep, er, live.  They were very strict with them.  Ah, they had to go to church.  They had to. 
Everything was, they were regimented.  But ah, as time went by the ah, the immigrants came in 
and they were paying them less and they were giving them more looms to handle.  Um, and ah, 
they displaced these so called Mill Girls.  And they displaced the ah, the Irish that worked there.  
There were many fights.  They'd throw rocks at them when they got out of work because ah, they
were working for less money.  Naturally they were disrupting the pay scale.  Um, but the ones to 
blame were the factory owners.  They ah, they fostered this situation.  They wanted to make 
more money and ah, have ah (--)  I remember towards the end there, I'd, they'd triple the amount 
of looms that each person had to work on.  A staggering amount of looms.  But if they didn't do it
they'd lose their job.      
T:  Yeah.  How did your father accumulate the capital needed to start a store?  That's a big step it 
seems to me.  
G:  Well, in those days if you were able to rent a store for five or ten dollars a week um, you put 
a few things in it, there were not the er, they didn't have the health ah, you know (--)
T:  Regulations.
G:  Health Department, health regulations, ah, today you can't go into business without ah, 
thousands of dollars to start up.  But in those days practically no refrigeration.  Maybe an ice box
or something.  Ah, start off small and they just, as they'd just keep plowing the money back in, 
buy equipment and that's how they all did it.  I remember some of the stores, ah, they'd just have 
the vegetables ah, in bushel boxes the way they came from the farms and they'd just be sitting 
there.  
SIDE ONE OF TAPE COMES TO AN END
SIDE TWO BEGINS
D:  You know I wanted to ask you about the strike.  Did your father ever talk about that?  
G:  He didn't say too much about about the strike.  Um, he said that um, when, when the, when 
they went on strike (--)  When the factor (--)  He hadn't (--)  They had nothing to do with the 
strike.  In other words the people, those that went on strike they just said, "we're on strike"  and 
ah, they weren't about to break any er, picket lines, or whatever there were at the time.  They just 
rolled with the punch and they said, "well we can't go to work in the factory because of the 
strike."  They weren't protesting anything, my father and my uncle.  Ah, but they weren't about to
ah, break the picket lines.  So they just said, "What are we going to do?"  So ah, my uncle said, 
"well we're going to go out in the farm and work.  We did farm work in Greece.  We'll do it here. 
So ah, that's how they ended up going out to the farm and working.  Um, they did bring a lot of 
customs over from Greece.  One of which was the wine making that I was telling you about.  
Um, some, some people used to put up ten barrels of wine every Fall.  Ah, they'd buy the grapes 
and they'd crush them and they'd have it ferment and make it.  I, I used to help my father, he used
to ah, make it out of grapes.  And he also made wine out of ah, raisins.  He'd take a burlap bag 
and ah, have a barrel without a top on it.  Have it stand up on one end and he'd put a, nail a 
burlap bag around the edges there and he'd fill it with raisins and put hot water in it.  And the hot 
water would make the raisins um, bring them, you know fill them up again.  Then they'd start 
fermenting and he'd draw off the ah, the ah juice.  And he'd put more water in until he made um, 
got fifty gallons to fill another barrel.  And ah, he would put the ah, [retsina?] in it, which was ah,
ah, pitch from spruce trees that came from Greece.  And they would come in five gallon ah, cans.
We used to sell it at the store.  People would buy.  Some people would put half a pound in a fifty 
gallon barrel.  Other people would put ah, pound.  One man used to put seven pounds in each 
barrel.  
T:  Wow!
G:  Um, as a matter of fact on one of the books that I have on wines and spirits it talks about the 
ah, ah, they had found some ancient ah, earthen jugs that wine used to be stored in.  And they 
found on the bottom of them that ah, retsin residue.  So they figured they had been doing it way 
back two, three thousand years before Christ.  I used to enjoy helping my father make the wine.  
I'd watch him.  Ah, when he'd put the wine in the barrel, he never sealed the barrel until he was 
sure that it had stopped what he called, boiling.  Because if he sealed the barrel ah, and it was 
still fermenting ah, it could blow up the barrel.  He'd always put a candle ah, and if the candle 
went out that meant it was still boiling, ah, you know, fermenting.  
T:  [Unclear] what you're telling me is that some huge vat, or something that you were saying, 
you were telling some story about it, about it.  In fact (--)
G:  You mean in Greece?  
D:  Yes.
G:  Yeah, in Greece.  Well they had barrels that ah, had doors on them.  You know, on the front 
part.  And ah, when the, which they would close and seal and fill with wine.  Ah, and then when 
the wine was gone they'd open the, they'd unseal the door.  Open it, go in and scrub the barrel 
down so that they could put new wine in it.  And ah, one time they had filled it with wine, this 
man that, the wine maker and the weather had turned cold.  He thought the wine had stopped 
fermenting, and he sealed it.  And ah, then the next day when it got warm the wine started 
fermenting again.  It just, the whole barrel blew up.  Ah, lost thousands of gallons because there 
was, the barrel was as big as a room.  So that's why my father was always careful about making 
sure it had stopped fermenting.  
D:  What were the foods that were prepared at the store?  You know, as opposed to the things that
you just got and sold.
G:  Well ah, years ago ah, back in Greece, I will ah, I'll try to explain.  Ah, you probably cooked 
meats in ah, in the ah, in those roasting bags.  Well, when the ah, bandits used to steal a lamb and
they wanted to cook it, they would slaughter it and skin it, and ah, you know clean it out.  And 
then they'd just wrap it up in the skin again and ah, have, they'd have a fire.  And they'd dig a 
hole and they'd light the fire on top of it, or they'd use the ah, hot embers and it would cook in 
the, in the skin, because they had no um, pots or pans, or anything to roast it on.  Also, probably 
it ah, it kept the odor from you know, roasting lamb, so that nobody would ever discover them.  
So ah, when the ah, when they came to America from Greece ah, they started wrapping the lamb 
in the paper and cook it in the oven at, not at home, because a lot of them didn't have oven, ah, 
ovens.  They would take it to the bakery.  As a matter of fact I remember when I, as, ah while the 
um, mills were still here um, they would come in and buy a couple of pounds of meat and have 
us wrap it in the paper.  And they'd take it to work and they'd put it on top of the steam pipe.  And
it would roast on top, that's how hot the steam pipes were in the mills.  So as time went by the ah,
bakeries didn't want to cook the lamb any more er, or any kind of things in their ovens.  So um, 
back in 19, oh I would say about 1961 um, my uncle in Portsmouth had a restaurant and he had a
small oven, commercial oven that he used to bake pies in and he had gotten a new oven.  So he 
was going to get rid of that one.  We took it and put it in our store and we started roasting lamb.  
And it caught on and ah, then I started making platters for parties.  As a matter of fact a woman 
just called me tonight.  Four years after my store is closed and she wanted to know if I could 
make her some platters.  I says, "I have no ovens or anything to cook it in."  But we started and 
by the time this was ah, by 1968 when we moved to our new location we had ah, enough ovens 
that we were able to put ah, 36 ah, sheet pans ah, in at one time.  And we'd cook, stuff and cook 
turkeys for Thanksgiving.  Or we'd roast ah, suckling pigs and turkeys for Christmas.  And then 
of course, Easter was all lamb.  
D:  What was the nature of this paper that you wrapped...
G:  The paper was just a regular white paper that we wrapped the meats in.  Not waxed paper or 
anything.  And ah, we'd wrap it up so that the paper would be about two or three ah, wrap it 
enough so they'd wrap it around three times.  And then I'd tie it with string.  And then I'd tie it 
with string.  And I'd put it in the pan.  Um, have the oven about 350 degrees.  And we'd put some 
water in it.  And ounce every hour or so we'd turn the package over.  It would cook evenly and it 
would also baste itself.  Then after a couple of hours I'd cut the corner of the paper and the juice 
that was inside would run out.  Because up until that time the lamb was more or less boiling in 
there in it's own juice.  So if you wanted it to brown off and not be just boiled meat we'd let the 
juice out of the paper.  Then we'd take that juice, skim off the fat and put it in another pan and 
put potatoes in it.  And ah, we'd cook potatoes too.  As a matter of fact this Friday that's the kind 
of lamb that I'm going, that I'm going to ah, take.  I'm taking it to Haverhill to this bakery that ah,
this friend of mine and he's going to bake it for us.  
T:  Is there a particular Greek name to describe this lamb.
G:  Um, in Greek literally translated they'd say, "ah, lamb in the paper."  Meaning lamb cooked 
in the paper.  Ah (--)
T:  How would you say that in Greek?
G:  Um, [Giavis says it in Greek.] That's roast lamb in the paper.  
D:  Did you say that using the paper is something that came about in America, or did they do that
in Greece as well?  
G:  No, in Greece ah, no, in America is when they ah, started wrapping it in the paper.  
D:  So they used the skin in Greece?
G:  Yeah, they would use the ah, the hide itself.  Just, I mean the thieves didn't have ah, anything 
to cook it in.  Now when I would, I would put the paper out.  I'd season the lamb.  I'd put salt, 
pepper, oregano, ah, before there was such thing as garlic ah powder or garlic granules, I'd use 
the garlic cloves.  But the garlic granules are better because it's even.  The cloves wherever you 
stuck the clove in the meat it would be real garlicky.  Um, and it's funny, most of the Greek 
people didn't want the garlic on the meat.  It was the non-Greeks that said, "yeah, cook it Greek 
style.  We want garlic on it."  
D&T:  [laugh]
G:  And so it was automatic when I'd prepare for the non-Greeks I'd automatically put garlic.  
Ah, the Greeks I'd say, "you want garlic?"  No, no, no we don't want them to say we smell garlic.
So.
D&T:  [laugh] Yeah.
G:  So it was a reverse ah, situation.  
D:  [Unclear] what, what would you say, how would you characterize what non-Greeks thought 
of Greeks?
G:  Well, er, they called us garlic eaters, of course we would call them er, whatever the ethnic 
group was noted for.  Ah you'd call, ah, you'd make a joke about them.  Ah, they did that to us.  
Ah, sometimes it was um, with malice, but most of the times ah, everybody was in the same 
boat.  You know, ah, if you, if you talk to a Pol, Polish or French they had the same problems that
we did. So um, but the um, it was during the holidays that ah, the food you know the ah, the 
customs.  I remember Easter time ah, they'd have the ah, at that time there were three Greek 
Churches.  And ah, on Good Friday they'd bring out the ah, bier.  It would be a wire bier with all 
flowers in it.  And ah, the three churches would come out and they'd have bands playing somber 
music.  And they would all meet at the intersection of Market Street and ah, Dummer Street right
there where Cardinal O'Connell Parkway is.  And they would hold a service in the street.  And all
the houses had candles in the windows and people from all the churches would be marching 
behind the bier with the ah, with candles.  Um, I think now, I think the Holy Trinity Church still 
does that.
D:  I was going to say, wasn't there some talk about reviving it?
G:  Well, they do it...
D:  From two different churches?
G:  Well, they do it.  I don't know if they all, well, they met a few times at the North Common.  
The ah, Holy Trinity, the Transfiguration, and the Syrian [Antiokin?] Church.  Um, but that's not 
always.  Every so many years they do it and of course weather permitting, because sometimes it's
too cold, or it's raining, or something.  But ah, I remember when they would, the Holy Trinity  
come out and they'd stop at the intersection there right outside my store.  Ah, we were, of course 
we were cooking, started to cook at that time, so that all the lambs would be ready for Saturday.  
And then the people would pick them up Saturday afternoon, Saturday evening.  So while the 
lamb was roasting of course these people had been fasting now, some of them for 40 days, some 
of them that week, ah, I'd always put my exhaust fan on when they came out in front of the store.
And the roast lamb would, the smell would permeate the whole air.
D&T:  [Laughter]
G:  They'd all be yelling out there, "them Giavis, we can, we're hungry, [everyone is laughing] 
they're doing that on purpose."  [Laughter] 
D:  And it worked.  [Laughter]
G:  I was,[Laughter] it was, it was good advertising.  [Laughter] 
D:  Sure!
G:  [Laughter] I remember ah, on ordinary Saturdays when we'd put the exhaust fan on and ah,  
always somebody would come running in the store, quick, give me a piece of roast lamb.  I was 
waiting for the bus outside the City Hall and ah, I smelled it, and I want to get it before the bus 
er, leaves.  [Laughter] So ah, but I had also said I, I, one of the candle makers there.  I says to 
him, "listen if I get some of the lamb fat from the roast lamb, and I give it to you, would you 
make candles and put that in?  And then I'll donate the candles to the church Easter week and the 
priest can say, this, these candles were donated by Giavis Market and when they lit them they'd 
smell roast lamb.  [Much laughter] 
T:  No, no!  [Laughter, everyone is laughing] 
G:  Well, he wouldn't do it!  [Laughter] 
D&T:  [Can't stop laughing] 
G:  I, I did, I said, "Why don't you try it?"  He said, "Na, no, no, I won't do that."  But they used 
to dec, we used to ah, the last year we were in business we, ah, we boiled six hundred dozen of 
red eggs.  Ah, there was never enough.  I mean we could have sold six thousand dozen.  Ah, 
people didn't want to dye eggs any more so they'd call us up and say, "save me six dozen, twelve 
dozen, fifteen dozen."  The church would buy two cases, sixty dozen.  Ah, all the churches would
buy at least one case from us.  So there's only so much you could do, ah...
T:  How did you prepare them?  What was the process involved?  
G:  Well we used to get a big, we had ah, the wire baskets that the farmers used to collect the 
eggs in.  And we'd put about ah, maybe four or, about four or five dozen eggs in each one, and 
we'd have a big pot boiling with the dye.  And we'd put the eggs in there .  And of course you'd 
hear them breaking.  You'd loose so many, ah, if you dyed six hundred dozen you'd probably lost 
oh, fifty dozen to breakage.  
D:  That was red dye, did you say?
G:  Ah, we used the food coloring.  
D:  Was it all red?
G:  Red!  That's the only color we dyed them.  Red eggs.  The Greek people only dyed them, the 
only color that they did them was red.  But now they dye them different colors.  But the, the only
color, the only accepted color was red.  
T:  Was there some particular significance to that?  
G:  There was, but I, I can't, I don't know really what it was.  I could find out, but it was only red.
D:  The eggs were hard boiled in this process?      
G:  Yeah, hopefully.  [Laughter] One year, [Laughter] one year we boiled them and ah, people 
were complaining that when they were cracking, because the custom is to crack eggs.  Have you 
ever, did you know that?  
D:  I know a little bit about that, yeah.  
G:  Easter, okay.  You get, get the ah, you have the eggs and then the family, or whoever.  Ah, 
friends meet and they have the red eggs.  Ah, one person holds it and the other one ah, cracks, ah,
hits it.  And whose ever eggs breaks ah, he's the loser.  I mean it's a custom.  Um, course by the 
end of the day the bowl would be full of broken eggs.  Nobody wanted to eat all the eggs.  So 
we'd behave, especially us with the ah, cooking the eggs.  Ah, oh,  getting back to that er, people 
were complaining that when they were cracking eggs they were getting all soft boiled eggs all 
over them.  But during that week that we had the, we used to boil the eggs ah, that week.  I used 
to bring dozens of broken eggs home and all we'd eat is, course we were fasting anyway.  So all 
we had was egg salad and salad with eggs in it and so that by the time Easter was over you'd be 
sick of eggs.  
T:  I bet, I bet.
G:  One year I took them to a restaurant and I sold them.  I talked the guy into buying them so he
could make egg salad.  So ah, the second year I went back ah, he said, "get out of here!" 
[Laughter] "Everybody wanted to know why my egg salad was red."  [Laughter] You know when
the eggs broke of course the dye (--)
D:  It was inside.
G:  Was inside.
D:  Oh, yeah!
G:  But it wasn't ah, dangerous to the health because we used food coloring.  We used to go up 
into, my brother used to go up into Canada and buy it in Canada.  Had all French writing on the 
can.  But it was food coloring.  
T:  You know what, what about um, you mentioned with the wine making people would buy the 
grapes, um did people, did people have any gardens or anything like that?  Did people...
G:  Well, yes!  They had ah, they had vine, grapevines, their own grapevines, but of course there 
was, it was never enough to make a barrel of wine.  Um, it was mostly because everyone had 
grapevines in Greece.  And it was the idea that they wanted to give it the same atmosphere.  
T:  How, how would they, how would they grow the, the vines?  Did they have, did they use 
trellises or (--)
G:  Oh, yes!  Ah, they, they would ah, always grow them so that ah, they could ah, walk under 
them.  They'd have trellises and they like to sit under the grapevine, in the summer time.  
T:  Was it anything like what you see in ah, around Central Street?  That area today?  
G:  That's ah, the Portuguese.  They ah, yeah it was, they remind me a lot, because a lot of 
Portuguese have come since the Second World War and they are very ah, good, they're taking 
care of their property.  And they like to ah, have grape vines and make their own wine and ah, 
they remind me a lot of how the Greeks were fifty years ago.  You know the Portuguese ah, that 
have come recently from Portugal.  
T:  What other sort of things would people grow?
G:  In their gardens?  
T:  Yeah.
G:  Mostly tomatoes.  Ah, I remember when we had our market we used to sell a lot of tomatoes. 
We used to sell about um, for the size of the store it was a lot.  We used to sell about three 
thousand pounds a week.  
T:  Oh, gees!
G:  Of tomatoes, ah, the native tomatoes.  Ah, they used to grow ah, well of course a lot of the 
things that they grew in Greece they couldn't grow here because the climate was a little colder.  
T:  So when you say native tomatoes, do you mean tomatoes grown here?  
G:  Yeah, what I, when I say native tomatoes, meaning the tomatoes grown in your own yard.  
You know, er, ah, because I had a store ah, native tomatoes meant native tom, tomatoes grown in 
the district.  Not something that came from California green, and then they ripened it with gases 
and things.  
D&T:  Right.
G:  But they had, we used to sell, of course being a Greek Store we had a lot of imported 
products there.  Ah, smoked herring from Norway, ah, there was another kind of ah, like ah, 
salted fish that used to come from ah, ah, near the [Dardenelles?], the ah, between Greece and 
Turkey.  Ah, they had octopus.  We used to bring octopus, dried octopus.  And then we'd soak it 
and cook it with rice pilaf, or with macaroni.  Of course all the olive oils, ah, ah, all kinds of 
things.  And ah, and whatever like lentils and beans that grew here, we would buy them.  The nat,
the American lentils and beans, but I mean they would cook them Greek style.  And then the 
bakeries would cook the Greek, ah, make Greek bread.  
T:  What percentage of your customers were Greek?
G:  Well, ah, when I was young it was practically 95%.  Ah, by the time I closed my store it was, 
there was no such thing as a customer that bought everything at my store.  My store had become 
more or less a specialized store.  Ah, we sold a lot of meats, we sold a lot of fruits and 
vegetables.  Ah, roast lamb we cooked ah, we cooked roast lamb every Saturday.  We'd make 
about, besides the orders we'd make about twenty bundles of lamb.  Ah, random sizes that people
would come in and buy without ordering.  Ah, we always seemed to sell it.  If we ever got stuck 
with a bundle or two we'd put it in the freezer and then during the week somebody would always 
come in and buy one that lived out of town, or buy up whatever we had and take them back 
home, and take them out and heat them up.  
T:  Is there anything um, I mean you drew a parallel between the Portuguese to the way they are 
today and the way the Greeks were then.  Um, was there anything else that was distinctive about 
the way the people kept their yards or?
G:  The Greek people?  
T:  Yeah, or the way that people had their houses, or?
G:  Well, in the house of course every house you went in somewhere um, in the house there 
would be a small ah, sometimes they'd make it, make like a corner shelf, you know how, a 
knick-knack shelf and they would have Icons, and they would have um, a candle burning.  Not a 
candle.  It would be a, like a glass of water and they'd be maybe a half an inch of oil, olive oil 
floating on top, and they used to sell these ah, lights ah, little floats with wicks.  You've probably 
seen them in restaurants.  Ah,...
D:  Yeah.  
G:  And it would be what they called a night light.  And it would be burning all the time.  Ah, 
especially at night.  We, in Greek they call it a [Giavis says it in Greek] you know to keep it, to 
be burning with the ah, Icons.
T:  How do you spell that?
G:  In Greek?  Well, Greek to English, k-a-n-t-i-l-i.  Ah, it also means candle.  But um, I 
remember my Mother used to take a can of coffee, the Greek coffee.  And she would cut it all 
around and down so that it had a base.  She'd cut that and, one piece, you know the one side of 
the ah, like she'd cut down like that and cut away all the front.  And they'd be a like a cover and a
base to it.  So that the ah, when the candle, when the oil was burning the smoke wouldn't go up 
into the, onto the ceiling, and it would also be protected in case, but there was never any fire 
from it because it would stay, it was in water.  That, and then many times I remember when the 
oil would burn out it would sputter because it was, the water was, it was starting to, the wick was
trying to dra, it was starting to draw the water.  Ah, that was one of the most ah, prevalent of the 
ah, ah customs.  You know, I mean when you went in a Greek house everybody had that.  Ah, 
another thing everybody seemed to have [Laugh] was a picture of F.D.R.,  because he came in 
and changed things around.  Um, and a picture of the King of Greece, those two seemed to go 
together, the American flag, the Greek flag um, the church calender which had an Icon on it.  Ah,
and of course all the grocery stores in those days had calenders so sometimes people would have 
the whole wall papered with ah, calenders.  And another thing everybody seemed to ah, and it 
wasn't only the Greeks, it was the Irish and all the nationalities ah, everything was covered with 
newspapers.  Ah, your table cloth was a newspaper or your stove had a newspaper they'd cut 
designs in it and put it on top of the stove.  You know, remember the big black cast iron stoves 
that they had with the chrome ah, and the black polish that they'd polish them with?  So ah, and 
of course the ah, wooden straight backed chairs, ah, mohair furniture in the, if anyone was 
fortunate to have a living room set.  Um, and the old Greek blankets that was made out of the 
scratchiest hair I ever had.  But they weighed a ton and they'd keep you warm.  You know the 
blankets that they used to weave in Greece.  
D:  How, the older people, how did they spend their leisure time that they had?  
G:  The older, the men would go to the Coffee House.  There were probably fifteen Coffee 
Houses in Lowell.  And it seemed as though each Coffee House took care of its own group.  Like
let's say we all moved to Australia.  Well, they'd be a Massachusetts Coffee House, or they'd be a 
Lowell Coffee House.  You know people that from certain areas of Greece would frequent it.  Ah,
the women would visit each other and ah, ah, make coffee and then they'd turn the coffee cup 
over and there was always somebody there that could tell your fortune.  Ah, the men would go to
the coffee house and argue politics.  Not American politics, Greek politics.  Ah, as a matter of 
fact the Holy Trinity Church was the first church in Lowell.  It was the first ah, Greek Orthodox 
Byzantine structure built in America.  Ah, I think it was completed in 1909.  That was the first 
church in Lowell.  Then when the ah, this political figure in Greece ah, threw out the king and 
became Premier of Greece the battle came to America.  And when they had ah, the people that 
supported his cause broke off from the Holy Trinity Church.  
TAPE ONE SIDE TWO ENDS
LFP-DT-RO16
G:  Oh ah, is that going now?
D:  Yeah.
G:  Um, about 1925 the ah, they split.  And the ah, the people that were, the person's name was 
[Veneselous?].  When er, the, sided with him, formed the Transfiguration Church.  Then ah, not 
too much later, about four years later, um, they wanted, the people at the Holy Trinity wanted to 
change.  They were with the old calender.  And they wanted to take, to assume the calender that 
was being used in the United States.  And there was this Bishop at the church who refused to 
change.  So he formed his own party and they took over the church.  And they had closed the 
church for four months and they made a fortress out of it.  Ah, the majority of the parishioners 
were on the outside and he was on the inside.  And they used to throw provisions in the window 
at night to keep them alive.  Ah, they even used to put wine on ah, bread and catch pigeons and 
eat the pigeons.  Or the city, the city went and cut off the water supply, and then somebody 
remembered that ah, there used to be a school there, or something before the church, and there 
was a well.  So they went, he told them in the cellar, in the back part, pick up a certain part of the
floor and you'll find a well.  So they were able to get water.  So finally after four months they ah, 
they went through the garden door, door that opens in the garden, which has been since replaced.
And they broke the door, got in and chased them out.  So um, the um, Bishop announced the 
following week that he was going to go back in and take over the church.  So they were 
determined that he wouldn't go in.  So they put a line of what they so called troupes, at the top of 
the stairs.  And when he was going, when he was, got there with his, all his regalia on and his 
mitered cap and everything, ah, he was going up the stairs.  And if you remember I mentioned 
Charlie Sampas.  Well his Grandmother appeared out of nowhere with a brick in her kerchief and
she says, "Be gone you devil.  You have destroyed our church."  And she hit him right on the 
head with the brick in her kerchief.  That was it.  He turned around, went back down the stairs, 
got in his car, er in the car that had brought him and that was the end of it.
D:  Wow!!  
G:  So ah, ah, I don't know if you saw that book I have, The Tyrants?  Ah, that's all in there.  And 
I, I ah, did an illustration of that episode from the descriptions.  Because when I was in my 
father's store all the older people would come in, and that's all they talked about.  Ah, the history 
of the church and ah, this and that.  By the time I was nine years old I was an old man.  I knew 
all the, I knew all the stories, all the battles, all the ah, everything that went on.  Ah, course I got 
all sides of it too, because [laugh] (--)
D:  Yeah, I was going to ask.  How did these different factions effect, effect you in the store?  I 
mean...
G:  Well, my father was ah, what you might call independent.  He was an independent.  Ah, he 
tried not to take sides.  Ah, although he was with, he was against that Bishop.  Ah, that Bishop 
was ah, quite a tyrant.  Anyway, he left and he formed the St.  George's Church, which um, was 
on Worthen Street.  Next to the Whistler House there's an empty lot.  That church was there.
T:  That's pretty close.  
G:  Yeah.  And ah, he ah, formed that church and they went with the Old Calender.  Eventually 
he left and went back to Greece and he was a Bishop in the er, the New Calender.  In other words
he was a Bishop wherever it suited him to be ah, you know.  He preached whatever calender 
suited him.  But that church today is still with the Old Calender.  Saint George's Church, that's 
the one on Princeton Boulevard.  Um, Easter Monday, back in 19 [pause] 60's they were having 
Easter Monday services there, and the church burned down.  And that's why they moved.  They, 
aban, you know, left the church and they went out there.  
T:  Oh.
G:  Um, so that was church number three.  In the meantime before they had moved ah, that 
church also split, and ah, the party that left it is the church on Butterfield and ah, Mount,  Mount 
Vernon Street.  On the corner of Butterfield and Mount Vernon.  Have you been up, have you 
seen that?
D:  Ah, that one I don't know.  
G:  It's a small ah, wooden church.  Well, they've bricked it up now outside.  So we have our 
Greek Churches in Lowell.  That's how we got four churches.  Hopefully they're through 
splitting,  because uh, you know, it was kind of rough ah, being in business.  Everytime each one 
of these churches had a function ah, we were always hit up for a donation, or put an add in their 
year book, or whatever.  
[SHORT PAUSE ON TAPE]
D:  What members of the family, or did any members of the family work with you when you had 
management of the store?
G:  Well uh, it was my father, and my brother, and I.  When I came back from the army um, oh, 
two or three years later my brother and I bought the grocery store from my father.  My father was
about 75 years old at the time.  Um, he worked, he retired when he was about 75 years old.  I 
didn't believe he'd retire, but anyway that one Saturday night he just hung up his coat, his white 
coat and he declared that he had retired.  So ah, Monday we opened the store and it was kind of 
funny him not being there.  Tuesday was a little better.  Wednesday around twelve o'clock the 
door opened, he came in, he says "don't say anything."  Put on his white coat and he went back to
work.  
D&T:  [Laughter]
G:  Found out he couldn't stay at home with my mother.
D&T:  [Laughter]
G:  [Laughter]  She was always yelling at him, "  Pick up your feet.  Ah, do this, do that."  So he 
said, "The heck with this."  [Laughter] So he came back to the store.  He said, "I'll work for 
nothing.  I don't want anybody to say anything.  I just don't want to ah, I just can't stay home."  
So he worked until he was 91 years old.  And he would have worked even longer, but he fell 
down and broke his hip.  He did live ah, he did walk five days later after they put the pin in his 
ah, um, socket there.  And ah, he lived to be 98 years years old.  I had another uncle who died 
four months before he was 100.  I have another uncle ah, who was ah, Mayor of Portsmouth, 
New Hampshire in ah, in 1950's.  He is still living, and he's about, he claims he's not 100 years 
old but ah, he is over 100 years old.  Because somebody had made the family tree and ah, the 
date that he was 100 years old was 198-, er, 1887, he was born.  My father was born in 1883.  
And he had to be, because my father, there were eight.  My grandfather had eight sons and one 
daughter.  So in the ah, the dates that were on there, they were all a couple of years apart.  So my 
uncle Andrew was ah, probably ah, he was, it was my Uncle John, my Father, Dimetrios, then 
my Uncle Bill.  Then it was my Uncle Peter, and ah, my Uncle Andrew, my Uncle George, um, 
then there was another one that died young.  His, he was the only one who didn't have a Christian
name.  His name was  [unclear?].  And I still have an Uncle Charles that ah, is living in Greece.  
He's about 91 now.  My grandfather was, died at 98.  Ah, he was going somewhere and he 
wanted to take a short cut.  So he climbed over a wall and he fell down and hurt his kidneys.  
And that's how he died, at 99.  
D:  So ah, almost all of your father's brothers ended up coming to the, to America.
G:  Of the eight brothers ah, let me see.  Um, my Uncle John came to America, my Uncle Bill, 
my Father, my Uncle Andrew, my Uncle George and my Uncle Peter, that's six.  Five of them 
stayed.  My Uncle John who was the oldest went back to Greece.  He couldn't, he didn't want to 
work that hard.  But when he got back to Greece it didn't keep him from writing back, writing 
here for money.  
D:  Ah ha.
G:  Ah, they did send money to Greece.  Ah, to my grandfather.  Ah, they bought a lot of land in 
Greece.  Of course none of it belongs to us.  It belongs to whoever was there.  And ah, they own 
quite a bit of property in ah, in the village.  And they won't sell it.  Ah, property in Greece is not 
something that you sell.  It's the only thing of any value.  When the government changes, or 
when the money is ah, changed and has no value.  So land is the only thing that, it's the most 
valuable thing that you could own in Greece.
T:  What were people's goals when they came over here?  
G:  Well!  Ah, none of them came to America to stay.  They came here to work, ah, make some 
money, because this was the promised land.  I mean this was America.  You found money on the 
streets.  There's, there's a story.  Maybe it's a joke but ah, somebody got off the boat and ah, saw 
a five dollar bill on the ground and he said, "what do you think I'm going to pick you up from 
now."  Course he never saw another one again.  But the, the story was that the streets were paved
with gold.  And they thought that they were going to come ah, come here and work a couple of 
years and make enough money to go back and buy the choice piece of land back in the village 
and build a nice house, or start a business and live good.  Um, none of them came here with the 
idea, with the ah, belief, with the ah, idea that they were going to stay.  But once they got here 
things changed.  Ah, we had ah, they had depression, they had ah, they got married, they were 
started raising families.  Where are they going to go?  Um, were they going to go back to their 
village?  The wife came from another village.      
    
T:  Ah ha.
G:  The children didn't want to go back to Greece.  They wanted to stay in America.  So ah, then 
the war came along, the Second World War and ah, they just realized that this was the place to 
be.  
T:  Did they transfer those expectations of buying property rather than going back to (--)
G:  Yeah, it wasn't until they realized, when they started getting married and raising families, 
that's when they started buying property.  Other than some of the businessmen that bought 
property.  Like my father owned the place that he, and he owned a, the house that he lived in.  
But most of the people, even my father, he didn't ah, he never intended to stay.  But then of 
course once he had a business here and the roots grew without them realizing it, into the 
American soil.
T:  Ah ha.  Ah ha.  Well, I guess counting it a present then of, ah, I guess the second great change 
that's taking place in the Greek neighborhood has been with the influx of I guess the 
Puerto-Ricans and the South East Asians.
G:  Well!  By the time ah, the Puerto-Ricans and the South East Asians came into the, what so 
called Greek area, the only Greeks left there were the old people that still wanted to stay in that 
neighborhood, or, and now there are a lot of ah, Greeks living in the housing project, which they 
were not in at the beginning.  A lot of the older people ah, the only thing that was left in that area 
were the Greek businesses.  Like my store and ah, some of the other, the bakery, and some of the,
but it's the Greek district now more or less in name only.  And it's the church that's there that 
keep, that the memory lingers on.  Ah, there's a couple of businesses left that you might say, two 
or three businesses left that still have, there's the Greek ah, ah, that are related to Greek ah, 
products.  Ah, there's one market left, that is what you might say entirely Greek in concept, The 
Cosmopolitan Market.  As a matter of fact, my father told me that he had worked there before he 
had opened his store.  So it was, it is the true, it was one of the first Greek Markets and the last 
remaining Greek Market.  Ah, the Greek Bakery, The Olympus Bakery, and ah the Greek, couple
of Greek Restaurants, The Olympia and The Athenian Corner.  The Athenian Corner it's much 
newer than the Olympia.  The Olympia ah, not the present owners, but the original owners goes 
back.  [Someone in the background calls out Bills name.  Bill answers "yeah."] The original 
owner goes back into the in the twenties.  
T:  What do, what do people say about the changes that they've seen in (--)
G:  Well!  Ah, a lot of people say ah, still say today, ah, gee!  Ah, it's too bad you closed your 
market.  We miss it ah, it was ah, it was um, a landmark ah, a Greek um, specialty store.  Um, but
things changed.  The products that the people ate when they were younger, they can't eat when 
they're older, because a lot of the cheese and the ah, smoked fishes and the different things that 
they can't eat it because ah, it's their age won't let them.  Um, the other products we specialized 
in the Spring Lamb, you know, small lambs.  They don't kill them that small any more.  Ah, it 
was hard to get the quality products that we were used too.  And rather than ah, um, become, 
handling mediocre products, and because ah, we were getting older and ah, none of ah, none of 
my children were interested in the business.  It was hard to run it.  The things that we had to, the 
paper work in keeping, you know tax forms and ah, all the book keeping which for a store that 
size ah, it wasn't worth that kind of book keeping.  And yet it was necessary.  It uh, it was a 
combination of things that we just decided to close the store.  
T:  And the decision to go into art full time?  How did that (--)
G:  Well!  Uh, I, as I said before, I went to art school ah, when I got out of high school.  And um, 
I never intended to spend all my life in the grocery store.  But when I got out of the army my 
father was going to have an operation.  I went to help out, and then, I got married and I started 
having children.  And ah, I was there for thirty years, 1954 to 1984.  1984 is when we closed the 
store.  Um, we didn't make a big issue out of it.  We just quietly closed.  Sold out everything.  I 
didn't put any adds in the paper that we were going out of business.  Um, people still come to 
Lowell now and they'll look for us, wondering what happened to us.  But um, I do enjoy 
painting, and I like to paint.  Ah, when I made platters for parties er, it was one way to express 
my art, because I used to decorate them and I'd make cakes and I'd paint portraits on them with 
food coloring, or pictures of the church, or something.  So ah, I miss the people.  Ah, the 
customers the, the comradery I had with other businessmen in the area.  But everything changes. 
Ah (--)
D:  Had you kept your, your hand in with painting over the years too?
G:  Well, I hadn't painted for about twenty years.  I lost, in 1975 I started painting what I call 
fairly regular.  At least once a week for a couple of hours.  Ah, in 1979 I won first prize at the 
Copley Society in Boston for one of my paintings and ah, since then I've been getting into shows 
and ah, now I'm a little more serious about ah, cont(--) furthering my career in art.  
D:  What kind of media do you work in these days?
G:  I'm working mostly in water colors.  Ah, I'm thinking of going back to oils.  Although I detest
the thought of cleaning the brushes.  That's the main reason I left it in the first place.  Ah, when I 
paint I end up with two fists full of brushes and then you have to wash them and clean them, take
the paint out.  Where as in water color you just swish the brush in water and its clean.  And it 
doesn't smell, but you can only do so much with water color.  You can get results, certain results 
that you can't get with oils and vice-versa.  You can get results from oils that you can't with water
color.  So I ah, I really enjoy it.  I'm glad I, I'm able to paint.  Ah, finally.  
D:  What kinds of themes are most prevalent in your work?
G:  Ah, up until now I've been mostly portraying the city.  Um, the building part of it.  Ah, the 
buildings.  I ah, I would like now to ah, paint in oils and I want to ah, put more of the people in 
it.  Um, also I'd like to paint a little more expressively rather than just what I see in front of me.  
T:  [Unclear] put the people in it.  What er (--)
G:  Well!  I would like to paint, do paintings using people as the main subject rather than the city 
scape.  You know, the street scenes, or individual buildings.  
T:  Portraits or?
G:  No.  Not portraits.  Ah, people doing something.  Like let's say ah, um, a group of people 
walking or ah, like St.  Patrick's Day ah, I took pictures of groups of youngsters with the ah, the 
caps on and you know having a good time.  Ah, something like that.
D:  Have there been other Lowell artists that you've paid attention to over the years?  
G:  Um, well the most notable um, a little before my time was ah, Charles Demetropoulos.  He 
was pretty good.  Ah, he had moved to Boston.  Um, his specialty was Copley Square.  He used 
to paint, they called him Mr. Copley Square.  Um, [someone comes into the room.  Doug says 
that's all right don't worry about it.] Before him was ah Whistler.  Um, he's about the most 
famous Lowell artist.  Of course he didn't claim to come from Lowell.  He said, "He would be 
bor,"  somebody reminded him he came from Lowell.  He said,"  I will be born where I please to 
be born, and I do not please to be born in Lowell."  [Laughter.]
D:  Why don't we put an end to this?
G:  Okay.  Fine.  
T:  You want an end to it?
D:  Well a temporary halt.
T:  I'm finishing progress here.
G:  You must be sick of listening to me.  
T:  No, not at all.
D:  Is there anything we forgot to ask you that you'd like to talk about?  
T:  Yeah.
G:  Not that I know of.  [Person in background is talking]
TAPE COMES TO END