American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_072 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Tavarelli, Paola: IAW-PT-FO71889 to IAW-PT-FO92089 
m4(U - 
•T- 'Fo`71y•le1.,4 
TIAW-PT-F071889.A=We meet Emiddio at the A-1 Imported Groceries store where 
David, Doug, Russell and I stop after lunch. He is one of the coowners of the 
store. I ask him where he is from and he says that he was born in Naples and 
came to this country when he was one year old. He was named after his 
grandfather who died 9 days after Emiddio was born. His mother almost named 
him Frank, but then decided to wait until the grandfather died, so the baby 
was not named until then. 
Asked if he liked Naples , he said "Yes, if you like a bunch of old ladies 
kissing you." 
With customers he prefers to speak English , while at home he speaks Italian 
(Neapolitan, I suppose). 
He married a girl of Italian background because he believes "It's better to 
stick with your own kind." 
I believe he could be an interesting informant: his "look" is very American 
but his ideas about family life seem very different! I'm going to try to set 
up an interview with him and possibly with his parents. 
T IAW-PT-F071989.A= 
I arrived at the Ciolino's house (Spanish style) at 11 o'clock. 
The youngest 
daughter (16 years old) came to open the door and I waited in the kitchen for 
Grace, who arrived followed by another woman (her sister) and a child. Grace 
was from the beginning very understanding about my need to get a good 
recording: she sent her grandchild to the park with her sister; she turned the 
dishwasher off; she suggested to close the door-window to shut the traffic 
noise off. During the interview, first with Grace alone, then with her 
husband, we were intekrupted several times either by the phone ringing or by 
somebody using the phone in the kitchen. 
In these occasions Grace asked me to 
turn the tape-recorder off, which I did. 
After the first half hour of the interview, a relative (son in law, I believe) 
came in and started to speak to Grace in Sicilian. He spent some time in the 
kitchen, prepared some coffee with the "Napoletana," the old style coffee 
maker that I had not seen in a while. I mentioned the wonderful aroma of the 
coffee and they offered me a cup which I accepted. It was the best coffee I 
have tasted in a long time!' 
The husband, Domenico (Dominic), came in and for a while listened to us while 
"making noise" with food and plastic bags near the refrigerator. After a while 
I invited him to sit with us around the table and I started to ask him 
questions about fishing. I had the impression that he was not to happy to talk 
about his job with a woman, but he talked a lot about his family history. 
other people came in: the woman with Grace's grandchild (named Joe after his 
paternal grandfather; the other grandchild was named Dominic after the 
maternal grandfather); another relative, a young woman. 
It seems that the 
Ciolino's house is the center of the extended family. It seems worthed to 
interview the other members of the family (Grace's mother in law for the St. 
Joseph altar; the sister in law for the 'exposition' of her daughter's 
trousseau; the son in law because he works in the "stone" business; the father 
in law who was a fisherman too; Grace's daughter, who got married to an Italo-
American; Grace's son, who did not follow his father's steps and is now 
working in the real estate business.) 
Grace offered to be my 'chaperon' in San Pedro. I accepted her help and I will 
ask her to take me to the vegetable gardens that Italian-Americans cultivate; 
to the park where Italian-Americans play bocce every Sunday, and to any other 
place that she thinks of. 
Tonight,, at seven, I will meet her at the Italian-
American Club where she will introduce me to the other members of the 
community and then we will go to the house of her father in law who is coming 
back tonight from Terrasini, Sicily. 
Before leaving the house, I asked to see the pictures in the living-room and 
Grace showed me the whole house. In the living-room there are color pictures 
of the daughter's wedding, of her three children in different moments of their 
lives (graduation, wedding), of her grandchildren, of herself with her 
husband. There is a picture of a woman with her three little kids dressed in 
old customs: I asked who she was and Grace told me that was herself with her 
kids in a photo store of Ports o'Call! 
They also had a picture of Terrasini, 
the Sicilian town where they come from, but one of the grandchildren broke the 
glass of the frame with a ball and they have not replaced it yet. 
I leave at one twenty knowing that I have met a very interesting woman and a 
family who plays a central role in the Sicilian community of San Pedro. 
-t
-,qu• -•T- •o ``7 a3 `•- 4 
TIAW-PT-F072389.A=Around five o'clock I arrive at Mary Star and I talk for a 
while with a young girl in the office of the church. She tries to put me in 
contact with father De Dominici through the phone , but we cannot reach him. 
She tells me that in a hour he is going to say Mass with a young Italian 
priest from Sicily who is visiting some relatives in San Pedro. Grace Ciolino 
already told me about this young priest, nephew of Joe (Pino) Pizzo, for whom 
there is going to be a special celebration at the Italian American club 
tonight. I wait in the office for a while and then I go into the sacristy 
where people are prepAring for Mass . I greet the mother of the girl who got 
married yesterday, Mrs. Bottola , and Giovanna Perone, who was sitting at our 
table at the wedding reception . They introduce me to father Lorenzo De 
Dominici , who affter some reluctance , gives me an appointment for the next 
morning. I'm also introduced to Philip Mazzella , president of the Italian 
Catholic Federation , who is in charge of the Saint John Joseph celebration on 
August 19th . I make an appointment with him for next tuesday. 
I go into the church where people are starting to arrive. I greet many people 
and feel that at this point I have to stay for the Mass . The church starts to 
fill up. I notice the youth group who played bocce at the park yesterday; all 
the Sicilians from Terrasini (the young priest visiting is from Terrasini); 
many faces I have seen either at the club or at the wedding. 
At the end of Mass, outside the church , the atmosphere is really Italian: 
everybody greets and kisses each other, everybody speaks outloud. Two 
Americans try to enter the church : they look around smiling and say "is this 
the Italian crowd or what?" 
Most of the people who attended this Mass drive to the Italian American club 
for dinner . I drive there too, where David , Doug, and John are already waiting 
(see IAW-PT-F072389.B). 
T IAW-PT-F072589.A=I spend three hours with Grace Ciaramitaro. Before sitting 
at the table on the dining room where we have the interview she shows me the 
entire house which very proudly she defines as "really Italian." The steps 
that take to the living-room are covered with white marble, as well as the 
living-room floor. In the entrance there is a big clock which she says is 
Italian too and a bust of Julius Caesar. In the living room a big crystal 
chandelier hangs from the ceiling over an elaborated mosaic table. 
In her bedroom, on the dresser near the t.v. set she keeps a little statue of 
Baby Jesus in painted plaster. She tells me that the statue protects the 
family, but in order for it to "work" you must receive it as a present, you 
cannot buy it yourself. 
I take some pictures of the statue and of some tablecloths that she bought in 
Italy, but I'm afraid there is not enough light. I tell her that eventually I 
will send Ken Light to take better pictures. 
The kitchen is very modern, in black and white. She makes Italian expresso and 
offers me home-made cookies with it. She shows me the frizer filled with home-
made pasta, basil, and other Italian ingredients. 
Grace dresses very fashionably and very young, I would say. She looks younger 
than her age and very energetic. She prefers to have the interview in Italian 
since her English is not too good. She is very active in the sicilian 
community and at the club. Many people referred me to her as the best cook in 
San Pedro and as the person who maintains many of the sicilian traditions. I 
am very interested in her knowledge about sicilian wedding traditions and 
especially in knowing more about the exposition of the trousseau that she had 
for her daughter. 
She gives me some pictures taken when the trousseau was 
exposed which I promise to bring back in a couple of days. (The interview is 
recorded on IAW-PT-AO13 and A014). 
17• rlF• 
T IAW-PT-F072789=Around 6;30 pm David, Doug, and I drive to the neighbourhood 
gardens to meet Goffredo, an Italian man who cultivates one of the plots. With 
him we find another man, Pasquale D'Ambrosio, friend of Goffredo, who worked 
as a bricklayer in Goffredo's company since he moved to San Pedro from 
Connecticut many years ago. Pasquale is 79 years old and retired but he still 
works building stone walls and other small bricklayer works if people call 
him. He spends much of his time helping Goffredo in the garden. We walk 
together in the beautiful garden where every kind of vegetables are 
cultivated. Recently the two men build a fence around it to protect it from 
people who steal their produce. While Doug draws the layout of the garden and 
David takes pictures I talk in Italian with Pasquale. He is a very charming 
man who looks younger than he is. His English is very poor and he enjoys 
speaking in Italian with me. He tells me about his life. He even shows me a 
letter he recently received from his brother back in Frosinone, Italy, where 
he was born, which he carries in his wallet. Pasquale lived in Connecticut 
with his first wife who was also Italian. He came to San Pedro on vacation and 
decided to stay when Goffredo offered him a job. His wife died several years 
ago and he is now living with a Mexican woman, much younger than he is, but 
who is sick and in need of constant medical care. Because of this he did not 
marry her, otherwise he would have to pay for her medical expenses which he 
cannot afford. 
The two men offer me a red and a white carnations which they grow in the 
garden. I pick a little bunch of basil and I end up walking around with the 
colors of the Italian flag in my hands! We sit under the "Casa dell'amore," 
(house of love) a small but which Pasquale build with cheap wood and recicled 
material just outside the garden. Under the but there is a table and a bench, 
a telephone, a mirror, and a wooden colored figure of a boy sitting on a 
barrel drinking wine. Pasquale is proud of his creation: he shows me around 
pretending to call somebody at the telephone (which obviously doesn't work), 
combing his hair in front of the mirror, showing that nothing is missing from 
his Casa dell'Amore. The two men use the but to rest in the shade when the sun 
is too hot or to eat their lunch. Coming into the garden we noticed also a 
street sign which says: "via delle palme," (palms street). Pasquale build the 
wooden sign and named the path that leads to the Italian garden "via delle 
palme" because there is a palm tree on the path. He tells me more about his 
family: he has a son who lives on the east coast and a mentally retarded 
daughter who lives in a nursing home near San Pedro. From what he tells me I 
gather that his life must have been very hard but his attitude is admirable 
and his spirit lively. We share a few cigarettes and enjoy this lovely place 
while the sun sets. 
TIAW-PT-F072889.A=Yesterday I made an appointment with Gina Di Bernardo 
Mazzella to watch the video her son took of the 1985 Saint Joseph's 
celebration at Mary Star. Gina's brothers own the Santa Maria boat. She came 
from Ischia when she was 16 years old and took care of her family since her 
mother died only nine months after their arrival in San Pedro. She has always 
been a housewife. Her first husband, an American, died several years ago. She 
remarried Philip Mazzella, whom Doug and I'interviewed a few days ago. 
When I arrive, around 10:00 am, she is babysitting her daughter's child. We 
sit in the family room and she turns the v.c.r. on. She is pretty busy with 
her grandchild so I decide not to turn the tape recorder on but to take notes 
while we watch the video together. I thought it was interesting to see the 
difference between the Saint Joseph's day celebrated at home by the Ciolino 
family (see IAW-PT-A003 and A004) and the same day celebrated at the church. 
The video starts with images of the kitchen near the auditorium at Mary Star 
where men and women talking in dialect (sicilian) are getting ready to fry 
squid for the celebration. The images move to the auditorium where the altar 
or table for Saint Joseph is set up. The statue of Saint Joseph is in the 
center with the food in front and around it. The amount of food displayed on 
the table is just amazing. The saint carries the baby and the lilium. At the 
sides of the statue there are the banners of Saint John Joseph society, and 
Saint Anne's society, the Italian Catholic Federation's banner, and the 
Slavonian's Valikin Gospel banner. The video shows the kitchen again this time 
full of squid to be cooked. 
The time for the procession arrives. A man takes the statue down the altar 
while the band (outside the auditorium) starts to play. Several people arrange 
the flowers on the saint and the ribbon on which the devotees are going to pin 
dollar bills. 
The images show the street where two men carry the Italian and American flags. 
The band (20 musicians circa) plays first the American then the Italian 
anthems.The people carrying the flags and the banners proceed in front, 
followed by the women of the Saint Joseph's society dressed in their light 
blue uniform. The altar boys and the priest follow. Then comes the statue 
carried on the shoulders by four men. The procession goes from the auditorium 
through the parking lot into the church where the statue is put at the side of 
the main altar. The Mass is in English. It's 12:00 am. 
When the Mass is over the video shows the three people playing the roles of 
Saint Joseph, Mary, and the Baby exiting the church. The statue gets out of 
the church last. The trio knocks three times at the door of the auditorium 
(you don't see it in the video but Gina tells me that this is what happens). 
The statue is now back in the auditorium in front of the tables set up for 
dinner. People light candles in front of the Saint Joseph statue, which is now 
loaded with money. The priest blesses the food. Gina tells me that the trio 
and the priest eat before everybody else, but we don't see it in the video. 
The food is bought by the ICF with the money collected during previous 
festivals. The cookies are donated by the devotees. Everybody sits at the long 
tables and starts to eat. The band plays Italian music (we hear "0 sole mio"). 
Shots of people eating and having a good time. A lady goes around with a red 
handkerchief and puts it around the head of many people, just for fun. At the 
entrance of the auditorium there is a table which sells candles, rosaries, and 
holy pictures with the image of the saint. 
When the video is over Gina and I chat a little but the baby keeps her busy 
most of the time. I ask to use the bathroom and notice in a corner of the 
corridor between the kitchen and the bedrooms a little shrine lit up by a 
small light bulb with a small statue of saint John Joseph and another one of 
the Virgin Mary. 
I ask Gina if I can borrow the video and get a copy of it for the Library. She 
gives me directions to her son's video store where I go after I leave her 
house. 
TAW 
T IAW-PT-F072889.B=This morning I stopped at Al grocery to ask if it is 
possible to schedule an interview with one of the co-owners of the store. 
Anthony Matera, son of the original owner, tells me to come back in the 
afternoon when business is slower. He is very polite with me but I perceive in 
his words a patronizing tone (he calls me "honey!") so I decide to ask one of 
the guys to come with me, just in case he is the type of man that does not 
take an interview seriously if conducted by a woman! 
David comes with me aAd I ask him to conduct the interview. Anthony is a good 
talker. We sit in his small office, David and I on two chairs while Anthony 
opens two drawers of the desk and sits on them. Cars and women are his big 
passions in life and even if he is still working in the grocery store, he 
seems ready to let his son and the new young partner, Emiddio Ungaro, take 
over most of the responsabilities. 
He wants to keep the business a family 
affair, a place where people can find known faces and feel comfortable talking 
about their own personal lives.tHe shows a great admiration and respect for 
his father, who started the"business, and wants to keep things running in the 
same way he used to. 
We ask Anthony to show us the store and describe the products he sells. I 
notice a big variety of olive oil, brands which I have never seen before such 
as Saint Joseph olive oil! I notice several brands of pasta but nothing too 
fancy (not the kind you find in the Los Angeles stores). He has big cartons of 
pasta on sale which his old customers appreciate. At the counter there is a 
big variety of meat and cold cuts, cheese and southern Italian delicatessen. 
In the room in the back they make sausages and cook food. Recently, after an 
inspection of the hygiene department they had to clean the walls of the back 
room but you can still see on the walls drawings of different kinds such as 
crosses and cars. He explains that everytime an employee would leave they 
would draw a cross on the wall; or when his car "died," they draw it on the 
wall. Apparently the wall was covered with the history of the place! 
{w - 
-
T-IAW-PT-F072889.C=I arrive at the Di Leva house at 8:00 pm. Neal Di Leva was 
racommended to us by Phil Mazzella, president of the Italian catholic 
federation of San Pedro, because he is a active member of the federation and 
was the promoter of the celebration of saint John Joseph since its beginning 
in 1984. Last year he shot a video of the celebration, and on the phone he 
agreed to show it to me tonight. 
The house has the typical Italian red roof and at the side of the main door 
there is a ceramic tile with a Ischian landscape painted on it and with "casa 
Di Leva" (Home of Di Leva) written on it. Husband and wife (Anna Di Bernardo) 
let me in and for half an hour we sit in the living room watching some 
pictures of the saint's celebrations taken in the past five years. Neal 
doesn't want me to start tape recording. First he wants to know if what he has 
to say interests me. He seems really concerned not to bore me with what he 
knows. I reassure him that I'm interested in his version of things and finally 
his wife and I are able to convince him that his story is worthed recording. 
We move to the family room where they have the t.v. set and V.C.R. but before 
starting to watch the video I ask him to repeat what he had told me before, 
but this time with the tape-recorder on. Then we watch the video, still with 
the tape-recorder on. 
See IAW-PT-AO15 
-1•4u,) - 
P 
T 
- 
Forl •l 71? `% 
TIAW-PT-F072989=Andrea (Andy) Briguglio and his wife Margherita invited all of 
us for dinner to inaugurate the forno (brick oven) that Andy just finished to 
build in his backyard. Russell and I get there around four o'clock after our 
interview with the old sicilian man Ferdinando Di Bernardo . I enjoyed talking 
with the old man a lot but I'm exausted after three hours of interview during 
which I struggled trying to understand Ferdinando's strict sicilian dialect! 
Since I know that Doug has interviewed Andy before and has documented the 
building of the oven with pictures and drawings, I try to relax and enjoy the 
evening and mainly act as a friend more than a fieldworker! I spend some time 
chatting with Margherita who, I discover, is my age (30 years old) but has 
already two children . She came to San Pedro when she was a child. Her mother 
was the one who wanted to leave Ischia because her husband was drinking and 
gambling and she hoped that the move would change him . 
Margherita started to 
work very early in her life as a sales clerk in a grocery store and she has 
been working there eversince . She has been suffering from back pain and 
recently took a leave from her work to recover , but does not know how to relax 
and works heavily in her house. Margherita and Andy don't seem to live a very 
social life in San Pedro: they had some problems in the past with relatives 
who did not help them in the moment of need, and they have cut their relations 
with them. I suspect that Andy's nervous temperament is the cause of their 
isolation. They seem very happy to have us there for dinner since they don't 
invite people to their house very often. 
Margherita shows me proudly her house, which they bought a few years ago. Andy 
did all the remodeling work and put the marble tiles on the floor. In the 
corridor that leads to the bedrooms there is a little shrine with a little 
statue of a saint (which I don 't recognize). She tells me that she is already 
buying trousseau items for her daughter. The last time she was in Italy she 
spent 2.500 dollars to buy a bedspread and an embroidered tablecloth which she 
keeps for her daughter 's wedding (her daughter is only 6 or 7 years old). 
I help her with the cooking while the men outside start the fire in the oven 
to make pizza while drinking wine or beer. I clean the vegetables to make a 
salad while she prepares some chicken cutlets with a coating of beaten egg and 
bread crumbs. Then she cuts onions, mushrooms, garlic, bell peppers, and 
anchovies for pizza . She uses the stove in the garage to fry the cutlets, so 
that the house does not smell from the frying oil. Meanwhile the first pizza 
is put in the oven. We are all excited to see the results but Andy is the most 
excited of all. Andy built many brick ovens in Italy but this is the first 
time he tries to build one with American building materials. He is afraid the 
oven is going to crack and the pizza is not going to taste as good as he 
wants, but the results are great and he shows his happiness. He wants to call 
his aunt right away to tell her about the success of his experiment. We try 
different kinds of topping on the pizzas. Margherita's favorite one is the one 
she calls "faccia vecchia," (old face) with anchovies, onions, and oil. It's 
delicious! The kids are excited too; a neighbor comes in and is given a piece 
of pizza too. By the time we sit at the table for dinner nobody is really 
hungry since we have been tasting several pieces of pizza during the 
afternoon. Andy seems a little out of control: he has been drinking all 
afternoon and he feels free to joke heavily with everybody . I decide to leave 
soon after dinner and go back to the hotel with Ken, while David, Doug, and 
Russell stay a little longer. I feel kind of sorry for Margherita and the kids 
who have to put up with a not too sober husband and father but she seems used 
to his behavior and knows how to handle him. 
7 
- 
•T- F0qo7Wc•.,¢ / 
l 
T IAW-PT-F090789.A= 
Russell and I spend sometime on the phone arranging interviews. I call Aldo 
Viarengo, who was recommended by the journalist of the Gilroy Dispatch, and 
make an appointment for saturday morning. Russell calls Ernesto Fortino, who 
owns a winery on Hecker Pass highway, and Ernesto invites us to meet him right 
away. We prepare the equipment and get ready for the first interview in 
Gilroy. 
We arrive at the Fortino winery around 11,30 am. Ernesto's son-in-law is 
working in the tasting room; he directs us to Ernesto who is working on a 
fork-lift. We introduce ourselves; he asks me where I come from. He was born 
in Cosenza, Calabria and came to this country when he was 23 years old. 
He takes us into the tasting room and shows us the caps with the inscription 
"Italian American Heritage Foundation." He shows his pride in being Italian-
American by promoting the Foundation's activities. He starts to talk about his 
life and I ask him if we can find a place where we can sit down and interview 
him. He takes us into a big kitchen where his daughter Terry (Teresa, 21 years 
old) is cleaning vegetables'. She will be in and out of the room while we 
interview her father, unpacking laces and flowers for the "new European 
Boutique" she just opened 1 month ago next door to the tasting room. We also 
meet Ernesto's son, Gino, who works in the family business too. 
Ernesto is a very nice man. He shows a lot of patience while Russell and I 
struggle over technical problems with the recording equipment. Then he starts 
to talk about his life and we interrupt him very seldom, since his narration 
is pretty detailed and interesting. Around 1,30 we go into the Deli where 
Terry is slicing coppa, mortadella, turkey and prosciutto for our sandwiches. 
She puts the cold cuts in a tray, slices different types of bread while 
Ernesto gets some of his best wine. Terry asks if we want any mustard or 
mayonnaise. When I reply that I eat my sandwich plain she says that they 
eat 
sandwiches the same way, the Italian way. 
Russell takes some pictures of Ernesto proudly holding a bottle of his wine. 
While we eat an older man comes in to sell onions and Terry buys some of them 
and gives him in exchange.a bottle of wine. The family knows the man and 
usually buys staff from him. Ernesto comments "we buy 2 dollar worth of onions 
and give him back a 5 dollar bottle of wine!" Terry explains that she gave him 
a bottle because the last time they bought something from him, they did not 
give him anything. 
During lunch we ask Ernesto if he picks the grapes by hand or with the new 
machine. He says that he prefers to hand-pick his grapes because you never 
know what you are going to find when the machine picks them. With a disgusted 
expression on his face he mentions rats and snakes as the typical animals who 
end up smashed with the grapes. 
When we are finished with lunch we follow Ernesto --and later his son-- into 
the several buildings they built during the years for their growing wine 
production. I hold the tape-recorder while Russell takes pictures in the 
crushing room, the fermentation room, and the storage room. 
While Russell goes around with the camera I go into the boutique for wedding 
favors next to the tasting room where I briefly interview Terry about her new 
activity and about her recent wedding (may '89). 
The tape ends in the middle 
of our conversation. She tells me that Italian-Americans usually give money as 
a wedding present, a lot of money; they received enough money to put a down-
payment on a house (the same pattern of Italian-American weddings in San 
Pedro). 
Then she goes on saying that sometimes it is difficult to be part of an 
Italian family. Her American friends for example very often do not understand 
the importance and influence that her family plays in her life. Even if Terry 
is married now, her parents know everything about her and she tells everything 
to them. She did not go away to college because she felt she had to stay near 
the family, since her brother was away. She started to work in the family 
business when she was 7 years old and by 9 she was already handling the 
register. 
She describes her wedding as "a big Italian wedding," with 350 people 
She had 
an Italian designed white dress, confetti and bomboniere (favors) in the form 
of a christal parfume bottle, and she gave presents to all the guests at the 
wedding. 
Before we leave, the mother Mary (Mariella) arrives. She does not have time to 
talk to us today and Russell and I feel tired after 4 hours of interviewing. 
The whole family invites us to the promotion-party they have next saturday for 
their best clients. We leave around 4 pm. 
-L AW -••= 
TIAW-PT-F090889.A= 
At 9 o'clock Russell and I drive to the house of Al Gagliardi , for thirty 
years sheriff 's deputy for the Santa Clara County and now retired . His wife 
shows us into the living room and then disappears into the kitchen. During the 
interview Al told us mainly about his father Frank, about his work as a 
cabinet maker and farmer and about his dream of buying land. He does not talk 
with much enthusiasm about his own life as'a sheriff's deputy, a job for which 
he applied when he came back after the war and did not know what to do. When 
we ask to see his backyard and we walk outside his personality seems to change 
and enthusiastically he shows us his prunes drying in the sun, his herbs 
growing in pots, his fruit trees, his pet-rabbit , his bonsai trees, and his 
collection of street signs. Russell takes pictures of him holding his mother's 
rolling pins , one of which was probably made by his father. He shows us his 
father's cabinet maker's tools, some of which he still uses for his wood work. 
This man, who choose to be American in public , shows an attachment to his 
Italian roots in his private life. 
-r w 
-PT— FGcfoff 01, 4 
T IAW-PT-F090989.A=Aldo and Aurora Viarengo receive us in their living room. 
Along the hallway between the living room and the bedrooms there is a gallery 
of family portraits and on the floor there are albums of photographs that they 
will show us during the interview. 
Aurora says she is Swiss and probably thinks that we are not interested in her 
story, so we clip the lavaliere microphone to Aldo's shirt. We realize during 
the interview that her family moved to Switzerland from northern Italy and 
then to the States and that she has as much to contribute as Aldo to the 
interview. 
She put together an album of family photos and documents which we take with us 
to copy and she has been working on the family tree for a long time. 
When we go into the garden Aldo tells us he just made some wine to show his 
son how to do it. He shows us his father's bocce balls, which he still uses 
once on a while. He says that even if he lived in the city for a long time he 
is still "a farmer at heart," and his garden shows it. The gate which 
separates the garden from the backyard is made of Venetian blind slats painted 
with the colors of the Italian flag! 
When we leave he points to the old plow and wine press from his father's farm 
which now decorate the front yard of his house. 
TIAW-PT-F090989.B= 
Theresa Filici, whom we interviewed yesterday, called us back this morning. 
She wants us to go back to her house to pick up a bag of figs that she 
prepared for us. When we arrive she shows us some pictures of her father's 
ranch that we take to copy. Then she shows us the tools she used when she was 
working at the cannery. She takes a pear and shows us how to get the seeds out 
without ruining the shape of the fruit. Russell takes picture of the whole 
process. She even offers to give us one of the tools but we tell her that we 
will eventually contapt her in the future. 
•/4'Q)- TIT- FoC/ a?FT L. 
TIAW-PT-F090989 .C=After lunch Russell and I decide to stop at the Porcella 
Music store on Monterey street which was recommended by Aldo Viarengo this 
morning. We introduce ourselves to David Porcella who runs the store. He tells 
us that his father George, from Genova, opened this same store in 1888 as a 
clothing store and then gradually made half of the store a music store . David, 
a musician like his father , completed the conversion when he took over. The 
same shelves that his father used to store'clothing are used now by David for 
the instruments. 
We notice two bass drums on a high shelf: one shows a painting of a Columbus' 
caravel, the other is inscribed with the words "Geo 
Porcella's Pep Band/The 
Gimkana Town." George played mainly big band music , but he knew also Italian 
music which he played at Italian weddings. 
David shows us the store and the backyard where he grows some vegetables. He 
is going to talk with his cousin and his mother to arrange a convenient time 
for an interview. 
-fir- Fo clv9 Tct. -• 
T IAW-PT-F090989.D=When we arrive at the Fortino's winery the party is already 
under way. The tasting room is full of people, tasting and buying the half-
priced wine. Terry Fortino, Ernesto's daughter, and her husband, together with 
other family members are selling the wine. Mary, Ernesto's wife is supervising 
the food preparation in the kitchen adjacent to the tasting room. Six women 
(three generations) are working in the kitchen: I meet Ernesto's mother 
(Teresa), Ernesto's sister and two cousins 
and Dora Ignami, 21 years old who 
recently married Vince Fortino, Ernesto's nephew. Two big pots full of water 
are ready to boil 40 pounds of pasta. Grandmother Teresa is melting some 
butter to add to the pesto sauce prepared in advance by Mary and Terry. Three 
big bowls of salad are ready. Large trays of fruit are also ready to go. 
Ernesto is outside slicing bread and getting the Santa Maria steaks ready for 
the barbecue. He wears an apron which says "Sicilians are sensational." He is 
Calabrese, but having married a Sicilian woman he became "sicilian by 
injection" as he tells us. 
He introduces me to an Italian man, Mario Scaletti, around 60 years old, who 
talks to me for a long time. He lives in San Francisco and has known the 
Fortinos for a long time. He worked in advertising for the wine industry and 
now writes articles for American and European magazines and newspapers "more 
for pleasure than for money" he says. He really admires Ernesto and his 
success in the wine business. When I ask him if he thinks that it is the 
family nature of the business that made it successful he replies that the key 
to success is in investing the money in the right way. Ernesto started from 
nothing but was never afraid to reinvest the little money he made at the 
beginning and slowly build up what he has now. Evidently he considers Ernesto 
as one of the Italians who made it in America. 
I ask him if he belongs to some Italian associations and he tells me a long 
story about the Sons of Italy. In his opinion, the best Italians once belonged 
to the Sons of Italy, but in the last 10 years things have changed, have 
become more political, and many of the "best Italians" are no longer active in 
the organization. Mario himself run for president of the San Francisco branch 
of the Sons of Italy, but, his election was boycotted by some members and he 
decided not to participate anymore. 
Mario tells me about his father who was a well known sculptor in Rome during 
the fascist regime. He received a gold medal from Mussolini for his work. When 
I ask him the reason why he came to the States, Mario is vague and changes the 
subject. 
Russell and Ken bring me some antipasto (cold cuts and a little piece of 
pizza) and a glass of wine. People are eating, drinking, and talking all 
around us while Ernesto and his brother-in-law start to barbecue the steaks. 
Russell and I go to the tasting room and buy two cases of red wine. It seems 
the minimum we can do to repay the Fortino for inviting us to a party for 
which the guests had to pay 25 dollars. 
People start to get in line for the food. Tables covered with white paper are 
set up in every room of the winery. Ernesto and all the members of the family 
who worked hard this evening sit around a table outside the winery. We leave 
around 8:30, just when the rock band starts to play and people begin to 
dance. 
• 
T- Fo i 
T IAW-PT-F091089.A= 
At 8:30 am Russell, Ken, and I arrive at the church and enter the kitchen 
where a group of men wearing aprons are defrosting squid which is going to be 
fried and sold at the festival later on. Everybody seems to know who we are, 
since yesterday David and Doug told them we were going to be there. The men 
are all active in one Italian-American organization or another: some of them 
belong to the Italian Catholic Federation,'others to the Sons of Italy. They 
offer us coffee and doughnuts, while they continue to prepare things in the 
big kitchen. I say thAt it's nice to see men in the kitchen instead of women, 
and one of them replies: "we are Sicilians, the men drive, the women sit in 
the back." Another man comments: "Yes, they sit in the back to give you 
directions". 
I walk into the adjacent hall with Tony Di Gerolamo, who identifies himself as 
Sicilian, and he shows me the hall with a great sense of pride . Last night 
they had the election of the Santa Rosalia queen. In the past the girl elected 
was the one who sold more tickets for some sort of lottery, but this year, not 
to create antagonism among the girls they decided to draw lots. Another man 
comes in to show another man how to carry the Italian flag in the procession. 
Meanwhile the float that will carry the statue of Santa Rosalia arrives and 
stops in front of the Royal Chapel of Saint Carlo di Borromeo (apparently one 
of the oldest church in California). The float is decorated with white, blue 
and gold plastic 'skirting .' Some women dressed in traditional customs arrange 
flowers on the float and chat in a mixture of English and Sicilian. More 
people arrive . There are some little girls dressed like angels (white dress 
and wings ). The statue of Santa Rosalia (patron saint of Sicilian fishermen) 
holds a crucifix in her right hand and a skull over a book on her left hand. 
She has a crown of flowers on her head. 
I go back to the kitchen where 6 men are working. Two of them are cutting the 
squid, then they put it in a big bowl where they pour milk. Another man 
prepares a mixture of flour, pepper, paprika, and salt in which the squid is 
coated. Another man is in charge of the frying. We are welcome to taste the 
first fried calamari. It's delicious. One of the men asks me if I am married 
and when I answer no , he says: "Eat more squid, you'll get married soon!' I 
laugh and ask why he says so. He mumbles something which I do not understand 
(something like "because they jump") and then adds that all the guys in 
kitchen have many kids because they ate squid all their lives. 
One of the men brings in a bottle of red wine 
I cannot refuse it since the 
guy says that you cannot eat calamari without drinking wine! It's 9:30 and I'm 
already drinking! 
I go out again . The procession is supposed to start in ten minutes, but it 
will start ten minutes late. The knights of Columbus are here; they will 
surround the Santa Rosalia float during the procession . The band is here. 
Everybody starts to take his/her place in the procession. A police car arrives 
and takes its place in front of the procession which is headed by a man 
holding a banner of Santa Rosalia with the motto "Ora Pro Nobis".He is 
followed by two women in red-white-and green skirts who hold the banner of the 
Sons of Italy. 
Another woman holds the banner which says "Santa Rosalia 
Branch n. 36/Monterey/established 1936." One man on the right holds the 
American flag, a man on the left holds the italian one. They are followed by 
the band (12 people). 
Behind the band there are two girls who hold flowers, one is dressed in white, 
the other has a blue cape. 
Behind them a group of kids carry a gold-painted string of fishing floats 
(buoys). Each kid has flowers in his hands. Behind them comes the float, 
surrounded by the knights of Columbus. Several "princesses" follow the float 
_EAGO - 
PT F 
o  l 
o 
FT . 
,4, a--
dressed in pink and blue satin dresses (gowns that bride-maids usually wear); 
the queen of Santa Rosalia Queen wears a cape and a crown. Some people follow 
the procession but not too many; mostly people walk aside the procession and 
the bulk of the crowd waits for it at the plaza. 
From Church street the procession turns left on Webster street, then right on 
Munras street, and right again on Alvarado street where more people are 
waiting on the sidewalks. 
I follow the procession near the band. I hear the conductor calling out a 
couple of songs ('Viva America'; 'Viva Santa Rosalia') but in general I did 
not recognize any familiar songs. 
We arrive at the Custom House Plaza around 10.30. People take place on the 
chairs in front of the stage where the Monsignor blesses the Saint. In the 
back of the stage there are free standing plywood panels: in the middle is 
written "Santa Rosalia Festival", and at the side are painted a girl and a guy 
dancing tarantella under grape vines. 
The plaza is ringed by booths that will later sell cannoli, pizza and pasta, 
sausages and calamari. Only- the booth that sells T-shirts is open, but they 
refuse to sell anything while Mass is celebrated. Some of the T-shirts say: 
"Happiness is being Italian (or Sicilian)"; "I love grandpa". Some of the 
buttons say: "the happiest people marry Italians"; "cocuzza power". 
The float takes its place on the right side of the stage. After the blessing, 
8 fishermen lift the statue and carry it down to the wharf where the names of 
the fishermen lost at sea are called. Then the "princesses" and the queen of 
Santa Rosalia are called to throw flowers into the water. The Monsignor 
blesses the fleet. 
The procession returns to the plaza for the raising of the American and 
Italian flags and the singing of the national anthems. Mass starts and it will 
last for almost an hour. Then people start to buy food (calamari unfortunately 
is not as good as that we ate in the morningl); many people go to play bocce 
in the adjacent courts. We eat something and then leave when a group of 
musicians starts to play American music on the stage. 
T IAW-PT-F091189.A= 
We arrive at the Bertolone's house around 5.45 pm after a stop at the flower 
shop where we buy 12 red roses for them. 
We were invited for dinner the first time we met the family at their 
restaurant on 10th street (Joe's restaurant). Since they opened the restaurant 
in 1980 they have always worked seven days a week. only recently (a month ago) 
they decided to keep the restaurant closed'on mondays and take a day off. It 
seems to me that they are so used to working all the time that they have not 
figured out a better way to spend their day off than inviting friends to their 
home for dinner. 
Joe comes to the door followed by Sonia, the oldest daughter (19 years old) to 
whom Russell gives the roses. We enter the kitchen where we meet the mother, 
Elvira, and Mona, a woman who helps them at the restaurant. Sonia and Joe take 
us into the parlor/living-room (in italian I would call it 'il salotto buono') 
a room which is evidently used by the family only on special occasions. The 
situation is very familiar to me. When I was doing fieldwork among Toscan 
farmers, they often opened up the 'salotto Buono' just to offer me a glass of 
wine or something to drink but it was evident that they spent most of their 
time in the big kitchen. 
Joe and Sonia proudly show us Elvira's collection of porcelain dolls on 
display in the parlor. She started the collection only one year ago but she 
has accumulated an incredible number of them already. The biggest one is 
Cinderella, followed by Sleeping Beauty. Sonia's favorite is a little doll 
made in Italy. Then they ask if we want to see the house. They show us the 
dining-room, evidently 
used also for special occasions. On the table a big 
gondola and the drawings for the town houses that the family is planning to 
build in Los Banos in the next future. 
Then Sonia shows us the bedrooms; she 
opens the doors of the four bedrooms and even of the bathroom. I know that 
David, Doug, and Russell are probably overwhelmed by this kind of behavior, 
but I recognize the typical italian way: you show your friends the way you 
live, you open up your house for them as a way to show them your true 
friendship. 
Sonia shares her room with her sister Mary (11 years old, the only one born in 
the U.S.); Michael (17 years old) has his own room, and an exchange student 
from Spain has his own room. In the parents' room Sonia opens the closet to 
show us her mother's sheets which,she brought from Italy. A big wooden rosary 
hangs on the wall on top of the bed which is covered by an Italian bedspread. 
Pictures of the kids, and of family weddings hang on the corridor's walls. Joe 
shows us a big poster of Sicily and points to the town in the center of the 
island (province of Caltanissetta) where he was born. Sonia teases him about 
his Sicilian origins; he replies that he is proud of being a Sicilian, and 
even if he moved from Sicily to Liguria (town of Andorra in the province of 
Savona) when he was a boy, he still considers himself a Sicilian. He tells us 
that he worked in England and in other parts of Italy before coming to the 
States in 1978. 
Sonia continues the tour of the house: she shows us the garage where the two 
Mercedes are parked (Joe gave Sonia a Mercedes when she graduated from high 
school), and then we go into the backyard. Elvira had a garden there the first 
year they bought the house. At the time they were working with Joe's brother 
in a pizzeria. Then, when they opened their own restaurant she did not find 
the time anymore to take care of the garden. 
We go back to the kitchen and sit around the table while Joe fills our glasses 
with red wine. Some antipasto (salami, prosciutto, mortadella, and cheese) is 
put on the table. The v.c.r. is playing "Dangerous Liaisons," a movie loved by 
the whole family. Our guests are very informally and comfortably dressed in 
S;4c-ll-•,i- POr_• 1/ 1•_r? 
their everyday clothes. Some kids come in: Michael with the Spanish student, 
Mary with Mona's children . The kids will be in and out all evening . Soon later 
Mona's husband, Rick, will join us for dinner. 
I leave the guys around the table and go near Elvira who is slicing potatoes 
and peppers and frying it in an electric fryer. She seems kind of 
uncomfortable in this kitchen which she rarely uses. She tells me that she 
spends most of her time at the restaurant and that she never cooks at home and 
in fact she misses basic ingredients for her cooking such as salt, oregano, 
and coffee . During the evening she sends first Sonia, and then Michael to the 
restaurant to get what she needs. I ask Elvira about her cooking. She worked 
in restaurants back in Italy , first as a waitress and then as a cook. She 
mentions a dish that she used to prepare in Italy but cannot make here because 
that particular cut of meat is not available on the American market (she 
referred to the "cima ripiena" or "stuffed pocket "). I ask her about the food 
she cooks at the restaurant and she stresses the fact that the food she cooks 
is "really Italian". She shows me the tomato sauce she canned for the winter. 
I ask if she makes jam or canned fruit but she says that it is not worth it 
because fruit costs too much. She tells me that when they first came they 
worked with Joe's brother in his pizzeria and she had time for gardening. Then 
Joe's brother "changed", stole their money , and they had to start on their 
own. Joe and his brother do not talk anymore to each other ; she comments 
negatively on her brother-in-law's new wife, who is a young Mexican. 
Elvira tells me that when they came to America they had money . "I was a 
signora in Italy." They had two apartments, and a vegetable store that they 
sold when they came to the States . Elvira calls 
Mona into the kitchen and we start preparing dinner. I offer my help and start 
to peel garlic for the sauce, then I help Mona with the salad , while Elvira 
starts the sauce for pasta. Mona tells me that she began to work at the 
restaurant one year ago and that she is the only person who lasted more than a 
week there! Apparently the Bertolone are very 'direct' people but Mona says 
she understands their rude way of asking for something. 
Mona's father was Italian ,but he left the family when Mona was a kid so her 
Italian heritage is basically nonexistent, as she says . She tells me that the 
big difference between Italian-Americans and Italians is that Italians will 
give you everything they can but if you "spit on them once , that's it." She 
says that a lot of Americans do not understand this, but she does and accept 
it. She continues saying that now the Bertolone family has become her family. 
When she went to visit her mom in another state Elvira called her at least 
once a day, fact that made her own mother kind of jealous! 
We set the table in a very informal way. Elvira cooks pasta (shells) with her 
tomato sauce to which she adds garlic, onion, bay leaf and basil. Parmesan 
cheese is on the table . Sonia prepares the dressing for the salad with olive 
oil, vinegar , pepper, and salt (she looks for oregano but they do not have any 
in the house ). Sliced fried potatoes and peppers are ready. We sit around the 
table and are encouraged to eat and finish everything (" Mangia, Mangia!). ' 
Sonia made some creme caramel (which tastes like the creme caramel my mother 
makes! ); somebody puts ice cream on it, somebody else put the "amarene fabbri" 
imported cherries very popular in Italy. We have Italian coffee and grappa 
Julia. Joe insist we finish the wine. 
During dinner Joe tells us about his dislike for Mexican food . He says that 
even if you offered him a million of dollars he would not eat Mexican food 
again. 
Somebody asks Joe what are the most important things in life and he replies 
"Wine, Women and Garlics." 
At the restaurant they used to sell Ernesto Fortino's wines, but something 
=A 
Fog1t F?. 4) 
happened and they now sell Mario Fortino's wines (Hecker Pass Winery) Joe 
tells me that Ernesto agreed to sell him wine at a certain price and then 
raised the price without letting him know. In Joe's version this is the reason 
why they stopped to buy Ernesto's wine. But Elvira tells another story: 
apparently Ernesto did not direct tourists to Joe's restaurant but to another 
restaurant on first street (Sandrino). Elvira comments that Italians in 
America instead of helping each other are jealous of each other. For Elvira is 
inconceivable that Ernesto, who comes from the same part of Italy where she 
comes from (Calabria); did not act as a "paesano" and did not help them in 
their business. 
Elvira is extremely expressive with her hands and gesture 
which show how mad she really is with Ernesto Fortino and his family. 
After dinner Elvira starts to clean up. David asks Joe what he wants for his 
children. Joe's answer shows his concern for his old age: he wants his 
children to take care of him when he is old, he does not want to end up in a 
home for old people and die alone. 
We leave with the promise that we'll see each other soon. Sonia and Joe want 
to take all of us to San Francisco next monday. 
The V.C.R. is still on while we kiss good bye. 
=A 
ti^ - 
PT- P(;) q 
t 
/,T 
`'/ , 
,¢ 
T IAW-PT-F091289.A= 
Mario Fortino looks a lot like 
door: the same smile, the same 
making and how to run a winery 
has more of an entrepreneurial 
perspective on life. He smiles 
and gift shop and he is proud when his clients tell him that his tasting room 
is the more European they have ever seen. During the interview he stresses 
several time the fact that his family has been making wine for three 
generations and that he wants to keep that tradition going. By staying small 
he is able to produce natural wines that undergo no clarification or 
filtration. 
He supervises and directs all the operations involved in wine making. His 
three sons help him in the winery but they all have their full time jobs 
elsewhere. The crush is still done by friends and family members. The 
equipment for making wine is the same that my family uses in Italy for our 
production of wine for family consumption. He still uses the old "basquet 
presses" to press the grapes; he bottles wine with a manually operated bottle 
filler; he corks the bottles with another manually operated corking machine. 
He receives us in his small office where he tells us how he learned to run a 
winery working for the San Martin winery for 15 years (see IAW-RF-A023). Then 
we take a tour of the winery while Russell takes pictures. Mario and his wife 
live in a mobile home at the edge of the vineyard. Two grandchildren who play 
around while we are there live with them now. After the tour we go into the 
tasting room where we taste some wine and then he gives us a 
bottle of Carignane. He tells us a little more about the work in the vineyard: 
he prunes the vineyard himself every year from february to april and has done 
all the grafting of his plants. he tells us that by june you should not do any 
more work in the vineyard: whatever you do is going to hurt the vines more 
than help them. We leave promising we'll call at the beginning of next week to 
know if they are going to pick grapes and eventually participate in the 
"vendemmia." 
his brother Ernesto who runs the winery next 
honest eyes. However his philosophy about wine 
is very different from his brother's. Ernesto 
spirit while Mario has more of an old timer 
sarcastically about his brother's deli store 
Fo 
C? 1-2 
TIAW-PT-F091389.A=I arrive at the Pedrizzetti winery around 2:30 pm. Russell 
and Ken are already there with the owner, Ed Pedrizzetti. He takes us through 
his winery rooms where some workers are labeling bottles. The Pedrizzetti do 
not own a vineyard but buy grapes and produce their own wine as well as wine 
for other people. This place is the opposite of Mario Fortino's winery: the 
stress seems to be on quantity, on making money out of grapes and not on the 
quality or the "pleasure" of making wine. 'In fact the Pedrizzetti do not seem 
to take any pleasure in their activity but want to sell the business and 
retire pretty soon. Their son and two daughters do not work in the winery and 
are not interested in continuing the business. After a tour of the winery, 
which seems to me a huge industrial operation, we go into the office for the 
interview. Phyllis, Ed's wife, is very talkative and has a good memory while 
Ed does not seem to remember much about the past. The interview is interrupted 
several times by the phone ringing and by employees. Finally a group of French 
Canadians comes for a tour of the winery and tasting and we decide to end the 
interview. Their "wine shop and,tasting room" is pretty small; they sell T-
shirts with the name --Pedrizzetti-- printed on them. One T-shirt on display 
on the wall says: "Never bite the foot that stomps your grapes." One bottle of 
California Golden Sherry attracts our attention because of its old label: it 
has a golden cup in the center surrounded by white and red grapes. Phyllis 
tells us that the people they sold the winery to, some years ago, found this 
label "too corny, too Italian" and they changed it into a more modern, 
Californian style. 
Russell takes pictures of the Canadian group tasting wine under the "pergolo." 
Phyllis gives us a bottle of Barolo to take with us. 
_A 
btl 
--. i
ce- T-
T IAW-PT-F091489.A=At 7:30 am. we arrive at the Conrotto winery where Jim Burr 
(Jane Conrotto's husband) his friend Michael and two hired men are already 
picking grapes around the house (once the house where Jane's grandfather, 
Anselmo Conrotto and his wife lived, now rented.) We volunteer to pick grapes 
with them. We get some old wood boxes and start cutting the white grapes which 
are going to become "Simphony" wine. I have to admit that I was disappointed 
as soon as we arrived there. I had assumed'that this "vendemmia' was going to 
be similar in atmosphere to the vendemmia I am used to participate in Italy. I 
was expecting more of a social event in which friends of the family 
participate, where nice food is provided by the family for the hard workers, 
where jokes are shared and a joyful atmosphere is all around. This is a 
thursday, a working day; the son, Scott, is in school in Fresno, the daughter, 
Renee, is attending school in Gilroy. Moreover the size of the vineyard does 
not require many people: the sixty boxes of grapes are picked in less than two 
hours and when Jean gets there, around 9:00, she thanks us for having done her 
work. Most of the wine that the, Conrotto winery produces comes from grapes 
that Jim buys from other local growers. The vendemmia that I was expecting is 
more a memory of the past: Jean recalls the first words of some of the songs 
that the family used to sing while picking grapes when she was a child: 
"Ciribiribin, the bel nasin," and "Quel mazzolin dei fiori," two popular 
Italian folk songs well known in northern Italy. I ask her if her grandmother 
or her mother used to prepare special food for the vendemmia. She does not 
recall any specific food prepared for the occasion but she recalls the 
Piedmontese "torta" that her grandmother used to prepare (a mixture of eggs 
and every kind of fruits, included the core of the apricots'pits, baked in the 
oven), and the cookies called "pizzelle." Jean does not consider herself a 
good cook and definitely not an Italian cook. Her parents did not teach her 
the dialect from Cocconato (province of Asti, Piedmont), but she knows some 
words and while she talks with me she insert in her English some of these 
(like: biscotti for cookies; testa dura for hard head; vino for wine; nonni 
for grandparents.) 
Jean is very talkative and, as she says of herself, very social. She says she 
likes to spend time with family and friends and that this is often a problem 
with her American husband who, on the contrary, seems very reserved. She tells 
me about a dinner they attended the night before to celebrate the birthday of 
an old aunt of her. Most of the guest were old Italian-Americans and obviously 
it took her more than an hour to say goodbye to everybody while Jim waited 
impatiently to leave. "He does not understand the Italian way!" she says 
proudly. She seems very happy to have the opportunity to chat with me, and 
sometimes is very difficult for me to interrupt her conversation and ask 
specific questions. 
She makes coffee and offers us doughnuts as soon as we are finished with 
picking grapes. Later we drive together to a nearby sandwich place, "Togo" 
where we get "Italian" sandwiches for everybody. She tells me of her visit to 
Italy, where she met aunts and cousins from both her mother and her 
father'side of the family. She recalls that they used to send their used 
clothes to the family in Italy when she was younger and that she was surprised 
to find that their relatives are quite well off now, with beautiful homes and 
good jobs. 
Jim and his friend Michael decide that we have enough time to crush the 
grapes. I am surprised to discover that the crusher (the piece of machinery 
used to crush white grapes) is the same that my family uses in Italy (in fact 
is "made in Italy"). Jim explains that to crush the bigger quantity of red 
grapes that he buys he is going to use a bigger machine which is located 
a-A 
(v - 
? 
T- IF 
c 
q 
(Ll•-g. 41 a 
outside the storage room (outside the back entrance to the tasting room). 
The press is an old one (40 years old or more, Jim says ) and tricky to use. He 
tells me that once there were many old Italian men who knew how to repair it 
in case it got stuck . Now he needs to be more careful and prefers to lose some 
juice than to use the press to its full potential because he is afraid it is 
going to break definitely. Jim and Michael prepare the machines and then start 
crushing . First we help Jean cleaning the grapes in the boxes from the leaves 
while Jim and Michael superintend the crushing and the pressing (see 
pictures). Then they invite me to throw grapes into the crushing machine and 
we get all excited and dirty while Jim comments on the beauty and richness of 
his grapes. I finally feel involved in the vendemmia "spirit!" 
While we were picking grapes earlier in the morning I noticed that the flower 
garden around the house was very familiar to me : it looked like an old Italian 
garden, both for the vegetation and for the layout. During our next visit to 
the Conrottos I will talk more about the garden with Jean (see IAW-PT-
F091789.a). 
T IAW-PT-F091589.A=Around 10:00 am I call Saint Mary Church and ask for father 
Guida, the Italian priest. The secretary tells me that Father Guida is over 80 
years old and not always "functioning well" and she suggests that I stop by 
and try to talk with him in person. I go there and meet the old priest who 
just had an operation on his eyes and wears a pair of dark glasses. He came to 
the U.S. from Naples in 1953, then spent three years in Venezuela and one year 
in Brazil. He worked five years in San Jose and then he was assigned to Gilroy 
more because he spoke Spanish and Portuguese than because he spoke Italian. He 
seems to remember more about Latin America than about his work in California. 
When I ask him about his contact with the Italian-American community in Gilroy 
he says that apparently there are not many Italians in Gilroy, and he refers 
me to Mr. Pappani, president of the Italian Catholic Federation. I ask about 
festivals and saints' celebrations but he does not have anything to say about 
it. He seems anxious to go back to his room and I decide to leave after 10 
minutes. 
The church is open only during weekends; Our Lady's chapel behind the church 
is open during weekdays. Outside the chapel there is a wall which frames a 
mosaic of the Virgin of Guadalupe. In front of it there are candles and 
flowers 
Inside the chapel, on the left there are seven stained glass windows, 
depicting the seven Sorrows of Our Lady. Four of the windows are gifts by 
Italian families: Savin Calabrese family, Charles Quartiroli family, John 
Gambetta family. 
On the right there are the 14 stations of the cross painted on wood by 
Battaglia, an Italian artist. 
I go back to the secretary and ask for the bulletin of the church activities 
for next week. There is a Mass in Spanish, but not one in Italian, and 
apparently there has never been one. The secretary gives me also a historical 
book about the church (first erected in 1869; rebuilt in 1965). 
I cannot help comparing Mary Star of the Sea in San Pedro, center of the 
Sicilian and Ischian fishermen community, with this church that does not seem 
to have played a major role in keeping together the Tuscans, Calabrese, and 
Piedmontese farmers of Gilroy. Is it due to the different regional origin of 
the immigrants? I cannot wait to attend the Italian Catholic federation dinner 
to see who attends it and what they have to say about the church. 
T IAW-PT-F091589.B=Russell and I arrive at Garlic World at 1:00 pm. We go into 
the office where Carolyn Tognetti (owner of the store) and her mother Gloria 
Rizzi are waiting for us. Ken arrives while we set up the tape-recorder and 
the microphones. Since Carolyn's husband is in the fields for the tomato 
harvest, Russell and Ken decide to go out to document it. Gloria and I speak 
in Italian for a while; her maternal grandparents came from the same region 
where I come from (Tuscany) and she learned Italian from them while growing 
up. Carolyn does not speak Italian and she regrets that her parents, both of 
Italian origin, did not teach her the language. 
Gloria is a very attractive woman in her sixties; she has a very good memory 
for dates and names. She tells the immigration stories of both sides of her 
family. Her maternal grandparents came at the beginning of the century from 
the little town of Marlia, province of Lucca; her paternal grandparents came 
at the same time from a small town near Casale Monferrato in the wine area of 
Piemonte. Both families were involved in farm work in Italy and continued the 
tradition in Gilroy. Her husband's grandparents came from a town near 
Domodossola (border with Switzerland) and went to work in the cool mines in 
Colorado and later in Kansas. From there they moved to Gilroy where they 
resumed their Italian activity as bricklayers. 
For Gloria, who says is pride of being Italian, the most important value 
handed down by her Italian family is the value of work. "They all worked hard, 
and liked to work." She learned from her family and taught to her children the 
importance of being hard workers. 
Carolyn talks about her work and how she came to be in charge of "Garlic 
World." She also talks about her husband's family who came to the U.S. from 
the same town in Piemonte where her grandparents came from. 
The interview is often interrupted by the phone ringing and by employees 
coming into the office to pick up their pay-checks. 
During the interview Carolyn will point to a collage of photos on the wall: 
one photo shows Carolyn's trailer in which she sold cherries and vegetables 
for many years before opening Garlic World. She also points to an aerial photo 
of their property to show,me where the cherry trees grow and where the trailer 
used to be. 
Mother and daughter are both good-looking, both hard-workers, both good 
Italian cooks. Before we leave they give us fresh fruit, garlic olives, and 
two wonderful garlic braids. We thank by kissing them "the Italian way." 
TIAW-PT-F091789=David arranged to meet the Conrotto family again since their 
son, Scott, is coming home today from Fresno where he attends school. When we 
arrive, father and son are not there, and we spend some time in the tasting 
room where Jean is working with some customers. When the men return Doug, 
John, and I offer to take care of the customers while Ken Light takes pictures 
of the family. Then Doug, David and John follow father and son with the tape 
recorder in a tour of the winery. I wait until Jean is done with her customers 
and I ask her to walk with me in the garden that surrounds the old 
grandparents' house.;During our first visit I had noticed that the garden 
looked very Italian in the layout and vegetation. There is a bird cage which 
Jean remembers as always being there; there is the "pergolo," or grape harbor 
under which they used to dine when Jean was a child; Jean remembers that there 
used to be an apple tree, a fig tree, and pear and peach trees when her 
grandmother used to live there. Even if these trees are not there anymore, 
there are other small trees that you would usually find in an Italian garden 
and that give the garden that familiar look that I perceive: the "nespolo," or 
loquat tree, the pomegranate tree, a persimmon-apple tree, and a lemon verbena 
tree. Jean remembers that her grandmother used to grow many herbs in the 
garden; verbena, mint, and rosemary are still growing but nobody apparently 
uses them. 
Jean does not seem to have much to say about the garden. Since they rented out 
the house they do not take care of the garden anymore, except for harvesting 
the grapes that grow in it. It would have been more interesting probably to 
ask her parents about it, but it is too late for that since they are out of 
town. 
T IAW-PT-F091889.A=Sonia Bertolone asked me several times if I would go with 
her to San Francisco. Her family has been really nice with all of us from the 
first day in Gilroy and I feel that Sonia is going to be really disappointed 
if I turn her offer down. She does not have many opportunities to spend time 
with a "real" Italian and I feel I don't want to disappoint her as a friend! I 
plan to interview her while she drives and share with her the things she likes 
to do when she goes to the Italian section of San Francisco, North Beach. She 
comes to pick me up at the hotel with her brother Michael, and the spanish 
student who is staying at their house this year and we drive to San Francisco 
under a torrential rain. 
She was born in Albenga, province of Savona (Liguria) in 1971. Her family 
moved to Gilroy in 1977 when she was 6 years old. She remembers vividly when 
they left from the airport of Milan and she was playing with her brother in 
the snow until the last minute before leaving. Her mother had somebody make 
two matching outfits for the kids to wear for the trip. She feels strongly to 
be Italian, and swears that'she will never give up her Italian citizenship. 
She is planning to spend next year studying in Florence, and eventually go to 
the university there. Her spoken Italian is very good, but she never writes or 
reads in Italian and fears her Italian is not good enough for university work. 
I encourage her to feel confident and I promise to suggest some Italian 
literature that she can buy at the Italian bookstore in North Beach. 
She tells me how her father sold all his properties in Italy before coming to 
the States. Sonia says that her father thought he would have better 
opportunities in America than in Italy and because his brothers, Michael and 
Sal(vatore) were already here, he decided to move. In Gilroy he invested all 
his money in real estate with his brother, Michael, who had been in America 
for many years. Unfortunately, things did not work out with uncle Michael: 
Sonia's father lost his money and had to start all over again. 
Sonia's mother was misarable at the beginning: she hated it here, according to 
Sonia. She missed her big,family back in Italy (five sisters and two 
brothers). 
At first the family stayed in San Jose with one of the brothers. Then they 
moved to Gilroy where they built the restaurant that they operate now and six 
apartments in the back of it. Until 1980 they lived in one of the apartments, 
then they bought the house where they live now. The whole family worked in the 
restaurant from the beginning: Sonia started waitressing when she was 10 years 
old. At the beginning she would serve only people the family knew. Her mother 
is the cook. Sonia says that she gets mad with her mother because she modifies 
the food to please the American taste. For istance, she makes spaghetti with 
meat balls that Sonia does not consider Italian at all, or she serves blue 
cheese or thousand island dressing instead of the oil and vinegar dressing. 
But at the same time she recognizes the need to please the community if you 
want to have a restaurant. The family never eats home, except for mondays when 
the restaurant is closed. Sonia tries to keep her Italian way of eating, that 
is, she does not start her meal with salad and she does not eat bread with 
pasta. 
Sonia works at the restaurant whenever she is not in school. She says that is 
hard to work for her family because she doesn't like the way they do things at 
the restaurant. She defines both of her parents as crazy, but she is more 
upset with her mom than with her father. 
Neither Sonia or Michael want to continue to work in the restaurant business. 
••('. )--?T F-L7I8E 
C• .,4 , 
-a 
Michael says he wants to be a cop, while Sonia wants to study. She thinks she 
will major in history. 
When we get to North Beach we first stop at Cavalli bookstore where Sonia buys 
a couple of music tapes of Italian singers and a set of expresso cups for her 
mother. Then I offer them cappuccino and pastries at the Caffe Trieste, where 
Sonia usually stops for coffe. Then she shows me around all the stores where 
she buys things that she cannot find in Gilroy, like the Molinari grocery 
stores which carries good prosciutto and bufalo mozzarella. We stop at a 
photographic exhibition of "Italian Americans in North Beach," and both Sonia 
and her brother show a lot of interest for it. Sonia shows her disappointment 
for the "invasion" of the Chinese in that area: she is afraid they are going 
to take over the entire Italian neighborhood. Then we stop at the Italian 
church where Michael lights a candle. Looking for the posters of the Festa 
Italiana we end up on the Fishermen's wharf where we stop for lunch. 
Sonia is definitely in between two cultures. When I first met her I thought of 
the similarities between her situation and the one of Lara Doardi, the girl 
from Venice whose parents own the restaurant in San Pedro. But Lara, who had 
to fight hard at the beginning to gain respect for her family and for herself, 
seems to have found her own identity in this country. She would never think to 
go back to Italy. Sonia, on the contrary, seems still looking for her own 
identity and is trying to go back to Italy to be able to decide for herself 
where she wants to live and who she wants to be. 
T IAW-PT-F091889.B=I just got back from San Francisco with Sonia Bartolone and 
on our way back we picked my Italian friend Paola Schellembaum in Palo Alto 
where she is conducting her research on Italian American family businesses. We 
both thought it was interesting for her to participate with us at the dinner 
since many of the people in Gilroy come from Piemonte,the region, famous for 
wine making, where she comes from. And in fact, as soon as we enter the big 
room where tables are already set for dinner, we are greeted by women and men 
who want to talk with the two girls from Italy. We feel both welcomed to this 
dinner and people seem really happy to have the opportunity to speak in 
Italian with us or better to say a few words in Italian. Everybody is willing 
to give us little bits and pieces of their stories. The situation is 
overwhelming for a while: I keep greeting new faces, shaking hands, and 
exchanging brief remarks. I meet several people from my region, Tuscany, while 
Paola meets the Piemontesi. It feels awkward to take out the note-book and 
write down names and facts, so I decide not to do it. But now, while I'm 
trying to remember details of the many short conversations I had, I feel it 
would have been better if.I'had taken notes! 
We get in line to help ourselves with food. Several people have been working 
in the kitchen in the afternoon. The "rollatini," meat rolls filled with 
parsley and cheese is the central dish for the dinner. Jean Conrotto told me 
the next day that her husband has always served his wine at the ICF dinners, 
but this time they preferred to buy cartons of wine. Everybody seems to have 
his/her own place at the tables. The IAW people sit together and enjoy 
dinner. 
The president of the Federation gives his speech after dinner. A young Italian 
American student is given a scholarship to support her studies and she thanks 
the federation for it. Then John and David talk about our project and I thank 
the Italian American community in Italian for the ospItality we received in 
Gilroy. I have the feeling not too many people understood my brief speech in 
Italian: as many people told me before and after dinner, most of them lost the 
fluency in their Italian dialect as soon as they went to school. On one hand 
this is felt as a loss, but on the other hand everybody seems proud to have 
learned English well, and seems to have strong feelings against bi-lingual 
education. 
The president goes on with business talks. Another member of the ICF gives his 
speech encouraging the older members to take younger members of their families 
to the future dinners and events scheduled by the federation. 
It would have been nice to have attended this dinner at the beginning of our 
fieldwork in Gilroy. I felt many people would have liked to schedule an 
interview with one of us, but generally I felt they were pleased to have us 
there acknowledging their activities. 
•Tk' 
F
-67 
-IAW-PT-F091989=Val Filice invited the whole group for lunch at his "Tank 
House Ristorante," which Russell and I visited before with Mimi Serafin (see 
IAW-PT-F090889.B). 
Val is a big man in his sixties. After he suffered from a heart attack he 
tried to take life slower and now he spends much of his time gardening and 
cooking for friends and family members. He is a perfect host and makes all of 
us feel welcome. His wife Elsie is also there and his cousin Joe Filice with 
his wife. When we arrive food is almost ready and we sit around the table 
outside the tank house and help ourselves with big portions of fettuccine with 
shrimp, cooked with a lot of garlic and red chili pepper. Our hosts keep 
pushing us to eat more and keep pouring wine in our glasses. Time goes by 
pretty fast while we eat and talk of nothing in particular. 
When I sat down to write my notes a day later and tried to remember the 
conversation we had, I felt as if I had forgot everything. I realized that I 
had the same trouble remembering the conversations I had with people during 
the ICF dinner we attended the night before. I realized that in both occasions 
I felt that what people were expecting from me (or from us) was to share their 
food and enjoy each other's company and that I could not act as a friend/guest 
and folklorist at the same time! It is possible that I just felt tired, after 
two weeks of fieldwork, and just wanted to relax and enjoy the food and 
company. It is also possible that I felt less responsible because the whole 
IAW group was present and I trusted they were doing their job of participant 
observers properly! 
As an Italian participating in events which involve 
sharing Italian food I always feel much closer to the people who are cooking 
and offering me the food than to the researchers documenting the event! 
Food 
sharing is so much part of my culture and of my everyday life that I probably 
take everything for granted and I find it difficult to write about it. 
This situation was very familiar to me: it reminded me of the many lunches my 
family in Italy shares with old and new friends and I felt comfortable and 
enjoyed it as one of those lunches. The only time I felt uncomfortable was 
when our hosts expressed their ideas about Mexicans and told us stories based 
on their personal experiences with Mexican workers as a way to justify their 
dislike for these people. According to them, Italian immigrants had solid 
values and were hard workers who saved their money and invested it properly 
while Mexicans don't know how to save but instead spend all their money in new 
clothes and don't respect other people's property. I find ironic that sons and 
daughters of an immigrant generation did not learn how to respect other 
immigrants' values and problems in adapting to life in America. As Val 
commented, life must go in circles: every group needs to feel superior to 
another group. Once were the Italians to be treated badly and today is the 
Mexicans' turn. 
i 
Xoj 
•f T 
- 
• 
o 
loo •q. A 
// 
TIAW-PT-F092089.A=This is the first time I meet the Guglielmo family. Doug, 
David and I came a few days ago to taste and buy some wine but we did not meet 
any members of the family. Russell has met the three brothers before during 
the grape harvest and has arranged the interview today to talk about the 
family history with parents (George and Maddalena, second generation) and sons 
(George, Gene, and Gary.) They wanted to invite us for lunch at the parents' 
house, which is not far from the winery, but the rain delayed the parents' 
return from a trip to visit Maddalena's mother and they rearranged to have 
lunch in the kitchen at the winery. Tom Kruse, local winemaker and good friend 
of the Guglielmos, volunteered to cook lunch for the whole group. He says that 
even if he is not Italian he loves Italians and Italian food and has been 
around Italians all the time since he moved to Gilroy and started his wine 
business. 
Russell and I arrive around 12 :00; the parents have not arrived yet and the 
brothers (George, Gene, and Gary ) are still working. 
We go into the tasting room "where Gene offers us an aperitif . A big picture of 
the family with barrels of wine in the back hangs in the middle of the room. A 
little Italian flag is on display with imported Italian products and a box 
with a bottle of Guglielmo wine, and a pack of spaghetti named "Italian 
survival kit." The whole decor of the room stresses the pride in the family 
tradition of winemaking and shows that,like their motto says: "Since 1925, 
producing and sharing fine wines ... more than just a business--a way of life." 
In the kitchen Tom Kruse, wearing a white-red-and green apron, 
is preparing the sauce for "pasta Capri," a recipe he got from one of his 
favorite Italian restaurants. I help him cleaning the salad and tasting the 
sauce (shrimp sauteed in butter and garlic to which he adds a can of clam 
juice, chopped tomatoes , and green onions ). The mother , Maddalena , tells me 
later when I thank for the delicious meal that this is not "their food," it is 
not the food she would have cooked for us if she could have invited us to her 
house. She mentions she had planned to cook fried peppers and "bagna caoda" (a 
Piedmontese hot dip for raw vegetables, made with oil, butter, garlic, and 
anchovies.) Interesting enough, she gives Russell a bag of fresh bell peppers 
to take home and gives me a can of fried peppers (since I am flying back home 
and cannot carry fresh vegetables.) 
The kitchen is equipped with big pots and pans and a huge colander to drain 
pasta. The kitchenware are used for the F.B.I meetings (full blooded Italians) 
held once a month in the garage adjacent the tasting room. Russell and I 
decide to set up the tape recorder and microphones and be ready to record 
interesting parts of the conversation while having lunch . The whole family was 
eager to talk about their history and heritage and we ended up interviewing 
and recording for almost two hours while having lunch. 
Both Maddalena and her husband , George Washington (because he was born on 
Washington 's birthday !) speak some Piedmontese dialect. Their families came 
from two different villages in Piedmont : George's parents from a village near 
the French border, and therefore his family's dialect was a mixture of French 
and Italian. Maddalena had to learn her in-laws' dialect when she got married 
since they lived with them for more than ten years in what is now the office 
building of the winery. They did not teach their children to speak the dialect 
because they felt it was not useful for them to learn one specific dialect 
spoken only in one village. 
George is the oldest brother, the winemaker, the "oldtimer." When he discovers 
that my family in Italy is in the marble business he asks me to send him 
sAcs) - 
?} 7- Foq,-2o 
9 
?.,q, ,
-2_ 
information and prices because he always wanted to build a shrine with the 
statue of the protector of winemaking to honor the Italian heritage and 
tradition. 
Gene and Gary take care of the marketing side of the business. Gene went to 
Italy after he finished school because he did not know what to do -either 
enter the family business or start a career on his own. Apparently the trip to 
his family's town in Piedmont helped him in his decision to continue the 
family tradition. 
Gary, the youngest brother, talks much less than the others. His wife with his 
son, Michael, will show up after lunch and Russell will take pictures of the 
whole family. 
Both Russell and I felt very good about this interview. When we left (with the 
peppers and a gift box of wine) I felt as if I was leaving some relatives or 
anyway somebody that --as many other families in Gilroy-- would like to see us 
again.