UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  ARMAND P. MERCIER
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
PLACE:  187 MAMMOTH ROAD, LOWELL, MA. MERCIER REALTY
DATE:  MARCH 30, 1988
A = ARMAND
D = DAVID
LFP-DT-R020-021
Tape begins with a bit of conversation before the actual interview begins:
A:  Yeah, right.  Yup.  
D:  Well, [voice is too distant, cannot transcribe].
A:  Okay.  [Laughs]  Best thing that happened to Michael Dukakis was Jesse's win in Michigan.  
Best, best thing that happened to Michael Dukakis. [A conversation is going on in 
background-too distant, cannot transcribe]  Oh sure.  I'll tell you.  People are going to wake up 
now and say woops.  Yup, the best thing, the guy's been, Michael's been lucky.  [Hiccups]  God 
he's been lucky.  
INTERVIEW BEGINS:  All right.  Let's check that that's rolling here.
D:  And I wanted to say that this is the 30th of March today?
A:  30th of March, yup, 1988.
D:  And I'm sitting at uh, 187 Mammoth Road.
A:  Mammoth Road in Lowell.  [D:  That's]  The office of Mercier Realty.  And I'm the owner 
and president of the Mercier Realty Company and my name is Armand P. Mercier.  
D:  Can you tell me when you were born Armand?
A:  I was born in 1933.  And I was born in a section of Lowell called South Lowell.  
D:  Now where, where abouts is that?
A:  South Lowell would be uh, towards uh, Tewksbury.  [D:  Umhm]  Quite a ways from the, the 
urban center of downtown Lowell, and Little Canada, and the Acre.  My Dad however was born 
and brought up in Little Canada.  And when I was about nine years old we moved from South 
Lowell to Salem Street, which put me right back into the neighborhood that he came from.  [D:  
Hm]  And I lived there until I got married in 1953.  And when I got married I stayed in that same 
general locality until I bought a home in Pawtucketville, which is across the river, which is where
I live now.  
D:  What's your Dad's name?
A:  My Dad's name is Peter.  [D:  Umhm]  Peter A. Mercier and I'm Armand Peter Mercier.  [D:  
Umhm]  He worked in the mills.  [D:  Oh yeah]  Lived on upper Moody Street.  Large family.  
His father died when he was only twelve years old, and happened to live in a, near a building that
I presently own [D:  Hm] today in Little Canada.  Of course Little Canada today is quite different
than it was when he was a kid, and also when I was a kid, because of the onslaught of urban 
renewal in the early 60's that destroyed most of the homes there.  Under a well intended policy of
renewing a neighborhood it actually destroyed it [D:  Hm] and dispersed all of the 
Franco-Americans that had that nice close knit community, dispersed them throughout the 
community.  Uh (--)
D:  Was your Dad born, born here in Lowell too?
A:  Yes.  Yup, he was born on Moody Street in 1911.  [D:  Umhm]  His folks came from Canada. 
D:  Where abouts?
A:  Settled in uh, Haverhill and then moved to Lowell, and then lived in Lowell all of their lives. 
[D:  Umhm]  Um, Three Rivers, Canada.  [D:  Oh yes]  I guess that's where they came from.  [D:
Uh huh]  Now my mother's folks were born and brought up in Lowell.  Originally my 
grandfather and my great grandfather came from Lowell.  So I, my mother's maiden name is 
Rodurgue, [spells G-U-R-G-U-E].  And uh, she claims that her ancestors, and we've never traced 
it, comes from Spain.  [D:  Hm, umhm]  And somewhere along the line the Rodrigues from 
Spain became a Rodurgue in Lowell.  [D:  Hm]  Um, but basically my, my father's family, there 
are about ten, twelve of them um, [D:  right] were born and brought up in Little Canada on 
Moody Street.  And you know, patronized the clubs and the Franco-American culture that took 
place then, and took place when I was a kid.  And is taking place now only in a different way.  I 
think today what's happening is that most people of french decent celebrate the french ancestry 
and culture on occasions, but it's not a continually thing like it used to be.  
D:  Well tell, I'm really interested in that.  What was it like growing up as a, as a kid in the french
community?
A:  Well first of all the city was divided into a number of communities.  And I came from, as well
as my Dad, from the Little Canada french community, which was abutting the Acre, which was 
the Irish community and part of the what we called Acropolis, which was the Greek community.  
[D:  Hm]  And that all was in the urban center of Lowell, because that's where the mills were, 
and that's where the jobs were, and that's where the housing was built originally.  Um, you had 
your own schools.  You had your own hospitals.  Saint Joseph's Hospital was a french hospital.  
Still perceived to be that.  Saint Joseph's Grammar School, boys and girl school was in Little 
Canada.  Saint Joseph's High School, which is now a, a Greater Lowell High School, and there 
was a Saint Joseph's Girls High School.  Uh, you went to Saint Jean the Baptist Church, or Saint 
Joseph's downtown.  And uh, some of your friends that you played with, there was a kind of a 
common ground where you met everybody else.  [D:  Umhm]  And that was at the North 
Common as a kid.  You didn't go to the North Common alone.  You, you went with some of your 
friends, [D:  Umhm] because now you were going into another "territory".  [D:  Umhm]  And 
you ran into some Irish people and some Greek people, and you sometimes made friends with 
them and played ball with them, but there was always that separation that you were French, they 
were Irish, and they were Greek.  Uh, and you know, many years later we've all become friends 
and part of the, part of the structure you know, whether politics or business.  And every time we 
see each other we think back on those days when we were the French community and the Irish 
community, the Greek community.  And basically that's, that was it from where I came from.  [D:
Umhm]
    You crossed over the river into uh, Centraville and you had some, a French community there 
also.  And I would say that when I was a kid anyway that was a little bit higher income, nicer 
neighborhood, or less poor than Little Canada.  Of course if you went into Pawtucketville that 
was the, the elite French.  That was everybody owned their homes and uh, poverty wasn't really a
word that they used, because they didn't, they were not compared to us.  
D:  Um.  Did these French neighborhoods parallel any kind of, of church parish lines at all?
A:  Everyone of them was connected to a church.
D:  They did. 
A:  Yeah.  Saint, Saint Jean the Baptiste was Little Canada.  The first one I think was Saint 
Joseph's, the first French one, which was a downtown little chapel.  But the major one was Saint 
Jean the Baptiste, which is Little Canada.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, and then there was Saint Jeanne 
D'Arc, which was Pawtucketville.  Saint Louis was Centraville.  Now in South Lowell where I 
originally came from, that was also French, and it was Saint Marie's.  Um, but it was like a 
suburban French area, [D:  Umhm] as opposed to the contiguous neighborhoods and, you know, 
from the urban center from the downtown Lowell.  
     Um, but you know it's traditionally French, you uh, on New Years Eve everybody got 
together.  And they, they cooked some uh, some food and some pork pies and then went one 
house to another to wish themselves you know, a Happy New Year.  And there was great 
celebration.  And you've got to remember they weren't any cars, or if there were people didn't 
have them.  And so going from house to house and having parties, house to house was a very 
common thing.  Of course where I came from in Little Canada there was just hordes of people 
living in tenement blocks that you know.  In the building I lived in at 219 Salem Street I can 
recall, and I'm only fifty-five years old, so that's not that long ago, [D:  yeah] I lived on the first 
flood with my father and mother and five children.  The second floor was my aunt who was a 
widow, had six kids.  And then the first floor on the rear was a, a Mrs. Boutin who had eight kids.
The second floor was a widow, Mrs. Dussault who had twelve kids.  And Mrs. Grenier on the 
third floor had uh, I think thirteen, fourteen kids.  This is in a six apartment complex with no 
yard.  I mean this was right on the street.  [D:  Hm]  And that was common throughout the area.  
I mean tons and tons of people.  
D:  Now this, this area called Little Canada, was it made up of uh, of uh, living spaces like that, 
[A:  all types] or were there other types of dwelling, buildings in there to?
A:  In Little Canada, which probably consisted of Moody Street and Merrimack Street, and 
Aiken Avenue and Cheever, and some Streets since abandoned, and Salem Street, and all the 
Saint Jean the Baptiste Parish okay, [D:  umhm] were all tenement blocks.  Every now and then I
think you might have seen a, a spattering of uh, single family houses, but they were so congested
in with the blocks that you couldn't distinguish them.  [D:  Umhm]  And they became 
distinguished [coughs] as single families only during Urban Renewal, because those were the 
ones that stayed.  [D:  Hm]  If you, if you, if you had pictures for instance prior to Urban 
Renewal you almost would find it hard to find a single family house.  But yet when they started 
demolishing the big tenement blocks and left some others, woops, that was there!  It just 
happened to be [D:  hm] you know, in that area.  Of course you're not going to have any zoning 
requirements and no really planning.  Just put up a building and put people in.
D:  Um.  Now were there [clears throat] French grocery stores and other kinds of commercial 
establishments in there?
A:  Oh, there was, every neighbor (--)  Saint Jean the Baptiste at least where, the parish that I 
came from you had French bars, you had French grocery stores, you had French bakeries, you 
had French restaurants.  In fact there was a well known night club called the Moulan Rouge that 
was not there when I was a kid, but my father spoke of it many times, which was on Aiken 
Avenue where the present Lawrence Manufacturing Company is.  And that was a, a night club 
with entertainment and what not.  And it was called the Moulan Rouge.  [D:  Hm]  It was in 
Little Canada.  And you would find in Little Canada and in Saint Jean the Baptiste parish more to
define where it was, that there were French barbers, French hairdressers, French stores, or variety
stores on every corner.  And we had an abundant number of French bars.  [D:  Umhm]  Turner's 
Cafe on, although Turner doesn't sound French, was a, was a French bar.  The Past Time Club.  
The CCA Club.  Lot of Franco-American Clubs.
D:  What was the name of the first club you mentioned?
A:  The Past Time, which is still there.  Past Time Club is on Moody Street.  [D:  Umhm]  And 
that's still strong.  That's one of the few.  That and the CCA that remain and people still join and 
still go there to play cards and what not.  But you had a lot of clubs.  Uh, and uh, you know, my 
Dad would come home from work and they would go to the club after, after supper.  [D:  Umhm]
And then you had a smattering of bars, you know.  The Moosehead Cafe and um, there's just so 
many of them all in a small block area.  [D:  Umhm]  But as you moved out of Little Canada, as 
you got a little older, just to venture into other territories, there were Irish Variety Stores.  You 
know, there were Irish uh, Pubs [D:  hm] you know, up on, up on Fletcher Street, which is 
considered the Acre.  So I remember as a kid there was, you had a definite culture of French that 
had you know, French everything.  [D:  Umhm]  And only as you got a little bit older, and I'm 
not so sure it was because I got older that the intermingling took place, I think that society 
brought that about.  You know, I kind of relate it to when I was about fourteen, fifteen I started 
hanging around with kids from the common and some of my friends became Irish.  Well I don't 
think it was because I was fourteen or fifteen, I think it was because that was 19 so and so.  [D:  
Yeah]  You know, I think that's what happened.  [D:  Umhm]  Um, but I can see the same thing 
happening right now.  You know the South East Asians particularly.  The uh, uh, the Puerto 
Ricans and the Spanish people.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, the form, they got their own little 
churches now.  And um, it's almost like closing your eyes and seeing the same thing happening 
again only it's to someone else now.  
D:  Do you think other people share that kind of observation, that this is something that's similar 
to what may have happened before here?
A:  Oh I think so.  I think if people would take a look at it, not in a context of comparing to 
themselves.  [D:  Yup]  You know I, I can recall the conversation I had with my Dad one day, 
who was somewhat prejudice.  You got to remember he's seventy-six years old.  [D:  Yeah]  And 
I told him the story on how I was walking by the street and there was this tenement block with all
kinds of people.  And I'll tell you they were in tee shirts and they were in sweatshirts, and they 
were drinking beer in the porch.  They were talking a language that I couldn't understand.  And, 
and I was depicting a scene that I had remembered as a kid, [D:  Umhm] to him.  [D:  Yup]  His 
first reaction was, "oh yeah, you must have been where the Puerto Ricans were."  And I knew I 
was going to extract that from him.  And the point I was trying to make, but he's too old for me 
to make it I think, or for him to accept it, [D:  Umhm] was that no, I was talking about what it 
was in Little Canada when I was a kid.   [D:  Chuckles]  And his immediate response was, "yeah,
but we worked."  You know.  And then my response to that says, "well that's because you 
couldn't you know, instead of the welfare state stuff, I says, I'm sure that there are 
Franco-Americans back then if there had been welfare they'd had been on it."  [D:  Umhm]
     But the point I'm making is that if you really want to separate the prejudices in this thing and 
that, and factor in the times, you know, the cars, I think you got the same thing.  When I walk 
into one of my tenants home and he's Southeast Asian, I smell Southeast Asian food, they talk 
you know, a foreign language, they're very close knit, they're extended families.  You know, the 
father is there, the mother is there and if you're not looking there's a bunch of other brothers and 
sisters, and their wives and kids.  And on the second floor of this apartment I'll do into an Indian 
family's home.  [D:  Umhm]  And it's the same thing.  You, you know, they come from India.  
They're poor in India.  They come over here to make five, six bucks an hour.  It's a lot of money. 
[D: Umhm]  They also understand they got to live together.  And it's not different than when I 
was a kid.  I remember being kicked out of my room when my mother's sister got married so that
the husband and wife could live [D:  hm] in that house until they saved enough money to get 
their own place.  [D:  Umhm]  Now that's in 1948, 47?  That's not that long ago.  [D:  Right]  But
yet it's the same thing that's happening today.  [D:  chuckles]  I think if people really look at it 
objectively and separate what they see, you know, I think they'll see it's the same thing.  [D:  
Hm]  It's the same same thing.  At least I see it that way.  [D: Umhm]
D:  When you were a, a youngster going to school, at that time what percentage of the population
was comprised of uh, comprised by uh, people of french background?
A:  The ma... The, we were the second largest ethnic group in Lowell at the time when I was a 
kid.  The first was Irish.  [D:  Umhm]  Close second was Franco-Americans.  And then following
was the Greeks and then Portuguese, and Italians, and what not.  So I don't know when we 
became close to being equal to the majority, but we were always close enough that a piece of the 
pie, whether it's political or business was ours as well as the Irish.  [D:  Umhm]  Um, I can 
remember asking my Dad when I became a democrat, which I started (--)  When I first registered
to vote I wanted to be, and I you know, I felt along the same lines as what I was hearing.  I 
couldn't help but think why, and ask, "why were so many Franco-Americans republicans?"  [D:  
Umhm]  It just didn't make sense.  [D:  No]  And he explained to me that if you didn't become a 
republican when you come off, when you come from Canada you didn't have a job.  And he went
on to tell me that the Yankees were republican, would put you to work.  And one of the 
conditions of working was to become a republican.  And we became republicans just out of 
survival.  [D:  Hm]  And contrary to that the Irish were democrats because that's where the power
was.  [D:  Umhm]  But we were so many in numbers all along that if you had a City Council for 
instance, you know, you'd have a number of frenchmen there.  Because the french would vote as 
a block, and the Irish would vote as a block.  
D:  Hm.  When did uh, french uh, become, come together and galvanize their power in a political
way?
A:  I think it's, well I, I can't speak to it except what I heard from my Dad.  [D:  Yeah]  When 
Dewey Archambault ran for Mayor against a Mr. Bruin I guess, my father tells me that it was 
unbelievable how many Franco-Americans, we didn't even like him, but saw one of their own 
within grasp of leadership at the city, City Hall.  He talked about, and my Dad wasn't that 
involved in politics, the street corner rallies.  And he was out there and his brothers were out 
there.  And there was really really a battle.  And uh, Archambault one.  [Phone rings]  I mean he 
actually won the election.  And this was now 1930's, was the first time.  [D:  Yeah]  Prior to that 
it was always an Irishman who was, or a Yankee.  It started with Yankee Mayors, and then 
Irishmen.  In 1930 when Dr. Dewey Archambault, who was uh, an undertaker decided to get 
involved politically, who must have been for a long time, took on at that time was Mayor Bruin.  
It was a clear, clear, clearly defined French against Irish, [D:  right] and democrat against 
republican.  I mean it was clearly defined.  And I think the only thing that won the election is that
the French candidate picked up some Yankees and republicans, and together they were able to 
beat the solid Irish democrat.  [D: Hm]  Uh, and I think at that point politically anyway as I read 
back and looked into it, because I am very actively involved in politics, I think at that point 
Franco-Americans had reached the political stage.  They had been very active and successful in 
the business sense, but now the political stage where it no longer was a problem for the French to
be, get a piece of the pie.  [D:  Right]  Um, and when Archambault got appointed by I think, he 
got some appointment in the state, then we changed the charter.  And it was always three or four 
Franco-Americans on the City Council, with the other Irish, and only much later did a Greek 
come on board.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, but I, we became almost equal to the Irish fairly early, 
because the numbers were there.  [D:  Right, right]  You know, the numbers were there in the 
Franco-American community quicker [D: umhm] than the Irish had [D:  hm] come in.
D:  Apart from the charter change were there any other immediate consequences of his election 
as Mayor?
A:  Uh, not that I know of.  There was an awful lot of pride because I, I can remember my father 
speaking about how they had a  (--)  If (--)  This is something you'll probably want to edit out, 
but I'm going to say it anyway [D: okay], because it's such a great story.  When you stand in front
of City Hall there's an eagle on the top of the hall.  [D:  Yeah]  And if you know your geography 
of Lowell to the right of that eagle in at City Hall was Little Canada, the French decent.  And to 
the left was the Acre.  [D:  Umhm, right]  Okay.  And somebody said that when Dewey 
Archambault got elected Mayor in the 30's, C.M.A.C. was the big rally.  Somebody went down 
and had turned the eagle and had him shit in the Acre.  [Both laugh]
D:  That's good.  
A:  Because Mayor Bruin supposedly used to turn the eagle and have him shit in Little Canada.  
So the pride of the Franco-Americans showed clear as did for the Irish really.  
D:  When you were growing up how strong was the french language?
A:  Well I think it started, when I was growing up is when I think it started losing itself.  For 
instance, when I lived in South Lowell I spoke french in the house and english outside.  [D:  
Umhm]  Now at nine, nine or ten when I moved to Little Canada I spoke french in the house and 
french outside, [D:  hm] because the french language was spoken out in the streets in Little 
Canada, but not in Pawtucketville per se, or South Lowell for some reason or other.  I, and I 
don't, I don't know why.  But it was (--)  You know I became a you know, a Franco-American 
who spoke french both in and out, [D:  umhm] outside of the house and inside of the house.  And
then as we got older we started speaking more english outside.  It was like some transition was 
happening and I don't know why.  And today very little is spoken, except by real 
Franco-Americans who want to continue the language.  My, I have six children.  Now I married a
french girl and her parents are french, I was french, my parents are french and yet my kids does 
not, do not speak or understand french.  [D:  Umhm]  Now that's my fault in a sense.  Because 
what my mother did is she made sure we spoke french in the house.  [D:  Umhm]  I didn't do 
that.  Okay.  And so consequently my kids don't speak french, except those who want to pick it 
up.  You know, uh, and I think what you find in a french community now the language is no 
longer something that you continue, except certain section of the Franco-American population 
that want to continue it.  But that's diminishing in number.  
D:  Hm.  Was there any french instruction when you were going to school?
A:  We had a um, we had, all of our classes were in french, except for the english subject, [D:  
right, right] because it was a french school.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, and then in high school there was a
french subject.  There was a subject in french.  But in grammar school you uh, you were taught 
by the Brothers and the Nuns in french.  And if you hit into english it was because that was a 
subject.  It was predominantly french.  Now I understand it's just the other way around.  It's all 
english and you have a french subject.  
D:  Uh huh.  Now what was the grammar school you went to?
A:  Saint Joseph's.  
D:  And did you go to a Catholic high school after that?
A:  Saint Joseph's.  Saint Joseph's High School.
D:  I see.  Okay.  
A:  Saint Joseph's High School.
D:  Was there a public high school?
A:  Lowell High.  [D: Yup]  Yup.  Well there was no doubt that when I was growing up that we 
were going to Saint Joseph's.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, there was never any doubt that we were going 
there.  I remember a french kid, Leo Parent, who also went to school with me.  And he's a 
principal in one of the high schools now.  And he became an outstanding athlete uh, nationwide.  
But I remember him when he was a sophomore at Saint Joseph's High School.  There was a 
Brother who, his name was Brother Ferman, saw such talent in him.  Suggested to him to go to 
Lowell High.  [D:  Hm]  Because his talent would be hidden in this little Franco-American 
school.  And he did and you know, the Brother was absolutely right.  He became an absolute star 
in all sports that I don't think would have been recognized.  But that's the only incident that I can 
recall where there was going to be a, a Lowell High School as opposed to Saint Joseph's, [D:  
umhm] in the french community.  
D:  Was there a qualitative difference perceived between the two schools?
A:  Well there's never been any doubt that perception wise your education in a Catholic french 
school was going to be so much better than the high school in a public school.  [D:  Hm]  Now I 
don't think that they were proven out.  [D:  Umhm]  Maybe some isolated cases, but I think it's 
the student more than the school.  [D:  Umhm]  But there was that perception.  Oh, no, no, you 
don't want to send them to Lowell High.  [D:  Yeah]  You know, there was no (--)  And the, in the
french families there was no doubt about that.  [D:  Umhm]  Now there was slight cost to go 
there.  [D:  Right]  So a number of people could not afford even that slight cost, [D:  umhm] 
would send their kids to Lowell High School.  [D: Hm]  But if there was an opportunity they 
would go to Saint Joseph's. 
D:  Hm.  Were there rivalries between the students and all?  Sports wise, or anything like that?
A:  No.  No, no.  In fact Lowell High became (--)  Lowell High, if you went to Lowell High 
School uh, and there was no comparison between Lowell High School and Saint Joseph's.  Saint 
Joseph's was a small Franco-American catholic school, [D:  umhm] and even the sports didn't 
compete.  It was not that mass [D:  umhm] to compare them to.  So there was no comparison.  
The only catholic school that would compare to Lowell High and was a rivalry was Keith 
Academy.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, but that was not a french school, that was just a catholic school.  [D:
Right]  Where a number of various ethnic groups went to instead of Lowell High.  [D:  Umhm]  
Because you've got to remember there weren't that many catholic high schools.  Saint Joseph's 
had their own, which took in the Franco- Americans.  Because when I started, when I was a 
freshman at Saint Joseph's, of course I went from the eighth grade at Saint Joseph's to the 
freshman at Saint Joseph's.  But my freshman class there were a number of, number of kids that 
came from different locations.  And I found very early that Notre Dame de Lourde, which was a 
Franco-American parish [D:  umhm] sent their kids to Saint Joseph's.  Pawtucketville Saint 
Jeanne D'Arc and Saint Louis did too.  [D:  Umhm]  Because that was the only high school.  
They didn't have one in their particular neighborhood.  
D:  Umhm.  Umhm.  But the school itself was in your parish?
A:  It was in my parish, yeah.
D:  Yeah, I see.
A:  I went to grammar school and high school there.  [D:  Yeah.  Hm]  So when I, when I became
a freshman, the class now consisted of graduates from Saint Joseph Grammar School, and 
graduates from Saint Jeanne D'Arc Grammar School, and Saint Louis Grammar School, and 
Notre Dame de Lourde Grammar School, and Saint Marie's Grammar School.  [D:  Umhm]  And
so the french okay, focused in in the high school over there, those that couldn't afford to go to 
Keith Academy and those that didn't want to go to Lowell High.  [D:  Right]  The kid went to 
Saint Joseph.
D:  Now apart from the church and school were there other institutions that um, helped promote 
the french culture in the are?
A:  When I was a kid the only influence I had besides of course the family was the school and the
church.  And the, the association related to the school and the church.  A great impact on me was 
sports when I was a kid.  And, but it was sports organized by the church.  [D:  Umhm]  CYO's 
and CMI's.  So the influence on us besides your peers, which was a great one too [D:  sure], you 
know the street gangs that we used to hang around with was, but your parish first, your school 
and your church.  And see in those days the clubs as I know them today were for the grownups, 
[D:  umhm] because they were clubs and as kids you didn't go in the clubs.  Uh, (--)
D:  Were these clubs for women also?
A:  No.  No, this was a place for the guy to go after supper [D:  umhm] and play some cards and 
shoot some pool, and drink some beer.  [D:  Yeah]  You know, and there was no, no women 
would go to those clubs.  
D:  Was it entirely social, [A:  yeah] or were their other things that they did?
A:  No, it was social.  [D:  Yeah]  Yeah, that's all they were, social clubs.  Uh, they initially as I 
understand it from my Dad, initially started to keep, to help the Franco-Americans adjust to the 
community.  [D:  Umhm]  But you went to the club and that's where they would help whatever 
problems you had politically or whatnot.  [D:  Umhm]  It was not only just a gathering place, but 
it was a social club that helped everybody, [D:  Umhm] as I understand why it got, you know, 
why it started.  And why it's dying out today, it's not longer needed that way.  [D:  Umhm]  And 
now you got you TV, your own bar and your own spending money.  And very few, the only 
people that go to the club are those that can lock the door and play cards.  [Both laugh]  
D:  Um, let's see now.  I'm trying, I'm still trying to get a picture in my mind of Little Canada and
what it was.  Uh, what again were the, were the boundaries of the area?
A:  Okay.  Little Canada was bounded by the river, [D:  Umhm]  okay, [phone rings] on one side 
and City Hall [D:  yeah] on that side.  And then there's a think line to the Acre.  Uh, if you 
talking to a real die hard Little Canada person, you'll say, they'll tell you that Little Canada was 
from the canal to the river.  And that from Moody Street, Merrimack Street, it was french, but it 
was not Little Canada.  Okay.  [D:  Hm]  But if you recognize why it was called Little Canada, it 
was called Little Canada because Franco-American people lived there and they came from 
Canada.  And then that brought itself all the way over to Salem Street.  So the boundary, my, my 
definition of Little Canada would be, well Little Canada was where all of the Franco-Americans 
lived, river up to uh, Fletcher Street and to City Hall.  [D:  Umhm]  Okay, that would be Little 
Canada.  You go beyond Fletcher Street you're into the Acre.  You get on Market Street you're 
into the combination of Acre and Acropolis, we called the Greek section.  [D:  Umhm]  So Little 
Canada is clearly defined as Northern Canal.  [D:  Umhm, okay]  Later years when they decided 
to designate a section of the city as it's first Urban Renewal, they called it Northern Canal and 
they, they set it right up to what Little Canada was.  It was from the river, to Salem Street, to the 
City Hall.  And that became known as Little Canada to most of us.
D:  Umhm.  Um, were there particular events during the year that uh, people within Little 
Canada area get together to celebrate?
A:  Well when I was a kid, [D: Yeah] and you got to remember I'm only fifty-four, so when I was
a kid the celebrations were parish celebrations like Easter.  Uh, the uh Franco-American Week, 
which is June something or other, Franco-American Day, but nothing elaborate.  Nothing like it 
used to be with, what my father tells me, where they had big parades and big parties.  [D:  Hm]  
Not when I was a kid, but you know, you've got to remember that's, I was a kid in the forties.  
[Phone rings]  Those ethnic cultural activities were slowly dying away.  [D:  Yeah]  You know, 
with the TV, [D: sure] and the meshing in, [D:  Yeah] and the melting pot more or less.  And so 
uh, I think I was, I'm too young to remember specifically some happenings that I would say, "boy
we look forward to Jean Baptiste Day."  [D:  Umhm, right]  That wasn't the case when I was a 
kid.
D:  Was that something that was celebrated in your day, [A:  no] or something only in the past?
A:  [Clears throat]  In, in the past.  [D:  Oh yeah]  Only recently did we reactivate it only to, to 
remind and to get the generation who was just forgetting their french heritage [D:  hm] more 
interested in it.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  You know for instance I was part of a founder of 
Franco-American Week.  God that's probably about fifteen years ago.  [D:  Hm]  Now when I 
was a kid there was no Franco-American Week.  And what we were trying to do is alert the 
generation that was forgetting a heritage that there was.  [D:  Umhm]  Now prior to me, when my
father was a kid there were celebrations galore.  You know, Saint Jean the Baptiste Day and 
Good Friday with big you know, Station of the Cross down the middle of the street, and holidays,
and all of that stuff.  But I'm not so sure it was because of culture, but I think it was because of 
economy.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]
side one end
side two begins
Side two begins with Armand (informant) in mid-sentence:
A:  With the emphasis on Franco.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, and I'm a French American with the 
emphasis on my, you know, my heritage is french, but I don't have those particular ties to Canada
that a lot of them do.  [D:  Umhm]  I think of a good friend of mine who works at the Housing 
Authority.  His name is Norman Ayotte.  He come from Centraville, which was a little bit of a, 
well his father was a former Mayor back in the days, in the 40's.  But he has some direct ties to 
Canada, and he, he would look upon himself as a Franco-American with the emphasis on Franco,
[D:  umhm] as oppose to me.  [D:  Umhm]  And I think that has something to do with how close 
your family was to Canada.  My father was born in Lowell.  [D:  Yeah]  My grandfather I think 
was born in Canada.  Well that's to far removed for me to have those ties.  
D:  Was Trois Rivieres the main place that many people from [unclear] came from?
A:  I hear, I hear Trois, Trois, Trois Rivieres and I hear Granby and Quebec, [D:  umhm] which I 
think these are all Provinces of Quebec.  I'm not sure.  [D:  Hm]  See now you're hitting my 
ignorance of the, [D:  well I can't tell you either] that country.  But they would, they could tell 
you.  [D:  Yeah]  Some of these guys will tell you exactly where the, the link came.  [D:  Umhm] 
But they weren't living in Little Canada.  They weren't (--)  A little bit affluent.  More affluent 
than us.  [D:  Umhm]  And you know, when I say us, I'm talking about the poor french and the 
not so poor french.  [D:  Umhm]  And the same in my days.  
D:  Now a couple of minutes ago you started to tell me about Urban Renewal and how that 
affected Little Canada.  How did all of that come about?
A:  It was a well intended program, in fact supported by the pastor of Saint Jean the Baptiste at 
the time God bless his soul.  [D:  Hm]  The idea here was in the sixties the federal government 
come up with a plan to renew neighborhoods, because they were rat infested and insect infested 
tenements blocks filled with people and not living in the best of standards.  And the idea here 
was to go in and take a whole neighborhood and just renew, Urban Renewal.  [D:  Umhm]  In the
implementation of it however no thought was giving to renewing.  It was just rebuilt.  And 
consequently people homes were bought and demolished and not replaced, [D:  umhm] because 
the density was so much they couldn't possibly replace them.  And so the community started 
getting dispersed with no hope of ever coming back as a community, because what was being 
replaced was not sufficient in numbers for people to come back.  And so what it did, what 
ultimately it did, is it destroyed a complete neighborhood in terms of an ethnic following.  (A), 
and (B), it replaced what was great architecture with modern you know, highways, pavements 
and brick buildings and uh, cement buildings.  And it just was the worst thing that could happen 
to the city and just coincidently it happened to the Franco-Americans.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  And 
there are debates that go on that this was a, a dispersing of Little Canada, a breaking up of the 
french neighborhoods, but that wasn't the, the motivation.  It was really to do something.
D:  Debate said it was intentional?
A:  Oh, there are people who will tell you that this was designed by some Irish politician to wipe 
out the french community, and for what reason, I don't know.  [Voices in background]  But when 
you think of the people who supported it at the time, including a very well respected pastor of the
Franco-American parish that was going to be affected, then you knew that that wasn't the 
motivation.  But it did exactly what some people thought it would.  [D:  Hm]  It (--)  There was 
no longer a, a um, a neighborhood that's considered Franco-American per se, [D:  Hm] like that 
was.  [D:  Right]  You know?  Pawtucketville for instance where we, where we are right now, 
there's a french side of Pawtucketville, which are the people from Little Canada that bought 
homes and came here.  [Chuckles]  But it isn't a French side and an Irish side.  They 're just 
predominantly French in a section of Pawtucketville.  Um, we call them French wards and it 
shows up in votes.  [D:  Hm, umhm]  It actually shows up in votes.  There are a number of 
French wards in the city [D:  umhm] and a number of Irish wards.  Belvidere is considered an 
Irish ward.  The Highlands is considered an Irish ward.  Pawtucketville is considered French 
wards.  Centraville is considered French wards.  And they're pockets of neighborhoods where 
there is some ethnic, you know, there is some French people predominantly and Irish.  But not 
like Little Canada.  Little, it was all French.  [D:  Umhm]  There was no question you were in 
Little Canada.  [D:  Umhm]  Just like if you were in [unclear], no question you were in, in Greek,
Greece rather.  [D:  Right, yeah, yeah]  Um, but the northern (--)  What Urban Renewal did is it 
wiped it out completely. 
    I'm not so sure it wouldn't have been anyway, [D:  umhm] just through the natural evolution of
things.  I think that people for instance uh, I left Little Canada prior to Urban Renewal because I 
wanted to get out of there.  [D:  Um]  I mean you know, I didn't want to live in a tenement block. 
I wanted my own place.  So I think it would have happened where the neighborhood would have 
been dismantled anyway, only not in such a dramatic way.  
D:  Um.  But did people who grew up in that area have any particular attachments to the, the 
buildings and other structures there?
A:  They had attachments to the neighborhood more than the buildings.  
D:  Yeah.
A:  The buildings just happened to be where they lived.  [D:  Umhm]  But they had attachments 
to the neighborhood, the church, the school, the local pubs, the, the clubs, you know?  And that 
was um, when you talk to the older folks who were there and needed to move, I think if you 
talked to them today they're probably very happy it happened, but that's only because they're 
looking at it today.  [+:  Um, yeah]  But um, that kind of broke up Little Canada as we knew it.
D:  Did the city provide any assistance in resettling?  [A:  Oh yeah]  Yeah?
A:  What happened is that the, it was a federal assistance actually.  It's the same as it is today.  
Uh, relocation benefits were given, people were paid to move.  And uh, landlords were paid for 
the buildings that were demolished.  And I don't think the big problem was (--)  Once the 
decision was made to renew the area, I don't think the big problem was how it affected the 
people economically, it's the result was that they couldn't come back.  [D:  Umhm]  It wasn't 
going to be that same renewed neighborhood.  It's going to be a brand new neighborhood.  [D:  
Um]  There's going to be businesses where houses used to be.  There was going to be a highway 
cutting right across the thing called French Street Extension that you know, wasn't there before.  
There was going to be low income housing like Northern Canal that wasn't you know, suppose to
be there, or they didn't perceive that to be there.  [D:  Um]  So there was no way that people 
could come flying back now  [D:  umhm] and still re you know, institute that community that 
was gone.
D:  Right.  But was there thought given in the planning process to the, the cultural implications 
of all of this?
A:  No.  No, it, it, Urban Renewal in 1960 gave no thought to cultural implications, or 
architectural implications.  Otherwise they'd have left most of the buildings there and renewed 
them instead of.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  I happen to own the last remaining four story tenement 
block in North Canal.  
D:  Where is that located?
A:  And it's on Moody Street.  [D:  Yeah]  500 Moody Street.  And when you look at that 
building you can't help but think, God they could have saved a lot more of those, you know, and 
still accomplished it.  But there was no thought back then.  Urban Renewal, you didn't think of 
the cultural aspect, or you didn't think of (--)  They'd wipe out a church like nothing if they 
needed to, if it was in the way.  [D:  Umhm]  They didn't thin of the clubs implication.  And the 
only thing that's, that salvaged one of the clubs is they had political strength not to be touched.  
But yet they became empty [D:  uh huh], because you know, the thought process wasn't really 
good.  I mean here's the club saving themselves, but yet the people were leaving.  So what good, 
what good was the club if the people weren't there.  [D:  Right]  You know what I'm saying?  But
they did save themselves.  And so people use that particular club and they come there from 
different neighborhoods anyway, you know?  [Phone rings]
D:  Well how long after all of this was accomplished did people begin to think of some negative 
aspects of all of this?
A:  After it was done.  [D:  Yeah]  After it was done.  They didn't think of the negative aspects 
during the time it was being done simply because everybody was involved personally.  You 
know, I mean if somebody was negotiated with you who lived there it was inevitable you would 
have moved.  Your only concern is how do you, what do you get out of what you're going to get 
to go, and not the whole community.  [D:  Right]  It was pretty well abandoned.  [D:  Yeah]  It 
was (--)  I think that the, the church I think may have felt it more than anyone else, because the, 
the, they had two factors.  (l), the generation not going to church that much anymore, plus this 
whole slew of church going Franco-Americans were leaving the neighborhood and weren't 
coming back.  I think there was a perception that people would have had an opportunity to come 
back into better housing that they had, and it didn't work out.  [D:  Hm]  Number one, it wasn't 
better.  And it wasn't as great in number.  And people left and that was it.  There was no looking 
back.  
D:  What happened to the low income folks who were living in the tenements?
A:  They were all, they were all uh, moved into public housing.  And a lot of people went out on 
their own.  You know, the government says they'll take care of you, but most of the people will 
take care of themselves.  [D:  Umhm]  Some who can't, the government took care of and they 
moved into public housing, which is in the Acre.  North Common Village in fact.  [D:  Umhm]  
Uh, but those were the poorest of the poor.  There were an awful lot of people who were not poor
living in those poor tenements.  [D:  Umhm]  You know an awful lot of Franco-American 
families with kids that were working and paying "room and board", and the husband working 
and saving and not necessarily uh, all poor.  Proof of it is that the settlement that they got, which 
was small, together what else they put together it bought homes.  [D:  Umhm]  They bought 
homes.  
D:  Hm.  So was that a common economic strategy to, to live cheap in essence and uh (--)
A:  I don't know if it was designed to do that except that when I, when I first worked, starting 
working in the fifties I was an insurance agent.  And I remember collecting insurance on people 
who had bought policies before I even got into business, were paying huge amounts of money 
and they were paying it.  [D: Hm, umhm]  Uh, I don't know if they, I think maybe they were no 
thoughts of alternatives to the way they were living.  [D:  Hm] It wasn't a question of economics.
[D:  Right]  I think it's "hey, this is fine."  "On et bien issit, you know, we're fine here."  [D:  
Umhm]  You know, I mean I think that was that attitude.  [D:  Umhm]  Um, close to the, close to 
the work, close to schools, close to churches.  What else did they want back then, right?  
D:  Sure, yeah.  And in the middle of it all I guess (--)
A:  Yeah, and no cars back then.  [D:  No]  Remember now we're talking about before the 
everybody and his brother having a car.  Uh, and this, the amazing thing is the generation.  I 
moved out of the city, bought a home in Pawtucketville with a back yard and a, a uh, fireplace 
and all that stuff, right?  [D:  Yup]  And my kids as they grew up wanted to go back to the city 
kind of.  [D:  Hm]  I mean you say, some of them would say, I guess one generation does what 
another generation didn't want to do.  [D:  Umhm]  Now you, you've got all that stuff at the warf 
in Boston, right.  I mean dump.  I mean you know those parents how hard they worked to get out 
of there?  [Both laugh]  So uh, I don't know.  You know, I think every generation has their own 
ideas.  [D:  Uh huh, umhm]  And that I don't think it's, it's anything that's happened in so much as
the people themselves, and how they feel, and how they want to live.  [D:  Umhm]
D:  What has the, the thought, or the image of Little Canada become for people today?
A:  Well the, the older you get the better image you have, which is about everything.  [D:  
Umhm]  You know, I get, I can't help it but hear my father telling me about the good old days.  
Depression, no job and scrap.  I mean how can that be good old days, right?  But the older you 
get the more those days look good to you.  I think what's happening now you'll have more people
who have ties, or had ties of Little Canada look with it with affection, and with a certain 
nostalgia.  And blurred out the fact that we were living in crowded areas with roaches and rats.  I 
mean in my lifetime I lived on Salem Street.  I was in a room with two of my brothers, myself 
and my sister as a kid.  I can remember taking the rubbish out with rats on me, and I can 
remember killing roaches.  I can remember going to bed without heat.  [D:  Umhm]  Now I'm 
only fifty-four years old and I remember this so well.  Now how can I say that was the great old 
days?  But I don't think of that except when you ask me.  [D:  Umhm]  When you think of Little 
Canada, I think of the fun I had on the river.  [D:  Umhm]  Swimming in the Merrimack River, 
going in the canal.  I mean can you imagine in thinking it was fun swimming in the canal that 
was polluted like it could never be.  I mean the threat.  My mother used to tell me, "go in the 
river.  Don't go in the canal you'll get polio."  You know, I mean I think back nostalgia of those 
days and I go for a walk at the Northern Canal area, or I think of the nice things I had.  I don't 
spend too much time dwelling on tough it was.  [D:  Umhm]  Everybody does that.  [D:  Umhm] 
Everybody does.  But that was tough I mean.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]
D:  But I hear people and I think I've seen it in print too, uh, lamenting the passing of, of Little 
Canada.  [A:  Sure]  There's the monument there now.  [A: Yup, yup]  That sort of thing.  
A:  Because you know it's a, it's a part of your life that uh, was a part of your life.  So you're not 
always going to think of the negative aspects of it.  In fact as you get older you're going to think 
of the pleasant parts.  [D:  Umhm]  You know I enjoyed climbing those buildings.  I mean as a 
kid I used to enjoy going on the roof tops and uh, that was so much fun.  I enjoyed on a Sunday 
afternoon going to the River, and going swimming in the river.  And picking different pools to 
swim in, and graduating up.  And now I, I enjoyed that and I enjoy talking about it.  Now let's 
look at the negative side of it, right?
     My God the river was dangerous.  Real dangerous!  Okay.  Climbing those roofs was 
ridiculous.  I mean not only that, the way you reached the top through the close, clotheslines for 
instance, I mean how safe were those things?  So if you wanted to look at the negative part you 
know, uh, I enjoyed living on Salem Street.  I'd walk to school and all that.  But Salem Street was
roach, rat infested building that I lived in.  [D: Umhm]  So I think it depends on, on your 
perception, but I, I think as you get older you've survived the bad part so you think back on the 
good part.  
D:  Umhm.  Tell me more about climbing the buildings?  How did you do that?
A:  There (--)  I had this thing about climbing.  It's amazing to, because today I'm really afraid of 
heights.  What, this (--)  We had about three or four guys that used to love to climb buildings, and
I don't know why.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, and we would you know, the four, five story deckers had 
clothesline.  And we were able to go from one clothesline to another to reach the top of the roof.  
And the buildings were so close that we used to run on one roof to another and see how far we 
could go without going, stepping on the ground.  And one of the biggest challenges of all, and I 
almost killed myself, I was about maybe twelve years old, was when I climbed the Saint Joseph's
School in between buildings, but up like that.  And when I got to the top it was a slate roof.  [D:  
Hm]  And to this day I, I shimmied up strictly with the suction of this, you know?
D:  Your hands and?
A:  My hand and then my sneakers, you know.  And like, like (--)
D:  And your, your back was against the (--)
A:  No.  Once we got to the top of the roof line, [D:  oh?] okay, then I just laid on the roof.  Then 
as long as I didn't panic okay, that was, and then I just shimmied up.  Got to the top where the 
tower is and I'll never forget it.  It was, I just felt so good about having done it.  I used to love to 
climb roofs.  I mean uh, and I enjoyed it.  [D:  Umhm]  That was fun.  That was fun.
D:  How did you get down from that?
A:  Oh we, same way I got up.  [Chuckles]  The same way I got up.  You know?
D:  You were in between a narrow space in between buildings?
A:  Just (--)  Yeah see, what you do is yeah.  You put one foot on this building and one foot on 
that building, and they were that close.  [D:  Right]  And you just shimmy up.  That was simple.
D:  Just what, a couple of feet apart?
A:  Yeah.  Oh yeah, yeah.  Yeah, in fact the, uh, some of the buildings were so close that you 
couldn't do that.  You couldn't go in between a building.  [D:  Oh]  But that, what, what, you 
found a way to get on the top of the building.  And then from one building to another.  I don't 
know why, but that stands in my mind as something that I did, which was so foolish, but I 
enjoyed it so much.  [D:  Laughs]  It's was like a challenge that, [D:  sure] it's amazing.  
D:  Now what about the clotheslines?  How did they help you in climbing?
A:  Well the, the clotheslines have a brace on them where the, where the ropes run from one 
clothesline to (--)  You did, you'd actually get on the brace.  Shimmy up to the next brace and just
(--)  You could see it if you saw my building on Moody Street.  You can actually (--)  You know, 
every floor had clotheslines running alongside the building.  [D:  Right]  But they were tied to a 
brace.  And it's the brace that used to support you all the way up.  You know?
D:  I see. Okay.  Jeese.  Anyone ever get hurt that way?
A:  I don't know of anybody.  [D:  Yeah]  I don't know of anybody.  We use to you know, climb 
the Aiken Street Bridge on the top of the girders, you know, when (--)  Uh, and then, it was our 
playground, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  The Moody Street Bridge, which is University Avenue 
now, I used to swim in that canal.  [Phone rings]  I know the canal like the back of my hand.  
Well there's a girder underneath that bridge.  We used to walk that girder right across the canal.  
That was not a problem, because you fell you were in the canal, you were okay.  [D:  Hm]  But 
the next step was a big challenge, because now you were looking at the river and the rocks.  And 
I can't help but think every time I go by there how dangerous that was.  But that was like my 
erector set that the other kids have today.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  You know, you go on a 
playground this little kid, he's climbing over here, right?  And that apparently was my 
playground.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, the poor man's playground.  If you, you know, you made 
fun with what was there.  That's why the canal was such a nice place to go, and the river.  
because uh, you couldn't build a swimming pool like the canal if you want to forget how dirty it 
was, you know?  
D:  Where did you learn how to swim?
A:  In the canal.  Yeah, one of my buddies threw me in the canal.  And uh, that was it.  I mean 
you see, when you swam in the canal you had to swim, you couldn't stand anyplace.  I mean the 
canal is over your head the minute you get in it.  So there was no, you went in the canal and you 
started dog paddling.  And the first thing you know, you're working the current.  If you didn't 
panic, took you down, you know?  [D:  Hm]  Yeah I, one of my buddies.
D:  What canal was that?
A:  Northern Canal right in back of the C.M.A.C.  I can still where I (--)  You see if you lived on 
Salem Street and towards the Acre section, you swam in back of the C.M.A.C.  That was your 
territory.  You would take your clothes off, put your bathing suit on, sometimes no bathing suit, 
but you were, you would hide your clothes in the rocks, because you weren't suppose to swim in 
the canal.  And if a cop showed up, or somebody showed, you know, you just float down the 
canal down to Little Canada.  And as long as they couldn't identify you they wouldn't chase you. 
But Little Canada people now, this is you know, in, in the Cheever Street and Moody Street, 
Merrimack Street, they swam at the University Avenue Bridge, which was then called Moody 
Street Bridge, from there to the Wannalancit.  That was their swimming pool.  [D:  Umhm]  Off 
the buildings, just dive off the buildings.  And kids in the canal all of the time.  [D:  Hm]
    And then the river was used an awful lot too, because there were different sections of the river 
even when the river was low where you could swim.  One in particular they called it the "Dark 
Hole".  I could find it [snaps fingers] like that.  That was a, you look at it now it's a very small 
hole, all right. [D:  Umhm]  But that was one where you was over your head.  The minute you 
reached that point, now you would, you got there by walking on the rocks.  But when you got 
there, this was a pretty, fairly big hole as a kid.  And uh, you dove from the rock into this pool 
that we called the "Dark Hole", because you open your eyes and it was pitch dark. [D:  Hm]  But 
it was great!  It was like a swimming pool.  And we used to go there a lot.  Because every now 
and then we were kind of afraid of the canal.  You know the canal took a life, maybe two lives a 
year.  Kid fell in, or somebody drowned in it.  There was a current that was really incredible.  
And it wasn't as clean.  The river water was clean.  And then there were, there was what they 
called the "Kibby", which was, I think it's named after a fish.  [D:  Hm]  And that was the section
of the river that on a particular day was high enough and long enough where you could swim, 
and not just dive in and come out on the other side of the rock.  And the current wasn't that bad.  
And then they had what they called the "Big Kibby".  That was similar in nature except that 
current was a lot stronger, and you had to be a pretty good swimmer to get in the "Big Kibby".  
[D:  Umhm]  You know, like your mother would say, "don't go in the Big Kibby now."  You 
know, and I knew exactly what she meant.  And I wouldn't go anyway, because (--)  [D:  Umhm] 
And then they had another one called "Stony's".  [D:  Hm]  And there are different pockets of 
water in a low tide river where uh, as a kid you knew exactly where to go.  [D:  Hm]  Exactly 
where to go.  Of course when the river got up high, then that was gone, you would then go to the 
boulevard, which it used to be called the Bath House.  And that was allowable swimming over 
there.
D:  That's on the river?
A:  That's on the river.  Same river though, but it's before the rocks, before the dam.  
D:  Hm.  Were there other names for places like some of these?
A:  Uh, not (--)  Now if you lived in the Acre you went in the Pawtucket Canal, which was up by 
the Bartlett School and the Francis Gate House.  [D: Umhm]  That's where you swam.  And if 
you come from the south end of the city, you swam where now is going to be the Sampson 
Connector.  Where the trolley goes?   [D:  Umhm]  That used to be a swimming hole also.  
D:  Oh yeah.  Was there a name for that?
A:  Uh, no.  I, I went there a couple of times only because I hung around with this guy who lived 
on Appleton Street.  And we had gone there one day instead.  But there was, it was just a canal.  
[D:  Hm]  See the canal did not have names of swimming places like the river did.  [D:  Umhm]  
You went swimming in the canal.  Where?  In back of the C.M.A.C., or on the Textile Bridge, 
which was called the Moody Street Bridge.  But it did not have section names like the river did.  
D:  How did you get into the canal?
A:  Uh, from the banking.  Like where I used to go in back of the C.M.A.C., which was on 
Pawtucket Street, it now has a uh, um, Doctor's office.  You just go down the embankment.  And 
again put your bathing suit on, put your clothes on the rocks and just dive in.  And we'd stay 
there all afternoon, you know?  And the only time we'd take off and venture down is when we 
wanted to go off the bridge.  You know, we would go down under the girders.  And there's a spot 
there where you can get out.  And in fact, one of my, one of the tours we took a couple of years 
ago with people from Washington, I went under the bridge and I saw all of these guys there and it
was a flashback, you know.  [D:  Laughs]  And uh, lot of the, lot of the fellows in Little Canada 
were good divers.  And they would dive of the University Avenue Bridge, what we called the 
Moody Street Bridge, and off the block, off the buildings.  Tessier, Bob Tessier, I don't know if 
you ever heard that name.  Bob Tessier is a movie actor.  He played in the Longest Yard.  He's a 
bald headed, ferocious looking guy.  He's from Lowell.  [D:  Yup]  And uh, he used to dive off 
the, the buildings.  [D:  Jeese]  And he uh, he was a very, the guy wasn't afraid of anything.  And 
he goes under the name of Bob Tessier too in Holywood.  He's done an awful lot of films with 
uh, I think of this one here, The Longest Yard.  He was the guy who bashed heads.  But he used 
to dive off those buildings.  
D:  How high were the buildings?
A:  Five, six stories high.  Sixty feet [D:  jeese] into the canal.  Beautiful!.  He, we used to 
marvel and watch him.  He used to get right on the edge of that roof and then he would just do a 
jack knife.  And beautiful site!  Beautiful site to see!
D:  How old was he at the time?
A:  Oh, thirteen, fourteen years old.  [D:  Um]  But you know we did this everyday.  And you 
know, it's like everything else, you do something everyday you're going to be pretty good at it.  
[D:  Umhm]  You know I used to go off that Moody Street Bridge.  And uh, that's pretty high.  
D:  How high is it?
A:  And, well the Moody Street Bridge has got to be thirty, forty feet.  And we used to get off the 
railing.  And of course you know, first of all you had no problems with landing in the canal in 
terms of depth, as you could never touch bottom.  In the canal when I was a little kid was too 
deep.  Uh, but you know, you do that everyday, everyday, everyday, well after awhile you know, 
you get to be pretty good at it.  [Chuckles]  This guy used to be, we used to marvel at (--)  We 
never did the buildings.  I never did anyway.  But we used to marvel at him.  And he'd get a 
crowd, you know.  [D:  Laughs]  Baldy is going to dive off this building, you know.  Oh, we'd get
a crowd up there.  And he loved it.  And it doesn't surprise me that the guy's a Holywood actor 
now [D:  Uh huh] doing all of these crazy stunts.  
D:  Was he the only one that dove off buildings?
A:  Oh no.  No, there was quite a few of them, but him in particular because this guy wasn't 
afraid of anything.  [D:  Hm]  And then the other side you know, people used to through their 
garbage out the building.  Out the building into the canal.  
D:  Hm.  Did you ever get into any trouble swimming?
A:  Uh, no.  No.  The only trouble is my mother.  My mother used to say you know, don't go 
swimming in the canal, you know.  You kind of held it back from her that you went in.  I was 
trying to get my father here this morning.  I said, "hey, they're talking about the time they used to
swim in the river Dad."  "Oh no, my mother wouldn't let me go."  [D: Laughs]  I said, "I know, 
but talk about" (--)  You know, it's so (--)  He, here's a seventy-six year old guy who said, "oh no,
my mother used to say, don't go to stonies."  And I guess my father was a, a very attached person 
to his mother.  And therefore he didn't, [D:  Umhm] he didn't go too often, because she thought 
he shouldn't go.  And he's the kind of guy he is anyway.  If you're not suppose to do something, 
you don't do it.  Which was, I was a little bit different.  I didn't see any problems with it.  
D:  Right.  Well did, did (--)
A:  They had two concerns.  One of course is the danger of the canal being such a swift current 
and deep.  And the other one is the pollution.  They really were afraid that that caused polio.  
D:  Um.  Umhm.
A:  You know, they knew the undertakers were, you know, using the canal for their waste.   [D:  
Shoo, boy]  You know, they knew that.  And I think they still do, but probably not, I don't know.  
Because all of the undertakers, they're all lined up on the canal  [Both laugh]
D:  Well did, did all the, the uh, the kids your age swim, or just a few, or?
A:  All we, the kids I hung around with.  That was the only bit, we couldn't go to the beach.  [D:  
Yeah]  I couldn't go to lakes.  So we all did the canals and the rivers.  [D:  Hm]  Everyone I hung 
around with, everyone from (--)  I don't think there's a soul from Little Canada who didn't at one 
time swim in the canal, except for the girls.  [D:  Umhm]  They didn't go.  
D:  Did any girls from town?
A:  Not that I know of, no, no.  Not that I know of.  No.
D:  What about adults?  Did any of them go in?
A:  No.  [D:  Umhm]  Just kids.  
D:  Yup.
A:  Either the girls were, and the adults were much smarter than us or I don't know.  You know 
it's funny, but you know, I don't ever remember a girl swimming in the canal.  [D:  Hm]  In the 
river, but not in the canal.  
D:  Umhm.  Any of your friends drown?
A:  No.  [D:  Umhm]  A couple, I know a couple have drowned, but they weren't friends.  I just 
knew them.  We went to school with them.  [D: Umhm]  The canal took a couple of them a year.  
[D: Hm]  A couple of them a year.  Yup.  I remember one in particular who lived across the street
from me.  Mr. Rondeau.  Well the kids name was Norman Rondeau.  He wasn't a friend of mine, 
but I knew them.  And I knew the Rondeaus.  And he had drowned in the canal.  Uh, every year 
the canal took a couple of kids.  And not because they fell in.  Got caught you know, underneath, 
because there were jagged edges.  And you know, one of the first things we learned when we 
went into the canal is where can you, where you can swim and where you can't swim.  You know,
uh, and then on Sundays they emptied the canals.  And we used to go walk the banks of the 
canals on Sundays.  [D:  Um.  Umhm]  And we could see by landmark where you really 
shouldn't be.  Where you could get caught, you know?
D:  By what, what sorts of things would you see?
A:  Either, either, either you'd see some tires, or you'd see some jagged edges along the uh, along 
the banks.  You know, the rocks protruding out.  You had to be careful.  And then when you went 
by the Wannalancit they had the boom, the track boom.  And so you kind of could tell where you 
could go, where you couldn't go.  [D:  Hm]  And you didn't want to get too close to where the uh,
the [sleuthways?] were, because you wouldn't be able to swim against that current back there.  
[D:  Umhm]  You know where to stop.  [D: Umhm] Some kids didn't.  [D:  Umhm]  And I think 
that's how some of the kids drowned.  They either got caught (--)  But Sundays was great!  We 
used to walk along the, the embankment see all the stuff that was in the canal.  But more 
importantly we just observed.  Like I, I was able to, it was just, it was just natural, dive in the 
canal, swim across at a certain angle so that the current wouldn't take me away from what I had 
to reach on the other side, [D:  Umhm] because that was the only way I could climb the Northern
Canal Wall.  [D: Umhm]  That was the only place that had a pipe that I could climb.  Because 
you got to remember the canal, I'm twelve years old, I'm on the other side of the canal, it's over 
my head, and the current is really coming down and I can't get up, because I can't reach the top.  
[D:  Umhm]  So that we hap(--)  We knew exactly where to go where they'd be a pipe that you 
could stand on and then reach the top. 
D:  What if you missed the pipe?
A:  You'd have to move back, move up.  You'd have to grab that wall and, and swim up, because 
the only other spot left now was way the hell down the current.  You didn't want do go there.  
You'd have to walk all the way back.  [D:  Umhm]  Because you can't swim up [D:  right] the, the
canal, you know?  But there were a couple of times we missed it a little bit, but your, but your 
buddy would grab it.  And then he'd get up on the wall and he'd come over.  And he'd grab you 
by the arm and then kind of pull you back to that pipe.  I remember that so well, because uh, that 
was terribly important to judge where you were going to dive off how strong that current was, 
and where you were heading.  Because if you missed it you were down, down up by Cheever 
Street someplace.  [Both laugh]  And then you imagine walking all the way up on a Sunday with 
sometimes no bathing suit.  I mean you had to be very careful.  [Both laugh]  It's survival.
D:  Did you ever go underneath any of the buildings?
A:  No.  No.  
D:  Nothing like that?
A:  No, nothing like that.  That was, you knew where it went underneath the, the mill buildings, 
but you didn't go there, because that's where, that's where the trouble was.  You couldn't control 
yourself there.  [D:  Umhm]  You'd end up in the river and in the process probably be dead.
D:  Hm.  Was there ever any skating on the river, canals?
A:  Yeah on the river.  No, no, no the canal was never you know, was never frozen enough 
because of its movement.  [D:  Hm]  We knew that.  The only place you could skate on the river 
was up by the bath house, which was up by where the, where the Spare House is now.  [D: 
Umhm, umhm]  That was frozen enough.  And the movement there wasn't bad where you could 
skate there.  But that was the only place.  The closer you came to the falls, you know, the less uh,
just couldn't skate there, because you knew you know, that the ice wasn't thick enough.  [D:  
Umhm]  And you could hear it crack.  But further up you could do (--)
side two ends
LFP-DT-R022
D:  Can you show me where some of those swimming places are?
A:  Oh sure.  [D:  Okay]  Oh sure.  
D:  You can write right on that thing.  
A:  Sure.  Hold this here.  [D:  Yeah]  Let me see if I got a [unclear-loud sound of ruffling paper] 
pencil here.
D:  Pen's okay, it doesn't matter.  
A:  Okay. 
D:  Whatever you have [few words unclear].
A:  Let's start with the canal.  [D:  Okay]  I think you got the canal in here, right?  There's the 
Northern Canal.  Pawtucket Street.  Where's the bridge?  Oh, it's down here.  Moody Street, 
okay.  I want Salem Street.  Yup, right here.  Okay.  I don't know how you want me to do this, but
here was one (--)  I'm just doing the canal now.  [D:  Okay]  This was an active place.  Uh, we 
call that in back of the C.M.A.C. Club.  By the way, that's still there.  [D:  Umhm]  Okay.  Now 
no one swam up here in the canal, because the School Street Bridge.  You got to remember the 
Falls were here, [D: Umhm] right?  And then the canal, the river come through here like you 
know, with a lot of current.
D:  Right down under the School Street Bridge.  [A:  Right]  Yeah.
A:  So we didn't swim there.  [Phone rings]  The first point was right here.  
 
D:  Okay.  And that's opposite the C.M.A.C.
A:  Right.  Right in back of the C.M.A.C. club, which it comes right at Merrimack Street.  If you 
come up Merrimack Street, here's the club right there.  [D: Umhm]  Right in back of there is 
where most of the swimming took place.  From the bridge to, to the C.M.A.C.  [D:  Umhm]  
Okay.  And then the bridge itself.  [D:  Umhm]  If, if you ever noticed, there's a building right on 
the canal here.  Right here.  There's a building there.  And that's used to be where the canal 
emptied into the river. 
D:  Now is that right east of the Aiken Street Bridge?  No, this isn't the Aiken Street Bridge.
A:  No, this is Moody Street Bridge.  [D:  Okay]  Okay?  A lot of swimming right here.  [D: 
Umhm]  A lot under the bridge, on the bridge, and on this building which is still there.  [D:  
Umhm]  All right the best for me to, to maybe point it out to you is right now we have a power 
plant here.  [D:  Umhm]  It wasn't there then.  [D:  Okay]  Okay, which is on the Pawtucket 
Bridge.
D:  Now did this place you're just describing have a particular name?  If you said your (--)
A:  Yeah, it was a lock.  It was a uh, uh, a lock.  I'm trying to think what the name of it is.  It's 
still there.  This controlled the opening of the [sleuthways?] that sent this river.  [D:  Oh yeah]  
Okay?  So when they emptied the river, the canal, these things opened up.  [D:  Umhm]  Now we
had to know that, okay.  [D:  Umhm]  So Saturday afternoon we would not be in this, in the 
canal, because we knew that on Saturdays they started emptying the canal.  And the first thing 
that would happen (--)  If we were swimming here on a Saturday and they controlled these 
[sleuthways?] someplace else, and they opened them up, we'd be gone.  [D:  Um]  Okay?  [D:  
Umhm]  But we knew that though.  We knew you did not swim here on a Saturday.  [D:  Umhm] 
Okay.  Now there was a, most of the Little Canada activity right, was right in here.  And there's 
another bridge here.  Um, Pawtucket Bridge and it's right here.  See how it goes underneath here?
[D:  Right]  Well most of, most of our swimming by the way, in the Northern Canal took place 
here.  [D:  Okay]  Now,(--)
D:  This is the bridge which is part of Pawtucket Street?
A:  That's right, that's right.  [D:  Okay]  And most of the swimming took place there.  Now the 
buildings along the Northern Canal here, okay, as far as Suffolk Street [D: Okay] all right, that's, 
that's (--)
D:  It's sort of between this bridge on Pawtucket Street and, and Suffolk Street, right?
A:  That, that, a lot, there was a lot of swimming there from the buildings.  [D:  Umhm]  Okay?
D:  This is where Bob Tessier would dive?
A:  That's where Bob Tessier used to dive off.  [D:  Okay]  There was never any swimming 
beyond here.
D:  That's east of Suffolk Street you mean?
A:  Yeah, up to Bridge Street.  [D:  Yeah]  Now I think what it was is not only was it not in your 
territory, but also that's where it went into the buildings.  That's where it governed the uh, the 
mills.  [D:  Umhm]  And there was never a chance taken that you wouldn't be caught in one, in 
the mills some place.  [D:  Umhm]  So there was never (--)  So most of the Northern Canal 
swimming was between uh, the Pawtucket Bridge and the uh, School Street Bridge rather and 
mainly near C.M.A.C., and right along here where the Power Plant is now.  [D:  Umhm]
     Now in the Acre [D:  Umhm], in the Northern Canal right here, uh, not the Northern, the 
Pawtucket Canal, there was uh, no swimming from the Pawtucket to the Francis Gate.  
D:  From Pawtucket Street to Francis Gate?  [A:  Right]  Yeah.
A:  It's too, too dangerous.  [D:  Umhm]  Okay, but after that there was some railroad tracks.  
There was some swimming in the canal in here.  [D:  Yeah]  Okay.  And then there was some 
swimming, a lot of swimming, now where is that, that canal now?   [Looking on map]  Uh, right 
here.  Hamilton.  Hamilton, right at the(--)
D:  Hamilton Canal, uh huh.
A:  No.  No, you couldn't swim there.  That was stagnated almost.  [D:  Umhm]  The lower 
Pawtucket.  You know where I told you near Western Avenue?  [D:  Umhm]  Right around, right 
around here.  Okay, now when I was a kid the swimming took place a lot of it here,  but again a 
lot simply because there was a lot of people here.  [D:  Right, this is back]  Northern Canal.  
D:  Back by Pawtucket Street Bridge.  [A:  Right]  Yeah.
A:  So Little Canada people.  [D:  Right]  A lot of people there okay.  [D:  Umhm]  Some Acre 
kids would swim here.  
D:  And this is (--)
A:  And that's, that would be (--)
D:  This is back on Pawtucket Canal?
A:  That's on the Pawtucket Canal.  [D:  Umhm]  Now the river, there was of course the Boat 
House, which was the official swimming area, which is up by uh, the Spear House.  Uh (--)
D:  It was called the Boat House then?
A:  Yeah, it was called the uh (--)  Not the Boat House.  I'm sorry.  It's called the Bath House.  
[D:  Oh yeah]  Bath House.  There was a Bath House.  It's on the Pawtucket Boulevard.  [D:  
Umhm]  That was allowable swimming.  And there was a beach area.  And the races would go 
from here to the Tyngsboro Bridge.  [D:  Oh yeah]  So that's allowable, okay?  [D:  Umhm]  But 
beyond the falls, see where it comes down here like this?  [Pointing on map]  Okay?  These are 
all rocks in here.  There was a swimming hole here.  There was a small kibby, a big kibby, a 
chain.  And these, if, if you were to (--)  See, I think it's pretty high today, isn't it huh?  The river 
high today?  Yeah, [D:  I think so] I think it was though.  If you were to get on the University 
Avenue Bridge [D:  umhm] on the day that the river is low enough where you can see some 
rocks, okay, you could actually see some pockets of water.   [D:  Umhm]  There were very very 
deep.  [D:  Hm]  Okay.  For instance, this black hole here was [sound of computer printer in 
background] uh, as a twelve year old I don't know how tall it was, but it was way over my head.  
[D: Hm]  And yet it's only a pocket of water.  I look at it today.  You know what I'm saying?  [D: 
Yeah]  As a grownup now [D:  right] I could never do that.  It isn't big enough.  But as kids, okay.
So these were little swimming holes. 
D:  Now you're talking about the area on the river where the big bend is here? 
A:  Yup, where the rocks are.  [D:  Right]  Not, not as far as the bend now, because the bend is 
clear.  [D:  Oh, okay]  No rocks.  Right before where all the rocks are.  
D:  Right.  Now this circular area, [A:  that was the hole] is this what you called the Dark Hole 
before?
A:  Yup, Black Hole, Dark Hole.  
D:  Black hole?  Okay.  
A:  Yeah.  It's, it's hard on the map, but probably (--)  You got to (--)  It's, it's probably further up 
this way.  You know?
D:  Up in, maybe up here?
A:  It is, it's long before the bend.  In fact (--)
D:  Yeah.  Go ahead, draw it in wherever you feel.
A:  See it's hard because it's where the rocks are.  [D:  Yeah, leave]  I'm going to leave it here, [D:
okay] but it's where, if there are no rocks (--)  [D:  I got you]  Okay, it's where the rocks are.  [D: 
Okay]  All of these, okay, you stood on the rocks and dove, dive in.  You shimmied up to the 
rocks.  You put your clothes on the rocks.  So all of these swimming holes are surrounded by 
rocks.  [D: Hm]  Big rocks.  
D:  Now these three lines, were they like troughs in the, in the rocks? 
A:  Yeah, yup, yup.   
D:  What would this first one be called?
A:  That would be the uh, Small Kibby.  Kibby.  I don't know how to even spell kibby.  [D:  I 
don't either]  I think it's a fish.  This is a big kibby.  [D:  The next one]  Yeah.  And there was one 
called the chain.  And that has quite a bit, yeah, that had quite a bit of uh, current.  More so than 
others.  [D:  Hm]  
D:  And they were all (--)  Were they all uh, shaped [A: It's amazing as I'm looking at it] about 
the same way?
A:  Yeah.  It's amazing now that I look at this how, I think of it now, how we here, we in this 
section ended up here.  We used to cross the bridge, go down the bank and go swimming there.  
But yet the people in this section of uh, no not here, right here, okay, went here.  [Bangs finger 
on table]
D:  Down by Suffolk Street you mean?
A:  Yeah, [D:  yeah] went here.  They used to swim here.  
D:  They used to swim at the chain?
A:  Yeah see, because you could uh, where's Pawtucket Street now?  Here's Pawtucket Street.  
[D:  Right]  Okay.  On Pawtucket Street itself you could get at this river [D:  umhm] from 
Pawtucket Street.  [D:  Right]  And you could get at it from this highway here.
D:  From across the river.
A:  Yeah.  [D:  Yeah]  So what they used to do here was very simple.  They'd go to Pawtucket 
street, get down the embankment and go swimming here.  [D:  Right]  Okay, well we didn't 
journey down here.  We just crossed the bridge and we're here.  Different sections of the city.  [D:
Right]  Of, even Little Canada had different holes.  [D: Umhm]  As I'm looking at that I can't 
help but (--)
D:  So the people from this area near Suffolk Street (--)
A:  Would swim here.
D:  At, at the chain and Big Kibby?
A:  Yeah.  Yeah. 
D:  And you would swim?
A:  And we would swim at the Black Hole.  [D:  And, and the little, small one too?]  Every now 
and then (--)  Yeah, every now and then we'd go, but most of it was here.  [D:  So]  See some (--) 
You got to remember now, depending on how high the river was, if we were at the Black Hole 
and the river was low enough, we could just walk on the walks and go into the water.  [D: 
Umhm]  If the river was too high, we couldn't reach there.
D:  Oh I see.  Okay.
A: Okay?  [D: Okay]  Now when they were here, if the river was low enough they would come 
and swim in the Black Hole [D:  I got you] um, back here.  But if the river was too high you 
couldn't do it.  [D:  Right]  There are certain spots, if the river was low enough you could walk 
on rocks and cross the hole river, [D:  umhm] certain days you can't.  There is no way to get by, 
[D:  Umhm] because the river was too high.  It depended on that.
D:  Now what's the area that you refer to as the Stonies?
A:  My father called this here the Stonies.  [D: Where?]  Same thing. 
D:  The whole thing?
A:  The whole thing is Stonies.  Like if I said to my father, "show me where Stonies is?"  It's 
probably what we know as the Big Kibby.  [D:  Umhm]  And remember Stonies probably comes 
from stones.  [D:  Right]  The stones that are there.
D:  That's what he would say.  [D:  Yes]  What would you say?
A:  Well I had a, Chain, Big Kibby, Small Kibby, Dark Hole.  He might be referring to all of this 
the Stonies [D:  okay] when he was a kid.  
D:  Was that more his term than yours?
A:  Yes.  [D:  Yeah]  Yeah.  
D:  Okay.  Now what about some of these little streams and things that come into the river?  Did 
they have names.  [A:  No]  I see it says something like Clay Pit Brook here.  Is that a name that 
you would use?
A:  No.  No.
D:  Did it, was there a name for it?
A:  No.  I think that's what it is, Clay Pit Brook.  [D:  Yeah]  It's a brook from the river.  [D:  
Umhm]  There's a little bridge that goes underneath the VFW, goes into here.  It's wetlands 
actually.  [D:  Right]  Here's the Brook.  [Unclear] it's still there.
D:  What about this place uh, it's down off uh, I guess Middlesex Street here on the opposite 
bank.  Was this a swimming area at all?
A:  That's, that looks to me like uh, it's the uh, old canal, the Middlesex Canal.  [D:  Umhm]  
Now that's a history and a half.  Middlesex Canal was the canal that connected us to Boston 
before we went around the falls.  [D:  Right, uh huh]  But that's been built on uh, Black Brook, 
yeah, this is it right here.  [D:  Umhm]  But that is, there is still some people in Lowell trying to 
salvage some remnants of history of that.  [D:  Umhm]  Um, but I didn't know that as a kid.  [D:  
Yeah]  I didn't know that one as a kid.  
D:  What about on the Concord River or any of the brooks down that way?
A:  No, I wouldn't know that. 
D:  Yeah.  That's interesting.
A:  Although I shouldn't say that.  My uncle died and drowned in the Concord River.  Right on 
Billerica Street [D:  Oh yeah] when he was just a kid.  [D:  Hm]  So they swam in the Concord 
also.  [D:  Yeah]  South Lowell.  Let's see if I can find that.  
D:  Now would you take a minute and, and, and draw what you would say are the boundaries of 
uh, some of the principal neighborhoods we've been talking about?
A:  Well uh, [sighs] let me see.  I'll tell you the best thing to do is uh, they have them drawn out 
and colored [D:  umhm] at, at City Hall.  [Conversation going on in background]  Uh, I'm trying 
to think of who would best do it.  Because it'd be my interpretation.  
D:  Well that's, that's what I want really.  How you think about them.  Because it seems like 
everyone we've talked to had, has had a slightly different view how things may fall.  
A:  Well what I can tell you is that Little Canada as I knew it [D:  okay] okay, ran from um, City 
Hall which is where (--)
D:  Okay, just draw a whole line around it.  
A:  Uh, around okay.  I'm just going to make it.  [D:  Sure]  Little Canada would be, where's 
Fletcher, high school, all right.  Okay, this would be Little Canada.  [D: Okay]  All right?  [D: 
Okay.]  And then your Acre would be the triangle right back into here [Drawing lines on map]  
[D:  Okay, can you draw that in?]
would be the Acre.  Let me see.  Boy I'm going to be way off on this, [D:  uh] because there's the 
highlands.  It's a little hard from a map, but I would say that the Acre would be something like 
this.  Uh, hm, but it also connects in here somehow.  See this triangle?  [D:  Yeah]  See this is 
also part of the Acre.  [D:  Okay]  And, you know.  
D:  But this little triangle would be considered part of Little Canada also?
A:  Uh, (--)
D:  Was there an ov... sort of an overlap there?
A:  No, no.  See I think, I think what I did is I went the wrong street [D:  Okay] from this.  Okay, 
so this is the Acre also.  [D:  Okay]  There we go.  And this here in the line for Little Canada 
here, [D: oh okay] okay. 
D:  Got you.  Would this be connected like that?
A:  Yeah, that be the Acre.  Yeah, that'd be the Acre.
D:  Okay.  What about down in here?
A:  Uh, well you got the Highlands, The Lower Highlands.  You know I'll tell you, there is a map
at City Hall that breaks the city up into wards.  [D:  Umhm]  And the ward was actually the 
neighborhoods.  You have the Highlands for instance is a ward.  And there were two sections of 
the Highlands.  The Upper Highlands and the Lower Highlands.  You got all the Belvidere, and 
then you've got all of Centraville, and all of Pawtucketville.  And to draw them like this is not 
going to do them any justice at all.  
D:  Okay, I will stop there.
A:  Really.  Uh, I'm trying to think.  The fellow who designed, who drew Northern Canal, [D:  
Umhm] which was the uh, uh, Urban Renewal Area was Jack Tavaris.  And Jack is at, works for 
the city.  And I'll bet you Jack has every section drawn out and identified.  
D:  Okay.  I'll probably go down and see him.
A:  It's tough to do it on a map.
D:  Yeah.  [A:  You know?]  Yeah.  If that [unclear] (--)
A:  My aunt would tell you (--)  My, I have an aunt [D:  yeah] who will tell me that don't ever tell
us, don't (--)  She read in the paper where I was referred to as Little, from, from Little Canada.  
[D:  Yeah]  And oh, she was bullshit.  [D:  Laughs]  Little Canada is from the river to the canal.  
The rest is Moody Street and Merrimack Street.  And oh, she insisted this was not Little Canada, 
but what were all these French people.  [Both chuckle]
D:  Umhm.  Umhm.  Before we end I wanted to ask a little bit about uh, being a landlord, 
because it seems to me that um, [tape is noisy from folding map up] from that sort a position that
you're uh, become as you already told me, aware of some of the uh, the lifestyles of the recent 
immigrants.  [A:  Yup]  And it probably calls for certain sorts of sensitivity in terms of what, how
uh, a householder, or a renter is defined in terms of family size and that sort of thing.  How, how 
do you establish what, what is proper in terms of whom, who you rent?
A:  Well the first thing you do is you take an application on a person who is interested in an 
apartment that you have that's vacant.  Your apartment that's vacant either has one bedroom, two 
bedrooms, or three bedrooms.  There are no longer four bedroom units, which use to be.  [D: 
Umhm]  That governs the size of the family and also the cost of the apartment.  [D:  Umhm]  
And what I do is I'll take an application and I'll show the people the apartment.  I'll tell them 
what it's going to cost them.  [D:  Umhm]  And then I will begin the process of checking them 
out.  First thing you'll want to check out is why are they moving, where they're moving from, [D:
umhm] and what kind of tenants were they if you can find that out.  [D: Umhm]  And secondly 
what are their income status and can they afford the rent.  And then based on that you make a 
judgement and you move them in.  And uh, basically it's that simple.  [D:  Umhm]  Um, recently 
we've had a problem with South East Asians who have move people then they claim to have.  [D:
Umhm]  And I understand why they do that.  [D:  Right]  But my job is to make sure that they're 
not over crowded even though my standards of overcrowding as a kid is quite different than the 
city's.  The fact is I've got to go by the code.  [D:  Umhm]  And the code is simple.  You know it 
uh, the first person you have to have at least 150 square feet.  And every person after that has to 
have an additional 100 square foot of area, okay?  [D: Umhm]  Fortunately my place is big.  I 
have three large bedrooms and a twenty-two foot kitchen.  Okay, so I'm, I'm pretty safe in terms 
of determining you know, how many people should occupy.  The problem we have is, the 
Southeast Asians especially, when you show them an apartment like this can you imagine what 
they think.  That's like a home.  [D:  Umhm]  I mean what they do is husband and the wife will 
take a bedroom, and that will be their apartment.  [D:  Umhm]  That bedroom and they'll share 
the kitchen [D:  umhm] with the rest of the family.  [D:  Umhm]  And I can see the rush now 
when I go into see them [D:  Umhm], because they got their names on the door.  [D: Hm, hm]  
Okay, and so I have this room here, which is the kitchen, and I have three bedrooms, okay?  [D:  
Right]  Well they'll be three couples and that's their apartment [D:  Umhm] and this is a common 
area.  [D:  Umhm]  What we've got to be careful for is that they can't be too many people in those
apartments, [D:  Right]  "which are only bedrooms."  [D: Umhm]  Um, but I can understand 
where they're coming from, you know?  I raised six kids and my four boys were in a very small 
room to sleep.  [D:  Umhm]  And you know, uh, but we still have to mesh in what their needs are 
and what the, you know, what the code calls for. 
D:  Right.  How do other landlords deal with [unclear]?  As enlightened as you do?
A:  Well we have, we have landlords that are as conscientious as that, and we also have slum 
lords [D: yeah] who will rent according to heads.  They will, they will pack them in.  And you 
know, there are a few that the city is now cracking down on and should, [D:  umhm] uh, because 
it's, it's not safe for the people occupying it.  And it's you know, economic rip-off by just 
charging by the head.  You know, you don't, you don't do that.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  Uh, but it's a
tough thing to put a handle on see, because the person who needs the housing makes their own 
judgement of what's comfortable for them.  [D:  Umhm]  And their judgement sometimes 
violates the codes.  And just like I'm sure I must have when I was a kid only there were no codes.
[D:  Right]  Um, I can put four bunks, four bunk beds in a room and put four of my kids in.  [D:  
Umhm]  But yet the code says I can't have more than two there.  Well my judgement is they're 
fine.  [D:  Right]  Because I'd rather have four there than not have a housing.  [D:  Sure]  You 
know, and, and this is the thing that the South East Asians and the Spanish people are dealing 
with today.  [D:  Umhm]  And I, I get a kick out of them, because I tell them "oh, there's too 
many people."  You know, talk about someone who's lived in a boat, [D:  laughs] or maybe in a 
tent.  And I'm showing them this big apartment that they feel twelve people could live in 
comfortably.  And I'm saying you're six too many.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  They look at me, is there 
something wrong with me, right?  [D:  Uh huh, uh huh]  And now I have to tell them the law 
doesn't allow it, you know.  [D:  right]  But you can, you can deal with that.  
D:  Umhm.  Well that's interesting, different view of space really.
A:  Yeah, oh sure.
D:  And what it means.
A:  And I can't help but think of you know, having six kids and living in close quarters.  And 
myself when I was a kid how the zoning code well intended doesn't take into consideration what 
the people think is the need.  [D:  Umhm]  You know?  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, this, this here, this 
office here could be construed by someone as being too small for an office.  [D:  Hm]  But this is
fine for me.  [D:  Umhm]  I don't want anything bigger than this.  [D:  Umhm]  So it depends on 
how you interpret your space.  [D:  Umhm]  And when you're looking for housing and you want 
to live with your family, and you want your mother, and she's taking care of your kids, and you 
know, all of a sudden you show a big apartment like that, you can't convince them that there's too
many people [D:  Umhm] when they're presently living in a two roomer, or something.  
D:  Umhm.  When you look back over the history of the city during your lifetime, how do you 
see the, I guess the division of the space of the city having changed in terms of who lives where 
[A:  umhm] and why?  How, do you have any reflections on that?
A:  Well you know I, first of all the city space, boundaries within the city have not changed.  
What has changed is the occupants of the space.  [D:  Umhm]  Again I don't want to be talking 
about Little Canada, because that's no longer there a space, but let's take the Acre for instance, 
okay?  [D:  Right]  The Acre was the, called the Acre for a reason.  That's where the Irish settled 
in.  And then when the Greeks started coming into Lowell they occupied a little piece of the 
Acre.  Okay.  That was the Acre that became kind of a Greek section of the Acre.  And today the 
Spanish are occupying it, the Southeast Asians are occupying it.  I think what we're finding today
as opposed to before it's no longer an Irish section, it's a mixed section.  You know if Little 
Canada was here today it would no longer be just a French section occupied now by a Southeast 
Asian section people.  It would be a mixture, because the people now, although I'm sure they 
would love to have their own section can't afford that luxury anymore.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  You 
know when you walk in the Acre when I was a kid they were all Irish.  You walk in the Acre 
today you've got Spanish, you got Southeast Asians, you got some Irishmen, you got some 
frenchmen.  [D:  Umhm]  Actually I think what's happened is the boundaries have become more 
an economic boundary than an ethnic boundary.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  You know, the poorer of 
the poor will be in the Acre.  And if that happens to be Southeast Asians, or Spanish, that's what 
the Acre is going to be.  [D:   Umhm]  And not the Irish section.  The churches that used to play 
such an important part of identifying the boundary has diminished in occupants and people going
to it so much so that they're no longer a factor.  You know Saint Jean the Baptist Church, which 
is the French church is now 80% of it's occupants is uh, Spanish.  [D:  Umhm]  And so that Saint 
Jean the Baptist, which used to be the French section boundary, is now Spanish.  [D:  Hm]  But I 
think it's economic boundaries now more than anything else.  And of course you know, the older 
the buildings get, the more dilapidated they get, the more people who are of moderate income 
move out and it gets occupied by the lowest on the totem pole.  And that just happens to be a 
smathering of people now.  Not just one immigration of ethnic group.
D:  Right, um.
A:  This is the difference I've seen.  Is that there's no longer an ethnic neighborhood.  [D:  
Umhm]  It's an economic neighborhood, [D:  right] comprised of different ethnic people.
D:  Right.  Now in your position as a person who, who deals with real estate become into contact
with people who, who don't have their, their family roots here in Lowell I'm sure [A:  umhm], uh,
quite often um, how do they decide what space is appropriate for them?  Where to settle?
A:  They know what they want.  Oh, they know what they want.  [D:  Yeah]  And what they want
is space.  [D:  Umhm]  The location is not as important as the space.  [D:  Umhm]  If I had a 
building for instance uh, like I, I have a building in Little Canada on Moody STreet.  And the 
people who have been occupying that building of late didn't care it was on Moody Street.  What 
they cared is what did the building give out in terms of space.  [D:  Umhm]  And they weren't too
concerned about who was living around them.  [D:  Umhm]  They were, what was the space.  
D:  Compare that to someone who grew up in the city?
A:  Oh they wouldn't, they wouldn't be on Moody STreet unless they were French.  [Both laugh] 
They wouldn't.  Oh no, I ain't going to live there, it's all French people here. 
D:  That's today you mean?
A:  No, no.  When I grew up.
D:  Yeah.  What about?
A:  Today it's no longer a factor, except a certain section of the city, which is the Acre, the drug 
area.  An awful lot of people won't go there.  [D: Right]  Uh, because of the drug, not because of 
ethnic considerations.
D:  Okay.  Two, two couples come to you on different days.  Um, one couple (--)
A:  First of all they only come to me because I have something that's vacant.  So they wouldn't be
looking for a place. 
D:  Okay.  Oh I see.  Okay.
A:  No I, the only time I would come in contact with them would be if uh, I just put an add in the
paper, I have a vacancy, [D: right] or they saw my building that was empty.  
D:  Okay.  What about a house for sale?  [D:  Umhm]  New house for sale?  Two couples are 
shopping for something.  
A:  Yeah, okay.  Okay.
D:  And one couple is from Lowell, grown up here, educated here, the other couple, they're from 
Maine let's say.
A:  Yup.  Okay.  
D:  How would they, how do you proceed in approaching it, yeah?
A:  [Takes a drink]  The couple from Lowell.  Okay, the couple from Lowell would clearly tell 
me where they want to go.  [D:  Yeah]  Oh no, they'll tell me where they don't want to go.  Okay. 
They won't be so, so selective as saying they want to go someplace, because it will depend where
the vacancies are, where the houses that are for sale.  But they'll tell you where they don't want to
go.  
D:  Like how might someone say that?
A:  I don't, yeah, I don't want to be in the Acre.  That's told all the time.  [D:  Right]  I don't want 
to be up in the Moody Street, Merrimack Street area.  I want to be Pawtucketville, Centraville, a 
certain section of Christian Hill.  They'll tell you the sections of the city they want to find a 
home.  Or Dracut, Chelmsford, suburbia.  [D:  Umhm]
     The person from out of town would tell us what they're looking for in terms of a house.  And 
then they'll tell you, now I don't want the good neighborhood now.  You know, and they'll judge 
that neighborhood themselves [D:  umhm] by going to it.  You know, you show them the house, 
they look around.  They'll make some inquiries.  [D: Umhm]  And I find that the people from out 
of town are not so focused in on where they don't want to go, because they have no way of 
knowing.
D:  Right.  Do they ask you about the character of a certain neighborhood?
A:  Of schools, schools, schools.  [D:  yeah]  Schools.  Young couples, schools are terribly 
important.  Terribly important.  [D:  Umhm]  The school system and where are my kids going to 
go to school.  And what kind of neighborhood is this?  [D:  Umhm]  But you can tell a 
neighborhood pretty easy when you walk it, when you drive through it.  You know, when I used 
to rent to students on Moody Street, across the street from my building is Northern Canal.  And 
it's a low income housing development.  [D:  Umhm]  And the students from out of town, the 
building was right across the street form it.  I had some mothers and fathers say, "I don't want to 
be her."  "I don't want my son to be here."  Well why?  "It's a low income housing project there." 
I don't know what they perceive that to be.  [D:  Umhm]  Uh, and then you have other people 
from Boston, it doesn't bother them at all.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, a lot of it perception.  You 
know I have a building now that is freed of all French people.  Some of it is because it was time 
for them to move on.  Empty nest.  Others, they didn't like what was coming in.  And all different
reasons.  But now it's freed of all Franco-American people.  And when I bought it it was all 
French people.  My first, I have six, twelve apartments in this one building in Little Canada.  
First floor apartment in the front is a Spanish family.  Nice people.  Now the Spanish, you got to 
be careful, but perception again.  Very nice people.  [D:  Hm]  Second floor is an Indian.  The 
third floor is an Irish guy.  And I'm sorry, fourth floor is a French girl married to an Irish guy.  
[D:  Umhm]  First floor middle is a Cambodian.  Second floor is another Indian.  Southeast Asian
on the third floor.  And Spanish on the other floor.  [D:  Hm]  And then there was an Irish family. 
I mean it's just a complete different ethnic group.  Now, there are no Italians.  There are no 
affluent people.  I mean it's a tenement block [D:  right] okay.  And so the building will always 
be filled with the lowest economic totem pole [D:  umhm], and that just happens to be today 
Spanish and Southeast Asians.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  And French and some Irish.  I mean uh, so I 
think the space is governed economically more than it is ethnically.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  Um, 
where are you economically.  You know, you go to Boston you see some Black people living in 
Brookline.  [D:  Sure, sure]  Right?  Uh, not because they're Black.  Not because Brookline (--)  
Brookline because economically that's where they can be.  [D:  Umhm]  And the same way at the
other end of the pole, the economic pole.  [D:  Right, right.  Absolutely]  Same thing.
D:  Well I've come to the end of my questions. 
A:  Well I hope so, I've talked (--)
D:  Is there anything you'd like to tell me that I haven't asked you about?
A:  No.  No.  No.  God no.  In fact I probably should have let you ask more questions and (--)
D:  I think that was fine.  [A:  Okay]  Yeah, yeah.  A lot of my job is listening.  And uh, it's not 
my job to be talking so much anyway, because I've come to learn from you. 
A:  I can do well on an interview if people ask questions.  I just get carried on when I, when I do 
the talking.  [Chuckles]
D:  Well I'm going to shut this off now.
A:  Okay!