"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr17
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6373A
John Lomax: Mrs. Jameson, I've just got a telegram from the Library of Congress in Washington and
they want the ideas of a few average men and women recorded on their reactions when they heard
of the Japanese aggression. These records will be used in historical record being accumulated in the
Library of Congress and possibly for radio broadcast. Now, will you tell me what you thought when
you heard of what the Japanese government had done to the American government?
Mrs. Lena Jameson: My first thought was what a great pity that . . . another nation should be added
to those aggressors who strove to limit our freedom. I find myself at the age of eighty, an old
woman, hanging on to the tail of the world, trying to keep up. I do not want the driver's seat. But the
eternal verities — there are certain things that I wish to express. One thing that I am very sure of is
that hatred is death, but love is life.
I want to contribute to the civilization of the world, but I remember that the measure, the burdens of
our sympathies is the measure of our civilization. And when I look at the holocaust that is going on in
the world today, I'm almost ready to let go of the tail ??? the world. ???
John Lomax: Where is your home Mrs. Jameson?
Mrs. Lena Jameson: In Redondo Beach, California.
John Lomax: And how long have you lived there?
Mrs. Lena Jameson: About twenty years.
John Lomax: And what are you doing out in Texas?
Mrs. Lena Jameson: I'm visiting my children whom I've often visited before.
John Lomax: Mrs. Stilwell, would you like to add something to what your mother has said?
Mrs. Jerry Stilwell: Mother, you've been living in the neighborhood where there are a good many
Japanese people. Do you think that affects your attitude towards them at all? What is your general
impression of the Japanese as a race?
Mrs. Lena Jameson: The general impression of the Japanese that I have seen and come in contact
with is very different from what my impression would be if I had been in touch with the military
"Man-on-the-Street", Dallas, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr17
division of the Japanese in their native . . . My impression is modified by what I read and hear of
those. My impression of the Japanese as I have seen is that they are a law-abiding and desirable
citizen, with exceptions.
John Lomax: Mrs. Stilwell, have you anything to add to what your mother has said?
Mrs. Jerry Stilwell: Well, of course my point of view is very different, but my first reaction was
that either the Japanese were a very, very conceited race or that they were very, very desperate.
Somehow I just can't believe that a little island like Japan can attack the United States and hope to be
successful in the long run.
John Lomax: What are your initials, Mrs. Stilwell?
Mrs. Jerry Stilwell: Mrs. Jerry Stilwell.
John Lomax: This is John Lomax speaking, the last lady on the microphone was Mrs. Jerry Stilwell, the
daughter of Mrs. Lena Jameson who spoke first on this record. This record is made in Dallas, Texas,
December the ninth, nineteen hundred and forty-one for the Library of Congress in Washington.