Library of Congress
Record made August 19, 1939 in the office of the Aycock & Lindsey turpentine camp, Cross City, Florida. [Textual Transcription] http://
www.loc.gov/resource/afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0028
Record made August 19, 1939 in the office of the
Aycock & Lindsey turpentine camp, Cross City, Florida.
[Textual Transcription]
3529
RECORD 9.
(Made August 19, 1939, in the office of the Aycock & Lindsey turpentine camp, Cross City,
Florida. Stetson Kennedy, interviewer; Robert Cook, operator.)
Item:
A
1) David Wood, negro turpentine worker, age 27, born in Florida, three years of school,
describes a “kind of a work song” which he learned in the Nassau County Prison Farm.
He tells how he was jailed for fist fighting. He has'nt heard the song sung since he left the
prison camp. He doesn't know the name of it.
He sings:
(Text taken from record; incomplete.)
GOT A LETTER FROM MY BABY THIS MORNING
I got a let-tah... Let-tah from my baby this mawnin; I got a let-tah... Let-tah from my baby
this mawnin.
Said come home, please come home. I didn't have no, Have no ready-made money; I
didn't have no, Have no ready-made money.
Library of Congress
Record made August 19, 1939 in the office of the Aycock & Lindsey turpentine camp, Cross City, Florida. [Textual Transcription] http://
www.loc.gov/resource/afc1939013.afc1939013_tt0028
Didn't go home... Naw buddy, didn't go home;;. I jus only, had a little talk with my Captin, I
jus only, had a little talk with my captain,
My little ba-by, she doos everything I tell her. My little ba-by, she doos everything I tell
her. Don't git mad, naw, naw, She don't git mad; My little bab-by, Standin at de head of de
mountain.l My little ba-by, Standin at de head of de mountain.
Yes buddy,
Yes buddy, If I jus on-ly had me forty-one dollahs, If I jus on-ly had me forty-one dollahs,
I'd go home, yes buddy, I'd go home...
2) Willie Mae Brown, age 33, Negro turpentine worker, tells of a “real turpentine song,”
called the “Turpentine Blues, which he attempts to sing but is unable to do so because of
his advanced state of intoxication;
(partial text of song:
AZ
TURPENTINE BLUES
Momma do the killin, Poppa do the , Momma do the killin, Poppa do the , My brother do
the dressin And my sister do the cuttin on my back fence, I'll beat dat woman till she learns
some sense.
and give it to the countin man
END OF RECORD