"Dear Mr. President", Minneapolis, Minnesota, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr60
"Dear Mr. President", Minneapolis, Minnesota, January or February 1942
AFS 6416B
Cut B1
Mrs. Dorothy Fisher: I pray that my husband won't be needed for actual military service. [disc skips]
Cut B2
Mrs. Dorothy Fisher: Dear Mr. President, I am Mrs. Dorothy Fisher and I live at 846 Twenty-fourth
Avenue Southeast, Minneapolis, Minnesota. I am a housewife. In this time of crisis I feel that every
housewife should budget her time and her money so that she may help our national defense.
Budget her time so that she may sew or knit for the Red Cross, and budget her money so that she
may buy defense bonds, and stamps. I also think it's the duty of every wife and mother to keep her
home as pleasant and as cheerful as possible. Children don't understand this crisis and I feel that
we shouldn't upset them continually by having them surrounded by an atmosphere of excitement.
Above everything, I think we should try to relax so most of the time I try to forget that there is a war.
However, some things do worry me. I pray that my husband won't be needed for actual military
service. For years he has worked hard and has just this year reached a point where he sees some
hope of success in his career. I also pray that the situation won't become so serious that our homes
will be bombed and our children in danger. But if this does occur, I am sure that we can take it just
as the British have. Like you, Mr. President, I hate war. But my hatred for war is surpassed by my
contempt for those who have knifed us in the back and my determination to make them wish they
hadn't started it. Like everyone else, I didn't want this war, but now that it has been thrust upon us I
pledge myself to do everything in my power to win it.
Cut B3
Gordon Erickson: Dear Mr. President, I am Gordon Erickson, my address is 609 Washington Avenue,
Southeast, Minneapolis. I am twenty-one years old and operate an elevator at the Nicklet Hotel. We
have noticed in the hotel business that conventions are being cut down a great deal and that various
industries are taking their salesmen off the road. The salesmen that are still on the road, however,
are cutting down expenses a great deal, especially tipping of bell boys and waiters. I have been trying
to get a defense job, but because of having to register in the next draft, it has been difficult for me so
far.
Cut B4
"Dear Mr. President", Minneapolis, Minnesota, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr60
Jack Scutter: Dear Mr. President. I am Jack Scutter of 3914 Northeast Van Buren St., Minneapolis, and
am a journalism senior at the University of Minnesota. Of course, after the attack on Pearl Harbor,
there was a decided unification of thought in our country, but with the excitement of that tragedy
having worn off I have been rather shocked lately to notice the amount of anti-British feeling in the
Midwest here. There is also a feeling among large numbers of the people, at large numbers with
whom I've had contact recently, that his war as the last one, they say, is the result of some selfish
monied interests. On the other hand, I find large numbers of people who are looking about for
something to do in the defense effort. They are excited, they have a lot of surplus energy, they are
in sympathy with the government's program, but they don't know what to do. They want a part, they
want assigned a specific task and without it a lot of energy is going to waste, and I feel there is a
danger to citizen morale.
Of course there is another thing that has been called to my attention recently and that's the amount
of disorganization caused in some businesses by the halting of automobile and tire production.
I notice this particularly in the fields of salesmanship. There are persons handling automotive
products, are looking about for something, some very intelligent, some well-educated people are
now without, or facing a situation in which they will find no means of support.
Cut B5
Edward S. Bordon: Dear Mr. President, my name is Edward S. Bordon, I live at 242 Bedford,
Southeast, Minneapolis, Minnesota. I am a psychologist. Like other — all others in our country I have
been doing a lot of thinking about the present emergency. I have two types of views about this: One,
as a psychologist; And two, as a citizen. I am going to speak first about my view as a psychologist.
As such, I am very much interested in how we of the psychological profession may contribute to
this emergency and to our defense program. I sincerely hope that we will contribute a great deal in
terms of the mobilization of our human resources. One thing that I have been particularly concerned
about is problem of our national morale and here I distinguish between the morale of our armed
forces, the morale of our civilians, and the morale of our laborers. I've been particularly concerned
about the contribution of our artists and our musicians to this morale, particularly of our musicians.
It seems to me that through our songs and music we can contribute a great deal toward developing
individual's insights and understandings of their place and their stakes in the present situation.
However, I have been very much disappointed in the songs which have been created since Pearl
Harbor. Their emphasis it seems to me has been on relatively meaningless and emotional concepts
rather than constructive ones. I think we have an example of the other type of approach in the kinds
of songs that have been created in England, Russia, and also in Germany. Their stress is upon what
"Dear Mr. President", Minneapolis, Minnesota, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr60
are to be the goals of the people who are fighting in this war and I should hope that eventually our
musicians will see this point and attempt to follow the same line.
As a citizen, like so many others, I am thinking ahead and trying to see just what will come of the
peace that will inevitably follow this war. I have been particularly concerned about the tendency
to regret the debunking and thinking that we did after the last war, and to say that we made a
mistake in debunking war and saying that it was bad. It seems to me that if our young men go into
this war with the realization and the intense belief that war is bad, that they don't want to go into
war, then after the war is over, they will contribute a lot more and place a lot greater pressure on
our representatives at the peace table to bring out something constructive and something which
will prevent any further wars. I think this would be a good summary of my views at this time, Mr.
President. Thank you.