"Dear Mr. President", Fayetteville and Farmington, Arkansas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr29
"Dear Mr. President", Fayetteville and Farmington, Arkansas, January or February
1942
AFS 6429B
Jack Carlyle: Dear Mr. President, my name is Jack Carlyle and I live south of Fairville, Arkansas. Well, it
looks like were in a [disc skips] again. It was nineteen and seventeen that we were having the war to
end all the other wars. I wonder how those boys that died in 1917, I wonder how they're feeling now,
if they can look down and see what's taken place. I think the trouble with the First World War and
probably what is causing this one is that they didn't last long enough. They last about two months,
lasted long enough . I think we ought to have gone on right on into Germany and those places there
and show them just exactly how to win a war. And I think if we do those boys right, that died in the
last world war, and the ones that are going to die in the world war number two-as they're calling this
one — well we'll really do a good job of cleaning up this time.
When guys like Dillinger and Pretty Boy Floyd and Clyde Barrow, they were some little two-bit
outlaws we had down here, they got ready to quit, and we didn't let them quit. We went right on and
got them. And I think that's the way we should do the dictator. Let's go in there and cut off a few
heads, and blow up a few towns, and really show them what the losing end of a war looks like. When
you jump on some guy and catch them with his pants down, why, naturally, you're going to have the
upper hand for a while. But, when he starts winning, why, when they throw up their hands and they
quit we should go right on.
When this war is over, I think the United States should take over the Western Hemisphere: Canada,
Mexico, South America. At least control South America, and some bases down there. If we're going to
have to police the world, why, we should at least have charge of half of it. And now that we are in this
war, why I think we should really go all out. Instead of just putting the shoulders to the wheel, I think
we ought to get on top of the wheel, I think we all ought to get in the war. And I think that we should
forget everything, all fun, all everything and get in the serious business of sure enough winning the
war. Let's draft not only just people, let's take money and factories, and men, and women, and kids,
everything.
War's not good and so the best thing to do is just get in and get them over with just as fast as we
can, and stop all these strikes. Most of the reason they have these strikes, these strikers, they look
around and they're making sixty-five or seventy cents an hour, working the shipyard or something,
and they see some carpenter that couldn't even hold down a job before the war, making a dollar and
a half an hour as a carpenter and time and a half for overtime. So they want to get in on a little of
"Dear Mr. President", Fayetteville and Farmington, Arkansas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr29
that money and they go out on strike. Well if they do away with all the money and everything else
until we get the war over, why, this dissatisfaction will be ended.
A man goes — when a man goes to war, he gives his life, or a leg, or an arm or gets all crippled
up, and he comes back he can't grow another leg if he comes back with his head shot off well he's
just plum blowed up. And so I think if a man just loses part of his money, why, he can make that
back. If he loses all of it, he can make that back, too. So, I think we should take a man's money, and
automobile, his house, car, truck, plow, his land, or anything that he has in order to win this war. I
say let's quit all the foolishness and go out and win the war. After all, this country's just a big family,
and it's being threatened by a bunch of dictators. And if your family, your own home, was being
threatened, and two or three of your boys was off playing around on a picnic, why you'd think that
was kind of silly. And for that same reason I think that everybody in this country right now should be
spending every effort to try and win the war. I thank you Mr. President.