UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  CLAIRE IGNACIO AND JOSEPH BEAUSOLEIL
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  SEPTEMBER 22, 1987
C = CLAIRE
J = JOSEPH
D = DAVID
LFP-DT-R007-R008
D:  This is the start of the September 22, l987 interview with Claire Ignacio of 22 Forest Park 
Road in Dracut, Massachusetts.  This interview is done in connection with the Lowell Folklife 
Project and the interviewer is David Taylor.   
J:  Did you have this tape going too when you talked to Sherm?
D:  Did I do what?
J:  Did you tape this when Sherm was (--)
D:  Yup.  When we uh, I took uh, I had a small machine with me and we drove around in his car 
and I taped with a microphone like that.
[J:  Oh yeah]  And we did get a lot of car noise, but uh, it was good because we could hear the 
river too.  And we were out and we got out of the car from time to time to look at the river and 
got a very nice running narrative really of the river from the western line to all the way up to 
Tyngsboro.  So that was, that was very good and very instructive for me.  
J:  Yeah.  [D:  Comment unclear]  You have nothing to do with the Salmon Program though, or 
anything like that huh, or (--)
D:  No, I am not associated with any regulatory agency or anything like that.  We are mainly an 
educational and research institution, [J:  yeah] which is part of the Library of Congress.  But I 
wanted to start by uh, would you tell me your name again?
J:  Uh, Joseph Beausoleil.
D:  How do you spell your last name?
J:  [Spells name]  B E A U  [D:  okay]  S O L E I L.  First name is Joseph.
D:  Okay.
J:  And you pronouce it Beau - so - leil.
D:  Which means [J:  french] good sun.
J:  Good sun, beautiful sun, nice sun.  [D:  Umhm]  
C:  Um, pretty.
J:  This is, this is Claire Ignacio I guess you must know.  
D:  Right.  And uh, do you both (--)  Well I know that you live in Dracut, because we are at your 
house right now [C:  umhm] at 22 Forest Park Road.
J:  And I live up the street a little way, 70 Wisteria Path.
D:  Okay.  Did you both (--)  Claire, did you grow up around here?
C:  Umhm.
D:  Where?
C:  Born here.
D:  In Dracut?
C:  No, I was born in Lowell.  
D:  What part of town?
C:  Mainly in Pawtucketville.  
D:  Oh yeah, yeah.  What street did you ?
C:  East Meadow Road.  
D:  Oh yeah.  How about you Joseph?
J:  I was born in Lowell and I more or less lived in Lowell all of my life, and more or less grew 
up, grew up on the river.  [D:  Umhm]  Swam in the river, swam in all of the canals and fished 
with my father for years and years, since I was probably five or six years old.  And he was a 
great fisherman and a good teacher and a good guy to be with, you know.  And he showed me a 
lot about fishing and nature and wildlife and a little bit of everything, you know?
D:  What was his first name?
J:  Fred.  
D:  And what part of town did you live in?
J:  Well we lived in I guess what they called lower, Lower Highlands.
C:  The Lower Highlands [clears throat]. 
J:  Maybe like a quarter of a mile from the, from the river.  And he was a great hornpout and eel 
fisherman [D:  oh yeah] with the old lanterns years ago, you know, and they fished at night.  [D:  
Hm]  And he was a loom fixer in the uh, Boott Mills.  He worked all of his life in the uh, in the 
Boott Mill, cotton mills.  And before that he was on stage, Vaudeville.
D:  Oh yeah?
J:  Before uh, after the silent movies come out he kind of got pushed out of Vaudeville and then 
he got a job in the mills and worked there for the rest of his life.
D:  Hm.  Hm.
J:  But he was a, he was a true fisherman.
D:  Did he grow up in Lowell too?
J:  I guess he was born in Canada.  I don't know, I don't know when they come down here, but he
was born in uh, what's that town where the [unclear] going all the time there?
C:  Canada?
J:  I can't think of the little town out of there in Canada, but.
C:  You mean Three Rivers?
J:  It was up near there I guess, but I don't know.
D:  Oh yeah, yeah.  [Cough]
C:  I think all of the Canadians from around here came from up there in that area.  I don't know 
why, because my people came from there too.
D:  Trois, Trois Riviere?  [Loud cough blocks out word]
C:  Umhm.  And St. Jean [Pous Jolie ?].  [D:  Umhm]  All the little small towns like Dracut, you 
know.
D:  Yeah.  What was your maiden name?
C:  Paquin.  
D:  [Spells] P A C Q U I N?
C:  [Spells] P A Q U I N.
D:  Okay.  [Laughs]
C:  No C.  That is [pronounces] Pacquin, if you put the C in.
J:  Claire is divorced and I'm divorced too.  [D:  Oh yeah]  She has one, one child left with her at 
home and I have three at home.
D:  Umhm.  Well Claire how did you start fishing anyway?
C:  I didn't really fish until after I got married.  [Clears throat]  You know, I didn't fish like he 
did, since I was a kid.  I brought up five kids.  But I just got into it a little bit and joined a fishing 
club.  Fly fishing mostly.  Then I got teamed up with him for fishing, but I've known him for 
forty years.  [D:  Yeah]  You know, we practically grew up together too.
D:  Well how did you learn about fly fishing?  That is a type of fishing I have never done [C:  
Oh, I] and it seems to require certain skills.  
C:  Um, I went to school for that.  
D:  Where did you go?
C:  I joined, I joined the Greater Lowell Fly Fishers with Sherm O'Brien and Lenny Mills.  I, that
must be where you got your lead.
[D:  Yup]  Yeah, so I went to school, learned to fly cast and tie flies.  Took private lessons.  Got 
involved.  Then I was treasurer of the club for twelve years.  So I fish with you know, a lot of the
guys.  They didn't mind taking a woman out.  [D:  Umhm]  Then I kind of weaned away from it, 
you know, and did river fishing and lake fishing.
J:  She ties excellent flies.
D:  Oh yeah!  Now you are talking about going to school to learn about uh, fly fishing.  Do you 
mean at the, at the club itself?
C:  We had, at the club we had a clinic.  We had a fly casting clinic for all the members.  You 
know, we taught how to fly cast.  We had contests, demonstrations.  Keep the members active 
and teach, you know.  Then we had schools.  When we got better, well we became teachers.  [D:  
Umhm]  So we taught the younger members and how to cast.  Then we had sportsmen shows, 
workshops for fly tying.  [D:  Umhm]  And that is what that club was all about at that time.
[D:  Hm]  Now they have gone in to more tournament type fishing and they have kind of let go 
of the fly tying schools and clinics.  No one is interested in that.  They just want to fish now for 
money.  
D:  Oh yeah!  Okay.  I have heard about [unclear], especially bass fishing I guess.
C:  Hm.  We use to fish for trophies, [D:  Umhm] you know, for a long time, but now things 
change.  You know, the club has new members, they have no activities and the old members kind
of fade out and then new young blood takes over.  
D:  Umhm, umhm.  Now Joseph was mentioning a moment ago about when he was a kid and uh,
I was wondering uh, about your experiences maybe on the canals, or on the river before you 
started fishing.  Like, I guess I'm thinking about swimming.  Did you do any swimming?
C:  No, not in the canal or the river.  [D:  Yeah]  No.  [D:  Was that]  We fished the river.  I mean 
we swam the river, but as kids at the Bathhouse like everybody else, you know.  It was about the 
only place you could swim at that time.  And people didn't have cars.  You know, [D:  yeah] we 
are much older than you.  [D:  Laughs]  We didn't have cars, so we had to more or less walk to 
swimming places and that was the river. 
D:  Umhm.  Joseph did you say that you swam the canals?
J:  Oh yeah, we swam.  Yeah, we swam in the canals when we were kids.  I must have been 
seven or eight years old I guess when I started to swim the canals and the rivers.  
D:  Well what was that like, learning to uh (--)  Did you learn to swim in the canal?
J:  [Sound of ice in a glass]  No, I guess my brothers and sisters, they were a little older than I 
was, I guess they uh, they took me up the river one day and a little sandy beach up there.  And a 
little by little they uh, they more or less taught me.  And I was a quick uh, quick learner I guess.
D:  Umhm, umhm.  Was it uh, did parents think it a good thing to, for kids to swim in the river or
the canals?
J:  Most of the parents didn't know.  [Both laugh]  Most of the parents didn't know they were in 
the canals.  [D:  Yeah]  You know in those days they were kind of you know, leery of fast water 
and rivers and things like that.  And a lot of times the things we did, we did kind of you know, 
sneak on our own [D:  Umhm] without the parents uh, knowing too much about it.  
C:  But my parents used to take me there, you know, at the Bathhouse like you.  You must have 
swam there too, you know.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  It was water and it was, it was clean then.  It 
seemed like the river was clean.  
D:  Umhm.  Now someone the other day, I forget now who I was talking to, was telling me about
kids especially jumping off buildings and bridges to swim in the canals.  Is that anything you 
remember going on?
J:  Oh I did, I did it all.  
D:  [Laughs]  And survived!
J:  I dove off Red Bridge.  I dove off Red Bridge there, that is off Broadway Street where that 
little kid just got drowned there last week.  It was fifty-three feet high and we thought nothing of 
diving off the top of that railroad bridge.  We thought nothing of climbing it.  And just to climb 
the thing was a, was a hastle.
D:  That is the, that is by the locks there by [J:  yeah] Francis's Gate?  [J:  Yeah]  That one?  
J:  Yeah.  As you are looking down you can see a big black bridge.  [D:  Right]  We call it Red 
Bridge, cause years ago it was painted, well they painted it red I guess.  That red lead [D & C:  
yeah] to preserve the steel.  And then they painted it black, but before they painted it it was red 
for a long time.  That orange color stuff, you know.  [D:  Right]  So uh, we nicknamed the bridge 
Red Bridge, you know.  [D:  Laughs]  And later on the uh, later generation they said, "where the 
hell did they get the name Red Bridge?"  [D:  Right]  You know, when the thing is as black as 
coal you know.  [Laughs]  But they weren't around when uh, you know, when we swam there.  
And we swam all the way down the canals, all the way through the canals, all the way down to 
Lowell.  And there was one part of the canal there that went under the theaters, went under the 
road [D:  Umhm] and under the theater.  What was it, the Strand Theater there, or?  Under the 
Sun Building.  [D:  Yeah]  And came out in the uh, the Concord River.  [D:  Umhm]  And there 
was one part there that was just like a tunnel.  And there was certain times that the water would 
be low that we could swim through and there was other times that the water was high and we 
couldn't swim through.  We had to swim underwater.  [D:  Geeze]  All the way under to the end 
of you know, the tunnel to come up into the Concord River.  [D:  Right]  And I guess there was a 
couple of times that you could get up and kind of just breathe like this, you know, or get a breath 
of air against the (--)  And then we would uh, swim into the Concord River and down under the 
uh, what would that used to be there?  [C:  Where Dillon's]  Uh, Back Central Street where the 
post office, where the old post office is there?
C:  That was where Dillon's was.  Dillon Cleaners.
J:  Yeah, we would swim under that bridge there and then get up on the bank and, and walk all 
the way back to, to Broadway Street from downtown.  [Laughs]
C:  And his mother didn't know that then.
D:  Boy that sounds scary to me, going underneath there.
J:  Yeah, one time we were on top of the bridge there and my father use to walk the railroad track
from the Boott Mills.  And uh, he didn't have no money for bus fare, you know.  It was a nickel 
and they couldn't afford a nickel for a bus.  So he would walk back and forth to work, which was 
maybe two and a half or three miles.  And we were up on a bridge one day getting ready to dive 
off you know, and one of the kids says, "Joe, your father is coming down the tracks, your father 
is coming", you know?  And they knew who he was because he carried a lunch pail you know, 
and he was kind of a short guy.  And he walked, had short legs, but you would have to go like 
hell to keep up to him, you know?  And so I laid down on top of the bridge.  The bridge is about 
that wide up there.  And so I laid down on the bridge to hide.  And he walked over the railroad 
bridge and out into the field to the fence and he stood by the fence.  He says, "come on, I know 
you are up there" he says, "and I want to get home."  "If you are going to dive, let me see you."  
So I got up from the bridge and looked down.  I says, "Hi Pa", you know.   He says, "come on, if 
you are going to dive, let's go."  "All right."  I stood up there [makes sound] fifty-three feet.  [D:  
Wow]  And I look at it now and I don't know how I did it.  I went to the quarry with my kids 
there awhile back, about two years ago, a quarry in Westford, [D:  umhm] and I guess it was 
twenty feet high, you know.  And they were all standing there and nobody wanted to dive or 
jump, you know.  And I'm saying to myself, geeze, twenty feet, this is nothing.  [D:  Laughing]  I
said, "my God it is awful high though."  You know?  [All laugh]  I'm sixty years old now, you 
know?  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  I was only fourteen, or thirteen, or fifteen at the time.  So I said, "no, 
I'm not going to do it."  I said, "are you guys afraid to dive off this thing?"  They goes, "yeah, 
you are not going to dive it!"  A couple of girls there too and they looked at me you know, old 
man is (--)  "You are not going to dive off this are you?"  I stood up there and I said, "yeah, it is 
pretty high I said, but let's go, you know?"  So I stood off and I was scared, [both laugh] I was 
scared shit!  But nobody else would go you know, and I did not want to be a little sissy in front 
of my own kid, you know.  I had my boy and my girl with me.  So I dove off it and kind of 
gittery all the way down till I hit the water, [D:  umhm] but as soon as I got in the water, bloop, 
they all, they all, they all, they all went off, you know.  [Both laugh]  But uh, [pause] I got back 
in the water, looked up there and I said, "see that, that is awful high."  
     Well Claire remembers me from years ago too when I use to put on exhibition diving at a 
quarry in New Hampshire, you know.  [D:  Oh yeah]  And uh, nothing, nothing phased me.  As 
long as there is water down there I didn't care, but I couldn't climb a ladder and stand on a house 
and look off and see cement or dirt.  Oh, I would start shaking and trembling.  But if I could 
climb a ladder or climb anything, as long as there is water underneath me I felt, I felt secure, you 
know?
D:  Um.  Did kids ever jump off buildings?
J:  Yeah, we jumped off the uh (--)
C:  Yeah, tell him about the time you dove off the Boott Mill there, them crazy.  Go ahead.  [D:  
laughs]  He could write a book.
J:  Yeah, the Mohair Plush, the Mohair Plush building is alongside the canal down there too.  
How did you know, how did you know about jumping off buildings?
D:  Someone else mentioned that too.  I don't remember.  I don't think it was someone who did it 
themselves, but said, "oh, crazy kids use to do that around."
J:  Yeah.  Well they had fire escapes on these old mills and different things you know, and, and 
uh, yeah, we use to go up on top of the uh, the mills [sounds of ice in a glass] and uh, and dive 
off the mills [unclear].
D:  How many floors up would that be?
J:  Well I never dove.  I never dove off the top of the, off the top of the mill, but we had one 
fellow and I don't know his name now, but not only, not only did he dive off the top of the mill, 
and that was uh, the Mohair Plush there along the canal down near Dutton Street.
C:  Western Ave.?  [Clears throat]
J:  Western Ave.
C:  Western Ave. is where the canal is.
J:  That must have been five stories I guess.
C:  Oh sure, oh all of that.
J:  Huh, five or six stories high and he not only got on top of the mill, but they had a sign, they 
had a sign up there, Mohair Plush.  Do you remember it at all?  [C:  Umhm, umhm]  And old (--) 
He climbed up on that damn sign, up on the top of that sign and dove off the top of the sign into 
the canal.  [D:  Hm]
C:  But you know, don't forget too, the floors in the mill [J:  And I think he is] now in them days 
[J:  were high] they were not eight foot you know, ceilings.  They were big big high floors.  [D:  
Umhm, umhm]
J:  Yeah, for all the belts and the shafts.
C:  Those mills were high.
J:  Yeah, he is the only one that I know in our, in our gang and I can't think of his name now, but 
he was a daring, a daring guy.  [D:  Hm]  And of course I dove out of, I worked in the Boott 
Mills there when I was a kid.  I must have been sixteen years old I guess, fifteen or sixteen.  I 
quit school.  Went to work in the Boott Mills with my father.  And uh, during lunch hour one day 
I was working on the welding shop.  It was hot as hell in the welding shop.  And uh, I said to my 
buddy Donald Baker, I said, "let's take a, let's take a dive in the river," you know?  He says, "oh 
no, no, no."  We use to wear our bathing suits under our coveralls, because after work on the way
home we would, if we found some water we would just take our coveralls off and dive in.  Or if 
we had a car, or someone has got to go someplace we would.  So I says, "come on over to the 
window."  So we went over to the window there and there was uh, a little railing and stairs going 
down.  We use to go down and we use to measure the depth of the water you know, for the water 
wheels and different things.  And we went down the ladder and it felt nice and cool.  So we come
up on the ladder, we stood up on the platform there.  It must have been about twelve, twelve feet 
high or so.  And uh, I said, "come on, let's dive."  And I said, "we'll just swim across the back and
nobody will know.  All of the bosses are out to lunch."  And he says, "okay."  "So okay, but you 
go first."  So I got up on the damn railing there and I dove off the railing into the canal where the 
water use to go into the mills for the water power.  [D:  Umhm]  But what I didn't know was, 
they had a stone wall underneath the water that came out like that [D:  yeah] that detoured, that 
reflected the water, hit the wall and pushed it more or less into the mill, you know, so they get 
water
into the mill for the big water turbines.  [D:  Right]  And this wall was maybe ten inches wide 
and it was down maybe a foot or two below the surface.  I dove on top of the stone wall.  I split 
my eye open here.  I still have the scar.  I broke my arm, it's still bent.  The bone come out 
through here.  [D:  Um]  And I hit the wall and I rolled off into the water and it was in cold, it 
was April I guess.  It was the last part of April.  And uh, hit the wall, don't remember nothing.  
Rolled off the wall I guess, into the water.  Got myself back on the ladder and all the time Donny 
is up on the ladder, up on the top dumb founded to try and help me.  And I didn't really real (--)  I
didn't even know I was hurt really.  And I grabbed the ladder to start up and I tried to pick this 
arm up and I couldn't, I couldn't pick it up.  And I looked down at it and it was all broken and 
disordered, you know, [D:  yeah, yeah] just hanging more or less there, but I broke both bones 
and then I knew I was hurt.  Anyways I got up the ladder myself, back into the window and of 
course then they grabbed me and they rushed me up to emergency.  They had a nurse there and 
from there they took me to Saint, Lowell, uh, Saint Joseph's Hospital, set my arm and did a few 
other things.   And when I woke up I was in a cast and my father and mother were there, you 
know.  And that was uh (--)  And then when I went back to work they re-hired me [laughs].  
Anyways, when I went back to work they had a big screen over that, [both laugh] a big wire 
screen over that window, you know.  There was no more diving, no more diving out that window.
And I got the name, the "high diver", you know.?  Don't let that high diver near that window!  So
it was uh (--)
D:  So was that the end of your diving career then?
J:  No, I continued on!  [D:  Continues to laugh]  After that I continued on putting on exhibitions 
up in New Hampshire at this quarry and different places.  And I was just uh, you know, I was just
a water bug.  [D:  Umhm]  And I was a lifeguard for (--)
 
C:  Punk.  He was a punk.  [D:  Laughs]
J:  Yeah, jeeze what a punk.  What a punk you were when you were a kid, you know?
D:  Was that commonplace for people to get injured doing things like that in Lowell?
C:  Well only if you are crazy.  [D:  Laughs]  I mean you know, if you are crazy, if you are not 
crazy you would not do that to start with. 
D:  Yeah, yeah.
J:  No, we were, it was a little too wild.  When I think of the things I did now, I should have, I 
should have really, I should really be dead.  You know?  I fell through the ice three or four 
different times too and that is a hell of an experience.  To fall through the ice with all of your 
clothes on and either skates, or winter clothes and trying to walk home half a mile to the house.  
And by the time you get to the house the clothes are so stiff on you that you can't, [laughs] that 
you can't move your arms you know?  
C:  Well they use to, they use to skate on a river with sheets, you know.  Make like kites.  The 
wind would blow them all the way up.
D:  Good!  How would you hold the sheet?
C:  You held it on your hand, didn't you?
J:  With a couple of sticks too.  Couple of little sticks. 
C:  Like Batman, you know?
D:  Like a cape sort of behind you?
C:  Then the wind would get a hold of them and just push them all the way up the river and they 
did not even skate.
J:  And we use to play, and we use to play hockey in the river a lot too.  And Daniel Gage years 
ago use to cut the ice on the river.  And uh, a lot of times the uh, they would cut the ice the day 
before or something and we would go skating a day after or so.  And sometime the puck would 
go out on the black ice and you would be skating so fast that you either could not stop, or you 
know, you thought it would be safe enough and bloop, sure enough you would uh, you would go 
under you know?  But lucky enough there was always enough kids around with hockey sticks or 
something to stick a stick out at you and pull you out, you know?  
D:  Umhm.  Did ice form on the canals to do things like that?
J:  No.  [D:  No]  No we never, no we never fished in any, you never swim in the, and you never 
skate on the canals.  Because at the time the mills were always running and those canals were 
always moving water [D:  umhm] for the turbines for the uh, you know, for the power for the 
mills, the waterwheels.  
C:  I don't think the canals ever really froze here or anywhere.
J:  No, they were (--)
C:  Just a little maybe on the edges, but I never saw the canals frozen, not like the river.  
D:  Umhm.
J:  Moving water too much.  And in front of the canal the riv (--)  it was always opened.  But you 
know, up the river a little way where the current was a little slower or something, it would.  But 
the river was never, was never a safe place.  We have had people try to cross the river different 
times for short cuts and uh, have gone through, you know?  No, it wasn't uh, it wasn't a real safe 
uh, safe place.  [D:  Umhm]  And you, you know, you talk about you swam the river when you 
were a kid and so did I and at that time it was clean you know.  It wasn't clean.  We just didn't 
know nothing about all of this pollution and sewerage and at the time.  You know, I mean there is
no talk years ago about pollution and water clean ups and all the talk there is now.  Now, now we
go down there and we look at it after you know, we are a little older and we know all about the 
pollution.  Now we see it and we wonder you know, how did we ever swim in there?  But it must
have been then.  [D:  Umhm]  That sewer that I fished near there at Pawtucket Street by 
Burbecks, that sewer has been there since you know, since I fished four, five years, years old.  
[D:  Umhm]  So all of the sewerage was still there, but we just didn't, we weren't geared up for it.
We new nothing about it.  And our fathers and mothers did not get all of this literature in the 
paper and all of this publicity [D:  right] and all of that stuff, you know?
     And uh, we sold the fish to these uh, to these Jewish people.  And they love carp.  German 
carp was a favorite fish.  Well any scale fish a Jewish person can eat.  They cannot eat a skin fish.
It is against their, their tradition.  It has got to be a scaled fish.  And uh, with the carp they use to 
make Gefilte fish.  I don't know, you must have heard the word.
D:  I've heard of it, sure.
J:  And as far as I know it is something like our cod fish cakes.  It is, they grind the fish up with 
something, with potatoes or whatever and they make patties out of it of some sort, you know, and
they fry it.  I think that is what they call Gefilte fish, or some of them I guess pickle it, or they do
you know, they make other, other dishes with it.  But anyways, this was my father's big thing, 
how he got his spending money for cigarettes, or bus fare, or to buy lines for fishing, or hooks.  
He would sell you know, he would sell the carp.  And it was my job to go up these cobler shops 
and sell the carp to the old Jewish people there.  And the old Jewish people, they were not geared
either for the river.  They didn't realize how dirty the river was.  [D:  Umhm]  But the younger 
generation, the younger Jewish people that come up after that were more geared to the river and 
sewerage and everything else, they started to get away from the carp [D:  umhm] and eating the 
fish, see?
D:  Right.  What kind of price did you get for the fish?
J:  Oh, fifty cents maybe for a big fish, or sometimes maybe a dollar for big carp of not quite that
size, but there are some in there that my kids are still catching down there that would sell maybe 
for a dollar, or a dollar and a half in those days.  
D:  How big would they be and how much would they weigh?
J:  Maybe ten, maybe ten pounds, six pounds, [D:  yeah] seven pounds, you know?   And uh, the 
Jewish people use to check, the old Jewish people they would open the gills up.  If the fish was 
dead it was all right.  But they would open the gill up and they are looking at the gills.  If they 
gills were nice bright red the fish just died or was still you know, but once the fish is dead for a 
little while the gill starts getting slimy.  We see it in fish that we catch.  The gill starts getting 
slimy and it turns color.  The blood and the redness leaves and if it had that little faded color to it 
they would not buy it.  [D:  Oh]  It would have to either be alive, or the gill nice and red [D:  
Yeah] and then they would buy it, but anything that had a little slime on it, or a little faded they 
would uh, they would refuse it, you know?  I don't know whether it is because they could not eat 
something that was dead for so long, or what the tradition was I don't know, you know, but 
everything had to be alive as far as like chickens.  They had to be alive.  The Rabbi had to kill 
the chickens, [D:  right, right] or clean them, or whatever.  It seemed like they couldn't eat 
nothing unless it was alive a few minutes, or (--)
D:  Hm.  Did you sell other fish that your Dad caught?
J:  Oh yeah!  We sold uh, yeah we sold suckers too, big suckers.  That was a scale fish too.  And 
one time my father as a kid down there, I wasn't with him this time, but of course I wouldn't be 
anyways, but he was a kid like I was I guess after I started to fish it.  He had eight or nine big 
suckers on the grass there and uh, when he was done fishing he would put them in a bag and take
them up and try and sell them to the Jewish people too.  So this lady come down one day and she
said, "what are you catching sonny?"  And he was embarrassed to tell the lady "suckers", because
that is kind of a you know, [D:  yeah] a lousy word to use.  [D:  Right]  So without thinking he 
says, "oh, those are river trout."  She says, "oh, river trout!"  And as soon as he said trout, her 
husband was a fisherman and she knew the word trout, see?  So she says, "well do you want to 
sell them?"  He says, "yeah!"  He says, "I'll sell them."  You know, so I guess she gave him a 
dollar or two dollars for the seven or eight suckers he had there and she took them home, you 
know?  [D:  laughs]  So as soon as she was out of sight my father grabbed his gear and he got the
hell out of there, because he expected the husband to come down when she come home with the 
suckers and told him they were trout or something, you know?  [All laugh]  He says, "who the 
hell!"  So that was his, one of his stories when he was a kid, you know?  He is like, "I was 
always afraid I was going to bump into that lady again," you know?  He says, "everytime I fished
I always kept looking over my shoulders," you know?  [They continue to laugh]  But he was a, 
he was a good old guy.  I guess Claire knew, knew a little bit of him.
C:  I didn't know him too, too much.
J:  No, but you met him a few times and very easy going guy, something like me, you know, 
nothing seemed to bother him, or [D:  yeah] you know.  And he just loved it, just loved to fish.
D:  Um.  Just getting back to the swimming again,  I wanted to ask you.  You mentioned the Red 
Bridge, were there other places that were swimming holes and had sort of locals names like that, 
that people would give to them?
C:  Oh sure, under the, under the river, under the bridge here, the Pawtucket Bridge.  Now my 
father use to swim there.  [D:  yeah]  Isn't that what they use to call "Little Arizona"?  
J:  He called it that, but I never heard.  It seemed like every, it seems like every kid from different
sections had their own names for their own, their own swimming holes, you know?  [C:  Umhm] 
Like Beaver Brook up there we use to go, "Cat Hole".  [C:  Right]  "Cats Hole."  [C:  Right]  And
uh, the only place I really swam was either you know, in the canal or Sandy Beach up along the 
railroad tracks, which is almost gone now, and the Bathhouse.  About the same with, where you 
use to swim.
C:  How about the "Stonies?"  That was another place.
J:  Oh yeah, yeah.  We swam, we swam in the "Stonies" too down behind the college there.  It 
use to be old Textile.
C:  Yeah, that is by U Lowell.
D:  Where the fish elevator is now, you mean in there?  
J:  Yeah.  Well not the fish el (--)  No, all the way down.
C:  The uh, the Hydro Plant.  
J:  The Hydro Plant down below.
D:  Oh yeah!
C:  That's, they use to call that the "Stonies".  But right under the Pawtucket Bridge here where 
the ladder is my father claims he wrote his name under there when he was a kid.  Like him, they 
use to swim you know, whole bunch of guys nude, you know, [D:  yeah, yeah] and they had a 
ball there.  And they all wrote their names under there and they used to call that "Little Arizona". 
D:  What did they, what did you write your names on?
C:  On the cement.  The big big peers.
J:  The bridge, the uh.
D:  Oh the bridge!  Oh, okay.
J:  The base of the, the base of the bridge.
C:  Right under the bridge.  Cause if you were under there nobody could see you, you know.
D:  Right.
C:  So they all wrote their names under there.  He said, "if you go there today I bet you would 
still see it there."
D:  [Laughs]  Let's see, you ever hear of a place called "Lucky's" down up Hale's Brook, down 
that way?  
J:  "Lucky's"?  
D:  Yup.  Maybe that was out of your neighborhood range [unclear].
J:  Yeah, that is more or less (--)
C:  That is down Gorham Street.  Boy that is (--)
J:  That is more or less up in the Highlands or another part of town.  [D:  Umhm]  Why?  What 
was uh, what was "Lucky's"?  
D:  Just a swimming hole, a place, I don't know why it got that name.
J:  Oh.  Well, well that is what I am saying.  Every, every little area had their own, you know, 
their own (--)  If I went to someplace else and I wouldn't know, you know, what they call (--)
C:  Well, like you fish here, you call it first brook and second brook.  
J:  Yeah.
D:  Where is that?
C:  That is again down here at the river by the Bathhouse.  There are two little brooks coming out
there.  And he always, well I don't think it was only you.  I think a lot of people have referred to 
those two brooks.
J:  Well my father and I am going by what my father, what my father called these places, you 
know, but I never uh, we never heard him call it any different, or uh (--)
C:  No, we still, we go down there and still fish there, you know.  
J:  Sherm must have took you right by there today.  [D:  Yeah]  He must have took you by the 
Bathhouse, the old Bathhouse [D:  right, right] where he said they probably have the, they sign 
up the boat, [D:  umhm] the tournaments there, or something.  [D:  Right]  Well let's see now.  As
you go by the Bathhouse coming back toward the bridge, coming back to Lowell, you come over
two little, two little brooks.  He didn't point those out to you?  
D:  Could be, I don't remember it at [unclear].
J:  Yeah, well one is (--)
C:  It would be before the fish ladder.
D:  Okay, now I no where you mean.
C:  Before the fish ladder.
D:  Right, right.
J:  Between the fish ladder and the Bathhouse, there is two brooks that come out there.  [D:  
Umhm]  And one is first brook and one is second brook.  And I don't know what, whether first 
brook is this one and second is this one, or first is this one and second is that one.  [D&J:  Laugh]
C:  Depending on where you are coming from.
J:  Yeah, yeah, probably.  
SIDE ONE ENDS
SIDE TWO BEGINS
D:  And the way it is now it is about a second delaying, so it sounds like my voice probably is a 
little behind.  Can you hear me?
C:  Umhm.
D:  Okay.  And when I do this now it is right on top of it, right,  happening at the same time.  
How does that sound?  Okay?
C:  Good.  
D:  Let, let Joseph have a [speaking too low, unclear].
C:  Sounds like you are in a studio.
D:  [Laughs]  Well that is good.
C:  It sounds good.  It is quite a thing.
D:  So I use the headphones just to check the recording quality and everything.  And now I am 
going to throw a switch like I did before.  And what you hear now, you can hear my voice, but 
you can also hear it after it has been recorded.  So you can hear two images.  And that way I can 
check to be sure that it is going on the tape okay.
C:  Quite a thing, huh?
D:  Yeah!
J:  I would still rather have the camera though.  
D:  Next time we will bring the film crew.  Let's see now.  
C:  That is uh, yeah, that is an excellent thing when you are interviewing uh, [D:  oh yeah, yeah] 
it is a, it is a must.
D:  Yeah, it saves a lot of time.  I mean if I had to write down everything you were telling me, it 
would take a heck of a long time.
C:  Sure and you would forget.  This way here you can [D:  right] just lay back and (--)
J:  So, well Sherm must have, Sherm must have told you that the uh, the Merrimack is not really 
a great bass place, did he?  Uh, or did he?
D:  Well I sort of got the idea that he preferred other areas, although he said that he had taken a 
fair number of bass um, out of the Merrimack just the same.  
J:  And did he tell you we have two types of bass in the river?
D:  No, tell me about that?
J:  Well we have two types.  Small mouth, it is a wonder he didn't tell you.   Small mouth bass 
and large mouth bass.  That is about the only two varieties of bass that, that I guess there is 
around, around this area.  [D:  Umhm]  And a large mouth bass gets a lot bigger than the small 
mouth, but a small mouth is a lot more gamier.  [D:  Umhm]  They will give you a better fight 
and they break water a lot more than a, than a large mouth will.  And they like fast water.  They 
like the current and streams [D:  umhm],  where a large mouth bass is kind of lazy and he is, he 
just wants the, the slow water and you know.  And the reason why our bass I think don't get big 
in the river is, because the river is too cold and there is really not enough feed.  Bass are kind of a
warm climate fish.  They like the warm water, especially the large mouths.  The small mouth can 
take cold water.  They like a little cold water, fast water, but they don't have a tendency to grow, 
grow that fast, you know?  Uh, very seldom you hear a small mouth bass five pounds, or four 
pounds, or six pounds, where a large mouth you know, the more seldom you hear of five to six 
pounds small, large mouth bass.  But the river uh, they just don't seem to grow in the river [D:  
umhm] on account of the cold water and the moving water I guess all the time.  And I guess the 
feed too.  They don't have the feed like they do on a, in a pond or a lake.
D:  What other types of fish do people catch on the river?
C:  I was just going to say, they have a lot of competition cause of those big carp.
J:  There is every fish in the river.  We have every fish in the Merrimack that you can possibly 
think of.  Every, every fish, you know.  You name the fish and nine times out of ten it is there. 
D:  What are the most common ones?
C:  Oh, the carp.  [D:  Umhm]  I think the carp [few words unclear].
J:  The carp.  Yeah, the carp more or less dominate the river.  And uh, of course there is 
monstrous eels in there too, and hornpout, or some people prefer them a catfish, but there are two
different species of hornpout.  One is a hornpout and one is a catfish.  Very few fellows know, 
very few guys know the difference.  They are all referred to as catfish, like the southern catfish, 
you know?
D:  Right, right.
J:  But we have two species up here and one is a hornpout and one is a catfish and they are two 
different fish, but we have both of them in the river.  And as far as German carp are concerned, 
the uh, what people call the German carp, there is three types of carp in the river too.  One is a 
German carp that you usually catch nine times out of ten.
C:  That picture there, that is a, that is a German carp.  [D:  (few words unclear)] Wow!]
J:  But then we have, then we have a uh, then we have a leather carp and we have a mirror carp.  
Three species of carp.  [D:  Umhm]
I was going to have you bring that little fish book down too, but I don't know if he wants to get 
into that.  Just to show them the difference in the fish, you know.  [It seems they are reviewing 
pictures]  Those are, those are hornpout there, some people would probably call catfish, you 
know.  [D:  These here?]  Those are hornpout, yeah.  [D:  Yeah]  
C:  Now those come from the Merrimack.  
J:  Or bullheads.  [D:  Uh huh]  And some of those are three and a half pounds.  And you know 
(--)
D:  These are carp also?
C:  Umhm.  
D:  Yeah.  Now that does not look like a fish.
J:  No, that is a, that is a turtle I got out of the river crossing the road and I brought it up on a 
brook and threw him in the brook.
D:  What kind of a turtle is that?
J:  A snapper.  
D:  How common are they in the river.
J:  There is a few, there is a few big ones in there.  [D:  Umhm]  And those are rainbows that we 
got out of the Swannacook, rainbow trout.  [D:  Umhm]  That has nothing to do with the uh, with
the river.  
D:  Nice picture.  Did you take most of those?  
C:  No, I think you did huh?  
J:  No, she took some and I guess I took some.  [D:  Yeah, very nice]  But in the river there is 
white perch that you are familiar with.  There is yellow perch.  There is all kinds of shiners.  
River shiners and uh, mirror, well not mirror shiners, but (--)
C:  Golden shiners.
J:  Golden shiners and emerald shiners.  And there is goldfish in the river.  [D:  Hm]  Pure, real 
goldfish that we have caught and that we have had in tanks here.
D:  Oh, that is what you were talking about before huh?  You had one that was about a foot long?
C:  Oh we had more than one.  We had (--)
J:  Two, I would say two pounds or maybe better.
C:  I had a big aquarium, big fifty gallon tank over there.
D:  Yeah.
J:  Can you lay your hands on those pictures quick?  
C:  Yeah, do you want to see them?
J:  Yeah, just the, just the idea.  A lot of people don't realize or know that there is goldfish in the 
river.  You talk about goldfish to a fisherman, or anyone that doesn't know and they, they refer to 
oh, it is a carp, [D:  Right] you know, but it is a carp family.  But it is a different fish altogether.  
This is a real goldfish that years ago, or whenever when all of these toilets ran into the river [D:  
umhm] and people were moving out of town, or going to Florida, or moving away, they took the 
goldfish little bowl that they won at the carnival and they flushed the goldfish down the toilet.  
[D:  Umhm, umhm]  And he survived through the pipes and made it to the river, or the kid didn't 
want to kill the fish and he took the fish down because he was going to Florida, or they were 
moving away.  And he took the fish down because he didn't want to kill him and he dumped him 
in the river.  And some of the goldfish survived.  We have goldfish that are very hardy that can 
stand hard water and tough, tough life.  [D:  Umhm]  And then of course we have goldfish, that if
you put them in cold water they would die, you know?  [D:  Right]  But some of the fish, some 
of the goldfish survive.  They just got uh, acclamated, or whatever you would call it, [D:  Yeah] 
to the water and uh, and they, and they took.
C:  I just had my hands on them before [unclear word].
J:  And very few people, I am sure Sher, I am sure Sherm never mentioned anything about 
goldfish in the river.  
D:  No, we never got around to that, no.
J:  He never uh, well a lot of them don't even know they are in the river.  But we found a place 
that we call "Golden Pond".  [All laugh]  It is just an old sewer pipe, an old sewer pipe and it 
leads into a little pond and the water coming out of the sewer pipe is always warm.  [D:  Umhm] 
So in the wintertime the goldfish come up and then spend the winter in this little area, because 
the water coming out from all of the sewers and all of the toilets are warmer than the river.  [D:  
Umhm]  And we found this spot, or I found this spot.  And it was full of goldfish.  So I brought 
Claire down there and we uh, we pulled a few, we pulled a few out.   And we decided well let's 
put them in a tank and see how long we could keep them.  And I guess you had one in the tank 
for what?  Almost two years, or?
C:  Oh yeah, a couple of years.  This is (--)
J:  Almost two years.
C:  This is the thing that we thought was our [crucian?] carp.  Remember?  We thought we had a 
real find, [D:  yeah] a real rare fish.  We went out up to Actington Fish and Game, but the 
biologist there didn't seem to be too knowledgeable.
J:  That is a small, that is a small carp, but a different type of carp.  [D:  Yeah]  It is a [crucian?] 
carp, but people would think it would be a goldfish if you uh, if you showed them that.  People 
that don't really know, you know?  
D:  Yeah.
C:  These are a couple of the goldfish ones, but I have got better ones here.
D:  Oh yeah!  They are sizable all right.  Look at the size!  And they finally past away in your 
tank then, right?
J:  Yup.  They are a very, very dirty fish.  Hard fish to keep clean, you know.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  
They uh, (--)
C:  Well you have bass.
J:  But beautiful.
C:  Here is another shot of one.  Here is two of them.  We had a pair.  [D:  Chuckles]
[Someone walks through door and Dave says, "hello"]
C:  Gail, this is Dave.  [D:  Taylor]  Taylor.  This is my daughter Gail.  [Gail says, "hi"]
D:  Hi.  I work for the Library of Congress.  I am doing some research in this area having to do 
with how the river is used.  And we have been talking about fishing and swimming and things 
like that.
[Gail says, "and he is talking your ear off"]
J:  No, not (--)
D:  We are all holding our own here.  [Chuckles]
J:  Not yet, but see the, see the brightness.  I mean you have those in the tank and a light is on.  
[D:  yeah]  Oh they were really, they were really (--)
C:  We had them in our pool for awhile.  
D:  They were really beautiful.  [Long pause]  They are colorful all right.  [C:  Yeah]
J:  You know I never thought, you know that, that tank would have looked beautiful in a bow 
window with all of the lights off and the light in the tank on.  
C:  There is a, there is a, there is a good shot of them.  [D:  Oh yeah!]  I knew I had good ones. 
D:  Yeah, you can really see them well now.  [Sound of a cat meowing in background]  What did 
you name him?
J:  Goldy.  [D:  laughs]
C:  We did have names for them.  Another picture, we had a lot of pictures of them.
J:  Yeah, they come out of, they come out of, they come out of the Merrimack.  [D:  Yeah]  And 
very few people know that they are in the Merrimack.  [D:  Hm]
D:  There are other reptiles like turtles and other creatures like that?
C:  How do you like that one of the bluegills?
D:  Wow!  What were you going to do with them all?
C:  Well we undertook a project of cleaning a lake up here.  [D:  Umhm]  Here is some bluefish.  
[Still looking at pictures]
D:  Where did you get the bluefish?
C:  Well those, they were not in the river.  Or were they in the river?
J:  No.  Well yeah, they are part of the uh, (--)
C:  That is where the river empties out in the, at Plum Island.  [D:  Umhm]  So what did it take 
us, three years?  We took out over seven thousand bluegills out of one lake.  [D:  Umhm]
J:  Because of the baby bass.  When the bass spawn and the babies are born these bluegills are 
like paranas, they eat the babies.
So we thought we would uh, try to help the bass a little bit and see if we could uh, you know, but 
it was an endless, it was an endless job.  
D:  Umhm.  What are the types of fish that fishermen find most desirable out of here?  
J:  Bass, but carp are a lot of fun too.  [D:  Umhm]  I mean you get a big carp on a line and they 
can give you a hell of a fight.  [C:  Bluegills]  [D:  Oh yeah]  But on account of their uh, their 
name and considered a junk fish [D:  Umhm] nobody wants to fish for them, because huh, you 
know, it is below their, the standards, you know, of a real bass fishermen. They are not going to 
put (--)
C:  Do you still have the scale?
J:  A lot of, a lot of magazines, yeah.  
C:  Show him the scale.
J:  A lot of magazines and everything else, they write about carp and they always say don't under 
estimate the carp.  [D:  Umhm]  He is a fighting fish and he is.  But like I said, the Merrimack 
has every fish you can think of.  There is pike in there.  There is pickerel.  There is bass.  There is
hornpout.  There is eels.  You name the fish, fresh water fish and somewhere along the river it is, 
it is in there, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  But it is not, it is not a river that is really fished heavy, 
because uh, I don't know, it is not a, it is not tempting I guess and being dirty and everything else.
It is (--)
D:  Where are the prime fishing areas around here?  People say, nah, I don't want to fish in the 
river, where do they go?
J:  Well I think everybody has their own, anybody that fishes the river has their own little spots.  
I fish in one place that I love and there is a sewer pipe right under me.  
D:  Umhm.  This is on the river you are talking about?
J:  On the river, yeah.  [D:  yeah]  And the reason why I fish there is because the carp feed on all 
that sewerage that comes out.  [Clears throat]  And uh, bass, they go up Tyngsboro bridge a little 
way around the rocks.  Different fish have their own little hangouts, you know?  Like small 
mouth bass, they like a little fast water.  They like any place that has a little rapids or rocks to 
hide under, or behind.  And hornpout and eel, you can find them just about any part of the river.  
Anyplace you want to throw a line in with a piece of uh, fish on it or a piece of squid or 
anything, or a worm.  You would probably pull in hornpout or eels.
C:  Or bluegills.  These are all different.
D:  These are all different days?
C:  Different batches, yeah.
D:  Wow!  [Long pause]
J:  But the river is not fished heavy now, but in five years or ten years (--)  That is a scale that 
comes off a carp. 
D:  Oh, that is what you were talking about.  Look at the size of this.  It is about, it is almost 
three inches long.  
J:  These are all the scales that come off of a twenty-six, twenty-six or twenty-seven pounder.  
The biggest carp we got out of Lakeview was thirty-one and three quarter pounds.  [D:  Wow!]  
That one that (--)  I don't think we got a picture of that one, huh?  
C:  You have got it in your car I think.  I have got it somewhere, but I don't know where it is.  
That was in the paper. 
J:  But if a guy likes fishing, any kind of fish turns him on.  [D:  Umhm]  Do you know what I 
mean?  If you like to fish you like to catch anything, but most guys the bass fishing that is all 
they want, just bass.  Don't bother me with pickerel or perch, or anything.  I just want to fish for 
bass, period, you know?  It is uh, I like to fish for anything.  Uh, I just, well in fact even if they 
don't bite I just like to be on the water, near the water.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  And Claire and I do a lot
of things on the water when we are fishing.  We see a lot of things, what she calls reading the 
water.  
D:  Like tell me about that.  I am very interested in that.
J:  Well if you just go fishing and you just watch your line or watch your pole, or watch your rod,
or whatever, and you are not interested in what is going on around you there could be a big, big 
frog laying on the lily pad there.  And the guy could stand there for hours maybe and not see him,
[sound of a telephone ringing] or name some things.  There could be a (--)   [Voice in 
background speaking to someone on the phone]  
C:  Well you watch the ducks.  You watch you know, their habits.  You can see other fish besides 
what you are fishing for.  [J:  All fish (--)]  You know you see, you see, there is a million things.  
You may not even be looking at the water.  You may be looking at the birds down there, or 
whatever.  There is more to fishing than fishing, [D:  Umhm] if you like to fish.  You know, you 
have got to have the patients to be out there and (--)
J:  That was a title one time too.  Wasn't there something, that something you wrote, a poem?  
"There Is More To Fishing Than Fishing."  [C:  Umhm]  She just wrote a poem for the Elvis 
Presley Cookbook and a poem for the Trauma Center in Tennessee or, [D:  hm] and was accepted
and hung in the waiting room down there.  And they, she went down and spent the week down 
there.  She is quite a (--)
C:  But there is a lot more to fishing [J:  than fishing] than fishing.  I write for (Mass out of 
Doors?).  [D:  Umhm]  Free lance.  And that was one of my, my stories, you know.  Because 
there is (--)  Even if you are in a boat out fishing and you are just going by, you are fishing but 
there is a lot more around there [D:  umhm] to you know, attract you than just fishing.  
D:  I would like to see that poem if I could.
C:  Which one?
D:  Maybe later.  The one, that one you were just talking about, "There Is More To Fishing Than 
Fishing."  
C:  That was an article that I sold.
D:  Oh okay, yeah.  Yeah.  I will make a note of that.  I will ask you later.
J:  And Gail, her daughter here, belonged to a, she joined an Indian tribe and they talked about 
getting a turtle one time.  They wanted to have a turtle cookout or something, or turtle stew.  And
so I volunteered to get them a turtle.  And we got one [D:  Laughs]
Claire and I.  I had one on one day, about forty pounds, I broke my hook.  Next day I had three 
on, two broke my line and one brook the hook.  So the next day we went back to the same place, 
Swain's Pond that dumps out into the river in North Chelmsford.  We went back there and Gail 
came with us with another fellow, Paul, and we were a little more equipped this day.  A little 
heavier lines and stronger hooks and a big net in case we did get one.  I had three right on shore 
myself the day before and I lost them.  So she hooked on to one and she pulled it in.  And I put 
the big bluefish net over it and we got it in.  And we took it home here and the next day we hung 
it out in the back, out in the yard here on the clothes line.  And her Indian friends were suppose 
to clean it and gut it and do the whole thing.  [D:  Laughs]  And I wound up cutting the head off 
and cleaning it.  [All laugh]  And we cooked it up here and we had a little feed with it and it was 
uh, it was pretty good.
C:  They could show him the shells.  Why don't you?
G:  [Daughter]  We are going to have the rest of that in two week.  
J:  And as I was cleaning (--)  Huh?
G:  In two week we are going to make the turtle stew.  [C: laughing] 
J:  Oh yeah, they froze the rest of the meat.  [D: Oh oh!]  Yeah, we are going to have a turtle 
stew, or they are going to have a turtle stew, which I want to try some of it.  But I had two big 
plates of turtle meat, the white meat and the red meat.  [D:  Hm]
They claim there is five different flavors of meat.  And Claire just fried it up in a frying pan with 
butter.  I didn't want no seasoning or a lot of spice, because I wanted to see if I could detect the 
different tastes.  [D:  Right]  One is suppose to taste like pork and one is suppose to taste like 
chicken, or veal, or lamb, or whatever, but to me it tastes all like beef.  You know, like (--)  [D:  
Huh]  But it was good, it was really uh, it was really good.  So um, what was I, what was I going,
what was I going to say after that?  [Laughs]
D:  Well how do you, how do you set out to catch a turtle anyway?  What do you (--)
G:  [Daughter]  Carefully, very carefully. 
D:  [Laughs]  What do you have to know about turtles to go out and catch them?
J:  Well you see, every uh, everything (--)
G:  [Daughter]  You need a good guy.  [Laughs]
C:  Again, again, again though you are reading, you have to read the water.
J:  Everything, everything has a way of getting themselves away.  You know, different sounds, 
different movements, different signs.  And if you know what signs to look for you can pretty near
tell, you know, what is making these different bubbles, or different (--)  And like she was saying, 
reading the water.  When a turtle walks along the bottom he disturbs the bottom and air comes 
out of the ground.  And all you can see in the water is little, little bubbles like a skin diver when 
he is swimming along and the air is coming up.  Well if you, if you knew there were skin divers 
out there and you have seen these bubbles on the water you could almost track [D: right] where 
he is going.  Well it is the same thing with fish, or carp, or turtles, or things like that.  If you 
know these signs you can almost tell.  And I guess this particular day or something, or even Gail 
I guess she said, "oh there is one, the bubbles are there."  And sure enough we had the line right 
out there with a big chunk of squid on it and it was no time at all that he picked the squid up and 
she pulled it in.  I think it was my [hand line?] too that you pulled that one in on.  [C:  Hm]  It 
was my line.  So we had a, we had a good time, you know.  
 
D:  What signs would you look for for other types of fish in the river?
J:  Well carp.
C:  Swirls, you know, depends what kind of fish you are fishing for.  
D:  Umhm.
J:  If you have seen a lot of bait fish in the water, little ripples in the water, you would know that 
was shiners or small bait fish.  Then you would watch the bait fish, which we done a couple of 
weeks ago.  And you keep watching that one area and all of a sudden you would see a big swirl 
[makes swirling sound] in there.  Well now you know there is game fish down below that, that 
are after the bait fish.  Or all of a sudden you see the bait fish come skimming out of the water 
[makes ssh sound], which means that something has chased them, something is scaring them.  
[D:  Umhm]  So naturally you would get right up there and you know, and start fishing for bass, 
or pickerel, or whatever you thought that it was.  Well what I was getting at about the turtle was, 
[D:  yes] she uh, we counted what, seventy-eight, or eight-seven ?
C:  Eighty-eight eggs.
J:  Eighty-eight eggs in a snapper.  [D:  Hm]  And they are about as big as your thumb.  Did not 
have the white shell on them yet, but the hard yolk you know?  [D:  Yeah]  And uh, I held the 
heart in my hand five hours, or maybe six hours later and the heart was still pumping.  [D:  
Wow!]  And all during the process of cleaning this thing after we had it hung for four hours, or 
maybe a little longer with the head completely off, the head was in a bucket and it was still 
snapping at sticks that they were putting into the bucket.  [D:  shu]  And after we took it down 
and hung it on a, put it on the picnic out here on the big cutting board, after five hours I started to
cut the thing up, me and a friend of mine, Paul.  He had the, he was cutting the front, I was 
cutting the back and every time we stuck the knive into the leg to clean the meat away from the 
shell the legs were coming out and grabbing our hands and pushing our hands away.  [D:  Hm]  
And the book said that what Gail read was what, twenty-four hours?
G:  [Daughter]  Three days the heart would still beat.
J:  Three days the heart will still beat and for twenty-four hours I guess, or something, or 
forty-eight hours it takes that long to kill all the nerve tendons, or nerve endings, or whatever 
they call it.  [D:  Umhm]
C:  This heart wasn't attached to anything.  [D:  Hm, hm]  Just a heart.
D:  Hm, incredible!
C:  Spooky.
D:  Yeah.
G:  [Daughter]  Before I forget [few words unclear].  She just wants you to call her so that she 
could tell you what the visiting nurse had said.
D:  We could stop if you need to make a call.
C:  No, that is all right.
D:  Oh yeah!
J:  That was the shell.  [D:  Yeah]  
C:  That was what, thirty-eight pounds?
J:  Forty, oh yeah.
C:  Thirty-five, thirty-eight maybe?
J:  Close to, close to forty pounds I guess.  We weighed on the bathroom scale.  I weighed myself
and then I picked the turtle up and [D:  umhm] we figured almost thirty, almost forty pounds.  
But for a woman to pull in that, that was pretty good, that was a pretty good sure footer.
D:  Yeah.  [Laughs]  Now does the time of year or the uh, the temperature of the water have 
much to do with the fish?
J:  I don't think so. I don't know about the river.  I think, I think lakes and different things, I think 
the river is completely different than lakes.  I think fish in the river, they live a harder life and I 
don't think you could connect both of them, you know?  I think the fish in the river have different
habits than the fish in the lakes.  
C:  You don't think the fish get dormant in the river, in the wintertime?  
J:  Yeah, as far as bass, as far as bass are I think, but I think the carp and everything else, I think 
they get up in these sewer pipes in like Golden Pond.  And I think they stay pretty active a feed, 
feed year round.  I think that is why they get so damn big.  But I guess all fish more or less get 
dormant in the wintertime.  You know, they slow down, except pickerel and pickerel and yellow 
perch.  
D:  What time of year do you fish [few words unclear]?
C:  Summer.  I fish through the ice too you know, but I prefer summer fishing.  I like a nice hot 
day and I hate fishing in the rain.  
J:  Or the cold.  You can take the cold when you are young you know, ice fishing and things like 
that, but when you get older it seems like it bothers you, you know?
D:  Well is there much ice fishing out in the river now?
J:  No, very little.  It is too dangerous.  [D:  Umhm]  It never really, it has never really you know, 
you never really feel secure in the river.  That water (--)
C:  People don't do it anyway like the use to, you know?  [D:  Yeah]  Even lakes, you know, 
people don't fish like they use to years ago.  It is other things today for people to do.  [D:  
Umhm]  They have tournaments up the lake and years ago you couldn't find a spot to drill a hole 
up there, but now you get the die hards, the same crowd.  
J:  There is too many activities.
C:  And you are looking at the ballgames or you know, doing other activities.
J:  Yeah, there is too many activities now, you know.  Too many ball games on and uh, too many 
places to go.  And everybody has cars and flea markets and yard sales and everything else.  It 
seems like uh, years ago my father couldn't do nothing but fish.  [D:  Umhm]  You know, he had 
nothing else, no interest in anything.  There was no ball games, no T.V..  No uh, you know, so he 
spent his time on, on the water.  
D:  Tell me about the fishing gear that you use?  The rods, reels and the lures and flies, that kind 
of thing.
C:  Well if you are talking fly fishing you know, whatever you are fishing.  If you are fishing for 
bass you would fish with streamers.  And if you are fishing for, well we fished for the bluegills 
up there and he come up with his own little creation of a little piece of salt pork, a little tiny little 
piece so you don't have to keep rebaiting.  Is that going to be public knowledge?
[J:  Laughing]
D:  No, you don't have to tell me anything.
J:  No, she is only kidding.
C:  But depending on what you are fishing for, you know.  Right now when you fish for carp we 
are using corn, oatmeal balls, potatoes.
J:  Carp seem to be a vegetarian type fish, [D:  hm] you know.  Very seldom it will take a shiner 
or a live bait, or a worm.  You will catch them with worms, but mostly a vegetation, vege, 
vegetation type fish.  
D:  Hm.  What is, what is an oatmeal ball?  How do you make that?
C:  It is just a little hand full of oatmeal soaked in water and squeezed like that to make a dough 
and you wrap that around the hook and you throw it out there.  It stays hard.
J:  And the more you squeeze it and get the juice out of it and forms a hard paste type thing.  [D:  
Yeah]  And it stays on, stays on good.  You can cast it a hell of a long way and then it won't come
off if you make it, if you make it right.  [D:  Umhm]  That seems to be one of the favorites, 
oatmeal ball and corn, or a cooked potatoe. 
C:  For carp.
D:  Right.  
C:  Bass, they like live shiners.  Pickerel just about anything.  They like shiners too.  But we fish 
for hornpout with squid, or mussels.  [D:  Oh yeah!]
J:  Clams.  Sometime we dig the clams right where we are fishing.  [D:  Umhm]  Open the clams 
right up there and use those for bait.  Things that some people know and things that some people 
do not, you know.
C:  And trout, you know, the old night crawler.  [D:  Umhm]  
J:  But the best thing to use for any kind of fish is whatever is in the lake.  If there is frogs 
around, if there is a lot of frogs around use the frogs.  That is a natural bait.  That is, that is what 
they are feeding on.  If there is a lot of shiners in the lake or in the river, then you would use the 
shiner.  But of course they have all kinds of artificial lures too, that some guys wouldn't buy a 
shiner or anything.  But the best bait for anyplace is what is in the lake.  Either crawfish or, or 
whatever.  [D:  Right]  It is the natural food of the fish.
D:  Do you catch your own shiners, or do you buy them in a bait shop?
J:  Well lately the river has been loaded with shiners.  We have, this year of all years that I have 
ever fished the river there was billions and billions and billions of shiners down there.  We took 
Gail, went down one time and showed her and then we were netting our own shiners, so it was 
simple.  But usually you buy them.  [D:  Umhm]  You usually get about two dollars, or two and a
half dollars a dozen.  
D:  Oh yeah.  Do you do much fly fishing in the river?
C:  No.  I haven't done any fly fishing for a couple of years now as a matter of fact.  [D:  Oh 
yeah]  It seems like you get away from that too, you know.
J:  I think the fly, I think fly fishing is getting to be a lost art too now.  
C:  No.
J:  Yeah, but not too many guys, you don't see too many guys fly fishing.
C:  Well if you fly fished.
J:  Not around here anyways.
C:  Then if we went to the Squanacook, which is you know, our favorite trout stream, then you 
would, we both fly fish, but he is a wormer.  [D:  Umhm]  And he catches all of the fish.  So in 
order for him not to out fish me I go to the worm.  
J:  It sounds like you have a friendly competition with him.
C:  Oh yeah, real friendly.  [D:  Laughs]
J:  Yeah, she tries to cut my throat and I try to cut her throat.  And we never count the fish.  [D: 
Yeah]  You know, if we, no matter how many fish we catch it is, we catch them.  It is you know, 
we don't say well you got two and I got four.
C:  Not much, not much. 
D:  [Laughs]  Do you fish out of a boat?
J:  No, mostly from shore.  [C:  No]
D:  Yeah.
J:  Yeah.  I had, I had a couple of salt water rigs, ocean boats and I use to love the salt water.  In 
fact I still do.  I think I prefer salt water fishing than fresh water fishing, but I sold my rigs and 
since then I haven't had money enough to buy a, to buy a salt water rig, but someday I will you 
know, I will have one and go back to salt water fishing.  [D:  Umhm]  I showed her mostly all 
about fresh water fishing now.  So now I want to teach her, [D:  laughs] now I want to teach her 
about salt water fishing.  What is the snicker for there Gail?  [Laughs]  No, we have a good time. 
We get along good when we fish, you know, and we really enjoy it.  You know we can go out 
there and if we catch fish, fine, if we don't, hey we still have a good time, you know?  
D:  Yeah.  Are there many women around here who fish too?  Not so common?
C:  There is a few, but they are not, you know, if they go out there and if they get a fish, fine.  If 
they don't, well, they lose interest.
D:  Then they won't put their worm on.  You have got to put their worm on for them, or you have 
got to take the fish off.  And Claire is one of the exceptions.  You can't touch her fish and you 
can't touch her line.  She will put her own worn on and take her own fish off, whether it is a 
hornpout or any kind of a fish.  And eel, well we haven't got into eels yet too much, but.
D:  Well those are pretty strange, that is for sure.  [J:  Yeah]  It is hard to get the hooks out of 
them too as I recall.  [Word unclear]
J:  Well like everything else there is a way, you know, there is.  But she is a good fisherman and 
she uh, you know, she don't give up.  She is not one, well let's go home now, or you know, she is 
a, she is a die hard.
End of tape
UNIVERSITY OF LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LOWELL FOLKLIFE CENTER
INFORMANT:  CLAIRE IGNACIO AND JOSEPH BEAUSOLEIL
CONDUCTED BY:  DAVID TAYLOR
DATE:  SEPTEMBER 22, 1987
LFP-DT-R009-R010
     Tape begins in mid-sentence and Claire's daughter Gail is speaking.
G:  [Word unclear] and the dancing.  We have our pow wows.  We have our ceremonies.  
D:  Umhm.  What kinds of ceremonies?  Is that something you can talk about?
G:  Spiritual ceremonies.  [D:  Yeah]  Um, we have one coming up, it is a Harvest Fest.
D:  When will that be?
G:  October 3rd.  It is going to be out in the State Forest.  
D:  Oh yeah!
G:  And we are going to be having a naming ceremony.  Two of the people are going to be 
getting their Indian names.  So we will be doing that that day.  And harvesting the crop.  It is a 
ceremony.  We don't have a, we have a garden out there, but the animals got to it.  [D:  Yeah]  
But it is more or less a religious type ceremony.
D:  Umhm.  Is this something that other people can go to, or only the members?
G:  No, it is opened to the public.
D:  Okay.  I will be back in Washington then, but others that I am working with will be here.  I 
will mention it to them.  Probably they would be interested.  All right to have them call you to 
get details about it?
G:  I can give you the name of a guy who can.
D:  Okay, okay.  Let's see.  Well we are on to number three.
J:  Well I would like to talk about the fish ladder.  
D:  Oh thanks.
G:  Frank Greenhalgh.
D:  Okay.  [You can hear pen on paper.  David is writing information down]  Okay, thanks very 
much.
G:  Umhm. 
D:  Yeah, now that is something that you want to talk about too I remember.  Um, what is on 
your mind about the fish ladder. 
C:  Well this is our, this is our pet peeve right now.  These are pictures that Joe took of the fish 
ladder.  I don't know, we are trying to get the salmon back up in the river.  
J:  Say New Hampshire spent a lot of money on this program and it seems like it is working all 
the way from New Hampshire out to sea, [D:  umhm] but when the salmon come back in three 
years it seems like Lowell is the salmon's downfall.  That is the fish ladder that they are suppose 
to come through and it is full of garbage.
                                                                              D:  I see.  This is in Lowell?
J:  Yeah, that is the fish ladder at (--)
C:  This is right down the street here.  Right down the road.
D:  Oh yeah!
C:  Pawtucket Falls.
J:  That probably the ladder that Sherm took you by. 
D:  Right.  Oh yeah!
J:  This is the viewing window here [D:  right] where there is suppose to be somebody sitting 
inside there.  There is a wave going down in there and sitting in a chair, or whatever.  [D:  
Umhm]  And the salmon has got to come through this little passageway here, [D:  Umhm] and of
course they can count them as they come through.  So they know whether the thing is 
progressing or not.  And that is the uh, the entrance to the uh, [D:  umhm] the exit I guess to the 
fish ladder on the Merrimack River side leading to the fish ladder, coming from like Concord.  
[D:  Right]  That is all the garbage and stuff.  Rubber tires and rims and everything else piled up 
against the fish ladder that nobody cleans.  [D:  Umhm]  And of course you can't, how can a 
salmon or anything come through there [D:  Sure, yeah] with that thing all blocked up like that.  
D:  Hm.  But this is suppose to be functioning now?  
J:  Oh sure!
C:  Well the state has spent millions of dollars to build this fish ladder [D:  yeah] for the 
restoration of the Atlantic Salmon.
D:  Umhm.
J:  It is operational.  It is (--)
C:  Now the salmon go through the Lawrence damn and they come up here to the hydro plant 
and they cannot go any further, because of the fish ladder looking like that.  [D:  Hm]  So why 
spend all that money?
J:  And not to maintain it.  
D:  Yeah, absolutely!
J:  And not have someone there.  [D:  Sure]  And the salmon come up and they cannot get 
through.  So it is like a big holding tank there where they can kind of rest before they make the 
last run up into the river to get back to Concord, or back to New Hampshire where their natural 
instinct is to go to lay their eggs, or spawn.  So they are held up in this big pool of water there by 
the fish ladder.  The kids are standing there with big rocks and I can see the salmon in this pool.  
And they are dropping big rocks on the salmon.  And if they hit one, of course the salmon comes 
up to the top and then they climb down and they pick it up.  [D:  Umhm]  Which is uh, you 
know, if the thing was opened they could go right through.  Well then their would be no danger 
of uh, [D:  right] of getting trapped there, but it is just really a dead, a death trap for, for the 
salmon, you know?  
D:  Sure!
C:  So I called Dick Cronin.  Now he is the director of Fish and Game here.  And he was going to
send someone down to look this over.  And you know, we were going to go with him and try to 
straighten this out, but we never got any response.  [D:  hm]  So now we are going to write to 
Concord, New Hampshire where the salmon are introduced [D:  umhm] to show them what is 
happening.  You know, I mean their efforts are being wasted.
D:  Sure, absolutely!  Yeah.
C:  Cause it is a shame.
D:  Oh yes, that is disgraceful.  Hm.
J:  Yeah, it seems hard to believe they could spend a million dollars on a fish ladder and then just 
leave it [D:  hmhm] abandoned like that, you know? 
D:  Yeah, it is a total waste.
J:  But the (--)
C:  See, we more to fish, you know.  We like to go up and down the river and see all of these 
things and report things.  If you only could report it to people who would do something about it, 
but it seems like no matter what you do you know, there is never a response.  There is never any 
action taken to solve the problems.  And you kind of say, "well," like everyone else, "well the 
heck with it."  "Let someone else worry about it."  But this is why things do not get done.  You 
know, we try.  We have done a lot of work up at the lake up here and we can see the results now, 
you know.  We can see fish there that were not there before, because we did thin down all of 
those bluegills that were eating eggs from all of the other fish even though it took us three years. 
We had a good time doing it too, [D:  yeah, yeah] you know.  But still (--)
D:  Does the uh, the Fly Fishermen's Group have any kind of a (--)
C:  We had a contest.  The first year we had a contest, a bluegill contest.
J:  To try and clean the pan fish out. 
D:  Oh yeah!
C:  And that helped, you know, but that was only that one time.
D:  Umhm.
J:  In one day we took out five hundred and forty pounds, or four hundred and forty pounds of, of
junk fish.  [D:  Umhm]  Releasing the bass and pickerel and all of the good fish, but keeping the 
junk, junk fish.  We filled up an oil barrell.
C:  We had, we had a permit.  You know, we, him and I had a permit.  We were working with the 
state [D:  Umhm] and we were able to seine some of the bluegills out.  [D:  Oh yeah!]  You 
know, to get the bulk of them out.  [D:  Umhm]  But the following year they had a new um, 
biologist there.  He would not issue any permits.  So now we had to take them out one at a time, 
[D:  Right] which we did too, you know.  I think it was a total of, it was over seven thousand.
J:  Oh we took out more than that since we have been fishing.  Christ it would be forty uh, forty 
thousand or so.
D:  Are there other fishermen's groups in the Lowell area?
C:  This was it.  [D:  Yeah]
J:  [Laughs]  [D:  You two]
C:  But we were there constantly.  [D:  Yeah]  We were there, you know, mornings.  We would 
get out in the water with a bucket tied to us and we just kept pulling them in and pulling them in 
and pulling them in, you know.  We really for three years spent the whole summers doing that.  
[D:  Umhm]
J:  But then all our efforts, all of our efforts trying to save the baby bass, when the bass around 
the nets are spawning, bass fisherman comes along, hooks on to the female bass full of eggs, 
pulls her out of the water, puts it in his boat and drives off.  [D:  Umhm]  So what the hell good 
are all of our efforts.  It is you know, one fighting again another, you know?  [D:  Umhm, umhm]
So we kind of got discouraged and left the idea, but we did, we did help though for what we did. 
But it is things like this that are uh, you know, that are bad.  When one state is spending so much 
money trying to uh, build up the salmon program and then the other state is just uh, you know, 
working against them it is, it is not right.  [D:  Umhm]  And the salmon will come back.  They 
will uh, they will make a showing in the river, because every year the river is getting cleaner and 
cleaner.  There is four or five sewers down below here now that they have plugged up and they 
have tied into Duck Island and different places.  And they have sealed up the pipes.  But like I 
say, we have three right here within a quarter of a mile of one another that raw sewerage is still 
coming out from [D:  um] houses and homes, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  And you can see it, and 
they are all visible.  You know, if you just know where they are, look for them, you can see them.
D:  Right, right.  Well the river is a magnificant resource and I agree with you.  I think in the 
future people, more and more people realize that and pitch in the way you have too.  
C:  But we are alone, you know.  I mean we work.  It is just him and I.  What can two people do 
[D:  yeah] to clean up a big river.
J:  We had lamper eels come up here the last few years from the ocean, lamper eels.  I don't know
if you don't know what that is or not.  [D:  Yes I do, yeah]  It is an eel with a funny mouth, a 
suction, [D:  umhm] which ain't good for anything, but they uh, they have been up here this year 
as far as the Pawtucket Falls there, the fish ladder.  We have had shad, big shad up here to the 
Pawtucket Falls, to the fish ladder.  And we have had herring up here at the fish ladder.  And 
some of the herring could not get through on account of uh, debris and everything else and they 
tried to go through the wire mesh and they got half way through and they could not push their 
bodies through.  And they tried to back up and of course the gills got hooked on to the mesh [D:  
right] like a gill net [D:  sure]  And the day, a week before, a couple of weeks before this I took 
pictures too and I guess they are at work, all the herring are dead on this, on this wire here.  [D:  
Oh yeah]  You know?  And which was, there is no need for that.  There should have been enough
water in that thing and somebody there to maintain it, or to open the gates up to let them through,
you know?  [D:  Umhm]  
     So we have four types of fish from the ocean this year and maybe previous years too that 
come up here.  Lamprey eels, herring, and shad and the salmon.  [D:  Umhm]  And some of the 
salmon are big.
D:  Yeah!  Well that is a good, well with the exception of the eel it is a good sign that those fish 
are coming up.
J:  Yeah.  Well you cannot stop the lampreys.  That is, that is nature.  [D:  Umhm]  That is part of,
you know, [D:  umhm, umhm], but (--)
C:  Well they, I am sure they have their function too.  [D:  Sure!]  You know, they do some good 
in the river, somewhere.  [D:  Umhm]  
J:  They put the salmon in at what six inches, seven inches, eight inches, or something like that?  
[C:  Umhm, umhm]  And they fight their way from New Hampshire all the way down the 
Merrimack to the ocean.  They spend three years in the ocean and they come back after three 
years and they weigh eight pounds, ten pounds, twelve pounds, depending upon how they feed 
out there.  But in three years it is an awful lot of weight to put on.  [D:  Absolutely]  And of 
course each year they release a load of fish, so each year there is a load coming back.  [D:  Yup]
C:  But the, but the, the mortality rate is very high, because what were they saying?  Four 
thousand, out of four thousand fish you won't even get a dozen back.  Not even a dozen.  And 
this year I think they counted thirty one, [J:  but if these] which is a good number.
J:  But if this thirty-one could get through and get back through this mess and get back to 
Concord and spawn, lay their thousands and thousands of eggs, [D:  umhm] which maybe would 
reproduce and help along with what they are stocking, eventually the thing would kind of 
snowball and take over, you know.  And that is what I guess their idea is, but there is just an 
awful lot of obstacles in the way to (--)  
D:  Right.
J:  But this is, this is crazy.  This is just, this is only neglect.  [D:  Umhm]  This is a simple thing 
just to clean, to have somebody there to clean it out.  [D:  Right]  You know.  [D:  Sure, sure]  
But nobody knows it.  [D:  Umhm]  So that is why we are going to send this letter to Concord to 
the Fish and Game and see if uh, you know, if they will do anything about it.  
D:  Well absolutely.  It seems like the right thing to do all right.  
J:  Something like this, they don't know whether the State owns the ladder, whether the State 
should clean it, or whether Locks and Canals should clean it, or should the City of Lowell clean 
it.  
D:  Umhm.
J:  You know, no, you clean it.  No, well you own the canal, or you own the dam, or you clean it. 
No, well State takes it. 
C:  They pass the buck.  [D:  Yeah]  [J:  You know?]  In that way it never gets solved.
D:  [Long pause]  There is something else I wanted to ask you about.  In most places that I have 
ever lived, or been familiar with, or like neighborhood names, or sort of local names for bodies 
of water too.  Someone the other day I was talking to said, I was saying the same thing, he said, 
"oh, you mean like the Bunt" on the Merrimack.  Is that a term that you are familiar with?  
C:  The "Bunt?"
D:  [Spells B-U-N-T]  Yeah.
J:  The "Bunt?"  No.
D:  I asked him about that and he said, "oh, that was the big bend uh, in the river as it goes 
through uh, Lowell."  Are there names for points, or fishing holes, or bends in the river that you 
would use?
C:  Gee, I don't remember ever hearing that.  [D:  Hm]
J:  The "Race."  There is a, where that uh, hydro plant is down there, there is one part of water 
there along the rocks which they call the "Stonies."  There is one little part that my father 
referred to as the "Race", cause the water raced through there so quick they nick, they named it 
the "Race".  But a lot of these names are names that guys gave them themselves, or you know?
D:  Yeah, yeah.  
J:  And if you were not in that particular area, or at that particular group or something you 
wouldn't know these names unless it was right in your, you know, your particular area [D:  
umhm].
C:  Well maybe the same place will be called another name by another group, [D:  Umhm, sure] 
but I never heard the "Bunt".
D:  Yeah.  Well I will have to see what I can find out about that.  [J:  No]  Think of any other 
names for places?  Maybe places you have fished, or (--)
J:  No, along the river, no.  
C:  No.  We have fished the mouth of Beaver Brook, but that is what they call that.  [D:  Yeah]  It
is the mouth of Beaver Brook, you know, where the brook empties.  [D:  Umhm]
J:  And "Golden Pond" where I was telling you where the goldfish hang out there.  [D:  Yeah]  It 
is not a, it is no "Golden Pond".  We call it "Golden Pond" because the water is all yellow from 
the crap that is coming out of the sewer pipe.  [All laugh]  So.
C:  Well we call it that too, because that is where we got the goldfish.
J:  And we did not (--)  [D:  yeah]  And people were saying, "well where are you going?"  We did
not want to tell them down by the sewer pipe, so we would say we are going down to "Golden 
Pond", you know?  [All laugh]
C:  But that is, that is only, you know we know that.  [D:  Right]
Like if I, if we were going out and I would say to Gail, "well we are going to "Golden Pond" if 
you want us."  Well she knows where that is.
J:  Like Gail, like she was saying, it is full of goldfish there so, and the color of the water, we call
it "Golden Pond."  
D:  That is a real private sort of a name for a place then.
C:  Yeah, yeah.
D:  What about the channel by Tyngsboro Island?  Is that known by any particular term?  
J:  No, but where the Vesper Country Club is [D:  yeah, yeah], no I never, I never heard it called 
anything uh, (--)
C:  That is where we fish for bass, off the big rocks. 
J:  Yeah, yeah.  Did Sherm give it a name, or know anything about it?
D:  No, no.  We did not talk about that.
J:  Oh you didn't?
D:  No.  Are there any deep holes in the river that have any kinds of names?
J:  I never, I never fished, I never fished the river that much from a boat.  [D:  Umhm]  I swam it 
all of my life, but uh, we never fished that much from a boat.  So we do not know of any real, 
real deep holes, but (--)
C:  I know where there is a couple of nice big flat rocks though.  
D:  Oh yeah.
J:  She hit one one time water skiing.  [D:  Oh jeese!]  She almost killed herself.
D:  Is that very common these days for people to water ski on the river?
C:  No anymore.  [D:  Yeah]  Not as much as it was then, because we belonged to the Lowell Ski 
Club [D:  Oh!] then.  So we use to ski way up to the Tyngsboro Bridge.  And there is a sandy 
beach there that we would ski, you know, take off from.  But there is a couple of big submerged 
flat rocks there that the motor hit, you know,  [D:  um, umhm] but too late for me to (--)  Well I 
did swerve around it, but when I did they were long enough that I hit them anyway.  [D:  Wow!]  
And the skis stayed on the rocks and I went flying and hit another rock.
D:  God!
J:  The Swain's Pond here where we caught the turtle, Swain's Brook where we were catching the
turtle there and it is full of carp too in North Chelmsford, they are building a park down in there 
now, right along the river.  Big park.  Three ball fields and they are suppose to have concession 
stands and runways for the joggers or something.  And they are putting in a tremendous, 
tremendous boat ramp.  So I think in the next year or two there will be a lot of activity up in that 
area too, [D:  umhm] you know?
It is all being constructed now.  
D:  Oh, I wanted to ask you too, who is the best fisherman that you have ever heard of around 
here?
J:  Me.  [Laughs]  As far as what?  As far as fishing the river, or all around?
D:  All around I guess.
J:  I don't know, I don't know who to (--)
C:  I would have to say him!  [D:  Yeah]  I would say him, because all the guys that I know in the
club, half of those guys do not even fish.  Now we had a membership of a hundred and fifteen, 
[D:  umhm] and I think only a dozen of them or so fished.  They sit around and talk fishing, you 
know, or they go to Maine to fish, or you know they go up to the [Rangerly?] Lakes, or they go 
up to Lake Willerby.  Now you must be familiar with all of those places?
D:  Sure, oh yes, yes.
C:  But to fish the river or anyplace around here, they would not fish Lakeview.  They would fish
the Swannacook.  [D:  Umhm]  They are fly fishermen and trout fishermen.  But this guy fishes 
everything, you know.  [D:  Umhm]  He is not too great with a fly rod but, (--)
J:  Yeah, you take, you take some guys they only fish for one thing.  [D:  Right]  You know?  And
uh, they do not know nothing about carp.  They do not know nothing about hornpout.  They do 
not nothing about eels.  And uh, like she says, I have done, I have done a little bit of everything.  
If you want to go bass fishing, I can take you bass fishing.  If you want to go carp fishing, I can 
take you carp fishing.  And if you want to go for big hornpout down the river, I can take you 
down there and get big hornpout.  And if you wanted a turtle for a, for a cookout or something 
[D:  umhm] we could almost gaurantee that we would have a turtle within a day or two for you, 
forty pounds.  And there is very few guys you can go to and say, "hey, I want a forty pound turtle
tomorrow" and produce it, you know.  [D:  Umhm]  But like we talked about turtles cause she 
wanted a turtle and I guess the next day we went out (--)
C:  With my help you could get another forty pounder.  [D:  laughs]
J:  Yeah, that is what I am saying.  Because I spend a lot of time, I do not only fish.  But in the 
morning when I get up I love to be out.  So I spend a lot of time just riding.  [D:  Umhm]  
Checking brooks and streams and I stand there for hours.  And I see different things and I see 
these big turtles.  And then maybe the next day I will take her for a ride and sure enough we will 
stand there for awhile at certain times and "yup, there they are."  You know?  I took her one time 
there and she looked down and I don't know, you can probably describe it.  [Laughs]
C:  Which one?
J:  The monstrous turtle there when you looked like a pre (--)
C:  Oh, that was like a prehistoric animal that thing.  That was unreal, because his head was out 
of the water and he was walking and he was looking like this, you know?  The water was kind of 
low [D:  yeah] at that time.  And we found his cave.  So this one here climbed down the banking 
a little bit and when the turtle come out he snagged him in the leg and he was trying to pull him 
up.  Well the turtle was pulling him in.  I am holding on to him and that turtle was pulling both of
us down.  [J:  Laughs] 
D:  You were grabbing onto him with your hands?
J:  No, she grabbed the line.  No, you grabbed the line behind me.  Didn't you have the clothes 
line or something?  
C:  Umhm, yeah.  The line that was on the turtle we were both holding on to it and the turtle was 
pulling both of us in.
J:  Down the banking.  [D:  Woe!] 
C:  Digging in!
J:  He must, he must have been (--)
C:  Oh yeah, he was (--)  He was humungous!  Humungous turtle!
J:  He had paws on him big as your hand.  And I had him from the back.  I had him hooked by 
the tail.  So that gave him four legs free.  He was going that way see.  If I had him the other way 
around by the head, he would probably, we could have got him up quicker, but the way I had him
he had all of his claws, four legs dug into the mud there and he could go forward, see.  [Laughs]
C:  Now wasn't that line wrapped around you or something?  
J:  It was wrapped around my wrist.  And I could not get it off my wrist.  It was burning my 
wrist.  He was pulling me down, which you never do.  You never wrap a line for tuna fishing or 
any kind of fishing, shark fishing ever.  You never wrap a line around your wrist, or your fingers, 
or anything, you know, because if it is a big fish, or a big whatever, he can you know, cut your 
finger right off.  So anyway I could not, I could not get the line off my, my wrist I guess.  It was 
burning my wrist, cutting my wrist.  Then she came down behind me and grabbed the line to try 
to pull the line to give me some free line so I could untangle.  I finally got out of the mess 
anyways.  But we did get him up.  We did get him up on the banking and we looked at him and 
decided what should we do with him?  We did not know whether we should take him and just 
show him or what.  
C:  He was huge.
J:  So.  [Burps]
C:  He was, he was really big fat turtle. 
J:  So I grabbed him by the tail.  I guess I pulled him up a little further and I reached down.  I 
took my snagger off the side of his tail and [makes sounds] he went off.
D:  Yeah, that sounds like the right conclusion.  [Laughs]
J:  But also this turtle we cleaned out here was full of grapes, green grapes.  The vines that hang 
over the brooks and things, he was up there reaching in and eating the, eating the green, the 
green grapes off the vines.  And see these are things you learn about things.  If you catch them 
and clean them and you know.  Now there is very few guys, or very few women that you have 
talk to that caught a forty pound turtle.  [D:  Hm!]  It would not even interest them probably.  [D: 
Yeah]  You know.  But we have fun, we have fun doing it, you know.
D:  What is a typical day like when you go fishing?  
C:  Fun.  [Laughs]
D:  What time, what time would you start in the day?
C:  Depending on where we are going and what we are going for, [D:  umhm] you know, and 
where we are going.  We have got a nice secret place that we go to for big hornpout now.  Well 
we like to get out as early as we can and fish as long as we can, but you know, two families, 
there is always something to interfere with you know, whatever you are going to do.
J:  You cannot leave when you want.  The kids have got to go to school, or they have got to take 
them shopping, or (--)
C:  You know, we both work so it is usually a weekend affair, or (--)  But usually we try to leave 
as early as we can you know, and get set up and fish all day.  We fish until it gets dark.
D:  Take a lunch too?
C:  Sometimes we take a lunch, or we just run up and get something, you know, a hamburger or 
whatever and (--)
J:  We fish, we fish down in Haverhill because there is big hornpout and there is montrous fish, 
all kind of fish.  [C:  {Whispers}  Ssh, come on]  [D:  Laughs]  And uh, we were fishing there.  
And of course we go fishing, we are equipped.  We know what we are doing and we know what 
kind of fish are in there.  So we used the big sand spikes.  I do not know if you know what a sand
spike is.
D:  Is that what holds your rod you mean?
J:  Yeah.  [C:  Umhm]  We drive the sand spike in the ground and we put our rod in the sand 
spikes so if you get a big hit or a fish your rod is safe.  It is locked at that sand spike.  [D:  
Umhm]
So we were fishing there and we walked by this one guy fishing there and he has his little rod out
there and he has it on a little hock of a tree you know, [D:  umhm] a little limb of a tree.  And we 
walked by and we went and got set up and I said to her, I says, "oh, that rod is a, that is a 
gonner," you know.  And he is sitting up on the, up under the bridge there, maybe twenty-five or 
thirty feet from the rod.  He is just sitting there you know, looking down at it, you know.  So we 
looked over at him and I said, "oh, that rod, that has got to go."  I says, "oh," you know.  There is 
fish in that river that are what we call tide runners.  When a tide comes in there, they come in 
with the tide and they feed as the tide and the water is turning over all of the little crabs, or 
crawfish, or uncovering dirt from the bottom.  The fish are there feeding and as the tide changes 
and goes out they come back down with the tide.  So you call them tide runners.  They come in 
and out with the tide.  So I told her three times I guess.  I says, "oh, that rod, geeze that rod is 
going to go," you know?  So I am watching our rods there, you know.  I guess he is getting a 
couple of hits, or whatever and she yells out, "it is going, it is going, it is going!  [C:  Laughs]  
You know?  And I look out and the guy is running down the banking, runs into the water.  This is
only about two weeks ago.  [C:  Yeah]  Two weeks ago.  He runs into the water like this and she 
is saying "it is going, it is going!"  And the guy runs out maybe like from here to the stove over 
there and he makes one grab for the rod and he just touches the end of it and he misses it.  [D:  
Laughing]  You know?  He comes walking out of the water you know, long face you know and I 
says to him, I says, "you know you went that far, one dive."  Me you know, of course being an 
excellent swimmer and everything else I would have made it.  You know that rod would not have
gotten away from me.  I have already jumped in a couple of times on different occasions for rods
and they never got away from me.  And I jumped in a place where these turtle are, you know?  
[D:  Yeah]  I put my rod down against a tree to go to help her, or do something and I walked 
away and a rod jumped out of the tree and went in.  I jumped up on the, on the wall with my 
sunglasses on, [C:  a cigarette and a hat and a sandwich] a cigarette in my mouth and a peanut, 
and a what was it?  A tuna?  [C:  A sandwich]  A tuna sandwich?  [D:  Laughing]
C:  Of whatever it was.  
J:  A tuna sandwich.  And I jumped up on the wall and I, [C:  clothes and all] and I, and I dove, 
and I dove in [D:  laughing] and I dove right on top of the rod and I grabbed it as I was going 
under.  And I pulled that sucker out and I walked back to shore and climbed back on the wall.  
And after I realized (--)  
C:  All like this [snaps fingers].  I looked at him one second and the next second he was in.  [D:  
laughing]  And I hollered out, because I did not know how deep it was.
J:  My cigarette is floating out there, my sandwich is floating.  The turtles are eating, the little 
turtles are eating my sandwich. And uh, I got the fish on anyways.  I got back with the fish on it, 
played them a little while and I finally lost him anyways.  So I put the rod back in the holder and 
tried to dry off a little bit.  And cigarettes are all wet.  And she says after about a half an hour or 
so she says, "you know," she says, "you lost your sunglasses."  I just, she just bought me the 
sunglasses.  Fifteen dollars.  The Polaroid that you can see through the water.  [D:  right]  And I 
loved them you know?  I said, "I'll be a son of a gun."  So I go to the car, get my face mask, back
in again.  [Both laughs]  But the second time I know I wasn't thinking about the turtles in there.  I
had four or five turtles on a few days before you know, and they are all monstrous things.  So the
next time I go in I am thinking now, I know.  I says, "jesus, what if I dive in there and one of 
those god damn turtle, all of those turtles are there, you know?  [Both laugh]  So of course I put 
the snorkel, the gear on there and I went underwater and I am looking for this, the glasses.  And 
all of, you know, I am looking, I am looking this way too you know, making sure nothing is 
coming at me.  [Laughing]  And sure enough there is the sunglasses on the bottom and I grabbed 
them and back out again anyways, but (--)
C:  Oh yeah.  But that guy lost his rod.  [D:  yeah]  He lost it.  And he stood there for the rest of 
the afternoon trying to throw hooks out to snag it, to (--)
J:  Well we went down.  I went down with a couple of uh, with a drop line you know.  I threw a 
drop line out, the kind you throw by hand with a sinker and a hook.  And I threw that out there, I 
don't know, fifteen, twenty times I guess to see if I could hook it, you know.  Figured if the fish 
are going to, the rod is going to get caught in a rock or something, it is only going to go so far, 
but we tried and tried and we could not uh, we could not find it.  But it was funny.  I says, "oh 
that rod is going to go."  "That rod is going to go."  
C:  Well they go fishing for big big fish with little toy rods you know.  [D:  Umhm]  I mean (--)
D:  Are there any sturgeons in the river anymore?
J:  Yeah, not, not this end.  [D:  Umhm]  Up to the Lawrerence Dam [D:  oh yeah] there is reports
of sturgeon up there.  They have seen one there a few years back.  And I don't know, somebody 
said it was four hundred pounds, three hundred pounds, a monstrous, a monstrous thing.  But (--)
D:  Have you ever seen any in the river?
J:  No, I have never seen one.  No.  And they are, they are restricted, or they are what do you call 
it?
D:  Protected.
J:  Protected, yeah.  [D:  Yeah, umhm]  Endangered specie, or you can't, can't, well you can fish 
for them I guess, so long as you release them or whatever, but.  What are, what are sturgeon 
famous for?
D:  The caviar you mean?
J:  Yeah.  A lot of guys do not even know that.
D:  Umhm.
J:  The best caviar in the world is from a sturgeon.  All fish eggs [word unclear] are considered 
caviar, but they are cheap, cheap imitation.  The real (--)
C:  How about a nice cup of coffee?
D:  Yeah, that sounds good!
J:  The real sturgeon is uh, the real caviar is sturgeon and a lot of fishermen do not even know 
that, you know.  [Ruffling of papers]
C:  I should have entered this in a contest.  They had a contest not too long ago in the Lowell 
Sun.
J:  Who is it?
C:  Timmy holding that fish. 
J:  Oh yeah!
C:  Just for the expression on his face, you know.
D:  That is a great photograph, yeah.
J:  I caught a carp in the lake and this is the state record that I found.  [D:  Hm]  The state record 
is thirty-two and a half pounds and mine weighed thirty-one and three quarter pounds.  
D:  Wow!  Boy that is some big fish.  [C:  Whose?]  [D:  Laughs]
J:  Well ours.  I caught, I hooked it and I gave her the rod, you know, and she reeled it in.  
D:  What did you do with the fish?
J:  We cooked it!  We had a, we had a cookout here you know, and we invited all the other guys, 
different club members over.  And the only one that really enjoyed it was a Jewish fellow.
D:  Oh yeah!
J:  You know?  [D:  yeah]  He, he liked it, but.  We all more or less liked it, but I am not a fish 
eater anyways.  [D:  Oh yeah]  I would not care if I never, never ate a fish you know, except a 
nice piece of haddock, or clams, or lobster some.  But to eat fresh water fish, her and I we are not
fish eaters, you know?  The last few times we have been going trout fishing we would catch nice 
big rainbows, we have been letting them go, you know.  [D:  Yeah]  And the carp, I keep all of 
the carp out of the river cause I bury those in my garden.  [D:  Oh yeah!]  And oh they make 
beautiful fertilizer.  My front lawn was nothing but sand.  My house is, my whole house is built 
like on a sand bank and a sand pile, you know.  There is only about two or three inches of top 
soil.  And I buried all these carp and all of those bluegills you have seen there in the pictures, I 
buried all of those in that, my front lawn or the little area that I made a garden.  And even with 
the sand I got tomatoes this big.  I got cucumbers that big.  My pepper plants are beautiful in 
sand, but of course [D:  umhm, rich with all of that, yeah, yeah] the natural fertilizer, you know?  
And of course when you bury fish like that it is not diluted like the fertilizer you buy, it is 
natural, you know.  [D:  Right]  Like the Indians did years ago, one fish, one corn, one fish, one 
corn, you know.  They knew, they knew what they were doing, you know.  
D:  Right, right.  I was wondering if you could show me on the map where some of these places 
are?  Like uh, "Catshole", the "Stonies" and the "Race".
J:  No.  Well "Cathole" that has, that has nothing to do with the river.  That is (--)
D:  That was the swimming hole though?  
J:  Yeah, that was the swimming hole.  It was Beaver Brook.  [D: Oh yeah]  Beaver Brook that 
runs into uh, you would not be interested in that, that is uh, that is New Hampshire anyways 
Claire, ain't it?
C:  Well Beaver Brook runs (--)  [Tape fades out]
TAPE TWO SIDE ONE ENDS
TAPE TWO SIDE TWO BEGINS
J:  Get your name in the paper they would not do these things, but you put a five hundred dollar 
prize, or a thousand dollar prize up, now right away you get cheaters, you know?  And a lot of 
times we joined these clubs, these things, and we hate to join them because we figure they are 
not run, they are not run legit.  [D:  Umhm]  And the only way to run a real fishing contest for 
money is a tag fish [D:  umhm] like New Hampshire does.  Tag your fish a week or two before.  
Have the State go in, net the fish or catch them, or whatever and tag them with certain tags.  Now
there is no cheating there.  [D:  Umhm]  And of course they log the tags.  And if you catch his tag
fish he is worth a hundred, or two thousand, or you know, [D:  yeah] that is the only way to run a
contest and run it legit, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  Unless you had uh, unless you had a referee in 
every boat and you cannot do that, because you know it ain't worth it.  We only have a small 
contest.  
D:  Right.  Let's see.  [Ruffling of papers]
J:  Is this what they call that uh (--)
D:  Yeah.  The fellow the other day said this big bend was called the "Bunt".  Now I, I do not 
know how many people would refer to it that way.
J:  Well that is the name, that is probably just the name that you know, his particular group of that
area gave him, gave it.
C:  Oh, that is uh, that over at the university.
D:  Yeah.
J:  Yeah.
C:  Saint Joseph's.
D:  Now where was the swimming hole that you called "Little Arizona"?
C:  Right under the Pawtucket Bridge.
J:  Well it would be right, it would be right in this area here.  Saint Joseph's Hospital [D:  yeah].  
[Reviewing pictures or map]
D:  Is this the Pawtucket Bridge here?  This one here?  Well this is the, this is the School Street 
Bridge here, [C:  makes comment but cannot transcribe] upstream.  This is, and this is the way to
your house out here.  So this would be it then, here.  [Sounds of coffee perculating]
C:  Okay.  That would have to be it.  That would have to be the Pawtucket Bridge.  Do you think 
they would mark that?
D:  Any particular place, or just [unclear]?
C:  Okay.  Pawtucket Street right here.  Right under the bridge, right directly under the, the road.
D:  Right in the middle of the river there.  Uh huh.
C:  That is what you call "Little Arizona".  Right under that.
D:  Hm.  How come it was called that?  Any idea?
C:  Again, maybe their group.  
D:  Umhm.
J:  You should ask your father why, [C:  yeah] why they gave it that name, you know? 
D:  Hm.  And the "Stonies" are where?
J:  Well it is the same area, but down a little further.  This is (--)  Where, where is the School 
Street Bridge?  That, that is School Street Bridge.  
D:  Yeah, like the french school is up here in this corner I think, right in there.  
C:  The french school?
D:  The uh, Franco American School I think it is called.
C:  The Franco American is the Pawtucket.
D:  Isn't that up in here?  This is (--)  Again this is the, [J:  School Street uh (--)]  this is the most 
direct way to your house.  This is the way I came tonight.
C:  Okay.  This says here, it says Clinton Avenue right?  That is the Pawtucket Bridge here then.
D:  Oh that one, okay.
C:  Not this one, this one.  [Must be going over a map]  
J:  I cannot, I cannot even [C:  there is School Street] picture School Street Bridge.  There is no 
School Street Bridge going over the river.
D:  Well this is School Street here.
J:  Yeah, but it (--)  Yeah, oh yeah, okay.  Yeah, but that ends.
C:  But they did not call it, but they do not call is School Street Bridge, they call it Pawtucket 
Bridge.
D:  Oh okay.
J:  Okay this is the Pawtucket Bridge here.  [D:  Okay]  School Street ends here.  [D:  Yeah]
C:  Because there is Orford Street.  This is Pawtucket Bridge.
J:  Now see the canal here where I, where we swam is up in here.  That is where the Locks and 
Canals is.  It should be right, right there.  
D:  Right in here?
J:  Uh, no.  School Street, Broadway.  School Street (--)  You know the Locks and Canals have 
got to be right, right in here.
C:  That is Weston Avenue right here.
J:  Where is Broadway Street?  That has got to be Broadway here.  Okay, there is the Pawtucket 
right here.
C:  Yeah, there is Broadway right here.
J:  There is Broadway here.
D:  Oh there are the Locks right there.
J:  Yeah, there are the Locks right there.  
D:  So that railroad bridge is, well it is right here.  
J:  Yeah.  Right there.  Red, Red Bridge [D:  Right] that we use to dive off into the, into the canal.
[D:  Umhm]  And that would take us all the way down and we would swim under the uh, under 
the buildings and we would come out into the Concord, the Concord River here.  
C:  This is Textile Bridge.  [J:  Huh?]  This is Textile Bridge.
J:  Yeah, Textile and this is uh, Pawtucket.
C:  Pawtucket.
D:  Oh yeah.
J:  And this is Aiken, Aiken Street here.  [D:  Right]  [C:  Umhm]  And this is the new (--)
C:  That is Bridge Street.  [J:  Bridge Street and then the]  And there is Hunts Falls.  
J:  Hunts Falls, yeah.  [D:  Hm, umhm]  But see from, from the Locks and Canals.
C:  What he needs on this map is those little arrows like you have at work.  That would be a big 
help to him.  [J:  Yeah]
D:  Showing what, the direction of the current in the canals you mean?
C:  No, but something you can write on.  You know, they are little florescent arrows.
D:  Oh yes, I know what you mean.
J:  The, you know, the little florescent arrows you can put one here and then you can take them 
off, you know, or you can (--)
D:  Oh I have got more maps.  There is no problem just writing on this.  
J:  Yeah, okay.  There is the Locks and Canals.  We use to swim in the canal.  We use to dive off 
Broadway Bridge [D:  umhm] into the canal.  Swim down the canal.  Then we would dive off 
Red Bridge, the railroad tracks there, we would dive off this bridge and we would swim down 
the canal all the way down through.  And this comes down through Lowell here.  [D:  Umhm]  
And it goes under roads and channels and canals and we would swim through these.  And we 
would come out down through here into the Concord River.  And then we would get up here at 
uh, where the [Kline?] Memorial is and then walk back, walk back to, to the uh, to Broadway 
Street.  
D:  By what memorial?
J:  The uh, what was that?  What, was the Kline, is that what they call the Kline Memorial, the 
auditorium?
C:  The Lowell Memorial Auditorium.
J:  Well where did I get Kline Memorial from? 
C:  That is maybe from Connecticut.
J:  Kline Memorial.  [D:  Hm]  See I lived in Connecticut for twenty-three years.  [D:  Oh yeah]  
And I get my buildings in Connecticut mixed up with, with the buildings, with buildings in 
Lowell.  [laughs]
C:  There is no Kline here.
J:  Okay.  The uh, (--)
D:  So where is the "Stonies" you were talking about before?
J:  Well this whole, this whole rough water in here, all of this, all of this jaggered, all of this 
rough water here is all stones by the university.  [D:  Umhm]  And that whole thing I guess they 
referred to as the "Stony".  And one of the fast bodies of water here, one of the fast channels (--)
D:  Between the Pawtucket Bridge and the uh, what was the name of this?  The Textile Bridge?
C:  Textile.
J:  The Textile Bridge, yeah.  Well someplace in there there is one fast body of water that the 
water is always running even when the river is low [D:  umhm] that they call the uh, the "Race".  
[D:  Oh yeah]  But this whole part here they referred to as the "Stony", [D:  umhm] because there
is nothing but stones, you know?  And you can probably see it standing from one of the bridges 
there huh? 
D:  Right.  Now where is the first brook and the second brook?  Is that anything that is on the 
map here? 
J:  Well I don't think uh, I don't think it would be on.  I think they are probably too small.
D:  Where would they be though?
J:  Let's see now.  Where the hell uh (--)
C:  Wait a minute.  Look where the Pawtucket Bridge is.
D:  Yeah, that is right here.
J:  Pawtucket Bridge.
C:  It is between the Pawtucket Bridge and uh, it would be on the Varnum Avenue side.
J:  What the hell is this here?  This body of water?  Is that, oh that is the canal.
D:  That is the Pawtucket canal, yeah.
J:  That is, that is the canal.  
C:  That would be up this way more.
J:  No, it would be up in here, wouldn't it?
C:  Oh yeah, Lowell General.  [Still reviewing map]
J:  Okay.  These two little, see these two little things here?  [C:  Right here]  Huh?
C:  This and that.
J:  Yeah, that is it.
D:  Oh yeah!  It is south of the Lowell General Hospital on the northern shore.  [C:  Umhm, 
umhm]
J:  Now this, this one brook runs down and dumps out here, but this other one, this little fork 
here, [D:  umhm] it, I do not know, it don't show on the map here.  It looks like it runs down 
along the road, [D:  umhm] or in a culvert or a pipe [D: right] and then comes out, then comes 
out here.  [D:  Umhm]  And if you know, if you were with me, or if you took a ride or something,
I could point these out a lot better to you, but that is, that is it.
C:  Yeah, because see, here is the falls right here.
D:  So you do not, you do not know which is the first and which is the second?  They are called 
first and second [word unclear]?
J:  Well coming, coming from Lowell, coming from Lowell I imagine, I imagine the first one 
would be first brook.  [C:  Right]  You would not be going into Lowell and calling it first, you 
would be coming [D:  okay].   Just my rough guess I would say this if first and this is second.
D:  Yeah.  The first one is the more easterly one then.   
J:  Yeah, yeah.  But see, they (--)  Where the hell does this, where does this begin up here.  Uh, 
where is the, is the Lowell Voke up in here?  Lowell uh ?
D:  Yeah, yeah.  
J:  Yeah, it would have to, it would have to be.
D:  Well it is over here.
J:  Huh?  Lowell Voke.  Yeah, well this, this is where that little brook is I told you that Gail was 
saying that you go down a dip.  I says you and I stopped there one day and I, I fished for trout 
there, but it is all over grown now.  You can't even see it.  [C:  um]  This is the beginning.  This is
the beginning of that.  [D:  Um]  And the other one here, I do not know where the hell that 
begins.  Uh, (--)
D:  What is this called over here on the opposite bank?  Does that have a name?  Is that anything 
you are familiar with? 
J:  That has got to be Beaver (--)
C:  Okay now, you talking about Middlesex Street?
 
D:  Yeah.
C:  Well that has got to be something.  That is not Blackbrook, is it?
J:  What is this?  Is this wet here?  Is that table wet?  Oh sure.
D:  Oh that is all right.
C:  That could be (--)  This could be Blackbrook, which no longer exists.  
D:  Oh yeah!
C:  That has got to be Blackbrook, cause this is Middlesex Street right here.  And there is Druin 
Ave.  Yup, that is definitely (--)   
J:  What is this, what is this uh (--)
C:  Here is Marginal Street.
J:  Is there a railroad track running through there?   
D:  Umm, I do not see one.  Well, yes, right here.  [J:  Huh?]  Right there.  [Must be pointing on 
map]  Okay, that, that crosses.  Yeah, that crosses, that crosses Blackbrook.  
C:  So that is Blackbrook?  [J:  Yeah]  [D:  Oh yeah]  They filled that in though.  [D:  Umhm]  
There is a, there is car, there is three or four business here.
J:  It is filled uh, (--)
C:  We fished on this side.  Remember when I got that nice big pickerel right from under your 
nose that time?  [D:  laughs]
J:  Part of the brook is filled in and part ain't.  Now this part here, what part is filled in?  The 
other side of Middlesex Street.
C:  Well the river part (--)
J:  The river part is opened.
C:  Very little though.  [D:  Umhm]
J:  Yeah, this is open here, but this is all filled in now.  [D:  Oh yeah!]  Yeah, it is kind of a (--)
C:  It does not go across Middlesex.  So if, this here would be Middlesex right?  So it would go 
only as far as here.
J:  Yeah, that would be uh, you can mark that Black uh, [C:  Blackbrook] Blackbrook.
D:  Okay.  Now are these, is this Duck Island down here right from the Dracut boarder?
J:  Yeah, that would, yeah, that would have to be.  
D:  Do these other little islands have names too?
J:  Not that I know of.  [D: Yeah]  Just, just as uh, as Duck Island.  [D:  Umhm]  Of course there 
is a lot of other little brooks.  There is a lot of other little brooks below here too that run, that run 
into uh, the Merrimack.  But now you are getting down toward Methuen, [D:  right] Methuen 
way and uh, in Lawrence.  [D:  Umhm]  And we fished the Merrimack.  We fish it way down 
beyond, beyond us down in Haverhill [D:  umhm] where we get the big hornpout.  
D:  Umhm.  Now where did you grow up then?  Where was your (--)
J:  Where did I grow up?  I grew up on Marginal Street.
D:  And that is over, yeah right here.  [Must be pointing at map]
[J:  Huh?]  Right over here.
J:  That is it.  That is Marginal Street, yup.  So you see how close we were to the, to the river 
here.  [D:  Oh yeah, yeah]  You know?  We would walk down Marginal to Wilder Street and 
Wilder would take us right (--)  Is this Wilder here?  I cannot see.  It is upside down.  [D:  Wilder,
right]  Yeah.  We would walk down Wilder Street right to the, right to the river.
D:  Umhm.  What was your street Claire again?
C:  Clinton Ave.  East Meadow.
D:  Okay, you will have to help me find that.
C:  I started at Clinton Ave, which was right here by the, right here.  [Points on map]
D:  Okay, that is on the northern bank.
C:  Clinton Avenue.  
D:  You are very close to the river there too.
C:  Yeah, yeah.  And then East Meadow Road.  Where the heck is East Meadow?  East Meadow 
is just down here, but I do not (--)
J:  This light is awful here.  Jesus cripe I am telling you.
C:  It must be up here East Meadow.  Cause it is, it is heading back.
D:  Is it in Dracut or still in, in Lowell?
C:  It is Lowell.  Eight Avenue.  I do not think you will(--)  Here is East Meadow right here.
D:  Oh yes.  Yup.
C:  And that is just two minutes down the road.  [D:  Right]  And I have been here for 
twenty-five years and you know, a long time.
J:  But I am telling you boy, one day, one day it is going to be fascinating.  [D:  Umhm]  I do not 
know whether I will ever see it, but to me it is fascinating now.  [C:  Oh I am going (--)]  I love 
the river.  [D:  Umhm]  I could go down and spend the whole day down there, you know?  But in
years to come it is going to draw people that never had nothing to do with the river.  [D:  Right]  
Or did not want to fish the river.  It is going to draw them down there.  
C:  You could see we lived on opposites sides of the tracks.  [D:  Laughs]  
J:  And we are still, and we are still on opposite sides.  Things have not changed in forty years.  
D:  Good.  I am glad I brought that map along.  I helps me understand things a little better.  
J:  Yeah, I took this kid out two or three years ago there and I, we took a long ride all along the 
river.  And from Lawrence all the way to Tyngsboro Bridge, to the New Hampshire line and (--)
C:  We took him everywhere.  Up to North Chelmsford and everything, remember?
J:  He wanted, yeah, he wanted to know all of the inlets and all of the names of the brooks.  And 
some of the brooks uh, (--)
C:  Put that and you can take that tomorrow with you.
J:  Yeah I want to take that to work.  
D:  I have got some extras if you want.  
J:  Yeah, give me a couple if you, if you would like.  [D:  There you go]  We never heard uh, but I
don't know whether this kid was a college kid, or he was doing some sort of a what would you 
call it uh?
C:  He was doing research for the Historic Park. 
J:  Yeah, but then it seemed like it was some sort of a project that he had in school too.  Some 
sort of a, what the hell do you call these things when you have to do a survey?
C:  Like a term paper.
D:  Oh yeah!
J:  There is another name for it.  
D:  You mean like a thesis or something like that?
J:  Yeah, that is not the word I am thinking about either.  [D:  No]  
D:  Well if I turn up this fellow over work I will let you know.
C:  He had given us name, his card and everything you know?
J:  Black?  Black?
D:  Coffee, yeah.
J:  Is that right.  Uuuh!
D:  Always black.
C:  Oh really?
D:  Umhm.  I do not know why I got into that habit, but it stuck with me.
C:  Well can you have crackers and cheese?
D:  Well certainly.  Thanks.
C:  So did we help you at all, or?
D:  Yes indeed, yeah.  You have taught me a lot here tonight.  Tell me about the work that you 
both do now.  [Sound of spoons stirring coffee]
C:  What do you mean by work?  You mean our daily jobs?
D:  Yeah, yeah.
C:  Well Joe works for CTI.  He is a furnace technician.  
J:  Assistant.  
C:  I am trying to give you a promotion before you go to school.  [D:  Laughs]
J:  I am going to school in a month.  In a, a month.  For a month in, next week in Watertown to 
kind of further my education as far as furnaces.  And then I will probably be a furnance 
technician.  Right now I am helping a fellow that is a technician.  We work for CTI, Community 
Team Work.  We do work for the elderly [D:  Oh yes!] for like fuel assistance and people that 
need work done on their boiler, on their furnaces or boilers and cannot afford it and they are on 
fuel assistance.  [D:  Umhm]  We go and evaluate the trouble, or the problems and then we send 
dealers in to, to do the work.  And then we go back and inspect the work, make sure it was done 
and they do not charge us for a lot of things that they you know.  And if we are satisfied with 
what they did and they did do the work that they said, then we pay the bill.  [D:  Umhm]  More 
like an inspector type thing, you know?  And it is a good job.  And it is the state, state job.  It is a 
lot of benefits.  [D:  good]  First year a months vacation with pay, which you do not find too 
many places.  [D:  yeah]  All kinds of sick leave and comp time that you can build up.  [D:  
Umhm]  And the pay ain't that great, but the benefits and the Blue Cross and the Blue Shield and 
the dental is, you know, it all makes it worthwhile.  And then I have a company car too that I use,
[D:  wow] that they pay for and don't cost me a cent for gas or repairs.  So that is another you 
know.
D:  How about you Claire?
C:  I have two jobs.  [D:  Hm]  I am secretary/receptionist to a doctor and I am office manager 
for my son who owns a drywall business.  [D:  Hm]
J:  And uh, you ran out of coffee made.  I could have picked some up.  
C:  I did not go food shopping, you know?
J:  I cannot drink this coffee now without coffee made.  
C:  Well that is too bad.  
J:  I will try.
C:  So we keep busy.  [D:  Yeah]  You know my family has grown.  I have four married children 
with children.  So I have eight grandchildren and I have a daughter at home that is twenty.  
D:  Twenty?  Wow!
C:  I have a thirty-six year old son.  So whatever time we have we try to sneak off and go fishing,
[D:  umhm] you know?  We are not night clubers.  We are not uh, you know.
J:  There is nothing, there is nothing like the outdoors, you know?  Even your job, you are not 
near the water at all, but you are out.  [D:  Umhm]  You are not stuck in some office, some little 
you know?  As long as you are out.  And of course I love to be near the water and so does she.  
And even the fish ain't biting and we are not catching any fish, just to be there and you know.
D:  Tell me about this quarry diving that you did?  [C:  Please]  That sounds like an interesting 
chapter in your life.
C:  He will go brag and punk off.
J:  I do not want to punk.  [D:  Laughs]  I do not want, I do not want to punk off.
D:  Where was this?
J:  Milford, New Hampshire.  [D:  Umhm]  There is an old quarry there.  They dug granite for 
years and they dug down so deep they hit, they hit water.  And the quarry got full of, full of 
water.  Natural, you know, natural spring.  Ooh you saved, you saved enough for yourself!
C:  [Laughs]  Private little stock.
J:  Oh for crying out loud!  I knew if I squawked enough it would come out.
C:  You reserve [unclear].
J:  And the fellow that owned this place was Mr. Pease.  He owned the quarry and a lot of the 
land up there in New Hampshire.  So of course they stopped cutting stone, granite.  And one day 
he seen a lot of kids swimming in there and he decided well, let me uh, let me charge.  Let me 
put up a few diving boards, a few towers and a few things and I will charge people for you know,
in other words make a little money on the place.  So that is what he did.  So to lure the people up 
there he use to put on little diving exhibitions.  So people would come up and park in their cars 
and watch different guys dive off towers and different things.  [D:  Right, right]  And I guess 
there was five or six of us would do whatever your specialty was, you know.  And he would 
stand down below with the microphone and I would climb up in the tower.  I guess the tower was
forty, forty feet.  And it was an old rickity thing.  You know, the little board going out on it, but 
you got out there and it was a top of a mountain.  And when you stood up on this tower you 
could look down on the town of Milford, you know?  And from, standing on the tower and 
looking down into the granite, [phone rings] into the quarry with the sun blazing down in there it 
seemed like there was no end.  Do you know what I mean?  Like there was no bottom to the 
thing, you know?  [Laughs]  You could not tell where it began or where it ended.  And he would 
call over the loud speaker.  [C:  holding phone conversation in background]  "Joe Beausoleil 
from Lowell doing a swan dive off the forty foot tower," you know?  Of course everybody would
look up at you and Claire would be there with her, with her husband before she got divorced and 
I guess some of the kids at the time maybe.  
C:  And it was me that started all of the applause.  [D:  Laughs]
J:  Oh was that you that was applauding so loud?  And you would get up and you would do your 
thing, you know?  And then you would go up and do whatever, a couple of more things.  Then 
somebody else would announce somebody else and it was like a come on type thing.  And of 
course for this I got in free and uh, he had motels up there and a couple of times he let me stay 
there weekends free, or something you know?  And things like that.  But I guess everytime I got 
up there and did a dive she, she use to think I was trying to punk off.  And I guess I was.  You 
know, sixteen, seventeen or eighteen, or whatever.  No, I could not have been that old.  
C:  Yeah, your hair was black then.
J:  Well how old was I?  [D:  Laughs]  It was before I went into the service, wasn't it?  
C:  No.  It had to be when you came out.  
J:  No!  Huh?  
D:  Well how often would you do that?  Was this something you did for several years?
J:  All summer.
D:  Yeah, like every day?
J:  Well, weekends mostly, but lived in the water everyday.  
D:  Yeah.
J:  I was a lifeguard here at Lakeview for two years when I got out of the service.  
D:  Did uh (--)
C:  Of course he was in the Navy.
D:  Umhm, badge.
C:  Lucky we didn't have a troller liner in back of the boat.  [J:  laughing]  
J:  In the service we had a lot of these fellows that could not swim.  [D:  Umhm]  In order to get 
liberty or leave, weekend leave you have to pass your swimming test.  It was one of the, one of 
the one things they you know, you have to do.  
C:  Eat Dave.  Have a try.
D:  Yeah, yeah, I will.
J:  And some of these guys in the service, they just could not swim.  [D:  right]  And of course 
there are so many guys.  There is thousands and thousands of guys going through these 
swimming pools everyday and instructors calling your name off, you know.  And they call you 
know, "Joe Beausoleil, dive in, swim across" and you know.  And so you dive in and you swim 
across you know and they would mark your thing.  Okay!  You know and "John Burns, dive in, 
swim across!"  And he would dive in, [makes funny sounds].  You know, he could not swim, he 
would sink you know.  "Okay, be back tomorrow, everyday until you, no liberty for you until you
can swim across this pool."  Fifty feet or whatever.  One of the biggest training pools in the 
world, [name unclear] Island, indoor swimming pool.  So I got the bright idea.  I said for ten 
bucks, for ten bucks I will pass your test for you so you can get the liberty.  I guess I did it for my
buddy first.  Because nobody knew who the hell you were.  You just got in line and they would 
call your name off.  And of course whatever your name was you would be the one to dive in. [D: 
Umhm]  So I says, "come on Jimmy, when he calls your name I will dive in for you and I will 
fake it, you know?"  He says, "oh yeah, okay."  So Jimmy wanted to go home.  He wanted to 
have a weekend pass.  "Jimmy Burns!"  So I got up and I dived in.  I tried to, tried to fake it.  
Being, being a good swimmer it was hard to fake, you know.  So I finally made it across all right.
He says, "Okay, okay, okay."  "You are all set!"  And "Jimmy Burns, okay!"  So I got the bright 
idea if I did it for him, jeeze I could do it for, for a few other guys you know?  So I started to 
make ten bucks, ten bucks a swim.  [Laughs]  I use to pick up forty, fifty bucks.  I am saying to 
myself, "I hope these poor bastards never get bombed and they have got to swim, because sure 
the hell they are going to sink!"  [Laughs]
D:  Hm.  Were there ever any swimming competitions on the river, or races or anything like that?
J:  No.  Years ago there was a guy that, the cop there, what was his name?  
C:  Wren.  [J:  Wren]  Mike Wren.
J:  Mike Wren.  He was a Lowell cop.  What did he do lose both arms, or both legs or something?
C:  Both legs!
J:  Both legs.
C:  God no, he had no legs or no arms.  Did he?  No legs, no legs.  They tied him to a chair and 
he swam across the river.  
J:  And then, then a few times I guess he pulled a, he pulled a boat of a load of people.  They tied 
a rope on him and he swam across the river with no legs pulling a, pulling a load of people in a 
boat.
D:  Why would they tie him to a chair?
C:  I do not know.  That was way before our time though, wasn't it?  We were just kids when that 
happened.  I remember standing there you know, to see him, but I never knew why they tied him 
to a chair.  If that helped him for balance or what, I do not know.  
J:  Then they had another, another guy too I guess years ago before our time.  He use to dive off. 
They would cut a hole in the ice downtown.  I guess this was on Bridge Street, Bridge Street 
bridge.  He got off on the river on the ice and cut a hole in the ice.  And they cut another hole 
here.  One of these polar bear type things you know?  [D:  Oh yeah!]  He would dive in this hole 
here and all the people on the bridge, it was a Sunday afternoon type thing that everybody 
gathered around.  And they would dive into this hole and swim under the ice.  And you could see 
the light from the other hole, you know?  [D:  yeah, yeah]  And they would come up you know, 
and get up on the ice.  And everybody would applaud, you know?  And it was a great, great 
thing.  And I do not know how the hell you would ever look into this now, but so anyways one 
day they dug a hole here and they dug this other hole here.  And not allowing for different times 
of the year, the current was strong this particular Sunday.  [D:  Umhm]  He dove in here and he 
got swept right across.  He could not grab, [D:  right] he could not get up.  He could not grab 
nothing.  [D:  Right]  The current was too strong.  [D:  Right]  And um, [D:  they lost him] he 
was gone.  They picked him up I guess uh, down in Lawrence someplace.  But that is a story that
my father told me and it seemed like it was true, but as far as ever verifying it, I never uh, I never
heard anyone else talk about it.  But you would have to meet a real old timer I guess.  [D:  Right]
Even older than Claire.
C:  My father could tell you some stories, cause he grew up on the river.  
J:  I wonder if I uh, (--)  Jeeze, next time we go down there let me, remind me to talk to him 
about this, see if he remembers that. 
D:  Sure.  Is there a Polar Bear Club down here?
C:  Boston.
D:  Yeah.
J:  Boston.
C:  That is the only one I know of.  Now do you live in Washington?
D:  Umhm.  I just moved there in June.  I worked in Florida for three years and I took the job at 
the library and came up.
J:  Of course sometimes when I take a fish and I catch more fish than her it feels like I belong to 
a Polar Bear Club.  She is so god damn cold.  [D:  Laughs] 
C:  That is not too often. 
J:  [Laughing with "D"]  No it ain't.
C:  It used to be.  When you first started taking me fishing, yeah.  Like I said, do remember when
you used to be number one?  [D:  Laughs]
J:  She is the type that, she has got it all in her.  All you can do it bring it out.  I mean, do you 
know what I mean?  Once you show her one thing, or she does it, that is it, [D:  umhm] you 
know?  It is not a,(--)  But she is fun, she is fun to fish with too.  She is good, you know.  You do 
not have to, you do not have to fuss with her.  [D:  Umhm]  She does her own thing.  You do not 
have to throw a line out for her, or poles, or rods.  Or if you want to pick clams and cut them 
open and use them as bait, she cuts the clams, she opens them up and (--)
C:  I am not squeamish about any of that stuff.  [D:  Yeah, yeah]  And I cannot stand fishing with 
a woman or even some men that cannot put their worms on or take their fish off, you know.  If 
they say, "oh, I cannot touch that", then they should not be fishing, [D:  Umhm] you know.
J:  We were fishing at the lake at one time and they were catching hornpout there, different guys. 
And of course hornpout you know, they have got the horns on the sides [D:  sure, right] and 
horns in the back. Like anything else, if you know what you are doing you know how to handle 
them, there is no problem.  And she knows how to handle them.  The guys were bringing the fish 
to her [laughing] to take off the line.
D:  Well that is a tribute I would say.  
J:  Yeah!  I said, "I do not believe this."
D:  Is there any mammals in the river like muskrats or beavers, or things like that?
J:  Oh yeah.  Yup.  [C:  Umhm]  You find them, you find them everywhere.
D:  Like, like what would you see?
C:  Both.  There is muskrats.  There are, and there are rats and there is, I do not know about 
beaver.
J:  The water rats.  There is beavers.  Sure, we found beavers dead along the, along the bank up 
there.
C:  Yeah, but they are usually, they go into the little inlets, you know?
J:  Washed down from brooks.  A beaver cannot build a dam in the river.  [D:  Right]  But what 
he will do is he will go up in the brooks and dam off the little brooks, the little inlets or marsh 
land or whatever, you know?  [D:  Umhm]  And of course crossing over he gets hit by a car 
sometime and tumbles off into the brook and then he is washed in the river.  We find them along 
the road banks, but not because they live in the river, but associated with the river, you know?  
Yeah, there is a lot of, there is a lot of different wildlife and [unclear].
C:  In all of these experiences you know, give you the material and stuff that you need to write.  
[D:  Umhm]  To write different articles about what you see, you know, and it is like a permanant 
record.  [D:  Umhm, umhm]  But if you are not out there everyday doing this, you know, 
eventually you run out of stuff to write about.  [D:  Right]  
J:  My profession, I should have been a game warden, [D:  Yeah] or a forest ranger, or something
to do with the you know, with the woods or the water.  [D:  Umhm]  Instead I bought restaurants 
and I cooked for forty years in the restaurants and diners.  Some I owned myself and others I 
worked for other people.  And now I am in the furnace business.  Sixty years old.  [Laughs]  I 
have only been at this for about a year now.  [D:  Oh yeah]  I did not want to cook anymore so I 
got into something else and I kind of fell into this job.  It was a pretty good deal, so.  
D:  Did you cook in Lowell, or that is when you were living out of state?  
J:  In Connecticut.  [D:  Yeah]  I lived in Connecticut for twenty- three, twenty, twenty-three 
years I had two or three places down there.  [D:  Oh yeah]  And again after twenty-three years I 
got homesick.  I missed her.  [Long pause]
C:  So your next question?  [D:  Well I think I (--)]  How come you two aren't married?  
D:  Well that is your business!  [Laughs]
C:  That would be the obvious question to ask about now. 
D:  Well I think there are all kinds of ways to live than one.  There are a lot of different 
arrangements that make people happy.  And that is, that is fine by me.  
J:  Well we have it all, we get along.  [Tape fades out]