"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr48
"Dear Mr. President", Tucson, Arizona, January or February 1942
AFS 6448B
Cut B1
Tom K. Ritchie: Mr. President, I am not a New Dealer. I worked against you for the last three elections
and did everything that I could to defeat you. But I think some fate intervened and elected you
president and I think that that fate was something that this country is to be congratulated on. You
are a strong man. You are a man that is not squeamish. You will treat these snakes like they should
be treated.
I don't agree with your reference to the enemy as rattlesnakes because rattlesnakes are too much,
have too much of the gentlemen in them. They should be referred to as copperheads, crawl on
their belly, camouflage, and carrying a deadly poison that is silent and strikes without any warning
whatever.
There are at this time so many things to do that I think others feel like you do and they should
be given an opportunity to help you put the heel on the head of these serpents. They should be
crushed and I think the only [way (?)] and the only manner in which they can be handled properly is
by direct action. Nothing theatrical, no play acting, simply ruthless force without any squeamishness
and without any feeling that we are doing other than killing snakes. And when we clean out a nest of
snakes we not only kill the father snake, we kill the mother snake and we break their eggs. And that,
I think, is what should be done here, that they should be utterly wiped out. If we had listened to ???
and John J. Pershing in the last war and not been soft like we Americans are and like we are treating
people in a gentlemanly manner as democracy demands. I think that we should exercise every bit
of our strength, every bit of our poison, every bit of force that we can exercise against them without
being a gentleman we'll get to that afterward.
[laughs] I might introduce myself Mr. President. This is Tom K. Ritchie, an attorney-at-law living at 920
East Prince Road in Tucson, Arizona and I have lived here some thirty-six years.
Cut B2
[Jerome Arrison (?)]: I am [Jerome Arrison (?)]. I am fifteen years old and they brought me here to
speak some about the war, about the war. And I ??? one day when a man came in and he asked me if
I don't want to come in and talk and so, and make some records. I think about it first and I can't [disc
become unintelligible].