UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  MILLIE MISKELL
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS 
DATE:  AUGUST 17, 1987
MM = MILLIE 
MN = MARTHA 
LFP-MN-R010-R013
TAPE BEGINS ALREADY IN PROGRESS:
MM:  My birthday?
MN:  It was?
MM:  The sixteenth.
MN:  Oh, the same as Dorothy Dempsey.
MM:  No kidding! I was born the sixteenth of August, l904.
MN:  Oh, I was going to ask you that anyway.
MM:  Yeah,
MN:  Where were you born?
MM:  In Lowell, Mass. here.
MN:  What part of Lowell?
MM:  Up on Chambers Street, what's known as the Flats.
MN:  Oh, okay.  And uh, where did, how did your parents, was it your parents that came to 
Lowell first?
MM:  Both my mother and father come from a place called Prince Edward Island up in Canada.
MN:  And were they married in Canada, or down here?
MM:  No they were married in Haverhill, Mass. 
MN:  So they came from Prince Edward Island to Haverhill?
MM:  Yeah, well my father come, my mother come to Haverhill and my father come to Lowell.
MN:  Do you know why he came to Lowell?
MM:  No, I have no idea.  Only they thought they were bettering themselves, but I think they 
were a bunch of goddam fools not going further out in Canada, cause this country in my 
estimation stinks. I don't give a goddam who likes it or what!
MN:  You think Canada is a better place?
MM:  Yes I do.  My husband was born in Newburyport.  [MN:  Rhode Island]  No, Newburyport,
Mass.   As a kid he ran away from home and joined the service.  He had some man register under
his father's name.  He went over across with a big first division, the big, big red one.  What did 
he get out of it?  The goddam good American bullshit, and I don't give a goddam who knows it.  
I received his flag.  It was draped all over the casket, but I wouldn't have that rag in my house.  
MN:  Is this in World War II?
MM:  World War I.  He got nothing but the good old American bullshit thrown at him.  I hope 
your taking it down.  [MN:  I am]
That's fine.
MN:  And um, did your father, do you know what kind of work he did when he first came here?
MM:  Yes.  When he first come to Lowell he was a coal heaver working for E. A. Wilson, 
lugging coal.  And that was the coal put on bags and you'd lug it from one house to another.  
Maybe you could put it in the cellar, maybe you couldn't.  And you'd have to go up I don't know 
how many flights of stairs and put it on the porch in a bin.
MN:  And did he do that for his whole life?
MM:  No, eventually as time went on he took the Civil Service Test and he became driving teams
for the Ash and Waste.  Then after they were going to get rid of all the horses and the cart, my 
father then become a driver on the truck for the Ash and Waste, and got pensioned off on that.  
But I wish to hell they had stayed in Canada.
MN:  Did you ever visit Canada?
MM:  Yes, yes.
MN:  Did you go to where they were born?
MM:  That's right.  That's where most of my relatives that landed out in Toronto.
MN:  And how many times have you been up there?
MM:  Oh, I think I must have made three trips up to Canada.
MN:  Did you stay with the relatives?
MM:  Yes, and then if I was too far away, why there was plenty of places where you could go 
and get your own room and one thing another.
MN:  Did you go with your parents?
MM:  No, I went with my cousin.  Her and I did the traveling.  But to me Canada, I don't know.  
Well this country has got as bad as what England was years ago.
MN:  In what way?
MM:  Oh god, lots of ways!  Years ago was very brutal to a lot of her immigrants that come over.
Like I say, it's monkey see, monkey do.
MN:  You think that the U.S. wasn't kind to its immigrants?
MM:  That's right.  Uh, when you first come up from Canada you're not getting any free meals 
like your what do you call it.  Now that tribe, anything that they want they can go to City Hall 
and get. Free rent, and free meals, and free that.  Years ago you had to get off your hiney and get 
out and go to work.
MN:  Did you mother work also when she came here?
MM:  Sure she worked up in Haverhill doing housework.
MN:  How did she meet your father?
MM:  Down in Canada.
MN:  And then they got married and uh (--)
MM:  Up in Haverhill, yeah.
MN:  And they, she moved to Lowell with him.
MM:  Yes, yeah, but I wish to hell they had gone further out to Canada.  It's far prettier and nicer 
than this part of the country.
MN:  And I remember you were telling me that you were born near the Flats.
MM:  On Kinsman Street, on Chambers Street, and that's up at the Flats there.
MN:  And what kind of people lived there at the time.
MM:  Ah well, at the time there were a lot of Irish immigrants, and one thing another, but they all
had to get off their hiney and get out and go to work.  They had no free meals, or free this, or free
that.
MN:  Where did most of the people work then?
MM:  In your mills, you had your big [unclear] up there on Crosby Street.  That was a beautiful 
mill in its day.  And eventually the U.S. Cartridge Company come up on Lawrence Street during 
the first World War I.  Lots of mills were up around there.
MN:  Did your mother ever work in the mill?
MM:  No she always worked, done housework, yeah.  Hey, get out of there, don't touch nothing.
MN:  And how many kids in your family?
MM:  Well, I'm the only one that lived out of four.  
MN:  And did you go to work also?  I mean some of the people tell me that they went to work as 
kids in the mills.
MM:  I want to go to high school, but my mother says no, you get off and go to work.  And off I 
had to go to work.  So I went in to be a stitcher in different factories.
MN:  How old when you started?
MM:  Oh god, when I was able to get in.  The minute I graduated from grammar school I think I 
probably was around fourteen or fifteen and then I had to get in and go working.  You never got 
nothing free in them days.
MN:  And do you remember what places you worked at?
MM:  Oh good god they are all folded up now.  I worked at 95 Bridge Street as a stitcher.  I 
worked up on Lawrence Street.  I worked putting pockets on sweaters, and putting sleeves in 
jackets, and one thing another.
MN:  And then how did you meet your husband?
MM:  At a dance, where I said I'd never pick up a bum in a dance hall.  I fell hook, line and 
sinker.
MN:  Where was this?
MM:  Up to Highland Hall on, oh god, wait a minute, Middlesex Street, out Middlesex Street.  
Yeah, I met him at a dance.  I thought he was a goddam Portugue.  Then when I got a look at his 
mother, I thought she was a goddam frog, but there's your history repeating itself.  Like years 
ago, who controlled the water years ago but Spain.  And I think the Spanish people landed over 
in Ireland and there's where your black Irish come in.
MN:  Was he Irish your husband?
MM:  Sure, Irish American.
MN:  And are you Irish?
MM:  Well, part, part Irish, English, I have a three mixture.
MN:  Was the Highland Hall, was that a church related? 
MM:  No, no no, it was a dance hall and that's away, oh good god, that's a way up on Middlesex 
Street.  And Corey Street faces right down if you know that section of the Highlands.  And that 
was a block and that's where they used to have the old time dances years ago, they use to call 
them the home of the discontented couples.
MN:  Discontented couples?
MM:  Yes [laughter].
MN:  What does that mean?
MM:  Well the husband was out cheating on the wives, the wives was out cheating on the 
husbands.  So I met my husband thinking he was a, when he said his name was Miskell, which 
he told me the truth, I said "gee, I said, you mean John Sousa, don't you?"  He say, "Why?"  I 
says, "you look like a Portugue.  [Laughter]  Then when I met his mother I thought she was a 
frog.  And oh when he said she was born over in Ireland I says, "mother of god, what kind of a 
tribe did they get into."  But they were, she was a very dark Irish woman, very dark.  Black hair.  
She was handsome.  In fact that's her picture up there in the oval.  She was handsome looking, 
but she was very, very dark.  And if you go back to your history books you will find that the 
Spanish in their day controlled the ocean and controlled the different countries.
MN:  You remember them talking about the Black Irish?
MM:  Yes, oh my.  Well my mother-in-law (--)  When you are ready to go I want you to have a 
look at her picture and you'd swear to go she was french.  And my husband, I took him to be a 
Portugue.  He laughed like the devil.  And then his brother was about nineteen years older than 
him.  He was an undertaker in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.  I used to call him the friendly 
undertaker [laughter].  They were very dark.
MN:  Was your husband living in Lowell then?
MM:  At the time, yes.
MN:  Where did he come from?
MM:  He come from Newburyport to Lowell here years ago when the mother and father moved 
this way.
MN:  And what part of Lowell did they settle in.
MM:  Down at the Flats, there on, oh god where the Haverhill is it? Well there used to be a 
cotton mill on Gorham Street.  It's a street above Kinsman.  Oh I can't think of the name.
MN:  But down in that area?
MM:  Yeah, that's the Flats.
MN:  And how was Lowell divided up in this days?  What kind of neighborhoods?
MM:  Gee, you had very very friendly neighborhood.  Very, people years ago to me seem a little 
more friendly than they are today.  Now we had a, I come from Oliver Street.  And I'm trying to 
think of that.  And at the corner was a firehouse, and next door that father's name was Jansen.  
And he was a fireman at the firehouse there.  Then he had daughters that was school teachers.  
One of them taught down at um, oh good god, uh, a street before you get up to Moore Street.  
And the youngest girl at the time when I lived on Oliver Street, she was going to Normal State 
Teachers College.  And she became a teacher and she married a German fellow.  And oh this is 
later on in life.  And he was William Hellar, and he played the organ at St. Ann's Church.
MN:  And where is St. Ann's Church?
MM:  Don't you know where St. Ann's?
MN:  I can't picture it.
MM:  Over at the high school there, yes, yes.
MN:  St. Ann's Episcopal Church?
MM:  Yes, yes, yeah.
MN:  I walk by it every day.
MM:  That's it.  That was St. Ann's and this William Hellar used to play the organ.  And he 
married the Jansen girl and then I think they went down to Providence, Rhode Island.
MN:  And what church did your family go to?
MM:  Up at the Sacred Heart, up on Moore Street, yeah.  Hey, hey, hey watch him.
MN:  Okay.
MM:  Yeah, yes they a come from up around Moore Street, up that section.
MN:  And were there other (--)  Some people told me that the city was divided.  That there was 
the Flats, that was mostly Irish, and then the Acre was (--)
MM:  The Acre Irish now.  They're survivors over there in the Acre. The, the Irish was 
congregated around there.  Then we had a bar room.  Oh god I got a picture of that.  Wouldn't the
Lowell Sun like to have a hold of it?  At Fletcher and Broadway, was Murphy's Bar Room.  That 
was quite the bar room in its day.  Now it's a wallpaper store if I'm not mistaken.
MN:  And would it be just Irish, or just Greek, or who would be in there?
MM:  Uh, all the Irish.  The Irish was up all in through that way. And then of course now it's all 
changed.  And your City stables now was just below that, where my father worked.
MN:  City stables?
MM:  Yes, yeah that's on Broadway.  Now it's nothing, but all trucks in there where my father 
used to drive teams, you know, a double horse, and an ash team.  Oh god the things that (--)  
When I see the ash man going by now I'll say, "Oh, good god," but my father learned to take his 
lessons driving and he got to be a driver of one of the trucks before he got pensioned.  
MN:  And what else was Lowell like at that time?
MM:  Gee, it was really a very pleasant part, like from where I came from, you know, and the 
neighbors were very, very friendly.  Oh god, you would be running in their house, or they'd come
over to your house, or something like that.  They couldn't do like enough for you in them days.  
Very, very friendly years ago, very friendly.
MN:  Did your parents belong to any clubs?
MM:  No, the only thing my mother was like the Holy Rosary, or something from up at the 
Sacred Heart and up that way.  And my father belonged to the Holy Name Society.  Yeah, that's 
the only thing that I remember.
MN:  Would he go down to Murphy's?
MM:  Oh would he!  He couldn't leave Murphy's until he got home.
MN:  Did your mother go there?
MM:  Oh, oh women were not allowed sitting with men.  In fact there is a bar room at the corner 
of Kinsman Street and up at the front was just for the men, but there was a side door where the 
women could go in and sit down, but they never mingled with the man.  And my mother 
wouldn't carry a green shopping bag.  Because if anybody that lived down in the Flats, like 
elderly, they'd have the little can.  And there was a side window at Murphy's bar room, or 
Mahoney's bar room I think it is, and they'd give them the can to get the beer in the can.  And 
then they would put it in their green bag and then come home and have it with their friends.  My 
mother wouldn't carry one of them, because she says I don't want anyone think I'm rushing the 
can.  Oh my god, talk about fun, gee.  But the people in them days were a lot friendlier than what
they are today.  Friendlier.
MN:  Did you have relatives that lived near you in the Flats?
MM:  No, they lived over this way.  Oh yes I did.  I had cousins down on Kinsman Street.  My 
father's sister and her husband and her children.  They lived down on Kinsman Street.
N:  Because it seems that people visit a lot with friends and family.
MM:  Yes, yeah, yeah.  And this aunt always used to come up once a week to visit at the house, 
and so forth.  And that, this is what, when we moved up to London Street.  In fact that Hydrangea
out in front there, that's a souvenir from London Street.
MN:  And where did you move after London Street?
MM:  Oh god, I think that's when after I got rid of London Street that I got married and I went 
over to Belvidere on oh, it's not Willow Street, its corner of Willow.  And we owned a two 
tenement house until after we got rid of it.  And then we came over here to live.  Yeah, so I'm not 
originally from Centralville.
MN:  But you must have gotten to know it in the years you've been here.
MM:  Oh yeah, I've known quite a few and an awful lot have passed away.
MN:  My grandmother used to say that.
MM:  Oh my goodness an awful lot.  The only cousin I have now in Centralville is Kay 
Cheetham that lives a couple streets up.  Her sister, Mary Harland, lives over in Mott Avenue.
MN:  Cheetham?  Is that what you said? 
MM:  Yes,
MN:  On Abolene Street?
MM:  Uh, wait a minute its above Myrtle Street.
MN:  Because I spoke to a Mr. and Mrs. Cheetham a few years ago.  Helen Cheetham's mother, 
maybe it's a different one.
MM:  Well I know the Cheethams have relatives down here.
MN:  How are you related to them?
MM:  Well, uh, Hank is married to my cousin Kay MacQuarrie.  And her sister again is Mary 
Highland up here on Mott Avenue.  And we are both first cousins.
MN:  I'm going to call Mary Highland to see if she wants (--)
MM:  Well, uh she's up here on, and she's my cousin, yeah.  And her sister Kay is up here on, oh 
what did I say, the street above Myrtle and she's married to Hank Cheetham.
MN:  And what brought you to Centralville after Belvidere?
MM:  Well, I think this was getting auctioned off, or something.  So my husband came to here 
and I think he bought it.  And then, of course, he was stationed over to the firehouse.  He was a 
fireman.
MN:  Yeah, you mentioned that.  Where did you tell me the firehouse was?
MM:  Over here on Fourth Street was one.  And then he was stationed way out on Mammoth 
Road.  And then he was stationed downtown in the main place at one time, until they did away 
with that big firehouse down there.  And then I think, I think he was sent over to Pawtucketville.  
And then from Pawtucketville he got back this way to down here, yeah.  But if they needed 
anybody up in Pawtucketville he might had to go fill in for somebody up there if they was short.  
You know they bounced them around from one house to another to fill in while they were on 
their vacation and help out like you do.  But he was stationed up here and Mammoth Road when 
he retired.
MN:  As a firefighter.
MM:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MN:  And did you work at that time when you moved here?
MM:  Uh, when I first came over here I used to go out to work as a stitcher.  And then when the 
children came, of course I had to stay home, yeah.
MN:  As a stitcher?  Would that have been in one of the mills?
MM:  In the factory either making pockets, or stitching aprons such as that.  Oh yeah, I was a 
stitcher in a factory years ago.
MN:  So that would have been your trade.  And when you went back to work, did you work after 
the kids got older?
MM:  Uh, for awhile, that was when my children was going to high school.  And then my 
daughter, she is dead now, she graduated from the State College down here as a teacher.  And she
was a teacher over to Lowell High as a Guidance Teacher.  She's dead now.  But like I say, she 
wanted to go to Salem Teacher's College.  And Salem Teacher's College is where she graduated 
from.  So she taught out in Westford.  And she had a chance to come in to Lowell High, and just 
a few years ago she died of cancer.
MN:  Oh, I'm sorry.
MM:  Yeah, so her home was over in Belvidere.
MN:  Did that feel like she was far away?
MM:  Well, no, not too far away, but in a way, yes.  Because I could drive there and go over, but 
like I say the husband called me up last night wondering how I was.  And I'm just after I think 
mailing a couple of cards out.  My birthday was the sixteenth.  The one up in back here, my son's
daughter was the eighth of August, and the one in Belvidere is the nineteenth.  So we're three 
August birds. 
MN:  Did your daughter have children?
MM:  Huh?
MN:  Did your daughter have children?
MM:  Oh god yes, yes.  She had the one girl and she's quite the ugly lady, yuh.
MN:  And you told me that she married a Greek man.
MM:  No my daughter was married to the Greek, yeah
MN:  Is her daughter married?
MM:  No, no she's going to college right now.   And like I say Mary wanted to be the teacher.  
And she taught out in Westford until she got in to Lowell High.
MN:  Did you know everyone, or do you still know everyone on your street?
MM:  No I don't know too many, because they have been moving in and moving out.  Although 
the man next door, his name is Isley, and their names are Plourde.  They're there a few years, but 
anybody across there, because they have been in and out and in and out.
MN:  Is that how it always has been?
MM:  No, god I used to know everybody that lived across the street. But there is one house over 
there, well I don't know where.  There's six rooms over there and I don't know how many(--)  A 
big Stickady and Poor's big truck came and moved furniture.  I honest to god I don't know how 
they got the furniture in six rooms.  I couldn't tell you what their names were, they weren't there 
long enough.
MN:  But when you first moved here, people (--)
MM:  Oh god yes.  Vera Sullivan lived in that tenement.  And ah, oh go, McManus lived in the 
corner.  There was a big family of them until they all married and died off.  And Vera Sullivan, 
she got a chance to get up on High Street.  And my god it seems like she wasn't there only about 
a little while and she died.  So like I say, quite a few have you know, have gone that were here in 
that day.  It seems to be new ones coming in and moving out, and coming in and moving.  So you
don't get a chance.  And I'm too old to mingle now with anybody.
MN:  How did you get to know them before?
MM:  Well they seemed to be nearer my age.  And I was younger than what I am now.  In fact 
Peggy Piekos, ah Peggy McManus, we had the, what is where the poor lived up in Chelmsford 
Street?  Oh god, like your poor family that can't take care of themselves.
MN:  Welfare?
MM:  What the hey.  They have another name for it.  Well this Peggy McManus worked up in the
hospital, part of the hospital up there.  It's where the elderly would be put, that couldn't take care 
of themselves.  And then that all dissolved, but she used to work up there.  She had an older 
brother that drove the bus, the Mass bus. Then she had a (--)  The Massachusetts bus.  And then 
she had another brother that drove a bus and lived up here.  They are all dead.  To the different 
ones I'll say to my son, mother of god they are all gone and they can't, can't remember where, 
you know they went so fast.  It seems like one year, one would go, the next year, the other would 
go, and the other would go, until they were all cleaned out.
MN:  Did they live there until they died?
MM:  Yeah, yeah.
MN:  Did their kids live in the house too?
MM:  Uh, no, no, no.  Some of them never got married like
TURNING THE TAPE OVER AND RE-WINDING TO BEGINNING, THE FOLLOWING 
CONVERSATION WAS IN PROGRESS
MM:  They are all passed away and I'm saying to myself, mother of god, am I going to be left all 
by myself?
MN:  Well, you'll have your grandchildren?
MM:  Uh huh, yes, yeah,
MN:  How did you, when did you used to visit with them?  Did you have a coffee in the 
morning, or (--)
MM:  No, because tell you the truth as I uh, my kids were going to school, that's when I went out
and got myself a job.  But I had to stay at 95 Bridge Street.  I couldn't go passed that place, 
because you see I had to get home.  My husband had his hours, was funny on the fire department.
And I had to get home and shop on the way coming home, and make sure I had the supper and 
one thing or another.  So when they came home from high school my Mary was doing her 
homework and one thing or another, and my son was probably out playing baseball or 
something.  But like I say, I got out of work say around two thirty or so, and come home, and I 
had to get the supper.
MN:  What time would you start work?
MM:  Oh, I'd start about quarter passed seven in the morning.  So I put plenty of hours in you 
know, and one thing another, yeah.
MN:  And what was Centralville?  Were there different neighborhoods in Centralville?
MM:  Uh, well, no.  I'd say it was about the same, but everybody, you'd know if you were home 
everyday and didn't have to get out to work you'd be more friendly.  Now when I first came over 
here there was MacKenzies that lived up there.  Well one of the, the oldest girl, I forget what her 
name was, she was a saleslady for Bass's Store on Central Street.  Then one father worked for the
water works.  They all had good jobs.  One father was the custodian of the auditorium.  And they
all had damn good jobs that lived up there.  It was a big family and gradually, plop, plop, plop 
they were gone in no time.
MN:  Gone where?
MM:  Dead!
MN:  Oh,
MM:  Passed away, yeah.  Now that house has been sold a couple of times.  Oh the MacKenzies, 
thank god, they occupied the whole darn place over there.  There was so many in the house there.
It was a
big family.
MN:  And what church would you go to.
MM:  Down here to St. Michael's, yes, yeah.
MN:  Did they have (--)  Go ahead.
MM:  The only one that's alive today is this Mr. Isley that lives next door.  And his brother 
passed away that used to live there.  So he's the only one next to Dempseys down here, but there 
is so many changes with the, across the street here you can't keep with them moving in and 
moving out.
MN:  Did you know the people that lived on the next street down?
MM:  Ah, there used to be a Collins family that lived in the two tenement house down there.  Ah 
gee, I'm trying to think.  Ah, well one of the boys used to hang over to the firehouse.  My god, he
used to come up here and one thing another.  I can't think of what his last, or first name was.  My
god he died a young man.  And I'm saying to myself it seems strange, and his sister today, the 
two tenement house below the corner house here, his sister lived in there.  Harold Collins was his
name.
MN:  So would you know people that lived on Seventh and Eighth and Ninth Streets?
MM:  No I didn't know too many on Seventh, or too many up above.  I didn't know.  Oh god 
there was a family, what the deuce was their name?  They are all moved.  The Clohesy, Clohesy, 
or something like that.  They are all moved away.  And then the Reillys.  They were like school 
teachers.  And they were related to Vera Sullivan here.  My god, most of them are all dead.  
They've all passed away, they were older than what I was, you know what I mean.
MN:  And their kids didn't keep the house?
MM:  No, no up there they were like old maids that lived there.  And they eventually died out, 
yeah.
MN:  But you told me that your son lives behind you?
MM:  Up here now, yeah.  And uh, some of his children are married.  In fact I'm expecting his 
daughter to come up from Connecticut here this week.  She's down at Connecticut living.  
Another one is a way down in Florida living.  And his son again, today, now lives next door here.
MN:  Your son's son?
MM:  Yeah my grandson, it would be his son and his name is John Miskell.
MN:  Oh in the other house?
MM:  Yes, yeah, yeah.  So, but like over across the street there, my god, there's been so many 
lived in the two tenement there.  And like here they've been so many moved in and moved out.  
Yeah, I can't keep track of them.
MN:  What would you do with your family on a Sunday when you were married and had kids?
MM:  Oh god, I used to have to get the dinner, because he wanted to go here, or they wanted to 
go there, and that was that.  Then I'd recuperate to get back in the harness to work for the week.  
But like I say, oh things have changed, like I say.  I never joined too many societies, because I 
had to do the housework, and clean and wash the clothes, and get ready to go in harness on 
Monday, to the factory to work.  So I didn't have a haverhill of lot.  I had more time after they 
kind of left the house, because I could get around in the car, which now I have given the car to 
the one next door.  I don't drive no more.  They do shopping.  And my son up here, I have many 
checks coming, he does the cashing of the checks.  So I stay at home and that's it, call it quits.
MN:  What do you do with your time here?
MM:  Me?  Upholstery work.  I've done that divan there.  This is some of it here.  This is a 
hideaway bed.  I've done this chair. This is antique.  I haven't quite got the piece that goes across 
there.  And my husband's aunt (--)  That was all horse hair.  And she had an arm rest, and didn't 
she take the saw and saw them off.  So there is two knobs there.  So I got to get somebody to fix 
me an arm rest where I can upholster it, but that she only paid a dollar forty nine.
MN:  For the chair?
MM:  For the chair, and it's antique, and (--)
MN:  A long time ago?
MM:  Oh, ages ago.  This is, and she could have had another one.  And I keep saying, Aunt Kate 
I'd love to have clipped you in the mouth.  And here's something that's antique.  See that hall tree 
there?  Well loverboy next door gave me that, that's antique.  Out there where I have my clothes 
hanging up on that.
MN:  That's a beautiful piece of furniture.
MM:  It is.  And the center thing there is marble.  Now I got a five piece set that goes with this.  
You know, your little divan.  My two chairs is up in the bedroom.  The rest is up in the attic. Now
that top piece is marble.  That's antique.  And see the lamp there?  Not this shade, the lamp.  
There was Swedes that lived next door to my mother and father on London Street, and they were 
moving away and they sold the house.  So I forget how much I paid for that lamp.  Well I finally 
had somebody pipe it up for electric.  Well the shade, this is when the Goodwill was in back of 
the Five and Ten, you know, where your park your cars.  That was an old, old, old Protestant 
church.  It was a shame for tearing it down.  So it was turned in for the Goodwill.  And I picked 
up this lampshade.  You wouldn't give two cents for it.  I think I bought it for fifteen cents.  So I 
took it home and I cut a pattern.  And then I got green and I made this shade to fit over it.  So I 
got my ten cents worth of wear out of it.  
MN:  How did you learn how to sew?
MM:  I was always a stitcher in the factory.  Sure, yeah.
MN:  Do you make craft things too?
MM:  Well I have crocheted like that thing that's out in back of the couch there.  I've covered that
chair over.  I liked working on this here, covering furniture.  I wanted, when I was in the Butler 
School, cooking, I couldn't see cooking from a hole in the wall.  And I used to say to my mother, 
if I only could get down where the boys are taking up carpenter work.  She'd say, "Mildred don't 
talk like that.  They'll think there is a little touch in your mind."  She thought I was nutty as a 
fruitcake.
MN:  They do it today.
MM:  Sure they do.  If she was alive today and see the ones working on the road, I said to 
myself, in the name of god she'd have a conniption fit.   Honest to god.  Oh, she said, don't ever 
talk like that.  They'll think there is something wrong in your mind, a little touch in your mind.  
And I laugh.  And you know, oh god, and how we would have more little arguments in one thing 
or another.  I wanted to be a carpenter so bad it wasn't funny.  I wanted to take manual training, 
but like I say, I had to take that cooking and god, ugh.  Somebody had, one day we were stuck 
with what we were making dough, bread dough, you know.  And everybody, they had been nice 
and clean and mixing it around and rolling it around.  And of course, you were given slips of 
paper with your number to write on it.  Who was the stinker that won the dough?  Hi oh silver!  
Oh I says geez.  So I had to bring the dough home.  My mother had (--)  I couldn't bake it for (--) 
So eventually as time went by and I got home here, oh this is a long time afterwards, I had my 
own children, I found a recipe in the paper that called for two loaves of bread.  Well I went to 
work on it.  And sure enough I put it in a pot and I can remember taking it in here, the radiators 
over there.  Well I had more blankets on the dough in the tin so it wouldn't freeze, and this and 
that.  So finally I got my two tins and I'm pounding it down.  And I cut it in half and I roll it 
around.  And I slapped one in one tin and slapped the other in the other, put it back on the floor, 
put a cover over until it come up high, and I baked it.  And it turned out to be the best damn 
bread going.  I can't find the recipe today.  It's a good thing.  I'm (--)  But more than two loaves I 
couldn't handle.  My mother had a great big pan and she'd have it that high, but she'd baked four 
or five, uh bread loaves, you know, plus her pan of biscuits beside.  Oh she was a darn good 
cook, but not your (--)
MN:  How did your mother learn how to cook?
MM:  Oh she did when she got in Haverhill.  She went working for different families and you 
had to learn how to cook.
MN:  Oh, so she cooked as well as cleaned.
MM:  Yes, yeah, did housework and such as that.  She was a beautiful breadmaker.  Oh god, 
lovely.
MN:  Did she sew also?
MM:  No, no, no, I did the sewing.  And then she wasn't satisfied with that.  If somebody had 
some sewing, oh, bring it over to the house, Millie will run it up, Millie will run it up.  Millie 
didn't care whether she sewed for anybody else but herself.
MN:  So you could sew before you went to work?
MM:  That's right.
MN:  How did you learn?
MM:  On her sewing machine.  Uh, she wouldn't let me run the sewing machine.  My father 
worked in the cartridge shop, nights, my mother worked someplace days, and I'd say to my 
father, I'd love to sew.  He'd say go ahead.  And this is one of those damn sewing machines where
you had to peddle.  And if I knew she was coming home, why I would put everything away.  She 
wouldn't let you go near her sewing machine.  When I think of it now.
MN:  But she didn't use it.
MM:  No, no when she first started to use it she said she broke about forty needles.  See, she 
didn't know how to run it herself.  But after I got in school and took up the sewing and one thing 
another, then I'd try out the machine.  But if I knew she was coming home I would shut it up fast,
cause she wouldn't let you go near her machine.  When I think about (--)  Boy talk about fun and 
dull, but that machine costs about thirty or forty dollars.  I've forgotten, but she wouldn't let you 
go near here sewing machine.  Yet she didn't know how to run it herself.  Oh talk about fun, 
honest to god.  But it's comical when you think back at times in a way, but as for being a cook, 
my god, there wasn't anything she put her hands to that didn't come out beautiful.
MN:  Did she make special meals for the holidays.
MM:  Uh, no, no.  She had her turkey and you know, different things like that, or maybe she'd try
a goose out, you know.  And they're kind of greasy, but whatever way she fixed it, she boiled it 
first or something, you know parboiled it, and got all the grease off it first and then she, her 
goose would be swell.
MN:  Would that be for a regular day, or would that be (--)
MM:  Oh no that would be for a special day like Christmas, Thanksgiving, or some holiday.
MN:  What would she make for Easter?
MM:  Oh, nothing special.  No, nothing very special.  We probably have like a ham dinner or 
something like that, but she was a very excellent cook.
MN:  Did you have corn beef and cabbage on St. Patrick's Day?
MM:  Oh and how.  You're not kidding.  And your turnips, and your parsnips, and carrots.  Oh 
god, the more vegetables in the pot the better it tasted.
MN:  Would that be boiled?
MM:  That would be boiled, yeah.
MN:  Would that be more than once a year?
MM:  No, no maybe some days she'd uh, weeks by we may have a boiled dinner or something 
like that, yeah.
MN:  I remember my mother making a boiled dinner, too.
MM:  Oh good lord they were lovely.  And then some times she'd get a duck.  And as I said, they 
are greasy.  So she'd clean it out good, but she'd par boil it to get more grease off it.  And then 
she'd skin all the fat away and let it drain, or something and then when it was dry she'd stuff it 
and then roast it.
MN:  Did you have meat every night.
MM:  Oh god yes, oh yes.  Yeah, we always had meat everyday, yeah.
 
MN:  When you were in Centralville do you remember what stores you traded at?
MM:  Yes.  Now the First National Store used to be at the corner here.  Well then where CVS 
was, that turned out to be a lovely First National Store.
MN:  Food store.
MM:  Yes, you could go in and buy your meat and everything until they got rid of it.  And it's a 
CVS now, but, and then there was Gordon's Market further down.  Now there was another nice 
butcher shop you could go to.
MN:  On Bridge Street?
MM:  Yes, that's a way, way down near a Second Street on the other side like (--)  And gee they 
sold beautiful meat and stuff there. In fact you could go in and leave an order, and they delivered 
it to your door in them days.  Today you have to get in your car and go after the stuff.
MN:  Does anybody deliver to your house anymore?
MM:  No, no, no.
MN:  Did you know the people that ran the stores?
MM:  No, no, but they would take your order, and where you lived, and one thing another.  Like 
down here at the, when it was the First National over there, and they'd send the order up.  And 
the same way with down to Benny Gordon's store down at the corner, further down, they'd take 
your order and it would be delivered to your door.  And they sold lovely beef down there.
MN:  What about your clothes?
MM:  Well some I bought and some I made.
MN:  From patterns?
MM:  Yes, yes, yeah.
MN:  Do you ever make clothes without a pattern?
MM:  No, no.  I usually buy a certain pattern and if I want to fix it a different way I do it.  But I 
buy a pattern to fit my size and then I go with that.  Oh, god yes.
MN:  And today, do you think that there are good and bad parts of Centralville.
MM:  Well like I say, I'm too old to get out to find out how things are going.  You know what I 
mean?  But you had your good, you had your ones that loved to drink years ago.  And you had 
your like uh, your barrooms though was closed for Sunday, but you also had the Richardson 
Hotel.  That was at the Depot before it all got torn apart there and you had another St. Charles 
Hotel down Middlesex Street.  And then another thing you used to have was a, oh what do you 
call it?  You could go in and eat, oh what am I trying to think of.  Ah, let's see, what's the name of
them stores?  You had your counter and you could go up and everything would be on the wall 
and they'd dish out what you order, you know.  Oh boy, 
MN:  Like a cafeteria?
MM:  Yes, something like a cafe.  I can't think of the name of it.  There was one right at the 
corner of Middlesex Street and they had you go up.  Oh, they are all gone out of Lowell now. 
MN:  For dinner or lunch?
MM:  Huh?
MN:  Was that for dinner or lunch?
MM:  Oh you could get your breakfast there and dinner, or your supper.  Oh, and I'm trying to 
think what the name of it was.  And we had one at the square there at one time where you could 
go in.
MN:  What square?
MM:  Merrimack Square down here where you could go in and order. What the hell name were 
they?  It's like something you see in Boston today.  I can't think of the name, but it was where 
you could go in and get your breakfast, or go in and get your dinner, or get a luncheon, your 
evening before they close up.
MN:  Would you go out to eat much?
MM:  No, no not then, no.  But you could always go in and get something to eat at these 
restaurants.  Uh, you know, and you order what you want.  And they'd dish it out in front of you.  
And you had a ticket and they'd punch a place down.  And then on your way going out you went 
and you paid for it as you came out.  Oh I can't think of the name of the store.
MN:  Well you know I wanted to ask you something else.  Do you remember ever playing music 
when you were a kid, or did you have a piano?
MM:  No, never was musically inclined.
MN:  Did your mother sing?
MM:  No, no, no, no.
MN:  Because I remember some little songs that my grandmother used to sing to us.
MM:  No kidding, no, no we never had any musical instruments in the house to speak of.
MN:  Even lullabies?  Would she sing to you at night?
MM:  Uh, one thing she used to have me more for prayers.  There is four corners on the bed.  
There is four angels on the spread.  Martha, Martha look on John.  God bless the bed that I lay 
on.
MN:  Martha, Martha look on John?
MM:  God bless the bed that I lay on.
MN:  Would you say your prayers at night?
MM:  That would be one of the prayers that she taught me.
MN:  And would you, how, would it be in the night, or in the morning?
MM:  No, this would be before I was tucked into bed to go to sleep.
MN:  Would you lay down?
MM:  No, not necessary.  I could stay in bed and recite this prayer.
MN:  Would she say it with you?
MM:  Yes, yeah, yeah.
MN:  Do you remember any of the other ones?
MM:  No.  That's the only one that stuck with me.
MN:  Do you still say it?
MM:  No.  And now and then I'll think about it, or something like that, and let it go.
MN:  Do you say any prayers before you go to sleep.
MM:  I do, I try to say my rosary before I go to bed.
MN:  Every night?
MM:  As a rule, yes.  Whether it will help out any or what, I don't know, huh, huh, huh.
MN:  Do you still believe the same things as you did when you were a child?
MM:  Well, I like to because I think there is too gosh darn, I don't know, there is something today
that's not just right and I can't put my finger on it.  There is too much, well like I say, in
my day no women would be up at the bar with their men friends.  That was according to Hoyle.
MN:  According to Hoyle?
MM:  Yeah, and like today you see an awful lot of women hanging around the bars.  And I think 
there's where your uh, oh your off your trolley at times.  And it caused too much of a battle and I 
don't think it should be allowed.  Unless you go to a nice hotel where you sit at a table or 
something like that, but to edge up to a bar and be with the men and listen to some of them 
swearing and one thing or another, I don't think its right to tell you the truth.
MN:  What about these clubs like the East End Club?
MM:  Well sometimes they have very nice parties down there, very nice parties.  And ah, 
sometimes if somebody is a little budinsky, I've been in there, they are ordered out of the place.  
That's one thing I will say about down there.  That's where I and, well my friends are dead, used 
to go.  And if anybody was trying to but in and you didn't want them, why a bartender would 
come up and put that guy in his place.
MN:  You and your girlfriends, or your husband, or?
MM:  Well whoever we would be with.  If I was out with lady friends and some guy wanted to be
a budinsky and you didn't want him, then they'd get a bartender to come up and either order him 
out, or order him to sit at another table and not interfere.  That's one place I will say for down 
there.  Although I haven't been out for ages.
MN:  Did you go down for dinner or a party?
MM:  No, no.  Maybe my friend, she used to live down here on, oh I can't think of the street.  
God, she's passed away.  We'd meet and we'd go in there for a few drinks or something like that, 
but as a rule it was a very, very nice place.  That's one place.  But to go into a bar room or 
something else, I wouldn't want to do it.  But down to that club it's very nice, very nice, because 
of, as I said if somebody wanted mingling, or get a little wise, all you had (--)
Tape I ends
Tape II, side I Begins
MN:  And then there would be men and women.
MM:  And women yeah.  Some would be with their husbands and that, some time you may get a 
guy that was a little budinsky
and that's when they'd have to tell the bartender to ah, you know, shag him away like, you know. 
But as a rule down there is very very nice.  It's the only place over here in Centralville that I 
think is, you know, to go that would be nice, you know.
MN:  Yeah, I was going to ask you if there were any other clubs.
MM:  That I couldn't say, you know.
MN:  Is there a Polish Club?
MM:  Well, that's your Polish Club down there.
MN:  The East End Club?
MM:  Oh not the East End, no that's a club I've only been in once.
MN:  Oh, which is the club that you used to go to with your friends.
MM:  The one way down there, you know where the old ah, the, it isn't a Catholic Polish Church,
it's the Protestant Polish Church on, what am I trying to think of, 
MN:  Oh that's the one that you would go to, the Polish Club?
MM:  The one away down.  Not the East End Club now.  This would be the one down on um, 
Lakeview Avenue.  You know where Saint, is it St. Casmir's Polish Church.  Well it's across the 
street from that.
That Polish, yes.
MN:  That's the one you'd meet your friends at?
MM:  Yeah, yeah, and it was a very, very nice club.
MN:  How come you wouldn't go to the East End Club?
MM:  Well I ah, well I never knew too many, although my son knows a few that goes to the East 
End, but like I say they have their tables and their chair.  And I couldn't tell you anything about 
the East End because I was only there once.  But my friend that used to live down here on Fred 
Street, we always went to the Polish, Dom Polski, or something like that.
MN:  Oh, that's the name of the place that you went to.
MM:  Yes, and that's across from the ah, well the Polish Church on Lakeview Avenue.
MN:  Was your friend Polish?
MM:  No, no, neither one of us, but if anybody was butting in, they'd soon put him in his place, 
whoever it would be.
MN:  Oh, so you don't have to be Polish to go there.
MM:  No, you, anybody can go in there.
MN:  Do you have to be a member?
MM:  No, you don't have to be a member.  Just go right in.  You might have to ring the bell.  
When they do you press the door and then you walk in.  And then there is another way to get in, 
was if you ride your car and you park over in the driveway.  There is a side door there where you 
can walk in.  But it was a very, very nice club to go into, yeah.
MN:  And did you ever go down to the churches and play bingo?
MM:  No, that's something I can't get myself interested in.  No, and I'm not a card player, no.
MN:  What about the Christmas Bazaars?
MM:  No, I don't go to anything like that, no, no.
MN:  Those are just some things people tell me that they do, you know, for entertainment.
MM:  Yeah, yeah, an awful lot now contribute a lot to it, make different things, they sell for the 
church, one thing another.  I have all I can do to do my upholstery, yeah.
MN:  And did you ever go to any of the parks in Centralville?
MM:  Uh, no the only time that I ever, like up in the South Common. Years ago when I was a 
young teenager I was minding a young boy.  He probably was about ten months old, or 
something like that.  And his father and the mother we knew very well.  So when I'd get up in the
morning I'd go over and pick him up in the carriage.  And I would take him up to the South 
Common and we'd watch the kids getting in the pool, one thing another.  And then he'd lay down 
in the carriage and when I come back home with him, he'd be asleep.  Him, his father and 
mother, are six feet under today.  I'm saying to myself, Jesus, Mary and Joseph, I won't have a 
goddam soul to bury me, ha, ha, ha, ha.  No, the way the different ones, you know they died 
young.
MN:  And where are they buried?
MM:  Up in St. Patrick's.  The cousin that I used to go down to Prince Edward Island, she got 
living in, what's the place up on Merrimack Street where the elderly live, ah, oh, it's up near St. 
Jeanne D'Arc.  Oh god.
MN:  I know where your mean.
MM:  You know it's on the way up to the uh Corporation Hospital.  It used to be the Corporation 
Hospital.  It's where the elderly lived up in Merrimack Street.  I think it's three hundred forty 
something.  Have a cousin living up there now.  And the one that I used to travel with, why she's 
dead and gone.   And the other cousin Mary Highland that lives up here, we were all first 
cousins, the whole bunch of us.
MN:  And would you do things together?
MM:  Ah, not very elaborate of anything like that, but uh, we were young kids, you know.  But 
like I say, Jesus, they've all passed away.  And I'm saying to myself, Jesus Millie by the time your
dead you won't have a damn soul to come to visit you.  They are all gone.  God bless us.  How 
times change though.  Yuh.
MN:  Is anybody buried at the Lowell Cemetery?
MM:  No, no, no, no.
MN:  Where's St. Patrick's?
MM:  Up on Gorham Street.
MN:  Yeah, but why do they go there?
MM:  Well that's your Catholic.   And the Edson Cemetery and the Westlawn, there's your 
Protestant Cemetery.  That's above St. Patrick's.  But your Catholic Cemetery is St. Patrick's.
MN:  Is that the only Catholic one?
MM:  That I know of in Lowell.  And then the Edson and the Westlawn, now, that's for all the, 
you know, your Greeks and ah, anybody that's a Protestant.  
MN:  And there's a Polish Cemetery too, isn't there?
MM:  Yes there is and I'm trying to think where the devil it is, I kind of forget.
MN:  I think its across from St. Patrick's on the back side.
MM:  Oh and there is a French Cemetery a way, way beyond that altogether, the French 
Cemetery.  And that will lead you out onto Chelmsford Street, a way, way over, yeah.
MN:  Is that, do you know what that's called?
MM:  What?
MN:  Do you know what the French Cemetery is called?
MM:  I've forgotten, but I know from the Westlawn you ride a way out and then you can come 
out to Chelmsford Center from it, but that's the French Cemetery out that way.
MN:  Now if somebody was a rich Catholic would they go to a special place?
MM:  Well, some I imagine would if they had a plot of ground or something.  Now before you 
even get to St. Patrick's Cemetery up on Gorham Street, we have an old, old time English 
Cemetery there that, God knows when the last one was buried there, but it's a small cemetery.  
It's near Manchester Street up Gorham Street.  Now there's that cemetery.  Now that's an old, old 
time English Cemetery.
MN:  Do you have to be English to be buried there.
MM:  Well, by being English, it would be like ah, well they were Catholics, but they were like 
from England, or something like that.  It's a real, real old, old time cemetery.  God knows when 
anybody was ever buried there.  But I used to, years ago, love to take a walk through and find out
what their names were and one thing another like.
MN:  In the English Cemetery.
MM:  In this little English Cemetery and it was bordered on to St. Patrick's.
MN:  Yeah I know, because it's next to where my brother-in-law is buried right on the border.
MM:  Right on the border, yeah, yeah.  And you can go down the Manchester Street and I think 
there is a driveway where you can turn around and get over to St. Patrick's at the same.
MN:  When did you people used to visit the cemetery?
MM:  Oh, god usually when it's a Decoration Day or something like that when you put on your 
flags and such as that.
MN:  Is that the same as Memorial Day?
MM:  Like a Memorial yeah,
MN:  Is Decoration Day the same as Memorial Day?
MM:  I think so.
MN:  Would you go on Sundays or Saturdays?
MM:  No.  I'd go maybe ahead of time.  It all depends on how my husband was working.  And 
we had our American Flags to put on the graves such as that.
MN:  But you didn't go every week?
MM:  No, no, no, no, no, no
MN:  And would you ever see anybody else in the English Cemetery?
MM:  Ah, not this little one, because it's so old.  Gee it goes away back to seventeen something, 
that's how old it is.  But it's not too far from Manchester Street.  It's a small little cemetery and 
they, your St. Patrick's border on to that.  And that's away up Gorham Street way.  It's a cute little
place, but it's only very small, very small.
MN:  Do you ever remember people having picnics in the cemetery?
MM:  No, no, I can't remember that.
MN:  Or putting little objects on the graves?
MM:  Well that would be your Memorial like, Day that you put stuff on the grave like that.
MN:  What would they put?
MM:  Well, your different flowers and one thing another.
MN:  Some people put toys on the children's graves.  I see that.
MM:  Well, and then some more used to have a, well like the pictures, or they'd have some kind 
of a little thing built where the picture of whoever was dead would be in this little glass 
thingamejig.  I don't know what you'd call it, but it would be on the headstone, or something like 
that.
MN:  In St. Patrick's?
MM:  Well, the different ones, yeah.  And then the nicest cemetery I was in is the old Lowell 
Cemetery off of Lawrence Street where Edith Nourse Rogers is buried, and A. G. Pollard and 
them are buried.  Now there's a beautiful cemetery to go in to see the well-known, well like your 
well-known money people in Lowell are buried is out there.
MN:  Any poor people in there?
MM:  I doubt it, mostly, oh there is something out there you should see.  You'd have to go up 
Lawrence Street to get to it.  That's the entrance and not too far away from the entrance is a big 
monument. Oh it's beautiful.  And up on top of that monument is a great big, big lion.  It is 
gorgeous.  And the ones that are dead their names was Morse, M O R S E, but to go over and go 
into that cemetery is handsome, because there is an awful lot of well known people buried out 
there.  And Edith Nourse Rogers and her husband, John Jacob Rogers, gee, they're buried in like 
a mound and they're not buried, well they are buried in the ground but it's a case where they had 
like a cement vault where the casket went into that and then the top went over that.  It's in the 
ground, but they had this cement vault affair.  It would be beautiful for like strangers to come 
into Lowell to go over and see some of their monuments.  And they are out of this world.  
Especially this big, big lion.  And he's, oh I can't begin to tell you how high up he is.  Beautiful. 
We have got nothing like that in St. Patrick's, or the Edson Cemetery.
MN:  Why not?
MM:  I don't know, but I imagine years ago it was like your well, very well to do people that 
were buried out there in their day.  But if you ever have a chance drive out Lawrence Street way, 
because I doubt if you could get in, no, more Lawrence Street and go in there and ride around, 
and honest it is handsome.  But when I was driving a car I would take a run just to see how 
things were in different ones.
MN:  In different cemeteries?
MM:  Yes, yeah, but that cemetery is out of this world I'll tell you that, beautiful.
MN:  Do people ever get cremated?
MM:  I think they do, but I don't know where they'd be buried.  That is something I can't see.  
But I think you have to, if somebody wants to be cremated I think there is a place.  Is it down in 
Lawrence or down that way where there is a special place for cremation.  And they, I suppose 
you take your ashes and uh, it sounds silly to get it buried.  Why don't you leave yourself alone 
and the hell with it.  Jump in and dig your own grave.  But ah, where Edith Nourse Rogers and 
her husband is, well there is a tree and there is, well it's like the outline of a something else vault. 
And they have like their bodies is put into that, put down in the ground, but the whole top part of 
the lid, the cement thing, and they, their names are on that.  If you have a chance to go out 
Lawrence Street way and make inquiries, and there's usually somebody at the gate there you 
know, but it's handsome in that cemetery.  Beautiful for around this part of the country.  And it 
was all like well to do people of Lowell in it's day that was buried out there.  Beautiful, yeah.
MN:  And, one other thing I wanted to ask you was, you know they are doing all these things 
downtown, making museums and trying to preserve the history of Lowell.  What would you 
preserve about Lowell.
MM:  Good god I don't know.  I don't know what I would preserve.
MN:  Any special buildings?
MM:  Well I know St. Ann's Church is one of our oldest Protestant churches in Lowell and that 
is, it reminds me, if you read about England, you think you got England over at St. Ann's.
MN: What else?
MM:  But I don't know, it reminds me of a little old-fashioned England Church that you read 
about over from England.  Yeah, it's one of our oldest, oldest churches.  But this monument of 
the lion out in the old cemetery it, oh it is gorgeous.  I wish you, if you had a chance to go out 
there.
MN:  I think I've seen it some time ago, now that you are describing it.
MM:  Yeah.  Oh it's handsome.  And if you had to buy it today or something like it would cost 
you a fortune.  You'd have to be dead drunk to see it.  But oh the lion way up there laying down 
and so proud.  And where Edith Nourse Rogers and the husband is buried is like a tree.  And you 
can see the outline of their vaults.  And they're put in this cement vault and then its, it is in the 
ground, but it seems like their vaults is showing.  When I was driving I used to take a ride out 
there and go all around.  And some of the pretty headstones that had children buried, there was 
cute little sayings there.  It was really nice, but like anyone that had any money like in Lowell, 
you were something, that's where you would be buried if you were a non-catholic.
MN:  What if you, were there any rich Catholic people?
MM:  Oh, the Costellos, right up here on Gorham Street.  
MN:  Where are they buried?
MM:  As you come in the ah, entrance of St. Patrick's, there is some kind of a vault or something
there, and it says Costello on the vault there.  And they are the well to do Catholics, like, yeah.
MN:  Mrs. Miskell, what about all these things they are doing downtown with preserving the 
mill?   What do you think of that?
MM:  Well, boy the mill girls worked damn hard years ago and if they worked around where 
there is any wool or anything, the wool would be in their hair and one thing another.  Coming 
out, course everything got a little bit clever and better.  But I never worked in a mill where I had 
to, oh let's see, like weaving or anything like that.  I never worked in any part like that.  But I 
think that if they preserve it and making compartments for some of the elderly it would come in 
handy.
MN:  What about these tourists that come into Lowell, what would you tell them about the city?
MM:  Well as much as I could.  You'd have to go away back into your history book, you know, to
find out the beginning and one thing another.
MN:  But in your lifetime, what do you think are the important events?
MM:  Oh lord, gee I don't know what I could say.  Because growing up my mother said I was 
worse then some of Mrs. McGarrel that had eight or seven girls.  I was a walking devil to hear 
her tell it.
MN:  You were?
MM:  Yeah, when I was a kid, and this Mrs. McGarrel had about one boy, the oldest, and I think 
it was seven girls, and I was closer to the last three younger ones, the rest were all kind of grown 
up.  They are all dead today.  When I think of, god, not a one of them alive.
MN:  Do you go to all the wakes?
MM:  No, no.
MN:  Did you used to?
MM:  I used to go and at the beginning, but then later on I stopped going, yeah.  Yeah.
MN:  Oh, did you ever play in any sports?
MM:  No, no.
MN:  Your kids?
MM:  Well my son here played baseball.  My Mary I think when she got down to, oh lord what 
the hell was it college I told you she went, she got into some sports, but I forget what it was.  
Sports never, I never was interested in sports, because I had one gimp leg that always bothered 
me and it still does.  And I never could get into baseball with that.  No, but my son like to play 
baseball.  My husband was a nut for baseball, god, gee, he lived, died, and sang baseball.
MN:  Did he play on the team?
MM:  He played with the firemen years ago, here, they had started out with a game, you know, 
and used take off with them playing ball.  I'm just out to, I started to clean out the back shed until
I looked into that bag and here's two damn mits.  They are both left handed gloves.  I says, oh 
Jesus, Mary and Joseph that's, that was the end of the gloves and the cleaning of the shed.  They 
are in the bag out there in the sitting room.  He was crazy about baseball, nuts.  Crazy than I 
don't know what.  Baseball, baseball.
His aunt Kate used to tell me, and they used to try to get a scoot, but he was a kid.  And oh he'd 
get mad, but nothing was just baseball, baseball.  So he did, he got to be quite a baseball.  He 
played up on the South Common when the firemen got a team together. But I don't know what 
happened, because I couldn't be bothered going to see baseball.  But he did.  Oh his aunt, oh 
that's all his aunt said that he talked about when he was a kid, was baseball, baseball.  So he 
finally made it, but he got into the service as a baseball player.
MN:  And what did you tell me that your son played?
MM:  He used to play baseball years ago when he was a young kid.  He don't do nothing now.
MN:  For school, or (--)
MM:  No, no, god he's a plumber today on his own, yeah.
MN:  There is no plumber's team, huh?
MM:  Yeah, but like I say my whatchamacallit, but I always stayed at home and you know 
baseball, I couldn't see it.  I couldn't see it period.  But my husband he was wild about it.  He was
fixing a driveway and we had a little radio no bigger than that.  And he had it plugged in and 
[unintelligible] out there and the Nicks go off. And he's out in the yard there doing something.  
He stops and he comes over.  Anybody going by would think he was nuts.  Here he is with this 
black box, and he's telling the players how to play the game, and this and that.  And I'm saying to
myself, Jesus he'll be going up to Worcester soon.  You know people going by they wouldn't 
know what the hell he was doing, but it was all baseball, baseball, baseball, god, oh boy.  No, no 
I was never interested in any games, because I never could enjoy them like.
MN:  So you didn't watch his team play?
MM:  Uh, no.  I have a picture taken of him years ago.  Oh good god, you'll never guess what.  
This is when he was down at the border, when he was only a kid.  And who was he running 
after?  Pancho Via.
MN:  He was running after Pancho Via, your husband?
MM:  Yeah, yeah, 
MN:  Where, in Mexico?
MM:  Yes.
MN:  What was he doing down there?
MM:  He was stationed in (--)                                                                  
MM:  Was the bandit from Mexico?  Now you had your colored soldiers, but they never was 
mixed with your white soldiers.  They had part of the army post just for the colored officer and 
their lieutenants.  They never mixed in with your white in my husband's day.
MN:  Huh, because of racism?
MM:  Ah, no they were colored.  I don't know what the reason was. So as my husband said, "it's 
something you will never read about in your history books" is, Pancho Via grabbed about fifteen 
colored soldiers, the colored soldiers, took them down to Mexico over the line, took every damn 
uniform off them, and sent the colored fellows back home in their uniform. 
MN:  He took their clothes off of them?
MM:  That's the uniform that the colored fellows wore.  Pancho Via took their clothes off them 
and then sent the colored fellows back in their underwear, over the back, over to the line.
MN:  What for?
MM:  Well, he captured them and kept their uniform.  My husband said you'll never read that in 
your history books.
MN:  When was this?
MM:  Way back in l9l5, my husband was only a teenager down at the border.
MN:  In the army?
MM:  Yes.  He had some man at the South Common sign up his enlistment paper and forged the 
father's name and that's how my husband got in the service.
MN:  And then, oh, so he came home after that, married you?
MM:  Yeah, he got discharged after he went across with the first division.
MN:  Across?
MM:  Over to France with the first division.  He went into Boston to see what he could get, 
because he had a spot on his lung.  He got kicked out of the army place in Boston.  My husband 
couldn't collect a goddamn cent.
MN:  And then was he killed in the first world war you said?
MM:  Who?
MN:  Your husband.
MM:  Oh no, he got on the fire department in Lowell.  But like I say, he was looking for some 
benefits to see if he couldn't collect.  There was one guy on the fire department he went down to 
Boston, I don't think he left this country.  He was getting something like eighty dollars a month 
for a pension, plus working for the fire department.  My husband couldn't collect a goddamn 
thing.  He got mad which they wouldn't listen to him and then, uh, oh he got kicked out of the 
office.  Then my husband started to get sick.  He wanted a copy of his army record.  Well 
anyhow, they were going to give him a new serial number.  So then my dander got up against it.  
So he remembered an awful lot about his old copy.  So I went to Edith Nourse Rogers and got up
against one of the secretaries, she was giving me a hard time.  Well I said to her, if I don't get the 
right serial number of his, I says, I'll take it up with Washington.  Well, at the time who was here 
in Lowell, but Brad Morse's uh, well the brother was the undertaker, but it was the 
Representative Morse.  So by god I hightailed it back over. Well, she took down every data and 
this and that.  And believe me Brad Morse, he was here in Lowell at the time, I got the original 
copy, brand new one, not knowing that the damn old one was up in the attic all this time.  So I 
got the original and I got the copy.
They looked it up goddamn fast.  Instead of being down in Washington where you used to have 
your army records, they had to go over to Missouri.  And I got the original copy and found the 
old original up in the attic in an envelope with a different whatchamacallit, papers, there I had the
old one and the brand new one.
MN:  Did it help you?
MM:  Not a goddamn bit.  That's why today I am so goddamn bitter.  I wouldn't have the 
American flag in my home, because I think my husband deserved a hell of a lot more than what 
he got.  Now you take these immigrants that are coming in Lowell, they are better taken care of 
than the old time immigrants that landed here in Lowell.
MN:  Is that good?
MM:  Huh?
MN:  I mean, don't you wish the old immigrants, somebody took care of them?
MM:  Well, like I say in the olden days, you couldn't go and get help off the city.  Look what the 
young things that are coming in from the different foreign countries, they are down to City Hall, 
they are getting this, they are getting that, but years ago you couldn't do that, they wouldn't give 
it out to you.
MN:  What are the new groups in Lowell, what kind of immigrants are coming?
MM:  What do you call these Vietnamese. Jesus, all they have to do is go down to City Hall and 
get a helping hand.  Years ago you couldn't.
MN:  And aren't they going to the Acre?
MM:  Well that's what I mean.
MN:  Where do they live in the City.
MM:  That I don't know, it has to be somewhere near around St. Patrick's Church, in through 
there.  That used to be strictly Irish down in through there.  God, they are being handed out this 
and being handed out that.   Year's ago you couldn't get a handout, you had to get off your fanny 
and get yourself a job and go to work.
MN:  Do you think the newer immigrants work hard as the old ones did.
MM:  I don't think they deserve getting what they are getting.  It is us taxpayers that is paying to 
keep them alive.  No I can't see that at all.  I really think they are getting handed out too much.  
MN:  What would you do with them, with the new groups?
MM:  I'd ship them back to where they come from.  I certainly would.  I probably am a little bit 
bigoted, but I'm going back to the way they used my husband and he was born in this goddamn 
country.  He had to fight like hell to get what he got and a lot it did him any good, going over 
with the big first world war, first division.  That's a bunch of poppycock.  No, no I wouldn't have 
the American flag.  I gave the American flag away.  I wouldn't take it home.  And I wish to god 
my mother and father instead of coming in this country that they did go out further in Canada.
MN:  Do you have that picture?
END OF TAPE