"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr30
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas,
January or February 1942
AFS 6430B
Cut B1
Mrs. J. E. Whittaker: Mr. President, I am Mrs. J. E. Whittaker, of Austin, Texas, and I'm so glad to have
the opportunity of saying a few words in regard to our present country at war. We have a boy at
Camp Bowie, Texas, and both my husband and I are so glad to know that he volunteered patriotically
to the cause, to this great cause. And that he feels, like all other boys, that it was the thing to do. He
was attending the University of Texas. And he had volunteered on his own account, patriotically, to
answer the call. And he at present is at Camp Bowie, Texas, subject to be called across the waters, at
most anytime.
And we feel as parents, like you parents, being the fathers and mothers of their sons also, that these
are times that we must make a supreme sacrifice. To let nothing stand in our way. To answer the call,
to do all we can to pull together to defeat this terrible thing: war. To defeat Hitler, to defeat Japan,
and others that are trying so hard to conquer the country. We must exert every effort, regardless of
cost, or time, or anything else, to try to win this war, which we feel like that we will win and are going
to win with our grand president at the head of it. He is a wonderful leader, and I am glad to say that I
have this opportunity to say a few kind words like everyone else. Without our grand, great leader, we
would not, we would be at a loss to know what to do.
And remember, we are all with you, patriotically and every way. We are willing to sacrifice numbers
of things. For instance, we will be able to eliminate lots of our sweet things at home that we have
always been used to having plenty of. For instance, our sugar, we can eliminate our pies, our cakes,
our pastries. We will do everything we can to help win this war. And I'm sure there isn't a one in
this country, but what wouldn't stand by in a cause like this and who wouldn't stand by our great
president, Mr. Roosevelt.
Cut B2
[something unintelligible said to interviewer]
Mrs. J. E. Whittaker: We also have a younger boy, who now is seventeen, in high school. And he too
is eager to answer the call. Just this morning before he left, he said, “Mother, I'm going to the first
semester of summer school, and I want to go and ??? that civil service examination, and I may be
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr30
called across, I don't know yet what, but Mother, I'm going. Don't anyone let stand in my way.” And
I told him, as well as his father, I said yesterday, I said “Charles, we are so glad that you have that
patriotic spirit. And feel that it is the thing to do. Even though we hate to give you up and leave
home. But you, like other boys, know that these are times when boys must put their countries first.
And that is the thing to do.”
Cut B3
Mrs. J. E. Whittaker: Also, that we at home have a large part to play. Perhaps ??? the world it may be
a small part, but we have a large part to play. Our duty in our churches, for which I am a member of
the Grace Methodist Church of Austin, and we are answering the call heroically, patriotically in every
way. By responding to the Red Cross, by giving to the Red Cross, and by offering our prayers for the
hope that our country will be saved and will be not blown into such a terrible state of affairs like it is
over across the waters.
And we are going to do all we can. My husband ??? in the First Aid Red Cross three times a week and
has signed up for six weeks and at the end of this six weeks he intends to sign up again. And we are
doing all we can at this end, in our small way, to do our part. We want you to know, Mr. President.