UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  FRANCISCO CORVALNO
CONDUCTED BY:  BARBARA FERTIG
DATE:  OCTOBER 1987
F = FRANCISCO
B = BARBARA
LFP-BF-A007
[Background noise through entire tape]
B:  And you were born?
F:  I was born in Belozanti, Brazil.  
B:  Um, and your family came from Portugal?
F:  No, my family came from, also from Brazil?
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Ah, the connection with the Portuguese really comes from our history.  Ah, we were 
colonized, Brazil was colonized by the Portuguese and they actually ran the country or, or were 
in charge of the country until, ah, 1822, when, ah, Brazil declared its independence from 
Portugal.  Ah, in 1889, Brazil became a republic and severed all ties with ah, Portugal.  At that 
time it became a Brazilian nation.  But we inherited a lot of the Portuguese customs and also the 
Portuguese language.
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Which is the language spoken in Brazil.
B:  Ah ha, ah, what part of Brazil did you?
F:  The city of Belozanti comes, ah, from, comes from an area, ah, in the southeast part of Brazil.
Ah, Brazil is a very vast country, the country is larger in territory than the, ah, continental United
States.  It is, it first was, ah, the Constitution was molded after the United States Constitution.  
The country was divided into, um, twenty-two states and two territories.  Ah, we were governed, 
pretty much, by, by governors in each state, senators, federal senators and then you have your 
representatives.
B:  Ah ha!
F:  So the country was really molded after the, ah, Constitution of the United States.  And you, as
a matter of fact, the name of Brazil until 1964, when there was a military coup, was the United 
States of Brazil.  [Laughter]  Which a lot of people don't know.
B:  No.  I didn't.  Now, um, when did you come to the United States?
F:  I, ah
B:  of America?  [laughter]
F:  I came to America in 1969.  October, ah, November 11th 1969.  Ah, what prompt our move 
here in my entire family my mother and brothers and sisters, we all came.  We had three brothers 
here since '66 playing soccer in Boston for the Boston Astros.
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Ah, during the time that they were here my father, um, passed away.  He, he had cancer.  And 
we came from a very wealthy family in Brazil and, ah, because of my father's sickness we, our 
wealth, ah, was used to try to see if we could, ah, get the best medical, um, attention that we 
could get for him.  And unfortunately it didn't work and, um, after he passed away we had tough 
decisions to make.  Because of the tradition of the family, we felt that, ah, my father's family's 
power in Brazil did not allow us to, to try to put our lives back together.  We got to the point 
were we would apply for jobs, ah, to see if we could help out the situation at home and we were 
told by different, ah, family members who were bank directors, who owned industry, that, ah, we
were not Corvalno and we had to go to school and come in as a director or some big shot.  But 
they did not realize that we still had to eat on a day to day basis, we still had to clothe ourselves.  
So after a lot of discussion my mother and the younger kids that were in Brazil, I was 16, 15 
years of time, when my father passed away.  We decided that we could not continue to live that 
way.  We, it got to the point were to go to school I had to wait for brother to come home, give me
his shoes so I could go to school.
B:  Ugh.  Things were real tough.
F:  So things were really, ah, a hardship at that point.  And in communication with the three 
brothers that were here playing soccer, they said there was an awful lot of opportunity here.  Ah, 
hey can go to school, they can work and be no family influence on whatever decisions they may 
be taking.  And may be a fresh start that we all need.  So upon agreeing on that, we sold all the 
belongings that we had and, ah, we took residence in Lowell.  Ah, the, when we first got here 
none of us could speak any English at all.  And it is amazing how without speaking, ah, English 
we able to right away, and I guess it goes back to being kids, ah, into the mainstream.  We had a 
lot of American friends, ah, and we communicate through sign language until we were able to 
pick up a few words that would allow us to keep a conversation going.
B:  You had a lot of American, American friends that you made after you got here or?
F:  After we got here
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Not ah, we, we basically, all we know about the United States was, ah, ah, history that we had
learned in school.  And, and, and I must say that the schooling in Brazil because of the, ah, of the
number of the people of that want to attend in limited space in the schools, they make the 
curriculum there a little bit, ah, tough to eliminate the ones that don't want to go to school.  That 
is, that's their process of elimination that they use.  [laughter]  So we, we, we felt, at the time, we 
said that we had to leave, ah, Brazil.  And I'll be honest and say that, um, we had mixed emotions
about coming here.  Different country having to start eveything again.  Ah, looking back now it 
was the best decision ever made.
B:  Ah ha.  Why did you pick Lowell?
F:  Lowell was the home base for the Boston Astros.  The owner was a greek fellow who lived in
Lowell.  And most of the, ah, players, ah had apartments and, and, and, took residence in Lowell.
They used to practice in Lowell and go to Boston, ah, to play their games.  So it was only logical 
that, ah, we would come to Lowell also because there was already family members and family 
ties within the, ah, the community.  Ah, and it made the transition somewhat a little bit easier.
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Um, after we got to the country for several years it was a struggle trying to decide  You, you, 
you become torn between two countries.  You, you see what opportunities that are available here,
but yet, you always long to go back to the country that, ah, you were born in, where you have all 
your relationships for the better part of a young life there.  Um, and it took me awhile, it took me 
exactly seven years to to make up my mind.  
B:  Is this home now?
F:  It is home now.  It is home.  Finally it's home now.  [laughter]  And I think of Brazil as, I 
think very nicely about Brazil, because it gave me the, ah, the, the, moral, ah, upbringing.  It 
gave me some values that I can bring with me to enrich the, ah, the  life here in United States for 
other people.  I feel very strongly about, um, being community involved because I also think 
back.  I really feel there was something there and I guess Brazil comes to mind whenever I do 
anything because of the the conservative, ah, approach that  At the time, I know things changing 
and I know things are changing there right now, but at the time Brazilians were very conservative
in, in several ways.  Ah, in their upbringing, ah, respect your elderly was a number one rule.  Ah, 
try to, ah, to help others if you can, and I, I think that's where I can ah, contribute to the, ah, to 
America in a small way, my very small way.
B:  Tell me when, when you first moved to Lowell did you settle in the Portuguese community or
did you?
F:  For the, ah, first nine months, we, we um, settled in the, um, in the outskirts of Lowell.  Back 
almost, ah, it's called the Princeton Village Apartments right on the line with Chelmsford.  Ah, 
oddly enough we were never big star soccer players but there were two, ah, clubs in Lowell that, 
ah, played soccer.  And my third or fourth time out of the house was actually with a Portuguese 
fellow that had heard that, ah, three Brazilians moved in and they, ah, were looking for soccer 
players so they, they visit us and they picked us up and brought to the club for visit.  Ah, and for 
several years I played soccer for, for that particular club.  So basically two, three months after 
our arrival we had, I had my first contact with the Portuguese community.  And it has been a 
contact ever since.  Ah, I feel that I have been adopted by the Portuguese community and if they 
don't feel that way, I have at least adopted them as my own.  The reason for that is because the 
Brazilian community in the Lowell area is not a very large community.  Ah, if, if we could  know
how many people actually are a Brazilians living in the area you find that, that ah, they might be 
at most a couple hundred.  Um, it is difficult, difficult to find out how many there are because the
ones that have taken residence and have a legal status are in the minority.  I would say anywhere,
out with, families include, ah, anywhere from, ah, 60 to 80, it's, it's number.  We, we don't know 
of a large amount of, ah, people from Brazil living in the area.  We have heard from time to time 
that, ah, and that some Brazilians have come to Lowell as early as the ah, 1920's and 30's and 
even prior to that.  But there, there is no history documented anywhere.  Ah, and Brazilians by 
nature, ah,  love their country.  We, we as people have ah, been spoiled by, by having ah, a, a, 
great, ah, country as far as nature is concerned.  Blessed with, ah, nice weather, ah, that would 
be, ah, rival to California weather.  We also have our traditions, our way of life that, ah, in the 
words of a lot of reporters or visitors to Brazil, Brazil, Brazilians, ah, live in there own world, 
they have a different life style.  Ah, if I was working a bank in Brazil, like I work here, I would 
get to my job at 9 o'clock.  12, 11:30 to 12 o'clock, ah, the bank would close so I could go out to 
lunch.  And I would come back maybe at 2, 2:30 and work till 6.  And, and it's as different 
lifestyle and, and the weaBher might dictate, ah, some of that lifestyle.  Brazilians are happy by 
nature.  We enjoy soccer, we enjoy, ah, the beaches that ah, we have plenty of.  We, um, we enjoy
music and Carnival is what a lot of people in Brazil live for year round.  It's only a week long but
they make the most of it.  [laughter]
B:  Um, Is Carnival something that, that you feel Brazil inherited from an earlier Portuguese 
tradition?
F:  I don't believe it came from, um, the Portuguese.  It, it, it's actually a religious celebration.
B:  Ah ha!
F:  Ah, it's commemorated throughout the world.  Ah, we have adapted Carnival to the Brazilian 
way of life.  Brazil is very rich in culture because we have a, a diversification of, of different, ah, 
nationalities.  Just like United States, we are similar in that respect, too.  We have the Portuguese 
influence, we have the Spanish influence when Portugal, and was dominated by Spain.  Ah, at 
one point Brazil was, after the domination, Brazil was divided in half :  half belonging to Spain 
and half belonging to, ah, to, to, to Portugal.  Ah, the Portuguese brought the Africans as slaves.  
The, ah, they could not make the Indians work.  There was no way they could make the Indians 
work.  Then Brazil, certain part of Brazil, because of the wealth in wood, that Brazil had, and 
also in sugarcane, we had, ah, in the early, ah, going, the French invading Brazil.  So there are 
some, ah, French, ah, in, ah, backgrounds in Brazil.  Ah, we also had the Dutch coming in and 
trying to invade parts of Brazil.  After the 1900's we saw the Japanese come to, to, for farming.  
And we saw the Italians coming also, also for farming, for wines and wineries and so forth.  So 
Brazil is, is, is divided into sections.  For example the southern section of the country, were you 
might get a hint of snow, ah, during the winter time, you will find that the Italians, the Japanese 
concentrate in those areas, also the German.  Ah, because of the climate is a little closer to what 
they have at home.  Ah, the, the, the southeast part of Brazil you will find a lot of the Portuguese,
ah, influence.  On the northern part of Brazil you'll find the Portuguese, the Dutch, the French, 
ah, and find all different cultures.  So Brazil is a melting pot of different cultures.  And all those 
contributed to what Carnival is today.  Ah, again they had to be adaptation to meet the Brazilian 
way of life.  And, um, it is one of the most, ah, ah, public, out, outbursts of energy of, ah, the 
release of emotions, whatever, that what Brazilians use the Carnival for.
B:  Do you ever go back to Carnival?
F:  The last time I was in Brazil was in 1972.  It has been quite some time.  [laughter]  Oddly 
enough I, I, the last time had dinner at Carnival, Brazilian Carnival by, was in 1976 in Rhode 
Island, when there was a group that put, ah, a party together.  Every, ah, at the New York Historia
Hotel they hold a grand ball Brazilian Carnival which is covered by Brazilian television and also 
magazines.  And throughout this area you will find, Boston, ah, will hold some
B:  There's one in Washington.
F:  Yes, ah, so you will find celebrations.  I have stayed away from celebrations, number one 
because of time constraints, and second because ah, my wife.  Ah, she was born in Lowell and 
raised in Lowell and although she enjoys it, um, it, it is pretty hard to, if you don't, if you are not,
if you have not grown with something like that, the music is different, it's upbeat it's a release of 
emotions, as I said, that's what Carnival would mean to a Brazilian.  And it's pretty difficult for 
somebody, somebody else to, to really adapt to that type of situation.
B:  What's your wife's background?  Is she?
F:  My my wife, ah, was born on Back Central Street.  Her mother's Portuguese.  Ah, she, she 
was raised actually by, um, by um, baby sitter that, ah, was French.  And in the early years, she 
spoke French before she spoke Portuguese.  [laughter]  But, ah, she was born in, ah, in Lowell 
and she's from Portuguese, from a Portuguese background.  She was educated in the public 
school system as I was.
B:  Did you meet her in school?
F:  Ah, no, we, we met through, ah, through one of my sister-in-laws, they were neighbors.  And 
she was the first girlfriend I had in this country.  It was three, four months after I got here.  At 
first we, ah, we were reluctant because we were both young.  I was sixteen, she was thirteen, 
fourteen, and we just went out on dates and went to a movie or something like that.  And at first, 
ah, we really didn't see eye to eye.  Then for a period she was trying to make sure that, ah, we did
not, ah, go separate ways.  Ah, and she really was after me and I used to hate that.  And then she 
gave me the cold, cold shoulder and I started pursuing her.  [laughter]  We probably had one of 
the longest engagements, ah, that I ever heard of.  We went, ah, steady for about eight years, we 
engaged for two years before we decided it was time to get married.  [laughter]  I just did not feel
ready, there were just a few things that I, I wanted to get done prior to, to, to making a long term 
commitment.  After ten years I really had made a commitment I guess.
B:  And it, were you preparing all along for financial management?  Is that something that your 
family background brought you in to?
F:  Not really.  Um, as, as I said earlier, during the first seven years it was a struggle because you 
were caught between two countries.  And because you were longing to go back but uncertain 
what reality would be there when you go back.  You become a dreamer.  And you dream about 
what you want to do, but you actually don't do, don't, you don't take any action.  So I, I had a 
nice scholarship after graduating from Lowell High.  Ah, at Bell Laboratories, and they were 
sending me to school for electronics and, ah, I attended Northern Essex because of the English 
was really not what it should have been for other universities.  So I felt more comfortable.  They 
still honored the scholarship, gave me a summer job and I was with them for about a year and a 
half as a, um, an engineers helper.  Um, one of the things I will never forget is trying to put one 
of those big telephone bays apart.  And all the wires that, wires that go into it is unbelievable.  
Um, after a year and a half I, I realized that, ah, that really was not what I wanted to do.  I, I felt 
very strongly that my forte was not dealing with numbers, ah, per se, or trying to do calculations 
and come up with, ah, with new invention, but, ah, dealing with people.  Ah, so I, I, I went back 
and I said "Look, I thank you for the opportunity and, but I'm going to have to pass it up."  Um, 
at the time, while I was in school, I always worked a full time job, I was making pizzas.  And as 
a matter of fact, right on Back Central Street.  I been working this area here for, for close to 
twenty years.  I, I worked at Express Pizza making pizzas for about 10 to 12 years.  And for a 
while, I was content because I did not know what I wanted to do, just to ah, to earn my money 
every week.  I worked very hard, I was helping the family at home and things seemed to be 
going pretty good.  I still was not sure whether or not I was going back to Brazil and, ah, I was 
content just letting things go the way they were going.  In 1984, 74, I decided to go back to 
school and try going into a business curriculum.  And felt that maybe, with a business 
background, maybe I can open up my own business and have my own pizza shop.  I went back 
for about a year or two and, and I had some medical problems.  Ah, I end up having a defective 
blood vessel under my brain.  [laughs]  And it's what they call an aneurysm  And one day the 
bubble that I had on that, ah, on that blood vessel, um, burst.  And blood started leaking and I 
went blind for a couple of days.  And I had tremendous headaches.  Ah, I found myself at a 
hospital in Lowell with the doctor saying that he was going to perform surgery and my chances 
of surviving were not very good.  Um, my family through, um, some contacts that we had made 
in the community, arranged for me to be transferred to Boston.  And I was really lucky to come 
out of it alive and without physical defects, because it involved touching the brain and lifting it 
up so they could get to it.  Ah, after a year of recuperation, that's when I made up my mind.  I 
says "I should be thanking God that I 'm alive today.  And the reason why I'm alive today is 
because there is a technology in this country that I would not be able to find in Brazil that saved 
my life."  And that start, make me start thinking about my life here and what I could make of it if
I really put an effort into it, rather than thinking about Brazil all the time.  And I decided I was 
going back to school, I was going to try my hard, ah, my best, to, to really go through school.  
Ah, at the same time, I felt that, ah, although making pizzas was good, was not my best interest.  
Although I was making very good money, that I would, in order to have a chance, have to some 
how get my feet in the field that I would, I had chosen for a career.  So in 1978 when I started 
going back to school I, I took a job with Beneficial Finance.  And as far as job goes for pay it 
really is not worth mentioning, but for the experience that, ah, you, and, and the knowledge that 
you acquire, there is no money in the world that can buy.  I started off going to people's house, 
knocking on their doors, to collect bills.  And boy do people look different when you ask them 
for money.  [laughter]  They're different type of, ah, beast all together.  And part of the job was 
collections, part of the job was analyzing credit, and, ah, I, I became very interested in that.  I 
was going to school, I was pursuing a degree in business, and, ah, all of a sudden, I had a 
following because I could speak Spanish, I could speak Portuguese as well as English.  And there
were something I guess that made me stand out as opposed to the other people in the office.  I 
was committed to, to making something for myself rather than looking at it as just a job to get 
by.  And I started caring about people, I started caring about, ah, their financial situation.  Why 
did I have to be knocking at those people's door, collecting money?  Something must have 
happened, they were a good risk when they took the money.  Something happened along the line.
So, when, when I set up an appointment to see someone about collecting money, I would go a 
step further and find out from them, how I could help them restructure whatever financial burden
they had.  Encourage them to come in the office to start, discuss the problems with us and see if 
we could not help.  We were able to help them once, even though the, the rates were higher than 
a bank, we somehow helped them by giving them the money.  So there must have been a way we
could help them again.  To get off whatever, ah, struggle they were having at that time.  And, ah, 
it seemed to have worked because word got around and the following got bigger and, all of a 
sudden, I had two banks knocking on my door.  I had the International and First Bank.
B:  Oh!
F:  And my main concern in talking with them, I saw the opportunity to further, ah, what I had, 
ah, planned to do.  My major concern was:  Are they going to stick me as a teller?  Are they 
going to stick me in an area, ah, for customer relation?  Or are they really going to give me a shot
at, as progressing in the organization?  So, in 1981, I joined First Bank, as an officer trainee.  
That was the agreement that we had.  Within, the officer trainee program runs three to four years.
Within a year and a half I was promoted to Branch Manager.  They gave me this branch.  And in 
a short three years, I made it to Assistant Vice-President.  Which I am very proud of.  So as far as
work history is concerned that's were we are right now.  Right now I manage a branch, and I'm in
charge of commercial money for three other branches though.  I'm very happy with that.  And the
learning process still goes on.  I have goals that I want to achieve and eventually, because of my, 
of my, ah, fascination with the, ah, with the, with the, ah, the financial world and, and how we 
can apply that to, to people, ah, I eventually will end up in financial planning.  That's my goal, 
my all time goal.
B:  Ah ha!  I'd like to ask you a few more questions about your relationship to the Portuguese 
community here, which, I'm assuming, but I may be wrong.  I'm assuming is strengthened by 
having married somebody from within the community.  Um, hard to ask this, but do you think 
that you probably were interested, more interested in meeting young women from the, from the 
Portuguese community, than other young women in Lowell?  Were you drawn to your wife partly
because she was, had a Portuguese heritage?
F:  No, I don't think so.  I, I, I guess we have to be honest, ah, when we do a project like this, so 
I'll be very honest with you.  Um, Brazilians and Portuguese, although we share a lot in common,
we don't have a good understanding of each other.  Ah, the Portuguese sees the Brazilian as 
putting them down all the time.  Ah, they feel the Brazilians think that they are superior and that 
creates a lot of attrition, ah, and it does not bring back to a very good relationship.  My 
involvement with the Portuguese community is that, it's because they were my first friends when 
I first got here.  I played soccer with them, we, we went to school together, ah, those were the 
people that I could communicate with and be understood.  And I was only sixteen years old, I did
not have time to think they are Portuguese and Brazilian, you, you, when you're a kid you don't 
think that way.  So I pretty much grew up, um, attending the Feast of the Holy Ghost, going to 
Mass at St.  Anthony's, um, going to the processions, ah, becoming part, or involved, ah, um, by, 
by my presence there.  That's the involvement at the time.  Ah, with the different customs that 
they, they, they, that they had and understanding that, ah, maybe we had different backgrounds, 
maybe we had a little bit of difference in culture but we had a lot in common, to, to share.  We 
had difficulty learning English together.  We had difficulty adjusting to a new way of life.  We, 
we do come from the same background if eventually, because they colonized us, they gave us our
language.  So, I, I guess, the, the, the, the, differences that exist among Brazilians and 
Portuguese, really comes because of lack of education on both sides.  And when I say education, 
it's knowing, we know each others history pretty much, but we don't know the, the, the level life 
that each country has to offer.  Um, Portugal, the, the Portuguese that live in Lowell, they, they, 
they're farmers, they're fisherman, they do not have much for formal education.  And, and I do 
not say that in derogatory way.  It is a fact of life.  There is nothing wrong with that.  A lot of the 
Brazilians that come here, a lot of them have more schooling and because of that they seem to, 
and, and I hate to knock Brazilians down, but they, they seem to think that they are a little bit 
superior because they have a little bit more knowledge.  And that's not well received.  Ah, the 
Portuguese are hard working, they are very honest individuals and, and they are good friends.  
And, um, a lot of us that have been here for a long time, that, ah, have lived and dealt with the 
Portuguese, we respect the way they are, and we respect what they stand for.  But the newer 
people that are arriving, ah, that know the Portuguese, through jokes, because Portuguese people 
make jokes about Brazilian being stupid and Brazilians make jokes about Portuguese being 
stupid.  Its a rivalry that there is and, ah, I don't when it started but I don't know when its going to
end, either.  Um, there is a lot of ribbing going on, and, and from the Brazilian point of view its 
only a joke.  We, life for the Brazilians is a joke.  That's because we
B:  Okay!
F:  So the, the Brazillians
END