Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas
(Transcription)
Start M36 A(2)
F: What are some of the things that people grow in gardens around here?
S: Tomatoes..
F: Do you have a garden?
S: Yes, ma'am. We usually grow tomatoes, most people does. And corn. And potatoes,
and beans, onions, that's all I can think of.
F: Do you put any of the things in the freezer or or can them?
S: Yes. Mom puts the beans up, and sometimes we'll freeze some corn.
F: Beans aren't very good in the freezer are they? They're better in jars aren't they?
Subject #15---Page 7
S: Yeah, right.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
F: Have you ever had any friends that have moved away from here?
S: Yes, ma'am. <unintelligible text>, she moved when I was in 6th grade, we was best
friends, and she's living in Russellville now. And she moved to Oklahoma and we used
to write each other all the time, but now since she's moved to Russellville we hardly ever
write each other anything.
F: Do you ever go over to see her?
S: I don't even know where she lives. She ain't wrote or told me nuthin. I must know that
she moved to Russellville.
F: That's just a shame because she knows your address. She can get in touch with you.
S: Yeah.
F: What season of the year do you like best?
S: Summer.
F: Why?
S: It's go swimming, lay out in the sun, ..
F: Where do you swim?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: Usually down here at the Rope Hole. It's called the Rope Hole or the Bluff Hole. It's two
little it's in the creek. And that's where most of the kids around here go swimming.
F: Is it kind of cleared off for a recreation kind of place or is it just a regular creek?
S: It's just it's a regular creek, you know. It's pretty deep in it and they've put a rope up in
the tree. It's a nice place to go swimming.
F: Picnic? Do you ever do that? Take food down there?
S: It ain't really a good place to go picnic. Horsehead's a good
Subject #15---Page 8
place to go picnicing stuff like that.
F: Are there any snakes around there?
S: Yes.
F: What kind?
S: There's water moccasins and in the water. The most up here around the house there's
copperheads. A lot of them.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
F: Are they poisonous, the copperheads?
S: Yeah, but they won't hurt you I mean Mom got bit by one on the hand. And it made her
real sick, but she was alright.
F: Have you ever just come up on one when you didn't know he was there?
S: Uh huh.
F: Suddenly?
S: It was a rattlesnake. I was standing right over it. We'd heard it rattling you know, but I
was looking up cause it sounded like it was in the tree and I was looking up and my dad
walked around me and saw it laying there. And it was ready to strike.
F: Good heavens.
S: It was close.
F: Where was it?
S: Beside the house. By a tree.
F: At your home?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: Yes ma'am.
F: Are you really afraid of them?
S: Yes.
F: What do you do when you see one?
S: Oh, I just stand there and shake. I don't know.
F: I do too. I'm terrified of snakes. And rattlesnakes.
S: That's them things are bad when they bite you.
Subject #15---Page 9
F: They are. Very bad. Have you ever - since you're the youngest how much younger are
you than your next sister or brother?
S: 6 years.
F: So you probably never have had any fights with them.
S: Yes.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
F: You have?
S: Yes, we used to fight all the time when she was home. Constantly, every day. Since
she's married now we get along great.
F: That's really wonderful. Well since she was so much older did she always win?
S: Usually. I was so much smaller and I wanted her to play and she was already grown up
you know she was already growd up and she didn't want to play with dolls or nothing any
more.
F: What did your parents say when you were fighting?
S: I'd usually win because I was spoiled.
F: You were the baby? If you could do anything in this world that you wanted to for a whole
day anywhere that you wanted to do it what would it be? Do you ever dream about doing a
particular thing?
S: I always dream about going places like to Hawaii. I always wanted to go there. Or I'd
like to go to an ocean and just spend the whole day on the beach.
F: Have you ever been to the beach?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: No. I've always wanted to go. They said it was so pretty, you know all the beaches and
everything.
F: Well, I lived not too far from a beach. I lived near the Florida line. I lived in Georgia and
it is very pretty and I hope you get to go there real soon. So you'd like to just lie on the
beach. Maybe in Hawaii somewheres. That sounds - Do you talk differently
Subject #15---Page 10
to your parents than to your friends?
S: Yes.
F: How? How different?
S: I don't really goof off around mom and them. I do sometimes you know, but I try to
straighten up a little bit.
F: Are they pretty strict?
S: Not really, no. They I mean I don't really get to go all the places I want to go. They're not
too bad.
F: They're nice for parents. Do you think they might have been stricter with your older
brothers and sisters?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: No, they let them off lots easier than they have me. Since I'm the baby.
F: Do you talk different to your teacher than to your friends? Do you try to watch the way
you talk a little bit more or do you talk pretty naturally to everyone?
S: It's about the same around here to everybody.
F: <unintelligible text> certainly does seem like a nice person.
S: He is.
F: Principal.
S: Uh huh.
F: And I just found out a few minutes ago that Miss Williams the teacher is his wife.
S: Yes.
F: Did you have her?
S: Uh huh. She was my first grade teacher. And mom had to go to the first year with me.
F: Why?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: I was scared to death of school. And they didn't have kindergarden
Subject #15---Page 11
when I started here. So mom had to go to the first year with me.
F: Every day?
S: Everyday.
F: Did she stay in the class?
S: She stayed in the class usually.
F: <unintelligible text> didn't mind?
S: No. That's terrible. I think back and I think oh how stupid.
F: Well you surely have got a good momma that's willing to do that, haven't you.
S: She didn't like it too much, but she went to get me to go.
F: My goodness, so you do remember your first days at school. That was going to be my
next question. Do you like school now?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: Well I won't say I love it but I just like to come see my friends. That's about it.
F: What's your favorite subject?
S: Right now it's Health.
F: Oh, what are you studying in Health?
S: We're studying about bones. We're learning the muscles and the bones and everything.
I can just get a lot out of it. It's something, I don't know.
F: It's something personal to you, isn't it? It's about your self. I used to teach Health and
that's one of my favorite things to teach. Have you ever played a trick on a teacher or on a
substitute teacher?
S: Yes. A substitute teacher, we'd change our names. I mean me and my friends they'd
call out the roll. I'd answer to Tammy or to Karen or something you know.
F: Well that's a good trick. Got her really confused.
Subject #15---Page 12
S: Yeah.
F: Do the kids around here usually give the substitute teachers a hard time?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: Yes.
F: That's just general everywhere, I think. It's just a fun thing to do. Have you ever gotten
lost anywhere?
S: No.
F: When you wake up in the mornings do you remember if you had a dream do you
remember the dream?
S: Most of the time. I usually wake up at night you know and..
F: Do you dream a lot?
S: Quite a bit. There's some bad things and some good things. The other night I dreamed
that my friend died. And I got to school and I said boy I'm proud to see you.
F: It was real then wasn't it?
S: It was. I mean it scared me to death. I vas crying and everything. Cause I had a friend
that died when I was in 8th grade. She was my best friend <unintelligible text>. And that's
terrible.
F: What happened to her?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: Her appendix busted. She vas running a real high fever and everything, and her parents
didn't get her to the doctor in time.
F: There's a doctor around here?
S: Yes, ma'am. <unintelligible text>.
F: Where is he?
S: He's in Clarksville.
F: That's quite a distance away, though isn't it?
S: Yeah.
F: Have you ever had the same dream more than one time?
Subject #15---Page 13
S: No.
F: Do you have a favorite aunt or uncle?
S: I'm not really around them. You know they all live in Texas and I'm never around them,
hardly ever.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
F: So you go around your brothers and sisters and in-laws. About how many children in all
come together to your house say for Thanksgiving?
S: There's about 25.
F: With your brothers and sisters and their children and husbands and wives?
S: Yes, ma'am.
F: That is really a houseful.
S: It is. We all get together always on Christmas. During birthdays you know a few of them
can't show up or something. We try to get together on Christmas for sure.
F: Most of them live right around here?
S: Yes, ma'am. One of my sister owns a store down here - the <unintelligible text>. There,
and I have two sisters in Clarksville.
F: Your sister is a <unintelligible text> wife?
S: Yes, ma'am.
F: Oh, and her name is <unintelligible text> Oh my goodness, well how interesting.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
S: And then I have two sisters in Clarksville and my two brothers lives right around us. And
my sister lives in Morrow. So they're pretty close. All of them.
F: Well <unintelligible text> is a busy man, isn't he.
S: Yes, ma'am.
F: What are some of the things he does?
Subject #15---Page 14
S: He's a board member on here and he's a farmer and he tends to the store and he
referees games football games and stuff. He stays pretty busy.
F: Doesn't he have a sawmill? Or works at a sawmill?
S: No, ma'am. He was going to put one in I don't know if he ever got it in I never heard
nuthin else about it.
F: Well, he's helping me a little bit with this project and he's just the hardest man to catch.
He's always at a ball game or.. Do they have children?
S: Two. <unintelligible text>. <unintelligible text> started Kindergarten this year. He loves
it. And <unintelligible text> she's three, she's my little girl.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 16 year old white female, Arkansas (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4402
F: Is she the one that your mother keeps?
S: No, thats my other sister.
F: The other three year old. What is the name of their store?
S: Oark General Store.
F: It's got some of everything. Is it about the only big store in Oark?
S: It's the only one in Oark.
F: Is it? They've got all the business, then. Do you ever work there?
S: I worked there two summers ago. I helped one of my sisters worked in there you know
helping them out, and I helped her out one summer. It was a lot of fun. But last summer
I worked at Clarksville in a office. Typing letters and filing and stuff. That was a lot of fun
too.
F: Well that might have given you the idea that you want to go into some kind of business
education. You said you haven't decided?
S: No, I haven't.