"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr12
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941
AFS 6368B
John Henry Faulk: Well, Mrs. Whittaker what do you think about the Japanese attack on Hawaii
Sunday?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, it's nothing more than what to be expected. In other words, it's inevitable. And I
think they have, that they have made themselves liable for us to be thrown into war. And I'm glad to
say that I have one son in the army and that he's patriotic enough, and I have that Christian spirit in
me to give our son for the cause and I'm glad I did it, that my husband and I have done it.
John Henry Faulk: Well, do you think Japan was in any way justified in attacking the United States.
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, I think to this extent, I think that they were influenced by Hitler in every way,
which it worked out that way in the end. And that is my opinion of it. And they are — Hitler knew that
they wouldn't attack Moscow this winter because they had good ??? over there. Just go over to Japan,
you go over and start war with the United States and then they will declare war. And by doing so, by
damned then we'll get the whole world involved. And that's what I wanted. And so I have come now
at the climax of it all, I've got the whole world involved in war. And that's what he intended in the first
and he's now climaxed it all by getting us all mixed up.
John Henry Faulk: I wouldn't be surprised if that's not —
Mrs. Whittaker: Oh, that's true.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what do you think about our chances against Japan?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, we have our pretty strong navy out there and if we can defend our Pacific Coast
and our islands and our sovereigns that we have out, I think that we have right now a pretty good
chance to defend ourselves right in the beginning before the great onset should take place, which we
should avert right now.
John Henry Faulk: Well, how long do you reckon it's going to last?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, all candidly, I don't know what to express my opinion as to a certainty of a not.
But it looks like at the present time, unless we can put up a terrible, terrible defense we're in for it for
a limited term.
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr12
John Henry Faulk: Well, I think that it's —
Mrs. Whittaker: That's my opinion. Of course, I may be wrong in submitting those remarks. But I
really think.
John Henry Faulk: Well, with the war strung all the way around the world, ??? have a hard time
getting —
Mrs. Whittaker: Yes, we're up against it now. We really are.
John Henry Faulk: Do you think the United States is in danger of attack?
Mrs. Whittaker: Why, we are from all angles. Why? Because . . . each side of the oceans. They've
come in at Vera Cruz, they can come into Central America. They can come in anywhere now. At
Alaska, Canada, everywhere they can come in.
John Henry Faulk: Well, do you reckon they would though? Do you reckon that they'd dare do a thing
like that?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, certainly if they're trying to conquer all Europe they won't stop at any end.
There's nothing that they won't leave undone. That's my opinion.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what do you reckon Japan's object was in attacking us? They must know
they're going to get wiped out.
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, the object was this: Hitler spurred them on. They were influenced, we know, by
Hitler.
John Henry Faulk: Well, how do you know that ???.
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, that's . . . we surmise that from all indications for the way it's been going on.
That's my opinion. Of course, other people are free to speak as they like about it.
John Henry Faulk: That's right. For a while here in the United States, anyhow.
Mrs. Whittaker: Why yes.
John Henry Faulk: Do you think that the United States has been entirely justified in actions she has
taken?
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr12
Mrs. Whittaker: Why certainly, she has every cause to be justified in taking the stand for it she is now.
We have to defend ourselves. And by Japan's attacking all those isles out there, all that belong to the
United States, why that's as good as Hitler wants. “Japan you go and start something out there and
that's as good as we want.”
John Henry Faulk: Mm, hmm [affirmative].
Mrs. Whittaker: Now we can enclose on both sides of the United States, don't you see their point of
view? Certainly. Well, it's terrible ???.
Unidentified Woman: ???.
John Henry Faulk: Yes it is.
Mrs. Whittaker: But as my husband stated that this has been coming on gradually, gradually. We
just were not able to open our eyes. But, in other words, when it first started over there, we were
in a way in disguise at war. But it never was announced officially, but we were just not wide awake
enough to realize that we are on the verge of war against [at a sham (?)], you might say. And that's
the way I take it.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what do you think the . . . if you have an opinion, what do you think is the
basic cause of this war, ???
Mrs. Whittaker: It's for Hitler to gain domain of the whole world. He wants to be the conqueror of all
the world so —
John Henry Faulk: In other words he —
Mrs. Whittaker: He wants possession of everything. “I am all. I am it”. But —
John Henry Faulk: He understands more about Japan than he does about ???.
Mrs. Whittaker: No, he just wants to conquer the whole world. But, I'm sure that God will take a hand
and save our world from his terrible, terrible onslaught on the people.
John Henry Faulk: Well what part is Russia now going to play in this, do you think?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well —
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr12
John Henry Faulk: They've been the one that has stopped Hitler, you know.
Mrs. Whittaker: At the present time, if they don't get Moscow, why she will just go on and fight her
own, the best she can. And I don't ever think that she will double cross any of the Allies, I don't think
she will. I think she's going to stand pact with us. Of course now we may have formed the wrong
opinion. ???.
John Henry Faulk: That's true —
Mrs. Whittaker: You just don't know what time they'll double cross any of us, any country, we don't
know that. However, all of the countries that are lined up — we just kept the radio going all morning
long. Charlie ??? more than anybody, and of course after his daddy leaves, why about twenty after
six, why he just gets up and he just takes the control of the radio, “Oh, mama,” he said, “just listen.
Oh boy,” he said, “oh boy.” He just goes on and on.
John Henry Faulk: Well, how old is he?
Mrs. Whittaker: He was seventeen the fifth of October.
John Henry Faulk: Well, then he's not so worried on having to go —
Mrs. Whittaker: He wants to join the marines, ??? boy, ??? he won't be seventeen until the ??? of
December and he wants to join. The whole high school is going hog wild, they're ready to go. They're
calling for volunteers now.
John Henry Faulk: Well, what do you think about Charles going? Would you be willing to give two
sons?
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, how dear they are to all of us, our children. Just as dear as you are to your
mother. As she is to her mother ??? our children are our children, we love them. And we would be
willing to make that supreme sacrifice to defend our country. If we were not we would not have the
patriotic spirit. And I don't think there's any mother in the land, today, that wouldn't be willing to
sacrifice her son or their sons to the good of the cause that would defend our country.
John Henry Faulk: That's very ??? shows great faith in our democracy.
Mrs. Whittaker: Well, they have to have that courageous spirit or would we not be able to gain
the ???. If every mother, one of the most selfish standpoint would say, “No indeed, I'd rather let my
son be sent to prison before I let him go into the marines or navy or army.” Why, how would our
"Man-on-the-Street", Austin, Texas, December 9, 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr12
army stand ??? to defend our country. We'd be at a total loss. We have to act patriotic regardless of
our love and our supreme ???.
John Henry Faulk: Country above all.
Mrs. Whittaker: Yes, I believe if we don't do it and encourage the boys then our country is going to be
taken over night. In other words, just like that [snaps her fingers], just like that.