"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr39
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942
AFS 6439A
Alexander Luvey: Mr. President, this is Alexander Luvey, a lawyer from Nashville, Tennessee. It
is generally recognized that the Negroes of the South are not contributing as much as they can
contribute to his national defense. Nor are they receiving the benefits which the federal government
desires them to receive. This is due to the fact that the federal government is working through
constituted local authorities. It is true that local served government is a theory of democratic
government, but Mr. President, this is a condition and not a theory which confronts us Negroes
in the South. When the head of our government publically announces that this is a white man's
country, when the head of our local Department of Education fights vigorously to maintain a duo
educational system paying different salary schedules, how can we expect that the local authorities
will function fairly and efficiently for the Negro?
Mr. President, if the Negro is to make his contribution to the federal government, if the Negro is
to receive the benefits which is his due this must be operated through the federal channels with a
responsibility directly in Washington and not through a local-served government.
Pam Tucker: I am Pam Tucker, seventeen year-old girl reserve of the YWCA and a student of Pearl
Senior High School. You've had this say about everything Mr. President. You want peace, peace of
mind, spirit, and body. You're torn up inside because you don't understand what is happening or
why. You don't give us no consolation with that hysterical action. Give us emotional security.
We as the Negro youth of Nashville think you may help these emergency times by providing better
recreational facilities and educational opportunities. By wholesome recreation and better education
we may develop our minds as well as our bodies so as to better serve our country, home, and
community.
Myrtle Copeland: Mr. President Roosevelt, my name is Miss Myrtle Copeland. I am a colored lady and
a resident of Nashville, Tennessee. I am very much interested in this defense program. I am studying
first-aid and many of we colored people are in order to render service in any emergency. I will do
my part in any defense program to defend our country and I hope we as a colored race will be given
more consideration for better jobs.
Unidentified Man: Mr. President, I was born in Nashville, Tennessee some years ago. I'm in every
capacity in the social life of Nashville. I've had the privilege of heading it up at some time or other.
I graduated one of the greatest medical schools in the world, Meharry Medical College in nineteen
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr39
hundred and thirteen. At the time of my graduation I had the good pleasure, or you might say, the ill-
pleasure whatever you might say it was, to be a member of a state militia. I was First Sergeant at that
time. When the first world war broke out I couldn't get out of this company and I was transferred
immediately to the Des Moines training camp where I took the officers training camp for a period of
time and was promoted to the rank of Captain there.
I went with my boys overseas and we fought and did our part in the first great world war. We came
back and this company was disbanded. We tried repeatedly to get the different governors of the
state and the adjunct generals to reinstate this company, and to the present time we have not
been successful. And when this great struggle this second time broke out, we again applied to the
governor and his staff and for several weeks we have been waiting.
We in Nashville and in the South are willing to do our part. The only thing that we are asking is that
we be given opportunity to fight, to live, and to die for the thing that we call democracy. The thing
that will cause this world to give the minority groups an opportunity to achieve all of the blessings of
life, health, and happiness.