American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_10_150 
Reports - 
Jens Lund: "Recommendations Regarding Further Research Among Walla Walla Italians for the 
'Italians of the West' Project" 
.i; 
CONFIDENTIAL: 
CONF=IDENTIAL: 
Recomenda -tions Regarding Further Rebe«arch Among Walla Walla 
Italians for the "Italians of the West" Project 
by Jens Lund, Washington State Fo.lklife Council 
"Italian- -- ne's's" 
in the Wal la Walla Valley seems to center around 
two factors. First is the persistence of Italian - owned 
horticulture, especially of Walla Walla Sweet Unions, and the 
dominance of Walla Walla Sweet: production, packing, and 
distribution by the Walla Walla Gardeners Association. Second is 
the rerviv<al. 
o f Italian ethnic - consciousness 
ciousnes 
s 
since 1976, 
Il1ost 
recently centered on the Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society and 
the annual. Italian Heritage Days celebration in October. 
Most Italian's in the Valley settled in the area on the southwest 
edge of the City of Walla Walla, in or near the City of College 
Place, around the outskirts of College Place, and in the Valley 
between the two cities and the Oregon Stater Line. Many of -therm 
are still located there. 
The WWGA was founded as an Italian association at the turn of the 
century, and is predominantly Italian-American, despite having 
changed from a co--operatives to a stockholder-owned corporation. 
Until. the Bassini family established their own private packing 
house a few years a go, the WWUA was the only shipper of Walla 
Walla Sweets. ► 
rom the 1`310s to 1` 8G, they were the only Italian 
organization in the Walla Walla Valley, unless you count St. 
Francis of Assisi R. C. 
Church. 
Joe J. 
L-ocati., a retired onion-grower and State and Federal 
produce inspector is the leading historian of both they Italian 
community and of the horticulture industry. His book, 
jh-!'. 
1-►eri.SUP Rf A
M
 W011A Cclurrh & 1010=12M 
A 
Cc•mCa r •leli•> v UOYAW o•f EMUS 
 Ang VPO 
M
 M 1.32 0W&M, Sh•iLll?;i,.nw. 
Ang F'repegmAny OEM= can 011A Walla (0uAX ••-Wi^L►.i. a Wt:i.can on 
the 1:1:a1_a,.an 
I.ieri._t-ggg, privately published in Walla Walla, WA., 
1`378 QCCN 77-0'312 C,5, 
LC Call## SB :31`3. 2 . 
W21_G 3) , is the 
definitive work on the: history of both horticulture and Italians 
in the Valley. L-ocati., although a member of WWIHS, dismisses it 
as "a bit of nostalgia," and maintains that theme is no genuine 
Italian ethnic pride in the Valley. There is little doubt that 
Italians and peoples of It a lian ancestry have not been considered 
"American's" in the Valley, until recently, despite them having 
been in the Valley since the mid-19th century. Many Italians and 
Italian-Americans took Anglicized names, including the Saturnos, 
changed to B•reens, 
probably the leading Italian pioneer 
horticulturist family. However, there had to have been a 
considerable amount of Italian pride theme in the 1910s, as 
Walla Walla claims to have had the first Columbus statue and the 
first Columbus Day parade in the Northwest, if not the entire 
West Coast. 
In the old days, the Italian community was sharply divided 
1 
between Milanese (most from Lonate Pazzol.o or they shores of Lago 
Maggiore) and "Calabrese" (not necessarily from Calabria, but 
also from Napless and Sicily). Locati talks about how they dial 
not: socialize or intermarry, and that they sat on opposite sides 
of the church. He attributed this to differences in mentality, 
the Milanese being Germanic--pragmatic, and the "Calabrese'' 
emotional., romantic, and somewhat shiftless. Giuseppe Pessci allo 
supplied wind and drapes for the community early in this century 
from their vineyard in Umatilla County, Oregon, near Barrett and 
Milton--f-reewate'r`. His son, Bert, remembers 13roups of Northern and 
Southern Italians coming out to their vineyard and socializing in 
a somewhat limited way, since they were now a few miles from 
home. The Southerners always let the Northerners speak first 
 and 
deferred to them in any conversation. 
The Walla Walla Italian Heritage Society can be traced 
 to several 
sources. Non--Italian Bill Burk of the Fort Walla Walla Historical 
Society and Museum started having "ethnic days" at Fort Walla 
Walla during the 1 70s, and enlisted some people from the local 
Italian community to help. He says that Francis Christiana, a 
younger man from an old onion.. growing family was the person most 
responsible for Italian heritage revival. Much of the leadership 
in the Italian community seems to have come from Carmen (Ca•rmy) 
DeStito, who is originally from Spokane, not Walla Walla. 
Unfortunately, I was not able to interview Mr. Christiana. 
During the Bicentenni.al hoopla of 1976, Christiana and Mrs. 
DeStito were able to set up a rededication of the Christopher 
Columbus statue, on Columbus day, 1976, followed by a parade, and 
a bit of a festival at Fort Walla Walla. It was not until 1`J86, 
however, that the WWIHS was established and chartered and that 
the Italian Heritage Days festival was established. Walla Walla 
has had <a 
Walla Walla Sweet Onion bays festival in July for 
several decades, but only recently has it and any Italian 
content.. 
Italian revival has practically exploded since 1.986. 
Now there 
are classes :in Italian taught at Walla Walla Community College by 
Richard (Dick) Campanerll.i. of WWIHS and a monthly newsletter, 
CyjjMn Upriyag hlc Wgi 
9t_<<z]..gAp htca.r:.xa.g, 
edited by C:ampanel.l.i and 
published by WWIHS. There are bath adult (1.` 86) and children's 
(1.` 88) Italian He'ri.t:kage? Dancers. Accordion music seems to have 
continued in the community, unbroken, due in part to the presence 
of pro'fe'.s>sional. classical accordionist HoraC:e? L-azzari 
(who came? 
to Walla Walla from 'Toronto, Ont.) and the teaching of accordion 
at Uptown Music by Jim Ri z 
z.uti. 
(a local). Italian and Italian-
American 
er:l.e:an popular music, such as "Santa Lucia," "Eh, Cumpari, '' 
"That's Amore," and "0 Solo Mia" persists, as do instrumentals 
like "The Carnival of Venice" and "The Neapolitan farantella," 
but real regional folk music may no longer be present. 
A considerable amount: of Italian cooking and baking is stall. 
done. To what: extent it is really traditional cannot be answered 
without further research. Most winemaking seems to have died out 
during or after World War 11. The Italians dial have «'a 
reputation 
as a source of wine during Prohibition, in an area that was 
2 
profoundly pro--Dry, so this tradition may have been somewhat of a 
stigma to shake off. The last of the old winemakers seems to have 
been 
 Oregonian Bert Pesciallo, who still made it to sell 
(licensed and all) into the early 1`J50s, 
or it may have been 
I-rank. Sabuco of tlttali.a on the Columbia fiver, whose vineyards 
were flooded in the '.50ss by the McNaary Dam. The Columbia Valley 
of eastern Washington is a major wine-growing region, but the big 
vintners established since the 1960s area not Italian. The only 
exception is Leonetti's Cellars of Walla Walla, started in the 
early 'CIUs by half-Italian Clary Figgi.ns (the name Le:'onet:ti is his 
mother's). Leonetti's must be some of the finest, because it is 
the most expensive Washington wine that I have ever seen. He 
claims to have first become involved in winemaking through home.-• 
winemnaking at his maternal grandparents', but he studied modern 
scientific oenology in order to set up his business. 
In any case, the Walla Walla Valley is a fascinating laboratory 
of :Malian ethnic revival. After decades of indifference, the 
Bicentennial's emphasis an pluralism revived an interest in 
matters Italian, and things really got going ten years later., An 
in-depth study should focus on horticulture, as the constant; 
factor, and foregrounded ethnicity as the sporadic factor (1`:J11., 
1`:)'76, 
1`J86--present). Much research could be done can Italian 
foodways, which I know very little about. A team caught to 
douement the Walla Walla Sweet Onion Festi.val. 
(July) and the 
:Malian Heritage Days (October), from preparation throu►lhi the 
actual. celebrations themselves. It would be worthwhile to find 
out slow 
flll.l(»h "Italian--nesss" is contrived and how much is 
naturally there. The WWGA needs further study. Is it in any way 
an Italian organization? Most members are of Italian ancestry, 
but is that of any significance 
 other than historical. accident'' 
To what extant does the WWGA play a part, 
if any, 
in Italian 
ethnic revival? Walla Walla is a geographically isolated Italian 
community. Italians were, until recently, second-class citizens. 
Yet: they dominate the second-most visible (after the maximum-
security prison) industry in Walla Walla. 
A thorough study of the: Walla Walla Italian community would make 
an excellent laboratory study of recant :Italian ethnic revival.. 
All the 'factors---shame at being "un-American," newfound pride at 
being recognized as pioneers, domination of an important and 
visible industry, stimulus from non--Walla Wallans of Italian 
ancestry who settled in the Valley recently. In the chapter on 
Lonatese in America in the coffee-table history of Lonater 
Pozzolo, the author states that some L-onatesse settled "in a 
village in the mythical West with an attracting name, Walla 
Walla, in Washington State." Walla Walla was and is far from the 
beaten track of Italian settlement. "Italian-nC.1ss" declined there 
very steeply in this century, and now it is suddenly alive and 
well., revived by the Bicentennial and "pop-pluralism." The, 
dynamics of this process calls out for further study. 
3