Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia
(Transcription)
START M39 B(5)
F: Can you tell me about when you left Vietnam? How did you, how did you leave to come
here?
S: OK In the <gap> in December December twenty-fir- twenty-two I leave my country, I
went to the boat. Little boat. It's uh (that a ) long about twelve uh twenty feet twenty feet
along and how do you call it?
F: Wide?
S: wide in about ten ten feet. We go toge- we are go together. In the boat in my boat
have boat have uh twenty-four oh no fifty-four fifty fifty-four people are going together. It is
dangerous. Because <gap> in the water in the water W a v e s W a v e s (spells it out That
too hard hard yeah.
F: Waves
S: I think uh waves. I will be uh I think we are going to die. I think we are going to die
eighteen(?) percent <unintelligible text>.They uh I have a three three days ago I live in
the I going to in the ocean. I fall(?) ocean. After that I can <unintelligible text> pirate from
Thailand. They give me some food and clothes and everything I need. And about ten days
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
after they approve about what the day I'm coming their country and another day I leave
their country. They give me some <unintelligible text> and after after that they take uh they
take uh
Subject # 37 p.10
587
me and anybody going to <unintelligible text> Camp. YOu know the Lamsin, Lamsin?
Songklau. We are <near?> the Lampsin. I live in regular refugee camp about twelve no
fourteen year uh fourteen month, fourteen month ago(?). After that I I went to I came to the
United States. I came to (the) United States January twenty-first nineteen eighty eighty.
F: Uh-huh, so you've been here a little over two years.
S: Yeah, a little two years.
F: Where did you leave with did you leave Vietnam with other people from your family or
friends or just you?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
S: No(?) the first time I leave my family I leave my family I come to the United States I
leave along with my friend <gap> any friend and before in my country I live with my family
one month and the day and have I have a fight a fight young young brother young brother
F: Fight?
S: Fighting alot. I have six, uh in my family have eight people.
F: Ok, what was it like in Thailand, what was the refugee camp like? <gap>
S: Mm-hmmm. During in the in the Thailand I'm going to study about English. After study
English, I going around, just talk uh together with my friends, and uh I write a letter, visit uh
my family, and any friend if I want to do, uh-huh. That's all. I'm awaiting along along time.
After I finish, anything (they) are through, and they are going to call me in the in machine.
How do you call? - micro, they are going to call me in the micro. And they tell they told me
two and three day, you you are leave in the refugee camp you going to the United states.
Every day I go around, ar-
Subject # 37 - p. 11
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
691
I read a letter from family, my family, and I talk together with my friend about my country,
and other one I going, I went to go some where if I have <unintelligible text> idea(?) I
scene scene you know scene? S-C-E-N-E Scene? <unintelligible text>
F: Right
S: Scene, the Bangkok, yeah, Bangkok. I going there about two months, two months.
F: Is Bangkok nice? What's Bangkok like?
S: If you going , you going to the Bangkok, it's beautiful (the) city. But you go around the
town, the Bangkok, it <gap> so-so. Not good enough there(?). But the people live in the
Bangkok, not too bad(?) that's wheat that's wheat, the wheat. Sometime they hit some
people in refugee, some time they talk uh they talk uh the bad word with uh some people
live refugee camp. I don't like to that.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
F: Ok, let's see what else. Do you know any good Vietnamese stories that you could tell
me? Like the kind of stories that parents tell the children, and folktales.
S: Folktale?
F: Like uh..
S: Uh, they look like mommom and daddy..
F: the kinds of things that they told you when you were a small boy.
S: Ok, yeah, I understand <unintelligible text>. I saw alot of families because I visit any
people was live in my country. Uh, before I leave my country any people <are?> lovely to
meet. Because I always help to them. But in my country a different in the United States -
two things, I going to tell you.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
F: OK.
Subject #37 - p. 12
766
S: If I have, you have, trouble about your house, you need fix it(?) your house and you
didn't have people help you do it, and I have free time, I like to them, and I going to help
him. I didn't take money. I didn't take anything. They gived it to me(?), OK? I talk, I talk
with them, "you don't worry about that. I going to help you. I didn't take your money, and
anything you give it to me." OK? They love uh, they love me so much. And if if they have a
(?) party, they are gong to take me go with the- go with the- them, and uh talking together,
and uh very happy. Uh-huh. And the one thing, second thing. If you have trouble in about
your heart, you hurt your health, But you are <in?> need the money, you need the people
going hospital with them, help them anything if they can do it. They hurt uh <they hurt?
> their(?) hurt, uh-huh I going to help them. I can do it. And I can, if I uh my family have
h alot of money, I going to tell mommom and daddy "Give it to to them some money they
going to pay for hospital after they uh they go out they going to work, give it to me, about
money , bank . Alright (they'll) have to think different in the United States. So they are very
lovely to me. Uh-huh. So I have, but my country anybody just uh they have they have uh
remember me so much. If you have funeral, you know, funeral, and funeral funeral home,
I think your house have the people die, uh a person die. And if you have the next time,
suppose the next time you go, you are going to get married with another person, and in my
country I going to help you anything. I uh if I uh I have I have my good friends, they going
to help you . I I and myself going to help help you and uh set up set up your room
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
Subject # 37 - p. 13 853
and take uh my friend my girl friend make your food, going to a party together, dancing,
um-hmm. Anything you want. After that they uh, they're very happy about (me). If I
have trouble in my house, in my uh family, they going to help- help me. They don't need
anything. They don't care if any people talk about him. Are you going to help him with uh
take some money? But they don't care about it. They know before he uh he going to have
going to have before have trouble, big trouble. Now he have trouble <gap>.
F: But you find that here in the United States things aren't like that? People don't don't do
that?
S: No. Almost the people don't do that. Because if some people living there they going to
work. Before they are refugee camp. coming here. They work too hard. They have some
money. They keep <gave?> it. Going to buy a car. Going to uh buy anything they want. I
think they they can't have anything(?) look like in our country. They can(?) help anybody if
he's lovely about them. Not so much.
F: I think you're right.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 17 year old male, Virginia (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc1986022.afc1986022_ms4305
S: Do you understand what I'm say? I'm very happy when I'm tell you anything you want,
and you understand about it.
F: Uh-huh, I understand. Thank you
.
END M39 B(5)