"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr16
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942
AFS 6413A
Cut A1
Francoise Plevin: Dear Mr. President, my name is Francoise Plevin and I come from Paris, France. It
is therefore with great pleasure that I avail myself of this opportunity of thanking you as the head of
the American nation for everything which being here in the United States at this time means to us
French boys and girls. Thanks to the kindness and generosity of your great people, it is possible for
us to continue our studies in schools and colleges. Know the truth and not base propaganda about
what is happening in the world, and above all do what little we can to help win the war. All of which
are sadly impossible nowadays in our unfortunate country. So, Mr. President although it is but a
feeble expression for all that we feel, once more I say thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Cut A2
Jacques Bouffartiques: Mr. President, my name is Jacques Bouffartiques. I am twenty and I come
from Paris. Last October, as I became of fighting age I left France to find America and freedom. That
was the first time I had left my country, the first time I had crossed the ocean. Soon I shall cross the
ocean again to join my one hundred thousand comrades of the Free French Army in England.
In America, I found a free people at work. To me the millions of boisterous French men, women, and
children I left behind, America as a thought means freedom. And America's freedom, Mr. President
means the freedom of our world as we know it, as we want it. To the country whose democratic
past is most closely linked with ours I bring the message of young and old people in France, that
they want to shape their own destinies in freedom. From America I shall take to the free French the
assurance that to all those who like herself fight tyranny, America provides the weapons to win this
war and established a peace of liberty loving people.
Cut A3
Jacqueline [Spitzer (?)]: How do you say, I am a housewife? ???. My name is Jacqueline Spitzer. I live
in Forest Hills, New York. I am a housewife. I'm an American citizen of French birth and am more
thankful maybe than any other American to have you, Mr. President, at the head of our government.
I know that with you as a leader we will win this war. But I know too that we have to help you by
making more and more sacrifices. ???
"Dear Mr. President", New York, New York, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr16
Cut A4
My name is Jacqueline Spitzer. I am a housewife live in Forest Hills, New York. As an American citizen
of French birth I am more thankful maybe than any other American to have you, Mr. President, at
the head of our government. I know that with you as a leader we will win this war. But I know too
that we have to help you by making more and more sacrifices. We will make them Mr. President, and
we will make them cheerfully.
AFS 6413B: [Blank]