"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr40
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942
AFS 6440A
W. J. Faulkner: Dear Mr. President, my name is W. J. Faulkner, college pastor at Fisk University and
one who is interested in boys in the city of Nashville. I think one of the brightest spots in our life
here at Nashville at the present time, with reference to the white and colored relationships, is a work
that I'm interested in at the Negro youth center where white and colored members of the board
direct the center. It's a recreational project that promotes citywide programs in the winter. And in
the spring and summer, it has outdoor activities and gives the youngsters a chance to go out in
the country where they might get a bit of fresh air. And where they might build up their bodies to
become good citizens, good strong men in our community.
These things couldn't be if our colored youth didn't share so generously with in the benefits of the
Council of Community Agencies and the Community Chest. I think one of the most hopeful signs
of good will down here, where we're kept out of industries and other things, is that we do work
together as white and colored citizens interested in giving the Negro boy a chance.
One of the finest things that's been done by this Negro youth center has been a Halloween program
which we hold in one of the city parks in the Fall. Thousands of our boys and girls come there
for a good time and the police records show that not a single arrest has been made for the last
three Halloweens among colored youth in Nashville. I think this is quite a record and our juvenile
delinquency has gone down as a result of the work in this center. I think this is a very fine investment
in race relations and in money from the Community Chest.
Chesterfield White: My dear Mr. President, my name is Chesterfield White. I am just about to enter
the armed forces of America. As I go to take my places with the other soldiers of this country I am
asking myself a question, “What am I fighting for?” I am fighting to help preserve democracy and to
beat the Axis power. The American way of life is so dear to me and to every American freedom of
speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and a representative form of government. In the
countries where they have a dictatorship of government they are opposed to that freedom. And may
I say as Irving Berlin has said in his song, “God bless America.”
Miss C. L. Hightower: Dear Mr. President, I am Miss C. L. Hightower, Negro adult teacher of
Bethlehem Center, located in Nashville, Tennessee. We have but one main objective and that is to
give you, our armed forces, loyal support and whatever you may ask for. Regardless of the cost or
sacrifice, we intend to block every advance made by Hitler. Here on the homefront as a WPA teacher,
I can use my position to instruct my pupils in methods of civilian defense and urge them to support
"Dear Mr. President", Nashville, Tennessee, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr40
our national war effort. We have many illiterate boys of draft age who attend our night school. It is
my objective to instruct them so that they may be better when they go to the army. I hope that my
contribution, however small, has added much.