American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project collection (AFC 1982/009) 
afcl982009_ll_139 
Final Products - Final Report 
FINAL 
REPORT 
ON THE 
BLUE RIDGE PARKWAY 
FOLKLIFE PROJECT 
Prepared by Carl Fleischhauer and Charles K. Wolfe 
December 1981 
THE 
PROCESS 
OF 
FIELD 
RESEARCH 
American Folklife Center 
The Library of Congress 
Washington, D.C. 
The Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project was a field research survey 
conducted by the American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, in 
cooperation with the National Park Service. Fieldwork for the survey was 
conducted near the Blue Ridge Parkway in 1978, covering parts of seven 
counties on the Virginia-North Carolina border. 
Contents 
% 
I. An Overview !• 
1. Introduction 2. 
2. Reflections and suggestions 5. 
II. Field Research in Process 18. 
1. The genesis of the project 19. 
2. Preparations for the field and the development 
of project goals 22. 
3. The concept and strategy of a folklife field 
• survey 31. 
4. The survey and its findings 44. 
5. The intern program 58. 
6. Publicity and public relations 61. 
7. Some problems in administration 64. 
8. The project collection 69. 
9. The post-fieldwork phase 71. 
III. Appendices 24. 
1. The Cooperative Agreement 75. 
2. The Budget (January 25, 1978) 85. 
3. Estimated Project Expenditures 
* 
96. 
List of Attachments to the 
Presentation Copies of this Report 
Preliminary Research Survey for the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife 
Project by Peter T. Bartis. 
Selected Sound Recordings from the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife 
Project by Charles K. Wolfe. 
"Toward an Ecology of Folk Housing in the East-Central Blue Ridge" 
by Thomas A. Adler. 
"Ritual and Sacred Narratives in the Blue Ridge Mountains" by 
Patrick B. Mullen. 
"Blue Ridge Quilts—Plain and Fancy” by Geraldine N. Johnson. 
"Traditional Aspects of the Harvesting and Curing of Bright Leaf 
Tobacco in the Blue Ridge of Virginia" by Blanton Owen. 
"Dance Traditions in the Blue Ridge" by Margaret Counts Owen. 
Blue Ridge Harvest edited by Lyntha Scott Eiler, Terry Eiler, and 
Carl Fleischhauer. 
Children of the Heav'nly King edited by Charles K. Wolfe. 
Folklife Center News; October 1978, April 1979, and October 1981. 
"Folklife Today on the Blue Ridge Parkway" by Alan Jabbour. 
Press releases: Library of Congress PR 78-55, (7-19-78), Department 
of the Interior NPS May 25, 1978. 
Certificate of Achievement 
!• Introduction 
In August and September 1978 a team of cultural specialists studied the 
folklife along a seventy-mile stretch of the Blue Ridge Parkway. This segment 
of the highway straddles the border between Virginia and North Carolina, and 
the study took in the rural area within about eight or ten miles of the 
Parkway. 
The team talked to hundreds of people, and with many of them at length. 
They made tape recordings of conversations and story-telling, family histories, 
descriptions of canning, cooking, and sawmilling, musical performances, church 
services, and fox hunts. They took photographs of houses and barns, crops, 
home interiors, baptisms, and dances. In short, many aspects of traditional 
culture tangible and intangible—were documented. The portrait of the central 
Blue Ridge that emerged was not of a remote back country, but of a varied and 
dynamic cultural region, deeply traditional and simultaneously "modern." 
The project was designed to achieve several complementary goals bene¬ 
fiting its sponsors, the National Park Service and the American Folklife 
Center, and the general public, including citizens who live near the 
Parkway and tourists who travel along it. Since the early years of this 
century, cultural preservation has been one of the activities of the Department 
of the Interior and the National Park Service. This preservation work has been 
mandated by the legislation which created the Park Service and several of the 
National Parks, as well as by such legislation as the 1906 Antiquities Act. 
Although preservation activities have been most often directed at tangible 
properties buildings and the artifacts of history or prehistory—the 
intangible traditions of regions like the Upland South have also been inter¬ 
preted at parks like the Great Smoky Mountains National Park or the Blue 
Ridge Parkway. The Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project was designed to help 
increase the quantity and quality of such programming. 
The American Folklife Center is an operating agency at the Library of 
Congress committed to an active and varied program for the preservation and 
presentation of American folklife. The Folklife Center acts as a point of 
coordination to stimulate and assist various projects and to help establish 
models for the field. The Folklife Center has also striven to improve the 
quality of field documentation and to work toward making such documentation 
more accessible. These broad goals also form part of the foundation of the 
Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project. In addition, like other Folklife Center 
projects, the Blue Ridge project allowed experimentation with team fieldwork 
in folklife studies. Such team fieldwork has been often used in Europe but 
rarely attempted in the United States. 
In order to aid interpretive efforts on the Parkway, the project 
created a complete "raw" archive of materials for the park historian, selected 
and annotated sets of color slides and sound recordings, and essays written 
by the team's folklorists. In addition, five Park Service staff members 
accomnanied the field team on their rounds during two-week portions of the work 
The project was designed to create two publications for the general 
public: a book and a phonograph record. These were originally conceived of 
as relatively modest, but as the work developed, the richness of the photo¬ 
graphic and recorded collections led to an increase in the publications' scope. 
The photographic book Blue Ridge Harvest is a general description of the 
region's folklife, while the phonograph record album Children of the Heav nly 
4' 
documents the spoken and musical religious expression of the area. 
In the past three years the Folklife Center has received numerous 
requests for guidance and advice on how to devise and carry out projects 
involving team fieldwork, especially when directed toward public as well as 
research goals. Team fieldwork is a new concept in the United States, and 
universities, regional organizations, and governmental agencies have been 
eager to gain conceptual and practical pointers from the Folklife Center's 
experiences. In response to these inquiries we have taken the opportunity 
this report to set forth in some detail the process of such a project's 
development and implementation, from its origin as an idea to the preparation 
of its final products. We hope our description of that process—including 
problems as well as triumphs—will prove valuable to future planners and 
researchers, in the National Park Service and elsewhere, who wish to document 
and study folklife in the field. 
This report begins with some general thoughts and recommendations 
which arose out of the experience of the project. These thoughts are followed 
by a description of the process of the project's development. Readers who 
would like more detail regarding the Blue Ridge project's findings are directed 
to the two publications cited above, the five essays written by members of the 
field team, and Alan Jabbour's article "Folklife Today on the Blue Ridge 
Parkway." These items have been attached to selected copies of this report; 
they are also available at the American Folklife Center. 
r 
? 
-5- 
2. Reflections and suggestions 
Two axioms underlie the Blue Ridge Parkway's responsibilities 
regarding folklife. First, folklife is an important element in the lives of 
Blue Ridge residents. Second, the region's folklife is of great interest 
to visitors from other parts of the United States and other nations. The 
Parkway's responsibilities, therefore, are to be an understanding neighbor 
to the citizens who live nearby, and to interpret folklife sympathetically 
and accurately for visitors. Both are well served by a systematic effort 
to research the grassroots cultural traditions of the region, not only as 
manifestations of the past but as living expressions of living traditional 
values. 
This view of the Parkway's responsibilities, and the more specific 
recommendations in this report, are generally consistent with the legisla¬ 
tion and management plans that govern the park. The park was created by a 
1936 law "to provide for the administration and maintenance of the Blue 
Ridge Parkway" (Act of June 30, 1936, ch. 883, 49 Stat. 2041). It contains 
little beyond the authority to secure the land and defers a statement of 
purpose for the park to the 1916 law "to establish the National Park 
Service" (Act of August 25, 1916, ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535). Among other 
purposes, that law mandates the Park Service to "conserve the scenery and 
natural and historic objects" in each park. Subsequent Federal legisla¬ 
tion which concerns the Parkway directly is concerned primarily with land 
acquisition, rights of way, and related matters. 
1 
Federal legislation of a more general sort also affects the 
Parkway's management of cultural resources. Such laws include the National 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (Public Law 89-665, October 15, 1966, 80 
Stat. 915; 16 U.S.C. 470 as amended by Public Law 91-243, Public 93-54, 
Public Law 94-422, Public Law 94-458, and Public Law 96-515) and the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Public Law 91-190, January 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 
852). These laws commit the Federal Government to help preserve important 
historic and cultural aspects of our national heritage. 
More specific guidelines for the operation of the Parkway are found 
in the Blue Ridge Parkway Statement for Management, the park's own outline of 
purposes and objectives.^ This document includes the following declaration of 
purpose: "[The Parkway] is also intended to conserve and interpret the unique 
natural and cultural resources of the Southern Appalachian Highlands .... 
The Parkway promotes public understanding, appreciation, and knowledge of 
Appalachia by preserving and managing the natural, historic, and cultural 
resources contained within its borders." (p. 1) In another section of the 
document, a discussion of historic features of the Parkway includes the words. 
Considerable emphasis has been placed on the preservation and interpretation 
of features that portray indigenous mountain life in the Southern Highlands." 
(p. 4) Relevant features of this life include the cultural landscape; accord¬ 
ing to the Statement, the park "includes pasture or croplands leased to neigh¬ 
boring farmers for the purpose of blending Parkway land with the adjacent 
pastoral scene to perpetuate the Southern Highland landscape." (p. 4) 
The management plan also states the Parkway's responsibility to 
its neighbors. According to the plan, "There are 4,000 to 5,000 adjacent 
4. Blue Ridge Parkway Statement for Management. Asheville, N.C., Blue Ridge 
Parkway, 1979. 
* 
* -7- 
property owners and neighbors along approximately 1,200 miles of Parkway 
boundary. Cooperative understanding and working relationships are 
essential in order to assure appreciation of property rights and compatible 
uses of private lands adjacent to the Parkway." (p. 10) The management 
plan includes mention of the matters which have concerned many of the 
Parkway's neighbors—plans to acquire additional land and curtail access to 
the Parkway. In one section, the plan states, "Access to the Parkway from 
numerous secondary roads creates safety hazards to visitors and could 
stimulate incompatible land uses." (p. 8) The plan also cites one of the 
laws governing land acquisition (Public Law 87-76, June 30, 1961, 75 Stat. 
^ 196). According to the management plan, this law authorizes "the purchase 
and exchange of contiguous lands to eliminate hazardous crossing and 
accesses and to adjust ownership lines." (p. 9) 
Thus, the Parkway's legislation and its planning document require 
and encourage the preservation and presentation of folk culture. The 
following paragraphs will examine some details of the Parkway's preservation 
and presentation activities, and a few details of its relationship with its 
neighbors. 
Like many national parks, the Parkway has enthusiastically inter¬ 
preted folk culture for many years. Visitors hear staff members give camp¬ 
fire talks, see craft workers or musicians perform, tour reconstructions of 
, vernacular buildings, and read highway markers which describe local history 
and traditions. In addition, they may buy books or other merchandise at 
■v shops operated by the Eastern Parks and Monuments Association (a non-profit 
group associated with parks in the East) or by independent concessionaires. 
1 
-8- 
All these activities are welcome and should be continued. Many of them may 
be improved, however. From a professional folklorist's standpoint, the 
presentations and merchandise offered on the Parkway sometimes lack 
authenticity or accuracy. The interpretation of folklife is likely to 
exaggerate the picturesque or romantic; to include traditions from outside 
the region; to make folklife sound like a "thing of the past"; or to trans¬ 
form the style of a performance from "folk" to "pop." 
For example, foxhunting is very popular today in the central Blue 
Ridge. Although the pickup truck takes the place of the Tidewater 
Virginian's horse, the chase by a pack of hounds is much the same. Several 
local clubs are devoted to the activity. When foxhunting is mentioned on 
the Parkway, however, it is placed in the past tense. According to the 
Parkway visitor's brochure, a trail near mile 218 marks the site where "old- 
time hunters listened to the baying of the hounds in the valley below." The 
"historical" description may be accurate for this particular place (several 
hunters told us they no longer hunt near the Parkway because the traffic 
endangers their hounds), but the brochure and a sign at the trail leave the 
false impression that foxhunting is over and done with. 
Demonstrations of music and crafts frequently feature artists from 
outside the region who have learned local styles or repertory to the best of 
their ability. Regional musicians are sometimes presented on the Parkway, 
but more often than not, the performers are new to the area. And more often 
than not, their performances translate material into styles or forms that 
pertain more to national or popular culture than to the culture of the region. 
The merchandise in concessionaires' shops was often disappointing 
as a guide to regional culture. Books were haphazardly chosen and included 
works whose tone of was reminiscent of the "Hee-Haw" television program. 
The few phonograph records on sale did not feature representatives from 
local tradition, although many area musicians have appeared on records, and 
County Sales, one of the nation's most important folk record distributors, 
is located in Floyd, Virginia, a few miles from the Parkway. Crafts fared 
a little better, although local crafts traditions competed with souvenirs 
from distant parts of the country or elsewhere. 
For the section of the Parkway covered by our study, Mabry Mill 
was the site for many presentations relating to folklife. It provides a 
textbook case of the complex challenges involved in presenting folk cultural 
traditions effectively—particularly in presenting both examples of grass¬ 
roots history and examples of living folk traditions today. Certain aspects 
of the site are designed to communicate a sense of history. For example, 
the grist mill for which the site is named is a handsome antique. The 
Matthews cabin, a log house standing nearby, is introduced by a sign telling 
of its construction in 1869. This is a reasonable representation of 
"historic folklife," but the accuracy of a visitor's impression depends upon 
how aware he is that the log house substitutes for the original dwelling at 
the mill. The original structure, a less picturesque frame house, has been 
torn down; the Matthews cabin was moved 20 miles to the site in 1957. The 
buildings are thus "historic," yet as an ensemble they are a contemporary 
creation of the Parkway itself. 
If the structures on the site communicate history, then the living 
demonstrations tend to communicate an idea of folklife. Older men from the 
region grind buckwheat flour, grits, and corn meal at the mill, and activi¬ 
ties like molasses-making are carried on in fall. A visitor, seeing these 
activities linked to older buildings described in the Parkway brochure as 
"evidences of the pioneer past," will almost certainly see folklife as asso¬ 
ciated with an earlier day. The only exception to this set of associations 
is the musical presentation offered by some residents from Meadows of Dan, 
Virginia; it will be discussed below. 
It is hard to find ways to present authentic local folk culture, 
especially in the face of the need to reconcile the twin challenges of "pre¬ 
senting the past" and "presenting the present." All Americans are moved by 
rustic survivals of the nineteenth century and clamor for them as a part of 
the Parkway experience. Visitors have a nearly insatiable appetite for crafts 
and entertainment. For managers, the easiest way to satisfy this demand is 
to employ the large number of ready, willing, and able young craftsmen and 
musicians around the country who present themselves and are listed on a 
computerized register for seasonal employment. In contrast, the task of 
locating and presenting authentic local artists, who may be elderly or 
have other jobs, requires a significant amount of time and energy. Nor 
does the problem of merchandise in shops admit of an easy solution. Still, 
all these problems deserve persistent attention and effort. 
The preceding paragraphs sketch a few examples of problems in 
authenticity of Parkway programs from a folk cultural point of view. Other 
aspects of these programs may interfere with the Parkway's image as a good 
-11- 
« 
V 
neighbor. In 1978 the survey team discovered that the concessionaires' 
shops sold The Man Who Moved a Mountain, a book that infuriated many local 
residents because of its harsh, stereotyped portrayal of Primitive Baptists. ^ 
In another case, the team met a local woman who expressed her dismay at a 
campfire talk that revealed a folk cure still used in her family. The cure 
consists of a spoken charm that should be taught only in private. At the 
campfire talk it was not only made public but treated as a "superstition." 
These are small incidents, but the relationship between the Parkway 
and its neighbors reached its 1978 nadir when land-acquisition and road- 
closing plans were made public. The field team found it difficult to be 
objective about the fuss. Their sympathies were naturally extended to the 
people whose homes they were visiting and whose lives they were documenting, 
and a large number of the project's informants were upset by their perception 
of the Park Service's plans. 
The Parkway has a clear duty to restrict certain kinds of develop¬ 
ment. There is certainly a place for indigenous structures in the landscape 
visible from the road; most observers welcome the sight of a church, country 
store, or farm building, even if some examples are constructed in modern 
styles or with modern materials. On the other hand, few would argue in favor 
of visible recreation home developments, even if the cottages are made to 
look like log cabins instead of Swiss chalets. 
A deft hand is needed to manage land purchases, Parkway access, 
and the creation of scenic easements. How can development incompatible with 
the purposes of the Parkway be restrained without unduly limiting the tradi- 
5. Davids, Richard C. The Man Who Moved a Mountain. Philadelphia, 
Fortress Press, 1970. 
< 
-12- 
tional freedom of movement and property rights of a majority of local resi¬ 
dents? The project did not explore this question in any depth, nor are 
members of the Folklife Center staff well versed in these issues. By 1981, 
the intensity of feeling about these matters has presumably subsided, but it 
is worth noting the team's impression that communication with local citizens 
might have been improved. The further impression that greater discrimination 
might have been exercised in selecting parcels to buy or roads to close was 
reinforced by the 1979 General Accounting Office report suggesting that the 
Parkway make more use of scenic easements as an alternative to land purchase.^ 
The best tool for cultural programming of high quality in national 
parks is well-informed management. Being well-informed about folklife is 
1 also likely to improve the quality of communication with local residents. 
Folklife is varied and complex, and effective programming and local contact 
will proceed best under the direction of people who have experience with and 
a good nose for the subject. A shelf of reference books is a help, but can¬ 
not substitute for a knowledgeable person. Therefore, the Folklife Center 
recommends that ways be found to provide such national parks as the Parkway 
with the knowledge and guidance of professional folklorists on a continuing 
basis. Such persons might be added permanently to the Parkway staff, or 
might work as consultants. During the last few years, such consultation 
services have been provided to many parks by the National Council for the 
Traditional Arts, a non-profit Washington, D.C., organization devoted to folk 
culture and public programming. 
# _ 
6. "The Federal Drive to Acquire Private Lands Should be Reassessed," Report 
by the Comptroller General, General Accounting Office, December 14, 1971, 
CED-80-14, pp. 62-65. 
An on-site folklorist at a national park would have three main 
duties. First, the folklorist would train interpreters. Second, the folk¬ 
lorist would create and help conduct public programs of various sorts. This 
task could include continuing field research with an eye toward the develop¬ 
ment of new publications, highway markers, live programs, exhibits, and the 
like, and rewriting or updating existing materials. The third duty would be 
to meet and work with local individuals and organizations. The folklorist 
would represent the Parkway to them and try to understand their concerns in 
order to communicate them to Parkway management. 
The recommendation to employ a folklorist is a general one; in the 
following paragraphs, we will list a few specific recommendations. Addi¬ 
tional suggestions, of course, are implied by the earlier description of 
problem areas in Parkway programs. 
The Parkway is not an airtight corridor separate from the landscape 
it passes through. In the project’s study area, there were several stretches 
where small farms, stores, or churches bordered directly on the Parkway. 
Local farmers could be seen cultivating their crops and using the Parkway for 
local travel. These glimpses of the region’s cultural landscape could be 
highlighted by interpretive literature or road signs. 
Regional folklife could be further interpreted by means of automo¬ 
bile tours which loop off the Parkway at various points. Such tours could be 
coordinated with seasonal events like fairs, fiddler’s conventions, or phases 
of the agricultural year. Tours might also take in sites that pertain to the 
region's material culture, history, or geography. A tour booklet for travelers 
might describe sights in a manner similar to that of the famous Depression-era 
Federal Writers Project state guides. Tours of this sort have been 
previously created by the Blue Ridge Institute of Ferrum College, Ferrum, 
Virginia. Organizations like the Blue Ridge Parkway Association, a group 
that promotes tourism by producing motel and accommodations directories, 
might help disseminate information about such tours. 
The development of programs like those suggested above could dove¬ 
tail with new research undertaken by a Parkway folklorist. The tendency of 
current interpretive literature to refer to the region as the "Southern 
Highlands" or "Appalachia" does not adequately reflect its cultural diversity 
Just as the Parkway has identified different geological and geographic zones 
along its 470-mile route, the folklorist might help identify a number of 
cultural areas. 
The Parkway uses print and photographic materials for interpretation 
but more use might be made of documentary sound recordings. The extensive 
recordings from the Blue Ridge project could be exploited; annotated select¬ 
ions already exist in the 12-reel set of edited recordings sent to the Park¬ 
way, and in the album Children of the Heav'nly King. Any of these materials, 
as well as new recordings made by a Parkway folklorist, could be shaped into 
programs for visitors. Such programs could be broadcast on low—watt, short- 
range radio stations (presently used in some other National Parks), or in 
tape cassettes or eight-track tapes for visitors to play in their automobiles 
Such tapes could offer supplementary interpretation in the loop tours sugges¬ 
ted above. In addition, phonograph records might be produced by the Parkway 
as a form of interpretive publication. 
-15- 
The problem of merchandise selection in sales shops might be 
alleviated by a list of recommended items to guide the concessionaires. 
Lack of information may be the greatest deterrent to the creation of a more 
worthwhile inventory. A good starting point for such a list would be the 
bibliography and discography incorporated in the book Blue Ridge Harvest, 
which also identifies sources of supply for phonograph records. Additional 
bibliographic and discographic information is included in the Preliminary 
Research Survey for the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project. 
Many of the recommendations in this report are also applicable to 
other parks. Professional folklorists can play an important role in train¬ 
ing park interpreters, or arrangements might be made with outside organiza¬ 
tions like the National Council for the Traditional Arts to organize training 
seminars. The work of park folklorists could parallel the work of park 
historians. They could interpret the living culture in and around a park 
as the historian interprets the past. 
The Folklife Center's experience on the Parkway has led us to think 
that individual parks and other units of the Park Service may have valuable 
folklife collections. The Parkway's Appalachian Resource Center, of course, 
has such a collection, including materials from this project, but the survey 
team received the impression that other artifacts and documents could be 
found here and there in the park. Parks like Great Smoky Mountains National 
Park also have holdings of interest. Some use has been made of these collec- 
ions, but the Center recommends that the Park Service consider preparing a 
more comprehensive directory of folklife holdings. Once identified, both 
individual parks and the Interpretive Design Center at Harper's Ferry could 
-16- 
♦ 
use the collections in programs and publications. The directory would also 
aid the public by improving access for research and scholarship. 
A recurrent theme in this report has been the differences between 
folklife and history. The nouns, of course, do not name two different things; 
they name two aspects of life. If folklife is thought of as pertaining only 
to the past, then it would be subsumed within history. In contrast, this 
report reflects the point of view that folklife can be a way of looking at 
the present. Of course, folklife has a historic dimension, and much of its 
literature is concerned with the origins, transmission, and diffusion of 
< tradition. But our emphasis on the present underlies our strategy of looking 
at what Blue Ridge residents do today, and accounts for our slight discomfort 
V 
at exclusively past-oriented folklife programs at interpretive sites. 
There is a paradox in the relationship of folklorists to history and 
preservation. Their curiosities and allegiances draw them to the past and 
the present. Their desire to understand how some facets of life have remained 
unchanged rivals their desire to understand the mechanics of change and 
adaptation. The word "tradition" is vested with this paradox; it names both 
the static and the dynamic. We believe that tradition thus construed leads 
to productive study. And preserving tradition may mean finding ways to 
support a process of change as well as finding ways to support the status quo. 
In closing, we find our thoughts returning to the music and dancing 
at Mabry Mill, performances of great appeal to us and to other Parkway 
visitors. The event transcends the paradox of past and present. Some 
presentations at the site have been submerged in the aura of the frontier, but 
in this case the participants' aluminum lawn chairs, unpainted plywood dance 
-17- 
♦ 
v- 
platfonn, and contemporary local dress dispel the aura and speak plainly of 
today. It may seem like an intrusion to some for people to dance unasked 
upon the lawn, or to disrupt the flow of automobile traffic, but our affec¬ 
tion for the event is undiminished. We have reflected on the meaning of the 
event, and our understanding of it has been articulated by Alan Jabbour in 
his article about the project in National Parks and Conservation Magazine: 
My final example of the "presentness" of folk 
culture involves the Parkway itself. Somehow, sometime over 
the past few years local people from around Meadows of Dan, 
Virginia, began coming to Mabry Mill on the Parkway to make 
music, dance, and socialize on Sunday afternoons. The music 
is homegrown; the dancing is in local folk idioms; but most 
striking is the true folk quality of the occasion itself. One 
hears much of "folk festivals" about the country, but this is 
a folk festival in the best sense of the phrase—a celebration 
of, by, and for the people who celebrate. 
Though the dance musicale at Mabry Mill is quint- 
essentially local—or perhaps because of it—visitors are 
welcome, and Parkway tourists find themselves unexpectedly 
presented with an unparalleled opportunity to witness and share 
in the traditional art and culture of the region. It is hard 
to imagine an interpretive program of more vitality and lasting 
educational value than this event, which arose, untutored and 
unheralded, from the very people whose life and customs the 
park seeks to interpret to the nation.* 
» 
4 
* "Folklife Today on the Blue Ridge Parkway," National Parks and Conservation 
Magazine, 54:4 (April 1980), p. 22. 
-19- 
1• The genesis of the project 
The links between the Folklife Center and the Park Service go back 
to the Folklife Center's first year; Gary Everhardt, then Director of the 
Park Service, was a presidentially appointed member of the Folklife Center's 
Board of Trustees from 1976 to July 1977. He was succeeded on the Board by 
his successor as Park Service Director, William Whalen. Both men expressed 
interest in a project that would join the two agencies in a common task, 
and the subject was specifically broached in a meeting late in 1977. The 
meeting brought together Whalen; Alan Jabbour, Director of the American 
Folklife Center; David Voight, Chairman of the Center's Board; and Wallace 
Macnow, who worked in the Office of the Secretary at the Department of the 
Interior. The men agreed that a cooperative undertaking would be profitable 
and productive. 
This tentative beginning was further explored in a series of meetings 
between Macnow and Folklife Center staff member Howard Wight Marshall. 
Marshall told Macnow about the Folklife Center's previous experiences with 
team fieldwork in Georgia and Chicago and introduced Macnow to Stephen H. 
Lewis, then Assistant Chief of Interpretation and Visitor Services for the 
Park Service. Marshall and Lewis had met through their participation in the 
Association of Living Historical Farms and Agricultural Museums and shared a 
curiosity about field research and folklife. Conversations extended to 
Vernon D. Dame, Chief of the Division of Intrepretation and Visitor Services 
at the Park Service. By January 1978 discussions were turning to the question 
of which park might be suitable for a folklife project. At the same time the 
Folklife Center began to outline a budget. On January 11 the four men met 
with Whalen and Jabbour, and everyone agreed that planning should proceed 
in earnest. The project was discussed at the January 25 meeting of the 
Folklife Center's Board of Trustees, where the consensus was to press ahead. 
As potential sites were discussed, attention was focused on the 
Park Service's conception of certain parks as primarily "natural" and others 
as primarily or substantially "cultural." Grand Teton National Park, for 
example, exists almost exclusively to preserve and present the region's 
scenic beauty, while a significant portion of Great Smoky Mountains National 
Park is devoted to the preservation and presentation of cultural features. 
The Folklife Center had an inclination toward parks in the West, 
including some "natural" parks. This inclination reflected the knowledge 
that the folklife of the East was relatively well documented, but documenta¬ 
tion in the West was badly needed. The Folklife Center also felt that the 
imaginative attention of the nation was turning westward and that work in 
the West would be of special interest at this time. Further, a western 
project might permit the inclusion of Native Americans, a connection that 
could be highly interesting and productive. The Center's suggestions 
included Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado and Olympic National Park 
in Washington. 
The inclination of the Park Service, however, was toward "cultural" 
parks and especially the more visible parks in the East. The long range 
plans of such parks, and the likelihood that their staffs would be 
genuinely interested in folklife, meant that a project in one of them 
might have greater impact. The Park Service suggested Great Smoky Mountains 
-21- 
National Park, Cape Cod National Seashore, and the Blue Ridge Parkway. 
The Blue Ridge Parkway was selected, partly in deference to the 
Park Service's sense that a project would be more effective there and 
partly because of administrative and logistic advantages of a project 
closer to Washington. The Blue Ridge Parkway had an informed and 
interested historian in the person of Andrew R. Kardos (now the Parkway's 
Chief of Interpretation), and the superintendent was Gary Everhardt, 
former Director of the Park Service and a former member of the Folklife 
Center's Board of Trustees. The folklife of the Blue Ridge has been 
intensively studied for over fifty years, but the Folklife Center believed 
that additional productive fieldwork could be done. Prior research had 
* tended to focus on the more archaic aspects of culture, primarily secular 
music and lore. Material culture and religious expression had not been 
studied as often, nor had prior research stressed the continuing and 
living quality of regional traditions. A well-directed and relatively 
more comprehensive study in this area could break new ground. 
i 
a 
4 
» -22- 
2. Preparations for the field and the development of project goals 
The preparations for the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project began 
in February 1978 and continued into the summer. The first steps were 
delineation of precise relationships between the two cooperating agencies, 
creation of a budget, and the corollary work of planning the project in 
detail. This entailed designing each of the project's three phases (pre¬ 
fieldwork, fieldwork, and post-fieldwork), choosing team members, and 
identifying an appropriate section of the Parkway for study. A background 
research document was compiled, and the preparations culminated in a team 
meeting just before the fieldwork began. 
The fieldwork phase was to last two months and involve a team of 
from six to eight workers. Preparations for fieldwork would take three 
or four months, and the work of organizing and indexing the collection and 
creating the finished products was expected to take four months following 
fieldwork. The entire project, then, was to take a bit less than a year 
and was to cost $82,149. A copy of the budget is attached to this report 
(Appendix B). 
The work was to be conducted under the terms of a cooperative 
agreement between the National Park Service and the American Folklife 
Center. Since both agencies have a congressional mandate to perform this 
type of work and wished to share the undertaking, a cooperative agreement 
was more appropriate than a contract in which one party paid the other 
to do the work. This agreement was executed on May 16, 1978; a copy is 
attached to this report (Appendix A). In it, the Park Service agreed to 
4 
A 
-23- 
pay $53,515 in four installments and the Folklife Center agreed to cover 
all remaining costs, estimated at about $28,000, including in-kind 
contributions of about $16,000. 
The Blue Ridge Parkway is nearly 500 miles long and traverses an 
area so varied as to be beyond the scope of a two-month field project. 
The Folklife Center proposed to concentrate its effort on an area of about 
750 square miles on the Virginia-North Carolina border, including Galax, 
Virginia, and lying just north of Mount Airy, North Carolina. The stretch 
of Parkway runs from Mabry Mill and Rocky Knob in the north to Doughton Park 
in the south. The rationale for selecting this area and a brief description 
of it are included in an article written by Folklife Center Director Alan 
Jabbour in the April 1980 issue of National Parks and Conservation Magazine. 
Most of the 469 miles of the Blue Ridge 
Parkway present the beauties of mountains and 
forests to the driver's view. The verdant 
trees and undergrowth of the eastern woodlands 
alternate with vistas of broad valleys and 
distant mountains. But if nature lays first 
claim to our eyes, the evidence of human 
culture is nonetheless present throughout the 
drive. And in one stretch of the Parkway, 
spanning southwestern Virginia and northwestern 
North Carolina, the traditional culture of the 
region is particularly visible to the Parkway 
traveler. Here the land and the people seem 
inseparable. 
Driving southwest from Roanoke along 
the Parkway, one climbs Bent Mountain and, 
beyond its summit, encounters a broad, high 
plateau stretching away from the Blue Ridge to 
the southwest. Along this plateau lie green 
valleys, woodsy knolls, and small farms and 
rural settlements. In the summer one sees hay, 
corn, and the hazy blue of cabbage fields. The 
wooden constructions of rural life obtrude 
gracefully upon the Parkway itself—pastures, 
4 
k 
-24- 
fences, outbuildings, and weathered or white- 
painted homes and stores. Local access roads 
connect to the Parkway, and the traveler 
suddenly shares the road with pickup trucks 
and other evidences that the Parkway serves 
here as a local thoroughfare. 
Throughout the region, on either side of 
the Blue Ridge, the dominant culture is Anglo- 
American, with connections running north into 
Pennsylvania and east into the southern 
Piedmont. Here and there strands of German- 
American life are still distinguishable—an 
anglicized German name on a mailbox, a 
German place-name, a Church of the Brethren. 
Afro-American communities also dot the land¬ 
scape on both sides of the Ridge. 
As the Parkway crosses into North 
Carolina, the landscape begins gradually to 
change. The plateau continues, studded with 
country Baptist churches, pastures, and plots 
of hurley tobacco. But now the Parkway enters 
wooded terrain that shuts out the nearby 
presence of local life. The Piedmont valley, 
with its farms and bright-leaf tobacco plots, 
is farther off in the haze. The evidences 
of regional life and work are less frequent 
as the plateau falls away to a more distant 
valley on the right. Beyond Mulberry Gap, 
with its cluster of mountain homes on either 
side of the Ridge, nature again seems to gain 
the upper hand along the Parkway.^- 
According to the cooperative agreement, the project was to consist 
of "an intensive field study of the folklife in and around a section of 
the Blue Ridge Parkway at the Virginia-North Carolina border." The "Scope 
of Work" statement in the agreement further describes the work as "an 
ethnographic survey, analysis, and presentation of traditional life and 
A 
1. Alan Jabbour, "Folklife Today on the Blue Ridge Parkway," National Parks 
and Conservation Magazine, 54:4 (April 1980): 20-21. 
work" along this section of the Parkway. The team is to "survey various 
facets of human customary imprint on the land, with particular attention to 
important aspects in the life of the region such as foodways, spoken- 
word traditions, farming, and other ways of occupying the land and 
interacting with the environment." The concept of "folklife" was to 
include "the range of traditional cultural expression, whether oral, 
material, or behavioral." 
The products of the survey were to include: 
a) A background report of earlier research in the region 
b) Photographs and audio recordings 
c) Field notes, maps, and scholarly essays produced by 
the field team 
d) Publications in the form of a photographic book and a 
phonograph record 
e) A final report for the Director of the National Park 
Service 
One very tangible goal for the project, then, was to produce 
information and audio-visual raw materials for the Parkway's interpretive 
program. The original documentation would remain at the Library of Congress 
and the Parkway would receive a "reference archive," a complete set of 
copies of all manuscript items and sound recordings as well as a complete 
set of contact sheets and reference fiches for the photographs. In addition, 
the Folklife Center would select and annotate photographs and recordings 
which would serve as edited and interpreted counterparts to the complete 
archive. These would be further supplemented by copies of the folklorists' 
essays providing detailed treatments of particular topics. The publications 
-26- 
were to be directed at the general public but were also to be helpful to the 
Parkway’s interpretive program. 
In addition, the project was to include an intern program to train 
selected Park Service workers in folklife study. As this program finally 
developed, two groups of interns joined the project for two-week periods. 
During the first round, the interns were Arnold Schofield and Harley 
Jolley from the Blue Ridge Parkway and Wes Leishman from Cumberland Gap 
National Historical Park. For the second round, the interns were George 
Price, Jr. from Minute Man National Historical Park in Massachusetts and 
Richard McCamant from Buffalo National River in Arkansas. 
Shortly after the Cooperative Agreement was signed, each organization 
issued a press release announcing the project. These two press releases 
suggest insights into the way each organization saw the purpose of the 
project. The Park Service release explains that "the research team will 
seek out persons whose skills, arts, and crafts are native to that area, 
as well as document what has largely been an oral history of that region 
in terms of legends, lifestyles, and the spoken story." The Folklife 
Center release says the project "will examine and document the traditional 
life and work of area residents." The Park Service release thus seems to 
reflect a more conservative understanding of folklife study; the Folklife 
Center wording implies a more holistic approach. Both releases agree that 
and overriding goal should be to provide a comprehensive view of the 
cultural life of the region. 
The project's goals were further refined in the background research 
document. During May and June of 1978 Folklife Center staff member Peter 
t 
* 
-27- 
T. Bartis assessed holdings and publications from the region at the Library 
of Congress and in other collections. His 88-page Preliminary Research 
Document for the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project, completed in early 
July, suggested specific topics that had not been well studied in previous 
research. Bartis concludes: 
Overall, an examination of resource materials for 
our study area suggests that there has been a general 
emphasis on the artistic expression of the area but a 
lack of focus on the traditional culture in which the 
arts flourish. . . . Neglected topics in our study 
area include, for example, quail hunting, fishing, 
apple orchards, burley tobacco, and traditional farming 
f techniques—an area of special importance since these 
counties reserved an unusually high percentage of their 
farm products for personal household use. Similarly, 
there is a lack of holistic studies on traditional 
activities that could offer information on family and 
community life cycles and work, worship, and leisure 
patterns.^ 
The members of the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project field 
team had been selected by July. The team included folklorists Geraldine 
Johnson, Strayer College; Patrick B. Mullen, Ohio State University; Blanton 
Owen, then of Ferrum College and now of Western Carolina University; Margaret 
Counts Owen, then of Ferrum College and now of East Tennessee State University; 
and Thomas A. Adler, then of Indiana University and now of the University 
of Kentucky. Terry Eiler and Lyntha Scott Eiler of Ohio University served as 
photographers. Carl Fleischhauer and Howard Wight Marshall of the American 
Folklife Center also assisted in the work. Folklorists Charles K. Wolfe 
2. Peter T. Bartis, Preliminary Research Survey for the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife 
Project (unpublished report, American Folklife Center, July 6, 1978): 47. 
-28- 
of Middle Tennessee State University was field coordinator. Because of 
an unexpected medical problem, Wolfe joined the team only at midpoint in 
the project; his role of coordinator was assumed by Fleischhauer for the 
first four weeks of the project. 
The Folklife Center's experience has been that "generalists" are 
essential as survey workers. Although the fieldworkers for this project 
had particular specialties—one was interested in spoken narrative, 
another in architecture and agriculture, another in fabric crafts, and so 
on—all were capable of documenting a variety of folk traditions. Only 
Margaret Owen, with a particular interest in dance, was to serve from the 
start as a specialist; her term was for only half of the project. For the 
rest, their areas of specialization were considered only in order to give 
the team a balance of interests in several folklife genres. 
During the first month of fieldwork, the team had found such a 
wide array of subject matter that there was concern as to whether important 
areas might be neglected. In response, the Folklife Center decided to add 
one more fieldworker for a month, in effect to fill out Margaret Owen's 
"slot" for the second month. Since Thomas Adler had served on a previous 
Folklife Center project, the Folklife Center felt that he would be able to 
catch up with the rest of the team. 
On August 2-3, a pre-fieldwork conference was held at the Library 
of Congress. This meeting was attended by all the team members, except 
Charles Wolfe, who was ill, and Thomas Adler. In addition, the meeting 
was attended by Alan Jabbour, Director of the Folklife Center, Wallace 
Macnow of the Department of the Interior's Office of the Secretary, and 
X 
t 
Andrew Kardos, Blue Ridge Parkway Historian. They discussed the goals 
for the project outlined in the cooperative agreement and listed in the 
preliminary research document, as well as new ideas introduced by those 
present. Some additional ideas included: 
1) An interest in exploring the extent to which geo¬ 
political boundaries coincided with cultural divisions. 
Were there real differences between the ridge culture 
and the culture "under" the east slope? What effect 
did the Virginia-Carolina border have on culture? Was 
cultural influence "flowing" from one area to another? 
2) An interest in documenting black culture along the ridge. 
3) A need to document more fully the material culture of the 
region. 
4) A need to explore more fully the traditional domestic 
culture of the area, especially food preparation and 
preservation. 
5) A need to document religious music rather than the 
already well-documented secular music. 
6) An interest in the ways in which the modern mass media 
have influenced traditional life in the region. 
The geographical integrity of the survey was also emphasized at this 
meeting; the boundaries of the study area were carefully laid out, and 
team members were strongly encouraged to stay within these confines. The 
importance of striving for a genuinely comprehensive survey of this limited 
area dominated much of the discussion. 
In addition to these broader goals, each team member went into the 
project armed with certain more specific hypotheses in his own area of 
expertise. Would the interiors of black homes be decorated in ways strikingly 
different from white homes? Has quiltmaking in the region been influenced 
by the craft guilds, and by published magazines? How is religious music 
of the area related to secular music? More details about these specific, 
personal goals are reflected in the fieldworkers' notes. 
-31- 
3. The concept and strategy of a folkllfe field survey 
Most of the Folkllfe Center's field projects have been surveys, 
general searches for a broad range of cultural information. The method 
employs a diverse team of workers who document a wide spectrum of phenomena 
and create a relatively holistic description of a place. The workers are 
most often folkorists, and the project's perspective is their perspective; 
the phenomena which are most closely studied and most frequently documented 
tend to be aspects of traditonal expressive culture. Although scholars 
sometimes differ over their definitions of folkllfe and the meaning of 
concepts like "expressive culture," the Folkllfe Center is willingly guided 
•< by the definition in its authorizing legislation, the American Folkllfe 
Preservation Act (P.L. 94-201): 
Expressive culture includes a wide range of creative 
and symbolic forms such as custom, belief, technical 
skill, language, literature, art, architecture, music, 
play, dance, drama, ritual, pageantry, handicraft; these 
expressions are mainly learned orally, by imitation, or 
in performance, and are generally maintained without 
benefit of formal instruction or institutional direction. 
In an area with a large population, a survey's findings tend to be 
relatively general, covering numerous phenomena but only selectively penetrating 
any one thing in great depth. The variety of documentation will give a good 
overview of an area but may not offer the profound insights sometimes found 
in long-term studies of individual scholars. In a small area with a small 
population, however, the lower ratio of fieldworkers to population permits 
deeper penetration and the survey's findings tend to be more specific and 
more thorough. The Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project's area took in about 
4 
-32- 
f 
750 square miles and an estimated 80,000 people; the area could be described 
as moderately large and the population as large. 
Folklife field research can be a little like detective work. A 
fieldworker will visit people and places and watch and listen for clues. 
Depending on the narrowness of the quest, the worker may resemble a detective 
looking for a particular fugitive, or he may resemble a detective trying to 
find out what sort of event might have occurred in the first place. Field- 
workers often start by talking to a county agent, a local librarian, a school 
teacher, or the president of a club or association, and soon one person 
leads to another. Sometimes the first clue will be an old-fashioned tobacco 
barn, a sign stating that a church meets on the third Sunday of the month, 
or an unusual dish served at a restaurant. 
In the Blue Ridge, for example, fieldworker Geraldine Johnson usually 
began her searches for quiltmakers at a craft shop or with a visit to the 
county extension agent, but the following story of how she met Carrie Severt 
is not atypical. 
While travelling down Route 18 towards Sparta, 
[Arnold Schofield and I] both spied some quilts 
airing on the clothesline strung on the porch of a 
particularly handsome house. Immediately I made a 
U turn and pulled into the dirt driveway leading to 
the house. I knocked at the back door and a slender, 
attractive woman led us into the living room. Carrie 
Severt and her daughter, Margaret Jarvis, were 
watching the soaps. We talked to them for a few 
minutes about this house, quilts, and our project. 
The Severts have rented this house for seventeen 
years. It is the Higgins homeplace owned by McCamet 
Garlin Higgins of the Higgins Oil Company in Galax. 
The Severts couldn't be prouder of the place if it 
were their own. They "reckon" it to be over 100 years 
old because the elder Higgins was born there. 
-33- 
► 
0 
Margaret Jarvis then mentioned the Jarvis 
homeplace owned by her mother-in-law, Eva Jarvis. 
Arnold was intrigued by the sound of the farm 
buildings, so he left with Margaret to look at 
them. 
Carrie Severt is the quilter whose works 
were hanging on the line. Her address is 
Ennice, N.C. She is a "plain" quilter who "loves 
to quilt," uses quilts on her own beds, never 
sells any, and has many strip and pieced quilts 
packed away in corners of the house. I photo¬ 
graphed those that were hanging on the line, 
looked at some of her other quilts, and made an 
appointment to see her tomorrow at 1:00. 
Mrs. Severt also told me about two other 
woman in the area who quilt. Nora Glasco lives 
on Route 18 in a brick house just above Poole's 
Grocery Store. Mrs. Carl Edwards works at the 
Grabow Pipe Factory and quilts at her home on 
Little Pine Road. She quilts (or as I later 
learned, mainly tacks quilts) after working all 
day at the factory. 
Arnold was extremely enthusiastic about the 
Jarvis place when he returned about one hour later.-* 
The preceding excerpt not only describes how a folklorist makes 
a discovery, but also suggests how a team works. In this instance, a 
folklorist and one of the project interns visited a site together. As 
the folklorist pursued her interest in domestic crafts, the intern pursued 
his interest in farm buildings. There were additional visits to the Severt 
and Jarvis families by other team members, and an extensive body of 
documentation was created. The documentation was used in Johnson's essay 
on Blue Ridge quilts, and in a portrait of Carrie Severt and a description 
of the Jarvis farm in the book Blue Ridge Harvest. 
4 
3. Geraldine Johnson, Fieldnotes (August 24, 1978): 41-42. 
The logistical arrangements for the team fieldwork lead to a 
combination of individual exploration and group endeavor. Each team 
member is individually equipped with a vehicle, camera, and tape recorder. 
Day-to-day sharing of information and work grows out of the shared living 
quarters, project office, and the likelihood that meals will often be 
eaten together. The photographers must keep abreast of the work if they 
are to coordinate their coverage with the folklorists, even though they 
may visit sites on separate occasions. Pairs or trios of folklorists 
may occasionally visit a site together. A family home, auction, or other 
event may be visited by a group, although the most frequent subject for 
group documentation in the Blue Ridge was the church service. One person 
serves as "front man” for the team, talking to the minister, deacons, and 
members, while others take care of the sound recording, photography, or 
note-taking. 
In a team situation, each worker's discoveries, insights, and 
speculations are shared, compared, and debated. This leads to refinement 
of each person's thinking and the growth of a kind of collective knowledge 
about a region. Cooperating workers with different areas of expertise may 
visit a single site. Team spirit grows and levels of productivity can be 
very high, although, as noted below, the intense and occasionally 
competitive atmosphere leads some workers to overextend themselves. 
People who are new to an area tend to ask a different set of 
questions from people to whom an area is familiar. A newcomer is more 
likely to begin at the beginning with an informant—and thus collect a 
more complete account—than a person intimate with a region, who will more 
-35- 
i 
likely succeed in collecting interesting esoterics. The Blue Ridge team 
included a mixture of strangers and intimates. 
A successful team is a spirited combination of good players, good 
leadership, and a supportive administrative climate. The qualities, of 
course, are no different than their analogs in such endeavors as sports 
or business, or in art forms like theater or motion-picture production. 
There is no "rule book" for success, but this report will describe certain 
organizational techniques and approaches used in the Blue Ridge and how 
they may have affected the team's energy and effectiveness. 
It is worth noting that there are other approaches to folklife 
fieldwork—with or without a team—than a broad survey. One such approach 
may be likened to scientific laboratory work in which a hypothesis is 
proposed and evidence that bears upon it is gathered. With an area as 
large and diverse as the Blue Ridge, it is hard to pin down a "hypothesis" 
that would be appropriate for a project like this one. The two sponsoring 
agencies wanted a broad and comprehensive look at regional culture, and at 
that level of consideration no overarching hypothesis could be devised. 
A second approach would be to examine one or more case studies. 
A study of a single individual or family could show how traditions manifest 
themselves in people's lives and demonstrate how Americans live in a world 
of cultural options and diverse human networks. Neither the Blue Ridge 
nor any part of America contains "folk communities" in the sense of simple, 
homogeneous, and uniform places removed from the rest of the nation. 
Case studies were included in the Blue Ridge project. For example, 
the team met one minister at a church where he was preaching and found 
-36- 
4 
that he also broadcasts a weekly program on the local radio station, is an 
avid foxhunter and officer in the local foxhunter’s club, and earns his 
living as an insurance salesman. A case study of such an individual under¬ 
scores American cultural versatility and counteracts the erroneous notion 
that folk traditions are the exclusive property of isolated people who 
differ from the rest of society. 
A second motive for incorporating case studies in the project was 
the need for effective public communication after the fieldwork was completed. 
The Folklife Center planned to share its findings in books or magazine 
articles; in such contexts, a human-interest approach will reach a general 
audience. The team's professional photographers were experienced photo¬ 
journalists, and the creation of narrative picture stories was a goal from 
the start. A portrait of a single family or an individual achieves 
narrative unity easily, and the story will encompass information about 
such folk genres as foodways, architecture, music, religious expression, 
and agriculture. In addition to case studies based on a family or individual, 
the Blue Ridge project also undertook a close look at one small rural 
neighborhood, documenting a two- or three-mile section of a county road. 
Devices like case studies, then, help keep a survey from being too 
broad and allow the work to be more focused. A survey must find ways to 
detail selected specifics or its findings will be too general to have much 
impact. In addition to incorporating case studies, the Folklife Center has 
found other devices useful in this regard. These include library research 
prior to fieldwork, a set of route maps in the field team office, the 
requirement of an essay from folklorists who work on the survey, a plan to 
4 
create a publication or exhibit after the survey, and a team meeting at the 
survey's midpoint. Library research, of course, consists of an assessment 
of prior work in the project region and entails an investigation of published 
and unpublished sources. Such research not only introduces the field team 
to the region but suggests what may be found there and identifies neglected 
subject areas. A set of route maps in the field office helps keep the team 
abreast of the group's travels and will show whether any parts of an area 
have been neglected. 
A requirement to write an essay will lead a fieldworker to concen¬ 
trate his study and create a homogeneous body of material on a single subject. 
There is a risk, however, that this concentration will reduce the amount of 
general information the survey collects. And, as noted in the section of 
this report devoted to post-fieldwork experiences, the Folklife Center has 
found that these essays seem burdensome to some workers and often take more 
than a year to complete. 
The need to create an exhibit or publication following the field¬ 
work may push the work toward points of focus; it will certainly raise the 
stakes for high-quality photography and sound recordings. Still, publica¬ 
tions and exhibits based on surveys often take the form of A to Z reflec¬ 
tions of the survey—sponsoring agencies, especially, seem to have a strong 
tendency to present a shopping list of all the things a survey has 
accomplished. 
One of the most useful devices for focusing a team survey is the 
midpoint meeting, attended by the team, project leaders, and agency 
representatives. At such a meeting each team member presents an overview 
of his work to date. A general discussion of the makeup of the region and a 
sense of the project's momentum naturally grows out of these reports. At 
the end of the meeting, the team can create a set of goals for the remaining 
work period by comparing what has been documented with what seems to be 
needed. 
Each folklorist is required to keep a journal, a record of each 
day's events, observations, and impressions. These fieldnotes are the 
intellectual core of the work. They not only describe what happened but 
also what the fieldworkers thought. The media collections from folklife 
fieldwork often attract much attention. Alan Lomax's sound recordings from 
the thirties are justifiably famous and have been heard by thousands in 
their published forms. Many of the photographs from Folklife Center projects 
have been seen in exhibits, publications, and such miscellaneous items as 
note cards. But this attention should not obscure the fact that field 
research is designed to garner knowledge and not merely collectanea. 
Research workers are chosen because they have professional training and 
experience with folk culture and will conduct the work with insight and 
understanding. The fieldnotes are the written record of those insights and 
understandings. 
The notes are supplemented by a biographical form for each key 
informant. These forms create a directory of names, addresses, telephone 
numbers, dates of birth, occupations or avocational specialties, family 
histories, and the like. 
The Folklife Center has a deep commitment to high-quality media 
documentation. This partly reflects the history of folk cultural studies 
at the Library of Congress, where researchers like Robert W. Gordon, John 
and Alan Lomax, Herbert Halpert, and others pioneered in the use of portable 
field recording equipment in the thirties and forties. Today, for sound 
recording the Folklife Center uses Nagra tape recorders; the Nagra is a 
portable, open-reel machine made in Switzerland and widely used for motion- 
picture production. 
During its first two field research projects in 1977, the Folklife 
Center created about an equal number of audiocassette and open-reel sound 
recordings. Materials from both projects were edited into exhibits or 
audio presentations, and editors found themselves selecting items from 
every part of the audio collections. The inferior quality of the sound 
recordings made with cassette equipment was noticeable and kept some of 
the presentations from achieving the maximum possible impact. For the 
Blue Ridge project, therefore, the team was asked to use open-reel 
recorders whenever possible. Each team member had a Nagra tape recorder 
for his personal use. Each worker was also required to write a log 
outlining the content of each recording. 
Every team member took photographs, and the final photographic 
collection is a comprehensive representation of the survey. Many folklorists 
are skillful photographers and created excellent images of people, places, 
and activities. Indeed, this skill can be one consideration in the selection 
of a team such as the Blue Ridge field team. Advanced skills, however, are 
needed to make articulate pictures of such subjects as the day-to-day flow 
of domestic life, the relationships between people (including the relation¬ 
ships between the team and the people they visited), or highly specialized 
images like motion-study pictures at a dance. Such pictures were made 
primarily by the team's professional photographers. Their choice of 
particular people or families to cover, of course, reflected the work of 
the folklorists. In addition, the professional photographers served as the 
team's picture coaches, teaching photographic approaches and techniques. 
The Park Service and the Folklife Center need both color and black- 
and-white photographs in order to prepare publications, exhibits, and slide 
shows. The Blue Ridge project's photographic documentation was arranged to 
create both color and black-and-white images. In addition to communication 
needs, this practice takes into account archival considerations: the life¬ 
span of a black-and-white negative is greater than the life-span of a slide. 
Whenever possible, each fieldworker was equipped with at least two cameras 
and an assortment of lenses. After processing, the black-and-white negatives 
were proofed on contact sheets and the color transparencies edited into 
groups of 20 or less and inserted in special preservation-quality storage 
holders. Each photographer was required to write an identification log 
for each contact sheet or color transparency holder. 
Color slides have the added benefit of providing handsome and 
inexpensive souvenir prints to give informants. In order to protect the 
negatives, the Folklife Center uses professional custom photographic 
laboratories for black-and-white processing, but we have found that ordinary 
"amateur" processing of color materials by the Eastman Kodak Company is safe, 
fast, and modestly priced. Thus, the cost of small color prints is far less 
than the cost for custom black-and-white prints of the same sixe. 
If the central problem In a survey is finding a way to strike a 
balance between the general and the particular, the key administrative task— 
which coexists as a kind of "problem" for the project's leaders—is finding 
ways to ensure the completion of the written aspects of field documentation. 
Every fieldworker is expected to write fieldnotes and outlines or 
identification logs for all photographs and sound recordings. This work 
can take as much as 25 percent of each worker's time. The competing 
desire to visit people or sites, however, is usually overwhelming. One of 
the field coordinator's most important jobs is to persuade fieldworkers 
to sit at their typewriters one or two days a week. After fieldwork, every 
team member returns home to a normal, busy life; writing left undone on 
the last day in the field may stand undone for months. 
Subsequent to the Blue Ridge project, the Folklife Center has 
experimented with tape-recorded dictation and transcription to ease this 
problem. Fieldnotes can be dictated in an automobile between visits; 
logs for photographs or sound recordings may also be dictated. 
As this section on concept and strategy indicates, a field survey 
like the Blue Ridge project is primarily a vehicle for learning about 
regional folk culture and for sharing that knowledge with others. Some 
phenomena are left unexamined by such a project design. For example, the 
Parkway affects the lives of those who live nearby, indirectly through such 
factors as the flow of visitors to the area, and directly through the 
effects of management policies. As has been noted in the first section 
of this report, the project paid some attention to the relationship between 
Parkway policy-making and the lives of its neighbors, but such questions 
were not analyzed in depth. A project to examine such questions could be 
worthwhile but should probably be conducted independently from the agency 
under study. 
A survey like the Blue Ridge project, however, may not ignore 
ethical considerations. Fieldwork, after all, is carried out by human 
beings who document the lives of other human beings. Like questions of 
ethics in other spheres of life, fully articulated or universally satis¬ 
factory rules are hard to find. But no matter which set of particular 
directives a researcher adopts, fieldwork should be guided by concepts of 
fair play, good manners, and the Golden Rule. 
In addition, fieldwork should try to offer a reciprocal benefit to 
those visited who give of their privacy and time. The Folklife 
Center has found that a visit from a national institution is often perceived 
as an expression of national interest and is considered a compliment. 
Individuals identified during a survey often find they are subsequently 
invited to appear at festivals or offered sales outlets for their crafts. 
In its early projects, the Folklife Center experimented with paying cash 
honoraria to informants, but most team members and some of the people 
visited felt awkward with the arrangement. Instead, souvenir photographs 
and certificates of appreciation may be sent. 
Modest gestures to say thank you or pay tribute to individuals are 
easier to devise than actions that affect the whole community. The Folklife 
Center believes that documentation does earn a community a place in the 
nation's recorded history, and that this is an important benefit. If a 
survey leads to publications or other products, local residents will often 
take pride in the recognition. Some communities have begun self¬ 
documentation projects after a field study has been completed. The desire 
to document one’s own community may be strongest when the idea of community 
identity is new, when the nature of the identity is changing, or when the 
identity is threatened. For example, the Folklife Center has encountered 
such self-documentation in immigrant communities—especially those composed 
of refugees from nations that have experienced political upheavals—and 
with Native Americans. The Blue Ridge is a secure and well-established 
corner of the United States with a clear vision of its own traditions and 
their value; no interest in community-wide self-documentation was expressed 
to members of the Blue Ridge team. 
4. The survey and its findings 
Field research began on August 5 and continued through September 
30, 1978. Three of the team members, Geraldine Johnson, Lyntha Filer, and 
Blanton Owen, stayed in the Blue Ridge for the entire period. Patrick 
Mullen and Terry Filer stayed until the last two weeks, when their regular 
teaching jobs called them away, although Filer continued to visit on 
weekends. Margaret Owen worked during August and Thomas Adler during 
September. Charles Wolfe, the field coordinator, was originally scheduled 
to work for the entire period, but an unexpected illness kept him at home 
until September. Carl Fleischhauer served as field coordinator during 
August, returning at the end of the field period to assist in wrapping up 
the work. Howard Wight Marshall visited twice for one-week fieldwork 
stints. Thus for most of the fieldwork period there were seven workers on 
site. The number never dropped below five and sometimes reached eight. 
Although formal fieldwork ended on September 30, a few team members 
made return trips to the area. Lyntha and Terry Filer returned for addi¬ 
tional photography; Charles Wolfe returned to complete the arrangements 
for the phonograph record (having the performers sign agreements to partici¬ 
pate) and to make some additional recordings; Margaret Owen paid an additional 
visit to conduct some interviews; and Geraldine Johnson visited some of her 
informants on a trip to obtain craft items to be sold at the Library of 
Congress. 
During the fieldwork the team was housed at the Midtowner Motel in 
Galax, Virginia. The Midtowner had kitchenette rooms, and team members 
often prepared meals in their rooms. An additional room was set aside as 
It 
-45- 
an office. Each team member had an automobile assigned from the Government 
Services Administration (GSA) motor pool in Washington. GSA vehicles were 
chosen because they were cheaper than either commercial rental cars or 
repaying workers for the use of their personal cars. 
Team members approached their work with enthusiasm bordering on 
aggressiveness. All worked seven days a week, and 14-hour days were not 
uncommon; usually twice a week some major event required a large portion of 
the team to collaborate on the documentation. The typical day began with 
an informal gathering in the project office about 8:30 a.m., with informal 
discussions about who was going where, where the photographers were working, 
and who had what equipment. After everyone had left, the field coordinator 
worked around the office until noon, answering phone calls, shipping and 
receiving film, maintaining inventories, and doing paperwork. He would 
usually make short field trips of his own in the afternoon. By 8:00 or 
8:30 p.m., the team would trickle back in, exchange ideas, examine returned 
slides and proof sheets; they would then usually return to their rooms to 
log tapes and photographs and write up fieldnotes. 
A midterm meeting was held in Galax on August 31, 1978. The team 
was joined by Alan Jabbour, Director of the American Folklife Center, 
Parkway Historian Andrew Kardos, and Wallace Macnow from the Department of 
the Interior. Our description of the survey's findings will begin by simply 
outlining the topics covered at this meeting. 
After a month of work in the region, each fieldworker was starting 
to concentrate on certain specific topics and was starting to identify key 
informants for intensive study. Goals were thus being defined by two 
-46- 
methods: the older, more established "topical" or "generic" approach, and 
the case-study approach, emphasizing an intensive cross-genre study of one 
individual or family. 
Geraldine Johnson had hoped to find rugmaking traditions, but 
found little; she shifted her concentration to quilt-making and foodways, 
with a special emphasis on preparation and preservation techniques. "Story¬ 
telling" turned out to consist primarily of family history and personal- 
experience narratives (how I met my spouse, how I survived the Depression, 
death of loved ones). Patrick Mullen had focused his attention on four 
black communities in the region, but also pursued oral narratives, home 
remedies and beliefs, and church history. Margaret Owen concentrated on 
dancing, both as a solo art and as a community or social celebration. 
Blanton Owen became interested in traditional agricultural practices and 
the day-to-day work of tobacco farmers, peach growers, and (to a lesser 
degree) dairy and beef farmers; he also spent a lot of time measuring and 
studying farm buildings and churches. Charles Wolfe began to focus on 
church music, gospel music, and upon the image the people of the region had 
of themselves and how popular media affected it. 
Media documentation was a little slow in getting started. Although 
the team recognized that the Nagra tape recorders would provide high 
fidelity sound, some workers were reluctant to use them and to consume 
tape freely. One team member commented, "It's a little difficult to get 
used to using all the tape you want after years of having to watch every 
foot." By the time of the mid-term conference, less than 100 reels of tape 
had been recorded; in the second half of the project, over 300 would be 
recorded. A similar effect would probably be evident with photographic 
documentation, though the presence on the team of the professional 
photographers helped to keep the quantities relatively even through the 
fieldwork period. At the conference, the Eilers noted that they had not 
been getting enough "lifestyle" documentation and that they needed more 
help from fieldworkers in locating interesting families and individuals in 
the area. They also felt the need to document a variety of public or 
community events, such as a tobacco auction, a family reunion, a baptism, 
and a country-store gathering. 
Some attention was also given to the geographical distribution of 
the work being done. Patrick and Carroll Counties in Virginia and Alleghany 
County in North Carolina were being well covered; more attention was needed 
in Wilkes and Surry Counties, North Carolina, and Floyd County, Virginia. 
Fieldworkers felt that Grayson County, Virginia, had probably been 
"overcovered." Using colored markers, team members had charted each day s 
travels on a large map in the main office, and after five weeks there 
remained few roads in the area that some team members had not driven down. 
Thus geographical consideration continued to play a significant, though not 
a dominant, role in the direction of the project. It was a prime factor in 
one particular goal that emerged during the mid-point conference: a 
suggestion to conduct a systematic study of all the families living along 
Road 804 in Floyd County. 
During the mid-term conference, each fieldworker compiled a list 
of key informants: people who were emerging as interesting on a number of 
fronts, and who were worth repeated visits and extensive documentation. 
-48- 
* 
<» 
These lists were compiled in a form giving the name of the informant, his 
or her location in the study area, the reason the subject was interesting 
(e.g., a foxhunter who was also a gospel singer or a toymaker who was also 
an auctioneer), and to what extent the subject had been photographed or 
recorded. A list of approximately 50 informants was developed by the 
conference (not including choices by Adler and Wolfe, who had just joined 
the team). Later the list was narrowed down to a list of 25 people or 
families selected for extensive documentation. This list was posted in the 
project office, and a conscious effort was made to complete the documentation 
on these subjects. 
A similar conference was held at the Library of Congress on October 
27-28, about a month after the completion of the fieldwork. By this time 
the team had largely completed their logs and fieldnotes and had a good 
overall perspective on the work. The following paragraphs assess the work 
more or less from the perspective of this post-fieldwork meeting. The 
assessment has been refined, however, by the writers' participation in 
other post-fieldwork tasks: editing the presentation sets of sound record¬ 
ings and color slides, and editing the photographic book and phonograph 
record. 
About half of the specific topics suggested in the background 
research report, supplemented by ideas generated during the pre-fieldwork 
« and mid-term team meetings, were pursued with tangible results. 
Individual team members got some information about herb gathering and uses, 
a the "apple culture" in Wilkes County, hurley tobacco growing, and older 
farming methods, especially food preservation; in fact, some team members 
-49- 
concentrated on certain of these topics. Little was done, though, with 
such local subjects as pipe-making in Alleghany County, the Allen Trial, 
health and healing springs, weaving "drafts," and mountain schools. Of 
course, several of these topics led to dead ends, e.g., there is not much 
survival of weaving drafts. Some seasonal items, like upland bird hunting, 
remained undocumented because the fieldwork was conducted at the wrong time 
of year. The team did discover a surprisingly strong tradition of fox 
hunting, however. 
But if the survey did not cover every topic suggested, it did 
develop a number of areas that had not been extensively discussed prior to 
the fieldwork. For example, the team examined the rural community church 
as a social and cultural force, and studied it in a comprehensive way that 
involved all team members and their various areas of expertise. Services 
were documented; church buildings were measured; church histories were 
compiled; church members were interviewed; church activities were studied. 
Such studies cut across dozens of topical genres, and emerged as among the 
most fruitful exercises in the team fieldwork concept. For many communities 
today in the Blue Ridge, the church remains one of the strongest cohesive 
forces; by contrast, many small stores and schools that once helped define 
small communities have fallen victim to modern consolidation. 
In other places, where secular community centers still existed, 
the team used these centers as focal points for study: the Iroler store in 
Carroll County; the Stone Mountain Craft Shop in Traphill; the Town and 
Country Barber Shop in Sparta; and the Shockley Shell Station in Hillsville. 
Community events were also used as a focal point for team study: country 
-50- 
* 
<» 
auctions, baptisms, gospel singings, fox hunters' field trials, fiddling 
contests, church association meetings, weekly dances, quilting circles, and 
even the Sunday afternoon gatherings at Mabry Mill on the Parkway itself. In 
some cases taped actualities" resulted from these studies; in other cases, 
the events were used to generate leads for later individual interviews . 
In spite of our vow to stay away from the heavily documented secular 
music of the region, the team found itself documenting a limited amount of 
old-time and bluegrass music. One reason was that secular music of this 
sort is so pervasive in the area that it was a natural part of the lives of 
many informants to whom we were originally attracted for other reasons. For 
instance, Fern Evans of Lowgap, North Carolina, was originally interviewed 
* 
for her knowledge of early rural homemaking customs and storytelling; later 
we learned she sang in an all-woman family bluegrass band. Jim Marshall of 
Carroll County was first interviewed as an auctioneer; later he was recorded 
as a singer of local topical songs and as an interesting banjo player. 
A.P. Thompson, interviewed originally for his knowledge of area.singing 
schools, turned out to be a key member of the Red Fox Chasers, a band that 
recorded the music of the area commercially in the 1920s. Furthermore, the 
area was so rich in music that even with all the documentation it was still 
possible to find and record musicians who had not been well documented before, 
e.g., fiddler Rafe Brady, singer-fiddler Millard Pruitt, bandleader Whit 
* Sizemore, and singers J.C. Pierce and Jim and Artie Marshall. A third reason 
was that much of the music was recorded in a social context: the dance, the 
« informal jam session, the fiddling contest provided contexts lacking in much 
of the earlier documentation from this region. All in all, while the secular 
music from the project comprises a relatively small percentage of the 
overall documentation, it is stronger than one might suspect, and some of 
it certainly deserves to be published. 
The team found and documented a rich variety of religious music, 
ranging from unaccompanied congregational singing to modern gospel groups 
propelled by guitars and an electric bass. Approximately 65 of the project's 
416 open-reel sound recordings deal with this kind of music. While 
fieldworkers in the past had recorded some congregational singing from the 
area (especially in Primitive Baptist churches), there had been little 
documentation of black church music, and virtually none of the white gospel 
singing tradition, heard away from church as often as in it. This tradition 
is probably as strong in the central Blue Ridge as the fiddle-banjo music 
that is so famous; one of the surprises of our fieldwork was the pervasiveness 
of gospel singing, and how strongly it is entwined with the sense of family, 
community, and the past. 
Equally pervasive in many rural communities was the narrative 
about a religious experience. The team had found few of the classic 
storytelling genres once found in the mountains—Jack tales, supernatural 
stories, Civil War yarns—but found instead a plethora of "personal 
experience" narratives centering on watershed events in people's lives: 
courtship stories, accounts of the death of a family member, memories of 
the Depression, of a hard winter, of a damaging flood. One of the most 
intense and most highly structured of these genres was the conversion story, 
detailing how the narrator got religion, joined the church, or reaffirmed 
his faith. Some narrators had become quite masterful at presenting these 
accounts, and for many tellers such performances had been repeated numerous 
times over the years, much like a favorite song or tall tale. 
Patrick Mullen collected most of these narratives; they are the 
subject of his essay "Ritual and Sacred Narratives in the Blue Ridge 
Mountains." Since he was the worker who paid the most visits to the region's 
black communities, his body of work includes numerous narratives from black 
as well as white speakers. He also worked with Thomas Adler to create the 
project's video recordings of children's games in an elementary school 
class which included both black and white children. 
In addition to her extensive research into quilt-making in the 
area, the subject of her essay "Blue Ridge Quilts—Plain and Fancy," 
Geraldine Johnson documented numerous aspects of food preservation and 
foodways. Her brief report on food-drying was published in the October 
1978 issue of Folklife Center News, and her description of Ruth Newman's 
recipes and poetry is in the April 1979 issue. 
Thomas Adler, along with the Filers, was instrumental in documenting 
Floyd County Road 804, with mixed success. While the idea of this sort of 
documentation was never challenged, the time element in this project worked 
against the full implementation of the idea. Adler's work focused on 
architecture; his work at the Jarvis farm forms the basis for the treatment 
of that site in Blue Ridge Harvest. His project essay is titled "Toward an 
Ecology of Folk Housing in the East-Central Blue Ridge.” 
Architecture was also extensively documented by Blanton Owen, whose 
fieldnotes include numerous drawings of church floorplans, and by Howard 
Wight Marshall. The project's documentation of buildings in photographs 
-53- 
i 
V 
and drawings is extensive and excellent. Toward the end of the project 
and in his essay, Adler noted that more might have been done to interview 
living persons who had built houses, or to document current-day residences. 
Charles Wolfe points out that an intense interest in older structures was 
shared by several of the Park Service interns; Wolfe feels that this interest 
may have distracted from field visits to living persons. 
Owen also visited the tobacco farmers in the area, and his 
documentation of the Slate—Moorefield family is an important part of his 
project essay on "Traditional Aspects of the Harvesting and Curing of Bright 
Leaf Tobacco in the Blue Ridge of Virginia." 
Margaret Owen documented dance traditions, working with other team 
members to videotape solo and small-group dancing at three sites. The team 
visited a dance at the elementary school at Fancy Gap, Virginia, on two or 
three occasions. This was the site of an experiment in photographic 
documentation. A still camera coordinated with a tape recorder documented 
changing dance figures in three large group dances. One of these figures 
and the general circumstances of the dance are the subjects of a section of 
Blue Ridge Harvest. Margaret Owen's essay is titled "Dance Traditions in 
the Blue Ridge." 
Some team members became interested in the region's rich car 
culture—customizing, decorating, meets, racing stories—which reached well 
back into the 1930s, but this was hardly developed at all; part of the 
reason was lack of time, part a feeling (rightly or wrongly) that such a 
topic was not central to a folklife investigation. 
Some attention was paid to the influence of domestic and mass media 
on the area's culture. Thomas Adler logged hours of home tape recordings 
of music created by the Keith family; numerous family snapshots were copied; 
and Charles Wolfe interviewed several radio-station personnel and dubbed 
some air-checks of traditional music from WPAQ, Mt. Airy. Scattered 
throughout the interviews are references to how natives have responded to 
the stereotypes foisted on them by the outside world, and one section of 
the annotated set of sound recordings sent to the Parkway is devoted to 
this. Still, this complex topic received less attention than it might 
have. The scheme to document Floyd County Road 804, mentioned earlier, was 
eventually abandoned because of lack of time; everyone was enthusiastic 
about this project, however, and had it been planned earlier in the project, 
it might have yielded fruitful results. 
One goal not fully realized was an investigation of the coincidence, 
or lack of it, between political divisions (state and county lines), geogra¬ 
phic boundaries (the Blue Ridge itself, major rivers), and the boundaries 
between culture regions or sub-regions. This interesting but highly complex 
question would require painstaking and systematic fieldwork beyond the reach 
of a two-month survey. In the day-to-day operations of the team, therefore, 
this question was not a major motivation in determining where to go and 
whom to interview. This is not to say, however, that the geographical 
boundaries of the project were not heeded; "OTA" ("out of the area") became 
an all-too-familiar litany when team members had to turn away from a promising 
lead, an interesting interview, or a unique house. 
A 
-a 
-55- 
Most of the key inforaants identified at the midpoint conference 
were documented in detail. A few gaps remained, however; several individuals 
or families who were to play prominent roles in the record album or book 
(or who might have played such roles) turned out to be less well documented 
than we wished. The subjects of some excellent photographs had never been 
extensively interviewed; singers chosen for inclusion on records or in 
presentation tapes had never been well photographed. One reason is the 
congestive effect of a survey's momentum. After starting slowly, team 
members got into high gear during the last third of the two-month survey, 
and began to generate more and more documentation. This congestion put a 
burden on the professional photographers, who found they were being asked 
to be in too many places at once. A second reason was that each team member 
continued to make his/her own photographs of subjects, with varying degrees 
of success; in some cases, the professional photographers were not called 
to a scene because the fieldworker felt that enough photographs had already 
been made. Sometimes the photographers located a subject that seemed 
promising, but found that neither they nor the field coordinator could 
persuade a folklorist to visit to complete the documentation. In general, 
it is hard to overstate the complexities of coordination required for a 
team field effort of this sort. 
As planned, souvenir photographs were given in large numbers to 
most of the people visited by the team. In addition, cassette copies of 
sound recordings were given in a few cases. A certificate of appreciation, 
signed by the Directors of the Park Service and Folklife Center, was printed 
and sent to most of the project's informants. A copy of this certificate 
-56- 
has been attached to selected copies of this report; copies may be examined 
at the American Folklife Center. These gestures seem to have been appreciated. 
On return visits, we have seen the certificates hung on the wall and the 
photographs shown to visitors. Most of the tape recording copies made were 
of church services, and there were numerous requests for additional copies. 
As noted in the section of this report on concept and strategy, 
devising ways to benefit a local population-at-large is difficult. We hope 
that future presentations of local culture on the Parkway (in campfire 
talks, for example) will be more accurate and sympathetic. We also hope 
that the two publications from the project will be widely disseminated in 
the region, and that they will evoke a positive response from area residents. 
Still, it is hard to say how important these descriptions and interpretations 
of culture are for local people. 
During the fieldwork in the Blue Ridge, changes in Parkway and Park 
Service policies affected some nearby residents and provoked comment 
throughout the area. Some local access roads were to be blocked and there 
were plans to purchase additional private property near the Parkway. In an 
unrelated matter, some residents of Meadows of Dan, Virginia, had been 
staging their own performances of music and dance at Mabry Mill. These 
were not an official park activity, and some Parkway staff members were 
apprehensive about them. 
The Blue Ridge project had little direct effect on these matters. 
The recommendations in this report cite such matters as examples of a sort 
of local-relations issue the Park Service always faces. But this project 
was not designed to develop the specific information needed to identify the 
access roads that should be left open, or the land which should be left in 
private hands. At most, informal conversations between the field team or 
Folklife Center staff members and Park Service workers may have influenced 
Park Service decision-making in some small way. On the matter of the 
dancing at Mabry Mill, the Parkway had been inclined to permit the local 
citizens' presentations, and the team simply helped reinforce this point 
of view. 
5. 
The intern program 
The Park Service workers who joined the project as special interns 
were trained "on the job." After a short orientation, they simply accompanied 
team members on their visits. Considerable information was transmitted 
from the folklorists to the interns informally, in conversations like the 
ones that inevitably precede and follow a field visit. During the visits, 
the interns observed the folklorists at work and sometimes participated in 
interviews and documentation. Fieldwork is primarily conducted to gain 
knowledge, but the matter of "being neighborly" always enters into the 
work. Since one of the goals of the project was to increase the good 
relations between the Park Service and its neighbors, this aspect was an 
important part of the intern program. The most striking example of neighbor- 
to-neighbor contact occurred when one intern attended an informal get- 
together in which local residents vigorously discussed current Parkway 
policies, offering new perspectives on familiar issues. 
At the final team meeting the team and staff members from the 
Folklife Center and the Park Service discussed the effectiveness of the 
program. Wallace Macnow, speaking for the interns, said, "They wanted to 
get some knowledge of folklore and get an understanding that culture is 
alive and that it changes. . .that it exists, and that things they don't 
consider to be culture are. All of them came away with this information, 
that ordinary ways of living were tied in with cultural patterns. And they 
can make use of that." On the other hand, some of the fieldworkers said 
they feared that the interns had not learned as much as they might have. 
« 
-59- 
Geraldine Johnson quoted one intern as saying that he had not learned much 
about folklore, but a lot about lifestyles in the region. Johnson commented, 
"If they still make that sort of distinction, then we failed." Communication 
with the interns following fieldwork, however, tends to support the more 
positive assessment. 
It was difficult to accommodate the interns as fieldwork proceeded. 
For the interns, the absence of substantial amounts of organized, formal 
training was frustrating. The field team for their part were sometimes 
frustrated when the inexperienced interns distracted them from their work. 
Some of the people the team visited had negative attitudes about the Park 
Service; in such situations, the presence of a Park Service employee was a 
real problem. 
The second round of interns worked out more successfully than the 
first. The nature of the experiment was better understood and more adequately 
prepared for. The team had found that it was hard for five or six folklorists 
to absorb three interns; for the second round, the number was reduced to 
two. In addition, the extent and scope of the orientation was increased. 
Still, the matter of finding a folklorist-intern pairing each day was a 
headache for the field coordinator, who had to be scrupulously exact about 
spreading the assignments around. 
The field team tended to look at gathering information as its 
central objective, and corollary aspects of the work, ranging from keeping 
up on paperwork to taking an intern along, tended to be seen as secondary. 
The Folklife Center should have made these objectives seem more important 
and conveyed to the team that this assignment was part of their duties. 
Future team field projects may work with persons who are not 
professionals in folklore or related disciplines. Staff members from other 
government agencies, college undergraduates, or local residents might join 
a folklife project. The experience in the Blue Ridge has taught the Folklife 
Center that such persons cannot be dealt with casually or informally; a 
successful intern program requires substantial planning and staff time. 
-61- 
6. Publicity and public relations 
Public relations are not often considered part of a research 
project, but a case can be made for paying close attention to this aspect 
of fieldwork. Since the Blue Ridge project had goals beyond those of 
research, an even stronger case can be made. Publicity can help a researcher 
make contact with potential informants, explain the work to local residents, 
educate the public about folklife, and heighten awareness of a project's 
sponsors. The project's public relations efforts were often successful, 
but there were also some disappointments. The rationale for public relations 
may not have been made clear to the team members; there was always doubt 
about whether publicity was "part of fieldwork" or a frill to be shrugged 
off. 
Most of the newspapers in the area are modest and are published 
once or twice a week. They limited their coverage of the Blue Ridge project 
to the official news releases. The team received more attention, however, 
from one local radio station. The field coordinator dicussed the project 
on a forty-five minute talk show on Hillsville's station WHHV. • Thomas 
Adler and Terry Siler visited a Floyd County high school and talked about 
folklore, and on several occasions team members recording church services 
were asked to address a few words to the congregations. But no one 
addressed any local civic clubs or organizations, and there was little 
liaison between members and local historians, teachers, librarians, and the 
like. Some local people who learned of the project through word of mouth, 
like a Galax librarian and a bookmobile operator, were interested in meeting 
with team members, but such meetings did not take place. Some team members 
-62- 
were suspicious of "local authorities,” while others strongly urged their 
use as contacts or sources of knowledge. The team certainly dealt with 
any number of individual citizens successfully—conducting interviews, 
sending souvenir photographs, etc.—but was less successful at presenting 
a profile to the community at large. Such efforts take time and try patience, 
but, especially in light of the Folklife Center's desire to influence the 
Park Service toward greater involvement with local communities, we should 
have made a stronger effort. 
Regional publicity was much more successful. Both the Roanoke 
-* (Virginia) Times and the Charlotte (North Carolina) Observer sent reporters 
who spent a full day with the team, and major feature stories resulted. 
These appeared in the editions of October 15 and October 9, 1978, respectively. 
The newspaper from Winston-Salem also sent a reporter, but if a story 
appeared, we never saw it. Greensboro (North Carolina) television station 
WFMY sent a crew to film a major segment for the September 4, 1978 edition 
of the evening news. At least three other regional papers phoned to set up 
reporters' visits, but because of the poor communications—not getting our 
phone messages—these visits did not occur. We were able to make project 
photos available to some reporters, and these were used and appreciated. 
There was some national publicity for the project. The television 
segment prepared by WFMY in Greensboro was picked up and broadcast on Walter 
Cronkite's CBS Evening News. A feature story by Boris Weintraub ran in the 
September 14, 1978 edition of the Washington Star, a newspaper read by many 
beyond its metropolitan base. The Library of Congress' clip service has 
M 
noted the appearance of the project's press releases in the following news- 
-63- 
papers: the Buffalo Courier Express (June 11, 1978), the Goochland (Virginia) 
Gazette (August 11, 1978), the Sparta (North Carolina) Alleghany News (August 
10, 1978), the St. Croix (Virgin Islands) Daily (June 9, 1981), and the 
Winchester (Tennessee) Herald Chronicle (August 3, 1978). The publication 
of the record album and photographic book from the project will, of course, 
receive some national notice. 
The project received mention or contributed material to an addi¬ 
tional part of the media, the segment in which special interest groups 
communicate. Some of this communication, of course, is national in scope, 
although not aimed at a mass audience. Team members have presented talks 
before the Virginia Folklore Society, the Tennessee Folklore Society, the 
Guilford College Southern History Symposium, the American Folklore Society, 
the Chesapeake Chapter of the American Studies Association, and others. 
Articles about the project have appeared in the Center's nationally 
distributed newsletter Folklife Center News (October 1978 and April 1979), 
the Blue Ridge Institute Newsletter (Fall 1979), National Parks and 
Conservation Magazine (April 1980), and will shortly appear in Virginia 
t 
Folklore and Folklife. 
4 
-64- 
7. Some problems in administration 
This section lists a miscellany of large and small problems encountered 
by the field coordinator. Part of the job, of course, consists of solving 
such problems, but we feel that it is useful to articulate them for future 
workers. 
Although there was some consensus on the degree of freedom each team 
member should have, the issue of how much to schedule and assign work kept 
coming up. At the start of the project, the photographers were troubled by 
the lack of specific assignments, the sort of instructions they would have 
had in a journalistic situation. But the folklorists were only beginning 
to make their contacts, and photo assignments were not forthcoming until the 
third or fourth week. The interns, on site for what had been described to 
them as a training session, complained that their work was not sufficiently 
organized. 
Generally, the question of how much to structure a project like 
this stems from larger vagaries of team fieldwork itself. The Blue Ridge 
team was a collection of experienced, dedicated professionals, few of who 
had done much team fieldwork. Certainly they would have resented too much 
heavy-handed coordination, and rightfully so; no one wants to discourage 
the heady mixture of creativity, serendipity, and chance that characterizes 
fieldwork at its best. At the same time, the group's lack of experience as 
a team might have caused some gaps in the documentation. In addition, when 
Charles Wolfe arrived at midpoint to take over the field coordinator's 
duties after the delay caused by his illness, he was reluctant to impose on 
-65- 
a team that had already found its stride. 
As noted above, certain devices were employed to give the work 
direction. During the latter half of the project, a list of key informants 
was posted in the office as a guide to coordinating interviews and photo¬ 
graphs; a color-coded map kept track of each worker's wanderings; the field 
coordinator tried to keep a notebook showing where each team member would 
be each day. A large calendar in the office was used, though not as much 
as it should have been; while individual workers might have been uncertain 
of their exact day-to-day schedule, they could and did note major fixed 
events such as auctions or fairs of interest to other team members. Yet 
other members noted, accurately, that this sometimes resulted in over¬ 
documentation, where the entire team descended on a hapless country auction, 
photographing and taping everything in sight and each other. 
Although team members were strongly encouraged to keep up with 
their fieldnotes, tape logs, and photo logs as the project progressed, this 
did not happen. To keep logs and notes up to date usually required one day 
out of four; only one team member really kept up successfully. Others felt 
that "fieldwork" was defined pretty much as active documentation, and that 
"productivity" referred solely to numbers of slides, tapes, and films 
generated; indeed, at times one could sense a competition toward amassing 
such documentation. Members especially seemed to resent the biographical 
forms they were asked to fill out for key informants, and fewer of these 
were filled out than should have been. 
To be sure, there were some technical problems in keeping up with 
the paperwork. Some members did not have typewriters and had to do typing 
A. 
-66- 
on the office machine. There were no handy facilities for photocopying. 
Dubbing cassette copies from the field tapes was bothersome, due in part to a 
shortage of cassette recorders and the lack of any way to make high-speed 
copies. It would have helped greatly in coordinating the project if the team 
coordinator had had access to tape logs as they emerged; he could have seen 
who had been interviewed, for how long, and about what. 
Many team members felt the need for some sort of administrative 
assistant to remain in the office, answer the phone, transcribe tape logs, and 
make cassette dubs of tapes. At the same time, everyone felt apprehensive 
» about having someone else make tape logs of an interview. Logging done by the 
interviewer is a burdensome chore, but it also provides an important opportu- 
♦ nity for the interviewer to review and reflect on the event later and can be 
be helpful in planning further interviews. 
The Folklife Center has subseqently experimented with tape-recorded 
dictation of fieldnotes and logs. This labor-saving device has worked out 
well; fieldworkers can dictate their notes while erx route from one site to the 
next. With such ease of creation, workers are likely to offer greater length 
and more detail in their writing, and the resulting notes are more complete 
and more valuable. Most fieldworkers can also dictate logs for their photo¬ 
graphs more quickly than they can type them. The chief drawback of the 
dictation method is the added cost of secretarial labor. The Folklife Center 
estimates that the equivalent of one or one-and-a-half full-time secretaries 
would be required for a team like the one in the Blue Ridge. In addition, 
some workers have felt that their fieldnotes should be better organized and more 
A 
grammatical than simple dictation permits; with the further cost of retyping 
* 
-67- 
edit ed drafts, this method could become prohibitively expensive. 
Another problem in the flow of the project was the disruption in 
routine toward the end of the work when Terry Eiler and Patrick Mullen left 
the field to return to their teaching jobs. Ideally, the work should have 
been scheduled to conclude before the beginning of the normal school year. 
Some team members felt they should have learned more about each 
other's fieldwork techniques prior to arriving at the scene; some people 
prefer to work through contacts, others to cruise an area; some like to 
document informants on the first visit, others prefer to make several visits 
before starting documentation. Some felt they spent much time spinning 
their wheels getting oriented to the area before real work began. There 
a general feeling that an advance man" on the scene a couple of weeks 
before the project began could help a lot by setting up preliminary contacts 
and possibly even bringing in local authorities. 
Another problem in coordination was communication. All telephone 
calls had to come through the switchboard of the Midtowner Motel in Galax, 
and a great many messages were never passed on to us. In a similar vein, 
some team members complained about the physical facilities of the field 
office; one remarked that had the office been a bit larger, a bit more 
comfortable, with perhaps a coffee urn, it would have served more success¬ 
fully as an informal gathering place, thus improving coordination. 
No real hitches developed with the equipment. The use of six tape 
recorders allowed each fieldworker to have one more or less continuously. 
It would have been useful to have had more accessories; there were occasional 
shortages of microphones, headphones, mike stand, etc. There was not enough 
of an office pool" of spare parts. The equipment problem was complicated 
by the interns, who quickly acquired a taste for the Nagra tape recorders; 
by the coming and going of team members toward the end of the project; and 
by the need, most Sundays, to commandeer almost all the equipment for church 
service documentation. 
In spite of the instruction sessions with the portable video equip¬ 
ment, no one on the team really felt at ease with it, and most felt that it 
was more trouble than it was worth. The creation of professional-quality 
video recordings requires time, effort, and skill. The most effective means 
to this end would be an additional person on the team to oversee the creation 
of videotapes. 
The film processing system generally worked, and while the mail 
delays were occasionally annoying, they were no real handicap. 
8. 
The project collection 
At this writing a final and complete inventory for accessioning is 
about to be compiled at the Library of Congress. The files from the project— 
which occupy the equivalent of three vertical-file drawers—include adminis¬ 
trative files, fieldnotes, logs to sound recordings and photographs, 
collected ephemera, essays written by the field team, and the contact sheets 
from the black-and-white photographs. The color transparencies and black- 
and-white negatives occupy the equivalent of eight vertical—file drawers 
and the tapes occupy the equivalent of about 20 linear feet of shelf space. 
The documentation from the project includes: 
1* Written documentation. The holdings consist of 
about 400 pages of fieldnotes, with maps and drawings; about 
100 interview report (biographical) forms for the projects' 
key informants; about 1500 pages of logs to sound recordings 
and photographs; and miscellaneous correspondence and other 
documents. Collected ephemera include a variety of locally 
published books and phonograph records, a set of Blum's 
Almanacs covering several decades, telephone directories, 
newspaper clippings, and a handwritten book of recipes from 
an area homemaker. 
2. Sound recordings. The collection includes 416 
open-reel sound recordings, both mono and stereo. All of 
these tapes are "in one direction only,” and most are on 
1200-foot reels (about 30 minutes' duration). The collection 
also includes 28 audiocassettes, most of which are recordings 
of the team meetings. Although many tapes are mixed in terms 
of their contents, the recordings can be roughly categorized 
as follows: 
Music 
Events 
Church services 
Radio programs 
Interviews with women 
Interviews with men 
83 reels 
61 reels 
36 reels 
10 reels 
105 reels 
85 reels 
-70- 
3. Still photographs. The photographic collection 
includes: 
A. Black-and-white negatives representing 
548 rolls of 35 mm and 2 1/4" film. The 
total number of roll-film black-and-white 
images is about 16,400. 
B. 64 4x5" black-and-white negatives. 
C. 573 storage holders of 35 mm, 2 1/4”, and 
4x5” color transparencies. Most of these 
are 35mm slides; the total number of color 
images is about 8600. 
4. Video recordings. A limited number of videotapes 
were made to document selected subjects in motion. Five 20- 
minute 3/4” U-matic color cassettes document dances studied by 
, Margaret Owen. Additional videocassettes were made of children’s 
games (2), an apple-drying process (3), and a copy of a television 
news feature on the project (1). 
f 5. Essays. The fieldworkers' essays include the 
following: 
Adler, Thomas A. "Toward an Ecology of Folk Housing 
in the East-Central Blue Ridge." 34 pp. 
Mullen, Patrick B. "Ritual and Sacred Narratives in 
the Blue Ridge Mountains." 32 pp. 
Johnson, Geraldine N. "Blue Ridge Quilts—Plain and 
Fancy." 38 pp. 
Owen, Blanton. "Traditional Aspects of the Harvesting 
and Curing of Bright Leaf Tobacco in the Blue Ridge 
of Virginia." 28 pp. 
Owen, Margaret C. "Dance Traditions in the Blue Ridge.” 
20 pp. 
* 
9. The post-fieldwork phase 
The three main tasks following the fieldwork were organizing the 
collection, preparing the finished products, and helping create programming 
for use on the Parkway. The collection was reasonably well organized and 
indexed by late fall 1978. In its first two field projects, the Folklife 
Center had underestimated the quantity of work entailed in organizing a 
collection. In the Blue Ridge, an "organize and log as you go" policy was 
instituted with good effect. By mid-winter, the reference archive and the 
sets of annotated recordings and slides had been sent to the Parkway. 
The efficiency with which these materials were prepared, however, 
was not matched by the speed with which the fieldworkers wrote their essays. 
One essay arrived early in 1979, but most of the remaining papers trickled 
in during 1980. The Folklife Center has found that this two-year span is 
about average for post-fieldwork writing solicited from full-time academics, 
or for that matter from anyone with a full-time job. 
The Blue Ridge project experience and experiences in similar pro¬ 
jects during the last three years have led the Folklife Center to reconsider 
the essay requirement. The time-span for completion indicates that the 
papers are a burden on their writers, and although most of the essays are 
contributions to scholarship in the field, some are more valuable than 
others. In the case of the Blue Ridge project, at this writing there are 
no definite plans for publication of the essays. Conversations with 
Andrew Kardos at the Parkway have indicated that the slides and reference 
archive have been of more use to him in creating interpretive programs 
than the essays have. (Of course, the essays' late arrival contributed 
to this.) The discipline of an essay assignment, then, may lead a field- 
worker to direct his research more productively, and the essay may be a 
good one; but these benefits may not be equal to the costs in terms of 
labor and time. In any case, if the research has been fruitful, a field- 
worker is likely to write an independent article about it. 
The two published products, the book Blue Ridge Harvest and the 
record album Children of the Heav’nly King, took longer to complete than 
anticipated. There were three main reasons for this delay. First, the 
original project plan underestimated the time such work would take. This 
underestimate was thrown further off by the project sponsors’ desire to 
make the publications more substantial than originally planned. The 
quality of the photographs motivated everyone who saw them to recommend a 
longer book than the 30-page item first proposed; the finished book runs 
more than 100 pages. The record has been transformed from a single-disc 
anthology of regional music to a two-disc, thoroughly annotated study of the 
region’s religious expression. The third factor was that Carl Fleischhauer, 
who managed the production of the publications at the Folklife Center, had 
other duties that prevented him from devoting his full attention to these 
publications. The Folklife Center believes, however, that the 
book and records will be excellent, well-received, and have long-term value. 
The project design stressed field research and did not emphasize 
the need to help the Parkway create programming. The assumption was that 
knowledge would be transferred by the intern program, through the archive and 
related materials, or by the fieldworkers' essays. To some degree, this has 
occurred, although the communication was weakened by the delay in completing 
the publications and essays. 
During the fieldwork period, park historian Andrew Kardos stayed in 
touch with the work, attending the team meetings before and during the survey. 
These meetings, of course, provided him with valuable information about the 
project's findings, a sense of the overall thrust of the work, and an indica¬ 
tion of the team members' feelings and attitudes. In addition, he has 
received and worked with the reference archive and written material from the 
project. In the creation of interpretive programs, however, he has more or 
less worked on his own, or with colleagues in the area. 
During 1978—79, Kardos organized the Appalachian Resource Center at 
the Parkway headquarters in Asheville. The center includes a library and 
archive; according to Kardos, the Blue Ridge project collection is a "rich 
core resource for the archive. The center has produced five "presentation 
packages” on such aspects of regional culture as the Appalachian dulcimer, 
quiltmaking, storytelling, Blue Ridge pottery, the Cherokee Indians, 
Appalachian toys, and tools. Each package includes "hands on" articles 
(artifacts from the Parkway's museum collection and items purchased from 
local artisans); slides, films, phonograph records, or other audio-visual 
materials; reference materials; and instructional guidelines for interpreters 
or teachers. The packages have been frequently used along the Parkway, and 
in local schools as well. 
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT No.CX'h'', 
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN 
AMERICAN FOLK LIFE CENTER 
AND 
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR 
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
THIS COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT entered into as of the . day of 
l/'N 1 
U ’ A, . __ 1978, by and between the U.S. Department of the Interior, 
hereinafter called the "Service," acting by and through the Contract Specialist, 
General Services Division, National Park Service, Washington, D.C. 20240, party of 
the first part, hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting Officer," and the 
American Foiklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 20540, 
hereinafter referred to as the "Foiklife Center". 
WITNESSETH 
WHEREAS, the Service requires reliable information on the traditional foiklife and 
work of people living in and around national parks as a basis for the proper 
management and public interpretation of park resources, and the best means for 
developing techniques to improve a park's folk cultural research base and 
contribute to the public presentation of key elements of local culture is through a 
demonstration project in a park; and 
WHEREAS, the Foiklife Center was established in the Library of Congress by 
Public Law 94-201 to support research in American foiklife in order to contribute to 
the preservation and presentation of traditional expressive culture in the United 
States; 
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority of the Secretary contained in the 
Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), and other laws supplemental thereto and 
amendatory thereof, the said parties, in consideration of the mutual promises 
herein expressed, by these presents do hereby agree as follows. 
-76- 
« 
i' 
A 
ARTICLE I — FOLKLIFE CENTER AGREES TO. 
Provide, in accordance with the attached Scope of Work, an intensive field study of 
the folklife in and around a section of the Blue Ridge Parkway at the Virginia- 
North Carolina border between April 1, 1978, and June 30, 1979, consisting of: 
a. Photographic records and sound recordings, 
b. Field notes, maps, and scholarly essays produced by the field team, 
c. An illustrated publication and a phonograph record with booklet, 
d. Identification of sources for live demonstrations and exhibition materials for 
the park's interpretive program, 
e. Participation by selected Service employees in project activities, 
f. Thorough cataloging of the ethnographic materials at the Library of Congress, 
and 
g. A final report on the project for the Director of the Service. 
Items to be submitted to the Service include: 
a. 3000 copies of a photo essay publication of the project, 
b. 1000 copies of a phonograph record with accompanying booklet, 
c. Presentation set of selected black-and-white prints, color transparencies, and 
sound recordings, 
d. Reference set of ail black-and-white contact sheets, additional color 
transparencies, complete sound recordings, and ail field notes and final essays, 
and 
e. A final report to the Director, National Park Service, including findings, an 
evaluation of the project, and recommendations for future folklife research. 
These items shall be submitted to the Assistant Chief, Division of Interpretation 
and Visitor Services, who has been designated as the Contracting Officer s 
Representative for this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - THE SERVICE AGREES TO: 
In consideration of work performed in accordance with Article I of this Agreement, 
the Service agrees to pay to the Folklife Center a sum of $53,616 in four payments 
as described in Item 2 of the Scope of Work. Forms SF-1081 (or equivalent) shall be 
submitted, in quadruplicate, for each work phase to the Contracting Officer s 
41 
-77- 
Representative, who will certify that the work prerequisites have been met and 
that payment is justified. Upon certification the SF-1081 (or equivalent) will be 
forwarded to the Contracting Officer for payment. 
ARTICLE III - TERM OF AGREEMENT: 
This Agreement shall be in force and effect from the date above signed through 
3une 30, 1979; provided, however, that the Agreement shall be subject to 
termination upon mutual agreement after 30 days written notice by either party. If 
such termination occurs, negotiations shall be conducted to determine the 
materials to be retained by the Service and the Folklife Center and any reasonable 
remuneration due the Folklife Center for any work accomplished. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be 
signed, intending to be legally bound thereby. 
AMERICAN FOtKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
John 0. Kenperley 
Budget Officer 
Library of Congress 
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
Michael J. Sullivan 
Contract Specialist 
(Contracting Officer) 
General Services Division 
Date: May 9, 1978 
-78- 
SCOPE OF WORK 
BLUE RIDGE FOLKLIFE PROJECT 
I. Scope of Project: 
The project is an ethnographic survey, analysis, and presentation of traditional 
life and work along the Blue Ridge Parkway in and around the Mabry Mill-Rocky 
Knob area in Virginia and the Doughton Park-Little Glade Millpond area in North 
Carolina. The project features a two-month field survey conducted by a team of 
professional folklorists under contract to the American Folkiife Center, with 
steady involvement and assistance by park and central office staff of the National 
Park Service. The project will produce photographs, illustrated publications, and 
audio media for the public interpretation of the park's folk cultural resources, as 
well as scholarly reports contributing to the professional documentation of these 
irreplaceable cultural resources. The expanded knowledge and skills derived by the 
Service and the Folkiife Center are expected to enhance policy and program 
development in the management of folk cultural resources within the National Park 
System. 
II. Tasks to be performed: 
Phase 1. The background research, preliminary scouting, and contract team 
conference are essential prerequisites to the project. For the initial payment of 
$17,872, the Folkiife Center will gather, organize, and appraise existing 
documentary materials and resources pertaining to the folk culture and cultural 
landscape of the study region. The research document will help prepare the field 
team, Folkiife Center staff, and Service staff for the fieldwork in Phase 2. A 
preliminary scouting trip to the study region will be made by Folkiife Center and 
Service staff to plan study procedures and make local arrangements for 
accommodation and travel. Finally, a two-day conference will be held at the 
Library of Congress for the orientation of the contract field team members to the 
project. Delivery of one copy of the background research document is expected on 
or before August 1, 1978. 
Phase 2. For the second payment of $17,872, the field team will assemble in 
the study region, establish a field headquarters, and, with close contact with 
-79- 
* Service staff, be oriented to the region and given media equipment training by the 
Folklife Center staff. After one month of study, Folklife Center and Service staff 
will meet on-site with the fieldwork team to discuss progress and refine the work 
plan detailing final products and completion dates. Receipt and review of the 
finished work plain detailing products and completion dates for the project is 
expected by September 30, 1978. 
The team will survey various facets of human customary imprint on the land, 
with particular attention to important aspects in the life of the region such as 
foodways, spoken-word traditions, farming, and other ways of occupying the land 
and interacting with the environment. Project interest in folklife comprises the 
range of traditional cultural expression, whether oral, material, or behavioral. 
Media documentation will include still photography, sound and video recordings, and 
fieldworkers' notes, drawings, and maps. 
During the second month, a cataloguer on contract to the Folklife Center will 
begin work with inco-ning documentary materials from the field team, continuing 
this process into Phases 3 and 4. 
i Phase 3. A summary conference, preparation of materials for final production 
of interpretive media, and cataloguing of ethnographic materials comprise the work 
of this phase, for which a third payment of $11,222 will be made. 
A two-day conference will be held for the field team and Folklife Center staff 
at the Library of Congress to evaluate the project and make recommendations on 
similar projects in the future. Field workers will present to the Folklife Center at 
the conference a typed set of field notes, tape recording logs, and photographic 
logs. By [December 31, 1978, each fieldworker will submit a typed, illustrated 
scholarly essay about 30 pages in length on a topic agreed upon by the fieldworker 
and the Folklife Center staff. 
Phase 3 will include also the writing, design, and preparation of pre-publication 
materials for the photo essay interpreting the folk culture of the study region for 
the general public. In addition, the writing, editing, and pre-production materials 
for the phonograph record with accompanying illustrated booklet will be part of 
Phase 3. Finally, the Folklife Center will inform the Blue Ridge Parkway staff of 
individuals and exhibition materials suitable for live interpretive demonstrations 
and special exhibits within the park interpretive program. 
-80- 
Review and acceptance by the Service of the presentation and reference sets 
of fieldwork documentation and of all pre-publication materials is expected by 
January 31, 1979. 
Phase 4. Project completion includes Service review of proofs and the 
production of 3000 copies of the photo essay and 1000 copies of the phonograph 
record package, delivery of these to the Service, the thorough cataloguing of 
documentary materials and information from the project for the Folklife Center, 
and the final project report submitted by the Folklife Center to the Service. It is 
understood that publication and production contingencies beyond the control of the 
parties may affect the timely fulfillment of this phase. Review and acceptance of 
the proofs for the products will qualify the Folklife Center for the final payment of 
$6,650. 
III. Final products: 
A. One copy of the background research document and a final work plan for 
the project detailing products and completion dates for specific components of the 
project will be submitted to the Contracting Officer's Representative. 
B. One presentation set of selected black-and-white photographic prints, 
color transparencies, and sound recording. 
C. One reference set of all black-and-white contact print sheets, additional 
color transparencies, all sound recordings, and all field notes, logs, and final essays 
of the fieldwork team. 
D. 3000 copies of a photographic essay publication about the study region. 
E. 1000 copies of a phonograph record with accompanying written and 
illustrated booklet. 
F. A final report on the Blue Ridge Folklife Project from the Folklife Center 
to the Service presenting project findings, an evaluation of the project, and 
recommendations for future folklife research within the National Park Service. 
IV. Schedule: 
Phase 1 will be completed by August 1, 1978, including submission of the 
background research document to the Service. 
Phase 2 will be completed by September 30, 1978, including a final project 
work plan acceptable to the Service. 
Phase 3 will be completed by January 31, 1979, including receipt by the Service 
-81- 
C 
of presentation and reference sets of materials, and review and acceptance of all 
pre-publication materials. 
Phase 4 completes the project and includes receipt of the final project report 
and the booklets and phonograph records in the quantities described above on or 
about June 30, 1979. 
4 
•V. 
-82- 
Uni ted States Department of the Interior 
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20240 
IN REPLY REFER TO: 
JUL 18 1979 
57219(326) 
CHANGE ORDER NO. 4 
4 
Mr. Carl Fleischhaur 
Folkiife Specialist 
American Folkiife Center 
Library of Congress 
Washington, D.C. 20540 
Dear Mr. Fleischhaur: 
The completion date for Cooperative Agreement No. CX-0001-8-0009 is hereby 
changed from June 30, 1979, to October 30, 1979, to permit finalization of the 
report. 
Ail other terms and conditions of the Cooperative -Agreement remain unchanged. 
If this Change Order meets with your approval, please obtain the signature of the 
appropriate official on the original and one copy and return them to the Office. 
4 
Sincerely yours, 
Contract Specialist 
(Contracting Officer) 
APPROVED: 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
-83- 
STanCaRD fORM 30, jsxr 1966 
GEStSAl SERVICES aOminisHaTION 
fEO. r*OC RKl. (A1 C«i 1-16 101 
AMENDMENT OF SOLICITATION/MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT 
FaGS 
OF 
1 
AMfNOM£KT/MOOIE>CATK>. NO. 
J ISSUED IT CODE 
procurement Branch (320) 
National Park Service 
Washington, D.C. 20240 
2. EflECriVE DATE 
5/26/81 
CODE [ 
3. «fouismoN/ru*o<ASE ieouest no. 
A. PROJECT NO. <!f mpphlMbU) 
6. ADMINISTERED IT (If ptbrr tUm black )J 
CODE 
7. CONTRACTOR 
NAME AND ADDRESS 
r 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
(Stm,. city. Library of Congress 
‘.'Tzir- Washington, D.C. 20540 
FACILITY CODE 
Attn: Mr. Carl Fleischhaur 
n 
J 
AMENDMENT Of 
I ) SOoctation no. 
Dated. 
.(See block 9) 
□ ?£££%£ NO. CX-0001-8-0009 
OaTTO 5/16/81 
, (St* bUck It) 
9. TH'S ^lOCK AmiES ONIT TO a.m£nD#a£KTS OF SOUCITaTIOnS 
[ ~| IS* abo«"> »»umb*r*d it orrfndW os mK .r Wodc >2. TKo Kowr or»d do* For r*c»ipt oF 0^»rs [ ^ it { ] U fwt 
Cff»ron mutf ockr»o»ri#<*9« r»c»tpf of rKil omondmonf pr»or <o Kosk o*d dot* spoci^od in thm soJicrtOtpOA, or os omortdod, Wy o*« of t^o FoOo«r>r^ rr r^iwli i 
(o)'lr npniAQ orvd _cop*s of *♦»»» (b) If ockA©T"H*dg;*g r%<»ipf of *Hil omondmon* on «och copy of »*• o*or svbmrtlod; or (c) If MporoU or toio^rom 
wK.cb inctwdoi o roforoAto to iSo »olici»o«ior. o^d o»t*or.dm.oi owmbon. FAlLUtt OF YOU* ACKNOW\.|DGEm£KT TO M ItCirvEO AT TH£ ISSUING OFF»C£ FHO« TO TH£ HQU* AND 
Date SFtCFlED MAY KSUi.7 IN IfJlCTlON Of YOU* OfFE*. If, by virtvo of thi% omondmoM you dour# »o cKo«9* on o^»r oir^o^y wbmrfted. wefi chong0 may b« i^od* by *Ugrom 
0* or, provided wcK or Wtto« mokot roforv^c* to sol»cita1»on o<^d tAi* and is rwem+d prior to !*>• opoAin^ ^omt o*d do** spoci^od. 
10. ACCOUNTING AND Amo^tiADON DATA (If rtquirtd) 
1481-036-ONPS-0575-074 
11. THIS HOCK APnJES OTA.T TO MODIFICATIONS C* CONTRACTS/ORDERS 
(a) | ] This Charts Or6m* a issv^d pvnsiORt to - 
Tho OiOAjet »t in blodi 12 or* mod* to th* obov« Aumborod cororotf/p*dor. 
(^) j 1 Tho obev* «wmb*^*o csrrfrod/ord«r it modified to f*fi*<l tt»* chonp*i (w^ os chorpes in poymg ©ffie», opp-rapr«t^#» data, rtt.) sot forth in block 12. 
{ci n.i» Suppi<m«Na Ap-^mpnt u •nN'W imo pu-i-oM to ouisorit, of Art icle III of Agreement_ 
K modif>*s th* ebc** f*kmb*i*d controc! os bmt forth in block 12. 
>2. DESCSimON Of A>a£*Om£n7/mOO*ICaTON 
This agreement is Modified as follows: 
1. The completion date for cooperative agreement No. CX-0001-8-0009 is 
changed from October 30, 1979 to December 31, 1981. 
2. All other provisions of the agreement remain unchanged. 
i*c9p* a* p*cw>d*d h*«oin, oil *•*"•*» and conditions «f th* document r*f*r«nc*d •« block 8, os h*rrtofor* chon^nd, romoin wn^«onp«d and in Wl fore* ond *A«c1. 
O N°T *tou‘*£0 E] contract or / offe ror s reouireo to sign thb document axj original r^nd 
esunc offci 
4--<AMf OF. -COntRaCTOR/OF^ROR , 
/ IZ 
v\ 
/ ^/• 
fS^.ioK»rc of ponon bwFrSorit»d N wpn) 
‘SN^r»o*s^» ©f CorTh-oCtmp O^^or) 
15. NAM£ AHO Trrii Of SKX« (Tjpt T prrmi) 
Eajrmond L. Dockstader 
Depute 
'6 DATE SIGNED 
£4/ 
II name dr CONTACTING 0«ai < Tjp* or prr,t) 
jorm P. Thomas 
Contracting Officer 
19. Date SIGNE 
Blue Ridge Folklife Project 
BUDGET, January 25, 1978 
Briefing statement 
The project is designed as an ethnographic survey, analysis, 
and presentation of traditional life and work in and around a section 
of the Blue Ridge Parkway at the Virginia-North Carolina "border. 
This park was selected from a list of potential sites for a variety 
of reasons, including its location in terms of regional folklife, its 
appropriateness for a pilot project, and its supportive staff climate. 
The main feature of the project would be a two-month field 
survey conducted by a team of professional folklorists under contract 
to the American Folklife Center, with steady involvement and assistance 
by the National Park Service. The project has been organized in 
three phases, from March 1978 through winter 1979. 
This project has several clear goals. The ethnographic research 
would provide a lasting documentation of ■. folk culture in a section 
of the Blue Ridge that has been important in the settlement and cultural 
life of the Upland South, past and present. The work would expand the 
Park's research base and provide supplementary data for the development 
of interpretative materials and presentations. As fieldworkers study 
in the region, local communities would become involved and interested 
in Parkway research and presentations. By its example, in studying 
and appreciating living traditions in natural context, the project may 
encourage local awareness, preservation, programming, and continued 
documentation. In addition, a cooperative experiment like this one 
could have results enhancing and benefiting both the Folklife Center 
and the Park Service, institutions devoted to conservation in the 
broadest sense. 
Certain products would result from the work: 
1. A sound recording and booklet could be produced which would 
represent the cultural personality of the area in both 
spoken-word traditions and music. 
2. Authentic local craftsmen would be located whose wares would 
be appropriate for distribution at Parkway concessions, to 
more accurately portray the region. 
3. A small illustrated guidebook to the area's folk 
cultural heritage could he published, designed for 
a general audience. 
4. The field team members would each prepare an illustrated 
scholarly essay and these would be edited at the Center 
and published in book form for use by students and 
researchers. 
In addition, although it is not a primary goal, we would 
encourage the presentation of authentic local performers and 
craftsmen at small gatherings along the Parkway. 
Although some folklife research has been done in this region, 
efforts have largely been by individual researchers interested in 
specific features (for example, oldtime fiddling), and whose work has 
not been available or presented for general audiences. This project 
is intended to be a holistic study and will seek a full portrait of 
the cultural personality of the area. Fieldworkers will concentrate 
on certain of the many features which have not been studied or which 
have been incompletely understood in the past. 
The particular area to be surveyed includes the Parkway from 
Mabry Mil to Fancy Gap and its surrounding area in Virginia, and 
from Little Glade Mllpond to Laurel Springs and its surrounding area 
in North Carolina. A field headquarters would be established in a 
convenient location. 
The main participants in discussion of this proposal have been 
Alan Jabbour, Director, and Howard W. Marshall of the American Folklife 
Center, Wally Macnow of the Department of Interior, and Steve Lewis of 
the National Park Service. 
A current project budget of $82149 is detailed below. 
H.W. Marshall 
American Folklife Center 
Library of Congress 
Blue Ridge Folklife Project, 1978: BUDGET 
(as of 25 Jan 78) 
Phase I: Research, Preliminary Scouting, Team Conference 
The purposes of this phase are fourfold: 
1. To gather, organize, appraise available research, information, 
documentary materials, and resources pertaining to the folk culture 
and cultural landscape of the study area. The background research 
will be worked into a study document to prepare the fieldwork team 
and the Center for the fieldwork phase. 
2. To make contractual arrangements with the Folklife Center team. 
3. To travel to the region to initiate local contacts and make 
arrangements for fieldwork team. The study area extends from 
Mabry Mill, Virginia and environs to Doughton Park, North Carolina 
and environs. 
4. To hold a conference at the Library of Congress (June 8, 9) for 
orientation of the field team. 
When: March 1, 1978 through June 19, 1978 
Where: American Folklife Center, and in the region. 
Costs 
1. trips to region for Folklife Center (A. Jabbour) and Interior 
(W. Macnow for preliminary scouting and local arrangements, 
including per diem 
round-trips, Washington-Winston-Salem, 
2 X $57 
per diem (8 days X $35) 
car rental 
$10U 
280 
150 
53^ 
$53U 
2. cash outlay in research document preparation 
and project planning 
200 
$1728 
3. Folklife Center staff time 
H.W. Marshall (project designer), % time 
for 8 weeks 
P.T. Bartis (research assistant), 
full time for 8 weeks 2766 
UU9U $UU9U 
Secretarial assistance provided by Center. 
4. field team conference at Library (June 8, 9) 
four fieldworkers at $150 fee for two 
days (L X $150) 
travel (U X est. $280 round-trip 
plane fare) 
per diem (4 X $50 X 3 days) 
Phase I total $6546 
$600 
1120 
600 
2320 2320 
Phase II: Fieldwork in Virginia and North Carolina 
This phase of the project will bring fieldworkers together for 
investigation of the folklife of the study area around Blue Ridge 
Parkway. There will be close contact with Park Service staff. 
During week one, the field headquarters will be set up, and the 
team will be oriented to the region and given media equipment training 
by Folklife Center staff. 
At mid-point in this phase, there will be a meeting on site for Center 
and Park Service staff for discussion of progress and potential end 
products. 
The team will attempt to survey various facets of man's customary imprint 
on the land, with attention drawing in on selected and vital aspects that 
are important in the life of the region and in the community's local 
personality. Certain aspects will emerge in the fieldwork that will 
rivit our attention and court our deep interest—for example, foodways, 
spoken-word traditions, farm work, and ways of occupying the land and 
dealing with the environment. Our interest in folklife covers the 
range of traditional cultural expression, whether oral, material, or 
behavioral. H.W. Marshall will design the fieldwork and participate 
as a team member, and C. Fleischhauer will supervise media documentation. 
Media documentation will include still photography, sound and video 
recordings, and fieldworkers' notes, drawings, and maps. 
-89- 
4 
'* 
During the second month, a cataloguer on contract to the Folklife 
Center will begin work with incoming documentary materials from 
the field team (photos, logs, tape recordings). This contract 
will continue into Phase III of the project. 
When: Phase II will be scheduled from June 19 through August 14, 1978 
Costs 
1. Folklife Center contract field team 
Payment to field team members will be in three parts: (l) 1/3 of 
fee plus reimbursement for travel to Library meeting and to region 
will be made during second month of Phase II; (2) 1/3 of fee will be 
paid after the Phase III conference at the Library, plus reimbursement 
for travel to that meeting; (3) 1/3 upon receipt of completed field 
notes, logs, and essay. The total fee for each folklorist is $3700; 
the fee for the media specialist is $5100. 
3 fieldworkers, $U25 each per week for 
8 weeks (L X $L25 X 8) $13600 
1 media specialist at $600 L800 
18L00 
2. travel in and out of study area for 
contract team (est. U X $280) 
3. Center and Interior staff in the field 
travel in and out (6 trips at $57) 
per diem and expenses 
Jabbour $2^5 (l week) $245 
Marshall $1085 (4 wks. 3 days) 1085 
Fleischhauer $24-5 (l wk.) 245 
Macnow $245 245 
Lewis $245 245 
expenses 70 
2095 
Center staff time 
$18400 
1120 
342 
2095 
Marshall (full time, 4 wks.) 
Fleischhauer (l wk.) 
2175 
2175 
4 
-90- 
h. car rental for 6 cars 
$Ul8.50 per month for one car, unlimited mileage, from Hertz 
(Winston-Salem); 6 cars for two months 
5- gas (at UO mi. per day X 10<£ per mile, est. 
1120 miles) 
6. shipping of supplies and equipment 
7. honoraria 
certificates for informants, participants $100 
courtesy photos 2000 
2100 
8. miscellaneous 
includes printing of project poster and business 
cards for field team 
9. materials for Park Service 
1. presentation set, including (a) selected b&w prints, 
(b) selected transparencies, (c) selected sound 
recordings 
$1375 
2. reference set for archival uses, future applications, 
including (a) complete set of b&w contact sheets, 
(b) additional selected transparencies, (c) complete 
set of sound recordings 
1U25 
$5022 
13UU 
150 
2100 
500 
2800 
10. presentation set for Folklife Center 
11. office supplies 
12. lodging (motel rooms est. $100 per week, for 
8 wks.), telephone (est. $200) 
13. media budget (see attached outline) 
lU. cataloguing contract at Folklife Center, 1 month 
2800 
1375 
100 
6500 
1U850 
1500 
Phase II total $60373 
Phase III: Wra~p-up Conference, Products (publications, recordings, 
etc.). Cataloguing Contract 
This phase has four main goals: 
1. To hold a conference for the field team and Center staff at 
the Library of Congress (Sept. 28, 29), for the evaluation 
of the project and recommendations for future team field research. 
During this phase the fieldworkers are responsible for preparing 
(l) a typed set of field notes, tape logs, photo logs (due at the 
conference), and (2) a typed illustrated scholarly essay of at 
least 30 pages on a topic growing out of the fieldwork (topic to 
be agreed upon by fieldworker and Center staff; due Nov. l). 
2. To initiate various end products—recordings, photo essay, book 
of articles by fieldworkers, other publications and local 
local programming and follow-up. 
3. To complete cataloguing the ethnographic materials at the Library 
of Congress. 
h. To prepare final report by Folklife Center for submission to the 
Direction of the Park Service. 
Costs 
1. conference—same projected costs as Phase I meeting $2320 
2. examples of end products: 
a. writing, design, preparation, publication of photo essay 
similar to Center's 1977 SKETCHES OF SOUTH GEORGIA FOLKLIFE 
(est. $1.00 each for 3,000 copies) 
$U000 
b. design and production of phonograph record with 
illustrated booklet (including est. $l+.00 each for 
1000 copies; unit cost decrease for larger production 
run) 6000 
c. live presentations, demonstrations, exhibits, etc. working 
through existing Park structure (no cost available) 
live demonstrations and exhibition materials, etc., are 
potential shared products for Park and cooperating association 
sponsorship and funding 
$3000 
3. completion of cataloguing contract, winter 
1978-1979 (2 months at $1500) 
U. Center presentation at American Folklore Society- 
conference, Salt Lake City, October 1978 
Phase III total 
Budget summary 
Phase I $ 651+6 
Phase II 60373 
Phase III 15230 
TOTAL $82119 
National Park Service contribution 
American Folklife Center contribution 
(see next page) 
Folklife Center staff involvement 
A. Jabbour 
H.W. Marshall .(project designer, fieldworker) 
C. Fleischhauer (media supervisor) 
P.T. Bartis (research assistant) 
secretarial assistance 
Department of Interior involvement 
W. Macnow, Interior 
S- Lewis, National Park Service 
Contract personnel 
$15320 
$53971+ 
$28175 
$8211+9 
1. 
2. 
3. 
three professional folklorists 
media specialist (particularly for still photography) 
archivist/cataloguer 
Budget—Folklife Center contribution 
1. In-kind contribution 
Staff time $7000 
Recording equipment 
rental (media) 9000 
16000 
2. Cash 
Supplies, outlay in research document 
preparation (Phase l) $ 200 
Shipping (Phase 2) 150 
Folklife Center 
presentation set 1375 
Office supplies 100 
Media documentation 
supplies 5850 
Cataloguing contract 1+500 
12175 
Total 
$16000 
12175 
$28175 
= ca. of budget 
-I 
-94- 
* 
\ 
* 
Media budget outline 
1. materials 
black and white film 
color film (slides) 
audio tape (reel to reel & casette) 
video tape (3A" color) 
miscellaneous 
$500 
600 
1000 
500 
250 
$2850 
2. media processing 
3. recording equipment rental 
3 reel to reel audio recording systems at 
$1900 per month for two months each (Nagra, 
mono and stereo) 
5400 
$2850 
3000 
1 video recording system at $1800 per 
month for two months 3600 
$9000 9000 
total estimate $14850 
C. Fleischhauer, American Folklife Center, Jan.1978 
\ 
* 
-96- 
Estlmated Project Expenses 
The following description is a generalized account of expenditures 
during the Blue Ridge Parkway Folklife Project. The figures do not 
represent a precise accounting by the Library of Congress. Since the 
Library's budget allotment categories tend to group expenditures in ways 
that are not useful for this description, we have created our own descrip¬ 
tion, based on informal records held at the Folklife Center. The figures 
have been rounded to the nearest hundred. 
Unlike the original project budget, this description does not 
^ include in-kind contributions. The original budget total of $82,149 included 
$16,000 in in-kind contributions from the Folklife Center. Thus the original 
^ estimate for outlays was $66,149. As this description indicates, the final 
expenditure totaled approximately $63,600. The original budget included 
some travel costs for Park Service that were actually paid from funds 
other than those provided under the terms of the Cooperative Agreement; 
those costs are not included on this estimate of expenses. 
There are two important differences between the original budget 
and the actual work which are not fully revealed by these figures. First, 
the Folklife Center's in-kind contribution was far greater than anticipated. 
During the fieldwork phase, a Folklife Center staff member had to serve as 
field coordinator for a month because of the unexpected illness of the 
person hired to fill that slot. During the post-fieldwork phase, many hours 
of staff time were required to create the project's final products. The 
original budget did not include an estimate of this contribution. 
\ 
♦ 
-97- 
\ 
1 
» 
♦ 
The second difference between the original budget estimate and 
the actual work concerns the costs of preparing the two publications. 
They were more substantial and more expensive than had been originally 
planned, but the cost to the project remained about the same. This is 
due to the fact that the original budget included both preparation and 
publication costs; this accounting includes only the preparation costs. 
The costs of final publication have been met by the publishers. The 
book has been published by the Library of Congress Publishing Office, 
working with the Government Printing Office. The record is being 
published by the Recording Laboratory at the Library, part of the 
Motion Picture, Broadcasting and Recorded Sound Division. 
I. The pre-fieldwork and fieldwork phases. 
The pre-fieldwork phase consisted primarily of the creation 
of the background research document. The pre-fieldwork team meeting 
was held just before the move to the project site, and most of the 
costs connected with this meeting were paid through the contracts 
with team members that also paid the fees and expenses for fieldwork. 
Therefore those two phases have been combined in this accounting. 
A. Personnel. This figure represents payments to members 
of the field team. It includes fees for attending the pre¬ 
fieldwork meeting, performing fieldwork, attending the post¬ 
fieldwork meeting, and writing the project essay. In addition, 
it includes the costs of travel to and from the area and 
a sum which represents the cost of meals. 
$25,300 
1 
4- 
i 
1 
4 
4 
-98- 
B. Staff and other travel. This figure represents the 
travel costs and expenses for Folklife Center staff members 
who participated in the work, and the added cost of one 
trip by the team photographers to the project area after the 
fieldwork period. It includes the cost for some staff lodging. 
It does not include the cost to the Park Service for travel and 
expenses by its staff members; some Park Service travel costs 
had been included in the original budget. 
C. Lodging. This figure represents the cost of the team’s 
rooms and the project office at the motel in Galax. Some 
intermittent lodging is included in the travel figure in the 
previous item. 
D. Motor vehicles for local transportation. This figure 
represents the cost of Government Services Administration 
sedans, including gasoline. 
E. Media-related expenses. 
1. This figure represents the cost of sound and video 
recording tape, including tape used by the field team to make 
personal research copies of their recordings. 
2. This figure represents still photography costs, 
including all film and processing, a small amount of Polaroid 
film used for setup testing, courtesy prints for informants, 
and miscellaneous prints for publicity and other purposes. 
F. Incidental and miscellaneous expenses. The project 
$ 2,500 
$ 4,200 
$ 1,200 
$ 2,300 
$ 9,300 
maintained a checking account in order to have funds readily 
1 
* 
-99- 
\ 
1 
i 
available for such items as ephemeral publications, office 
supplies, tickets to local events, towing services for vehicles 
stuck in muddy roads, photocopying, and telephone bills. This 
figure includes the total spent from this account. It also 
includes the cost of business cards for the team, printed 
certificates of appreciation, photocopying the background 
research document, mail and shipping costs, equipment repair, 
part-time clerical assistance, and Library of Congress overhead. $ 3,000 
Pre-fieldwork and fieldwork total $47,800 
II- The post-fieldwork phase. 
This section includes the cost of preparing five products from 
the project: the reference archive, the presentation sets, the book, 
the record album, and the final report. The reference archive is the 
complete set of copies of documents, images, and sound recordings 
created for the use of the Parkway. The presentation sets are the 
edited and annotated sets of sound recordings and photographs given 
to the Parkway. 
A. This figure includes the cost of editing and duplicating 
the sound recordings included in the archive and presentation 
sets- $ 4,500 
B. This figure includes the cost of editing and duplicating 
the photographic portion of the archive and presentation sets. $ 3,800 
C. Document photocopying for the reference archive, present¬ 
ation sets, and fieldworkers’ essays. $ 100 
1 
r 
i 
k 
-100- 
D. Production of the photographic book. This figure includes 
the costs incurred in preparing the book Blue Ridge Harvest for 
the publisher. 
E. Production of the phonograph record album. This figure 
includes the costs of preparing the album Children of the 
Heav'nly King for the publisher, and the cost of providing 
copies to the Parkway for programming purposes. 
F. Final report. This figure represents the fee paid to 
the project’s field coordinator for his role in drafting 
the final report, and an estimate of the cost of reproducing 
the report. 
Post-fieldwork total 
$ 2,800 
$ 3,700 
$ 900 
$15,800 
III. Total costs 
Pre-fieldwork and fieldwork total $47,800 
Post-fieldwork total $15,800 
Grand total $63,600 
J 
f