American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_067 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Manini, Paula: IAW-PM-F062390.A to IAW-PM-F051991.A 
Document: IAW-PM-F062390.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/23/90 
Informant/Event: La Mesa Tour 
Coworker: Taylor, David; DeNatale, Doug; Tavarelli, Paola 
Site: 6 
David Taylor, Paola Tavarelli, Doug DeNatale and I (Paula 
Manini) drove went out to "the Mesa," an agricultural area east of 
Pueblo. Paola wanted to get a better sense of the lay of the land 
in the area since much of her fieldwork will focus on Italian 
Americans in truck farming near Pueblo. The Mesa consists of three 
communities lined up on Highway 50: Blende (named for one of the 
processes involved in steel-making), Vineland and Avondale. 
On the way, 
we stopped at a convenience store for Lotto 
tickets--the jackpot is about 30 million dollars. 
As Paula drove, David pointed out local establishments and 
homes of Italian Puebloans: Giadone's Restaurant, Dionisio's Turf 
Farm, Gus' Produce, a nursery (Spalco?), and the homes of Bessie 
Longo and her daughter-in-law Dorothy (who Paula will interview 
about the Saint Joseph Day festivities; David spoke to Bessie in 
March and this week, and also to Dorothy; Bea Roeder met them 
around March 18-19 when she documented the Saint Joseph table 
sponsored 
by 
Josephine 
Martellaro for 
the 
American 
Folklife 
Center). We also drove by the home of Jaspar Giadone, on 25th St. 
We stopped at a home on 27th St.in Blende--David Taylor, Doug 
DeNatale and John Williams had noticed a forno 
(oven) 
in the 
backyard while on an exploratory drive in the area. 
They had 
noticed an Italian name on the mailbox: 
Sforze. The forno and 
painted part of the house is yellow; there is also brick parts of 
the house and forno. There was a shed for farm equipment across 
the drive from the house; and at least one other outbuilding at the 
end of the house; a long-haired black dog was confined in a fenced 
area; 
he 
looked hot 
and 
like a dog that did 
not get much 
pampering). 
As we drove in the driveway, 
a man in his 
late 
30's/early 40's greeted us. When David Taylor asked him about the 
forno, he directed us to a woman in the door of the house--his 
mother. 
Realizing the presence of four strangers may be overwhelming, 
we approached Mrs. Sforze who came outside to meet us. Mrs. Sforze 
is short and on the pudgy side, perhaps about 60-65 years old, has 
curly black hair; she had three or four plastic pink curlers above 
her forehead; she wore dark slacks and a white shirt. David Taylor 
introduced himself and us, and briefly explained the Italians in 
the West project. He then asked her about the forno. 
Fo 
e0,• 
p,•v , 
IAW-PM-F062390.A - 
2 
Her husband built it, but they no longer use it. She said it 
hm hPPn a 
ears since she last baked in the oven. She 
used to make bread , about 25 loaves each time . She said she didn't 
know of anyone who still uses the ovens -- it's not worth making so 
much bread for a few people here and there (obviously referring to 
smaller and more dispersed families). The house across the street 
has a forno also but Mrs . Sforze said it was built by previous 
owners ; the current people are not Italian 
(they 're Irish or 
something , she said). 
When David asked her about their land, she said they raise 
mostly garden vegetables , for their own use and for sale to buyers. 
However, there are not as many buyers, many quit the business. Mrs. 
Sforze says this hurts the farmers too. 
Although I do not remember the sequence of the conversation, 
Paula, Paola and Doug asked her a few questions as well as David. 
While 
she 
responded to 
our questions 
she did not 
offer any 
additional information, nor did she want anyone to take photographs 
of the forno nor return to talk to her again, or to her husband. 
Mrs. Sforze said she was born in Pueblo, and her husband was 
Sicilian . Actually , it is not clear if she is also of Italian 
origin or not (Paola Tavarelli thought maybe not) . She said she 
"couldn't tell ya" if there were other Italians in Blende , or even 
on 27th . However, when David asked her if she had heard of the 
Giadone family , she said yes , there were a lot of them, but she 
didn't know any of them . She seem to recognize the name of Bessie 
Ingo , who David referred to, but again Mrs. Sforze did not offer 
any additional information . When Paola Tavarelli asked Mrs . Sforze 
about the Saint Joseph Day's Table , she said she remembers them 
from when she was young , but never had one herself; she said she 
does help out some years (helps out who?) . Mrs. Sforze said she 
thought her relatives came straight to Pueblo from Italy ; that they 
new people here. 
Doug DeNatale asked if it would be okay if someone came out 
to photograph the forno; she said that would be okay, but that's 
all we could do. While David Taylor went to the car to get the 
brochure on the Italian Americans in the West project , Paula Manini 
told Mrs. 
Sforze that she and Doug DeNatale were also Italian 
Americans -- from the East Coast; this was done as sort of a tension-
easer , since it was clear she didn 't want us to ask her anymore 
questions , and the conversation/interaction was reaching its end. 
She said she has relatives in New Jersey and Hartford, CT. David 
Taylor then handed her the brochure , and we thanked Mrs . Sforze for 
talking to us and 
said our farewells. 
In the car , Taylor, Tavarelli , Manini and DeNatale said we 
realized four of us may have been intimidating . When we drove to 
check out the home of Jaspar Giodone on 25th, we saw that the 
neighboring house had a few rows of grapevines and a small, white 
r1CF'rb 
T12V CY-' 
4'"t'40^,
.t • 
IAW-PM-F062390.A - 
3 
madonna in the front yard. The name on the mailbox: Ciacio. We then 
headed across Highway 
50 
to 
look at 
another house 
(name 
of 
residents?). 
We then headed back to Pueblo, 
stopped to have lunch at 
Martinez Mexican Food, 
a restaurant recommended to Paula by a 
friend. We talked to the waitress, who told us about the Branch 
Bar, 
owned by an Italian, 
and a man across the street 
(the 
restaurant is at 408 North Santa Fe)--Sammy--who is also Italian 
and who built several bars in town. 
On the back to the hotel, we stopped at the grocery store to 
buy more lottery tickets. 
Document : IAW-PM-F062490.A 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini , Paula M. 
Date : 6/24/90 
Informant/Event: Collette, Joanna; Collette, Al 
Coworker : Tavarelli, Paola 
Site: 6 
These fieldnotes were taken during an interview conducted on 
June 24 , 1990 , at the home of Al and JoAnna Collette at 1 Encino 
Place, Pueblo, Colorado , 81005 . For more information, see cassette 
tapes 
IAW-PM-R001 ; and 
for 
the 
photographs 
IAW-PT-B-roll 
1 
(6/24/90 ); and fieldnotes IAW-PT-F062490.a. 
The interviewers were Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli; the 
interview lasted approximately two hours . Only one clip -on Levalier 
microphone was used; at first, it was placed on Joanna Collette; 
then on Al Collette ; finally it ended up on the table between the 
two of them . Paola Tavarelli, who set up and ran the recording 
equipment, said this set-up worked fine. However, there were some 
instances when the flipping of the pages of a photo album and other 
movements may have interfered with the recording. 
Another problem with the interview was that JoAnna Collette 
referred to photographs in the album while describing food items 
Sz, 
on various Saint Joseph Day Altars. While Paula Manini tried to 
-)•b5gp• 
indicate which altar JoAnna Collette was referring to, she did not
•v 
identify each photograph's place in the album. This will lead to 
some lost information for anyone listening to the tapes. Also, at 
one point Paola Tavarelli and Paula Manini turned off the tape, 
believing the interview had come to a close; however, the switched 
it back on when another topic arose. 
Paula Manini had set up an appointment to interview Joanna 
Collette . David Taylor , John Williams and Kerry Kramer (a contact 
in Pueblo) had met JoAnna Collette and some members of her family 
when they were in Pueblo in March 1990. 
They had stopped by 
Collette 's Catering and Carry-out because Kerry Kramer knew the 
Collette family was involved with observances for Saint Joseph's 
Day. 
A-0T,ri 
This meeting facilitated the introduction of Paula Manini and 
Paola Tavarelli in the Collette home. Joanna and her husband Al 
Collette live in a fairly large, relatively new home in southwest 
Pueblo . The home is nicely furnished and very neatly kept. There 
was a crucifix•
- in the entryway and a tile painting mounted in a 
owo 
frame o the Last Supperjon a wall in the dining roo 
t_pne 
point ,_-Jo'Anna asked her son John Collette to get the 
tatue of 
Saint Joseph which they place on the Saint Joseph Day Altar. They 
said they keep it in the upstairs hall, but Tavarelli and Manini 
did not see it in this location. (They hope to photograph it there 
when they return for dinner or for the Fourth of July party.) Al 
and JoAnna Collette were in disagreement over the statue --he said 
IAW-PM-F062490.A - 
2 
it was made of wood; she said it was ceramic. When John Collette 
brought the statue down from the hall, we saw the base was of wood, 
and a label on the bottom said the statue was made of wood/plaster. 
The statue was made in Spain, and given to Al and JoAnna Collette 
as an anniversary present by his mother. 
Both Al and JoAnna were very friendly and willing to answer 
questions. JoAnna also invited us, along with David Taylor and the 
other researchers, to a Fourth of July celebration and wants us to 
come to dinner some evening. They served us lemonade and later 
omemade wine  ade by Al Collette from store-bought grapes. When 
e topic of Cgoat cheese came up, they served us some made by Joe 
Vasile. We told them we would stop by their business, Collette's 
Catering and Carry-out for lunch some day. I promised them we would 
take pictures of them eating at work, since they were joking about 
how much the children eat there. Three of their seven children came 
into the house at various times: first John, then Stephanie, and 
then Therese. They sat with us and contributed a little to the 
conversation. 
The recorded interview touched upon several topics: 
Saint 
Joseph's Day (the major topic), the family business, 
children, 
parents, grandparents, family naming traditions, Italian weddings, 
Italian churches and neighborhoods. It also yielded some contacts 
for Paola Tavarelli's work in the Mesa area, west of Pueblo. Names 
given as possible contacts for Paola Tavarelli were: the Zinno 
family on the Mesa, who are involved in farming; Joe Vasile who 
still makes goat cheese on the Mesa. 
JoAnna is also going to help us set up an interview with her 
parents, Fran 
g—Nrn (phone number 719-542-8751) . They 
are of Calabrian descent; they spgak English, Calabrese and some v Aapd• 
si 
other Italia 
dialects. 
Frank Nigro has 
fig trees and grows 
ve•geab 
es; he is 90 years old. Rose Nigro learned how to do the 
Saint Joseph's Day Tables from Mrs. Francis Musso,—r,ow_ deceased. O 
'LO 
The Saint Joseph Day table is a Sicilian tradition; 
/ 
however
-; - 1 
this instance it crossed intra-ethnic boundaries. (Al Collette is, 
however, 
of 
Sicilian 
origin). 
An 
interview 
with 
Josephine 
Martellaro later on June 24, shows the tradition has also crossed 
inter-ethnic boundaries. Josephine Martellaro, a Slovenian American 
married to a Sicilian American, made a table this year. 
There seems to be a feature of the Saint Joseph's Table which 
is unique to the Collette family. Research by Paula Manini in 
Dallas, Texas; by Kay Turner and Suzanne Seriff in Bryan, Texas; 
by Paola Tavarelli in San Pedro, California; and by Bea Roeder, 
Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli in Blende, Texas (in the Mesa area 
west of Pueblo) shows that altars are given to thank Saint Joseph 
fQr 
his 
intercession 
In 
a crisis 
(such 
as 
illness); 
his 
intercession is sought in prayer, sometimes called an intention or 
pWt1t 
one promises  to give a Saint Joseph's Day table 
if Saint Joseph answers one's prayers. However, JoAnna and Al 
Collette use the altar (altar or table may be used interchangeably) 
IAW-PM-F062490.A - 
3 
as an intention or petition in and of itself. Also, they made one 
`table iri "thariksg v3eg;" - to thank the saint because everything was 
well with the family. The people  they asked to represent the saints 
on the Feast Day of Saint'Joseph were godparents to the Collette 
family 
members, or 
Al or JoAnna Collette's godchildren. JoAnna and 
A1'Collette gave us the name of another couple who gave a Saint 
Joseph Day Table last year: Josephine and Tony Gagliano, on -89`"' 
Princeton Street; phone number is (719) 561-3889. 
Other useful bits of information given by Al and JoAnna 
Collette: 
- there are three churches which are frequented by Italians (Saint 
Pius, the Holy Rosary, Saint Therese, and Saint Leander); -Italians 
used to grow grapes in Vineland (one of the three towns located on 
the Mesa) and that is how it got its name; 
-Victoria Marion, a retired school teacher/administrator used to 
teach school children how to dance the tarantella; 
-Italian is still taught in the Pueblo schools; 
-Sil Colancia (561-8083) plays bocce once in a while; 
-JoAnna 
Collette's 
brother 
(his 
name?) 
retired 
from 
CF 
& I 
(Colorado Fuel and Iron); 
-there are currently four Italian lodges 
in Pueblo--the best 
contact is Charlie Musso (who David Taylor plans on interviewing). 
Document: IAW-PM-F062490.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/24/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro Family Reunion 
Coworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Site: 6 
For more information on this event, see photographs IAW-PT-B 
roll 1 (6/24/90). Also the fieldnotes of Paola Tavarelli, IAW-PT-
F062490.b. 
After Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli left the home of JoAnna 
and Al Collette, we headed out to Blende, Colorado, located on the 
Mesa west of 
Pueblo. 
Paula Manini had tentatively 
se 
up 
an 
interview with Josephine Martellaro for Sunday, June 24, regarding 
the Saint Joseph Day table she organized this year. Bea Roeder had 
met Josephine Martellaro in March 1990 when David Taylor had 
contracted her to document some festivities held for the Feast Day 
of Saint Joseph for the American Folklife Center 
(Library of 
Congress). David Taylor had spoken to Josephine Martellaro when he 
arrived in Pueblo in June 1990. Therefore, Josephine Martellaro was 
expecting a call from Paula Manini. 
PAC-,Z6 
When Paula Manini called Josephine Martellaro, she tentatively 
set up an appointment for the evening of June 24, 
after the 
Martellaro Family Reunion. However, Josephine Martellaro called 
Paula Manini earlier in the day of the reunion to invite her to the 
reunion. Since there were so many people at the reunion, no tape 
recording was made. However, Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli did 
speak to several people. Paola Tavarelli took several photographs 
p,,,'',,5 
of the people, house and garden; Paula Manini also took photographs / 
of the whole clan gathered together for a group photo, of Josh 
Payne and a cross he had made to represent the family members who 
were deceased (as Jennie Rodasta said, "The people not with us."), 
and of the buffet laid out in the kitchen. 
Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli arrived at the home of 
Jennie and Tony Rodasta, site of the reunion, 
at approximately 
5:00. 
Tony and Jennie Rodasta live on 30th Lane, 
between Iris 
Street and Jordan Street, in Blende, Colorado, on the Mesa west of 
Pueblo. They live in a yellowish ranch-style house just about a 
half mile from Josephine and Tony Martellaro. Jennie Rodasta and 
Tony Martellaro are siblings; Jennie Rodasta, along with Debbie 
Martellaro Carleo (daughter of Al and Josephine Martellaro) helped 
Josephine Martellaro organize and prepare the Saint Joseph Day 
Table this year. 
Tony and Jennie Rodasta returned to live in Blende nine 
months ago; previously they had lived in the Denver area. Tony 
Rodasta has a Master's degree from the University of Northern 
Colorado in Greeley and a PhD from Colorado State University in 
IAW-PM-F062490.B - 
2 
Fort Collins; he is currently employed as an administrator by a 
private educational enterprise in Colorado Springs which owns 
business and vocational training schools. 
Josephine Martellaro met Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli as 
we drove up to the house. It was a very hot day--in fact, a record 
breaker for Pueblo, at 105 degrees. They party had started about 
3 p.m., and it was held outside--except for the buffet which was 
set up inside. Josephine Martellaro had been on the look-out for 
us, and had made a cardboard sign with "Rodasta's House" written 
on it so we would be sure to find the place. Josephine Martellaro 
escorted us to the backyard and house, and introduced us first to 
Jennie and Tony Rodasta, the party's hosts. The two women insisted 
that 
we 
eat 
immediately 
("You 
eat 
first, 
then we'll 
talk," 
Josephine Martellaro said). I also had some prints of photographs 
taken by Myron Wood with Bea Roeder during the preparations for and 
the actual Saint Joseph Day event held 
y 
sep ine Martellaro. 
Josephine said we could look at them after we a e. 
osephine 
Martellaro and Paula Manini agreed they would later go to the 
Martellaro home. Instead of doing the planned interview, we decided 
Josephine 
Martellaro 
would 
give 
Paula 
Manini 
some 
videos, 
photographs and miscellaneous documents of the Saint Joseph Day 
Table for David Taylor to copy. Paula Manini suggested we schedule 
the interview for another day since she, 
Paola Tavarelli and 
Josephine had already had a hectic day. 
They told us to help ourselves to the abundant pot-luck buffet 
laid out on the kitchen counter and table. Josephine Martellaro 
encouraged us to take two plates to hold all the food! Jennie 
Rodasta 
got 
us 
beverages 
to 
go 
along with the meal. 
Their 
hospitality was wonderful! Some of the foods brought as pot luck 
dishes were: riqatoni in a tomato sancP, spaqhetti in a tomato •••••LS 
sauce, meatballs in tom to sa 
-, sausage in tomato sauce, tamales 
with green chili sauce, rice with peas, three bean salad, corn, 
green salads, jello salad, cheesecakes, pies, and fresh vegetables 
and dip. Different types of soda, ice tea and ice were on a table 
outside; beer was in the refrigerator. 
We sat outside in the back yard at a folding table along with 
Josephine Martellaro; Ron Payne was also there; Tony Rodasta sat 
down with us; and Josephine called her husband Tony Martellaro over 
to talk with us. Tony Redasto estimated there were 30-40 people in 
attendance; about 60 had been invited. Other people whom we met 
are: Debbie Martellaro Carleo; Christopher and Christine Spadafora 
(she 
is Tony and Josephine Martellaro's daughter); 
Arthur J. 
Purkett and his wife Annie Martellaro Purkett (Tony Martellaro's 
sister); 
Ron Payne and his wife Rose Martellaro Payne 
(Tony 
Martellaro Is sister) ; 
and their grandson Josh Payne, about 10 years 
old. 
Annie Purkett, Tony Martellaro and Tony Redasto speak some 
Sicilian. They were put on the spot when Josephine Martellaro and 
AST- `F-
P,• 
cos 
IAW-PM-F062490.B - 
3 
some others wanted them "to say something in Italian ," mostly for 
Paola Tavarelli when they found out she is 
from Italy. 
Annie 
Purkett and Tony Martellaro finally were forced into saying a few 
things . Ron Payne and Josephine Martellaro said a few sentences in 
a Slavic/German (?) 
language; they are what is locally known as 
"Bojons." According to Ron Payne, Bojons are people from Austria, 
Poland and Czechoslovakia. Everyone at the table discussed how 
particular the term "Bojon " was to Pueblo; all had met people who. 
didn 't know what a Bojon was. 
Paula Manini talked a bit with Tony Martellaro. Now retired, 
Tony Martellaro had worked in the mills for thirty-five years. His 
father had 
farmed 
out 
in 
the Mesa , 
but quit 
in 
n47. 
Tony 
Max-tellaro Is Uncle Joe Gagliann Q•tahlished_thP RAGGPmar MPrr-anl-i 
le 
Store in Pueblo; he was a wholesale importer of Italian food. Vito 
Gagliano, Joe Gagliano 's brother , also had,a _arocery star,- arnalnd 
the corner from the Bessemer Mercantile . Paula Manini gave all this 
information 
o usse 
Frank who is researching the occupational 
history and folklore/life of Pueblo. 
We discussed the fact that 
there were so many bars in Pueblo. Tony Martellaro does not like 
beer and has never been much of a drinker. He told the story of 
four soldiers who had returned from the Korean War (they were 
stationed at the local base)--they called Pueblo "4ittle ChicagR!! 
because there were so many bars. 
After we 
finished 
eating, 
Paula Manini 
showed Josephine 
Martellaro the prints of some photographs taken by Myron Wood at 
her Saint Joseph Day Table . Since there was some confusion on the 
part of Paula Manini and David Taylor about the photos --were they 
supposed to be given to Josephine Martellaro or Bea Roeder, the 
folklorist hired by David Taylor to document the event? Paula •`•• 
Manini gave them to Josephine , knowing David Taylor could have more 
made for Bea Roeder . Josephine Martellaro said she had requested 
a print of every photograph taken by Myron Wood; she would be 
willing to pay for them. 
During this time Paola Tavarelli took some photographs of the 
people at our table , and of other groups. She walked to the back 
of the yard where there is a vegetable 
n. Som e
f 
 
CSAZp-c", 
the 
ings in the garden are: basil, finocchio, eggplant , carrots 
and lilies . Paola asked if they were Saint Joseph lilies, and they 
said they don't use them for the Saint Joseph Day Table. The garden 
is at the south side of the  and - 
the north side is a small blue 
adn 
w 
h i te -statue _ 
of theCVirgin  Mar 
the figure is Placed 
 a 
niche , but it is all one unit . Tfie -
background is blue . Behind the 
nihce, and down from it, is flowers and trees. 
2n 
5=j;cs-
Paula Manini had noticed a 
wood cross (about 2 1/2 feet x 1 
1/2 feet ) that had a variety of flowers a tached to it. I asked who 
made it, and Jennie Rodasta told me Josh Payne (the grandson of Ron 
Payne and Rose Martellaro Payne ). He seemed shy when I asked about 
it, but willingly let me photograph him next to the cross. Josh 
IAW-PM-F062490.B - 
4 
Payne is about ten years old, blond with blue eyes. Jennie Rodasta 
said Josh Payne made the cross for, "The people not with us." 
Shortly after this, someone (?) announced it was time for the 
group photograph. They all gathered at the south end of the yard, 
and gave Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli the task of taking the 
photograph. Paola Tavarelli took a photograph with Tony Rodasta's 
camera; Paula Manini took photos for a little boy, Debbie Carleo, 
and two for the Library of Congress (I promised them a few copies) . 
At 
about 
7:00 
or 
7:30, 
shortly 
after 
the 
group 
photo, 
Josephine Martellaro asked Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli if we 
were ready to leave. We said our thanks and good-byes; then went 
into 
the 
kitchen 
to 
photograph 
the 
buffet 
(Jennie 
Rodasta, 
Josephine Martellaro, 
and Rose and Ron Payne thought this was 
rather funny), and then left. 
Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli 
followed Josephine and Tony Martellaro to their house, about a 
half0-mile down the road. 
See entry IAW-PM-F062490.c for those 
notes. 
Document : IAW-PM-F062490.0 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/24/90 
Informant/Event: Visit to the Martellaro home 
Coworker : Tavarelli, Paola 
Site: 6 
For more information on this event, see photographs IAW-PT-B 
roll 1 (6/24/90); and fieldnotes IAW-PT-F062490. 
Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli followed Tony and Josephine 
Martellaro to their home on County Farm Road , which is a half block 
from the Rodasta home . We drove to the end of County Farm Road, 
where the Martellaro home is located . The home is on a tract of 
land with a field to the west , large home garden, small orchard, 
twelve 
horses , three 
dogs, 
a two-car 
garage, 
and 
some 
out 
buildings. 
We all went into the kitchen ; Tony Martellaro got some water 
for Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli while Josephine Martellaro 
went to get her Saint Joseph Day memorabilia (a large photo album 
and three videos). 
We spoke a little about the Saint Joseph Day Table "made" by 
Josephine Martellaro this year. This was the first time Josephine 
Martellaro had done a table. She did it to thank Saint Joseph for 
his intercession in two situations: the illness of her husband (who 
was bedridden with arthritis) 
and her grand-daughter Brittany 
Carleo (who had eczema all over her body). Josephine Martellaro 
said she did not tell her husband they were making the table for 
him until February 14/Valentine's Day . Before this , a few people 
had asked Tony Martellaro about the table , and he told him his 
family was not having one . He wondered why these people thought his 
family was having a table. 
Josephine Martellaro and Paula Manini decided they would do 
the interview on Monday , June 25. Paula Manini will call her in the 
morning to schedule a time they could meet (Paula Manini had to 
wait to do this because she had to find out if Bessie Ingo was 
feeling well enough for an interview). 
Everyone involved with organizing the table were surprised at 
how far and quickly the news of the table spread. They were also 
very surprised at the number of people (many of whom they did not 
know) who called the house offering to make donations to the table. 
People donated money and goods. Sometimes these donations were made 
to fulfill an intention made to Saint Joseph by the people who made/
. 
the donation. 
According to Josephine Martellaro , she, Jennie Rodasta (her 
sister-in-law ) and Debbie Carleo (Josephine's daughter) 
did the 
"footwork " to learn about how to do the Saint Joseph Day Table. 
601• 
IAW-PM-F062490.0 - 
2 
They did library research as well as enlisting the help of Bessie 
Ingo and other women. They started the preparations four weeks in 
advance. 
Josephine said she did not expect the table would be as much 
work as it was . 
Having done all the work for several large weddings 
(as many as 500 people attended ) for her children, she thought the 
Saint Joseph Day Table would be easy . 
However , she soon learned how 
mgch was involved in put_ 
d g on the Pvent . 
Approximately 500 peop e 
attended the table on March 19, 1990. She, and others (she said) 
thought this 
was a very impressive number considering they live out 
of town (Pueblo) and the Feast Day was on a workday (Monday). 
Josephine Martellaro was very happy and flattered that so many 
people came, and that she received compliments from women who had 
themselves participated in the Saint Joseph Day tables. 
These compliments seemed very important to her. 
,,A-2'r'k FAr-r 
A painting of Saint Joseph holding the Infant Jesus  
was placed 
on top tier of 'the­-tabfe
— . The painting was done by Josephine 
Martellaro ; she was not able to find one , so she decided to paint 
one her self , using an image on a card as a model . There is also 
br a 
-painting 
pf the Last Supper she did hanging in the kitchen. 
She 
A.2,Ti 
showed two other oil paintings she did , which are framed and hang 
in the living room (a sunset, 
and a lion--which looked like a 
tiger-- she painted for Tony Martellaro, her husband). The living 
room and kitchen were spacious , and nicely decorated; the living 
room 
was 
relatively 
ornate 
(heavy 
curtains , 
some 
fancy 
furnishings). 
Josephine Martellaro is ocmpiling a book of photographs, 
recipes, news clippings, etc. on Saint Joseph Day events . She has 
ordered a computer to facilitate this project . At the family 
reunion, 
Jennie Rodasta gave me a copy of the section she is 
writing -- on recipes. She would be happy to donate copies of them 
to the Library of Congress. 
Before we left , 
Tony and Josephine Martellaro took us on short 
tour of the yard . Josephine Martellaro showed Paola Tavarelli the 
garden, which she complained was being ravished by wild rabbits. 
While they walked in the garden, 
Paula Manini spoke to Tony 
Martellaro ; she asked him if they ever ate rab-its. They used to 
he -"said . In fact,- his-father-used to,raise them, slaughter them, 
an d-- 96-11them 
at 
the 
Bessemer 
Mercantile 
(owned 
by 
Tony 
Marte-171aro's-Uncle Joe) in Pueblo. 
Josephine 
and 
Tony Martellaro 
next 
showed 
us 
the 
small 
orchard . They have two apple trees planted by his father (no one 
knows what kind of apples they are; they are hard, yellowish with 
a red blush); other types of apple 
trees; Italian- plums; c 
Ile, r.ries 
and gooseberries . Tony Martellaro 's father was known for his 
ability to grow vegetables and crops people said couldn't grow 
there (soy, 
fig trees , for example ). 
Tony thought his father's 
FOOS)Ws1 
&•," x"45 
IAW-PM-F062490.0 - 
3 G 
•F 
•ot'ts5 
determination was spurred by people saying a certain crop couldn 't 
,•pTrS 
grow in the area. 
C;_ 
Josephine Martellaro said a blight had ravaged the apple 
trees, but the sprayed them and they revived . This year , all fruit 
on the trees are on the southeast side--Tony Martellaro thinks this 
is because that side was sheltered from the wind during a real cold 
spell they had this year. 
After this small tour of the grounds, Paula Manini and Paola 
Tavarelli said good-bye and thanked the Martellaros for their 
assistance. 
Document: IAW-PM-F062590.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/25/90 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Josephine; Martellaro, Tony 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
For more information on this event, see: photographs, IAW-PM-
B roll 
1; 
IAW-PM-C roll 1 (both taken on 6/25/90). 
For more 
information on Josephine and Tony Martellaro, see fieldnotes from 
the Martellaro Family Reunion and Visit to the Martellaro Home: 
IAW-PM-F062490.b,c and IAW-PT-F062490.b,c. Also, Russell Frank is 
scheduled to interview Tony Martellaro on 6/28/90. There were three 
pauses in the interview to answer the phone, and to take a break. 
The purpose of the interview was to find out more information 
about the Saint Joseph Day Table made,._hy T•$ine Martellaro with 
the assistance of Jennie Rodasta (her sister-in-law) and Debbie 
Martellaro Carleo (her daughter) in March of 1990. 
Josephine Martellaro is very hospitable and energetic; since 
the Saint Joseph Day Table is so important to her, she was very 
enthusiastic about sharing information with me. Tony Martellaro was 
equally hospitable and also extremely willing to participate in the 
interview (even though Josephine did most of the talking). 
The Saint Joseph Day Table was offered by Josephine Mart-ellaro 
to thank Saint Joseph 
a 
her 
ravers to intercede in 
the 
hea  
problems 
of 
her 
husband 
Tony 
Ma -rtellaro 
(severe 
ar 
ri is) and her grand-daughter Brittany Carleo (severe allergies 
and eczema). 
Mrs. Josephine Croshal, Josephine Martellaro's eighty-three 
year old mother, was also present for part of the interview. Mary 
Angstrom 
(?), 
another of her daughters, 
had driven Josephine 
Croshal to the Martellaro home so she could have dinner with us. 
Mrs. Croshal represented Mary, the mother of Jesus, at the Saint 
Joseph Day Table made by Josephine Martellaro. Josephine Croshal, 
a Slovenian, spoke a little during the interview. 
Frank Martellaro, the youngest (high school) of six children, 
also joined us for dinner; before and after dinner he stayed in the 
living room watching television although he did go out into the 
yard later in the evening. 
Lisa Martellaro Bottini and her husband Paul Bottini arrived 
about 9:00 p.m.; Paul Bottini is a truck driver and Lisa had ridden 
with him on the last trip (from which they just returned for a few 
days off in Pueblo). Tony and Josephine Martellaro have four other 
children: Debbie Carleo, Christine Spadafora, Jeanette Jensen and 
Anthony Martellaro. 
p.•rcrolz 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
2 
I arrived at the Martellaro home at 5:30 p.m. Josephine 
Martellaro 
had 
invited 
me 
to 
dinner 
when 
we 
scheduled 
the 
interview. 
(For 
a description 
on 
the 
Martellaro 
home 
and 
surroundings , see IAW-PM-F062490.c.) 
Josephine and Tony Martellaro chatted 
while she worked a 
little in the kitchen , and while we waited for the arrival of her 
mother Mrs . Croshal . We talked about the record-breaking heat that 
has hit Pueblo this week . They also told me that they had spoken 
to Naich Cordo , and he was excited about being interviewed for the 
"Italian Americans in the West" project by Paola Tavarelli. 
During this time, Paula Manini photographed a painting that 
•JosepY-sine 
Martelloar 
had — done of -the-Last_Supp 
- 
which hangs in 
the kitchen . Josephine then took Paula Manini to her bedroom to see 
the painting ofC`Saint Joseph_and theme„ "fant Jesus that Josephine 
Martellaro had painted for the 5ant/'
Joseph Day Table. Paula Maninio 
tS 
photographed this painting along with a painting of Jesus 
(the 
favorite painting of Josephine Martellaro's) 
and Mary with the 
Infant Jesus , both of which hang over the headboard of the bed (the 
one of Jesus hangs on the wall on the side of the bed)--all these 
paintings were done by Josephine Martellaro . There was also a small 
statuette (about 5
"  tall) the Virgin Mary in the bedroom window. 
4 
When we returned to the kitchen, Josephine showed me three 
stuffed 
animals made 
by 
one 
of 
her daughters 
(Paula 
Manini 
inadvertently 
forgot to 
record which one) 
which are 
for the 
National High School Rodeo . They are of rabbits : a 
cowboy 
rabbj 
nd br_ide and groom rabbits. Josephine Martellaro placed them on 
a chair under the Last 
Supper, and Paula Manini took a photograph 
of them . Josephine and Tony Martellaro are very proud of their 
children , and their talents and accomplishments . They mentioned 
some of the various activities the children have been involved with 
Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, swim team, Future Farmers of America, 
cake decorating. 
Still waiting for the arrival of Josephine Croshal, 
o y 
Martellaro told me that they still have his father 's Tine press. 
They have only used it once to make about 30-40 gallons o app e 
juice from apples they gathered from 4-5 trees. 
Although they have not yet made wine 
they hope to in the 
future , maybe this year (but they said they say that every year). 
They even made a cellar for the wine, but haven 't used it yet. They 
would purchase California grapes to make wine ; 
they only have a few 
grapes growing on their property; 
they were planted by Tony 
Martellaro 's father. 
p,rzTk 5_Q Cr 
Tony Martellaro remembers that they used to make cherry wine 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
3 
when he was a child; Tony Martellaro once drank a lot of it, which 
made him sick . For this reason he does not like wine, although he 
recently started drinking a little wine once in a while (at the 
Martellaro Family Reunion on June 24, 
1990, he also told me he 
didn 't like beer). 
Paula Manini asked if they had ever made Cgrappq,)from the - 
G2,,,•.QA 
leftovers after the .
wine•pressing ; Tony Martellaro s"aid yes, but 
the called it "the seconds " which refers to the second pressing). 
Tony Martellaro '
s grandpraents also made wine. 
Tony and Josephine Martellaro said Ed Domenico , who lives 
nearby, 
makes wine. 
Ed Domenico built the wood altar for  -the - 
i•'m 5q' 4`T 
Martellaro's Saint-Josephs- Day Table. He is a retired contractor; 
he had to retire after he-fell while -working and broke his hip. Ed 
Domenico also.Ipurchases California grapes to make his wine. 
Tony Martellaro sa! 
mere 
only a few Concord grapes around; 
and he doesn 't like them . Josephine Martellaro said she has made 
grape jam from local grapes, and it is naturally very sweet. 
At this point in the conversation , Mrs. Josephine Croshal 
arrived with Mary Angstrom . Mary Angstrom , Josephine Martellaro's 
sister, only stayed a few minutes . Josephine Croshal , Josephine 
Martellaro's mother, 
is 83 years old . She has white hair, wore 
glasses , and a pink and white floral dress and used a walker/cane 
(a metal cane with a tripod base) . 
She was very pleasant and talked 
a bit. 
Very shortly after he arrival , 
we all sat down to dinner : pota• 
roast with potatoes, carrots and chili peppers; green salad; rolls;, ptzl-
jello salad ; watermelon; wine. 
Topics of the dinner conversation: 
VAON, 
Frank Martellaro goes to a high school just down the road, on 
36th Lane . He was a bit reserved and didn't say too much. 
Frank Martellaro joined us; they told me that his favorite food is 
pizza. He makes homemade  
pizzal; he learned from his brother Anthony 
Martellaro who learned how to make it in a high school class called 
"Singles Survival"! 
Paula Manini asked Josephine Martellaro if she learned to cook 
Italian food from her husband's mother. She said she learned from 
her husband and Tony . 
Josephine Martellaro never liked tomato sauce 
6 
JAR 
because it was too acidic--until she learned to make it from her 
husband with potatoes , sweet potatoes and eggplants with his 
mother's recipe. 
Josephine Martellaro told me Tony Martellaro and his mother \ 
showed her how to cook eggplant stems; first you have to remove the ) 
"stick" from the middle of the stem; then cook the stems. 
/// 
••n 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
4 
Josephine Martellaro also told me about the first time she 
made spaghetti for Tony Martellaro before they were married, at her 
parents' house . Josephine Martellaro did not know how to measure 
dried spaghetti, did not know how much it expanded when cooked. 
Consequently , she made a huge batch . Her father told her he never 
wanted spaghetti again since they had so much to eat as leftovers. 
They said Mrs. Croshal went to the 'Button Box Convention" 
(accordion polka music) last week , which has been amannual event 
in Pueblo for some time . Some of Russell Frank 's informants had 
also told him about it. Evidently , there are rumors that it may be 
the last year it is held . Mrs. Croshal said it was because there 
was poor attendance , and Russell Frank's informants said the same 
thing. However, Josephine Martellaro thought it was because the 
people who sponsor it in Pueblo wanted a bigger percentage of the 
funds; and the organizers were against this. 
Mrs. Croshal has attended many of these conventions, but she no 
longer can polka. 
After dinner , Josephine served coffee and the taped interview 
began. She went through her-photograph-album-of-the-Saint .- Joseph 
Day event page- by 
by pae 
identifying people in the photographs and 
the i•e•ns 
on 
the table . During the 
interview , Lisa 
Martellaro 
Bottini called to say she and her husband Paul Bottini would arrive 
at the Martellaro's around 9:00. 
The beginning of the album also hag lists of foods served 
diagram of their placement on the table, a list of the saints and 
the people who represented them, and news articles. 
David Taylor will make a copy of some of the photos (to be 
chosen by Paula Manini ) in the album, and also copy three videos 
Josephine Martellaro has loaned the Library of Congress for this 
purpose. One video is a tape of a local news broadcast (Channel 5, 
r• 
Pueblo ) on the table; one was made by Pauline Steffy, of Penrose ,> •••• 
Colorado , who the daughter of Naich Cordo , who represented Saint 
Jude at the table; the other video was made by Bob Van Alstyne who 
lives at 1220 West Abriendo Street in Pueblo. Josephine Martellaro 
couldn't remember which tape is which ; however , Bob Van Alstyne 
video-taped outside -- so the tape which has horses on it is his. 
h 
la•Uz,m 
Pia 
While Josephine Martellaro did most of the talking, Tony 
Martellaro did talk too. He tells why Bessie Ingo , Ann Massarotti 
and _Roza D z7iQ insisted that Josephine get "Hungarian Flour" for 
the Saint Joseph Day breads . There used to be a local flour mill 
in Pueblo called Mr. C's (Sees? ), and all that Italian women used 
only this brand of flour . This business was 
urchased--by-someone_ 
else , moved to Denver, 
and was renamed "Hungarian Flour_;'`The 
Italian woman in Pueblo continued to use that flour 
 
ecause they 
thought it was the best one, and felt that only that type of flour 
made the bread come out right. 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
5 
Josephine Martellaro also would ask Tony Martellaro for the 
Italian (Sicilian) term of certain food items she was telling me 
about, 
or 
for names 
of people 
she 
could not remember. 
Tony 
Martellaro would also add more information to the interview. 
The priest who blessed the table is Father Norman Bouchard, 
from Saint Joseph's Church, on the Mesa. 
After we were 
done with the 
taped 
interview, 
Josephine 
Martellaro showed Paula Manini two pastel-colored dough flowers, 
and a Sacred Heart of Jesus made out of cut dough and figs --they 
were made a few years ag --by Bessie Ingo, who helped Josepihne 
Martellaro with the Saint Joseph Day table this year. Josephine 
Martellaro shellacked the heart so t-he coed use it on future 
tables. Paula Manini photographed these items. 
While we waited Lisa and Paul Bottini to arrive, we chatted 
some more (not on tape) . 
Tony Martellaro said his father had worked 
in the CF & I mills for three years, in the mill. Tony Martellaro 
said his father used to come home covered with red dust. His mother 
had told Tony Martellaro that for two years after her husband had 
quit the mill, the bed sheets would still be red from the dust. 
1e 
Tony Martellaro worked in CF & I mills for thirtv-five years. 
He worke 
in 
a open 
ear 
urnace section of the mill. Tony 
Martellaro told the story that the workers would place steaks 
between hand-held wire grills, and hold them up to the furnace tol 
cook. Tony Martellaro said it was incredibly hot working at the 
furnace. In the winter, the workers would be frying on one side of 
their bodies and freezing on the other from the cold air blowing 
in. Tony Martellaro said when he goes to hell, he'll be ready for 
it. 
Paula Manini will pass his name on to Russ Frank, who is 
researching the 
occupational 
history and 
folklore of 
Pueblo, 
because she believes Tony Martellaro would be a good source of•) 
information. 
At about 9:00, 
Lisa Martellaro Bottini arrived with her 
husband Paul Bottini. He is a truck driver and Lisa Bottini was out 
with him on this last trip, from which they just returned. They 
were married on December 2, 1990; and both appear to be in their 
early twenties, perhaps he is a few years older. Lisa Bottini told 
us of some of their adventures on the road, sleeping in the truck, 
about Paul Bottini's driving, etc. 
17 
Paula Manini left the Martellaro home at about 9:40 p.m. 
Josephine Martellaro had given her two packs of pizzelle (waffle-
like, anise-flavored Italian cookies) and a krumkake (Slovenian 
rolled nut bread) to take to the hotel and her colleagues on the 
"Italian Americans in the West" project. 
Tony and Josephine Martellaro escorted Paula Manini to the 
F•tJD to 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
6 
car. The Martellaro's invited Paula Manini and her co-workers to 
go out some night (this will be on Thursday, June 28). Josephine 
Martellaro also said she would try to remember to call Bessie Ingo 
to see how she is feeling, and to let her know she had met Paula 
Manini. 
Paula Manini has spoken to Bessie Ingo, who has not been 
feeling well. Hopefully, Paula Manini will be able to interview 
Bessie Ingo for information on the Saint Joseph's Day tradition in 
Pueblo. 
Bessie Ingo and her sisters, 
Ann Massarotti and Rose 
Dazzio, are apparently very knowledgeable about the components  of 
the Saint Joseph Day observances. 
Another woman mentioned by both Josephine Martellaro and 
JoAnna Collette is Josephine Gagliano; Paula Manini also hopes to 
interview her soon. 
During taped interview, Josephine and Tony Martellaro went 
through their photo album of the Saint Joseph's Day Table with 
Manini. Below is a list of pages of the album and their contents. 
The photos which have descriptions below, were copied by David 
Taylor for the project. The page numbers are coordinated with the 
tape made by Manini of the interview with the Martellaros. The 
project has copies of pages 1-15, either made by David Taylor or 
included in the report by Bea Roeder from March 1990 (in the list 
below, this is indicated by Roeder or Taylor). 
P.1 
Article from the Pueblo Chieftain (March 17, 1990 
immigrants brought St. Joseph Table to U.S." (Taylor) 
p. 2 
Memorandum from Jospehine Martellaro to "All District 70 
Employees, March 15, 1990, Open House to View Saint 
Joseph table." (Taylor) 
p. 3 
List of saints (Roeder) 
p. 4 
Schematic of table (Roeder) 
P. 5 
Food list coordinated with schematic (Roeder) 
p. 6 
Recipes: wine cookies; spritz (Roeder) 
p. 7 
Recipes: Filbert poppy seed slice cookies (Roeder) 
P. 8 
Recipes: Lady fingers and fig bars (Roeder) 
P. 9 
Recipes: Pignolatti and sfinghi (Roeder) 
p. 10-11 
Saint Joseph's Bread (Roeder) 
p. 12 
Recipes: Cannoli (Roeder) 
IAW-PM-F062590.A - 
7 
p. 13 
Story of "The Saint Joseph Table," given to the 
Martellaro's by Anthony and Josephine Gagliano (copied) 
p. 14 
Letter written by Josephine Martellaro to the Pueblo 
Chieftain regarding the table and Library of Congress 
project (copied) 
p. 15 
Article printed in the Pueblo Chieftain on April 1, 
1990, based on the letter written by Martellaro 
(copied) 
P• 16 
Blank 
pp. 17-83 
Photographs 
Those photographs chosen for duplication: 
p. 21, top 
Bessie Ingo cutting the breads "fingers" 
p. 23, bottom 
? 
cutting scales on the fish bread 
p. 25, top 
Bessie Ingo holding Saint Joseph Bread 
Annabelle Di Iorio holding Trinity Bread 
? 
holding Saint Joseph Bread 
p. 26, bottom 
Bessie Ingo with fish bread 
p. 28, top 
? 
with Saint Joseph Bread 
Bessie Ingo with Saint Joseph Bread 
Jennie Rodasta with Moon Bread 
Josephine Martellaro 
Ann Massarotti with Face of Saint Joseph's Face 
which was made by Josephine 
Martellaro 
p. 28, bottom 
Setting up in the Martellaro living room 
p. 44, bottom 
Putting the table together 
p. 46, bottom 
Putting the table together 
p. 59, bottom 
Tony Martellaro, Brittany Carleo, Father Norman 
Bouchard, Debbie Carleo 
p. 60 
Tony Martellaro holding Brittany Carleo, Debbie 
Carleo, Josephine Martellaro, Father Bouchard, 
? 
. Lisa Martellaro Bottini, Frank 
Martellaro 
Document: IAW-PM-FO62690 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Gagliano, Anthony; Gagliano; Josephine 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
For 
more 
information, 
see 
tape 
IAW-PM-A06/26/90; 
and 
photographs IAW-PM-0001. 
PAULA MANINI / 12 
photographs IAW-PM-C, roll 1. 
This interview with Anthony and Josephine Gagliano took place 
on June 26, 1990, at their home at 89 Princeton, Pueblo, CO. Paula 
Manini had heard from Josephine Martellaro and JoAnna Collette that 
Josephine Gagliano had made a Saint Joseph Day Table in 1989; 
additionally she had assisted Josephine Martellaro with her table 
in 1990. Also Tony Martellaro and Anthony Gagliano are cousins. 
Josephine Gagliano would like copies of the taped interview 
and the transcripts; and of the photos taken by Paula Manini. Paula 
Manini told her Ken Light may visit them later to take photographs 
also. 
Josephine and Anthony Gagliano live in an attractive suburban 
neighborhood in west Pueblo, off of Pueblo Boulevard. Their home 
is nicely furnished, 
and their living room had somewhat of an 
Italian flavor with heavy drapes. In a small cabinet, Josephine 
keeps some momentos of Italy: some sugar figures of Jesus and a 
dove which were gifts from her mother, for example. 
Anthony and Josephine Gagliano have two children, Bonnie and 
Vincent. Vincent was home when Paula Manini arrived; he soon left, 
however, for a dentist appointment, and returned toward the end of 
the interview. Vincent Gagliano has just completed his freshman 
year at the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley, where he 
is studying History (Western Civilization). 
Bonnie Gagliano, older than Vincent, works at the Joslyn's 
Department Store in the Pueblo Mall. Bonnie Gagliano is engaged to 
Benjamin Glasner, who is stationed at Fort Carson. Their wedding 
is planned for April 
6, 
1991; 
it will be a big wedding, 
and 
Collette 
Catering 
and 
Carry-Out 
will 
cater 
it. 
Anthony 
and 
Josephine Gagliano joked with Ben Glasner about turning him into 
an Italian (he is of German origin). 
Josephine Gagliano invited Paula Manini to the wedding--this 
is one example of the generosity and hospitality of the people of 
Pueblo contacted in conjunction with the "Italian Americans in the 
West" 
project. 
Josephine Gagliano's brother will come to the 
wedding from Sicily. 
The interview began with Paula Manini explaining the "Italian 
Americans in the West" project. Both Anthony and Josephine Gagliano 
seemed enthused about the project and very willingly agreed to tell 
Paula Manini about the Saint Joseph Day tradition in their family, 
and their immigration history. 
The interview began with the immigration history of Josephine 
and Anthony Gagliano. Both Josephine and Anthony Gagliano were born 
PAULA MANINI / 13 
in Lucca, a small town in Sicily near Agrigento, in the southwest 
part of the island. Sometimes the town is called Lucca Sicula, or 
Lucca di Sicula, to distinguish it from a town with the same name 
in Tuscany. 
Anthony Gagliano migrated to Pueblo when he was sixteen years 
old; when he was 24, 
he returned with a friend from Pueblo to 
Lucca. 
On this trip, 
he met Josephine--they were engaged and 
married in Lucca (see the taped interview). He returned to Pueblo 
first; Josephine Gagliano came to Pueblo about two months later 
(in 1963). 
Josephine Gagliano has returned to Sicily twice with her 
family; although one time Anthony Gagliano was not able to join 
her. On the trip which they did make together, they traveled to 
many places Italy by car: from Torino, where Josephine Gagliano 
has a brother; to their hometown in Sicily. 
Most of the 
interview centered on the Saint Joseph Day 
tradition. We looked through their photo albumn, and they allowed 
Paula Manini to borrow it to make copies of the photos. They also 
let Paula Manini borrow a print for copying of a Saint Joseph Table 
of her brother 
in 
Lucca, 
Sicily. 
Please 
refer to 
the 
taped 
interview for details of the tradition as practiced by Josephine 
and Anthony Gagliano in Pueblo, and Josephine's family in Sicily. 
The 1989 table they gave was for Anthony and Vincent Gagliano. 
Some of the people who were chosen to represent the saints 
were Joe Cortese as 
Saint Joseph; 
Richard McNamara 
as 
Saint 
Patrick; Carmella Gagliano as Mother of Grace; and Mike Gianetto 
as Saint Michael. Some of the women who helped Josephine Gagliano 
with the preparations for the table were: Mrs. Abbate, Mrs. Lina 
Gianetta and Mrs. Morello. 
While 
the 
other 
women 
who 
Paula 
Manini 
interviewed 
in 
connection with the Saint Joseph Day tradition are 
all 
very 
religious, and obviously devoted to Saint Joseph, 
Paula Manini 
sensed a more intense and personal love for the saint and the 
tradition from Josephine Gagliano, and her husband Anthony also. 
To Paula Manini, this feeling was apparent in the way they spoke 
about the saint, the importance of their family, and the saint's 
intercession in family illnesses. Also, it was evident in the way 
Josephine and Anthony Gagliano spoke about the amount of time, work 
and money involved in making a table--it was all worth it because 
it was for the family. While all these elements are present in the 
other people Paula Manini interviewed, in the case of Anthony and 
Josephine Gagliano a more personal relation with Saint Joseph 
seemed to exist. 
On the tape, the following topics from the Saint Joseph Day 
PAULA MANINI / 14 
tradition were discussed (not in order): 
-the different types of promises one can make to Saint Joseph: to 
do the table alone; to beg for donation to do the table; to beg 
barefoot to do the table 
-the sizes of tables 
-the types of foods on the table 
-the things that must always be on the table 
-the saints to choose from for the table 
-the number of saints that one can have--it must be an odd 
number, and one must have the Holy Family 
-the charitable component which is essential to the tradition; 
Josephine Gagliano sent money to the church in Lucca, Sicily, 
to buy candlebras for the side altar of Saint Joseph, as well 
as donating money to people and organizations in Pueblo 
-the tables done by Josephine Gagliano's mother and brother in 
Sicily 
-Saint Joseph's Day observances in Lucca, Sicily, which include a 
procession 
After, the taped interview concluded Paula Manini took some 
photographs of some very beautiful cut-dough, fig-filled symbols 
which were made for the table: Saint Joseph's cane; the Chalice; 
the 
Cross--all 
of which must be 
on 
any table, 
according to 
Josephine Gagliano. Paula Manini also photographed a small bird 
and basket made of the same ingredients. 
Josephine Gagliano placed a plate of cookies on the table (and 
gave Paula Manini some to take back to the hotel). We all chatted 
a bit more; Vincent was back from the dentist, with six cavities!! 
Josephine told me she works in the deli at the King Sooper's 
grocery store at Northern and Prairie Streets--the store let her 
use their bakery to bake the Saint Joseph Breads. 
Other topics of conversation: 
-Victoria Marion, a retired principal and educator used to teach 
students the tarentella; 
-there used to be folk dance competitions held at the University 
of Souther Colorado (Pueblo); 
-Josephine Gagliano made some costumes 
for this competition--
costumes in red, green and white to represent the Italian flag; - 
PAULA MANINI / 15 
they will dance the tarantella at Bonnie Gagliano's wedding next 
April; Bonnie Gagliano will dance it with her father; 
-Anthony and Josephine Gagliano want their children to learn the 
Italian traditions: 
Bonnie Gagliano is more interested in her 
heritage than Vincente, the youngest child; Josephine Gagliano said 
she is proud to be an American but is also proud of her Italian 
heritage 
-both children understand Italian; Bonnie can speak and write it 
too. 
-Josephine and Anthony speak Italian or Sicilian with each other 
and with some friends from Sicily; 
-Josephine Gagliano worked at the Bessamer Mercantile Store from 
1968-77; the owners are Joe and Rose Cortese; Rose Cortese's mother 
is Carmella, who will be 95 in July; after the interview, Josephine 
Gagliano was going to go to Carmella's home to feed her; 
-at the Bassamer Mercantile, Josephine helped with everything--made 
sausage, washed dishes, cooked, mended clothes for the family (who 
lived in the back of the shop). She did as many family-related 
tasks as store tasks for the Cortese; 
-Josephine Gagliano showed Paula Manini the "Historic Cookbook," 
published by the Arkansas Valley Chapter of the the National 
Society of the Daughter's of the American Revolution. On page 36, 
there is an old photograph of the Bessamer Mercantile, showing Joe 
and Carmella Cortese and some children. 
-Anthony Gagliano belongs to the Columbian Federation, Protective 
222; they meet every three months. Josephine Gagliano belongs to 
the Fidelity of the Columbian Federation; they play bingo, have 
refreshments. The Columbian Federation has an annual party, offers 
life insurance to its members. 
-Josephine Gagliano also belongs to Saint Therese Lodge. 
The 
members are mostly older people; they play bingo; you have to be 
an Italian Catholic to join the lodge. 
-Anthony Gagliano sometimes gets together with some Sicilian origin 
men to play Italian card games (briscola, settemezzo, cinquecento). 
These are not regularly scheduled card games. It is usually only 
the men who play; on holiday get-togethers, women and children 
sometimes play. 
Document: IAW-PM-F062790.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 06/27/90 
Informant/Event: Nigro, Frank; Nigro, Rose 
Coworker: Tavarelli, Paola 
Site: 6 
For more information on the interview with Frank and Rose 
Nigro, see tape IAW-PM-A007, -008, and -009. Please note that Paula 
Manini inadvertently copied over recorded information on side 1 of 
tape IAW-PM-A009. So, on the beginning of side 1 of tape A009, 
there is the last part of the interview which consists of Frank 
Nigro telling three stories about Iugalde (Iugalde is a numb-skull 
figure). Paula Manini has not yet determined the what the missing 
information concerned. Paula Manini set up a Sennheiser microphone 
because she realized that several people would probably be involved 
in the interview. 
For photos, see IAW-PM-B, rolls 1 and 2; and IAW-PM-C, roll 
1. Also note that while catalogued under Paula Manini (PM), Paola 
Tavarelli took some of the photos on roll B-2 
(these will be 
indicated when Paula Manini identifies the photos). Paola Tavarelli-\  
took photos in the garden with Frank Nigro 
Paula Manini took most 
6 G 
of the photos during the interview. 
JoAnna Collette had set up the interview appointment with her 
parents, Frank and Rose Nigro, 
for 1:30 on Wednesday, June 27. 
JoAnna Collette arrived at her parents' home about 1:50. 
Both 
Paula 
Manini 
and 
Paola 
Tavarelli 
conducted 
the 
interview. After about two hours of conversation, Paola Tavarelli 
and Frank Nigro went out to his garden together. 
During that time, 
Paula Manini remained in the kitchen to interview on tape Stella 
Nigro Allen. 
In all there were eleven people who were in the house at 
various times during the interview (between 1:30-6:00 pm). This 
created a lot of background noise as people came in and out of the 
kitchen to get something to eat or drink; new arrivals came in to 
greet the others; introductions were made; and side conversations 
took place. 
Sometimes the interviewers were involved in these 
conversations since it would have been impolite to insist that 
people remain quiet. 
So, 
these 
tapes 
will 
be 
very difficult 
to 
follow 
and 
transcribe; however, they contain some valuable information. Also, 
this activity in the Nigro home indicates the importance of the 
family and of close friends for the Nigros. 
CG7 
QVor't j 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
2 
When the taped interview began at 2:00, Paula Manini and Paola 
Tavarelli knew that Rose Nigro had to leave for an appointment at 
2:30--Bill Reininger was bringing her to get fitted for a back 
brace. Therefore, Paola Tavarelli suggested that Rose Nigro speak 
first. Paula Manini began by asking Rose Nigro some questions about 
her immigration history, and the Saint Joseph Day observances in 
her family. 
Soon, however, Frank Nigro joined in; first Paola Tavarelli 
then Paula Manini had to interrupt him so Rose Nigro could talk. 
Both Paola Tavarelli and Paula Manini felt bad about doing this. 
As it turned out, Rose Nigro returned about 3:30 and was able to 
participate further in the interview. 
At about 3:05, Joe Vasile, who makes goat cheese on the Mesa, 
arrived with his mother, Mary Gagliardo Vasile. Mary Vasile is ill 
with Alzeimer's Disease, and Joe Vasile had brought her to the 
Nigro home so they could see her before he placed her in a nursing 
home. She sat in an arm chair in the living room, by the entrance 
to the kitchen. Through much of the interview Mary Colistro sat 
near her in another arm chair. Joe Vasile stayed for about 20-30 
minutes; then left his mother at the Nigro home for a while. He 
then returned later to pick her up. 
Frank Nigro had taught Joe Vasile to make goat cheese years 
ago on the Nigro ranch in Walsenburg, in Huerfano County (before 
the Nigro family moved to Pueblo) . Then just a few years ago, Frank 
Nigro had to teach Joe Vasile to make cheese again; Joe Vasile had 
not made it for so many years that he had forgotten the process. 
Paola Tavarelli, who had been given Joe Vasile's name by JoAnna 
Collette, 
set up an appointment to interview Joe Vasile. Frank 
Nigro said he would like to go along, so Paola Tavarelli will be 
him up on Saturday, June 30, 
on her way to the Mesa where Jo 
Vasile lives. 
In all, 
eleven people were in the Nigro home during the 
interview; not all of them participated in the interview, nor were 
they all there for the duration of the interview. There was also 
a white miniature poodle, Scooter, which barked often during the 
tapes interview. The eleven people are: 
-Rose Pietramale Nigro and Frank Nigro; Rose and Frank Nigro are 
the parents of JoAnna Collette (see IAW-PM-AO01 and 002). 
-JoAnna Nigro Collette, who arrived at about 1:50 and left at 3:50 
to baby-sit for at least one grand-child; 
-Stella Nigro Allen who arrived at 3:30 with her grand-daughter 
Crystal (about 7 years old); 
-Bill Reininger (who was married to Lorraine Nigro, now deceased) 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
3 
and his friend Sandy Salvage who was there from the beginning; did 
not participate 
in the 
interview ; brought Rose Nigro to the 
doctor's office to be fitted for a back brace; 
-Roseanne Alfonso Johnson (a cousin of JoAnna Collette who works 
at the Minnequa Bank across the street from Rose and Frank Nigro), 
who arrived shortly after 5:00; JoAnna Collette told Paula Manini 
that Roseanne Johnson usually stops in to see Rose and Frank Nigro 
after work; 
-Maria Nigro Pietramale 
Colistro, 
Frank Nigro's 
sister 
from 
Spokane , Washington, who now lives with her brother and his wife; 
Maria was married twice -- first to a Mr. Pietramale (who was Rose 
Nigro 's brother ), then to a 
Mr. Colistro. Maria Colistro only spoke 
a few times during the interview. 
-Joe Vasile and his mother Mary Gagliardi Vasile ; good friends of 
the Nigro family . As a boy, Joe Vasile had lived and worked on 
Frank Nigro 's ranch in Walsenburg. They arrived at 3:05 ; Joe left 
about 20 -30 minutes later; then returned about 5:30 to pick up his 
mother; 
When Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli arrived at the Nigro 
home (89 Princeton, Pueblo) at 1:30, they thought they had mistaken 
the time . 
Paula Manini could see four or five people sitting at the 
kitchen table . (At least some of these people left before the 
formal, taped interview began--they are not listed above .) Also, 
at first it seemed as though Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli were 
unexpected. 
Bill Reininger had answered the door, invited Paula Manini and 
Paola Tavarelli in, and left the room to call Frank and Rose Nigro. 
Soon Frank Nigro , then Rose Nigro came into the living room. Paula 
Manini asked if she and Paola Tavarelli should come back another 
time , since it seemed they had interrupted a lunch get-together. 
Rose said no. Paula Manini and Paola Manini sat in the living room 
with Frank Nigro and his sister Maria Colistro; Rose walked back 
and forth between the living room and kitchen , 
since she had guests 
in both rooms . 
JoAnna Collette arrived about twenty minutes later. 
The most impressive feature of the neat, homey, abundantlY7  
furnished and decorated living room was the wall closest to the 
ki-tche-n--it had four or five shelves running the entire length of 
V;•+OTDI 
the 
wa.
l1, with 
15 -20 
family p o ograp s on 
each 
shelf . 
The T•,C•t ;;qc-, 
importance of the family for the Nigros was obvious. 
Another 
notable feature of the home was the amount of religious images 
which hung on walls and were placed on tables. Paula Manini took 
mental note of beige ceramic busts of the Holy Mother in the living 
room , crucifixes in the kitchen and bedrooms , images of saints in 
all rooms , a painting of the Last Supper in the 
kitchen . Faml'ial• 
—___ 
- 
.._ 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
4 
and religious devotion appeared to be very strong influences in the 
Nigro family. 
While in the living room, Rose and Frank Nigro asked Paula 
Manini and Paola Manini about their background. Paula Manini told 
Rose Nigro her mother's parents were from Calabria, just as Rose 
and Frank were. Rose and Frank Nigro did not know the area from 
which Paula Manini's grand-parents had come. Rose and Frank Nigro 
are from Grimaldi, in the province of Cosenza. They were born in 
the same house, but were not related. 
When Frank Nigro learned that Paola Tavarelli lived in Los 
Angeles, he immediately launched into a story about Los Angeles. 
Frank Nigro is a great story-teller; without hesitation he launches 
into stories. He told how a cousin who used to travel to Los 
Angeles to bring back a truckload of grapes to Pueblo (Walsenburg?) 
This cousin had had his tonsils removed four days before a trip to 
Los Angeles. On the trip, he got sick from a draft coming into the 
truck. By the time he got to Los Angeles, he was very sick. He 
checked into a hotel room, and got a doctor. The doctor looked at 
this throat and saw how inflamed it was; he didn't know that the 
man had had his tonsils removed. He put the man in the hospital, 
and had him lie "up-side-down- -11 so he wouldn't swallow the stuff 
from the throat. Eventually, the man died. 
The 
man's wife asked Frank Nigro to go to Los Angeles to get 
the body. Frank Nigro went to Los Angeles; he travelled back to 
Pueblo with someone else--a man who accompanied the cousin to Los 
Angeles, or a man who went to Los Angeles with Frank Nigro ? He had 
to get special permit to cross state lines with the body; the had 
to get one in each state: California, Arizona, New Mexico. They had 
to wrap the body in plastic. 
At that point, the story was interrupted and we all moved into 
the kitchen to get set up for the interview. The story was prompted 
by the fact that Paola Tavarelli lives in Los Angeles; Paula Manini 
and Paola Tavarelli believe the point of the story was to show why 
Frank Nigro does not like Los Angeles. 
Once the recording equipment was set up in the kitchen the 
interview began. In seating order, from Paula Manini's left to the 
right: JoAnna Collette, Rose Nigro, Maria Colisto, Frank Nigro, 
Paola Tavarelli. Both Frank and Rose Nigro speak Calabrese and 
English; both speak English with fairly heavy accents. Frank Nigro 
also learned to speak Spanish. 
Some of the topics covered in the interview (except for the 
first two topics, they are not necessarily in order): 
-immigration history of Frank and Rose Nigro 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
5 
-Frank and Rose Pietramale were born in the same house in Grimaldi ,'"
P•`y 
near Cosenza , in Calabria 
-the Saint Joseph's Day Tables given by Rose Nigro (1943 , 1946 and 
about 1955 ) 
. 
Description of the tables : 
white linen from her dowry; 
.,C?`C( 
pillow cases'; 
food . Rose Nigro learne 
the tradition from Mrs. 
r 
Zinno , a neighbor. The first table was given for Stella Nigro, who 
at 16 , fell from a horse and severely injured her hip. How the 
tradition has changed --Rose Nigro believes it has changed only in 
the way the food is prepared more easily now. 
-story of Frank Nigro 's birth; Rose Pietramale Nigro's mother 
helped with the delivery on January 1, 
1902 
(could have been 
r.SroQy 
December 31, 1901 ) 
. Later , Frank Nigro's mother jokingly said if 
she had known he was going to marry her daughter, she would have 
thrown him to the hogs. 
-the ranch Frank Nigro had in Walsenbur , 
Huerfano County , 
Colorado; 
their Mexican and German neighbors. 
when Joe Vasile entered , the conversation turned to goats and 
icotta cheese-making; also to Spanish; Frank Nigro, Joe Vasile and 
►a••` 
Stella Nigro Allen all speak and/or spoke Spanish. 
-the Ludlow Massacre in 1914 . Frank Nigro remembers hearing about 
it; a pregnant woman was killed; men, women and children were 
killed in the big tent at the mining camp; the milizia killed them. 
-the family 's move from Walsenburg to Pueblo, where Frank Nigro was 
a barber on an army base during World War II; how he could not get 
a license to be a barber because he would have been competition to 
a prominent local Italian barber 
-when Stella Nigro Allen arrives at about 3:30, she has brought 
along some old photographs . Paula Manini had asked if the family 
had any old photographs of the event , explaining she had only been 
able to locate photos from the 1960's on. There was a photo of the 
Saint Joseph's Day Table , and another one of some of the people 
who came to it . She also has two photographs from the ranch in\ 
Walsenburg (Frank is in both of them ; Joe Vasile as a little boy r
7r•bro 
is in another ). JoAnna Collette and Stella Allen believe there ism  
another one somewhere which shows the full view of the Saint\ 
Joseph's Day Table; two pictures of each half of the table were 
,,r, 
taken, then placed together . They will try to locate it. Stella 
Allen gives Paula Manini permission to have copies made; she says/ 
she has more at home, which Paula will look at when she returns the 
others. 
-growing fruits and vegetables 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
6 
At one point, Paola Tavarelli asks Frank Nigro to show her his 
garden (JoAnna Collette had told Paola Tavarelli and Paula Manini 
that her father had fig trees, grapevines and a big garden). 
While they are in the garden, 
Paula Manini stays in the 
kitchen and talks with Stella Nigro Allen about: 
-what she remembers of the Saint Joseph Day Table made for her when 
she was sixteen; 
a 
p,;-Ze• 
-going school in Walsenburg and not speaking English--only Spanish -rlElC.•'•-5 
and Italian; 
-baking bread in a forno on the ranch; 
-her grandmother telling stories of Iugalde (she tells a little of 
the story of Iugalde and the peas, but doesn't remember it well--
she says her father would remember). 
At this point, Paola Tavarelli and Frank Nigro return from 
the garden. Paula Manini asks Frank Nigro, 
"Who's Iugale?" And 
Frank Nigro begins to tell us some Iugalde numb-skull stories. He 
tells three. 
The first two, 
in English, 
are about Iugalde and 
cleaning out the intestines of a pig, and the other about peas. 
Paula Manini asks him to tell one in Italian. So Frank Nigro tells 
one in Italian about Iugalde, 
the door to his house and some 
bandits. 
Frank Nigro also tells a story about going to Italy to get a 
passport for Rose Nigro so she can leave Italy and come to the 
United States. They are in Grimaldi, but he has to travel to Naples 
by train to get the passport from officials there. He has to make 
several trips, and each time the passport is not ready. Frank Nigro 
is very frustrated with this. One day on the train, a man who works 
on the train, and now recognizes Frank Nigro from all the trips to 
Naples, asks Frank why he travels to Naples so much. Frank Nigro 
)1MfA16ZP"T 
tells him about the passport. The man says he will help; he has to 
4A165P&r 
pay the doorman at the passport office, and finally Frank Nigro 
gets the passport! ! For this reason, Frank Nigro didn't like Italy/. 
'F0 •X_'A 4 
T-10 
u< 
TPIL-2 
Shortly after the last story, the interview ends. It takes 
Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli about 20 minutes to finally leave 
the house. Rose Nigro invites them to dinner; but they cannot stay. 
During the interview, JoAnna had put-PTzzell'e and Ere ent 
cookie's-) r••CpwAxs 
ht 
d 
on the table; Frank Nigro had broug 
t-  hree bottles different 
types of wine (two made from grapes from Pueblo); JoAnna said the 
first bottle was the "good stuff." As were all the people thus far 
interviewed, the Nigros and their family were extremely hospitable. 
They were very happy to tell us about their lives. In fact, Frank 
IAW-PM-F062790.A - 
7 
Nigro seemed over-joyed to tell us his stories. 
Several photos were borrowed from the Nigors for duplication: 
✓-group of relatives in front of the family farmhouse near Grimaldi, 
Calabria ; the farmhouse is the home where both Frank and Rose Nigro 
were born; 
-family with donkey; Rose Nigro and her brothers; 
-First communion of JoAnna Nigro Collette and Lorraine Nigro_ 
(deceased) 
•`'• 
-Frank Nigro with horse and gun; with nephews 
-Rose Nigro with her two sisters Vincenz Pietramale and Cristi a 
Pietramale in Grimaldi, Calabria; 
-Carl and Anna Nigro with Frank, Rose and Eva Nigro 
-Rose 's sister in Sicily 
p4c 
Document: IAW-PM-F062790.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Dinner at La Troica's Restaurant 
Coworker: Taylor, David; Williams, John; Tavarelli, Paola; Frank, 
Russell 
Site: 6 
The crew of researchers from the "Italian Americans in the 
West" project decided to go to La Tronica's Restaurant for dinner. 
They had heard from several people that it was a good place to eat, 
and 
they knew 
it 
was 
located 
in 
Bessemer, 
the 
old 
Italian 
neighborhood, a block from Gus' bar. R»sG Frank hac3 been talking 
to many people at Gus'--some older Italian men frequent the place, 
as 
well as families. 
a Tronica Is Restauran•E?is located in a long, stucco building 
-which 
 si 
fna 
and "has 
green awnings. 
The menu features mostly 
Italian dishes: spaghetti, handmade spaghetti, 
lasagna, chicken 
cacciatore, sausage, ravioli. The group sat at the back of the main 
room where the bar is; there is another dining room in the back, 
behind the kitchen. 
The restaurant is comfortable and fairly dark. Most of the 
decorations are of alcoholic products and sports teams. Everyone 
ordered Italian food from Millie, the waitress. She told us the 
sauce and handmade pasta are made every morning by two women, only 
one of whom is Italian. Toward the end of the meal, Paula Manini 
asked Millie if she was Italian; Millie is Slovenian. She said that 
Gino La Tronica, who was behind the bar, was Italian. Paula Manini 
told Millie that they group was researching Italians in Pueblo. 
Millie said we should talk to Gino, and went over to tell him. 
Shortly afterwards, Gino La Tronica came over to the table. 
David Taylor introduced himself and the others, and told him about 
the project. 
David Taylor asked Gino-La Tronica about the restaurant; it 
has been in the family since 
914 , when an uncle started it. It is 
one of the oldest restaurants in Pueblo. He said the menu has 
changed very little over the years. 
Gino La Tronica said business has dropped since the down-
sizing of the CF&I mills. 
While new high tech business have 
recently come into Pueblo, their wages are very low--especially 
compared to the salaries of the mill workers. So people do not have 
as much money to spend on eating out. 
Also, 
there is now the 
competition of the popular fast-food establishments. He mentioned 
how these new businesses make good propaganda for the Chamber of 
Congress and the politicians, but do not add much to the local 
economy. All of the high-wage earners at these business come from 
IAW-PM-F062790.B - 
2 
out of town while the local employees are paid $5-6 per hour. 
David Taylor asked Gino La Tronica if there was not a big sign 
on the restaurant because it was such a neighborhood establishment 
that he didn't need one. Gino La Tronica said the reason is that 
a car drove through the front of the restaurant a while back, and 
he hadn't got a new sign yet. But he did say many locals frequent 
the place, 
as well as some regular customers from Denver and 
Colorado Springs. Gino La Tronica does not generally advertise, but 
said he probably should. 
Gino La Tronica plays golf, shoots in the low 70's. David 
Taylor seemed impressed! Gino La Tronica said it's not bad for 
someone who works at night and golfs during the day. 
Gino La Tronica was very pleasant, articulate and seemed very 
intelligent 
and 
informed 
about 
the 
local 
scene 
as 
well 
as 
remembering things about the past. 
David Taylor and John Williams later decided they would return 
to La Tronica's restaurant to conduct a formal, taped interview. 
They wanted him to elaborate on several of the topics briefly 
touched upon in the initial meeting. David Taylor and John Williams 
set-up an appointment for June 29, and interviewed Gino La Tronica 
that morning. Please see their notes for more information on Gino 
La Tronica and La Tronica's Restaurant. 
Document : IAW-PM-F062890.A 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date : 6/28/90 
Informant/Event: Lunch at Collette 's Catering and Carry-Out 
Coworker : Taylor, David ; and Williams, John 
Site: 6 
Paula Manini had decided not to conduct any interviews on 
Thursday , June 28 . Instead, she decided to use the time to catch 
up on fieldnotes , and select the photos she wanted duplicated from 
the albums belonging to JoAnna and Al Collette , Josephine and Tony 
Martellaro and Josephine and Anthony Gagliardo. When she told David 
Taylor about this plan he concurred, and suggested they have lunch 
at Collette 's Catering and Carry-Out. 
David Taylor , John Williams and Paula Manini arrived at 
Collette 's Catering and Carry-Out 
(1614 
West Northern Street, 
Pueblo, Co) shortly after 1:00. There were two men at the counter; 
Stephanie Collette, the youngest in the family, was taking their 
order. Paula Manini greeted her and introduced David Taylor and 
John Williams. 
Almost immediately Al Collette came to greet them , and invited 
us to the back. He gave them menus right away. We all walked in to 
the 
first kitchen 
(there 
is 
another behind 
it) 
where JoAnna 
Collette was very busily and expertly making meatballs for an event 
they were catering that 
evening. 
There was a large mound of 
ground beef in a bowl ; she took small handfuls of the meat and 
rolled them between her palms to make the meatballs . David Taylor 
started taking photographs. 
Al Collette went back and forth between the first kitchen (to 
chat and do tasks) and the store front to wait on customers. John 
Collette , Al and JoAnna 's 29 year old son, was working in the first 
kitchen , washing and putting away pots, pans , dishes. Soon another 
daughter , Therese Collette , arrived holding a red-haired baby 
(perhaps about 10 months old) who is her nephew . Then the baby's 
father , Timothy Collette, arrived, and shortly afterwards his wife 
came in. 
Timothy Collette and his family only stayed about ten 
minutes. 
Al Collette asked Taylor , Williams and Manini what they would 
like to eat. 
John Williams ordered a meatball sandwich, 
David 
Taylor ordered lasagna , and Paula Manini ordered ravioli. 
The 
lunches were soon ready, and Al Collette brought them into the 
second kitchen, where the three guests sat around a metal table. 
Al Collette joined them for most of the time, but he did get up 
several 
times. 
When JoAnna 
Collette was 
finished making 
the 
meatballs , she joined the people in the second kitchen. 
John, 
Therese and Stephanie Collette came in and out of the kitchen. 
Fod 0w•• 
IAW-PM-F062890.A - 
2 
Stephanie Collette will be getting married soon. Food to be 
served at her wedding includes masticcioli (penne), chicken and 
roast beef. She had two or three bridal magazines at work with her-
-she is trying to find a bridal gown. 
Al Collette said he used to work for Kress Groceries, and 
worked in E1 Paso and Boulder for them . In 1974, the Collette's 
began the catering business , first working out of their home, until 
they got the present building. 
John Williams asked them about catering the Columbus Day 
Banquets. The first one they did was a sit-down dinner at the Arts 
Center. They continued with the sit-down dinners for some years, 
and then told the Columbus Day Banquet people that they would 
continue to cater the affair only if it was a buffet -- and they 
agreed. The sit-down dinner was too difficult for the number of 
people in attendance; JoAnna cited complaints of people who waited 
too long to be served ; did not have enough to eat while others did 
not 
eat all that was served to them; or people were served food 
they did not like. 
John Williams asked if they had catered the year the some of 
the guests made paper airplanes and threw them during the meal. 
JoAnna remembers that the chairman of the Columbus festivities 
scolded these people, 
saying they should be more respectful. 
However, people continued to make the airplanes out of leaflets 
about various politicians. 
Al Collette used to belong to the Christopher Columbus lodge, 
now he belongs to the Fidelity Lodge. 
- 
JoAnna Collette wanted to tell Paula Manini that people from 
the Mesa used to go to Mount Carmel Church or the Cathedral. Then 
Father Murray had Saint Joseph's Church built on the Mesa . During 
an interview with Paula Manini on June 24 , JoAnna Collette was 
uncertain about who had the church built. Since the interview she 
had found out this information . Father Murray raised the money_ 
for_" ,Lacr_ Fce 
the-church , to serve about 600 families . Italians who lived i(n
- Goat 
Ver, 
P-
(•-Hil•)and the Grove used to go to Mount Carmel too. 
•— 
Al Collette's parents used to live on Santa Fe, 
near the 
Arkansas River . They lost their home and moved to Goat Hill, where 
Al Collette grew up . He was born at home, and the house stood until 
a few years ago when it burned down 
(it had been previously 
condemned ). Al Collette remembers a barber shop on Second Street 
that had a water mark made by the 
flood. 
JoAnna told of an 
excavation in Pueblo a few years ago; on Fourth Street they found 
the body of someone who died in the flood. JoAnna and Al Collette 
said the Art Center wanted to beautify Goat Hill, but the people 
living there wouldn't sell. 
After Manini, Taylor and Williams finished lunch , Al Collette 
IAW-PM-F062890.A - 
3 
served them ice cream with a canned fruit topping. He had also 
attentively put parmesan cheese on the table, served us beverages 
and brought out a small dish with roasted qreen peppers. During the 
conversation and while the Collette's worked, David Taylor took/ 
several photographs. 
During the conversation, 
the Stephanie, 
Therese and John 
Collette 
came 
into 
the 
second 
kitchen 
and 
listen 
to 
the 
conversation; but they spent most of the time working in the front 
or first kitchen. The Collette's seem to get along very well; they 
really enjoy each other's company and working 
in the 
family 
business. They often joke with and tease each other. 
The Collette's treated Manini, Taylor and Williams to lunch, 
continuing to be extremely hospitable. The day before this lunch, 
JoAnna Collette had met Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli at her 
parents' house (see the interview IAW-PM-A007, 008 and 009). 
Paula Manini had invited Al and JoAnna Collette to a surprise 
birthday for David Taylor, which was scheduled for 7:00 pm at 
Gaetano's Restaurant. She had ordered a cake from the Collette's 
for the occasion, but JoAnna Collette refused payment for the cake. 
Document : IAW-PM-F062890.B 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date : 06/28/90 
Informant/Event: Surprise Birthday Pary for David Taylor 
Coworker : 
Tavarelli , 
Paola; Frank , 
Russell; Williams , 
John ; 
Taylor, 
David 
Site: 6 
Josephine Martellaro , from Pueblo , had asked Paula Manini if 
she and David Taylor would like to meet her and her husband, Tony, 
in town for dinner or a drink . Paula Manini conferred with David 
Taylor , and he said he was open on Thursday . Shortly after this, 
Paola Tavarelli told Paula Manini that David Taylor 's wife, Lee 
Ellen, had called to say David 's birthday was on Thursday, June 
28. 
Since Paula Manini had already spoken to Josephine Martellaro 
about that night, Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli decided to make 
it into a surprise party . Also, since JoAnna and Al Collette had 
wanted David Taylor and crew to come to their home for dinner some 
evening , Paula Manini thought it would be nice to also invite the 
Collette 's to the party . She also ordered a chocolate birthday cake 
from JoAnna Collette . Paula Manini also invited Kerry Kramer, a 
resource in Pueblo , to the party. 
All but Kerry Kramer met a•QLtano 's Restauran•hortly after 
7:00. 
Paula Manini set next to John Williams and across from 
Josephine and Tony Martellaro. Some of the topics of conversation 
over dinner included : a Martellaro daughter who lives in Barrows, 
Alaska , whose husband is presently a stand-in in a movie; the 
Martellaro 's upcoming trip to Wisconsin to visit relatives; a past 
trip to California to visit relatives ; Anthony's marriage in 
September of 1989 (some of the guests ate some ham that was not 
properly cured, and became sick ); Tony Martellaro Is telling of why 
he does not like wine . When a boy, he begged to have a glass of 
cherry wine ; 
his father made him drink a whole glass; this made him 
sick; so he does not like wine . In fact, he grimaced when the 
waiter placed an empty wine glass in front of him!!  
Tony Martellaro does not like spaghetti either. In fact, he 
ate steak with potatoes for dinner, and allowed the waiter to pour 
a token amount of wine in his glass. Josephine Martellaro, 
of 
Slovenian descent, 
ate 
an 
Italian veal 
dish with a side 
of 
fettucine, and had wine. The menu offered quite an extensive menu-
-appetizers , salads, soups , entrees, desserts , wine. Most of the 
entrees were Italian (pasta, 
chicken, beef, veal , seafood), 
or 
American-style beef dishes. 
_ 
Gaetano 's is a nicely furnished restaurant consisting of 
He1v0 
IAW-PM-F062890.B - 
2 
several small rooms, and also a bar. It is a bit dark, with darkly 
stained furniture; old photographs and other Italian memorabilia 
Paol 
hang on the walls. 
Shortly after the main courses were served, 
Kerry Kramer 
arrived; she had been in Colorado Springs all day and was not able 
to be there for the meal. She sat at the end of the table near 
Paula Manini. She and Manini have some mutual friends in Boulder, 
Colorado and in Austin, Texas, and they spoke a bit about them. 
Kerry had met both the Martellaros and Collettes in the past; they 
all re-introduced themselves. Kerry Kramer is married to a local 
Italian American. 
When everyone was finishing up the last bites of dinner, Paula 
Manini and JoAnna Collette went out to their cars to get the 
birthday cake and present. They lit the birthday candles (the type 
that keep re-lighting when someone tries to blow them out--this was 
the idea of Russ Frank and Paola Tavarelli!) in the entrance way 
and then carried the cake into the dining room. Everyone started 
singing "Happy Birthday," and David Taylor was visibly surprised!! 
He then opened a present from John Williams, Russ Frank, Paula 
Manini and Paola Tavarelli: an old Bakelite radio he had admired 
in an antique shop in Pueblo. He had told John Williams about the 
radio; Williams was able to locate the right one. 
Shortly after the cake was served, Paula Manini joined Paola 
Tavarelli and JoAnna Collette in conversation. Paula Manini asked 
JoAnna Collette about the  confetti, they give out during their 
children's weddings: pastel almonds tied up in netting with a 
ribbon. She also said the men receive cigars--her father always did 
that, and they continued the tradition. 
Paula Manini asked JoAnna Collette if they ever have catered 
a quinciniera 
(spelling)-- coming out parties often held for 
Mexican American girls when they turn fifteen years old. She said 
they have catered two and three; one was very beautiful. They 
served both Mexican food and pasta. There used to be one Mexican 
American woman who was a caterer, but as far as she knows, there 
are not Mexican Americans currently in the catering business. 
Tony and Josephine Martellaro left shortly after the cake was 
served--a daughter had recently returned home after a trip with 
her truck-driving husband and had not been able to spend much time 
with her father. Soon after they left, everyone else also left. 
Paola Tavarelli, Paula Manini, David Taylor, John Williams and 
Russ Frank returned to the hotel where they plugged in the radio, 
tuned it to an oldies station, sipped grappa, and talked. 
'riL/•DtT'iowt 
Document : IAW-PM-F062990.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 06/29/90 
Informant/Event: Massarotti , Ann; Di Iorio, Annabelle ; Cresswell, 
Sandy 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
For more information , see photos IAW-PM-C, roll 1 and IAW-PM-
B, rolls 1 and 2; and tapes IAW-PM-AO10 and A011. 
Paula Manini had wanted to interview Ann Massarotti since she 
was involved with Josephine Martellaro 's Saint Joseph's Day Table 
in March 1990. Ann Massarotti , Bessie  
Ingo and Rose Dazzio are 
three sisters (maiden name Musso, sisters of Charlie Musso w o was 
i 
 
by oavi-d--•Pa i_6r 
and John Williams) . All three sisters 
had helped Josephine 
Martellaro ; Ann Massarotti used to work with 
her until she retired from the school district three years ago). 
The Saint Joseph's Day Table has been a tradition in the Musso 
family for many years . Paula Manini hopes to interview the other 
sisters too. 
As Paula Manini passed the side of Ann Massarotti 's home (738 
Airlane ) she noticed two small statues of the Virgin Mother in the 
back yard. There were alas flm rs_.-in-beds-and_pots, a small white 
fountain , a patio with a table with an umbrella, and other types 
of yard decorations. 
Ann Massarotti 's home 
is 
located 
in a nice middle-class 
neighborhood with well-kepMy_ards . Her house is nicely furnished, 
and she has many4 elig1pus  ima es in her home . We sat in the small 
kitchen, around the table 
\•2- rr
,,4CTs 
Paula Manini later photographed the yard and the interior of 
the house , but believes Ken Light should return and take more 
photos of the yard as well the interior of the home: both upstairs 
and downstairs the walls are adorned with 
erligiuos image-9) and 
famil 
^} ^^rapes, Downstairs ,`- there is another statue 'of the 
Virgin, a photograph of An 
Massarotti's parents John and Rosaria 
Musso, and an old table c o 
w ich Ann Massarotti trimmed with 
some lace that belonged to Rosaria Musso (lace from Sicily). Y 
Ann Massarotti greeted Paula Manini at the door. As Paula 
Manini walked up the path to the door, she noticed a car pull up 
and park on the 
side : Massarotti's niece Annabelle Di 
Iorio 
(daughter of Rose Dazzio) had come to participate in the interview. 
Her husband Jim Di Iorio came into the house briefly to say hello 
to Ann Massarotti ; he was introduced to Paula Manini. He stayed 
while Paula Manini explained the "Italians in the West" project. 
IAW-PM-F062990.A - 
2 
Annabelle Di Iorio had brought with her a 2-part photograph, 
joined in the center, of a Saint Joseph's Day Table made in 1978 
or 1979 by Rose and John Dazzio at 25240 Iris Road; this photo was 
in a show at the Arvada Center in Arvada, Colorado. 
Shortly after the arrival of the Di Iorios, Sandy Cresswell, 
Ann Massarotti Isgrand-daughter, also joined the group. A five-year 
old girl, Shay, accompanied her; Paula Manini is uncertain if the 
child is Sandy Cresswell's daughter or sister. 
Sandy McDonald Cresswell is very interested in learning about 
the family's history and traditions; this is something which she 
said is very important to her. 
Because of this, 
Paula Manini 
offered to make copies of the taped interview for her. 
Ann Massarotti would also like prints of her and her sisters 
baking Saint Joseph Day Bread at Zoelmann's Bakery; taken by Myron 
Wood with Bea Roeder. 
Soon after the tape recorder was turned on, Ann Massarotti 
asked Paula Manini to translate something from the Libro D'Oro L-er 
Degli 
Italiani 
in_America, 
which was published i 
n I
904 
(seems 
archriVes 
for the IAW project). On pages 209-211, there were short 
biographies of Giovanni (Ann Massarotti's father) and Salvatore 
Musso 
(her 
grandfather). 
Paula 
Manini 
orally 
translated 
the 
material and offered to write out a translation for them later. 
Paula Manini also offered to send them the name of a company 
which sells archival storage material for photographs and documents 
since many of their mementos were either laminated or placed in 
photo albums with an adhesive surface. Ann Massarotti expressed 
frustration at trying to find relatives in Louisiana. She made six 
phone calls but had not found anyone. So Paula Manini also offered 
to find the address for the Genealogical Center in Salt Lake, Utah. 
PAULA MANINI / 23 
Topics discussed during the interview--which was mostly a 
Question and Answer type of interview, with little elaboration by 
the participants--were (not necessarily in order): 
-family's immigration history (from Lucca Sicula, Sicily) 
-the Saint Joseph's Day tradition in the family and among friends; 
changes and similarites through the years 
-Ann Massarotti's life as a child on the Mesa--working in the 
fields, butchering hogs, her father's store in the basement of the 
house, Christmas and Christmas Eve events 
-the importance of learning about the family's history for Sandy 
Cresswell, and her love for Pueblo 
Paula Manini was given some photos for copying. From Annabelle 
Di Iorio, she received the one mentioned above of the Saint Joseph 
Day's Table in 1978 or 1979. From Ann Massarotti, she received two 
family portraits taken on Easter, about 1959, at John (Giovanni) 
and Rosaria Musso's home on the Mesa. In the front row, from Left 
to Right are: Ann Musso Massarotti; Rose Massarotti Dazzio; Rosaria 
Musso; Giovanni Musso; Bessie Musso Ingo; Charlie V. Musso; and 
Dominic Musso. In the back, from Left to Right: Joe Musso; Sam 
Musso; John Musso, Tom Musso and Pete Musso. The only child of 
Giovanni and Rosaria Musso (they had 11) not in the photograph is 
Virginia Musso who died in about 1948. 
The photograph of the larger group consists of all these 
people plus many others; 
the principles listed above are all 
discernible in the photo. 
Other bits of information: 
-Ann Musso and Joe Massarotti were married on September 23, 1944. 
Paula Manini obtained their wedding portrait for copying. 
Joe 
Massarotti died years ago, 
leaving Ann Massarotti to raise two 
girls, Ann and Joanna (now Ann McDonald and Joanna Drury) 
-Annabelle 
Di 
Iorio 
belongs 
to 
the 
Saint 
Teresa 
Society 
in 
Vineland, at Saint Teresa's Church 
-Annabelle Di Iorio wore a white taffetta dress for her First 
Communion; she still has the prayer book she carried. Today, the 
families will have dinners on the day of someone's First Communion 
-Annabelle DiIorio's daughter, Jeanine Pasic, is very involved with 
Saint Joseph's Day Tables at the Immaculate Heart of Mary Church 
in Denver. Her phone: (303) 450-0723. 
PAULA MANINI / 24 
After the taped interview was over, Paula Manini took some 
photographs outside of Ann Massarotti and Annabelle Di Iorio with 
the saints' statues in the yard; and of Sandy Cresswell and Shay; 
and of Jim Di Iorio with Bill, a friend of Ann Massarotti's. The 
three women brought cake and ice tea for everyone, and they snacked 
on the patio. 
Annabelle and Jim Di Iorio said they observe the Feast Day of 
Saint Lucy, December 13; on that day they eat wheat with cicidi 
(garbanzo beans). 
Paula Manini asked Jim Di Iorio a few questions. Jim Di Iorio 
worked in the mills, and lived in Bessamer. He remembers when men 
used to play bocce in the streets by Gus' (the bar); men would pay 
10 or 15 cents to play; someone would collect the money; when they 
were done playing, the would then to Gus' to drink, using the money 
collected for the game. 
Annabelle and Jim Di Iorio played bocce on Father's Day this 
year at Rose Dazzio's home on Mesa (Rose Dazzio is Annabelle Di 
Iorio's mother). Rose Dazzio still has the old wood bocce balls. 
They used have people pay 25 cents to play; the person with the 
most points would then get the pot. 
Jim Di Iorio said they used to make steel bocce balls at the 
C F and I mill. Jim Di Iorio worked in the C F and I mills for 
forty years. His father was from Italy and his mother from Brazil. 
His father got married when he was about 16; his mother at around 
12. 
Jim Di Iorio remembers the all night card games the men used 
to play on Christmas Eve at John and Rosaria Musso's home. 
On 
Christmas Day, the men would sometimes also play crap. The women 
didn't play--"they did all the work," Annabelle Di Iorio said. 
Sandy Cresswell said, "Just like today." All laughed. 
Paula Manini will give Jim and Annabelle Di Iorio's names and 
number to Russ Frank, who is interviewing men who worked in the 
mills. The Di Iorio's have a son who they adopted from Italy. The 
child 
(originally named Roberto, then renamed Jim Robert Di Iorio) 
arrived in Denver on November 11, 1956--during a very bad snowstorn 
(they had to wait a day to pick him up). They adopted him thorugh 
the Catholic Charities. They said he is not allowed to go to Italy, 
or he will have to do military service (they are not sure if this 
is still the case). 
Paula Manini left around 9:30. Ann Massarotti said to let her 
know if there was anything else she could do to help. 
TIAW-PM-F070190.A= 
Document: IAW-PM-F063090.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 6/30/90 
Informant/Event: Amella, John; Amella, Gary 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
For more information, 
see tapes IAW-PM-AO12 and A013; and 
photos IAW-PM-B, roll 3 and IAW-PM-C, roll 1. 
Frank and Rose Nigro had mentioned Johnny Amella when they 
were interviewed by Paula Manini and Paola Tavarelli. Amella's 
mother used to make the Saint Joseph's Day Tables, and John Amella 
and his wife, Antonia, have given them in the past. 
Paula Manini set up an appointment to interview John Amella 
on Sunday, June 30, at 10 am. When she spoke to him on the phone, 
he said, he is 72 years old; has had five heart by-pass operations; 
he loves to dance and often goes to Riggio's on Friday night to 
jitterbug, polk and cha-cha. 
He also said he had a video of the Saint Joseph's Day Table; 
his mother had one in 1935 or 1936; his friendtCarey 
Andenucio_ has 
some 
photo_graphs_of old tables; John has made the stands for some 
ST• , 0 
C-; 
Saint Joseph's Day Tables; his mother used to make meatballs on the 
F 
street on feast days--before church festivals were initiated; he/
FCC L.Oy 
remembers processions around churches for saints' days. 
Also, he said he used to accompany his brother from house to 
house at Christmas time; his brother played t e accordion a`nd would -_Yp,t-t,r_-A LT 
go to the homes of Italian to play; in return, they were invited 
to eat wine, 
cheese and sausage with the families his brother 
played for. 
Paula Manini arrived at John Amella's sparsely furnished 
apartment (he is in the process of getting a divorce from his 
second wife, and she has many of the furnishings) in a fourplex on 
1617 Gaylord, near the State Fairgrounds on Saturday morning, June 
30. 
The fourplex is 
in a nice, 
neat middle-class residential 
neighborhood. Upon her entering the apartment, John Amella asked 
Paula Manini if she would like to see a video. 
The first Saint Joseph's Day 
Table on the video took place 
in 1965, at the home of John Amella and his wife Antonia (who died 
in 1981) at 1002 Frontier, Pueblo. The table was given for their 
grandson, John (John John), who had brain cancer. After the table 
is shown, their is some footage of John John (at about six years 
of age) running around in a yard. He lived for another seven years, 
then died at 13. About thirty days after the boy's family moved to 
Germany 
(where 
his 
father 
was 
a civilian 
employee 
for 
the 
military), they had to return to the United States because the boy 
IAW-PM-F063090.A - 
2 
became very ill; he died shortly after. 
The video shows people chatting and eating, and the saints 
(people chosen to represent saints) 
eating at the dining room 
table; John Amella commented that they do not eat meat at the Saint 
Joseph's Day Table since it falls during Lent. John Amella has 
participated in about ten tables--either as a host, helper or 
saint. 
The second altar shown on the video is for two relatives who 
were in Vietnam, and for their safe return home: Frank Cirullo who 
was in a helicopter accident; and Charlie Reyes. John and Antonia 
Amella also had a table for Sonny Daurio, a nephew who was in a 
motorcycle accident. Three days after the Feast Day of Saint Joseph 
(and the table), he was moved out of Intensive Care. 
They also had a table for a young grand-daughter (niece?) who 
had an eye injury from a firecracker John Amella has set off. The 
child had run to it, and it exploded in her face. Johnny Amella 
immediately prayed to Saint Joseph for her safety and recovery. She 
survived the accident with only a small cut above the eye; and so 
they made a Saint Joseph's Day Table. 
John Amella could not 
remember the year this happened. 
John Amella gave Paula Manini a copy of the video, and allowed 
her to take some photographs for copying. Two are of him as a 
soldier, while stationed in Leesville, Louisiana. Another is a 
snapshot of a Saint Joseph's Day Table at his home in 1956. Seven 
others are of a table given for Ben Cirullo, his step-brother, who 
wears an eye-patch in the photos. 
He also gave Paula Manini three newspaper articles to copy: 
one of his wife Antonia standing in front of the table given for 
the two boys in Vietnam. The other is of a table given by Jack 
Spinuzzi, a friend of his. The third one is about "Hambone," the 
mule which was a mascot for Camp Carson. John's brother Louis 
Amella had written a song about the mule, and John Amella is very 
proud of this. He says even Fort Carson doesn't have anything about 
the mule. 
John Amella's son Gary joined us toward the end of the 
interview, and he is on tape also speaking about the Saint Joseph's 
Day tradition. Gary Amella runs the Upward Bound program at the 
University of Southern Colorado in Pueblo, 
and has a Master's 
degree in education. 
Topics covered in the taped interview (not in order); 
-the Saint Joseph's Day tradition in the Amella family 
-the immigration history of John Amella's family 
i 
S-c', 
IAW-PM-F063090.A - 
3 
-John Amella 's work in the mills ; discrimination in the mills; the 
coming of the union; 
-building an adobe home in the Mesa; 
-his work as a barber at the Pueblo Army Airbase ; along with Frank 
Nigro (see files ) he cut the officers' hair 
-his ability as a !water witcher.!' John Amella is a dowser; he can 
locate water as well as minerals ; he demonstrated this talent for 
Paula Manini , using a bent hanger; 
-memories of youth ; the flood ; Christmas; 
-musical talents of his brothers; 
-brief mention of boot -legging in Pueblo; did not want to elaborate 
on the topic; 
John Amella had borrowed a photo album from his friend, Carey 
Andenucio (561-2528 ). 
It contains several photographs, including 
some older ones , of Saint Joseph Day Tables. Paula Manini will have 
to call her for permission to copy some of the photos. She had a 
table about five years ago, for two of her grand-children (Amella 
did not remember the details). 
John Amella was born in 1918 in Luxor , Pennsylvania . In 1920, 
he came to Pueblo with his mother (father had died) . In 1940 he 
worked in the open hearth furnace at the CF and I mill ; he quit to 
barber at Camp Carson during the war; he worked again at the mill 
in 1948. 
John Amella loves to dance. He used to go to Tra 
n n i'• to 
dance . Tranni 's is now called Riggio 's, and John frequen Tly goes 
there . In fact, when contacted by Paula Manini on Friday, he was 
planning to go there that night. However, he was not feeling well 
and did not go . He said there is a band, "The Music Makers," who 
frequently play at the Eagle ' 
Lodge (1615 South Prairie , 
phone 564-
5715). The band has several members who are Italian; instruments 
include the accordion , bass and saxophone . There is often several 
Italians in crowd. 
P,• cro - 
John Amella was extremely friendly and hospitable. He son Gary 
Amella was just as nice . Johnny asked me if he did better than the 
other people I had interviewed . I said he did just as well plus 
gave me some unique information--on water witching. 
Document: IAW-PM-F070190.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 07/01/90 
Informant/Event: Gagliano, Josephine; Gagliano, Anthony; Gagliano, 
Bonnie 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
For more information, see tapes IAW-PM-A00 
Paula Manini returned a photograph album to Josephine and 
Anthony Gagliano at about 6:30 pm. She wanted to go over some of 
the photos from the album to identify the people in them. She also 
wanted to set up a time for her and Ken Light to return to take 
some photographs. 
When Manini walked in the kitchen, Vincent, their son, and Ben 
Glasner, their daughter's fiance, were there. Bonnie Gagliano was 
also there--Paula Manini had not met her before. Vincent and Ben 
left when the others gathered around table. 
Josephine Gagliano went over the photographs with Manini. What 
follows is a description of the Gagliano's album documenting the 
Saint Joseph's Day Table they had on March 18-19, 1989: 
Guest book: the front cover of Saint Joseph and the Baby Jesus was 
drawn in pencil by Vincent Gagliano, son of Josephine and Anthony. 
The table was given to thank Saint Joseph for the recovery of 
Vincent (who had a serious leg injury) and his father. The Guest 
book was both xeroxed and photographed. 
Page 1: two cards. 
This is an Italian pyraer r- rd-
printed on the back. The other 
Saint Joseph's Day." 
One is of Saint Joseph 
one is 
holding the Baby Jesus. 
" 
f Sar_Giuseppe" 
a greeting card, "A Wish on 
Page 2: One Easter card, one Thank You card (for the Saint Joseph's 
Day Table), and one card named "Prayer for a Happy Death." 
Page 3: One Thank You card (for the Saint Joseph's Day Table). 
Page 4: 
The story of the Saint Joseph's Day Table. 
Josephine 
Martellaro also had a copy of this story in her album; she said she 
got it from the Gaglianos. (Photocopied). 
Page 5: A paper with "Welcome" followed by the 1_ecgend of the Saint 
Joseph's Day Table; then the "Prayer for the Blessing of Bread and 
Table on the Feast Day of Saint Joseph (March 19)"; 
"Blessing the Saint Joseph's Day Table"; Hymn. 
r_A0<6 
IAW-PM-F070190.A - 
2 
Page 6: Article from the Pueblo Chieftain, Wednesday, March 15, 
1989, entitled "Saint Joseph's Day: A Feast for the Eyes"; 
Page 7-70: photographs, usually about two per page. Fifteen were 
copied by David Taylor; people in the photos are listed from left 
to right (details to be filled in from the contact sheets): 
(p. 
11) Kathy Morello, Bonnie Giannetto, Josephine Gagliano 
and Lena Abbate making pasta 
(p. 13) Bonnie Giannetto with bread "Gesu, Giuseppe, Maria;" 
also with a hand with rosary made from dough 
(p. 25) Mike Giannetto 
(p. 30) Grace Giadone placing a lamb cake on the table 
(p. 30) Bonnie Gagliano putting bread on the table 
(p. 37) Anthony and Vincent Gagliano 
(p. 39) Bonnie Giannetta, Lena Abbate, Bonnie Gagliano 
(p. 40) Anthony and Josephine Gagliano 
(p. 45) Table detail with photo of Vincent 
(p. 46) Table detail with photo of Anthony 
(p. 50) Josephine, Bonnie and Anthony Gagliano 
(p. 52) Basket of bread made specially by Josephine Gagliano 
to give to people who came to view the table who 
were old or sick 
(p. 53) Detail of the table 
(p. 55) Bonnie Giannetto, Mike Giannetto, Josephine 
Gagliano, Anthony Gagliano on the left of the table. 
Lena Abbate (back), Marie Junta, Kathy Giannetta 
(front), Annalee Klintz, Kathy Morello on the right 
side of the table. These are people who helped with 
the table. 
(p. 58) Detail of the table. 
(p. 59) Bonnie Giannetto stirring spaghetti sauce. 
The last photograph Josephine Gagliano identified was one of 
Josephine Gagliano's brothers Saint Joseph's Day Table in Lucca 
Sicula. 
On the left side of the table 
(from left to right): 
Giuseppe "Giovanni" Pagano, Antonio Pagano and Francesca De Grado 
Pagano. On the right side: Vita Pagano (front) and Tiziana Pagano 
( 
in the back) . 
Josephine Gagliano commented that they use they same 
pasta: Molisano pasta from Campobasso. 
When Manini asked Jospehine Gagliano her brother's name, she 
said, "Giovanni." Anthony said, "Well, that's not his real name. 
Tell her his real name." Josephine Gagliano hesitated, but with 
encouragement from everyone present, she told the story of his 
name. 
When he was born, Josephine's father did not want to name the 
baby after his grandfather, Giovanni. Even though this was the 
tradition, he insisted on naming him Giuseppe. However, everyone 
calls Josephine's brother Giovanni in spite of the father's wish._ 
Anthony Gagliano then asked his wife to tell Manini about her 
;42, 
T 
t 
rP Cr 
NA-MC- 
lra,,,Qa nco 
IAW-PM-F070190.A - 
3 
other brother's name. By this time, Josephine's father had a second J 
wife; 
they should have named this son after the grandmother, 
Giuseppina. However, the father wanted to name him after his uncle. 
The midwife who helped with the delivery, asked them what they 
wanted to do: the mother said to call the baby boy Giuseppe; the 
father said to name him after the uncle. The mid-wife, who was 
related to the father, went to register the baby's birth, 
and 
decided she wouldn't give him either name. 
Instead, 
she chose 
Salvatore ("Saviour") since he was born on Good Friday. 
-• 
Sometime later, the father (Mr. Pagano, Josephine Gagliano's 
father) was out in the country near Lucca Sicula where he had some 
land. One night he dreamed that an old man--San Giuseppe--came to 
him and told that Salvatore was dying. Mr. Pagano begged for Saint 
Joseph to save the child, and in return promised to call the child 
Giuseppe. Mr. Pagano hitched up the mules, returned to their home 
in Lucca Sicula, 
and found that the boy was sick. 
He started 
calling him Giuseppe, and soon the boy recovered. 
Of course, his recovery was attributed to the intervention of 
San Giuseppe. This story led to another miracle story about the 
saint, and it concerns the Saint Joseph's Day Table given by the 
Gagliano's 
in 
1989. 
A few things had not gone right 
in the 
preparations. 
First, a woman had called the priest to make an appointment 
for him to come to her house on March 18, to bless the table. The 
priest thought it was Josephine Gagliano who called, marked her 
name and the other woman's address on his calendar. When Josephine 
Gagliano called him to make an appointment to bless her table, he 
said, to Josephine's surprise, that they already had. They figured 
out what had happened; and Josephine had to try to find another 
priest. 
Also when they were baking the Saint Joseph Day Bread, there 
was a mix-up about who was supposed to bring the pans. Of course, 
all this made Josephine Gagliano very nervous. 
Then, on March 19 (the Feast Day of Saint Joseph) Josephine 
Gagliano had requested a special mass to be said at 7:30 in the 
morning. At first, she wasn't going to go, but the people helping 
her told her she should. 
Before she left, she and Bonnie Gagliano, her daughter, had 
set the long table in the kitchen. This was the table at which the 
people who represented the saints were to sit. 
It consisted of 
folding 
table 
put 
together; 
and 
was 
lovingly 
set 
with 
the 
Gagliano's best china, crystal and silverware. Josephine Gagliano 
had left for mass; Bonnie Gagliano had added or adjusted some minor 
thing on the table. Just after she walked away, she heard a crash, 
and saw that one of the table legs had collapsed. She at first 
thought her brother Vincent had caused it, but saw that he wasn't-) 
►v R-A l 
t-5& 
r
) T, • 
IAW-PM-F070190.A - 
4 
near the table. 
They were amazed to find that none of the fine and fragile 
crystal or china had broken! And they took this as a sign from 
Saint Joseph that he was thanking them. Even though they say it is 
a strange way for him to thank them, they consider a positive sign. 
When Josephine Gagliano returned from mass, they told her what 
happened--she was glad she was not there. She said she would have 
had "a nervous break down." They were amazed that nothing broke, 
nor was even chipped. 
Josephine Gagliano told Manini that some people would think 
they were crazy if they told them the story of the table or of her 
father's dream. But it is true, and the events are attributed to 
the power of Saint Joseph. 
Before she left, Manini set up an appointment to visit the 
Gagliano home with Ken Light, 
to take photographs. 
Josephine 
Gagliano said she would invite Mike and Bonnie Giannetto to the 
house--they are good friends who helped with the table. 
} 
Document: IAW-PM-F070290.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/2/90 
Informant/Event: Bouchard, Norman 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
Following a suggestion made by David Taylor, Paula Manini set 
up an appointment with Father Norman Bouchard, 
the priest who 
blessed the Saint Joseph's Day Table given at the home of Josephine 
and Tony Martellaro in 1990. 
Paula Manini and David Taylor met "Father Norm," as he is 
called by Bessie Ingo (who they interviewed later in morning) at 
the Saint Joseph's Church office on the Mesa at 9:30 am. 
The 
interview took place in a cozy upstairs room; Father Bouchard sat 
in an arm chair by the window and Manini and Taylor sat on a couch. 
The interview lasted about 40 minutes; Bouchard had kindly squeezed 
the appointment into his busy schedule. Bouchard is in his mid-
thirties, and dresses very fashionably; he is from Burlington, 
Vermont; and of French descent. 
Manini had briefly explained the "Italian Americans in the 
West" project to Father Bouchard over the phone. While she set up 
the recording equipment, David Taylor explained a bit more. 
The topics covered in the interview (not in order): 
-the policy of the Catholic Church concerning the Saint Joseph Day 
Table tradition 
-Bouchard's opinions on the tradition 
-Bouchard comparing the tradition in Pueblo to that in Buffalo, New 
York, where he had seen Saint Joseph's Day Tables 
-Bouchard's involvement with the Martellaro table 
-spaghetti dinners held at Saint Joseph's Church 
-the ethnic mix of the parish, which Bouchard considers a liberal 
parish. 
-blessing 
of 
the 
fields 
on 
the 
Feast 
Day 
of 
Saint 
Isidro, 
especially at the request of Mexican Americans in the parish but 
also with the involvement of Italian Americans 
After the taped interview, Bouchard made copies of the "Prayer 
for the Blessing of the 
Bread on the Feast Day of Saint Joseph 
(March 19)," which he recited on March 18, 1990, at the Martellaro 
IAW-PM-F070290.A - 
2 
table. Also, he copied the text of the "Order of Blessing" he 
recited on March 19 at the Martellaro home. Both will be included 
in the archives for the "Italian Americans in the West" project. 
He also gave Manini and Taylor a copy of the bulletin which 
included the announcement of the Martellaro's Saint Joseph's Day 
Table. 
Document : IAW-PM-F070290.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date : 7/2/90 
Informant/Event: Ingo, Bessie 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
For more information, see photos IAW-PM-B, roll 3 and photos 
taken by David Taylor . Also, 
see the report by Bea Roeder and 
photos •2•7•1yr
= 
?•• wnnr7 on the Martellaro saint 7eseph' c Day Table in 
Ma_r_ch 
199Q ; Bessie Ingo helped with the baking of the Saint 
Joseph 's Day Bread that year . Also see the interview with Ann 
Massarotti (Bessie Ingo 's sister), Annabelle  DiIorio (Ingo Is niece) 
and Sandy Creswell conducted by Paula Ma 
n 
on June 29, 1990 (IAW 
project). 
Paula Manini finally was able to set up an interview with 
Bessie Ingo . She had called Ingo several times , but Ingo had not 
been feeling well because of nose -bleeds Ingo thought was caused 
by the record-breaking heat wave which had hit Pueblo . Manini had 
spoken to her three times . On the third try, Manini succeeded in 
setting up an appointment with her . 
Manini told Bessie Ingo she was 
meeting Father Bouchard at 9:30 am at Saint Joseph 's Church, and 
wondered if she could stop by afterwards. Ingo said there wasn't 
a Father Bouchard at the church, only Father Norm . 
Manini explained 
that was his first name. When Taylor and Manini arrived at her 
home , Ingo brought this up; she laughed because she only knew him 
as Father Norm. 
David Taylor had met Bessie Ingo on a trip to Pueblo in March; 
and had again called her in June upon his arrival in Pueblo for the 
"Italian Americans in the West " project to tell her that Paula 
Manini 
would 
be 
contacting 
her 
about 
the 
Saint 
Joseph 
Day 
tradition. 
Ingo lives in an old white farmhouse with blue trim on Highway 
50, east of the city of Pueblo . She has a few acres of land left 
from the larger acreage once owned by her and her husband. Her son 
and daughter-in-law live next door. There are some out-buildings 
across the driveway from the house -- the old summer kitchen ; 
sheds. 
Ingo came to the back door as Manini and Taylor pulled up at 
10:30 am . 
The back door opens from a room used as a second kitchen, 
and is painted bright green. There was a small painting of the Last 
Supper hanging on the north wall. Bessie Ingo is a short, squat 
woman with short dark hair and glasses. She is very friendly and 
talkative . For the most part, her memory is very good ; there were 
some names and dates she couldn't remember however. 
IAW-PM-F070290.B - 
2 
Ingo, Taylor and Manini sat at a table in the main kitchen 
(there is also a kitchen in the basement) . In the center of the 
table was a pink and white crocheted doily, about two feet in 
diameter. 
Another small painting of the Last Supper hung over a 
door on the west wall of the kitchen. 
Ingo later showed them some of Pr , le_c 
chc had crocheted: 
doilies and baskets. She also showed them an album which contains 
photos of some of the elaborate many cakes 
(many of them were 
wedding cakes) she has baked and decorated over the years. She is 
very proud 
of 
her 
crocheting 
and 
baking 
skills. 
Taylor had 
mentioned this to Manini; Ingo had shown him the same things on a 
meeting in March. 
Religious images adorned other rooms as well. The dining room 
contained another Last Supper as well as saints' images and many 
family photographs. On one cabinet with family photos on the top, 
there was a mounted, full page feature on the Saint Joseph's Day 
Table from the Pueblo Chieftain from March 15, 
1990; there is a 
picture of Ingo in the article. She also had two copies of it with 
her photos of Saint Joseph's Day Tables. 
(Anthony and Josephine 
Gagliano had several copies of the same article, which announced 
their table that year.) 
In her bedroom, Ingo had more saints on her dresser, and a 
print of the Hcf'y Family) over her bed she uses this picture an 11 r 
Saint Joseph Day Table. Oriqinally this belonqed to her mother -111-
law,  who gave it to Ingo.  In her bedroom is her hope chest, in 
w is 
she still keeps some of the linens which made up—paxt—o.f her 
dowry-.— T
-1-e
--hope chest is a trunk about four feet long and two and 
a half feet high. 
Without hesitation, Ingo answered all the questions asked by 
Manini and Taylor, and elaborated on many of her responses without 
hesitation. Topics covered (not in order): 
-the Saint Joseph's Day Table and many of its components: 
foods, preparation of food; 
saints represented, number of saints, how people are chosen to 
represent saints; 
she showed Taylor and Manini a book she uses to help chose the 
saints to be represented ("Heavenly Friends: A Saint for Each Day,
" —Az-c 'rA4-T 
by Rosalie Marie 
Levy, 
Daughters 
of 
Saint 
Paul, 
Saint 
Paul 
Editions. 
change and continuity of the tables, and variations; 
-the importance of Saint Joseph; 
-some Musso family history (see the interview with Ann Massarotti 
IAW-PM-F070290.B - 
3 
for more information; 
-farming on the Mesa; 
-life when growing up; 
-her wedding --married Tony Ingo; 
-family illnesses; 
-learning how to bake; 
After the taped interview , showed Taylor and Manini her hope 
chest, the picture she uses on the Saint Joseph 's Daft Table, the 
statues of 
aints in her roo4i , 
her crochet work , the wedding photo 
A_
;Z,
T,FPCZ 
of Rose and Salvatore  Ingo (her in-laws; Inqo said the phntn is 
over a 1UU years old; 
ose IIngo died in 1947, in her 80's); photos/ 
of her children and their children. 
Ingo then offered Manini and Taylor coffee . Ingo told them 
that she used to belong to the Principessa Iolanda_society 
'
but• 
they closed it down since only a dozen or less people were still 
members; it was a social organization . She said her mother founded 
the organization. 
She belongs to Saint Teresa's Lodge, a women's organization; 
it was originally in Vi 
n e
land but now is at the American Legion; 
one has to be Catholic to join ; they have parties for things like 
anniversaries , monthly meetings, bingo , refreshments; charitable 
activities. 
Ingo likes to dance . Paula Manini asked her if she knows the 
Music Makers, a band who plays at the Eagle's Lodge in town. She 
does; they used to play for weddings. She belongs to the Eagles 
Lodge Women's Auxiliary , a charitable organization. She used to 
belong to the Happy-Go-Luckies , a social organization which had 
bingo games . It is now disbanded. 
r 
David Taylor asked her if she remembered the old farmer's 
organization in the Mesa . She said yes , it was at what was once 
called Gardener's Hall, the building which is now Gus' Produce on 
Highway 50 . Her brother Tom Musso built a garage on the side of it. 
The garage was called M and R, for Musso and Russo. Russo was his 
partner for a short time . Tom Musso was a mechanic ; he was crippled 
so his father sent him to mechanic school. He sold the garage a few 
months ago . Up until last year (1989 ) Gardener 's Hall was used as 
a rental hall. 
Bessie Ingo thinks they need a hall for receptions in the 
IAW-PM-F070290.B - 
4 
Mesa. Her grand-daughter Phyllis Roderick had her reception at the 
American Legion hall on the Mesa. 
Bessie Ingo talked about her trip to Europe about six years 
ago. She went with a tour arranged by Cappis Travel Agency. Her 
husband could not go. She was gone a month; he really missed her. 
She went to Germany, Switzerland, and France with the group. Then 
she went to Italy for two weeks (not with the tour group). She 
visited relatives in Lucca Sicula (Sicily). 
David Taylor mentioned the Libro D'Oro, a book published  in 
1904, which listed prominent Italians who had migrated to the 
United States. Her father and grand-father are  in it. She said her 
husband's parents are too--their name was origianlly Inca or Inga. -NA.1i 
e 
Her father and father-in-law were founders of the Sicilian Lodge. 
CtiNt'367i 
Ingo 
let 
Manini 
and 
Taylor borrow 
some photographs 
and 
articles on the Saint Joseph's Day Table for copying. She told them 
to let her know if there is anything else they needed. 
Document: IAW-PM-F070290.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/2/90 
Informant/Event: Allen, Stella Nigro 
Coworker: Hardin, Jim 
Site: 6 
Paula Manini had called Stella Nigro Allen 
(JoAnna Nigro 
Collette's sister; Frank and Rose Nigro's daughter) to return to 
her some photographs she had allowed Manini to borrow for copying. 
Manini had met Stella Allen at her parents' house, when Manini and 
Paola Tavarelli interviewed Frank and Rose Nigro. 
Allen's grand-daughter Crystal was at her home when Manini and 
Hardin arrived at about 2:30; Crystal had also been at the Nigro's 
house on the day they were interviewed by Manini and Tavarelli. 
This was a short visit with Stella Allen. Manini wanted her 
to identify the people in the photographs she had had copied. One 
photo was of the first Saint Joseph's Day Table made by Rose and 
Frank Nigro for the recovery of their daughter Stella Nigro; the 
year was 1943; Stella Nigro was 16 years old; she had fallen off 
of a horse and injured her hip; she still walks with a limp, and 
uses a cane. 
The group photo was taken at the Nigro home on Country Farm 
Road, on the Mesa. The Nigros were renting the place from the Zinno 
family. In the front row are, from the left: Stella Nigro, Frank 
Nigro, Rose Nigro, and Ann Nigro holding a baby, Jeannie. The man 
with a hat who has his hand on a woman's 
shoulder 
is 
Jack 
Pisciotta; the woman is his wife Rose (they were family friends who 
lived on the Mesa). Next to the Pisciottos is Jean Clemiti, and her 
mother. Toward the back center is Carmella Zinno, who taught Rose 
Nigro how to make the Saint Joseph Day Table. Stella Nigro says 
there is a Carmella Street in Blende, named 
after her; there is 
also a Zinno Street. The man in back wearing the hat is her husband 
Joe Zinno. In front of Carmella Zinno is her daughter Lena. The 
girl wearing the white blouse in front of the window is another 
daughter, Rose Zinno. In the same area, wearing a plaid dress is 
another daughter, Esther Zinno. 
The photograph of six people next to a tree, on a hill top, 
was taken at Frank and Rose Nigro's Ranch in the late 1930's or 
early 1940's. The littlest girl in the photo is Virginia Nigro. 
Holding the girl is Vincy Panucci. Behind her, wearing a hat, is 
Joe Panucci, who was killed in a mining accident. The woman in the 
center is Mary Panucci, who is Stella Allen's god-mother. The girl 
in front is Stella Allen. 
The girl on the end wearing a coat is 
Helen Panucci, Mary Panucci's daughter. 
W, 
IAW-PM-F070290.0 - 
2 
The photograph of the man on a horse with children gathered 
in front was taken on the Nigro ranch in the 1930s in Walsenburg. 
Frank Nigro sits on the horse and holds Mike Nigro , his son. The 
back row of boys, from the left : Amadeo Anselmo, Matt Vasile and 
Joe Vasile . The front row, 
from the left, Frank Vasile, Stella 
Nigro and Charlie Vasile. The Vasile family lived with the Nigros 
for about a year when the father, Frank Vasile , was injured in the 
mines; when he recovered, he returned to work in the mines. His 
wife, Rose Vasile, was Frank Nigros first cousin. According to 
Stella Allen , her father Frank Nigro always helped people whenever 
possible . So he offered his home to the Vasile family when the 
father was injured. 
,eL
• 
Stella Allen mentioned that 
she had the 
first piece of 
Air 
furniture )ever acquired by her parents for their ranch home in 
arsenburg. She let Paula Manini photograph it in her bedroom; it 
was a small four-legged cabinet . Above it hung the enlar ed wedding 
,portrait of Frank and Rose Nigro . On the cabinet was the bus 
of 
Jesus with_,.a 
 Bleeding Hearty family photos, and hair care products. 
Stella Allen showed Paula Manini the invitation for Frank and 
Rose Nigros Golden Wedding Anniversary--the wedding portrait was 
on one side of the invitation. Stella Allen says she st-tll has her 
Mother's wedding dress . She said it is a custom to place the 
we ding dress behind couples at their anniversary parties. But they 
decided to instead use the enlarged wedding portrait ; Stella made 
the frame for it. Stella Allen also has her father's 
edding sui 
Stella Allen showed Paula Manini an album with ph otos an 
we•d`ing 
announcements of girls for whom she had made wedding gowns. 
Document: IAW-PM-F070290.D 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/2/90 
Informant/Event: Gus' Place and the Bassamer Mercantile Store 
Coworker: Hardin, Jim 
Site: 6 
After stopping by the home of Stella Nigro Allen to return 
some photographs to her, Paula Manini and Jim Hardin decided to get 
some lunch (it was after 3:00 pm). They stopped at Gus' Place, 
which Jim Hardin, who had joined the "Italian Americans in the 
West" field crew on July 1. After have a small Dutch Treat Plate-
-provolone, salami, ham, onions, tomatoes, peppers and bread served 
so one can make their own sandwiches--they stopped by the Bessemer 
Mercantile Store. 
It is just down the street from Gus'. 
Paula 
Manini had interviewed Josephine Gagliano, who had worked for the 
Cortese family at the store when she came to Pueblo from Sicily. 
Joe Cortese, the proprietor, immediately greeted Manini and 
Hardin when they entered the store. Manini told him she had heard 
about the store, and just wanted to stop in and see it. She told 
him she was working on the "Italian Americans in the West" project, 
and he remembered Russ Frank, who had stopped by the store to chat. 
Josephine, 
a relative of Joe Cortese, 
joined in. 
She is from 
Brooklyn but moved to Pueblo; her son (?) 
married someone from 
Pueblo. 
Josephine went to get Joe Cortese's wife, Rose. Paula Manini 
chatted with her and Joe Cortese while Jim Hardin talked with 
Josephine. The bulk of their business consists of making} 
sausage 
for sale. In fact, the shelves are sparsely stocked with dried and 
canned goods; 
Italian items 
include cookies, 
pasta, 
sardines, 
olives. candies. The deli is well-stocked with sandwich meats and 
cheese. They also have several boxes of 
iezzlle iron i on- a` top 
shelf. She said they cannot compete with grocer-y 
stores; people 
usually come in to buy a few things. 
While we were talking two women came in to say hello; one was 
visiting from New York. Rose Cortese, a plump woman with a beehive 
hairdo, took all of them back to meet her 95 year old mother-in-
law, Carmella. Carmella sat in a wheel chair; a woman who helps 
care for her was there. Manini and the two visiting women spoke to 
Carmella in Italian; she seemed very alert although she seemed 
weak. Her gray hair was done in braids which went across the top 
of her head, a typical style for older Italian American women. 
Rose Cortese asked Paula Manini to explain the 
"Italian 
Americans in the West" project to the visiting women. Paula Manini 
stayed a few minutes more so they could visit with Carmella. They 
were very affectionate and respectful towards her. 
Rose Cortese followed Paula Manini into the store. She offered 
wr 
C 
R 
IAW-PM-F070290.D - 
2 
Manini a soda, which Manini declined. Cortese lamented that Manini 
and Hardin hadn't arrived in time for lunch. Manini asked her if 
she had any olives. She put six marinated olives in a cup; and 
insisted that Manini take some unmarinated ones too. She said she 
should crack them and add them to the marinated ones. She then 
insisted Manini take some bread to go with the olives; she gave her 
a loaf from •oelmann's—Bakery. While she bagged these items, she 
`pL1t to a bag of sugared almonds--all the while refusing to take any 
payment! Paula Manini-'"fold her "No wonder you are going out of 
business!" Rose Cortese says she likes to do this for special 
people, not everyone. Manini said, 
"But you just met me!" And 
Cortese said it didn't matter. Manini promised that she would come 
back before 
she 
left 
Pueblo 
to 
buy 
some _goat 
cheese.- The 
hospitality of the people in Pueblo interviewed for 
he project has 
been wonderful!! 
Document: IAW-PM-F070390.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Archuletta, Gen 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
For more information, see tape IAW-PM-A017, and Ken Light's 
photographs. 
Mary Porter, a reporter from the Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo's 
local newspaper) , had told Paula Manini of a Mexican American woman 
who does a Saint Joseph's Day Table at a Mexican American Church 
on West 22nd Street. Paula Manini then found an old article (Pueblo 
Chieftain, Wednesday, March 15, 1989) which had a few quotes from 
Gen Archuletta, who does a table at the Holy Rosary Church (the 
article was in the photo album belonging to Josephine and Anthony 
Gagliano). However, there was no one with that name listed in the 
phone book. 
After calling the church for two days, 
and receiving no 
answer, Paula Manini got the name of the priest at the church from 
Ernestine, the head housekeeper at the Hampton Inn (where the field 
workers for the "Italian Americans in the West" project were 
staying. However, there was no answer at the residence of Father 
Doll. 
A few days later, while having some copies of articles done 
at the Hampton Inn's office, Paula Manini was able to get the phone 
number of Gen Archuletta from Pat, the concierge. Pat had asked 
Paula Manini about the project; it turns out that Pat has a friend, 
Vivian, who attends Holy Rosary Church. From her, Pat received 
Archuletta's number. 
Paula Manini wanted to 
interview Archuletta because 
she 
thought it important that a Sicilian tradition had crossed ethnic 
boundaries. Mexican Americans constitute a significant percentage 
of Pueblo's population. The tradition has also been adopted by 
other ethnic groups in Pueblo: Josephine Martellaro is of Slovenian 
descent (see interview). 
Also, it has crossed intra-ethnic boundaries: Rose Nigro is 
a Calabrian American who does the table; 
her daughter JoAnna 
Collette, married to a Sicilian American, continues the tradition. 
Also three women who are parishioners the Shrine of Saint Therese 
Church organize an altar there. Dorothy Zanini is of Czech descent 
married to a man whose family came from the Tyrol region of 
northern Italy; Louise Williams' family was from near Naples; and 
Eve Taravella's family was Italian but not Sicilian (check tapes). 
At first, Gen Archuletta was a bit hesitant to agree to the 
ti 
v 
-, 
•J 
IAW-PM-F070390.A - 
2 
interview. She asked for Manini's "credentials." Manini explained 
the 
project 
to 
her, 
named 
several 
of 
the 
people 
she 
had 
interviewed, and told her the Pueblo Chieftain had interviewed the 
field researchers for the project. She also hesitated because she 
said she was not Italian. 
Paula Manini explained that she was 
interested in everyone involved in the Saint Joseph's Day Table 
tradition, especially when it had been adopted by another ethnic 
group. Finally, Archuletta agreed to the interview. 
Paula Manini 
and Ken 
Light, 
the project's photographer, 
arrived at the Archuletta home at 9:00 am. While Manini talked with 
Archuletta about the project and set up the recording equipment, 
Light—took several photos of Archuletta. In some she held up a 
w2O,Pelpr`ayer card 
ith a picture of Saint Joseph and the Baby Jesus. She 
requested that Light take a photo of her holding up a snapshot of 
the Holy Rosary Church--she wanted to make sure the church was 
included. Ken Light left the Archuletta home at about 9:20; Manini 
left at about 10:10. 
Archuletta is a very devoted woman dedicated to the church. 
When Manini called her on Sunday, July 1, 
she could not meet on 
Monday because she was working at the church all day. 
Archuletta is a widow; has one son, Jim Archuletta who is 
married to 
Jeanie; 
they have 
two 
children, 
James 
and Jeff. 
Photographs of the family were on the television set in the small 
living room where Archuletta and Manini sat. The living room was 
nicely furnished with a couch and two arm chairs; the color scheme 
was of shades of brown and orange; a picture of Jesus (the Sacred 
Heart 
image) 
adorned one wall; 
Archuletta 
said 
she has many 
religious images in her home. 
Archuletta is a very thin woman with dark graying hair. She 
lives in a neighborhood which has a variety of homes which seem to 
be of the middle and lower middle class. Archuletta's home is 
larger than many of them; it is a bi-level house. Her parents live 
next door, or in the back. She is originally from the San Luis 
Valley in Colorado; her father was raised by Anglo Americans. 
Topics covered on the tape (not in order); 
-when and how Archuletta learned about the Saint Joseph's Day 
Tables; 
-the first one held in her home, and subsequent ones at Holy Rosary 
Church; 
-food placed on the table; 
i 
-covered dishes brought by the parishioners to serve to the public 
IAW-PM-F070390.A - 
3 
-the Cross , Chalice and Sacred Heart she always places on the 
table; 
-women who help her; 
-Richard Vigil, who has promised to carry on the tradition when 
Archuletta is no longer able; 
-how she chooses the people who represent saints; 
After Manini had turned off the tape, Archuletta said she 
asked Richard Vigil to continue the tradition when she is no longer 
able because he is so dedicated to the church. 
She also said she has two sets of the Chalice, Cross and 
Sacred Heart (fig-filled , 
cut-dough ornaments ). She can't remember 
who gave her the set she uses ; the other is from John Amella (see 
interview with him). 
Archuletta 
wants 
a "balanced-" 
table; 
items 
must 
be 
symmetrically arranged . When she asked her son if he would carry 
on the tradition , 
he told her to ask someone else. He said he would 
always remember her, and how she wanted things balanced, and it 
would be too much for him. Manini sensed that by this he meant the 
memories of his mother would be too painful 
(assuming she had 
passed away ), but also he wouldn't be as fussy about arranging the 
table as she would have liked. 
Archuletta said Holy Rosary is a poor parish. They do not have 
fancy dishes -- instead they use paper plates, 
and odd and end 
plates . She does buy paper doilies to put on the plates so they 
will look nicer. 
During 
the 
interview, 
Archuletta 
showed 
Manini 
some 
photographs of the table at the Holy Rosary Church. The table was 
much sparser than the other versions Manini had seen; and they were 
much less elaborately decorated . The first year they had they 
table, they made a cross out of pink tissue flowers to place at the 
head of the table. 
Also , 
in the contemporary Italian tradition, people are chosen 
from friends and families to represent the saints (except at the 
Shrine of Saint Therese Church where the women who organize a table 
there do not have anyone represent saints because it would be too 
difficult to. 
In Archuletta 's case, 
she asks homeless or sick 
people who 
she hears 
about 
to 
be the 
saints. 
This 
is 
very 
interesting because this is how the saints were chosen in the early, 
days of the tables given by Sicilian Americans in Pueblo and other 
places (Bryan , Texas for example). 
St's 
pA ec 
5{, J6 
.f"DiT' 0• 
Document : IAW-PM-F070390.B 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event : 
Taravella, Eve; Williams , Louise; Zanini, Dorothy 
Coworker : Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
For more information, see tapes IAW-PM-A018 and A019. Also, 
she the photographs taken by Ken Light on 7/2/90. 
Paula Manini had heard from several people that there was a' 
Saint Joseph 's Day Table given at the Shrine of Saint Therese 
Church. She wanted to interview people involved in the table to 
obtain information about if and how the table varies from the 
others . Manini called the church and spoke to Carmella Farbo, the 
secretary . She told me the church was an ethnically mixed parish 
(she is Calabrian) ; 
the Altar Society organized the table; they had 
done three tables there.-She said I should talk to Louise Williams 
who is one of the main organizers of the event. 
Manini called Williams who was eager to talk . She said her 
family was from near Naples , and her father had one son by his 
first marriage ; was widowed ; wrote to her mother's parents asking 
to marry their daughter ; 
they agreed but wanted the wedding to take 
place by proxy. Williams said this was because they wanted the 
daughter to marry an American but were afraid the groom might 
change his mind if he met the bride first. So they were married by 
proxy (this story is included on the tape too). 
On the phone , Williams said that years ago Italians didn't 
marry Sicilians . Her father had belonged to an Italian lodge that 
didn't allow Sicilian members. 
rA 
• 
•' 
The interview was held at the home of Eve Taravella. She and 
her husband 
lives 
in 
a middle-class 
neighborhood with well-
manicured lawns . As Manini and Light drove up, 
they noticed a 
1\ 2,1\ •PC• t statue of the_Madonna . 
in the 
front-yard in front of the_ house; it w  
is framed by pieces of weathered_wood_and flowers. 
11 
4'.)v k(L 
'.)vk(L 
Louise Williams answered the door; Eve Taravella was in the 
kitchen. She came out after a minutes. Introductions were made; 
Manini gave them each a few copies of the brochure on the "Italian 
Americans in the West" project. A 
few minutes later, 
Dorothy 
Zanini arrived; more introductions were made. Manini asked if Lights_ 
could photograph them with the Madonna in front of the house. 
e 
While the women were outside with Light , Manini set up the 
Sennheiser mike in living room . The Taravella home is nicely and 
abundantly 
furnished ; knick 
knacks, 
mirrors, 
paintings 
were 
plentiful . When they came back inside , the women sat on the couch; 
IAW-PM-F070390.B - 
2 
Taravella , 
Williams and Zanini from left to right. Manini asked—if s 
Taravella had any other religious statues; she had one 6f Saint•.p-q'zLE41r 
Joseph. Light took several photographs of her outside wiht 
the 
statue. 
Manini started the interview , and Taravella came in very 
shortly afterwards . Light took a few photographs of the women on 
the couch, then left. 
Topics covered on the tape (not in order): 
-the Saint Joseph 's Day Tables given at the Shrine of Saint Therese 
Church; 
-they started doing the table at the request of Jim Pagano, who 
goes to the church and is Sicilian; 
-they have organized four , starting in 1987; 
-other people who help them; 
-changes in the table over the four years; they have become bigger 
and are more abundantly adorned; 
-the politics 
of 
having 
the women 
organize 
the 
tables; they 
0
5 
diplomacy required; 
ON 
-not inviting people to represent saints; if they did, people will 
a• 
feel bad if they are not chosen ; 
•.••ti • 
•&C 
-selecting charities to receive donated money; 
-family histories of each of the three women; 
-Eve Taravella grew up in Ouray, 
Colorado; 
she spoke of her 
childhood ; 
starting to work at a dairy when she was six years old;/ 
-Dorothy Zanini grew up in Nebraska ; is from a check family; 
visited relatives in Pueblo; loved it; put in for a transfer from 
the phone company; how she met her husband; 
Toward the end of the interview Manini focussed on Williams, 
who was the eldest, had lived her whole life in Pueblo, and who 
had a good memory. She is very lively, likes to talk, and is very 
funny, 
joking a lot . Some of the topics she discussed (not in 
order) : 
-her courtship and marriage; friends played match-makers for her 
and her husband; 
-growing up in Bessemer; 
IAW-PM-F070390.B - 
3 
-her mother's church activities; she and her sister were called 
upon to lead the rosary in Italian at funerals; 
-they attended Mount Carmel Church in the Grove; 
-the history of some of the Catholic Churches; 
-observing the Sepulcher of Christ on Holy Thursday when she was 
a child; 
-working at Zoelsmann's Bakery when she was a girl; 
After the taped interview was over, Taravella invited everyone 
to the kitchen for a snack--coffee and a pastry with a graham 
cracker crust, whipped cream center and cherry topping. It was made 
by Dorothy Zanini. Taravella had also put some Italian bread on the 
table for Manini to try. Everyone had a little; an egg dough with 
raisins, typical of Italian_ Easter bread. _ 
pi5aPe 
During this time, they said they all belonged to the Shrin 
Rosary  and Altar Society, which organizes the Saint Joseph's Day 
Tab 1e._
•Tar 
vell-a'ls president of the society; she says Williams is 
her bes-'h-leer 
with the table. 
Zanini is the vice president; 
Genevieve 
Simony 
is 
the 
secretary 
and 
Pauline 
Webb 
is 
the 
treasurer. They have about 90 members in the society but only 30-
40 attend the meetings; others just pay their dues.They say the 
rosary before the meetings. They are in charge of cleaning the 
altar and sacristy, and straightening out the church--missiles; 
etc.--(but someone is now hired to clea n th e church). 
Louise Williams also belongs to the Order of Martha Society. 
They sew baptism bibs for the babies ands 
vestmen s7 and alter) 
objects. W 'rums 
is quite a seamstress and she told the others 
what she had sewn for some of the priests. 
All of the women are very religious and devoted to the 
church. Williams is the most vivacious, and the others seem to 
enjoy her stories, which are often interspersed with laughter and 
funny incidents. Williams gave Manini two photos of the altars, and \ 
Tavarella gave her a hand-out with a hi story o f th e tra diti on . 
• 
M fves 
So uETes 
AZ-r'rAczs 
AP•Ac is 
•ZS 
Document: IAW-PM-F070390.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 7/3/90 
Informant/Event: Returning photographs and Ken Light taking photos; 
Gagliano, Massarotti and Amella 
Coworker: Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
Paula Manini wanted to return photographs to the Gaglianos, 
Ann Massarotti and Johnny Amella since she was leaving in two days. 
V/  
She also wanted Ken Light to photograph some objects from the 
Saint Joseph's Day Table that Josephine and Anthony Gagliano had: 
five rolled and cut dough nrnaTnPni-
_f_- 
f 
 1 
l 
ed wi th figs which were 
maaW-by Lena Abbate (a cross, chalice and Saint Joseph's cane, a 
small 
it 
an 
a sma 
basket). Also, Manini wanted photos of two 
sugar dal > 
z- 
p pp 
•• zu•-_ heY•) sent to Vincent-and Bonnie Gagl i ano 
a 
a v 
a a v 
oy.-yr-
for All Souls Day and All Saint- Day {November 2 and 1) ; 
these were 
on their Saint Joseph's Day table also (see taped interview). Light 
also photographed a small dish containing frutta di marturano• 
n 
artificial near ,
fig, two tomatm-s and two strawberries  sent b 
Josephine Gagliano's broth-z-_1 
Light photographed Josephine and Anthony Gagliano in their 
back 
yard 
holding 
the 
objects; 
their 
son 
Vincent 
was 
also 
photographed. Then Light asked Anthony Gagliano to pretend he was 
hoeing in the vegetable garden. Josephine Gagliano showed Manini 
some pink flowers called baligo--she had obtained the seeds in 
Italy. 
Manini and Light then went to the home of Ann Massarotti., 
Manini 
w_anted_Light to take photographs of Ann Massarotti with some 
C
statues pf 
asints
- 
; a pillow case) from-her mother's dowry used in 
a- Saint Joseph's Day Table, a stable cloth"°from Massarotti's dowry 
which she later trimmed -With hand 
made-lace fro1n Italy. Massarotti 
was sitting on the back porch with her friend Bill (see interview). 
Light took photos of Massarotti standing next to some of the 
statues of saints in the back yard. They went inside, downstairs, 
for photos of her parents' portrait, the pillow case and table 
cloth. 
Light and Manini then went to the home of John Amella. Manini 
wanted to return the photos and news articles from the Saint 
Joseph's Day Table to him. Amella invited Manini to spend the 
Fourth of July with him and his family, but she had to decline 
because 
of 
another commitment 
at 
the home of JoAnna 
and Al 
Collette. 
5<• kt 
S.T 40C 
,4QT. 
Document: IAW-PM-FO70490 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 4/7/90 
Informant/Event: Fourth of July at the Collette Home 
Coworker: Taylor, David; Frank, Russ; Tavarelli, Paola; Light, Ken 
Site: 6 
U 
The crew from the "Italian Americans in the West" were invited 
to spend the Fourth of July with Al and JoAnna Collette and their 
family. It was a large family event, with relatives of Al Collette 
present. It was a pot luck affair with an abundance of food and 
fire crackers. 
Paula Manini and JoAnna Collette spent about 15 minutes going 
over some photos from her album of the Saint Joseph's Day Tables 
she has held. David Taylor had photocopied some of the photos and 
Manini needed to identify the people in them. 
From the album: 
1972 Table with John Collette to the right. 
1972 Table given in thanksgiving to Saint Joseph. The photo is of 
the people who were chosen to represent saints; they are all a 
godparent of a member of the Collette family, or the Collette's 
have been a godparent for them: 
(left to right) Lucy Collette, 
Paul Alfonso, Josie Poulos, Judy Allen, Pete Galardi, Frank Nigor, 
Anna Freccebrino, Sandy Riggio and Dianna Hayes. 
1966 Table with John and Al Collette. 
1966 Table with Al and JoAnna Collette. 
Rose Nigro with Therese Collette, John Collette, Timothy Collette, 
Vera Collette (Al Collette's mother) and Joseph Collette. 
Frank and Rose Nigro's anniversary celebration. 
Stephanie Collette on the day of her First Communion 
A, 
i 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Flores, Estevan 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.A 
Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 03/15/91 
Informant/Event: Flores, Estevan 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I had scheduled this meeting with Estevan Flores over the phone 
from Austin. 
Corina Chavez (who I knew in Boulder and who now 
lives in Austin) gave me his name when I told her I had decided 
to focus my master's report on the Saint Joseph's Day table 
tradition in Pueblo, where Hispanics had adopted the tradition 
from the Sicilian American population. 
Corina Chavez had had Esteven Flores as a professor when she was 
a student at the University of Colorado. Since he is from Pueblo, 
she suggested I speak to him. 
I thought this would be a good 
idea since I was trying to get a handle on the relationships 
between Hispanics and Italian Americans in Pueblo, and Estevan 
Flores is a sociology professor who grew up there. 
His address at the university: 
Sociology Department, Box 327, 
Boulder, Colorado, 80309. 
His office is located in Ketchum 223, 
and his office phone is (303) 492-1016. 
He lives in Denver at 
2757 West 37th Avenue, Denver, Colorado, 80211. His home phone is 
(303) 477-9165. 
When I had spoken to Estevan Flores on the phone, and briefly 
described the Saint Joseph's Day table tradition to him, he said 
he thought that his sister's godmother used to be involved in the` 
event. 
The godmother, Theresa Spicola, still lives in Pueblo and 
is Italian American. 
Estevan Flores gave me his sister's phone 
number in Denver. 
Her name is Cecilia Flores, and her home 
number is (303) 935-6940. 
Estevan Flores was born in 1950; his sister Cecilia in 1949. 
He had several Italian (American) friends while a boy in Pueblo. 
He said one thing that brought them together was sports; he 
played on a softball team sponsored by Gus's Place (see IAW files 
from Russell Frank). 
He said that there was no ethnic 
discrimination when he was younger, up to about 12 years old. 
However, he got to the age where they could date in high school, 
i 
IAW-PM-F031591.A - 
2 
there was pressure against dating people who were not of your 
ethnic group. 
He mentioned the Assumption Church, which has an ethnically mixed 
parish. 
He recalled an annual 3-day festival where there was 
Italian food, Mexican food, and hamburgers. 
He grew up in an 
ethnically diverse neighborhood around Bessemer and Elm Street, 
in the area of the Assumption Parish. 
He said that areas in Pueblo that were predominantly Hispanic 
were "The Blocks" and Salt Creek. 
He referred me to the 
Residential Segregation Index (for cities over 100,000) for 
information regarding a more recent profile of Pueblo's 
residential patterning regarding ethnicity. 
Estevan had an Italian (Estevan uses the term Italian vs. Italian 
American) friend; their grandfathers conversed with each other in 
Italian and Spanish, respectively. 
Estevan Flores' father was a 
bricklayer who worked with Henry Spicola, also a bricklayer, and 
husband of Theresa Spicola. 
I asked why he thought the tradition had transferred to the 
Hispanic population. 
He said through Catholicism and traditional 
Hispanic devotion to San Jose. 
Also, he said Italians and 
Mexicans have similar compadrazco/godparent system, or a system 
of "fictive kinship." 
I asked if the Virgin of Guadalupe was 
popular in Pueblo's Hispanic community, and he said she was for 
many people. 
I said that in her study of the Bessemer neighborhood, Irene Blea 
thought that devotion to the Virgin of Guadalupe wasn't that 
strong. He said then that was probably true for Bessemer. 
See 
Irene Blea. Bessemer: A Sociological Perspective of a Chicano 
Barrio, Dissertation, University of Colorado at Boulder, 19??. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Fairchild, Phyllis 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.B 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Fairchild, Phyllis 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
After meeting with Estevan Flores, I headed for Pueblo, where I 
arrived at about 4 p.m. 
I drove to the Tumbleweed Used 
Bookstore, which is owned and operated by Phyllis Fairchild. 
I 
had met Phyllis and Dick Fairchild in 1980 or so; they are the 
parents of some friends. 
Their children are Dan, Deborah and 
Wendy. 
When in Pueblo with the IAW crew in the summer of 1990, I 
visited Phyllis at her bookstore, and she had invited me to stay 
at their home at anytime. 
She was also quite fascinated to learn 
about the Saint Joseph's Day table tradition, and the whole IAW 
project. 
Phyllis and Dick had lived at 711 Veta in Pueblo since 1958. 
Before that they had lived in Pinon, Colorado, where Dick was a 
principle and their first child Dan was born. 
The bookstore is 
located in the area called Mesa Junction, near the public 
library. 
Veta is in the South Side, about 1-2 miles from the 
bookstore, and Phyllis said it is generally a white middle-class 
neighborhood. 
We spoke about the Fairchilds's children for awhile, then started 
talking about restaurants in Pueblo. 
She said the two best foods 
to bet in Pueblo are Mexican and Italian, and that E1 Valle has 
great Mexican food. 
Seemingly Mexican and Italian restaurants do 
dominate the restaurant business in Pueblo. 
In fact, in the 14 years I lived in Colorado (1973-87) I had 
heard that Pueblo offered great Mexican and Italian food. 
Also, 
Coloradans seem to identify Pueblo's as a town of Italians and 
Mexicans despite the numerous ethnic groups who reside there. 
And Coloradans frequently make fun of the city as the worse place 
to live in the state. 
This arises from its history as a blue-
collar, industrial steel-producing town. 
The smokestacks which 
rise along the interstate as it passes through town are a visible 
symbol of its reputation to outsiders. 
Many Coloradans also make 
fun of a local pronunciation of the word Pueblo. 
When I told 
IAW-PM-F031591.B - 
2 
various friends in Colorado about the IAW project, they brought 
up these various images. 
Dan Fairchild, son of Dick and Phyllis, and I spoke about these 
things over the phone not long ago. 
He told me of a survey done 
about 10 or so years ago and published in newspapers and popular 
news magazines. 
The survey listed Pueblo as one of the best 
places to live in the United States. 
Pueblo had gotten some 
revenge, and t-shirts appeared boasting Pueblo as #1. 
Dan said 
that everyone thought it was really funny, and then Pueblo-haters 
couldn't believe it. 
Phyllis Fairchild first heard about the Saint Joseph's Day table 
events about two years ago when she read an article in the local 
paper, The Pueblo Chieftain. 
This is interesting to me because 
Italians/Sicilians have been having the tables for many years, 
and they have been noted annually in the local paper for some 
time. 
I believe ignorance of the tradition exists because it is 
closely associated with a particular ethnic community, the 
Sicilian/Italian community, and with Catholicism. 
The Fairchilds 
are Anglo Americans, and belong to the Unitarian Church. 
As 
such, they share in neither domain identified with the tradition. 
In fact, I met two people in Austin, Texas, who expressed this 
very interpretation of the situation. 
At a Christmas party in 
1990 I met a graduate student at the University of Texas who is 
from Pueblo. 
He had never heard of a Saint Joseph's Day table 
although he had lived in Pueblo until he graduated from high 
school and left for college. 
He asked me to explain the event. 
I did, including an indication of the number of people who often 
attend a single home table (200-500), and mentioning that the 
Pueblo Chieftain runs a story on local tables almost every year. 
He said he had no idea that this went on in his hometown. 
His 
conclusion was that since he was from a Protestant Anglo family 
who didn't know many Italians nor Mexicans, he had never heard 
about the tradition. 
In the fall of 1990 I met a woman, Katie Bassein, who was in 
Austin visiting my house-mate; they had been friends while 
undergraduates at the University of Colorado at Boulder. 
Katie 
had lived in Pueblo for several years, about 15-20 years ago. 
She had not heard of the tradition either; she also thought this 
was probably due to her ethnic and religious background. 
However, she did have some general impressions concerning the 
relationships between Mexicans and Italians in Pueblo. 
Katie said that Italians and Mexicans didn't get along well, at 
least that was the impression she had from the early 1970's. 
They didn't get along because Mexican Americans believed Italians 
had access to political power that they didn't have. Her 
recollections were that some Italians had, at least to some 
extent, a negative attitude towards Mexicans, and there was some 
IAW-PM-F031591.B - 
3 
conflict. 
She mentioned that she lived in Pueblo during the 
years of the Chicano Movement, and she believed the 
aggressiveness of some local Chicanos during those years angered 
the generally conservative Italian population. 
She thought that Italians, Slovenians and Croatians had 
reasonably good jobs at the CF&I Steel Company, while the 
Mexicans did not. 
She distinguished Slovenians as Catholics and 
Croatians as Orthodox, and that there was less conflicts between 
Mexican Americans and these other ethnic groups than between 
Italians and Mexicans. 
However, she thought there were 
similarities between Mexicans and Italians because they are 
"heavily Catholic." 
I mention the experience of these Anglo Puebloans to illustrate 
that segregation did and does still exist between groups in town, 
and to indicate the complexity of Pueblo's population and 
history. 
Also, there is a obviously dimension of religious 
segregation (which is tied to ethnicity) at play here. 
In fact, 
there is a history of religious discrimination in the state. John 
Williams (the historian for the IAW project) found both 
informants for the project and published sources which refer to 
the past existence of the Ku Klux Klan in the area, and that the 
target of Klan activities were often Catholics (see IAW files). 
At 5:00, Phyllis Fairchild left the Tumbleweed Bookstore and 
drove to her home. 
Dick, her husband, was at home. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Fairchild, Phyllis and Dick 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.0 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informants/Event: Fairchild, Phyllis; Fairchild, Dick 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
It is only a few miles to the Fairchild home from Phyllis' 
bookshop on Reunion Street, near the public library. 
When we 
arrived at the house on 711 Veta, Dick Fairchild was also at 
home. 
We sat in the living room which is decorated with several oil 
paintings done by Phyllis, antique furniture, and knick knacks 
from various countries, including Turkey. 
Dick and Phyllis and 
their three children had lived in Istanbul about 20 years ago 
when Dick, a math teacher, participated in an exchange program 
for teachers. 
I explained to Dick in more detail my reasons for being in Pueblo 
again, and about the IAW project. 
I told him the focus of my 
current research was the Saint Joseph's Day Table to be held on 
March 19 at a the Holy Rosary Church, a Hispanic parish in 
Pueblo. 
From 1978 or 1980 until 1984, Dick had taught math at 
Hyde Park School, which is less than a mile from the church. 
He 
referred to Hyde Park as "its own community, and as a 
"backwater." I asked what "backwater" meant, and he explained it 
as "an area isolated from others." 
I asked if it was a poor 
neighborhood too, and he said yes. 
Phyllis referred to Hyde Park 
as being "in the heart of the barrio." 
Dick, who has a real 
estate business, owned some property in the area until recently. 
Dick also mentioned that there was a large number of Jehovah 
Witnesses in that area, and that there was tension between them 
and the Catholics. 
He mentioned the name of an elementary school principal with whom 
he had worked, Maryanne Rodan, who is Hispanic and, he believed, 
a member of Holy Rosary. 
He thought she would be a good person 
for me to talk with. 
Although I was busy interviewing people 
directly involved with the table at the church and I did not have 
the chance to talk to her, she probably would have been a good 
IAW-PM-F031591.0 - 
2 
informant as a member of the community and a community leader. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.D 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/1/91 
Informant/Event: Archuleta, Gen 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.D 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informants/Event: Archuletta, Gen 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
From the Fairchilds' home, I called Gen Archuletta, who organizes 
the Saint Joseph's Day Table at the Holy Rosary Church. 
I had 
interviewed her in July 1990 for the IAW project (see files). 
Also, I had spoken to her two or three times by phone from 
Austin, Texas, as I was making plans for this trip. 
I had wanted 
to let her know I was coming, and that I would like to spend a 
lot of time with her at the parish hall during the event. 
During 
our last long-distance phone call, she said, "I told the people 
you are coming, and they'll be waiting for you" (a paraphrase). 
I called to let her know I was in Pueblo, and to find out the 
schedule of events. 
She said on Monday, March 18, the Parish 
Center would be open from 5-8 p.m. for people to bring food and 
other items for the table. 
On March 19, the Feast Day of Saint 
Joseph, the center would be open from 9-5 for public viewing of 
the table. At 6 pm there was a mass at the church; after mass 
Father Doll was going to bless the table; then there was a 
potluck dinner. 
She said that there would be an announcement in 
the Pueblo Chieftain's Religion Section on Sunday, March 17 
giving all this information. 
Remembering that last year they dedicated the table to the 
homeless, and that they had asked some homeless people to 
represent the Holy Family and other saints at the event, I asked 
to whom this year's table was dedicated. 
She said the Liturgy 
Committee, who sponsors the event, wanted to recognize people who 
had children stationed in the Persian Gulf, or who were in the 
military in general. 
The families were asked to bring photos of 
their children to place on the table. 
No one would be 
representing saints this year. 
She said, "Saint Joseph has been giving me a rough time." 
Two 
things had happened. First, she had ordered 12 loaves of Saint 
Joseph's bread from Vertemer's Bakery (check spelling) a month or 
IAW-PM-F031591.D - 
2 
so ago. 
This week she called to confirm the order, and 
discovered they had gone out of business. 
She called other 
bakeries and no one knew how to make the breads. 
Finally, 
Schuster's Bakery (on Abriendo Street) agreed to make them using 
breads in an old photograph as a model. 
Of special interest to me was the requirement that she have the 
breads on the table, when I knew that there were other components 
of the tradition which she did not adhere to. 
The story about 
the breads, and the story about the announcement (below) were 
also of interest because Gen explained them as Saint Joseph 
giving her a hard time. 
This indicates the personal nature of 
the relationship between devotee and saint, a phenomena common 
among Mexican Americans and Italian Americans (see IAW files on 
Josephine and Anthony Gagliano). 
Gen Archuletta also had had problems regarding the announcement 
in the diocese's paper. 
She wanted a write-up in the Chronicle, 
and called in January to be sure it made the March issue, but 
they didn't print anything. 
She was a bit upset. 
To compensate 
for the omission, she sent announcements to all the parishes in 
Pueblo for inclusion in their newsletters and bulletins. 
Gen had not heard of any home tables taking place this year. 
After I hung up with her, I called Louise Williams who I had also 
interviewed in the summer of 1990 for the IAW project (see 
files). 
Along with Eve Taravella and Dorothy Zanini, she 
organized a table at the Shrine of Saint Therese, a church on the 
South Side, on Goodnight Street (see IAW-PM-F031591.E). 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.E 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Williams, Louise 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.E 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informants/Event: Williams, Louise 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
After I hung up with Gen Archuletta, I called Louise Williams 
from the Fairchilds'. I had also interviewed her in the summer of 
1990 for the IAW project. 
Along with Eve Taravella and Dorothy 
Zanini, she organized a table at the Shrine of Saint Therese, a 
church on the South Side, on Goodnight Street (see files). 
Louise Williams had forgot to put an announcement in the Pueblo 
Chieftain for the table at Saint Therese. However, she did not 
blame it on Saint Joseph! 
That table would be open for public 
viewing from 8:30 am to 5 pm on Tuesday, March 19 (the Feast Day 
of Saint Joseph). She said a lot of people had been working hard 
to get everything ready. 
She had made a lot of cookies. 
Louise said she had not heard of any home tables this year 
either. 
I then called Josephine Martellaro (see IAW files 1990) to say 
hello and chat, but she was out of town until later in the 
evening. 
I then called Theresa Spicola (see IAW-PM-F031591.F). 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.F 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Spicola, Theresa 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.F 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informants/Event: Spicola, Theresa 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
After speaking with Louise Williams, I then called Theresa 
Spicola, godmother of Cecilia Flores; Cecilia is the sister of 
Estevan Flores who I interviewed in Boulder, Colorado (IAW-PM-
F031591.A) 
I first called Cecilia to get Theresa's number; 
Estevan had told his sister I might call. 
Theresa's number is 
(719) 561-0009; her address is 1708 Lynwood Lane, Pueblo, 
Colorado. 
I introduced myself to Theresa, told her I received her name from 
Cecilia and Estevan Flores, explained the IAW project to her, and 
expressed my interest in the Saint Joseph's Day Tables organized 
by Italians and Hispanics in Pueblo. 
She told me a little about herself. 
Her maiden name is 
Sanarelli, and her brother's name is Pete Sanarelli. 
Her 
daughter-in-law and sister live in Los Angeles, and they also 
give Saint Joseph's Day tables there. 
She has been to see the 
tables at both the Holy Rosary Church and the Shrine of Saint 
Therese. 
The parents of Henry Spicola, her husband, were from Sicily, a 
town called Farmese (spelling). 
Theresa's family was from a town 
near Rome. 
Her mother-in-law used to have Saint Joseph's Day 
tables. 
She used to walk in any weather to collect donations; 
she had "no prejudice," and asked anyone for donations. 
She 
"worked hard to make a table." 
When I asked Theresa why she thought Mexican Americans had 
adopted the tradition from the Sicilians, she said, "They have 
the faith." 
After setting up an appointment to meet Theresa on March 16, the 
next day, I called Mario Montano (see IAW-PM-F031591.G). 
Document: IAW-PM-F031591.G 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informant/Event: Montano, Mario 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031591.G 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/15/91 
Informants/Event: Montano, Mario 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
After speaking to Theresa Spicola (IAW-PM-F031591.F), I called 
Mario Montano, a professor at Colorado College in Colorado 
Springs (40 miles north of Pueblo). 
Suzy Seriff, a friend and 
colleague in Austin, Texas, had given me his name. 
She and Mario 
worked together in Texas, and had known each other for 10 or so 
years; both are folklorists/anthropologists. 
I explained the IAW project to Mario, and told him the Saint 
Joseph's Day Table was also the topic for my master's report. 
Mario Montano knows Estevan Flores (see above), Jose Limom (an 
anthropologist and folklorist at the University of Texas at 
Austin, and the first reader for my report), and David Taylor 
(IAW Project Director). 
Mario has spent some time in Pueblo since he has been living in 
Colorado Springs. 
He now has a student who is doing an 
ethnographic film for her senior thesis project on class, 
ethnicity and religion in Pueblo. 
She is Anglo, and was born in 
raised in Pueblo. 
When suggested that maybe she would like to 
come down for the Saint Joseph's Day events, he dismissed the 
idea because she is an undergraduate. 
However, I it would be 
interesting to talk with her (I don't know her name). 
Mario then briefly mentioned several things about Pueblo. 
He 
said that in many ways, Pueblo is of interest to him, but he has 
not done any extensive work there. 
Mario has attended posadas in Pueblo; they are held in the 
backyards of local Hispanics. 
He knows there is a community of migrant workers from 
Guadalajara, Mexico, who reside in Pueblo. 
He has a group of friends who are musicians from Pueblo. 
They 
are all Catholic and Mexican, Italian and/or Irish. 
They 
IAW-PM-F031591.G - 
2 
participated in Pueblo's Saint Patrick's Day Parade. 
Knows of a sociologist (last name Pena) who has look at cultural 
responses, such as wife beatings, to unemployment in Pueblo. 
Mario is from Eagle Pass, near Laredo, Texas. 
His area of 
specialty is South Texas. 
He has worked some in the San Luis Valley of Colorado via a 
satellite class offered by Colorado College. 
Has done a little 
research among the Penitentes in the area, and discovered that 
women there have their own moradas (meeting houses). 
There has 
been no ethnographic work done among the women in these moradas. 
Mario was interested to find out about the Saint Joseph's Day 
table tradition among Pueblo's Hispanic and Italian communities. 
He said he would like to come to the Holy Rosary Church on 
Tuesday to see the event, but he already had another appointment 
set up. 
If he could reschedule, he would. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031691.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informant/Event: Doll, Father William 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031691.A 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informants/Event: Father William Doll 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
William Doll is the priest at the Holy Rosary Church, and someone 
I very much wanted to interview. 
When I first spoke with Gen Archuletta in the summer of 1990, she 
hesitated to set up an appointment with me. 
I had explained the 
IAW project, and she wondered why I wanted to talk with her since 
she is not Italian American. 
I explained that I thought it 
interesting that she had adopted an Italian tradition--the Saint 
Joseph's Day Table. 
After she spoke with William Doll about my 
request, she agreed to do an interview with me at her home. 
I briefly spoke to Father Doll on the phone. 
I introduced 
myself--he knew I was coming to the event. 
He said to me that 
some Italians don't like it that Hispanics are having a Saint 
Joseph's Day table, and then Gen has received phone calls from 
some made Italians. 
He didn't know more than that. 
He told me he had worked in southern Colorado for 41 years, and 
mentioned that Hispanics in Colorado and New Mexico have 
different folklore from Mexicans. 
We arranged to meet for a formal interview on March 20, the day 
after the Feast Day of Saint Joseph. 
I said I would look for him 
at the Parish Center on the 18th and 19th too. 
I left the Fairchild's house in late in the morning. 
I thought I 
would visit with some of the people the IAW crew had met in the 
summer of 1990. 
I wanted to say hello, and to see if anyone knew 
about any home tables. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031691.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informant/Event: Cortese, Joe 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031691.B 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informants/Event: Cortese, Joe 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I drove to the Bessemer Mercantile, a small neighborhood grocery 
store in the Bessemer neighborhood. 
Other members of the IAW 
crew and I had met the proprietors, Joe and Rose Cortese, in the 
summer of 1990. 
I wanted to say hello and see if they knew of 
any home table events planned for March 19. 
Rose had left early to take care of her 95 year old mother, but 
Joe was there. 
He remembered me, and we spoke briefly. 
Joe showed me two recent newspaper articles he had taped on the 
wall behind the cash register. 
1 
One was from the Pueblo Chieftain (Monday, July 16, 1990, page 
1), and was about the Bessemer Mercantile. 
It's title was 
"Unique Jewel Nes 
a in Bessemer." 
It was published shortly 
after the IAW crew left Pueblo. 
The other was from the Rocky Mountain News (November 11, 1990, 
pages 85-86), and it was called "Fortunes of a Generation Forged 
in Pueblo Steel Mill." 
It featured the Bessemer Mercantile 
(including a photo) as well as other local businesses. 
I told Joe Cortese that I would tell David Taylor about the 
articles so they could obtain copies for the IAW files. 
I asked 
if his business had increased since the articles were published, 
and he said they had a little. 
I then drove to the Collette Catering and Take-Out to visit the 
very generous and hospitable family with whom the IAW had spent 
the Fourth of July in 1990. 
I also told him I would come back another day so I could say 
hello to Rose. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031691.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informant/Event: Colette Catering and Take-out 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031691.0 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informants/Event: Collette Catering and Take-Out 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I drove to visit the Collette family at their Catering and Take 
Out business. 
I just assumed they would be there working as hard 
as they always seem to. 
I was right. 
Stephanie, one of Al and JoAnna's children, was behind the 
counter and I could see Al and JoAnna through the doorway to the 
kitchen, where they were working. 
Stephanie remembered me right away and brought me to the back to 
see the others. 
Everyone was surprised to see me. 
I told them I 
was in Pueblo to attend Saint Joseph's Day Tables, and knew of 
one at Saint Therese and one at Holy Rosary. 
Did they know of 
any home tables? 
Like Theresa Spicola, Louise Williams and Gen 
Archuletta, they said no. 
They also said they considered having a table this year but 
decided they were just too busy. 
They are catering a big Saint 
Patrick's Day dinner in town; a political event I had scene 
advertised in the paper. 
The Collette's had had tables in the past. 
Some were given to 
thank Saint Joseph for his assistance in the remediation of 
family illness; at least one was given in general thanksgiving to 
the saint since all had gone well for them that year. 
They had 
considered given another table like the latter this year. 
They wanted me to stay and have lunch with them, but I had plans 
to meet Phyllis Fairchild for lunch. 
I told them I would try and 
stop by before I left. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031691.D 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informant/Event: Kramer, Kerry 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031691.D 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/16/91 
Informants/Event: Kramer, Kerry 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
The night before I had left a message for Kerry Kramer to call 
me. 
Kerry is a friend of Dan Fairchild and Diane Rabson, who are 
the son and daughter-in-law of Phyllis and Dick Fairchild, the 
people with whom I am staying in Pueblo. 
When I first heard about the IAW project, I called Diane Rabson 
to see if she knew of anyone in Pueblo who might be a local 
resource. 
She gave me Kerry's name; I spoke to her on the phone, 
and in turn gave her name to David Taylor, the IAW Project 
Director. 
She accompanied David and John Williams (IAW 
Historian) during their preliminary visit to Pueblo in February 
or March 1990. 
I was able to meet Kerry in the summer of 1990 
when I arrived in Pueblo to work with the IAW team. 
I called her hoping we could get together, and meet her family. 
However, she was very busy finishing a paper for a graduate class 
in archaeology she was taking. 
She has been enrolled in graduate 
school in Denver, and staying there during the week. 
We spoke for a while. 
I told her I was here primarily to see the 
Saint Joseph's Day Table at the Hispanic parish. 
I also 
expressed concern that it may be difficult to get a handle on 
those Italians who do not like the fact that Hispanics have 
adopted the tradition. 
Kerry agreed. 
She said there is more of 
a division between the Hispanic and Italian population in 
Trinidad, to Pueblo's south. 
There tension sometimes erupts in 
violence, she said. 
She also said she thought there may be some ethnic tensions 
between Italian landowners on the Saint Charles Mesa, east of 
Pueblo, and the migrant workers from Mexico who they hire. 
Has 
heard rumors of land owners refusing to pay the workers as 
promised. 
IAW-PM-F031691.D - 
2 
Kerry's mother-in-law, Liz Sanders (ne Liz Soldano) is a Sicilian 
American and a member of the Shrine of Saint Therese. 
The family 
has relatives in Los Angeles who give tables. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031791.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/17/91 
Informant/Event: Martellaro, Josephine 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031791.A 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/17/91 
Informants/Event: Martellaro, Josephine 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
On Sunday, March 17, I called Josephine Martellaro again. 
She 
was home this time, and said had hoped I would call soon. 
She 
wanted to invite me to a small Saint Joseph's Day dinner her 
sister-in-law Jenny Rodasta was having on her home on March 19, 
the saint's feast day. 
It was a "table," but a dinner for the 
family with some of the same foods. 
See the IAW files for 
information, photographs and a video of the table Josephine 
Martellaro gave at her home last year. 
Although I hated to turn down the invitation, because Josephine 
and her husband had been hospitable and valuable informants, and 
because I liked them so much. 
However, I explained to her that 
the primary reason for my current visit was to research the table 
event held at the Holy Rosary Church. 
The mass at the church was 
scheduled for the exact time her dinner was to begin, and I also 
wanted to be present for the dinner at the church. 
I am afraid I 
disappointed her a little. 
I comfortable enough with Josephine to ask her directly about the 
relationships between Hispanics and Italians in Pueblo, and why 
she thought some Italians would be angered that Hispanics have 
adopted the table tradition. 
I should note that Josephine is of 
Slovenian heritage, and married to a Sicilian American. 
Josephine began by saying that her church, Saint Mary's, was 
originally Slovenian but is now Slovenian and Mexican. 
She said that some Italians/Sicilians are not even carrying on 
the tradition--"so what can you do?" 
others are doing it 
instead. 
She also said of Gen Archuletta (who she knows only by 
name because of my reference to her)--"There are so many 
traditional things (in the table), and she probably doesn't do 
them because she doesn't know all of the traditions, and some 
IAW-PM-F031791.A - 
2 
people probably wouldn't tell her about them." 
She mentioned Affirmative Action as something which has created 
tension between Hispanics and others. 
In state jobs, the schools 
(where Josephine works), "minority hirings have caused battles." 
She believes that government should stay out of the problem and 
that the problem will work itself out through such things as 
mixed marriages, 
Josephine grew up in an all Slovenian area of Pueblo although 
there were a few Blacks there, and there wasn't any problem. 
"Minority hiring caused the problems." 
She believes the old Sicilian tradition should be kept but anyone 
else can do tables their ways too. 
In fact, Josephine really 
strove to create an "authentic" Sicilian table, and she and her 
sister-in-law Jenny Rodasta and Josephine's daughter Debbie 
Carleo did a lot of research to make sure they succeeded in that 
_mi 
ssion. 
Bessie Ingo, who lives out on Saint Charles Mesa where 
tie Martellaros and -Rodastas also live, was a valuable resource 
in this ende yor 
Jenny and Josephine are working on putting everything together 
(about the tradition) in a book since there aren't very many 
people around anymore who know how to make a table. 
We briefly talked about Paola Tavarelli, who was part of the IAW 
research team. 
Josephine and her husband Tony had received a 
Christmas card from her from Italy, where she had gone in the 
fall of 1990. 
I told Josephine that Paola was hoping to go to 
Lucca Sicula for Saint Joseph's Day. 
Lucca is the town in Sicily 
from where man  of Pueblo's early Italian immigrants--came---.In 
fau 
ony Martellaro's 
there. 
Josephine believes there are less tables not only because a lot 
of people don't know how to do them, but also because they are so 
much work. 
I told Josephine about a new cookbook called Celebrating Italy 
(Carol Field, New York: William Morrow and Company, Inc., 1990) 
that is organized according to Italian holidays, and which 
contains more information regarding the holidays than actual 
recipes. 
I promised to send her the section on Saint Joseph's 
Day. She said she wanted to buy the book too. 
Document: IAW-PM-FO31891.A 
Document Type : Fieldnote 
Fieldworker : Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/18/91 
Informant/Event: Spicola , Theresa 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-FO31891.A 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date : 3/18/91 
Informants/Event: Spicola , Theresa 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
Theresa Spicola 
1708 Lynwood 
Pueblo, Colorado 81005 
Phone (719) 561-0009 
Taped interview : IAW-PM-AO20, March 18, 1991 
Black and white images : IAW-PM-BO10 , frames 2, 5-7 
Color slides : IAW-PM-CO07 -1, 2, 3; IAW-PM-CO06-20 
I received Theresa 's name from Estevan Flores, who I had 
interviewed on March 15 in Boulder, Colorado . Theresa is a good 
friend of the Flores family, and is the godmother of Cecilia 
Flores , Estevan's sister. 
Theresa lives in a multi -ethnic, middle class neighborhood that 
is well maintained . It is on the southwest part of town. 
As I 
drove down Lynwood, I notices a house with a statue of the Virgin 
Mary in the front yard. 
Theresa has a neat, clean home. 
As I enter, the first thing I 
notir 
is a 
atop •f •a;nt Joseph (about 2 feet till) on a table 
in the living room (see photos). There are also some freshly 
baked Saint Joseph's Day breads there which she has made, 
There are also some Italian Saint Joseph's Day-cards on the 
*-
.- table; received these from a nephew who was in Italy for a while, 
and has saved them over the years . 
 She always puts out the 
statue on the saint 's feast day, and always goes to a table. 
Said she just has to see a table on Saint Joseph's Day. 
The color scheme of the living room is pink and it is nicely 
furnished. 
There is a stone or ceramic sculpture of the Virgin 
and Child on an end table , but not a lot of decoration in this 
room, which is fairly small. 
IAW-PM-F031891.A - 
2 
I set up the tape recorder in the kitchen. 
On the counter there 
are three more breads, two in the shape of teddy bears, with a 
white egg in their stomachs. She has made these for her 
grandchildren, who she will bring to see the tables at Holy 
Rosary and Saint Therese churches tomorrow, March 19. 
On the tape we talk mostly about the Saint Joseph's Day table 
tradition, and the tables she remembers from the past, tables she 
has had, and ones her mother-on-law had. 
She knows two Italian 
women, Mrs. Belitti and Ann Cicero, who contribute to the table 
held at the Holy Rosary Church. 
She talks about her husband Henry, who is deceased. 
His family 
was from Sicily; hers from near Rome. 
Her father was worried 
when she wanted to marry a Sicilian. 
Other topics are: 
The differences between Sicilian and the Italian her family 
spoke. 
Growing up in Goat Hill, and her youth in general. 
Hispanic neighbors. At first, her husband was worried but he 
changed when they got to know them. 
His son's wife does Saint Joseph's Day tables in Los Angeles 
We spoke for about an hour, with a few phone calls interrupting 
our conversation. 
After I took down the recording equipment, and 
we were drinking coffee we talked some more. 
As is always almost 
the case, there is a conversation following the taped interview. 
And in most cases, I wish it had been taped! 
But I have found 
that people expect you to stay and chat more informally after the 
"interview" is completed. 
Also, Theresa wanted me to stay until 
her best friend arrived, she wanted me to meet her. 
Theresa took me into the den, located next to the living room and 
kitchen. 
It looked like it had been added on to the house later, 
and was rectangular in shape. 
The wally 
wPr 
;lied with family 
photographs, some very old. 
The -photos include her parents, both 
sets of her grandparents, her in-laws; husband; children and - 
grandchildren. 
She told me a sad story about her father's brother; the story was 
prompted by looking at the old photos. 
Her uncle had married a 
Mexican woman, and he wanted to leave her. 
He traded his two 
daughters for a horse so he could leave, and gave his two sons to 
Theresa's father. 
Her father always felt terrible that he had 
given the daughters away; evidently the brother did this first, 
then gave him the boys. 
One of the girls located Theresa's 
father when she was older; she never talks about what happened. 
IAW-PM-F031891.A - 
3 
They don't know what happened to the other girl; the sister won't 
talk about it, and no one in the family asks her. 
Other objects in the den include a plaque of the Virgin of 
Guadalupe which someone brought from "Old Mexico"--in Pueblo this 
term is used to distinguish the country of Mexico (Old Mexico) 
from the state of New Mexico, from where many Hispanics in Pueblo 
came. 
Theresa has a garden and grows green beans, cucumbers, squash and 
iehubarb. 
She cooks a o 
of I alian food--manicotti-asagna. 
Her mom made homemade bread and- pasta. 
She roasts red peppers in 
the broiler and then marinates then with canned mushrooms in oil 
and garlic. 
Her sister has been to Italy. where their father and grandparents 
lived. 
Her sister's name is Angelina Santarelli (maiden name) 
and she married her cousin Nick (the son of their uncle). Theresa 
said this was an unusual thing. 
ThPreGa_ sings Italian songs to her grandchildren. 
Of course, the 
tape recorder was not set up for this!! 
She 
sang the Italian 
version of "This Little Piggy," and a song called Manilla. 
Her mother and her brother Pete Santarelli speaks both Spanish 
and Italian. 
Theresa is the godmother of Cecilia Flores, as mentioned. 
Cecilia's father Tim Flores and Theresa's husband Henry (or Hank, 
but his real name was Andrea) were bricklayers. 
Hank stood up 
for Estevan Flores for confirmation. 
Hank and Tim were in the 
same army unit, but didn't know each other at the time. 
They 
found this out later, when they were both bricklayers at CF & I, 
where they worked for about 30 years. 
Hank  and Tim became good 
friends. 
Lupe Flores, the wife of Tim and mother of Estevan and Cecilia, 
was born and raised in Pueblo. 
Later, Tim took a job with the 
union in Denver, after working at CF & I for 30 years. 
Theresa also makes polenta with clam sauce or sausage. She gave 
me a little cookbook she p 
toaether. 
It is called "WA's 
Cookin' at Theresa's?" 
The recipes are from her mother and 
mother-in-law, whose pictures appear at the beginning of the 
book. 
A friend drew a picture on the front. 
The book has been 
accessioned for the IAW archives. 
She has two children, Tony and Henry Spicola. 
Tony's two 
children are Manda and Nick. 
Henry's two children are Mickey and 
Gina Spicola. 
Mickey has a daughter, Tricia. 
Gina has a child, 
Andrea. 
Gina makes gnocchi, and has Theresa's pasta machine. 
IAW-PM-F031891.A - 
4 
While I was there her best friend, Helen Julius Dario , called and 
then stopped over for some baked goods that Theresa had made for 
her. 
She lived in Goat Hill too, and was one of four Slovenian 
families in the neighborhood. 
While she was there, another woman came over, but who was much 
younger than the others , perhaps in her late thirties or early 
forties . Theresa is helping her make hand-crocheted, shell 
shaped, yarn pieces to be made into favors for the wedding of the 
woman's son (or daughter?). 
Besides b•ei
^ cLood cook and baker, Theresa sews and crochets. 
Helen asks her a que 
on a 
out quilting, and Theresa takes us 
back to a room off of her bedroom to show us some things. 
She 
shows me the quilt on her bed--Theresa had made it. 
I notice there is an image of the Infant of Prague hanging in her 
bedroom , and a crucifix by the door. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031891.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/18/91 
Informant/Event: Holy Rosary Church: Saint Joseph's Day 
preparations 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031891.B 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/18/91 
Informants/Event: Holy Rosary Church/Eve of Saint Joseph's 
Day/Table preparations 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
See: 
Black and white images: 
IAW-PM-B010, frames 8-36 
Color slides: 
IAW-PM-0007, frames 4-11 
I drove out to Holy Rosary Church to participate in the evening's 
activities. 
It was the day before the Feast Day of Saint Joseph, 
and the parish center was open from 5-8 pm for people to drop off 
donations for the Saint Joseph's Day Table. 
I passed the State Hospital, crossed a bridge and then found 
myself in a residential section. 
Many of the houses were smaller 
than others I had seen in conjunction with interviews for the IAW 
project, and they seemed older and plainer too. 
True to what the 
Dick and Phyllis Fairchild had told me the other day, and what 
Gen Archuletta had told me when I interviewed her in the July 
1990, outward appearances marked this as a poorer neighborhood. 
Following the map I turned right on to Lambert Street, then 
noticed a church in the distance to the left. 
A few blocks 
later, I turned left on to West 22nd Street, just up the street 
from the church. 
The church is on the very edge of the residential neighborhood, 
Hyde Park. 
Fields lay to the west and south, houses to the east 
and north. 
The house across the 22nd Street to the north had 
several cows grazing in a fenced-in area. 
There were only a few 
trees around, and everything was dry and brown due to the 
season. 
The parish center is a long, rectangular building just north of 
the church, and I parked on its north side. 
I was the only car 
there, but there was another in front of the cent er , and o th ers 
on the south side. 
There were yellow ribbons tied to the 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
2 
center's doors and the iron railing along the steps. Obviously, 
the ribbons were for the United States soldiers sent to war in 
the Persian Gulf. 
Since January 15, when George Bush initiated 
war, many Americans have used yellow ribbons as a symbol of their 
supports for the troops and for their patriotism. 
Gen Archuletta had told me that this year's Saint Joseph's Day 
Table was dedicated to people who had family members in the Gulf, 
and in the military in general. 
When she had told me this on the 
phone, I experienced a bit of anxiousness. 
I try to stay clear 
of controversial subjects while doing fieldwork; if I do not 
agree with someone I ignore their statements. 
In the past, I 
have had to deal with racists and, in 1988, people who were 
opposed to allowing the burning of the flag while I believe it is 
permissible because it is unconstitutional to limit freedom of 
expression. 
I find racists particularly offensive and have given 
much thought about the best way to respond to racist statements 
when I do fieldwork, when I often am a representative of an 
organization whose aegis has often give me access to the racist's 
home. 
And now I had to face a potentially awkward situation. 
I 
personally opposed Bush's decision to use warfare as a solution 
to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait--two wrongs don't make a right. 
Bush's strategy was the latest example of a manipulative and 
exploitative American foreign policy characterized by and/or 
justified with exaggeration, deceit, double standards, 
misinformation, racism, patriotism and greed. And I knew that 
people who felt as I did had been generally and wrongly 
characterized as not supporting the troops. 
Nothing could be 
further than the truth. 
I desired with all my heart that every 
soldier--from the United States, Europe, Mexico, Kuwait, Iraq, 
Saudi Arabia, Israel and every other place involved --be safe. 
And I wished the same for all civilians in the area. 
All these thoughts went through my mind as I parked the car and 
walked toward the parish center. 
As I reached the closed doors, 
a man was coming out. 
He wore a sports jacket and a hat, was 
very fair-skinned and had blue-green eyes. 
I correctly guessed 
he was William Doll, the priest at Holy Rosary. 
I introduced 
myself--we had spoken on the phone and had set up an interview 
for March 20, two days later. 
He was off to attend a meeting at 
the Diocese; a meeting in preparation for the upcoming Easter 
celebrations. 
I walked in and saw the beginnings of the Saint Joseph's Day 
Table set up at the far end, the west end, of the center. 
A 
statue approximately three feet high stood in the center of the 
table. 
There was a cross behind the table. 
There were a few 
cakes on the tiered table, along with wood stands which hold the 
special Saint Joseph's Day breads, and three cut-dough, fig-
filled ornaments: a Sacred Heart, Cross and the Monstrance. 
(Gen 
IAW-PM-FO31891.B - 
3 
Archuletta had told me she had these when I interviewed her in 
July 1990; at that time, she couldn't remember the name of the 
person who gave them to her.) 
The parish center was open this evening so people could bring 
more donated items for the table. 
I myself had stopped at the 
grocery store to buy eggplants, onions, tomatoes and broccoli to 
contribute. 
As I neared the table, I immediately recognized Gen Archuletta, 
the woman who organizes the event with the assistance of others 
from the church. 
She was dressed casually in slacks, blouse, a 
sweater, and a blue bandanna covering curlers in her hair. 
I 
immediately went to greet her, and she seemed very excited to see 
me. 
She introduced me to several people who were there helping. 
There were maybe 10 men and women in the center. 
Gen Archuletta introduced me as the lady from the Library of 
Congress; I had come to attend the Saint Joseph's Day Table for 
the library, who was interested in their table event. 
Gen 
Archuletta told the others this with pride, and everyone seemed 
somewhat impressed. 
When I had called Gen to confirm this second 
trip to Pueblo, she had told me that she had told everyone I was 
coming, and "the people" were waiting to meet me. 
Some of the people who were helping Gen that evening, and whom I 
met and took pictures of were: 
Name 
Joe Sandoval (left) 
Pete Jimenez (right) 
Delia Benavidaz 
Amelia Valdez (1) 
Gen Archuletta (r) 
Leo Jiron (1) 
Joe Benavidaz (c) 
Joe Sandoval (r) 
Yvonne Baca (1) 
Lillian Flores (c) 
Gen Archuletta (r) 
Back: 
Yvonne Baca 
Rufina Baca 
Eva Cordova 
Front: 
(1) 
(c) 
(r) 
Photo 
IAW-PM-BO10-12 
IAW-PM-BO10-13, 15-16 
IAW-PM-BO10-17, 18 
IAW-PM-BO10-19, 20 
IAW-PM-BO10-21 
IAW-PM-BO10-24 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
4 
Gen Archuletta 
Yvonne Baca 
IAW-PM-B010-25, 28, 29 
Eva Cordova 
IAW-PM-B010-26, 27 
Joe and Delia Benavidaz are husband and wife. 
Joe made the cross 
that stands above the table, and built the furniture (table). 
He 
had "worked in lumber" for a living. 
Gen Archuletta introduced Lillian Flores as her best friend; 
Lillian is a member of the Altar Society, the group which 
sponsors the table and which makes decisions concerning who to 
whom the table will be dedicated. 
This year they chose people 
who had family in the military. 
Amelia Valdez is president of the Altar Society. 
Leo Jiron is the church's custodian. 
Joe Sandoval does the electrical work for church activities. 
Joe Baca does carpentry work for the church. He made the wooden 
stands which hold the Saint Joseph's Day breads. 
His wife is 
Rufina and his daughter is Yvonne. 
By about 6:00 pm there are 15-20 people in the parish hall. 
Most 
of them are women, except for four men and two boys. 
The men 
(Pete Jimenez, Joe Baca, Joe Sandoval and Leo Jiron) generally 
stay together. 
They speak mostly in Spanish but do engage in 
code-switching to English. 
The women are decorating the altar; they ask Gen Archuletta about 
the placement of objects when they are unsure. 
Gen said she 
ordered 12 breads for the altar, and other people also ordered 
some for themselves. 
Some women are working in the kitchen covering plates with paper 
doilies. They are also code-switching between English and 
Spanish, and conversing about the food, which plates to use, etc. 
The kitchen is located to the left of the wall where the altar 
is. 
A large service window/counter divides the kitchen from the 
parish hall. 
As a side note, it would be an interesting sociolinguistic study 
to analyze the code-switching and, from a historical perspective, 
the development of the Spanish in the area. 
I did notice that 
the Spanish was very easy for me to understand, as opposed to the 
Tejano Spanish I hear in Austin and in South Texas. 
I don't 
doubt that scholars have investigated Colorado-New Mexico Spanish 
from both the historical and sociolinguistic perspectives. 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
5 
Gen Archuletta introduces me to everyone as from the Library of 
Congress. 
Three or four times she tells the story of what had 
happened to Father William Doll the night before at a gathering 
of priests. 
The other priests were teasing him because they have 
a Saint Joseph's Day table at Holy Rosary. 
They said the Mafia 
might get him (for allowing this). 
Gen said she told Father 
Doll, when he recounted this story, that "He should have said, 
'We're small but we're in the Library of Congress." 
I chat with Gen a bit. 
She says there is no meat allowed on the 
table. 
And that Father Doll will bless the table and the bread, 
and slice it for the people sitting at the special table. 
These 
are people who have children or spouses in 'la armada' (the 
military), not just in the Persian Gulf. 
She tells me that the first year she had as table she had it in 
her home; then she moved it to the church, where they held the 
event in the basement. 
Gen had made the first cross they used 
out of cardboard with tissue flowers because they didn't have 
enough money for real flowers. 
A few other people later 
mentioned that the first year it was held in the church 
basement. 
As we are talking, two women enter from the back door, to the 
right of the kitchen. 
They are greeted by some of the women, 
including Gen, who introduces me. 
We help them carry in plates 
of cookies from their car. 
They are parishioners at Saint 
Leander Church, and they donate cookies every year to the table. 
They are Bessie Belitti (Theresa Spiccola had mentioned her as an 
Italian woman who helps with the Holy Rosary table every year), 
and Lita Mondragon, a Hispanic woman. 
There are pizzelle, 
Italian anise cookies, among the plates of cookies they have 
brought for the table. 
Bessie Belitti and Lita Mondragon both are older women (perhaps 
in their 60s or 70'), they are both short and plump, wear similar 
dresses, and wear their hair pulled back and pinned up. 
To me, 
they seemed like sisters. 
They don't stay long at all; just 
bring in the cookies, exchange greetings and leave. 
I talk to Lillian Flores and Eva Cordova about the Saint Joseph's 
Day tradition. 
I ask, "What do you think about this being a 
Sicilian tradition?" 
Lillian answers, "I think it is great we 
can borrow other traditions and make them ours. 
And Saint Joseph 
is for everyone. He is popular with Hispanics, like the Virgin of 
Guadalupe." 
I ask if the Holy Family is popular with Hispanics. 
She answers affirmatively. 
I then explain the Italian-Americans in the West project, and my 
thesis, to them. 
I tell them I was happy to hear that Hispanics 
had borrowed the tradition from Sicilians--that Mexican Americans 
and Italian Americans are my two favorite ethnic groups. 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
6 
Eva Cordova says, "Well, they are similar in some ways." 
I ask, 
"The language, religion?" 
They say yes. 
(Of course, I should 
have asked them in what ways they thought they were similar 
instead of offering my opinion!) 
As we admire the breads, Eva Cordova says that some people order 
extra Saint Joseph's Day breads for home; they cost $2.50 each. 
Continuing to talk to people in attendance, I am with Gen 
Archuletta who tells me that Leo Jiron has participated since she 
started the tradition the first year at her house. 
I ask Gen about the three cut-dough, fig-filled pastry figures. 
There are a heart, cross, chalice (or monstrance?), hand holding 
a rosary, and little doves (or peacocks?). 
She said someone from 
Saint Joseph's Church gave them to her about 15 years ago. 
She 
says she has a file with all the information she has gathered 
over the years on the Saint Joseph's Day table tradition. 
The statue of Saint Joseph on the altar belongs to Mr. and Mrs. 
Ruben Martinez. 
Asking more about the schedule for tomorrow, she says four women 
will make up little plates with food from the altar to distribute 
to everyone. 
The people seated at the main table (people with 
family in the military) go first. 
On the side table there will 
be the pot luck dishes, served buffet-style. 
Gen has a list of people who donate certain items (e.g. lamb 
cake, heart cake). Father Doll donates the lilies. 
Some of the 
people who donate cakes take them home uncut after the event so 
they can use them for Palm Sunday, birthdays, etc. 
Note: as far as I know, this is something which is not done at 
home altars among Sicilian/Italian Americans. 
All food from the 
altar is to be served to people who represent saints, or given to 
them to take home, or distributed to the helpers; any left over 
food from the altar is given to charitable groups. 
No one gets 
back food they have donated. 
I take more photos and chat with the various people milling about 
or working. 
One woman tells me that at the Shrine of Saint 
Therese (the other local church which annually sponsors a Saint 
Joseph's Day table), they have "stem ware, linen, fancier stuff. 
But here it's more for the people." 
I sensed some competition, 
as I have before with other people who make tables in Pueblo and 
Texas. 
And Pamela K. Quaggiotto discusses such rivalries in her 
anthropology dissertation "Altars of Food to Saint Joseph: 
Women's Ritual in Sicily" (Columbia University 1988). 
I believe 
Suzy Seriff and Kay Turner also encountered this while doing 
research on the tradition in central Texas. 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
7 
I told the woman I was going to go to Saint Therese for a while 
tomorrow, but added I would spend most of the day here. 
Sensing 
she is slightly disappointed, or perhaps that she regrets or is 
embarrassed at her criticism of that table, I told her I had 
interviewed in the summer the three women who organize the Saint 
Therese event, and I wanted to see that table too. 
I then took some photographs of other religious images in the 
parish center. 
There is a framed image of Our Lady of Guadalupe 
on the wall opposite the table. 
It is made of pieces of wood, 
and was made by Gen Archuletta's cousin Wayne Guitterez. 
There is a statue of Jesus with the Sacred Heart in the corner 
next to the wood Virgin of Guadalupe. 
There is a statue of Our 
Lady of the Holy Rosary in the opposite corner. 
Some of the men 
present said that October 7 is the Feast of Our Lady of the Holy 
Rosary, and they have a Fall Festival to commemorate the day. 
However, it is now held in July, and is a fund-raising event. 
I ask a lady if the church does anything special for December 12, 
the Feast Day of Our Lady of Guadalupe. 
She says they bring 
roses to the Cathedral (in Pueblo). 
Also, in October the statue of the Blessed Virgin is used for 
Rosary Sunday, in a procession at the amphitheater at the State 
Fairgrounds (in Pueblo). 
In November, the church has an annual fund-raiser Mexican 
dinner. 
Joe Benavidaz introduces me to his daughter-in-law, who is from 
Korea. 
Her husband is in the military, and the family will sit 
at the special table for people wit family in the military. 
She 
is with her in-laws to help with the table. 
I left the parish hall at about 7:30 pm. 
It was basically they 
same people there from 5 pm until I left. 
Others would come in 
every once in a while. 
I had problems with the latch on one of the cameras in which I 
had loaded film for color slides. 
Also, I very much needed a 
flash since all the photos were inside with artificial lighting. 
Things I noted: 
Lots of code-switching between Spanish and English. 
Women often called each other 'madrina' (this more or less means 
god-mother, or sponsor). 
Gen Archuletta was very much in charge of the event. 
However, 
many people are helping her and she gratefully acknowledges their 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
8 
assistance. 
Gen said people will bring more food for the altar tomorrow, as 
well as covered dishes for the buffet. 
Someone mentioned they 
expected about 100 people for dinner tomorrow. 
I thought the table was very pretty. 
However, it lacked the 
sense of abundance so typical of the Sicilian American home 
tables. 
I wondered how much more food would be added tomorrow. 
I noted things on the table that are typical of tables held in 
Sicilian American homes in Pueblo: 
a baked fish 
the cut-dough, fig filled chalice, cross, and heart, doves, hand 
with rosary 
round Saint Joseph's Day breads 
the statue of Saint Joseph 
candles 
lilies (artificial here but usually real on home tables) 
fruits 
uncooked vegetables (I had donated most of them) 
cookies (although the only type of Italian cookie present were 
the pizzelle brought by Bessie Belitti and Lita Mondragon) 
lamb cake 
Bible cake 
a symmetrical presentation 
a colorful presentation 
bowl for donations 
pop bottles of with red water or soda--I believe these were 
often 
part of older tables 
wine bottles (but with a special blessed wine, or water?) 
I also noted things which were missing or different: 
dried pasta 
sprouted wheat 
cooked vegetable dishes 
an abundant presentation 
fresh lilies 
frittate (vegetable omelets) 
meat would be served from the buffet table (traditionally no meat 
is allowed) 
families take home cakes they have donated 
no one representing saints 
I would return tomorrow morning. I planned to stay most of the 
day at the Holy Rosary table, although I did want to go to see 
another parish table, the one at the Shrine of Saint Therese. 
I also wanted to find a flash for the camera. 
IAW-PM-F031891.B - 
9 
Document: IAW-PM-F031991.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informant/Event: Holy Rosary Church: Saint Joseph's Day 
activities 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031991.A 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informants/Event: Holy Rosary Church/Saint Joseph's Day Table 
Activities 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I arrived at the Holy Rosary Church before 9:00 am. 
The parish 
hall will be open from 9-5 for people to bring donations to the 
table, and to view the table. 
Father Doll would give the 6 pm 
mass, which would be immediately followed by the blessing of the 
bread and table, then the pot luck dinner. 
As I entered the hall, I again met Father Doll at the threshold 
as he was leaving, just as I did yesterday. 
We briefly commented 
on the beauty of the table. 
He said most homes in the parish are 
too small to have a home table. 
I told him Gen Archuletta had 
told me his colleagues had teased him about having a table; I 
said I would ask him to recount the story during our taped 
interview, scheduled tomorrow. 
He laughed about the teasing he 
had received. 
I went into the parish hall to greet everyone. 
Gen Archuletta 
was there with Eva Cordova, Guadalupe 'Jessie' Maestas, and 
Carmen Jimenez. 
I gave Gen a copy of an article on Saint Joseph's Day from a new 
cookbook called Celebrating Italy (by Carol Field, William Morrow 
and Company, Inc., New York: 1990, pp. 392-405). I know she 
collects information about the tradition, and thought she would 
like to add this to her files. 
She said she knows a lot about Saint Joseph's Day. 
She again 
mentions that she had files on it (she had said this yesterday 
too). 
She said she knows about the breadcrumbs, vegetable 
omelets and "a lot about the details" of the tradition. 
I told Gen I was going to take some pictures of the church from 
IAW-PM-F031991.A - 
2 
the outside. 
I took several of the church, parish center and 
grounds. 
See Color Slides IAW-PM-0006-1 through 19. 
In the church, I noted that besides the statues of Our Lady of 
the Holy Rosary and Jesus of the Sacred Heart, and besides the 
carved wood image of Our Lady of Guadalupe, there was a picture 
of Pope John Paul II, a cross on the wall, and six paintings by 
Amado Pena, the internationally known artist from Texas. 
At about 9:15, three people came to view the table, the first 
visitors. 
They were Joe and Vera Pisciotta, and their cousin 
Frances, all Italian Americans. They introduced themselves to Gen 
and myself. I asked if they knew about the Italian-Americans in 
the West project, since it seemed to me that Paola Tavarelli had 
interviewed some people named Pisciotta during the summer of 1990 
when the research team came to Pueblo. 
They had heard of the 
project, but were not interviewed. 
They said that they had come to see the table at the Holy Rosary 
last year too. 
They said they thought the table was very 
beautiful. 
Joe Pisciotta told us about how they used to reenact 
Mary and Joseph's search for the inn as part of the Saint 
Joseph's Day events. 
He also talked about the thirteen people 
chosen to represent saints at the table. 
He referred to these 
things as components of "the real Sicilian tradition." 
After they left, I asked Gen Archuletta how she had first heard 
about the table. 
We were sitting around a table in the kitchen 
with Jessie Maestas and Carmen Jimenez. 
She said she had heard 
about it, and thought it wonderful. 
But she wondered what she 
would tell the people about it. 
She made a promise to Saint 
Joseph that if all went well at her first table, she would do it 
for the rest of her life. 
She said she asked Richard Vigil to 
carry on the tradition after she is gone, and to dedicate the 
table to her. 
When Gen first heard of the tradition, she was a bookkeeper at 
Martin's Clothiers (where she worked for 31 years). 
She asked a 
customer who she knew, Al Mendecillo, what he would think if she 
did a table. 
He said he thought it was great, and told her to 
call his mother-in-law, Bessie Ingo, for details. 
The first table was dedicated to Robert Gomez, who suffered a 
crushed skull in a car accident, which left him crippled. 
Gen 
describes him as a loving, good person; and she decided he 
deserved to have a table dedicated to him. 
About 65 people came 
to her home, where she held the first table. 
They received 
communion there from Father Walter Schneigel, then the priest at 
Holy Rosary. 
Gen Archuletta said she has always prayed to Saint Joseph, and 
used to do the novena. 
She had read about the table tradition. 
IAW-PM-F031991.A - 
3 
She says, "God must have been telling her to do a table." 
But 
she hesitated because she didn't know how to do it. 
So she asked 
Al Mendecillo. 
I started to ask if she hesitated at all "because 
it was" ... she interrupted, "Because it was Sicilian?" "No," she 
responded when I nodded. 
Gen had also talked to some people out in the "Lanes" (the county 
lanes on the Mesa, Saint Charles Mesa, east of town) to find out 
about the table tradition. 
Jessie Maestas and Carmen Jimenez are members of the church's 
Altar Society, who helped Gen put together the table the first 
year. 
Also with us at the table is Carmen Guerrero, who belongs 
to both Saint Anne's Church, which she joined after she had to 
move after her husband's death, and to Holy Rosary which she had 
joined after her marriage. 
Carmen Jimenez and Jessie Maestas are sisters. 
Carmen tells a 
story of finding a bunch of quarters when she needed money for 
food. 
She had left the house with her sister without having 
eaten breakfast, and with no money for lunch, but had prayed. 
She found the quarters where she got out of the car. 
Carmen said she recently saw the figure of Jesus while she was 
napping on the couch at home. 
He held out her make up purse 
where she keeps little prayer books. 
She took this as a sign to 
keep spreading the word of Jesus through a religious groups she 
had joined; she had got the prayer books from them. 
They are looking at me while I take notes, but don't say 
anything. 
However, I tell them that I write things down for the 
IAW project, and I think their stories are important because they 
show how devout they all are. 
Connie Guerrero recounts another story of answered prayers. 
Connie said her daughter came home day and said she wanted to go 
on a trip to Washington, D.C. with her church group, and friends 
in the group. 
Connie had to do some juggling of their finances 
to cover the cost of the trip, all the while praying that a 
certain check would arrive in time. 
It did. She says, "Prayer is 
our life." 
They are all involved in lots of church work. 
Connie 
is from Leon, Guanajuato, Mexico. 
On the trip to Washington, 
D.C., Connie's daughter had visited the Library of Congress. 
I tell her and the others I was in Guanajuato in December, and 
that I was at the National Basilica in Mexico City for the Feast 
Day of the Virgin of Guadalupe. 
I ask if they do anything 
special for the virgin's feast day. 
They said that Holy Rosary 
doesn't do anything, that everyone celebrates at the Cathedral; 
and that the Feast Day of Our Lady of Guadalupe is "the Bishop's 
baby." 
Carmen says they should do something, mariachis or 
something like that. 
Standing near us was a young woman (whose 
IAW-PM-F031991.A - 
4 
name I failed to record). 
She seemed to know some of the women, 
and I had noticed her looking at the table before. 
As we were talking some people came to view the table. Connie 
Guerrero went out to greet them, and then called to me. 
It was 
Theresa Spicola, who I had interviewed the day before. 
She had a 
friend and her two grandchildren with her. 
I introduced 
everyone. 
Theresa admired the table, and thought it was very beautiful. 
She said one thing that they needed is the frittate, or vegetable 
omelets. 
She said that next year, if she's alive, she will help 
them with the frittate. 
Gen told her the story of ordering the Saint Joseph's Day breads 
in advance, and then the bakery went out of business. 
So she had 
to find another bakery where they would make the bread using 
photographs as a guide. 
Theresa said she would have made them if 
she had known. 
Theresa told a story of a cousin who wasn't Catholic, and who 
liked to fish. 
He used to give her a fish he had caught for 
Saint Joseph's Day. 
As he cast his line he would always say, 
"Saint Anthony get me a big fish. 
It's for you." 
Theresa said 
he always got a big fish, and she would put it on the table. 
The point of the story, I believe, that not being Catholic, he 
got Saint Joseph and Saint Anthony mixed up; and even though he 
wasn't Catholic he'd help with the table. 
Gen Archuletta tells 
Theresa she knows sprouted wheat goes on the table too. 
Theresa 
says they also need real lilies. 
As she is leaving, she tells Connie Guerrero that it would be 
nice to have sardines and oranges too. 
She said they should have 
them on the altar, and they should be the first things the 
"saints" (the people who portray the saints) eat. 
I ask, "Why 
sardines and oranges?" 
Immediately and simultaneously, Theresa 
Spiccola and Connie Guerrero say, "For the bitter and the sweet 
of life." 
And Connie adds, "Just like the Jews." 
She tells us 
she works at a synagogue part-time; she does some of their 
cooking for the High Holidays. 
She describes the synagogue's 
kosher kitchen, and says she has worked there so long that they 
don't worry at all when she's in the kitchen. 
As I walk Theresa to the door, I tell her I think that Gen 
Archuletta knows a lot about the tradition and all of the things 
which usually go on a table. She asks me why they don't do them. 
I say that I think because they don't necessarily know how to do 
them, or they can't afford to do them, and that they don't feel 
they have to do everything the same way. 
She says that she'll 
help them next year with the frittate. 
At about 11:00 am, I leave to look for a flash and visit the 
IAW-PM-F031991.A - 
5 
table at the Shrine of Saint Therese. 
I first stop to eat lunch 
at Martinez' Cafe, and to be alone so I can write up some more 
notes. 
Laura, co-owner of the cafe, told me that tomorrow is 
the grand opening of the new soup kitchen, where she did 
volunteer work. 
We talked briefly of the stereotypes people have 
of the homeless--that they are all drunks--and why some people 
don't want a soup kitchen. 
She told me the bishop is strongly 
involved in the kitchen. 
I believe this is the same soup kitchen 
which will receive some leftovers from the Saint Joseph's Day 
table at the Holy Rosary Church. 
When I was sitting in the kitchen with Gen, Carmen, Jessie and 
Connie, they had asked me what will happen to the photos I took, 
and all the notes I was making. 
I told them that everything will 
be deposited in the Library of Congress, in the files of the 
Italian-Americans in the West project. 
They had asked me, "Where 
do we fit in?" 
I responded, "You'll have your own file in the 
IAW files. 
No culture is isolated anymore, and the fact that 
Hispanics have adopted an Italian tradition fits in with the IAW 
project." 
Gen would like copies of photographs, and said some people had 
told her that I took their pictures too, and they'd like copies. 
I told her I wasn't a great photographer, and I was having 
problems with the low light in the center, but that the Library 
of Congress would send them copies of the photos that came out 
well. 
After lunch, I drove to the Shrine of Saint Therese, the other 
church which annually sponsors a Saint Joseph's Day Table. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031991.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informant/Event: Shrine of Saint Theresa: Saint Joseph's Day 
activities 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031991.B 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informants/Event: The Shrine of Saint Therese/Saint Joseph's Day 
Table Activities 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
There were a lot of cars in the church's parking lot. 
The Shrine 
of Saint Therese is located in what Dick Fairchild referred to as 
a richer part of town compared to the Hyde Park area and, he 
said, it is a richer parish. 
There are three women who are the principle organizers of this 
table: Louise Williams, Eve Taravella and Dorothy Zanini. 
Please 
see my fieldnotes and interviews from July 1990, when I 
interviewed them at the Taravella home. 
I remember that they began having a table about six years ago, at 
the prompting of a Sicilian Puebloan man (Mr. Pagano) who attends 
the church. 
Neither woman is Sicilian American; Louise and Eve 
are Italian Americans married to Sicilian American men; Dorothy 
is married to an Italian American. 
They said there are people of 
different ethnicities at Saint Therese. 
I walk up a short flight of stairs and glimpse the table through 
the doorway. 
It is quite beautiful and very abundantly laden 
with a variety of Sicilian/Italian foods. 
There are several 
types of Italian foods: frittate, various traditional cookies, 
cooked vegetable dishes, crystal decanters with red wine, Saint 
Joseph's Day breads, and three decorated fish. 
The table is in a small room with only about five feet of space 
on two sides, and a bit bigger space to the front. 
There are 
about six people in the room. 
Although there are only small 
windows along the top of two walls, the room is bright due to 
white walls and ceilings and good lighting. 
They have a guest book set up for signatures, and a handout 
explaining the Sicilian origins of the tradition, some of Saint 
Joseph's attributes, and an invitation to "parishes of other 
IAW-PM-F031991.B - 
2 
ethnic origins ... to observe or adopt this practice" (see IAW 
archives). 
I quickly notice a young woman who I had seen earlier at the Holy 
Rosary Church. 
I introduce myself to her; she also remembers me 
from earlier. 
She says to me, "Now, I don't want to knock the 
other table--but this one is like it should be done." 
Although I 
did not ask her, I know she means that it is more abundant and 
that it has more traditional foods. 
In fact, to me--and I 
believe to her--the difference between the two tables is quite 
marked. 
(Note: I would like to add here that when I showed photographs 
and slides of the two tables to friends in Austin, they all 
commented on the difference. 
One woman, Dr. Suzannne Seriff, who 
had researched the tradition in Bryan, Texas, stated that the 
table at Saint Therese was clearly of the type she had seen in 
the homes of Sicilian Texans.) 
As I walked in, I immediately saw a short, older blond woman. 
I 
couldn't figure out if she was Louise Williams or not, so finally 
I asked her. 
I didn't think so, but she resembled her so 
strongly that I wasn't sure. She was not; her name is Frances 
Concialdi, who resembles Louise. 
As a matter of fact, I believe that I incorrectly identified her 
as Louise on the video tape I obtained for the IAW last year; the 
video tape was of the Martellaro table with a few shots of the 
Saint Therese table; the videographer was Bob Van Alstyne (see 
IAW archives). 
This year, as well as on the videotape, Frances 
seems to be the official hostess; she greets everyone, chats 
amiably, and holds onto a large purse. 
This very image sticks in 
my mind from the video. 
Anyway, she directs me around the corner to the kitchen, where 
Louise, Dorothy and Eve are working along side two other women. 
The small of tomato sauce comes from a huge pot on the stove; 
they are also cooking the meatless meatballs to be served later. 
For now, people are invited to have cookies and coffee. 
I 
believe I forgot to mention that they also are serving coffee and 
cookies at the Holy Rosary church. 
The three women are excited to see me, and come out into the room 
where the table is. 
I chat with them for a while, then they go 
back to work. 
I meet John Taravella, Eve's husband, who laments 
the fact that I did not interview him for the IAW project. I 
diplomatically offer to due so the next afternoon. 
I stay at the church for an hour and a half or so, taking photos 
and talking with some of the people in attendance. Shortly after 
my arrival Ann Massarotti arrives; I had also interviewed her for 
the IAW project. 
Her family has been involved in Saint Joseph's 
IAW-PM-F031991.B - 
3 
Day tables for many years. 
As a matter of fact, it is Ann 
Massarotti's sister, Bessie Ingo, to whom Gen Archuletta went for 
information about the tradition. (See IAW archives for Massarotti 
and Bessie Ingo, 1990; and IAW-PM-F0319.91A). 
Other people who I meet while at Saint Therese: Liz and Tony 
Cortese; Joe Zanini; Betty and PC Vitale; Virginia Dell; Carmela 
Farbo; and Dora Cacciavillani. 
Many others came in while I was 
there. 
I listened to conversations and noted that the discourse at the 
table was marked by remembrances of past Saint Joseph's Day 
tables people had organized and/or attended; by pointing out 
dishes or baked goods individuals had made; by the discussion of 
recipes, and how individuals made the same dishes; by comparing 
various tables or dishes. 
Also, the atmosphere seemed more festive. 
People visited with 
each other, chatted around the table and in the room where they 
served coffee and sweets. 
And there were more people there on a 
continual basis. 
I noted these elements, some of which are definitely Sicilian 
and/or Italian in origin, and others which stood out in contrast 
to the table at Holy Rosary: 
Plates of fine china and crystal wine decanters (recalling that 
Gen Archuletta had commented on these types of things) 
A very abundant presentation of foods vs. Holy Rosary (over-
flowing fruit bowls, more cakes, more cookies, pies, 
several frittate, several vegetable dishes, etc.) 
Not only more foods, but more kinds within categories (e.g. more 
types of cookies; a variety of cooked vegetable dishes; 
three fish and seafood) 
More types of Sicilian/Italian foods: several types of frittate; 
fava beans prepared in at least two different ways; bread 
bread balls; pignolati, breadcrumbs; carduni; three fish; 
a plate of shellfish (shrimp, crab, stuffed clam shells); 
pizzelle; skeleton cookies; other Italian cookies, dried 
spaghetti 
No meat on the table nor to be served in the buffet 
Serving of meatless meatballs, or bread balls, for the buffet 
More varied display styles (plates placed on pedestals at 
various 
heights; table has higher tiers; table extends out front) 
IAW-PM-F031991.B - 
4 
More attention to detailed decorations (flowers pinned to table 
cloths at even intervals; ribbons; baskets) 
Two lamb cakes 
Bible cake 
Cross cake 
Breads shaped like baskets and artichokes, some set with 
hardboiled eggs 
They also have a bowl set out for donations. 
Collected monies 
will be given to the priest who gives it at his discretion to 
needy people who come to him. 
They give the food on the table to elderly or ill persons who are 
"shut-ins," as Louise Williams calls them. 
Many are parishioners 
at the church; and they get their names from other parishioners 
and from the church secretary, Carmela Farbo, who refers to a 
list of people who receive communion at home, or in nursing 
homes. 
My general impressions of this table was that its form was more 
consistent with the home tables, although there is also some 
variation in tables, both from family to family, and from year to 
year within the same family. 
Its continuity stems from the 
particular foods served and displayed; the quantity and variety 
of foods; the very abundant display; and the use of one's finest 
wares (china, crystal, etc). 
I left about 2:00 pm. 
On the way back to Holy Rosary, I stopped 
at a photo shop and called a few others to see if anyone would 
let me rent a flash. No one would. 
I had briefly stopped in to 
see Phyllis Fairchild at her bookstore, Tumbleweed Used Books, 
and to share with her a plate of sweets and bread balls in a 
tomato sauce that Louise Williams had given me. 
Everything was 
delicious. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031991.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informant/Event: Holy Rosary Church; Shrine of Saint Theresa 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031991.0 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informants/Event: Holy Rosary Church; The Shrine of Saint 
Therese/Saint Joseph's Day Table Activities 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I returned to Holy Rosary about 2:45 pm. 
As I pulled in the 
parking lot, I again saw Father Doll. 
I told him I had been to 
Saint Therese, and I had unsuccessfully look for a flash. 
He 
said to me, "Did you ask anyone here if they had a flash, or 
knows some one who does?" 
I said, "No, I didn't ask, but 
people 
know I'd like a flash." 
He responded, "Well, all you have to do 
is ask. 
After all, it's Saint Joseph's Day." 
This meant, of 
course, that Saint Joseph would assist me. 
He accompanied me into the center, went into the kitchen, and 
says, "Paula needs a flash. 
Does anyone here know where she can 
get one?" 
Gen Archuletta called a nephew who lives close by; I 
drove to his house to borrow the flash. 
When I returned to the church, I saw a lady I had met at Saint 
Therese. 
She was with two female friends. 
I greeted them, and 
introduced them to a woman from Holy Rosary who stood also 
admiring the table. 
They had decided to visit the Holy Rosary 
table, something they had been meaning to do for a few years, but 
this was the first year they had taken out the time to do so 
(they help with the Saint Therese table). 
They told us that the 
table was beautiful. 
I told everyone I had met the women who organize the Saint 
Therese table in the summer, when I interviewed them about the 
table for the IAW project. 
A woman who is a parishioner at Holy 
Rosary said she knows one of the organizers but had never seen 
that table. 
The woman from Saint Therese told her she should go 
to the church to see it. 
She agreed, and I drove her over 
shortly after the three women left. 
On the drive, she told me how she knows the woman from Saint 
Therese; she thought she was very nice. 
We also chatted about 
IAW-PM-F031991.0 - 
2 
various church activities, and her family. 
She also told me her 
daughter loves spaghetti, and that they joke that she must be 
part Italian. 
When we pulled into the parking lot, she spotted her husband's 
truck. 
We entered the room where the table was set up, and stood 
at the front admiring everything. 
I pointed out the frittate 
(vegetable omelets) and the dishes made with fava beans. 
We 
admired a plate of seafood and the three platters each holding a 
large whole fish. 
At some point she left briefly to find her husband. 
They 
returned, joking about how she could always find him. 
We saw the 
women who had visited the Holy Rosary table. 
They talked and the 
visitor (from Holy Rosary) said the Saint Therese table was 
beautiful. 
She said the Holy Rosary table was a lot like it. 
She noted that they too had fish and cookies, and that they had 
the fig-filled, cut-dough Cross, Heart and Chalice. 
Someone from 
Saint Therese commented that that was one thing they didn't have. 
After about 15 minutes, the visitor said she was ready to go. 
On the way back, she commented that it was a beautiful table. 
I 
said that although I couldn't remember all the names of the 
cookies, lots of them were Italian. 
I again mentioned the 
frittate and the fava beans. 
I told her that people in Dallas 
and Bryan, Texas, give out dried fava beans to people who attend 
the Saint Joseph's Day Table; they believe the beans bring good 
luck and insure you will never run out of money. 
I told her I 
always carry one with me. 
When we arrived back at Holy Rosary, she reported that it was a 
beautiful table--and that, "They don't have anything that we 
don't have." 
She said that they didn't have as many Saint 
Joseph's Day breads, nor the fig-filled Cross, Chalice and Heart. 
Note: 
I thought the statement "They don't have anything we don't 
have," was very interesting, since there were several items on 
the Saint Therese which were not present at the Holy Rosary 
table. 
For example, the frittate which I had specifically 
pointed out to the Holy Rosary visitor at Saint Therese. 
I had 
also pointed out the fava beans, and some cookies. 
The visiting 
woman herself commented on the seafood and three fish. 
I thought 
of yesterday when another lady commented on the fanciness of the 
Saint Therese table, while the Holy Rosary table was more "for 
the people." 
I deduced that a bit of friendly rivalry was going 
on, and that it was based on a difference in economic status. 
As 
mentioned in the notes I took on my first visit to Saint Therese, 
I also sensed a bit of friendly rivalry in the general commentary 
overheard at that table event--how one person did something 
versus someone else, etc. 
Shortly after returning to Holy Rosary, I again left, this time 
IAW-PM-F031991.0 - 
3 
to buy some soda at a nearby convenience store. 
Gen Archuletta 
had an upset stomach from drinking so much coffee, and had been 
looking for the soda, the last glass of which I had drunk 
earlier. 
When I returned from the store, I took some more 
photos. 
With a flash I was able to get some of women working in 
the kitchen (which was darker than the room where the table was): 
Gen Archuletta, Connie Guerrero, Amelia Valdez, and Rita 
LiVecchi. 
I asked Rita about her Italian surname. 
She said her 
husband, who was Mexican, had been adopted by an Italian family. 
I took note of the photographs which were on the table, some had 
been there earlier while others were newly added. They were all 
of women and men in the military. 
One photo was of Virginia 
Herrera. 
Another had a large photo of Anthony Gagliardo in the 
center surrounded by smaller pictures of Michael Gagliardo, 
Senior; Michael Gagliardo, Junior; Pete Rodriquez; and another 
smaller photo of Anthony Gagliardo. 
Note: Notice the surnames of the family listed above. Gagliardo 
is an Italian name, and Rodriquez is Hispanic. 
On the right side of the table are photos of Melissa Jerome, a 
niece of Connie Guerrero, and of Ronald Benavidaz, the son of 
Delia and Joe Benavidaz. 
Other photos are of Danny Montoya, Joe Albert Flores (the son of 
Lillian Flores), and of Chris Valdez (with the crew cut). 
At a few minutes before six, people started to leave the hall to 
go to the church to attend mass. 
I walked with Gen Archuletta 
the short distance to the church, she said to me as she looked at 
everyone going to mass, "See, this is what it is all about." 
Document: IAW-PM-F031991.D 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informant/Event: Holy Rosary Church: Saint Joseph's Day Mass 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031991.D 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informants/Event: Holy Rosary Church/Saint Joseph's Day Mass 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
Holy Rosary Church is very pretty. 
The outside is of stucco and 
there is a lot of wood on the inside. 
As we entered, a man gave everyone a hand-out with the words of a 
song, Glorioso San Jose: 
Glorioso San Jose! Patron de los obreros, 
Obten por nosotros las gracias espiritual. 
Glorioso San Jose! Ensenanos a amar, 
Ensenanos a querer, como Dios nos enseno. 
Coro: 
San Jose el mas justo, San Jose el mas puro, 
San Jose el mas obediente, 
Ensenanos a ser pacientes. 
Glorioso San Jose! Protector de la familia, 
Ensenanos repeto ya ser buenos servidores. 
Glorioso San Jose! Con gozo to imploramos, 
Que mandes tus benediciones 
A nosotros todos los fieles. 
I sat next to Gen Archuletta; Rufina Baca was next to her. 
In 
front of us was Gen's sister (need to check her name). 
I 
estimated about 50-75 people in the church. 
Father Doll presided over the mass, which was given in English. 
There was a small choir, some members had instruments, piano and 
guitar, that many several songs. 
They definitely to practice 
more! 
Gen Archuletta left before the mass was over. I could tell she 
IAW-PM-F031991.D - 
2 
was a bit nervous about the upcoming buffet, and wanted to make 
sure all was ready. 
In the sermon Father William Doll focused on the family, as Saint 
Joseph is patron of the family. 
He also stressed the value of 
all work, including humble work. 
He specifically mentioned work 
in the mills (a reference to CF&I), washing dishes and vacuuming. 
Saint Joseph is also patron of workers. 
He referred to a statue of Saint Joseph which stood on the altar, 
pointing out the carpenter's square which lay near his feet. 
Father Doll said that as the saint used this tool to put things 
together correctly, so we must put things together right for our 
families; we must make things fit. 
This may mean enduring hard 
times, such as supporting teenagers through rough times. 
I did not take notes during mass, as I thought that 
inappropriate. However, the main thrust of the sermon was the 
importance of the family and of hard work, although Father Doll 
did mention some of the saint's other attributes: Patron of the 
Universal Church, and of a Happy Death (since he died in the 
presence of both Mary and Jesus). 
After mass, most of the people in attendance went to the parish 
center for the blessing of the table and the buffet dinner. 
Document: IAW-PM-F031991.E 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informant/Event: Holy Rosary Church: Saint Joseph's Day Dinner 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F031991.E 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/19/91 
Informants/Event: Holy Rosary Church/Blessing of the Table and 
the Buffet Dinner 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
Immediately after mass, Father Doll and most of the parishioners 
who attended mass went to the parish center. 
After a few 
minutes, Father Doll and Gen Archuletta gathered to the right of 
the Saint Joseph's Day table, where there was a microphone set 
up. 
Father blessed a bread that Gen held out in her hands, and 
then blessed the entire table. 
Father Doll left shortly after the blessing. 
He had another 
meeting to attend. 
Since it is Lent, and Easter is coming up, he 
and the other priests have had special services and meetings. 
As soon as the blessing was over, Gen cut the blessed bread and 
it was put on plates, along with other foods from the table, and 
given to people who sat at the special tables. 
These tables were 
covered with red, white and blue plastic covers, with stars and 
stripes as designs. 
There were also miniature American flags on 
the tables. Perhaps 20-25 people sat at these tables. 
These are 
people who had family in the military. 
The special guests went through the buffet line first, then the 
others followed. 
Some of the covered dishes at the pot luck were 
pork green chile, pasta shells with tomato sauce, green beans, 
corn and carrots, fried rice, roast turkey, corn on the cob, 
green salads, enchiladas, and potato salad. 
Food covered two 
long tables, and it went quickly! 
Beverages were served from the 
kitchen. 
The vast majority of the crowd consisted of families. 
Bessie 
Belitti and Lita Mondragon came together; they are from Saint 
Leander's Church, and had brought a variety of cookies on March 
18th. 
IAW-PM-F031991.E - 
2 
Two people had video cameras. 
One was Fred Vigil, 2414 Carthage, 
Pueblo, Colorado, 81003. 
Phone (719) 542-6144. 
He said he had 
never used a video before, but his son showed him so he could do 
this tonight. 
Generally, people did not seem to stay very long, although 
everyone seemed to enjoy the evening. 
I guess that most people 
left about a half hour after they had finished eating. 
The organizers, however, stayed to clean up, and the clean up 
went very quickly. 
The women worked the hardest of course, 
washing dishes. 
I wiped off the tables. 
Most of the remaining 
men sat and talked although some helped with sweeping. 
One woman 
chided some of the men for not helping. 
Gen gathered food that was to be given to charity, and some 
people collected the cakes that they had donated for the event. 
I left the hall about 10 or 10:30. 
Only a few people remained to 
finish cleaning up. 
I said goodbye to everyone, and told Gen Archuletta I would call 
her the next day. 
I hoped to meet with her again before I left. 
(As it turned out, she was very tired and not feeling well when I 
spoke to her the next day. 
However, I promised to meet with her 
again in May, on my way to Denver. 
I told her I would need her 
assistance with identifying people in photographs.) 
Document: IAW-PM-F032091.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informant/Event: Shrine of Saint Theresa: Dismantling the Saint 
Joseph's Day table 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F032091.A 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informants/Event: The Shrine of Saint Therese/Dismantling the 
Saint Joseph's Day Table 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
When I visited Saint Therese yesterday, Louise Williams had 
invited me to attend the pot luck dinner that evening. 
I 
declined, but promised to stop my this morning to help them 
dismantle the table and visit a bit more with everyone. 
I 
arrived at 8:30, and Louise arrived about a half hour later. 
I waited for Louise in the church office, chatting with the 
church secretary, Carmela Farbo and her daughter Beverly, who 
also works at the church. 
I had spoken to Carmela in the summer 
when I called the church to find out about their Saint Joseph's 
Day table, and Carmela had given me Louise's number. 
I explained 
to Carmela who I was; she remembered our phone conversation. 
When Louise arrived, we went in to start working on the table. 
It had been partially dismantled; the perishable food had been 
removed. 
Some was served at the dinner the evening before, and 
some was given to people who had helped with the table. 
Fruit, 
some uncooked vegetables, cookies, cakes, pies and other sweets 
remained. 
The table was still draped with sheets and other 
cloths fastened attached with pinned artificial flowers. 
The 
statue of Saint Joseph was still there, and some other 
ornaments. 
Eve Taravella, one of the principle organizers, arrived with a 
stack of pastry boxes she had obtained at a long grocery store. 
Bertha Milano Birrer (Italian American woman married to a German 
Swiss husband) and I worked on removing the various cloths 
covering the tables and carefully gathering pins and flowers. 
The other women laid out the boxes and loaded them with equal 
amounts of sweets; the boxes would be distributed to parishioners 
who were in nursery homes or homebound. 
IAW-PM-F032091.A - 
2 
Other people who helped prepare the boxes and dismantle the table 
were Frances Cancialdi, Carmela Farbo, John Taravella, and four 
other women. 
The work went fairly quickly. 
At one point, the 
priest came in. 
He seems to be in his sixties, and is quite 
humorous and talkative. 
The women immediately started putting 
food aside for him; he was the center attention for the ten or so 
minutes he was there. 
I spoke to John Taravella briefly. 
We had an appointment set up 
for later in the day. 
When I met him yesterday at the table, he 
lamented my not interviewing him in the summer. 
So I agreed to 
do so today. 
His Mom and Dad were from Alia, Sicily. 
They 
migrated together, and landed at the port in New Orleans. 
The 
trip took 30 days by sea. 
His father had had a sister in Pueblo. 
His Dad had worked in the Louisiana sugar fields cutting cane at 
50 cents a day. 
His mother cut 25 cents. 
It cost them 10 cents 
a day for a babysitter. 
His Mom didn't know English or how to shop. 
So she hired a woman 
one day to help her. 
The lady put on an apron with lots of 
pockets; sheet put a bit of coffee, flour, sugar, etc. in each 
pocket and then went to the store to show the storekeeper what 
she wanted. 
His mother did the shopping herself after that! 
This story is told on the taped interview. 
I helped for a bit more than an hour, then I had to leave for an 
interview with Father William Doll at Holy Rosary. 
Document: IAW-PM-F032091.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informant/Event: Doll, Father William 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F032091.B 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informants/Event: Doll, William 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
Reverend William Doll, Holy Rosary Church, 2400 West 22nd Street, 
Pueblo, Colorado, 81003. 
I met Father Doll in his office in the back of the parish center. 
This was the third time I had seen him, but the first time I had 
the chance to really talk with him. 
We had spoken briefly on the 
phone when I called to request an interview. 
I had liked him immediately, from that first call. 
He was 
helpful and friendly. 
He also seemed very knowledgeable about 
the Hispanic population of southern Colorado. 
In fact, he had worked in the region for 41 years, from the 
mountains in the west to the plains in the east. 
In Ouray and 
Silverton, two old mining towns in the mountains, there had been 
some Tyrolian Italians in his parish. 
We spoke for almost two hours in his office. 
Topics included: 
His sermon at the Saint Joseph's Day Mass last evening 
The popularity of Saint Joseph among Colorado's Hispanics, and 
reasons for his popularity. 
Why Father Doll believes Hispanics can identify with the saint--
he was poor; endured hardship; patron saint of workers 
The personal nature of the relationships between Hispanic 
Catholics and saints 
The affiliation of Colorado Hispanics with New Mexico versus Old 
Mexico 
Their preference of the term Hispanic vs. Mexican American 
IAW-PM-F032091.B - 
2 
The presence of home altars in Hispanic homes 
The popularity of the Holy Family and Saint Anthony 
The santero/bulto tradition of northern New Mexico and southern 
Colorado 
The economic status of Holy Rosary parish 
The hill by the church's drive--believed to be used by Penitentes 
in the past 
The possible presence of Penitentes in the parish 
The reasons for the lack of Hispanic priests--mainly a church 
which historically did not welcome or accommodate them 
Bishop is now Hispanic 
Doll's cultural and language preparation--or lack thereof--for 
working with Hispanics 
A new Black priest who is researching the history of Blacks in 
the area 
other priests in the Diocese teasing Rev. Doll about Holy Rosary 
doing a Saint Joseph's Day table--and their hints at possible 
Mafia retaliation for it 
Calls received by Gen Archuletta from Italians mad because she 
does a table 
Please see tapes IAW-PM-A021 and A022. 
The time flew by. 
I enjoyed our conversation very much. 
As he 
walked me to the car, Father Doll mentioned that a church group 
at Holy Rosary is dedicated to working for the canonization of an 
Indian woman who is being considered by the Vatican. 
(I cannot 
remember her name. 
I'm sure with a little research, I can figure 
it out) . 
Document: IAW-PM-F032091.0 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informant/Event: Taravella, Eve and John; Williams, Louise 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F032091.0 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informants/Event: Taravella, John; Taravella, Eve; Williams, 
Louise 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
As mentioned, when I met John Taravella at the Saint Joseph's Day 
table he told me I should have also interviewed him last summer 
when I interviewed his wife Eve, Louise Williams, and Dorothy 
Zanini. 
They are the three women who are the primary organizers 
of the table held annually at the Shrine of Saint Therese. 
I had set up an afternoon appointment with him. 
I made sure the 
time was convenient for Eve, who I know had been busy for several 
days in preparation for yesterday's table event. 
Also, this 
morning she had to dismantle the table and distribute leftover 
food. 
She graciously said that this afternoon was fine. 
Along with Louise Williams, Eve sat in on the interview I did 
with her husband. 
It took place in the living room at their home 
at 59 Stanford, Pueblo, Colorado, 81005. 
Topics included: 
Family background 
Immigration history 
Family's activities in Louisiana where they worked in cutting 
sugar cane 
Their move to Pueblo 
John's siblings 
Father's work at CF&I 
Farming on the Saint Charles Mesa 
IAW-PM-F032091.0 - 
2 
Remembrances of Saint Joseph's Day Tables as a child 
Both Eve Taravella and Louise Williams occasionally joined in the 
conversation. 
Sometimes John referred to his wife to clarify 
something. 
After interview, we all went into the kitchen where Eve served 
coffee and pie. 
John and Eve's son came in, carrying a puppy he 
had just got from an animal shelter. 
The son, whose name I 
neglected to write down, seemed about 20-22, wore jeans and 
cowboy boots and held the puppy in his arms. 
His father asked him to talk to me in Italian, but the son 
hesitated when put on the spot. 
The father teased him. 
I joked 
about also balking in such situations. 
After a short while, I took my leave. 
I had some errands to do 
and I knew Eve and Louise were tired from all the preparation and 
activities for the Saint Joseph's Day table at Saint Therese. 
Document: IAW-PM-F032091.D 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informant/Event: Spicola, Theresa 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
IAW-PM-F032091.D 
Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: 
Manini, Paula M. 
Date: 3/20/91 
Informants/Event: Spicola, Theresa 
Coworker: none 
Site: 6 
I went by Theresa Spicola's house to return to her some materials 
she had given me to copy (see IAW files). 
I also hoped to talk 
to her a little about the tables at Holy Rosary and Saint 
Therese. 
She had visited both of them, and I wanted to see how 
she compared them. 
Especially because she herself has made 
tables, and it was a strong tradition in her husband's family as 
well. 
However, she was not feeling well. 
She invited me in and offered 
me something to drink but I could see that she was sick. 
She had 
a very bad headache she said, and she looked pale and in pain. 
I thanked her for all of her help, and promised to keep in touch 
with her. 
I liked almost everyone I met in Pueblo during this 
visit and in the summer with the rest of the IAW crew. 
However, 
I especially liked Theresa and will keep in contact with her. 
When I interviewed her the other day, two women stopped by and 
she received three or four phone calls. 
It is obvious that she 
is well-liked by many people. 
I will call her in the future regarding her assessment of the 
tables. 
Document: IAW-PM-F051991.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula 
Date: 5/19/91 
Informant/Event: Archuletta, Gen 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
Document type: Fieldnotes 
Fieldworker: Manini, Paula M. 
Informant/Event: Archuletta, Gen 
Date: 5/19/91 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
I stopped in Pueblo on May 19, 1991, on my way to Denver to 
attend a museums conference. 
I wanted to meet with Gen 
Archuletta so she could help me identify people in photographs. 
I used the opportunity to ask her a few more questions. 
I was 
with her for only about an hour and 20 minutes. 
We talked about similarities between the religious practices of 
Italians and Hispanics. 
Gen mentions the custom of wrapping the image of a saint in a 
cloth and putting in a trunk, and saying novenas until one's 
prayers are answered by the saint. 
Then, you remove the image 
from the trunk and have a mass said. 
She said both Italians and 
Hispanics do this. 
They get mad at saints when prayers not 
answered, and place them in a trunk as punishment. 
I asked Gen if people had posadas in Pueblo. 
She said yes, and 
in the past four or five years, they have moved them from the 
home to the church, and some are city-wide events. 
They start 
doing them nine days before Christmas. 
The movement of the posadas and the Saint Joseph's Day tables 
from the home to the church. 
Gen believes it makes them more 
legitimate when they are held at the church. 
Gen has a home altar with images of Saint Joseph, the Sacred 
Heart of Jesus, the Blessed Mother and Saint Jude on it. 
Gen has always been very devoted to Saint Joseph. 
Jose is the 
'second' name of her father and brother. 
Joseph is like their 
own fathers, she said. 
Working class, and the protector of the 
family, and of the poor. 
She said that her mother would often tell her husband, Gen's 
father, to teach the children to do whatever he was doing, just 
IAW-PM-F051991.A - 
2 
like Saint Joseph did with child Jesus. 
Also, she would tell the 
children to help their father just like Jesus helped Joseph. 
Both Italians and Hispanics have been discriminated against in 
Pueblo, in the mills. 
I asked her about the phone calls she received from Italians who 
were mad that Hispanics have adopted the Saint Joseph's Day table 
tradition. 
She said that one year Mary Porter, a reporter at the 
Pueblo Chieftain, and a colleague of Gen's son, interviewed Gen 
about the tradition. 
When the article came out in the paper, 
some Italians were made that "Mexicans" were "stealing" an 
Italian tradition. 
Both Gen and Mary received phone calls 
regarding this. 
Gen would tell people that Saint Joseph was for 
everyone. 
Mary told someone, "You are Catholic? Well, so is Mrs. 
Archuletta." 
Gen's motivation to adopt the table tradition was and is to 
spread devotion to the saint, Mary's husband and the step-father 
of Jesus. 
She has always had a special devotion to him, as do 
many Hispanics. 
And she wants the devotion to spread more. 
Gen's mother was from Aguacaliente in New Mexico, and her father 
was from E1 Grito, New Mexico. 
Her father's name is Jose 
Crescencio Gallego. 
He was adopted by an Anglo family when he 
was properly cared for by his own (one parent had died and the 
step parent treated him badly). 
John Sargent was his adopted 
father. 
In Antonito, Colorado, her father ran sheep herds for 
John Sargent. 
Later, he worked at the Army Depot in Pueblo; he 
remembers a lot of Basques there. 
Her mother, Delfina Pacheco Gallego, is of Spanish, Portuguese, 
French and Indian descent. 
About the Saint Joseph's Day table event held in March 1991 at 
the Holy Rosary Church: 
About 200 people came for the pot luck dinner. 
About 75 people came to view the table during the day. 
Food for the table was donated by parishioners. 
The parish buys the 12 loaves of Saint Joseph's Day bread. 
Any leftovers are given to Pueblo's soup kitchen. 
Only ladies from the Altar Society at Holy Rosary help with the 
table. 
Richard Vigil does the decoration of the table--covering it with 
cloth. 
Her son Jim Archuletta and his wife Jeanie helps too. 
Gen wears a ribbon of the Kateritekak Society. Kateritekak was an 
Indian girl from New York, an Iroquois, who died in 1680. 
She 
was beatified in 1980; the society is working for her 
canonization. 
IAW-PM-F051991.A - 
2 
like Saint Joseph did with child Jesus. 
Also, she would tell the 
children to help their father just like Jesus helped Joseph. 
Both Italians and Hispanics have been discriminated against in 
Pueblo, in the mills. 
I asked her about the phone calls she received from Italians who 
were mad that Hispanics have adopted the Saint Joseph's Day table 
tradition. 
She said that one year Mary Porter, a reporter at the 
Pueblo Chieftain, and a colleague of Gen's son, interviewed Gen 
about the tradition. 
When the article came out in the paper, 
some Italians were made that "Mexicans" were "stealing" an 
Italian tradition. 
Both Gen and Mary received phone calls 
regarding this. 
Gen would tell people that Saint Joseph was for 
everyone. 
Mary told someone, "You are Catholic? Well, so is Mrs. 
Archuletta." 
Gen's motivation to adopt the table tradition was and is to 
spread devotion to the saint, Mary's husband and the step-father 
of Jesus. 
She has always had a special devotion to him, as do 
many Hispanics. 
And she wants the devotion to spread more. 
Gen's mother was from Aguacaliente in New Mexico, and her father 
was from El Grito, New Mexico. 
Her father's name is Jose 
Crescencio Gallego. 
He was adopted by an Anglo family when he 
was properly cared for by his own (one parent had died and the 
step parent treated him badly). 
John Sargent was his adopted 
father. 
In Antonito, Colorado, her father ran sheep herds for 
John Sargent. 
Later, he worked at the Army Depot in Pueblo; he 
remembers a lot of Basques there. 
Her mother, Delfina Pacheco Gallego, is of Spanish, Portuguese, 
French and Indian descent. 
About the Saint Joseph's Day table event held in March 1991 at 
the Holy Rosary Church: 
About 200 people came for the pot luck dinner. 
About 75 people came to view the table during the day. 
Food for the table was donated by parishioners. 
The parish buys the 12 loaves of Saint Joseph's Day bread. 
Any leftovers are given to Pueblo's soup kitchen. 
Only ladies from the Altar Society at Holy Rosary help with the 
table. 
Richard Vigil does the decoration of the table--covering it with 
cloth. 
Her son Jim Archuletta and his wife Jeanie helps too. 
Gen wears a ribbon of the Kateritekak Society. Kateritekak was an 
Indian girl from New York, an Iroquois, who died in 1680. 
She 
was beatified in 1980; the society is working for her 
canonization.