"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr31
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas,
January or February 1942
AFS 6431A
Private Smith: Mr. President, I am a Negro private in the United States Army. I'm a native of Austin,
Texas. Thinking that you might be interested in the life of a Negro soldier and the treatment that he
gets in the United States Army. I was glad to have this opportunity to bring you some of the facts as I
see them today.
The Negro soldier, as a whole, believes that he has something to fight for and believes in the
outcome he will have more to fight for than he have now. But at the present time, the Negro is
treated with some discrimination in the army. It is probably because of the fact that the superior
officers do not realize the sentiment that the Negro has. He feels that he has as much to fight for as
any other man, but he do not like the treatment that the other people give him. Because at times
they treat him with the inferiority complex. The Negro realizes that in the past he has not got the
promises that was made to him in the Declaration of Independence or in the declaration of the
emancipation of slaves. Because at times the Negro is still treated as he was before these things
happened.
Today, the Negro feel that probably he have to fight for the promises that was made, and it seems
like sometimes that these promises is all that he has to fight for. Because in time that has past they
have not come into reality. But the Negro hopes that when these things are over, when the war is
over, that these promises that has been made to him and these promises that he's fighting for — the
promises that he lives and hope for — will all be a reality.
We know Mr. President that you have not time to get out among these people and see the things
that goes on. And see the different actions and attitude that people have towards the Negro soldiers.
In some states it is better than in others. Especially in the southern states, it is very bad. Of course,
the southern state is Jim Crow. But the Negroes feel that when he is in the United States Army
that he [dares (?)] to be considered, as never before, a part of the United States and should not be
treated as a dog or some other animal with such an inferiority complex.
Because after all, the Negro when he is in the army is serving the same purpose that any other man
is serving. He has the same duties to fill that any other man has to fill. And he feels that when he is in
the service he should be given as much consideration as any other man. In the long run, the Negroes
feel that these things will come about because the Negro has faith in the President of the United
States and the things he stands for and he believes, deep down in his heart, that the President of the
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr31
United States do not believe in the way that the Negro is treated is right. And he hopes, in the long
run, the president will be able to do something about it. Of course he knows he'll have to have the
cooperation of the Negro. The Negro is ready to give that.
I'm stationed in Camp Hope, Louisiana. At the present time, race discrimination especially is very
bad. It's not so bad in the army. Of course some instances, some things happen that shows that
people still have that thing within them that makes them look upon the Negro as something that
is not human or something of that kind. But in the southern states, the people, the civilian people,
are very much so against the Negro and a Negro's uniform that at times it seem like they'd rather
not have the Negro in these services. But the Negroes feel and the Negro will after all of these
treatments do as much for this country as any other man, and that is give up his life because he feels
like there is tomorrow, and tomorrow will bring the things that he has hoped and prayed for.
[long pause] I feel that I've voiced the sentiment of every colored man, and I'm really speaking from
the depths of my heart, that no man can do any more for the United States than I can. No man can
fight harder for victory than I can. No man can do more to bring about the safeness of this country
and the loved ones and the friends that we have here than I can.
And I feel like every soldier, every colored soldier, in the United States Army feel within himself
exactly as I do. Because after all whatever any man do he can't do any more than give up his life. And
that's what every colored soldier in the United States Army, that the flag's raised over, that wears
the United States colors, he feel like he has only one life to live, and if it takes that life to make this
country safe for democracy and the things that he hopes for and the things that has been promised
to him, he is ready to give up his life. He know that he may not enjoy these things, he may not be
able to see these things happen, may not see a thing coming about, but he realizes in the future
he have loved ones that is left behind at home. And he have friends that he would like to see enjoy
these blessing and he is ready to give up his life to make these things possible
AFS 6431: [Blank]