UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  EDWARD CLEARY
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:  AUGUST 20, 1987
LOCATION:
E = EDWARD
M = MARTHA
K = SISTER KAY
LFP-MN-R019-R020
E:  That's what I signed the check today.  The bank says eighteenth.
K:  Mum, what's today's date?
MOTHER:  Ah, is it Thursday?  
E:  No that's the day.  What is the numeral?
MOTHER:  It's the twentieth.
M:  August 20, 1987.
MOTHER:  Yes.  
M:  And we're in Dracut, MA with Edward Cleary.  O.K.  So what I usually do, is ask people to 
tell me how their families came to Lowell.  A little biographical information.
E:  I wouldn't know because my father and mother were already born in Lowell.  They didn't 
immigrant.  They were already living here.  And his father before was from Lowell.
M:  Your father's father.
E:  Yeah, Grandpa Cleary.  But you see we've been here for about three generations.  So before 
that they came from Ireland.  
M:  Who would have come from Ireland?
E:  Oh, I'd say my grandfather's father and mother.  Back in the 1850's or 60's that idea.  
M:  And what about on your mother's side?
E:  Ah, her, that would be my mother.  My grandfather came from England, from Rothdale, 
England.  And he come out here in about 1870 around that time.  And later on he sent for his 
mother, and brought his mother over.  That would be Grandpa, Grandma Cleary's grandmother.  
M:  This is (--)
E:  Be my great grandmother.  
M:  But this is paternal again.  
E:  This is maternal, my mother.  
M:  So that wouldn't be Cleary.  That would be Barrett.  
E:  Barrett, that would be Barrett.  And she opened the store up on Adams Street.  Everybody, 
English were great for shop keeps.  Everybody had a little store in what they call the pallor, the 
front room.  There was dozens of them in Centralville.  The girl we went to the wake today.  Her 
mother had a store in the front room.  Like the cottage where we lived in West Fifth Street ah, 
West Eleventh.  Well, just the front room was a store.  And when they opened the door there was 
a bell on a spring and it tinkled.  So they'd be in the kitchen or that and they'd come in.  They had
it partition off with curtains hanging down.  Bread, milk a few staples, and penny candy.  
Everybody had a little store.  The, every street, there were two or three on every street.  There 
were no such a thing as a supermarket.  If you wanted meat.  You went up to Bridge Street or you
went downtown to the meat markets.  But all those little stores, there were no big stores.  As, as 
such as we know them.  
M:  And where would you do your vegetables, fruit?
E:  The peddlers came around.  Came around, they'd holler you know, any vegetables today?  We
had the, the soap man used to come around.  You'd save your ah, you'd render the fat, melt it.  
And ah, then it would be like greasy.  And you'd have a lard pail full of it.  And the man would 
come along from the Rendering Works.  So,  Lowell and ah, ring a bell and you'd come out and 
hand him, he'd weigh it, and then from that he'd give you bars of soap from Lowell Rendering.  
So the heavy soap, we used to call it ah, oh, brown soap.  And that is the one we used to scrub 
the kitchen floor with.  The oak floor with a scrub brush.  
M:  So you'd trade in lard for soap?  
E:  That's right.  And in turn we'd use that, and they would make more soap, with the pot ash and 
whatever else they may use to make soap.  It was the Lowell Rendering Works.  No out there, 
that's where Raytheon is now in South Lowell.  That was the Rendering works.  Next door to it, 
next door to it.  
M:  And is that all they made was soap?  
E:  Well, no, they also made fertilizer.  The Rendering Works, dead animals, dead horses, they'd 
render them down and they'd be fertilizer, whatever.  It would be like Grace Corporation now 
that has ah, ah, well fertilizers, for the farms.  Only they're huge now.  They're one of the five 
hundred companies.  
M:  And back to the store on what street was it?  
E:  There was one on ah, Colburn Street.  There were two on Colburn Street.  There was one on 
West Sixth Street.  Oh, there all over the neighborhoods.  Anybody opened a store.  Or they'd sell
bread or milk and so on.  If you ran, if you didn't have a milkman you'd run down and get a quart
of milk, five cents.  
M:  And there would be just one room?  
E:  Just one room yeah, yeah, little store.  
M:  And now, well, it would be man and his grandm (--)
E:  Grandmother at the store.  
M:  On what street?
E:  Adams Street.  
M:  What part of town was that?  
E:  That would be right in back opposite of St. Patrick's Church now, or St. Patrick's Church is.  
That's still Adams Street right there.  There were a row of houses there.  Before they put in the 
Housing Project.  See a little store right there.  Lived there.
M:  Do you know why they came over here in the first place?  
E:  Yes, better living conditions.  The promised land, come over with a shovel and dig gold.  
Least they had a job in the mill.  Anybody that came in had a job.  They were begging for help.  
After the Civil War the country exploded.  They couldn't get enough help.  The mills would 
absorb twenty thousand people in Lowell alone.  Some went to Lawrence.  Lowell, Lawrence, 
Haverhill no so much, Nashua and Manchester.  Amoskeg Mills in Manchester famous.  We had 
the Boott Mills here.  Made towels and scrim curtains.  Merrimack Corduroy known all over the 
world.  This was the textile center of the world, ah, the country.  It was also called the Venice of 
America on account of canals.  And if you notice St. Ann's Church.  You know where that is? 
M:  Right on ah, Merrimack St?
E:  Yeah.  Look at St. Ann's Church.  And look at the canal along side.  That's all ledge.  And they
dig that by hand.  What did they (--)
M:  That's, that's all I'm sorry?  
E:  Ledge.  Made of the stone.  It's not gravel or sand.  It was hard rock ledge they call it.  What 
do you think they did with those stones?  They made the church.  That's all field, it's called field 
stone.  Instead of granite being imported from ah, New Hampshire or Vermont.  Fieldstone, St. 
Patrick's Church no bigger than this all small pieces.  Big as your head, a little bit bigger.  If they 
needed a heavy corner stone ah, Fletcher's Quarry out in Westford.  Bring it in from there.  Came
in on a flat car train.  Then they'd have horses lug it.  Then they'd have these winches and ah, 
well a winch, like a derrick.  A winch is something you crank up.  Like you see in a ship.  With a 
little catch so that it won't unravel as you go along.  Like a fishing reel that won't unravel.  And 
they'd inch them up.  And the same way they'd use them when they were building the mills.  All 
those mills your looking at now Wannalancit and what.  Go inside and look at the beams.  They 
never had cement.  They used to cut trees.  And these beams are twelve inches square.  One foot 
square, Georgia Pine, solid as steel.  They were brought up from the South on the railroad.  Then 
they were inched up.  And those beams supported five stories of machinery.  And if you were 
able to get a hold of a couple of them you could build a house would hold up this whole building 
those beams.  Imagine a steel, a piece of steel one foot in diam ah, square.  
M:  And they knew that the Georgia Pines were the strongest wood?
E:  It's hard.  It's called hard wood.  It's very hard.  It's like oak.  Stronger than oak.  Very hard to 
cut it.
M:  Who would have been the (--)
E:  English Industrialists come over from England.  Kirk Boott, Appleton, ah, the ones that 
started the mills here.  Lowell, man named Lowell.  They had the money from England.  They 
were the rich class.  And they invested here.  Why?  They spotted the river and they spotted the 
falls.  Put a dam, you get free power.  There's where you get your canals.  They had water power.
M:  Who would have been the crafts men to build these, like stone churches?
E:  Ah, Irish and, not too many Italians at that time.  The Italians are the stone masons, there 
skilled.  But anyone come over.  From England or, there was always a stone mason, a chimney 
sweep, or a brick layer.  A brick layer knows how to build them.  And they'd fit it in beautifully.  
Notice those churches, fieldstone.  Same as in England.  Go over there, there all fieldstone.  You 
pick them up in the rocks, in the, in the garden.  And every year more come up.  The frost brings 
these up.  Upheaval, you clear your garden.  Rocks the size of this little machine.  And that's 
where you get stone walls.  Ever notice the walls all around here?  In different parts of Dracut?  
Where do you think they bought those stones or got those stones?  They didn't intend to build 
those walls.  They got them the heck out of the way so they could have a garden, or a pasture.  
So, then they put them along side their property line.  And those are all t, taken right off the 
ground.  And the frost brings them up every year.  There's a crop of new rocks.  
M:  Do people still build with fieldstone around here?
E:  No.  Too expensive.  It's much quicker to buy a pre-stressed beam.  You call up some place, 
bang a cement beam, boom it's all done.  Your bridges are all ah, reinforced concrete.  They used 
what they had.  Stone and trees, the trees were for free.  Cleared the land, that gave them the 
wood to build.  Take the rocks out.  That gave them pasture for hay, and made a stone wall.
M:  Do you think there was a big separation between the agricultural life and the urban life in 
this area?  
E:  Course, very big.  Because what your asking about, what we call the Industrial Revolution.  
When they got the power looms.  That changed everything.  Instead of having the home spun 
cloth and that once they got these power looms.  Meaning that their automatic and they had the 
water power.  BOOM, you could turn out million of yards of cloth.  And that way they could sell 
it cheaply all over the world.  They got the help for a dollar a day.  That's why they're still 
handing those fortunes down.  They'd make millions tax free.  It takes money to make money.  
And if you haven't got money, that's why the developer makes money.  He puts his, he gambles.  
He puts his money up.  And nine times out of ten he makes it.  But there are times he goes 
bankrupt.  But you save to have the money first.  Because nobody will work for zero.  They want
their pay.  And the man he [unclear] he has to keep spending money until the project is finished.  
Now he might invest three million dollars before he'll sold an apartment, say.  Now he starts 
selling and renting.  And over the years he'll get his money back.  That's called economics.  
[laugh].  
M:  Let's go back to the, the immigrants coming over, especially the Irish.  Did they have a trade 
(--)
E:  I have a book.
M:  When they came here?  Your family, our family?  
E:  Ah, yeah, one was a pipe fitter.  That's where you put in steam pipes.  We call it plumbing 
now.  They know how to handle pipes, cut them, thread them, fit them.  Um,
M:  Who was that?  
E:  That would be ah, John Cleary.  My father's father.  
K:  [wife in background] The pipe fitter was Grandpa Barry.
E:  He was also a pipe fitter too.  He worked in the mills when they were making them.  A 
tremendous amount of pipes.  Steam and ah, water, and whatever.  From one place to the other.  
And I don't know what the other, some were plasterers.  Like Uncle Dan that side of the family.  
They were plasterers.  Like say these lines are plaster and ah, well look how neat they, you have 
to know how to do, in the building trades.  And I don't know what, and I know one on ah, Cleary 
one, I don't know which one.  But when I was over there in Clare one of them was called a bone 
setter.  It was a trade.  Like ah, say someone is working in the field, or fell out of a tree.  Or the 
child got kicked by a horse whatever.  And had a broken arm.  Well, one of the Cleary's back then
would come up and set the bone.  Ah, feel it and set it.  And never charge.  That was a favor.  He 
had the gift.  He could set bones.  [laugh]
M:  This is on Grandpa's side.  
E:  That's Grandpa Cleary's side.  That was the ah, the ah, Oh, what was the name, Kay?  
K:  [unclear].  Grandpa's, father was (--)
E:  Not Flemming.  That was Nana.  
K:  Grandpa Cleary ah, my father's father was John F. Cleary.  
E:  What was his mo, the maiden name.  For instance was it Smith, Flemming or what?
K:  Pa's mother was a Brennan.  Maryann Brennan (--)
E:  Brennan, he was a Brennan.  One of the Brennan's could set bones.  
M:  Did I ever tell you what Uncle Charlie said to me?  Grandpa's bother.  He said,"that he, was 
it he?  Who was the seventh son of, his father he said was the seventh (--)
E:  Seventh son of the seventh son.  
M:  And he could make the sign of the cross in your hand and heal you.  
E:  Well, that was probably the one that was the bone setter.  See he could take your hand.  He 
had some way, something.  They call it a gift.  We say their superstitious.  They don't care.  It 
worked.  [laugh].
M:  So this would be, this would be Grandpa's father.  
E:  As they used to say they'd be Grandpa's
K:  Grandpa's Grandfather.     
E:  Grandpa's grandfather.
K:  Yeah.  
E:  They have an old expression.  Using a colloquialism, "If it ain't broke don't fix it."  [laugh]  
Well, people are always fooling with st, oh, I'll make it better.  But if anything is working now 
for instance this machine.  It ain't broke.  Don't fix it.  [laugh] Don't touch it.  [laugh] So they had
that sense.  If it ain't broke they wouldn't touch it.  But if it went, something went wrong they 
could take care of it.  
M:  Now were they married when they came over?
E:  I don't know that.  I don't know.  I have no way of knowing I never asked.  
M:  Do you know how for example  Nana and Grandpa met?
E:  Well, Grandpa Barrett was single when he come over.  
K:  Yeah.  Because he married in St. Patrick's Church.
E:  Right.  Grandpa Barrett was single.  Ah, Pa's father, he always said something about Chicago.
But I doubted that.
K:  No that was his mother, [unclear].  Martha Cleary says that you always told her that Pa's 
father 
E:  Uncle, that's what he told me.
K:  Was born in England.  In old, Olden England.  New she, Martha Cleary insisted on this.  No, 
she said, "ah, Gran (--)
E:  Grandpa Barrett (--)
K:  No I'm talking about ah, um, (--)
E:  Olden England.  Grandpa Barrett was Olden England.  Because I've been there.   
K:  Oh, we must be ta, yeah.
E:  Grandpa Barrett.  Grandpa Cleary (--)
K:  Was born in this country.  
E:  Yes, but I thought he was born in Chicago.  Or his mother.  There's something about Chicago.
His sister, some shirt tail relation, as they used to use, expression.
K:  No, his ah, Pa's mother was suppose to have been born in Chicago.  And I asked Uncle 
Charlie about that and he said, "no, she wasn't born in Chicago.  But he s, I remember taking her 
downtown.  She had a sister who lived there.  And she used to go down there (--)
E:  O.K.  that was it.  
K:  So I don't know.  
E:  There was a little connection just visiting.  
M:  And what about the ah, so you don't know how Nana and Grandpa met either?  
E:  No.  Nobody has any record of their courtship.  
M:  She might have mentioned it.  
E:  No.  
M:  O.K.  Let's go back.  So, we're on Adams Street now.  Then where does the family, where as 
the other side of the family live?  One lives on Adams Street, and one comes, the other one 
comes where?  
E:  Lawrence Street and Swift Street.  Up in what they call the Flats, nick name of a section of 
the city, be part of St. Peter's Parish.  You go up, you know where Zayer's Store is in Lowell?  
That's the start of Lawrence Street.  And when you go up quite a way, you can turn left and go 
over the Concord River.  Well, right in that area Grandpa Cleary was born right upstairs in the 
corner there.  Billy Higgins the undertaker owned the house.  Then they moved up the street.  To 
a two, bigger house.  Where Brennan's Hardware is.  And Brennan's Hardware had a very 
peculiar system.  Ah custom, ah, it was a hardware store (--)
M:  [unclear]
E:  It was a hardware store and ah, hardware store everything.  But he sold tea.  So they asked, 
we asked one time, "what the devils a hardware store doing selling tea like a grocery store?"  
Well, there was so many English-Irish lived in the neighborhood, and he was able with his 
connections to buy it wholesale as a favor, that he stocked tea and sold quite a bit of it without 
their going down town or going somewhere else buying the little packages of tea, like Lipton's.  
They could buy this by the pound.  And the favorite was Orange Pekeo, which is quite dark.  
Real heavy tea.  And they always had a pot of tea.  An enamel tea pot, and they had a, a coal coal
fire.  They burned coal.  For years up to World War One and right after then they were switching 
to oil.  And to make tea you would take a fist full of this Orange Pekeo and just throw it in the 
pot and pour boiling hot water on.  And it would all be set back a bit from the front of the store 
where the fire back here was warm.  The other, the lids, and ah, anybody come in, tea pot was 
always there.  Like we have coffee now.  And then as it's getting down, from using it.  Well, 
they'd get more tea and throw more water on it.  So by the end of the day the bloody thing come 
out like syrup or tar [laugh].  And one day this is, wasn't too long ago.  Ah, my sister Kay will 
laugh at this.  But, ah, we took Nana somewhere, and visiting and we're sitting there for a while 
and ah, we come out and my mother was insulted.  She never even offered me a cup of tea.  Well,
that was one thing.  If you were on welfare, didn't have anything, but you offered a cup of tea.  
And Ma was insulted she wasn't offered a cup of tea.  And ah, if it was hot, they'd probably been 
to Emily Post Training School (--)
M:  [laugh, laugh].  
E:  You would put in a saucer and blow on it [laugh].  That cooled it.  [laugh].
M:  You'd put the tea in a saucer?  
E:  Yeah, then you'd drink out of the saucer.  You see by spreading out anything like that you 
have more surface area.  And that can cool easier.  So it'd be on the saucer.  You'd drink out of the
saucer.  Blow on it, you could drink it.  They liked it hot.  But sometimes it was too hot in the ah,
in the mug.  But Nana always had what they called a bowl.  Now that's a little mug or a cup.  Uh 
uh, it was twice that si, a bowl of tea.  
M:  Did it have handles?
E:  Nnnnn, no.  Ah, wait a minute.  Yes, yes it did.  Yes, it did, one big handle.  A bowl of tea.  It 
held more.  
M:  How did she drink the tea?  
E:  Well, they, they liked to put sugar in it.  Lot of sugar and I'm not sure about milk.  Milk and 
sugar, it spoiled it, and I was ah, I used to drink what they call green tea and ah, Oulong it was 
called.  It was green.  And no matter how long you steeped it or left it in the pot the tea wouldn't 
get black or dark.  And I even had believe it or not Jasmine Tea.  And at that time this is way 
back.  It was thirty-five dollars a pound back in the thirties, twenties and thirties.  Oh, what a 
flavor that had.  And it's only in certain ah, sections of China, and certain times of the year.  
Yeah, a tea taster can tell he'll sip the tea when there blending it.  And ah, he'd say oh, that came 
from such and such an area in June or May.  Tea taster can do that.  But now it's all packaged tea,
and powdered, powdered tea, tea bags.  So tea was a great favorite.  Because all the English-Irish
always tea, tea.  Never coffee always tea.  
M:  Did the English-Irish mix up together?
E:  Oh, of course, course.       
M:  There was no tension?
E:  Oh no, no.  Your all from the British Isles, NO.  There were all the lower class people.  And 
they were, were the same working group when they left the mills in England they come over to 
here.  They didn't have any mills in Ireland.  Like as we understand mills, huge complexes.  They
were mostly farm people from Ireland.  And the reason you had the great influx was on account 
of the famine in the early forties.  Where they lost three million people.  And if you read the 
history of the English government, the heck with them they didn't feed them.  Let half of them 
starve.  They evicted them.  If they didn't pay their rent they threw them out on the street.  And 
that's where you get the gypsies in Ireland called the Tinkers.  They were thrown out on the 
streets and they just wandered around Ireland.  Today there still called the Tinkers, or Gypsies.  
There not Gypsies as we understand them, from the Central Europe, like the Stevens.  That's one 
of their favorite names, Stevens, from Romania.  
M:  Were there Romanian Gypsies?  
E:  Pardon?
M:  Were there Romanian Gypsies?  
E:  No, No.  Irish Gypsies.  
M:  O.K.  That are called the Tinkers.
E:  Yeah, it's a nickname, the Tinkers.  And they travel from city to city.  Horse stealing, dealing, 
ah, buying and selling horses.  Ah, they got so that they tinker.  They used to tinker with tins, or 
repair your pots and pans, and anything to get a living.  And they wouldn't live in the city.  
They'd live in these caravans we call them Winnebagos today.  But they were horse drawn.  And 
I've been in them.  [unclear]  I've got slides of them.  Tinkers in Ireland, one woman with seven 
children, [unclear] seven more.  You ought to see them.  I gave them a banana and an apple.  
They went out of their mind.  [laugh].  I had a lot of fun with them.  They were good natured.  
M:  They were open enough to let you in?  
E:  Everybody's welcome.  Of course your welcome.  
M:  Yeah, what was the sense of Irish Hospitality in Lowell?  
E:  I just told you.  No matter who come in you had a cup of tea.  
M:  What about food?  
E:  It was there.  There'd always have bread, little bun, toast, scones.  Always something.  Not a 
big meal because you just dropped in for a little conversation, a little gossip.  But you always had
a cup of tea and maybe a scone, that's a fried dough.  Or a little cookie of some sort.  Oh, very 
hospitable always.  Everybody's welcome.  
M:  Was visiting a big priority?  
E:  NO.  Ah, ah, maybe on Sunday.  Because the man was working all the time and the woman 
was so busy scrubbing cloths, and doing the floor, and cooking, and getting the meals, she had no
time to gossip.  The only time was if she was hanging out the cloths, after the washing.  And the 
woman next door hanging them out.  Well, there's where the, you know there'd be [unclear] right 
there over the cloths line.  In fact I'll never forget sieving cinders one time.  [laugh] I was sieving
the cinders and someone had just hanged out ah, hung out the cloths.  And the ash got on the 
cloths.  And I was told about that.  The dust you know, would stick to the wet cloths.                    
M:  What were you doing, sieving cinders?
E:  Sieving cinders.  
M:  What for?  I don't understand.
E:  You had a coal fire.  And it didn't, didn't always burn.  And you took the ash.  And you take 
them down.  Like you'd have a strainer.  I call a sieve.  And you'd dump all of them and you'd 
shake it.  And all the powder and dust went into the barrel.  This is on top of the ash barrel.  And 
in there all the white.  But you could pick up quite a bit of black.  Or throw the white, and you 
had what they called cinders, unburnt coal.  Like you'd say coke.  And at night when you were 
going to bed ah, rather than put all the coal on the fire which would make it too hot, red hot.  
You'd take those cinders that were left and throw them on top.  And that would bank the fire and 
keep the fire going all night.  So when you go up in the morning you had a fire going.  Open the 
drafts and that would ah, heat it up more.  Then you could put the coal on.  And the cinders were,
you didn't throw anything away.  You used them over again.  
M:  And this, this, where did, where were you born?  
E:  Lowell.  Jewett Street.  
M:  And how did they, do you know how, because there's a sizable Irish population in 
Centralville.  How they got from the Acre, the Flats, over to Centralville?  Why they picked 
Centralville?  
E:  Ah, yes, because as they saved a few dollars, in Centralville there were very few what we call
blocks, tenements.  There were quite a few small houses.  And they were much nearer to the 
mills right across the bridge.  And they'd rent or buy one of these houses.  You could buy a little 
house like that a s, a five or six room cottage for 500 dollars.  And they'd save and have a little 
cottage.  And up on Stanley Street all those cottages are all, where there's no space in between.  
Some of them today are very lucky they can squeeze a car in.  But there were no zoning laws.  
No ah, ah, set backs or were they going to call them.  Just build, sure build.  And most of them at 
that time, I don't know why, ah, the toilet was in the cellar, water closet they called it.  They 
didn't think to put them up stairs.  They used the rooms.  And you'd go down cellar, and it was 
still hooked up to the discharge pipe that goes out to the sewer.  Then it dawned on them, well 
let's put it upstairs in the closet.  And oh, that was much nicer.  And the cellars were all dirt.  And 
that's where you'd get your coal.  They kept the coal in the cellar.  To bring it upstairs or if you 
were lucky you had a furnace, or coke.  Coke is a lot ah, ah more for boiling than this coal.  Well,
it was six of one and half a dozen of the ot, it was cheaper.  Ton of coal was nine, ten dollars.  
Ton of coke was probably five, six dollars.  Now the coke came from the gas company.  In order 
to make illuminating gas the gas company would burn or bake coal, roast it.  And they'd drive the
gas out.  And what was left was coke.  But what they wanted was the gas that was inside the coal.
And that's why you see these huge gas tanks.  As they were filled they'd go up.  Well, coke was a 
by product and they sold that.  You'd use it in the boiler.  They also had tar, tar derivatives and 
they'd sell that in tank car loads.  And that would be lubricating oil and, and ah, it's pretty good.  
Regular distillery, they'd distill coal.   
M:  Would that happen in Lowell?  
E:  Course the gas, the gas company's still up on School Street.  The big tank is still there.  But 
now they use a natural gas, more and more natural gas piping here.  Cheaper to pipe it out of the 
ground than it is to build these huge plants and burn coal, make coke.  
M:  When, when Nana and Grandpa would have moved to Jewett Street after they were married. 
Is that true?  
E:  Yeah, after they were married Grandpa, then they moved up to ah, ah, Fulton Street, the 
corner of Fulton Avenue.  
M:  So Nana moved to Jewett Street before she was married.
E:  No, when Nana got married she was married from Hampshire Street.  They left Fulton to 
come up to Hampshire Street.  In fact I was only forty feet away from where we've been living in
West Eleventh.  And I could look out and throw a snowball and hit where Nana was married 
from Hampshire Street.  They left Fulton Street and come up to this two tenement.  One down 
and one up and two rooms in the attic they, I think each one had a room in the attic to store junk, 
cold up there.  They didn't sleep in them.  Maybe they did in the summer, but I doubt it.  But she 
was married from Hampshire Street.  And ah, after the Honeymoon they come right over to 
Jewett Street, one street over.  Had an apartment all rented and everything else.  
M:  And where did Grandpa live before he married?  
E:  Where did he live?  Up on Adams Street with his mother.  Which Grandpa, Cleary or Barrett?
M:  Cleary.
K:  Your Grandfather.
E:  Oh, he lived up on Lawrence Street, like I told you.  
M:  Till he got married.  
E:  Till he got married.  And he was a plasterer.  And he used to work out of town.  He worked in 
New York City quite a bit.  Back in 1910, 11, 12, around that time.
M:  Was that unusual for someone to leave Lowell for his job?  
E:  Not really not if you were an artisans and there were no buildings being put in Lowell ah, 
where you'd need fifty or sixty men.  But when New York City was spreading up there and they 
needed hundreds of men, and they were paying five and six dollars a day instead of one dollar 
here.  Well, they all went where the work is, naturally.  
M:  Why didn't, why didn't the family move to New York?  
E:  Because he didn't have enough money and their roots were here.  And ah, Nana Cleary had no
intentions of moving to New York.  This was just a job.  If a salesman is going to Chicago or 
here or there, why does his wife have to buy a house here, buy a house there?  You stay here and 
he comes home.  He would come up weekends.  Take the train up weekends.  Because, if the job,
if she moved down to New York and the job finished and the next jobs Chicago.  What are you 
gonna do sell the house and move again?  You stay here.  The man comes back home weekends.  
How about an airplane pilot, someone drive a big truck?  The man's in the service.  Now, if he's 
assigned here and there the wife doesn't keep moving all the time she stays home.  Truck driver 
he might be gone three and four weeks.  He picks up a load here and he's going to California.  
Oh, we have one for Chicago, good he'll take it.  Oh, we're going back down to Texas.  Well, he's
taking these jobs.  He's an independent.  Hauling these huge things.  Well, that was the same in 
those days.  They went where the work was.  You followed the, a school an auditorium, a hotel.  
M:  Did he ever work in Lowell?  
E:  Oh, he worked on Keith's Theater of course.  The original Keith's Theater that they just tore 
that down.  He worked on that.  And they went aro, school, the Lowell High School.  When they 
built that in 19, 20, 7, something like that, 22 to 27.  That was a big job.  The Statler Hotel in 
Boston, commuted every day.  They'd go around looking for job after job looking.  Well, I hear 
there building a hotel there.  And they'd all go down looking for work.  
M:  Irish guys?  
E:  Oh, I don't know what they were.  
M:  They wouldn't necessarily be.  
E:  Oh, that had nothing to do with it.  Whoever the plasterer was.  You might be black, pink or 
green, they didn't give a dam [laugh].  You were a plasterer.  There's no such thing as, ah, religion
or nationality.  You, there looking for plasterers period.  I didn't care about that.  Maybe they 
wouldn't hire you socially.  Or have you invited to dinner.  But as far as looking for help.  Hey, in
at first come first serve, no problem at all.