American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_04_076 
Documentation/Fieldnotes - 
Williams, John: IAW-JW-F072689.A to IAW-DT-F062990.A 
S 
Ct /./r 
"* 
Document: IAW-JW-F072489.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Williams, John 
Date: 7/24/89 
Informant/Event: Galleano, Donald 
Coworker: DeNatale, Doug 
Site: 1 
U 
We visited the Galleano Winery at the suggestion of Tony 
Marabella, 
whom Doug had interviewed and photographed 
in his 
vineyard in Cucamonga. 
The Galleano Winery is located in the Mira 
Loma section of Riverside County, just off Riverside Avenue and 
near the intersection of Van Buren Avenue and the Pomona Freeway 
(CA 60). 
The layout is the familiar grouping of small winery 
buildings, winery, tasting room and storage facilities on one side 
of the road, with a home and an old wooden barn on the other side. 
Several presses, crushers, and barrels were scattered about, and 
a large array of old tools was displayed on the old barn though 
Galleano later could not think of any examples when I asked if he 
had any old wine making artifacts of an Italian provenance which 
had been in the family a long time. 
The company brochure confirmed Marabella's descriptions. 
The 
vineyard had been started in 1918 by Don Galleano's grandfather, 
a native of the Asti district of Piedmont. 
The grandfather grew 
grapes during the 1920s, then went into wine making in 1933. 
He 
had some connection with Guasti, although the exact nature is not 
clear, and Don Galleano, a man of about 40, speaks of "Mr. Guasti" 
with great respect and has many photographs (which Doug copied) of 
work at the Guasti complex (now Brookside Winery) a few miles to 
the west. 
Before specializing in grapes, the grandfather had engaged in 
general farming ("row crops," according to Don) on leased land on 
the fringes of the industrial area that follows the railroad tracks 
(and now the Interstates) 
through the Cucamonga valley. 
The 
Galleano vineyards are still mostly on leased land, 
though the 
winery itself and a few acres of vineyards are owned outright. 
(The total current acreage is 472.) 
When he went into wine making, 
the grandfather drew on his family heritage of home wine making. 
Don says his grandfather and father had no formal training of any 
kind in commercial wine making, 
and though he himself took "a 
couple of courses" he learned the business more or less by growing 
up in it. 
He went into it, against his father's wishes, because 
after he finished college [and service?] he "didn't know what else 
to do." 
Galleano's father had a ranch in the Bakersfield area when Don 
was growing up, 
but returned to the Mira Loma winery as 
the 
grandfather was getting ready to retire. 
[I 
gather this was 
IAW-JW-F072489.A - 
2 
sometime during the 1960s]. 
The family home was the building 
across the street, the ranch house of the Cantu Ranch, associated 
with an official of the Mexican period, which the grandfather 
bought in 1927. 
Parenthetically, he told me that his mother was 
from San Francisco and that his maternal grandmother's family were 
in the Santa Clara Valley around Morgan Hill. 
Don thus had lots of associations with the Santa Clara Valley, 
and spent a lot of time there as a kid. 
He went to college at San 
Jose State and spent much time during these years at the Gilroy 
home of an old family friend, Joe Parucca [sp?], who had once 
worked for his father and later became a grower [of what? not sure 
if he was a grape grower or wine producer, presumably so] around 
Gilroy. 
Don spent a lot of time with Joe and his wife Esther, and 
he recalls Joe Parucca's recent [November 1988] death with emotion. 
"I like to eat and drink," he remarked, and the Parucca's always 
gave him ample opportunities for both during his visits. 
Don has lots of advice on contacts in the Gilroy area. 
Joe 
Parucca's daughter, Betty Thomas, is in her mid-40s, can be helpful 
in putting us in touch with her father's remaining friends. 
Her 
phone is 408-842-2000. 
She lives near the Elks Lodge on the Hecker 
Pass Road (where David and I discovered the largest concentration 
of wineries during our March visit.) 
Another contact is Pete 
Giretti (791 5th St., Gilroy CA 95020) 
With his brother Harry, Pete Giretti used to have a winery there; 
one of them also used to be a banker. 
They are now retired from 
both businesses, but still have a "neat little winery" in a barn 
on the Hecker Pass Road. 
Conrotto [Don did not have a first name 
for him] would also be a good informant. 
The Harvest Time Restaurant is the present hangout for wine 
makers and other growers in the Gilroy area, as it has been for a 
long time. 
Don also mentioned a place which Joe Parucca used to 
own, and which Don visited in a kind of pilgrimage at the time of 
Joe's funeral last fall. 
This is "Live Oak Park," which had picnic 
tables, a restaurant and bar, and bocce courts. 
There used to be 
bocce tournaments there. 
It too is off the Hecker Pass Road [not 
sure if it has any connection with the Live Oak Winery we visited 
there in March.] 
Galleano Winery now produces around 11,000 gallons of bulk 
wine each year, most for sale to other bottlers. 
His bread and 
butter wine is zinfandel, which he also bottles and sells under his 
own label, 
as well as for private and custom labels as demand 
dictates. 
He does business with Tony Marabella, though privately 
expressing reservations about the quality of wine Tony makes, and 
recalls that his 
father and grandfather used to 
sell 
grapes 
regularly to home wine makers in San Pedro. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062290.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: WILLIAMS, JOHN ALEXANDER 
I 
Date: 6/22/90 
Informant/Event: TOUR OF PUEBLO 
Coworker: DENATALE, DOUG; MANINI, PAULA; TAVARELLI, PAOLA; FRANK, 
RUSSELL; TAYLOR, DAVID. 
Site: 6 
As part of fieldworker training, I made a general presentation on 
Pueblo history and geography, followed by an automobile tour. 
At first glance, Pueblo is not very impressive. 
There are no tall 
buildings to mark the center of the town, and important buildings, 
such as the court house, city hall, museum, and public library, are 
scattered across the city with no apparent relation to one another. 
Rather the landmarks which draw one's attention are on the distant 
horizon. 
To the south, the Spanish Peaks of the Sangre de Cristo 
range are visible on all but the haziest days. 
Closer in, 
the 
southern horizon is dominated by the tall smokestacks of the 
U 
Comanche power plant and the jumbled rooflines and stacks of the 
Colorado Fuel & Iron Corporation's Pueblo plant. 
On the east, a 
sprawling hilltop complex on the edge of the city looks like a 
prison but turns out to be a university. 
To the northwest, Pike's 
Peak presents its most beguiling profile to Pueblo, though the 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
2 
mountain is closer to (and more easily approached from) Colorado 
Springs. 
On the west, the narrowing basin of the Arkansas River 
Valley is bounded by a continuous mountain rim. 
There is nothing 
in Pueblo itself to compete with these landmarks. 
Admirers of 
Gertrude Stein would probably conclude that there's no there here. 
This unimpressive 
surface conceals a fascinating and 
complex 
geography, however. 
The city spreads north and south from the 
Arkansas river, rising to the north from the river bottomlands 
across gently sloping terraces and low ridges and hills, to the 
south across steep river bluffs and imperceptibly rising tableland 
broken here and there by the faintest of ridge lines. 
East of the 
city center, three stream valleys bisect the surrounding flatlands 
as they descend to the Arkansas 
Fountain Creek flows in from the 
north, separating the business district from the residential east 
side, which is now known as Belmont. 
Salt Creek enters the river 
from the south a short distance further east, its valley breaking 
through the river bluffs and separating Pueblo proper from a broad 
tableland known as St. 
Charles Mesa. 
The Mesa's southern and 
eastern perimeter is defined by the St. Charles River, which enters 
the Arkansas about 20 miles east of Salt Creek. 
Although not part 
of Pueblo, the Mesa has played an important role in its history. 
The city's original circulation system is defined by three distinct 
street grids, 
each one representing a different set of urban 
functions as conceived by rival town builders in the late 19th 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
3 
century. 
These grids are poorly and confusingly integrated, and 
the city's surface geography is further complicated by the fact 
that the Arkansas River changed its course through the center of 
Pueblo during a devastating flood in June 1921. 
The original 
layout is a rectangular grid of north-south named streets and east-
west numbered streets, bounded on the south by the original bed of 
the Arkansas river and on the east by the Fountain Creek valley and 
a low peninsular ridge -- now known as Goat Hill 
-- between 
Fountain Creek and the river bottomlands. 
The administrative and 
retail commercial functions of the city developed within this grid, 
although in the late 19th century two ore smelters occupied the 
more remote part of the Goat Hill peninsula. 
The copper-domed 
Pueblo County Courthouse at 10th Street and Santa Fe Avenue is the 
most imposing building in this part of town. 
The intersection of 
Santa Fe and Main streets between 4th and 6th contains the largest 
concentration of shops and banks. 
The city's early and mid-20th 
century suburban growth in middle and upper middle class housing 
developed along northern and eastern extensions of this grid. 
The original Italian settlement was located at the southeast corner 
of this original grid, with its center at the intersection of Santa 
Fe Avenue and 1st street. 
It extended southward to the original 
bank of the river and eastward to the lower slopes of Goat Hill. 
Many of the early immigrants worked in Goat Hill's smelters or for 
the railroads which converged in the river bottomlands. 
The 
earliest stores and saloons serving Pueblo's Italian population 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
4 
were also clustered along Santa Fe south of 1st. 
Today three 
Italian restaurants in the area are all that remains to identify 
this history. 
Otherwise the entire neighborhood was wiped out by 
the 1921 flood and the population dispersed to other parts of the 
city. 
Many rebuilt their homes on the higher ground provided by 
the northwestern half of Goat Hill. 
The rest moved to South Pueblo 
or Bessemer. 
South Pueblo was founded by the builders of the Denver & Rio Grande 
Railroad. 
Although the D&RG built a station at Pueblo, its owners 
wanted to keep for themselves the profits that new railroads 
generated from urban growth and real estate development. 
They 
therefore secured control of what had once been a huge Spanish (New 
Mexican) land grant extending along the south bank of the Arkansas 
for some thirty miles and southward to the St. Charles River. 
The 
eastern two-thirds of this land would later be developed as the 
truck farming district of 
St. 
Charles Mesa, 
but the 
initial 
subdivision was South Pueblo, which was intended to capture the 
growth in wholesale/commercial functions and light manufacturing 
(such as agricultural processing) that railroad development tended 
to generate. 
South Pueblo was laid out entirely on what was then 
the south side of the Arkansas, with its street grid lying at an 
angle to the original Pueblo grid and further subdivided into three 
separate 
divisions. 
A railroad 
terminal 
was 
built 
in 
the 
bottomland below the river bluffs and a commercial district laid 
out between the terminal on the southwest and the original river 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
5 
bank on the northeast. 
This grid was defined by lettered streets 
(A, 
B, 
C, 
and D) 
running on a northwest-southeast axis, 
with 
perpendicular named streets, of which one -- Union Street -- now 
contains Pueblo's most impressive connection of restored late 19th 
century commercial buildings. 
A similar grid, 
with all named 
streets, 
was laid out on the tableland south of the bluffs, 
beginning with a broad boulevard called Abriendo. 
Northeast of 
Abriendo, a section of curving streets with romantic Spanish names 
defined what was intended to be an elite residential district on 
the bluffs. 
Union Street penetrated the bluffs and linked these 
residential districts with the commercial zone to the northeast. 
The intersection where Union linked up with Abriendo became a broad 
plaza and street car interchange point known as Mesa Junction. 
The 
grid of streets southwest of Abriendo remained largely unoccupied 
during the late 19th century and became known as "the Blocks." 
However, another immigrant residential area developed along the 
lettered streets extending southeastward from the Union Street 
commercial zone. 
This was known as "the Grove," thanks to the 
riparian cottonwood forest which covered the bottomlands. 
Three 
Catholic churches were built along Clark Street between A and D. 
St. Mary's (1895) was built originally as a German-language parish 
to serve immigrant Catholics from the polyglot Austrian empire. 
It spun off St. Anthony's, a Slovak parish, in 1911 and Our Lady 
of Mt. Carmel, an Italian parish, in 1920. 
Although the Grove was 
largely a Slavic settlement, it lay just across the river from the 
Italian neighborhood and was easily accessible by both highway and 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
6 
railroad bridges. 
After the 1921 flood devastated the Grove and 
relocated the 
river, 
St. 
Mary's moved south to the 
Bessemer 
district, 
but Mt. 
Carmel 
church -- 
though divorced 
from any 
surrounding neighborhood -- remained as a centrally-located parish 
for Italian families who had dispersed to the Mesa or to Goat Hill. 
The third grid, Bessemer, was laid out along the same north-south 
and east-west axis as the original Pueblo, but was separated from 
it by the angled South Pueblo grid. 
Bessemer was also developed 
by the owners 
of 
the 
D&RG, 
grouped 
in a somewhat different 
configuration in one of the predecessor companies of Colorado Fuel 
& Iron (CF&I). 
It was built as a steel manufacturing center; 
during the late 19th century, CF&I's principal product was steel 
rails for railroad construction; during the 20th century, 
this 
changed to structural shapes and today consists mainly of wire and 
other extruded products and seamless steel tubing for oil and gas 
drilling and pipelines. 
The company's peak employment came during 
the 1950s and '60s, when as many as 8,500 people worked there. 
Even today, with the company "downsized" to a payroll of 2,000, 
CF&I is still Pueblo's largest employer. 
The CF&I mills occupy roughly a fifth of the tableland east of Salt 
Creek and the Mesa, with the residential portion of Bessemer and 
its 1950s suburban developments of Sunset Park and Minnequa Heights 
occupying the remainder. 
Northern Avenue runs east-west across 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
7 
Bessemer to the northern edge of the mill property and then 
continues east to a junction with Highway 50 east, which extends 
over the Salt Creek valley on a high bridge and links the Mesa with 
both Bessemer and downtown. 
All of the north-south streets of 
Bessemer are linked with the angled South Pueblo grid in the 
Blocks, but the area east and southeast of the Blocks, a triangular 
wedge of land between the river bluffs, Salt Creek and the Northern 
Avenue boundary of CF&I attracted most of the Italian and Slovenian 
families who dispersed to Bessemer after the 1921. 
St. Mary's 
church relocated to Mesa Street, 
one block north of Northern 
Avenue, 
as a Slovenian parish, 
although some Italian families 
became members. 
The Italians concentrated west of the Slovenians, 
on Box Elder, Elm, East Abriendo, Routt and Evans streets and the 
intersecting east-west streets. 
No Italian parish was built here, 
but many families continued to go to Mt. 
Carmel while others 
worshipped at St. 
Patrick's, a parish originally developed for 
Irish railroad workers who lived in the Blocks district of South 
Pueblo. 
Later as postwar prosperity and suburbanization took young families 
further west, St. Therese parish, built in 1949 in Sunset Park, 
attracted many Italian families. 
The narrow but deep and wooded valley of Salt Creek attracted the 
poorest refugees from the 1921 flood, including some Italians, but 
it 
remains 
today 
predominantly 
a Mexican-American 
district. 
Visible from the high bridge which links Pueblo and Bessemer to the 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
8 
Mesa, it looks like a classic barrio. 
Originally its inhabitants 
were squatting on unused CF&I land, but a priest negotiated the 
purchase of homesites from the company during the 1940s. 
St. 
Joseph's Parish, which was developed during the 1920s to serve 
Italian families on the Mesa, 
also serves the Spanish-speaking 
population from Salt Creek. 
Pueblo, 
South 
Pueblo 
and 
Bessemer 
were 
combined 
into 
the 
municipality of Pueblo in 1886, along with Central Pueblo, a short-
lived incorporation occupying the wedge of land between the Pueblo 
and South Pueblo grids. 
The City Hall, central police station and 
principal commercial hotel were subsequently built in this "no 
man's land" between Pueblo's 1st and South Pueblo's D streets. 
Also 
in this area one may trace the original course of the 
Arkansas, 
along variously open or covered culverts paralleling 
Elizabeth Street between 4th Street and Santa Fe. 
During the 1921 
flood, the river reclaimed a former bed at the foot of the South 
Pueblo bluffs. 
Now contained within reinforced concrete levies, 
the Arkansas bisects the South Pueblo grid. 
Another dramatic 
change came about with the construction of Interstate 25 through 
the city during the 1960s. 
The I-25 corridor destroyed the western 
slope of Goat Hill and also took some Italian and many Slovenian 
homes in the northeast corner of Bessemer. 
These changes make it necessary to use one's imagination in linking 
historic patterns in the city's social and economic geography to 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 
9 
current configurations, 
but this can be done, 
as I tried to 
illustrated during a two-hour automobile tour. 
1. 
The tour began at the footbridge which carries Pueblo extensive 
recreational greenway across Fountain Creek near its junction with 
the Arkansas. 
From here the creek seems to lead straight to the 
snow-capped cone of Pike's Peak, and it is easy to see how Zebulon 
Pike was lured to his unsuccessful assault on the mountain when he 
camped here in 1806. 
The copper dome of the courthouse in the 
distance allows us to relate this vista to the original Pueblo 
grid. 
2. 
The Fountain Creek bike path at Plaza Verde park allows a 
comprehensive view of Goat Hill from the east. 
We can see the 
railroad cut through the low ridge made by the original main line 
of the D&RG railroad as it moved from the Fountain Creek valley it 
followed south from Colorado Springs to its terminal and yards in 
South Pueblo. 
North of the railroad cut, one can still see the 
dense grouping of small homes and lanes of Goat Hill. 
South of the 
cut, we can see the piles of tailings left by the now-vanished 
smelters at which many Goathillers worked. 
3. 
A drive through Goat Hill reveals its relative isolation from 
the city, thanks to freeway construction, and its compactness as 
a poor people's neighborhood. 
Now mainly hispanic, a few Italian 
families still live there and many more remember it from their 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 10 
youth. 
4. 
The parking lot of Patti 
I s Restaurant at Santa Fe and Elizabeth 
represents the approximate center of the Italian neighborhood which 
existed in the 100-200 blocks of South Santa Fe before the 1921 
flood. 
The 
strip 
of 
parkland 
paralleling 
Elizabeth 
on 
the 
southwest side of the street marks the original course of the 
Arkansas. 
5. 
Driving down Union Street and around to Union Station at 
Victoria and A illustrates the commercial heart of South Pueblo. 
The late Victorian buildings survived the 1921 flood and were 
handsomely restored during the 1970s, but remain largely abandoned 
with the occasional small business separated from its neighbors by 
empty storefronts and for rent signs. 
6. 
The lettered streets intersecting Union lead to a warehouse and 
processing district which seems lightly used now. 
Post 1921 
railroad construction now cuts off direct access by car between 
Union Street and the Grove, but its proximity can be seen. 
7. 
Driving down Clark Street from South Santa Fe, we are in the 
heart of the Grove. 
St. Anthony's church, between C & D, 
is now 
a soup kitchen. 
St. Mary's, the steeple removed, now serves as the 
school for Mt. Carmel. 
Mt. Carmel, located between B streets and 
where A would have been before the relocation of the river, is now 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 11 
nearly overshadowed by the new river levee and a railroad bridge, 
but teenagers who pass by as we are standing in front of the church 
illustrated that the railroad bridge could be used as a pedestrian 
passage from the Grove to those parts of South Pueblo and Bessemer 
where Italians relocated after the flood. 
8. 
Returning to Union, we cross the new river channel and pass up 
through the bluffs to Mesa Junction. 
Here the 
was erected in 
1905 by Italian prominente. 
ceremony is held here each Columbus Day. 
The 
Columbus Monument 
A wreath laying 
McClelland Public 
Library fronts the broad plaza on the south, and even though the 
Junction is now dominated by automobiles, 
one can see how it 
function as a streetcar interchange point in earlier times. 
9. 
Moving south through the Blocks, we pass modest but substantial 
working class housing, but on a ridge near the boundary between the 
Bessemer and South Pueblo grids is a street lined with handsome 
Victorian homes. 
This is where the managers of the CF&I mill 
lived, several miles south of the ridges where Pueblo's downtown 
bankers and business and professional leaders built similar houses 
on similar elevations. 
10. 
Moving east through the Bessemer grid, we come to the streets 
(Evans, Routt, East Abriendo, Elm, Box Elder) where Italian mill 
workers lived. 
Two neighborhood institutions, Gus 's Tavern and 
LaTronica's Restaurant, mark the heart of the neighborhood on Mesa 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 12 
between Elm and East Abriendo. 
11. 
Northern Avenue is lined for miles with small stores, bars and 
other businesses, many defunct but most hanging on. 
South of this 
street on Evans and Routt, we pass union halls and credit unions 
associated with the millworkers, along with the CF&I offices and 
the main gate to the mill, which passes under I-25 at Indiana 
Avenue. 
Here too we can see the Bessemer ditch, 
the mill's 
original supply of water, now very inadequate for steel-making 
purposes. 
It crosses the southern perimeter of the city and 
bridges I-25 and Salt Creek on aqueducts and becomes the principle 
source of irrigation water for the farmers on St. Charles Mesa. 
12. 
Heading east on Northern Avenue east of I-25, we see the mill 
on our right and a dozen or more bars on the north or left side of 
the street. 
Many are now boarded up, but in their day, each served 
as a gathering place for a group of mill workers, usually guys who 
worked in a particular part of the mill. 
At 217 E. Northern is 
Columbus Hall, which until 1975 was the site of the annual Columbus 
Day banquet stages by Italian-American lodges. 
13. 
Northern Avenue joins Highway 50 East just before it crosses 
Salt Creek on a high bridge and climbs to the level top of St. 
Charles Mesa. 
North of Route 50 between 21st and 26th lane, we can 
see evidence of the Mesa's once thriving truck gardening business, 
along with the impact of suburbanization. 
At least three backyard 
IAW-JW-F062290.A - 13 
beehive ovens or forni are visible in this area. 
Store names along 
route 50 provide reminders of the heavy concentration of Italian 
families in this area. 
14. 
Driving past St. Joseph's church and the entrance to Roselawn 
cemetery, we can find a road leading down to the Salt Creek barrio 
and its jumble of narrow streets and adobe and wood houses. 
15. 
Heading back through the center of town along 6th street and 
Greenwood Avenue, we pass through the commercial core of the city 
and climb north through 
neighborhood of middle 
occasional mansion such 
a shady Victorian and early 20th century 
and upper-middle class homes, 
plus the 
as Rosemount, home of the city's leading 
banker of the 19th century and now a part of the art museum. 
The 
highest elevations here are known as "Big Hill." 
16. 
Route 50 west is a standard suburban strip of the 1950s/1980s, 
about 30 blocks north of downtown. 
Our motel and the end of the 
tour is two blocks north at exit 102 of I-25. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062590.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Williams, John Alexander 
Date: 6/25/90 
Informant/Event: Musso, Charles 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I met with Charles Musso at Musso's home at 918 
Morrison Avenue in the Sunset Park section of Pueblo. 
The home is 
a 1950s type small suburban residence. 
Out front near the curb 
Musso has installed two fireplugs, centered in an arrangement of 
landscaping stones and ornaments. 
He told us that he acquired the 
fireplugs during the American Revolution bicentennial and that they 
had originally been painted red-white-and blue. 
He had a number 
of other ornaments in the front yard, and his name and address are 
posted on a marble plaque -- a relic of his days as a monument and 
gravestone salesman, he told us -- and also on an illuminated 
signboard. 
A shrine to the Virgin is visible in the back yard, but 
we could not see any other yard art due to heavy screening of 
trumpet vines. 
Musso was born in 1912 
in Pueblo. 
Both of his parents were 
immigrants, from the same village near Palermo in Sicily, but they 
immigrated separately. 
He thinks they came to Pueblo via New York 
IAW-JW-F062590.A - 
2 
but was hazy on this point and made reference to the hard times 
that some Pueblo Italians had had in New Orleans. 
Probably they 
were 
examples 
of 
chain 
migration, 
coming 
from 
Sicily 
to 
a 
destination already scouted by others from the same village. 
Musso grew up on St. Charles Mesa, where his family owned a truck 
gardening farm. 
Asked what crops they grew, he said just about 
everything and rattled off spinach, 
lettuce, melons, parsnips, 
turnips, and others I cannot recall. 
His father also worked at 
CFI, 
but became 
ill 
in 
1930 
at 
which time Musso took over 
management of the farm. 
Musso also worked at CFI. 
When we asked 
him how he got his first job, he said simply, "politics... It was 
a question of who you knew." 
Musso is clearly a political animal, with a sharp and detailed 
memory about political actors and events, but hazy on other less 
political subjects. 
of 24, defeating a 
(Guigliermo) 
for a 
He won his first race for office at the age 
17-year School Board veteran, Johnny Williams 
seat on the district 12 board. 
He said he 
started out as a democrat, switched to the Republicans, ending up 
as a Democrat again. 
He had no apologies to make for this 
practical 
outlook. 
It 
was 
his 
republican 
contacts, 
in 
the 
personnel and accounting offices of CFI, that got him his first 
job, doing "yard work" at the mill. 
Musso considers himself a super salesman. 
He has been selling 
IAW-JW-F062590.A - 
3 
something all his life, 
starting with produce which he and his 
father hauled by wagon from the mesa and sold at a market near 1st 
and Santa Fe. 
This market was held three days a week (Tu, Th, Sat) 
and was held old the grounds of or in a lot adjacent to "the old 
flour mill." 
This would have been in the pre-flood area of Italian 
concentration. 
Mussos sold to grocery stores in various parts of 
the city, never sold door to door, though many of their Italian 
neighbors did. 
Musso joined the Columbus Lodge in 1937. 
His father had been a 
member. 
He remembers the Columbus Day parades, but is hazy on when 
they were discontinued or why. 
He dates the transformation of 
Columbus Day to a political event from 1942. 
[Later it occurred 
to me that we should have asked if this had any connection with the 
war; Musso remembered carrying the Italian flag in the parades, 
this would of course have been impolitic during WWII.] 
The United 
Societies consisted of the Columbus Lodge, the Fidelity and the 
Protective. 
When asked what was the difference between the three, 
he said "dialects." 
The Columbus Lodge was Sicilian. 
The Fidelty 
"Agnonese" [from the village of Agnone near Naples.] 
When I asked 
the regional origin of the third lodge, he did not seem to know. 
Vincent Massari was important in the Columbus Day events in Musso' s 
early 
days. 
Massari 
became 
an 
influential 
democratic 
state 
senator. 
(They sports arena at U of So Colo is named for him.] 
Massari and his daughter raised money for the event by selling ads 
IAW-JW-F062590.A - 
4 
for the program. 
Musso says they got a commission on these sales; 
most people did not know this, but Musso did. 
Thus whenever he 
heard Massari praised for his service to the community, he (Musso) 
knew better than to accept the praise at face value. 
Musso says that in his era, the Columbus Lodge took the lead among 
the 
societies. 
The dinner was held 
in 
their hall 
(217 
E. 
Northern), they sold more tickets, did more of the work, 
etc. 
Several times he proposed that his lodge take over the event 
exclusively, but was outvoted. finally he succeeded "three or four 
years ago" and now the Columbus Lodge is the sole sponsor. 
The 
success of the event as a political occasion has ensured that the 
500 tickets for the dinner more or less sell themselves. 
Musso is 
constantly asked for last minute tickets. 
He just sits back and 
lets "the courthouse" call him for their tickets. 
In his years as "Mr. Columbus" (roughly the 1960s through '80s) 
Musso is proud of the efficiency with which he runs the dinner, 
which he describes as more or less a one-man show. 
Among his 
achievements were securing a larger venue (U S C was tried once 
but the food was disastrous; now the event is held at the ARts 
Center). 
He publicly chided Colorado's yuppie governor Richard 
Lamm for only showing up in election years (afterwards Lamm came 
every year.) 
And by threatening prompt ejection from the dinner, 
he quelled an outbreak of food fights which involved, among others, 
then Senator Gary Hart. 
"They got half-loaded" 
and 
started 
IAW-JW-F062590.A - 
5 
throwing buns. 
It is easy to imagine how someone like Hart would 
grow bored and restless during a long evening of speeches and 
introductions and succumb to this temptation. 
In latter part of the interview, Musso discusses the many jobs he 
has held, including bar owner and monument salesman, and mentions 
many 
political figures in Pueblo and Colorado. 
In response to my question, he discussed the Agricultural Lodge on 
the Mesa. 
Musso says that there were no regional divisions within 
this lodge, but was relatively vague on what it did. 
He says the 
lodge was "broken up" during the 1970s. 
Musso talked at length about the declining membership in the lodges 
-- Columbus is down from 250 during the 60s to 83 now. 
There are 
two members in their forties; the rest range from 60 to 95. 
There 
was a brief flurry of interest among younger men in the late 70s 
early 80s (possibly in response to the Pueblo Mosaic oral history 
project?) but this died out and younger men and women no longer 
participate. 
The Lodge has nothing to offer them, Musso says, 
since the death benefits are no longer a basis for joining. In the 
face 
of 
this, 
he wonders 
what will 
become 
of 
Columbus 
Day 
celebrations in Pueblo. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062690.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Williams, John Alexander 
Date: 6/26/90 
Informant/Event: Daxton, Lawrence 
Coworker: 
Site: 6 
I met for an hour with Lawrence ("Larry") 
Daxton, professor of 
history and chairman of 
social 
studies 
at the University of 
Southern Colorado. 
Daxton is a Russian specialist, trained at 
Boulder, but in late 70s co-directed the Pueblo Mosaic and WICHE 
oral history projects. 
He is now a board member of the Colorado 
Humanities Council and discussed at length the Council's problems 
in confronting the ethnic tensions generated by the Columbus 
Quincentenary. 
Daxton lives in Avondale, on St. Charles Mesa, and volunteered some 
information about the situation there. 
All titles descend from 
CF&I, but in the Avondale area CF&I's land agent got a share of the 
land. 
Daxton believes that some Italians came there as stoop 
laborers on Anglo properties, but later acquired land themselves. 
Those who had jobs at CF&I had more income, prestige than others, 
Daxton believes. 
IAW-JW-F062690.A - 
2 
Italians and Slays predominate on the Mesa now, 
with Mexicans 
serving as stoop labor. 
Italians and Slays specialize in different 
crops, he says, quoting a Slavic neighbor. 
Sam Giodone was the 
"big boss" of the area and exercised his leadership through the 
Agricultural or Gardeners lodge. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062790.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: WILLIAMS, JOHN ALEXANDER 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: PAGANO, JOHN 
Coworker: TAYLOR, DAVID 
Site: 6 
U 
David and 
Abriendo, 
booth 
in 
interview 
I met John Pagano at the Pass Key Restaurant, 518 East 
on Wednesday morning at 9 AM. 
We interviewed him at a 
the 
restaurant, 
sipping 
coffee as we talked. 
The 
ended as the restaurant opened at its regular 10 AM. 
This 
is 
the 
"original" 
Pass 
Key 
Restaurant, 
but 
its 
second 
location. 
The restaurant opened initially at 600 East Abriendo 
under another name and was run by Dominic Piscotte, who owned the 
building. 
Pasquale Vitale [sp?], the short-order cook who invented 
the Pass Key sandwich, apparently worked for the second owner, 
whose name we did not get; the third owners were Sam and Teresa 
Pagano, John's aunt and uncle, who ran the place only briefly until 
John and his brother Frank bought it in 1952. 
John is the older brother. 
He and Frank grew up in the home of an 
Italian-American father and a Polish-American mother. 
I asked how 
this affected the food he ate as a child. 
He replied that his 
IAW-JW-F062790.A - 
2 
Italian grandmother taught his mother a basic Italian repertoire 
of red sauce dishes. 
She also made some Polish dishes, though the 
only one he could name was Polish sausage. 
The Paganos grew up in 
the polyglot Bessemer neighborhood. 
Their restaurant enterprise seems to have been a success from the 
early 1950s. 
A basic reason was the appeal of the Pass Key 
sandwich, which took its name from its inventor's nickname, an 
anglicization of Pasquale. 
The Pass Key is an Italian sausage 
patty sandwich, 
served on a french bread bun with mustard and 
lettuce and any other desired condiments. 
John says that he and 
his brother experimented with and improved on the original recipe, 
a claim they substantiated in court when they fell 
out with 
Piscotte over the renewal of the lease on their original location. 
Piscotte tried to prevent them from taking the Pass Key name to 
their new location, but the courts backed their claim to it in 
1969. 
One change they made was to eliminate fennel seed from the 
recipe. 
The seeds snapped and popped on the grill and "the kids 
thought they looked like bugs." 
Thus its most characteristic 
Italian seasoning was discarded. 
Now the recipe calls for pork 
sausage seasoned with salt, pepper, and "chile piante," which we 
took to be John's pronunciation of chile picante. 
The chile powder 
comes from a supplier in El Paso. 
A second reason for success was the appear of Pass Key's to south 
side teenagers during the 1950s. 
The place became a teen hangout, 
IAW-JW-F062790.A - 
3 
its parking lot full of the classic car-centered teen scene of that 
decade. 
Both the original and the new locations were set up as 
drive-ins, with only four inside booths at the first location. 
The 
action was therefore in the parking lot, but John recalls only a 
few instances of excessive rowdiness when police had to be called. 
Its popularity spread to the entire city, and Pass Key became a 
kind of neutral ground for north siders and south siders and also 
for fans and members of visiting teams headed to and from the high 
school football stadium a few blocks away. 
The original sandwich 
cost 55 cents. 
Besides teenagers, Pass Key also had a lunch trade of white collar 
and business people from Bessemer and Mesa Junction. 
Its new 
building, still attractive and modern looking, greatly increased 
interior seating. 
Eventually curb service was phased out. 
But 
Pass Key sandwiches had become a Pueblo tradition as the 50s teens 
grew up and moved to the suburbs and began bringing their own 
families back for a taste of their youth. 
The sandwich 
is 
particularly associated with the city's athletic rivalries and 
traditions, and is the place to go for pre- or post-game food. 
The sandwich has also become an object of nostalgia for the people 
who grew up on it. 
John's scrapbook is full of nostalgic newspaper 
essays 
and 
travel 
reports 
that 
affirm 
this. 
It 
was 
this 
distinctive menu item that saved the restaurant, John believes, 
for if he had had only a hamburger menu, Pass Key would likely have 
suffered the fate of other diners and drive-ins who declined with 
IAW-JW-F062790.A - 
4 
the rise of McDonalds. 
Today a second Pass Key has opened on Route 50 West under the 
direction of John's son "and his mother and sister." 
It has a 
salad bar but 
is 
otherwise loyal to the old PassKey's menu. 
Frank's son has opened a restaurant of his own, called Pagano's, 
which serves dinners but also serves the Pass Key sandwich. 
Each 
restaurant is independent of the others, each mixes its own sausage 
for the Pass Key though the recipe is the same. 
John and Frank 
continue to run the original restaurant at the Abriendo location. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062790.B 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: Williams, John Alexander 
Date: 6/27/90 
Informant/Event: Merlino, Michael; Varney, Betty Merlino; Sauer, 
Carmella Merlino 
Coworker: Taylor, David 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I travelled to Canon City to meet Michael Merlino, 
the current proprietor of Merlino's Belvedere Restaurant, 
and 
Joseph Merlino, Michael's uncle and with Michael's father, one of 
the original co-owners of the business. 
After preliminary contacts 
during our scouting trip in March and again on June 19, we had 
scheduled a lunch appointment with these two. 
However upon arrival 
at the appointed place, Michael informed us that his uncle's wife 
had died (she had just been hospitalized when we saw Michael on the 
previous Tuesday evening) and had been buried on the previous day, 
June 26. 
Joseph Merlino would not be joining us. 
However, Michael 
had arranged for his aunt, Betty Varney, to join us. 
Later we 
would be joined by Betty's younger sister, Carmella Sauer. 
We met at the Merlino family compound on Elm Avenue (SR 115) two 
miles east of Canon City. 
The compound consists of orchards, a 
cider mill, an office building, other outbuildings, a home now 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
2 
occupied by Michael and his wife Kathy and their children but built 
originally by Michael's grandfather (and Betty, Carmella and Joe's 
father) Ubaldo L. Merlino and subsequently much modified, and the 
Belvedere Restaurant building, which is set off from the other 
buildings of the compound by large paved parking areas. 
The 
restaurant building faces highway 115 directly. 
The residence is 
set back and screened from the highway and parking lots by fencing 
and trees. 
We had been drawn to Merlino's originally in March by the extensive 
roadside advertising about it, particularly in the area of the 
Royal Gorge, Canon City's main tourist attraction, and also by the 
recommendation of one of the informants we talked to 
in the 
Colorado Springs area. 
A brochure published by the restaurant 
presented the basic facts of its history as the classic American 
success story. 
Tony (Michael's father) and Joe Merlino, the sons 
of an industrious immigrant, had founded the restaurant in 1946 and 
had worked hard for its success. 
Now it was regionally famous and 
had been given a 4-star rating by the Mobil guide. 
(This rating 
turns 
out to have been given in 
1979-1981 and has 
not been 
repeated, but the continued success of the restaurant was apparent 
from crowded parking lot 
and waiting list 
from our previous 
visits.) 
Merlino's Belvedere presented a limited number of Italian 
and steak house entrees and seemed to be adopted to the tastes of 
a non-Italian, middle American clientele. 
I was interested in 
learning how this had evolved from the immigrants and mining camp 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
3 
origins of the family. 
During our March visit, David and I had explored what remains of 
the coal mining camp of Brookside, which was located off highway 
115 three or so miles further east. 
This is where Ubaldo Merlino 
settled and where he worked all his life, even though he had moved 
his family closer to Canon City when he purchased the original 
orchard property during the 1920s. 
Much of our conversation with 
Betty Varney turned on the family's life in Brookside. 
Carmella, 
as the youngest daughter and next youngest child, had no memory of 
Brookside, though she had been born there in 1927 or 1928. 
Betty Varney had ambiguous feelings about talking to us. 
She 
announced that she had written a 375,000 word book on the very 
subject we were interested in and that it was "in" the Library of 
Congress. 
It turned out upon further inquiry that the book is 
fiction and has been submitted to the Library's copyright office. 
Betty has engaged an agent and is trying to find a publisher. 
Her 
manuscript covers the period 1900-1938 and is entitled "Dialects." 
She describes it briefly as being about the traditions of the older 
generation and how they were lost. 
Betty was eager to share her 
knowledge with us, but was worried that our project might interfere 
with the success of her finding a publisher. 
I assured her that, 
while we were interested in the family's background, we saw this 
as mainly background to the postwar history of the restaurant. 
We 
were not as interested in some of the family stories around which 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
4 
Betty had built her fictional account as we were in the functioning 
of the family in its development of its businesses. 
This seemed 
to reassure her, though at several points she asked us not to "use" 
information which was central to her story. 
These cautions are, 
of course, identified on the tape and should be heeded. 
We met at a circular booth in the original dining room/bar of the 
restaurant. 
Kathy's wife served a steak dinner to us 
as we 
conversed. 
On the wall above the booth hang three portraits, 
Ubaldo Merlino, flanked by his two oldest sons, the restaurant's 
founders, Tony and Joe. 
Our conversation initially turned on what it was like to grow up 
as Italians in the Canon City area. 
Both Michael and Betty 
recalled incidents from their teen years that they felt reflected 
lingering prejudices against Italians in their area. 
While these 
feelings may be vestigial today, 
since Italians have clearly 
"arrived" 
in this 
area 
(the 
local 
bank president 
is Anthony 
Springari, a grandson of a Brookside miner), 
their importance 
historically was dramatized by a story that Carmella told late in 
our conversation about having found five barrels of unclaimed 
storage in a furniture store building in nearby Florence. 
They 
were full of Ku Klux Klan regalia and could be tied to two local 
doctors, once prominent but deceased at the time that the barrels 
were opened. 
Carmella, much to her present regret, burned the 
contents. 
The Klan was very powerful in Colorado during the 1920s 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
5 
and this memory must have had an impact on the Merlinos when they 
were growing up. 
Even today, Michael said, Italians of whatever 
station in life still live south of the Arkansas river (which was 
where all the coal mines, orchards and truck farms were) , 
while few 
if any Italians live on the North Side, the site of Canon City 
proper and of its associated tourist facilities and its leading 
employer, the Colorado state penitentiary. 
Merlino's Belvedere, 
incidentally, is now the fourth largest employer in Canon City, 
following the pen, the school board and the phone company. 
Ubaldo Merlino came to the United States in 1912 as a youth of 16. 
He was a native of Taranta Peligna, in the province of Chieti, 
region of Abruzzi. 
Initially he went to the Seattle area to work 
in the northwest coal mines. 
He told stories later of travelling 
via Montreal and Vancouver to this area. 
But in 1913 he came to 
Brookside, where other natives of his village were working. 
He 
married one of them, Angela Moschetti, who had been brought to the 
United States as an infant. 
Having been a shepherd in the old 
country, Ubaldo's first job was handling animals, as a muleskinner 
running the donkeys who hauled the coal. 
Most of his life he 
worked as a miner, undercutting, shooting, and loading coal [Betty 
did not use these terms, but accurately described the practice]. 
Both Tony and Joe worked with their father as loaders as young men 
just before WW II. 
Ubaldo worked at Brookside until 1947, never 
missing a shift according to the restaurant's historical pamphlet. 
Betty nevertheless 
referred to her 
father's participation 
in 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
6 
strikes and seemed to think that he had also been a strikebreaker 
at one point. He was also a lifelong admirer of John L. 
Lewis. 
There is nothing in Betty's account to suggest that labor union 
activities played a central role in Ubaldo's life. 
Betty has vivid memories 
of 
Brookside 
and 
of 
her Moschetti 
grandparents, who operated a combination barroom and store there. 
Her 
grandfather 
made 
wine 
in 
quantity 
and 
her 
grandmother 
apparently drank a good deal of it. 
Betty referred also to trouble 
that they had with "the feds" during Prohibition and describes an 
incident when revenue agents smashed all the empty bottles found 
around the Moschetti premises. 
Ubaldo was a vigorous gardener, 
and 
irrigated his garden at 
Brookside with well water pumped electrically into a reservoir. 
He had 
fruit trees, 
tomatoes, 
garlic, 
as well 
as 
the usual 
vegetables. 
He raised and slaughtered his own rabbits and hogs and 
made 
sausage. 
He 
also made wine with 
grapes 
purchased 
in 
California. 
Angela was a frugal cook and always served spaghetti with a sauce 
made from whatever was available or left over. 
Both rabbit and 
tripe were among the dishes Betty recalls eating. 
Angela's sauces 
always had a tomato base. 
She baked bread in the traditional 
manner in an outdoor oven. 
Breakfast was usually nothing but 
oatmeal. 
Supper was the main meal, served about 6 PM at the end 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
7 
of her father's shift. 
He carried his lunch in the classic miner's 
dinner bucket, with water, bread, an onion or tomato and salami. 
Ubaldo moved his family to the orchard property in order to send 
his children to high school in Canon City. 
All completed high 
school. 
Carmella remembers only this home, the one Michael now 
occupies with his family. 
Originally it was a ranch house that 
Ubaldo had moved to the property, which also contained about 200 
cherry and apple trees. 
During the 1930s the family operated a 
fruit and vegetable stand in front of their house, with the girls 
and younger boys taking turns in selling. 
The 4-lane Route 50 on 
the north bank of the Arkansas had not been built then, and so the 
highway passing in front of them was the main road between Florence 
and Pueblo on the east and Canon City and the Royal Gorge on the 
west. 
Tourists were important to their business, especially to the 
sale of the cherry "cider" that Angela made and which the children 
put in bottles and sold at 10 cents apiece. 
None of the Merlino children married Italians, Betty pointed out, 
notwithstanding the discrimination they met from some peers in the 
Canon City schools. 
They began leaving home at the time of WWII, 
the boys to the service or to defense jobs, 
the girls to new 
marriages. 
After the war, some stayed where they had landed, but 
Tony and his sister Marie's husband, Warren Hardesty, returned to 
Canon City. 
They decided to pool their savings (such as Warren's 
discharge 
benefits) 
in 
a 
business, 
with 
Tony 
preferring 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
8 
construction and Warren a bar. 
They flipped a coin and Warren won. 
Later, after "Club Belvedere" had got started, Warren decided to 
get out and Joe came home from California to take over his half. 
The original Belvedere was a roadhouse -- a bar identical to the 
present one, with room for tables in front, with a "Blossom Room" 
(now the Mediterranean Room) to the east where "the boys" installed 
two slot machines and a mechanical game where players took pot 
shots at a mechanical bear running around a tree. 
Upstairs was a 
dance floor and another bar. 
Carmella, who was living at or near 
home during this period, recalls the construction of the building. 
Later it was expanded, with excavations to the north to create the 
"Grotto" and north and east to create "old back" dining room and 
the Roman Room. 
A cocktail napkin saved by Carmella from the 1946 Club Belvedere 
show a scantily clad female and drinking insignia and references 
to music and lady luck. 
The presence of slot machines must have 
made the placed somewhat disreputable in the eyes of upstanding 
Canon City WASPs. 
Carmella recalls raids by sheriffs deputies, but 
these were usually preceded by tip offs so that the slots could be 
taken down and hidden. The tip off usually came from the warden of 
the State Pen, 
who was a regular customer. 
There were also 
incidents with representatives of the Denver Mafia and a local 
Italian-American hood, whom Betty is reluctant to name but whom 
Carmella does, emphasizing that he was the only bad one in his 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 
9 
family. 
Apparently the mob controlled the distribution of juke 
boxes 
[what about the slots?]; 
the local hood threatened the 
partners with a gun one night but Warren Hardesty, a veteran of 
hard fighting in the Italian campaign of WW II, stood up to the guy 
and ran him off. 
Club Belvedere served sandwiches and a bar lunch, but no dinners. 
Family members did not work there. 
The first employees were a 
short order cook and a bartender. 
Tony and Joe always employed 
women bartenders. 
Carmella came back home and took over the books 
of the business in 1955. 
By this time, 
she and Michael both 
believe that they were already serving dinners, but neither is sure 
exactly when or why this transition took place. 
The Belvedere during the fifties became a standard steak house. 
As with the bar, the initial clientele was local, as local patrons 
of the bar began to come earlier and bring their families. 
The 
growth of the business was due to the growth of tourism in the 
Canon City area however. 
Tony and Joe were always careful to 
cultivate the owners of motels and resort properties, such as the 
Royal Gorge complex. 
They offered these people complimentary 
dinners 
in return for distributing the restaurant's miniature 
menus. 
Advertising signs were installed on the approaches to Canon 
City once the new Highway 50 was built. 
While the restaurant grew, the brothers also developed the fruit 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 10 
juice business, enlarging the capacity of the mill. 
Family members 
worked in this business, especially in bottling. 
The brothers 
expanded the acreage 
in orchards, 
and personally developed a 
distribution network across Colorado. 
Michael remembers his father 
rising at 5 AM, going out in his delivery truck to deliver juice 
to distant places like La Junta or Gunnison, then getting back just 
in time to open the Belvedere at 5 PM. 
This hard working regime 
is what killed Tony, everyone agrees. 
Tony died in his 60s after 
having multiple heart bypass operations. 
The restaurant's official brochure states that Tony and Joe did all 
the cooking in these early days, but Betty and Carmella's testimony 
departs somewhat from this. 
Carmella recalls times when her mother 
would fix spaghetti dishes in her kitchen and rush them across to 
the restaurant to be served. 
how Tony and/or Joe learned 
the secret of their success 
None of the informants know when or 
to cook, but Michael emphasizes that 
lay in simplicity and consistently. 
As the restaurant evolved into a family dinner house during the 
1960s, the menu remained constant: 
a basic array of Italian red 
sauce dishes, pasta with red sauce, sausage and/or chicken, and a 
line of hearty steaks at good prices. 
Later Michael added some 
seafood dishes and lasagna and manicotti. 
(He had never had 
lasagna until a non-Italian girlfriend fixed it for him at her 
place.) 
Today there are 39 items on the menu, roughly half of them 
Italian; all the Italian dishes come with the same red sauce. 
There have been few modifications. 
"We hire cooks, not chefs" 
IAW-JW-F062790.B - 11 
Michael says; chefs want to change things, and Michael does not. 
The "handmade" pasta is made by the waitstaff during pre-opening 
or slack time. 
The red sauce has no oregano in it, and the sausage 
is not as spicy as the family recipe called for. 
The emphasis is 
on giving people what they want: huge portions, consistent quality, 
good service. 
When people want a certain kind of meal away from 
home, 
they can count on Merlino's as consistently as they can 
MacDonalds. 
With success has come community acceptance of the family. 
Carmella 
recalls being surprised to learn of Joe's bitter feelings about a 
local banker who was a regular customer; the banker had impeded the 
Merlino's every effort at expansion, according to Joe. 
Now the 
local bank president is a fellow Italian. 
Merlino's is courted by 
the Chamber of Commerce and asked to contribute to every charity 
in town. 
Carmella recalls when Tony and Joe were finally invited 
to join the local Elks lodge; they declined, stating that if they 
had not been good enough to be members during their striving years, 
they had no reason to join now that they were a success. 
Document: IAW-JW-F062990.A 
Document Type: Fieldnote 
Fieldworker: WILLIAMS, JOHN ALEXANDER 
Date: 6/29/90 
Informant/Event: MATTAROCCI, GENO 
Coworker: TAYLOR, DAVID 
Site: 6 
David Taylor and I met Geno at LaTronicaIs restaurant on Friday 
morning, 
having 
made 
the 
appointment 
in 
following 
up 
on 
a 
conversation we had had with him on the previous Wednesday evening, 
when the entire fieldwork group had dinner there. 
The restaurant 
is located at the corner of Mesa and Abriendo in Bessemer, a block 
away from Gus's Tavern, in the heart of what used to be Bessemer's 
largest Italian neighborhood. 
La Tronica's occupies a one-story 
brick building, painted beige, with small windows flanking the 
front door (facing Abriendo) and two side entrances off Mesa. 
The 
front room consists of a bar, booths and a half-dozen or so formica 
tables, with chairs. 
Behind this room is the kitchen. 
There is 
another room behind the kitchen, with tables and chairs only, which 
Geno calls the dining room. 
The front room he refers to as the 
bar. 
A large sign on the front of the building had been destroyed 
in a storm last year and has not been replaced. 
Now only the 
restaurant's name in small letters on the side entrance awning 
identifies the place. 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
2 
Geno was born in Lime, Colorado, south of Pueblo, in 1928. 
This 
was the quarry from which CF&I obtained the limestone used in its 
steelmaking process. 
His father's job there was as a muleskinner. 
When Geno was two, the family moved into Pueblo, to a house in 
Bessemer on Box Elder St. 
(about a block from the restaurant's 
location). 
His father worked at CF&I as a laborer, and then in 
several of the company's rolling mills. 
However during the 1930s, 
he did not work steadily. 
He would often go out in the morning 
only to return home a short time later, because there was no work 
for him that day at the mill. 
In 1941 his father nevertheless 
managed to buy a five acre plot of land on St. Charles Mesa, on 
21st lane, and the family moved there. 
Geno himself still lives 
on the Mesa, 
in the 2500 block of US 50 East. 
Except for his 
military service and two years in Denver attending college, he has 
lived all his life in Pueblo or close by. 
Geno's father emigrated as a teenager from the Abruzzi region of 
Italy. 
Geno does not recall the name of a specific village. 
His 
mother, a native of the Salerno district near Naples, was brought 
as 
child 
by 
her 
father, 
Labordo 
[sp?] 
LaTronica, 
Geno's 
grandfather, 
whom everyone in the family referred to as 
"the 
Chief." 
On the Mesa, 
the family raised vegetables and chickens, 
hogs, 
rabbits, and cows. 
Rabbits were hunted as well as raised. 
The 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
3 
family did not sell their produce, but consumed it themselves. 
However, the senior LaTronica, who had a larger 20 acre farm next 
door to Geno's family, was a "farmer" who sold produce in the 
produce 
markets 
of 
Pueblo 
and North 
Denver, 
even though he 
continued, like Geno's father, to work in the CF&I mill. 
Geno explained in detail how the irrigation system worked on the 
Mesa, 
with each plot holder drawing off water 
"shares" 
from 
Bessemer Ditch under supervision of a "ditch man" chosen from the 
community. 
The 5 acres, Geno's father had 2 and 1/2 shares, and 
could turn water onto their land three times a week. 
"Chief" 
LaTronica, with much more land, also had a much larger share of 
water. 
The Mattorocci family never went hungry during the hard times of 
the 30s, 
and the food they consumed at home was a mixture of 
Italian and standard American fare. 
Geno named several traditional 
foods consumed at home, in addition to pasta, such as rabbit and 
polenta, 
chick 
peas, 
and 
pasta 
faisole 
[sp?], 
but 
he 
also 
emphasized the importance of standard "steak & potatoes" fare. 
He 
estimates that roughly half the family's meals would have been 
"Italian" as we understand the term. 
Geno's father did not make 
wine, but his grandfather made wine in large quantities. 
It was 
always 
present 
at 
the 
table 
in 
the 
Chief's 
home, 
but 
not 
necessarily in Geno's parents home. 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
4 
Geno attended high school at a small country school on the Mesa, 
with a total of 60 students and 12 in his graduating class in 1946. 
Almost all of his classmates were Italian, though there were some 
from Texas and Kansas; none of the teachers were Italian, however. 
In town, he spent a lot of time at the "Steel YMCA" which had 
abundant recreation and sports facilities. 
Mexican-Americans and 
"Bojons" used the Y as well as Italians. 
He recalls no ethnic 
prejudice or rivalry, notwithstanding the fact that Italy was an 
enemy nation in WWII. 
"We were all in the same soup," he said of 
other Bessemer teenagers. 
Much more important than ethnic rivalry 
was rivalry between different parts of town and different schools. 
The family acquired the building at Abriendo and Mesa in 1943. 
Previously a grocery store had operated there, followed by a bar 
operated by an Italian named Tiabi. 
Chief Latronica had the notion 
of setting all of his sons up in some kind of business. 
Geno 
guesses that he chose the restaurant business more or less by 
chance opportunity. 
He bought the place for his sons Pete and 
Rocky 
(Rocco) 
LaTronica, 
but Rocky soon tired of 
it. 
Their 
unmarried 
sister 
Rose 
came 
into 
the business 
from 
the very 
beginning, 
and it was she who organized the kitchen when they 
expanded the bar into a bar-restaurant combination. 
Throughout the 
1940s and early 50s, 
only family members worked there. 
The 
building was enlarged with the addition of the dining room in 
1951. 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
5 
From the beginning the menu was short and simple: 
short order 
dishes, 
steak, 
chicken and Italian dishes, 
all 
of the latter 
dressed with the same red sauce that Rose made fresh three times 
a week. 
The 
Italian dishes, 
Geno 
emphasized, 
were not 
for 
Italians, who could get their mother's red sauce dishes at home for 
free. 
When Italians ate out, they usually ate steak or seafood. 
The 
red 
sauce 
dishes 
appealed 
more 
to 
non-Italians. 
The 
limitations of the Italian side of the menu to pasta, chicken and 
red sauces (no rabbit or polenta, for example) Geno attributes to 
the ease and convenience of preparing such dishes. 
[During our 
earlier visit, 
we had learned from our waitress that even a 
neighboring Slovenian restaurant, Anzick's, had had spaghetti and 
lasagna on their menu as well. 
Anzick's went out of business when 
the owner died and no one in his family wanted to carry it on.] 
LaTronica's 
business 
expanded 
steadily, 
with 
the 
peak 
years 
coinciding with the peak years of CF&I, 1965-1980. 
Geno bought 
into the business in 1963, after stints working in the mill and 
teaching junior high math, in addition to service and college. 
He 
had worked part time or helped out at the bar off and on since he 
turned 21. 
The place was a hangout for Pueblo's minor league team, 
the Dodgers, and this made it a great place to meet girls. 
Geno 
met his wife in the rearmost booth at LaTronica's in 1954. 
She was 
also a teacher. 
He attributes his own departure from teaching for 
full-time work at LaTronica's to a kind of inborn instinct to be 
his own boss and own his own place. 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
6 
Geno and Pete worked out a rough division of labor, with Pete 
running the kitchen and dining room and Geno in charge in the bar. 
After 
Pete 
and 
Rose's 
deaths, 
something 
approximating 
this 
arrangement when Pete's widow, Pat took over in the kitchen. 
Non-
family members were hired from among the older women of the 
neighborhood, and they have proved extremely loyal, 
serving as 
waitresses or cooks for twenty years or more. 
"you can't get rid 
of these people," Geno had joked to us during our earlier visit, 
referring to his staff of septuagenarian waitresses and cooks. 
During the business's peak years, Geno believed that LaTronica's, 
while known as a neighborhood place, drew from 
Its lunch and afternoon bar crowds, came from 
The lunch crowd tended to be white collar 
all over the city. 
Bessemer, however. 
-- mill managers, 
bankers, salesmen from the area who could leave their workplaces 
between the hours of 11 to 2. 
Around 3:00 PM, blue collar mill 
workers began to drop in as their shifts ended, having a drink or 
two before heading home. 
Family dinner business began after 4:30 
(food service shut down from 2 to 4:30, though the bar remained 
open.) 
Citywide there was little competition for family dinner 
restaurants during this era. 
LaTronica's was crowded every night 
with a mix of Bessemer and other Pueblans, white collar and blue 
collar, with the original crowd being young (Pete had been 22 when 
he started in 1943), 
then becoming more mixed age-wise as the 
business matured. 
Business and professional people from all over 
the city came to LaTronica's for dinner. 
Sunday entertainment 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
7 
featured 
a Hawaiian band, 
but no dancing, 
and this packed a 
diverse crowd into the front room during the 50s and 60s. 
People 
came by car, 
from the west and north sides as well 
as 
from 
Bessemer, and parking was no problem. 
Despite boisterous good 
times, things rarely got out of hand. 
Geno recalls very little 
trouble 
and 
no 
trouble with 
criminals 
such 
as 
the Merlinos 
experienced with their juke boxes and slots. 
LaTronica's never had 
gambling devices, and though Geno recalls a turf war between rival 
juke box distributors, this never caused problems for him. 
Since the decline of employment at CF&I, business at LaTronica's 
is off by about 35-40%. 
Lunch business was discontinued in 1965 
because it wasn't profitable to sustain the large demand with small 
profits. 
Weekends remain good, as well. 
The big change was in the 
late afternoon bar business and in week night dinners. 
Banquet 
business has also fallen off. 
The hot summer months have always 
been the slack season, due to family vacations, backyard cookouts, 
etc. 
FAll is the liveliest season, 
but winter nights can be 
surprisingly brisk for business, depending upon how bad the weather 
is and how long people have been cooped up in their homes. 
The principal cause of this decline is Pueblo's decline, 
Geno 
believes. 
People have less money to spend, and eating out is a 
luxury. 
Drinking habits have also changed, with hard liquor sales 
declining in particular. 
Besides, 
people now have many more 
choices in spending their eating-out dollar. 
During our earlier 
IAW-JW-F062990.A - 
8 
visit, he had offered a shrewd assessment of the inadequacy of 
official efforts to attract new payrolls. 
The firms who have been 
lured here with tax 
subsidies brought 
their own high-income 
professional and technical people with them and have only low-wage 
jobs to offer local people. 
Counting these new jobs makes the 
Chamber of Commerce people look good, but qualitatively there is 
no comparison between these new jobs at near-minimum wage and the 
old days when even laborers at CF&I made 30/40,000 a year. 
Geno's 
son Frank has shown some 
interest 
in taking over the 
business, but Geno has mixed feelings about encouraging him. 
Frank 
is a capable fellow, a cowboy who competes in rodeos, shoes his own 
horses and has good survival instincts and skills. 
He often helps 
out in the bar on weekends. 
"It's a good life," Geno reflects, but 
he is uncertain whether it would be if the economy continues to 
decline and outsiders who have no personal commitment to the 
business had to be hired.