"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr36
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas,
January or February 1942
AFS 6436B
Reverend R. R. Reese: This evening Heavenly Father, before thee and before the angels, we bow
ourselves in humble submission before thee. Thanking thee that the time is as well with us as it is.
We are grateful to thee to have the opportunity to call on thy rich name. Thou that have always led
us from one good degree of grace into another. And as we come this afternoon accept of our coming
and turn us not away. And forgive us all of our sins and blot out our transgressions. Remember them
against us no more.
We pray to thee this afternoon Heavenly Father the blessed leader of our country, our president,
guiding him in the ways of everlasting peace. May his eyes ever look to the hills from whence cometh
all of our health. Guide him in the true path of righteousness that he may marshal our forces on to
success. Give him strength to stand the burdens of life and give him courage to stand out and lift
up a banner for fallen humanity. That the world may see there's reality in serving a true and a living
God.
Bless the Congress in general and may Heavenly Father unite their forces as one man. And may they
all look to thee, the captain of our salvation, who have never lost a battle. That always stands to lead
his people and marshal them on to victory. We look to thee as Joshua did when he was over on the
hill and when he was fighting the mighty battle for Israel when he was outnumbered and when the
other nation was seemed to be conquering, thou in the presence of Angels did stand on the wall of
Jericho. And when you stood there, Joshua could see you standing with an outstretched hand and he
asked, he said “Who art thou?” And you said “I'm captain of a large host come to deliver thy people.”
Bless our soldiers wherever they may be tonight Heavenly Father. Those that's locked in battle,
encourage them. Bless our general out in the Philippine. May Heavenly Father they have courage to
stand in these dark hours. And when bombs are raining and falling around him and when machine
guns crying we ask thee to speak to them above the noise of the bombs and the gun and let them
realize that the angel of Jehovah encamps around about them that spare him to deliver them.
May Heavenly Father that our great president will be like Moses were. And may we ask citizens to
hold up his arms and may we as Negroes will do our part in this battle. And in this democracy of
ours that when it's all over that we'll all have peace. May this be a peace where men will respect, a
place where men will respect the rights of each other. When nations will look out and do their whole
duty here on earth while here on earth we stay.
"Dear Mr. President", Granbury, Austin, Hood County, and Fletcher County, Texas, January or February 1942 http://www.loc.gov/
item/afc1942003_sr36
We're grateful to thee Heavenly Father for all that thou done for us and we go to thy word for refuge,
and we go to they word for strength because thou have said in your own word that wars and rumors
of wars would come. But you told us to be not troubled for this was just the beginning of sorrow.
We're not discouraged Heavenly Father, but we're only asking thee to give us strength. Give us
courage that we may stand in these dark hours. That we may lift our eyes to the hill from whence
cometh all of our help [recording begins to echo]. We can't get along without you if you leave us we'll
go astray. We can't even win out in the battle unless you'll hold our hand. And we ask thee to go on
before us as a leading light and behind us as a mighty protecting angel.
Be our stronghold, be our battleaxe in the time of this war. Be our captain and lead us on from one
victory to another. And may Heavenly Father, that the nation that we are identified with will ever
keep their hand in God's hand and will ever look to the hills from whence cometh all of our help.
Bless our president and his entire family. May they unite their forces and keep their hand and keep
courage and be strong. And may the people of this great commonwealth will get in behind our
president, will encourage him on every hand. And may he stand with his hands raised, and will lead
us on to victory until when the last battle is fought and all of the soldiers will come marching off of
the battlefield that we'll triumph. The nations will all be free.