"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr05
"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941
AFS 6361B
Cut B1
Interviewer: The next person to express her opinion on the Japanese aggression is Mrs. Mark
Hannah Watkins, widely traveled housewife.
Mrs. Mark Hannah Watkins: I saw and felt fear with the Parisians when the Nazi aggression began,
but the resentment that we feel from the Japanese aggression makes us determined to fight until
victory belongs to the democracies. As patriotic Americans, we too join in the cry “they shall not
pass.”
Cut B2
Interviewer: Mr. Walter Hadley, young Nashville native and attendant at the Vanderbilt Hospital will
express his point of view.
Mr. Walter Hadley: It is my opinion that the United States should have been aware of these sudden
Axis power attacks due to the current development at that time. I think that the United States Army
officers responsible should be ordered up for an investigation since the damage was so great as a
result of the Japanese attack.
I also feel as a Negro that our boys should have a better place in the army and navy since we all have
to fight together we should fight more for a solidarity in this country. Declare war on that nation in
Dixieland to help us all have one common cause to fight for: liberty, equality, and justice for all.
Cut B3
Interviewer: The next expression is that of Roger Camfield, graduate student in the Department of
Social Sciences at Fisk University ???.
Roger Camfield: Imagine seventy million people on an island the size of New Jersey which is poor
in natural resources to boot. Imagine those people having to expand to live but finding themselves
unable to expand because all available territories controlled by nations who intend to maintain their
power and control. War was inevitable under the circumstances and how it came was dramatic, but
the fact that it came was expected. No blame in this matter can be, with good conscience, squarely
placed.
"Man-on-the-Street", Nashville, Tennessee, December 1941 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1941004_sr05
The present Japanese-American war is the one aspect of the culmination of capitalistic expansion
and centralization of control. Which expansion has been characterized by internal strife and war for
whatever widening spheres until now in this war it is completely covered the world.
Of course, as all people of the world are doing, I as other Negroes, will fight without knowing the
aims they are fighting for or the results that will be obtained.
Cut B4
Interviewer: The next person to speak is W. C. Curry, FSA Fellow from Newport News, Virginia.
W. C. Curry: The Japanese attack on the United States and the imminent threat of Italian and German
aggression is a direct result of the appeasement policies towards these countries since 1934. The
naval defeat Sunday and the unpreparedness of the United States is mainly due to the pro-fascist
forces within this country. This is the gravest period in our country's history. One of the gravest
dangers at this time is not from abroad, but lies in those fascist-minded forces within. Courage,
vigilance, and dogged determination to win should be our slogan.
The Negro as in every other crisis in our country's history will [honorably (?)] distinguish himself in
the defense of these United States, his country. And will also equally share in the better world which
the ultimate victory will bring.