"Dear Mr. President", Detroit, Michigan, January 13, 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr59
"Dear Mr. President", Detroit, Michigan, January 13, 1942
AFS 6415B
Cut B1
Mrs. Elaine Ozure: Dear Mr. President, this is Mrs. Elaine Ozure and I'm a Detroit housewife, mother
of two children, and so awfully proud and happy to have this opportunity to tell you how safe I feel
to know that you are guiding us through this deadly crisis. And oh how glad I am that this suspense
of waiting is over. We're in there to win, and win we shall because God's on our side. And no holds
barred.
Cut B2
Glen Rust: Dear Mr. President, this is Glen Rust, x-ray technician in the medical department of the
Chrysler Corporation. I know that each and every employee of the Chrysler Corporation is for you
a hundred percent. Now that we all know where we are we are, a united people again. We all can't
be public heroes, but we all can do our best to supply the men behind the guns. I am glad I'm an
American. I wouldn't trade my country for any country in the world.
Cut B3
Ann Roth: Dear Mr. President, I'm Mrs. Ann Roth, a Detroit housewife. This certainly is an honor for
me to get this chance to express my feelings, and I know for many a housewives in this large defense
center I'm glad the time has come, that the suspense and waiting has come to an end. This war
has been brought on with a stab in the back. It must be won now, once and for all times, to make it
safe for our children and our children's children. We wives will do all in our power to help in buying
defense bonds and stamps and in our local chapters of the Red Cross.
Cut B4
Delores Fortier: Dear Mr. President, I, Delores Fortier of Detroit, Michigan, employee of the Atlantic
and Pacific Tea Company, believe that your work is in the war is outstanding. I, as well as the
employees of the company, am cooperating as much as I can by buying stamps every week. We are
going to wipe out the Pearl Harbor shock. We know under your leadership we will be victorious.
Cut B5
"Dear Mr. President", Detroit, Michigan, January 13, 1942 http://www.loc.gov/item/afc1942003_sr59
Miss Dorothy Pinsky: Dear Mr. President, this is Miss Dorothy Pinsky, clerk in the Social Security
Board, and I would like to convey my thoughts concerning defense in Detroit. Detroit is behind you
and your program and certainly is showing it by the shift from an automotive center to a defense
center. Many are enlisting for the Red Cross and defense bonds and stamps are being purchased
daily. Everyone seems to appreciate the fact that in order to be secure we must do everything we can
to protect our ideals that others fought so hard to maintain and anything we do is little enough.