UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  WINTHROP PREVOST
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:  
W = WINTHROP
M = MARTHA
J = JOSEPHINE
LFP-MN-R001-R002
Unknown male voice:  And I'll say that this is August 12th, 1987, and we're visiting the home of 
Winthrop Prevost on Walker Place.  Was it 25 Walker Place in Lowell?
Unknown female voice:  25 Walker Place.
Unknown male voice:  Does that look like we're getting through to the machine?
Martha:  Yeah, we're on the low level, but I guess that would be a lot higher.
Unknown male voice:  Well that's because I'm way over here. Okay.
Martha:  Uh huh, all right.  That should do it for my head phones.  
Interview begins:
M:  Win, why don't you tell me how you arrived in Lowell, or where you came from?  How did 
you end up in Lowell?
W:  Oh, well I was born here.  I was born here in Lowell.  I didn't come from any particular other
place.  I was just born here.  And uh, I grew up here and this has really been my home ever since 
I was a child, as child, yeah.  So I (--)
M:  Were your parents, are your parents from Lowell?
W:  Oh yeah, they were from Lowell.  Of course they're both dead now.  Yeah, they died way, 
quite of eight years, quite a few years back.  So uh, oh yeah, I'm from Lowell [chuckles], that's 
all I can say.  
M:  And do you know if your parents parents, where they came from?  
W:  My parents parents.
M:  I'm trying to, you know, a lot of people are immigrants here.
W:  Oh yeah, bi, like a bio, biol, biography huh?  That's what it is.  Oh yeah.  
M:  You don't know.
W:  I can't. 
M:  It's not that important.  I was just wondering if you happened to know how they ended up.
W:  No, I don't think they came from any special place.  I think it was from Lowell.  It must have
been.  Yeah.  Wait, I'll ask, I'll ask her just in case.  
     Lila was uh (Josephine:  Elsworth) came from Elsworth, Maine, or Blue Hills, Maine.  And 
my father was just from Lowell.  He didn't come from any other place.  So uh, that's about it.
M:  And Josephine if you want to come in, feel free?  She doesn't have to stay in the kitchen.  
W:  She's hard of hearing you know.
 
M:  Oh all right.  Okay.  And where did you grow up in Lowell?
W:  Huh?  
M:  Where did you grow up in Lowell?
W:  Oh, I was born over here at Butman Place, right across the street.  I was born at Butnam 
Place.  B U T M A N, Butman Place here right across.  Yes, I was born right across here, yeah. 
M:  Is that where you grew up?  
W:  No, I grew up in other parts of the city.  My grandmother had a rooming house and I was 
with her for a good part of my life, you know, when I was growing up.  And she had, and my 
father, of course he worked for a newspaper, The Courier Citizen Newspaper here in the city.  
And uh, (--)
M:  Was that his, your father's mother?
W:  No, that's my own father.  
M:  Yeah, but then who had the boarding house?
W:  Oh my grandmother had a rooming house, yeah.  She run a rooming house, yeah.  And her 
name was Murielle Perkins.  (M:  Murielle Perkins?)  Perkins, old fashion name.  She come from
Maine.  Murielle Perkins.  And uh(--)
M:  Where was the rooming house?
W:  It was her in, it was on Cabot Street here in Lowell.  Yeah, and she had, she had more that 
one at different times, you know, she'd run them.  It was the Aster House on uh, oh, what's the 
name of that street now?  I can't think of it.  The Aster House.  It escapes me.  I can't (--)
M:  What section?  Do you know what section of the city?
W:  Over, on, off of Merrimack Street.  And uh, that was the Aster House.  And then she had the 
other place on Cabot Street.  What was the name of that?  I can't seem to think of it.  [chuckles]
?:  Were your people English, or?
M:  I imagine they were English.  French and English I guess, yeah.  (?:  French and English?)  
And uh, I was, of course I was brought up more, more or less by my grandmother, you know, she
brought me up.  And when I was growing up, you know, and I was drawing then!  When I was a 
kid on Hanover Street.  There's where she had the Aster House, on Hanover Street.  And uh, I 
was drawing pictures then.  Jeese, I was no bigger than that.  But you see, it's something that's, I 
can't give it up.  It's a natural talent.  I haven't had much, much formal education, but I've taught 
myself a lot through the years, you know?
?:  Was your, was your upbringing Protestant or Catholic.  
W:  Protestant?
?:  Because I noticed that many of the pictures have as you say, biblical scenes.  (W:  The Holy 
Land)  The Holy Land.  Are you still, I don't want to ask how devout you are.  I mean does this 
reflect strong religious feelings that you have, or not so much?  Why are you attracted to biblical 
scenes?
W:  Oh I, because I believe so much in God.  God's been so good to me in my health, you know, 
and I read the Bible everyday.  I wouldn't go out without reading the Bible.  And I just have that 
feeling, I can't help it.  
?:  Have you travelled to the Holy Land?
W:  No, no.  I've never been to the Holy Land, but I, I don't know. I just have the feeling.  Of 
course my mother she knew, she knew this Jewish person in Lowell here, and Maurice Auerbach.
He was a wonderful person.  He was very good to me Maurice Auerbach was.  And he went out 
to California, and he lived out there.  And uh, he was in the Real Estate business.  Gee, he was a 
smart businessman, and a good man.  He wasn't out to cheat anyone.  He was a good man as I 
remember.  And he was just a little man.  And uh, he loved my mother.  So my mother was, 
worked at one of his Theaters.  He owned the Jewel Theater at one time here in Lowell.  He own 
Jewel Theater.  He owned that.  And he runned that.  And she was a ticket, she took care of the 
tickets, you know?  So she sold tickets for him, and uh, (--)
?:  Where did he live?  Mr. Auerbach, where did he live?
W:  Oh, he lived in California.  I mean uh, when he was in Lowell?
?:  Yes sir.
W:  Oh!  When he was in Lowell.  
?:  It was not near you.  It was some other place [unclear]?
W:  No, it wasn't.  No, just where he lived in Lowell I don't know.  But when he was in 
California he lived off of 7th, West 7th Street in California.  He had an apartment there.  And he, 
I remember when he was sick he went to the Good Samaritan Hospital.  I remember all of those 
things.  And I was in my twenties then.  I remember all of them.  He was a wonderful man.  He 
liked me very much.  He bought me watches and everything.
M:  Did he influence you?  Did he influence your paintings?  
W:  No, he didn't show any interest in my paintings then, no.  In fact I, I don't know whether I 
was painting then or not.
?:  Well he, but you brought him up because you were thinking about belief in God and the Holy 
Land.
W:  Oh I do!  And I have, I have a feeling towards the Jewish people.  I don't know.  Of course I 
had, I was brought up among the Jewish.  He used to bring us out to, he brought my mother and I
out to these delicatessen places, and we ate, you know.  And uh, he uh, I don't know, I just have a
feeling towards them.  They've been persecuted so much.  The Holocaust, you know, and uh, I 
don't know how people can be so inhuman towards people.  I don't care what a person's religion 
is, or what their nationality is, they're all human beings.  That's the way I look at it.  They're all 
human beings, you know?  I have a feeling for people.  I have compassion.  People sometimes 
when I'm walking by on the street, they'll ask me for a quarter or something, I give it to them.  
Money means nothing to me.  I haven't got a lot, but I don't look, I don't worship money.  Some 
people worship it, you know.  It's nice to have money to pay your bills and get by, you know, and
all that, but not to, not to hurt anyone, or use it to hurt anyone.  
?:  As I'm a, I'm a stranger to Lowell.  I have not been here before, but what you say makes me 
wonder about this.  We think of the town as having different ethnic groups.  There was a time in 
which neighborhoods had just the Irish, or just the French.  But what you say makes it sounds as 
though people of different backgrounds had got along, or sometimes got along?  (W:  They used 
to)  Is it different?  Is it different today?
W:  Yes!  It's not the same as it was years ago.  I don't think.  I think people are further apart 
today I think.  The only time they get close it might be because, if they have an accident or 
something.  But they shouldn't, it shouldn't be that way.  They should be closer anyhow.  I think 
people should be closer together. And I think they're further apart today myself you know, than 
they were years ago.  Years ago they were more friendly, they seemed to want to do more for 
you, you know.  I don't know.  This rock and roll influence hasn't helped any.  It really hasn't 
helped any.  
?:  Do you know most of the families that live on Walker Place?
W:  No, no, we don't mingle too much.  You know, we don't mingle too much.  Well we're 
pleasant, we speak to them.  Oh yes!
M:  How long have you lived here?  Uh, wait a minute.   I'd have to ask.  Oh my god.  
?:  That's okay.  So about twenty-years on Walker Place.
W:  Yeah, wow.
?:  Are the people who live around here, are there some Irish, some Polish, or are they mostly (--)
W:  I think they're, yes, there is different nationalities.  I think there is, yeah.  The more ethnic 
yeah, more nationality.  
?:  But maybe you don't attend to that so much.  It sounds like you're a person who looks at the 
individual and not some (--)
W:  That's it.  I look at the individual, you're right.  People today are not like they used to.  You 
probably noticed that yourself.  They uh, (--)
M:  We'll people have told us that the city has changed a lot.
W:  It's , it's the generation.  And it's the things in the world that are going on today has caused 
that I think, you know.  These rock and rollers, I, there's no sense to their music.  I think they get 
people all excited physically, and that's about all it amounts to.  There's no good to it, you know.  
And it's loud.  Unless you, maybe you like Rock and Roll, I don't know.
M:  I like the Beatles. 
W:  [Laughs]
M:  Was your mother, or your father, or your grandmother interested in art?  (W:  Pardon me?)  
Was anybody in your family interested in art or music?
W:  No!  I'm the only one interested in it.  No, no one in the house is interested.  No, it's just 
something, I can't help.  I can't get away from it.  I'm creative.  I've got to be doing something 
like this.  And I, and I like my work.  And a lot of people that have seen it like it.
?:  How old were you when you started painting?
W:  I was in my twenties.  
M:  But you said you started [unclear]?
?:  [Comment unclear]
W:  I'm seventy now.
?:  So even [unclear]
W:  I'm seventy years old now.  I don't feel it.  I feel as if I was forty.  [Laughs]  I really do, 
honest!  I don't feel seventy at all.  
?:  Some people, you must know some artists who begin when they're retired, you know, they 
have time in retirement to paint, but it sounds as though you painted all along (W:  Yeah) without
waiting until you retired.
W:  Yeah, oh yes!  Oh, I painted way back, honest.  I got the date on there, 1942.  That's over 
forty years ago.  
?:  That's the painting of the (Troller?).  (W:  yeah)  Is that in a particular place?  Is that a 
Massachusetts scene?
W:  It might be. I don't know.  I done it from a print.  I can't tell really.  You know I did it from a 
print.
?:  And the Troller is from 1940 and that's an oil.  
W:  That's an oil, yeah.  Oh I had other oil paintings that size.  And of course the canvas 
deteriorates, you know, through age.  And I had, they crumbled so much and I had to throw it 
away.  They had a beautiful Autumn Scene with the colors of Autumn, you know.  And I had to 
destroy them.  That kind of hurt me, because so many years have elapsed since then, you know, 
since I did those paintings.  
?:  What, what was your, what was your employment?  What kind of work did you do?
W:  I did all kinds of employment.  Although when I got older, and later in life I worked over at 
Saint John's Nurses Home.  I worked in the Nurses Home over at Saint John's.  I was in 
maintenance over there.  I used to set up the auditorium when they had affairs and do all the 
things like that, you know.  So I, and I don't know.  I've done odd jobs.  Different odd jobs.  But 
that was mostly the job I stuck with, you know, was in maintenance.  I worked there. I worked 
over there about nine or ten years I guess.  Where did I work?  I'll have to ask.  [Laughs]  Ain't it 
awful.  
?:  Well it sounds like her function is to be the keeper of the facts.  
M:  Would you say about ten or eleven years.
W:  About ten or eleven years.  Boy.
M:  Did you ever think of becoming, just selling your paintings and living from the money?
W:  No, I, I only, let's see I've sold one, two, I sold about three in all.  That's about all I sold 
through the years.  I painted mostly for my own pleasure, you know.  I suppose I could sell them 
if I tried to, you know, but I paint mostly for my own pleasure, you know.  
M:  How would you describe your style?  (W:  Huh?)  How would you describe your style of 
painting?
W:  I didn't get you?
M:  You know, like some people say that they're abstract painters?
W:  Oh abso...  Oh I don't think these are abstract.  (M:  No?)  These are realistic.  In other words
I think, you look at these you know there's houses there and you know they look like houses.  
And there's the [Tajmahal?].  I painted that.  And I'm going to do another one of it in white.  It's 
suppose to be in white.  That's another color, but that's the image of it, the [Tajmahal?].  Oh, it's 
such a beautiful place.  Gorgeous.  In India, you know.  It's the Temple of Love or something.  
[Chuckles]  And uh, (--)
M:  Did it ever give you the desire to travel?
W:  Yeah!  But I never had no money to.  [Laughs]  I traveled mostly in my pictures.  Well I 
think the Portland (headlight?) come out good there.  I like that one of Portland, Maine.
?:  Is that recent?  Let's see, 1983.  (W:  That's a water color, yeah)  1983 it says.  Let's see.  
M:  Is that from a print?
W:  That's from a print too, yeah.  Most of mine are from print, because I couldn't go to the 
actual places, you know?  So I did it from black and white.  That was from a little black and 
white print only about that size.  And I enlarged it, you know.  
?:  Let me ask you about [rest of comment unclear]
W:  Oh I've done so many paintings.  I've done so many oil paintings when I was younger, in my 
twenties, you know.
M:  What did you paint then?
W:  Oh I painted water falls and I painted(--)  I even did a portrait of a girl in there.  Oh it come 
out so good.  And then I did another one and I spoiled it.  My wife, Joe says, "oh don't ever, don't
ever touch it."  And I over did it.  I'm a perfectionist and I've got to do it perfect.  It's got to be 
perfect.  I can't be perfect.  I try to be you know.  
M:  Does she, does she criticize the paintings, or help you?  (M:  Huh?)  Does Joe help you with 
the paintings?  
W:  No, she don't care anything about them.  I'm the only one who cares about painting, you 
know.  No, she has no artistic incentive at all.  It's me.  I don't know who I take after.  Isn't it odd.
None of my other relatives are painters?  I don't know.  Unless way back, I don't know, you 
know.  Some people say, well the course I took up they said I have above average talent with the 
school, the Famous Artist School.  
?:  What years did you take that course?
W:  1971.  
?:  So you had already been a painter for many years.  
W:  Yeah, it was way back to 1940.
?:  Did the course change your approach?  Did it make any difference?
W:  No, not that I know of.  It did, I did learn a few things that I didn't know about.  Yeah, they 
did teach me.  My text book will show that.  But I don't know.  I did this long before, way back 
in  1940, and I learned something.  I must have learned something from it.  I did pretty good.  I 
got 80's in the report.  
?:  Let me ask you, here are two of your Holy Land pictures, one of Bethany, a small picture of 
Bethany.  What is the year of this?  Do you remember when you painted this?
W:  Gee, does it say on the back?  Sometimes I put, (--)
?:  That's an acrylic, is it not?  
W:  This is oil.  
?:  That's oil. 
W:  This is a six by ten.  Uh, the year I don't know.  
?:  But if it's an oil it must be before a certain date, because it changed over to acrylics in what 
year?
W:  That's oil definitely, yeah.  
?:  And when did you change from oil to acrylics?  Do you remember?  Was that ten years ago, 
or less?
W:  Oh, let's see, it was just about two or three months ago I'd say.
?:  Oh okay.  So that acrylics are very new.
W:  Well wait, wait.  No, I made a mistake.  I made a mistake.  No,  I haven't painted with oil for 
at least, at least ten years I'd say.  
?:  Okay.
W:  But water colors I took up after.  Water colors, yeah.
?:  It does say on here that you did this in 1979.  
W:  Oh does it say there?  I didn't know.  Oh I didn't notice it.  You're right.  1979.  
?:  Okay.  So here's a picture of Bethany, and here is the Gate of Ancient Tiberius it says, 1984. 
W:  That's Empress Tiberius.
?:  Now is this a, this is, it says water color on the back.
W:  That's water color.  That's an original as far as I'm concern.  I did it from the print.  The print 
was black and white and I put in the colors.  And the print, it was only about this size.  
?:  What struck me, what I wanted to ask about has to do with stone, and the texture of stone.  
This one especially it seems to me, you know, does quite an interesting thing as far as the texture 
and rough surface of stone.  Is that a conscious matter for you, or am I picking something out 
that's not especially important from your point of view, the matter of texture.  
W:  No, that's just the way it was from the print.  And you know, I did it just, I didn't change 
nothing.  I just did it form the print and that was what it was like, black and white.  Only I put, 
the only color I put in was the sky and the water and the sand.  
?:  Okay.  Well this one had to do with gray stone, and then there's also a third picture that's 
related to this that is once again full of gray stone and the texture of stone in the Holy Land.  And
I have to say that I was sort of struck by that.  This is Nazareth from the Heights.  And it's dated 
in 1985 and is also a water color.  
W:  Yeah.  I did that.  That's just as the way it was in the print that I did it from.  The only thing is
I say I added the color.  Everything was black and white from the print.  But the color in my 
painting was natural color like it is.  
?:  Where do you find the photographs that you work from.  
W:  Sometimes I get them through, oh, let's see.  I know I've gotten some of these prints from the
newspapers.  From the newspaper prints, you know?  And of the picture.  And then some I've 
gotten from magazines, it's the print too, you know. 
?:  Well I guess we can actually look at one in the case of this.
W:  Oh this, this is more like, this is more like a photograph, isn't it?  It's glossy.
?:  Well it's a square plate.
W:  Yeah, it's glossy.  It has a glossy finish.
?:  It's a souvenir plate bases on a color photo.  And what is the scene?  This isn't identified on 
the plate, but you have your painting of it. 
W:  It's a synagogue in Israel.  A Jewish synagogue.  
M:  Where did you get the plate?
W:  A Jewish (--)  This was a, Joe got this from some people she knew, the McDonough's.  And 
they sold the house to some Jewish couple.  And the couple has this and they gave this plate to 
Joe.  Yeah.  It was one of their plates.  They were Jewish.  
?:  I'm going to catch up on photographing.  If you want to chat.  I'm sorry, I'm getting behind 
here.
M:  Did you ever belong to an artist group, or (--)
W:  I used to belong years ago to the Whistler House.  And that's when there were nice people 
there.  But I mean I had exhibitions there.  I was in an independent show.  I had an exhibition at 
the Lowell Public Library too, when I was younger.  But as I say, things have changed so much 
since then.
M:  How many exhibitions did you [unclear]?
W:  Oh, I had, I had an exhibition at Jordan Marsh in Boston.  I had that painting on at Jordan 
Marsh.
M:  Of the trawler?
W:  Of the trawler, yeah, at Jordan Marsh.  They had a place for artist.  And I had an Autumn 
scene too I remember at Jordan Marsh.  I remember sending them out.  Crating them, not sending
them out.  That was quite a few years ago.  I don't know what year that was.  But that was at 
Jordan Marsh. 
M:  Did someone invite you, or did you ask to go?
W:  No, they wrote to me, and they must have known about me painting or something, because 
they asked me if I wanted to exhibit.  And I told them yes, and so I, so I sent that large one in 
there.  That's a 20 x 24 I think.  And uh, that was on exhibition at Jordan Marsh in Boston.  And 
so was the autumn scene.  I had, oh it was a beautiful autumn scene.  Of course the canvas 
deteriorated and I, I had to brake it.  I had to cut it up, you know?  I hated to.  It was awful.  Now
this canvas here, you can see it's cracking already.  But it doesn't come through enough.  I just 
gave it a coat of varnish.  But I uh, oh I've done so many of the paintings.  I must have done at 
least a hundred of them, oil paintings.  And I gave most of them away.  
M:  Did people ever ask you for a particular subject to paint?
W:  Sometimes they have, yeah.  Sometimes they have and I painted it for them.  My uncle up in 
Canada, he um, wanted a painting of the [Portland Headlight?]  And I painted one of the Portland
Headlight for him and he paid me for it.  I remember that, yeah.  So I've sold about three or four I
guess in all.  And I did some work, Shirley Tereil here, the dancing place on Branch Street, and 
she paid me for it too.  And she also added, "you lend a touch of loveliness to everything you 
do."  That's what she put on and she wrote to me.  
M:  And Win, do you do other things like (W:  she was a very kind person), did you ever do 
prints, make you know, like lithographs or etchings? 
W:  I haven't done no lithographs, no.  No, I haven't done any lithographs.  
M:  Do you draw too?
W:  Oh yeah, oh yeah, I've done a lot of drawings.  Oh, excuse me.  
M:  Oh, and what's this a drawing of?  This is a man, a dancer?  
W:  Yeah, and here's one in finished black and white, you know?   Oh yeah, I've done, oh I've 
done countless drawings.  
M:  This is the study on anatomy, original drawing by Michael Angelo.  
W:  Yup, that's a reproduction, (M:  1975) that's a reproduction by me. 
M:  And this is pencil?  (W:  Huh?)  You did this with pencil?  
W:  Pencil, oh yeah.  Oh yeah, I've done a lot in pencil.  I've done so many of them.  But it 
relaxes me, you know?  I even done cards.  I used to do cards and send them out.  Greeting cards 
and send them out, you know, to different people.  
M:  Oh this is a Valentine's card.  
W:  Yeah, a Valentine's card.  They send them out to different people you know?
M:  And this is uh, looks like, is it oil?
W:  That's water color.  
M:  Oh, water color.  (W:  Yeah)  1987.  To Joe.  
W:  These are some of my earlier drawings there.  
M:  Now did you do these from pictures, or is this from (--)
W:  Yeah, I did these from prints.  I did these from prints.  There's some children there.  Oh yeah,
I've done, I've done many many drawings, hundreds of drawings.  
M:  These '69 of women.  1969 some nudes.  And a man with a horse, '71.  Did you ever have a 
live model?
W:  No.  No, I did them mostly from prints.  No, I haven't painted from a live model at all.  
M:  Now you said some of the drawings are original, and some are from prints.  Oh, that's 
incredible.  What's that from?  
W:  That's charcoal.  
M:  And that's a woman's face.
W:  I did it in 1971.  
M:  That's a portrait of a woman's face.  
W:  Yeah, a portrait of a woman.  
M:  Win, you said that some of them are original, and some are from drawings?  
W:  From reproductions, yeah.  
M:  What does it mean when you say you did an original?  
W:  An original if one that I would do from a print.  But a reproduction would be one that's 
already finished and I just reproduce it.  That's what I would call a (--)  Now these here are 
originals as far as I'm concerned, because they were done from a print.  And the print was all 
together, you know?  It was in black and white, and I did it all, I did it from that.  But anything 
that's, that's not, that's not finished, well that would be a reproduction.  
M:  So if the print was black and white, and you added things, and you added color, your 
painting would be an original?
W:  It would be an original.
M:  But if you copied it exactly from the print, then you'd call it a reproduction.  
W:  Well if I did it, yeah, exactly from the print, it would be a reproduction, yeah.  Yeah.  
M:  And you were saying earlier that, uh,(--)  Well let me (--)  Maybe I'll change the tape and I'll 
ask you about your Lowell.
W:  See, these are all reproductions because I did them from (--)
SIDE I ENDS
SIDE II BEGINS.
M:  Now Win, remember a little while ago Carl was asking you about painting Lowell?
W:  Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.  
M:  Why don't we see many of your pictures have done in Lowell scenes?
W:  No, I haven't done any Lowell scenes at all.  Those are little children, you know?  [Chuckles]
M:  Colored pencil and pens drawings 1971 of little children.  
W:  [Comment unclear]  Now I got these mostly from my text books.  (?:  From the artist school)
These illustrations of them, I reproduced them, you know?  
?:  The textbooks are the ones from The Artist School in Connecticut?
W:  Yeah, famous Artist School, yeah, in Westport Connecticut.  
M:  And these seem to be around 1971. 
W:  Yes, 1971.  
?:  We're surprised that you never saw a nice picture say, of a cathedral, or I should say a 
Catholic here in town, and we wanted to paint a Lowell church, or a Lowell scene.
W:  Oh yeah, I suppose I could, yes.  I never had th (--)
?:  Of course you could, but it's not conscious that you chose not to, or rejected that idea.  
W:  Well I, I don't know.  I just didn't, I just didn't have a desire to or something.  I don't know.  
?:  All right.  (W:  That might be it)  That's an answer.  
M:  Now you're also interested in music too, aren't you?
W:  Oh yes.  Well I can't, I can't read or write music, but I can write, I can write the words or 
lyrics, you know.  And I love Jimmy, I wrote the lyrics to that, the words to the song.
M:  Can you sing a few bars?
W:  [Chuckles]  I got, I got the record here if you want to hear it.  It was put out by the Atkin 
sisters.  That's way back in the 50's when they didn't have hard rock then, just a little beat to the 
music.  And it wasn't hard rock.  It's more like the what's his name would sing there, Fabian and 
all, those type songs.  I've got eight of those that I wrote.  "Connie's Party was a Smash".  And 
uh, they're all for teenage oriented songs, you know?  So I sent them out the a company in 
California recently on tape, and I'm hoping they'll take them.  They're interested in making a 
feature film on oriented songs, you know, teenage oriented songs.  So I haven't hear yet.  
M:  Did you send them away at the time?
W:  Oh yeah!  I sent them away about (--)  I sent to two companies.  I sent to tapes out, cassette 
tapes of my songs.  And "I Love Jimmy" is one of them and "I Love O'Neil".  And "Connie's 
Party Was a Smash", and those are the titles.  I wrote one country song, "Betrayed", that was 
nice.  But I've never, as I say, I've never had much luck with songs.  I'm hoping I'll have better 
luck later.  
M:  But who sang them for you?
W:  Oh, they're mostly demonstration artists, not commercial artist, just demonstration artists.  
But they had (--)  In got, in fact I got the record.  I'll play it before you go, of "I Love Jimmy".  
(?:  Okay, yeah we [unclear])  I wouldn't play it with that on because you'd pick it up on that.  
[Laughs]
M:  What kind of music is it?
W:  It has a rock beat to it.  It's the rock bet of the fifties.  Not the hard rock today.  The hard 
rock, ooh, it's hideous.  
M:  What kind of music do you listen to here?
W:  I like country.  I've written some country songs.  I've written some songs that even what's her
name could sing, Brenda Lee.  Oh, she's got a beautiful voice.  Brenda Lee.  She was in the Rock
business way back in the fifties.  But not hard rock, it's that lighter rock, you know.  And uh, I 
think you'd like "I Love Jimmy" if you heard it.
?:  [Unclear]
W:  So I'll play it before you go if you'd like to hear it?
M:  And where did you get the inspiration for the songs?
W:  Oh, I used to belong to the Song Writers Guild of Ormond Beach, Florida.  I wrote lyrics.  
They taught me how to write lyrics in accents and syllables, you know.  Each word has to be 
accent, each work has to be syllablelized.  And these were well written songs.  And they taught 
me that, the Song Writers Guild.  Oh, I was a member quite a few years with them.  They're out 
of business now.  But uh, (--)
M:  Did those things really happen to you that you wrote about?
W:  Well they didn't happen to me, no.  I just wrote them because I had that feeling at the time, 
you know.  I had a feeling for writing that type of material.  Probably today I'd write something 
more mature, you know.  These were just for teenagers you know?
?:  The organizations that you've been associated with, many of them have been national, or in 
different places.  A Song Writers Guild in Florida.  The Country Music, what's it called?  The 
Country Music Association?
W:  The Academy of Country Music.  Yeah.
?:  Academy of Country Music.
W:  That's out in Hollywood.  I'm a lifetime member.  Cost me $200.00.  But I'm a professional 
member though.  
?  So your artistic connections take you into, in part in the national organizations, but has your 
music, or your painting also have Lowell, or local connections?  Are there organizations here that
you belong to as well.  In other words when you become an artist are you national in a sense, or 
local in terms of the organizations you belong to?  Are there people that you talk to about 
painting here in Lowell?
W:  Well some people have urged me to paint scenes here in Lowell.  When I was at the Whistler
house and uh, (--)
?:  Are some of them artists?
W:  Yes, there were artists.  Yeah.
?:  And now and you have a person that composes music for your lyrics, is that correct?
W:  That's right.
?:  Where does that person live?
W:  Oh gee, I don't know where their addresses are. 
?:  You mean this is not a personal friend?
W:  No.
?:  You write the lyrics and send them off to a place?
W:  Yeah, well they belong to the National Song Writers's Guild that I belonged to years ago.  
And that has since gone out of business.  
?:  What that means, okay, so that was the outfit in Florida?  Is that correct?
W:  Yeah, that's right.  Ormond Beach.
?:  But that means that when you write a song you don't have personal contact, or face to face 
contact with the person that writes the music.
W:  No,  it was just through the mail.  Yeah, just through the mail.  I have written good many 
lyrics, and I had had (--)  And they did come out good.  They did good, it made good 
demonstration records of the songs that I had written you know?
M:  And were these ever recorded by some big artists?
W:  Well not by any well known artist, no.  As I say, the ATkins sisters were unknown, but they 
did a good job on the record.  And the record was very popular up in Canada.  Oh gosh, it was 
played on 50,000 Watt, 100,000 Watt stations.  It was really plugged and promoted.  But the 
publisher had no one there.  No distributor to handle the sales of the records in the stores.  You 
see how foolish it was.  So we all lost money on that deal.  That's the publisher's fault. 
M:  Did you have to pay?  (W:  Huh?)  Did you have to pay? 
W:  No, I didn't pay for nothing.  No, that was free.  The publication of it was free.  It was a good
deal, but it wasn't, they uh, they were publishers in name only.  They didn't do nothing to help.  
They should have had a distributor there at the time.  They didn't anticipate that it was going to 
get that popular, but it did.  It was even in Billboard Magazine.  And I subscribe to Billboard 
even now.  
M:  What's Billboard?
W:  Billboard Magazine.  You heard of Billboard Magazine?
M:  Sure.  It's the trade magazine for the record business.  
W:  Yeah.  I've got copies over here.  I had an add in.  I was representing talent too.  Oh I've been
in everything.  I was representing talent.  You know that I got permission to send my talent songs
to RCA Records in Nashville, and you know how big they are, they're a major label, Warner 
Bros. Records, and EMI America records, and Capital Records.  Now I've had permission, 
they've all gave me permission to send the material in.  And all the material I send in to them 
they couldn't use.  It wasn't my fault, it was my contacts.  Those were my contacts.  So you see I 
have handled talent.  And I've got a lot, I had an add in Billboard, it cost me a lot.  It cost 
hundreds of dollars.  Oh boy, it's expensive.  
M:  An ad for what?
W:  And uh, and I uh (--)
M:  What was the ad for Win?  (W:  Huh?)  What was the ad in Billboard for?
W:  It was for talent, you know, like country singers, or, mostly country singers.  I didn't want no 
Rock singers.  Just country singers, performers.  And I got a lot of, I got a pretty good reception 
to it.  I was representing about twenty or twenty-five talents.  About twenty-five people.  Twenty,
or twenty-five.   And none of them, they sent their material in, and none of my contacts would 
take the material.  So it wasn't my fault.  It was just, it just happened that way.  They just didn't 
have what they wanted.  But I had permission to send my material into them, because BMI, not 
BMI, but RCA records, Capital EMI America records, Warner Bros. and the other companies 
there, they all gave permission by letter to send my material into him.  And they did, they wrote 
back to me, and they told me "we pass on that, we can't take that."  But it wasn't my fault.  I 
thought I was going to get good talent, but they got to be very good today to get in on those, 
those are major labels.  And they got the money to promote.  Oh they're, (--)
M:  So it's not a question of talent, it's a question of promotion.  
W:  Oh yeah, they're  hundred million dollar business.  You can't touch them unless, now see I 
was lucky I could get permission to send.  They gave me permission.  I told them I represent.  I 
represented talent even way back in Charles Wright days, way back in nineteen, in 1970 I 
worked for a record producer Charles Wright.  And I represented two companies over in 
England.  I was a U.S. Representative here.  I had, I must have had about twenty-five, or thirty 
companies send their material over to England to be considered by these companies.  Just 
through my promotion letters.  That's a lot of promotion letters though.  I typed them myself, you
know.  When I promote anything I really go right to the core.  
M:  Would those be songs?  
W:  And I, and they didn't take anything there.  Imagine that?  I don't know, but just through my 
promotion letters.  Well I used to get calls from all over the country from different record 
executive here in the United States, wanting to know about me representing these companies.  If 
they wanted to send anything over they said they would, and all that.  And oh gee, I, I was uh, I 
had the contacts, but I never had the talent that they wanted.  [Chuckles]
M:  Did you have the same experience with your paintings?
W:  Uh, well similar, yeah.  I uh, see, as I say, as I said before, today education has got to be such
an explicit thing, you know,  In other words they emphasize it so much I think they've overdone 
it.  Though if you haven't got a degree you're nothing.  I ain't got no degree in painting, or in my 
art, but I think my work speaks for itself.  And they wouldn't, they wouldn't give me a one man 
show down at the Whistler House.  And I helped them out too.  I promoted their Whistler House, 
and I got some clients for them to help them.  That's what I got for it.  
M:  When do you work Win?  
W:  Huh?
M:  When do you work, write, or paint?  When do you do that?
W:  Oh, I used to do it in the nighttime sometimes, or during the day, you know.  Oh yeah.  I 
think nothing of (--)  Sometimes I could get a painting done in a nighttime.  I'd sit up half the 
night doing it.  I'm so, get so involved in anything, and I got to finish it right, I (--)  
M:  So you could start and finish a painting the same day?
W:  I might on some of them, yeah, or carry it into the next day, you know, something like that, 
but I don't, I don't let it drag.  I don't like anything to drag.  I want to get it finished, you know, 
and of course I've had so much experience at it.  It's not newcoming to me.  Where a newcomer 
would have to stop and think this out.  I don't have to.  It's all there.  Well I've had the experience.
M:  Did you teach yourself how to use the paints and(--)
W:  Yeah, I taught myself how to, everything.  And uh, oh yeah, oil painting.  There's nothing I 
can't paint or draw.  I could draw anything no matter what it is.  I'm not saying that to brag, but 
I'm just saying through experience I've learned that I could do it. And God's been good.  Well 
God must have giving me the gift to paint.  It isn't me, it's through God that's done that.  It must 
be because God gives gifts to musicians, gives gifts to painters, gives gifts to writers.  Oh yeah.  I
couldn't do it on my own.  Got had given me the talent.  I really believe that.  Oh I don't know. I 
uh, I uh, I just like painting.  And it's a relaxation.  It relaxes me.  And some people say well you 
work at it too steady.  Well I do work at it steady, and I like it so much, it don't bother me that 
much.  But I uh, and I've even wrote, written poetry too.  I wrote a poem about one of my 
paintings, "The Golden Castle".  And they accepted, someone accepted it and gave me a notation 
on it, or something.  They thought they like, they liked it that much.  They wanted me to join the 
Poets Anonymous, and all that.   Gee, I can't join every outfit that comes along.  I'd be in the poor
house.  It's all right if I was making a living at it, but as I say, I do all this for a pleasure, for my 
own pleasure.  I'm not crazy about making a lot of money and all that.  When I, it's just so (--)  
But I do, I do think my work, my art should get some recognition, you know?  I've worked so 
hard at it.  I really worked hard at it.
M:  What did your family think of your paintings?
W:  My family?
M:  Yeah, when you started?
W:  Oh they liked them yeah, although there was no one else talented in that line.  I was the only 
one talented, but they all like it.  Yeah, they all liked my work, but as I say, you've got to like 
something like that, really like it to be engrossed in it as much as I have.  Well you could see all 
of the work I put into these paintings, especially paintings with such detail.
M:  What's the name of that painting again?
W:  That is uh, "Nazareth" (--)
?:  That's the name of it, "Nazareth, Nazareth from the Heights".
W:  From the Heights", yup.  That's the old buildings, "Nazareth from the Heights."  Ooh, a lot of
detail.  A lot of detail in that synagogue over there too.  Oh!  And the Portland Headlight, there's 
another detailed picture.  The Tajmahal.  
M:  And a lot of color in that one?
W:  Ooh, a lot of color in that, yeah.  
M:  These other ones are a little more muted.
W:  Yeah.  Well that's the way they should be.  That's the color of the brick, the mortar, whatever 
it was in those days.  That is, I painted it just as it was from the Black and White, only thing is, 
the only color I put in was on the trees, the sky and the clouds are the only color I put in, yeah.  
M:  And on the Golden Dome was that from a Black and White picture?
W:  No, that was from that(--)
?:  [Unclear] it's on the plate.
M:  Oh, that's on the plate, that's right, okay.  
W:  From that plate you saw there, yeah.  That's from that print.
?:  I was curious for comments on this one, especially regional.  I mean that looks like a New 
England scene.  
M:  Yeah, what's the name of this painting?
W:  That's from, from the imagination.  (M:  And this is uh )  A winter scene, yeah.  
M:  It says you did it in, what does that say?  Landscape, winter, 12 x 16, watercolor, painted 
from imagination.  Oh, it's 1985.  
W:  Yeah it looks like a regular heavy winter scene, heavy storm you know, set in there.  
M:  And what's what's this?
W:  That's a little cabin like, you know. 
M:  Where would this be?  
W:  Could be anywhere.  It's just in the imagination, you know, it could be anywhere.  Nowhere 
in particular, but anywhere.  But I think I've got the whole blanket of snow there.  You can tell 
they've had a heavy storm there and they're settled in.  
M:  And can you tell me something about the textures?  There's a lot of texture too.  
W:  Yeah there is.  They're green, light green, dark green and brown, and white and blue from the
sky's reflection.  And uh, I really dobbed it in there to make it look like a regular heavy set winter
scene, you know?  And I think it looks like it.  And it's not a reproduction, and it's not from 
anything from a print or nothing, it was just from my own imagination.  What I thought it might 
look like, you know, anyplace. 
M:  Did you paint this in the winter?
W:  Yes, I guess it must have been the winter then.  I think it must have been, yeah.  To have it 
come out so good it must have been the wintertime.  And oh, did you see the ones of Jimmy 
Durante and the black and white ones I did.  Oh I did one of Jimmy Durante's wife.  I did some 
paintings for her in Beverly Hills, California, and she thank, wrote and thank me for them.  I sent
them to her.  I did some of Jimmy Durante profile and everything.  It come out wonderful.  Oh 
she even agreed.  She even said, "this is Jimmy Durante in Beverly Hills, California."  Even said 
that the painting came out wonderful, of Jimmy.  Oh and she thanked me.  She sent me one of his
hard to get albums.  One that's not on the market at all.  In appreciation.  Yeah, she's got about 
three or four hanging in her house.  She says, in her imagine, a mansion in Beverly Hills.
M:  And you just sent them to her?
W:  Yeah, I sent them to her and she thanked me so much.  There's someone who appreciates my 
art.  (M:  Oh!)  There's Berle Ives.  There's Franklin D. Roosevelt.  And there's Jimmy Durante. 
M:  1984.  And this is pencil drawing, or water paintings?
W:  Those are, no, those are pencil and ink drawings.  And those are from prints, reproduced 
from prints. 
M:  Bob Hope, Berle Ives, Jimmy Durante and Franklin Roosevelt.  
W:  Gee, I think I got a good one of Franklin D, and Jimmy Durante, and Berle Ives.  They look 
just like the prints I did.  So that's  what makes me think they come out so good.  
M:  Now did you do some drawings before you did this, some sample drawings, or you just start 
right in.  
W:  I did do some sample drawings on most of them, yeah, on all of them.  Then I, till I got the 
right outline, you know, and the right, the right expression you know, in the eyes.  Even the teeth 
and the cigarette holder and everything, and the glasses, and  Jimmy Durante, and Bob Hope.
M:  Do you do samples before all of them, or just some of them?  Do you do practice drawings 
before all of your paintings, or just some.  
W:  Just on some of them, yeah, especially where there's, especially if you want to get the good 
likeness, you know.  And I think I got a good likeness on all of them.  You really can't (--)  It's 
awful hard to get a likeness in a portrait sometimes, even no matter how good you are.  It takes a 
lot of sketching and drawings before you get the original likeness that you want, you know?
M:  Did you do any practice ones before the winter scene? 
W:  Not on that, no.  I didn't have to on that.  That, I just put that in as it is.  I thought they were 
good drawings of black and white.  
M:  Yeah, they're great.
W:  And there's an expression there.  Even Mrs. Durante said it looked just like her husband.  
?:  This has the photo on the back.  I'll shoot both sides.  
W:  Oh boy.  [Coughs]
?:  Otherwise I'd say we had (--)
W:  And I did a reproduction of it in acrylic.  That's an acrylic.  It looks like an oil painting.  I 
think it come out good.
M:  Oh yeah, this is one of my favorites actually.
W:  Moses in the bull rushes.  That's of a famous scene.
M:  1987.  (W: Yup)  Now this one says a reproduction, but not a copy.  
W:  Not a copy, no.  It's a reproduction, but it's not an exact reproduction.  My colors are a little 
different than that.  But the figures themselves are about in the same position.  
M:  Now why did you give this woman a purple dress?
W:  I don't know.  I uh, I don't know.  I just painted it purple, for no special reason that I know of.
But it seems to blend in even with the other.  And of course her gown there is a little different.  
It's not like the one Gary Katz painted.  I put gold in there.  His is more, it was plainer.  But I put 
gold in there, and I even give her a golden headrest.  
M:  Who is this?  
W:  That's Pharaoh's daughter.  And that's her maidens, her servants.  And that's on, it's suppose 
to be along the Nile.  And there's Moses when he was in the bull rushes. 
M:  And then you painted the frame to, didn't you?  
W:  Yeah, I painted the frame.  I thought I like the colors of the frame.  It uh, you get so many, 
you get too many frames that are black, or brown, dead looking.  It gives it more life I think. 
M:  Yeah, this is blue and gold. 
W:  Yeah, and that's gold, that's real gold, pink and the blue.  I like that painting even though it's 
a reproduction.  Gary Katz did this, the original of it.  It was so good that I wanted to paint it.  
M:  Oh, you liked the original so much?
W:  Oh yeah, I like it, I really liked it.  I think it come out good.  The expressions in the eyes.
M:  And Win, I wanted to ask you about this one.  This looks sort of unusual.
W:  Yeah, isn't it, huh?
M:  Just your drawing, what is that of?
W:  He might have been in pain.  He could have been in pain.  
M:  Do you try to paint happy or sad, or do you have any (--)
W:  I try to paint different types, you know, happy or sad.  I think this one was mostly, I think he 
was in pain or something, and it was done from a print.  But it's a reproduction from a print.  It 
looks like he's in pain to me I would think.  
M:  I'll have to ask you about this one.  This is unusual.  This is a picture of, a drawing of a 
mailbox.  
W:  Yeah!  I did that from a drawing, illustration in one of my textbooks from Famous Artist 
School text books.  And I liked it so well I just drew it, you know?  
M:  It's from an unusual perspective.  
W:  Yeah, and I do that one there of the little boat, and this girl there.  Oh, that's just from the 
imagination.
M:  And what's that a scene of?
W:  It's just a lighthouse that I know of.  It's nothing in particular. 
M:  Have you ever seen a lighthouse?
W:  Only, the only lighthouses I've seen are on TV sometimes, or the ones I've seen in prints, you
know.  I've seen those lighthouses.  
M:  And this is a man, is the bird there for a reason, or?
W:  [Laughs]  I don't know what he's got on his head, but he's got something there.  Those are 
different texture drawings.
M:  Texture drawings of trees?
W:  Of trees, yeah.  Green.  And I think this is, yeah, that's ink.  Yeah, that's ink.  I thought it was 
charcoal.  And those are just uh, regular drawings, you know, I got from my textbook too. 
M:  To practice what?  
W:  Practice, yeah.  
M:  This one looks like a perspective drawing.  
W:  Yeah, that's what it is probably.  
M:  Do you ever use crayons?
W:  Oh!  The ballerinas, yeah.  I did some of those for uh Shirley Tereil Dancing School, and 
she's crazy about them.  I did some greeting cards and put an image on them, you know?  Oh, 
there's another.  That looks like a trawler of some kind.  Yeah.  
M:  1969, pencil line drawing of a trawler.
W:  [Laughs]  She's way out of proportion.  She's stalk.
M:  This a picture of a female nude, 1969.  Do you do many nudes?  (M:  Huh?)  Do you do 
many nudes?
W:  No, not too many.
M:  Did you do any paintings of nudes?
W:  Oh I have done some drawings of nudes, not paintings, no.
M:  Why not?
W:  I don't know.  [Laughs]  My wife don't like the idea.  So I (--)
M:  And this is a still life.
W:  Yeah, that's still life.  Now there's some more that's from my text book.  I did a lot from the 
text books, you know?
M:  Have you even done any paintings of still life?
W:  No.  No paintings of still life, no.  I just uh, landscapes, that's about all, and seascapes I've 
done paintings of.  No uh, nothing else.  
M:  So most of the nudes you did were practiced from your art book?  
W:  Yeah.  Yup.  Oh there's one.  [Laughs]
M:  October 1969, line drawing.  What is that of?
W:  That's something else I saw, I saw in something.  It wasn't in my uh, I don't think it was in 
one of my textbooks.  I don't think it was in one of my textbooks, because they wouldn't have 
anything like that. 
M:  Is it from the imagination?
W:  I'm not sure really.  It could have been.  Yeah, it could have been.  I'm not sure really.  I just 
drew it that's all.  Now there's, there's something from my textbooks.  The horse.  There there, 
there's another one.  I've done no paintings of nudes, but I just did drawings of them, that's (--)  
Now that looks like something that could be abstract or something. 
M:  Do you remember doing this one?
W:  Yeah, I remember doing it, but I don't know what it's from?  It's just, I just felt like doing it, 
you know, laying it out that way.  
M:  1971.  It is a bit abstract [unclear].  It looks like Picaso.
W:  Huh?
M:  It looks like a Picaso drawing.
W:  Yeah!  Yeah it does.  Yeah it does look like a Picaso drawing.  
M:  This is another interesting one.  
W:  Yeah, that is odd.  
M:  It's a picture of a nude.  
W:  Yeah.  I can't remember all of them.  
END OF INTERVIEW.
NOTE:  THE PREVOST INTERVIEW SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN TAPED OVER ANOTHER 
INTERVIEW.  WHEN PREVOST INTERVIEW WAS OVER OTHER INTERVIEW WAS 
STILL ON RECORDER.  DID NOT TRANSCRIBE.