UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS LOWELL
CENTER FOR LOWELL HISTORY
ORAL HISTORY COLLECTION
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER
LOWELL FOLKLIFE PROJECT
INFORMANT:  TADEUSZ RURAK
CONDUCTED BY:  MARTHA NORKUNAS
DATE:
N = NORKUNAS
R = RURAK
LFP-MN-R048
N:  1987 
R:  Yes.
N:  And I'm at the home of Mr. Rurak.  Is that how you pronounce your name?
R:  Yes, Ruark.  Ah, ha.  
N:  And I wondered if you might start by telling me a little bit about how your family came to 
Lowell?
R:  Well, if it goes through my family my father and my mother came from Poland.  My mother 
came in 1908.  And my father came in 1907.  Except that my mother came here to Lowell and 
my father came to Haverhill.  Because my fathers family are really in Haverhill.  There are 
Ruarks there, it's quite, quite a big family.  And they, later on they came to Lawrence.  My father 
was the only one that came from the Haverhill family of Ruraks to Lowell.  And that I believe 
was in 1910.  Because he was working in shoe shops in Haverhill.  And at that time there was 
lack of work.  They were closing down the shoe shops.  They had no work.  They were laying 
off.  And my father heard that shoe shops in Lowell were working pretty good.  So, he came here
and he worked here at the Lowell shoe shops.  He worked ah, oh, at day times, in evenings he 
was taking courses to learn a more advanced job in the shoe shop industry, you know.  Ah, in the 
industry, in the shoe industry.  And he became what they called a pull over man, and a bed laster 
man.  They were two more qualified jobs in that industry.  And he was making good money.  So 
he settled here.  My mother 
N:  Did he passed through Lawrence, you said?  
R:  Pardon me?
N:  Did he also, he lived in Lawrence before Lowell?
R:  No, he didn't.  
N:  Oh, he went from Haverhill to Lowell.
R:  Part of the family from Haverhill moved to Lawrence.  And my father was the only one who 
came as Ruark family here in Lowell.  
N:  O.K.
R:  And my mother came here because my mothers aunt was here before her.  And she came here
then.  My grandfather on my mothers side came here too.  And my mother worked here in the 
mills.  And she was not a weaver but a fixing girl.  When they were making cloth, you know 
weaving material some threads broke you know.  And you had to, that girl had to pick up that 
thread, tie it up and let it go as you know, as if it was no, no missing there.  And that was, was 
her job.
N:  Wasn't that, was that a man's job or a women job?
R:  Well it was a lot of man were doing that job, yes.  It was not fixing but you know, well it was 
like fixing.  She was fixing the cloth.  The mans job was fixing the looms.  You know, repairing 
the looms, the machines.  But my mothers job was when there was, material was running and a 
thread broke in it.  You know as it was woven.  She had to pick up that thread, tie it up and the 
material was corrected.  That's what my, my mothers job was.  And then ah, they got married in 
1912.  My father was ah, already then active in some Polish Organization.  At that time he was 
playing in the band, Polish Band.  
N:  What was that called?
R:  Pardon me?
N:  What was the band called?
R:  Polish Band.  
N:  Oh.
R:  Polish Band.  Now, it's called Polish American Band.  There they were calling it Powaski 
Band, ah, White Eagle Band, you know.  the name of the band was changing during the years.  
But, originally it was called the Polish Band.  And today it's called, it still is here in Lowell, The 
Polish American Band.  It's one of the best bands in Lowell.  Anyhow it's a large size band and 
N:  Do they pay, play, or did they play um
R:  They do play all the time.
N:  Traditional Polish music?  
R:  No, the band doesn't.  The band doesn't.  They play some of it.  Ah, but ah, originally, I mean 
generally they play marches, they play at ah, you know parades.  And so it is characteristic about 
them that every parade they play, when they play, they have to play a polka.  They do.  And if 
you were to have a chance, ah, stand on corner of Central Street and Merrimack Street you will 
hear them coming down, you won't see them, but you'll hear a band playing polka, that's them 
[laughs].  It's typical for them.  They take pride.  And it, and ah, my father as I said was a 
member of Polish Band.  He played in there.  He played a trumpet, and he was a member of the 
Polish National Alliance. 
N:  But what's that sir?
R:  Polish National Alliance that's a fraternal organization which at the same time is an 
insurance, life insurance er, organization.  And from what I read it is the largest of that type in the
United States.  Largest in membership and in finances.  Has the biggest savings and er, I read 
that ah, that was said by President Reagan.  At er, well of the commemoration days of third of 
May in Chicago so it must have been based on truth because I, I had my doubts myself.  
N:  Does it still exist?
R:  Oh, yes it does still exist.  Yes, it is, it is today, yeah.  It's one of the largest in the country 
today.
N:  Are you, do you belong to it?
R:  I do, yes.  I do.  Well it's er, almost every, everyone belongs to it.  Every polish people er, 
belong to it.  For the simple reason you start while your children are born.  So you take a policy.  
Either a twenty year policy, or you take a life policy.  When I arrived here in forty-eight.  Er, 
agent came to me from that organization and he asked me to take the policy.  I said, "look, I just 
arrived.  I haven't got a penny on me.  How can I pay you to do."  He says, "hey, don't worry.  
You'll work.  When you start working you start paying the policy."  So I took it,  [laugh]  but, you
know.  There's also another ah, side to it.  I had that first boy of mine.  And of course I was 
thinking about his future.  So, I wanted him to have something.  Now, I jumped to my son.  
[laugh]  
N:  It's all right.  We always jump around.
R:  Now, ah, ah.  When they got married in 1912, 1913, they were living on Colburn Street.  That
was a block.  It's an empty spot there now.  Empty place.  There was a big block.  There were 
about four or five families living there.  My parents were living there.  And in 1913 they bought 
a house on Fifth Street.  
N:  In Centraville.  
R:  In Centraville.  Fifth street.  I don't remember the number.  I think it was forty-nine, but I 
couldn't say it.  So they bought the house there.  It was a larger size home.  And with them  
[laugh]  as it was at that time.  Everybody moved  [laugh].  My mothers ah, friend from school 
from Poland.  She was a maid at that time.  She moved in with us.  My uncle with his wife 
moved in there.  His mother-in-law moved in there.  And ah, another my, my mother's two aunts. 
They were single.  They moved in there.  And my godfather Jake  [unclear]  moved in there with 
his wife.  So figure out, in one house so many people.  And you have to realize that you had no 
accommodations for it.  You had one bathroom.  And that was it.  All these people living there.  
So er, my mother was still working.  My father was working.  And my uncles mother-in-law was 
an elderly lady, so she was cooking for all these people that were working.  Of course everybody 
that was living there brought his food.  So if it was hamburger it was marked who's hamburger it 
is.  If it was a piece of ham it was marked you know.  And she had to prepare the food for them.  
She was paid some, couple of dollars.  For the whole weeks job she was cooking.  You know 
washing the dished, and everything.  And then my father er, thought that it er, it's nice to have 
that house but, it's too many people.  It was a little, you know, too hard on him.  So what he did 
he finished the cellar.  Cemented the cellar, you know renovated the house in a couple of years.  
And he sold that house and bought a house up a little higher on Beech Street  [laugh].
N:  Still in Centraville?
R:  Yes, yes it was still in Centralville.  It was a small little house you know.  And only two single
man.  The Savinski Family and Doctor Juren with his wife moved in there.  And Doctor Juren 
who was a immigrant just like my parents were.  He came here.  He was about sixteen years old. 
It's interesting because that concerns Poland.  Polish people too.  Ah, he came here about sixteen 
years old.  He was working on a farm delivering milk.  In the mean time he seen that he can't 
speak.  And a lot of the Polish people couldn't speak English.  So he found out that at high school
you could take courses and learn English.  So he did.  At, at, he was delivering milk in the 
morning till noon time.  And then he was going to high school or, evenings any how.  He was 
gone to take English.  He was learning English.  At high school they found out that he was quite 
a bright man you know.  So they told him, why don't you go to high school and start studying 
high school?  He had four grades of elementary school only.  All he knew besides that, that he 
was administrant you know at the church.  So he knew that part of Latin.  Which he never 
understood of course as a boy.  But he was repeating and it was in Latin.  So they convinced him 
to go to school and high school.  And he finished high school.  And he finished it very good you 
know.  So then they told him, why don't you go to university?  Study.  And of course he had no 
money.  He you know, while he was working he was going to high school.  Finally some of the 
Polish people convinced him.  And at that time ah, the Polish National Alliance already had a 
college.  It was college ran by an, you know, administered by the Polish National Alliance.  So he
went there for two years.  That Polish National Alliance College.  After two year of college there 
he went to study medicine.  And he finished medicine.  So here you are at fourteen, I mean not at
fourteen years.  A sixteen year old man comes to the United States has four grades of elementary 
school and he pulls himself in a few years to be a doctor of medicine.  And had a good practice 
here in Lowell.  He was making his internship at St. John's Hospital.  And then he opened up his 
practice here, had a good practice.  So these people were living in my house, my fathers house on
Beech Street.  Well, Doctor Juren's wife as I said previously was my mother's dear friend from 
school in Poland.  And from the beginning as she was staying with us she stayed till the last 
minute.  Until we left to Poland.  
N:  Your whole family?  
R:  Yes, our whole family we left to Poland.  Because my father was a hard working man.  So 
was my mother.  And they saved some money.  And even at the times that there was no work at 
all my father was still working you know.  Having jobs with the city.  Sweeping streets, 
shoveling snow, but he still was working.  So they saved some money and in 1922 my 
grandfather on my father's side was writing letters come home, come home, return home.  I'm 
getting older.  There's some land here.  This and that.  If you bring some money we can buy some
more land.  So, and, the Polish government at that time of the independent Poland you know.  
They were appealing for the people to return to Poland.  There are lots of land still uncultivated 
you know.  We need hands.  And this and that.  So my father was a patriot and he returned.
N:  What year was that?
R:  1922.  
N:  And how many were you in the family?
R:  Two.  I mean four.  My father, mother, and my sister, myself.  So we returned to Poland.  And
in Poland my father bought a piece of land there.  He bought nice new equipment all tools you 
know, equipment.  Lands, buildings everything.  He was going very good.  Doing very good in 
Poland.  Later on he was expanding you know.  Because he still left some money when he 
bought that farm.  And he had in a bank.  And when times were bad at the time of depression he 
used that dollar for  [unclear]  which never lost the value you know.  He used that dollar for a 
piece of land.  So he was expanding you know.  And then he started with a little orchard around 
the house.  And ah, at the time of depression I was going to high school my father says, "you 
know what.  It's no sense sending you to high school any more."  He says, "look people with 
university education there asking for jobs as a police officer.  Hey, better have a job as a 
secretary in a court you know, something like that."  And I did it for a year.  I didn't go to school 
for a year.  But in the mean time I was getting letters from my classmates you know.  
N:  Is this in Poland now?
R:  That's in Poland.  They were attending school.  They were writing to me.  Sending me 
pictures.  They were going you know together on ex, er, you know what's you call it.  
N:  Excursions.   
R:  Excursions.  And when I was getting that, all that I said, "my gosh.  These people are going to
be somebody.  Who am I going to be?  A farmer, and a pencil pusher in a court?  No!"  So I told 
my father, "I want to go to school."  And I went to school again.  I lost one year but I went to 
school again.  After I finished high school and I went it was a duty that you had to attend.  I mean
be in the service if your health allowed you to.  So er, after the service, I was a cadet officer in 
the service because high school education was giving the right to join the cadet school.  And 
N:  And how, you had lived in the United States for how many years before you went to Poland? 
R:  In this country here?  I was living from, I was born 1913 to 1922, nine years.  And ah, I 
finished high school and I went to the service.  After the service I came back home and I was 
looking for a job.  I got a job in the tobacco industry which was, the plant was about half a mile, 
probably a mile from my house.  I got a job there.  Well I got a job there, I was single.  I was 
getting a pay.  So I said to my father, I said, "look now, we have some money.  So why don't we 
reconstruct the buildings.  And why don't we spend a little money to expand our orchard."  And 
we did it because we had one building.  It was long, long building.  And we had the stables in 
that.  We had the cows in that building.  We had all the materials that my father had you know.  
Then all the hay, and all the rye, and wheat.  Was long, long building.  And one year with strong 
winds you know, they pushed it.  You could see that, that building was leaning.  So we pulled it 
back you know.  Reconstructed it, but I said, that's not going to last.  Another strong wind and 
we'll have the same problem.  So we put the stable separately.  The cows separately you know.  
And then the hay and everything separately.  Made four buildings instead of one.  So we did that,
and then we expanded the orchard.  A nice, beautiful, four years.  All trees we planted them in.  
We had them in.  And it didn't last long because that was 
N:  Apples?  
R:  We had everything.  Pears, apples, peaches, pears, cherries, everything.  And er, that was in 
1936.  In thirty-nine we lost everything.  Because we were living on eastern part of Poland.  And 
1939 Germans attacked and then Russians attacked on the seventeenth.  Germans from the west, 
on the seventeenth of September, the Russians attacked from the east and Poland could not 
defend herself.  No way.  Although we had you know assurances from France, and from Great 
Britain, that as soon as the Germans attack us we had that pack, you know a treaty with them, 
that they will help us but, they couldn't help because they couldn't help themselves.  So we didn't 
get any help and Poland fell.  And with the fall of Poland, you'll probably read it soon.  I hope it's
going to be in the Lowell Sun.  Ah, most of the Polish people that were living in eastern part of 
Poland were deported and imprisoned in Siberia, and  [Mr. Rurak is naming other places that 
people were deported to]  All around in the  [unclear Polish name]  mine fields you know.  
N:  Imprisoned by the Russians?
R:  Pardon me?
N:  Imprisoned by the Russians?
R:  By the Russians.  The Russians attacked Poland on the seventeenth of September.  And it's 
their policy.  It's the Russian policy to mix the people.  Take them from this part of the country 
put them out there in the east or in the west.  Bring the people who are living there, bring them 
here.  That's what they did in 1924 with Ukrainians.  That's what they did with 1933 Ukrainians.  
And  [unclear]  from Central Asia.  That's what they did with the Tartars on  [unclear]  and they 
put them into [unclear].  So that's their way, you know to break the people, break the people, 
break the spirit of them.  And then while you leave, for instance, you take the Ukrainians from 
Poland and you put them into  [unclear].  [unclear]  don't like that because these are new people.  
They don't trust them.  You know its a friction between these nationalities.  That means they fight
amongst themselves.  Therefore, it's much easier for the Russians to control.  So this is what, 
what really happened ah, with us.  We were taken to Siberia.  And we are living there.  For two 
years in woods.  We were cutting er, pine trees to get sap from them.  Sap was needed for 
production on ammunitions.  And they didn't have their own people because they send them to 
the services in Russia.  They were at war with Germans at that time.  [There is a break in 
conversation.  Mr. Rurak is talking to someone in the background.]  We stayed there two years 
after that we were very fortunate that we get out of there and we went to the Mid-East.  My 
parents as civilians.  I was as an officer in the army.  So I ah,
N:  You went where?
R:  In the army
N:  Ah, ha.  
R:  Er, in 1941, in July.  Germans attacked Soviet Union.  They had, they signed an agreement.  
On the twenty-third of August in 1939 they divided Poland between themselves.  Because on the 
first of September Germany attacked Poland.  And on the seventeenth Russians attacked Poland. 
That was in accord with the twenty-third of August agreement that they signed.  That agreement 
was signed at the time that the British and French government were negotiations with the Soviet 
government to get them as allies against Hitler.  And while they were negotiating French and 
English.  The Russians, ah the Germans signed, secretly signed an agreement to divide Poland.  
And that happened.  So when in July 1941, Germany despite the agreement that they had with 
the Russians signed in thirty-nine.  Attacked Russians.  Then they were looking for help.  Where 
would they look for help?  Poland.  Poland because they had over two million Polish people 
deported from eastern part of Poland into Russia.  A lot of them young men.  It was over a 
hundred twenty thousand of prisoners of war that they took.  In 1939, they took fifteen thousand 
Polish officers who were murdered in the  [unclear]  Forest.  So they were looking for help for 
their army to be built.  And they signed an agreement between the Polish government and the 
Russian government and er, that was on the twenty-fifth of July 1941.  [Mr. Rurak names the 
agreement in Polish]  That's what they called it.   And on basis of that agreement the Polish 
people that were taken too Soviet Union, deported and imprisoned were suppose to be all freed.  
They were suppose to allow us to form a army in Russia which would be under the Polish 
command.  But we'd be fighting with the Russians against the Germans.  That was an easy thing 
to say while we had people coming from concentration camps.  From largers, from gulag, the 
farms north and far east.  That were coming with frozen hands, frozen ears and with typhoid, 
with malaria.  They were unable to serve.  These were nothing but rags and just skeletons of 
people.  I'll show you a picture of some young people.  So er, they, we formed a Polish army.  
And with the Polish army ah, were some civilians.  Families close to these units, you know.  
They were fed by the Polish army.  If a soldier was getting three hundred gram of bread, he was 
giving two hundred grams to the civilians to keep them alive.  And we did save a lot of people.  
The families of the soldiers and friends of the soldiers were saved.  And in April 1942, first 
transport of civilian, Polish civilians went to Teheran, to Iran.  And then some transfer of army 
moved there to Iran.  And then ah, ending in forty-three, early forty-three were the last transports 
going to Teheran to Mid-east.  Because the British knew that the Polish soldier was unable to er, 
go through er, training and was unable to fight for the reason of the health.  So in Mid-east in 
Iran and Iraq the army was recuperating.  We had still hospitals filled with people with typhoid.  
We had hospitals with people having er, recourses of malaria.  I was myself on the thirteenth of 
June, I had a recourse, the last recourse of malaria.  Remember it distinctly when it was because 
thirteen is St. Anthony Day and that's my grandfather's name.  So I remember that.  And then of 
course when the civilians came to Teheran, they were put in civilian camps there.  And they were
living there.  Some of them moved to Africa.  Some were moving to Leb, Lebanon.  And that's 
how the civilians there.  The army moved from Iraq to Palestine.  And to Syria and to Egypt.  
And from there they moved to Italy.  Where they fought along with the fifth army, American 
army, and the eighth British army.  My parents came from Teheran to Lebanon.  And they were 
staying about fourteen kilometers in the hills.  There with the Lebanese people.  Until the end of 
the war.  In forty-six my father who was still an American citizen.  Because he never er, gave up 
his citizenship.  He had his passport which is today in Moscow.  Because my father wrote a letter
when he was in Siberia.  He wrote a letter to the American Embassy asking to free him.  And he 
gave them the number of his passport.  So that letter never was obtained by American Embassy.  
And my father was sent for fifteen years into gulags in the North for that reason.  Fortunately, the
day before we were moving from the woods, my father returned.  They freed him.  And he came 
with us, Went through Teheran and so, and so.  And in forty-six my father applied for a return to 
United States.  And in fact in forty-seven they were here back in Lowell already.  
N:  With you.   
R:  Nope.  I was in an army.  I was in an army, and I went to England, because Polish army after 
the war was sent to England and we went through a, they call it Polish Resettlement Corp in 
England.  And on the way I met my wife.  That was in Siberia.  I met her as a civilian.  And then 
she was in the transport with me going to Teheran.  In Teheran she was a nurses-aide with 
orphanage.  Which was to be sent to India.  And when I heard about that I get afraid.  Well I 
came to Teheran.  I told her your not going.  Because if you go we won't see each other any 
more.  So she joined, joined the Polish women's army W.A.A.C.  The Polish W.A.A.C. in Iraq.  
And that's how I have a wife.  [laugh]
N:   [laugh.]  
R:  Yes.  And she came exactly on Christmas Eve in forty-three.  She joined the army, the 
W.A.A.C.  army there.  And er, that's where we got engaged.  And we didn't get married, we got 
married in January forty-five.  But that was only because we were waiting about news about her 
father.  We knew that her mother died in Siberia.  But we didn't have any notice.  We have no 
knowledge, what happened to her father.  Her father was arrested.  Arrested by the Soviets when 
they moved in.  But, we didn't know what happened to him.  We were still hoping that he's alive, 
alive.  So we wanted him to be at our wedding.  Ah, unfortunately we had news from Germany 
that her father was killed around the city of Meese.  Because when the Germans were attacking 
the Soviet Union the prisons, the prisoners, that were jailed in you know, in these prisons, were 
marched because they didn't want the Germans to take them.  So they marched them.  And 
whoever was unable to march you know, they shot him on the spot.  So his fa, her father was 
shot.  Her father was, it's a coincidence because I was living in the south eastern part of Poland.  
And she was living in the north eastern part of Poland.  And her father had a nice piece of land.  
They were estate owners.  Er, er, land estate, you know.  And he was a mayor of the town.  So 
that was a crime.  Therefore, they had to arrest him when they arrived.  And they shot him 
because he couldn't march any further.  Her mother was taken to Soviet Union, June forty.  It was
one of the last transports.  And she died there.  Er, as I said my parents came in forty-seven.  I 
came in forty-eight.  I came back here in forty-eight.  Of course I came at a very, very bad time.  
Because, is it all over?  Am I, er, would you like to know something else?  
N:  No, I, it, it's good.  Now, I thought with the next tape you could tell me about your  [unclear] 
in Lowell.  And that's good.  
R:  Ah, ha.  
N:  We are going in  [unclear]  
R:  Because I, I probably gave you too much of that.  
N:  NO.                                                          
              
R:  Which is not, has nothing 
                   FIRST SIDE OF TAPE COMES TO A CLOSE  
                     SIDE TWO OF TAPE ONE
R:  Came back in forty-eight.  Of course that was a bad time.  Because in right after the war the 
textile mills here in Lowell stopped.  They weren't producing.  There was no need for it.  No 
orders from navy or from army.  And er, find a job was really hard.  It was very hard.  I was, at 
that time I was thirty-six years old.  I was a healthy, very strong man.  And I was begging for a 
job.  I was going from door to door asking for a job.  I was going in Nashua.  I was going in 
Lawrence looking for a job.  Because I came here with a wife and a boy.  My older boy was born
in England.  And we came here.  And my wife was pregnant.  So I needed a job.  I couldn't get a 
job any place at all.  Finally 
N:  Did you live with your parents?  
R:  Yes.  I stayed with them.  Yes.  They had an apartment here.  Ah, ah, across the street from 
the Polish National Home.  Ten Colburn Street is the Polish National Home.  I don't know, them 
was probably about fifteen.  Ah, right across the street from Polish National Home.  
N:  The Dom Polski?  
R:  Dom Poski is the Polish National Home.  And that's Dom Poski.  And I was living across the 
street from it.  With my parents.
N:  And that was the Polish area.  
R:  That's the Polish area, yes.  Yeah.  And as I said, I couldn't find a job.  Finally a cousin of 
mine who was a pilot during the war, American Air Force, got a job at Wood Mill in Lawrence, 
as a weaver.  A super, a supervisor of that department of weaving was his navigator.  They were, 
during the war in the same plane you know.  And he asked him, "could you get a job for a man?" 
So at that time they were already laying off people.  Because in a month or two months later they
shut the place down.  He hired me.  He hired me to give me a break.  And of course I worked 
there very short.  I don't remember.  Probably a month and a half, or probably two months.  And 
they closed the place totally.  So, I'm again on the streets without work.  Finally my uncle in 
Lawrence knew a man who owned a machine shop in Lawrence, Mr. Mills.  They call it 
Lawrence Machine and Pump Corporation.  It's right across the street from the railroad station in 
Lawrence.  So I got a job there.  When I came for the job he was telling me all kind of stories.  
Criticizing that I should have a job.  I should have a trade.  What good is it that I was going to 
high school.  What good is it that I was an officer in the army, this and that, you know.  He said, 
"I'll make you a machinist in six months of time."  I says, "Mr. Mills, I will be only grateful.  
And I'll really do anything that I can to prove that I was worth while and so on and so forth."  I 
came to work the next day.  There was a man on the floor.  An older er, man.  He was probably 
forty-five years of age.  He fired that man.  So there was a German young man who was a 
welder.  He came to me.  He says, "You know what.  That man is fired because you were hired."  
I says, "no."  He says, "oh, yes."  And he says, "Don't believe them what their telling you.  That 
your going to be a machinist.  Your going to be working on his job."  I says, "Well, if that's so I'm
going right back to the office and I'm going to talk to the man."  So I came to the office and I told
the man, Mr. Mills.  I said, "Thank you for your job."  I said, "I'm only disappointed that you 
didn't tell me the truth.  That you were hiring me and firing an older man that worked for you 
here before.  You're firing him just to hire me because I'm younger."  And I said, "I never did 
expect you to do such a thing."  He said, "No, no, no, no, no.  I fired the man because his 
eyesight is bad, and I'm having problem with the insurance for that reason."  And he said, "No, 
no, no, no, no."  That's not the reason I'm hiring you.  He said, "No.  I'm going to hire another 
man to take his job."  I said, "O.K.  If that's so.  I'll stay on the job."  It never happened.  I was 
working there two years.  And once in a great while they allowed me if there was something that 
they were rushing.  They couldn't have it done by the rest of the man.  Then they gave me, put 
me on the lath to thread a shaft or to take rough grinding off ah, parts.  But that was it.  The only 
thing is that I was always asking for a raise.  I started with fifty cents an hour.  With no insurance
at all.  No health insurance, nothing.  I had to pay two dollars for my bus fare to Lawrence.  I was
paying five fifty for my rent.  And er, whatever was left was nothing.  My wife if she wanted to 
buy a pound of cheese.  So she had to figure whether she can buy it this week, or she will buy it 
next week.  Because as I said.  I was making twenty dollars a week.  I was paying five fifty rent.  
Two dollars for my bus fare.  I had to have my coveralls dry cleaned.  Because my wife, when I 
brought them the first time.  She put them in the bathtub, and she was soaking and she was 
washing them, and washing, and washing.  She changed water probably fifteen times.  And there 
was still, you know, that dirt coming from, from grinding and everything.  So I had to pay fifty 
cents for, for have them cleaned.  So you can figure out what was left.  I had to have a telephone.
N:  But you still lived in Lowell.  You didn't 
R:  I lived in Lowell.  
N:   [unclear]  into Lawrence.  
R:  No, no, no.  I don't think about moving to Lawrence because in Lawrence was as bad as it 
was in Lowell.  You couldn't get jobs because all the textile plants and mills in Lawrence were 
closing down.  So I didn't know how long that job was going to last there that I had.  And I 
wasn't planning to stay on that job for long too.  Because I had no health insurance.  My, my 
second son was born in March forty-nine.  My wife gave birth at home.  Doctor Juren, the one 
that I mentioned.  He came and delivered the baby.  I had no insurance.  I had nothing.  So I 
couldn't afford to have her in the hospital.  So that's how Ted was born.  And later on my wife 
developed er, kidney inflammation.  The doctor came down.  He said,  "I've got to send her to the
hospital."  Fortunately, Doctor Coutu  who was drown here in Lowell.  You probably heard about
him.  Strubooka and Coutu they both drown.  Ah, he came and he said that he's going to take care
of my wife as long as is possible without sending her to the hospital.  He was coming home 
taking care of her.  Ah, one day my wife was staying home and heard about a job opening in 
Chelmsford.  Ah, in Chelmsford they had that woolen mill.  And they opened up a new, new 
department, nylon department.  And they were looking for help.  The only one thing that you had
to work six days a week.  So when we heard that I contacted them.  I drove to Chelmsford.  And 
I got more information.  They told me, yes there opening a new nylon department and that I can 
start working right away.  But I have to go to the doctors you know.  First have a physical taken 
by a doctor.  Then I can start.  So I asked them for a week of time.  So I could go back to 
Lawrence, and Lawrence, tell them that I'm leaving and quitting the job.  When I went there of 
course they gave me all kinds of stories.  That, you can't do that.  Because you know, all the 
woolen mills and textiles, they are closing.  They are opening.  They are closing.  And what you 
going to do?  You going to bounce from one place to another?  I said, "No.  I'm going to take my 
chances."  I told them, "look first.  I'm got, I'm getting eighty-seven cents for an hour." I'm 
getting health insurance, for myself and my family.  And I'm working Saturdays.  I'm getting 
double time for it.  Ah, time and a half for it."  So I said, "Hey, I'm much better off."  So I took 
the job here.  And I worked er, two years there.  I'm a two year man.  I worked two years in 
Lawrence and two years there.  
N:   [Laugh].
R:  I would be working there probably longer too.  But, it was very fortunate that at the time the 
mills were moving from North here to the South.  Because the labor was cheaper and they didn't 
have to bring the wool here.  They didn't have to bring the cotton here, so it was, they thought it 
would be better.  They found out it wasn't better because the people down South, they didn't 
intend to work.   [Laugh].  And they didn't work.  So they had to close the place, places down 
there too.  But, any how at that time they didn't care for us here at North because they had the 
places open there.  Plants open there, on there, on the South.  And, people like myself, we had er,
seniority and I could, I was qualified, I could run almost every machinery in my little 
department.  And they were hiring people that were coming off the street.  They had no seniority.
They had no qualifications.  And they  were putting them on the first shift.  Then they got on the 
first shift.  They were giving them er, work to work steady.  And were laying us off for a couple 
of weeks.  So we said, "This is it."  We called the Union, Called the Union, asked the Union.  I, I 
had a picture of the American Union.  Which I don't want to criticize.  But, my impression and 
my picture of it.  All the people that were disappointed were saying that at the union we'll tell 
them what we demand.  That we want them to have more seniority , stay on the job.  And the 
ones who have less seniority to be laid-off.  Or if not, let them do it in such a way that 
everybody's going to have a turn of being laid-off, and out of work.  When I came to that meeting
that was here on the corner of Merrimack Street and er, Bridge Street.  That building, upstairs, I 
found out that most of the guys that I seen were drunk.  And when we started to talk about our 
complaints.  These, that were promising that they would be on our side.  They start yelling at us.  
And they voted against us.  So I was very disappointed.  And I told the union guys, "that your 
nothing but a bunch of crooks."  And I knew that was my end.  So  [laugh]  I went back to the 
plant.  I told the supervisor to get the check for me.  I'm quitting.  And I quit.  And I had nothing 
to, no work at all.  No job.  But I was so strong, disappointed with the fact that these things can 
happen.  That I just had to quit.  And I quit.  And walking down er, I was at the Social Security.  
To report that I quit the job.  Because I knew that a couple of weeks later I could collect.  Ah, not
the Security but the Unemployment Office.  And I was walking down Merrimack Street,  I met a 
friend of mine.  He said, "what are you doing?"  I said, "nothing."  "What do you mean nothing?"
I said, "I lost a job."  He said, "try Jackson Street."  He said, "there's a place some Jews and 
Germans opened it up.  Try it there."  And I went.  And I get the job there.  That's Pellon 
Corporation.  The non-woven material.  You probably never heard about it.
N:  Is it Pel 
R:  Pellon.
N:  Pellon.  
R:  Pellon.  P-E-L-L-O-N.  It's on Jackson St.  At the end of Jackson St.  They make non-woven 
material.  It's nylon compressed in heat.  And it comes in sheets.  As if it was woven material.  
Some glue in it, you know.  So I went there and I got the job.  I worked there for two years.  But 
while I was working there, a young Jewish kid from Tewksbury was working with me too.  I was
inspecting the cloth.  And he was working there too.  He joined er, courses.  He was taking 
courses.  At Lowell, er, at the time was Lowell Textile yet.  Lowell Technological Institute, now 
University of Lowell.  He was taking courses in drafting courses.  So I looked at the drawings 
that he was making.  And I said to myself, my goodness, I can do that without any problems.  So 
I asked him.  He said, "well you can't, you can't er, register for it now, because it's too late.  You 
have to wait next year."  I said, "O.K.  I'll wait till next year."  And I registered for drafting 
courses.  While I was taking drafting courses I was told to go to Raytheon, apply for a job.  "But 
I haven't finished this yet."  "But" I said, "I'll try one and two."  So sometimes in June I went to 
Raytheon applying for a job.  They want to take me right away.  I said, "no."  I said, "I can't 
because I'm still working with Pellon.  And I'm having vacations paid there."  "Well, all right, 
seventeenth of July."  I said, "O.K."  So ah, I was on my first year of courses.  I was doing good 
though.  And ah, I got the job there, at Raytheon.  So two years Lawrence Machine, two years 
Chelmsford, two years  [Laugh]  Pellon.  And here I'm jumping into  [laugh]  Raytheon  [laugh].
N:  [unclear]
R:  Yeah.  It was funny though.  Because the fellow who had the interview, interview with me 
was my boss.  Which I didn't know.  That he's my boss, future boss.  So he asked me, "what I'm 
doing and what vacation I have."  And so, and so he said, "no problem."  He said, "your working,
your hired."  I told him, "look."  I said, "if it goes for math, I will have little problems because I 
forgot some rules and this and that."  "But" I said, "if I look at them it'll come back."  He said, 
"I'm not worrying about that."  He said, "I know that you have more than many others do.  So, 
I'm not worrying."  And he was right.  I didn't.  Because er, it's not down grading the American 
er, school system.  It's not bragging about European system.  But, you have to figure it this way.  
In Poland school was six days a week.  It was six hours a day.  You were taken all through, 
through high school.  Eight subjects through all the years.  So when you take eight subjects you 
know.   And you go to school six days, and you have six hours, lessons you know.   And you 
were to work and study.  Because you wouldn't pass.  So er, you know, you got to learn 
something.  And I, of course I found out that if it goes for math, we're much, much, much ahead. 
Than they were here.  Because here I found out later too.  A cousin of mine was a, in Springfield 
was, a superintendent of schools in Springfield er.  And I asked him.  I said, "Frank, what in 
heavens sake is going on in, in, in education here?"  He said, "Ted your looking at, at, two 
different worlds."  He said.  "In Poland you had to finish seven grades of elementary school.  
That was that you have to had it.  Here a kid has to go through high school.  So whether the kid 
is good in all four subjects, or good in two subjects he still graduates."  I said, "Well, that I didn't 
know." But any how, I started working there in Raytheon, and now, Raytheon has it's ups and 
downs.  Especially at that time they were laying-off.  I started in fifty six.  And sixty and 
sixty-two they were laying-off.  In such a mass that's it's unbelievable.  It was in the drafting 
room when I started was eighty of us.  And twenty people in E.C.O. Department.  E.C.O. group 
which is Engineering Correction Changes.  Ah, making just changes, you know.  Was a hundred 
of us at that time when I started.  And in 1962 was ten of us left.  I, I survived.   [laugh].  I was 
very fortunate, I was very fortunate.  Because I wasn't an American veteran.  And they were 
laying-off American veterans.  
N:  Were you at that time, were you still living in this part of Lowell?
R:  Oh, yes.  At that time I was living here in Lowell, yes.  At first, I first lived er, on Reed Street.
That was my first apartment.  When I started, when I came here.  I lived with my parents for 
about six months.  Then I moved to Reed Street.  A friend of mine gave me the first apartment.  I 
was paying five fifty.  Then I found out there is an empty apartment on Second Street that I liked.
I got that for the same money.  Except that it was a better apartment, a brighter apartment.  It was
on the second floor.  Nice rooms you know, bright sunny, where I was living on Reed Street it 
was dark.  The cellar was always water in the cellar you know.  So 
N:  Were any of those neighborhoods Polish, Mr. Rurak?
R:  Yes.  Yes, all, most of it is.  Yes.  It's all Polish, yes.  
N:  And what about the Dom Polski?  Were you involved in that then?  
R:  Oh yes, oh, yes.  
N:  But, what is that exactly?
R:  I got involved right away.  I came in forty-eight.  In fifty I was already very active here in 
Lowell.  I joined the Polish Army Veterans.  Who were Polish Army Veterans in the first world 
war.  They left from here, volunteers from the United States.  They joined the Polish Army that 
was forming in Canada and in France during the First World War.  After the war they came back 
here and they organized the, themselves you know as the Polish Army Veterans.  So I joined 
them right away.  And in 1950, I already had a big gathering at the Dom Polski er, running in a 
fair at that evening for the Polish Army invalids.  Who are in England, France, and Italy.  Some 
of them are in Germany too.  
N:  And was Dom Polski already existing when came back?
R:  Oh yes, oh yes.  Dom Polski, Dom Polski is existing seventy-five years.  Dom Polski 
seventy-five years, over seventy-five years.  Ah, the Polish Roman Catholic Church on High 
Street, 904 seventy-five years had a few years ago.  And the Polish National Church on 
Lakeview had a seventy-five years a couple of years ago too.  Ah, Poles are quite, quite er, early 
settlen, settlers here in Lowell and as they settled they were quite er, ah,  [unclear]  quite er, 
energetic and industrious.  Er, because the first family, Polish families came here in nine, 1892.  
Were a couple of people only.  And in 1901, this parish was organized Polish National Church.  
They er, had a church.  They bought the church where the Lithuanian Church is now.  The 
Lithuanians bought the church from them.  
N:  From the Polish National?
R:  Yes.  Yes.  They bought that church in 1901.
N:  From the Polish Na .
R:  They built it.  They built it.  They built it.  They bought that piece of land, and they  built the 
church there.  And now, the Lithuanians bought it.  If I'm not mistaken in 1907, Lithuanians, the 
Lithuanians bought it.  The church on High Street was built and consecrated in 1904.  Then the 
Polish National Home was organized in 1909.  At a meeting they had 1908, the Polish people in 
Lowell had a meeting.  They were trying to buy a piece of land to buy, to build a cemetery.  To 
have cemetery.  That was the reason in 1908, the Polish people got at the meeting you know to 
buy a piece of land.  When they found out that by buying a piece of land, and having a cemetery, 
that land isn't there, it's not their cemetery, but it's the Bishops.  You know about it?              
N:  I'm just imagining it.  I, is this the cemetery in Pelham?  Or the one behind St. Patrick's?
R:  No.  No, it's behind St. Patrick's.  But er, er the ones er, in Pelham that's their church.  They 
bought the land.  So that land is theirs.  But the Roman Catholics whatever you have is it the 
church, is it the rectory, is it the school, is it the er, er, nuns, what you call it?  Place .
N:  The convent?  
R:  Convent.  That's not the peoples.  That;'s all the Arch-Bishops property.  When these people 
found out that when they buy that piece of land it's not going to be their, but it's going to belong 
to the Arch-Bishop, they said, "no.  ah-ah, we will not."  So they said, "we'll think about it."  And
a year later they called on a meeting and they said, "let's build a home, that we can get together.  
That we can have dances, have plays, you know.  Conferences, meetings so and so, and on."  
1909, they already started to think about it.  In 1911, they had Polish Home already.  They were 
talking bank, you know, loans and so and so.  
N:  Were these people from St. Casimir's or Holy Trinity?  
R:  No, these were people from both.  From Polish er, Holy Trinity and St. Casimir's.  They were 
both, Polish National Home is er, institution of all Poles here.  It's er, it's constitution you that 
they were organized to have the Polish people, people meet together, talk together, work 
together, run things together.  To have a cultural center to prevent, to the, traditions you know, 
and the cultural aspects of Poland, you know.  And that's what it is.  It is.  Whatever happens that 
Polish people are doing in Lowell here.  It starts at the Polish Home.  It's not that initiative comes
from them.  No.  But, there you have people from all organizations.  From all Polish 
organizations.  They are members of the Polish National Home.
N:  How does it differ from the Palaski Club?  
R:  The Palaski Club is a member of Dom Polski.  It's a member.  But Palaski Club is a 
institution that has almost the same goals.  But it is a organization that is built on the memory of 
General Palaski, you know.  They took him as their patron.  And as it is, it's a Polish 
organization, you know.  But they are members of the Polish Nation Home.  So if you see 
sometimes they have a parade you know, on er, er, anniversary of Palaski, you know.  They have 
it because they, they just want to commemorate.  But they are members of the Polish National 
Home.  And the Polish National Home is organizing all these things.  It's initiative comes from 
the members.                          
N:  Does it still?  
R:  Oh, yes.  Oh, yes.  It is a very vivid organization, very vivid.  
N:  Do you, if you walked in there today, would you still hear Polish being spoken?  
R:  Oh, YES!  Oh, yes.  
N:  How about by the younger generation?  
R:  Well, the younger generation.  Some of them do, some of them don't.  So you, you can't, you 
can't, I'll tell you, there is a generation just like our, I was telling you about Doctor Juren.  All his
children speak Polish.  You take the Visniewski family, the Wallk, you'll find that all these 
people, they are my age.  They speak Polish.  Their children seldom do.  But, still their 
generation does.  So you'll find them there.  The younger generation well, I can't say that all of 
them, because if you take my sss, both my sons, they speak it fluently.  They read, write Polish.  
They know all the history.  They know the traditions and everything.  Then you take Shemshuk, 
who is a friend of mine.  His son knows it.  There are quite a few of the younger generation that 
have the command of the Polish language.  Some of them don't.  Some of them are you know, on
the borderline.  They try, they don, they are not sure that they do it right, so they rather not risk it,
you know.  But, some of them still do understand.  And as I said Dom Polski is the, is the, is the 
center.  Is the center of, of everything.  Of course there is another institution which is a very 
strong one.  And we can not forget about them.  That is the Polish American Veterans.  Here on 
Colburn Street.  They are a very strong organization.  And also a very, very er, lively institution.  
They are running, er, all time they have some kind, is it even, even shis-ke-bob.  Whatever it is 
you know.  But they are still, still moving, and er, without them I'll tell you that er, the Polish er, 
population here, the Polish community er, wouldn't be that strong.  Because they are strong in 
numbers you know.  And they are still comparatively they are still young.  They are my age.  Ah, 
but still they have no the Korean War Veterans, they have the Vietnam War Veterans.  Which 
makes them that much younger you know.  They have that, you know, booster, that we didn't get.
But they do have it.  So that helps them a lot.  There a very strong organization, very active.  
They are very active.  
N:  And what, what does the Dom Polski Club do, Mr. Rurak?  What kinds of activities?  
R:  Well, er, as I said any meeting.  For instance now, a fellow went to New Hampshire.  He 
arrived from Poland to visit his sister.  He went to New Hampshire to work there.  He jumped 
into the lake.  He broke his neck.  You probably heard about that case.  Well, it all started there.  
I, I heard about it.  I called a meeting a the Polish Home.  I called the people that I know that are 
active.  That are you know, willing to work.  And I was the one who called them.  I'm a member 
of the Dom Polski.  I called them.  We met there one evening on Wednesday.  And I presented 
them with the facts.  And we organized a committee.  And that's what it is.  Right there at Dom 
Polski.  And then you see envelopes going you know, out.  To people thanking and asking for 
donations, 10 Colburn St.  Dom Polski.  Here it is.  Of course a member of the Dom Polski, a 
director, board of directors member, Gus Covitzanski, from Dom Polski.  And er, Paul 
Kozlowski the commander of the Polish American Veterans are co-chairman of that committee.  
See.  
N:  Is there an effort to try to transmit to the younger generation ah, certain things about Poland? 
Polish culture 
R:  Yes, Yes.  Yes, there is.  It is going on and off on and off.  The first one who started was 
Doctor Juren.  He started the Polish classes.  At the Dom Polski, right there Dom Polski.  Ah, in 
1954 we started.  I'm talking us.  We started another school.  Polish  [unclear]  for Polish 
children.  Well, we had it twice a week.  Ah, in the evenings.  Teaching Polish Language and 
Polish History.  Twice a year at the third of May we had a celebration, a commemoration with 
the children participating, playing rolls, and on Christmas Eve or later after New Years at 
Christmas time, at Christmas period we had these children on the stage too.  And we had the Hall
packed with people.  Because, parents we're coming.  Grandparents we're coming and people 
when they found out the kids are doing there, they loved it.  We had no room for them.  They 
were coming.  We were running these at first.  We had no room.  That's Dom Polski.  So ah, it, it,
it's there, you know.  It's there, it's very active.  And so are the veterans too.  There active too.  So
ah, there's was where most of the life of Polish people is concentrated now.  The Dom Polski 
remained the bastion.  Because it's there from the beginning.  The veterans came in later.  And 
they are members of the Dom Polski also.  And many of them are participating in the meeting