Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female,
New Mexico (Transcription)
m6 B(3) #106A 000---12
FW: What's your name?
INF: <unintelligible text>
FW: Can ;you tell me something that happened a long time ago?
INF: Oh, like when we were kids?
FW: Uh huh.
INF: uh, stories, uh, I don't story
FW: You, know something funny, or something that happened to you.
INF: Oh, I don't know, I don't know any stories,
FW: I mean like maybe a family get together you went someplace,
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
INF: Oh, yeah. Like now, when we used to go pinon picking at this time, and, uh, like in the
afternoon, after supper we finished supper and washed the dishes and mom and dad and
the whole family go down to visit grandma. My dad, fa-, I mean mother <unintelligible text>
sit around the table and either grandma or my dad would tell a story, in Indian, and kids
would just sit around and listen to them and eat pinons. Roasted pinons sometimes they
have watermelon or a melon.
FW: Well, how about when you were young with the girlfriends you ox you used to go out
with, where did you go. Dancing or something.
INF: No, at that time we don't think about going out dancing, most of the time we stayed
around here at the pueblo cause there wasn't a way around to go down to the Espanola,
there's very few people that have cars at that time, and mostly we stayed here at the
pueblo but then at that time we have a movie here at the day school so that's where we go
and then, uh, course we always have the Indian social dance that's out dance everytime
when there's a wedding well then they always have a social dance at the kiva, at the little
kiva right in the plaza there in the pueblo.
#106A 52 13
And, other than that, well, we just go out in the afternoon and a bunch of us get together
and we would sit in front of the store or at the old post office or in front of the chapel there
and just talk about oh, about our school and everything else you know, dates and old
boyfriends and other things like that.
FW: What do you think about these things going on at the San <gap> fiesta, did you go?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
INF: OH, no, I have no intention of going to the fiesta for what happend. I really don't know
what really happened, but the way the <gap> had said over TV news so that kind of got
me too, you know, like the, uh, people from Santa Fe doesn't want the Indians there and
so I just didn't feel like going there and I don't think I would want, I wouldn't wanted to go
when somebody doesn't, you know, doesn't want the Indians around their fiesta. So, we
just stayed away from Santa Fe, we didn't go down for the fiesta at all.
FW: How would you feel about having New Mexico back in San JUan, you know, the
capital of New Mexico back to San Juan again.
INF: Oh, I think it would be something At least something here in the pueblo you like
something to do, maybe they have a capital here at the pueblo, for then at least have a
town a little city at least to, uh, well we wouldn't have to go all the way to Espanola or to
Santa Fe all the way to Santa Fe.
FW: Did your dad ever tell you stories about the railroad track
INF: Oh, yeah, I remember that, just right down here the train tracks used to be right in
there and my dad used to have a garden just right down below from here and my older
sister Juanita and myself and my other sister, Francis, we used to bring lunch for ;him, he
have a cornfield and
2
#106A 101 14
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
Wheat and alfalfa and all that early in morning <unintelligible text> come out and work on
the garden there and at lunchtime we we'd bring his lunch and we'd try to hurry because,
uh, right over at the Rio Grande bridge soon as we'd cross there why then, railroad tracks
start there, the railroad track is from right there on up and there's no way that we could
avoid the train at that place so we have to rush in order for us to get to the other side so
we rush and sometimes well he'll meet us right there and we just run from there so we
can pass first before he gets there and sometimes when he's late well we'll meet him right
up at the field and when he's going through we waved at him and then he'd throw some
oranges and apples and things like that to us we always have alot of fun and my dad used
to tell us that long before that that they used to ride the train for ten cents to Espanola,
course I have never ride in that train I just remember that the train pass through here and it
was lot of fun just to have a train passing through, well not through the pueblo but at least
through right in here, it was real nice.
FW: Are you taking part in the dances this weekend, or not?
INF: No, I'm not, don't know anything about that dance, I know it's some kind of a sacred
dance but, uh, I don't know much about that, I guess all the people that are willing to
dance I guess can take parts I don't know, so I don't know anything much about the dance.
FW: Do you go to the state fair?
INF: We usually go every year for the past five years that I remember, we've been going
every year but this year I don't think we'll go.
FW: When you go to the state fair what do you see over there?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
3
#106A 151 15
INF: Oh, gosh, we see more Indians than anything, more Indians than anything else, lot of
people mostly Indians, of course, Indian day, that's the only day we always go is on Indian
day, sometimes I bump into one of my old class mate or old friend that I used to know at
the Indian school it's alot of fun to go down to the state fair like I said ;you bump into your
friends once in a great while, it's always nice to see them again after, sometimes I see
them there at Santa Domingo for the fiesta but I hardly go there either, once in a great
while, so I see them at state fair. At least once a year you get to see your friends, you don't
see them that often <unintelligible text>.
FW: I know, Where do you work at?
INF: I work, right now I'm working at Los Alamos, I'm doing domestic work, it's not a very
good job but I guess that's about all I can do, well, not all I can do, I can work other kind
of, I can do any other kind of job besides domestic but to me I think that's easy for me, a
long time ago I used to work in Grants and I wait on table but that was real hard on my feet
I got so tired by the time I get off I don't want to stand up once I sit down and it just, it's just
too hard to do a waitress job, and I work in California in a factory and that's a good job but
then its too hard, and I don't like to be in California, well not just in California but in city or
a different place. I don't think there's any where else like San Juan I mean like you know
here in our own pueblo there's alot of people and cars and I don't know. I just don't like
that.
FW: Do you think the pueblo's changing alot?
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
INF: OH, alot. A whole lot, comparing to when we were kids up till now, in those days, well
you don't see those well this modern homes
4
#106A 213 16
that are building up now from one end to the other end and those days when we were
kids, all we seen was nothing but adobe homes and I think these adobe homes are much
better then this modern home because I remember during wintertime when we used to
all have just about two or three rooms and we have a firewood stove and with all that we
spent the winter and now we have to pay the gas and lights and everything else and its
just too much expensive and it seems like it's just getting worse and worse every year and
when we were kids well I remember my dad just bring wood from the, uh, wagon and he
just bring every weekend and he just goes for wood and during the winter, well he don't
have to worry about paying a gas bill or a light bill or anything like that with the wood that
he hauled during the summer well we spent out winter and it stays warm all night and now,
as soon as the heat turns off well then the place gets so cold you just have to have the
heat turned on full blast or otherwise you'll feeze, there's alot of difference comparing to
when we were kids up til now and still yet its just getting worse and building all this modern
homes instead of adobe; homes I wish they would build more adobe homes then, uh, then
this frame houses.
FW: Do you have any grandchildren?
INF: Oh, yeah, I have one.
Library of Congress
Conversation with 43 year old Native American female, New Mexico (Transcription) http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1986022.afc1986022_ms1407
FW: How many kids do you have?
INF: I've got two, they're both grown up, my baby's 18 years old, a big baby, he's 18 but
he, he still thinks, I mean he still acts like a baby.
FW: Ok, thank you.
5