American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey c
ollection (
AFC 1991/029)
 
a
fc199 1
02
 9_05_100
 
The Maine Acadian Cultural S
urvey: A
 Report S
ubmitted t
o t
he North A
tlantic Regional Office o
f t
he
 
National P
ark S
ervice
 
THE MAINE ACADIAN CULTURAL SURVEY
 
C
.  Ray Brassieur,  Coordinator
 
A Report Submitted to the
 
North Atlantic Regional Office of
 
The National Park Service
 
by
 
The American Folklife Center,  Library of Congress
 
Washington,  D
.C.
 
January 1992
 
THE MAINE ACADIAN CULTURAL SURVEY
 
C.  Ray Brassieur,  Coordinator
 
A Report Submitted to the
 
North Atlantic Regional Office of
 
The National Park Service
 
by
 
The American Folklife Center,  Library of Congress
 
Washington,  D.C.
 
January 1992
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  
I.  INTRODUCTION
 1
 
II.  THE MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE PRESERVATION ACT
 10
 
III.  ACADIAN SETTLEMENT IN THE ST.  JOHN VALLEY
 20
 
IV.  THE FRENCH LANGUAGE IN THE ST.  JOHN VALLEY
 34
 
V.  A SURVEY OF CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE
 
ACADIAN CULTURE
 44
 
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
 89
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
 107
 
BIBLIOGRAPHY
 109
 
APPENDIX I:
 The Maine Acadian Culture Preservation
 
Act  (P.L.  101-543)
 124
 
APPENDIX II:
 Interagency Agreement Between the
 
Library of Congress and the North Atlantic
 
Regional Office of the National Park Service
 128
 
APPENDIX III:
 A Preliminary Glossary of French
 
Terms Related to Vernacular Architecure and
 
Cultural Landscape in the St.  John Valley of
 
Maine,  Prepared by Howard W.  Marshall
 136
 
APPENDIX IV:
 Descriptions of Selected Historic
 
Properties in the Upper St.  John Valley,
 
Prepared by Guy F.  Dubay
 157
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 1
 
I.  INTRODUCTION
 
This report presents the findings of the Maine Acadian Cultural
 
Survey,  a field research project undertaken in 1991 by the American Folklife
 
Center,  Library of Congress,  under the terms of a cooperative agreement with
 
the North Atlantic Regional Office of the National Park Service.
 The Survey
 
and report are outcomes of the passage of an act of Congress known as the
 
Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act,  which became public law on November 8,
 
1990  (P.L.  101-543).
 In order to advance the purposes of the legislation,
 
Section 5 of the Act mandates a "comprehensive study of Acadian culture in
 
Maine."
 
A.  Formulation of the Research Plan
  
In formulating a plan for the study,  the professional staff of the
 
American Folklife Center quickly realized that,  while the mandate for the
 
study is clear,  its parameters are not.
 The Act does not specify where in
 
Maine the study should be conducted,  nor does it provide sufficient guidance
 
regarding who should be studied.
 These two fundamental questions--Where? and
 
Who?--had to be addressed before the study could proceed.
 The questions
 
encapsulate two critical concerns in the design of any cultural study:
 the
 
focus and the context. 
Where the study should be conducted was the easier question to
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 2
 
answer.
 Scholarly and popular publications concerned with Maine's culture and
 
history,  as well as comments solicited from Maine residents,  indicated with
 
unanimity that the primary locus of Acadians in Maine is the Upper St.  John
 
River Valley of Aroostook County,  in the northern reaches of the state.
 
Although small populations of Acadians can be found in other parts of the
 
state,  there is general agreement that the Upper St.  John Valley is home to
 
more Acadians than anywhere else,  and that it is the hearth for Acadian
 
culture in Maine.
 In addition,  there is an accepted sense of the
 
distinctiveness of the region,  deriving not only from its Acadian heritage but
 
from its natural resources,  economy,  location along the international border,
 
and a cultural milieu that is the product of the interaction of people of
 
diverse cultural backgrounds.
 One key indicator of the distinctiveness of the
 
area is the fact that the Upper St.  John Valley is commonly known within
 
Aroostook County  (and,  to a certain extent,  throughout the rest of Maine)
 
simply as "the Valley."
 
But if the Upper St.  John Valley was to be the focus of the study,
 
there was also a larger cultural context to consider.
 Although the exigencies
 
of the present survey permitted only limited research across the river in New
 
Brunswick,  it is clear that the Valley as a cultural area includes both sides
 
of the international border.
 Further,  statements and publications by cultural
 
specialists concerned with regional ethnicity in New Brunswick suggest that
 
the geography of ethnicity in the province is extremely complex.
 
Within the United States there is another cultural context to the
 
locus of study.
 People from the Valley have migrated to other parts of Maine,
 
New England,  and elsewhere,  and in many cases they have clustered in what
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 3
 
might be termed satellite cultural communities which maintain continued
 
contact with the Valley.
 Although the study could not investigate these
 
kindred communities in depth,  field researchers encountered many members of
 
such communities who were visiting the Valley in the summer of 1991.
 
The question of who should be studied also suggested both a focus
 
and a context.
 The legislation specifies Acadian culture as the focus; yet
 
defining precisely who is Acadian,  and what cultural traits deserve
 
designation as Acadian,  is not as easy as might appear.
 Relatively few
 
cultural traditions in the study area can be described as "purely" Acadian;
 
indeed, the notion of cultural purity fails to recognize the cultural dynamism
 
and energy that derives from intercultural contact.
 In approaching this
 
complex of identity issues, the Center was guided by the following
 
proposition:
 the culture of a group cannot be fully understood unless the
 
broader cultural context within which the group develops is taken into
 
account.
 
Thus,  although the focus of the Survey was on contemporary Acadian
 
culture, the project studied it within the context of the traditions of other
 
groups in the region.
 To understand contemporary Acadian traditions in the
 
Upper St. John Valley, the Survey needed to consider cultural traditions of
 
the Quebecois, Micmacs, Malecites,  Irish,  Swedes,  and others who have shaped
 
the region along with the Acadians.
 In many cases it became clear,  as the
 
Survey progressed, that traditions regarded as Acadian actually represented a
 
cultural synthesis arising from interactions among all these groups.
 Analyzed
 
from this perspective, the case of Acadians in the Upper St. John Valley
 
emerges as a classic example both of cultural continuity and of the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 4
 
reconstitution of cultural traditions in the New World.
 
B.  The Study Area
  
The research efforts of the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey focused
 
upon a seventy-mile-long stretch of the St.  John River from Hamlin to St.
 
Francis,  Maine.
 This section of the river forms part of the international
 
boundary between the United States and Canada.
 However,  the Acadian cultural
 
area overlaps the boundary,  and the Survey included some ancillary work in
 
contiguous areas of New Brunswick.
 
The study area encompasses villages and towns located on or near
 
the banks of the St.  John River as well as the "back settlements,"  farmsteads
 
created when territory inland from the river was progressively cleared and
 
developed.
 Specific Acadian back settlements investigated include those along
 
the Fish River and Route 11,  south from Fort Kent to Eagle Lake;  those in the
 
St.  Agatha-Sinclair area;  and those in the Long Lake vicinity.
 While
 
fieldworkers documented the continuity of traditional cultural patterns
 
throughout the study area,  they observed that patterns were particularly
 
noticeable in the smaller neighborhoods and farmsteads of the back
 
settlements.
 
The Acadian settlements of the Upper St.  John Valley represent a
 
cultural area distinct from others in Canada or the United States.
 The area's
 
cultural heritage is distinguishable from that of the large French-speaking
 
province of Quebec.
 And the inland location of the region,  its land-based
 
economy  (especially potato farming and lumbering),  and its historic
 
relationship with the United States distinguish it from Acadian-influenced
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 5
 
areas in the Maritime Provinces.
 The predominance of French language use and
 
a dispersed linear settlement form make it stand out from other parts of Maine
 
and New England,  and the busy settlements and developed farmlands of the
 
Valley present a sharp contrast to the sparsely populated woodlands between
 
Bangor and southern Aroostook County.
 
The population of the Maine side of the Valley is not large;  it
 
totals approximately 27,000  (U.S.  Bureau of the Census 1990).
 The three
 
international ports of entry--Fort Kent  (pop.  4,268), Madawaska  (pop.  4,803),
 
and Van Buren  (pop.  3,045)--are the largest U.S.  towns in the Valley.
 Located
 
at the junction of U.S.  Route 1 and State Route 162,  Frenchville  (pop.  1,338)
 
is a hub for the Valley's farmlands.
 The other villages in the region are
 
considerably smaller,  though some,  especially toward the eastern end of the
 
Valley,  such as Grand Isle,  Lille,  and Keegan, were once larger during the
 
heyday of the great St.  John River log drives.
 
Within this cultural area,  the largest concentration of persons of
 
Acadian descent is in Edmundston,  Madawaska County,  New Brunswick (pop.
 
12,044),  across the St.  John River from Madawaska,  Maine,  and in Grand Falls
 
(pop.  6,203),  located in Victoria County,  New Brunswick,  across the border
 
from Hamlin,  Maine.
 Many people of Acadian descent also reside southeast of
 
the study area in the Aroostook River Valley towns of Caribou, Maine  (pop.
 
9,415),  twenty miles south of Van Buren,  and Presque Isle,  Maine  (pop.
 
10,550),  twelve miles south of Caribou.
 Most Acadian residents of these towns
 
have roots in the St.  John Valley.
 However,  these towns are not locally
 
perceived to be "in the Valley," and the Acadians who reside there are not in
 
the majority.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 6
 
C.  Field Research Methodoloqy
  
Having settled on the who and the where of the Maine Acadian
 
Cultural Survey,  the Center designed a fieldwork strategy for the
 
documentation of the contemporary culture of the Upper St.  John Valley with
 
emphasis on Acadian cultural resources.
 While tailored to deal with issues
 
unique to the Valley,  this research strategy was broadly similar to those
 
employed in the Center's previous field projects.
 Researchers concentrated
 
their efforts on cultural expressions, guided by the idea that all communities
 
use aesthetic experience to shape deeply felt values into meaningful forms
 
(Hymes 1975:348).
 These expressions,  such as stories,  songs,  recipes,  and
 
houses, which have grown out of shared experiences and values,  can serve as
 
windows into a community's worldview (Huf ford 1986:19).
 
The primary work of the Survey's fieldworkers consisted of
 
interviewing local residents,  documenting a multitude of cultural events,
 
documenting sites and artifacts,  engaging in participant observation,  and
 
analyzing archival materials.
 The aggregate of the work of the project--an
 
ethnographic collection consisting of fieldnotes,  sound recordings,
 
photographs,  drawings,  and ephemera--will be preserved for posterity in the
 
Archive of Folk Culture,  Library of Congress, with a reference copy of the
 
materials in an appropriate archive within the St.  John Valley,  where it will
 
serve as a resource base for further research and for cultural programming and
 
planning within the region.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 7
 
D.  Project Personnel
  
C.  Ray Brassieur, a folklorist,  served as field coordinator for
 
the Survey.
 His primary duties included directing and supervising other
 
fieldworkers,  carrying out field documentation,  and coordinating the
 
production of the Center's final report.
 He was in Maine from June 1 until
 
July 31,  1991.
 He is regularly employed as a programs coordinator at the
 
University of Missouri Cultural Heritage Center.
 Of Acadian descent and a
 
native speaker of French,  Brassieur grew up in Louisiana and East Texas.
 
Camila Bryce-Laporte, a program coordinator at the American
 
Folklife Center,  carried out several preliminary tasks that helped focus
 
subsequent fieldwork.
 She compiled a project bibliography,  gathered current
 
data about the study area,  and developed a list of institutions,
 
organizations,  and individuals engaged in the celebration,  documentation,  and
 
preservation of Acadian culture in Maine.
 She also handled a variety of
 
administrative chores.
 Bryce-Laporte visited Maine July 8-10,  1991,  near the
 
midpoint of fieldwork.
 
Guy F.  Dubay, historian and native of Madawaska,  Maine,  provided
 
insight into the culture and history of the Acadians of the St.  John Valley
 
and wrote a report concerning the history of selected properties in the
 
Valley  (Appendix IV).
 
Stephanie A.  Hall, archivist at the American Folklife Center,
 
supervised data input and management procedures.
 Hall visited the study area
 
June 1-5,  1991,  at the start of the fieldwork phase,  to set up data management
 
systems and instruct field researchers in their use.
 
Alan Jabbour, director of the American Folklife Center,  assisted
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 8
 
with the development of the cooperative agreement with the National Park
 
Service,  conferred with the field team at the midpoint of fieldwork,  and
 
reviewed the final report.
 He visited the study area July 8-10,  1991.
 
Howard W.  Marshall, a folklorist,  participated in the Survey as a
 
fieldworker focusing on vernacular architecture.
 During his time in the field
 
(June 24-29,  1991),  he identified and documented sites of significance to
 
Acadians in the study area,  and wrote a glossary of French terms related to
 
vernacular architecture and cultural landscape in the Valley  (Appendix III).
 
He is director of the University of Missouri Cultural Heritage Center.
 
Lisa Ornstein, a folklorist and fluent speaker of French,  worked
 
as a fieldworker on a half-time basis June 1-July 31,  1991.
 Her duties
 
included contributing to the bibliography and providing a list of resource
 
persons and a calendar of cultural activities within the study area.
 Her
 
field research focused on music,  oral traditions,  and other topics.
 Ornstein
 
is director of the Acadian Archives/Archives acadiennes at the University of
 
Maine at Fort Kent.
 
David A.  Taylor, a folklife specialist at the American Folklife
 
Center,  served as the Survey's project director and,  in this capacity,  was
 
primarily responsible for shaping and managing the project.
 He drafted the
 
cooperative agreement with the National Park Service,  outlined preliminary
 
research objectives,  assembled the field team,  provided training to
 
fieldworkers,  arranged for fieldwork equipment and supplies,  conferred with
 
National Park Service officials,  and assisted with the drafting of the final
 
report.
 Taylor made two visits to the field:
 June 1-5,  1991,  at the start of
 
fieldwork,  and July 8-10,  1991,  at the midpoint of the fieldwork phase.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 9
 
David A. Whitman, a cultural geographer,  served as a fieldworker
 
from June 1
. to July 31,  1991.
 His duties included photographic documentation,
 
processing field data,  and managing computer operations in the field.
 He is a
 
researcher/photographer at the University of Missouri Cultural Heritage
 
Center.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 10
 
II,  THE MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE PRESERVATION ACT
 
A.  Development of the Leqislation
  
Following is a chronology of the development of the Maine Acadian
 
Culture Preservation Act:
 
October 16,  1989--The Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act was introduced as
 
bill S.  1756 before the U.S.  Senate by Senators George J.  Mitchell and William
 
S.  Cohen of Maine.
 
March 28,  1990--Senators Mitchell and Cohen;  John L.  Martin,  Speaker of the
 
Maine House of Representatives;  and James M.  Ridenour,  Director of the
 
National Park Service,  testified concerning S.  1756 at a hearing of the
 
Subcommittee on Public Lands,  National Parks and Forests of the Senate
 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
 
May 23,  1990--The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources recommended
 
that the Senate pass S.  1756 as amended.
 (Amendments are described in Senate
 
Report 101-308.)
 
June 14,  1990--The bill was considered and passed by the Senate.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 11
 
July 17,  1990--The Subcommittee on National Parks and Public Lands of the
 
House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs heard testimony concerning the
 
bill by Congresswoman Olympia J.  Snowe of Maine,  John L.  Martin,  and James M.
 
Ridenour.
 
September 24,  1990--The House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 
recommended that the House pass the bill as amended.
 (Amendments are
 
described in House Report 101-742.)
 
September 27,  1990--the bill was considered and passed, with amendments,  in
 
the House.
 
October 16,  1991--The Senate concurred in the House amendments with
 
amendments.
 
October 16,  1990--The House concurred in certain Senate amendments but
 
disagreed with others.
 
October 23,  1990--The Senate receded from its amendments.
 
November 8,  1990--The Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act was enacted by
 
the Senate and House of Representatives of the U.S.  Congress as Public Law
 
101-543.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 12
 
B.  Need for the Leqislation
  
Justification for the Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act is
 
based principally upon two arguments:
 the significance of Maine's Acadian
 
cultural resources,  and the risk of loss or erosion to these resources.
 Both
 
arguments were presented by the sponsors and supporters of P.L.  101-543.
 
The testimony maintains that Acadian history and cultural features
 
have significance to both the state of Maine and the nation.
 Congresswoman
 
Snowe,  testifying before a House subcommittee on July 17,  1990,  said,  "
.
 
these very ethnic cultures  .
 .
 .
 have given to this country the richness and
 
diversity that makes America unique among nations.
 And it is the Acadian
 
culture which,  for three centuries now,  has enriched,  and helped shape the
 
character of  .
 .
 .
 Maine."
 At the same hearing,  John L. Martin argued that
 
Acadian heritage must be "preserved for the next generation of Maine and
 
American citizens--and not just for those of French ancestry."
 He further
 
remarked that the Acadian story is exemplary of the "contributions of French-
speaking Americans to our history and to the fabric of American society."
 
Senator Cohen,  testifying before a Senate subcommittee on March 28,  1990,
 
contended,
 "it is important that the traditions and beliefs of the Acadians
 
be shared with others to foster a better understanding of our history and
 
people."
 
Advocates of the bill also pointed out that Acadian heritage is
 
presently endangered.
 Senator Cohen,  for instance,  remarked at the March 28
 
hearing:
 
older members of the community fear that their children and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 13
 
grandchildren will eventually lose touch with their heritage as
 
buildings decay and community members move or pass away.
 So there
 
is real concern about the future of the Acadian culture among the
 
Acadian community in Maine.
 
He went on to say,  "Once a facet of our history is lost,  it cannot be
 
retrieved,  and we are diminished as a consequence."
 
The source of danger to the continuity of Acadian heritage was described
 
by Congresswoman Snowe before the House subcommittee on July 17,  1990:
 
Traditional cultures  .
 .
 .
 face substantial pressures in modern
 
day America.
 Mass communication, mass media,  increased individual
 
mobility -
-
 all of these facets of our society make the very
 
survival of traditional cultures difficult.
 
Senator Mitchell concurred in his March 28,  1990,  statement before the Senate
 
subcommittee:
 
(Acadians]  are at a crossroad.
 Their enemy now is not deportation
 
but the possible loss of customs,  oral history,  folkeongs to a
 
modern age that all too often sacrifices the tradition of the past
 
to the immediate.
 
C.  Purpose of the Legislation
 
As expressed in Section 2 of P.L.  101-543,  the purposes of the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 14
 
Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act are to:
 
(1)  recognize an important contribution made to American culture and
 
history by the Acadian immigrants from France who settled in Nova Scotia
 
and,  following expulsion by the British in 1755,  resettled in various
 
North American colonies,  including the territory that eventually became
 
the State of Maine;
 
(2)  assist local and state governments and other public and private
 
entities in the State of Maine in interpreting the story of the State's
 
Acadian settlers and their descendants as well as preserving Acadian
 
music,  arts,  crafts and folklore;  and
 
(3)  assist in identifying,  gathering,  and preserving sites,  historical
 
data,  artifacts,  and objects associated with the Acadians of Maine for
 
the benefit and education of the public.
 
Paragraph  (1)  provides national recognition for the significant
 
contributions of Acadians to American culture and history,  thus justifying the
 
participation of the Federal government in the purposes of the Act.
 
Paragraph  (2)  contains two mandates.
 The first calls for
 
assistance to Maine  '
entities"  in interpreting the story of Maine Acadians to
 
the public.
 The inclusion of the words "Acadian settlers and their
 
descendants" clearly does not limit interpretation of the Acadian story to any
 
particular historical period,  nor does it exclude the interpretation of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 15
 
contemporary Acadian culture.
 The second calls for assistance to efforts
 
aimed at "preserving Acadian music,  arts,  crafts and folklore."
 This
 
objective concerns the continuity of Acadian cultural expressions as living
 
traditions.
 Congresswoman Snowe testified at the House hearing on July 17,
 
1990,  that the legislation "affords us the opportunity to help preserve--not
 
embalm--an integral part of our state's heritage and present."
 In the same
 
testimony,  she drew specific attention to "the dialect of the Acadians" and
 
"the stories,  songs,  and legends" that continue to be passed down.
 At the
 
same hearing,  John L.  Martin argued that "this legislation will help preserve
 
Acadian culture,  a way of life  .
 .
 .
 ,
"
 and Senator Mitchell foresaw programs
 
to "celebrate,  preserve and perpetuate Acadian music,  arts,  crafts,  and
 
folklore."
 
This paragraph of the Act is in clear accord with the principles
 
of cultural conservation, a strategy designed to recognize and encourage the
 
diversity of traditional lifeways in plural societies.
 The concept of
 
cultural conservation has grown out of concern about the erosion of
 
traditional community life  (Loomis 1983).
 Expressing an integration of
 
folklife studies with the historic preservation movement  (Jabbour and Marshall
 
1980),  its strategy is to document and conserve intangible as well as tangible
 
cultural expressions vital to the heritage of traditional communities.
 Much
 
as environmental and historic preservation efforts protect the diversity of
 
natural resources and historic properties,  cultural conservation helps
 
safeguard the variety of cultural expressions throughout the nation and the
 
world.
 
Similar concerns were expressed in January 1976,  when Congress
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 16
 
passed the American Folklife Preservation Act  (Public Law 94-201).
 The act
 
established in the Library of Congress an American Folklife Center "to
 
preserve and present American folklife."
 Section 3 of the act defined the
 
term "folklife"  in this way:
 
The term "American folklife" means the traditional expressive culture
 
shared within the various groups in the United States:  familial,
 
ethnic,  occupational,  religious,  regional;  expressive culture includes
 
a wide range of creative and symbolic forms such as custom,  belief,
 
technical skill,  language,  literature,  art,  architecture, music,  play,
 
dance,  drama,  ritual,  pageantry,  handicraft;  these expressions are
 
mainly learned orally,  by imitation,  or in performance,  and are
 
generally maintained without the benefit of formal instruction or
 
institutional direction.
 
The principles of cultural conservation are further acknowledged
 
in Section 502 of the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1980
 
(Public Law 96-515).
 This legislation recognizes the need for "preserving and
 
conserving the intangible elements of our cultural heritage such as arts,
 
skills,  folklife,  and folkways  .
 .
 .
 that underlie and are a living expression
 
of our American heritage."
 
The purposes outlined in Section 2,  Paragraph  (3)  of the Maine
 
Acadian Culture Preservation Act pertain to the preservation of tangible
 
cultural resources.
 Fulfilling these purposes will call into play the
 
strategies of historic preservation  (see for instance Guidelines for Local
  
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 17
 
Surveys, U.S.  Department of the Interior,  1985).
 It should be noted,  however,
 
that "identifying,  gathering,  and preserving" Acadian folklife materials
 
requires special expertise in Acadian vernacular traditions.
 
D.  Development of an Acadian Cultural Center
  
Section 7 of P.L.  101-543 calls for the establishment of  "a center
 
for the preservation and interpretation of Acadian culture in Maine."
 
Furthermore,  paragraph  (e)  of Section 7 grants statutory authority to the
 
Secretary of the Interior to administer,  through the National Park Service,
 
any properties acquired for a center.
 
The National Park Service is presently committed to the support of
 
cultural conservation objectives such as those mandated in P.L.  101-543.
 For
 
instance,  since 1973 the National Park Service has cosponsored,  along with the
 
Smithsonian Institution,  the Festival of American Folklife,  an internationally
 
acclaimed model for research and public education involving American folklife.
 
In an introductory statement published in the program book for the 1991
 
festival  (Ridenour 1991),  James M.  Ridenour,  Director of the National Park
 
Service,  provided the following comments with regard to his agency's role in
 
conserving cultural heritage:
 
We have worked with numerous local,  state and regional agencies
 
throughout the United States to promote the preservation,
 
understanding,  and interpretation of folklife and grassroots
 
cultural traditions.
 We have cooperated closely with the American
 
Folklife Center at the Library of Congress in developing cultural
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 18
 
conservation policies and specific research projects with Lowell
 
National Historical Park and now an Acadian Cultural Center in
 
Maine.
 Ongoing festivals,  performance programs and skills
 
demonstrations such as the National Folk Festival held at
 
America's Industrial Park in Johnstown,  Pennsylvania,  and others
 
at Jean Lafitte National Historical Park in Louisiana,  Golden Gate
 
National Recreation Area in California,  Hawai'i Volcanoes National
 
Park,  Chamizal National Memorial Park in Texas,  Blue Ridge
 
National Parkway in Virginia and North Carolina,  Cuyahoga National
 
Recreation Area in Ohio,  and Virgin Islands National Park on St.
 
John testify to our commitment.
 
The establishment of a Maine Acadian Cultural Center represents a logical
 
outgrowth of the National Park Service's commitment in this direction.
 
E.  The Study
  
Section 5 of The Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act directs
 
the Secretary of the Interior to prepare "a comprehensive study of Acadian
 
culture in Maine'  pursuant to the establishment of an Acadian Cultural Center
 
in that state.
 In order to achieve this goal,  the North Atlantic Regional
 
Office of the National Park Service invited the American Folklife Center to
 
undertake the study under the terms of a cooperative agreement.
 The American
 
Folklife Center,  which has extensive experience with cultural surveys,
 
accepted the invitation,  and on May 22,  1991,  a cooperative agreement was
 
executed  (Appendix II).
 Subsequently,  the American Folklife Center named the
 
research effort the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 20
 
A.  The Lona Hard Road to Madawaska
  
The naming of the North American region known as Acadie or Acadia
 
has been variously attributed.
 According to one account,  it was named by
 
Verrazano,  who explored the Atlantic Coast for France during the early
 
sixteenth century.
 When he visited what is now the Middle Atlantic states
 
r
.
ET.,.  one April,  "he found the vegetation so luxuriant that he named the
 
country  'Arcadiel  in remembrance of the region of ancient Greece whose
 
in
But
n 
ow
ce
hn
at
ce
e 
ver its provenance,  during the early years of the seventeenth century
 
th
"Acadiell or "Acadia"  came to refer
ro u
tg
oh the territory now known as New Brunswick
 
and Nova Scotia.
 
The date of the first European contact with Acadia is unknown,  but
 
contemporary historians seem to agree that French fishermen and fur traders
 
were among the first to land on its shores.
 Undoubtedly,  commercial interest
 
in the region was stimulated when the French monarchy began to grant American
 
fur monopolies in 1588  (Daigle 1982b:18).
 Eventually,  it was decided that
 
r
ce
os
lu
on
lt
iz
, 
at
th
io
e n 
me
co
ru
ch
ld
a 
nb
t 
e 
Pi
fe
in
rr
ae
n 
ce
du
d 
 Gua sieur de Monts received a trade monopoly
 
over territory between the 40th and 46th parallels with the understanding that
 
he establ is h a colony.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 2].
 
Champlain and Jean de Poutrincourt,  landed at St.  Croix Island near the mouth
 
of the St.  Croix River  (between Maine and New Brunswick)  and initiated the
 
first French attempt to settle North America.
 80 members of the party
 
remained on the island after the ship returned to France.
 During the first
 
winter,  the harsh climate claimed 35 lives.
 Consequently,  the colony was
 
moved to a more favorable site at Port-Royal  (now Annapolis Royal),  on the
 
other side of the Bay of Fundy in present-day Nova Scotia.
 There the settlers
 
cleared and cultivated land and appeared to be making progress.
 However,  de
 
Monts' monopoly was revoked in 1607,  and the colony was abandoned and the
 
settlers returned to France.
 
Jean de Poutrincourt secured the concession for the Port-Royal
 
area and returned with a second group of colonists in 1610.
 More settlers
 
joined the group in the following year,  including de Poutrincourt's wife,  who
 
is believed to be the first French woman to come to Acadia  (Roy 1982:130).
 
In 1613,  one of Port-Royal's sponsors withdrew support from the colony and
 
devoted it to the establishment of a rival colony at St.  Sauveur on Mount
 
Desert Island,  Maine.
 Later that year,  the colonies at Port-Royal and St.
 
Sauveur were both destroyed by English colonists from Virginia.
 While most of
 
the French colonists returned to France after the disaster,  a few stayed
 
behind and maintained a French presence.
 
This conflict between the English and the French was merely one of
 
a long series of encounters that would unfold over the next 150 years.
 As
 
Daigle  (1982b:24)  has observed,  'Acadia,  within the colonial context of North
 
America, was a border colony.
 Positioned between two rival settlements  (New
 
France in the North and New England in the south),  the area around the Bay of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 22
 
Fundy was repeatedly the subject of dispute and the scene of military
 
engagements,"
 
Port-Royal was occupied by the British throughout the 1620s.
 In
 
1621,  the King of England gave the concession of Acadia  (now named Nova
 
Scotia)  to Sir William Alexander.
 Alexander began a small colony in 1629,  but
 
it was disbanded in 1632 when the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye returned
 
Acadia to France  (Roy 1982:131).
 Frenchman Isaac de Razilly was then named
 
lieutenant general for Acadia and instructed to revive settlement.
 He
 
established a colony a La Hève  (La Have),  on the southern shore of Nova
 
Scotia.
 Among other reasons,  de Razilly's expedition was notable because it
 
included a number of families  (Roy 1982:131).
 
By 1636,  other small settlements had been established elsewhere in
 
Acadia.
 These included settlements on Nicolas Denys's concession,  along the
 
Gulf of St.  Lawrence;  and Charles de la Tour's concession at Cap Sable,  in the
 
lower St.  John River area,  and on the south shore of Bay of Fundy exclusive of
 
Port-Royal.
 Settlers were also in place at La Hève and Port-Royal.
 
Following de Razilly's death in 1635,  his office was filled by
 
Charles d'Aulnay.
 During trips to France,  d'Aulnay recruited families for the
 
colonies in Acadia.
 By 1650,  Acadia had over 400 French inhabitants,
 
including 45 to 50 families in the Port-Royal and La Hève areas as well as the
 
men affiliated with Denys and La Tour.
 These 45 to 50 families are generally
 
considered to be the founders of the Acadian population  (Roy 1982:133).
 Many
 
of the colonists had much in common.
 For example,  over forty percent of the
 
families listed in the 1671 census of Acadia were peasants  (laboureurs) drawn
 
from d'Aulnay's estate,  near the town of La Chaussée in Poitou.
 Between
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 23
 
fifty-five and seventy percent of Acadia's seventeenth-century immigrants were
 
natives of the Centre-Ouest provinces of Poitou,  Aunis,  Angoumois,  Saintonge,
 
and Anjou  (Brasseaux 1987:124).
 
English forces seized Port Royal in 1654 and held Acadia for the
 
next thirteen years.
 By the time France regained the territory in 1667 under
 
the terms of the Treaty of Breda,  the French settlers who remained had
 
developed a capacity to think and act in their own interests,  independent of
 
European authorities.
 They adapted their French agrarian lifestyle to the
 
local environment,  and they began to think of themselves as a people separate
 
from their fellow Frenchmen in the mother country and in settlements in
 
Quebec.
 Because their territory "was subjected to divergent policies that
 
turned it into a pawn on the great chessboard of imperialistic politics," the
 
settlers learned that,  in order to survive,  "neutrality was the wisest course
 
until one of the combatants finally won the struggle"  (Daigle 1982b:17).
 The
 
developing Acadian identity remained intact throughout the Anglo-French
 
struggle for domination in North America.
 
In 1713,  Acadia became a permanent English possession as a result
 
of the Treaty of Utrecht.
 Under the terms of the treaty,  according to Queen
 
Anne's lenient interpretation of them,  Acadians who remained in Acadia were
 
granted freedom of religion and full title to their property  (D.  LeBlanc
 
1966:54-55).
 However,  the English were intent on making the Acadians into
 
British subjects,  and they tried to persuade them to swear an unconditional
 
oath of alliance.
 The Acadians refused,  insisting that they would not swear
 
alliance to the English crown unless certain conditions were met.
 
Specifically,  they wanted guarantees that their Catholic faith would be
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 24
 
respected,  that they could remain neutral in any conflict between the English
 
and local Indians,  and that the English would take the Acadians own history
 
into account  (Daigle 1982b:37).
 While the English administration could have
 
interpreted the Acadians'  refusal to take the oath as an act of rebellion and
 
ordered their expulsion,  in view of the possibility that Acadians could
 
strengthen French positions elsewhere if driven out of Nova Scotia,  this
 
option was not exercised.
 The English accepted the Acadians'  self-definition
 
as "French neutrals" and allowed them to pursue farming,  fishing,  and fur
 
trading as before.
 For the Acadians,  the period from 1713 to 1744 was a time
 
of peace and significant population growth  (Daigle 1982b:39).
 
English tolerance of the Acadians'  neutrality ended in the 1740s
 
when warfare resumed in Europe between Great Britain and France,  sparking the
 
renewal of hostilities in North America.
 Warfare ceased in 1748,  ushering in
 
a change in English policy that would have tremendous repercussions for the
 
Acadians.
 The English, who had previously been concerned with the attainment
 
of commercial goals in Acadia,  adopted additional goals,  including the
 
acquisition of territory and the initiation of colonization  (Daigle 1982b:43).
 
In the view of British officials and immigrants who came into Acadia from New
 
England after the founding of Halifax in 1749,  the Acadians, who had ties with
 
the French and the Indians,  were obstacles to English settlement  (Mason
 
1973:11).
 
A year after the resumption of hostilities between the English and
 
the French in 1754,  Governor Charles Lawrence of Nova Scotia again demanded
 
that Acadians swear an unconditional oath of allegiance to the English Crown.
 
Despite the growing strength of the English,  the Acadians rejected the demand,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 25
 
and on July 31,  1755,  Lawrence ordered the forcible removal of the colony's
 
large Acadian population.
 Thus began the Acadian diaspora,  otherwise known as
 
La Grande Déranqement.
 
During the course of the next few years,  thousands of Acadians
 
were loaded onto British merchant vessels and dispersed throughout the English
 
colonies from Massachusetts to Georgia  (R.  LeBlanc 1971).
 For many Acadians,
 
the disruption continued for thirty years or more.
 Some were imprisoned in
 
England,  some were removed to France,  and others made their way to the West
 
Indies,  Quebec,  and Louisiana.
 Many died of disease and hardships suffered
 
during the expulsion.
 Of Nova Scotia's 12,000 to 18,000 resident Acadians,
 
6,000 to 7,000 were removed from their homeland during La Grande Déranqement,
 
Those who escaped deportation became fugitives  (Brasseaux 1987b:217).
 
In several instances,  ships loaded with deportees were forced to
 
return to Nova Scotia when colonial administrators in the American colonies
 
refused to accept the Acadians.
 Upon their return,  Acadians discovered that
 
their former lands had been taken over by the English.
 Consequently,  those
 
who wished to remain in the region attempted to settle in remote areas,  far
 
away from the English.
 According to Daigle  (1982b:46),  "their ultimate goal
 
was to recreate in isolation a country in which their values would be
 
preserved without outside interference."
 
It is estimated that as many as 1,000 Acadians escaped deportation
 
by hiding in the woods and living among the Indians  (Roy 1982:153).
 Some made
 
for Cap Sable and Pobomcoup  (Pubnico)  in Nova Scotia and some went to the
 
Lower St.  John River region in New Brunswick.
 Others headed north to the
 
shores of Chaleur Bay in New Brunswick and Quebec,  and the Gulf of St.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 26
 
Lawrence,  the Gaspé Peninsula,  and the St.  Lawrence Valley in Quebec  (Roy
 
1982:154).
 
In 1763,  the Treaty of Paris ended hostilities between the English
 
and the French and also halted the deportations.
 It has been estimated that
 
there were 3,700 Acadians in American colonies and between 9,000 and 10,000 in
 
other North American locations and in Europe by that time  (Roy 1982:155).
 
After the Treaty of Paris,  the victorious English permitted
 
Acadians to return to the Maritime provinces,  but stipulated that they must
 
swear an oath of alliance and settle in small groups  (Thériault 1982:48).
 
Concluding that there was no longer any possibility of receiving support from
 
France,  the Acadians agreed to these terms.
 While some who had been deported
 
elected to remain where they were, many returned from Quebec,  France,  the
 
American colonies,  and the forests of New Brunswick.
 According to Roy
 
(1982:157),  "refugees in the more southerly  [American]  colonies headed for
 
Louisiana,  hoping for a more fraternal reception in French territory.
 Those
 
who left the New England colonies headed mainly for Quebec and Acadia."
 
Although one might assume that repatriated Acadians who wished to
 
return to Acadia would head back to their original settlements,  this was not
 
generally the case.
 As Thériault  (1982:49)  explains:
 
In general,  Acadians who returned to the Maritimes avoided
 
resettling their former land because it was now occupied by
 
English colonists and because the British authorities preferred to
 
have them scattered in small groups.
 For these reasons,  they
 
settled around Baie-Sainte-Marie in western Nova Scotia and around
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 27
 
Cheticamp on lie-Madame in Cape Breton.
 On Prince Edward Island,
 
they chose the area around Malpeque while in New Brunswick,  they
 
settled in the north,  the east and the St.  John River Valley.
 
Those who returned to the Fredericton area were forced to move to
 
the northwest and northeast between 1784 and 1786 after the
 
Loyalists arrived.
 Today,  the majority of Francophones in the
 
Maritimes are still scattered over these diverse regions as their
 
colonization movements of the 19th and 20th centuries merely
 
developed the hinterlands behind these areas.
 
Because of its relevance to the present study,  it is useful to
 
look more closely as the Acadian migration from the Lower St.  John River
 
Valley.
 According to Mason  (1973:19), within seven or eight years of the
 
arrival of the Loyalists, Acadians moved out of this area mainly to acquire
 
more land and to secure the services of a priest.
 Other historians,  including
 
Roy  (1982:164),  emphasize that the Acadians departed because they were
 
dislodged to make room for the Loyalists.
 In any case, Acadians on the east
 
bank of the valley near Keswick (a few miles north of Fredericton)  generally
 
moved to the North Shore of New Brunswick or to Madawaska,  an inland region
 
encompassing the Upper St.  John River Valley in the northwestern part of New
 
Brunswick.
 The majority of the Acadians on the west side of the Valley also
 
went to Madawaska  (Mason 1973:19).
 
Within the Madawaska region,  Saint-Basile received its first
 
settlers in 1786  (Roy 1982:164),  and it became Madawaska's founding parish.
 
Other settlements developed along the Upper St.  John Valley to the east and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 28
 
west of Saint-Basile.
 The establishment of settlements on both sides of the
 
Valley is a subject that still requires rigorous scholarly investigation.
 
Indeed,  the best known history of the area was written in 1920 by a local
 
priest,  Father Thomas Albert  (Albert 1920; English translation, Albert 1985).
 
In his book Histoire du Madawaska, Albert claims that the first Acadian
 
landing on the southern shore of the Valley occurred in 1785 at St.  David,
 
about five miles east of the present-day town of Madawaska,  Maine  (Albert
 
1985:42).
 Although contemporary historians and other scholars have not
 
unanimously accepted this interpretation,  it is the one generally accepted by
 
members of the region's communities.
 
B.  An Acadian Hearth in the Valley
  
Canadians from Quebec joined the Acadians in the Upper St.  John
 
Valley,  and by 1831 there were over 2,000 settlers in villages along a 45-mile
 
stretch of the Valley,  from Fort Kent to Van Buren  (Allen 1981:87).
 During
 
the first fifty years of settlement,  a thriving,  Catholic,  French-speaking,
 
and virtually self-sufficient farming community with many Acadian cultural
 
features developed in the St.  John River Valley.
 
Settlement spread up and down the St.  John River from the initial
 
hearth,  eventually occupying eighty miles or so along both banks  (roughly from
 
Grand Falls to St.  Francis).
 The banks of larger tributaries,  like the
 
Madawaska,  the Green,  the Grand,  and the Fish, were settled early,  especially
 
near their confluences with the St.  John.
 Smaller brooks flowing into the St.
 
John also attracted early settlement.
 The "flats" along the banks of the
 
river were soon developed into productive farms,  and clearing for new
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 29
 
farmlands pushed progressively farther from the river banks.
 
After the establishment of the international boundary in 1842,
 
more people moved into the Valley and the area of settlement was extended.
 
Allen  (1981:87)  summarizes this expansion as follows:
 
Some people moved up the Fish River along a newly created road to
 
the south.
 Also,  by the 1850s logging trails penetrated the broad
 
hill country east of Frenchville,  and after 1860 this area
 
received its first farm families.
 Ultimately,  these back
 
settlements would be spread over the land some ten miles south of
 
the river.
 By 1892 the settlement encompassed Hamlin on the east
 
and St.  Francis on the west,  but the general direction of the
 
expansion was to the south.
 Wallagrass,  Eagle Lake,  and
 
Winterville were then well populated.
 The major southward thrust
 
was along the main road from Van Buren to Caribou,  with a focus
 
around the parish at North Caribou,  established in 1881.
 A
 
secondary movement of French pushed south from Hamlin near
 
Limestone.
 
Expansion to the southeast brought people of French descent in contact with
 
English-speaking settlers in eastern Aroostook County,  and with Swedes who
 
founded the town of New Sweden  (1871)  and later the town of Stockholm.
 On the
 
western extremity of French settlement in the Valley,  near the mouth of the
 
St.  Francis River,  the French came in contact with English-speaking loggers
 
who migrated there from New Brunswick  (Allen 1981:87).
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 30
 
When the Valley's French villages were created,  a line settlement
 
pattern was established which remains intact today.
 Virtually all public and
 
private buildings,  including houses,  churches,  and mills, were dispersed in a
 
linear fashion along the courses of waterways.
 French settlers in Louisiana
 
(Edwards 1987,  vol.  I),  along the St.  Lawrence River in Canada  (Harris 1966),
 
and in present-day Missouri  (Schroeder 1983)  arranged their communities in
 
similar patterns.
 The line settlement form apparently was also common in New
 
England during the period of initial settlement but was abandoned during the
 
Federal Period  (Wood 1988:159-169).
 
Along the St.  John Valley,  initial land ownership was granted by
 
the British Crown.
 The grants were partitioned according to a modified arpent
 
system,  long lots extending from and perpendicular to the river.
 After
 
settlement of lots in the premier ranq, the first row of lots touching the
 
river,  the deuxième ranq (second row)  lots were developed.
 On the north side
 
of the river,  settlement continued to at least six tiers in some places.
 
Because of the curves in the river,  these ranqs became oddly juxtaposed,
 
producing an irregular cadastral pattern.
 
On the south side of the river,  settlement expanded in this manner
 
in some places until a quatrième rang (fourth row) was established.
 After the
 
United States secured ownership in the 1840s,  land ceased to be granted in the
 
modified arpent system.
 Subsequent land holdings,  granted usually to
 
descendants of the original settlers or occasionally to new settlers arriving
 
in the Valley,  consisted of irregular rectilinear land grants.
 These grants
 
became known as les concessions, and the newer neighborhoods associated with
 
them became known as
 "back settlements."
 Though the land-holding parcels in
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 31
 
the back settlements are shaped differently from the initial tiers,
 
neighborhoods continued to develop in the dispersed linear form.
 Their
 
orientation may be toward the shore of one of several large lakes or toward a
 
road.
 Like the initial ranq communities, the small back settlements consist
 
almost entirely of multi-generational, extended-family groupings.
 During the
 
late nineteenth and twentieth century, Acadians migrated from their settlement
 
core in the St. John Valley to other communities in New England.
 Considerable
 
outmigration of Acadian workers and their families first occurred in response
 
to a shortage of millworkers in New England during the Civil War.
 
Availability of new clearable farmland diminished during the nineteenth
 
century just as the population in the Valley increased.
 
During the twentieth century, mechanization increased the yield of
 
farmland but reduced the number of laborers required.
 Facing a decline in
 
employment opportunities in their home territory, many residents of the Valley
 
headed south in search of jobs created by the industrial growth of southern
 
New England.
 The connections between the Valley and southern New England
 
continue today.
 
Fieldwork during the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey included a
 
number of interviews which shed light on the relationship between the Valley
 
and other New England communities.
 Bristol, Connecticut,  for example, was
 
often mentioned as a destination for Valley workers.
 On July 5
,  1991, Edgar
 
Lavertu,  a computer programmer from Bristol who returned to the Valley for the
 
Lavertu family reunion,  shared some of his experiences as an emigrant from the
 
Valley.
 He explained that people who migrated to Bristol formed neighborhood
 
"colonies," often consisting of extended families.
 The initial colonies were
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 32
 
located in urban settings,  and the migrant families maintained their distinct
 
Valley French culture to a surprising degree.
 However,  as individual families
 
gained the means to move to the suburbs, colonies became more dispersed and
 
traditions were harder to maintain.
 It is likely that this pattern has
 
affected most satellite Acadian communities today.
 
In addition to the satellite communities in southern New England,
 
there are Acadian communities in Maine from Limestone in the north to Portland
 
in the south.
 The Rumford-Mexico and Lewiston areas have drawn many workers
 
from the Valley.
 In addition, researchers heard of a sizable group of Cyrs
 
and Michauds living in Missoula, Montana,  and met Acadians with Valley roots
 
who live as far away as California and England.
 
Many individuals who migrated from the Valley in search of
 
employment maintain the connection.
 Some return to the Valley for brief
 
visits.
 Others return when they encounter difficulty adjusting to urban and
 
suburban life in southern New England and elsewhere.
 Still others have worked
 
in distant places for decades and return to the Valley for their retirement.
 
Each summer large family reunions occur in the Valley as Acadians
 
from throughout New England and beyond return home.
 Weddings and
 
anniversaries are scheduled to coincide with summer vacations.
 While the
 
annual Acadian Festival Family Reunion,  co-sponsored by the Madawaska
 
Historical Society and the City of Madawaska,  is very successful and garners
 
considerable local publicity,  it is only one element in a larger system of
 
summer family reunions throughout the Valley.
 During the first week of July
 
1991,  automobiles with Connecticut and Massachusetts license plates threatened
 
to displace those with Maine tags.
 Despite considerable outmigration,  the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 33
 
Upper St.  John Valley continues to be the cultural hearth and home to many
 
Acadians.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 34
 
IV.
 THE FRENCH LANGUAGE IN THE ST.  JOHN VALLEY
 
A.  French Lanquacie Prominence
  
French is the majority language in the Acadian communities of the
 
Upper St.  John Valley.
 Over 80 percent of the population on the New Brunswick
 
side of the river,  from Grand Falls west to Conners,  have French as a mother
 
tongue  (Rooney et al.  1982:162).
 Along the Maine side of the Valley,  from
 
Fort Kent east to Van Buren,  over 86 percent of the population have French as
 
a mother tongue  (Allen 1974).
 Information provided by Maine School
 
Administrative District #33 indicates that within this core French-speaking
 
area,  the strongest concentration  (96.9 percent)  occurs in the Upper
 
Frenchville-Frenchville-St. Agatha area  (Maine School Administrative District
 
#33  [1991]).
 This figure is consistent with the 1970 Census records,  which
 
indicate the dominance of French language heritage in neighboring towns and
 
communities:
 Eagle Lake--95 percent, Van Buren--94 percent,  Fort Kent--86
 
percent, Madawaska--86 percent,  and St.  Francis--79 percent  (Allen 1974:93).
 
As one travels west from Fort Kent up the St.  John River,  the
 
proportion of the population with French as their mother tongue declines from
 
over 80 percent to less than 10 percent  (Rooney et al.  1982:163).
 The western
 
boundary of the Upper St.  John River French speech community appears to be
 
near the eastern border of Allagash Plantation.
 
Traveling east and south from Van Buren,  the percentage of the
 
population with French language heritage also diminishes.
 From Van Buren to
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 35
 
Fort Fairfield,  the decline is gradual.
 However,  south from Van Buren along
 
Route 1,  the decline is more abrupt due to the presence of the Swedish
 
settlements of Stockholm and New Sweden.
 The community of Caribou,  a little
 
farther south,  has a larger number of residents with French language heritage
 
than the Valley town of Frenchville,  but these residents make up less than 25
 
percent of the population.
 Similarly,  residents of Presque Isle who possess
 
French language heritage constitute a minority  (14 percent)  of the city's
 
population.
 
Percentages pertaining to the linguistic heritage of the Valley
 
have remained relatively constant from the 1970 to the 1980 U.S.  Census.
 An
 
independent survey conducted by Maine School Administrative District #33,
 
which serves the Upper Frenchville-Frenchville-St. Agatha region,  collected
 
data relative to the actual use of French in that area,  and French is the
 
language most often used in the homes of 69 percent of school-age children.
 
The survey confirmed that bilingualism is an integral part of the community
 
(97 percent).
 
Impressions garnered during the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 
confirm the high concentration of French in the Valley.
 French apparently
 
dominates all speech events of all age groups on the Canadian side of the
 
border.
 On both sides of the Valley,  French is the language of choice in many
 
settings:
 church gatherings,  restaurants,  grocery stores,  family gatherings,
 
laundromats,  and work places.
 On the Maine side,  Catholic masses are
 
regularly delivered in French at St.  Luce's Church in Frenchville and at St.
 
David's Church in St.  David.
 Public addresses,  presentations,  and
 
introductions,  such as those given at the Acadian Festival in Madawaska and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 36
 
the Festival de la Grande Rivière in Van Buren,  are often conducted in French.
 
On the Maine side of the border,  French usage seems to be less
 
common among the under-thirty crowd.
 A number of younger people are passive
 
bilinguals.
 That is,  they comprehend French but are reluctant to or incapable
 
of speaking it.
 However,  some teenagers and children speak and conduct
 
business in French.
 Because of the reduced buying power of Canadian money,
 
French-speakers from New Brunswick and Quebec are currently crossing the
 
international border into Maine to make purchases.
 Maine citizens of all ages
 
working in retail establishments are at a great disadvantage if they are
 
unable to transact business in French.
 
Many individuals on both sides of the border are much more
 
comfortable speaking French than English.
 It seems likely that unilingual
 
French speakers could live entire lives in the Valley without serious
 
difficulties.
 There are also unilingual English speakers in the Valley.
 Some
 
are recent immigrants working in the lumber and paper mills and their
 
children;  others belong to English-speaking families who moved to the area
 
generations ago but have successfully insulated themselves from the
 
predominant French speech community.
 Unilingual English speakers,  whether
 
they admit it or not,  are clearly at a disadvantage in daily speech events
 
that occur in the Valley.
 
Some participation in bilingual communication is a virtual
 
requirement of everyday life in the St.  John Valley.
 Language use is complex
 
and features bilingual code switching.
 French and English typically flow
 
together in the same conversations,  often in the same sentences,  during
 
natural communication among neighbors.
 And,  as noted by Dubay  (1978),  native
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 37
 
French lexical and syntactic features often influence English speech patterns.
 
As a result,  a high integration of French and English occurs within many
 
conversations.
 Some switching from French to English is apparently triggered
 
by a stigma that some Acadians feel with regard to the status of their
 
language.
 The reverse can also occur when bilingual French-speakers switch
 
from English to French to assure that their conversations are not monitored by
 
unilingual English-speakers within earshot.
 This occasional "secret"
 
character of St.  John Valley French has functional parallels in French
 
Louisiana.
 
B.  Some Features of St.  John Valley French
  
In her thesis "Linguistic and Cultural Heritage of the Acadians in
 
Maine and New Brunswick"  (1965),  Marie Gauvin notes differences between the
 
dialects of her father,  a native of the St.  John River Valley,  and her mother,
 
who was from Quebec.
 Since some Valley residents are of Acadian origin,  and
 
some Quebecois,  some variation in linguistic usage is predictable.
 Yet
 
Gauvin's analysis of Acadian French usage in "Le Madawaska" assumes,  probably
 
correctly,  that "Valley French"  is a homogeneous analytical unit.
 
It is an interesting question whether the French of the Valley
 
has,  over its long history of development,  preserved or selected Acadian
 
dialect features.
 Gauvin  (1965)  and Albert  (1969)  noted numerous figurative
 
usages of maritime and nautical terms in the French language of the Valley.
 
These usages, many of which are characteristic of Maritime Acadian and
 
Louisiana Cajun French,  derive from the common maritime heritage of Acadians
 
and have generally spread throughout the entire Valley French community,  much
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 38
 
as they did throughout large parts of Louisiana among speakers of diverse
 
origins.
 
For example,  amarrer, which signifies the action of mooring a ship
 
with a cable  (see,  for instance,  Gruss,  Dictionnaire Gruss de Marine), is used
 
in the St.  John Valley,  and in Louisiana,  as the general verb "to tie."
 
Grèer, which means to rig a ship,  can figuratively indicate the "dressing" or
 
"rigging" of a woman's attire or a youngster's bicycle.
 Larquer, to loosen
 
the lines of a ship from its mooring,  is used in the Valley to indicate
 
"letting go" of any object  (as in the verb lâcher). 
In Louisiana,  this figure
 
of speech is further abstracted to refer to the condition of a person who is
 
at the end of the line,  or completely out of strength.
 Many common figures of
 
speech derive from the nautical term bord, literally the side of a ship:
 
virer de bord--to turn back or retrace one's steps;  changer de bord--to change
 
places from one side to the other;  and,  perhaps the most common,  l'autre bord
  
--the other side  (of the St.  John River,  for instance).
 
This application of nautical terminology to an inland reality also
 
occurs in Valley English.
 For instance,  in describing the parts of his potato
 
house,  Herman Deprey of New Canada used the term "bulkheads" to refer to walls
 
separating potato storage compartments.
 A bulkhead is an upright partition
 
separating parts of a ship.
 Clarence Plourde of La Côte de Pinette,
 
mentioning that he and his wife traveled to Connecticut during the 1950s,  said
 
"we landed in Bristol."
 Thus English as well as French speech patterns may
 
also reinforce the maritime heritage of St.  John Valley residents.
 
It has been noted  (Gauvin 1965,  Albert 1969)  that there are many
 
ancient expressions in St.  John Valley Acadian French.
 The use of some of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 39
 
these expressions may have continued because they are linked with elements of
 
material culture that have also demonstrated exceptional continuity.
 For
 
instance, the word c
ruart is the local Acadian word for "potato barrel."  This
 
word apparently derives from quartaut, or quart de muid, both archaic words
 
for petit tonneau, or "small barrel"  (Robert 1988).
 The quart, still used in
 
northern Aroostook County during the potato harvest,  is one of the last of its
 
sort in continuous use in North America.
 
Another word that may be linked with an element of material
 
culture is échelle--"stairway" in Valley Acadian vernacular.
 The standard
 
French word for "stairway" is escalier, while the more standard translation
 
for échelle is "ladder."
 "Gangway" and "ship's ladder" are alternate
 
translations of échelle. 
It has been suggested (Gauvin 1965) that the Acadian
 
êchelle derives from this maritime usage, but inspection of a number of
 
nineteenth-century Acadian houses in the Valley leads one to believe that
 
échelle best describes the set of steep steps used to climb into the attics of
 
Acadian houses.
 These steps are more "ladder" than "stairway."
 
Interestingly, the word échelier (another form of échelle) is used in
 
Louisiana to designate precisely the same sort of steep stairway leading to
 
the attics of Acadian houses.
 The houses of wealthy Creole planters were more
 
likely to have an escalier; most Louisiana Acadians had to make do with an
 
échelle. 
Certain typically Acadian phonological processes have apparently
 
spread through the Valley.
 Certain vowels vary from the standard French,  as
 
in the word tellement, where -ment is pronounced (ma)  instead of the more
 
standard (m
 ]
, and oui becomes  [w
 ]
, and so forth.
 The standard French "v"
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 40
 
becomes  [w]  as in voir  [war].
 The "
j," as in lamais or iaune,  often becomes
 
[yj.
 In the pronunciation of acadien there is a tendency to create the
 
sound in the middle of the word,  as in  [ka
 ]
.  This pronunciation is used by
 
Louisiana "Cajuns."
 But in the St.  John Valley,  acadien is further
 
transformed to become  [ka
 ]
;  and sometimes spelled "cayen."
 
As in Louisiana and the Maritimes  (Boudreau 1988),  alteration of
 
initial consonants occurs in certain phonological environments.
 For instance,
 
the words "dieu" and "diable" become  [dj
 ]
 and  [djab];  "queue" and "cuisse"
 
become  (tc
 )
 and  [tcUis].
 Fieldworkers also noted that  [tce]  and  [ke]  are
 
alternate pronunciations of the word "quai'  (a wharf).
 A man describing a
 
"soliveau"  (
joist)  of an old house called it a [tcolivo].
 
There seems to be a tendency in St.  John Valley Acadian French to
 
place a consonantal sound,  often  [g),  at the end of words that end with high
 
or extended vowel sounds.
 For instance,  the French word "cheville"  (wooden
 
peg or trunnel)  is pronounced [djwig].
 A similar process may have resulted in
 
the alternate pronunciations of the famous St.  John Valley Acadian buckwheat
 
pancakes,  "ployes"  [p1  :i]  and "plouges"  (p1 g).
 
C.  Lanquaqe Sticima:  Risk to a Valuable Cultural Resource
  
While St.  John Valley Acadian French has many similarities with
 
Maritime Acadian and Louisiana Cajun,  it is also distinct in some ways from
 
all other New and Old World French forms.
 It is distinctive,  for instance,
 
from the French spoken in Quebec.  These differences have been made painfully
 
evident to the Acadians of the St.  John Valley.
 The status of Acadian speech
 
has been systematically denigrated through the years by English speakers,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 41
 
French speakers from Quebec,  and sometimes native Acadian French speakers as
 
well.
 
When a language becomes the target of criticism and ridicule,  a
 
stigma with regard to that language is likely to develop among its native
 
speakers.
 Embarrassment and low self-esteem are associated with language
 
stigma,  and the irretrievable lose of a valuable cultural resource could
 
result.
 St.  John Valley Acadian French is stigmatized to a large degree
 
(Gauvin 1965:1).
 
Genevieve Massignon  (1962,  vol.  11:731)  argued that the St.  John
 
Valley Acadians'  nickname 'brêyons" derived from the fact that Quebecois
 
considered Acadian speech a corrupted French.
 Braie is the French word for a
 
flax brake,  an instrument used to break flax.
 Massignon says,  "ils appellent
 
lee gene du Madawaska lee brdyons parce qu'ils leur est reproché de  'breyer'
 
(écorcher)  le francais."
 (They called the people of Madawaska "bréyons"  so as
 
to ridicule them for breaking up the French language.)
 
Uncomfortable and stressful situations experienced in school are
 
common sources of language stigma.
 By the turn of the twentieth century,  the
 
normal school in Fort Kent,  called the Madawaska Training School,  advertised
 
that its purpose was to "educate French teachers in the English language  .
 
by constant drill  .
 .
 .
 [so]  that they may teach it intelligently in the
 
schools of the Madawaska territory"  (Pullen 1902:48).
 Throughout the
 
twentieth century,  tremendous pressures have been applied to the task of
 
"saving" Acadian French-speakers from their native language.
 The process
 
nearly always results in lowering the status of Acadian vernacular speech.
 
Punishment has often been a tool used by teachers to replace
 
native French with English.
 As a youngster in school, Guy Dubay (1978:13)
 
claims that he was made to stay after school and write hundreds of lines of "I
 
will not speak French at school."  He asserts that his teachers,  some of whom
 
were French-speaking Catholic sisters from Quebec,  not only required students
 
to speak English, but were also inclined to criticize,  ridicule,  and insult
 
local French speech patterns.
 Dubay (1978:13), describing one of these French
 
Canadian 
i
 .
j
 .4. Uhis y oung
_
_
_
_
 fingers
 
cure his ignorance,  claims that "this teacher caused more harm to his young
 
fo
One Fort Kent woman in her early thirties refuses to teach her
 
children her own native language.
 She said that because she was embarrassed
 
about her speech in school,  she wants to make certain her children do not
 
develop a French accent.
 A number of informants claim that speaking French is
 
rmative
 
forb idd e n ,
1
 
 o r  
 l east strongly
 
Most  schools in the Valley continue to treat native Acadian French like a
 
foreign language.
 There are state-provided tests which help to identify
 
incoming students who are deficient in English.
 There are no tests available
 
to identify students who are proficient or deficient in French.
 
Maine School Administrative District #33,  serving the Upper
 
Frenchville-Frenchville-St. Agatha region,  is the only school district on the
 
Maine side of the Valley that offers substantial bilingual education.
 The
 
District's Bilingual Education Program is a model program designed to help
 
bilingual students in both French and English.
 This progr a m h as made
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 43
 
The international boundary that separates the St.  John Valley has
 
created significant cultural divergence in the two populations.
 Perhaps the
 
greatest long-term divergence stems from the school systems in Maine and New
 
Brunswick.
 Students on opposite banks of the Valley are schooled in divergent
 
political,  social,  and civic viewpoints and historical interpretations.
 They
 
are also schooled in different languages.
 French education,  once provided by
 
one or another of the Catholic religious orders,  dissolved in Maine with the
 
institution of mandatory public education.
 
In New Brunswick,  parents may presently choose to send their
 
children to totally French or totally English schools.
 Most Acadians of New
 
Brunswick are now educated exclusively in French, while most Maine Acadians
 
are educated exclusively in English.
 Thus there is a real possibility,  if
 
recent trends continue,  that younger Acadians on opposite sides of the river
 
could become functionally unilingual in different languages.
 While most Maine
 
Acadians would likely agree with Speaker John Martin  (1985)  that the English
 
language need not be perceived as "a menace to the souls of Acadians," the
 
fact remains that the development of unilingual English competence among Maine
 
Acadians will spell death to Acadian oral traditions in Maine and will
 
undermine the cultural coherence of the region generally.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 44
 
V.  A SURVEY OF CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
A.  Impressions of St.  John River Valley Acadian Culture
  
From the perspective of an American visitor,  the Upper St.  John
 
Valley does not seem to be part of "mainstream America."
 The French language
 
is in everyday use.
 Local foodways are conspicuous in both homes and
 
restaurants.
 Catholic churches and religious shrines punctuate the line-
settlement villages of the region.
 Local farmsteads include distinctive
 
houses,  barns,  and outbuildings.
 Well-kept residential landscapes are
 
decorated with religious statues,  flowers,  and an array of yard ornamentation.
 
Color selections for many painted surfaces reflect an appreciation for
 
contrast and brightness.
 Litter is not a problem,  nor is crime--residents
 
generally refuse to lock houses and cars.
 Many features of modern American
 
consumer culture are rare or absent from the Maine side of the St.  John
 
Valley.
 The one McDonald's hamburger stand is located in Madawaska  (one in
 
Van Buren closed for lack of business),  and Madawaska also has the only
 
Chinese restaurant.
 There are no restaurants that serve only pizza,  or only
 
fried chicken.
 The downtowns of Fort Kent,  Madawaska,  and Van Buren remain
 
vital centers for shopping.
 
Such impressions help to describe the cultural distinctiveness of
 
the Valley.
 In the course of its fieldwork,  the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 
was able to amplify these observations by the use of standard ethnographic
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 45
 
techniques.
 What follows is a summary of salient cultural features that
 
emerged from two months in the field.
 Extended research will be necessary in
 
the future to fill in gaps in the present survey,  to cover the entire seasonal
 
round of the year,  to assess variation over time,  and to explore in greater
 
depth the cultural significance of features identified below.
 
B.  At Home on the Farm
 
Farming has been the principal occupation of the Upper St.  John
 
Valley since its early settlement.
 The clearing and cultivation of the flats
 
along the river was the primary focus during the first decades of settlement.
 
By the 1820s,  the premier ranq of Acadian farmers were well established and
 
prepared to supply the developing needs of the timber industry.
 
The Acadian family was instrumental in developing the Valley
 
farmland and ensuring continued production.
 The needed work force was
 
provided primarily by the immediate family,  though a tight-knit extended-
family network could be called upon during times of need.
 Immediate families
 
(father,  mother,  and offspring)  tended to be large throughout the nineteenth
 
and most of the twentieth centuries.
 Upon marriage,  the oldest son would
 
often bring his bride into his father's house,  and a new generation of Acadian
 
children would begin as parents became grandparents and children became aunts
 
and uncles.
 
Oldest sons often retained the house and farm upon the retirement
 
of their fathers.
 There was a tendency to maintain the integrity of well
 
developed farms instead of dividing them among offspring.
 As subsequent sons
 
reached marriageable age,  additional land was cleared for farming.
 These new
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 46
 
farms,  developed on the higher slopes and rolling plains that stretched back
 
from the river,  came to be known as les concessions. 
The pioneer experience
 
of clearing and developing new land continued into the twentieth century.
 A
 
degree of socioeconomic stratification resulted as some Acadian farmers reaped
 
the profits of well-developed farms while others were preparing new ground to
 
plow.
 Local farm produce during the nineteenth century supplied most of the
 
needs of the Valley population--vegetables, potatoes, buckwheat,  oats,  hay,
 
sheep,  hogs,  and dairy products.
 
The typical barn of this period, the "Acadian barn" or grange
  
Acadien, is similar to "English" barns found elsewhere in North America.
 This
 
three-bay,  side-opening,  gable-roof barn has a central passageway through the
 
middle called a batterie. 
The central passage with large opposed doors is
 
named for its former function as a threshing and winnowing area.
 It also
 
allows the transfer of hay from wagons to the upper-level hay mows on either
 
side of the batterie. 
Grain storage is provided by one or more ground level
 
chambers.
 One portion of the ground level is typically divided into stalls
 
for a few head of stock--the draft animals,  a milk cow or two, or a sow and
 
her litter.
 The barn is generally sided with vertical planks (planche
  
debout), though the sections where farm animals are stabled during the cold
 
seasons are covered with an additional sheathing of shingles.
 The barns of
 
Acadian farmers who owned more stock have shed additions which often contain
 
stalls for milk cows or other animals.
 Several granges acadiens were razed
 
during the summer of 1991.
 The preservation of these rare older structures
 
deserves high priority.
 
The arrival of the Bangor and Aroostook Railroad at the turn of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 47
 
the twentieth century greatly altered farming.
 The improved transportation
 
opened national markets,  and the expansion of the market encouraged farmers to
 
put more land into potato production.
 In the pre-mechanized days of the early
 
twentieth century, the need for more tilled acreage was met with an increase
 
in draft horses.
 The added feed requirements of these animals encouraged the
 
construction of huge hay and grain barns.
 Some surviving examples of these
 
two-and three-level barns have gabled structures  (piqnon simple) like the
 
earlier qran es acadiens, while others feature a gambrel  (comble-cassé) roof.
 
The early twentieth-century expansion of potato farming also
 
contributed to the development of an intriguing feature of St. John Valley
 
material culture--the Madawaska twin barn (Konrad 1982),  a pair of rectangular
 
Acadian barns placed one next to the other with their ridges parallel and a
 
roof that encloses the intervening space.
 A beautiful example of this form
 
existed in the Hamlin area before it burned to the ground during the summer of
 
1991.
 Like the aranqes acadiens, these twin barns have become rare.
 
The transformations wrought by the railroad are also visible today
 
in the variety of potato houses adorning farmscapes and rail sidings.
 Before
 
the boom in potato farming, potatoes were typically stored in the basements of
 
houses.
 This practice continued among small farmers into the 1940s  (see Doty
 
1991).
 But farmers who could speculate in potato futures began to build large
 
storage houses soon after the railroad arrived.
 Beginning early in the
 
twentieth century,  larger Acadian farmers built potato houses on their farms,
 
and those who could afford them acquired potato houses at sidings along the
 
Bangor and Aroostook Railroad.
 
Potato houses on farmsteads often are built partly into a hillside
 
in order to insulate the potatoes from temperature changes.
 The ideal
 
storage conditions must be maintained from harvest in September until shipment
 
temperature for storing potatoes is from 34 to 36 degrees fahrenheit.
 Prime
 
Today the transportation of potatoes is done by truck instead of
 
train.
 As a result, many railroad potato houses have been abandoned,  and no
 
new ones are being built.
 The traditional potato houses of the farms are
 
being 
1
replaced•
 
1
 larg
equipment storage.
 Lae
r ge eighteen-wheel tractor-trailer combinations have
 
b ec o m e part of the typical farmscape in the Valley,  and the trucking of
 
produ ce i s  
m o st c o m m on
 
Farming in the St. John Valley has traditionally been labor-
intensive, though mechanization has altered older patterns.
 The hand-harvest
 
of potatoes, which involves the temporary employment of school-age children
 
wh o pick potatoes by hand,  continues at only a few farms.
 Following
 
tradition, Valley schools continue to recess for a two-week period during the
 
September potato harvest, though there are claims that a relatively small
 
r
!
nu
mber o
f c
hildre n
participate 
i
 
according to the num ber .)
 b
arrel s of po tat oes
I1
th ey
 
fifteen-
peckW
 bI.1  pound)  
r
t
 .r e l s .
 
T he loca l Acadian term for the potato barre l
J _
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 49
 
made for potato farmers by Micmac basketmakers.
 
One of the handtools traditionally used by the Micmacs in
 
basketmaking is the "crooked knife."
 Use of this distinctive woodworking tool
 
requires the craftsman to pull the knife blade toward himself.
 It is believed
 
that Acadians learned to use crooked knives from their Native American
 
neighbors.
 The crooked knife became a favored tool for making axe and other
 
tool handles,  baskets,  and canoes,  and for other items used on the farm and in
 
the lumber camp  (Cf.  Brainard 1962:175; Witthoft 1963:199 and 208;  Blodgett
 
1964:287).
 
Today's St.  John Valley potato farms are highly mechanized and
 
require fewer workers.
 Though the farms continue to be owned and operated as
 
family enterprises,  smaller farms have been steadily consolidated into
 
relatively few large operations.
 Informants claim that the expense of
 
operating large farms has become so exorbitant that there are no new potato
 
farmers,  and some previously farmed land is now reverting to forest.
 
C.  At Home in the Woods
  
The first order of business for Acadians who settled in the Upper
 
St.  John Valley was to carve farms from the local virgin stands of pine and
 
other species.
 The great number of well-built log houses in the Valley
 
testifies to the Acadians'  success in their struggle with the "forest
 
primeval."
 As veteran pioneers,  they were pre-adapted to the forest resources
 
of the northern Maine woods.
 
Commercial interest in the great pine forests of the North Woods
 
began during the eighteenth century.
 The primary response of Acadian farmers
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 50
 
to the development of the forest industry was to supply needed food.
 But
 
farming is a part-time occupation in this northern climate.
 And, because
 
winter was the most favorable season for working in the woods,  a seasonal
 
pattern of farming and forestry developed.
 After crops were put away during
 
the fall, many men moved to les chantiers (
lumber camps), where they worked
 
until it was time to prepare for planting.
 
This seasonal pattern continued far into the twentieth century.
 
Mark Jalbert of Frenchville remembers that his grandfather,  Sam Jalbert,  a
 
famous wilderness guide of the Allagash Waterway, often worked as a foreman on
 
log drives.
 During the spring flood,  Sam Jalbert's crew floated logs from the
 
Allagash area down the St. John to the mill in Keegan.
 Mark remembers seeing
 
log drives as a young boy during the early 1960s.
 In addition to job-related
 
skills and work techniques, the occupation of logging has generated a quantity
 
of personal narratives, ballads,  legends, poems,  and an array of other
 
expressive forms in this area.
 
Today, the lumber industry operates year-round and provides work
 
for many Valley residents.
 There are jobs in the woods,  in the lumber mills,
 
in pulpwood factories,  and for independent drivers of trucks used to transport
 
wood products.
 However,  a reduction in the work force caused by mechanization
 
has affected the lumber industry as it has the farming business.
 In addition,
 
there is some concern for the health of the industry;  some observers believe
 
that tree-cutting continues to increase while the rate of reforestation is
 
decreasing.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 51
 
D. Mills and Millers
  
Milling has been a vital local occupation in the Valley since the
 
turn of the nineteenth century.
 According to Albert  (1982:220),  flour mills
 
were established at Saint-Basile,  St. David, Grande Isle, Violette Brook (Van
 
Buren),  St. Frangois,  and Chautaqua (Frenchville) by the year 1800.
 
One early nineteenth-century mill remained in operation in
 
Frenchville until recently.
 The present owner, Gédéon Corriveau, believes
 
that he is the fifth owner of the mill  (Anwati and Roy 1981).
 The mill was
 
equipped to perform three distinct milling operations:
 the milling of
 
buckwheat flour, the carding of wool,  and lumber milling.
 During the
 
twentieth century,  it was operated by steam, gasoline engine,  and finally
 
electric motor.
 Aerial photographs taken during the Survey reveal the mill's
 
location near a brook and a holding pond which could have provided hydraulic
 
head for the operation of a water wheel.
 The early milling equipment at this
 
site is in excellent condition,  and the entire site deserves close evaluation
 
as a significant historical property.
 
The milling of buckwheat has considerable importance with regard
 
to Acadian cultural identity.
 Locally grown and milled buckwheat is the main
 
ingredient in ployes, a variety of thin pancake or crêpe which is a local
 
Acadian food specialty.
 Once the staple of every farm family, ployes
  
apparently diminished somewhat in popularity as a new generation of consumers
 
was enticed by nationally advertised products.
 Today, ploves are on the
 
rebound.
 They can be ordered for lunch at Dolly's Restaurant in Madawaska.
 
Bouchard's Acadian Ploye Mix, manufactured by Alban and Rita Bouchard of Fort
 
Kent,  is being marketed throughout the Valley and beyond.
 And,  as the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 52
 
popularity of buckwheat flour increases,  so does the need for buckwheat mills.
 
Buckwheat flour is presently ground at small mills in New Brunswick.
 The
 
Bouchard family and others look forward to the day when buckwheat milling
 
facilities are available in Maine.
 
At some point soon after his arrival in 1817,  Nathan Baker was
 
operating a hydraulic saw mill on Baker Brook (Albert 1982:220).
 Since that
 
time,  the business of lumber milling has been important in the Valley.
 Large
 
industrial lumber mills were established in Fort Kent,  Keegan,  Madawaska,
 
Edmundston,  and elsewhere during the nineteenth century.
 The impact of the
 
demise of the Keegan mill is apparent today in the abandoned older town
 
properties and churches of Lille,  Grande Isle,  Keegan,  and Van Buren,  where
 
large numbers of mill workers once lived.
 
The largest single employer in the Valley today is Fraser Paper
 
Ltd.,  located both in Madawaska,  Maine,  and across the river in Edmundston,
 
New Brunswick.
 It presently employs approximately 1,800 workers.
 Fraser Ltd.
 
has exercised a great influence on the local economy since it purchased the
 
James Murchie & Sons Mill in 1916 and opened business the next year  (Lang
 
1987:11).
 The Murchie Mill, which began operations in 1888, was one of
 
several large saw mills operating on the Upper St.  John River during the
 
nineteenth-century industrialization of the area.
 
E.  Self-Employment and Independence
  
Self-employment and family-operated businesses are characteristic
 
features of the Valley's economy.
 Many farming and forest-related occupations
 
are owner-operated or self-contracted.  The contract lumbering of pulpwood,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 53
 
firewood,  and saw logs,  and the contract hauling of forestry and farm products
 
are popular wage-earning strategies for independent-minded Valley residents.
 
Small,  individually owned and operated saw mills continue to be part of the
 
Valley economy.
 The Tardiff Mill in Fort Kent Mills,  for example, produces
 
custom sawn and rough-cut lumber from logs brought in by local farmers and
 
woodlot owners.
 The smaller mills provide some local employment and encourage
 
farmers and independent contractors to embark upon projects that would
 
otherwise be too costly.
 The do-it-yourself approach encouraged by the
 
smaller saw mills exemplifies the independent,  self-sufficient ethic prevalent
 
in the Valley.
 
Large and small-scale family gardening of table potatoes,  eshalots 
(shallots),  and other vegetables is common.
 Trade occupations like carpentry,
 
woodworking,  specialized and custom sawing, roofing,  small machine mechanics,
 
plumbing, electrical contracting, tin work,  and general contracting are
 
generally practiced by home-based,  self-employed craftsmen.
 Small family
 
grocers and family-operated restaurants are the rule.
 The many cottage
 
industries include knitting,  sewing, weaving, basketmaking,  axe-handle
 
carving, hair-cutting and styling,  candy-making,  catering,  cake-decorating,
 
maple syrup-making,  and bric-a-brac crafts.
 Other enterprises,  such as
 
trapping, guiding, hunting,  fishing, and gathering local wild resources like
 
fiddlehead ferns,  strawberries,  and blueberries,  supplement family economies.
 
F. Reliqion and Identity
  
Public and private images and expressions of religion abound among
 
the Acadians.
 The strength of Catholicism is clearly demonstrated throughout
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 54
 
the Valley by the many beautiful churches and associated buildings,  statuary,
 
wayside crosses,  and shrines.
 The cult of the virgin is everywhere visible.
 
Some elaborate privately owned shrines to the Blessed Virgin are brilliantly
 
lighted each night.
 The Acadian flag, with its prominent star  (a symbol of
 
the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin)  located on the French tricolor, is
 
prominently displayed throughout the Valley.
 It reaffirms Catholicism and
 
links it with Acadian identity.
 
Private expressions of folk Catholicism are also prevalent.
 The
 
blessing and distribution of holy water has long been an important function of
 
local parish priests.
 But the actual use of this holy water is often
 
established by tradition and custom.
 Because many believe in its power to
 
protect the home,  holy water is kept and often prominently displayed in
 
Acadian homes.
 Don Cyr of Lille shared an insight concerning the importance
 
of holy water to his family.
 According to Cyr,  his grandfather,  Fred Albert
 
from Saint-Hilaire,  New Brunswick, would say that "when there was a bad storm
 
and thunder,  it would be raining harder inside than outside."
 The elder
 
Albert was referring to the quantities of holy water sprinkled throughout the
 
house to protect it from the ravages of a storm.
 Cyr and others also told
 
Survey researchers about L'Eau Pacque  (Easter Water).
 At the first ray of
 
light on Easter Sunday,  Acadians collect water from a spring and bring it to a
 
priest to be blessed.
 L'Eau Pacque is considered a powerful holy water that
 
will never go stale.
 
Another religious object prominently displayed in houses and barns
 
throughout the Valley is blessed palm (les rameaux). 
The palm is distributed
 
annually during Catholic ceremonies on Palm Sunday.
 Sometimes it is braided
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 55
 
into a decorative pyramidal form.
 Blessed palm is believed to protect a
 
building from fire caused by lightning.
 It is used in a similar manner by
 
Cajuns of Louisiana and French Creoles of Missouri.
 
A form of folk healing practiced among the Acadians of the Valley
 
involves the use of special prayers to heal specific sicknesses or stop
 
bleeding.
 The secret prayers are passed from older person to younger,  from
 
one generation to the next, and across genders.
 In other words, older males
 
pass it to younger females, or older females pass it to younger males.
 This
 
form of healing is also prevalent among the Cajuns of Louisiana.
 
G. Water-Related Traditions
  
It is not surprising, given the nautical heritage of the Acadians,
 
that water-related expressive culture features abound in the St. John Valley.
 
The maritime legacy certainly lives on in the Acadian French language,  and a
 
few maritime features are related to Acadian building traditions.
 The
 
moulding that decorates the interior of the Daigle-St. Jean House in Clair,
 
New Brunswick,  as well as the interior columns of St. Luce Church in
 
Frenchville, Maine,  is carved to resemble ship's line (rope).
 A retired
 
Acadian carpenter from Van Buren builds wooden bird houses that resemble
 
lighthouses.
 While these cultural features reflect maritime influences,  the
 
fact remains that Valley Acadians have lived away from the sea for at least
 
two centuries.
 Accordingly, the local focus is primarily on the field and
 
farm,  and perhaps the woods.
 The St. John River, perhaps once the scene of a
 
great diversity of water craft, today supports only an occasional canoe.
 
The canoe,  a legacy from the local Native Americans,  remains
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 56
 
popular in the area.
 During the summer of 1991, Jerry White of Frenchville
 
built a strip canoe with the help of experienced canoe builder Mark Jalbert.
 
Strip canoes are built of narrow cedar strips nailed and glued together over a
 
mold which provides the classic shape of the canoe.
 The strip hull is then
 
covered with fiberglass and painted.
 Mark had previously built canoes using
 
the older planking method,  and he knows how to fit a curved plank into an odd
 
place in the bilge of a canoe.
 But he prefers working with strips,  arguing
 
that planking requires more work than the strip method and does not produce
 
sturdier or better performing canoes.
 
Although there are classic wooden flat-stern and double-ended
 
plank canoes in the Valley, generally built by the Old Town or White Canoe
 
Companies in Maine earlier in this century, the most common canoe is a
 
fiberglass-hull,  factory-built model, usually outfitted with a trolling motor.
 
Other common local boats include aluminum lake skiffs and fiberglass ski
 
boats.
 All are used for recreational boating and fishing.
 
A distinctive local artifact, the rolling wharf or quai, is found
 
along the shores of local lakes.
 The quai is often twenty feet long or longer
 
and approximately forty inches wide.
 Its structure generally consists of two
 
long round cedar runners averaging 6
t  in diameter with planking nailed across
 
them to form a wharf.
 On one end of the rolling wharfs is an axle that most
 
often sports two steel wheels from old farm equipment.
 On the end opposite
 
the wheels,  a short length of line is generally nailed to the deck to
 
facilitate moving the quai. 
The rolling quai is well suited to local
 
conditions.
 The solid ice cap which forms on the lakes each winter would
 
smash any permanent wharf, but the mobility of the c
ruai allows it to be pulled
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 57
 
out of harm's way.
 
Recreational fishing is popular in the region.
 Trout and land-
locked salmon (togue)  are the favored catches.
 A great assortment of trout
 
flies are tied by local fishermen like Pat Roy of Eagle Lake.
 Some of the
 
most popular forms include the "black fly" and the "mosquito," both of which
 
closely resemble their all-too-common natural counterparts.
 
During the winter,  smelt houses are pulled out onto the ice and
 
holes are sawn in the ice for fishing.
 The houses are lightly-built boxes
 
approximately five feet wide by three feet deep by six feet tall.
 Some smelt
 
house are nicely appointed with heaters, grills,  and iceboxes.
 Local
 
fishermen say that the activity of smelt fishing has as much to do with
 
getting away from the house and socializing with friends as with catching
 
fish.
 
H.  Foodways
  
The foodways of the Upper St.  John River Valley reflect both a
 
distinctively Acadian tradition and a more general regional tradition.
 Both
 
traditions are apparent in the food served in restaurants and in private
 
homes.
 Indeed, with so few ethnic,  specialty,  and fast-food chain restaurants
 
in the Valley, the difference between the foods eaten at home and eaten at
 
restaurants is not great.
 
"Family-style" restaurants are common and offer full menus at both
 
lunch and dinner.
 Lunch specials often include soup,  a generous main dish,
 
and a dessert.
 One regional lunch favorite is met chinois (shepherd's pie),  a
 
casserole of mashed potatoes,  ground meat,  and corn.
 A wide variety of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 58
 
sandwiches is also offered,  including the "hot hamburg," a hamburger steak on
 
sliced white bread covered with a thick brown gravy.
 Dinner selections
 
include a variety of chicken, beef, pork,  and seafood dishes.
 In addition to
 
their "American" menus,  several restaurants also offer pizza,  spaghetti,
 
lasagna,  and other Italian foods.
 
The few fast-service food stands in the Valley also tend to  offer
 
extensive menus with a regional flare.
 For example, the "Tastee Freeze" in
 
Van Buren, offers several types of hamburgers,  chicken burgers, pizza burgers,
 
b.l.t.s,  hot dogs,  chicken and tuna sandwiches,  clam and lobster rolls,  the
 
"hot hamburg" plate,  fried chicken,  fried clams,  shrimp,  and scallops.
 The
 
Madawaska "Tastee-Freez"  (note difference in spelling) offers a similarly wide
 
variety of items, but also serves spaghetti.
 Both places serve poutines--
french fries served with melted cheese and gravy.
 
It should not be surprising that potatoes--french fried, mashed,
 
baked, or otherwise--figure prominently in almost every meal.
 Restaurants in
 
Frenchville and Madawaska serve "JoJo potatoes," which are large potato slices
 
cut lengthwise and batter-fried.
 Potato helpings are large,  and they are the
 
standard side order with every entree; rarely is there a substitute.
 At one
 
Fort Kent restaurant Survey researchers were served french fries with
 
spaghetti.
 
In Acadian homes, the potato is prepared in many ways:
 baked,
 
creamed, mashed, hash-browned,  fried,  stuffed,  and boiled.
 It is prepared in
 
au qratin and soufflé dishes,  and used in stews,  soups,  and many types of
 
casseroles and salads.
 Potato doughnuts, potato cookies and muffins, potato
 
custard pie,  several varieties of potato cake,  and a few kinds of potato candy
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 59
 
are also made by Acadians in the Valley.
 
At least two family-style restaurants, Dolly's in Madawaska and
 
Brookside Manor in Van Buren,  regularly serve ploves, or ploques (buckwheat
 
pancakes) with meals.
 The Ploves served at these restaurants vary a great
 
deal with regard to texture, thickness, and color.
 This sort of sub-regional
 
variation is the source a good deal of discussion about the features the
 
archetypical ploye should possess.
 This distinctively Acadian food is
 
apparently not prepared daily in local Acadian homes to the degree that it
 
once was.
 Ploves are nevertheless linked to local Acadian identity,  and they
 
stir a certain nostalgia among locals and among those Acadians who have moved
 
away from the Valley and return as summer visitors.
 Ploves were publicly
 
prepared and served several times during the 1991 Acadian Festival in
 
Madawaska.
 
Chicken stew is a favorite meal among St.  John Valley Acadians.
 
Small, rolled poutines (dumplings)  are added to the boiling stock.
 The use of
 
poutines is a regular part of traditional maritime Acadian cuisine.
 In
 
Louisiana today,  a similar repast would be called "chicken and dumplings," but
 
the term poutines was in common usage among some Cajun families into the
 
twentieth century.
 
Spices used to season chicken stew and other dishes are important
 
elements of local cuisine.
 Summer savory,  for example,  is commonly used.
 
Researchers observed bunches of the fresh herb hanging from the kitchen wall
 
at Doris' Café in Fort Kent Mills.
 Les herbes salée, the chopped tops of
 
échalots (shallots) cured in salt,  are also commonly used.
 Jars of this salty
 
ingredient are put up during the summer and used throughout the year to season
 
Some traditional Acadian food is normally prepared only for
 
Bpecial occasions.
 The 1991 Lavertu family reunion,  for example,  featured
 
roasted pig.
 The young pig was butchered and prepared by Jesse Michaud, owner
 
of a small general 
r
Frenchville.
 It was roasted whole on a grill made from a large heating-fuel
 
tank of the sort in common domestic  UBe.
 The pig was roasted by men outside
 
of the large Quonset-type potato house in which dining tables were set up.
 In
 
addition to the roasted pig, the meal included baked beans,  several types Of
 
potato salad,  and other salads.
 
Different  kinds  of  meat  pies  are
55 1
.  prepared  for special
 
occasions,  including Christmas and New Year's festivities.
 These pies are
 
called tourti6res, and their ingredI
i
 
e
n
t
s
 :
()
 po
rk,
1
veal, or a combination of these,  and sometimes potatoes.
 For special large
 
holiday gatherings, Pot-en-Pot is  prepared.
 It  is  a very large,  layered, meat
 
pie baked in a roasting pan.
 Layers Of  Bliced potatoes,  four or more
 
different meatB,  strips of dough or dumplings,  and seasonings are covered with
 
a pie crust and baked for hours.
 A TI
ho le is left in the dough
.L'AA4 45,F
 so
L
T
 
water can be added during cooking.
 The traditional Pot-en-Pot usually has
 
venison, wild birds,  rabbit, or other game,  as well as pork and beef.
 
Allspice,  cloves,  and cinnamon are commonly added.
 During the 1991 Acadian
 
Festival,  Pot-en-Pot was  served  at  the  SiroiB-DupleBSis  Family  Ban quet.
 
Today the  fall  and early winter boucherieB  des ..I.J.t.)$1  (hog
 
J
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 61
 
boucherie remain part of the foodways of the Valley.
 Locally-made cretons, a
 
pork pate,  is served in restaurants and is available at most grocery stores.
 
Boudin, a blood sausage,  is also sold at grocery stores.
 St. John Valley
 
boudin is similar to the boudin made by the French Creoles of Missouri and
 
Illinois, but it differs from Louisiana boudin rouqe, which often has rice as
 
an important ingredient.
 Nothing analogous to the boudin blanc (white boudin) 
of the Louisiana Cajuns appears in the Valley.
 Gortons, pork cracklings,
 
continue to be made by Acadians.
 The Creoles of Missouri also use the word
 
qortons to refer to cracklings, though the Louisiana Cajuns call them qratons. 
The pastries and breads prepared by Valley Acadians are similar to
 
those of Louisiana Cajuns.
 Crêpes (thin pancakes),  for instance,  are still
 
popular in the Valley.
 Croxinqnols (twisted pastry)  are similar to those
 
served in Louisiana.
 Beiqnets are found in Louisiana and in the Valley.
 
However, the Louisiana version is fried in deep fat, while the Valley version
 
is cooked in maple syrup.
 
The Acadians of the St. John Valley also take advantage of wild
 
plants and berries.
 During early spring, pissenlits (dandelions)  and la
 
poulette qrasse (goose foot; chenopodium)  are harvested and eaten as a
 
vegetable or used in soups.
 La fouquere (fiddlehead fern)  is also gathered
 
during the spring.
 A locally invented rotating, cylindrical,  screened device
 
helps in the washing and preparation of the fiddleheads.
 Strawberries,
 
raspberries,  and blueberries are also harvested in their turn.
 Another
 
important traditional wild harvest is taken from the sugar maple tree.
 The
 
winter tapping of the maple tree continues to be an exciting time for many
 
Acadians.
 Maple syrup, taffy,  and sugar are produced annually along with a
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 62
 
variety of confections and sweet treats.
 
I.  Oral Traditions and Belief Amona the Acadians:  Older Forms
  
Acadians brought oral traditions to the New World from France
 
during the seventeenth century.
 Some beliefs and oral forms from this period
 
have passed from one generation to the next and survive today.
 The co-
occurrence of traditions among the Acadians of the St.  John River Valley and
 
of Louisiana strengthens this assertion.
 Since the two populations have been
 
separated for nearly two hundred and fifty years,  it is reasonable to assume
 
that traditions they share derive from similar Old World sources.
 
For example,  Acadians of the Valley share some stories about
 
mythical creatures with the Cajuns of Louisiana.
 The lutins who ride a
 
farmer's horses at night and plait the horses' tails exist among both Acadian
 
populations.
 One informant told a Survey researcher about lutins who live in
 
caves and come out only at night.
 He explained that they are so small that a
 
locked door can not keep them out; they can pass through a key hole.
 Along
 
with tales about lutins, tales about the feux-follets (spirits)  and loups-
qarous (werewolves)  occur in both Louisiana and in the Valley.
 
Ancelet  (1987:277-288)  refers to these Old World forms as
 
"vestiges."
 Included in this repertoire could be animal tales,  magic tales
 
(märchen),  fables in the French fabliaux tradition,  and long epic tales of
 
heroic deeds.
 These older forms of oral tradition seem to be as rare today in
 
the St.  John Valley as they are in Louisiana.
 Ancelet argues that because
 
these forms generally lack currency,  they may not belong to an active oral
 
tradition.
 While data collected during the Survey suggests that some elements
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 63
 
of these older forms exist today in the Valley,  additional research is
 
required to determine their vitality and prominence in the Valley's oral
 
tradition.
 
J. Oral Tradition and Acadian Identity
  
The persistence of elements of oral tradition within a group may
 
provide clues about the self-perceptions of its members.
 Consider,  for
 
instance, the legend of Malobiana that derives from the Malecite Indians of
 
the St. John Valley.
 In 1920, the Abbé Thomas Albert,  in his Histoire du
  
Madawaska (1982:63-68), recounted the tragic story of the Indian maiden,
 
Malobiana.
 According to the legend, on the day of her wedding, a group of
 
Mohawk raiders began to sack the Malecite villages along the St. John River.
 
Malobiana's family and betrothed were killed and she was captured.
 Her
 
captors forced her to guide them to other Malecite villages in order to
 
continue their pillage.
 Instead, Malobiana guided the Mohawk canoes over the
 
waterfall at Grand Falls.
 Though she sacrificed her life, the Mohawk invaders
 
were killed,  and her action saved the lives of many of her fellow Malecites.
 
Today, Malobiana's legendary deed is memorialized in the tourist center
 
located at Grand Sault/Grand Falls, New Brunswick.
 Over the years,  her story
 
has been retold and recast in song, poetry,  and dramatic performance.
 
Another legend with the theme of self-sacrifice is the legend of
 
Tante Blanche.
 According to oral tradition (Anon.  1973:86), the harvest of
 
1796 was ruined in the fields by an early snow.
 By the turn of the year 1797,
 
famine hit the Acadian communities along the St. John River.
 During this time
 
of hardship, Marguerite-Blanche Thibodeau performed many remarkable acts of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 64
 
charity.
 Wearing snow shoes,  she brought extra clothing and provisions to
 
people suffering from hunger and cold.
 Tante Blanche,  as she was known,
 
became legendary for her selflessness.
 She is memorialized at the Tante
 
Blanche Museum in St. David, which was created by the Madawaska Historical
 
Society .
 
It is not surprising, given a history of sacrifice and hardship,
 
that Acadians should revere legendary characters who sacrificed their own
 
well-being in times of hardship.
 Longfellow's Evangeline, who endured tragedy
 
and spent her last years caring for the sick,  fits the category.
 
The  Acadian Saga," as transmitted by local Acadians,  is very much
 
alive.
 Because of its apparent importance to the self-identity of Acadians,
 
it may be the most important body of legend and myth in the area.
 During the
 
summer of 1991, the Survey's researchers heard stories about Acadian pioneers
 
erecting a cross at the point of arrival in the Valley,  and stories about
 
pioneers who arrived without possessions--not even tools--and proceeded to
 
establish villages and build houses.
 And they heard a story about two
 
brothers who,  after following long and separate routes to the St. John Valley,
 
ended up settling and completing their lives at different locations in the
 
Valley.
 Neither one ever realized that his brother lived so near.
 These and
 
other stories have become part of the institutionalized history of the Valley.
 
Although some of the stories would probably not withstand strict
 
scrutiny on the basis of historical accuracy, their function in the local
 
context goes well beyond questions of historical fact.
 Such legends, passed
 
down orally through the generations,  reflect values from the past that
 
continue to have meaning for Acadians.
 For example, the ability to survive in
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 65
 
the face of adversity is still highly valued.
 Unquestionably,  the body of
 
lore that pertains to the "Acadian Saga" of deportation and eventual
 
resettlement in the St.  John Valley is large and important.
 
Although stories which make up the saga serve as revealing windows
 
onto values of contemporary Acadians,  it would be inaccurate to say that they
 
are accepted by all.
 Some French-speaking residents of the Valley do not
 
identify with them (Leclerc et al.  1979;  Bérubé 1979).
 Some French-speakers
 
identify themselves as "les Breyons," a term supposedly linked to an ancestral
 
custom of breaking flax  (Massignon 1962,  vol.  11:731;  Simard 1988:9-25).
 
Others see themselves as part of a mythical "Republic of Madawaska," which
 
exists only in the legend of the rebellious John Baker  (Albert 1982:248).
 
Clearly,  in addition to the Acadian saga,  other myths and legends have meaning
 
with respect to personal and group identity in the Valley.
 
K.  A Variety of Acadian Oral Traditions
  
The Acadian oral traditions of the St.  John Valley include many
 
other forms.
 One genre,  for instance,  consists of traditional sayings used by
 
adults to control their children.
 For instance,  one informant remembered his
 
parents telling him about Bonhomme Sept-heure, a fearful character who would
 
visit unpleasant deeds upon young children if they did not go to bed at the
 
designated hour.
 A female informant was told in her youth that when a mother
 
gives birth an Indian visits and breaks her leg.
 The informant conjectured
 
that such a story would help explain the pain involved in birthing and why the
 
mother would stay in bed for the customary extended postpartum.
 
A host of Acadian sayings are repeated and passed on through time.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 66
 
For example,  Julie Albert  (
1969)  recorded that it is said of an angry Acadian
 
that "ii mord dane le fer"  (
"he is biting iron").
 This expression is also
 
used among the Cajuns of Louisiana.
 Albert also recorded a blessing
 
traditionally provided by the patriarch of the family on New Year's Day:
 
"Bonne,  sante, et heureuses année, et la Paradis a
 la fin de vos jours"
 
(
"Good, holy,  and happy year,  and Paradise at the end of your days").
 This
 
precise blessing was also handed down in Cajun and Missouri Creole tradition.
 
Another form of oral tradition is the avertissement (portent or
 
prediction).
 Albert  (1969) recorded a list of these,  such as:  "if a bird hit
 
a window in flight,  someone has passed away" and "the weather on the third day
 
of the month predicts the weather for the month."
 
Strong beliefs relative to the cycle of the moon persist among
 
many Acadians.
 One informant assured Survey researchers that potatoes must be
 
planted in the decorps de lune (waning of the moon).
 A long-time farmer,  he
 
believes that the lunar cycle affects birthing, planting, tree cutting,  and
 
many other aspects of life.
 
There are tall tales and other humorous tales.
 Many are about
 
smuggling,  including stories about smuggling five-gallon tins of concentrated
 
rum bearing the label of the White Hand.
 In most of these tales, the cunning
 
and trickery of the smuggler is emphasized, but some reveal his ignorance or
 
naivete in dealings with customs agents.
 
The personal experience narrative is another important oral form
 
in the Valley.
 For example, one informant tells stories about the process of
 
moving houses with a team of horses,  smuggling rum, using elm wood for making
 
ox yokes and barn rails,  selling patent medicine in the Valley,  and other
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 67
 
experiences.
 
L.  Music,  Sonq,  and Dance
  
During the summer of 1991,  the town of Van Buren,  Maine,  held a
 
celebration to commemorate the centennial of the arrival in the Valley of the
 
Good Shepherd Sisters.
 The significant role of the Catholic sisters in the
 
Valley as educators and cultural emissaries,  especially with regard to music
 
and singing, was evident at a concert held on June 21,  1991.
 At this event,
 
nine full choirs from Catholic churches located on both sides of the St.  John
 
River sang selections in three different languages:
 English,  French,  and
 
Latin.
 
A number of the selections performed that night had specific
 
cultural meaning to Acadians.
 To give a few examples,  "Ave Man s Stella,"
 
dedicated to the foremost symbol of Acadian nationalism,  was sung by the choir
 
from St.  Gerard Church in Grand Isle,  Maine;  the choir from St.  Michel in
 
Drummond,  New Brunswick,  sang,  "Au Dela De Toute Frontiere";  and "La Rivière
 
St.  Jean" was sung as a finale by a combination of all attending choirs.
 One
 
of the choirs,  from St.  Bruno's in Van Buren,  has recorded albums.
 One of
 
their albums,  entitled Hommage a
 L'Acadie, includes selections entitled "Le
 
Pècheur Acadien,"  "Evangeline,"  "Leg Trois Cloches,"  "Partons la Mer est
 
Belle,"  and several others that seem to have Acadian references.
 Such choirs
 
exemplify the florescence of choral singing brought to the Valley by the
 
members of the Catholic religious orders.
 
In 1955,  Sister Henriette Raymond of College Maillet in Edmundston
 
formed the dance "Troupe folklorique du Madawaska."
 Richard Therrien,  one of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 68
 
Sister Raymond's former students,  subsequently assembled the "Danseurs de la
 
Vallée," who through their international performances have become Acadian
 
ambassadors of the St.  John Valley (Picard 1989:42).
 However,  it should be
 
noted that the group's repertoire, while inspired by folk dance traditions of
 
the Valley,  does not represent the Valley's active contemporay dance
 
tradition.
 
In assessing the impact of the Catholic Church,  other cultural
 
impacts must be taken into consideration.
 For example,  there is evidence that
 
the influence of the Catholic Church has discouraged the root traditions of
 
Acadian music and dance in the St.  John Valley.
 Informants report that,
 
during much of the twentieth century,  they were taught by members of the
 
Catholic religious orders that dancing was a sin that required the absolution
 
of confession.
 
Acadian dance,  music,  and song traditions have also been greatly
 
affected by popular trends.
 Jazz and the Big Band sound were popular in the
 
Valley from the 1930s to the 1950s.
 Country music has also had a great impact
 
upon the musical traditions of the Acadians.
 When Jeannette Cyr Daigle moved
 
from the Valley to Lewiston in the late 1930s,  she listened to Hal Lonepine's
 
live country-and-western music radio show.
 After her singing talent came to
 
the attention of Lonepine,  she was invited to sing on his show.
 In 1938-1939,
 
she adopted the radio name of "Daisey" and made a mark as a singer of American
 
country songs.
 Today her son,  George Daigle,  organizes the annual Green River
 
Bluegrass and Country Music Festival in Green River,  New Brunswick.
 The
 
popularity of country music in that part of New Brunswick has undoubtedly been
 
supported by the French-language country-and-western television show,  "Votre
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 69
 
Soiré Country," which has been broadcast on a local community cable television
 
channel since the early 1980s.
 
There are some older Acadian music,  song,  and dance forms in the
 
Valley.
 Alfred Parent of Van Buren,  for instance,  continues to play fiddle in
 
a special regional style.
 In 1988 his music was recorded on a cassette
 
entitled Traditional Music of Maine, Vol.1, produced by the Northeast Archives
 
of Folklore and Oral History.
 His recorded repertoire,  including "Rag Time
 
Annie,"  seems to be related more to a broader old-time repertoire than to any
 
set of specifically Acadian tunes.
 The same can be said about most of the
 
fiddlers documented by the Survey during the summer of 1991.
 
Some very fine fiddling took place at the 1991 Acadian Festival's
 
'Violons d'Acadie" program.
 Interestingly,  the most accomplished Acadian
 
musicians who performed at this event were from Fitchburg and Leominster,
 
Massachusetts.
 The performances of fiddler Leo LeBlanc and his harmonica-
playing friend,  Arcade Richard,  both originally from St.  Paul,  New Brunswick,
 
were exceptional.
 Other outstanding young fiddlers,  like Bobby Kelly,  Tern
 
Charrette,  and Clare Morris, were from the Valley.
 Their repertoire is
 
representative of old-time Anglo-American fiddling.
 
There were several fine performances by jig dancers,  some quite
 
spontaneous,  at the "Violons d'Acadie" program.
 This evidence,  along with
 
observations made at a Fort Kent dance and at a house party in Fort Kent,
 
suggests that a localized jig-dancing tradition continues in the Valley.
 
Group dances--square,  round,  and line dances--continue to be
 
performed at the Forever Young Club in Madawaska and at L'Age d'Or Clubs in
 
New Brunswick.
 Survey researchers observed the following dance steps
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 70
 
performed by a crowd of mostly elderly citizens:
 "Lady of the Lake,"  several
 
"sets carré,"  "Le Pinto,"  "Ton  'ti Chien Madame," the "Continental,"  "Paul
 
Jones,"  and the "Tucker.'
 
Acadian ballad singing continues in the St.  John Valley as a
 
living tradition.
 The Survey recorded two fine Acadian ballad singers.
 
Perhaps the best known of the two is Ida Roy of Van Buren.
 Her enormous
 
repertoire includes old ballads and lays,  locally composed songs and
 
complaintes, turn-of-the-century sentimental parlor ballads,  comic music-hall
 
ditties,  and original commemorative songs.
 Because of her tremendous
 
repertoire and her efforts to keep the song tradition alive, Mrs.  Roy was
 
recently nominated for a National Heritage Award by the Maine Arts Commission.
 
The other singer recorded is Constance "Connie'  Morin Derosier of St.  Agatha,
 
Maine.
 Mrs.  Derosier inherited her love of singing and her songs from her
 
father Eddie Morin,  an Acadian singer of local notoriety.
 Of the sixteen
 
children in her family,  Connie is the only one to have learned her father's
 
songs.
 
M.  Some Acadian Domestic Features
  
One of the most distinctive Acadian traits of the St.  John Valley
 
is weaving.
 The Farm Security Administration photographs of the 1940s reveal
 
a surprising amount of hand-spinning and weaving at that time by Acadians of
 
the St.  John Valley.
 Traditional weaving and spinning,  passed down from one
 
generation to the next,  is rare in the United States.
 Almost all hand-weaving
 
and spinning one sees today is the result of the revival or historical
 
reconstruction of older techniques.
 Today's weavers are generally hobbyists
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 71
 
who may have great enthusiasm for the tradition but no direct community ties
 
to it.
 But an Acadian weaving tradition still exists in the Valley.
 
There are important collections of older textiles representing the
 
local tradition at the Acadian Village in Van Buren and at the Albert House in
 
St. David,  as well as in locally held private collections.
 A few appear to be
 
the products of Jaccard looms  (mid-nineteenth century), but many were produced
 
on typical two- or four-harness looms.
 The examples include linen and wool
 
blankets,  sheets,  and bed covers.
 Spinning wheels,  looms,  and related
 
artifacts abound in private attics and public museums throughout the Valley.
 
But more important, the skill and knowledge of Acadian spinning
 
and weaving still exists.
 Survey researchers visited Leona Coté Cyr of
 
Madawaska, Maine, who was born in St. David in 1907.
 She learned most of what
 
she knows about weaving from her mother-in-law, Delina Gendreau of St. David.
 
Mrs. Gendreau had a loom that produced material around 32" wide.
 Leona Cyr's
 
father raised sheep.
 Ten or twelve sheep produced the wool knitted into the
 
stockings, mittens, hats,  and occasional coverlets for the average large
 
family.
 The hand-sheared wool was washed and hand-carded to take out sticks
 
and dirt, then taken to Martin's carding mill in Madawaska for additional
 
carding.
 The carded wool was spun by her mother to the particular thickness
 
of yarn needed.
 Then the knitting would begin.
 
Today, Mrs. Cyr does not own a loom.
 However,  she continues to
 
buy and save material which she cuts  (taille/couper) into strips  (quenille) 
and rolls into balls weighing approximately five pounds apiece.
 She takes
 
these balls to an acquaintance in St. Jacques, New Brunswick, who arranges the
 
colored strips into aesthetically pleasing stripes and weaves them on her
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 72
 
loom.
 
An interview with Mrs.  Cyr yielded the following lexical items
 
related to the Acadian weaving tradition:
 
-
 brin de coton -
-
 warping thread
 
-
 catalocine -
-
 rag-woven coverlet
 
-
 couper  (tailler)  guenille -
-
 process
 
of preparing strips
 for weaving
 
-
 divideur -
-
 device to measure spun yarn  (horizontal)
 
-
 f
 ii -
-
 thread
 
-
 guenille -
-
 strips of material used for weaving rag pieces
 
-
 lame -
-
 heddle of a loom
 
-
 monter le coton -
-
 the process of warping the loom
 
-
 navette -
-
 shuttle for a loom
 
-
 palette -
-
 wooden device with drilled holes that separate threads
 
during the warping process
 
-
 pla(i tonner -
-
 process of plaiting spun yarn
 
-
 c
ruatre-pédal -
-
 four-pedal loom,  the most common Acadian loom
 
-
 rouet -
-
 spinning wheel; Mrs.  Cyr had only seen small ones,  no large
 
wool-spinning "walking" wheels
 
-
 row -
-
 cane or reed of a loom
 
-
 tournette -
-
 device to wrap spun yarn  (vertical)
 
-
 tricoter -
-
 knitting
 
-
 vercie -
-
 yard of spun yarn
 
A later visit to Anita Albert of St.  Jacques,  New Brunswick,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 73
 
confirmed that the Acadian weaving tradition is alive,
 Mrs. Albert also
 
learned to weave from her mother-in-law.
 She has woven hundreds of cataloanes
  
and continues to produce them in the attic of her home.
 Her husband, Gilbert
 
Albert,  has designed and built a machine that allows her to cut rag strips
 
quickly.
 
As with weaving,  local furniture is well represented in the
 
collections at the Acadian Village,  at the Albert House,  and in private hands.
 
Many pieces share the hallmarks of Acadian furniture in Louisiana:
 
1) raised-panel doors with the beveled (raised)  side of the panel facing
 
inside,  and a smooth-planed or sawn surface (unraised side of panel)  facing
 
outside of the door;
 
2) raised-panel doors flawlessly joined by through-cut mortise and
 
tenons with tenons often held in place by two wooden pegs per joint;
 
3) predominance of short pieces such as armoires, armoirettes, chests of
 
drawers, qarde-manqers, and buffets;
 
4)  simple curved trim between the feet of the piece;
 
5
) painted surfaces, often red,  called qros rouqe in Louisiana and sanq
 
de boeuf in St. John Valley;
 
6) use of local soft woods--cypress and pine in Louisiana, pine and
 
cedar in the St. John Valley--rarely in combination with hardwoods;
 
7) older drawers or chests joined with small, widely-spaced,  hand-cut
 
dovetails, many of which have been tightened by the addition of thin wooden
 
shims or wedges.
 
While some of these features are found in non-Acadian cabinetry of
 
the eighteenth century, when they co-occur on the same piece they seem to
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 74
 
represent a pattern of features uniquely selected by Acadian joiners.
 
Furniture pieces bearing these characteristics in Louisiana are distinct from
 
other Louisiana furniture in the same ways that St. John Valley Acadian
 
furniture appears to be distinct from contemporary pieces made in Quebec or
 
elsewhere in French-speaking America.
 
This Acadian pattern evidently lasted into the twentieth century
 
in the St. John Valley,  as it has in Louisiana.
 The following two conditions
 
may be pertinent:  1
) many Acadians were skilled in woodworking and joinery and
 
built their own furniture; and 2) woodworking skills were often passed down
 
from grandfather to grandson.
 
N. Acadian Houses: A Preliminary Sketch
  
The salient features of Acadian dwellings derive from traditional
 
techniques,  skills,  and aesthetic values passed down and shaped by successive
 
generations of craftsmen.
 They were not generally professional carpenters,
 
nor did they work from architectural plans.
 The construction details of
 
Acadian houses indicate a high level of woodworking skill,  and, though they
 
are generally hidden by exterior Greek Revival or Georgian features, provide
 
points for identifying the special qualities of Acadian architecture.
 
Most of these features have been identified as significant by
 
Acadians of the St. John Valley.
 Local efforts applied to nominate properties
 
to the National Register,  as well as the conversion of private residences like
 
the Albert House, the Morneault,  and others to public museums by local
 
citizens,  indicate a strong local appreciation of distinctive architectural
 
features.
 Local authors  (Michaud 1974, Albert 1969)  have drawn attention to
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 75
 
features of Acadian architecture--ship's knees,  the use of ladders instead of
 
stairways,  the caulking of log walls with oakum.
 
Yet the average resident of the St.  John Valley is not necessarily
 
aware of these material hallmarks of Acadian cultural heritage.
 And the
 
salient features of St.  John Valley Acadian architecture are virtually unknown
 
outside the study area.
 Howard Marshall's "A Preliminary Glossary of Acadian
 
French Terms Related to Vernacular Architecture and Cultural Landscape in the
 
St.  John River Valley of Maine"  (Appendix III)  provides a point of entry for
 
understanding a wide range of material culture features both inside and
 
outside of the study area.
 
The cultural meaning of architectural features,  of course,  can not
 
be derived apart from their social and historical context.
 As the Survey
 
began to notice certain patterns of form and construction in Acadian houses in
 
the Valley,  a number of houses were selected for additional historical and
 
sociocultural analysis.
 Local historian Guy Dubay collected data relative to
 
eight important Acadian houses:  the Fred Albert House and the Ernest Chasse
 
House in Madawaska,  Maine;
 the Vital Violette House and the Val Violette
 
House in Van Buren,  Maine; the Daigle-St.  Jean House in Clair,  New Brunswick;
 
the Eloi Daigle House in Fort Kent, Maine; the Morneault House,  originally in
 
Grand Isle,  Maine;  and the Pelletier-Marquis House in St.  Agatha,  Maine.
 For
 
each of these properties,  Dubay collected information about the succession of
 
ownership,  the family history and genealogy of residents,  and the business and
 
civic dealings of the owners  (Appendix IV).
 
The first Acadian houses were built on the flats,  often facing the
 
St.  John River.
 They were built of logs,  and many were built pièce sur pièce
  
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 76
 
a
 tenons en coulisse, a traditional construction technique which builds up
 
layers of hewn or sawn logs.
 If the typical eighteenth and early nineteenth-
century dwelling resembled the Alexis Cyr House of Saint-Basile,  New
 
Brunswick,  and the Roy House in the Acadian Village, Van Buren,  they were
 
small and simple.
 The form of the houses corresponds closely with standard
 
Anglo-American single-cell houses with gable roof,  centered front door,  and
 
chimney in the gable.
 It is not surprising that a blending of British and
 
French material traditions had already taken place among the Acadians by the
 
late eighteenth century,  for the Acadians had been subjects of the British
 
Crown since 1713.
 
Settlement near the river apparently continued until around the
 
middle of the nineteenth century, when the St.  John began to flood with more
 
frequency and severity.
 It is possible that the removal of stands of timber
 
in the St.  John Valley,  a process virtually complete by this period,  affected
 
the river's hydraulic regime.
 At any rate, many houses were moved away from
 
the river and established along the principal road around the middle of the
 
nineteenth century.
 The Eloi Daigle House,  the Fred Albert House,  the Val
 
Violette House,  and the Ernest Chasse House were all apparently moved from the
 
flats along the river.
 
When these houses were moved,  there was a tendency to increase the
 
living space within the house by adding one or more vertical levels,  as in the
 
Val Violette House; by extending the walls laterally,  as may have been the
 
case in the Albert House;  or by expanding both vertically and laterally,  as in
 
the Eloi Daigle House.
 The alteration of these pièce sur pièce a
 tenons en
  
coulisse houses apparently offered little challenge to Acadian carpenters.
 In
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 77
 
those cases of alteration that the Survey observed, the additions were
 
accomplished using the same precise axe and adze work and careful joinery
 
employed in the original construction.
 
The typical middle-nineteenth-century Acadian house has an
 
essentially Georgian plan, two rooms deep (double pile),  a central hallway,
 
central chimney, one or one-and-one-half stories high (rarely two stories),
 
under a simple gable roof.
 The exterior resembles standard large New England
 
houses of the nineteenth century--white frame with Greek Revival detailing
 
(cornices and white pilasters).
 Ceilings are often paneled,  and interior
 
moulding and finish often echoes the classical exterior stylistic elements.
 
New Acadian houses built during this period by well-established
 
farmers and merchants continued to be constructed of hewn logs,  though some
 
pit- and sash-sawn material also occurs.
 The Survey documented three corner-
joining techniques in log (pièce sur pièce) construction of the nineteenth
 
century:
 tenons en coulisse, half-dovetail  (tête de chien), and the
 
previously unreported "stacked and pegged" treatment found at the Vital
 
Violette House and the Roy House.
 Log walls were generally covered on the
 
exterior with vertical planks (planches debouts), and many were finished with
 
clapboards.
 The roof frames included massive,  relatively wide-spaced,  square,
 
hewn, white-pine rafters. The rafter couples are half-lapped and joined with
 
through trunnels at the peak.
 There is no ridge pole.
 
Most remarkably, there was a practice of fitting ship's-knee
 
braces (one informant calls them coudes, or "elbows") between centrally
 
located upper ceiling joists and top plates of Acadian houses of this period.
 
The shape of these ship's knees is analogous to those supporting the deck
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 78
 
beams of ships, but the function differs.
 In a ship, the braces are
 
positioned below the deck beams, while in an Acadian house they are fit above
 
the ceiling beams.
 The application of these substantial braces in house
 
carpentry has apparently not been previously reported outside of the St. John
 
Valley.
 It has not been determined when the last ship's knees were fit into
 
houses in the Valley.
 However, the Sacred Heart Church in North Caribou,
 
built around 1881, has at least 70 ship's knees attached to the load-bearing
 
wooden columns supporting its vaulted ceiling.
 
The construction of Acadian houses changed as the nineteenth
 
century progressed.
 The use of thick pit- or sash-sawn planks  (madriers), set
 
vertically or horizontally,  came to replace the use of logs  (pièces). 
Documentation of the Philias Caron House in the Lavertu Settlement, however,
 
indicates that walls built of horizontal madriers were sometimes joined using
 
the tenons en coulisse method as late as the turn of the twentieth century.
 
Sawn cedar madriers comprise the walls of this house.
 A short segment of one
 
of them,  removed during a recent modification of the house, has a tenon
 
carefully cut into the end that fit into a vertical door frame.
 
Probably near the end of the nineteenth century, balloon-frame
 
houses began to be built in greater numbers than solid-wall log and madrier
  
houses.
 But it was apparently not easy to replace the locally proven Acadian
 
carpentry techniques.
 This transformation appears to have occurred at a much
 
later point in the Valley than elsewhere in the United States,  and many Valley
 
residents live in solid-wall houses today.
 The later nineteenth-century
 
variants seem more square and a little taller than the mid-nineteenth-century
 
solid-wall houses.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 79
 
Many New England-type,  temple-front and T-shaped houses as well as
 
balloon-frame houses were built throughout the Valley during the middle to
 
late nineteenth and the early twentieth century.
 A number built in Fort Kent,
 
west of the Fish River,  have fine scroll-sawn barge boards and Gothic and
 
Victorian detailing.
 Some have the appearance of the earlier Acadian timber-
framed houses with gables turned to the street.
 The identification of
 
distinctively Acadian architectural features becomes more difficult with those
 
houses of the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
 
0.  Nationally Recoqnized Properties
  
Eight properties within the study area are currently listed on the
 
National Register of Historical Places.
 Since these properties may be
 
considered in deliberations regarding the siting of the cultural center
 
mandated by the Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act,  the Survey documented
 
their current condition and use.
 
(1)  Fort Kent Memorial. 
Located at the confluence of the Fish and
 
the St.  John Rivers in Fort Kent,  this state memorial is the only extant
 
fortification of the Aroostook "War" of 1838-39 which resulted from border
 
disputes between Great Britain and the United States.
 The signing of the
 
Webster-Ashburton Treaty in 1842 settled the boundary dispute between Maine
 
and New Brunswick and reduced the need for a fort.
 The Fort Kent blockhouse
 
has been preserved as a state memorial since 1959.
 
The blockhouse is a two-story structure set on a shale foundation.
 
Its walls are built of square-hewn cedar logs,  some of which measure over 19"
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 80
 
in width.
 Although a few minor changes have been made to the structure,
 
including some related to its present use as a museum,  it remains a good
 
example of early nineteenth-century military architecture.
 
Care and public presentation of this site is currently provided by
 
a local chapter of Eagle Scouts,  in cooperation with the Bureau of Parks and
 
Recreation,  Maine Department of Conservation.
 It should be noted that
 
despite the fact that Acadians began settling on both banks of the St.  John
 
River fifty years before Fort Kent was constructed,  they are not generally
 
included in the interpretation of this site  (cf. McDonald 1990).
 The site,
 
which includes a gift shop,  is open to the public daily from Memorial Day to
 
Labor Day.
 Many local schools sponsor field trips to this site and its actual
 
and potential use by locals and tourists is considerable.
 
(2)  Fort Kent Railroad Station. 
This former railroad station
 
opened in 1902 as the northern terminus of the Fish River Railroad and was
 
later used by the Bangor and Aroostook Railroad.
 It remained in use until
 
1979.
 The station is a one-story,  one-room deep,  seven-bay frame building.
 
Its gable-on-hip roof and wide over-hanging eaves are typical features of
 
other Bangor and Aroostook Railroad stations.
 The building presently houses
 
the Fort Kent Historical Society Museum.
 The museum receives occasional
 
visits from tourists and local school groups.
 The property has no particular
 
Acadian cultural affiliations,  although Acadian farms and farmers were greatly
 
affected by the railroad,  and local Acadians may now participate in museum
 
programs hosted at this facility.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 81
 
(3) Acadian Landinq Site. 
Located in St.  David,  this site
 
commemorates the landing of the initial Acadian settlers in the Upper St.  John
 
River Valley.
 A large marble cross recently replaced a wooden cross erected
 
in 1922 on approximately the same spot where the first cross was erected in
 
1785.
 Religious and ceremonial services are occasionally held at the site.
 
For example,  during the 1991 Acadian Festival,  following a special Acadian
 
mass held at the St.  David Catholic Church,  a procession of descendants of the
 
founding Acadian families walked from the church to the Acadian Landing Site,
 
where they participated in another ceremony.
 This site retains a high level
 
of symbolic significance relative to local Acadian identity.
 
The Madawaska Historical Society maintains several other
 
properties near the site of the Acadian Landing that are open to the public.
 
The Fred Albert House,  which has been moved to its present location from
 
Madawaska,  is the most significant.
 Built near the middle of the nineteenth
 
century,  it has many features of form and construction that may be considered
 
distinctively Acadian.
 Like the Morneault House and the Levasseur-Ouellette
 
House at the Acadian Village,  it was built by a successful Acadian farmer.
 
This one-and-a-half story dwelling shares with the other houses the typical
 
Georgian proportions and square-hewn log  (pièces sur pièces) wall
 
construction.
 
In the Albert House,  pièces sur pièces a
 tenons en coulisse wall
 
construction is combined with half-dovetail joinery at the corners.
 Such a
 
combination of construction methods has been documented at the maison
  
Morissette (circa 1830)  in Quebec  (Lessard and Vilandré 1974:395-409).
 
However,  the Morissette House has a ridgepole,  while the Albert House,  like
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 82
 
other Acadian houses of its type in the Valley,  is constructed without one.
 
In addition,  the Morissette House features two internal chimneys placed
 
against the opposite external walls of the house,  while the Albert House
 
appears to have had only a central chimney.
 Like many other Valley Acadian
 
houses of the mid-nineteenth century,  the Albert House has ship's knees fitted
 
into the attic.
 
The Tante Blanche Museum,  constructed in 1976,  and the Madawaska
 
School District No.  1 Nineteenth-Century One-Room Schoolhouse,  which has been
 
moved to its present location,  are also on the Society's property.
 Important
 
collections of artifacts,  especially related to Acadian textile manufacture
 
and domestic furnishings,  are located in the Albert House,  the museum,  and the
 
schoolhouse.
 
(4)  St.  David Catholic Church. 
This church is in the village of
 
St.  David,  Madawaska Township,  on property adjacent to the Acadian Landing
 
Site and other properties owned by the Madawaska Historical Society.
 It was
 
built in 1911-1913 from designs by Chickering O'Connell,  a Boston
 
architectural firm.
 The overall plan of the structure incorporates a large
 
sanctuary and a two-story facade with a central tower.
 Its form and details
 
are derived from Renaissance and Baroque Italian architecture.
 
St.  David Catholic Church is significant to the local Acadian
 
population for a number of reasons.
 The original church at this location,
 
built in 1871,  marked the successful conclusion of Madawaska Acadians'  long
 
struggle for their own parish and priest.
 Prior to the completion of the
 
church,  they were members of a parish in Saint-Basile,  New Brunswick.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 83
 
Therefore,  the church is a memorial to the those who created a parish on the
 
south bank of the St.  John River.
 At the same time,  the present brick and
 
stone structure serves as a symbol of rising affluence among early twentieth-
century Acadians.
 Earlier Acadian ecclesiastical architecture,  typified by
 
Notre Dame du Mont-Carmel,  tended to be smaller,  less expensive,  wooden,  and
 
vernacular in design.
 
Many activities at St.  David Catholic Church are important to the
 
identity of local Acadians.
 For example,  St.  David's,  along with St.  Luce's,
 
in Frenchville,  are the only Catholic churches on the Maine side of the river
 
that regularly hold services in French.
 During the 1991 Acadian Festival,  St.
 
David Catholic Church was the scene of a blend of religious and civic
 
activities.
 For instance,  a traditional Acadian banquet,  sponsored by the
 
Madawaska Chamber of Commerce, was held in the basement of the church,  and an
 
Acadian Mass was held in the church.
 
(5)  Notre Dame du Mont-Carmel Catholic Church. 
This church,  built
 
in 1909,  is in the village of Lille,  in Grand Isle Township.
 Official
 
Catholic religious services ceased in 1978,  and the church was acquired by
 
L'association Culturelle et Historique du Mont-Carmel in 1984.
 On the
 
National Register nomination form,  the church is decribed as
 the best
 
surviving nineteenth century Acadian French Catholic Church in the St.  John
 
River Valley."
 The nomination goes on describe the church as  "a structure
 
reflecting a high style form which has been expressed in a vernacular manner."
 
The reference to high style form includes its nave with adjacent aisles,
 
towering clear-story,  elaborately fenestrated facade,  and twin Baroque-style
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 84
 
belfries.
 The vernacular aspects of the church include its wooden structure,
 
clapboard exterior,  simple wooden moldings,  and hand-marbleized interior
 
columns.
 
The former presbytere,  a two-story Italianate wood frame
 
structure,  is located beside the church,  and an Acadian barn, used for decades
 
by the church's priests,  is located on property adjacent to the presbytere.
 A
 
large collection of religious artifacts,  as well as Acadian textiles and
 
furniture,  is stored in the church, the presbytere,  and the barn.
 The
 
religious items consist of statuary--including two large wooden angels carved
 
by Quebec sculptor Louis Jobin (
1845-1928)--candles, pews,  altar dressings,
 
banners,  altar stones,  reliquaries, tabernacles, monstrances,  and furniture
 
designed for religious functions.
 Most of these items are particularly
 
significant to the location for the following reasons:
 
1) the workmanship in each medium appears to represent either the
 
best craftsmanship and artistry in the region or the best
 
materials and work the church could import;
 
2) due to the post-Vatican II reorganization of Catholic ritual,
 
many such religious materials and ceremonial items will probably
 
never be manufactured or used again;
 
3) many of the ceremonial materials in the church facilitated
 
rituals performed by and for French-speaking Catholics;  and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 85
 
4)  the religious items,  as well as the church itself,  are closely
 
linked with the memories and experiences of the surrounding
 
population.
 
(6)  Fortunat 0. Michaud House. 
Presently known as the Farrell-
Michaud House,  this Van Buren property is currently operated as a bed-and-
breakfast inn by owner Sheila LeBlanc Cyr.
 The house was built around 1880 by
 
the owner  (Farrell)  and was eventually transferred to his daughter,  Emily
 
Farrell Michaud.
 This wood frame house,  featuring a turret with onion dome,
 
represents the Queen Anne Gothic Revival.
 The original tin covering of the
 
dome has been replaced with composite  (tar-based)  shingles.
 The style and
 
construction of the house have no particular relevance to Acadian history and
 
culture.
 
(7)  L'Heritaqe Vivant (Acadian Village).
 This site,  located in
 
Keegan,  a few miles west of Van Buren,  opened to the public in February of
 
1976 as a Bicentennial project.
 On the National Register nomination form the
 
site is described as a "multiple resource site" consisting of seven buildings
 
that form a "folk museum complex."
 Today,  it consists of over a dozen
 
buildings that have been moved to the Acadian Village or built at the site.
 A
 
number of dwellings moved to the Acadian Village are significant in terms of
 
their distinct Acadian construction.
 The Morneault House,  originally built in
 
Grand Isle in 1857  (Michaud 1974),  and the Levasseur-Ouellette House,
 
originally built in Cyr Plantation in 1859,  are typical of houses built during
 
the mid-nineteenth century by successful Acadian farmers and merchants.
 In
 
form 
1
they 1
ar e c harac teristic
 
Bides of the Atlantic by the early nineteenth century.
 The walls of both
 
these one-and-a-half story dwellings are built of square-hewn logs  (pi4ces sur
  
f
-!
I  coveredU
 by clapboard
T
 
The Roy House, a log structure m o v e d fro m  a  location 
1
 
is another example of nineteenth-century Acadian house construction.
 Its hewn
 
log walls  (Pi6ceB Bur pi6ces) have been corner-joined with trunnels in the
 
same fashion as those of the Violette House (see below).
 While one
 
publication contains a sketch of this rare construction method drawn from
 
Im
 e mo ry
 
documented.
 Although the Roy House has been damaged considerably during
 
disassembly and reconstruction,  it provides an extraordinary opportunity to
 
examine this method of wall construction.
 
ot h
Village collT
ew
co
t ion e
ir
nclude the Hammond-LaPlante Building,  a worker's quarters
 
r
from 
s
 William i
Hammon d 41
 
P
l
a
n
t
a
t
i
on ; an d  an
T  T
i;rT  .
J:
4•
 
(aranqe acadien) from the Hamlin area.
 The Willie Sirois House, the Morin
 
House, the St. Amand School,  a blacksmith shop,  a shoe shop,  a barber shop and
 
general store,  and a railroad station are also located at the Village.
 For
 
the most part, these are reconstructions of razed historical structures.
 
Unfortunately, they often fail to reproduce the demolished buildings
 
accu ratel y.
 
The various structures in the village house an enormous quantity
 
and variety of artifacts.
 Among the most significant are textiles woven of
 
homespun wool,  and the looms and spinning wheels that produced them.
 There
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 87
 
are also extensive collections of furniture,  domestic appliances, woodworking
 
and metal-working tools,  farm equipment  (including a complete horse-powered
 
mill with tilted treadmill),  and prints and other decorative items.
 These
 
collections are valuable and are in great need of professional conservation.
 
Apart from its primary museum functions,  the Village is an
 
important staging ground for local cultural events.
 For example,  during the
 
199]
. Festival de La Grande Rivière,  it hosted "Acadian Day,"  "Multicultural
 
Day," and "Native American Day" celebrations.
 To a certain degree,  each of
 
these events succeeded in honoring local populations and bringing tourists and
 
locals together.
 
(8)  Maison Heritaqe  (Vital Violette House). 
The Vital Violette
 
House,  built during the mid-1850s in Violette Brook (now Van Buren),  shares
 
many characteristics of form and construction with other Acadian dwellings.
 
At the time of its nomination to the National Register of Historic Places,  it
 
was owned by the local historical society,  Notre Heritage Vivant/Our Living
 
Heritage.
 The house has since been carefully disassembled and its parts
 
stacked neatly behind the Notre Dame du Mont-Carmel presbytere in Lille.
 Don
 
Cyr,  president of L'association Culturelle et Historique du Mont-Carmel,  has
 
expressed interest in reassembling the house on the L'association property in
 
Lille.
 
Although the Violette House has been taken apart,  it is possible
 
to describe its original form,  style,  and construction details.
 In fact,  its
 
disassembled condition allows for a level of analysis that standing structures
 
almost never allow.
 The Violette House is a two-and-a-half story log house
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 88
 
with clapboard exterior finish.
 Though it was larger than most others of its
 
type, this rectangular,  simple gabled structure displayed roughly the same
 
Georgian massing as other Acadian houses of its day.
 The facade was marked by
 
a strong central bay extending from the ground to the eaves.
 This two-tiered
 
bay consisted of a ground-level entrance and a double window at the second-
story level.
 Each of these features was flanked by pilasters and crowned by a
 
wide architrave and projecting cornice with dentil moulding.
 These Greek
 
Revival and Georgian features were characteristic of period trends popular
 
throughout New England and New Brunswick during the mid-nineteenth century.
 
But the construction was distinctively indigenous and Acadian.
 
Ship's-knee braces secured the top plate of the structure to the upper ceiling
 
joists.
 The walls consisted of squared, hewn logs  (pièces sur pièces),
 
covered on the exterior by thick, vertical planks  (planche debout) and
 
finished with clapboards.
 The vertical planks were not only nailed to the log
 
wall, but also secured edge-to-edge at regular intervals by diamond-shaped
 
metal splines.
 
The dressed wall logs were held in place by trunnels and "caulked "
 
with buckwheat fibers that had been twisted into lengths resembling oakum (the
 
material used to caulk boats and ships).
 The logs were sawn flush at the
 
corners and alternately stacked one on top of the other.
 Each corner joint
 
was secured by two trunnels.
 This unusual corner-joining technique, the same
 
one employed in the Roy House at the Acadian Village,  appears to be a uniquely
 
Acadian feature.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 89
 
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
 
A.  The Case for a Cultural Center in the St.  John Valley
  
The Upper St.  John River Valley is the hearth of Acadian culture
 
in Maine.
 The history of the Valley and the people who settled there provides
 
an important key to our understanding of the settling of North America and the
 
historical development of the United States.
 The wealth and significance of
 
cultural resources in the region's communities,  and the need for preservation
 
and conservation efforts,  justify the creation of an Acadian Cultural Center.
 
The interpretation of Acadian historical sites and properties in
 
the Valley can provide unique and significant information relating to the
 
development of American material culture and society.
 Material culture
 
features in the Upper St.  John Valley, mostly vernacular,  are largely unknown
 
outside the Valley and too often under-appreciated by the local community.
 
Graceful and historically significant Catholic churches,  associated religious
 
buildings,  and shrines stretch along the Valley like a string of jewels.
 
There may be as many solid-wall  (log and heavy sawn timber)  wooden structures
 
remaining in the Valley as anywhere in the United States.
 Many Acadian houses
 
of the nineteenth century are built pièce-sur-pièce a
 tenons en coulisse, a
 
form of log construction rare in the United States.
 A range of other material
 
culture items,  from barns to weaving,  possess distinctive features and warrant
 
public recognition.
 But more important than artifacts and historical
 
properties, the need for an Acadian Cultural Center in the Valley is justified
 
by the distinctive living expressive culture of Maine Acadians.
 This living
 
heritage
 
Many aspects of contemporary culture in the Valley--songs,  customs,  figures of
 
speech, dance styles,  foodways,  aesthetic values,  and so forth--are not simply
 
historically significant but vital to Acadian identity.
 
T h e en c o u
distinctiveness can br
e 
ag
ge
rm
ee
an
tt
l 
y assisted by the establishment of a cultural
 
center.
 Enclosed parklands or enshrined historical sites have a value in
 
natural and historic preservation efforts.
 But effective cultural
 
conservation in this region requires a cultural center which encourages the
 
maintenance, transmission,  and public presentation of living Acadian heritage.
 
Su ch a center
 
same time can be of great inspirational,  educational,  and recreational value
 
t4. visitors 
)
 
B. The Mission of the Center
  
The mission of the Acadian Cultural Center flows from the mandates
 
and the spirit of the Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act  (P.L.  101-543).
 
Three mandates are spelled out in Section 2 of the legislation:
 (1 )
 
re cog n it i o n  of the significance of Maine Acadian history and culture;  (
2)
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 91
 
Fulfilling these mandates will require attention to cultural resource
 
management,  historic preservation,  acquisition and conservation of
 
collections,  and interpretive presentation of cultural materials.
 But the
 
mandates also guide the Center toward strategies for conserving living
 
culture.
 
C.  The Center's Name,  Reqional Purview,  and Cultural Focus
  
The legislation providing for the Center does not establish its
 
name with absolute clarity,  but uses the phrase "Acadian Cultural Center"  in a
 
way that makes it the presumptive title for the new organization.
 The
 
language of the legislation does not prescribe the geographical reach of the
 
Center,  except to specify the state of Maine as the focus of attention.
 
However,  the testimony at public hearings considering the legislation makes
 
clear the intention to focus on the Upper St.  John Valley in northern
 
Aroostook County, Maine.
 Cultural research confirms that this region is
 
strongly influenced by Acadian culture,  and is bounded in the United States by
 
adjacent regions which are culturally distinct to a large extent.
 
Three points should be borne in mind when planning the programming
 
of the Acadian Cultural Center.
 First,  the cultural traditions of the Valley
 
are shared and extended by communities scattered throughout New England to
 
which Acadians from the Valley have migrated during the past century.
 Such
 
communities retain links to the Valley and thus represent a sort of cultural
 
diaspora  (not unlike the earlier diaspora which brought Acadians to the Valley
 
in the first place).
 Considering them in plans for cultural programming,
 
despite their dispersion,  makes good cultural sense.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 92
 
Second,  the Valley is divided by the boundary between Maine and
 
New Brunswick; but the boundary is primarily political rather than cultural.
 
It would be a cultural disservice to ignore the Canadian side of the Valley in
 
the Center's programming and interpretation.
 
Third,  the culture of the Upper St.  John Valley is plural,
 
including historical influences as well as contemporary representatives from
 
other cultural groups.
 The French-language cultural heritage includes
 
Quebecois as well as Acadian French traditions,  and the English-language
 
traditions are also varied.
 Further,  there are historical and contemporary
 
cultural features which are neither Francophone nor Anglophone in origin,
 
ranging from American Indian tribal traditions to the traditions of ethnic
 
groups like the Swedes.
 Many traditions  (including those regarded as Acadian)
 
reflect multiple origins and influences,  to the point that they may be as much
 
regional as ethnic in character.
 One cannot understand the Valley without
 
taking these complexities into account,  and programming which seeks to avoid
 
them in order to feature only "pure" Acadian traditions will not only distort
 
cultural reality but stir contemporary resentment.
 Though Acadian culture may
 
comprise the chief focus of Center programming,  responsible cultural
 
presentation and conservation require proper acknowledgement of all the
 
cultural strands which have created the fabric of the region.
 
D. Who Does the Center Serve,  and How Does It Serve Them?
 
If the interpretive focus of the Center is Acadian culture,  and
 
programming also takes into account the varied cultural traditions resident in
 
the region,  it remains to be determined who the primary recipients are of the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 93
 
programs and services offered by the Center.
 One may characterize the
 
potential recipients of the Center's programs as falling into two categories:
 
local citizens and visitors.
 If the focus is upon services to visitors,  the
 
resultant strategy may be described as cultural tourism; if local citizens are
 
the target audience,  the strategy may be termed cultural conservation. 
These
 
two strategies may be employed simultaneously,  in which case care and planning
 
are required to insure that they work harmoniously and do not conflict with
 
one another.
 
Cultural tourism, which is typically tied to economic development,
 
relies on the assumption that cultural resources are interesting to visitors.
 
Local cultural resources are presented to entice tourists who may otherwise
 
never visit an area.
 These cultural resources include not only historic homes
 
or culturally significant properties,  but also traditional performers such as
 
storytellers,  crafts people,  and musicians whose presentations attract and
 
entertain visitors.
 
In cultural tourism initiatives,  services flow to the tourist,  who
 
is usually an "outsider'  to the community.
 Success is measured by the numbers
 
of tourists served and the benefits which accrue to the community as a result
 
of the tourist trade.
 If the enterprise involves cultural or historical
 
properties or interpretive facilities,  some revenue from tourist trade often
 
helps to maintain them.
 The benefits that may reach the local population
 
include increased tax revenues,  expanded services,  new public and private
 
facilities,  and jobs.
 The strategy appeals to community leaders because it
 
requires relatively little capital and relies upon available local resources.
 
An Acadian Cultural Center under governmental auspices will not
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 94
 
have the same profit and expense motives as private-sector enterprises.
 But
 
governmental and non-profit organizations have a motive to provide educational
 
and interpretive programs to the public at large,  and the Center will
 
certainly want to make a contribution to the regional economy.
 Thus cultural
 
tourism will necessarily be one factor in the planning for the new Center.
 
Cultural conservation is guided by different motivations.
 It is a
 
strategy which focuses on serving,  and thus conserving,  local cultural
 
traditions.
 Ideally,  traditions and tradition-bearers are recognized,
 
honored,  and taken into account in economic,  land-use,  and cultural planning.
 
Traditional artists are invited to participate in programs which will,  among
 
other things,  allow them to serve as role models for the younger generation,
 
who will learn more about their own cultural traditions and may see them as
 
vital and valuable.
 Events and programs are designed for the needs and tastes
 
of local audiences.
 Pride is engendered in local culture,  which in turn
 
energizes traditions which may have been in jeopardy.
 
As a strategy,  cultural conservation might seem contrary to
 
cultural tourism,  but in practice it can be compatible with and beneficial to
 
tourism.
 An experiment in cultural conservation cosponsored by the City of
 
Eunice,  Louisiana  (a town about the size of Presque Isle,  Maine),  and Jean
 
Lafitte National Historical Park suggests that the two strategies can be
 
creatively combined.
 A live radio show,  broadcast from the Liberty Theatre in
 
Eunice every Saturday night since July 4,  1987,  features local Cajun
 
performers playing local repertoire and singing in Cajun French.
 The program,
 
presented in Cajun French by local folklorist and raconteur Barry Jean
 
Ancelet,  has been consistently designed to serve local Cajun audiences.
 In
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 95
 
addition to the positive response of the locals,  the program's reputation for
 
authenticity packs the theater with English-speaking tourists.
 
Since 1987, the City of Eunice has enjoyed a considerable boom in
 
community development,  and it is arguable that the radio show has at least
 
lent a helpful hand to that larger process.
 But while successful cultural
 
conservation programs can boost tourist trade and community development, these
 
latter goals must be considered tangential when cultural conservation is the
 
fundamental strategy for program development.
 The primary goal is encouraging
 
the continuity of cultural heritage.
 Tourists interested in Acadian culture
 
are likely to appreciate and learn from an authentic cultural experience.
 
Indeed, presentations which incorporate the real texture of local culture are
 
likely to engage tourists in longer, more in-depth experiences,  as opposed to
 
brief stop-offs.
 
It is worth noting that one type of cultural event already popular
 
in the Upper St. John Valley represents a happy combination of the goals of
 
cultural tourism and cultural conservation.
 Family reunions bring families
 
back to the Valley from throughout New England, Quebec, New Brunswick,  and
 
points beyond.
 From the point of view of cultural conservation,  these events
 
clearly strengthen family and community ties,  and they tend to focus
 
participants intensely on aspects of their cultural heritage.
 From the point
 
of view of cultural tourism, the family reunions are clearly a major source of
 
tourism to the Valley,  and they represent tourism of the sustained and in-
depth variety.
 Planning for the cultural center should take account of all
 
such activities where cultural conservation and cultural tourism intersect and
 
are mutually supportive.
 
Recommendation: 
The Center should establish cultural conservation as its
 
fundamental strategy,  and should employ the strategy of cultural tourism
 
wherever it is compatible with cultural conservation.
 This strategy will be
 
supported by the employment of the French language in interpretive programs
 
whenever possible.
 
E.  Models for the Cultural Center
  
An Acadian cultural Center may take a variety of forms.
 Different
 
possibilities for its design may be s een
I
"centralized" or a "decentralized" model,  sample formulations of which appear
 
Centrallv located multi-purpose center. 
The concept here is to
 
provide at one location the administrative and programmatic facilities to
 
accomplish the mission of the Center.
 Such a structure would combine the
 
functions of museum,  visitor center,  administrative offices,  and performance
 
The features of a multi-purpose centralized center could include:
 
- administrative offices
 
- climate-controlled storage for artifacts,  archives,  and research library
 
- permanent exhibit area
 
flex ible exhibit area for temporary exhibits
 
covered outdoor
)
 
I k.)gg l I.Jn desk
i.t. •T T n,
 *i.i:
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 97
 
-
 covered outdoor craft demonstration area
 
-
 acoustically suitable,  climate-controlled indoor performance hall
 
-
 gift shop for books, musical recordings,  crafts,  and local products
 
-
 technical facility for media duplication and production
 
Decentralized proqram functions. 
The concept here is to join with
 
local cultural institutions in cooperative agreements  (as provided for in the
 
enabling legislation) that allow their facilities and resources to be used for
 
programs sponsored by the Center.
 For example, the Acadian Archives/Archives
 
acadiennes at the University of Maine at Fort Kent is already equipped to
 
house archival collections; the Acadian Village in Van Buren owns an important
 
material culture collection; the Fox Auditorium at the University of Maine at
 
Fort Kent offers a performance venue of moderate size (capacity:  400); the
 
Multi-use Center in Madawaska is a large performance venue  (though its
 
acoustics need substantial improvement); the Notre Dame du Mont-Carmel Church
 
in Lille could host museum exhibitions and performances; other local churches
 
could be used for performances that would attract small audiences.
 
In this strategy,  a centrally located administrative office would
 
coordinate with cooperative agreement partners throughout northern Aroostook
 
County in order to accomplish the mission of the Center.
 The administrative
 
offices can be housed together with a visitor center, but other functions may
 
be located at any number of suitable sites within the region.
 The
 
decentralized model takes advantage of the resources of a range of existing
 
sites and minimizes permanent personnel and construction costs.
 Such an
 
approach resolves the natural intra-regional competition that will inevitably
 
appear if a centralized model is contemplated.
 It also furthers the goal of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 98
 
cultural conservation by supporting (rather than competing with) the work of
 
local cultural organizations,  and by encouraging them to work cooperatively
 
toward larger regional goals.
 
Recommendation: 
The Acadian Cultural Center should employ the decentralized
 
model.
 It should combine its administrative office and its visitor center at
 
one site, but should decentralize other functions through cooperative
 
agreements and contracts with existing regional organizations.
 
F. Location of office and Visitor Center
  
Assuming that the decentralized model for the Center is accepted,
 
it will still be necessary to plan for a visitor center which functions as a
 
window for visitors into the Acadian and other cultural traditions of the
 
region,  as well as a window into the programs and activities sponsored or
 
facilitated by the Center throughout the region.
 It is logical, because of a
 
small staff, to attach the administrative office to the visitor center.
 The
 
key planning decisions are:  (1) where to locate the visitor center and
 
administrative office,  and (
2) what sort of building is best suited to
 
carrying out these functions.
 
The major communities of the t
ipper St. John River Valley are
 
dispersed for some seventy miles along the river banks in a line-settlement
 
form.
 Given this fundamental geographic shape of the region,  a central
 
location for the visitor center would be optimal.
 Centrality for the visitor
 
center will facilitate its efforts to engage tourists and redirect them to
 
culturally significant experiences throughout the region.
 And centrality for
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 99
 
the administrative offices will facilitate coordination and supervision of
 
endeavors from one end of the region to the other.
 
The ideal location would fall at some point within or between the
 
communities of Upper Frenchville to the west and St.  David to the east.
 A
 
visitor center located within this area would give easy access to the major
 
international crossing at Madawaska/Edmundston,  thus employing a site
 
accessible to both American and Canadian tourists,
 (Edmundston,  New
 
Brunswick,  is home of the largest French-speaking population in the Upper St.
 
John Valley.)
 A few potential locations within this zone include:
 
Eloi Daigle House,  important early nineteenth century Acadian pièce-sur-
pièce a
 tenons en coulisse farm house located on U.S.  Route 1 near the
 
eastern boundary of Ft.  Kent township;
 
Water cistern,  rail cars,  and other historical buildings near
 
Frenchville that are associated with the Bangor and Aroostook Railroad.
 
Large buildings associated with the potato industry,  such as the
 
Frenchville Starch Company building and other potato houses, may have
 
reuse potential as performance venues;
 
Properties in St.  David maintained by the Madawaska Historical Society.
 
There are two National Register sites near this location:
 the St.  David
 
Catholic Church and the Acadian Landing Site.
 In addition,  the Tante
 
Blanche Museum,  Madawaska School District No.  1 Nineteenth-century One-
room Schoolhouse,  and the important pièce-sur-pièce a
 tenons en coulisse
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 100
 
Albert House are all located on this property.
 An important collection
 
of artifacts is housed within these buildings.
 There is ample room for
 
construction and parking.
 The Fournier-Chasse house,  a mid-nineteenth-
century pièce-sur-pièce a
 tenons en coulisse Acadian house,  is on an
 
adjacent property.
 
Of the properties discussed above,  the Eloi Daigle House,  the
 
properties around the St.  David location,  and the buildings associated with
 
the railroad in Frenchville all have historical and cultural significance.
 A
 
number of additional sites in the region have similar significance but have
 
not been listed here because they do not fit the criterion of centrality.
 
Alternatively,  the visitor center could be located in a building
 
with less cultural significance if other factors,  ranging from cost to space
 
provisions,  seem compelling.
 Or a new building could be built,  thus missing
 
the opportunity for a historical statement but gaining the opportunity to
 
design precisely for program and administrative needs.
 
Recommendation: 
A visitor center with attached administrative offices should
 
be sited in the Upper Frenchville-Madawaska-St.  David vicinity.
 A careful
 
assessment of needs and costs,  including consideration of options,  ranging
 
from adaptive reuse of historic buildings to new construction,  should precede
 
selection of the final site.
 
F.  Staff inq and Budqet of the Center
 
The staffing of the Center should be structured in support of the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 101
 
mission and model described above.
 The number of staff will of course depend
 
upon funding and program plans,  but the following four-person plan is
 
indicative of the approach the Center likely will take:
 
Director--The position should be budgeted to draw a person of
 
professional stature and administrative experience.
 It should not
 
be reserved for local or regional candidates;  a broad search and
 
an insistence on professional and administrative credentials are
 
essential.
 Candidates should be functionally bilingual;
 
experience in public programming is desirable.
 Candidates should
 
be solicited nationally from the ranks of cultural professionals
 
in fields such as folklore,  cultural anthropology,  and history.
 
Canadian applicants should be considered.
 The title "Director"  is
 
more appropriate to the position than "Superintendent."
 
"Director"  is the customary title for heads of program-oriented
 
centers in the cultural realm,  whereas "Superintendent" could
 
suggest that site management is the chief administrative function,
 
and that the position is reserved for the professional ranks of
 
the National Park Service.
 It may be possible to obtain faculty
 
status for the Director at the University of Maine at Fort Kent,
 
which can tie the University more closely to the work of the
 
Center.
 
Proaram Specialist --This position should be filled from the ranks
 
of cultural professionals in the same fields cited above.
 Oral
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 102
 
and written proficiency in French,  experience in field research
 
and documentation,  and experience in cultural programming are
 
crucial to the effectiveness of this position.
 
Business Manaqer--This position is responsible for general
 
operations of the Center,  including facilities management,  budget
 
management,  and other operational tasks.
 
Secretary--This position is responsible for secretarial and
 
clerical functions in the administrative office of the Center.
 
Candidates should be functionally bilingual.
 
All personnel should be selected and supervised by the Director.
 
But it is worth pointing out that the legislation does not stipulate who
 
chooses and supervises the Director.
 The National Park Service and the
 
Commission may both be involved,  but the final authority should be clarified.
 
In any case,  the Director,  once chosen, will certainly function as the nexus
 
of coordination between the National Park Service and the Commission.
 
In planning for the Center,  it is important to remember that funds
 
for programming are required in addition to funds for salaries and operational
 
expenses.
 Even if the Center engages in fund-raising for various initiatives,
 
it is essential to have a predictable funding base for programming in the
 
Center's annual budget.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 103
 
H.  Planninq the Center's Programminq
 
Many options exist for the development of programs for the
 
Cultural Center.
 However, a number of steps should precede the initiation of
 
specific projects:  (1) establishment of the Commission and the Center;  (
2)
 
securing of a stable budget for the first two years of the Center;  (3)
 
decisions regarding the location,  structure,  and broad direction of the
 
Center;  (4)  selection of the Director; and (5)  additional research for the
 
purpose of program development.
 The Director should not only select the
 
remaining staff, but should be involved in the planning of the Center's early
 
programs.
 
I
. Recommendations for Further Research
  
Research and documentation will be part of the Center's ongoing
 
mission;  indeed, documentation of living culture is never complete.
 The
 
American Folklife Center's initial survey has documented much of cultural
 
importance, but it must not be regarded as a sufficient base for future
 
programming.
 Information gathering should be of high priority during the
 
initial stages of the Center's development,  since considerable research is
 
needed before solid interpretive programs can be initiated.
 It is tempting,
 
with imminent programming in mind, to mount a survey keyed to specific arts or
 
forms of cultural expression.
 But a systematic, extended,  in-depth
 
documentary survey of the folklife of the region would be more productive in
 
the long run.
 The following are some specific areas which warrant serious
 
research:
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 104
 
Folklife survey. 
Additional documentation of the region's
 
expressive culture is required for adequate development of
 
programs of many kinds,  including performances,  exhibitions,
 
publications,  and apprenticeships.
 Areas of expressive culture to
 
be documented should include foodways,  music,  dance,  oral
 
traditions,  occupational lore, material culture,  religious
 
traditions,  and family and community celebrations.
 
Vernacular architectural survey. 
Vernacular architectural
 
resources warrant a complete architectural survey of properties
 
over 50 years in age.
 Such a survey could enlist the skills and
 
resources of the state historic preservation office or the
 
Historic American Buildings Survey of the National Park Service.
 
The geographic area of this survey should include St.  John River
 
settlements,  villages,  and towns between St.  Francis and Hamlin;
 
settlements along Route 11 from Eagle Lake north to Fort Kent;  and
 
back settlements,  especially in the townships of St.  Francis,  St.
 
John Plantation,  Fort Kent, Wallagrass,  Eagle Lake,  New Canada,
 
St.  Agatha, Madawaska,  Grand Isle,  Van Buren,  Cyr Plantation,  and
 
Hamlin.
 The towns of Caribou and Presque Isle are also rich in
 
architectural features associated with Acadians.
 Some of the most
 
important properties fall within the following categories:
 
(a)  dwellings: 
Acadian log farm houses and village houses from early to
 
late nineteenth century;  early to mid-twentieth century farm houses;
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 105
 
seasonal lake camps;
 
(b)  farm buildinqs: 
Acadian pignon-simple (simple-gable)  barns;
 
Madawaska twin barns;  comble-cassé (gambrel-roof)  barns;  large early
 
twentieth-century,  simple-gable grain and hay barns; potato houses;  tool
 
and equipment sheds;
 
(C)  reliciious properties and sites: 
all churches over 50 years old;
 
presbyteres;  convents;  roadside and memorial crosses and shrines;
 
cemeteries;  sacred springs;
 
(d)  school buildinqs: 
Catholic Church schools;  older wooden-frame
 
public school houses;  early to mid-twentieth century brick buildings;
 
(e) mills and historical mill sites: 
Gédéori Corriveau buckwheat and
 
carding mill near Frenchville; Violette Brook mill site;  original Fort
 
Kent lumber mill site;  and others;
 
(f)  historical sites associated with the railroad: 
Frenchville Starch
 
Factory;  railroad potato warehouses; train depots and stations.
 These
 
properties are presently falling into disuse and are thus endangered
 
cultural resources.
 
Historical Documents. 
Copies of property records,  successions,
 
deeds,  vendor/vendee records,  and other documents pertaining to
 
early Acadians must be gathered and made available to researchers
 
of Maine Acadian history.
 Existing documents recorded prior to
 
United States ownership of a portion of the St.  John River Valley
 
(1785-1842)  are presently in Canada  (mostly in New Brunswick).
 
Records pertaining to the early histories of the oldest known
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 106
 
Acadian structures and sites in the Valley are generally not
 
available in Maine.
 
Linguistic Study. 
Linguistic study in the Upper St.  John Valley
 
and vicinity should include:
 (a)  basic phonological analysis,
 
documentation,  and comparison with other New and Old World French
 
forms;  (b)  applied socio- and psycho-linguistic study to determine
 
the character and depth of attitudes about language use;  (C)
 
ethnolinguistic study to identify significant Acadian French
 
lexical domains and to collect lexical items associated with
 
farming,  logging,  carpentry,  weaving,  folk ritual,  plants,
 
animals,  the weather,  and other areas of traditional knowledge;
 
(d)  French place-name study.
 
Ethnic ascription/group identity questionnaire. 
The subject of
 
group identity is complex in the Upper St.  John River Valley.
 Dr.
 
Adrien Bérubé of the Centre Universitaire Saint-Louis-Maillet,  in
 
Edmundston,  surveyed northwest New Brunswick to gauge groupness
 
and identity among the French-speaking population.
 His extensive
 
questionnaire explored a range of regional attitudes correlated
 
with identity labels like "Bréyon,"  "Acadian,"  "Canadian," and
 
"Madawaskan."
 A similar sociological/geographical study on the
 
Maine side of the Valley would be helpful to cultural programmers
 
trying to tailor interpretive commentary to the realities of the
 
region.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 107
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
 
The American Folklife Center has been fortunate in receiving
 
assistance with the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey from a great many people in
 
Maine and elsewhere.
 The Center is particularly grateful to the dozens of
 
people in the Upper St.  John Valley who shared their knowledge of the area's
 
history and culture with the Survey's fieldworkers;  to the University of Maine
 
at Fort Kent,  which provided office space and other support during the
 
fieldwork phase of the Survey;  and to the Acadian Archives/Archives acadiennes
 
at the University of Maine at Fort Kent for considerable research assistance
 
and logistical advice.
 
Although it is impossible to list everyone who contributed to the
 
project in one way or another,  the Center wishes to acknowledge the following
 
individuals who were exceptionally helpful:
 Bernette Albert,  Madawaska
 
Historical Society;  Gilbert  "Gil" Albert,  Fort Kent;  Julie Albert,  Madawaska;
 
Julie Bayley,  University of Maine at Fort Kent;  Dr.  Marcella Belanger-
Violette,  Van Buren;  Dr. Adrien Bérubé,  Centre Universitaire Saint-Louis-
Maillet;  Dr.  Barney Berube,  Maine Department of Education;  Phil Brown,
 
Portland;  Geraldine Chasse,  Madawaska Historical Society;  Mark Chasse,  Fort
 
Kent Historical Society;  Cathy Corey,  director of the Madawaska Chamber of
 
Commerce;  Claude  "Blackie" Cyr,  Madawaska Historical Society;  Don Cyr,
 
president of L'association Historique et Culturelle du Mont-Carmel;  Laurel
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 108
 
Daigle,  president of the Fort Kent Historical Society;  Prof.  Lowell Daigle,
 
University of Maine at Fort Kent;  Dr.  Richard Dumont,  president of the
 
University of Maine at Fort Kent;  Herman and Rena Deprey,  Fort Kent;  Jayne
 
Farrin,  Office of Community Development,  Van Buren;  Frances Albert Gendreau,
 
St.  David;  Dr.  Madeleine Giguère,  University of Southern Maine;  James
 
Henderson,  Maine State Archives;  Teresa Hollingsworth,  Dr.  Edward D.  Ives,  and
 
Mary O' Meara,  Northeast Archives of Folklore and Oral History;  Dr.  Bernard
 
LeBlanc,  director of Museé Acadien,  Université de Moncton;  Mary LeBlanc,
 
Office of Senator George J.  Mitchell,  Presque Isle;  Don Levesque,  managing
 
editor of St.  John Valley Times; Tony Levesque,  Office of Community
 
Development,  Fort Fairfield;  Blanche Long,  Maison Daigle-St.  Jean,  Clair,
 
N. B.;  Sheila McDonald,  Maine Bureau of Parks and Recreation;  John L.  Martin,
 
Speaker of the Maine House of Representatives;  Kathleen Mundell,  Maine Arts
 
Commission;  David Potter,  Northern Maine Planning Commission;  Patrick
 
Ouellette,  Fort Kent;  Father Jim Plourde,  St.  Agatha Catholic Church;  Karen
 
Levesque,  Frenchville Historical Society;  David Raymond,  assistant principal
 
at Wisdom High School,  St.  Agatha;  Janet Roberts,  Maine State Archives;  Ann
 
Roy,  president of L' heritage Vivant;  Earle G.  Shettleworth,  Jr.,  director of
 
the Maine Historic Preservation Commission;  Dr.  Cyril Simard,  Centre
 
Universitaire Saint-Louis-Maillet;  Alden C.  Wilson,  director of the Maine Arts
 
Commission;  and David Wylie,  Madawaska Chamber of Commerce.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 109
 
BIBLIOGRAPHY
 
Ahiborn,  Richard,  and Howard W. Marshall
 
1980
 Buckaroos in Paradise. 
Washington:
 Library of Congress.
 
Rpt.  1981,  Lincoln,  Ne.:
 University of Nebraska Press.
 
Albert,  Julie D.
 
1969
 Madawaska Centennial,  1869-1969. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John
 
Valley Publishing Co.
 
1971
 Centennial:  1817-1971:  St.  David Parish Centennial. 
St.  David,
 
Me.:
 The Church.
 
Albert,  Thomas
 
1920
 Histoire du Madawaska. 
Québec:
 Imprimerie Franciscaine
 
Miss ionnaire.
 
1982
 Histoire du Madawaska:  entre 1'Acadie,  le Québec et l' Amérique.
 
New ed.  edited by Adrien Bérubé,  Benoit Bérubé,  and Georgette
 
Desjardins.
 Lasalle,  Québec:
 Editions Hurtubrise HMH.
 
1985
 The History of Madawaska. 
Translated by Sister Therese Doucette
 
and Dr.  Francis Doucette.
 A Madawaska Historical Society
 
Bicentennial Edition.
 Madawaska,  Me.:
 Northern Graphics.
 
Allen,  James,  P.
 
1974
 "Franco-Americans in Maine:  A Geographical Perspective,"
 
Acadiensis 3 (autumn 1974):34-37.
 
1981
 "Franco-Americans in Maine: A Geographical Perspective."
 In A
 
Franco-American Overview. 
Vol.  3,  pt.  1,  edited by Madeleine
 
Giguère,  83-111.
 Cambridge,  Ma.:
 National Assessment and
 
Dissemination Center for Bilingual/Bicultural Education.
 
American Folklife Center
 
1990
 "Roundtable Recommendations and Resolutions."
 Folklife Center
 
News 12,  nos.  3-4  (summer-fall 1990):14-19.
 
Ancelet,  Barry J.
 
1987
 "Louisiana Oral Tradition:  An Overview."
 In The Cajuns:  Their
  
History and Culture, edited by Hamilton and Associates,  Vol.  3,
 
pt.  9,  277-342.
 New Orleans:
 Jean Lafitte National Historical
 
1973
 Livre Souvenir Centenaire du Madawaska:  1873-1973. 
N. p.:
 N. p.
 
1988
 Ouellette Family Reunion:  July 1-2-3,  1988,  Madawaska,  Maine.
 
Anwati,  Joey,  and Daniel Roy
 
Arsenault,  Bona
 
de la vie frangaise en Am6rique.
 
I
?I.i. 
History of the Acadians. 
Qu6bec:
 Le Conseil de la vie frangaise
 
A rsenault,
 
en Am6rique.
 
Samu e l
 
Monct o n,
1982
 
"Geography and the Acadians."
 In The Acadians of the Maritimes:  
Thematic Studies, edited by Jean Daigle,  87-124.
 Moncton,  New
 
:
 
Ren e  
l
.x.I
4.1'
Brunswick:
 R.  Babineau.
 
Beckwith,  Cynthia
 
1989
 "Our Lady of Lille."
 Echoes, spring-summer 1989,  27-29.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 111
 
Berube,  Barney
 
1990a
 Data Collection Report on Lanquacie Minority Children. 
Report
 
prepared for the U.S.  Department of Education.
 Augusta,  Me.:
 
State of Maine Department of Education.
 
1990b
 Data Collection Report on Lancivaqe Minority Children:  Appendix.
 
Report prepared for U.S.  Department of Education.
 Augusta,  Me.:
 
State of Maine Department of Education.
 
Blodgett,  Wentworth P.
 
1964
 "The Crooked Knife." Chronicle of the Early American Industries
 
Association 17,  no.  4 (December 1964):287.
 
Boudreau,  Ephrem
 
1988
 Glossaire du vieux parler acadien:  mots et expressions  
recueillis a
 Rivière-Bourqeois  (Cap-Breton). 
Montréal:
 Editions
 
du Fleuve,
 
Bourque,  J.  Rodoiphe
 
1971
 Social and Architectural Aspects of Acadians in New Brunswick.
 
Fredericton:
 Research and Development Branch,  Historical
 
Resources Administration,  Government of New Brunswick.
 
Braën,  André
 
1986
 "Les Droits Linguistic."
 In Les droits linquisticiue au Canada,
 
edited by Michel Bastarache.
 Montréal:
 Les Editions Yvon Blais,
 
Inc.
 
Brainard,  Newton C.
 
1962
 "The Crooked Knife." Chronicle of the Early American Industries
 
Association 15,  no.  2 (June 1962):175.
 
Brasseaux,  Carl A.
 
1987a
 The Foundinq of New Acadia. 
Baton Rouge:
 Louisiana State
 
University Press.
 
1987b
 "Acadian History."
 In The Ca -i
uns:  Their History and Culture,
 
edited by Hamilton and Associates,  Vol.  1,  pt.  3,  121-229.
 New
 
Orleans:
 Jean Lafitte National Historical Park.
 
Brassieur,  C.  Ray
 
1990
 "The Duclos-Pashia Houses:  Survival of Creole Building Traditions
 
into the Twentieth Century."
 Material Culture 22,  no.  2 (summer
 
1990) :15-26.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 112
 
Bra s sieu r ,
• 
- 
•
 H
o
war d  W
 M ar
s hall
 
1990
 Traditional Arts in Missouri,  1990. 
Columbia, Mo.:
 University of
 
Missouri Cultural Heritage Center.
 
Brebner, John B.
 
1927
 New Enqland's Outpost: Acadia Before the Conauest of Canada.
 
Studies in History, Economics and Public Law,  no.  293.
 New York:
 
Columbia University Press.
 
Br6land, Mario
 
1
:I.
 
Breton, Rita,  Joan Brooks,  Catherine Fox,  Florence Ireland,  and Edward D.  Ives
 
1986
 The Northeast Archives of Folklore and Oral History: A Cataloa of
  
the First 1800 Accessions. 
Orono, Me.:
 Northeast Folklore
 
Br o
s
s
e
a
u , Ma thil d
e  
1980
 Gothic Revival in Canadian Architecture. 
Canadian Historic Sites,
 
no.  25.
 Ottawa:
 National Historic Parks and Sites,  Parks Canada,
 
Environment Canada.
 
Brun, R6gis
 
bY4
'
 
Churchill, Edwin,  and Sheila McDonald
 
1988
 "Reflections of Their World: The Furniture of the Upper St. John
 
Valley,  1820-1930."
 In Perspectives on American Furniture, edited
 
by Gerald Ward,  63-91.
 New York:
 Published for the Henry
 
Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum by W.W. Norton.
 
Clark, Andrew Hill
 
1968
 Acadia: The Geoqraphv of Early Nova Scotia to 1760. 
Madison, Wi.:
 
University of Wisconsin Press.
 
Collins, Charles W.
 
1907
 The Acadians of Madawaska, Maine. 
New England Catholic
 
Historical Society Publications,  no 3.
 Boston:
 Press of Thomas
 
Craig, Beatrice
 
1973
 The Franco-Americans of the Saint-John Valley. 
(Presque Isle,
 
Me.]:
 University of Maine at Presque Isle,  1973.
 
1983
 "Family,  Kinship,  and Community:  Families on the Canadian-Quebec
 
Border, Madawaska."
 Ph.D. thesis, University of Maine,  1983.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 113
 
Cyr,  Claude
 
1981a
 Cyr Reunion Booklet. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John Valley
 
Publishing Co.
 
1981b
 Cyr Leqacy. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 Northern Graphics.
 
Cyr,  Leo G.
 
1985
 Madawaska Heritaqe:  A History and Genealoqy of our Family,  A  
Branch of the Sire  (Cyr)  Family in the New World. 
Bethesda,  Md.:
 
L.G.  Cyr.
 
Cyr,  Marguerite
 
1977
 Memoires d'une famille acadienne de Van Buren,  Maine.
 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John Valley Bilingual Education Program.
 
Daigle,  Jean,  ed.
 
1980
 Les Acadiens des Maritimes. 
Moncton,  N.B.:
 Centre d'études
 
acadiennes.
 
ed.
 
1982
 The Acadians of the Maritimes:  Thematic Studies, 
Moncton,  New
 
Brunswick:
 Centre d'études acadiennes,  l
iniversité de Moncton,
 
1982.
 
1982b
 "Acadia,  1604-1763:  An Historical Synthesis.
 In The Acadians of
  
the Maritimes:  Thematic Studies, edited by Jean Daigle,  17-46.
 
Moncton,  New Brunswick:
 Centre d'études acadiennes,  Université de
 
Moncton,  1982.
 
Daigle,  Jules 0.
 
1984
 A Dictionary of the Cajun Lanquaqe. 
Ann Arbor,  Mi.:
 Edwards
 
Brothers,  Inc.,  1984.
 
Daigle,  Laurel J.
 
1989
 History of Public Education in Maine School Administrative
  
District No.  27: A Lonq Tradition of Service and Excellence.
 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 Northern Graphics.
 
Davis,  Nanciellen
 
1985
 Ethnicity and Ethnic Group Persistence in an Acadian Villaqe in
 
Maritime Canada. 
New York:
 AMS Press.
 
D
 'Entremont,  Clarence
 
1972
 "The Acadians in New England."
 In The French in New Enqland,  
Acadia and Quebec, edited by Edward Shriver,  23-42.
 Orono,
 
Me.:
 New England-Atlantic Provices-Quebec Center.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 114
 
Denys,  Nicolas
 
1908
 The Description and Natural History of the Coasts of North
  
America  (Acadia). 
Trans.  of 1672 ed.
 Toronto:
 The Champlain
 
Society.
 
Ditchy,  Jay K.
 
1932
 Les Acadiens Louisianais et leur parler. 
Baltimore:
 The Johns
 
Hopkins Press.
 
Doughty,  Arthur G.
 
1916
 The Acadian Exiles: A Chronicle of the Land of Evanqeline.
 
Toronto:
 Glasgow,  Brook and Co.
 
Doty,  C.  Stewart
 
1991
 Acadian Hard Times:  The Farm Security Administration in  
Maine's St.  John Valley 1940-1943. 
Orono,  Me.:
 University of
 
Maine Press.
 
Dubay,  Guy F.
 
1978
 "Le Fait Franco-Americain.
,"
 Le Brayon 6,  no.  1
. (Jan.-March
 
1978) :10-14.
 
1983
 Chez-nous:  The St.  John Valley. 
Augusta,  Me.:
 The Maine State
 
Museum.
 
Dupont,  Jean-Claude
 
1979
 Histoire populaire de l'Acadie. 
Ottawa:
 Editions Leméac.
 
Edwards,  Jay
 
1987
 "A Geographic History of Acadie."
 In The Caluns:  Their History  
and Culture, edited by Hamilton and Associates,  vol.  I,  pt.  2,  11-
23.
 New Orleans:
 Jean Lafitte National Historical Park.
 
Fennelly,  Catherine
 
1969
 Life in an Old New Enqland Country Villaqe. 
New York:
 Thomas Y.
 
Crowell Company.
 
Finegan,  Edward,  and Niko Besnier
 
1989
 Lanquaqe:  Its Structure and Use. 
New York:
 Harcourt Brace
 
Jovanovich.
 
Freeberg,  Ernie
 
1989
 "Voice of The Valley."
 Down East, Nov.  1989,  78,  95.
 
Flikeid,  Karin
 
1984
 La variation phonétique dans le parler acadien du nord-est du  
Nouveau-Brunswick:  étude sociolinquistique. 
American University
 
Studies,  series XII,  linguistics.
 New York:
 Peter Lang.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 115
 
Gauvin,  Marie Anne
 
1965
 "Linguistic and Cultural Heritage of the Acadians in  Maine and
 
New Brunswick."
 Thesis,  Central Connecticut State College.
 
Giguère,  Madeleine,  ed.
 
1981
 A Franco-American Overview. 
Vol.  3,  pt.  1.
 Cambridge,  Ma.:
 
National Assessment and Dissemination Center for
 
Bilingual/Bicultural Education.
 
Gowans,  Alan
 
1966
 Buildinq Canada:  An Architectural History of Canadian Life.
 
Toronto:
 Oxford University Press.
 
1958
 Lookinq at Architecture in Canada. 
Toronto:
 Oxford University
 
Press.
 
Griffiths,  Naomi E.  S.
 
1973
 The Acadians:  Creation of a People. 
Toronto:
 McGraw-Hill
 
Ryerson.
 
Gruss,  Robert
 
1978
 Dictionnaire Gruss de marine. 
5th ed.
 Paris:
 Editions maritimes
 
& d'outre-mer.
 
Guignard, Michael J.
 
1984
 La foi,  la lanque,  la culture:  the Franco-Americans of  
Biddeford,  Maine. 
N.p.:
 N.p..
 
Hamilton and Associates,  eds.
 
1987
 The Caluns:  Their History and Culture. 
5 vols.
 New Orleans:
 
Jean Lafitte National Historic Park.
 
Hamilton,  Catherine
 
1988
 "Les Acadiens du Madawaska."
 Salt 32  (May 1988):46-57.
 
Hamlin,  Helen
 
1948
 Pine,  Potatoes and People:  The Story of Aroostook. 
New York:
 
W. W.  Norton & Co.
 
Harris,  Richard C.
 
1966
 The Seiqneurial System in Early Canada:  A Geoqraphical Study.
 
Madison,  Wi.:
 University of Wisconsin Press.
 
Hebert,  Donald J.
 
1979
 Index and Key Words to Histoire et Genealoqie des Acadiens by Bona
 
Arsenault. 
Cecilia,  La.:
 D.J.  Hebert.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 116
 
1980
 Acadians in Exile. 
Cecilia,  La.:
 Hebert Publications.
 
Hebert,  Real
 
1982
 Hebert Reunion/Reunion Hebert. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John Valley
 
Publishing Co.
 
Howe,  Lois L.,  and Constance Fuller
 
1913
 Details From Old New Enqland Houses. 
New York:
 The Architectural
 
Book Publishing Company.
 
Huf ford, Mary
 
1986
 One Space,  Many Places:  Folklife and Land Use in New Jersey's  
Pinelands National Reserve. 
Washington:
 American Folklife
 
Center,  Library of Congress.
 
Hymes,  Dell
 
1975
 "Folklore's Nature and the Sun's Myth."
 Journal of American
 
Folklore 88:345-69.
 
Jabbour,  Alan,  and Howard W.  Marshall
 
1980
 "Folklife and Cultural Preservation."
 In New Directions in Rural
  
Preservation, edited by Robert E.  Stipe,  43-50.
 Washington:
 U.S.
 
Department of the Interior.
 
Kidney,  Dorothy Boone
 
1976
 A Home in the Wilderness:  Away From it All in the Allaqash Woods
 
of Maine. 
South Brunswick and New York:
 A.S.  Barnes and
 
Company.
 
Konrad, Victor A.
 
1982
 "Against the Tide:  French Canadian Barn Building Traditions
 
in the St.  John Valley of Maine."
 The American Review of Canadian
 
Studies, 12,  no.2  (1982):22-36.
 
Konrad,  Victor A.,  and Michael Chaney
 
1983
 "The Madawaska Twin Barn of Maine's St.  John Valley."
 Journal of
 
Cultural Geoqraphy 4 (1983):65-73.
 
Lacourcière,  Luc
 
1972
 "Oral Tradition:  New England and French Canada."
 In The French in
 
New Enqland,  Acadia and Quebec, edited by Edward Shriver,  93-113.
 
Orono, Me.:
 New England-Atlantic Provices-Quebec Center.
 
Lang,  Nicole
 
1987
 "L'impact d'une industrie:  les effets sociaux de l'arrivée de la
 
Compagnie Fraser Limited a
 Edmundston,  N.B.,  1900-1950."
 Revue de
 
la société historique du Madawaska 15,  nos.  1-2  (Jan.-June 1987):
 
4-71.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 117
 
LeBlanc,  Dudley J.
 
1932
 The True Story of the Acadians. 
N.p.:
 N.p..
 
1966
 The Acadian Miracle. 
Lafayette,  La.:
 Evangeline Publishing
 
Company.
 
LeBlanc,  Emery
 
1963
 Les Acadiens. 
Montréal:
 Les Editions de L'Homme.
 
LeBlanc,  Robert G.
 
1979
 "Les migrations acadiennes."
 Cahiers de qéoqraphie du Québec
 
23,  no.  58  (April 1979):99-124.
 
1981
 "The Acadian Migrations."
 In A Franco-American Overview. 
Vol.  3,
 
pt.  1,  edited by Madeleine Giguère,  49-67.
 Cambridge,  Ma.:
 
National Assessment and Dissemination Center for
 
Bilingual/Bicultural Education.
 
LeClerc, André,  Anne-Marie Ouellet,  Lise Ouellette,  Claude Saintonge,  Serge
 
Thibodeau and Benoit Bérubé
 
1979
 "Connais-toi toi-même:  rapport d'un sondage sur l'identité et le
 
sentiment d'appartenance de la population du  'territoire z'."
 
Revue de la société historique du Madawaska -
 Le Bravon 7,  nos.  2
 
& 3 (April-Sept.  1979):4-138.
 
Lessard,  Michel,  and Gilles Vilandré,  eds.
 
1974
 La maison traditionnelle au Québec:  construction  Lnventaire
 
restauration. 
Montréal:
 Les editions de l'homme.
 
Levasseur,  Francis
 
1970
 Acadian Cook Book. 
Madawaska, Me.:
 St.  John Valley Publishing
 
Co.
 
Loomis,  Ormond,  coord.
 
1983
 Cultural Conservation:  The Protection of Cultural Heritaqe in the
 
United States. 
Washington:
 Library of Congress.
 
Lunt,  C.  Richard K.
 
1981
 The Maine Folklife Index:  Resources for Study. 
Orono,  Me.:
 
Northeast Archives of Folklore and Oral History,  University of
 
Maine at Orono.
 
Maitland,  Leslie
 
1984
 Neoclassical Architecture in Canada. 
Ottawa:
 National Historic
 
Parks and Sites Branch,  Parks Canada,  Environment Canada.
 
Maine School Administrative District #33
 
(1991]
 "Bilingual Education Program MSAD #33."
 N.p.:
 N.p.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 118
 
Martin,  John
 
In Les Acadiens: etat de la recherche, edited by Jacques LaPoin
 
(Proceedings of conference held in 1985.)
 1 
M
arshall,
 
of the American Folklife Center,  no.  6
.
 Washington:
 American
 
Folklife Center, Library of Congress.
 
1981b
 Folk Architecture in Little Dixie: A Reqional Culture in Missouri.
 
Columbia, Mo.:
 University of Missouri Press.
 
Mason, Wade
 
1973
 "The Loyalist and the Acadians."
 In The French in New Enqland,  
Acadia and Quebec, edited by Edward Shriver,  7-22.
 Orono, Me.:
 
New England-Atlantic Provinces-Quebec Center.
 
1981a
 American Folk Architecture: A Selected Biblioqraphy. 
Publications
 
M cD
o
n
a ld,  
•
,
_
 F
.
J.- 
- 
a
r
 
Historical Society Quarterly 29,  nos.  3 & 4  (winter-spring
 
• rath, Anna 
 
Fi e l
d s
, 
 
- .
 
County, Maine. 
Norfolk, Va.:
 The Donning Company for the
 
Friends of Aroostook County Historical Center.
 
1989
 The County: Land of Promise: A Pictorial History of Aroostook
 
1984
 
Webster' s  New Geoqraphical  Dictionary. 
Springfield,  Ma.:
 
Merriam- Webster,  Inc.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 119
 
Moogk,  Peter N.
 
1977
 Buildine a House in New France:  An Account of the Perplexities of
 
Client and Craftsmen in Early Canada. 
Toronto:
 McClelland and
 
Stewart.
 
Ornstein,  Lisa
 
1991
 Folklore and Folklife in the Upper St.  John Valley:  A  
Preliminary Biblioqraphy. 
Fort Kent,  Me.:
 Acadian
 
Archives/Archives acadiennes,  University of Maine at Fort Kent.
 
Palardy,  Jean
 
1963
 Les meubles anciens du Canada francais. 
Montréal:
 Le Cercie
 
du Livre de France Ltée.
 
1965
 The Early Furniture of French Canada. 
Translated by Eric McLean.
 
Toronto:
 MacMillan of Canada; New York:
 St.  Martin's Press.
 
Paradis,  Roger
 
1975
 "Culture in Twilight:  Report on a Field Study Research in
 
Madawaska."
 Paper presented at the annual meeting of the American
 
Folklore Society,  New Orleans,  Louisiana,  October 27,  1975.
 
Picard,  Claude
 
1989
 "La petit histoire de la musique au Madawaska."
 Revue de la
  
société historicrue du Madawaska 17,  no.  1 (Jan.-March 1989):41-2.
 
Pitre, Marie-Claire,  and James E.  Condow
 
1986
 La Deportation des Acadiens/The Deportation of the Acadians.
 
[Ottawa]:
 Minister of Supply and Services Canada.
 
Polley,  G.  Henry
 
1914
 The Architecture Interiors and Furniture of the American  
Colonies Durinq the Eicihteenth Century. 
Boston:
 Geo.  H.  Polley
 
Co.  Publishers.
 
Potter,  David,  ed.
 
1991
 Northern Maine Overall Economic Development Prociram 1990 Update.
 
Caribou,  Me.:
 Northern Maine Regional Planning Commission.
 
Pullen,  Clarence
 
1902
 In Fair Aroostook. 
Bangor,  Me.:
 Bangor and Aroostook
 
Railroad Co.
 
Quintal,  Claire,  ed.
 
1984
 L'émicirant acadien vers les Etats-Unis,  1842-1950. 
Québec:
 
Le Conseil de la vie francaise en Amérique.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 120
 
Reid,  John G.
 
1976
 Acadia. Maine,  and New Scotland:  Marginal Colonies in the  
Seventeenth Century. 
Toronto:
 University of Toronto Press.
 
Ridenour,  James M.
 
1991
 "Preserving America's Cultural Heritage."
 In 1991 Festival of
 
American Folklife, 6.
 Washington:
 Smithsonian Institution.
 
Robert,  Paul
 
1988
 Le petit Robert:  dictionnaire alphabétique et analoqique de la
  
langue Francaise. 
Vol.  1,  A.  Roy and J.  Roy-Debove,  eds.
 Paris:
 
Dictionnaire Robert.
 
Rooney,  John F.,  Wilbur Zelinsky,  and Dean R.  Lauder,  gen.  eds.
 
1982
 This Remarkable Continent: An Atlas of United States and Canadian
 
Society and Culture. 
College Station,  Tx.:
 Published for the
 
Society for the North American Cultural Survey by Texas A & M
 
University Press.
 
Roy, Muriel K
 
1982
 "Settlement and Population Growth in Acadia."
 In The Acadians of
  
the Maritimes:  Thematic Studies, edited by Jean Daigle,  125-196.
 
Moncton,  New Brunswick:
 Centre d'études acadiennes,  Université de
 
Moncton,  1982.
 
Rumilly,  Robert
 
1981a
 L'Acadie anglaise:  1713-1755. 
Montréal:
 La Corporation des
 
Editions Fides.
 
1981b
 L'Acadie francaise:  1497-1713. 
Montréal:
 La Corporation des
 
Editions Fides.
 
Schiereth,  Thomas J.,  ed.
 
1985
 Material Culture:  A Research Guide. 
Lawrence,  Ks.:
 University
 
of Kansas.
 
Schroeder, Walter
 
1983
 "Types of Settlement Patterns in the Ste.  Genevieve District,
 
1750-1806."
 In Cultural Geography of Missouri, edited by
 
Michael 0.  Roark.
 Cape Girardeau,  Mo.:
 Southeast Missouri
 
State University.
 
Sharpe,  Errol
 
1976
 A People's History of Prince Edward Island. 
Toronto:
 Steel
 
Rail Publishing.
 
Shriver,  Edward,  ed.
 
1973
 The French in New England,  Acadia and Quebec. 
Orono,  Me.:
 New
 
England-Atlantic Provinces-Quebec Center.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 121
 
Simard,  Cyril
 
1988
 "Le u n au Madawaska au l9ème siécle:  les  'Brayon'  n'étaient pas
 
seuls a
 filer ce  'mauvais coton.'"
 Revue de la société historique
 
du Madawaska 15,  no.  4 (Oct.-Dec.  1988):9-25.
 
Singleton,  Esther
 
1903
 French and English Furniture:  Distinctive Styles and Periods
 
Described and Illustrated. 
New York:
 McClure Phillips &
 
Company.
 
Snow,  Claude
 
1977
 Le parlement du monde ordinaire. 
Caraquet,  N.B.:
 Imprimere du
 
Nord Ltée.
 
St.  George,  Robert Blair,  ed.
 
1988
 Material Life in America,  1600-1860. 
Boston:
 Northeastern
 
University Press.
 
Stadig,  Rita B.
 
1978
 Our Maine Heritage. 
Soldier Pond,  Me.:
 R.  Stadig.
 
1989
 The St.  John Valley Story and the Wallagrass Story, 
Soldier
 
Pond, Me.:
 R.  Stadig.
 
Sunderland,  Terry
 
1980
 Still Standing:  Cape Breton Buildings From Days Gone By.
 
Sydney,  N.S.:
 The College of Cape Breton Press.
 
Tallant,  Robert
 
1957
 Evangeline and the Acadians. 
New York:
 Random House.
 
Thériault,  Leon
 
1982
 "Acadia,  1763-1978:  An Historical Synthesis."
 In The Acadians of
  
the Maritimes:  Thematic Studies, edited by Jean Daigle,  47-86.
 
Moncton,  New Brunswick:
 Centre d'études acadiennes,  Université de
 
Moncton,  1982.
 
1982b
 La question du pouvoir en Acadie. 
Ottawa:
 Les Editions d'Acadie.
 
Thompson,  Deborah,  ed.
 
1976
 Maine Forms of American Architecture. 
Camden,  Me.:
 Downeast
 
Magazine.
 
Trueman,  Stuart
 
1970
 An Intimate History of New Brunswick. 
Toronto:
 McClelland
 
and Stewart Limited.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 122
 
U.S.  Bureau of the C e n s u s
 
1973
 Census Of Population:  1970. 
Subject Reports,  Final Report PC(2)-
1A,  National origin and Language.
 Washington:
 U.S.
 Government
 
Printing Office.
 
1982
 1980 Census of Population. 
Vol.  1
, Chap.  B, pt.  21,  PC80-1-B21.
 
Washington:
 U.S. Government Printing Office.
 
1983a
 1980 Census of Population. 
Vol.  1
, Chap.  C, pt.  21 f PC80-1-C21.
 
Washington:
 U.S. Government Printing office.
 
1983b
 1980 Census of Population. 
Vol.  1,  Chap.  D,  pt.  21,  PC80-1-D21.
 
Washington:
 U.S.  Government Printing office.
 
1988
 Countv and Citv Data Book,  1988. 
Washington:
 U.S. Government
 
Printing office.
 
1991
 1990 Census of Population and Housinq. 
Summary Population and
 
Housing Characteristics.
 1990 CPH-1-21.
 Washington:
 U.S.
 
Government Printing office.
 
U.S. Congress
 
b
( . 
American Folklife Preservation Act. 
94th Congress,  1976.
 P.L.
 
Depart m e n t
 
94-201,  86 Stat.  1129,  20 USC 2101.
 
1990
 Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act. 
101st Congress,  1990.
 
P.L.  101-543,  104 Stat.  2389,  16 USC 461 note.
 
o f  t h e  I n t e r i o r,
I Se rvic e 
W arren,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 123
 
Werner,  Oswald,  and G. Mark Schoepfle
 
1987
 Systematic Fieldwork. 
Vol.  1.
 Newbury Park,  Ca.:
 Sage
 
Publications.
 
Wiggins,  Edward
 
1922
 History of Aroostook. 
Presque Isle,  Me.:
 The Star-Herald
 
Press.
 
Wilson,  Charles Morrow
 
1937
 Aroostook:  Our Last Frontier. 
Brattleboro,  Vt.:
 Stephen Daye
 
Press.
 
Witthoft,  John
 
1963
 "Notes on the American Indian Crooked Knife."
 Chronicle of the
  
Early American Industries Association 16,  no.  1 (March 1963):199-
208.
 
Wood,  Joseph S.
 
1988
 "Village and Community in Early Colonial New England."
 In
 
Material Life in America,  1600-1860, edited by Robert Blair St
 
George,  159-169.
 Boston:
 Northeastern University Press.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 128
 
APPENDIX II
 
INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
 
AND THE NORTH ATLANTIC REGIONAL OFFICE
 
OF THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
 
IA 1600-1-9003
 
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this  
 day of May,  1991,  by and
 
between THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS  (hereinafter "Library"),  Washington,  D.C.,  on
 
behalf of the American Folklife Center  (hereinafter "Center"),  and THE NORTH
 
ATLANTIC REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE  (hereinafter
 
"Service").
 
WITNESSETH:
 
WHEREAS,  P.L.  101-543 provides for the preservation and interpretation
 
of Acadian culture in the State of Maine and authorizes the establishment of a
 
center for the preservation and interpretation of Acadian culture within the
 
State of Maine;  and
 
WHEREAS,  in accordance with P.L.  101-543,  Section 5,  the Secretary of
 
Interior has directed the Service to undertake a comprehensive study of
 
Acadian culture in Maine prior to the establishment of the cultural center and
 
to prepare and transmit,  within one year of the date of the enactment of the
 
law,  a report on the findings of the study to the Committee on Interior and
 
Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the
 
committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate;  and,
 
WHEREAS,  the Center was established by Congress through enactment of
 
P.L.  94-201 to provide a wide range of research,  programming,  consultation,
 
and assistance,  and to work in close cooperation with other agencies in the
 
development of guidelines and recommendations relating to cultural
 
conservation and the preservation and presentation of American folklife;
 
WHEREAS,  the Service and the Center anticipate that other such occasions
 
for professional collaboration may arise in the future;
 
NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration of the above,  and the promises
 
hereinafter made,  and pursuant to the authority of The Librarian of Congress
 
and the Director of the North Atlantic Regional Office of the Service,  the
 
parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
 
THE LIBRARY AGREES:
 
1)  To develop and administer to completion,  under the direction of the
 
Center,  all phases of a study investigating aspects of Acadian culture in
 
Maine as outlined in the attached scope of work and budget.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 129
 
2)  To develop and present to the Service,  no later than September 9,
 
1991,  a draft report on the findings of the study and recommendations for
 
future research and cultural programming.
 
3)  To coordinate meetings with Service personnel and others who may
 
contribute to the planning and future programming of the Acadian Cultural
 
Center.
 
4)  To provide to the Acadian Cultural Center,  the Service,  or other
 
appropriate organization,  a reference copy of all field documentation for the
 
study,  including fieldnotes,  duplicate sound recordings of interviews and
 
performances,  and reference sets of visual documentation  (including fiches of
 
color transparencies and contact sheets of black and white prints)  in
 
accordance with the customary standards of the Center.
 
5)  To provide ongoing advisory assistance regarding the design,
 
implementation,  and long-range planning of the Acadian Cultural Center.
 
THE SERVICE AGREES:
 
1)  To transfer to the Library $50,000 for expenditures relating to the
 
costs incurred in fulfillment of this agreement as outlined in the attached
 
scope of work  (Schedule A)  and budget  (Schedule B),  including costs of
 
contracted employees,  travel,  equipment and supplies,  miscellaneous services,
 
and overhead customarily required.
 
2)  To designate an appropriate member of the Service as a liaison
 
between the Center and the Service.
 
3)  To apprise the Center of existing and future activities,  resources,
 
and events which may bear upon the development of the Acadian Cultural Center.
 
4)  To apprise the Center of other areas or initiatives in which the
 
Center's and the Service's mutual goals may warrant collaboration.
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
1)  THIS AGREEMENT constitutes the entire understanding of the parties
 
hereto and it shall not be modified,  changed,  or otherwise amended without the
 
written approval of both parties hereto.
 
2)  THIS AGREEMENT shall be in force and effect from the date first set
 
out above and shall remain in effect for five years thereafter,  provided,
 
however,  that this Agreement may be terminated upon mutual consent of the
 
parties upon 60 days notice to either party.
 
3)  The parties agree to reply to correspondence related to this
 
Agreement promptly.
 Any notice or communication given pursuant to or in
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 130
 
rst
 
Ail or by facsimile  (tax)  transmission as  foiiows .
 
)
r. David A.  Taylor
 
'
olklife Specialist
 
American Folklife Center
 
ibrary of Congress
 
i
s.  Sarah Peskin
 
3ranch Chief,  Planning,  Design & Legislation
 
'
Torth Atlantic Regional Office
 
'
Tationa1 Park Service
 
5 State Street
 
4assachusetts
 02109
 
e hereunder are subject to the
 
ability of funds and to such direction and instructions as may have been
 
e established by law or regulation.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have executed this Agreement as of
 
e first above written.
 
Gerald D.  Patten
 Winston Tabb
 
Regional Director
 Acting Deputy Librarian
 
N
 l
ion
 of Congress
 
Marcia A.  Omowaiye
 
Contracting Officer
 
North Atlantic Region
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 131
 
ADDENDUM TO INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
 
AND THE NORTH ATLANTIC REGIONAL OFFICE
 
OF THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
 
survey of Acadian Culture Resources in Maine
 
Wql
�
 
Work to be undertaken by the American Folklife Center in connection with
 
a preliminary survey of Acadian cultural resources in Maine will be divided
 
into three phases:
 
1
. Preliminary research at the Library of Congress  (April & May,  1991)
 
2. Field investigation in selected communities in Aroostook County,
 
Maine (June & July,  1991)
 
3. Assessment of field data,  creation of draft report, preparation of
 
archival materials  (August 1-September 9,  1991)
 
A draft report on Acadian cultural resources in Maine will be submitted
 
to the National Park Service on September 9,  1991.
 
The following are the primary questions to be addressed by the project's
 
researchers:
 
1
. What are the geographic boundaries of contemporary Acadian culture in
 
2. what is the basic historic,  social, economic,  and demographic context
 
of the study area?
 
3. What is the legislative direction for recognizing Acadian culture
 
Maine as a theme/site of national significance?
 I 
4. What are the implications of interpreting a culture region that
 
overlaps an international boundary?
 (What,  for example,  are the effects of
 
policies  (state, provincial,  and national)  concerning such issues as cultural
 
diversity,  heritage protection,  and language rights?  And, what roles,  if any,
 
might agencies of the government of Canada and agencies of the provincial
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 132
 
government of New Brunswick play in the development of a Maine Acadian Culture
 
Center?)
 
5.  What criteria do people use in identifying themselves as Acadians?
 
(Explore points of perplexity,  such as:
 the relationship between Acadian
 
culture and other French-derived cultures;  and "Acadian"  as a proto-regional
 
designation.)
 
6. What sites within the study area are of cultural importance to
 
Acadians?
 That is,  what is the cultural geography of the study area?
 
7. What sites,  if any, within the study area may be considered as
 
possible sites for an interpretive center and other structures to be utilized
 
by a Maine Acadian Culture Center?
 (The National Park Service will assist in
 
addressing such questions as:  Can existing structures be used?
 Do new
 
buildings have to be constructed?
 Which sites are congruent with the possible
 
theme(s)  of the center?)
 
8. What are the salient features of the contemporary expressive culture
 
of Acadians within the study area?
 
9. What institutions,  associations,  and individuals are currently
 
engaged in efforts to recognize,  document,  conserve,  and celebrate Acadian
 
cultural heritage in the study area?
 
10. What is the constituency for a Maine Acadian Cultural Center?
 (In
 
addition to local residents  (Acadians and non-Acadians),  consider also:
 
visitors  (tourists),  and persons of Acadian descent,  with ties to the study
 
area, who live elsewhere.)
 
11. What could a Maine Acadian Culture Center do for tourists?
 What
 
could it do for local residents?
 
12.  What interpretive models  (exhibitions,  demonstrations,  tours,
 
publications,  etc.)  should be considered for a Maine Acadian Culture Center?
 
That is,  what is the range of options?
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 133
 
SCHEDULE B
 
ADDENDUM TO INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT BEWTWEEN THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
 
AND THE NORTH ATLANTIC REGIONAL OFFICE
 
OF THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
 
Survey of Acadian Cultural Resources in Maine
 
Estimated Budget
 
Salaries
  
lead fieldworker  (Brassieur)
 
fieldworker #2  (Whitman)
 
fieldworker #3  (Ornstein)
 
fieldworker #4  (Marshall)
 
AFC Director  (Jabbour)
 
AFC Folklife Specialist  (Taylor)
 
AFC Researcher  (Bryce-Laporte)
 
AFC Archivist
 
CASH 
$8035.00
 
4150.00
 
3600.00
 
1565.00
 
Total Salaries:
 $17,350.00
 
Per Diem
 
Maine:
 $66/day x 150
 
Washington:
 $131/day x 6
 
$9900.00
 
786.00
 
AFC IN-KIND
 
$2450.00
 
6300.00
 
4000.00
 
3000.00 
$15,750.00
 
Maine:
 $66/day x 8
 $528.00 
Total Per Diem:
 $10,686
 $528.00
 
Travel
  
airfares
 $2836.00
 $420.00
 
car rental:  $30/day x 145 days
 4350.00
 
mileage  (personal auto):  .26/mi.  x 1,500   
360.00
  
car rental:  $30/day x 6
 180.00 
Total Travel:
 $7546.00
 $600.00
 
Supplies
  
35mm film
 $900.00
 
audio tape
 200.00
 
batteries
 210.00
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 134
 
computer rental
 
printer rental
 
misc.  office supplies
 
archival supplies
 
AFC laptop computer
 
AFC tape recorders & accessories
 
AFC cameras & lenses
 
AFC tape duplicator
 
900.00
 
400.00
 
300.00
 
Total Supplies:  $2,910.00
 
Services
 
photo processing & printing
 $800.00
 
printing
 500.00
 
telephone
 300.00
 
postage
 200.00
 
shipping  (equipment)
 886.00
 
Miscellaneous
  
miscellaneous expenses
 
Total Services:  $2686.00
 
Total Misc.:
 
$250.00
 
600.00
 
1200.00
 
600.00
 
400.00 
$3,050.00
 
$2000.00 
$150.00 
$2000.00
 $150.00
 
SUB-TOTAL:  $43,178.00
 
ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEAD  (15.8%):  
6,822.00 
TOTAL CASH EXPENSES:
 $50,000.00
 
TOTAL AFC IN-KIND:
 
NOTES
  
$20,078.00
 
1.  Salaries computed as follows:
 Brassieur--3 months @ 25% of regular
 
salarary  ($25,709),  plus 25% of annual benefits  ($6,427.25); Whitman -- $50 /day
 
x 83 days  (no benefits); Ornstein -- $1 20 /day x 30 days  (no benefits); Marshall-
-7 days @ 2.69% of regular salary  ($46,4 79
)
,  plus 25% of benefits  ($1,251.36);
 
Jabbour  (GS-16)--7 days @ $350/day;  Taylor  (GS-12)--40 days @ $160/day;  Bryce-
Laporte  (GS-9)--40 days @ $100/day;  archivist  (GS-9)--30 days @ $100/day.
 
2.  Per diem computed as follows:
 Maine:  Brassieur--61 days,  Whitman--61 days,
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 135
 
Marshall--7 days,  Taylor--12 days,  Hall--5 days,  Jabbour--4 days.
 Washington:
 
Brassieur--6 days.
 
3. Air travel  (cash)  computed as follows:
 Three round-trips from Columbia,
 
Missouri,  to Bangor, Maine,  @ $528  (21 day advance purchase fare with Saturday
 
overnight)  for Brassieur, Whitman,  and Marshall.
 Three round-trips from
 
Washington,  D.C.,  to Bangor,  Maine,  @ $298  (21 day advance purchare fare with
 
Saturday overnight)  for Taylor,  Hall and Jabbour.
 One round-trip from
 
Columbia,  Missouri,  to Washington,  D.C.,  @ $358  (21 day advance purchase with
 
Saturday overnight)  for Brassieur.
 
4.  Car rental  (cash)  computed as follows:
 Brassieur--61 days,  Whitman--61
 
days,  Marshall--7 days,  Taylor--12 days,  Jabbour--4 days.
 
5.  Mileage  (in personal auto)  is for Ornstein's local travel.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 136
 
APPENDIX III:
 A PRELIMINARY GLOSSARY OF FRENCH TERMS RELATED TO VERNACULAR
 
ARCHITECTURE AND CULTURAL LANDSCAPE IN THE ST.  JOHN VALLEY OF MAINE,  PREPARED
 
BY HOWARD W.  MARSHALL
 
Preface 
This glossary was prepared from field research conducted in the
 
Upper St.  John River Valley of northern Maine in 1991.
 It makes no attempt to
 
be historical,  and,  since it is based on short-term fieldwork,  it cannot be
 
definitive.
 
Most of the terms given below can be located in standard
 
dictionaries of the French language.
 However,  some terms are found  (heard)
 
only in the living context of spoken French used in the valley.
 
Although there are studies of French vernacular building
 
traditions in North America  (see Gowans 1964,  Kniffen and Glassie 1965,  Moogk
 
1977,  Edwards 1987,  and Upton and Vlach 1986),  data collected during the
 
course of the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey indicates a need to rethink the
 
features of the technology and the houses,  barns,  and other features related
 
to architecture and landscape.
 
Studies of the French-derived architecture of Louisiana  (Kniffen
 
1965,  Edwards 1987),  Missouri  (Thurman 1984,  Peterson 1940-41),  and Quebec
 
(Gowans 1964,  Moogk 1977)  contain architectural terms supplied by scholars as
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 137
 
well as terms elicited from residents of areas where examples of this
 
architecture features are found.
 This is also the case with studies of
 
Acadian buildings in the Upper St.  John Valley.
 
There is,  not surprisingly,  disagreement among Acadian scholars on
 
these terms.
 Most terms are not found in standard dictionaries of
 
architectural history and technology.
 Scholars who have explored documents
 
such as travelers'  accounts,  diaries,  and legal records encounter a variety of
 
spellings and glosses.
 In addition,  a researcher familiar with published
 
studies of French Creole or Cajun building traditions in Louisiana will not
 
necessarily know the permutation of a French word in northern Maine.
 In
 
Louisiana,  the term colombaqe, for example,  is generally used in the published
 
scholarship to denote heavy frame or box construction with in-fill  (
fachwerk
  
in German;  half-timbering in English),  but in the St.  John Valley,  people
 
understand it to refer to a particular kind of pièce-sur-Pièce (piece-on-
piece)  construction in which vertical grooved columns receive the ends of the
 
flush horizontal pièces (madriers) 
Still one of the best works,  although about French settlers in a
 
different region,  is McDermott's 1941 monograph,  A Glossary of Mississippi
  
Valley French 1673-1850. 
McDermott,  who taught French at Washington
 
University and was knowledgeable about the Acadian experience in North
 
America,  based his glossary on French terms found in early documents.
 In the
 
present glossary,  terms found in the Valley that are identical to those in
 
McDermott's study are noted with an asterisk  (
*)
 
Some historic terms in McDermott were not heard in Maine,  such as
 
boulin for  "log used in building houses or fences"  (McDermott 1941:33) ,
 and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 138
 
bousillaqe (used in Missouri today)  for the chinking between logs in a
 
building  (McDermott 1941:34) .
 Also,  some terms in McDermott have a different
 
meaning in St.  John Valley spoken French.
 For example,  carré in McDermott is
 
explained as the small space beneath a roof  (McDermott 1941:43),  but in the
 
St.  John Valley the word qrenier is used for this  (the loft or attic level)
 
Valley French speakers use the word carré only for the space below the plates
 
(loft level) .
 In other words,  carré is the structural square that the roof
 
sits upon.
 
Equally important,  but more closely connected to the Survey's
 
study area,  is the outstanding collection of essays about the history and
 
construction technology of vernacular houses in Quebec found in La maison
  
traditionnelle au Québec, edited by Lessard and Vilandré  (Lessard and Vilandré
 
1974)
 
The following preliminary glossary is based primarily on
 
conversations with scholars of Acadian culture,  and on discussions with French
 
speakers in the Upper St.  John River Valley during field recording of
 
vernacular buildings undertaken during the summer of 1991.
 A number of terms
 
related to Acadian building and buildings are English instead of French.
 
Those which are especially important keys to the vernacular architecture in
 
the valley are given below,  and noted "ENGL" (English) .
 It is assumed that
 
the average reader will know terms such as:
 rafter,  decking,  plate,  girt,
 
collar beam,  brace,peg/trunnel,  mortise,  tenon,  sill,  sash,  auger,  broad axe,
 
adze,  frow,  plank,  tongue-and-groove,  joinery,  spline,  roof pitch,  whitewash,
 
and oakum.
 If words have synonyms or relevant definitions in the standard
 
Cassell's French Dictionary, and if this information appears helpful,  this is
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 139
 
indicated in parenthesis following the entry.
 (See,  for example,  the entry
 
for  "planche.") 
Words or definitions contributed by Survey researcher C.  Ray
 
Brassieur which are related to Louisiana French are noted by "CRB."
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 140
 
Glossary
 
armoire 
(
*)
 Tall wooden cupboard made to store household material such as
 
dishes  (
if in the dining room or kitchen)  or clothing  (
in a bedroom) .
 The
 
American English terms that can be substituted,  depending on size and
 
function,  are  "wardrobe,"  "chifforobe,"  "
p
r e
s
s ,
" 
and "sideboard ."  Armoire
  
rouqe (qros rouqe) is sometimes used to denote the special flat,  deep red
 
color  (also called sanq de boeuf) historically painted on armoires and other
 
kinds of furniture in the Acadian household.
 
armoirette 
(CRB)
 Shorter,  more typical Acadian armoire.
 
arpent 
(arpent =
 acre;  equivalent to about one-and-a-half English acres
 
Cassell's 49 / *
)
 The official system of French
"
l
o
n
g
 lot"  land division
 
brought to North America with the first Acadian settlers.
 An arpent is a unit
 
of measure,  roughly 192 English feet in width;  there are different
 
interpretations of its precise dimensions historically.
 For example,  Lessard
 
and Vilandré give the measurement as 191.835 English feet.
 
/
 
baluster 
ENGL Vertical post,  turned or rectangular,  supporting hand rails.
 
batterie 
(batterie =
 threshing floor;  batter en qranqe =
 thresher;  batteuse 
threshing machine /
 Cassell's 83 / *
)
 The middle bay  (hall,  passage)  of a
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 141
 
three-bay Acadian barn  (with large opposed doors)  used as a threshing and
 
winnowing area.
 
bay ENGL Area between principal structural members of a building,  especially
 
a barn.
 
berqère 
(berqer =
 shepherd;  berqerie =
 sheepfold /
 Cassell's 87)
 The low
 
outbuilding where sheep were kept on the Acadian farm.
 
brace 
ENGL 
45-degree angle support placed between vertical and horizontal
 
beams to increase stability;  viz,  lien.
 
camp 
ENGL 
Temporary shelter used by lumbermen and hunters,  or,  as often
 
today,  a vacation or leisure-time cottage or dwelling;  viz.  chantier.
 
carré 
The space below the plates  (
loft level)  of a house;  in other words,  the
 
structural square that the roof sits upon; moving vertically,  the carré is the
 
sills,  walls,  girts and plates.
 
cave 
(
caveau =
 small cellar;  caver =  to hollow out /
 Cassell's 136)
 The
 
cool,  damp dug-out potato barrow or cellar beneath a farm house where potatoes
 
were stored before the coming of railroads in the late nineteenth century led
 
to the construction of special potato houses at the rail heads in the late
 
nineteenth century.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 142
 
Cavereau The entrance  (outside,  ground-level)  to the cave /
 cellar,  usually
 
covered with a shed or gable roof.
 
chinkinq 
ENGL 
Insulation or in-fill between the horizontal logs in the
 
bearing walls of a house.
 Peat moss,  birch bark,  and buckwheat chaff all
 
served the AcadianS very well as chinking in their pièce houses.
 This
 
chinking is rather more like marine "caulking"  than chinking  (of the sort
 
familiar in other regions of the United States where logs are laid up with
 
distinct gaps between them that require substantial in-fill or chinking)  in
 
cases where the logs or pièces fit tightly.
 Since the logs fit flush,  the
 
peat moss and other materials work well as chinking material.
 
comble cassé 
(
"broken comb"  /
 CRE)
 St.  John Valley French words for 'gambrel
 
roof"  familiar in the region,  on twentieth-century barns especially.
 
concession 
(
*)
 Grants of lands to early settlers of means and position.
 In
 
later settlement,  this refers to the  "back settlements,"  lands granted or sold
 
to settlers or the offspring of original settlers coming after the initial
 
lands were taken up along the main areas bordering the river;  to be from one
 
of the  "back settlements"  (away from the river in the interior)  still means
 
that one is not of the best social class and the term still carries derogatory
 
connotations  (
e.g.,  "u s viennent des concessions.").
 
coulisse 
This is the groove cut in the edge of a board to receive the tongue
 
of the adjacent board in planche debout Acadian construction.
 Coulisses are
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 143
 
also taken to be the term for the principal vertical groove cut into the
 
columns for pièce construction.
 
couverture 
(
*)
 Roof of a building.
 (
alternately comble)
 
cloture de pieu 
(CRB)
 Split post-and-rail fences with wire fastenings.
 The
 
historical term,  in McDermott,  is barrière. 
Pieu historically,  in McDermott,
 
means a split or hand-riven post,  rail,  or stake  (
117)
 
colombaqe 
In Moogk  (
1977),  colombaqe refers to wall construction featuring
 
closely-set vertical structural members.  Elsewhere this term is sometimes used
 
for what is called half-timbered construction  (with heavy frame)  for British
 
Isles and British-American instances,  and for what is called Fachwerk in
 
German-speaking European countries and in most Germanic communities in the
 
U.S.
 However,  in the St.  John Valley colombaqe has been applied to the
 
columns that are one of the vital identifying features of pièce-sur-Pièce or
 
log construction in which the horizontal hewn logs or thinner sawn planks
 
(both flat on all four sides)  are fitted very closely together in the Acadian
 
tradition.
 In Moogk  (
1977),  en colombaqe refers to wall construction
 
featuring closely-set vertical structural members.
 
dépanneur 
(quick stop / convenience store)
 These are the local variant of
 
the American convenience stores,  but they are privately owned.
 They sell many
 
kinds of homemade local foods and a wide variety of materials.
 Many offer
 
video rentals.
 Dépanneur is the word used on store fronts in New Brunswick.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 144
 
deuxième ranq 
(deuxième =
 second)
 The second rank of land holdings in the
 
Acadian land division system based on the arpent tradition of division and
 
alignment.
 These were often of lesser quality,  but they were developed prior
 
to the  "back settlements"  (
concessions) ; they were located in the lands well
 
back from the St.  John River's more sought-after lands.
 
Enqlish barn 
ENGL Barn type that in plan is composed of,  usually,  three bays
 
in width and one or more bays in depth;  the principal doors are located in the
 
central bay and are opposed.
 This barn type is called an "Acadian barn"
 
(qranqe acadienne) in the St.  John Valley.
 
flats 
ENGL
 The low-lying landscape attractive for the earliest Acadian
 
agriculture,  commerce,  and settlement,  which begins at the bank of the St.
 
River and runs gently inland to the rise of the hills beyond.
 
qarçonnière 
(bachelor's rooms /
 Cassell's 371;  CRB)
 The term used in
 
Louisiana for the separate upstairs sleeping quarters for males.
 
"the qrand ménaqe" 
(menage =
 housekeeping;  ménaqer =
 to save,  take care of;
 
thrifty,  frugal /
 Cassell's 481;  glossed by one informant as  "the big
 
housekeeping;"  "the big upkeep"  /
 CRB)
 This is the annual cycle of spring
 
cleaning of one's house,  barns,  outbuildings,  yard,  etc.
 The Acadian
 
tradition of spring cleaning here goes far beyond the standard American
 
concept of  "spring cleaning."
 It means to clean anything,  includes re-tarring
 
driveways and demolishing  (
"cleaning up")  old buildings that have fallen into
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 145
 
disrepair.
 
This tendency or custom has significant ramifications for historic
 
preservation.
 When an old shed or outbuilding is disused and falls into a
 
state of neglect,  the force of the spring cleaning tradition pressures people
 
to get rid of their old buildings.
 
qranqe 
Barn.
 The typical Acadian barn  (qranqe acadienne) of the early period
 
is a three-bay side-opening gable-roof barn much like the so-called "English"
 
barn in its floor plan.
 There is a central passageway through the middle of
 
the structure,  and often a shed addition on one gable end.
 At least some
 
parts of this barn are sided with shingles,  particularly the areas  (
inside the
 
barn as well as outside)  where farm animals were stabled during the cold
 
seasons.
 
qrenier 
Greniers are the commodious sleeping and living spaces under the
 
roof.
 Many are quite large and nicely finished,  some being made into two
 
rooms by the addition of a vertical board partition divider wall.
 Some of are
 
insulated with birch bark,  newspaper,  or other materials.
 In Louisiana,  this
 
space is called qarconnière. 
Elsewhere,  this space is called a loft  (
if it
 
includes sleeping spaces)  or an attic (
if the purpose is essentially for
 
storage and utility purposes)
 
qris 
Light grey color commonplace on early furniture and used today in
 
combination with sanq de boeuf (qros rouqe, ox blood color)  by Acadians of the
 
St.  John Valley.
 It occurs frequently in a two-tone combination with sang de
  
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 146
 
boeuf.
 
half-dovetail 
ENGL  This term is familiar to students of log construction
 
traditions throughout North America.
 It refers to the manner of joining hewn-
log bearing walls at the corners in a carefully sawn joint reminiscent of a
 
cabinetmaking joint in which half of a full dovetail is used.
 Half-
dovetailing  (
tête de chien), along with V-notching,  are the two most prevalent
 
log building cornering traditions in the United States when hardwoods are
 
employed.
 (There are examples of full dovetailinq on log houses in New
 
Sweden,  Maine,  built by Swedish immigrant farmers and builders in the late
 
nineteenth century.)
 
kinq's arrow ENGL A mark used by foresters to blaze or identify the best of
 
the old-growth white pine trees;  reserved by the English crown,  they were
 
mainly harvested and shipped out of the region and used for ships'  masts and
 
spars in the Royal Navy in colonial times.
 There were severe penalties for
 
cutting a tree with a king's arrow.
 
lien  Diagonal wooden brace between vertical and horizontal framing members or
 
timbers in a barn.
 
loq buildinq 
ENGL 
For the Acadian vernacular buildings in the St.  John
 
Valley,  "log building" may describe any kind of structure in which logs or
 
timbers are used in the bearing walls of the structure.
 During the early
 
phase of settlement,  log buildings of the Anglo-American variety as well as
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 147
 
log buildings that exemplify the finest Acadian tradition of horizontal log
 
construction  (
frequently with vertical posts anchoring the horizontal  T
u
p i
è
c
e
slr
 
in the en coulisse treatment)  were predominant.
 Thus,  in the study area,  a
 
"pièce" is simply a log or plank used in a bearing wall of a building.
 In
 
this region,  therefore,  and in contradistinction to the description in the
 
seminal essay by Fred Kniffen and Henry Glassie  (Kniffen and Glassie 1966),
 
any log building with logs placed horizontally to provide a bearing wall,
 
regardless of corner-notching or corner-timbering methods,  may be thought of
 
as pièce-sur-pièce construction.
 This is the essential Acadian tradition in
 
the St.  John River Valley.
 Either "log" or "pièce" would be the most general
 
categorical term for these buildings in this region.
 A pièce is a log or
 
plank.
 (
SEE madrier)
 
madrier 
(
thick plank)
 Dialect term  (CR3)  that is sometimes difficult to
 
distinguish from pièce. 
Any Acadian carpenter will distinguish between
 
madrier and pièce, but,  from a lexicographer's perspective,  confusion often
 
results from the fact that different carpenters define the terms variously
 
with respect to precise dimensions.
 A madrier measures ca.  2" x 8-10" x c a.
 
16";  a pièce measures ca.  3-4" or greater in thickness x variable in height
 
and length.
 
maison House.
 
oakum ENGL 
loosely twisted hemp or jute fibers used to caulk seams of ships
 
and boats;  i n  the Upper St.  John Valley,  oakum is sometimes found as caulking
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 148
 
(
insulation)  between the horizontal pièces or logs of a log house.
 
perche 
(CRB)
 Long pole.
 
panellinq 
ENGL Many of the Acadian dwellings have panelled ceilings inside
 
which are often painted white.
 
peq ENGL 
Carved wooden peg or "trunnel"  that secures mortise-and-tenon and
 
other kinds of Acadian joints in the framing of buildings.
 The French term is
 
cheville. 
Trunnels  (wooden pegs--cheville de bois) appear to be the preferred
 
device in this region for locking joints in buildings.
 They provide a
 
flexible but stout lock for important joinery,  such as the rafter couples and
 
all manner of bracing and framing members.
 A trunnel is simply a carved
 
wooden peg that tapers gently throughout its length.
 It is made from a sawn
 
and rounded piece of pine or other wood and used in a round hole made with an
 
auqer. 
Trunneling is an ingenious technique that solves a critical problem:
 
how to secure difficult joints without benefit of nails or iron spikes.
 
pièce-sur-pièce 
(
*)
 In the Valley,  the shorthand term  pièce
 
is often used
 
instead of the entire term.
 Local citizens frequently say "pièce" when
 
referring to the construction of hewn log walls of houses like the Fred Albert
 
House.
 Pièce construction involves developing a wall by building up layers of
 
horizontal hewn or sawn shaped logs or planks.
 The effect is not entirely
 
unlike that of a log building,  and,  in fact,  some people call these buildings
 
"log buildings."
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 149
 
Sometimes the term is replaced by "American style log cabin."
 The
 
logs are sometimes hewn into rectangles with a broadaxe and they are sometimes
 
pit sawn or sawn at a local saw mill.
 They fit flush and are often caulked
 
with a local material fetched from the field or forest such as flax,  buckwheat
 
chaff,  birch bark,  or oakum.
 
The logs lay atop each other until they reach from the sill to the
 
plate.
 In a standard " A me r i c a n  s t yl e"  log house  (that of the German-speaking
 
and Anglo-American builders),  the pièces are notched at the corners.
 In the
 
Acadian tradition,  they are often built en coulisse; along the way of their
 
rise they are set into the vertical column's groove  (
coulisse) that receives
 
the tenon or tongue at each end of the log  (piece)  or plank  (madrier) 
.
 One of
 
the virtues of pièce-sur-pièce construction en coulisse is that the builder is
 
able to use short pieces  (
logs,  planks)  instead of requiring longer lengths
 
needed in the standard Anglo or Germanic-American log building.
 
It is important to note that  "pièce" is used to refer to more than
 
one type of log construction.
 
piqnon simple 
(piqnon =
 gable end /
 Cassell's 563)
 Literally "simple gable."
 
In the St.  John River region,  the term refers to the Acadian barn type with
 
gabled roof,  the barn of the early generation.
 
planche debout 
(planche =
 board or shelf /
 Cassell's 568;  planchette =
 small
 
board;  plancher =
 floor)
 This Acadian term refers to the method of placing
 
vertical boards  (
ca.  2" x 8-17",  hand-planed or sash-sawn)  flush on the
 
exterior and interior walls of a house.
 The planche debout provides the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey 
150
 
cold. 
The historical term for standing timber in McDermott is bois-debout. 
-
-
planche qalb6e 
(qalb6e = plank with a jointed edge,  usually tongue -and -
groove).
 This is a tongue-and-grooved vertical board that in assemblage makes
 
the planche debout (vertical  flush board walling).
 
porche 
A term that some people apply to a low lean-to addition to a qranqe
 
porcherie 
A swine stable (pigsty) within a lean-to of a barn;  a building used
 
potato house 
ENGL 
This is the large barn that individual potato qrowers 
 
(farm owners) built adjacent to the railroad tracks  for the temporary storage
 
and preparation of harvested potatoes prior to their shipment to market
 
centers.
 Often two or more potato houses are attached end-to -end with
 
concrete fire walls (ENGL) between them.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 151
 
Potato houses  (
cave a
 patate) at the rail heads do not,  of course,
 
predate the coming of the railroad to particular locations.
 Most of them are
 
dated after the turn of the twentieth century.
 
Another type of potato house is the barn on the potato grower's
 
farm where potatoes and equipment are stored.
 Many of these farmstead potato
 
houses were built partly into a hillside in order to provide insulation that
 
helps maintain the potatoes at a more-or-less constant temperature.
 A third
 
type of potato house is the metal,  Qounset-style building that is not built
 
into a hillside.
 
poutre 
(beam,  girder /
 Cassell's 585)
 A principal vertical or horizontal
 
timber in a heavy framed Acadian barn.
 
premier ranq 
The first rank of land holdings in the Acadian land division
 
system based on the arpent tradition of division and alignment.
 These were
 
the first lands settled and aligned facing the St.  John River and they
 
typically included the low-lying "f l a t s.'
 
quart 
Potato barrel.
 
sanq de boeuf 
(
called qros rouqe in Louisiana
 CRB)
 The deep red "oxblood"
 
color that continues to be popular among Acadians of the St.  John Valley.
 
Sanq de boeuf occurs as the painted color on early nineteenth-century
 
furniture  (particularly armoires and chairs)  in Acadian houses.
 Today it
 
occurs in many places,  often in a two-tone combination with light grey.
 Light
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 152
 
grey  (qris) was also commonplace on early furniture.
 The colors are seen now
 
in combination on two-tone pickup trucks and cars throughout the region,  and
 
they are found on modern commercial buildings and houses as well as on older
 
houses.
 
In New Brunswick,  the combination of light grey and red is also
 
fairly common.
 But in New Brunswick,  across the St.  John River,  the red today
 
tends to be a glossy and bright red instead of a muted sanq de boeuf as in
 
Maine.
 
ship's knee 
(
coude) 
The ship's knees are situated opposite each other in the
 
loft or roof area and provide a stout additional bracing factor to stabilize
 
the framework both horizontally and vertically.
 In nautical usage,  a ship's
 
knee is defined by its function and location,  such as  "stern knee" or "hanging
 
knee" vital to a vessel's strength.
 Their use in house carpentry outside the
 
Upper St.  John Valley has not been reported.
 
Ship's knees are made by bisecting the lower trunk and root system
 
of a whole tree.
 They are often fastened by drift pins (wrought iron pins
 
hammered through drilled holes)
 
Ship's knees are an important detail that marks and identifies the
 
construction technology of the St.  John Valley Acadian cottages.
 It is
 
possible that they represent a kind of remembered architectural feature,
 
employed not so much in the nineteenth century for necessity  (
these frameworks
 
are extremely stout as they are)  as for their reflection of older,  European
 
timber framing habits that were established  (briefly)  in this region of Maine
 
and New Brunswick.
 Some Valley residents use the French term coude (
"elbow")
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 153
 
instead of the English "ship's knee."
 
sonnet tubes 
commercially-produced circular concrete pillars used to support
 
buildings in the St.  John Valley.
 
square of the house 
ENGL 
(
carré) 
Local term for the primary or original
 
section of an Acadian house,  often made of some type of log construction;  the
 
large square space is often remodeled by adding rooms and fixtures.
 
twin barn A nineteenth- and twentieth-century barn type that is an important
 
feature in the St.  John Valley's repertoire of vernacular structures.
 It
 
includes spaces for hay and grain storage,  threshing  (
if need be) ,
 and stalls
 
for draft animals and livestock.
 
The twin barn is a balanced,  symmetrical composition of three
 
structural elements:  a similar if not identical pair of rectangular three-bay,
 
gabled-roof Acadian barns  (comparable to the "English" barn type)  placed one
 
behind the other with their ridges parallel;  the third element is a framework
 
(its roof transverse to the parallel roofs of the two main sections)  that
 
encloses the intervening space.
 Viewed from above,  the barn has an "H"  shape.
 
Twin barns observed during the Survey are all built of frame,
 
usually with a strong framework of mortise-and-tenon construction employing
 
large hand hewn sills,  posts,  beams,  braces,  girts,  and plates.
 Many are
 
sheathed with weatherboarding,  which is in turn sheathed with shingles to
 
provide additional protection.
 They are generally painted red or left
 
unpainted.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 154
 
The D.  L.  Labrie twin barn in St.  Agatha is an outstanding example
 
of this historically important structural type.
 
wainscotti-nq 
ENGL 
Panelling  (usually of vertical boards)  on the lower part
 
of interior walls,  with a baseboard and a chair rail as a cap.
 Wainscotting,
 
like panelled ceilings,  is most often found in the finer rooms of a dwelling,
 
such the front hall,  best parlor,  and best bedroom.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 155
 
References 
Brassieur,  C.  Ray
 
1990
 "The Duclos-Pashia House:  Survival of Creole Building Traditions
 
into the Twentieth Century."
 Material Culture 22,  no
 2
 
(summer 1990) :15-26.
 
Cassell
 
1977
 
Cassell's French Dictionary:  French-Enqlish,  English-
French. 
Rev.  ed.
 New York:
 Macmillan.
 
Gauvin,  Marie Anne
 
1969
 Linguistic and Cultural Heritage of the Acadians of Maine and New
 
Brunswick. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John Valley Publishing Co.
 
Gowans,  Alan
 
1964
 Images of American Living:  Four Centuries of Architecture and
 
Furniture as Cultural Expression. 
Philadelphia:
 Lippencott.
 
1966
 Building Canada:  An Architectural History of Canadian
 
Life. 
Toronto:
 Oxford University Press.
 
Kniffen,  Fred B.
 
1965
 "Folk Housing:  Key to Diffusion."
 Annals of the Association of
  
American Geographers 55  (Dec.  1965) :549-77.
 
Kniffen,  Fred B.,  and Henry Glassie
 
1966
 "Building in Wood in the Eastern United States:  A Time-
Place Perspective."
 Geographical Review 56  (Jan.
 
1966) :40-66.
 
Lessard,  Michel,  and Gilles Vilandré,  eds.
 
1974
 La maison traditionelle au Québec. 
Montréal:  Les
 
Editions de L' homme.
 
McDermott,  John Francis
 
1941
 A Glossary of Mississippi Valley French 1673-1850.
 
Washington University Studies,  Language and Literature
 
No.  12.
 St.  Louis:
 Washington University.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 156
 
Moogk,  Peter
 
1977
 Building a House in New France:  An Account of the
  
Perplexities of Client and Craftsman in Early Canada.  
Toronto:  McClelland and Stewart.
 
Peterson,  Charles E.
 
1940-41
 
"Early Ste.  Genevieve and Its Architecture."
 Missouri
 
Historical Review 35  (1940-41) :207-232.
 
Seguin,  Robert Lionel
 
1963
 Les qranqes du Québec du XVIIe au XIXe siècle. 
Bulletin 192,
 
Musée National du Canada.
 Ottawa:
 Imprimeur de la reine.
 
1968
 La maison en Nouvelle-France. 
Ottawa:  Imprimeur de la
 
reine.
 
Thurman,  Melburn D.
 
1984
 Buildinq a House in 18th Century Ste
 Genevieve.  
Ste.  Genevieve,  Mo.:
 Pendragon's Press.
 
Upton,  Dell,  and John Michael Vlach,  eds.
 
1986
 Common Places:  Readinqs in American Vernacular Architure. 
Athens,
 
Ga. :  University of Georgia Press.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 157
 
APPENDIX IV:
 DESCRIPTIONS OF SELECTED HISTORIC PROPERTIES IN THE UPPER ST.
 
JOHN VALLEY,  PREPARED BY GUY F.  DUBAY
 
A:  The Fred Albert House, Madawaska,  Maine
  
Prior to being moved by the Madawaska Historical Society to its
 
present site on Treaty Lot 146,  at a spot behind the Society's Tante Blanche
 
Museum,  the Fred Albert House stood in Madawaska,  on St.  John River lot 138.
 
While it is possible to trace ownership of lot 138 within the Albert family
 
back to 1806,  there is no documentary evidence linking the house itself to the
 
specific deed of that date.
 Its architectural characteristics suggest that
 
Luke Albert  (1818-1888)  or his father,  Anselme Albert, was the builder.
 
Statements elicited from Anselme Albert in 1831 by Maine agents Deane and
 
Kavanaugh suggest that Anselme Albert's father,  Francois Albert  (1744-1829),
 
bought the lot from Augustin Dubd in 1786.
 Last occupied in 1970,  the house
 
was dedicated as a museum in 1990.
 
The following are the principal entries from an abstract of family
 
records involving several hundred transactions concerning a number of family
 
lots and interests.
 (All deeds cited in connection with the Albert House and
 
other houses discussed in this Appendix are located in the Northern Registry
 
of Deeds,  Fort Kent,  Maine.)
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 158
 
Succession of Ownership of Lot 138
 
Volume
 
2-207
 
2-209
 
2-211
 
11-282
 
17-59
 
16-385
 
16-33
 
101-375
 
104-86
 
Date of Deed
 
15/6/1852
 
15/6/1852
 
15/6/1852
 
17/12.1878
 
16/12.1883
 
16/8/1883
 
16/8/1883
 
2/5/1923
 
26/3/1926
 
Grantor
 
Grantee 
Description
 
Anselme Albert
 Luc Albert Lot 138 214.14a.
 
& Rosalie Albert
 
Luc Albert
 
Luc Albert
 
Eulalie
 
Luc Albert
 
Eulalie Albert
 
Henry Hebert
 
Henriette Hebert
 
Luc Albert
 
Eulalie Albert
 
Eloi Albert
 
Eloi Albert
 
Delina Albert
 
Eloi Albert
 
Delina Albert
 
Fred.  E.  Albert
 
Anselme Albert
 
Anselme Albert
 
Rosalie Albert
 
Cyrus Eastman
 
Starch Co.
 
Bond
 
Life
 
Supp.Mort.
 
Lots 138 & 139
 
Parts above the
 
Dam on Daigle
 
Brook
 
Eloi Albert
 Lot 138 214.14a
 
Lot 144 53.lOa
 
Luc Albert
 Lot 138 214.14a.
 
Eulalie "
 T.  18 R.  4-5
 
Luc Albert
 Life Supp.  Mort.
 
Eulalie Albert
 
Fred E.  Albert
 Lot 138 & 144
 
Eloi Albert
 
382-285
 17/11.1970
 Will of Fred E. Albert
 
All my property real and personal I bequeath to my beloved
 
Albert.
 
nephew,  Elmo
 
Fred E. Albert,  unmarried,  the last occupant of the home resided
 
in it with his sister Catherine  (1879-1965),  also single,  who was a long-time
 
school teacher in Madawaska.
 The residence became the property of Elmo Albert
 
from a provision of Fred E. Albert's will which required Elmo Albert to pay a
 
specified sum to each of Fred's remaining brothers and sisters.
 
The date the Albert House was constructed cannot be precisely
 
determined.
 At the dedication of the Albert residence in its Historical
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 159
 
Society location in 1990 family member,  Renaud Albert recalled that at a
 
family gathering in 1958,  an aunt stated that the Albert home was then one
 
hundred years old.
 Albert also stated that architectural historian Rudolph
 
Bourque of Fredericton,  suggested that the house consisted of two sections,
 
one of which may be even older 1858.
 
Details of the Albert Family's History
  
The genealogical data given below indicates that the Albert family name
 
was brought to Madawaska,  Maine,  by a member of the third generation of the
 
family to reside in North America.
 Following the conquest of New France there
 
was considerable population growth in Quebec.
 The growth of the timber trade,
 
among other factors,  led to population shifts.
 For example,  young people and
 
new families moved from the St.  Lawrence River area in search of new
 
opportunities.
 Francois Albert  (1744-1829)  and his wife,  Marie Anne Paradis
 
(b.  1755),  took part in that burgeoning movement.
 According to a 1762 census,
 
his father,  Francois Albert,  Sr.,  lived in Kamouraska and was a member of the
 
2nd militia company.
 His family consisted of:
 one man,  one woman,  one male
 
child over fifteen,  four male children under fifteen,  and six female children.
 
The Albert homestead is described as 1-1/2 arpents of river frontage,  with 20
 
arpents under cultivation.
 The family owned four cows,  three oxen,  ten sheep,
 
two horses,  and nine hogs or swine.
 
Because Francois Albert,  Jr., was neither the eldest nor the
 
youngest son,  his opportunity of inheriting the family farm may have been
 
limited.
 In any case,  shortly after it became known that an Acadian
 
settlement in Madawaska was being supplemented by migrants from Quebec,  he
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 160
 
opted to move his family from Kamouraska to Madawaska.
 The earliest settlers
 
had an opportunity to choose the land, Albert was able to secure property
 
along a brook that had potential as a mill site.
 
Rev.  Thomas Albert's Histoire du Madawaska lists Francois Albert
 
among the south shore pioneers of the St.  John River Valley.
 The first church
 
record concerning the Albert family notes the baptism of Francois and Marie
 
Anne's daughter Euphrosine in 1792.
 Church records also note the birth of a
 
son,  Louis,  in 1795.
 
The deed,  dated 1806,  that transfers the property from Francois
 
Albert to Anselme Albert makes it clear that the family was living on lot 138.
 
And the details of the life support mortgage that was a provision of the
 
transfer of property seems to confirm that the family was fairly prosperous.
 
According to the terms of the mortgage, Anselme was expected to annually
 
provide his parents with 25 pounds of good beef,  12 pounds of butter or hog's
 
lard,  12 pounds of tallow,  12 pounds of maple sugar,  half a pound of pepper,
 
one bushel of salt,  three gallons of rum,  five pounds of good tobacco,  one
 
suit of homespun clothes,  one linen shirt,  one flannel shirt,  five pairs of
 
shoe-pace,  one silk neck handkerchief,  one pocket handkerchief,  and various
 
other goods.
 
Two reports,  one American and one British help describe Anselme's
 
situation during the era of the international boundary dispute.
 In 1831,
 
Maine agents,  John G.  Deane and Edward Kavanaugh wrote the following about the
 
Albert property in their report to the Governor of Maine:
 
Next,  south Shore,  Anselme Albert,  practically facing the mouth of
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 161
 
the Madawaska River.  He marked this lot twenty years ago for his
 
children.
 Occupies 60 rods frontage with 18 acres cleared.
 He
 
lives further down stream.
 
Deane and Kavanaugh also note:
 
Anselme Albert  [native of]  Canada.
 He came to region with his
 
father who bought the lot 45 years ago of Augustin Dube.
 The lot
 
measures 50 X 670 rods.
 Albert has a house a barn and 40 acres
 
under harvest.
 There is a brook on the lot and a mill privilege.
 
The mill privilege was sold several years since and a sawmill and
 
a grist mill have been erected there on.
 
In 1833,  British magistrate James MacLaughlin came to Madawaska
 
from Fredericton to investigate calls of local distress owing to an alleged
 
crop failure.
 In his survey of local conditions,  he gives the following
 
statistics about Anselme Albert's farm:
 
Family:  1 woman,  6 boys,  4 girls
 
Stock:  2 horses,  2 oxen,  5 cows,  6 young cattle,  25 sheep,  7 pigs
 
Quantity of hay cut in tons:  25
 
Seeds sown last spring,  No.  of bushels:  wheat 16,  barley 2,  oats 13,
 
buckwheat 0,  peas 5,  potatoes 15.
 
Crops raised in bushels: wheat 50,  barley 6,  oats 4,  buckwheat 0,  wheat
 
160,  potatoes 200.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural survey
 162
 
Average crop of past five years,  No of Bushels:  wheat 160,
 barley 50,
 
oats 60,  buckwheat 0,  peas 45,  potatoes 600.
 
After the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842 settled the boundary
 
question,  a land commission was appointed to assist in resolving settlers'
 
claims.
 The Philip Eastman map of 1843 clearly identifies Anselme Albert as
 
occupant of lot 138.
 
Genealociy 
The Family of Anselme Albert,  Owner of Lot 138 from 1806-1852:
 
Anselme Albert m.1 Genevieve Pelletier
 
31 January 1809,  Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
(she died 2 Dec.  1809)
 
1.  Genevieve Albert  m.  Jean Picard
 
b.  12 Nov.  1809
 m.  15 Oct 1833,  Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
d.  3  June 1836
 
Anselme Albert m.2 Rosalie Cyr b.  3 July 1792
 
m.  4 Feb.  1812,  Saint-Basile,  N.  B.
 
2. Marcel Albert  m. Marie Luce Martin
 
b.  26 Nov.  1812
 b.  27 June 1820
 
m.  16 Nov.  1840 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
3.  Leocade Albert m.  Guillaume Beaulieu
 
b.  18 March 1814
 b.  1 July 1810
 
d.  21 Sept.  1842
 d.  16 Feb.  1878
 
m.  24 May 1841 Saint-Basile
 
4.  Sophie Albert  m.  Octave Hebert
 
b.  11 Sept 1816
 b.  17 Sept.  1818
 
1860
 
m.  15 Jan.  1842 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
5.  Luc Albert
 m.  Eulalie Violette
 
b.  2 Feb.  1818
 b.  2 Feb.  1821
 
d.  25 March 1888
 d.  4 Feb.  1889
 
m.  28 Jan.  1845 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 163
 
6.  Modeste Albert
 
b.  3 May 1820
 
d.  23 Oct.  1842
 
7. Marie Flavie Albert
 m.  Eloi Beaulieu
 
b.  7 April 1822
 b.  25 Dec.  1818
 
d.  10 July 1883
 d.  12 May
 1887
 
m.  28 Feb.  1845 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
8.  Fabien Albert
 
26 July 1824
 
m.  Vitaline Martin
 
b.  6 April 1831
 
m.  25 July 1851 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
9. Anselme Albert  m. Marguerite Violette
 
b,17 Nov.  1828
 b.  27 Sep.  1839
 
m.  12 April 1858 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
10.  Joseph Albert  m.  Methaide Daigle
 
b.  20 June 1830
 b.
 3 Jan.  1834
 
d.  27 Dec.  1875
 
m.  28 Nov.  1854 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
11.  David Albert
 m.  Elodie Cyr
 
b.  1832
 b.  1836
 
d.  1922
 
m.  4 Jan.  1860 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
12.  Prudent Albert  m. Modeste Violette
 
b.  23 June 1836
 b.  24 Oct.  1841
 
d.  12 Dec.  1919
 
m.  26 Nov.  1861
 
13.  Vital Albert
 
The Family of Luc Albert,  Lot Owner from 1852 to 1883:
 
Luc Albert
 m.  Eulalie Violette
 
b.  2 Feb.  1818
 b.  2 Feb.  1821
 
d.  25 March 1888
 d.  4 Feb.  1889
 
m.  28 July 1845 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
1. Marguerite Albert
 m.  Damase Sirois
 
b.  28 Nov.  1847
 
m.  14 Jan.  1868 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
2.  Natalie Albert m.  Regis Hebert
 
b.  28 Nov.  1847
 b.  6 June 1848
 
m.  24 Feb.  1878 St.  David,  Maine
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 164
 
3.  Eloi Albert
 m.  Delina Dufour
 
b.19 Jan.  1850
 b.  22 May
 1831
 
d.18 Nov.  1924
 d.  31 Dec.  1935
 
m.  23 Feb.  1873 St.  David,  Maine
 
4.  Thomas Albert
 m.  Severine Cyr.
 
b.  1]. Aug.  1851
 b.  1864
 
d.  11 Feb.  1923
 d.  16 Feb.  1931
 
m.  2 July 1881 St.  David,  Maine
 
The Family of Eloi Albert,  Lot Owner from 1883 to 1923:
 
Eloi Albert  m.  Delina Dufour
 
b.19 Jan.  1850
 b.  22 May
 1851
 
d.18 Nov.  1924
 d.  31 Dec.  1935
 
m.  24 Feb.  1873 St.  David,  Maine
 
1.Raymond Albert
 
b.  13 Sept.  1875
 
d,  22 Jan.  1935
 
m.  Marie Cyr
 
b.  1885
 
d.  21 Aug.  1941
 
m.  26 Oct.  1907 St.  David,  Maine
 
2.Adeline Albert  m.  Louis Sirois
 
b.5 Feb.  1874
 b.  27 Oct.  1874
 
d.  1965
 
m.  14 Oct.  1900 St.  David,  Maine
 
3. Elisabeth Albert
 
b.  27 Jan.  1878
 
4.Catherine Albert,  single,  School Teacher
 
b.  22 Jan.  1879
 
d.  21 Aug.  1965
 
5. Annie Albert m.  John Manning
 
b.  20 April 1880
 
d.  25 Dec.  1967
 
6. Alexis Albert
 m.  Helene Sirois
 
b.  25 June 1882
 
d.  1962
 
m.  22 July 1919 St.  Bruno, Van Buren,  Maine
 
7.Emma Albert
 
b.  Nov.  1883/5
 
d.25 Aug.  1965
 
8.Joseph Francois Albert
 
b.  20 April 1886
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 165
 
9.Joseph Alfred  (Fred E.)  Albert,  last occupant of the Albert House
 
b.  28 Oct.  1887
 
10.Luke Albert  m. Alphonsine Michaud
 
b.  18 Dec.  1889
 
12. Mary Albert
 m. Levite Daigle
 
b.  1895
 b.  1896
 
d.  1959
 
13.Yvonne Albert m  Jack Moran
 
b.  16 Sept.  1898
 
d.  18 July 1980
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 166
 
B:  The Ernest Chasse House,  Madawaska,  Maine
  
The Ernest Chasse House,  located on River Lot 146 in St.  David
 
parish, Madawaska,  Maine,  has been in use for several generations.
 However,
 
until its precise age can be determined,  it is it not possible to ascertain
 
which of the succeeding property owners of lot 146 built the house.
 Currently
 
the house is the residence of its owners,  Mr.  and Mrs.  Ernest Chasse.
 
Succession of Ownership
  
This property has been abstracted from 1845,  which is as far back
 
as American land titles go.
 However,  the region within which it is located
 
was occupied in 1785,  and the lot was awarded to its first occupant in 1790 by
 
a British land grant.
 In 1831,  during the period when ownership of the area
 
was disputed by American and British authorities, Maine agents John G.  Deane
 
and Edward Kavanaugh listed the occupant as Guillaume Fournier.
 
The British numeration of lots began with the lower numbers down
 
river and worked up to higher numbers as one headed upstream.
 The American
 
numbering system was arranged in an opposite fashion,  with numbers increasing
 
as one headed downstream.
 It is not always possible to match lots number-for-
number from one system to the other since some lots in the British system were
 
later divided after the initial grants were issued and map lines drawn.
 Thus,
 
these transfers cited by Deane and Kavanaugh which occurred in the era of
 
British documentation create some differences in the lot lines of the two
 
systems.
 Similarities do exist,  however.
 The treaty grants of 1845,  issued
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 167
 
by virtue of a provision of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty  (1842)  bear a
 
relationship to the British grants of 1790.
 Obviously,  co-ordination of New
 
Brunswick archival sources with Maine archival sources is needed to illuminate
 
the early history of the Maine Acadians more fully.
 
The succession of this property upon which the Chasse House sits
 
is difficult to follow due to errors made in the numbering of this 1 t and
 
nearby lots.
 The confusion that resulted in apparent in the following excerpt
 
from a deed:
 
This land has sometimes in the making of deeds and mortgages been
 
described on Lot 142 and sometimes Lot # 144 but we think that was an
 
error.
 We believe that the correct lot is No.  146.
 
An examination of pertinent records reveals the following
 
succession of ownership for the property from the period 1846-present.
 
Volume 
Date 
Grantor 
Grantee 
Description 
1-95
 8 May 1846
 Francois Durepos  Abraham Dufour
 Lot 142
 
Susan Durepos
 T.  18 R.4
 
1-356
 28 May 1846 Abraham Dufour
 Francois Durepos
 Lot 142
 
Mortgage
 
1-482
 20 Jul 1848 Abraham Dufour
 Cyrille Dufour
 Lot 142
 
113.65a
 
4-548
 31 Jan 1850 Francois Durepos
 Lea Pelletier
 Will
 
my wife
 
3-242
 23 Jun 1852 Francis Durepos
 Eusebe Dufour
 W.  1/2
 
Lot 146
 
74 acres
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 168
 
2-197
 23 June 1852 Eusebe Dufour
 Francis Durepos
 Mortgage
 
Lot 146
 
2-197
 18 July 1857 Marginal discharge of the previous item.
 
7-536
 26 June 1871 Marie Lea Michaud David William
 Part Lot
 
Ephrem Michaud
 Bacon,  Bishop
 146
 
of Portland
 
19-230
 16 June 1886 Marie Lea Michaud James A.  Healy
 Part
 
Widow of Francois
 Bishop of Portland Lot 146
 
Durepos,  now wife
 
of Ephrem Michaud
 
19-443
 25 Feb.  1888 Lea Michaud,  born Joseph Pelletier
 Lot 142
 
Pelletier, widow  My nephew [sic]  of Ephrem Michaud
 
96-400
 23 Sept.  1923 Joseph Pelletier  George Pelletier
 Will
 
Probate
 my son
 My homestead
 
farm
 
111-482
 28 Feb.  1927 George J.  Pelletier Ernest Chasse
 Lot 142
 
Lucie Pelletier
 (error)
 
Lot 144
 
(error)
 
Lot 146
 
175-43
 1 Mar.  1943 Ernest Chasse Sr.
 Ernest Chasse
 Lot 146
 
388-436
 1 Sep.  1971 Ernest Chasse
 Madawaska Historical
 
Society
 
Backqrounds of Some of the Owners
  
on October 3,  1815,  Francois Durepos  (whose parents were married
 
at St.  Thomas de Montmagny,  Quebec) married Susanne Hebert  (b.  1791).
 She was
 
the daughter of Madawaska pioneers Simon Hebert and Josephte Daigle Hebert,
 
who,  according to local tradition, were the first Acadian couple married in
 
the chapel at Saint-Basile  (1788).
 Susanne Hebert's brother,  Simonette
 
Hebert,  was an early lumber mill operator who imported the first horse-drawn
 
wheeled vehicle to be used on the St.  John River side roads.
 
Susanne died on May 10,  1848.
 Within a year,  Francois married Lea
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 169
 
Pelletier,  the daughter of Celestin Pelletier,  a blacksmith from St.  Paschal
 
de Kamouraska,  Quebec,  who had established himself in that trade at Saint-
Basile.
 Apparently successful in business,  Pelletier saw to the education of
 
his children.
 One son,  Joseph  (1828-1916),  became a priest.
 Another,  Thomas
 
(1845-1921),  earned a degree in medicine from at Université Laval in Quebec,
 
and later practiced in Van Buren, Maine.
 A third son,  Remi,  established saw
 
mills in St.  Francois,  New Brunswick,  in the 1880s,  and was elected to the New
 
Brunswick House of Assembly.
 Francois Durepos owned considerable acreage in
 
Madawaska including river frontage traditionally called the "Dufour flats,"
 
which includes the site of the 1785 Acadian landing.
 
Francois died in 1865,  and four years later his wife Lea married
 
Ephrem Michaud.
 Michaud's parents were from L'Islet,  Montmagny County,
 
Quebec.
 According to the census of 1860,  Ephrem had been the hired hand on
 
the Durepos farm.
 The couple occupied the old Durepos homesite,  presently the
 
Ernest Chasse home.
 
On June 26,  1871,  the newly-established St.  David parish secured a
 
portion of Lot 146 from Ephrem and Lea Michaud.
 In exchange for the property,
 
the Michauds were given a free pew in the new church.
 When the bishop
 
presided at the blessing of the church bell,  the Michauds acted as sponsors.
 
Ephrem Michaud passed away on September 25,  1886,  at the age of
 
53,  leaving his spouse twice widowed.
 Joseph Pelletier,  a nephew,  came back
 
from Pincher Creek, Alberta,  to take care of the elderly widow.
 Lea Michaud
 
died on December 11,  1891.
 The presence of several members of the clergy at
 
her funeral  (including priests from Saint-Basile,  Edmundston,  St.  Anne,  and
 
St.  Leonard,  New Brunswick)  indicated that she was held in high esteem by
 
church leaders.
 
The property was inherited by Joseph Pelletier,  the son of Cyprien
 
Pelletier and '
I.)
 t
ent Th ibodeau .
 
pro p erty
_
_
_
 o n  February 28,  18 88,
I
. held it
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 171
 
C.  The Daiqle-St.  Jean House,  Clair,  New Brunswick
 
The Daigle-St.  Jean House currently sits by the St.  John River
 
next to the Catholic Church property in Clair,  N.  B.
 It is a property of the
 
Clair Historical Society and houses nineteenth and twentieth-century
 
furnishings and other artifacts from the local area.
 According to a material
 
culture survey  ("Perspective-Jeunesse )  conducted in 1974,  the house
 
originally stood on River Lot 82 in the Caron Brook section of the town of
 
Baker Brook,  N.B.
 The construction date for the house is ca.  1850.
 
Data collected in connection with the Perspective Jeunesse survey
 
list the house's proprietorial succession as follows:  Augustin Daigle,  Hector
 
Daigle,  Albert Daigle,  Joseph St.  Jean,  Lévite St.  Jean.
 
It is believed that the builder of the Daigle-St.  Jean House was
 
Augustin Daigle,  Jr.  (b.  1831).
 A partial genealogy of his family is as
 
follows:
 
Joseph-Simon Daigle -m- 1 Marguerite Guilbeau
 
b.  1738 Pisiguit,  Acadie: Windsor,  Nova Scotia
 
d.  24 Jan.  1814 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  23 Nov 1762 St.  Francois,  Montmagny,  Quebec
 
-m- Charlotte Lefebvre
 
m.  2 Oct 1775 St.  Thomas de Montmagny,  Quebec
 
b.  21 Aug.  1745 St.  Thomas de Montmagny
 
d.  5 Nov.  1819 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Jean Baptiste Daigle -m- Marie Anne Cyr
 
b.
 6 Feb.  1767 St.  Francois de Montmagny,  Quebec
 
d.  15 Apr.  1836 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  18 July 1792 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Augustin Daigle -m- Marie Luce Cyr
 
b.  31 May 1798 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  2 Aug 1825 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 172
 
Augustin Daigle -m- Flavie Cyr
 
b.  14 Feb.  1831 St.  Basile,  N.B.
 
m. April 5,  1853 Ste Luce,  Frenchville,  Maine
 
Hector Daigle -m- Denise Albert
 
b.  1865
 
d.  8 Feb.  1843 Baker Brook,  N.B.  at 78
 
m.  18 July 1893 St.  Francois,  N.B.
 
Albert Daigle -m- Flavie Theriault
 
m.  20 April 1930 Baker Brook,  N.B.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 173
 
D.  The Eloi Daiqie House,  Clair,  New Brunswick
 
The Eloi Daigle House in Fort Kent sits on its original site on
 
river lot 53.
 The land was deeded by the Commissioners of Maine and
 
Massachusetts deeded to Jean Baptiste Daigle  (1791-1846)  on July 12,  1845.
 
Daigle was the cousin of Augustin Daigle of Baker Brook,  N.B.,  whose home,  the
 
Augustin Daigle House, was also studied by the Maine Acadian Cultural Survey.
 
The current owners of the Eloi Daigle House are Burns Patrick Savage and
 
Roberta Norduf Savage,  residents of Massachusetts who use the house as a
 
summer home.
 
Succession of Ownership of the Eloi Daigle House
 
Volume 
Date
 Grantor 
Grantee 
Description
 
1-577
 30 Sept 1844
 Chrysostome
 Jean B.  Daigle
 Lot Next to
 
Marquis
 Daigle
 
110-54
 12 July 1845
 Maine and
 Jean B.  Daigle
 Lots 53 & 51
 
Massachusetts
 T.  18 R.  6
 
4-355
 28 Aug 1858
 Emilienne Morin
 Vital
 E.half lot 53
 
widow of J.B.
 Daigle
 92 acres
 
Daigle,  et al.
 
19-583
 14 Dec.1888  Vital Daigle
 Raymond Daigle
 E.half lot 53
 
Julie Daigle
 92 acres
 
of New Canada
 
131-134 31 Mar.1934
 Raymond Daigle
 Eloi Daigle
 E.half lot 53
 
Evelyne Daigle
 
395-878 19 Jan.1972
 Lillian Daigle-
 Eulalia Mae
 being 131-134
 
Brice, widow of
 Daigle-Martin
 
Eloi Daigle
 
492-234 7 Nov.  1978
 Eulalie Mae
 Gilbert Albert
 being 131-134
 
Daigle-Martin
 Marion Albert
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 174
 
686-154 15 Aug 1986
 Gilbert Albert
 Burns P.  Savage
 
Marion Albert
 Roberta N.  Savage
 
Daiqie Family History
  
Jean Baptiste Daigle was the grandson of Joseph Simon Daigle  (1738-1814)
 
who headed the Acadian migration to Madawaska in 1785.
 Like his grandfather,
 
Jean Baptiste Daigle initially resided at Saint-Basile,  N.  B.,  where the
 
family received British grants in 1790.
 His nine sons fanned out from the
 
early settlement site and established residences from Fort Kent to Van Buren.
 
Deane and Kavanaugh note the presence of three of Jean's sons on Daigle
 
Island,  between Baker Brook and Fort Kent,  by 1810.
 The same report notes
 
that one son,  Jean Baptiste Daigle,  Jr.,  owned the point of land formed at the
 
junction of the Fish and St.  John Rivers.
 This is confirmed by a later grant
 
of the land,  identified as lot 32,  that he received in 1845 from the states of
 
Maine and Massachusetts.
 
Jean Baptiste Daigle,  Jr.,  married Emilienne Morin  (d.  1877)  at
 
Saint-Basile,  N.B.,  on January 13,  1818.
 The couple had seventeen children.
 
In order to provide for his offspring,  Daigle took up several lots in Fort
 
Kent,  including lots 51 and 53.
 However,  he died a little over a year after
 
receiving the grants,  which apparently went unrecorded at the registry of
 
deeds until 1924.
 
About three months before Daigle died,  local merchant trader A.  &
 
S.  Dufour of Saint-Basile noted that he had been asked to deliver 71 bushels
 
of oats to James Perley's lumber operation.
 This indicates that Daigle was
 
working as a supplier to the lumber operation.
 
In 1858,  in a deed signed by Jean Baptiste Daigle's widow and
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 175
 
thirteen other family members,  Vital Daigle  (1836-1899)  received title to the
 
family homestead on lot 53.
 Vital Daigle also went to develop new land in
 
Township 17,  Range 6,  the township immediately south of the original family
 
settlement now known as New Canada Plantation.
 
The entry for New Canada Plantation in the Maine Register for 1882
 
lists Docite Daigle as assessor, Alcime Daigle as tax collector,  John B.
 
Daigle as treasurer,  Mrs. Arthemise Daigle as school committee member,  and
 
Vital Daigle as lumber manufacturer.
 The prominence of the Daigle family at
 
that time may suggest the reason why New Canada Plantation became known
 
locally as Daigle,  Maine.
 
In 1888,  long after Vital Daigle and his wife Julie Cyr Daigle
 
brought twelve children into the world,  Vital deeded the old St.  John River
 
lot 53 to his son Raymond  (1858-1952).
 As if in keeping with family
 
tradition,  Raymond and his wife raised a dozen children of their own.
 One
 
child,  Arthur Daigle  (1887-1952),  went into the car sales business in Fort
 
Kent.
 Another son,  Eloi Daigle  (1904-1963),  went to Bates College in
 
Lewiston,  Maine,  graduating in 1929.
 In 1950,  Eloi he was elected principal
 
of the New Madawaska High School.
 His wife,  Lillian St.  Pierre  (1913-1987),
 
taught school after graduating from Madawaska Training School in 1931.
 
In 1934,  Eloi Daigle succeeded into ownership of the East half of
 
lot 53 which contained the Daigle homestead.
 After Eloi's death,  his wife
 
deeded the property to her daughter,  Eulalie Mae Daigle-Martin.
 In 1972,  she
 
deeded the old homestead out of the family.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 176
 
E.  The Morneault House,  Built in Grand Isle,  Maine
  
The Morneault House is believed to have been built in 1857 by
 
Charles Morneault on River Lot 197 in Grand Isle, Maine.
 A merchant trader,
 
Morneault provided space for a post office in his home when members of his
 
family served as post master.
 In 1973,  following a period of disuse,  the
 
house was donated to L'heritage Vivant by Mrs.  Normande Beaupre,  a Morneault
 
descendant.
 The L'heritage Vivant subsequently moved the house to its present
 
location in its Acadian Village in Van Buren.
 
Succession of Lot Ownership,  Lot 197 in Township 18,  Ranqe 3
  
Volume
 
Date
 Grantor 
Grantee 
Description
 
102-361
 12 July1845 States of Maine
 J.B.  Soucis
 Lot 197
 
and Mass.
 
3-489
 3 Nov.  1857 John B.Soucis
 Charles & Pierre
 Lot 197
 
M.Rose
 Morneault
 432.73a
 
4-272
 26 Apr.1860 PierreMorneault Charles Morneault
 Lot 197
 
shoemaker
 yeoman
 73 acres
 
4-273
 26 Apr.1860
 Charles Morneault Pierre Morneault
 Lot 197
 
yeoman
 shoemaker
 Mortgage
 
4-273
 17 July 1862 Pierre Morneault Charles Morneault
 Discharge Margin
 
of Mortgage
 
29-357
 26 Feb.  1891 Charles Morneault
 Stetson & Cutler
 Agreement
 
Company,  Boston
 x No.  of
 
Shingles
 
29-179
 3 Oct.  1892 Charles Morneault Weston F.  Milliken
 Lot 197
 
C.R. Milliken of
 Homestead
 
Portland,  Maine
 Mortgage
 
$2280.75
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 177
 
24-390
 28 Nov 1892 Attachment against Charles Morneault
 
Deputy Sheriff Marcus S.  Huson of Presque Isle
 
30-107
 13 June 1893 Benjamin Thompson  Delvas Soucy
 Mill
 
of Portland
 Remi Morneault
 Machinery
 
Assignee of
 
Charles Morneault
 
insolvent
 
32-385
 3 Aug.  1894 Delvas Soucy
 Alexis Morneault
 Mill Lot
 
Remie Morneault  (son of Charles)
 Machinery
 
29-179
 5 Nov.  1894 W.  & C. R.  Milliken  Charles Morneault Discharge
 
of
 
mortgage
 
30-283
 5 Nov.  1894 Benjamin Thompson  Alexis Morneault Lot 197
 
assignee
 Lot 185
 
40-68
 18 Feb.1896 Alexis Morneault
 Charles Morneault Life Supp.
 
Olive  Morneault
 Mortgage
 
71-196
 23 Dec.1912 Flavie Morneault
 Alexis Morneault
 Discharge
 
wife of Late
 of 40-68
 
Charles Morneault
 
214-292
 1 Apr.1947 Alexis Morneault
 Billy J.  Morrow
 Lot 197
 
Delina Morneault  Marie M.  Morrow
 some
 
(his daughter)
 exceptions
 
267-149
 13 Aug.1951 Billy J. Morrow  Addis Beaupre
 Lot 197
 
Marie M. Morrow  Norma Beaupre
 
St.John
 12 Dec.1973 Mrs. Addis Beaupre Frances Levasseur
 Keys to
 
Valley
 of Heritage Vivant
 House
 
Times
 
Charles Morneault's Backqround
  
Charles Morneault,  who was of Canadian  (i.e,  Quebecois)  stock,
 
settled in the St.  John Valley in 1856.
 On July 18,  1859,  he married Flavie
 
Thibodeau,  daughter of Benjamin Thibodeau and Barbe Cormier,  both of whose
 
family names can be directly traced to Acadia.
 Morneault is representative of
 
immigrants from Quebec who advanced themselves by marrying into the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 178
 
established Acadian community of the Madawaska territory.
 
While Morneault's connection to the Thibodeau family was socially
 
advantageous,  he acquired his land in Grand Isle by purchase rather than by
 
inheritance.
 He purchased Lot 197 in Township 18,  Range 3 (Grand Isle)  on
 
November 3,  1857.
 He received the 432.73-acre piece of land from Jean
 
Baptiste Souci  (b.  1783  ) and Rose Thibodeau Souci  (1802-1886)  for $240 and a
 
promise of life support.
 
The following is the genealogy of the family of Charles Morneault
 
and Flavie Thibodeau.
 
1.  Charles Morneault -m- Susanne Cyr
 
b.Nov.  1861
 b.  1863
 
d.  1940
 d.  16 May 1917
 
m.  8 Jan.  1887 Lille,  Maine
 
2.  Euphemie Morneault -m- Frederic Smith
 
b.  19 June 1862
 b.  2 Mar.  1862
 
d.  21 Aug.  1959
 d.  8 April 1921
 
m.  4 Mar.  1889 Lille, Maine
 
3.  Felix Morneault -m- Julie Dufour
 
b.  11 July 1864
 
m.  10 Nov.  1886 Lille,  Maine
 
4.  Sophie Morneault -m- Vital Theriault
 
S. Alfred Morneault -m- Julie Corbin
 
b.  6 Dec.  1867
 
m.  7 May 1888 Lille,  Maine
 
6.  Alexis Morneault -m-1 Olive Martin
 
b.  13 Jan.  1869
 
m.  20 Oct.  1890 St.  David,  Maine
 
-m-2 Delina Carrier
 
m.  18 Jan.  1930 Lille, Maine
 
7.  Jean Morneault -m- Christine Beaulieu
 
b.  27 Jan,  1870
 
m.  1 July 1890 Lille,  Maine
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 179
 
8. Marie Flavie Morneault -m- Paul B.  Cyr
 
b.  18 Mar.  1873
 
m.  25 Feb.  1895 Ste.  Anne,  N.B.
 
9.  Joseph Morneault
 
b.  21 Nov.  1875
 
10.  Francois Xavier Morneault
 
b.19 Sept 1877
 
11.  Clovis Morneault -m- Marie Jane Cyr
 
b.  9 Apr.  1879
 (1884-1970)
 
12.  Benjamin Morneault
 
b.  30 Nov.  1880
 
d.  21 Feb.  1973
 
m.  18 Sept 1905 St.  Hilaire,  N.B.
 
F.  The Pelletier-Marquis House,  St.  Aqatha,  Maine
  
The Pelletier-MarquiB Home in St.  Agatha,  Maine,  is currently
 
owned by the St.  Agatha Historical Society,  which maintains the home as its
 
museum.
 Built in 1854 by farmer Andr& Pelletier,  the house is a typical
 
working class home of the period.
 Most other surviving homes of the period
 
were built by persons of middle to upper class status who occupied leadership
 
[
e
J Ti14.)  
10-370
 25 Jun 1877
 Andr6 Pelletier Alexander S.  Eaton
 
(Scholastique)
 Firm of Eaton &
 
Dickey
 
20-400
 19 Jul 1886
 Eaton & Dickey  Andr6 Pelletier
 
r
N
INI
GN
I
M
 
23-103
 11 Dec 1888 Andrew Pelletier Leandr6 Pelletier
 Between
 
J.  Sinclair
 
S.  Albert
 
"On Which I have lived the past 34 years."
 
24-365
 8 Apr 1892
 Leandr6 Pelletier Damase Pelletier
 
Thomas Pelletier
 
Docithee Pelletier
 
16 May 1891 Damas Pelletier
 Henry A.  Gagnon
 
8 May 1894 Henry A.  Gagnon
 Horace Sylvain
 
23 Jun 1906 Meltede Pelletier Nere Picard
 
wife of Frank Francoeur
 
dau.  of Andr6 Pelletier
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 181
 
53-198
 28 Mar 1908
 Denis Chasse
 Nere Picard
 Between
 
Odelie Chasse
 J.Sinclair
 
Widow of Horace
 Ozithe Pelletier
 
Sylvain
 
30-178
 23 Apr 1917 Xavier Dechaine  Raoul Bourbeau
 Foreclosure
 
77-597
 20 May 1919 Xavier Dechaine
 Raoul Bourbeau
 
Albertine
 
106-386
 19 May 1927 Raoul Bourbeau
 Jules Marquis
 
133-320
 6 May 1936
 Hubald Marquis
 Ligouri Marquis
 
et al.  (heirs)
 
133-322
 5 May 1936 Lucie Boutote
 Ligouri Marquis
 
-Marquis
 
347-132
 8 Dec 1966 Clarence J. Marquis Clarence J.Marquis
 
Executor of will of  Annie C.  Marquis
 
Jules Marquis
 
474-226
 28 Mar 1978 Clarence J.  Marquis St.  Agatha Historical
 
unmarried
 Society
 
44-584
 
53-198
 
106-386
 
53-198
 
106-386
 
133-322
 
347-132
 
Some of the Owners of the House
  
Unlike other properties reviewed by the Maine Acadian Cultural
 
Survey,  the property upon which the Pelletier-Marquis is located is not a
 
"treaty lot" or a "river lot."
 Instead,  this lot on Long Lake is on land
 
locally known as "les concessions".
 This name derives from a provision of a
 
homestead act of the state of Maine.
 Under the terms of the act,  homesites
 
could be secured fairly cheaply,  but the new owners were required to settle
 
duties and perform road labor before land certificates were issued.
 Each
 
certificate or grant was called "une concession" by local French speakers.
 
In an attempt to encourage railroad development,  in 1869 the state
 
government issued a land grant of a million acres to the European and North
 
American Railway.
 This grant created conflicting claims and the Commission on
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 182
 
Claims of Settlers on Proprietors'  Lands in the County of Aroostook was
 
established in 1873.
 The commission issued a report in 1874.
 Among the
 
claims listed in the report is one made by André Pelletier of Township 18,
 
Range 4.
 The report includes the following information about Pelletier's
 
property:
 
Occupant 
No.  in Family 
Lot
 Rods in 
Acres 
When taken
 
Width 
Improved 
UP
 
André Pelletier
 13
 Not lotted;  also 30
 25
 1853
 
another piece
 80
 4
 1871
 
Commenced by
 Remarks
 
Whom
 
Himself
 House,  barn stable on first parcel,  which is bounded in
 
front by the Lake,  S.  E.  by land of John Sinclair
 
N. W.  by farm intended for a chapel,  now belonging
 
to Soloman Albert,  rear unoccupied.  The other piece
 
of 80 rods wide,  is in the rear of the piece,  above
 
described,  and lies partly in Township 18 Range 5,
 
both sides of the line.
 
While the original state grant for this lot has not been located,
 
the commission's report notes that Pelletier occupied the land since 1853-4.
 
The oldest portion of the Pelletier-Marquis House is believed to date from
 
this time.
 
In 1875,  André Pelletier received an eviction notice from an agent
 
of Thomas N.  Egery and Daniel B.  Hinckley of Bangor,  bond holders from the
 
European and North American Railway.
 Because the railway defaulted on its
 
notes,  Egery and Hinckley sought to recover their losses by attaching the
 
railroad's property.
 Because the railroad's claims conflicted with settlers'
 
claims,  Pelletier and 127 other 128 rear lot farmers,  received eviction
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 183
 
notices.
 Documentary evidence indicates that Pelletier continued to occupy
 
his homestead despite the challenge to his ownership.
 
Later owners of the Pelletier-Marquis House included of two
 
families living it at the same time:  Horace Sylvain and Nere Picard and the
 
Jules Marquis family.
 Consequently,  as the partial succession given above
 
suggested,  the succession lines became extremely complex.
 For example,  in the
 
succession of ownership above,  Damas Pelletier,  Andre's son,  deeded his
 
interest to Henry A.  Gagnon,  a businessman from Van Buren,  Maine.
 Gagnon then
 
deeded it to Horace Sylvain, who occupied that half of the house.
 Widowed in
 
1896,  Sylvain then married Odelie Laplante in 1898.
 When Horace Sylvain died
 
in 1903,  his widow was free to remarried the following year to Denis Chasse.
 
(In the deeds noted above,  she surfaces in as Odelie Chasse who deeded the
 
portion of the house to Nere Picard.)
 Thus, while the Marquis family occupied
 
half of the house,  the Sylvain,  Chasse,  Picard families each in turn occupied
 
the half that descended from Damas Pelletier's interest.
 Meanwhile,  Ozithe
 
Pelletier's portion was passed down through the Marquis family into which she
 
had married.
 
In 1927 the home came into the hands of the Marquis family.
 And
 
in 1978 the St.  Agatha Historical Society acquired it from a member of the
 
family.
 
Pelletier Family Genealoqy
 
André Pelletier's family can be traced back eight generations in
 
Quebec to Guillaume Pelletier and Michelle Mabille.
 They were married at St.
 
Aubin de Tourouvre,  Perche,  France,  on February 12,  1619.
 They immigrated to
 
Quebec, where Guillaume died in 1657 and Michelle died in 1660.
 
Andr6 Pelletier was the Bon of Alexandre Pelletier and Angelique
 
Lebel, who had married at St. Louis de KamouraBka on April 25,  1814.
 Andr6
 
married Scholastique Chamberland at Ste. Luce in Frenchville on November 23,
 
1847.
 Their children included:
 
1
. 
-
 S
 
P
e ll
e ti
e r
 
b.  22 Oct.  1848 Ste. Luce,  Frenchville, Maine
 
2. Eleonore Pelletier -m- Frangois Cyr
 
b.  25 May 1850 Ste. Luce
 
d.  27 June 1883 St. David, Maine
 
m.  14 Sept.  1873 at Ste. Luce
 
3. Damase Pelletier
 
b.  1 May 1853 Ste. Luce
 
4. Laetus Pelletier
 
b.  20 Nov.  1854 Ste. Luce
 
5.  Zite Pelletier -m- Firmin Marquis
 
b.  20 Jan.  1857 Ste. Luce
 
m.  24 May 1897 St. Agatha, Maine
 
r
r
.
z
Pel l
etier
 
b. 4 Dec.  1860 Ste. Luce
 
7. Octave Pelletier
 
.
:i* i
 L
uc e
 
z
 
Pell
e tier
 
8. anonyme (stillborn)
 
b.  29 Mar.  1865 Ste. Luce
 
d.  3 Mar.  1891 St. Agatha,  aged 25
 
m.  18 Feb.  1890 St. Agatha, Mai l
 
10. Joseph 
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 185
 
12.  André Pelletier
 
b.  6 Jan.  1874 Ste.  Luce
 
Marquis Family Genealoqy
 
Jules Marquis,  son of Joseph Marquis and Emerance Dubois
 
B.  19 Jan.  1868 Ste.  Luce
 
d.  29 April 1936
 
m.  4 July 1887 at Ste.  Luce to Henriette Cayouette
 
she died at St.  Agatha 25 Oct 1915,  aged 47.
 
Their children:
 
1.  Ligouri Marquis -m- Annie Chasse
 
24 Oct.  1889 Ste.  Luce
 
29 Nov.  1965 St. Agatha
 
r
n.  20 June 1910 St.  Agatha
 
2.  Hubald Marquis -m- Lizzie Boutot
 
m.  28 April 1918 Sheridan,  Maine
 
3.  Marie Marquis
 
d.  14 may 1894,  age 8 mos.  St.  Agatha
 
4.  Joseph Marquis
 
b.  24 Nov.  1896 St.  Agatha
 
d.  20 Feb.  1904 St. Agatha
 
S. Marie Alvine Marquis -m- Patrick Bourgoin
 
b.  3 Mar.  1898 St. Agatha
 
d.  12 Nov.  1977 Ste.  Luce,  Frenchville,  Maine
 
m.  5 Nov.  1918
 
6.  Celina Marquis
 
b.  5 Sept 1899 St.  Agatha
 
d.  23 May 1902 St. Agatha
 
7. M.  Jeanne Marquis -m- Donat Chasse
 
b.  28 April 1901
 
m.  29 Oct.  1919 St.  Agatha
 
8.  Leonide  (Lionel) Marquis -m- Mabel Boutote
 
b.  5 May 1907 St. Agatha,  Maine
 
9.  Maxime Marquis
 
b.  14 Sept 1907 St. Agatha
 
10.  Catherine Marquis -m- Guillaume Guerrette
 
b.  14 June 1912
 
m.  27 Nov.  1929 St.  Agatha
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 186
 
G.  The Val Violette House,  Van Buren,  Maine
  
According to family tradition,  the Val Violette house has stood on
 
its present site since 1850.
 At that time,  Belonie Violette  (1817-1879) was
 
the owner of the property upon which the house was erected:
 River Lot 301 in
 
Township M,  Range 2 (Van Buren).
 It is believed that the house contains parts
 
of an older residence that was moved from a location closer to the St.  John
 
River.
 The Violette House has been passed from father to son over the course
 
of four generations.
 It is currently the residence of Val and Anne Violette.
 
Succession of Ownership of the Violette House  
Volume 
Date
 
Grantor
 
Grantee 
Description
 
5-81(H)
 5 May 1844
 Belonie Violette Francois Violette
 Life
 
Susanne Violette  Margaret
 Support
 
2-611
 17 May 1845
 Francois Violette Belonie Violette Mortgage
 
Margaret Violette
 Discharge
 
3-89
 19 Mar.  1845
 Belonie Violette  George W.  Smith
 Saw Mill
 
Charles Crosby Privilege
 
of Bangor,  Maine
 
2- 605
 12 July 1845 States of Maine
 Belonie Violette
 Lot 301
 
& Massachusetts
 307.17a
 
1-191
 1846
 Belonie Violette
 Isaac Mace
 Saw Mill
 
Privilege
 
3-397
 17 Mar.  1857
 Belonie Violette George W.  Smith
 5 acres
 
Mill Pond
 
7-448
 11 Jan.  1871
 Belonie Violette Roman Catholic
 St.  Bruno
 
Susanne Violette
 Bishop
 Church Site
 
11-526
 9 May 1874
 State of Maine
 Belonie Violette
 Lot 22
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 187
 
9-518
 21 Jan.  1875
 Belonie Violette Susanne Violette
 Lots 301
 
his wife
 & 22
 
11-527
 3 Apr.  1879
 Susanne Violette  Ambroise Violette Lots 301
 
her son
 Lot 22
 
11-529
 3 April 1879
 Ambroise Violette Susanne Violette Life
 
Marie Violette
 Support
 
11-530
 3 April 1879
 Ambroise Violette Susanne Violette
 Bond
 
Marie Violette
 
19-113
 25 Aug.  1885
 Ambroise Violette Roman Catholic
 11 Acres
 
Church
 College Lot
 
25-23
 27 Dec.  1889
 Solomon Madore
 Ambroise Violette Grist
 
Frederic Violette  Mill
 
23-267
 27 Apr.  1890
 Ambroise Violette Frederic Violette Grist
 
Marie Violette
 Mill
 
30-446
 20 Oct.1898
 Ambroise Violette Roman Catholic
 Convent
 
Bishop
 Lot
 
Aspects of the Violette Family's History
  
Belonie Violette  (1817-1879),  builder of the Violette house,  was a
 
third-generation owner of what in the American era became Lot 301.
 In 1831,
 
when both Maine and New Brunswick claimed the territory,  Maine agents Deane
 
and Kavanaugh were sent north to determine the demographics of the disputed
 
area.
 When they interviewed Belonie Violette's father,  Francois Violette
 
(1770-1856),  he told them that his father,  Francois Violette,  Sr.  (1744-1824),
 
built a grist mill on the site "forty Years ago".
 He also told them that he
 
had taken up residence there "three years ago".
 He explained that his family
 
owned a larger estate,  some 90 rods in width,  at the mouth of Grand Rivière,
 
in what is now St.  Leonard,  N.B.
 And he noted his family's receipt of a
 
British grant to that site in 1826.
 
The report of a magistrate from Fredericton,  N.B.,  who visited the
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 188
 
area in 1833,  includes an entry on Frangois Violette,  Jr.
 His status was as
 
Family:  1 woman 2 boys 0 girls
 
Stock:  
TJ
 
Quantity of hay cut in tons 7
 
Seed sown last spring, No. of bushels: Wheat 9
, barley 1-1/2,
 oats 7
 
Crop Raised in Bushels: wheat 15, barley 1
,  oats 12, buckwheat
 6,
 
Average crop past five years: Wheat 50,  Barley 30,  oats 30,
 
buckwheat 20, peas 20, potatoes 500.
 
Aside from the Deane and Kavanaugh report, the earliest American
 
document concerning the property upon which the Val Violette House stands is
 
an 1844 mortgage of Belonie Violette to Frangois Violette in which the son
 
gains title to what would soon become Treaty Lot 301 in Township M. Range 2.
 
Later, this lot,  consisting of 307.14 acres, would be deeded to Belonie in
 
connection with the work of land commissions established by the states of
 
Maine and Massachusetts to deal with settlers , claims.
 
In 1844 "Paul Cire, Joseph Cire and Bellonie Violette," assessors
 
of the plantation of Van Buren,  addressed a "Census of the Males and Females
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 189
 
in Van Buren taken 31 May 1844."
 Covering the territory from the middle of
 
Grand Isle to Hamlin and Cyr Plantation,  the census reported a 82 families
 
that comprised 509 individuals.
 Belonie Violette's family consists of five
 
members.
 
Shortly after acquiring title from his father,  Belonie Violette
 
sold the property's gristmill privilege to Vital Thibodeau of Saint-Basile who
 
would further develop it.
 In 1846 he deeded the first of the saw mill sites
 
to Isaac Mace.
 Realizing the lumber potential of Violette Stream which flows
 
from Violette Pond,  in 1855 Belonie Violette sold the site of a second saw
 
mill to George W.  Smith and Charles Crosby of Bangor.
 Later,  Smith and Crosby
 
drove cedar logs downstream to the mill site and manufactured shingles--the
 
first to be sent out of the Upper St.  John Valley area to American markets.
 
In 1860,  Smith and Crosby sold their mill to W.  C.  Hammond,  whose family had
 
been associated with the lumber industry in New Brunswick.
 
Apparently,  Belonie Violette preferred not to become involved in
 
lumber milling,  which was considered a risky business.  Instead,  he farmed Lot
 
301 and sold land.
 In addition,  he maintained an interest in civic affairs.
 
In 1856 he served as one of three Aroostook County Commissioners,  and in 1866
 
he was elected to a term in the state legislature.
 
Eventually,  Belonie Violette's family grew to fourteen children--
seven boys and seven girls.
 Instead of diminishing the value of the homesite
 
by parceling it among his children in equal shares, Violette bought farms in
 
newly-developed sectors of the plantation,  and turned them over to his sons
 
when they attained maturity.
 Thus,  the eldest son,  Frederic,  would have a
 
farm in Cyr Plantation and the next son,  Dennis,  raised his family in nearby
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 190
 
Hamlin.
 His daughters were given dowries when they married.
 
In 1875, Violette consigned the family estate to his spouse on the
 
understanding that whenever she decided to become a pensioner of an inheriting
 
son,  that son would provide for his younger siblings in the manner that the
 
elder sons had been provided.
 Therefore, when the middle son,  Ambroise  (1850-
1911),  agreed to take his mother as pensioner after Belonie's death four years
 
later,  he also agreed to provide dowries for his unmarried younger sisters and
 
to provide his younger brothers with farms of their own.
 Until they attained
 
maturity,  the younger brothers were bound to work for their supporting brother
 
and mother on the original homestead.
 
The tract of land Belonie Violette had taken at Violette Brook
 
contributed to the development of a village which grew up around the mill
 
sites.
 By mid-century,  merchants,  a tavern keeper and blacksmiths had moved
 
into the region.
 
Genealoqy of The Violette Family
 
Louis Violette -m- Marie Doux
 
of Villejesus,  Angoumois,  France
 
Charles Violette -m.1-Marie David
 
b.13 Feb.  1716 Villejesus
 b.10 May 1710 Saintes,France
 
d.13 Nov.  1765 Rochefort
 d.26 May 1751 Louisbourg,  I.  Royale
 
m.  6 Dec.  1741 St. Vivien,  Saintes,  France
 
-m.2-Marie Sudois
 
b.
 
d.16 nov.  1760 Rochefort,France
 
m.  27 June 1751 Louisbourg,  Isle Royale  (Cape Breton Island)
 
François Violette -m- Marie Luce Thibodeau
 
b.16 Oct.  1744 Saintes,  France
 
d.10 April 1824 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  6 May 1770 Ecoupahaq  (River St.  John,  N.B.)
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 191
 
Francois Violette -m- Marguerite Fournier
 
b.  1770 Kennebecasis  (southeastern N.B.)
 
d.4 March 1856 Van Buren, Maine
 
Belonie  (Benoni) Violette -m- Susanne Theriault
 
b.  16 March 1817 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
d.  16 March 1879 Van Buren, Maine
 
m.  1]
. Feb.  1839 Saint-Basile,  Maine
 
Ambroise Violette -m- Marie Madore
 
b.22 Nov.  1850 Van Buren,  Maine
 
d.21 June 1911 Van Buren,  Maine
 
m. Van Buren, Maine
 
Rene Violette -m- Blanche Madore
 
b.18 Oct.  1892 Van Buren, Maine
 
d.  4 Feb.  1940 Van Buren, Maine
 
m.17 Sept.  1912 Van Buren, Maine
 
Valerien Violette -m- Anne Deveau
 
b.30 May 1918 Van Buren,  Maine
 
m.  10 June 1940 Van Buren,  Maine
 
(These genealogical data are derived from Violette-Lippe  (1984)).
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 192
 
H.
 The Vital Violette House
 
The Vital Violette House,  currently preserved in a dismantled
 
state in Lille, Maine,  by L'association Culturelle du Mont-Carmel, was
 
originally located on Lot 298 in Township M,  Range 2 (Van Buren).
 This land
 
has gone through a succession of ownership which does not always follow family
 
lines.
 The original land grant from the states of Maine and Massachusetts has
 
not been located.
 
Succession of ownership of Lot 298 or Parts Thereof
 
Volume Date
 Grantor 
Grantee 
Description
 
1-146 Mar.18,1847
 Dydime Morin of
 
Firmin Thibodeau
 Lot 198
 
Van Buren
 of Saint-Basile,  N.B
 118.98a
 
2-622 Sept.20 1853 Firmin Thibodeau
 Natalie Morin
 Lot 298
 
of St.Basile,N.B.  wife of Dydime
 118.98a
 
8-197 Sept.18 1867 Dydime Morin
 Isaie Morin
 Lot 298
 
Natalie Morin
 118.98a
 
8-19
 8 Sept.18 1867 Isaie Morin
 Dydime Morin
 Bond
 
Natalie Morin
 
8-200 Sept.18 1867 Isaie Morin
 Dydime Morin
 Life Support
 
Natalie Morin
 Mortgage
 
9-86 Nov.18 1874
 Isaiah Morin
 Julia  (Nancy)
 Part of
 
Dedime Morin
 Morin wife of
 Lot 198
 
Anatalie Morin
 Raphael Morin
 
36-252
 Aug.14,1897 Isaie Morin
 Francis Gingras
 
Anastasie Morin
 of Grand Isle
 
Etalie Morin
 
44-262 May 2,  1904 Elouise Gingras
 Methaide Gingras
 
Clarisse Gingras
 Francis Gingras
 
W half of
 
Lot 198
 
N.W.  half of
 
Lot 298
 
49-35 Sept.13  1904 Methaide Gingras
 Mary Martin
 
Francis GingraB
 
50-338 Sept.13 1904 Mary Martin
 Methaide Gingras
 Mortgage
 
Xavier Martin
 of 49-35
 
51-243
 Aug.17,1905 Francis Gingras
 Remi M.  Cyr
 Part Lot 298
 
Elouise Gingras
 Ferry Street
 
Oct.13  1905 Remie M.  Cyr
 
Ozite Cyr
 
1.1.
 May 2 1912 Al fred
 
Mar
i e
_
_
 
75-123
 Mar.11  1914 Joseph Sirois
 Anna Sirois, wife
 Part Lot 298
 
111-366
 Oct.12  1926 Anna Sirois
 Fred M.  Cyr
 Part Lot 298
 
112-451
 Nov.2  1926 Fred M.  Cyr
 Anna Sirois
 Part Lot 298
 
widow
 Mortgage
 
131-203
 Dec.  1 1931 Sheriff's Deed
 Vital Violette
 
133-45
 Aug.16  1934 Inhabitants of
 Estelle B.  Violette
 
133-220
 Oct.17  1935 Anna Sirois
 Estelle B.  Violette Being 133-
I
 
232-121
 Oct.13,1950 Estelle 
I!
E. Viol ette Vital Vio lette
I!
 
256-550
 June 10 1957 Vital E.  Violette
 A.  Martin
 Part Lot 298
 
Estelle B.  Violette
 Violette
 
288-473
 May 10 1960 A. Martin Violette
 Vital E.  Violette
 Part of
 
Priscilla F.  Violette
 Estelle B. " 
Lot 298
 
615-144
 Feb.  23  1984 Elmer H.  Violette
 
Executor of Estate
 
Thomas Didime  ("Dedime,"  "Dydime")  Morin was baptized at St.  Andre
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 194
 
de Kamouraska,  the son of Michel Morin and Genevive Collin.
 He married Julie-
Natalie Marquis at Saint-Basile,  N.B.,  on February 23,  1835.
 At that time,
 
St.  Bruno chapel in Van Buren was still a mission of Saint-Basile and all
 
records were entered at Saint-Basile,  New Brunswick.
 Census data suggests
 
that Dedime Morin migrated into the Van Buren area in 1837.
 A search in
 
British records at Fredericton and Woodstock,  N.B.,  would be necessary to
 
confirm a property transfer at that time.
 
In the 1872 census of St.  Bruno parish,  "Dedime" Morin is
 
described as "rentier de Isaie Morin," that is,  he was the pensioner of his
 
son,  Isaie Morin.
 Isaie Morin married Marguerite Lepage at Van Buren on
 
January 6,  1866.
 He married his second wife,  Anastasie Cyr,  on  March 8,
 
1878.
 
At the turn of the twentieth century,  considerable development
 
occurred on lot 298 in response to the opening of mills owned by the Van Buren
 
Lumber Company, which were located nearby.
 These mills ground to a halt
 
during the Depression.
 In 1931, Vital Violette  (b.  1893)  acquired more than
 
one piece of property from the old lot 298 farm.
 On one of these pieces he
 
began a meat business,  and on another he established his residence.
 
Vital Violette was raised on a farm on Alexander Road in Van
 
Buren.
 His father,  Exeas Violette  (b.  1858),  served as a selectmen of the
 
town of Van Buren and also worked to create a school district for that section
 
of town.
 Vital Violette represented Van Buren in the state legislature,  as
 
did his son Elmer.
 Elmer also became a justice of the Maine Supreme Court.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 195
 
Violette Family Genealoqy:  Two Lines
 
One Line
 
Francois Violette -m- Marie Luce Thibodeau
 
b.  16 Oct.  1744 Saintes,  France
 
d.  10 April 1824 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  6 May 1770 Ecoupahq,  St.  John River  (Fredericton,  N.B.)
 
Charles A
inand Henri Violette -m- Theotiste Tardif
 
b.  Kennebecassis  (N.B.)
 
d.  1818 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  1 Feb.  1808 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Augustin Violette -r
n-1 Rose Michaud
 
b.18 Sept 1811 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
d.  9 Sept 1894 Fall River,  Mass
 
-m-2 Natalie Thibodeau
 
m.  1 Aug 1843 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
Exias Violette -r
n-1 Nathalie Violette*
 
b.  4 July 1857 Van Buren,  Me
 
d.  18 Dec.  1937 Van Buren,  Me.
 
m.  25 April 1881 Van Buren,  Me
 
-m-2 Marie Cormier
 
r
n.  14 Apr.  1890 Van Buren,  Maine
 
Vital Violette -m- Estelle Bosse
 
b.  8 Dec.  1893 Van Buren,  Maine
 
d.  16 Nov.  1964 Van Buren,  Maine
 
r
n.  3 July 1917 St. Agatha, Maine
 
Elmer H. Violette -r
n- Marcella Belanger
 
m.  2 Sept.  1946 Van Buren,  Maine
 
Another Line
 
Francois Violette -m- Marie Luce Thibodeau
 
b.  16 Oct.  1744 Saintes,  France
 
d.  10 April 1824 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  6 May 1770 Ecoupahag,  N.B.
 
Augustin Violette -r
n-1 Elisabeth Cyr
 
b.  15 Sept.  1772 Kennebecasis,  N.B.
 
d 1 Mar.  1849 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
m.  1798 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
-m-2 Marie Boutin
 
i
n.  11 Jan.  1830 Berthier,  Quebec
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 196
 
Jacques Violette -m- Angeligue Gaudin
 
b.  30 Sept 1802 Saint-Basile
 
Alexandre Violette -m- Elisabeth Thibodeau
 
b.  14 April 1828 Saint-Basile,  N.B.
 
d.  23 Oct.  1912 Van Buren, Maine
 
m.  3 Nov.  1851 Van Buren, Maine
 
Nathalie Violette -m- Exias Violette
 
b.  26 Jan 1861 Van Buren, Maine
 
m.  25 Apr.  1881 Van Buren, Maine
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 197
 
References 
Albert,  Thomas
 
1920
 Histoire du Madawaska. 
Quebec:
 Imprimerie Franciscaine
 
Missionnaire.
 
Arsenault,  Bona
 
1978
 Histoire et qénéaloqie des Acadiens. 
Ottawa:
 Editions
 
Leméac.
 
Attwood,  Stanley Bearce
 
1946
 The Lenath and Breadth of Maine. 
Augusta,  Me.:
 Kennebec
 
Journal.
 
Bouchette,  Joseph
 
1968
 The British Dominions in North America:  A Topoqraphical
  
and Statistical Description of the Province of Lower and
 
Upper Canada,  New Brunswick,  Nova Scotia. 
Rpt.  ed.  New
 
York:
 AMS Press.
 
Caron,  Ivanhoe
 
1831
 La colonisation de la Province de Québec de 1791 a
 1815:  
Lea cantons de 1'est. 
Quebec.
 
Craig,  Beatrice
 
1988
 "Agriculture and the Lumberman's Frontier in the Upper
 
Saint John Valley,  1800-1870."
 Journal of Forest History
 
(July 1988):125-37.
 
Day,  Clarence
 
1963
 Farminq in Maine 1860-1940. 
Orono:
 University of Maine
 
Press.
 
Dubay,  Guy F.
 
1989
 The Story of Germain Dubé. 
Madawaska,  Me.:
 St.  John
 
Valley Publishing Co.
 
Dufour,  A.  & S.
 
A.  & S.  Dufour Journal of Accounts,  1844-1848.
 Photo-
copy of ma.  at Madawaska Public Library,  Madawaska,  Maine.
 
Dunn,  Claire Deveau
 
N.d.
 There Never Need be Discouraqement:  History of the Deveau
 
Family. 
N.p.:
 the author.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 198
 
Hoyt,  Edmund S.
 
1871-9
 Maine State Year-Book and Leqislative Manual. 
Portland:
 
Hoyt,  Fogg and Donham.
 
Langlois,  Henri
 
1979
 Dictionnaire qénéaloqique du Madawaska. 
Vol.  I.
 Saint-
Basile,  N.B.:
 Msgr.  Ernest Lang
 
Lower, Arthur R. M.
 
1957
 Colony to Nation: A History of Canada. 
Toronto:
 
Longmans,  Green and Company.
 
MacLaughlin,  James
 
James MacLaughlin Papers.
 Ms.  at New Brunswick Museum,
 
St.  John,  New Brunswick.
 
Maine,  State of
 
1907
 "The Potato as a Commercial Crop."
 In Report of the
  
Commissioner of Industrial and Labor Statistics,  1907,
 
45-79.
 Augusta, Me.:
 State of Maine.
 
McInnis,  Edgar
 
1969
 Canada: A Political and Social History. 
Toronto:
 Holt,
 
Rinehart and Winston of Canada.
 
McKay,  Donald.
 "The Canadian Logging Frontier."
 Journal of Forest
 
1979
 History 23,  no.  1 (Jan.  1979).
 
McNutt, W.  S.
 
1963
 New Brunswick:  A History 1784-1867. 
Toronto:
 Macmillan
 
of Canada.
 
Melvin,  Charlotte Lenentine
 
1975
 Madawaska: A Chapter in Maine-New Brunswick Relations.
 
Madawaska, Me.:
 Madawaska Historical Society.
 
New Brunswick,  Province of
 
1851
 Census of New Brunswick,  1851. 
St.  John,  N.B.:
 Province
 
of New Brunswick.
 
1861
 Census of New Brunswick,  1861. 
St.  John,  N.B.:
 Province
 
of New Brunswick.
 
Raymond,  William Ober
 
1914
 "State of the Madawaska and Aroostook Settlements in 1831,"
 
Collections of the New Brunswick Historical Society, 3,  no.  9
 
(1914) :344-84.
 
Maine Acadian Cultural Survey
 199
 
1950
 The River St.  John:  Its Physical Features,  Leqends and
  
History from 1604 to 1784. 
Rpt.  ed.
 Sackville,  N.B.:
 
The Tribune Press.
 
Sirois,  George
 
1976
 Les Acadiens et la naissances du commerce do bois dans
 
le Nord-Est du Nouveau-Brunswick 1820-1840."
 Les cahiers
 
de la société historicrue acadienne 7,  no.  4 (1976):183-
93.
 
U.S.  Bureau of the Census
 
1853
 The Seventh Census of the United States:  1850.
 
Washington:
 Robert Armstrong,  public printer.
 
1864
 Population of the United States in 1860. 
Washington:
 
U.S.  Census Office.
 
1883-88
 Tenth Census.
 June 1,  1880. 
Washington:
 U
.S. Census
 
office.
 
1892-97
 Eleventh Census:  1890. 
Washington:
 U.S.  Census Office.
 
1901-02
 Twelfth Census of the United States taken in the Year
 
1900.
 Washington:
 U.S.  Census Office.
 
1912-14
 Thirteenth Census of the United States taken in the year
 
1910.
 Washington:
 U.S.  Census Office.
 
Violette-Lippe,  Rita
 
1984
 The Descendants of Francois Violette. 
Lawrence,  Mass.:
 
Naiman Press.
 
.
,
.ACADIAN
 
CULTURE
 
I
NATAINE
 
North Atlantic Region
 
National Park S
ervice
 
U
.S. Department o
f t
he I
nterior
 
ACADIA
 N
 
CULTURE
 
I
NAfAINE
 
ACADIA
 N
 
CULTURE
 
I
N AfAINE
 
PREPARED BY
 
North Atlantic Region
 
National Park Service
 
Boston, Massachusetts
 
Maine Acadian CultHii Hu \  \
 
A S
tudy by
 
American Folklife Center
 
L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Washington, D
.C.
 
C
. Ray B
rassieur, Coordinator
 
SUB MITTED TO
 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 
U
.S. S
enate
 
and
 
Committee on I
nterior and I
nsular Affairs
 
U
.S. House o
f Representatives
 
Washington, D
.C.
 
1
992
 
R
ESUME
 
Le
s  F
rançais de l
'Acadie ont é
té c
hassés de l
a
 Nouvelle-EcosSe par
 l
es
 
Anglais, en 1
755. Au c
ours de l
a
 décennie de 1
780, quelques-uns s
e s
ont
 
i
nstallés dans l
a
 v
allée du h
aut S
aint-Jean, r
egion au nord-est du Maine, aux
 
E
tats-Unis, e
t
 du nord-ouest du Nouveau-Brunswick, au Canada. Les
 
descendants de c
es p
ionniers s
'
identifient c
omme Acadiens, e
t
 l
e
 haut S
aint-
J
ean e
st c
onsidéré c
omme un c
entre de c
ulture a
cadienne au Maine.
 
L
'histoire de l
a
 v
allée du h
aut S
aint-Jean e
st une des des permettant
 
de c
omprendre l
a
 c
olonisation de l
'Amérique du Nord e
t
 l
'
évolution
 
h
istorique des E
tats-Unis. Apport i
ntégrant de l
a
 c
ulture l
ocale, l
a
 l
angue
 
f
rancaise y
 e
st e
ncore parlée, c
onférant a
insi un c
aractère d
istinctif a
 l
a
 
r
egion. L
'architecture l
ocale s
uscite de l
'
intérêt: i
l
 y a
 autant de s
olides
 
c
onstructions e
n bois dans l
e
 h
aut S
aint-Jean qu'il y
 en a
 a
i
lleurs aux E
tats-
L
)nis. Un h
eritage materiel des p
lus v
aries e
st t
émoin d
'une culture v
ivante
 
a
vec s
es t
raits d
istinctifs. A
 p
artir des g
ranges j
usqu'au t
i
ssage, on r
etrouve:
 
c
hansons, c
outumes, e
xpressions o
rales, danses, mets t
ypiques e
t
 valeurs
 
e
sthétiques c
ontribuant a l
a
 d
iversité c
ulturelle du Maine e
t
 des E
tats-Unis.
 
Les t
raditions d
'autres g
roupes l
ocaux s
'allient a l
eur culture.
 
Comme b
eaucoup d
'autres c
ultures t
raditionnelles, l
'héritage
 
a
cadien e
st menace de d
isparaItre au Maine. Les c
ommunautés a
cadiennes
 
s
e p
réoccupent b
eaucoup de 1
'
avenir de l
eur c
ulture. Le S
ervice du Parc
 
National c
ollabore a
vec l
es Acadiens du Maine pour s
on i
nterpretation e
t
 s
a
 
c
onservation. Des a
spects t
angibles ou non de c
ette culture s
ont en l
i
ens
 
a
vec l
es c
ontextes h
istoriques e
t
 c
ontemporains.
 
Le p
resent r
apport e
st l
e
 r
ésultat de l
a
 r
echerche s
ur l
a
 culture
 
a
cadienne au Maine a
ccomplie s
ur l
es l
i
eux pour l
e
 S
ervice du Parc National
 
pour l
a
 Region du Nord de l
'Atlantique, par l
e
 Centre s
ur l
a
 v
ie
 
t
raditionnelle américaine de l
a
 B
ibliotheque du Congres. Cette é
tude donne
 
s
uite a l
a
 l
o
i s
ur l
a
 Conservation de l
a
 c
ulture a
cadienne au Maine, (
Public
 
L
aw 1
01-543). Cette l
o
i demande au S
ecrétaire de 1
'
Intérieur, par l
e
 b
iais du
 
S
ervice du Parc National, de mener une é
tude détaillée s
ur l
a
 culture
 
a
cadienne au Maine e
t
 de p
révoir un p
rogramme d
'interprétation. La l
oi
 
C
tablit une Commission de onze membres, c
hargée de l
a
 Conservation de l
a
 
c
ulture a
cadienne au Maine, dont l
es buts s
ont:
 
1 r
econnaItre l
'
importante c
ontribution a
 l
a
 c
ulture e
t
 a
 l
'histoire
 
américaine a
pportée p
ar l
e
s immigrants a
cadiens v
enus de F
rance e
n
 
Nouvelle-Ecosse, puis e
xpulsés p
ar l
es Anglais, e
n 1
755, e
t
 i
nstallés
 
d
ans l
e
s d
iverses c
olonies nord-américaines, e
ntre a
utres, dans l
e
 
t
e
rritoire qui s
era l
e
 Maine;
 
2 a
ider l
e
s g
ouvernements du l
i
eu e
t
 d
e l
'
état a
insi que l
es a
utres
 
e
ntités publiques e
t
 p
rivees du Maine a
 i
nterpreter l
'
histoire des
 
p
ionniers a
cadiens e
t
 d
e l
eurs d
escendants, e
t
 c
ontribuer a
 l
a
 c
onserva-
t
i
on d
e l
eur c
ulture: musique, a
rts, a
rtisanat e
t
 f
olklore;
 
3 c
ontribuer a
 l
'
identification, a
u r
assemblement e
t
 a l
a
 c
onservation
 
d
e l
i
eux, d
e données h
istoriques, d
'objets f
abriques e
t
 a
ssociés aux
 
Acadiens du Maine, a
f
in que l
e
 public e
n p
renne c
onnaissance e
t
 e
n
 
h
énéficie.
 
Tel que r
equis par l
a
 l
egislation, c
ette é
tude s
ur l
a
 c
ulture a
cadienne
 
e
st p
résentée au Comité des a
ffaires i
ntérieures e
t
 i
nsulaires de l
a
 Chambre
 
des dCputés des E
tats-Unis, e
t
 a
u Comité s
ur l
'Energie e
t
 l
es Ressources
 
n
aturelles du S
Cnat des E
tats-Unis.
 
SUMMARY
 
T
r
ench-speaking Acadians were deported f
rom Nova S
cotia by t
he B
ritish i
n
 
1
755. During t
he 1
780s, s
ome o
f t
hose d
isplaced Acadians s
ettled i
n t
he
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley —now part o
f t
he s
tate o
f Maine i
n t
he United S
tates
 
and t
he p
rovince o
f New B
runswick, Canada. The descendents o
f t
hose
 
s
ettlers s
t
ill i
dentify t
hemselves a
s "Acadian" and t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn " 1
1
 
i
s
 r
egarded a
s t
he l
ocus o
f Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine.
 
The h
istory o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley p
rovides an important k
e\
 
understanding t
he s
ettling o
f North America and t
he h
istorical deve
 
ment o
f t
he United S
tates. The l
ocal F
rench d
ialect h
as r
emained an imp
 
t
ant part o
f t
he c
ulture and i
s
 p
revalent i
n t
he r
iver v
alley t
oday, makini
 
a
rea d
istinctive. The a
rchitecture o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 s
ignificant;
 
t
here may be a
s many s
olid-walled wooden buildings t
here a
s anywhere i
n
 
t
he United S
tates. A r
ange o
f o
ther material c
ulture, f
rom b
arns t
o weaving,
 
possesses d
istinctive f
eatures and t
he l
iving c
ulture —songs, c
ustoms,
 
f
igures o
f s
peech, dance s
tyles, f
oodways, a
esthetic v
alues —contribute t
o
 
t
he c
ultural d
iversity o
f Maine and t
he United S
tates. And, t
he c
ontext o
f t
he
 
t
raditions o
f o
ther g
roups i
n t
he r
egion c
ontributes t
o Acadian c
ulture.
 
L
ike many t
raditional c
ultures, Acadian heritage i
s
 endangered i
n
 
Maine. There i
s
 r
eal c
oncern about t
he f
uture o
f t
he c
ulture among t
he
 
Acadian c
ommunity. The National Park S
ervice i
s
 c
ooperating with
 
Acadians i
n Maine t
o i
nterpret and p
reserve t
heir c
ulture. Tangible a
nd
 
i
ntangible a
spects o
f t
he c
ulture a
re being addressed i
n both h
istorical a
nd
 
c
ontemporary c
ontexts.
 
This r
eport p
resents t
he f
indings o
f t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural
 
s
urvey, a
 f
i
eld r
esearch p
roject c
onducted f
or t
he North Atlantic Region,
 
National Park S
ervice by t
he American Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
The s
urvey was c
arried out pursuant t
o t
he Maine Acadian Culture P
reser-
vation Act (
Public Law 1
01-543). The Act d
irects t
he S
ecretary o
f t
he I
nterior,
 
t
hrough t
he National Park S
ervice, t
o p
repare a
 c
omprehensive s
tudy o
f a
nd
 
i
nterpretive p
rogram a
bout Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine a
nd e
stablishes a
n
 
e
leven-m ember Maine Acadian Culture F
reservation Commission. The
 
purposes o
f t
he Act a
re t
o
:
 
1 r
ecognize a
n im porta nt c
ontribution made t
o American c
ulture a
nd
 
h
istory by t
he Acadian im migra nts f
rom F
rance who s
ettled i
n Nova
 
S
cotia a
nd, f
o
llowing e
xpulsion by t
he B
ritish i
n 1
755, r
esettled i
n
 
v
arious North American c
olonies, i
ncluding t
he t
erritory t
hat e
ventu-
a
l
ly b
ecame t
he S
tate o
f Maine;
 
2 a
ssist l
ocal a
nd S
tate g
overnments a
nd o
ther public a
nd p
rivate
 
e
ntities i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine i
n
 i
nterpreting t
he s
tory o
f t
he S
tate's
 
Acadian s
ettlers a
nd t
heir d
escendants a
s well a
s p
reserving Acad I
,
)]
)
 
music, a
rts, c
rafts, a
nd f
o
lklore; a
nd
 
3 a
ssist i
n i
dentifying, g
athering, a
nd preservi n g s
ites, historical d
ata,
 
a
rtifacts, a
nd objects a
ssociated with t
he Acadians i
n Maine f
or t
he
 
b
enefit a
nd e
ducation o
f t
he public.
 
As r
equired by t
he l
egislation, t
his s
tudy o
f Acadian c
ulture is
 
being t
ransmitted t
o t
he Committee on I
nterior and I
nsular Affairs o
f t
he
 
United S
tates House o
f Representatives and t
he Committee on Energy a
nd
 
Natural Resources o
f t
he United S
tates S
enate.
 
TABLE OF
 
CONTENTS
 
ACADIA
 1
 
The F
irst Acadians
 
L
e Grand Derangement
 
MAINE ACADIAN CULTURAL SURVEY
 7
 
P
reserving a
 Culture
 
F
ield Research Methodology
 
The S
tudy Area
 
ACADIAN SETTLEMENT IN THE UPPER ST. JOHN VALLEY
 1
3
 
THE FRENCH LANGUAGE IN THE UPPER ST. JOHN VALLEY
 1
7
 
F
rench Language P
rominence
 
Some Features o
f Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley F
rench
 
Language S
tigma: R
isk t
o a
 Valuable Cultural Resource
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MATNF ACADIAN CUT TURF
 
Impressions o
f Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Val
 
F
arming
 
Woods Work
 
Mills and Miller-
,
 
S
elf-Employment a
nd I
ndependence
 
Religion and I
dentity
 
Water-Related T
raditions
 
Foodways
 
Oral T
raditions and Belief Among t
he Acadians
 
Music, Song, and Dance
 
Some Acadian Domestic F
eatures
 
Acadian Houses: A P
reliminary Sketch
 
2
3
 
HISTORIC PROPERTIES
 4
5
 
Nationally Recognized P
roperties
 
Background o
f S
elected P
roperties
 
CONCLUSION
  
Recommendations f
or Further Research
 
What Next?
 
ACKNO WLEDG MENTS
 
6
1
 
GLOSSARY
 
REFERENCES
 
6
9
 
7
1
 
7
9
 
APPENDIX
 9
7
 
Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Act
 
ACADIA
 
The F
irst
 I
 he naming o
f t
he North American r
egion known a
s Acadie o
r Acadia
 
Acadians
 has been variously a
ttributed. According t
o one a
ccount, i
t
 was named
 
by Verrazano, who e
xplored t
he Atlantic Coast f
or F
rance during t
he
 
e
arly s
ixteenth c
entury. When he v
isited t
he r
egion t
hat i
s
 now t
he
 
Middle Atlantic s
tates during one April, "
he f
ound t
he v
egetation s
o
 
l
uxuriant t
hat he named t
he c
ountry '
Arcadie' i
n r
emembrance o
f t
he
 
r
egion o
f ancient Greece whose i
nnocence and j
o
ie de v
ivre were c
el-
e
brated by t
he poets" (Daigle 1
982b:18). Whatever i
t
s p
rovenance,
 
during t
he e
arly years o
f t
he s
eventeenth c
entury F
rench "Acadie" o
r
 
"Acadia" r
eferred t
o t
he t
erritory now known a
s New B
runswick, Nova
 
S
cotia, and e
astern Maine. At various t
imes t
he name a
lso encompassed
 
I
s
le-Saint J
ean (
Prince Edward I
s
land), I
le Royale (
Cape B
reton), Les l
ies
 
de l
a
 Madeleine (Magdalen I
s
lands), and t
he s
outhern c
oast o
f t
he Gaspé
 
Peninsula. Beginning i
n t
he e
arly e
ighteenth c
entury, t
he c
onflicting
 
c
laims o
f F
rance and England embraced "Acadia" and "Nova S
cotia"
 
e
ssentially t
he s
ame a
rea (
Clark 1
968:72).
 
The date o
f t
he f
i
rst European c
ontact with Acadia i
s
 unkno.
 
but c
ontemporary h
istorians s
eem t
o agree t
hat F
rench f
i
shermen a
nd
 
f
ur t
raders were among t
he f
i
rst t
o l
and on i
t
s s
hores. Undoubted l
v
,
 
c
ommercial i
nterest i
n t
he r
egion was s
t
imulated when t
he F
rench
 
monarchy began t
o g
rant American f
ur monopolies i
n 1
588 (Daigle
 
1
982b:18). Eventually, i
t
 was decided t
hat c
olonization c
ould be f
inanced
 
t
hrough t
hese t
rade monopolies, and, a
s a
 r
esult, t
he merchant P
ierre d L
l
 
Gua S
ieur de Monts r
eceived a
 t
rade monopoly over t
erritory between
 
t
he 4
0th and 4
6th parallels with t
he understanding t
hat he e
stablish a
 
c
olony.
 
On April 7
,
 1
604, de Monts s
ailed f
rom Havre-de-Grâce i
n
 
F
rance with an e
xpedition o
f 1
20 men and s
ettled on a
 small i
s
land n
ear
 
t
he mouth o
f t
he S
t
. Croix R
iver. They c
alled i
t
 "
Sainte-Croix" o
r "
holy
 
c
ross." I
ncluded with t
he e
xpedition were s
everal "
gentlemen," among
 
t
hem J
ean de Poutrincourt and S
amuel de Champlain, t
he K
ing's
 
g
eographer. I
n August, de Monts s
ent h
is main f
leet back t
o F
rance. l
ie
 
and Champlain, with s
eventy-seven o
thers, s
ettled i
n f
or f
all and winter,
 
t
hus beginning t
he l
ong and o
ften b
itter p
rocess o
f adapting t
he Euro-
pean way o
f l
i
fe t
o t
he North American e
nvironment. During t
hat f
i
rst
 
winter t
hirty-four members o
f t
he party d
ied and many o
thers became
 
dangerously i
l
l
. Consequently, t
he c
olony was moved t
o a
 more f
avor-
able s
i
te a
t Port-Royal (
now Annapolis Royal), on t
he Bay o
f Fundy i
n
 
p
resent-day Nova S
cotia. There t
he s
ettlers c
leared and c
ultivated l
and
 
and appeared t
o be making p
rogress. However, de Monts' monopoly
 
was r
evoked i
n 1
607, t
he c
olony was abandoned, and t
he s
ettlers r
e-
t
urned t
o F
rance. A map s
howing t
he major s
eventeenth-century
 
s
ettlements o
f Acadia i
s
 on page 5
.
 
Today S
t. Croix I
s
land i
s
 r
ecognized a
s one o
f t
he f
i
rst Euro-
pean s
ettlements i
n northern North America heralding permanent
 
European s
ettlement i
n Canada, and a
s t
he c
radle o
f t
he Acadian
 
p
resence on t
he c
ontinent. Due t
o t
he i
s
land's importance i
n t
he h
istory
 
o
f Canada a
s well a
s t
hat o
f t
he people o
f t
he United S
tates, i
t
 i
s
 now t
he
 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
S
aint Croix I
s
land I
nternational Historic S
ite, a
 unit o
f t
he National Park
 
System.
 
Following t
he 1
607 a
bandonment, J
ean de Poutrincourt s
ecured
 
t
he c
oncession f
or t
he Port-Royal a
rea a
nd r
eturned with a
 s
econd g
roup
 
o
f c
olonists i
n 1
610. More s
ettlers j
o
ined t
he g
roup i
n t
he f
ollowing y
ear,
 
i
ncluding de Poutrincourt's wife, who i
s
 b
elieved t
o be t
he f
i
rst
 
F
renchwoman t
o c
ome t
o Acadia (
Roy 1
982:130). I
n 1
613, one o
f Port-
Royal's s
ponsors withdrew s
upport f
rom t
he c
olony and devoted i
t
 t
o
 
t
he e
stablishment o
f a
 r
ival c
olony a
t
 S
t
. S
auveur on Mount Desert
 
I
s
land, Maine. L
ater t
hat y
ear, t
he c
olonies a
t
 Port-Royal and S
t
. S
auveur
 
were both destroyed by English c
olonists f
rom V
irginia. While most o
f
 
t
he F
rench c
olonists r
eturned t
o F
rance a
fter t
he d
isaster, a
 f
ew s
tayed
 
b
ehind a
nd maintained a
 F
rench p
resence. I
t
 i
s
 b
elieved t
hat t
he s
i
te o
f
 
t
he S
t
. S
auveur c
olony i
s
 l
ocated within Acadia National Park
.
 
This c
onf
lict b
etween t
he English a
nd t
he F
rench was merely
 
one o
f a
 l
ong s
eries o
f e
ncounters t
hat would unfold over t
he next 1
50
 
y
ears. As Daigle (
1982b:24) h
as o
bserved, "Acadia, within t
he c
olonial
 
c
ontext o
f North America, was a
 border c
olony. Positioned b
etween two
 
r
ival s
ettlements (New F
rance i
n t
he north and New England i
n t
he
 
s
outh), t
he a
rea a
round t
he B
ay o
f Fundy was r
epeatedly t
he s
ubject o
f
 
d
ispute and t
he s
cene o
f military e
ngagements."
 
Port-Royal was o
ccupied by t
he B
ritish t
hroughout t
he 1
620s. I
n
 
1
621, K
ing J
ames I
 o
f England g
ave t
he c
oncession o
f Acadia (
now Nova
 
S
cotia) t
o
 S
ir William A
lexander. A
lexander b
egan a
 small c
olony i
n
 
1
629, but i
t
 was d
isbanded i
n 1
632 when t
he T
reaty o
f S
aint-Germain-en-
L
aye r
eturned Acadia t
o F
rance (
Roy 1
982:131). F
renchman I
saac de
 
Razilly was t
hen n
amed l
i
eutenant g
eneral f
or Acadia and i
nstructed t
o
 
r
evive s
ettlement
. He e
stablished a
 c
olony a
t
 La Hève (
La Have), on t
he
 
s
outhern s
hore o
f Nova S
cotia. Among o
ther r
easons, de Razilly's
 
e
xpedition was notable b
ecause i
t
 i
ncluded a
 number o
f f
amilies (
Roy
 
1
982:131).
 
By 1
636, o
ther small s
ettlements h
ad b
een e
stablished e
lsewhere
 
i
n Acadia. These i
ncluded s
ettlements on Nicolas Denys's c
oncession,
 
a
long t
he Gulf o
f
 S
t
. L
awrence; Charles de l
a
 Tour's c
oncession a
t Cap
 
de S
able (
Cape S
able); i
n t
he Lower S
t
. J
ohn R
iver a
rea; and on t
he s
outh
 
s
hore o
f t
he Bay o
f Fundy e
xclusive o
f Port-Royal. S
ettlers were a
lso i
n
 
p
lace a
t
 La Hève a
nd Port-Royal.
 
Following d
e Razilly's d
eath i
n 1
635, h
is o
ff
ice was f
i
lled by
 
Charles d
'Aulnay. During t
r
ips t
o F
rance, d
'Aulnay r
ecruited f
amilies
 
f
or t
he c
olonies i
n
 Acadia. By 1
650, Acadia had over 4
00 F
rench i
nhabit-
a
nts, i
ncluding f
orty-f
ive t
o f
i
fty f
amilies i
n t
he Port-Royal and La Hève
 
a
reas a
s well a
s t
he men a
ff
iliated with Denys and La Tour. These f
orty-
f
ive t
o f
i
fty f
amilies a
re g
enerally c
onsidered t
o b
e t
he f
ounders o
f t
he
 
Acadian population (
Roy 1
982:133). Many o
f t
he c
olonists had much i
n
 
c
ommon. F
or e
xample, over 4
0 p
ercent o
f t
he f
amilies l
i
sted i
n t
he 1
671
 
c
ensus o
f Acadia were p
easants (
l
aboureurs) d
rawn f
rom d
'Aulnay's
 
e
state, n
ear t
he t
own o
f L
a Chaussé i
n Poitou, F
rance. Between 5
5 and 7
0
 
p
ercent o
f Acadia's s
eventeenth-century immigrants were natives o
f t
he
 
Centre-Quest p
rovinces o
f Poitou, Aunis, Angoumois, S
aintonge, and
 
Anjou (
Brasseaux 1
987
:124).
 
English f
orces s
eized Port-Royal i
n 1
654 and held Acadia f
or t
he
 
n
ext t
hirteen y
ears. By t
he t
ime F
rance r
egained t
he t
erritory i
n 1
667
 
under t
he t
erms o
f t
he T
reaty o
f B
reda, t
he F
rench s
ettlers who r
emained
 
h
ad d
eveloped a
 c
apacity t
o t
hink a
nd a
ct i
n t
heir own i
nterests, i
nde-
ACADIA
 
pendent o
f European authorities. They adapted t
heir F
rench a
grarian
 
l
i
fe-style t
o t
he l
ocal e
nvironment, and t
hey began t
o t
hink o
f t
hemselves
 
a
s a
 people s
eparate f
rom t
heir f
e
llow F
renchmen i
n t
he mother c
ountry
 
and i
n s
ettlements i
n Québec. Because t
heir t
erritory "was s
ubjected t
o
 
d
ivergent policies t
hat t
urned i
t
 i
nto a
 pawn on t
he g
reat c
hessboard o
f
 
imperialistic politics," t
he s
ettlers l
earned t
hat, i
n o
rder t
o s
urvive,
 
"
neutrality was t
he wisest c
ourse until one o
f t
he c
ombatants f
inally won
 
t
he s
truggle" (Daigle 1
982b:17). The developing Acadian i
dentity r
e-
mained i
ntact t
hroughout t
he Anglo-French s
truggle f
or domination i
n
 
North America.
 
I
n 1
713, Acadia became a
 permanent English possession a
s a
 
r
esult o
f t
he T
reaty o
f Utrecht. Under t
he t
erms o
f t
he t
reaty, a
ccording
 
t
o Queen Anne's l
enient i
nterpretation o
f t
hem, Acadians who r
emained
 
i
n Acadia were g
ranted f
reedom o
f r
eligion and f
ull t
i
tle t
o t
heir p
rop-
e
rty (D. LeBlanc 1
966:54-55). However, t
he English were i
ntent on
 
making t
he Acadians i
nto B
ritish s
ubjects, and t
hey t
r
ied t
o persuade
 
t
hem t
o swear an unconditional o
ath o
f a
l
liance. The Acadians r
efused,
 
i
nsisting t
hat t
hey would not swear a
l
liance t
o t
he English c
rown unless
 
c
ertain c
onditions were met
. Specif
ically, t
hey wanted guarantees t
hat
 
t
heir Catholic f
aith would be r
espected, t
hat t
hey c
ould r
emain neutr
 
any c
onf
lict between t
he English and l
ocal I
ndians, and t
hat t
he Engli
 
would t
ake t
he Acadians' own h
istory i
nto a
ccount (Daigle 1
982b:37).
 
While t
he English administration c
ould have i
nterpreted t
he Acadian
 
r
efusal t
o t
ake t
he o
ath a
s an a
ct o
f r
ebellion and o
rdered t
heir expulsion,
 
t
his option was not e
xercised i
n v
iew o
f t
he possibility t
hat Acadians
 
c
ould s
trengthen F
rench positions e
lsewhere i
f
 d
riven out o
f Nova
 
S
cotia. The English a
ccepted t
he Acadians' s
elf-definition a
s "
French
 
neutrals" and a
l
lowed t
hem t
o pursue f
arming, f
i
shing, and f
ur t
rading
 
a
s before. For t
he Acadians, t
he period f
rom 1
713 t
o 1
744 was a
 t
ime o
f
 
peace and s
ignificant population g
rowth (Daigle 1
 
L
)87h.3())
 
L
e Grand
 English t
olerance o
f t
he Acadians' neutrality e
nded i
n t
he 1
740s when
 
Derangement
 warfare r
esumed i
n Europe between Great B
ritain and F
rance, s
parking
 
t
he r
enewal o
f hostilities i
n North America. Warfare c
eased i
n 1
748,
 
u
shering i
n a
 c
hange i
n English policy t
hat would have t
remendous
 
r
epercussions f
or t
he Acadians. The English, who had p
reviously been
 
c
oncerned with t
he a
ttainment o
f c
ommercial goals i
n Acadia, adopted
 
additional goals, i
ncluding t
he a
cquisition o
f t
erritory and t
he i
nitiation
 
o
f c
olonization (Daigle 1
982b:43). I
n t
he v
iew o
f B
ritish o
fficials and
 
immigrants who c
ame i
nto Acadia f
rom New England a
fter t
he f
ound-
i
ng o
f Halifax i
n 1
749, t
he Acadians, who had t
ies with t
he F
rench and
 
t
he I
ndians, were obstacles t
o English s
ettlement (Wade 1
972:11).
 
A y
ear a
fter t
he r
esumption o
f hostilities between t
he English
 
and t
he F
rench i
n 1
754, Governor Charles Lawrence o
f Nova S
cotia
 
again demanded t
hat Acadians swear an unconditional o
ath o
f a
l
le-
g
iance t
o t
he English Crown. Despite t
he g
rowing s
trength o
f t
he En-
g
lish, t
he Acadians r
ejected t
he demand, and on J
uly 3
1, 1
755, Lawrence
 
o
rdered t
he f
orcible r
emoval o
f t
he c
olony's l
arge Acadian population.
 
The o
rder was implemented on S
eptember 5
,
 t
hus beginning t
he
 
Acadian d
iaspora, o
therwise known a
s L
e Grande Derangement.
 
During t
he c
ourse o
f t
he next f
ew y
ears, t
housands o
f Acadians
 
were l
oaded onto B
ritish merchant vessels and d
ispersed t
hroughout t
he
 
English c
olonies f
rom Massachusetts t
o Georgia (
R. LeBlanc 1
971). For
 
3
 
ACADIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
many Acadians, t
he d
isruption c
ontinued f
or t
hirty years o
r more. Some
 
were imprisoned i
n England, s
ome were r
emoved t
o F
rance, and o
thers
 
made t
heir way t
o t
he West I
ndies, Québec, and Louisiana. Many d
ied
 
o
f d
isease and hardships s
uffered during t
he e
xpulsion. Of Nova
 
S
cotia's 1
2,000 t
o 1
8,000 r
esident Acadians, 6
,000 t
o 7
,000 were r
emoved
 
f
rom t
heir homeland during L
e Grand Derangement. Those who
 
e
scaped deportation b
ecame f
ugitives (
Brasseaux 1
987b:217).
 
I
n s
everal i
nstances, s
hips l
oaded with deportees were f
orced t
o
 
r
eturn t
o Nova S
cotia when c
olonial administrators i
n t
he American
 
c
olonies r
efused t
o a
ccept t
he Acadians. Upon t
heir r
eturn, Acadians
 
d
iscovered t
hat t
heir f
ormer l
ands had been t
aken over by t
he
 
English. Consequently, t
hose who wished t
o r
emain i
n t
he r
egion
 
a
ttempted t
o s
ettle i
n r
emote a
reas, f
ar away f
rom t
he English. Accord-
i
ng t
o Daigle (
1982b:46), "
their u
ltimate goal was t
o r
ecreate i
n i
solation
 
a
 c
ountry i
n which t
heir v
alues would b
e p
reserved without outside
 
i
nterference."
 
I
t
 i
s
 e
stimated t
hat 1
,000 (
Roy 1
982:153) t
o 2
,000 Acadians
 
e
scaped deportation by h
iding i
n t
he woods and l
iving among t
he
 
I
ndians. Some h
eaded f
or Cape S
able and Pobomcoup (
Pubnico) i
n
 
Nova S
cotia and s
ome went t
o t
he Lower S
t
. J
ohn R
iver r
egion i
n New
 
B
runswick
. Others h
eaded north t
o t
he s
hores o
f Chaleur Bay i
n New
 
B
runswick and Québec, and t
he Gulf o
f S
t
. Lawrence, t
he Gaspé Penin-
s
ula, and t
he S
t
. Lawrence Valley i
n Québec (
Roy 1
982:154).
 
I
n 1
763, t
he T
reaty o
f Paris e
nded hostilities between t
he English
 
and t
he F
rench and a
lso h
alted t
he deportations. I
t
 has been e
stimated
 
t
hat t
here were 3
,700 Acadians i
n American c
olonies, and between 9
,000
 
and 1
0,000 i
n o
ther North American l
ocations and i
n Europe by t
hat
 
t
ime (
Roy 1
982:155).
 
After t
he T
reaty o
f Paris, t
he v
ictorious English permitted
 
Acadians t
o r
eturn t
o t
he Maritime P
rovinces, but s
t
ipulated t
hat t
hey
 
must swear an o
ath o
f a
l
legiance and s
ettle i
n small g
roups (
Thériault
 
1
982:48). Concluding t
hat t
here was no l
onger any possibility o
f r
eceiv-
i
ng s
upport f
rom F
rance, t
he Acadians a
greed t
o t
hese t
erms. While
 
s
ome who h
ad b
een deported e
lected t
o r
emain where t
hey were, many
 
r
eturned f
rom Québec, F
rance, t
he American c
olonies, and t
he f
orests o
f
 
New B
runswick. According t
o Roy (
1982:157), "
refugees i
n t
he more
 
s
outherly[American] c
olonies h
eaded f
or Louisiana, hoping f
or a
 more
 
f
raternal r
eception i
n F
rench t
erritory. Those who l
eft t
he New England
 
c
olonies h
eaded mainly f
or Québec and Acadia."
 
Although one might a
ssume t
hat r
epatriated Acadians who
 
wished t
o r
eturn t
o Acadia would h
ead back t
o t
heir o
riginal s
ettle-
ments, t
his was not t
he c
ase. As Thériault (
1982:49) e
xplains:
 
I
n g
eneral, Acadians who r
eturned t
o
 t
he Maritimes a
voided r
esettling
 
t
heir f
ormer l
and b
ecause i
t
 was n
ow o
ccupied by English c
olonists
 
a
nd b
ecause t
he B
ritish a
uthorities p
referred t
o
 h
ave t
hem s
cattered i
n
 
small g
roups. F
or t
hese r
easons, t
hey s
ettled a
round B
aie-Sainte-Marie
 
i
n western Nova S
cotia a
nd a
round Cheticamp [
and] o
n I
l
e-Madame
 
i
n Cape B
reton. On P
rince Edward I
s
land, t
hey c
hose t
he a
rea a
round
 
Malpeque, while i
n
 New B
runswick, t
hey s
ettled i
n
 t
he n
orth, t
he e
ast,
 
a
nd t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley. Those who r
eturned t
o
 t
he F
redericton
 
a
rea were f
orced t
o
 move t
o
 t
he n
orthwest a
nd n
ortheast b
etween
 
1
784 a
nd 1
786, a
f
ter t
he L
oyalists a
rrived. Today, t
he majority o
f
 
F
rancophones i
n
 t
he Maritimes a
re s
t
ill s
cattered o
ver t
hese d
iverse
 
r
egions a
s t
heir c
olonization movements o
f
 t
he 1
9th a
nd 2
0th c
enturies
 
merely d
eveloped t
he h
interlands b
ehind t
hese a
reas.
 
4
 
C
P
 
I
le 5
a1n+e -
 C
roi
 
ACADIA
 
So what was Acadia? I
t
 was a
 d
isputed political t
erritory with
 
i
l
l-def
ined boundaries s
i
tuated on t
he e
dge o
f s
eventeenth-century New
 
F
rance and New England. By t
he e
arly e
ighteenth c
entury t
he r
ulers o
f
 
F
rance and England e
quated i
t
 with p
resent-day Nova S
cotia. During
 
t
he t
ime o
f t
he d
isputed t
erritory and i
nto t
he n
ineteenth and twentieth
 
c
enturies, t
here was another meaning t
o t
he t
erritory o
f Acadia. I
t
 was
 
N
i1,
9i9ui6
 
(1652)
 
J
liramich
 
(
1650)
 
Port-Corneron
 
(
1617)
 
F
obom
 c
oup
 
(1617)
 
Cap
 d
e S
able
 
C
 1
617)
 
'
t
i e
s d
o J
'
1scou
 
C
16 &)
 
T
ie 5
ain+—J
ean
 
Bass
in d
es 3lmes
 
(
1682)
 
La J
-
(lve
 
(1632)
 
r
f—K
ossi9noL
 
(1632)
 
Shelburne Jarbour
 
C
 1
686)
 
Cap Ngre
 
(1617)
 
Early Acadia
 
C
e  o
(e d
o 5—Lauren
 
X
#
. 0
i l
e
s d
o (
a
 J1ade1ore
 
I
(c Royale
 
'5ain+ -
 p
ierre
 
(
1653)
 
C
aaceaux
 
(
1632)
 
JI AC  18
0002  
NAR S
ep 91
 
_
North )1liivlic Yqiom
 
_
Wat
ion ü park S
ervice
 
1
J
. S
.
 '
Department o
f t
he Interior
 
ACAI)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
t
he l
and o
ccupied by Acadians, r
egardless o
f where t
he o
ff
icial bound-
a
ries were d
rawn. S
imilar t
o t
he political c
oncept, t
his s
econd definition
 
was not s
tatic nor e
asily d
escribed. F
or i
nstance, while most e
arly
 
Acadians l
i
ved i
n Nova S
cotia, t
hey maintained t
he f
ur t
rade up t
he
 
r
ivers o
f t
he north s
hore o
f t
he B
ay o
f Fundy and t
he Gulf o
f Maine f
rom
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn t
o t
he P
enobscot (
Clark 1
968:73).
 
6
 
MAINE ACADIAN
 
CULTURAL SURVEY
 
P
reserving
 _
L
 \.
..ecognizing t
he important contribution made to American c
ulture and
 
a
 Culture
 h
istory by Acadians, t
he National Park S
ervice, North Atlantic Region, i
s
 
developing an i
nterpretive p
rogram t
o t
e
ll t
he s
tory o
f Maine's Acadian
 
s
ettlers and t
heir descendants. For t
he b
enefit and e
ducation o
f t
he
 
public, t
he National Park S
ervice i
s
 h
elping l
ocal governments, t
he S
tate
 
o
f Maine, and o
ther public and p
rivate e
ntities i
dentify, g
ather, and
 
p
reserve s
i
tes, h
istorical data, a
rtifacts, and objects a
ssociated with t
he
 
Acadians i
n Maine. L
ikewise, t
he National Park S
ervice i
s
 helping t
o
 
p
reserve r
elated c
ontemporary c
ultural e
xpressions, s
uch a
s Maine
 
Acadian music, a
rts, c
rafts, and f
olklore.
 
Through a
 s
elf-discovery p
rocess, Maine Acadians have c
el-
e
brated t
heir heritage i
n r
ecent y
ears, s
triving t
o k
eep t
heir c
ulture a
l
ive.
 
I
nterest i
n and s
upport o
f t
his e
ffort f
rom outside t
he Acadian c
ommu-
n
ity has been minimal. The i
nsight o
f many a
cademic d
isciplines, a
long
 
with t
he i
nsight o
f Acadians t
hemselves, i
s
 e
ssential t
o t
e
ll t
he Acadian
 
s
tory and p
reserve Acadian Culture i
n Maine. I
n a
ttempting t
o under-
s
tand c
ontemporary/ 
h
istorical and t
angible/ 
i
ntangible culture, an
 
i
nterdisciplinary approach has b
een a
dopted by t
he National P
ark
 
C
amille DeVost
 
o
f
 L
i
lle, Maine,
 
u
ses a
 c
rooked k
nife
 
t
o
 c
arve a
n a
xe h
andle
.
 
I
)A\ I
I) A. WI 1 1
1
  \\
 
7
 
ACADIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
S
ervice's Maine Acadian c
ulture p
roject
.
 
An i
nterdisciplinary approach i
s
 s
upported by Congressional
 
t
estimony and t
he l
egislation t
hat l
ed t
o t
he National Park S
ervice
 
p
roject, which i
s
 b
eing c
onducted pursuant t
o t
he Maine Acadian
 
Culture P
reservation Act (
see Appendix). Congresswoman Olympia
 
Snowe t
estif
ied a
t
 a
 House h
earing (
July 1
7, 1
990) t
hat t
he l
egislation
 
"
affords u
s t
he opportunity t
o help p
reserve —not embalm —an i
ntegral
 
part o
f our s
tate's heritage and p
resent." She d
rew s
pecific a
ttention t
o
 
"
the d
ialect o
f t
he Acadians" and "
the s
tories, s
ongs, and l
egends" t
hat
 
c
ontinue t
o b
e passed down. At t
he s
ame hearing, J
ohn L
. Martin a
rgued
 
t
hat "
this l
egislation w
ill h
elp p
reserve Acadian culture, a
 way o
f l
i
fe.... "
 At
 
a
 S
enate Subcommitee h
earing (March 2
8, 1
990) S
enator George Mitchell
 
f
oresaw p
rograms t
o "
celebrate, p
reserve and perpetuate Acadian music,
 
a
rts, c
rafts, and f
olklore," and S
enator William Cohen c
ontended, "
I
t i
s
 
important t
hat t
he t
raditions and beliefs o
f t
he Acadians be s
hared with
 
o
thers t
o f
oster a
 b
etter understanding o
f our h
istory."
 
This r
eport p
resents t
he f
indings o
f an i
nitial background s
urvey
 
o
f Maine Acadian c
ulture f
rom a
 "
folklife" approach (
combined with a
 
l
ook a
t
 h
istoric p
roperties). I
t
 s
hould b
e noted, however, t
hat e
xpertise i
n
 
h
istory, anthropology, f
olklife, h
istoric p
reservation, and o
ther d
isci-
p
lines will b
e r
equired t
o understand Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine. The
 
b
ackground s
urvey was c
onducted f
or t
he National Park S
ervice during
 
J
une and J
uly 1
991 by t
he American Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
The t
erm "
folklife" i
s
 defined i
n t
he l
egislation t
hat e
stablished t
he
 
American Folklife Center (
Public Law 9
4-201):
 
The t
e
rm "American f
o
lklife" means t
he t
r
aditional e
xpressive c
ulture
 
s
hared w
ithin t
he v
arious g
roups i
n
 t
he United S
tates: f
amilial, e
thnic,
 
o
ccupational, r
e
ligious, r
egional; e
xpressive c
ulture i
ncludes a
 wide
 
r
ange o
f
 c
reative a
nd s
ymbolic f
orms s
uch a
s c
ustom, b
elief
, t
echnical
 
s
kill, l
anguage, l
i
terature, a
r
t, a
rchitecture, music, p
lay, d
ance, d
rama,
 
r
i
tual, p
ageantry, h
andicraft; t
hese e
xpressions a
re mainly l
earned
 
o
rally, b
y imitation, o
r i
n
 p
erformance, a
nd a
re g
enerally maintained
 
w
ithout t
he b
enefit o
f
 f
ormal i
nstruction o
r i
nstitutional
 
d
irection.
 
F
ield Research
 Two f
undamental questions f
aced r
esearchers p
rior t
o c
ommencing t
he
 
Methodology
 c
ultural s
urvey. Where i
n Maine s
hould t
he s
tudy be c
onducted, and
 
who s
hould b
e s
tudied? These two f
undamental questions — Where? and
 
Who? —encapsulate two c
r
itical c
oncerns i
n t
he design o
f any cultural
 
s
tudy: t
he f
ocus and t
he c
ontext.
 
Where t
he s
tudy was t
o b
e c
onducted was t
he e
asier question t
o
 
a
nswer
. S
cholarly and popular publications c
oncerned with Maine's
 
c
ulture and h
istory, a
s well a
s c
omments s
olicited f
rom Maine r
esidents,
 
i
ndicated with unanimity t
hat t
he p
rimary l
ocus o
f Acadian s
ettlement
 
i
n Maine i
s
 t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley i
n northern Aroostook
 
County (
see r
egional c
ontext map on page 1
1). Although small popula-
t
ions o
f Acadians c
an b
e f
ound i
n o
ther parts o
f t
he s
tate, t
here i
s
 general
 
a
greement t
hat t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 home t
o more Acadians t
han
 
anywhere e
lse, and t
hat i
t
 i
s
 t
he "
hearth" f
or Acadian culture i
n Maine.
 
I
n addition, t
here i
s
 an a
ccepted s
ense o
f t
he d
istinctiveness o
f t
he r
egion,
 
deriving not only f
rom i
t
s Acadian heritage but f
rom i
t
s e
conomy,
 
n
atural r
esources, l
ocation a
long t
he i
nternational border, and a
 cultural
 
8
 
MAINE ACADIAN CULTURAL SURVEY
 
milieu t
hat i
s
 t
he p
roduct o
f t
he i
nteraction o
f people o
f d
iverse c
ultural
 
backgrounds. One i
ndicator o
f t
he d
istinctiveness o
f t
he a
rea i
s
 t
he f
act
 
t
hat t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 c
ommonly known within Aroostook
 
County and much o
f Maine s
imply a
s "
the Valley."
 
Having determined t
he g
eographic f
ocus o
f t
he s
urvey, t
he
 
r
esearch t
eam a
lso had t
o c
onsider t
he l
arger g
eographic c
ontext. I
t
 i
s
 
c
lear t
hat t
he Valley a
s a
 c
ultural a
rea i
ncludes both s
ides o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn
 
R
iver, which f
orms part o
f t
he U
.S./Canadian and Maine/New
 
B
runswick border. S
tatements and publications by c
ultural s
pecialists
 
c
oncerned with r
egional e
thnicity s
uggest t
hat t
he g
eography o
f
 
e
thnicity i
n New B
runswick i
s
 e
xtremely c
omplex, and t
his c
onlple\itv
 
may be r
ef
lected on t
he Maine s
ide o
f t
he r
iver. Acadians do not r
eside
 
s
olely within t
he c
onfines o
f t
he r
iver valley, but o
ccupy c
ommunities on
 
t
he heights o
f l
and back f
rom t
he r
iver. Further, people f
rom t
he Valley
 
have migrated t
o o
ther parts o
f Maine, New England, and e
lsewhere,
 
and i
n many c
ases t
hey have c
lustered i
n what might be t
ermed s
atellite
 
c
ultural c
ommunities which maintain c
ontinued c
ontact with t
he Valley.
 
Although t
he s
urvey c
ould not i
nvestigate t
hese k
indred c
ommunities i
n
 
depth, f
ield r
esearchers encountered many members o
f s
uch c
ommuni-
t
ies who were v
isiting t
he Valley i
n t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991. During t
he
 
s
urvey, r
esearchers made c
omparisons between S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian
 
c
ulture and Louisiana F
rench t
raditions and f
olklife.
 
The question o
f who s
hould be s
tudied a
lso s
uggested both a
 
f
ocus and a
 c
ontext. Acadian culture i
s
 t
he f
ocus; y
et defining p
recisely
 
who i
s
 Acadian, and what c
ultural t
raits deserve designation a
s Acadian,
 
i
s
 not a
s e
asy a
s might appear. Relatively f
ew c
ultural t
raditions i
n t
he
 
s
tudy a
rea c
an be described a
s "
purely" Acadian; i
ndeed, t
he notion o
f
 
c
ultural purity f
ails t
o r
ecognize t
he c
ultural dynamism and energy t
hat
 
derives f
rom i
ntercultural c
ontact
. I
n approaching t
his c
omplex o
f
 
i
dentity i
ssues, t
he s
urvey was guided by t
he f
ollowing p
roposition: The
 
c
ulture o
f a
 g
roup c
annot be f
ully understood unless t
he b
roader c
ultural
 
c
ontext within which t
he g
roup develops i
s
 t
aken i
nto a
ccount.
 
Thus, a
lthough t
he f
ocus o
f t
he s
urvey was on c
ontemporary
 
Acadian culture, t
he s
urvey s
tudied i
t
 within t
he c
ontext o
f t
he t
raditions
 
o
f o
ther g
roups i
n t
he r
egion. To understand c
ontemporary Acadian
 
t
raditions i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, t
he s
urvey needed t
o c
onsider
 
c
ultural t
raditions o
f t
he Québecois, Micmacs, Malecites, I
r
ish, Swedes,
 
and o
thers who have s
haped t
he r
egion a
long with t
he Acadians. I
n
 
many c
ases i
t
 became c
lear, a
s t
he s
urvey p
rogressed, t
hat t
raditions
 
r
egarded a
s Acadian a
ctually r
epresented a
 c
ultural s
ynthesis a
rising
 
f
rom i
nteractions among a
l
l t
hese g
roups. Analyzed f
rom t
his perspec-
t
ive, t
he c
ase o
f Acadians i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley emerges a
s a
 
c
lassic e
xample both o
f c
ultural c
ontinuity and o
f t
he r
econstitution o
f
 
c
ultural t
raditions i
n t
he New World.
 
Having s
ettled on t
he who and t
he where o
f t
he Maine Acadian
 
c
ultural s
urvey, r
esearchers designed a
 f
i
eldwork s
trategy f
or t
he
 
documentation o
f t
he c
ontemporary c
ulture o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley
 
with emphasis on Acadian c
ultural r
esources. While t
ailored t
o deal with
 
i
ssues unique t
o t
he Valley, t
his r
esearch s
trategy was b
roadly s
imilar t
o
 
t
hose employed by o
ther f
olklife f
ield p
rojects. Researchers c
oncentrated
 
t
heir e
fforts on c
ultural e
xpressions, guided by t
he i
dea t
hat a
l
l c
ommu-
n
ities u
se a
esthetic e
xperience t
o s
hape deeply f
e
lt values i
nto meaning-
f
ul f
orms (Hymes 1
975:348). These e
xpressions, s
uch a
s s
tories, s
ongs,
 
r
ecipes, and houses, which have g
rown out o
f s
hared e
xperiences and
 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
The S
tudy Area
 
1
0
 
v
alues, c
an s
erve a
s windows i
nto a
 c
ommunity's worldview (Hufford
 
1
986:19).
 
The p
rimary work o
f t
he s
urvey's f
i
eldworkers was i
nterview-
i
ng l
ocal r
esidents, documenting a
 multitude o
f c
ultural e
vents, docu-
menting s
i
tes a
nd a
rtifacts (with s
pecial a
ttention t
o s
i
tes o
f c
ultural
 
s
ignificance), e
ngaging i
n p
articipant o
bservation, and analyzing a
rchi-
v
al materials. The s
urvey a
ggregated a
 l
arge e
thnographic c
ollection
 
c
onsisting o
f 5
,600 photographic images, 5
00 pages o
f f
i
eld notes and
 
c
atalogs, 4
0 hours o
f a
udio r
ecordings, 5
0 p
ages o
f s
ketches, and an
 
a
ssortment o
f e
phemera s
uch a
s l
ocal publications, p
rogram s
ouvenirs,
 
a
nd h
istorical a
nd c
ontemporary p
ress c
l
ippings on c
ultural s
ubjects and
 
i
s
sues. The c
ollection will b
e p
reserved f
or posterity i
n t
he Archive o
f
 
F
olk Culture, L
ibrary o
f Congress, with a
 r
eference c
opy o
f t
he materials
 
i
n a
n appropriate a
rchive within t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. I
t
 will s
erve
 
a
s a
 r
esource b
ase f
or f
urther r
esearch, p
lanning, and p
rogramming
 
w
ithin t
he r
egion.
 
The Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey f
ocused upon a
 7
0-mile s
tretch o
f t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver f
rom Hamlin t
o
 S
t
. F
rancis, Maine. This s
ection o
f t
he r
iver
 
f
orms p
art o
f t
he i
nternational b
oundary b
etween t
he United S
tates and
 
Canada. However, t
he Acadian c
ultural a
rea overlaps t
he boundary, and
 
t
he s
urvey i
ncluded s
ome a
ncillary work i
n c
ontiguous a
reas o
f New
 
B
runswick. The s
tudy a
rea i
s
 s
hown on t
he map, "Upper S
aint J
ohn
 
Valley/La Vallée du Haut S
aint-Jean," f
ound on t
he i
nside back c
over.
 
The s
tudy a
rea e
ncompasses v
illages a
nd t
owns l
ocated on o
r
 
n
ear t
he b
anks o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver a
s well a
s t
he "
back s
ettlements,"
 
f
armsteads c
reated when t
erritory i
nland f
rom t
he r
iver was p
rogres-
s
ively c
leared a
nd d
eveloped. Specific Acadian b
ack s
ettlements i
nvesti-
g
ated i
nclude t
hose a
long t
he F
ish R
iver a
nd Maine Route 1
1, s
outh
 
f
rom F
ort Kent t
o E
agle L
ake; t
hose i
n t
he S
t
. Agatha-Sinclair a
rea; and
 
t
hose i
n t
he Long L
ake v
icinity. While f
i
eldworkers documented t
he
 
c
ontinuity o
f t
raditional c
ultural p
atterns t
hroughout t
he s
tudy a
rea,
 
t
hey o
bserved t
hat p
atterns were particularly noticeable i
n t
he smaller
 
n
eighborhoods a
nd f
armsteads o
f t
he b
ack s
ettlements.
 
The Acadian s
ettlements o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley r
epresent
 
a
 c
ultural a
rea d
istinct f
rom o
thers i
n Canada o
r t
he United S
tates. The
 
a
rea's c
ultural h
eritage i
s
 d
istinguishable f
rom t
hat o
f t
he l
arge, F
rench-
s
peaking p
rovince o
f Québec. And t
he i
nland l
ocation o
f t
he r
egion, i
t
s
 
l
and-based e
conomy (
especially potato f
arming and l
umbering), and i
t
s
 
h
istorical r
elationship with t
he United S
tates d
istinguish i
t
 f
rom
 
Acadian-inf
luenced a
reas i
n t
he Maritime P
rovinces. The busy s
ettle-
ments a
nd d
eveloped f
armlands o
f t
he Valley p
resent a
 s
harp c
ontrast t
o
 
t
he s
parsely populated woodlands b
etween Bangor and s
outhern
 
Aroostook County
.
 
The population o
f t
he Maine s
ide o
f t
he Valley i
s
 not l
arge; i
t
 
t
otals a
pproximately 2
7
,000 (
U.S. Bureau o
f t
he Census 1
991). The t
hree
 
i
nternational ports o
f e
ntry —Fort Kent (
pop. 4
,268), Madawaska (
pop.
 
4
,803), a
nd Van Buren (
pop. 3
,045) —are t
he l
argest U
.S. t
owns i
n t
he
 
Valley. F
renchville (
pop. 1
,338) i
s
 a
 hub f
or t
he Valley's f
armlands. The
 
o
ther v
illages i
n t
he r
egion a
re c
onsiderably smaller, t
hough s
ome,
 
e
specially t
oward t
he e
astern e
nd o
f t
he Valley, s
uch a
s Grand I
s
le, L
ille,
 
a
nd Keegan, were once l
arger during t
he h
eyday o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver
 
l
og d
rives.
 
MAINE ACADIAN CULTURAL SURVEY
 
Q
 U  SEC
 
u.bec *
 
Within t
his c
ultural a
rea, t
he l
argest c
oncentration o
f people o
t
 
Acadian descent i
s
 i
n Edmundston, Madawaska County, New
 
B
runswick (
pop. 1
2,044), a
cross t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver f
rom Madawaska,
 
Maine, and i
n Grand F
alls/Grand-Sault (
pop. 6
,203), l
ocated i
n Victoni
 
County, New B
runswick, a
cross t
he border f
rom Hamlin, Maine. Many
 
people o
f Acadian descent a
lso r
eside s
outheast o
f t
he s
tudy a
rea i
n t
hc
 
r
 -  
U
pper S
atni
 John. '
V
alley
 
7
'resqLte I
 
I
s
le i
 
1
 B
angor .
/
 
1 /
a*
e
rviile .
 
I  
I
 *A
,L4gR5t,L
 
N
. 
H
.
 1
Poriiani0 
/ 
0
 
-
 
NA.
 
B
oston
. *
 
I
 
Regional Context: Upper Saint J
ohn
 Valley
 
*
 
BR U NS
/IC K
 
*
 -  
f
reder
ic*on
.
 
S
aint
 
.
4
ohr
i
 
J
'
1
 o
nc+ort
 
L
)Lf Of
 
ST
. £4W ENCE
 
l
ies d
e i
 
L
'Madeleine
 
PRI NCE  ED WARD
 
I
SLAND
 
(
a
tfa
 
*
 
NAC '
80000  
NAR I
 
S
ept. 9
1
 
J
'
4orth A+l,uvlic l
egi
o
n
.
 
J
'
I
akiona
.L Trk S
ervice
 
V.S
. D
epar
tment o
f
 t
he I
nterior
 
LEgEND
 
-
-- '
U.
S.
A.
/Canada 5ourtdar
_y
 
-
 —Sta+e/ T
rovinciai ^
Bounda U
 
'MILES
 
0
 25
 50
 7
5
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Aroostook R
iver Valley t
owns o
f Caribou, Maine (
pop. 9
,415), 2
0 miles
 
s
outh o
f Van Buren, a
nd P
resque I
s
le, Maine (
pop. 1
0,550), 1
2 miles
 
s
outh o
f Caribou. Most Acadian r
esidents o
f t
hese t
owns have r
oots i
n
 
t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. However, t
hese t
owns a
re not "
in t
he Valley,"
 
a
nd t
he Acadians who r
eside t
here a
re not i
n t
he majority.
 
1
2
 
ACADIAN S
ETTLEMENT
 
I
N THE UPPER S
T
. J
OHN VALLEY
 
Du
ring t
he 1
780s, Acadians moving northwest a
long t
he S
t
. J
ohn Ri\ cr
 
s
ettled i
n t
he upper r
iver valley now s
hared by t
he S
tate o
f Maine ai ic
i
 
t
he P
rovince o
f New B
runswick. I
n Maine t
heir numbers g
rew a
s t
hc
 
s
ettlers' descendants developed t
he h
interlands s
outh o
f t
he r
iver '
 
and a
s Acadians f
rom o
ther a
reas moved t
o t
he r
egion. During t
he
 
n
ineteenth and twentieth c
enturies s
everal o
ther Acadian popula
 t
 i
 o
 I
 
were e
stablished i
n Maine. Acadians —along with o
ther F
rancophonc
 
(
French -
speakers) —moved t
o mill t
owns s
uch a
s B
iddeford, Lewiston-
Auburn, and Rumford-Mexico f
rom Québec, Nova S
cotia, New
 
Brunswick, P
rince Edward I
s
land, and t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley.
 
Because o
f i
t
s r
elevance t
o Acadians i
n Maine, i
t
 i
s
 u
seful to l
ook
 
more c
losely a
t t
he e
ighteenth-century migration f
rom downstream on
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver. According t
o Wade (
1972:19), within s
even o
r e
ight
 
y
ears o
f t
he a
rrival o
f t
he Loyalists, Acadians moved out o
f t
he l
ower
 
valley mainly t
o a
cquire more l
and and t
o s
ecure t
he s
ervices o
f a
 p
riest.
 
Other h
istorians, i
ncluding Roy (
1982:164), emphasize t
hat t
he Acadians
 
departed because t
hey were d
islodged t
o make r
oom f
or t
he Loyalists.
 
I
n any c
ase, Acadians on t
he r
iver near Keswick (
a f
ew miles north o
f
 
F
redericton) g
enerally moved t
o t
he north s
hore o
f New B
runswick o
r to
 
"Madawaska t
erritory," an i
nland r
egion e
ncompassing t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn R
iver Valley i
n t
he northwestern part o
f New B
runswick (Wade
 
1
972:19).
 
Within t
he Madawaska t
erritory, S
aint-Basile r
eceived i
t
s f
i
rst
 
s
ettlers i
n 1
786 (
Roy 1
982:164), and i
t
 became t
he r
egion's f
ounding
 
parish. Other s
ettlements developed a
long t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley f
i
rst
 
t
o t
he e
ast, and t
hen west o
f S
aint-Basile. The e
stablishment o
f s
ettle-
ments on both s
ides o
f t
he Valley i
s
 a
 s
ubject t
hat s
t
ill r
equires r
igorous
 
s
cholarly i
nvestigation. I
ndeed, t
he b
est known h
istory o
f t
he a
rea was
 
written i
n 1
920 by a
 l
ocal p
riest, F
ather Thomas Albert (Albert 1
920;
 
English t
ranslation, Albert 1
985). I
n h
is book Histoire d
u Madawaska,
 
Albert c
laims t
hat t
he f
i
rst Acadian l
anding on t
he s
outhern s
hore of t
he
 
Valley o
ccurred i
n 1
785 a
t what i
s
 now S
t
. David parish, i
n t
he p
resent-
day t
own o
f Madawaska, Maine (Albert 1
985:42). Although c
ontempo-
r
ary h
istorians and o
ther s
cholars have not unanimously a
ccepted t
his
 
i
nterpretation, i
t
 i
s
 t
he one g
enerally a
ccepted by members o
f t
he
 
r
egion's U
.S. c
ommunities. S
t
. David may well have been part o
f t
he
 
o
riginal parish o
f S
aint-Basile, t
hus c
ausing s
ome o
f t
he c
onfusion.
 
Canadians f
rom Québec j
oined t
he Acadians i
n t
he Upper
 
S
t. J
ohn Valley, and by 1
831 t
here were over 2
,000 s
ettlers i
n v
illages
 
a
long a
 4
5-mile s
tretch o
f t
he Valley, f
rom Fort Kent t
o Van Buren (Allen
 
1
981:87). During t
he f
i
rst f
i
fty y
ears o
f s
ettlement, a
 t
hriving, Catholic,
 
F
rench-speaking, and s
elf-reliant f
arming c
ommunity with man
 
Acadian c
ultural f
eatures developed i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley.
 
S
ettlement s
pread up and down t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver f
rom t
he
 
i
nitial hearth, eventually o
ccupying 8
0 miles o
r s
o a
long both banks
 
(
roughly f
rom Grand F
alls/Grand-Sault t
o S
t
. F
rancis). The banks of
 
l
arger t
r
ibutaries, l
ike t
he Madawaska, t
he Green, t
he Grand, and t
he
 
F
ish, were s
ettled e
arly, e
specially near t
heir c
onfluences with t
he S
t
.
 
1
3
 
ACAI)IAN C
LILILIRL I
N MAINE
 
J
ohn. Smaller b
rooks f
lowing i
nto t
he S
t
. J
ohn a
lso a
ttracted e
arly
 
s
ettlement. The "
f
lats," o
r f
loodplains, a
long t
he b
anks o
f t
he r
iver were
 
s
oon developed i
nto p
roductive f
arms, and c
learing f
or new f
armlands
 
pushed p
rogressively f
arther f
rom t
he r
iverbanks.
 
After t
he e
stablishment o
f t
he i
nternational boundary i
n 1
842,
 
more people moved i
nto t
he Valley and t
he a
rea o
f s
ettlement was
 
e
xtended. A
llen (
1981:87) s
ummarizes t
his e
xpansion a
s f
ollows:
 
c 
ome p
eople moved up t
he F
ish R
iver a
long a
 n
ewly c
reated r
oad t
o
 
t
he s
outh
. A
lso, b
y t
he 1
850s l
ogging t
r
ails p
enetrated t
he b
road h
i
ll
 
c
ountry e
ast o
f
 F
renchville, a
nd a
f
ter 1
860 t
h
is a
rea r
eceived i
t
s f
i
rst
 
f
a
rm f
amilies. U
ltimately, t
hese b
ack s
ettlements would b
e s
pread o
ver
 
t
he l
and s
ome t
en m
iles s
outh o
f
 t
he r
iver
. By 1
892 t
he s
ettlement
 
e
ncompassed Hamlin o
n t
he e
ast a
nd S
t
. F
rancis o
n t
he west, but t
he
 
g
eneral d
irection o
f
 t
he e
xpansion was t
o
 t
he s
outh. Wallagrass, E
agle
 
L
ake, a
nd Winterville were t
hen well p
opulated. The major s
outhward
 
t
hrust was a
long t
he main r
oad f
rom Van Buren t
o
 Caribou, with a
 
f
ocus a
round t
he p
arish a
t
 North Caribou, e
stablished i
n 1
881. A
 
s
econdary movement o
f
 F
rench pushed s
outh f
rom Hamlin n
ear
 
L
imestone.
 
E
xpansion t
o t
he s
outheast b
rought people o
f F
rench descent i
n c
ontact
 
w
ith English-speaking s
ettlers i
n e
astern Aroostook County, and with
 
Swedes who f
ounded t
he t
own o
f New Sweden (
1871) and l
ater t
he
 
t
own o
f S
tockholm. On t
he western e
xtremity o
f F
rench s
ettlement i
n t
he
 
Valley, n
ear t
he mouth o
f t
he S
t
. F
rancis R
iver, t
he F
rench c
ame i
n
 
c
ontact with English-speaking l
oggers who migrated t
here f
rom New
 
B
runswick (
Allen 1
981:87).
 
When t
he Valley's F
rench v
illages were c
reated, a
 l
ine-
s
ettlement pattern was e
stablished which r
emains i
ntact t
oday. Virtually
 
a
l
l public and p
rivate buildings, i
ncluding houses, c
hurches, and mills,
 
were d
ispersed i
n a
 l
inear f
ashion a
long t
he c
ourses o
f waterways.
 
F
rench s
ettlers i
n Louisiana (
Edwards 1
987, Vol. I
)
, a
long t
he S
t.
 
L
awrence R
iver i
n Canada (Harris 1
966), and i
n p
resent-day Missouri
 
(
Schroeder 1
983) a
rranged t
heir c
ommunities i
n s
imilar patterns. The
 
l
ine-settlement f
orm apparently was a
lso c
ommon i
n New England
 
during t
he p
eriod o
f i
nitial s
ettlement but was abandoned during t
he
 
F
ederal P
eriod (Wood 1
988:159-169).
 
A
long t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, i
nitial l
and ownership was
 
g
ranted by t
he B
ritish Crown. The g
rants were partitioned a
ccording t
o
 
a
 modified a
rpent s
ystem, l
ong l
ots e
xtending f
rom and perpendicular
 
t
o t
he r
iver. After s
ettlement o
f l
ots i
n t
he p
remier r
ang, t
he f
i
rst r
ow o
f
 
l
ots t
ouching t
he r
iver, t
he d
euxième r
ang (
second r
ow) l
ots were
 
developed. On t
he north s
ide o
f t
he r
iver, s
ettlement c
ontinued t
o a
t
 
l
east s
ix t
i
ers i
n s
ome p
laces. Because o
f t
he c
urves i
n t
he r
iver, t
hese
 
r
angs b
ecame oddly j
uxtaposed, p
roducing an i
r
regular c
adastral
 
p
attern.
 
On t
he s
outh s
ide o
f t
he r
iver, s
ettlement e
xpanded i
n t
his
 
manner i
n s
ome p
laces until a
 q
uatrième r
ang (
fourth r
ow) was e
stab-
l
i
shed. After t
he United S
tates s
ecured ownership i
n t
he 1
840s, l
and
 
c
eased t
o b
e g
ranted i
n t
he modif
ied a
rpent s
ystem. Subsequent l
and-
h
oldings, g
ranted u
sually t
o descendants o
f t
he o
riginal s
ettlers o
r
 
o
ccasionally t
o n
ew s
ettlers a
rriving i
n t
he Valley, c
onsisted o
f i
rregular
 
r
ectilinear l
and g
rants. These g
rants became known a
s l
e
s c
oncessions,
 
a
nd t
he n
ewer n
eighborhoods a
ssociated with t
hem became known a
s
 
b
ack s
ettlements." Though t
he l
andholding parcels i
n t
he back s
ettle-
1
4
 
ACADIAN SETTLEMENT I
N T
IlE UPPER ST
. 1
01 I
N VALLEY
 
Aerial v
iew o
f
 t
he
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn V
alley
.
 
T
he p
attern o
f
 f
i
elds i
s
 
s
uggestive o
f
 t
he o
r
iginal
 
"
l
ong l
o
t" l
and g
rants.
 
ments a
re s
haped d
ifferently f
rom t
he i
nitial t
i
ers, neighborhoods
 
c
ontinued t
o develop i
n t
he d
ispersed l
inear f
orm. Their o
rientation may
 
be t
oward t
he s
hore o
f one o
f s
everal l
arge l
akes o
r t
oward a
 r
oad. L
ike
 
t
he i
nitial r
ang c
ommunities, t
he small back s
ettlements c
onsist a
lmost
 
entirely o
f multi-generational, e
xtended-family g
roupings.
 
During t
he l
ate n
ineteenth and twentieth c
entury, Acadians
 
migrated f
rom t
heir s
ettlement c
ore i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley t
o o
ther
 
c
ommunities i
n New England. Considerable outmigration o
f Acadian
 
workers and t
heir f
amilies f
i
rst o
ccurred i
n r
esponse t
o a
 s
hortage o
f
 
mill workers i
n New England a
s a
 r
esult o
f t
he C
ivil War. During t
he
 
twentieth c
entury, mechanization i
ncreased t
he y
ield o
f f
armland hut
 
r
educed t
he number o
f l
aborers r
equired. F
acing a
 decline i
n employ-
ment opportunities i
n t
heir home t
erritory, many r
esidents o
f t
he Valley
 
headed s
outh i
n s
earch o
f j
obs c
reated by t
he i
ndustrial g
rowth o
f
 
s
outhern New England. The c
onnections between t
he Valley and s
outh-
e
rn New England c
ontinue t
oday.
 
F
ieldwork during t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey i
ncluded a
 
number o
f i
nterviews which s
hed l
ight on t
he r
elationship between t
he
 
Valley and o
ther New England c
ommunities. B
ristol, Connecticut, f
or
 
e
xample, was o
ften mentioned a
s a
 destination f
or Valley workers. On
 
J
uly 5
, 1
991, Edgar Lavertu, a
 c
omputer p
rogrammer f
rom B
ristol who
 
r
eturned t
o t
he Valley f
or t
he Lavertu f
amily r
eunion, s
hared s
ome o
f h
is
 
e
xperiences a
s an emigrant f
rom t
he Valley. He e
xplained t
hat people
 
who migrated t
o B
ristol f
ormed neighborhood "
colonies," o
ften c
onsist-
i
ng o
f e
xtended f
amilies. The i
nitial c
olonies were l
ocated i
n u
rban
 
s
ettings, and t
he migrant f
amilies maintained t
heir d
istinct Valley F
rench
 
c
ulture t
o a
 s
urprising degree. However, a
s i
ndividual f
amilies g
ained
 
t
he means t
o move t
o t
he s
uburbs, c
olonies b
ecame more d
ispersed a
nd
 
t
raditions were harder t
o maintain. I
t
 i
s
 l
ikely t
hat t
his pattern h
as
 
a
ffected most s
atellite Acadian c
ommunities t
oday.
 
I
n addition t
o t
he s
atellite c
ommunities i
n s
outhern New En-
1
7
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
g
land, t
here a
re Acadian c
ommunities i
n Maine f
rom L
imestone i
n t
he
 
north t
o Portland i
n t
he s
outh. The Rumford-Mexico and Lewiston-
Auburn a
reas h
ave d
rawn many workers f
rom t
he Valley; i
n t
he c
ase o
f
 
t
he Rumford-Mexico a
rea a
 l
arge s
egment o
f t
he population migrated
 
f
rom P
rince Edward I
s
land. I
n a
ddition, r
esearchers l
earned o
f a
 s
izable
 
g
roup o
f Cyrs a
nd Michauds l
i
ving i
n Missoula, Montana, and met
 
Acadians with Valley r
oots who l
i
ve a
s f
ar away a
s California and
 
England.
 
Many i
ndividuals who migrated f
rom t
he Valley i
n s
earch o
f
 
employment maintain t
he c
onnection. S
ome r
eturn t
o t
he Valley f
or b
rief
 
v
isits. Others r
eturn when t
hey e
ncounter d
ifficulty adjusting t
o u
rban
 
a
nd s
uburban l
i
fe i
n s
outhern New England a
nd e
lsewhere. S
till o
thers
 
h
ave worked i
n d
istant p
laces f
or d
ecades and r
eturn t
o t
he Valley f
or
 
t
heir r
etirement
.
 
Each s
ummer l
arge f
amily r
eunions o
ccur i
n t
he Valley a
s
 
Acadians f
rom t
hroughout New England and b
eyond r
eturn home.
 
Weddings a
nd a
nniversaries a
re s
cheduled t
o c
oincide with s
ummer
 
v
acations. While t
he a
nnual Acadian F
estival F
amily Reunion, c
o-
s
ponsored by t
he Madawaska Historical S
ociety and t
he Town o
f
 
Madawaska, i
s
 v
ery s
uccessful a
nd g
arners c
onsiderable l
ocal publicity,
 
i
t
 i
s
 only one e
lement i
n a
 l
arger s
ystem o
f s
ummer f
amily r
eunions
 
t
hroughout t
he Valley. During t
he f
i
rst week o
f J
uly 1
991, automobiles
 
with Connecticut a
nd Massachusetts l
i
cense p
lates t
hreatened t
o d
isplace
 
t
hose with Maine p
lates. Despite c
onsiderable outmigration, t
he Upper
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley c
ontinues t
o
 b
e t
he c
ultural h
earth a
nd home t
o many
 
Acadians.
 
THE FRENCH LANGUAGE
 
I
N THE UPPER S
T
. J
OHN VALLEY
 
F
rench
 trench i
s
 t
he majority l
anguage i
n t
he Acadian c
ommunities o
f t
he Upper
 
Language
 S
t
. J
ohn Valley. Over 8
0 percent o
f t
he population on t
he New B
runswick
 
P
rominence
 s
ide o
f t
he r
iver, f
rom Grand F
alls/Grand-Sault west t
o Connors, have
 
F
rench a
s a
 mother t
ongue (
Rooney e
t
 a
l
. 1
982:162). Along t
he Maine
 
s
ide o
f t
he Valley, f
rom Fort Kent e
ast t
o Van Buren, over 8
6 percent o
f
 
t
he population had F
rench a
s a
 mother t
ongue i
n 1
974 (Allen). Percei'
 
ages pertaining t
o t
he l
inguistic heritage o
f t
he Valley r
emained r
ela
-
t
ively c
onstant between t
he 1
970 and 1
980 U
.S. Censuses. An i
ndepei
 
dent s
urvey by Maine S
chool Administrative District No. 3
3, which
 
s
erves t
he Upper F
renchville-St. Agatha r
egion, c
ollected data r
elati
 
t
he a
ctual u
se o
f F
rench i
n t
hat a
rea, and i
t
 was t
he l
anguage most o
ften
 
u
sed i
n t
he homes o
f 6
9 percent o
f s
chool-age c
hildren. The s
urvey (
199!)
 
c
onfirmed t
hat b
ilingualism was an i
ntegral part o
f t
he c
ommunity (
97
 
percent).
 
I
nformation p
rovided by t
he S
tate o
f Maine, Department o
f
 
Education, r
eveals t
hat 4
0 percent o
f s
chool c
hildren i
n t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley s
peak both F
rench and English. S
lightly more t
han half o
f
 
t
he s
tudents i
n t
he Van Buren (
54 percent), Madawaska (
52 percent), and
 
Upper F
renchville-St. Agatha (
55 percent) a
rea s
chool d
istricts a
re native
 
b
ilingual, while Maine S
chool Administrative District No. 3
3 (Upper
 
F
renchville-St. Agatha) r
eports t
he h
ighest number o
f l
imited English
 
p
rof
iciency s
tudents (
26 percent). Nevertheless, F
rench a
s a
 native
 
l
anguage among s
chool c
hildren has declined t
hroughout t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley. During t
he f
ive-year period f
rom 1
987 t
o 1
991 u
se o
f F
rench
 
a
s a
 native l
anguage among s
chool c
hildren d
ropped by 1
8 percent
 
(
Bérubé 1
991).
 
As one t
ravels west f
rom Fort Kent up t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver, t
he
 
p
roportion o
f t
he population with F
rench a
s t
heir mother t
ongue de-
c
l
ines (
Rooney e
t
 a
l
. 1
982:163). The western boundary o
f t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn R
iver F
rench s
peech c
ommunity appears t
o be near t
he e
astern
 
border o
f Allagash P
lantation. T
raveling e
ast f
rom Van Buren a
long t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver and t
hen s
outh a
long t
he New B
runswick border, t
he
 
percentage o
f t
he population with F
rench l
anguage heritage a
lso d
irnin-
i
shes. The c
hange f
rom F
rench t
o English i
s
 g
radual. However, s
outh
 
f
rom Van Buren a
long U
.S. Route 1
,
 t
he decline i
s
 more abrupt due t
o t
he
 
p
resence o
f t
he Swedish s
ettlements o
f S
tockholm and New Sweden. The
 
c
ommunity o
f Caribou, a
 l
i
ttle f
arther s
outh, has a
 l
arger number o
f
 
r
esidents with F
rench l
anguage heritage t
han t
he Valley t
own o
f
 
F
renchville, but t
hese r
esidents make up l
ess t
han 2
5 percent o
f t
he
 
population. S
imilarly, r
esidents o
f nearby P
resque I
s
le who possess
 
F
rench l
anguage heritage c
onstitute a
 minority o
f t
he c
ity's population.
 
Impressions g
arnered during t
he Maine Acadian cultural s
urvey
 
c
onfirm t
he h
igh c
oncentration o
f F
rench i
n t
he Valley. F
rench appar-
e
ntly dominates a
l
l s
peech e
vents o
f a
l
l age g
roups on t
he Canadian s
ide
 
o
f t
he border. On both s
ides o
f t
he Valley, F
rench i
s
 t
he l
anguage o
f
 
c
hoice i
n many s
ettings: c
hurch g
atherings, r
estaurants, g
rocery s
tores,
 
f
amily g
atherings, l
aundromats, and workplaces. On t
he Maine s
ide,
 
Catholic masses a
re r
egularly delivered i
n F
rench a
t S
t
. Luce Church i
n
 
1
7
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Some F
eatures o
f
 
Upper S
t. J
ohn Valley
 
F
rench
 
F
renchville a
nd a
t
 S
t
. David Catholic Church i
n Madawaska. Public
 
addresses, p
resentations, a
nd i
ntroductions, s
uch a
s t
hose g
iven a
t t
he
 
Acadian F
estival i
n Madawaska a
nd t
he F
estival de l
a
 Grande R
ivière i
n
 
Van Buren, a
re o
ften c
onducted i
n F
rench.
 
On t
he Maine s
ide o
f t
he border, F
rench u
sage s
eems t
o b
e l
ess
 
c
ommon among t
hose under t
hirty y
ears o
ld. A
 number o
f younger
 
p
eople a
re p
assive b
ilinguals —that i
s
, t
hey c
omprehend F
rench but a
re
 
r
e
luctant t
o s
peak i
t
 o
r a
re i
ncapable o
f c
onversing i
n F
rench. However,
 
s
ome t
eenagers a
nd c
hildren s
peak a
nd c
onduct business i
n F
rench.
 
B
ecause o
f t
he r
educed buying power o
f Canadian money, F
rench-
s
peakers f
rom New B
runswick a
nd Québec a
re c
urrently c
rossing t
he
 
i
nternational border i
nto Maine t
o make purchases. Maine c
itizens o
f a
l
l
 
a
ges working i
n r
etail e
stablishments a
re a
t
 a
 g
reat advantage i
f
 t
hey a
re
 
a
ble t
o t
ransact business i
n F
rench.
 
Many i
ndividuals on both s
ides o
f t
he border a
re much more
 
c
omfortable s
peaking F
rench t
han English. I
t
 s
eems l
ikely t
hat unilingual
 
F
rench-speakers c
ould l
i
ve e
ntire l
ives i
n t
he Valley without s
erious
 
d
ifficulties. There a
re a
lso unilingual English-speakers i
n t
he Valley.
 
S
ome a
re r
ecent immigrants working i
n t
he l
umber and paper mills, and
 
t
heir c
hildren; o
thers b
elong t
o English-speaking f
amilies who moved t
o
 
t
he a
rea g
enerations a
go but h
ave s
uccessfully i
nsulated t
hemselves
 
f
rom t
he p
redominant F
rench s
peech c
ommunity. Unilingual English-
s
peakers, whether t
hey a
dmit i
t
 o
r not, a
re c
learly a
t a
 d
isadvantage i
n
 
d
aily s
peech e
vents t
hat o
ccur i
n t
he Valley.
 
S
ome p
articipation i
n
 b
ilingual c
ommunication i
s
 a
 v
irtual
 
r
equirement o
f e
veryday l
i
fe i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. Language u
se
 
i
s
 c
omplex a
nd f
eatures b
ilingual c
ode switching. F
rench and English
 
t
ypically f
low t
ogether i
n t
he s
ame c
onversations, o
ften i
n t
he s
ame
 
s
entences, during n
atural c
ommunication among n
eighbors. And, a
s
 
noted by Dubay (
1978), n
ative F
rench l
exical and s
yntactic f
eatures o
ften
 
i
nf
luence English s
peech p
atterns. As a
 r
esult, a
 h
igh i
ntegration o
f
 
F
rench a
nd English o
ccurs within many c
onversations. Some switching
 
f
rom F
rench t
o English i
s
 apparently t
r
iggered by a
 s
t
igma t
hat s
ome
 
Acadians f
eel with r
egard t
o t
he s
tatus o
f t
heir l
anguage. The r
everse c
an
 
a
lso o
ccur when b
ilingual F
rench-speakers switch f
rom English t
o
 
F
rench t
o
 a
ssure t
hat t
heir c
onversations a
re not monitored by unilingual
 
English-speakers within e
arshot. This o
ccasional "
secret" c
haracter o
f
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley F
rench h
as f
unctional parallels i
n F
rench
 
Louisiana.
 
Marie Gauvin (
1969) n
otes d
ifferences b
etween t
he d
ialects o
f her f
ather,
 
a
 n
ative o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley, a
nd h
er mother, who was f
rom
 
Québec. S
ince s
ome Valley r
esidents a
re o
f Acadian o
rigin, and s
ome
 
Québecois, s
ome v
ariation i
n l
inguistic u
sage i
s
 p
redictable. Yet Gauvin's
 
a
nalysis o
f Acadian F
rench u
sage i
n "
Le Madawaska" a
ssumes, p
rob-
a
bly c
orrectly, t
hat "Valley F
rench" i
s
 a
 homogeneous analytical unit.
 
I
t
 i
s
 a
n i
nteresting question whether t
he F
rench o
f t
he Valley has,
 
o
ver i
t
s l
ong h
istory o
f d
evelopment, p
reserved o
r s
elected Acadian
 
d
ialect f
eatures. Gauvin (
1969) a
nd A
lbert (
1969) noted numerous
 
f
igurative u
sages o
f
 maritime a
nd n
autical t
erms i
n t
he F
rench l
anguage
 
o
f t
he Valley. These u
sages, many o
f which a
re c
haracteristic o
f Maritime
 
Acadian a
nd Louisiana Cajun F
rench, derive f
rom t
he c
ommon maritime
 
h
eritage o
f Acadians a
nd h
ave g
enerally s
pread t
hroughout t
he e
ntire
 
T
I I
F FRENCH LANGUAGE I
N T
I I
F UPPER ST
. J
OE I
N VALLEY
 
Valley F
rench c
ommunity, much a
s t
hey d
id t
hroughout l
arge parts o
f
 
Louisiana among s
peakers o
f d
iverse o
rigins.
 
For e
xample, ar
narrer, which s
ignifies t
he a
ction o
f mooring a
 
s
hip with a
 c
able (
see, f
or i
nstance, Gruss, D
iction
 n
aire Gruss d
e Marine),
 
i
s
 u
sed i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, and i
n Louisiana, a
s t
he g
eneral
 
v
erb "
to t
i
e." Gréer, which means t
o r
ig a
 s
hip, c
an f
iguratively i
ndicate
 
t
he "
dressing" o
r "
rigging" o
f a
 woman's a
ttire o
r a
 youngster's b
icycle.
 
L
arguer, t
o l
oosen t
he l
ines o
f a
 s
hip f
rom i
t
s mooring, i
s
 u
sed i
n t
he
 
Valley t
o i
ndicate "
letting go" o
f any object (
as i
n t
he v
erb I
âcher). I
n
 
Louisiana, t
his f
igure o
f s
peech i
s
 f
urther a
bstracted t
o r
efer t
o t
he
 
c
ondition o
f a
 person who i
s
 a
t t
he e
nd o
f t
he l
ine, o
r c
ompletely out o
f
 
s
trength. Many c
ommon f
igures o
f s
peech derive f
rom t
he nautical t
erm
 
b
ord, l
i
terally t
he s
ide o
f a
 s
hip: v
irer d
e b
ord —to t
urn b
ack o
r r
etrace
 
one's s
teps; c
hanger d
e b
ord —to c
hange p
laces f
rom one s
ide t
o t
he
 
o
ther; and, perhaps t
he most c
ommon, 1
'
autre h
ord —the o
ther s
ide (
of
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver, f
or i
nstance).
 
This application o
f nautical t
erminology t
o an i
nland r
eality a
 I
 
o
ccurs i
n Valley English. For i
nstance, i
n describing t
he parts o
f h
is
 
potato house, Herman Deprey o
f New Canada u
sed t
he t
erm "
bulk-
heads" t
o r
efer t
o walls s
eparating potato s
torage c
ompartments. (
A
 
bulkhead i
s
 an upright partition s
eparating parts o
f a
 s
hip.) C
larence
 
P
lourde o
f La Côte de P
inette, mentioning t
hat he and h
is wife t
raveled
 
t
o Connecticut during t
he 1
950s, s
aid "We l
anded i
n B
ristol." Thus
 
English a
s well a
s F
rench s
peech patterns may a
lso r
einforce t
he mar!-
t
ime heritage o
f Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley r
esidents.
 
I
t
 has been noted (
Gauvin 1
969, Albert 1
969) t
hat t
here a
re many
 
ancient e
xpressions i
n Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian F
rench. The u
se o
f
 
s
ome o
f t
hese e
xpressions may have c
ontinued because t
hey a
re l
inked
 
with e
lements o
f material c
ulture t
hat have a
lso demonstrated e
xcep-
t
ional c
ontinuity. For i
nstance, t
he word q
uart i
s
 t
he l
ocal Acadian word
 
f
or "
potato barrel." This word apparently derives f
rom q
uartaut, o
r
 
q
uart d
e muid, both a
rchaic words f
or p
etit t
onneau, o
r "
small barrel'
 
(
Robert 1
988). The q
uart, s
t
ill u
sed i
n northern Aroostook County during
 
t
he potato harvest, i
s
 one o
f t
he l
ast o
f i
t
s s
ort i
n c
ontinuous u
se i
n North
 
America.
 
Another word t
hat may be l
inked with an e
lement o
f material
 
c
ulture i
s
 é
chelle —"stairway" i
n Valley Acadian v
ernacular. The s
tan-
dard F
rench word f
or "
stairway" i
s
 e
scalier, while t
he more s
tandard
 
t
ranslation f
or é
chelle i
s "
ladder." "Gangway" and "
ship's l
adder" a
re
 
a
lternate t
ranslations o
f é
chelle. I
t
 has been s
uggested (Gauvin 1
969) t
hat
 
t
he Acadian é
chelle derives f
rom t
his maritime u
sage; i
nspection o
f a
 
number o
f n
ineteenth-century Acadian houses i
n t
he Valley l
eads one t
o
 
believe t
hat é
chelle best describes t
he s
et o
f s
teep s
teps u
sed t
o c
l
imb i
nto
 
t
he a
ttics o
f Acadian houses. These s
teps a
re more l
ike a
 s
hip
's l
adder
 
t
han a
 s
tairway. I
nterestingly, t
he word é
chelier (
another f
orm o
f c
'
c
l!t
'/I')
 
i
s
 u
sed i
n Louisiana t
o designate p
recisely t
he s
ame s
ort o
f s
teep s
tair-
way l
eading t
o t
he a
ttics o
f Acadian houses. The houses o
f wealthy
 
Creole p
lanters were more l
ikely t
o have an e
scalier; most Louisiana
 
Acadians had t
o make do with an é
chelle.
 
Certain t
ypically Acadian phonological p
rocesses h
ave appar-
e
ntly s
pread t
hrough t
he Valley. Certain vowels v
ary f
rom t
he s
tandard
 
F
rench, a
s i
n t
he word t
e
llement, where -
r
nent i
s
 p
ronounced [m l
 
i
nstead o
f t
he more s
tandard [m3], and o
ui becomes Lwr], and s
o f
orth.
 
The s
tandard F
rench "
v" becomes [w] a
s i
n v
oir [war]. The "
j
,
" a
s i
n
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Language S
tigma:
 
R
isk t
o a
 Valuable
 
Cultural Resource
 
2
0
 
j
amais o
r
 j
aune, o
ften b
ecomes [
y
]. I
n t
he p
ronunciation o
f a
cadien t
here i
s
 
a
 t
endency t
o c
reate t
he [
y
] s
ound i
n t
he middle o
f t
he word, a
s i
n [
ka ].
 
This p
ronunciation i
s
 u
sed by Louisiana "Cajuns." But i
n t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley, a
cadien i
s
 f
urther t
ransformed t
o
 b
ecome [
kayf
l, and i
s
 
s
ometimes s
pelled c
a
 y
en.
 
As i
n Louisiana a
nd t
he Maritimes (
Boudreau 1
988), a
lteration o
f
 
i
nitial c
onsonants o
ccurs i
n c
ertain phonological e
nvironments. For
 
i
nstance, t
he words d
ieu a
nd d
iable b
ecome [
dj 
o
e ]
 and [
djab]; q
ueue and
 
c
uisse b
ecome [
tx] a
nd [
tüis]. F
ieldworkers a
lso noted t
hat [
tie
] and
 
I
ke] a
re a
l
ternate p
ronunciations o
f t
he word q
uai (
a wharf). A man
 
describing a
 s
o
lioeau (
j
oist) o
f a
n o
ld house c
alled i
t
 a
 [
tolivo1.
 
There s
eems t
o
 b
e a
 t
endency i
n Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian
 
F
rench t
o p
lace a
 c
onsonantal s
ound, o
ften [
g
], a
t t
he end o
f words t
hat
 
e
nd with h
igh o
r e
xtended vowel s
ounds. For i
nstance, t
he F
rench word
 
c
heville (wooden p
eg o
r t
runnel) i
s
 p
ronounced [
djwig]. A s
imilar
 
p
rocess may h
ave r
esulted i
n t
he a
l
ternate p
ronunciations o
f t
he f
amous
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian buckwheat pancakes, p
loyes [
pl :
i
1
 and
 
p
/au
 g
es [
p
]:
)gl.
 
While Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian F
rench has many s
imilarities with
 
Maritime Acadian a
nd Louisiana Cajun F
rench, i
t
 i
s
 a
lso d
istinct i
n s
ome
 
ways f
rom a
l
l o
ther New a
nd O
ld World F
rench f
orms. I
t
 i
s
 d
istinctive,
 
f
or i
nstance, f
rom t
he F
rench s
poken i
n Québec. These d
ifferences have
 
b
een made p
ainfully e
vident t
o t
he Acadians o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley. The s
tatus o
f Acadian s
peech h
as b
een s
ystematically denigrated
 
t
hrough t
he y
ears by English-speakers, F
rench-speakers f
rom Québec,
 
a
nd s
ometimes n
ative Acadian F
rench-speakers a
s well.
 
When a
 l
anguage b
ecomes t
he t
arget o
f c
r
iticism and r
idicule, a
 
s
t
igma with r
egard t
o t
hat l
anguage i
s
 l
ikely t
o develop among i
t
s native
 
s
peakers. Embarrassment a
nd l
ow s
elf-esteem a
re a
ssociated with
 
l
anguage s
t
igma, a
nd t
he i
r
retrievable l
oss o
f a
 valuable cultural r
esource
 
c
ould r
esult. Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian F
rench i
s
 s
t
igmatized t
o a
 
l
arge degree (
Gauvin 1
969:1).
 
Genevieve Massignon (
1962, Vol. 1
1
:731) a
rgued t
hat t
he Cana-
d
ian Acadians' n
ickname l
e
s B
ra
 y
ons derived f
rom t
he f
act t
hat
 
Quebecois c
onsidered Acadian s
peech a
 c
orrupted F
rench. B
raie i
s
 t
he
 
F
rench word f
or a
 f
l
ax b
rake, a
n i
nstrument u
sed t
o b
reak f
lax.
 
Massignon s
ays, "
I
/s a
ppellent l
e
s g
ens d
u Madawaska l
e
s b
réyons p
arce
 
q
u'ils l
eur e
s
t r
eproché d
e '
b
réyer' (
é
corcher) l
e
 f
rançais." (
They c
alled t
he
 
p
eople o
f Madawaska B
reyons [
Brayons] s
o a
s t
o r
idicule t
hem f
or
 
b
reaking up t
he F
rench l
anguage.)
 
Uncomfortable a
nd s
t
ressful s
i
tuations e
xperienced i
n s
chool a
re
 
c
ommon s
ources o
f l
anguage s
t
igma. By t
he t
urn o
f t
he twentieth
 
c
entury, t
he no r
mal s
chool i
n Fort Kent, c
alled t
he Madawaska T
raining
 
S
chool, a
dvertised t
hat i
t
s purpose was t
o "
educate F
rench t
eachers i
n
 
t
he English l
anguage. .  . by c
onstant d
rill... [
so] t
hat t
hey may t
each i
t
 
i
ntelligently i
n t
he s
chools o
f t
he Madawaska t
erritory" (
Pullen 1
902:48).
 
Throughout t
he twentieth c
entury, t
remendous p
ressures have been
 
applied t
o t
he t
ask o
f "
saving" Acadian F
rench-speakers f
rom t
heir
 
n
ative l
anguage. The p
rocess n
early a
lways r
esults i
n l
owering t
he s
tatus
 
o
f Acadian v
ernacular s
peech.
 
Punishment h
as o
ften b
een a
 t
ool u
sed by t
eachers t
o r
eplace
 
n
ative F
rench with English. As a
 youngster i
n s
chool, Guy Dubay
 
THE FRENCH LANGUAGE I
N THE UPPER ST. JOF I
N VALLEY
 
O1 \ ( '
I I
 I
F
 
Notre Dame d
u Mont C
annel
 
R
oman C
atholic S
chool i
n
 
L
i
lle, Maine, August 1
942.
 
(
1978:13) c
laims t
hat he was made t
o s
tay a
fter s
chool and write hun-
d
reds o
f l
ines o
f "
1
 will not s
peak F
rench a
t s
chool." He a
sserts t
hat h
is
 
t
eachers, s
ome o
f whom were F
rench-speaking Catholic s
isters f
rom
 
Québec, not only r
equired s
tudents t
o s
peak English, but were a
lso
 
i
nclined t
o c
riticize, r
idicule, and i
nsult l
ocal F
rench s
peech patterns
 
Dubay (
1978:13), describing one o
f t
hese F
rench Canadian s
ister
 
s
lapped h
is young f
ingers with a
 wooden r
uler i
n o
rder t
o c
ure h
 
i
gnorance, c
laims t
hat "
this t
eacher c
aused more harm t
o my you
 
f
ormative c
haracter t
han any e
nemy o
f t
he F
rench c
ould e
ver h
a\
 
One Fort Kent woman i
n her e
arly t
hirties r
efuses t
o t
each her
 
c
hildren her own native l
anguage. She s
aid t
hat because s
he was er
nhir-
r
assed a
bout her s
peech i
n s
chool, s
he wants t
o make c
ertain her c
hild r
oil
 
do not develop a
 F
rench a
ccent. A number o
f i
nformants c
laim t
hat
 
s
peaking F
rench i
s
 s
t
ill f
orbidden, o
r a
t l
east s
trongly d
iscouraged, i
n
 
s
ome Valley s
chools. Most s
chools i
n t
he Valley c
ontinue t
o t
reat native
 
Acadian F
rench l
ike a
 f
oreign l
anguage. There a
re s
tate-provided t
ests
 
which help t
o i
dentify i
ncoming s
tudents who a
re def
icient i
n English.
 
There a
re no t
ests available t
o i
dentify s
tudents who a
re p
roficient o
r
 
deficient i
n F
rench.
 
Maine S
chool Administrative District No. 3
3's b
ilingual
 
education p
rogram i
s
 a
 model p
rogram designed t
o help b
ilingual
 
s
tudents i
n both F
rench and English. This p
rogram has made s
ignifi-
c
ant p
rogress i
n i
ntroducing materials pertinent t
o t
he heritage and
 
c
ulture o
f t
he s
tudents.
 
The i
nternational boundary t
hat s
eparates t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley has c
reated s
ignificant cultural d
ivergence i
n t
he two popula-
t
ions. Perhaps t
he g
reatest l
ong-term d
ivergence s
tems f
rom t
he s
chool
 
s
ystems i
n Maine and New B
runswick. S
tudents on opposite banks o
f
 
t
he Valley a
re s
chooled i
n d
ifferent political, s
ocial, and c
ivic v
iew-
points and h
istorical i
nterpretations. They a
re a
lso s
chooled i
n d
ifferent
 
l
anguages. F
rench e
ducation, once p
rovided by one o
r another o
f t
he
 
Catholic r
eligious o
rders, d
issolved i
n Maine w
ith t
he i
nstitution o
f
 
mandatory public education.
 
2
1
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
I
n New B
runswick, p
arents may p
resently c
hoose t
o s
end t
heir
 
c
hildren t
o t
otally F
rench o
r t
otally English s
chools. Most Acadians o
f
 
New B
runswick a
re now e
ducated e
xclusively i
n F
rench, while most
 
Maine Acadians a
re e
ducated e
xclusively i
n English. Thus, t
here i
s
 a
 r
eal
 
possibility, i
f
 r
ecent t
rends c
ontinue, t
hat younger Acadians on opposite
 
s
ides o
f t
he r
iver c
ould b
ecome f
unctionally unilingual i
n d
ifferent
 
l
anguages. While most Maine Acadians would l
ikely a
gree with Maine's
 
Speaker o
f t
he House o
f Representatives J
ohn Martin (
1985) t
hat t
he
 
English l
anguage n
eed not b
e p
erceived a
s "
a menace t
o t
he s
ouls o
f
 
Acadians," t
he f
act r
emains t
hat t
he development o
f unilingual English
 
c
ompetence among Maine Acadians will s
pell death t
o Acadian o
ral
 
t
raditions i
n Maine a
nd will undermine t
he c
ultural c
oherence o
f t
he
 
regio n g
enerally.
 
CHARACTERISTIC F
EATURES OF
 
MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
Impressions o
f
 
Upper S
t. J
ohn
 
River Valley
 
1
991 Acadian Day,
 
Madawaska, Maine
.
 
T
r
orn t
he perspective o
f a
 v
isitor, t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley does not s
eem
 
t
o b
e part o
f "mainstream America." The F
rench l
anguage i
s
 i
n e
very-
day u
se. Local f
oods a
re c
onspicuous i
n both homes and r
estaurants.
 
Catholic c
hurches and r
eligious s
hrines punctuate t
he l
ine-settlement
 
v
illages o
f t
he r
egion. Local f
armsteads i
nclude d
istinctive houses, b
arns,
 
and outbuildings. Well-kept r
esidential l
andscapes a
re decorated with
 
r
eligious s
tatues, f
lowers, and an a
rray o
f y
ard o
rnamentation. Color
 
s
elections f
or many painted s
urfaces r
ef
lect an appreciation f
or c
ontrast
 
and b
rightness. L
itter i
s
 not a
 p
roblem, nor i
s
 c
rime —residents g
enerally
 
r
efuse t
o l
ock houses and c
ars. Many f
eatures o
f modern American
 
c
onsumer c
ulture a
re r
are o
r a
bsent f
rom t
he Maine s
ide o
f t
he Uppu
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley. The one McDonald's h
amburger s
tand i
s
 l
ocated i
n
 
Madawaska (
one i
n Van Buren c
losed f
or l
ack o
f business). Until r
ecent 
I
\
 
t
here were no r
estaurants t
hat s
erved only p
izza, and none s
erve only
 
f
r
ied c
hicken. The downtowns o
f Fort Kent, Madawaska, and Van Buren
 
r
emain v
ital c
enters f
or s
hopping.
 
Such impressions h
elp t
o describe t
he c
ultural d
istinctiveness o
f
 
t
he Valley. I
n t
he c
ourse o
f i
t
s f
i
eldwork, t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural
 
s
urvey was a
ble t
o amplify t
hese observations by t
he u
se o
f s
tandard
 
e
thnographic t
echniques. What f
ollows i
s
 a
 s
ummary o
f s
alient c
ultural
 
f
eatures t
hat emerged f
rom two months i
n t
he f
i
eld. Extended r
esearch
 
will b
e n
ecessary i
n t
he f
uture t
o f
i
l
l i
n g
aps i
n t
he p
resent s
urvey, t
o
 
c
over t
he e
ntire s
easonal r
ound o
f t
he y
ear, t
o a
ssess v
ariation over t
ime,
 
a
nd t
o e
xplore i
n g
reater depth t
he c
ultural s
ignificance o
f f
eatures
 
i
dentified b
elow.
 
DAIGLE OIL CO.
 
1
304 t
40
 
Y STATE
 
LAW
 
10D M I
S
 
ACADIAN DM1   
C
A R
 n
J A SEi
 
o
mw  
I
) \
\ I
I) .
\ WI I
I
I \
1 \\
 
/
 
F
arming
 
F
arming has b
een t
he p
rincipal o
ccupation o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley
 
s
ince i
t
s e
arly s
ettlement. The c
learing and c
ultivation o
f t
he f
l
ats a
long
 
t
he r
iver was t
he p
rimary f
ocus during t
he f
i
rst decades o
f s
ettlement. B
y
 
t
he 1
820s, t
he p
remier r
angs o
f Acadian f
armers were well e
stablished
 
and p
repared t
o s
upply t
he developing n
eeds o
f t
he t
imber i
ndustry.
 
The Acadian f
amily was i
nstrumental i
n developing t
he Valley
 
f
armland and e
nsuring c
ontinued p
roduction. The n
eeded workforce
 
was p
rovided p
rimarily by t
he immediate f
amily, t
hough a
 t
ightknit
 
e
xtended-family n
etwork c
ould b
e c
alled upon during t
imes o
f n
eed.
 
Immediate f
amilies (
father, mother, and o
ffspring) t
ended t
o b
e l
arge
 
t
hroughout t
he n
ineteenth c
entury and most o
f t
he twentieth. Upon
 
marriage, t
he o
ldest s
on would o
ften b
ring h
is b
ride i
nto h
is f
ather's
 
house, and a
 n
ew g
eneration o
f Acadian c
hildren would b
egin a
s p
arents
 
b
ecame g
randparents and c
hildren b
ecame aunts and uncles.
 
Oldest s
ons o
ften r
etained t
he house and f
arm upon t
he r
etire-
ment o
f t
heir f
athers. There was a
 t
endency t
o maintain t
he i
ntegrity o
f
 
well-developed f
arms i
nstead o
f d
ividing t
hem among o
ffspring. As
 
s
ubsequent s
ons r
eached marriageable a
ge, additional l
and was c
leared
 
f
or f
arming. These n
ew f
arms, developed on t
he h
igher s
lopes and
 
r
olling p
lains t
hat s
tretched back f
rom t
he r
iver, c
ame t
o be known a
s
 
l
e
s c
oncessions. The p
ioneer e
xperience o
f c
learing and developing n
ew
 
2
3
 
1
0
.
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
1
,ik-i1' ptlta
 1
1
t
 
B
angor &
 Aroostook R
ailroad
 
t
ards i
n F
ort K
ent, Maine,
 
Auciist 1
942.
 
2
4
 
l
and c
ontinued i
nto t
he twentieth c
entury. A
 degree o
f s
ocioeconomic
 
s
tratification r
esulted a
s s
ome Acadian f
armers r
eaped t
he p
rofits o
f
 
well-developed f
arms while o
thers were p
reparing new g
round t
o p
low.
 
Local f
arm p
roduce during t
he n
ineteenth c
entury s
upplied most o
f t
he
 
n
eeds o
f t
he Valley population —vegetables, potatoes, buckwheat, o
ats,
 
h
ay, s
heep, hogs, a
nd d
airy p
roducts.
 
The t
ypical b
arn o
f t
his p
eriod, t
he "Acadian barn" o
r g
range
 
a
caclienne, i
s
 s
imilar t
o "
English" b
arns f
ound e
lsewhere i
n North
 
America. This t
hree-bay, s
ide-opening, g
able-roof b
arn has a
 c
entral
 
passageway t
hrough t
he middle c
alled a
 b
atterie. The c
entral passage
 
with l
arge opposed doors i
s
 n
amed f
or i
t
s f
ormer f
unction a
s a
 t
hreshing
 
a
nd winnowing a
rea. I
t
 a
lso a
l
lows t
he t
ransfer o
f hay f
rom wagons t
o
 
t
he upper-level h
ay mows on e
i
ther s
ide o
f t
he b
atterie. Grain s
torage i
s
 
p
rovided by one o
r more g
round-level c
hambers. One portion o
f t
he
 
g
round l
evel i
s
 t
ypically d
ivided i
nto s
talls f
or a
 f
ew h
ead o
f s
tock —the
 
d
raft a
nimals, a
 milk c
ow o
r two, o
r a
 s
ow and her l
i
tter. The barn i
s
 
g
enerally s
ided with v
ertical p
lanks (
planches d
ebouts), t
hough t
he
 
s
ections where f
arm a
nimals a
re s
tabled during t
he c
old s
easons a
re
 
c
overed with a
n a
dditional s
heathing o
f s
hingles. The barns o
f Acadian
 
f
armers who owned more s
tock h
ave s
hed additions which o
ften c
ontain
 
s
talls f
or milk c
ows o
r o
ther a
nimals. S
everal g
ranges a
cadiennes were
 
r
azed during t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991.
 
The arrival o
f t
he B
angor &
 Aroostook Railroad a
t t
he t
urn o
f t
he
 
twentieth c
entury g
reatly a
l
tered f
arming. Improved t
ransportation
 
opened n
ational markets, a
nd t
he e
xpansion o
f t
he market encouraged
 
f
armers t
o put more l
and i
nto potato p
roduction. I
n t
he p
re-mechanized
 
d
ays o
f t
he e
arly twentieth c
entury, t
he n
eed f
or more t
i
lled a
creage was
 
met with a
n i
ncrease i
n d
raft horses. The added f
eed r
equirements o
f
 
t
hese a
nimals e
ncouraged t
he c
onstruction o
f huge hay and g
rain barns.
 
S
ome s
urviving e
xamples o
f t
hese two- a
nd t
hree-level barns have
 
g
abled s
tructures (
pignons s
imples) l
ike t
he e
arlier g
ranges a
cadiennes,
 
while o
thers f
eature a
 g
ambrel (
combie-cassé) r
oof
.
 
The e
arly twentieth-century e
xpansion o
f potato f
arming a
lso
 
c
ontributed t
o t
he d
evelopment o
f a
n i
ntriguing f
eature o
f Upper S
t
.
 
Jo
hn Valley material c
ulture —the twin b
arn (
Konrad 1
982), a
 pair o
f
 
r
ectangular Acadian b
arns p
laced one n
ext t
o t
he o
ther with t
heir r
idges
 
p
arallel a
nd a
 r
oof t
hat e
ncloses t
he i
ntervening s
pace. A b
eautiful
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
I0 WARD W. MAR-I I
 
Twin b
arn a
t
 
S
t
. Agatha, Maine,
 
owned b
y Danny L
abrie
.
 
e
xample o
f t
his f
orm e
xisted i
n t
he Hamlin a
rea before i
t
 burned t
o t
he
 
g
round during t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991. L
ike t
he g
ranges a
cadiennes, t
hese
 
twin barns have become r
are.
 
The t
ransformations wrought by t
he r
ailroad a
re a
lso v
isible
 
t
oday i
n t
he v
ariety o
f potato houses adorning f
armscapes and r
ail
 
s
idings. Before t
he boom i
n potato f
arming, potatoes were t
ypically
 
s
tored i
n t
he basements o
f houses. This p
ractice c
ontinued among small
 
f
armers i
nto t
he 1
940s (Doty 1
991). But f
armers who c
ould s
peculate i
n
 
potato f
utures began t
o build l
arge s
torage houses s
oon a
fter t
he r
ailroad
 
a
rrived. Beginning e
arly i
n t
he twentieth c
entury, potato houses were
 
built on l
arger Acadian f
arms, and t
hose f
armers who c
ould a
fford t
hem
 
a
cquired potato houses a
t s
idings a
long t
he Bangor &
 Aroostook Rail-
r
oad.
 
Potato houses on f
armsteads o
ften a
re built partly i
nto a
 h
illside
 
i
n o
rder t
o i
nsulate t
he potatoes f
rom f
reezing and t
emperature c
hanges.
 
P
rime s
torage c
onditions must b
e maintained f
rom harve,t i
n S
eptember
 
until s
hipment t
he f
ollowing s
pring o
r when market c
onditions a
re
 
f
avorable.
 
Today t
he t
ransportation o
f potatoes i
s
 done by t
ruck i
nstead o
f
 
t
rain. As a
 r
esult, many r
ailroad potato houses have been abandoned,
 
and no new ones a
re being built. The t
raditional potato houses o
f t
he
 
f
arms a
re being r
eplaced by l
arge Quonset-type buildings u
sed f
or both
 
potato and e
quipment s
torage. Large e
ighteen-wheel t
ractor-trailer
 
c
ombinations have b
ecome part o
f t
he t
ypical f
armscape i
n t
he Valley,
 
and t
he t
rucking o
f p
roduce i
s
 p
resently one o
f t
he most c
ommon f
arm-
r
elated o
ccupations.
 
F
arming i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley has t
raditionally been
 
l
abor-intensive, t
hough mechanization has a
ltered o
lder patterns. The
 
hand-harvest o
f potatoes, which i
nvolves t
he t
emporary employment o
f
 
s
chool-age c
hildren who p
ick potatoes by hand, c
ontinues a
t only a
 f
ew
 
f
arms. Following t
radition, Valley s
chools c
ontinue t
o r
ecess f
or a
 two-
week period during t
he S
eptember potato harvest, t
hough t
here a
re
 
c
laims t
hat a
 r
elatively small number o
f c
hildren participate i
n t
he
 
harvest. Those who do a
re paid a
ccording t
o t
he number o
f barrels o
f
 
potatoes t
hey p
ick. This p
iece-work i
nvolves t
he hand-loading o
f s
plit-
a
sh b
askets which a
re emptied i
nto t
he 1
5-peck (
165-pound) c
edar potato
 
barrels c
alled q
uarts. The b
arrels c
ontinue t
o be built on a
 part-time b
asis
 
by potato f
armer and c
ooper Adrien Morin and h
is s
ons, who l
ive a
t
 
2
 
M W
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
A
 b
asketful o
f
 
Green Mountain p
otatoes,
 
October 1
940.
 
Woods Work
 
2
0
 
[
 v K 1
)
11
 
Long Lake. Both potato b
arrels a
nd b
askets a
re well c
onstructed s
o a
s t
o
 
s
tand up t
o t
he r
igors o
f t
he potato h
arvest
. The s
plit-ash baskets have
 
t
raditionally b
een made f
or potato f
armers by Micmac basketmakers.
 
One o
f t
he h
and t
ools t
raditionally u
sed by t
he Micmacs i
n
 
b
asketmaking i
s
 t
he "
crooked knife." Use o
f t
his d
istinctive woodwork-
i
ng t
ool r
equires t
he c
raftsman t
o pull t
he knife b
lade t
oward h
imself.
 
I
t
 i
s
 b
elieved t
hat Acadians l
earned t
o u
se c
rooked knives f
rom t
heir
 
Native American n
eighbors. The c
rooked knife became a
 f
avored t
ool
 
f
or making a
xe a
nd o
ther t
ool h
andles, b
askets, and c
anoes, and f
or
 
o
ther i
t
ems u
sed on t
he f
arm a
nd i
n t
he l
umber c
amp (
c
f
. B
rainard
 
1
962:175; Witthoft 1
963:199 a
nd 2
08; B
lodgett 1
964:287).
 
Today's Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley potato f
arms a
re h
ighly mecha-
n
ized and r
equire f
ewer workers. Though t
he f
arms c
ontinue t
o be
 
owned a
nd operated a
s f
amily e
nterprises, smaller f
arms have b
een
 
s
teadily c
onsolidated i
nto r
elatively f
ew l
arge operations. I
nformants
 
c
laim t
hat t
he e
xpense o
f operating l
arge f
arms has become s
o e
xorbitant
 
t
hat t
here a
re no n
ew potato f
armers, a
nd s
ome p
reviously f
armed l
and
 
i
s
 now r
everting t
o f
orest.
 
The f
i
rst o
rder o
f
 business f
or Acadians who s
ettled i
n t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley was t
o c
arve f
arms f
rom t
he l
ocal s
tands o
f p
ine and o
ther
 
s
pecies. The g
reat number o
f well-built l
og houses i
n t
he Valley t
estif
ies
 
t
o t
he Acadians' s
uccess. As v
eteran p
ioneers, t
hey were p
re-adapted t
o
 
t
he f
orest r
esources o
f t
he northern Maine woods.
 
Commercial i
nterest i
n t
he g
reat p
ine f
orests o
f t
he North
 
Woods b
egan during t
he l
a
te e
ighteenth c
entury. The p
rimary r
esponse
 
o
f Acadian f
armers t
o t
he d
evelopment o
f t
he f
orest i
ndustry was t
o
 
s
upply n
eeded f
ood. But f
arming i
s
 a
 part-time o
ccupation i
n t
his
 
northern c
l
imate. And, b
ecause winter was t
he most f
avorable s
eason f
or
 
working i
n t
he woods, a
 s
easonal p
attern o
f f
arming and f
orestry
 
developed. After c
rops were put away during t
he f
a
ll, many men moved
 
t
o l
e
s c
huntiers (
lumber c
amps), where t
hey worked until i
t
 was t
ime t
o
 
p
repare f
or p
lanting.
 
This s
easonal pattern c
ontinued f
ar i
nto t
he twentieth c
entury.
 
Mark J
albert o
f F
renchville r
emembers t
hat h
is g
randfather, S
am J
albert,
 
a
 f
amous wilderness guide o
f t
he A
llagash Waterway, o
ften worked a
s a
 
f
oreman on l
og d
rives. During t
he s
pring f
lood, S
am J
albert's c
rew
 
f
loated l
ogs f
rom t
he A
llagash a
rea down t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver t
o t
he mill i
n
 
Keegan. Mark r
emembers s
eeing l
og d
rives a
s a
 young boy during t
he
 
e
arly 1
960s. I
n a
ddition t
o
 j
ob-related s
kills and work t
echniques, t
he
 
o
ccupation o
f l
ogging h
as g
enerated a
 quantity o
f personal narratives,
 
b
allads, l
egends, poems, a
nd a
n a
rray o
f o
ther e
xpressive f
orms i
n t
his
 
a
rea.
 
Today, t
he l
umber i
ndustry operates y
ear-round and p
rovides
 
work f
or many Valley r
esidents. There a
re j
obs i
n t
he woods, i
n t
he
 
l
umber mills, i
n pulpwood f
actories, a
nd f
or i
ndependent d
rivers o
f
 
t
rucks u
sed t
o t
ransport wood p
roducts. However, a
 r
eduction i
n t
he
 
workforce c
aused by mechanization has a
ffected t
he l
umber i
ndustry a
s
 
i
t
 h
as t
he f
arming business. I
n a
ddition, t
here i
s
 s
ome c
oncern f
or t
he
 
h
ealth o
f t
he i
ndustry; s
ome observers b
elieve t
hat t
ree-cutting c
ontinues
 
t
o i
ncrease while t
he r
ate o
f r
eforestation i
s
 d
ecreasing.
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
Mills and Millers
 
A
t Y
ard
 i
f
f
's s
awmill
 
i
n
 F
ort K
ent, Maine,
 
R
aoul Y
ard
 i
ff
 
o
perates t
he s
aw.
 
Milling h
as b
een a
 v
ital l
ocal o
ccupation i
n t
he Valley s
ince t
he t
urn o
f
 
t
he n
ineteenth c
entury
. According t
o A
lbert (
1982:220), f
lour mills were
 
e
stablished a
t S
aint-Basile, S
t
. David, Grande I
s
le, V
iolette B
rook (
Van
 
Buren), S
aint F
rançois-de-Madawaska, and Chautaqua (
Frenchville) by
 
t
he year 1
800.
 
One e
arly n
ineteenth-century mill r
emained i
n operation i
n
 
F
renchville until r
ecently. The p
resent owner, Gédéon Corriveau,
 
believes t
hat he i
s
 t
he f
i
fth owner o
f t
he mill (Anwati and Roy 1
981).
 
The mill was e
quipped t
o perform t
hree d
istinct milling operations: t
he
 
milling o
f buckwheat f
lour, t
he c
arding o
f wool, and l
umber milling.
 
During t
he twentieth c
entury, i
t
 was operated by s
team, gasoline engine,
 
and f
inally e
lectric motor. Aerial photographs t
aken during t
he s
urvey
 
r
eveal t
he mill's l
ocation near a
 b
rook and a
 holding pond which c
ould
 
have p
rovided hydraulic head f
or t
he operation o
f a
 water wheel. The
 
e
arly milling e
quipment a
t t
his s
i
te i
s
 i
n e
xcellent c
ondition, and, with
 
t
he owners' permission, t
he entire s
i
te deserves c
lose e
valuation a
s a
 
s
ignif
icant h
istorical p
roperty.
 
The milling o
f buckwheat has c
onsiderable importance with
 
r
egard t
o Acadian cultural i
dentity. Locally g
rown and milled buck-
wheat i
s
 t
he main i
ngredient i
n p
loyes, a
 variety o
f t
hin pancake o
r c
repe
 
which i
s
 a
 l
ocal Acadian f
ood s
pecialty. Once t
he s
taple o
f e
very f
arm
 
DAVID A
. WI I
II M \,
 
2
7
,
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Self-Employment
 
and I
ndependence
 
f
amily, p
lo
 y
es apparently d
iminished s
omewhat i
n popularity a
s a
 n
ew
 
g
eneration o
f c
onsumers was e
nticed by n
ationally advertised p
roducts.
 
Today, p
loyes a
re on t
he r
ebound. They c
an b
e o
rdered f
or l
unch a
t a
rea
 
r
estaurants. Bouchard's Acadian P
loye Mix, manufactured by A
lban and
 
R
ita Bouchard o
f F
ort Kent, i
s
 b
eing marketed t
hroughout t
he Valley, a
l
l
 
over Maine, a
nd b
eyond. And, a
s t
he popularity o
f buckwheat f
lour
 
i
ncreases, s
o does t
he n
eed f
or buckwheat mills. Buckwheat f
lour i
s
 
p
resently g
round a
t
 small mills i
n New B
runswick
. The Bouchard f
amily
 
a
nd o
thers l
ook f
orward t
o t
he day when buckwheat milling f
acilities a
re
 
a
gain a
vailable i
n Maine
.
 
S
oon a
fter h
is a
rrival i
n 1
817, Nathan Baker was operating a
 
hydraulic s
awmill on B
aker B
rook (
Albert 1
982:220). S
ince t
hat t
ime, t
he
 
business o
f l
umber milling h
as b
een important i
n t
he Valley. The r
ail-
r
oad was e
xtended t
o
 s
erve t
he S
t
. F
rancis mill. I
ndustrial l
umber mills
 
were e
stablished i
n F
ort Kent, Madawaska, Edmundston, Keegan, and
 
e
lsewhere during t
he n
ineteenth c
entury. The impact o
f t
he demise o
f
 
t
he Keegan mill i
s
 a
pparent t
oday i
n t
he a
bandoned o
lder t
own p
roper-
t
i
es a
nd c
hurches i
n c
ommunities where l
arge numbers o
f millworkers
 
once l
ived, n
amely L
ille, Grand I
s
le, Keegan, and Van Buren. Three
 
l
umber mills operated i
n E
agle Lake until t
he r
ecent e
conomic r
ecession.
 
The l
argest s
ingle employer i
n t
he Valley t
oday i
s
 F
raser Paper
 
L
td., l
ocated both i
n
 Madawaska, Maine, and a
cross t
he r
iver i
n
 
Edmundston, New B
runswick. I
t
 p
resently employs approximately 1
,800
 
workers. F
raser L
td. h
as e
xercised a
 g
reat i
nf
luence on t
he l
ocal e
conomy
 
s
ince i
t
 purchased t
he J
ames Murchie &
 S
ons Mill i
n 1
916 and opened
 
business t
he n
ext y
ear (
Lang 1
987:11). The Murchie Mill, which began
 
operations i
n 1
888, was one o
f s
everal l
arge s
awmills operating on t
he
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver during t
he n
ineteenth-century i
ndustrialization o
f
 
t
he a
rea.
 
S
elf-employment a
nd f
amily-operated businesses a
re c
haracteristic
 
f
eatures o
f t
he Valley's e
conomy. Many f
arming a
nd f
orest-related
 
o
ccupations a
re owner-operated o
r s
elf-contracted. The c
ontract l
umber-
i
ng o
f pulpwood, f
i
rewood, a
nd s
aw l
ogs, and t
he c
ontract hauling o
f
 
f
orestry a
nd f
arm p
roducts a
re popular wage-earning s
trategies f
or
 
i
ndependent-minded Valley r
esidents. Small, i
ndividually owned and
 
operated s
awmills c
ontinue t
o
 b
e p
art o
f t
he Valley e
conomy. The Tardiff
 
Mill i
n F
ort Kent Mills, f
or e
xample, p
roduces c
ustom s
awn and r
ough-
c
ut l
umber f
rom l
ogs b
rought i
n by l
ocal f
armers and woodlot owners.
 
The smaller mills p
rovide s
ome l
ocal employment and e
ncourage
 
f
armers a
nd i
ndependent c
ontractors t
o embark upon p
rojects t
hat
 
would o
therwise b
e t
oo c
ostly. The do-it-yourself approach e
ncouraged
 
by t
he smaller s
awmills e
xemplifies t
he i
ndependent, s
elf-sufficient e
thic
 
p
revalent i
n t
he Valley.
 
L
arge a
nd small-scale f
amily g
ardening o
f t
able potatoes,
 
t
c
Jialotes (
shallots), a
nd o
ther v
egetables i
s
 c
ommon. T
rade o
ccupations
 
l
ike c
arpentry, woodworking, s
pecialized a
nd c
ustom s
awing, r
oofing,
 
small machine mechanics, p
lumbing, e
lectrical c
ontracting, t
in work,
 
a
nd g
eneral c
ontracting a
re g
enerally p
racticed by home-based, s
elf-
employed c
raftsmen. Small f
amily g
rocers and f
amily-operated r
estau-
r
ants a
re t
he r
ule. The many c
ottage i
ndustries i
nclude knitting, s
ewing,
 
weaving, b
asketmaking, a
xe-handle c
arving, h
air-cutting and s
tyling; 
c
andy-making, c
atering, c
ake-decorating, maple s
yrup-making, and b
ric-
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
a
-brac c
rafts. Other enterprises, s
uch a
s t
rapping, guiding, hunting,
 
f
i
shing, and g
athering l
ocal wild r
esources l
ike f
iddlehead f
erns, s
traw-
berries, and b
lueberries, s
upplement f
amily e
conomies.
 
Businesses o
perated
 
o
ut o
f
 h
omes, s
uch a
s
 
P
lourde's Grocery
 
o
n Route 1
1
 
s
outh o
f
 F
ort K
ent,
 
i
l
lustrate a
 c
ommon
 
e
conomic s
t
rategy
 
employed b
y
 
i
ndependent-minded
 
Valley r
e
sidents.
 
HO WARD W. MARSHAl I
 
p
loe,NLe6 GItØC
 
HOME MADE DONUTS
 
Religion and
 Public and p
rivate images and e
xpressions o
f r
eligion abound among t
he
 
I
dentity
 Acadians. The s
trength o
f Catholicism i
s
 c
learly demonstrated t
hrough-
out t
he Valley by t
he many beautiful c
hurches and a
ssociated buildings,
 
s
tatuary, wayside c
rosses, and s
hrines. Devotion t
o t
he V
irgin i
s
 e
very-
where v
isible. Some e
laborate, p
rivately owned s
hrines a
re b
rilliantly
 
l
ighted e
ach n
ight. The Acadian f
lag, with i
t
s p
rominent s
tar —a s
ymbol
 
o
f t
he Assumption o
f t
he B
lessed V
irgin o
r t
he North S
tar guiding
 
Acadian marriners, depending on t
he i
nformant —located on t
he F
rench
 
t
r
icolor, i
s
 p
rominently d
isplayed t
hroughout t
he Valley. I
t
 r
eaffirms
 
Catholicism and l
inks i
t
 with Acadian i
dentity.
 
P
rivate e
xpressions o
f f
olk Catholicism a
re a
lso p
revalent. The
 
b
lessing and d
istribution o
f holy water has l
ong been an important
 
f
unction o
f l
ocal parish p
riests. But t
he a
ctual u
se o
f t
his holy water i
s
 
o
ften e
stablished by t
radition and custom. Because many believe i
n i
t
s
 
power t
o p
rotect t
he home, holy water i
s
 kept and o
ften p
rominently
 
d
isplayed i
n Acadian homes. Don Cyr o
f L
ille s
hared an i
nsight c
oncern-
i
ng t
he importance o
f holy water t
o h
is f
amily. According t
o Cyr, h
is
 
g
randfather, F
red Albert f
rom S
aint-Hilaire, New Brunswick, would s
ay
 
t
hat "when t
here was a
 bad s
torm and t
hunder, i
t
 would be r
aining
 
harder i
nside t
han outside." The e
lder A
lbert was r
eferring t
o t
he quanti-
t
i
es o
f holy water s
prinkled t
hroughout t
he house t
o p
rotect i
t
 f
rom t
he
 
r
avages o
f a
 s
torm Cyr and o
thers a
lso t
old s
urvey r
esearchers a
bout
 
M
W
 
E
au d
e Pâques (
Easter Water). At t
he f
i
rst r
ay o
f l
ight on Easter Sunday,
 
I
I
II
 Acadians c
ollect water f
rom a
 s
pring and b
ring i
t t
o a
 p
riest t
o be b
lessed .
 
-
 E
au d
e Pdques i
s
 c
onsidered a
 powerful holy water t
hat will never go
 
= 
s
tale.
 
R D \kf
l 0 \
l \
IRIlA[I
 Another r
eligious object p
rominently d
isplayed i
n houses and
 
barns t
hroughout t
he Valley i
s
 b
lessed palm (
l
es r
ameaux). The palm i
s
 
d
istributed annually during Catholic c
eremonies on Palm Sunday.
 
Sometimes i
t
 i
s
 b
raided i
nto a
 decorative pyramidal f
orm. B
lessed palm
 
i
s
 believed t
o p
rotect a
 building f
rom f
i
re c
aused by l
ightning. I
t
 i
s
 u
sed
 
i
n a
 s
imilar manner by Cajuns o
f Louisiana a
nd F
rench Creoles o
f
 
Missouri.
 
Notre Dame d
u
 
Mont-Carmel,
 
L
ill
e
,
 Maine.
 
2
9
 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
I
nterior o
f
 Notre
 
Dame d
u Mont-Carmel.
 
T
his f
ormer c
hurch i
s
 
l
i
sted o
n t
he National
 
Register o
f
 H
istoric P
laces.
 
Water-Related
 
T
raditions
 
3
0
 
A
 f
orm o
f f
olk h
ealing p
racticed among t
he Acadians o
f t
he
 
\
'l1ev i
nvolves t
he u
se o
f s
pecial p
rayers t
o heal s
pecific s
icknesses o
r
 
s
top b
leeding. The s
ecret p
rayers a
re passed f
rom o
lder person t
o
 
y
ounger, f
rom one g
eneration t
o t
he n
ext, and a
cross g
enders. I
n o
ther
 
words, o
lder males pass i
t
 t
o younger f
emales, o
r o
lder f
emales pass i
t
 t
o
 
y
ounger males. This f
orm o
f h
ealing i
s
 a
lso p
revalent among t
he Cajuns
 
o
f L
ouisiana.
 
I
t
 i
s not surprising, given t
he n
autical h
eritage o
f t
he Acadians, t
hat
 
water-related e
xpressive c
ultural f
eatures a
bound i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley. The maritime l
egacy c
ertainly l
ives on i
n t
he Acadian F
rench
 
l
anguage, a
nd a
 f
ew maritime f
eatures a
re r
elated t
o Acadian building
 
t
raditions. The molding t
hat d
ecorates t
he i
nterior o
f t
he Daigle-St
. J
ean
 
I
 l
ouse i
n C
lair, New B
runswick, a
s well a
s t
he i
nterior c
olumns o
f
 
S
te. Luce Church i
n F
renchville, Maine, i
s
 c
arved t
o r
esemble s
hip's l
ine
 
(
rope). A
 r
etired Acadian c
arpenter f
rom Van Buren builds wooden
 
b
irdhouses t
hat r
esemble l
i
ghthouses. While t
hese c
ultural f
eatures
 
r
eflect maritime i
nf
luences, t
he f
act r
emains t
hat Valley Acadians have
 
l
i
ved away f
rom t
he 
s
ea  f
o
r  
at
 l
e
ast  t
wo  
c
entur
i
e
s
.  
Accordingly,
 
t
he  
l
oca l
 
f
ocus i
s
 p
rimarily on t
he f
i
eld and f
arm, and perhaps t
he woods.
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
Wheeled d
ock,
 
l
o
cally c
a
lled a
 quai,
 
a
t
 E
agle L
ake, Maine.
 
T
he wheels e
nable t
he
 
d
ock t
o
 b
e
 r
emoved
 
f
rom t
he water b
efore
 
t
he w
inter
 f
r
eeze.
 
However, t
he c
anoe, a
 l
egacy f
rom t
he l
ocal Native Americans,
 
r
emains popular i
n t
he a
rea. During t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991, J
erry White o
f
 
F
renchville built a
 s
trip c
anoe with t
he h
elp o
f e
xperienced c
anoe builder
 
Mark J
albert. S
trip c
anoes a
re built o
f narrow c
edar s
trips n
ailed and
 
g
lued t
ogether over a
 mold which p
rovides t
he c
lassic s
hape o
f t
he
 
c
anoe. The s
trip hull i
s
 t
hen c
overed with f
iberglass and painted. Mark
 
had p
reviously built c
anoes u
sing t
he o
lder p
lanking method, and he
 
knows how t
o f
i
t a
 c
urved p
lank i
nto a
n odd p
lace i
n t
he b
ilge o
f a
 c
anoe.
 
But h
e p
refers working with s
trips, a
rguing t
hat p
lanking r
equires more
 
work t
han t
he s
trip method and does not p
roduce s
turdier o
r b
et
 
performing c
anoes.
 
A
lthough t
here a
re c
lassic wooden f
l
at-sterned and doub
 
e
nded p
lank c
anoes i
n t
he Valley, g
enerally built by t
he Old Tow
 i
 
White c
anoe c
ompanies i
n Maine e
arlier i
n t
his c
entury, t
he most c
oii
 
mon c
anoe i
s
 a
 f
iberglass-hull, f
actory-built model, u
sually outfitted v
 I
t
i
i
 
a
 t
rolling motor. Other c
ommon l
ocal boats i
nclude a
luminum l
ake s
kiff,
,,
 
and f
iberglass s
ki boats. All a
re u
sed f
or r
ecreational boating and f
i
shing.
 
\ \
\ III \
I \\
 
A d
istinctive l
ocal a
rtifact, t
he r
olling wharf o
r q
uai, i
s
 f
ound
 
a
long t
he s
hores o
f l
ocal l
akes. The q
uai i
s
 o
ften 2
0 f
eet l
ong o
r l
onger
 
and approximately 4
0 i
nches wide. I
t
s s
tructure g
enerally c
onsists o
f two
 
l
ong, r
ound c
edar r
unners a
veraging 6
 i
nches i
n d
iameter with p
lanking
 
nailed a
cross t
hem t
o f
orm a
 wharf
. On one e
nd o
f t
he r
olling wharf i
s
 a
n
 
a
xle t
hat most o
ften s
ports two s
teel wheels f
rom o
ld f
arm e
quipment.
 
On t
he o
ther e
nd, a
 s
hort l
ength o
f l
ine i
s
 g
enerally n
ailed t
o t
he deck t
o
 
f
acilitate moving t
he q
uai. The r
olling q
uai i
s
 well s
uited t
o l
ocal c
ondi-
t
ions. The s
olid i
cecap t
hat f
orms on t
he l
akes e
ach winter would smash
 
any permanent wharf, but t
he mobility o
f t
he q
uai a
l
lows i
t
 t
o h
e pulled
 
out o
f harm's way.
 
Recreational f
i
shing i
s
 popular i
n t
he r
egion. Lake t
rout a
nd
 
l
andlocked s
almon a
re t
he f
avored c
atches. A g
reat a
ssortment o
f t
rout
 
f
l
ies a
re t
i
ed by l
ocal f
i
shermen l
ike Pat Roy o
f Eagle Lake. Some o
f t
he
 
most popular f
orms i
nclude t
he "
black f
ly" and t
he "mosquito," both o
f
 
which c
losely r
esemble t
heir a
l
l-too-common n
atural c
ounterparts.
 
During t
he winter, smelt houses a
re pulled out onto t
he i
ce a
nd
 
holes a
re s
awn o
r d
rilled i
n t
he i
ce f
or f
i
shing. The houses a
re l
ightly
 
built boxes approximately 5
 f
eet wide by 3
 f
eet deep by 6
 f
eet t
a
ll. Some
 
smelt houses a
re n
icely appointed with h
eaters, g
rills, and i
ceboxes.
 
Local f
i
shermen s
ay t
hat t
he a
ctivity o
f smelt f
i
shing h
as a
s much t
o do
 
with g
etting away f
rom t
he house a
nd s
ocialiiing w
ith f
r
iends a
s w
ith
 
c
atching f
i
sh.
 
3
1
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Foodways
 
Emma C
a
,'iio;i
 
making p
loyes i
n
 
t
he k
i
tchen o
f
 h
er
 
F
rcuchz'ilh', Maine,
 
/
U)IJU', Au nsf 1
942.
 
3
2
 
"
Foodways" a
re t
he p
atterns o
f f
ood p
rocurement, p
reservation, and
 
p
reparation e
xamined by s
cholars f
or c
ultural meaning. The f
oodways o
f
 
t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley r
ef
lect both a
 d
istinctively Acadian
 
t
radition a
nd a
 more g
eneral r
egional t
radition. Both t
raditions a
re
 
a
pparent i
n t
he f
ood s
erved i
n r
estaurants and i
n p
rivate homes. I
ndeed,
 
with s
o f
ew e
thnic, s
pecialty, a
nd f
ast-food c
hain r
estaurants i
n t
he
 
Valley, t
he d
ifference b
etween t
he f
oods e
aten a
t home and e
aten a
t
 
r
estaurants i
s
 not g
reat
.
 
"
Family-style" r
estaurants a
re c
ommon and o
ffer f
ull menus a
t
 
both l
unch a
nd d
inner
. Lunch s
pecials o
ften i
nclude s
oup, a
 g
enerous
 
main d
ish, a
nd a
 d
essert
. One r
egional l
unch f
avorite i
s
 p
âté c
hinois
 
(
shepherd's p
ie), a
 c
asserole o
f mashed potatoes, g
round meat, and c
orn.
 
A
 wide v
ariety o
f s
andwiches i
s
 a
lso o
ffered, i
ncluding t
he "
hot h
am-
burg" c
ommon i
n
 Canada, a
 h
amburger s
teak on s
l
iced white b
read
 
c
overed with a
 t
hick b
rown g
ravy
. D
inner s
elections i
nclude a
 v
ariety o
f
 
c
hicken, b
eef, pork, a
nd s
eafood d
ishes. I
n addition t
o t
heir "American"
 
menus, s
everal r
estaurants a
lso o
ffer p
izza, s
paghetti, l
asagna, and o
ther
 
I
t
alian f
oods.
 
The f
ew f
ast-service f
ood s
tands i
n t
he Valley a
lso t
ends t
o o
ffer
 
e
xtensive menus with a
 r
egional f
l
air. For e
xample, t
he Tastee F
reeze i
n
 
Van Buren o
ffers s
everal t
ypes o
f h
amburgers, c
hicken burgers, p
izza
 
burgers, BLTs, hot dogs, c
hicken and t
una s
andwiches, c
lam and l
obster
 
r
olls, t
he "
hot h
amburg" p
late, f
r
ied c
hicken, f
r
ied c
lams, s
hrimp, and
 
s
callops. The Madawaska Tastee-Freez o
ffers a
 s
imilarly wide variety o
f
 
i
t
ems, but a
lso s
erves s
paghetti. Both p
laces s
erve p
outines —French f
r
ies
 
s
erved w
ith melted c
heese a
nd g
ravy.
 
I
t
 s
hould not b
e s
urprising t
hat potatoes —French-fried, mashed,
 
b
aked, o
r o
therwise —figure p
rominently i
n a
lmost e
very meal. Restau-
r
ants i
n F
renchville a
nd Madawaska s
erve "
Jojo potatoes," which a
re
 
l
arge potato s
l
ices c
ut l
engthwise and batter-fried. Potato helpings
 
a
re l
arge, a
nd t
hey a
re t
he s
tandard s
ide o
rder with e
very entree; r
arely
 
i
s
 t
here a
 s
ubstitute. At one F
ort Kent r
estaurant, s
urvey r
esearchers
 
were s
erved F
rench f
r
ies with s
paghetti.
 
a  
C
T
 
\
R\CTFRT TlC F
FATURF' OF \
l \
I\F \C \Dl \\ CI T
11 ,'
 
R
achel Walsh o
f
 
Madawaska, Maine,
 
p
repares p
loyes
 
d
uring t
he 1
991
 
Acadian F
estival.
 
L
) 'VII) A
. I
\ i
l
lI \
I \\
 
I
n Acadian homes, t
he potato i
s
 p
repared i
n many ways —
 
baked, c
reamed, mashed, hash-browned, f
r
ied, s
tuffed, and boiled. I
t
 i
s
 
p
repared i
n a
u g
ratin and s
ouf
f
lé d
ishes, and u
sed i
n s
tews, s
oups, a
nd
 
many t
ypes o
f c
asseroles and s
alads. Potato doughnuts, potato c
ookies
 
and muffins, potato c
ustard p
ie, s
everal varieties o
f potato c
ake, and d
 
f
ew k
inds o
f potato c
andy a
re a
lso made by Acadians i
n t
he Valley.
 
At l
east two f
amily-style r
estaurants, Dolly's i
n Madawaska and
 
B
rookside Manor i
n Van Buren, r
egularly s
erve p
loyes, o
r p
logues
 
(
buckwheat pancakes) with meals. The p
loyes s
erved a
t t
hese r
estau-
r
ants vary a
 g
reat deal with r
egard t
o t
exture, t
hickness, and c
olor. This
 
s
ort o
f s
ub-regional variation i
s
 t
he s
ource o
f a
 good deal o
f d
iscussion
 
about t
he f
eatures t
hat t
he a
rchetypal p
loye s
hould possess. This d
istin-
t
ively Acadian f
ood i
s
 apparently not p
repared daily i
n l
ocal Acadian
 
homes t
o t
he degree t
hat i
t
 once was. P
loyes a
re nevertheless l
inked t
o
 
l
ocal Acadian i
dentity, and t
hey s
t
ir a
 c
ertain nostalgia among l
ocals a
nd
 
among t
hose Acadians who have moved away f
rom t
he Valley and
 
r
eturn a
s s
ummer v
isitors. P
loyes were publicly p
repared and s
erved
 
s
everal t
imes during t
he 1
991 Acadian F
estival i
n Madawaska.
 
Chicken s
tew i
s
 a
 f
avorite meal among Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley
 
Acadians. Small, r
olled p
outines (
dumplings) a
re a
dded t
o t
he boiling
 
s
tock
. The u
se o
f p
outines i
s
 a
 r
egular part o
f t
raditional maritime
 
Acadian c
uisine. I
n Louisiana t
oday, a
 s
imilar r
epast would be c
alled
 
"
chicken and dumplings," but t
he t
erm p
outines was i
n c
ommon usage
 
among s
ome Cajun f
amilies i
nto t
he twentieth c
entury.
 
Herbs and s
pices u
sed t
o s
eason c
hicken s
tew and o
ther d
ishc
-
a
re important e
lements o
f l
ocal c
uisine. Summer s
avory, f
or e
xample,
 
c
ommonly u
sed. Researchers observed bunches o
f t
he f
resh herb hang-
i
ng f
rom t
he k
itchen wall a
t Doris's Café i
n Fort Kent Mills. L
es I
1
I'11I'
 
s
alées, t
he c
hopped t
ops o
f é
chalotes (
shallots) c
ured i
n s
alt, a
re a
lso
 
c
ommonly u
sed. J
ars o
f t
his s
alty i
ngredient a
re put up during t
he
 
s
ummer and u
sed t
hroughout t
he y
ear t
o s
eason many d
ishes.
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
S
ome t
raditional Acadian f
ood i
s
 normally p
repared only f
or
 
s
pecial o
ccasions. The 1
991 L
avertu f
amily r
eunion, f
or e
xample, f
ea-
t
ured r
oasted p
ig. The young p
ig was butchered a
nd p
repared by J
esse
 
Michaud, owner o
f a
 small g
eneral g
rocery s
tore built onto t
he s
ide o
f
 
h
is home i
n F
renchville. The p
ig was r
oasted by t
he men whole on a
 
g
rill made f
rom a
 l
arge h
eating-fuel t
ank (
of t
he s
ort i
n c
ommon domes-
t
i
c u
se), outside t
he l
arge Quonset-type potato house i
n which d
ining
 
t
ables were s
et up. The meal a
lso i
ncluded b
aked b
eans, s
everal t
ypes o
f
 
potato s
alad, a
nd o
ther s
alads.
 
D
ifferent k
inds o
f meat p
ies a
re a
lso p
repared f
or s
pecial o
cca-
s
ions, i
ncluding Christmas a
nd New Year's f
estivities. These p
ies a
re
 
c
alled t
ourtières, a
nd t
heir i
ngredients may i
nclude c
hicken, pork, b
eef,
 
v
eal, o
r a
 c
ombination o
f t
hese, a
nd s
ometimes potatoes. For s
pecial
 
l
arge holiday g
atherings, p
ot-en-pot i
s
 p
repared. I
t
 i
s
 a
 v
ery l
arge,
 
l
ayered, meat p
ie b
aked i
n a
 r
oasting pan. L
ayers o
f s
l
iced potatoes, f
our
 
o
r more d
ifferent meats, s
t
rips o
f dough o
r dumplings, and s
easonings
 
a
re c
overed with a
 p
ie c
rust a
nd b
aked f
or hours. A hole i
s
 l
eft i
n t
he
 
dough c
overing s
o t
hat water c
an b
e a
dded during c
ooking. The t
radi-
t
ional p
ot-en-pot u
sually h
as v
enison, wild b
irds, r
abbit, o
r o
ther g
ame,
 
a
s well a
s pork a
nd b
eef
. A
llspice, c
loves, a
nd c
innamon a
re c
ommonly
 
a
dded. During t
he 1
991 Acadian F
estival, p
ot-en-pot was s
erved a
t t
he
 
S
irois-Duplessis F
amily B
anquet.
 
Today, t
he f
a
ll a
nd e
arly-winter b
oucheries d
es c
ochons (
hog
 
h
utcherings) a
re not a
s important s
ocial e
vents f
or Acadian f
amilies a
s
 
t
hey were i
n t
he p
ast (
Lindsay 1
983). However, a
 number o
f s
pecial
 
p
roducts o
f t
he b
oucherie r
emain p
art o
f t
he f
oodways o
f t
he Valley.
 
Locally made c
retons, a
 pork p
âté, i
s
 s
erved i
n r
estaurants and i
s
 avail-
a
ble a
t most g
rocery s
tores. B
oudin, a
 b
lood s
ausage, i
s
 a
lso s
old a
t
 
g
rocery s
tores. Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley b
oudin i
s
 s
imilar t
o t
he b
oudin
 
made by t
he F
rench Creoles o
f Missouri a
nd I
l
linois, but i
t
 d
iffers f
rom
 
L
ouisiana b
oudin r
ouge, which o
ften h
as r
ice a
s an important i
ngredi-
e
nt. Nothing a
nalogous t
o t
he b
oudin b
lanc (white b
oudin) o
f t
he
 
Louisiana Cajuns a
ppears i
n t
he Valley. Gortons, pork c
racklings,
 
c
ontinue t
o
 b
e made by Acadians. The Creoles o
f Missouri a
lso u
se t
he
 
word g
ortons t
o r
efer t
o c
racklings, t
hough t
he Louisiana Cajuns c
all
 
t
hem g
ratons.
 
The p
astries a
nd b
reads p
repared by Valley Acadians a
re s
imilar
 
t
o t
hose o
f Louisiana Cajuns. C
rêpes (
thin p
ancakes), f
or i
nstance, a
re
 
s
t
ill popular i
n t
he Valley. C
r0
 q
uecignols (
twisted pastry) a
re s
imilar t
o
 
t
hose s
erved i
n Louisiana. B
eignets a
re f
ound i
n Louisiana and i
n t
he
 
Valley. However, t
he Louisiana v
ersion i
s
 f
r
ied i
n deep f
at, while t
he
 
Valley v
ersion i
s
 c
ooked i
n maple s
yrup.
 
The Acadians o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley a
lso t
ake advantage
 
o
f w
ild p
lants a
nd b
erries. During e
arly s
pring, p
issenlits (
dandelion
 
g
reens) a
nd l
a
 p
oulette g
rasse (
goose f
oot; c
henopodium) a
re harvested
 
a
nd e
aten a
s a
 v
egetable o
r u
sed i
n s
oups. L
es f
ougeres (
f
iddlehead
 
f
erns) a
re a
lso g
athered during t
he s
pring. A
 l
ocally i
nvented r
otating,
 
c
ylindrical, s
creened d
evice h
elps i
n t
he washing and p
reparation o
f t
he
 
f
i
ddleheads. S
trawberries, r
aspberries, b
lueberries, a
nd h
ighbush
 
c
ranberries a
re a
lso h
arvested i
n t
heir t
urn. Another important t
radi-
t
i
onal wild h
arvest i
s
 t
aken f
rom t
he s
ugar maple t
ree. The winter
 
t
apping o
f maple t
rees c
ontinues t
o b
e an e
xciting t
ime f
or many
 
Acadians. Maple s
yrup, t
affy, a
nd s
ugar a
re p
roduced annually a
long
 
w
ith a
 v
ariety o
f c
onfections a
nd sweet t
reats.
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CU LTU RE
 
Oral T
raditions
 
and Beliefs
 
Among t
he
 
Acadians
 
Acadians b
rought o
ral t
raditions t
o t
he New World f
rom F
rance during
 
t
he s
eventeenth c
entury. Some b
eliefs and o
ral f
orms f
rom t
his period
 
h
ave passed f
rom one g
eneration t
o t
he n
ext and s
urvive t
oday. The e
 
o
ccurrence o
f t
raditions among t
he Acadians o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver \
 
and o
f Louisiana s
trengthens t
his a
ssertion. S
ince t
he two populatE
 
have been s
eparated f
or nearly 2
50 y
ears i
t
 i
s
 r
easonable t
o a
ssume
 
t
raditions t
hey s
hare derive f
rom s
imilar Old World s
ources.
 
For e
xample, Acadians o
f t
he Valley s
hare with t
he Cajuns o
t
 
Louisiana s
ome s
tories a
bout mythical c
reatures. The l
i
itins who r
ide
 
f
armer's horses a
t n
ight and p
lait t
he horses' t
a
ils e
xist among both
 
Acadian populations. One i
nformant t
old a
 s
urvey r
esearcher a
bout
 
l
utins who l
ive i
n c
aves and c
ome out only a
t n
ight
. He e
xplained t
hat
 
t
hey a
re s
o small t
hat a
 l
ocked door c
annot k
eep t
hem out; t
hey c
an p
ass
 
t
hrough a
 k
eyhole. A
long with t
a
les a
bout l
i
,
tins, t
a
les a
bout t
he f
'ux-
f
e
/lets (
spirits) and l
oups- iicii  (
\
vere\vo1ve  occ ur both i
ll  I n
siana
 
and i
n t
he Valley
.
 
Ancelet (
1987
:277-2K5) r
efer
', t
o t
hee O
ld \
Vorld 
,'
vestiges." I
I
n
nc
cl
lu
ud
de
ed
d  i
n t
his r
epertoire c
ould b
e animal t
a
les, magic t
a I
e
'
-
(
märchen), f
ables i
n t
he F
rench f
abliaux t
radition, and l
ong epic t
ales o
t
 
heroic deeds. These o
lder f
orms o
f o
ral t
radition s
eem t
o be a
s r
are t
oda'
,
 
i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley a
s t
hey a
re i
n Louisiana. Ancelet a
rgues t
h,i
 
because t
hese f
orms g
enerally l
ack c
urrency, t
hey may not belong t
o a
n
 
a
ctive o
ral t
radition. While data c
ollected during t
he s
urvey s
uggest'
-
t
hat s
ome e
lements o
f t
hese o
lder f
orms e
xist t
oday i
n t
he Valley,
 
additional r
esearch i
s
 r
equired t
o determine t
heir v
itality a
nd pr o
mi -
nence i
n t
he Valley's o
ral t
radition.
 
The persistence o
f e
lements o
f o
ral t
radition within a
 g
roup n
ia'
 
p
rovide c
lues a
bout t
he s
elf-perceptions o
f i
t
s members. Consider, f
or
 
i
nstance, t
he l
egend o
f Malobiana t
hat derives f
rom t
he Malecite I
ndians
 
o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. I
n 1
920, t
he Abbé Thomas Albert, i
n h
is
 
Histoire d
u Madawaska (
1982:63-68), r
ecounted t
he t
ragic s
tory o
f t
he
 
I
ndian maiden, Malobiana. According t
o t
he l
egend, on t
he day o
f her
 
wedding, a
 g
roup o
f Mohawk r
aiders began t
o s
ack t
he Malecite v
i
llages
 
a
long t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver. Malobiana's f
amily and betrothed were k
illed
 
and s
he was c
aptured. Her c
aptors f
orced her t
o guide t
hem t
o o
ther
 
Malecite v
illages i
n o
rder t
o c
ontinue t
heir p
illage. I
nstead, Malobiana
 
guided t
he Mohawk c
anoes over t
he waterfall a
t Grand F
alls. Though
 
s
he s
acrificed her l
i
fe, t
he Mohawk i
nvaders were k
illed, and her acti on
 
s
aved t
he l
ives o
f many o
f her f
e
llow Malecites. Today, Malobiana's
 
l
egendary deed i
s
 memorialized i
n t
he t
ourist c
enter l
ocated a
t Grand
 
F
alls/Grand-Sault, New B
runswick
. Over t
he y
ears, her s
tor\ h
a b
een
 
r
etold and r
ecast i
n s
ong, poetry, and d
ramatic performance.
 
Another l
egend with t
he t
heme o
f s
elf-sacrifice i
s
 t
he l
egend o
  
Tante B
lanche. According t
o o
ral t
radition (Anon. 1
973:86), t
he harvest
 
o
f 1
796 was r
uined i
n t
he f
i
elds by an e
arly s
now. By t
he t
urn o
f t
he y
ear
 
1
797, f
amine h
it t
he Acadian c
ommunities a
long t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver.
 
During t
his t
ime o
f hardship, Marguerite-Blanche Thibodeau performed
 
many r
emarkable a
cts o
f c
harity. Wearing s
nowshoes, s
he b
rought e
xtra
 
c
lothing and p
rovisions t
o people s
uffering f
rom hunger and c
old. Tai
 I
t 
e 
B
lanche, a
s s
he was known, b
ecame l
egendary f
or her s
elf
lessness. She is
 
memorialized a
t t
he Tante B
lanche Museum a
t S
t
. David, which was
 
c
reated by t
he Madawaska Historical Society.
 
I
t
 i
s
 not s
urprising, g
iven a
 h
istory o
f s
acrifice and hardship, t
hat
 
Acadians s
hould r
evere l
egendary c
haracters who s
acrificed t
heir own
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
well-being i
n t
imes o
f h
ardship. Longfellow's h
eroine o
f t
he epic poem
 
"
Evangeline," who e
ndured t
ragedy and s
pent h
er l
ast y
ears c
aring f
or
 
t
he s
ick, f
i
ts t
he c
ategory.
 
The "Acadian S
aga," a
s t
ransmitted by l
ocal Acadians, i
s
 v
ery
 
much a
l
ive. B
ecause o
f i
t
s a
pparent importance t
o t
he s
elf-identity o
f
 
Acadians, i
t
 may b
e t
he most important body o
f l
egend and myth i
n t
he
 
a
rea. During t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991, t
he s
urvey's r
esearchers heard s
tories
 
a
bout Acadian p
ioneers e
recting a
 c
ross a
t
 t
he point o
f a
rrival i
n t
he
 
Valley, a
nd s
tories a
bout p
ioneers who a
rrived without possessions —
 
n
ot e
ven t
ools —and p
roceeded t
o e
stablish v
illages and build houses.
 
And t
hey h
eard a
 s
tory a
bout two b
rothers who, a
fter f
ollowing l
ong
 
a
nd s
eparate r
outes t
o t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, ended up s
ettling and
 
c
ompleting t
heir l
i
ves a
t
 d
ifferent l
ocations i
n t
he Valley. Neither one
 
e
ver r
ealized t
hat h
is b
rother l
ived s
o n
ear. These and o
ther s
tories have
 
b
ecome p
art o
f t
he i
nstitutionalized h
istory o
f t
he Valley.
 
A
lthough s
ome o
f t
he s
tories would p
robably not withstand
 
s
trict s
crutiny on t
he b
asis o
f h
istorical a
ccuracy, t
heir f
unction i
n t
he
 
l
ocal c
ontext g
oes well b
eyond questions o
f h
istorical f
act
. Such l
egends,
 
p
assed down o
rally t
hrough t
he g
enerations, r
ef
lect v
alues f
rom t
he past
 
t
hat c
ontinue t
o h
ave meaning f
or Acadians. For e
xample, t
he a
bility t
o
 
s
urvive i
n t
he f
ace o
f a
dversity i
s
 s
t
ill h
ighly v
alued. Unquestionably, t
he
 
body o
f l
ore t
hat p
ertains t
o t
he "Acadian S
aga" o
f deportation and
 
e
ventual r
esettlement i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 l
arge and
 
important.
 
A
lthough s
tories which make up t
he s
aga s
erve a
s r
evealing
 
w
indows onto v
alues o
f c
ontemporary Acadians, i
t
 would be i
naccurate
 
t
o s
ay t
hat t
hey a
re a
ccepted by a
l
l. S
ome F
rench-speaking r
esidents o
f
 
t
he Valley do not i
dentify with t
hem (
Le C
lerc e
t
 a
l
. 1
979; Bérubé 1
979).
 
S
ome F
rench-speakers i
dentify t
hemselves a
s l
e
s B
ra
 y
ons, a
 t
erm s
up-
posedly l
inked t
o a
n a
ncestral c
ustom o
f
 b
reaking f
lax (Massignon 1
962,
 
Vol. 1
1
:731; S
imard 1
988:9-25). Others s
ee t
hemselves a
s part o
f a
 mythi-
c
al "Republic o
f Madawaska," which e
xists only i
n t
he l
egend o
f t
he
 
r
ebellious J
ohn B
aker (
Albert 1
982:248). C
learly, i
n addition t
o t
he
 
Acadian s
aga, o
ther myths a
nd l
egends h
ave meaning with r
espect t
o
 
p
ersonal a
nd g
roup i
dentity i
n t
he Valley.
 
The Acadian o
ral t
raditions o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
nclude
 
many o
ther f
orms. One g
enre c
onsists o
f t
raditional s
ayings u
sed by
 
a
dults t
o c
ontrol t
heir c
hildren. For i
nstance, one i
nformant r
emembered
 
h
is p
arents t
e
lling h
im a
bout B
onhomme S
ept-heures, a
 f
earful c
haracter
 
who would v
isit unpleasant d
eeds upon young c
hildren i
f
 t
hey d
id not
 
g
o t
o
 b
ed a
t
 t
he d
esignated hour. A
 f
emale i
nformant was t
old i
n h
er
 
y
outh t
hat when a
 mother g
ives b
irth an I
ndian v
isits and b
reaks h
er l
eg.
 
The i
nformant c
onjectured t
hat s
uch a
 s
tory would help e
xplain t
he pain
 
i
nvolved i
n b
irthing a
nd why t
he mother would s
tay i
n bed f
or t
he
 
c
ustomary e
xtended postpartum.
 
A
 host o
f Acadian s
ayings a
re r
epeated and passed on t
hrough
 
t
ime. F
or e
xample, J
ulie A
lbert (
1969) r
ecorded t
hat i
t
 i
s
 s
aid o
f an angry
 
Acadian t
hat "
i
i mord d
ans I
c
 f
er "
(he i
s
 b
iting i
ron). This e
xpression i
s
 
a
lso u
sed among t
he Cajuns o
f Louisiana. A
lbert a
lso r
ecorded a
 b
lessing
 
t
raditionally p
rovided by t
he patriarch o
f t
he f
amily on New Year's Day:
 
B
onne, s
a
inte e
t
 h
eureuse a
nnée, e
t l
e
 p
aradis l
a
 f
in d
e v
os j
ours"
 
(
"Good, holy, a
nd h
appy n
ew y
ear, and Paradise a
t t
he end o
f your
 
d
ays"). This p
recise b
lessing was a
lso h
anded down i
n Cajun and
 
Missouri Creole t
radition
.
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
Another f
orm o
f o
ral t
radition i
s
 t
he a
vertissenent (
portent
 
p
rediction). Albert (
1969) r
ecorded a
 l
i
st o
f t
hese, s
uch a
s: "
If a
 b
ird h
 
window i
n f
l
ight, s
omeone has passed away" and "The weather on t
 i
 
t
hird day o
f t
he month p
redicts t
he weather f
or t
he month."
 
S
trong beliefs r
elative t
o t
he c
ycle o
f t
he moon persist among
 
many Acadians. One i
nformant a
ssured s
urvey r
esearchers t
hat potatoes
 
must b
e p
lanted i
n t
he d
écroIt d
e l
une (waning o
f t
he moon). A l
ongtime
 
f
armer, he b
elieves t
hat t
he l
unar c
ycle a
ffects b
irthing, p
lanting,
 
t
reecutting, and many o
ther a
spects o
f l
i
fe.
 
There a
re t
all t
ales and o
ther humorous t
ales. Many a
re a
bout
 
smuggling, i
ncluding s
tories a
bout smuggling f
ive-gallon t
ins o
f c
onk e
n-
t
rated r
um bearing t
he l
abel o
f t
he White Hand. I
n most o
f t
hese t
ales,
 
t
he c
unning and t
r
ickery o
f t
he smuggler i
s
 emphasized, but s
ome r
eveal
 
h
is i
gnorance o
r naïveté i
n dealings with customs agents.
 
The personal-experience narrative i
s
 another important o
ral
 
f
orm i
n t
he Valley. For e
xample, one i
nformant t
ells s
tories a
bout t
he
 
p
rocess o
f moving houses with a
 t
eam o
f horses, smuggling r
um, u
sing
 
e
lm wood f
or making ox yokes a
nd b
arn r
ails, s
elling p
atent medicine i
n
 
t
he Valley, and o
ther e
xperiences.
 
Music, Song
.,
 
and Dance
 
A
 d
ance a
t
 t
he
 
F
orever Y
oung C
lub,
 
Madaicaka, Will(',
 
During t
he s
umm er o
f 9
91, t
he t
own o
f Van Buren, Maine, h
eld a
 
c
elebration t
o c
ommemorate t
he c
entennial o
f t
he a
rrival i
n t
he Valley o
f
 
t
he Good Shepherd S
isters. The s
ignificant r
ole o
f t
he Catholic s
isters i
n
 
t
he Valley a
s educators and c
ultural emissaries, e
specially with r
egard t
o
 
music and s
inging, was e
vident a
t a
 c
oncert held on J
une 2
1, 1
991. At t
his
 
e
vent, n
ine f
ull c
hoirs f
rom Catholic c
hurches l
ocated on both s
ides o
f
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver s
ang s
elections i
n t
hree d
ifferent l
anguages: English,
 
F
rench, and Latin.
 
A number o
f t
he s
elections performed t
hat n
ight had s
pecific
 
c
ultural meaning t
o Acadians. To g
ive a
 f
ew e
xamples, "Ave Mans
 
S
tella," dedicated t
o t
he f
oremost s
ymbol o
f Acadian nationalism, was
 
s
ung by t
he c
hoir f
rom S
aint Gerard Church i
n Grand I
s
le, Maine; t
he
 
c
hoir f
rom S
aint Michel's i
n Drummond, New Brunswick, s
ang, "An
 
Dela de Toute F
rontière"; and "La R
ivière S
aint-Jean" was s
ung a
s a
 
f
inale by a
 c
ombination o
f a
l
l a
ttending c
hoirs. One o
f t
he c
hoirs, f
rom
 
S
aint B
runo's i
n Van Buren, has r
ecorded a
lbums. One o
f t
heir a
lbums,
 
entitled Hommage a
 L
'Acadie, i
ncludes s
elections entitled "Le Pêcheur
 
Acadien," "
Evangeline," "Les T
rois C
loches," "Partons, l
a
 Mer e
st Belle,"
 
and s
everal o
thers t
hat s
eem t
o have Acadian r
eferences. Such c
hoirs
 
e
xemplify t
he f
lorescence o
f c
horal s
inging b
rought t
o t
he Valley by t
he
 
members o
f t
he Catholic r
eligious o
rders.
 
I
n 1
955, S
ister Henriette Raymond o
f College Maillet i
n
 
Edmundston f
ormed t
he dance "
Troupe f
olkiorique du Madawaska."
 
R
ichard Therrien, one o
f S
ister Raymond's f
ormer s
tudents, s
ubse-
quently a
ssembled t
he "Danseurs de l
a
 Vallée," who t
hrough t
heir
 
i
nternational performances have become Acadian ambassadors o
f t
he
 
Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley (
Picard 1
989:42). However, i
t
 s
hould be noted t
hat
 
t
he g
roup's r
epertoire, while i
nspired by f
olk dance t
raditions o
f t
he
 
Valley, does not r
epresent t
he Valley's a
ctive c
ontemporary dance
 
t
radition.
 
I
n a
ssessing t
he impact o
f t
he Catholic Church, o
ther c
ultural
 
e
ffects must be t
aken i
nto c
onsideration. For e
xample, t
here i
s
 e
vidence
 
t
hat t
he i
nf
luence o
f t
he Catholic Church has d
iscouraged t
he r
oot
 
3
7
 
ACAI)IAN C
ULTURE I
N MAINE
 
F
inale of nw/ti-choir concert
 
h
e
ld a
t
 S
t
. B
runo C
atholic
 
Church i
n
 V
an B
uren, Maine,
 
t
o
 c
e
lebrate t
he c
entennial o
f
 
t
he a
rrival o
f
 t
he S
isters o
f
 t
he
 
I
mmaculate Heart o
f
 Mary
 
(
[
l
ie Good S
hepherd S
isters),
 
J
une 2
1, 1
991.
 
t
raditions o
f Acadian music a
nd d
ance in t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley.
 
I
nformants r
eport t
hat during much o
f t
he twentieth c
entury, t
hey were
 
t
aught by members o
f t
he Catholic r
eligious o
rders t
hat dancing was a
 
s
in t
hat r
equired t
he a
bsolution o
f c
onfession.
 
Acadian d
ance, music, a
nd s
ong t
raditions have a
lso b
een
 
g
reatly a
ffected by popular t
rends. J
azz and t
he B
ig Band s
ound were
 
popular i
n t
he Valley f
rom t
he 1
930s t
o t
he 1
950s. Country music h
as
 
a
lso h
ad a
 g
reat impact upon t
he musical t
raditions o
f t
he Acadians.
 
When J
eannette Cyr Daigle moved f
rom t
he Valley t
o Lewiston i
n t
he
 
l
a
te 1
930s, s
he l
i
stened t
o Hal Lonepine's l
ive c
ountry-and-western
 
music r
adio s
how. After h
er s
inging t
a
lent c
ame t
o t
he a
ttention o
f
 
Lonepine, s
he was i
nvited t
o s
ing on h
is s
how. I
n 1
938-1939, s
he
 
a
dopted t
he r
adio n
ame o
f "Daisey" and made a
 mark a
s a
 s
inger o
f
 
American c
ountry s
ongs. Today h
er s
on, George Daigle, o
rganizes t
he
 
a
nnual Green R
iver B
luegrass a
nd Country Music F
estival i
n R
ivière-
Verte, New B
runswick
. The popularity o
f c
ountry music has undoubt-
e
dly b
een s
upported by t
he F
rench-language c
ountry-and-western
 
t
e
levision s
how "Votre S
oiré Country," which h
as b
een b
roadcast on a
 
l
ocal c
ommunity c
able t
e
levision c
hannel s
ince t
he e
arly 1
980s.
 
There a
re s
ome o
lder Acadian music, s
ong, and dance f
orms i
n
 
t
he Valley
. A
lfred P
arent o
f Van Buren, f
or i
nstance, c
ontinues t
o p
lay
 
f
iddle i
n a
 s
pecial r
egional s
tyle. I
n 1
988 h
is music was r
ecorded on a
 
c
assette e
ntitled T
raditional Music o
f
 Maine, Vol. 1
,
 p
roduced by t
he
 
Northeast Archives o
f F
olklore a
nd Oral History a
t t
he University o
f
 
Maine a
t
 Orono. His r
ecorded r
epertoire, i
ncluding "Rag T
ime Annie,"
 
s
eems t
o b
e r
elated more t
o
 a
 b
roader o
ld-time r
epertoire t
han t
o any s
et
 
o
f s
pecifically Acadian t
unes. The s
ame c
an b
e s
aid a
bout most o
f t
he
 
f
iddlers documented by t
he s
urvey during t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991.
 
S
ome v
ery f
ine f
iddling t
ook p
lace a
t t
he 1
991 Acadian F
estival's
 
"Violons d
'Acadie" p
rogram. I
nterestingly, t
he most a
ccomplished
 
Acadian musicians who p
erformed a
t t
h
is e
vent were f
rom F
itchburg
 
1
1
)
 
C
FIARALIERb[1( F
EAtURI±
-
, OF M1\INL A 1
\DIAN cLL1 LRI:
 
Some Acadian
 
Domestic Features
 
and Leominster, Massachusetts. The performances o
f f
iddler L
eo
 
LeBlanc and h
is harmonica-playing f
r
iend, Arcade R
ichard, both o
rigi-
nally f
rom S
aint Paul, New B
runswick, were e
xceptional. Other out-
s
tanding young f
iddlers, l
ike Bobby Kelly, Terri Charrette, and C
lare
 
Morris, were f
rom t
he Valley. Their r
epertoire i
s
 r
epresentative o
f o
ld-
t
ime Anglo-American f
iddling. L
ionel Doucette i
s
 a
 well-respected l
ocal
 
f
iddler.
 
There were s
everal f
ine performances by j
ig dancers, s
ome quite
 
s
pontaneous, a
t t
he "Violons d
'Acadie" p
rogram. This e
vidence, a
long
 
with observations made a
t a
 Fort Kent dance and a
t a
 house party i
n Fort
 
Kent, s
uggests t
hat a
 l
ocalized j
ig-dancing t
radition c
ontinues i
n t
he
 
Valley.
 
Group dances —square, r
ound, and l
ine dances —continue t
o he
 
performed a
t t
he Forever Young C
lub i
n Madawaska and a
t L
'Age d
'Or
 
C
lubs i
n New B
runswick. Survey r
esearchers observed t
he f
ollowing
 
dance s
teps performed by a
 c
rowd o
f mostly e
lderly c
i
tizens: "Lady o
f
 
t
he Lake," s
everal "
sets c
arré," "Le P
into," "Ton '
t
i
 Chien Madame," t
he
 
"Continental," "Paul J
ones," and t
he "Tucker."
 
Acadian b
allad s
inging c
ontinues i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley a
s
 
a
 l
iving t
radition. The s
urvey r
ecorded two f
ine Acadian ballad s
ingers.
 
Perhaps t
he best known o
f t
he two i
s
 I
da Roy o
f Van Buren. Her enor-
mous r
epertoire i
ncludes o
ld b
allads and l
ays, l
ocally c
omposed s
ongs
 
and c
or
n
 p
laintes (
turn-of-the-century s
entimental parlor ballads) c
omic
 
music-hall d
itties, and o
riginal c
ommemorative s
ongs. Because o
f her
 
t
remendous r
epertoire and her e
fforts t
o k
eep t
he s
ong t
radition a
live,
 
Mrs. Roy was r
ecently nominated f
or a
 National Heritage Award by t
he
 
Maine Arts Commission. The o
ther s
inger r
ecorded i
s
 Constance
 
"Connie" Morin Derosier o
f S
t
. Agatha, Maine. Mrs. Derosier i
nherited
 
her l
ove o
f s
inging and her s
ongs f
rom her f
ather, Eddie Morin, an
 
Acadian s
inger o
f l
ocal notoriety. Of t
he s
ixteen c
hildren i
n her f
amily,
 
Connie i
s
 r
eportedly t
he only one t
o h
ave l
earned her f
ather's songs.
 
One o
f t
he most d
istinctive Acadian t
raits o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 
weaving. The F
arm S
ecurity Administration photographs o
f t
he 1
940s
 
r
eveal a
 s
urprising amount o
f hand-spinning and weaving a
t t
hat t
ime
 
by Acadians o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. (A c
ollection o
f s
ome o
f t
he
 
photos i
s
 c
ontained i
n Doty 1
991 and s
ome a
re r
eproduced i
n t
his
 
r
eport.) T
raditional weaving and s
pinning, passed down f
rom one
 
g
eneration t
o t
he next, i
s
 r
are i
n t
he United S
tates. A
lmost a
l
l hand-
weaving and s
pinning one s
ees t
oday i
s
 t
he r
esult o
f t
he r
evival o
r
 
h
istorical r
econstruction o
f o
lder t
echniques. Today's weavers a
re
 
g
enerally hobbyists who may have g
reat e
nthusiasm f
or t
he t
radition but
 
no d
irect c
ommunity t
ies t
o i
t
.
 But an Acadian weaving t
radition s
t
ill
 
e
xists i
n t
he Valley.
 
There a
re important c
ollections o
f o
lder t
extiles r
epresenting t
he
 
l
ocal t
radition a
t t
he Acadian V
illage, a
 nonprofit museum near Van
 
Buren, and i
n t
he A
lbert House a
t S
t
. David, a
s well a
s i
n l
ocally held
 
p
rivate c
ollections. A f
ew appear t
o be t
he p
roducts o
f J
acquard l
ooms
 
(mid-nineteenth c
entury), but many were p
roduced on t
ypical two- o
r
 
f
our-harness l
ooms. The e
xamples i
nclude l
inen and wool b
lankets,
 
s
heets, and bed c
overs. Spinning wheels, l
ooms, and r
elated a
rtifacts
 
a
bound i
n p
rivate a
ttics and public museums t
hroughout t
he Valley.
 
But more important, t
he s
kill and knowledge o
f Acadian s
pin-
3
9
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
/
'VIOrIL
' A
llk
'rt I
1
)
i
 uiioiui
 
u
'
caving o
n a
n o
ld l
o
om i
l
l
 
c
u e o
f
 t
he u
pstairs b
edrooms
 
o
f
 h
er h
ome i
n
 L
i
lle, M aine,
 
October 1
940
. Hand-wou'cuu
 
b
l
ankets made b
y
 
Mrs. Dumond a
nd h
er
 
mother-in-law a
re n
ow o
i
l
 
d
i
splay a
t
 t
he Acadian
 
V
u
lIai' i
l
l Vu,, l
i
u,cuu.
 
J
A( K
 I
 )
II .
.
\ \ '
 
ni n g a
nd weaving s
t
ill e
xists. Survey r
esearchers v
isited Leona Coté Cyr
 
o
f Madawaska, Maine, who was born a
t
 S
t
. David i
n 1
907
. She l
earned
 
most o
f what s
he knows a
bout weaving f
rom her mother-in-law, Delina
 
Gendreau o
f S
t
. David p
arish. Mrs. Gendreau h
ad a
 l
oom t
hat p
roduced
 
material a
round 3
2 i
nches wide.
 
Today, Mrs. Cyr does not own a
 l
oom. However, s
he c
ontinues
 
t
o buy a
nd s
ave material which s
he c
uts (
t
ailler/cou
 p
er) i
nto s
trips
 
(
Rlienilles) a
nd r
olls i
nto b
alls weighing approximately f
ive pounds
 
a
piece
. She t
akes t
hese b
alls t
o a
n a
cquaintance i
n S
aint-Jacques, New
 
B
runswick, who a
rranges t
he c
olored s
trips i
nto a
esthetically p
leasing
 
s
tripes a
nd weaves t
hem on h
er l
oom.
 
An i
nterview with Mrs. Cyr y
ielded t
he f
ollowing l
exical i
t
ems
 
r
elated t
o t
he Acadian weaving t
radition:
 
E
l b
r
in d
e c
oton —warping t
hread
 
O c
atalogne —rag-woven c
overlet
 
O c
ou
 p
er (
t
ailler) g
uenilles —process o
f p
reparing stri ps f
or
 
weaving
 
0 d
ivideur—device t
o measure s
pun y
arn (
horizontal)
 
0
 f
l —thread
 
0 g
uenilles —strips o
f material u
sed f
or weaving r
ag p
ieces
 
0 l
ame —heddle o
f a
 l
oom
 
O monter l
e
 c
oton —the p
rocess o
f warping t
he l
oom
 
O n
avette —shuf
tle f
or a
 l
oom
 
O p
alette —wooden d
evice with d
rilled holes t
hat s
eparate
 
t
hreads during t
he warping p
rocess
 
0 p
la(i)tonner —process o
f p
laiting s
pun y
arn
 
0 q
uatre-p
edal _fourpedal l
oom, t
he most c
ommon Acadian
 
l
oom
 
0 r
ouet —spinning wheel; Mrs. Cyr h
ad only s
een small ones, no
 
l
arge wool-spinning "walking" wheels
 
0 r
ow  c
ane o
r r
eed o
f a
 l
oom
 
O t
ournette__devjce t
o wrap s
pun y
arn (
vertical)
 
0 t
r
lcoter —knitting
 
O verge
—yard o
f s
pun y
ar
n
 
4
0
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
DAVID A
. \
VEIIT M\\
 
S
o
 r t
', iv L'a i
LII('r
 
C
. R
ay B
rassieur i
nterviews
 
weaver Anita A
lbert a
t
 
h
er h
ome i
n
 S
aint-Jacques,
 
New B
runswick
.
 
Acadian Houses:
 
A P
reliminary
 
Sketch
 
A l
ater v
isit t
o Anita A
lbert o
f S
aint-Jacques, New B
runswick,
 
c
onfirmed t
hat t
he Acadian weaving t
radition i
s
 a
l
ive. Mrs. Albert a
lso
 
l
earned t
o weave f
rom her mother-in-law. She has woven hundreds o
f
 
c
atalogues and c
ontinues t
o p
roduce t
hem i
n t
he a
ttic o
f her home. Her
 
husband, Gilbert Albert, has designed and built a
 machine t
hat a
l
lows
 
her t
o c
ut r
ag s
trips quickly.
 
As with weaving, l
ocal f
urniture i
s
 well r
epresented i
n t
he
 
c
ollections a
t t
he Acadian V
illage, a
t t
he A
lbert House, and i
n p
rivate
 
hands. Many p
ieces s
hare t
he h
allmarks o
f Acadian f
urniture i
n
 
Louisiana:
 
E
l r
aised-panel doors with t
he b
eveled (
raised) s
ide o
f t
he panel
 
f
acing i
nside, and a
 smooth-planed o
r s
awn s
urface (
unraised
 
s
ide o
f panel) f
acing outside o
f t
he door;
 
1
1 r
aised-panel doors f
l
awlessly j
o
ined by t
hrough-cut mortise
 
and t
enons with t
enons o
ften h
eld i
n p
lace by two wooden
 
pegs per j
o
int;
 
E
l p
redominance o
f s
hort p
ieces s
uch a
s ar moires, arinoirt't
 t
i
'
s,
 
c
hests o
f d
rawers, g
arde-mangers, and buffets;
 
E
l s
imple c
urved t
r
im between t
he f
eet o
f t
he p
iece;
 
E
l painted s
urfaces, o
ften r
ed, c
alled g
ros r
ouge i
n Louisiana and
 
s
ang d
e b
oeuf i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley;
 
E
l u
se o
f l
ocal s
oftwoods —cypress and p
ine i
n Louisiana, p
ine
 
and c
edar i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley —rarely i
n c
ombination
 
with hardwoods; and
 
E
l o
lder d
rawers o
r c
hests j
oined with small, widely s
paced,
 
hand-cut dovetails, many o
f which have been t
ightened by
 
t
he addition o
f t
hin wooden s
hims o
r wedges.
 
While s
ome o
f t
hese f
eatures a
re f
ound i
n non-Acadian c
abinetry
 
o
f t
he e
ighteenth c
entury, when t
hey c
o-occur on t
he s
ame p
iece t
hey
 
s
eem t
o r
epresent a
 pattern o
f f
eatures uniquely s
elected by Acadian
 
j
oiners. Furniture p
ieces bearing t
hese c
haracteristics i
n Louisiana a
re
 
d
istinct f
rom o
ther Louisiana f
urniture i
n t
he s
ame ways t
hat Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley Acadian f
urniture appears t
o be d
istinct f
rom c
ontemporary
 
p
ieces made i
n Québec o
r e
lsewhere i
n F
rench-speaking America.
 
This Acadian pattern e
vidently l
asted i
nto t
he twentieth c
entury
 
i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, a
s i
t
 has i
n Louisiana. The f
ollowing two
 
c
onditions may be pertinent: (
1) many Acadians were s
killed i
n wood-
working and j
oinery and built t
heir own f
urniture; and (
2
) woodworking
 
s
kills were o
ften p
assed down f
rom g
randfather t
o g
randson.
 
The s
alient f
eatures o
f Acadian dwellings derive f
rom t
raditional t
ech-
n
iques, s
kills, and a
esthetic v
alues passed down and s
haped by s
ucces-
s
ive g
enerations o
f c
raftsmen. They were not g
enerally p
rofessional
 
c
arpenters, nor d
id t
hey work f
rom a
rchitectural p
lans. The c
onstruction
 
details o
f Acadian houses i
ndicate a
 h
igh l
evel o
f woodworking s
kill,
 
and, t
hough t
hey a
re g
enerally h
idden by e
xterior Greek Revival o
r
 
Georgian f
eatures, p
rovide points f
or i
dentifying t
he s
pecial qualities o
f
 
Acadian a
rchitecture.
 
Most o
f t
hese f
eatures have been i
dentified a
s s
ignificant by
 
Acadians o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley. Local e
fforts t
o nominate p
roper-
t
i
es t
o t
he National Register o
f Historic P
laces, a
s well a
s t
he c
onversion
 
o
f p
rivate r
esidences l
ike t
he F
red A
lbert House, t
he Morneault House,
 
and o
thers t
o public museums by l
ocal c
i
tizens, i
ndicate a
 s
trong l
ocal
 
4
1
 
C
LIITLIRE I
N MAINE
 
i
n
 t
he a
t
tic o
f
 t
he
 
F
red A
lbert House,
 
S
t
. David, Maine.
 
4
2
 
preciition of di tif
lC11\ C
 d
1C!iI Lo_ tUrdi Icalur e
-. Luri1 autIioi
 j i
Lid
 
4
,
 A
lbert 1
969) h
ave d
rawn a
ttention t
o f
eatures o
f Acadian a
rchitec-
re
—ship s knees, t
he u
se o
f l
adders i
nstead o
f s
tairways, t
he c
aulking
 
og walls with o
akum.
 
Yet t
he a
verage r
esident o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
s
 not
 
e
ssarily aware o
f t
hese material h
allmarks o
f Acadian c
ultural
 
a
critage. And t
he s
alient f
eatures o
f Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian
 
a
rchitecture a
re v
irtually unknown outside t
he s
tudy a
rea. The g
lossary
 
o
f Acadian F
rench t
erms r
elated t
o "
vernacular a
rchitecture" and
 
c
ultural l
andscape c
ompiled a
s p
art o
f t
he s
urvey (
see page 7
1) p
rovides
 
a
 point o
f e
ntry f
or understanding a
 wide r
ange o
f material c
ulture
 
f
eatures both i
nside a
nd outside o
f t
he s
tudy a
rea. I
n much t
he s
ame
 
way t
hat t
he t
erm "
vernacular" r
efers t
o t
he l
anguage "
of t
he people,"
 
buildings o
f a
l
l t
ypes a
nd p
eriods built by o
rdinary people f
or t
he
 
purposes o
f d
aily l
i
fe, work, a
nd c
ommunity a
re known a
s v
ernacular
 
a
rchitecture
.
 
The c
ultural meaning o
f a
rchitectural f
eatures, o
f c
ourse, c
annot
 
b
e derived apart f
rom t
heir s
ocial a
nd h
istorical c
ontext. As t
he s
urvey
 
b
egan t
o notice c
ertain p
atterns o
f f
orm and c
onstruction i
n Acadian
 
houses i
n t
he Valley, a
 number o
f houses were s
elected f
or additional
 
h
istorical a
nd s
ociocultural a
nalysis. The h
istories o
f e
ight houses a
re
 
d
escribed l
a
ter i
n t
his r
eport i
n t
he s
ection, "
Background o
f S
elected
 
H
istoric P
roperties."
 
The f
i
rst Acadian houses were built on t
he f
lats, o
ften f
acing t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver. They were built o
f l
ogs, a
nd many were built p
ièce-sur-
p
ièce a
 t
enons e
n c
oulisse, a
 t
raditional c
onstruction t
echnique which
 
builds up l
ayers o
f h
ewn o
r s
awn l
ogs. I
f
 t
he t
ypical e
ighteenth- and
 
e
arly-nineteenth-century dwelling r
esembled t
he Alexis Cyr House o
f
 
S
aint-Basile, New B
runswick, a
nd t
he Roy House i
n t
he Acadian V
illage,
 
Van Buren, t
hey were small a
nd s
imple. The f
orm o
f t
he houses c
orre-
s
ponds c
losely with s
tandard Anglo-American s
ingle-cell houses with
 
g
able r
oof, c
entered f
ront door, a
nd c
himney i
n t
he g
able. I
t
 i
s
 not
 
s
urprising t
hat a
 b
lending o
f B
ritish a
nd F
rench material t
raditions h
ad
 
a
lready t
aken p
lace among t
he Acadians by t
he l
ate e
ighteenth c
entury,
 
f
or t
he Acadians h
ad b
een s
ubjects o
f t
he B
ritish Crown s
ince 1
713.
 
S
ettlement n
ear t
he r
iver apparently c
ontinued until a
round t
he
 
middle o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury, when t
he S
t
. J
ohn began t
o f
lood with
 
more f
requency a
nd severity. I
t
 i
s
 possible t
hat t
he r
emoval o
f s
tands o
f
 
t
imber i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, a
 p
rocess v
irtually c
omplete by t
his
 
p
eriod, a
ffected t
he r
iver's hydraulic r
egime. At any r
ate, a
round t
he
 
middle o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury many houses were moved away f
rom
 
t
he r
iver a
nd e
stablished a
long t
he p
rincipal r
oad. Of t
he e
ight p
roperties
 
described l
a
ter i
n t
his r
eport, t
he Daigle-St. J
ean House, t
he F
red Albert
 
House, t
he Val V
iolette House, a
nd t
he E
rnest Chasse House were a
l
l
 
apparently moved f
rom t
he f
l
ats a
long t
he r
iver.
 
When t
hese houses were moved, t
here was a
 t
endency t
o
 
i
ncrease t
he l
i
ving s
pace within t
he house by adding one o
r more vertical
 
l
evels, a
s i
n t
he Val V
iolette House; by e
xtending t
he walls l
aterally, a
s
 
may h
ave b
een t
he c
ase i
n t
he A
lbert House; o
r by e
xpanding both
 
v
ertically a
nd l
a
terally, a
s i
n t
he Daigle-St
. J
ean House. The a
lteration o
f
 
t
hese p
ièce-sur-pièce a
 t
enons e
n c
oulisse houses apparently o
ffered l
i
ttle
 
c
hallenge t
o Acadian c
arpenters. I
n t
hose c
ases o
f a
lteration t
hat t
he
 
s
urvey observed, t
he s
ame p
recise a
xe and adze work and c
areful
 
j
o
inery employed i
n t
he o
riginal c
onstruction were u
sed.
 
CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE
 
S
ome o
f
 t
he h
istoric
 
b
uildings a
t
 t
he Acadian
 
V
illage, a
n o
pen-air
 
museum i
n Van Buren,
 
Maine
. T
he Morneault
 
House, b
uilt i
n t
he
 
m
id-nineteenth c
entury,
 
i
s
 i
n
 t
he c
enter
.
 
The t
ypical middle-nineteenth-century Acadian house h
as an
 
e
ssentially Georgian p
lan: two r
ooms deep (
double p
ile), a
 c
entral
 
hallway, c
entral c
himney, one o
r one-and-one-half s
tories h
igh (
rarely
 
two s
tories), under a
 s
imple g
able r
oof
. The e
xterior r
esembles s
tandard
 
l
arge New England houses o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury —white f
rame with
 
Greek Revival detailing (
cornices and p
ilasters). Ceilings a
re o
ften
 
paneled, and i
nterior molding and f
inish o
ften e
cho t
he c
lassical e
xterior
 
s
tylistic e
lements.
 
New Acadian houses built during t
his period by well-
e
stablished f
armers and merchants c
ontinued t
o be c
onstructed o
f hewn
 
l
ogs, t
hough s
ome p
it- and s
ash-sawn material a
lso o
ccurs. The s
urvey
 
documented t
hree c
o r
ner-joining t
echniques i
n l
og (
pièce-sur-pièce)
 
c
onstruction o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury: t
enons e
n c
oulisse, half-dovetail
 
(
t
ête d
e c
hien), and t
he p
reviously unreported "
stacked and pegged"
 
t
reatment f
ound a
t t
he V
ital V
iolette House i
n Van Buren and t
he Roy
 
House a
t t
he Acadian V
illage i
n Keegan. Log walls were g
enerally
 
c
overed on t
he e
xterior with v
ertical p
lanks (
p
lanchesdebouts), and
 
many were f
inished with c
lapboards. The r
oof f
rames i
ncluded massive,
 
r
elatively wide-spaced, s
quare, hewn, white-pine r
afters. The r
after
 
c
ouples a
re half-lapped and j
oined with t
hrough-trunnels a
t t
he peak.
 
There i
s
 no r
idgepole
.
 
There was a
 p
ractice o
f f
i
tting "
ship's-knee" b
races (
one
 
i
nformant c
alls t
hem c
oudes, o
r "
elbows") b
etween c
entrally l
ocated
 
upper c
eiling j
o
ists and t
op p
lates o
f Acadian houses o
f t
his period. The
 
s
hape o
f t
hese s
hip's knees i
s
 analogous t
o t
hose s
upporting t
he
 
deckbeams o
f s
hips, but t
he f
unction d
iffers. I
n a
 s
hip, t
he b
races a
re
 
positioned b
elow t
he deckbeams, while i
n an Acadian house t
hey a
re
 
f
i
tted a
bove t
he c
eiling beams. The application o
f t
hese s
ubstantial h
r
,
 
a
bove t
he c
eiling j
o
ists i
s
 unusual i
n house c
arpentry and warrantc
 
f
urther i
nvestigation. I
t
 has not been determined when t
he l
ast s
  
knees were f
i
t i
nto houses i
n t
he Valley; however, t
he S
acred He
 
(
1 nch i
n North
 r
ibtni, built i
ronnd 1
1
,
1-
,l
 i
t h
l  cvnn!\
 
ACADIAN C
ULTURE I
N MAINE
 
knees a
ttached t
o t
he l
oad-bearing wooden c
olumns s
upporting i
t
s
 
v
aulted c
eiling.
 
The c
onstruction o
f Acadian houses c
hanged a
s t
he n
ineteenth
 
c
entury p
rogressed. The u
se o
f t
hick p
it- o
r s
ash-sawn p
lanks (
madriers),
 
s
et v
ertically o
r horizontally, c
ame t
o r
eplace t
he u
se o
f l
ogs (
pièces).
 
However, documentation o
f t
he Philias Caron House i
n t
he Lavertu
 
S
ettlement, Maine, i
ndicates t
hat walls built o
f horizontal madriers were
 
s
ometimes j
o
ined u
sing t
he t
enons e
n c
oulisse method a
s l
ate a
s t
he t
urn
 
o
f t
he twentieth c
entury
. S
awn c
edar madriers c
omprise t
he walls o
f t
his
 
h
ouse. A
 s
hort s
egment o
f one o
f t
hem, r
emoved during a
 r
ecent modifi-
c
ation o
f t
he house, h
as a
 t
enon c
arefully c
ut i
nto t
he e
nd t
hat f
i
t i
nto a
 
v
ertical door f
rame.
 
P
robably n
ear t
he e
nd o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury, b
alloon-frame
 
houses b
egan t
o
 b
e built i
n g
reater numbers t
han s
olid-wall l
og and
 
n
iadrier houses. But i
t
 was a
pparently not e
asy t
o r
eplace t
he l
ocally
 
p
roven Acadian c
arpentry t
echniques. This t
ransformation appears t
o
 
h
ave o
ccurred a
t
 a
 much l
a
ter point i
n t
he Valley t
han e
lsewhere i
n t
he
 
United S
tates, a
nd many Valley r
esidents l
ive i
n s
olid-wall houses t
oday.
 
The l
a
ter n
ineteenth-century v
ariants s
eem more s
quare and a
 l
i
ttle t
a
ller
 
t
han t
he mid-nineteenth-century s
olid-wall houses.
 
Many Greek Revival houses were built t
hroughout t
he Valley
 
during t
he middle t
o
 l
a
te n
ineteenth a
nd t
he e
arly twentieth c
entury. A
 
number o
f houses built i
n F
ort Kent, Maine, west o
f t
he F
ish R
iver, h
ave
 
f
ine s
croll-sawn b
arge boards a
nd Gothic and V
ictorian detailing. Some
 
h
ave t
he a
ppearance o
f t
he e
arlier Acadian t
imber-framed houses with
 
g
ables t
urned t
o t
he s
t
reet
. The i
dentification o
f d
istinctively Acadian
 
a
rchitectural f
eatures b
ecomes more d
ifficult with t
hose houses o
f t
he
 
l
a
te n
ineteenth a
nd twentieth c
enturies.
 
4
4
 
H
ISTORIC
 
PROPERTIES
 
Nationally
 (
. ight p
roperties within t
he s
tudy a
rea a
re c
urrently l
i
sted on t
he National
 
Recognized
 Register o
f Historic P
laces. Some h
ave d
irect r
elevance t
o Acadian
 
P
roperties
 c
ulture and o
thers r
ef
lect t
he s
ocial c
ontext o
f Maine Acadians.
 
Fort Kent Memorial. Located a
t t
he c
onf
luence o
f t
he F
ish
 
R
iver and t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver i
n Fort Kent, t
his s
tate memorial i
s
 t
he oniv
 
e
xtant f
ortification o
f t
he Aroostook "War" o
f 1
838-39 which r
esulted
 
f
rom border d
isputes b
etween Great B
ritain and t
he United S
tates. The
 
s
igning o
f t
he Webster-Ashburton T
reaty i
n 1
842 s
ettled t
he boundary
 
d
ispute b
etween Maine and New B
runswick and r
educed t
he need f
or a
 
f
ort
. The Fort Kent b
lockhouse has been p
reserved a
s a
 s
tate memorial
 
s
ince 1
959. I
n addition t
o b
eing l
i
sted on t
he National Register o
f Historic
 
P
laces, i
t
 i
s
 a
 National Historic Landmark
.
 
The b
lockhouse i
s
 a
 two-story s
tructure s
et on a
 s
hale f
ounda-
t
ion. I
ts walls a
re built o
f s
quare-hewn c
edar l
ogs, s
ome o
f which
 
measure over 1
9 i
nches i
n width. Although a
 f
ew minor c
hanges h
ave
 
b
een made t
o t
he s
tructure, i
ncluding s
ome r
elated t
o i
t
s p
resent u
se a
s a
 
museum, i
t
 r
emains a
 good e
xample o
f e
arly-nineteenth-century military
 
a
rchitecture.
 
Care and public p
resentation o
f t
his s
i
te i
s
 c
urrently p
rovided by
 
l
ocal Eagle S
couts, i
n c
ooperation with t
he Bureau o
f Parks and Recre-
a
t
ion, Maine Department o
f Conservation. I
t
 s
hould be noted t
hat
 
despite t
he f
act t
hat Acadians began s
ettling on both banks o
f t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver f
i
fty y
ears b
efore Fort Kent was c
onstructed, t
hey a
re not
 
g
enerally i
ncluded i
n t
he i
nterpretation o
f t
his s
i
te (
cf
. McDonald 1
990).
 
The s
i
te, which i
ncludes a
 g
ift s
hop, i
s
 open t
o t
he public daily f
rom
 
Memorial Day t
o Labor Day. Many l
ocal s
chools s
ponsor f
ield t
r
ips t
o
 
t
his s
i
te, and i
t
s a
ctual and potential u
se by l
ocals and t
ourists i
s
 
c
onsiderable.
 
Fort Kent Railroad S
tation. This f
ormer r
ailroad s
tation
 
opened i
n 1
902 a
s t
he northern t
erminus o
f t
he F
ish R
iver Railroad and
 
was l
ater u
sed by t
he Bangor & Aroostook Railroad. I
t
 r
emained i
n u
se
 
until 1
979. The s
tation i
s
 a
 one-story, one-room-deep, s
even-bay f
rame
 
building. I
t
s g
able-on-hip r
oof and wide overhanging e
aves a
re t
ypical
 
f
eatures o
f o
ther Bangor &
 Aroostook Railroad s
tations. The building
 
p
resently houses t
he Fort Kent Historical Society Museum and r
eceives
 
o
ccasional v
isits f
rom t
ourists and l
ocal s
chool g
roups. The p
roperty h
as
 
no particular Acadian c
ultural a
ffiliations, a
lthough Acadian f
arms and
 
f
armers were g
reatly a
ffected by t
he r
ailroad, and l
ocal Acadians may
 
now participate i
n museum p
rograms hosted a
t t
his f
acility.
 
Acadian Landing S
ite. Located i
n S
t
. David parish,
 
Madawaska, Maine, t
his s
i
te c
ommemorates t
he l
anding o
f t
he Acadian
 
s
ettlers i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley. A l
arge marble c
ross r
ecently
 
r
eplaced a
 wooden c
ross e
rected i
n 1
922 approximately where t
he f
i
rst
 
c
ross was e
rected i
n 1
785. Religious and c
eremonial s
ervices a
re o
cca-
s
ionally held a
t t
he s
i
te. For e
xample, during t
he 1
991 Acadian F
est
ival,
 
4
 
ACA[)IAN C
LILTLIRF I
N MAINE
 
L
og
i  Hockluii
 ee i
ii Fort K
t
'i
 i
t
,
 
Maine (
built 1
839-40), l
o
cated
 
i
t t
he c
onf
luence o
f
 t
he
 
t
. 1
011 11
 (
hid F
/
si, i
-i
t
't'rs.
 
1
IU(\ ARIA W. \
IARSI iALL
 
f
ollowing a
 s
pecial Acadian mass h
eld a
t S
t
. David Catholic Church,
 
descendants o
f t
he f
ounding Acadian f
amilies walked f
rom t
he church t
o
 
t
he Acadian L
anding S
ite i
n a
 p
rocession o
f t
he B
lessed Sacrament. This
 
s
i
te r
etains a
 h
igh l
evel o
f s
ymbolic s
ignif
icance r
elative t
o l
ocal Acadian
 
i
dentity. I
t
 i
s
 p
rivately owned.
 
S
t
. David Catholic Church. This c
hurch i
s
 i
n S
t
. David parish,
 
Madawaska, Maine, on p
roperty a
djacent t
o t
he Acadian Landing S
ite
 
a
nd p
roperties owned by t
he Madawaska Historical Society. I
t
 was built
 
i
n 1
911-13 f
rom d
esigns by Chickering a
nd O
'Connell, a
 Boston a
rchitec-
t
ural f
i
rm. The o
verall p
lan o
f t
he s
tructure i
ncorporates a
 l
arge s
anctu-
a
ry a
nd a
 two-story f
acade with a
 c
entral t
ower. I
t
s f
orm and details a
re
 
d
erived f
rom Renaissance a
nd B
aroque I
talian a
rchitecture.
 
S
t
. David Catholic Church i
s
 s
ignificant t
o t
he l
ocal Acadian
 
population f
or a
 number o
f r
easons. The o
riginal c
hurch a
t t
his l
ocation,
 
built i
n 1
871, marked t
he s
uccessful c
onclusion o
f Madawaska Acadians'
 
l
ong s
truggle f
or t
heir own p
arish a
nd p
riest. P
rior t
o t
he c
ompletion o
f
 
t
he c
hurch, t
hey were members o
f a
 p
arish i
n S
aint-Basile, New
 
B
runswick. Therefore, t
he c
hurch i
s
 a
 memorial t
o t
hose who c
reated a
 
p
arish on t
he s
outh b
ank o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver. At t
he s
ame t
ime, t
he
 
p
resent b
rick a
nd s
tone s
tructure s
erves a
s a
 s
ymbol o
f r
ising a
ff
luence
 
among e
arly-twentieth-century Acadians. Earlier Acadian e
cclesiastical
 
a
rchitecture, t
ypified by Notre Dame du Mont-Carmel i
n L
ille, Maine
 
(
see b
elow), t
ended t
o b
e smaller, l
ess e
xpensive, wooden, and vernacu-
l
ar i
n design.
 
Many a
ctivities a
t
 S
t
. David Catholic Church a
re important t
o t
he
 
i
dentity o
f l
ocal Acadians. For e
xample, S
t
. David's, a
long with S
te.
 
Luce's, i
n F
renchville, a
re t
he only Catholic c
hurches on t
he Maine s
ide
 
o
f t
he r
iver t
hat r
egularly hold s
ervices i
n F
rench. During t
he 1
991
 
Acadian F
estival, S
t
. David Catholic Church was t
he s
cene o
f a
 b
lend o
f
 
r
eligious and c
ivic a
ctivities. A t
raditional Acadian banquet, sponsored
 
by t
he Madawaska Chamber o
f Commerce, was held i
n t
he basement o
f
 
t
he c
hurch, and an Acadian Mass was held i
n t
he c
hurch.
 
4
6
 
H
ISTORIC PROPFRTII
 
1
909, i
s
 i
n t
he parish o
f L
ille, i
n Grand I
s
le Township. Official Latholi
 
r
eligious s
ervices c
eased i
n 1
978, and t
he c
hurch was a
cquired by
 
l
'
association c
ulturelle e
t
 h
istorique du Mont-Carmel i
n 1
984. Built by
 
Edmundston c
ontractor Léonide Gagne f
rom p
lans by a
rchitect Then.
 
Daust, t
he building i
s
 one o
f t
he best s
urviving Acadian F
rench Cathol I
L
 
c
hurches i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley. The National Register nomination
 
describes t
he c
hurch a
s "
a s
tructure r
ef
lecting a
 h
igh s
tyle f
orm which
 
has been e
xpressed i
n a
 v
ernacular manner." The r
eference t
o h
igh s
ty 
l
c
 
f
orm i
ncludes i
t
s nave with adjacent a
isles, t
owering c
lerestory, e
labo-
r
ately f
enestrated f
acade, and twin Baroque-style belfries. The vernacular
 
a
spects o
f t
he c
hurch i
nclude i
t
s wooden s
tructure, c
lapboard e
xterior,
 
s
imple wooden moldings, and hand-marbleized i
nterior c
olumns.
 
While not l
i
sted on t
he Register, t
he f
ormer p
resbytery, a
 two-
s
tory I
talianate wood-frame s
tructure, i
s
 l
ocated beside t
he c
hurch, and
 
an Acadian barn, u
sed f
or decades by t
he c
hurch's p
riests, i
s
 l
ocated on
 
p
roperty adjacent t
o t
he p
resbytere. A
 l
arge p
rivate c
ollection o
f r
eligious
 
a
rtifacts, a
s well a
s Acadian t
extiles and f
urniture, i
s
 s
tored i
n t
he c
hurch,
 
t
he p
resbytere, and t
he barn. The r
eligious i
t
ems c
onsist o
f s
tatuary —
 
i
ncluding two l
arge wooden angels c
arved by Québec s
culptor Louis
 
J
ohin (
I 1- I
 )
2) -
cudl', p
cw. O
lar d
 i
cin , h
a 1
I hl ,  i
l
la r
 
S
t
. David C
atholic Church,
 
S
t
. David, Maine.
 
1A EN YL)L \
 
4
7
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
r
eliquaries, t
abernacles, monstrances, a
nd f
urniture designed f
or r
eli-
g
ious f
unctions. Most o
f t
hese i
t
ems a
re p
articularly s
ignificant t
o t
he
 
l
ocation f
or t
he f
ollowing r
easons:
 
E
l t
he workmanship i
n e
ach medium appears t
o r
epresent e
i
ther
 
t
he b
est c
raftsmanship a
nd a
rtistry i
n t
he r
egion o
r t
he b
est
 
materials a
nd work t
he c
hurch c
ould import;
 
E
l due t
o t
he post—Vatican I
I
 r
eorganization o
f Catholic r
i
tual,
 
many s
uch r
e
ligious materials a
nd c
eremonial i
t
ems will
 
p
robably n
ever b
e manufactured o
r u
sed again;
 
I
I many o
f t
he c
eremonial materials i
n t
he c
hurch f
acilitated
 
r
i
tuals p
erformed by a
nd f
or F
rench-speaking Catholics; and
 
E
l t
he r
eligious i
t
ems, a
s well a
s t
he c
hurch i
t
self, a
re c
losely
 
l
inked with t
he memories a
nd e
xperiences o
f t
he s
urrounding
 
population.
 
Monseigneur C
halut
 
(
c
enter) a
ddresses
 
p
arishioners a
t
 t
he
 
Acadian C
ross f
o
llowing
 
t
he Acadian Mass a
t
 
S
t
. David C
hurch,
 
J
une 2
7, 1
991.
 
L
ISA OR\STEIN
 
Fortunat 0
. Michaud House. P
resently known a
s t
he F
arrell-
Michaud House, t
his Van Buren, Maine, p
roperty i
s
 c
urrently operated
 
a
s a
 b
ed-and-breakfast i
nn
. T
radition holds t
hat a
 portion o
f t
he house
 
was built a
round 1
880 by t
he owner (
Farrell) and was e
ventually t
rans-
f
erred t
o h
is d
aughter, Emily F
arrell Michaud. The majority dates f
rom
 
1
912-17
. This Queen Anne s
tyle, wood-frame house f
eatures a
 t
ower
 
with b
ell-shaped r
oof
. The o
riginal t
in c
overing o
f t
he t
ower r
oof has
 
b
een r
eplaced with c
omposite (
t
ar-based) s
hingles. The s
tyle and c
on-
s
truction o
f t
he house h
ave no p
articular r
elevance t
o Acadian h
istory
 
a
nd c
ulture.
 
Notre Heritage V
ivant/Our L
iving Heritage (Acadian Village).
 
This s
i
te, l
ocated i
n Keegan, a
 f
ew miles west o
f Van Buren, opened t
o
 
t
he public i
n F
ebruary o
f 1
976 a
s a
 B
icentennial p
roject. On t
he National
 
Register nomination f
orm t
he s
i
te i
s
 described a
s a
 "multiple r
esource
 
s
i
te" c
onsisting o
f s
even buildings t
hat f
orm a
 "
folk museum c
omplex."
 
Today, i
t
 c
onsists o
f o
ver a
 dozen buildings t
hat h
ave been moved t
o t
he
 
Acadian V
illage o
r built a
t t
he s
i
te. A number o
f dwellings moved t
o
 
t
he Acadian V
illage a
re s
ignif
icant i
n t
erms o
f t
heir d
istinct Acadian
 
c
onstruction. The Morneault House, o
riginally built i
n Grand I
s
le,
 
Maine, i
n 1
857 (Michaud 1
974), a
nd t
he Levasseur-Ouellette House,
 
o
riginally built i
n Cyr P
lantation, Maine, i
n 1
859, a
re t
ypical o
f houses
 
4
8
 
H
ISTORIC PROPERTIES
 
built during t
he mid-nineteenth c
entury by s
uccessful Acadian f
armers
 
and merchants. I
n f
orm t
hey a
re c
haracteristic o
f t
he "Georgian massing"
 
s
tyle popular on both s
ides o
f t
he Atlantic by t
he e
arly n
ineteenth
 
c
entury. The walls o
f both t
hese one-and-a-half-story dwellings a
re built
 
o
f s
quare-hewn l
ogs (
pièce-sur-pièce) c
overed by c
lapboard s
iding.
 
The Roy House, a
 l
og s
tructure moved t
o t
he V
illage f
rom a
 
l
ocation near Hamlin, Maine, i
s
 another e
xample o
f n
ineteenth-century
 
Acadian house c
onstruction. I
t
s hewn l
og walls (
pièce-sur-pièce) have
 
been c
orner-joined with t
runnels i
n t
he s
ame f
ashion a
s t
hose o
f t
he
 
Maison Heritage (
see b
elow). While one publication c
ontains a
 s
ketch o
f
 
t
his r
are c
onstruction method d
rawn f
rom memory (
Bourque 1
971:8-9),
 
an e
xtant e
xample apparently has never b
een documented. Although t
he
 
Roy House has been damaged c
onsiderably during d
isassembly and
 
r
econstruction, i
t
 p
rovides an e
xtraordinary opportunity t
o e
xamine t
his
 
method o
f wall c
onstruction.
 
Two o
ther important n
ineteenth-century s
tructures i
n t
he
 
Acadian V
illage c
ollection i
nclude t
he Hammond-LaPlante Building, a
 
worker's quarters f
rom t
he William Hammond f
arm i
n Hamlin P
lanta-
t
ion; and an Acadian b
a r
n (
grange a
cadienne) f
rom t
he Hamlin a
rea. The
 
Willie S
irois House, t
he Morin House, t
he S
aint Amand S
chool, a
 b
lack-
smith s
hop, a
 s
hoe s
hop, a
 barber s
hop and g
eneral s
tore, and a
 r
ailroad
 
s
tation a
re a
lso l
ocated a
t t
he V
illage. For t
he most part, t
hese a
re r
econ-
s
tructions o
f r
azed h
istorical s
tructures which, unfortunately, o
ften f
a
il t
o
 
r
eproduce t
he demolished buildings a
ccurately
.
 
The v
arious s
tructures i
n t
he V
illage house an enormous q ua n-
t
i
ty and variety o
f a
rtifacts. Among t
he most s
ignificant a
re t
extiles
 
woven o
f homespun wool, and t
he l
ooms and s
pinning wheels t
hat
 
p
roduced t
hem. There a
re a
lso e
xtensive c
ollections o
f f
urniture, domes-
t
i
c appliances, woodworking and metalworking t
ools, f
arm e
quipment
 
(
including a
 c
omplete horse-powered mill with t
i
lted t
readmill), and
 
p
rints and o
ther decorative i
t
ems. These c
ollections a
re valuable and a
re
 
i
n g
reat need o
f p
rofessional c
onservation.
 
Apart f
rom i
t
s p
rimary museum f
unctions, t
he V
illage i
s
 a
n
 
important s
taging g
round f
or l
ocal c
ultural e
vents. For e
xample, d
 u
 r
ing
 
t
he 1
991 F
estival de La Grande R
ivière, i
t
 hosted "Acadian Day,"
 
"Multicultural Day," and "Native American Day" c
elebrations. To ,
i
 
c
ertain degree, e
ach o
f t
hese e
vents s
ucceeded i
n honoring l
ocal pop  
i
l
a
 -
 
t
ions and b
ringing t
ourists and l
ocals t
ogether.
 
Maison Heritage (Vital Violette House). The V
ital V
iolette
 
House, built during t
he mid-1850s i
n t
he t
own o
f V
iolette B
rook (
now
 
Van Buren), s
hares many c
haracteristics o
f f
orm and c
onstruction with
 
o
ther Acadian dwellings. At t
he t
ime o
f i
t
s nomination t
o t
he National
 
Register o
f Historic P
laces, i
t
 was owned by t
he l
ocal h
istorical s
ociety,
 
Notre Heritage V
ivant/Our L
iving Heritage. The house has s
ince been
 
c
arefully d
isassembled and i
t
s parts s
tacked neatly behind t
he Notre
 
Dame du Mont-Carmel p
resbytere i
n L
ille
. Don Cyr, p
resident o
f
 
l
'
association c
ulturelle e
t
 h
istorique du Mont-Carmel, has e
xpressed
 
i
nterest i
n r
eassembling t
he house on t
he l
'
association p
roperty i
n [
i
lk
'.
 
A
lthough t
he V
ital V
iolette House has been t
aken apart, i
t
 i
s
 
possible t
o describe i
t
s o
riginal f
orm, s
tyle, and c
onstruction details. I
n
 
f
act, i
t
s d
isassembled c
ondition a
l
lows f
or a
 l
evel o
f analysis t
hat s
tand
-
i
ng s
tructures a
lmost never a
l
low. The V
ital V
iolette House was a
 two-
and-a-half-story l
og house with c
lapboard e
xterior f
inish. Though i
t
 was
 
4
9
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Background o
f
 
Selected Historic
 
P
roperties
 
l
arger t
han most o
thers o
f i
t
s t
ype, t
his r
ectangular, s
imple, g
abled
 
s
tructure d
isplayed r
oughly t
he s
ame Georgian massing a
s o
ther
 
Acadian houses o
f i
t
s d
ay
. The f
acade was marked by a
 s
trong c
entral
 
b
ay e
xtending f
rom t
he g
round t
o t
he e
aves. This two-tiered bay c
on-
s
isted o
f a
 g
round-level e
ntrance a
nd a
 double window a
t t
he s
econd-
s
tory l
evel. Each o
f t
hese f
eatures was f
l
anked by p
ilasters and c
rowned
 
by a
 wide a
rchitrave a
nd p
rojecting c
ornice with dentil molding
. These
 
Greek Revival a
nd Georgian f
eatures were c
haracteristic o
f period t
rends
 
popular t
hroughout New England and New B
runswick during t
he mid-
n
ineteenth c
entury
. But t
he c
onstruction was d
istinctively i
ndigenous
 
a
nd Acadian. Ship's-knee b
races s
ecured t
he t
op p
late o
f t
he s
tructure t
o
 
t
he upper c
eiling j
o
ists. The walls c
onsisted o
f s
quared, hewn l
ogs (
p
ièce-
s
ur-pièce), c
overed on t
he e
xterior by t
hick, v
ertical p
lanks (
p
lanches
 
d
ebouts) and f
inished with c
lapboards. The v
ertical p
lanks were not only
 
n
ailed t
o t
he l
og wall, but a
lso s
ecured e
dge-to-edge a
t r
egular i
ntervals
 
by d
iamond-shaped metal s
plines.
 
The d
ressed wall l
ogs were h
eld i
n p
lace by t
runnels and
 
"
caulked" with buckwheat f
ibers t
hat h
ad b
een twisted i
nto l
engths
 
r
esembling o
akum (
the material u
sed t
o c
aulk boats and s
hips). The l
ogs
 
were s
awn f
lush a
t
 t
he c
or
ners a
nd a
l
ternately s
tacked one on t
op o
f t
he
 
o
ther. Each c
orner j
o
int was s
ecured by two t
runnels. This unusual
 
c
or
ner-joining t
echnique, t
he s
ame one employed i
n t
he Roy House a
t
 
t
he Acadian V
illage, a
ppears t
o
 b
e a
 uniquely Acadian f
eature.
 
Local h
istorian Guy Dubay c
ollected d
ata r
elative t
o e
ight important
 
Acadian houses: Maison Heritage and t
he Val V
iolette House i
n Van
 
Buren, Maine; t
he Morneault House, o
riginally i
n Grand I
s
le, Maine; t
he
 
F
red A
lbert House a
nd t
he E
rnest Chasse House i
n Madawaska, Maine;
 
t
he P
elletier-Marquis House i
n
 S
aint Agatha, Maine; t
he E
loi Daigle
 
House i
n Fort Kent, Maine; a
nd t
he Daigle-St
. J
ean House i
n C
lair, New
 
B
runswick. F
or e
ach o
f t
hese p
roperties, Dubay c
ollected i
nformation
 
a
bout t
he s
uccession o
f ownership, t
he f
amily h
istory and g
enealogy o
f
 
r
esidents, a
nd t
he business and c
ivic dealings o
f t
he owners. S
everal o
f
 
t
hese a
re now owned by l
ocal h
istorical s
ocieties, and o
thers r
emain i
n
 
p
rivate ownership. S
everal hundred t
ransactions were r
eviewed u
tiliz-
i
ng v
arious l
and a
nd f
amily r
ecords. (
All deeds a
re l
ocated i
n t
he North-
e
rn Registry o
f Deeds, F
ort Kent, Maine.) Charts s
howing t
he s
uccession
 
o
f ownership a
nd g
enealogies o
f most a
ssociated f
amilies were p
repared
 
(Dubay 1
992). The f
ollowing s
ummarizes t
he s
urvey's f
indings.
 
Maison Heritage (
Vital Violette House). L
isted on t
he Na-
t
ional Register o
f Historic P
laces when i
t
 s
tood on Lot 2
98 i
n Township
 
M, Range 2
 (
Van Buren), t
he V
ital V
iolette House i
s
 c
urrently p
reserved
 
i
n a
 d
ismantled s
tate i
n t
he p
arish o
f L
ille, i
n Grand I
s
le, Maine, by
 
l
'
association c
ulturelle e
t
 h
istorique du Mont-Carmel. The o
riginal l
ot
 
h
as g
one t
hrough a
 s
uccession o
f ownership which does not a
lways
 
f
ollow f
amily l
ines. The o
riginal l
and g
rant f
rom t
he s
tates o
f Maine and
 
Massachusetts h
as not b
een l
ocated.
 
The f
i
rst r
ecorded owner o
f Lot 2
98, Thomas D
idime (
"Dedime,"
 
"Dydime") Morin, was b
aptized a
t
 S
t
. André de Kamouraska, t
he s
on o
f
 
Michel Morin a
nd Genevive Collin. He married J
ulie-Natalie Marquis a
t
 
S
aint-Basile, New B
runswick, on F
ebruary 2
3, 1
835. At t
hat t
ime,
 
S
t
. B
runo's c
hapel i
n Van Buren was s
t
ill a
 mission o
f S
aint-Basile and a
l
l
 
H
ISTORIC I
1ROI
 1FRI'I E
S
 
r
ecords were e
ntered a
t
 S
aint-Basile, New B
runswick. Census data sug-
g
ests t
hat Dedime Morin migrated i
nto t
he Van Buren a
rea i
n 1
837.
 
A s
earch i
n B
ritish r
ecords a
t F
redericton and Woodstock, New
 
B
runswick, would b
e n
ecessary t
o c
onfirm a
 p
roperty t
ransfer.
 
I
n t
he 1
872 c
ensus o
f S
t
. B
runo parish, "Dedime" Morin i
s
 
described a
s "
ren
 t
i
er d
e I
saie Morin "—that i
s
, he was t
he pensioner o
f h
is
 
s
on, I
saie Morin. I
saie Morin married Marguerite Lepage a
t Van Buren
 
on J
anuary 6
, 1
866. He married h
is s
econd wife, Anastasie Cyr, on
 
March 8
,
 1
878.
 
At t
he t
urn o
f t
he twentieth c
entury, c
onsiderable development
 
o
ccurred on Lot 2
98 i
n r
esponse t
o t
he opening o
f mills owned by t
he
 
Van Buren Lumber Company, which were l
ocated nearby. These mills
 
g
round t
o a
 halt during t
he Depression. I
n 1
931, V
ital V
iolette (
b
. 1
8)3)
 
a
cquired more t
han one p
iece o
f p
roperty f
rom t
he o
ld Lot 2
98 f
arm. On
 
one o
f t
hese parcels he b
egan a
 meat business, and on another he e
stab-
l
i
shed h
is r
esidence.
 
V
ital V
iolette was r
aised on a
 f
arm on Alexander Road i
n Van
 
Buren. His f
ather, Exeas V
iolette (
b
. 1
858), s
erved a
s a
 s
electman o
f t
he
 
t
own o
f Van Buren and a
lso worked t
o c
reate a
 s
chool d
istrict f
or t
hat
 
s
ection o
f t
own. V
ital V
iolette r
epresented Van Buren i
n t
he s
tate l
egisla-
t
ure, a
s d
id h
is s
on E
lmer
. E
lmer a
lso b
ecame a
 j
ustice o
f t
he Maine
 
Supreme Court.
 
Vat Violette House. According t
o f
amily t
radition, t
he Val
 
V
iolette house h
as s
tood on i
t
s p
resent s
i
te i
n Van Buren, Maine, s
ince
 
1
850. At t
hat t
ime, Belonie V
iolette (
1817-1879) was t
he owner o
f t
he
 
p
roperty upon which t
he house was e
rected: R
iver Lot 3
01 i
n Township
 
M, Range 2
 (
Van Buren). I
t
 i
s
 b
elieved t
hat t
he house c
ontains parts o
f an
 
o
lder r
esidence t
hat was moved f
rom a
 l
ocation c
loser t
o t
he S
t
. J
ohn
 
R
iver. The Val V
iolette House has been passed f
rom f
ather t
o s
on over
 
t
he c
ourse o
f f
our g
enerations t
o t
he p
resent-day owners. The g
enealogy
 
o
f t
he V
iolette f
amily o
riginates i
n Angoumois, F
rance, and t
races f
amily
 
movement t
o S
aintes, F
rance; Louisbourg, Cape B
reton I
s
land, Nova
 
S
cotia; t
hen t
o t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley.
 
Belonie V
iolette (
1817-1879), builder o
f t
he Val V
iolette House,
 
was a
 t
hird-generation owner o
f what i
n t
he American e
ra became Lot
 
3
01. I
n 1
831, when both Maine and New B
runswick c
laimed t
he t
erri-
t
ory, Maine a
gents J
ohn C
. Deane and Edward Kavanaugh were s
ent
 
north t
o determine t
he demographics o
f t
he d
isputed a
rea. When t
hey
 
i
nterviewed Belonie V
iolette's f
ather, F
rançois V
iolette (
1770-1856), he
 
t
old t
hem t
hat h
is f
ather, F
rançois V
iolette, S
r. (
1744-1824), built a
 
g
ristmill on t
he s
i
te "
forty y
ears a
go." He a
lso t
old t
hem t
hat he had
 
t
aken up r
esidence t
here "
three y
ears ago." He e
xplained t
hat h
is f
amily
 
owned a
 l
arger e
state, s
ome 9
0 r
ods i
n width, a
t t
he mouth o
f Grand
 
R
ivière, i
n what i
s
 now S
aint-Leonard, New B
runswick. And he noted
 
h
is f
amily's r
eceipt o
f a
 B
ritish g
rant t
o t
hat s
i
te i
n 1
826.
 
The r
eport o
f a
 magistrate f
rom F
redericton, New B
runswick,
 
who v
isited t
he a
rea i
n 1
833, i
ncludes an e
ntry on F
rançois V
iolette, J
r
.
 
His s
tatus was a
s f
ollows.
 
L
I
I F
amily: I
 woman, 2
 b
oys, a
nd 0
 g
irls.
 
L S
tock
: 3
 h
orses, 0
 o
xen, 3
 c
ows, 5
 y
oung c
attle, 2
5 s
heep, dud 4
 p
i.
 
E Quantity o
f
 h
ay c
ut i
n
 t
ons: 7
.
 
L
I
I S
eed s
own l
ast s
pring i
n
 number o
f
 bushels: Wheat 9
,
 b
arley 1
 1
,
 
o
ats 7
,
 buckwheat /2, p
eas 3
1/2,
 a
nsd p
otatoes 3
0.
 
S
I
 
ACADIAN C
ULTURE I
N MAINE
 
C
rop r
a
ised i
n
 b
ushels: wheat 1
5
, b
arley 1
,
 o
ats 1
2, b
uckwheat 6
,
 
p
eas 2
0, a
nd p
otatoes 2
75.
 
U Average c
rop p
ast f
i
ve y
ears: Wheat 5
0, B
arley 3
0, o
ats 3
0, Buck-
wheat 2
0
, p
eas 2
0
, a
nd p
otatoes 5
00.
 
Aside f
rom t
he Deane a
nd Kavanaugh r
eport, t
he e
arliest Amer-
i
can document c
oncerning t
he p
roperty upon which t
he Val V
iolette
 
House s
tands i
s
 a
n 1
844 mortgage o
f B
elonie V
iolette t
o F
rançois V
iolette
 
i
n which t
he s
on g
ains t
i
t
le t
o what would s
oon b
ecome T
reaty Lot 3
01 i
n
 
Township M, Range 2
.
 L
ater, t
his l
ot, c
onsisting o
f 3
07.14 a
cres, would b
e
 
d
eeded t
o B
elonie i
n c
onnection with t
he work o
f l
and c
ommissions
 
e
stablished by t
he s
tates o
f
 Maine a
nd Massachusetts t
o deal with
 
s
ettlers' c
laims.
 
I
n 1
844 "
Paul C
ire, J
oseph C
ire and Bellonie V
iolette," a
ssessors
 
o
f t
he p
lantation o
f Van Buren, a
ddressed a
 "Census o
f t
he Males and
 
F
emales i
n
 Van Buren t
aken 3
1 May 1
844." Covering t
he t
erritory f
rom
 
t
he middle o
f Grand I
s
le t
o Hamlin a
nd Cyr P
lantation, t
he c
ensus
 
r
eported 8
2 f
amilies t
hat c
omprised 5
09 i
ndividuals. Belonie V
iolette's
 
f
amily c
onsists o
f f
ive members.
 
Shortly a
fter a
cquiring t
i
t
le f
rom h
is f
ather, Belonie V
iolette s
old
 
t
he p
roperty's g
ristmill p
rivilege t
o V
ital Thibodeau o
f S
aint-Basile who
 
would f
urther d
evelop i
t
.
 I
n 1
846 h
e deeded t
he f
i
rst o
f t
he s
awmill s
i
tes
 
t
o I
saac Mace. Realizing t
he l
umber potential o
f V
iolette S
tream, which
 
f
l
ows f
rom V
iolette Pond, i
n 1
855 B
elonie V
iolette s
old t
he s
i
te o
f a
 
s
econd s
awmill t
o
 George W. Smith and Charles Crosby o
f Bangor.
 
L
ater, Smith a
nd Crosby d
rove c
edar l
ogs downstream t
o t
he mill s
i
te
 
a
nd manufactured s
hingles —the f
i
rst t
o b
e s
ent out o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley a
rea t
o American markets. I
n 1
860, Smith and Crosby s
old t
heir
 
mill t
o W. C
. Hammond, whose f
amily h
ad b
een a
ssociated with t
he
 
l
umber i
ndustry i
n
 New B
runswick
.
 
Apparently, B
elonie V
iolette p
referred not t
o b
ecome i
nvolved
 
i
n l
umber milling, which was c
onsidered a
 r
i
sky business. I
nstead, h
e
 
f
armed Lot 3
01 a
nd s
old l
and. I
n a
ddition, h
e maintained an i
nterest i
n
 
c
ivic a
ffairs. I
n 1
856 h
e s
erved a
s one o
f t
hree Aroostook County Com-
missioners, a
nd i
n 1
866 h
e was e
lected t
o a
 t
erm i
n t
he s
tate l
egislature.
 
Eventually, B
elonie V
iolette's f
amily g
rew t
o f
ourteen c
hildren —
 
s
even boys a
nd s
even g
irls. I
nstead o
f d
iminishing t
he value o
f t
he
 
homesite by p
arceling i
t
 among h
is c
hildren i
n e
qual s
hares, V
iolette
 
bought f
arms i
n n
ewly d
eveloped s
ectors o
f t
he p
lantation, and t
urned
 
t
hem over t
o
 h
is s
ons when t
hey a
ttained maturity. Thus, t
he e
ldest s
on,
 
F
rederic, would h
ave a
 f
arm i
n Cyr P
lantation and t
he next s
on, Dennis,
 
r
aised h
is f
amily i
n n
earby Hamlin. His daughters were g
iven dowries
 
when t
hey married.
 
I
n 1
875, V
iolette c
onsigned t
he f
amily e
state t
o h
is s
pouse on t
he
 
understanding t
hat whenever s
he decided t
o
 b
ecome a
 pensioner o
f an
 
i
nheriting s
on, t
hat s
on would p
rovide f
or h
is younger s
iblings i
n t
he
 
manner t
hat t
he e
lder s
ons h
ad b
een p
rovided. Therefore, when t
he
 
middle s
on, Ambroise (
1850-1911), a
greed t
o t
ake h
is mother a
s pen-
s
ioner a
fter B
elonie's d
eath f
our y
ears l
ater, h
e a
lso a
greed t
o p
rovide
 
dowries f
or h
is unmarried younger s
i
sters a
nd t
o p
rovide h
is younger
 
b
rothers with f
arms o
f t
heir own
. Until t
hey a
ttained maturity, t
he
 
younger b
rothers were b
ound t
o work f
or t
heir s
upporting b
rother and
 
mother on t
he o
riginal homestead.
 
The t
ract o
f l
and B
elonie V
iolette h
ad t
aken a
t
 V
iolette B
rook
 
5
2
 
HISTORIC PROPERTIES
 
c
ontributed t
o t
he development o
f a
 v
i
llage which g
rew up a
round t
he
 
mill s
i
tes. By mid-century, merchants, a
 t
avern k
eeper, a
nd b
lacksmiths
 
had moved i
nto t
he r
egion.
 
Morneault House. L
isted on t
he National Register o
f Historic
 
P
laces, t
he Mor
neault House i
s
 b
elieved t
o have been built i
n 1
857 by
 
Charles Morneault on R
iver Lot 1
97 i
n Grand I
s
le, Maine. A merchant
 
t
rader, Morneault p
rovided s
pace f
or a
 post o
ffice i
n h
is home when
 
members o
f h
is f
amily s
erved a
s postmaster
. I
n 1
973, f
ollowing a
 period
 
o
f d
isuse, t
he house was donated t
o Notre Heritage V
ivant/Our L
iving
 
Heritage (Acadian V
illage) by Mrs. Normande Beaupré, a
 Morneault
 
descendant. Notre Heritage V
ivant/Our L
iving Heritage s
ubsequently
 
moved t
he house t
o i
t
s p
resent l
ocation i
n t
he Acadian V
illage i
n Keegan,
 
near Van Buren, Maine, and i
t
 i
s
 l
i
sted on t
he National Register a
s part o
f
 
t
he multiple r
esource l
i
sting o
f t
he v
illage
.
 
Charles Morneault, who was o
f Canadian (
i
.e, Québecois) s
tock,
 
s
ettled i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley i
n 1
856. On J
uly 1
8, 1
859, he married
 
F
lavie Thibodeau, daughter o
f Benjamin Thibodeau and Barbe Cormier,
 
both o
f whose f
amily names c
an b
e d
irectly t
raced t
o Acadia. Morneault
 
i
s
 r
epresentative o
f immigrants f
rom Québec who advanced t
hemselves
 
by marrying i
nto t
he e
stablished Acadian c
ommunity o
f t
he Madawaska
 
t
erritory.
 
While Morneault's c
onnection t
o t
he Thibodeau f
amily was
 
s
ocially advantageous, h
e a
cquired h
is l
and i
n Grand I
s
le by purchase
 
r
ather t
han by i
nheritance
. He purchased Lot 1
97 i
n Township 1
8, Range
 
3
 (
Grand I
s
le) on November 3
,
 1
857
. He r
eceived t
he 4
32.73-acre p
iece o
f
 
l
and f
rom J
ean Baptiste Souci (
b
. 1
783) and Rose Thibodeau Souci (
1802-
1
886) f
or $
240 and a
 p
romise o
f l
i
fe s
upport
.
 
F
red Albert House. The Madawaska H
istorical Society main-
t
ains s
everal p
roperties near t
he s
i
te o
f t
he National Register Acadian
 
Landing t
hat a
re open t
o t
he public. The F
red Albert House, which h
as
 
been moved t
o S
t
. David f
rom e
lsewhere i
n Madawaska, i
s
 t
he most
 
s
ignif
icant. Built near t
he middle o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury, i
t
 has m a n y
 
f
eatures o
f f
orm and c
onstruction t
hat may be c
onsidered d
istinctively
 
Acadian. L
ike t
he Morneault House and t
he Levasseur-Ouellette House
 
a
t t
he Acadian V
illage, i
t
 was built by a
 s
uccessful Acadian f
armer. This
 
one-and-a-half-story dwelling s
hares with t
he o
ther houses t
he t
ypical
 
Georgian p
roportions and s
quare-hewn l
og (
pièce-sur-pièce) wall
 
c
onstruction. I
n t
he Albert House, p
ièce-sur p
ièce a
 t
enons e
n c
oulissc
 
wall c
onstruction i
s
 c
ombined with half-dovetail j
o
inery a
t t
he c
orners.
 
Such a
 c
ombination o
f c
onstruction methods has been documented a
t
 
t
he Morissette House/ Maison Morissette (
c
irca 1
830) i
n Québec (
Lessard
 
and V
ilandré 1
974:395-409). However, t
he Morissette House has a
 
r
idgepole, while t
he A
lbert House, l
ike o
ther Acadian houses o
f i
t
s t
ype
 
i
n t
he Valley, i
s
 c
onstructed without one. I
n addition, t
he Morissette
 
House f
eatures two i
nternal c
himneys p
laced against t
he opposite
 
e
xternal walls o
f t
he house, while t
he Albert House appears t
o have h
ad
 
only a
 c
entral c
himney. L
ike many o
ther Valley Acadian houses o
f t
he
 
mid-nineteenth c
entury, t
he A
lbert House has s
hip's knees f
i
tted i
nto t
he
 
a
ttic.
 
P
rior t
o b
eing moved by t
he Madawaska Historical Society t
o i
t
s
 
p
resent s
i
te on T
reaty Lot 1
46, a
t a
 s
pot b
ehind t
he Society's Tante
 
B
lanche Museum, t
he F
red Albert House s
tood i
n Madawaska, on
 
5
3
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Lot 1
38. While i
t
 i
s
 possible t
o t
race ownership o
f Lot 1
38
 
within t
he A
lbert f
amily b
ack t
o 1
806, t
here i
s
 no documentary e
vidence
 
l
inking t
he house i
t
self t
o t
he s
pecific deed o
f t
hat date. I
t
s a
rchitectural
 
c
haracteristics s
uggest t
hat Luke A
lbert (
1818-1888) o
r h
is f
ather,
 
Anselme A
lbert, was t
he builder. S
tatements e
l
icited f
rom Anselme
 
A
lbert i
n 1
831 by Maine a
gents Deane and Kavanaugh s
uggest t
hat
 
Anselme A
lbert's f
ather, F
rançois A
lbert (
1744  
1
829), bought t
he l
ot f
rom
 
Augustin Dubé i
n 1
786
. L
ast o
ccupied i
n 1
970, t
he house was dedicated
 
as a
 museum i
n 1
990. At t
he Historical S
ociety dedication, a
 f
amily
 
member, Renaud A
lbert, r
ecalled t
hat a
t
 a
 f
amily g
athering i
n 1
958 an
 
a
unt s
tated t
hat t
he A
lbert home was t
hen 1
00 y
ears o
ld. Albert a
lso
 
s
tated t
hat a
rchitectural h
istorian Rudolph Bourque o
f F
redericton, New
 
B
runswick, s
uggested t
hat t
he house c
onsisted o
f two s
ections, one o
f
 
which may b
e e
ven o
lder t
han 1
858.
 
F
red E
.
 A
lbert, unmarried, t
he l
ast o
ccupant o
f t
he home, r
esided
 
i
n i
t
 with h
is s
i
ster Catherine (
1879-1965), a
lso s
ingle, who was a
 l
ong-
t
ime s
chool t
eacher i
n Madawaska. The r
esidence b
ecame t
he p
roperty
 
o
f E
lmo A
lbert f
rom a
 p
rovision o
f F
red E
. A
lbert's will which r
equired
 
E
lmo A
lbert t
o p
ay a
 s
pecif
ied s
um t
o e
ach o
f F
red's r
emaining b
rothers
 
a
nd s
i
sters.
 
The g
enealogical d
ata c
ompiled i
ndicates t
hat t
he Albert f
amily
 
n
ame was b
rought t
o
 Madawaska, Maine, by a
 member o
f t
he t
hird
 
g
eneration o
f t
he f
amily t
o r
eside i
n North America. Following t
he
 
c
onquest o
f New F
rance t
here was c
onsiderable population g
rowth i
n
 
Québec. The g
rowth o
f t
he t
imber t
rade, among o
ther f
actors, l
ed t
o
 
population s
hif
ts. F
or e
xample, young people and n
ew f
amilies moved
 
f
rom t
he S
t
. L
awrence R
iver a
rea i
n s
earch o
f n
ew opportunities. F
rançois
 
A
lbert (
1744  
1
829) a
nd h
is wife, Marie Anne Paradis (
b
. 1
755), t
ook part
 
i
n t
hat burgeoning movement
. According t
o a
 1
762 c
ensus, h
is f
ather,
 
F
rançois A
lbert, S
r., l
ived i
n Kamouraska and was a
 member o
f t
he 2nd
 
militia c
ompany. His f
amily c
onsisted o
f
: one man, one woman, one
 
male c
hild o
ver f
i
fteen, f
our male c
hildren under f
i
fteen, and s
ix f
emale
 
c
hildren
. The A
lbert homestead i
s
 d
escribed a
s one-and-one-half a
rpents
 
o
f r
iver f
rontage, with twenty a
rpents under c
ultivation. The f
amily
 
owned f
our c
ows, t
hree o
xen, t
en s
heep, two horses, and n
ine hogs o
r
 
swine.
 
B
ecause F
rançois A
lbert, J
r
., was n
either t
he e
ldest nor t
he
 
y
oungest s
on, h
is opportunity o
f i
nheriting t
he f
amily f
arm may have
 
b
een l
imited. I
n a
ny c
ase, s
hortly a
fter i
t
 b
ecame known t
hat an Acadian
 
s
ettlement i
n Madawaska was b
eing s
upplemented by migrants f
rom
 
Québec, h
e opted t
o move h
is f
amily f
rom Kamouraska t
o t
he
 
Madawaska t
erritory. The e
arliest s
ettlers had an opportunity t
o c
hoose
 
t
he l
and, a
nd A
lbert was a
ble t
o s
ecure p
roperty a
long a
 b
rook t
hat had
 
potential a
s a
 mill s
i
te
.
 
R
ev. Thomas A
lbert's H
istoire d
u Madawaska l
i
sts F
rançois
 
A
lbert among t
he s
outh-shore p
ioneers o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley. The
 
f
i
rst c
hurch r
ecord c
oncerning t
he A
lbert f
amily notes t
he baptism o
f
 
F
rançois a
nd Marie Anne's d
aughter Euphrosine i
n 1
792. Church r
ecords
 
a
lso note t
he b
irth o
f a
 s
on, Louis, i
n 1
795.
 
The 1
806 deed t
hat t
ransfers t
he p
roperty f
rom F
rançois A
lbert t
o
 
Anselme A
lbert makes i
t
 c
lear t
hat t
he f
amily was l
iving on Lot 1
38. And
 
t
he d
etails o
f t
he l
i
fe-support mortgage t
hat was a
 p
rovision o
f t
he
 
t
ransfer o
f p
roperty s
eems t
o c
onf
irm t
hat t
he f
amily was f
airly p
rosper-
ous. According t
o t
he t
erms o
f t
he mortgage, Anselme was e
xpected t
o
 
I
 I
1STORIC PROPERTIES
 
annually p
rovide h
is p
arents with 2
5 pounds o
f good b
eef
, 1
2 pounds o
f
 
butter o
r hog's l
ard, 1
2 pounds o
f t
a
llow, 1
2 pounds o
f maple s
ugar, half
 
a
 pound o
f pepper, one bushel o
f s
alt, t
hree g
allons o
f r
um, f
ive pounds
 
o
f good t
obacco, one s
uit o
f homespun c
lothes, one l
inen s
hirt, one
 
f
lannel s
hirt, f
ive pairs o
f s
hoe-pacs, one s
i
lk neck handkerchief, one
 
pocket handkerchief, and various o
ther goods.
 
Two r
eports, one American and one B
ritish, help describe
 
Anselme's s
i
tuation during t
he e
ra o
f t
he i
nternational boundary d
is-
pute. I
n 1
831, Maine agents Deane and Kavanaugh wrote t
he f
ollowing
 
about t
he Albert p
roperty i
n t
heir r
eport t
o t
he Governor o
f Maine:
 
"Next, s
outh s
hore, Anselme A
lbert, p
ractically f
acing t
he mouth o
f t
he
 
Madawaska R
iver. He marked t
his l
ot twenty y
ears a
go f
or h
is c
hildren.
 
Occupies 6
0 r
ods f
rontage with 1
8 a
cres c
leared. He l
ives f
urther down
 
s
tream." Deane and Kavanaugh a
lso note
: "Anselme Albert [
native o
f]
 
Canada. He c
ame t
o r
egion with h
is f
ather who bought t
he l
ot 4
5 years
 
ago o
f Augustin Dube. The l
ot measures 5
0 x
 6
70 r
ods. Albert has a
 
house a
 b
arn and 4
0 a
cres under harvest. There i
s
 a
 b
rook on t
he l
ot and
 
a
 mill p
rivilege. The mill p
rivilege was s
old s
everal y
ears s
ince a
nd a
 
s
awmill and a
 g
rist mill h
ave been e
rected t
here on."
 
I
n 1
833, B
ritish magistrate J
ames MacLaughlin c
ame t
o
 
Madawaska f
rom F
redericton t
o i
nvestigate c
alls o
f l
ocal d
istress owing
 
t
o an a
l
leged c
rop f
ailure. I
n h
is s
urvey o
f l
ocal c
onditions, h
e g
ives t
he
 
f
ollowing s
tatistics a
bout Anselme A
lbert's f
arm.
 
I
I F
amily: I
 woman, 6
 b
oys, a
nd 4
 g
irls.
 
1
1 S
tock
: 2
 h
orses, 2
 o
xen, 5
 c
ows, 6
 y
oung c
attle, 2
5 s
heep, a
nd 7
 p
igs.
 
E
l Quantity o
f
 h
ay c
ut i
n
 t
ons
: 2
5
.
 
E
l S
eeds s
own l
a
st s
pring i
n
 n
umber o
f
 b
ushels: wheat 1
6, b
arley 2
,
 
o
ats 1
3, buckwheat 0
,
 p
eas 5
,
 a
nd p
otatoes 1
5
.
 
E C
rops r
a
ised i
n
 bushels: wheat 5
0, b
arley 6
,
 o
ats 4
,
 buckwheat (
1
,
 
wheat 1
60, a
nd p
otatoes 2
00.
 
E
l Average c
rop o
f
 p
ast f
i
ve y
ears, number o
f
 Bushels: wheat 1
60,
 
b
arley 5
0, o
ats 6
0, buckwheat 0
,
 p
eas 4
5, a
nd p
otatoes 6
00.
 
After t
he Webster-Ashburton T
reaty o
f 1
842 s
ettled t
he
 
boundary question, a
 l
and c
ommission was appointed t
o a
ssist i
n
 
r
esolving s
ettlers' c
laims. The Philip Eastman map o
f 1
843 c
learly
 
i
dentifies Anselme A
lbert a
s o
ccupant o
f Lot 1
38.
 
Two s
tructures owned by t
he Madawaska Historical Society a
re
 
l
ocated n
ext t
o t
he F
red A
lbert House on t
he Society's p
roperty a
t S
t
.
 
David: t
he n
ineteenth-century one-room s
choolhouse, which has been
 
moved t
o i
t
s p
resent l
ocation, and t
he Tante B
lanche Museum, c
on-
s
tructed i
n 1
976. Collections o
f a
rtifacts, e
specially r
elated t
o Acadian
 
t
extile manufacture a
nd domestic f
urnishings, a
re l
ocated i
n t
he A
lbert
 
House, t
he museum, a
nd t
he s
choolhouse.
 
E
rnest Chasse House. The National Register Acadian L
anding
 
S
ite i
s
 l
ocated on t
he p
roperty o
f t
he E
rnest Chasse House, and t
he
 
National Register S
t
. David Catholic Church a
long with t
he p
roperties o
f
 
t
he Madawaska Historical Society a
re adjacent. The E
rnest Chasse
 
House, l
ocated on R
iver Lot 1
46 i
n S
t
. David parish, Madawaska, Maine,
 
has been i
n u
se f
or s
everal g
enerations. However, until i
t
s p
recise age
 
c
an b
e determined, i
t
 i
s
 i
t
 not possible t
o a
scertain which o
f t
he s
ucceed -
 
i
ng p
roperty owners o
f Lot 1
46 built t
he house. Currently t
he house i
 
t
he r
esidence o
f i
t
s owners, Mr. and Mrs. E
rnest Chasse.
 
This p
roperty has b
een a
bstracted f
rom 1
845, which i
s
 a
s f
ar
 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
b
ack a
s American l
and t
i
tles g
o. However, t
he r
egion within which i
t
 i
s
 
l
ocated was o
ccupied i
n 1
785, a
nd t
he l
ot was awarded t
o i
t
s f
i
rst o
ccu-
pant i
n 1
790 by a
 B
ritish l
and g
rant
. I
n 1
831, during t
he period when
 
ownership o
f t
he a
rea was d
isputed by American and B
ritish authorities,
 
Maine a
gents Deane a
nd Kavanaugh l
i
sted t
he o
ccupant a
s Guillaume
 
Fournier.
 
The B
ritish numeration o
f l
ots b
egan with t
he l
ower numbers
 
downriver and worked up t
o
 h
igher numbers a
s one h
eaded upstream.
 
The American numbering s
ystem was a
rranged i
n an opposite f
ashion,
 
with numbers i
ncreasing a
s one h
eaded downstream. I
t
 i
s
 not a
lways
 
possible t
o match l
ots number-for-number f
rom one s
ystem t
o t
he o
ther
 
s
ince s
ome l
ots i
n t
he B
ritish s
ystem were l
ater d
ivided a
fter t
he i
nitial
 
g
rants were i
s
sued a
nd map l
ines d
rawn. Thus, t
hese t
ransfers c
i
ted by
 
Deane a
nd Kavanaugh which o
ccurred i
n t
he e
ra o
f B
ritish documenta-
t
ion c
reate s
ome d
ifferences i
n t
he l
ot l
ines o
f t
he two s
ystems. S
imilari-
t
i
es do e
xist, however
. The t
reaty g
rants o
f 1
845, i
ssued by v
irtue o
f a
 
p
rovision o
f t
he Webster-Ashburton T
reaty (
1842), b
ear a
 r
elationship t
o
 
t
he B
ritish g
rants o
f 1
790. Obviously, c
oordination o
f New B
runswick
 
a
rchival s
ources with Maine a
rchival s
ources i
s
 n
eeded t
o i
l
luminate t
he
 
e
arly h
istory o
f Maine Acadians more f
ully.
 
The s
uccession o
f t
he p
roperty upon which t
he Chasse House
 
s
i
ts i
s
 f
urther c
omplicated due t
o e
rrors made i
n t
he numbering o
f t
his l
ot
 
and n
earby l
ots. A
 r
ecord o
f s
uccession o
f ownership was c
ompiled f
rom
 
f
or t
he period f
rom 1
846 t
o t
he p
resent
. The c
onfusion t
hat r
esulted i
s
 
a
pparent i
n t
he f
ollowing e
xcerpt f
rom a
 deed:
 
T
his l
and h
as s
ometimes i
n
 t
he making o
f
 d
eeds a
nd mortgages b
een
 
d
escribed o
n L
ot 1
42 a
nd s
ometimes L
ot #
 1
44 b
ut we t
h
ink t
hat was
 
a
n e
rror
. We b
elieve t
hat t
he c
orrect l
o
t i
s
 No
. 1
46.
 
On October 3
,
 1
815, F
rançois Durepos (whose parents were
 
married a
t
 S
t
. Thomas d
e Montmagny, Québec) married Susanne Hebert
 
(
b
. 1
791). She was t
he d
aughter o
f Madawaska p
ioneers S
imon Hebert
 
a
nd J
osephte Daigle Hebert, who, a
ccording t
o l
ocal t
radition, were t
he
 
f
i
rst Acadian c
ouple married i
n
 t
he c
hapel a
t
 S
aint-Basile (
1788). Susanne
 
E
lebert's b
rother, S
imonette Hebert, was a
n e
arly l
umber mill operator
 
who imported t
he f
i
rst horse-drawn wheeled v
ehicle t
o be u
sed on
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver s
ide r
oads.
 
Susanne d
ied on May 1
0, 1
848. Within a
 y
ear, F
rançois married
 
L
ea P
elletier, t
he d
aughter o
f Celestin P
elletier, a
 b
lacksmith f
rom S
t
.
 
P
aschal de Kamouraska, Québec, who h
ad e
stablished h
imself i
n t
hat
 
t
rade a
t
 S
aint-Basile. Apparently s
uccessful i
n business, Pelletier s
aw t
o
 
t
he e
ducation o
f h
is c
hildren. One s
on, J
oseph (
1828-1916), became a
 
p
riest
. Another, Thomas (
1845-1921), e
arned a
 degree i
n medicine f
rom
 
a
t
 Université L
aval i
n Québec, a
nd l
a
ter p
racticed i
n Van Buren, Maine.
 
A
 t
hird s
on, Remi, e
stablished s
awmills i
n S
t
. F
rançois, New B
runswick,
 
i
n t
he 1
880s, a
nd was e
lected t
o t
he New B
runswick House o
f Assembly.
 
F
rançois Durepos owned c
onsiderable a
creage i
n Madawaska i
ncluding
 
r
iver f
rontage t
raditionally c
alled t
he "Dufour f
l
ats," which i
ncludes t
he
 
purported s
i
te o
f t
he 1
785 Acadian l
anding.
 
F
rançois d
ied i
n 1
865, a
nd f
our y
ears l
ater h
is wife Lea married
 
Ephrem Michaud. Michaud's p
arents were f
rom L
'Islet, Montmagny
 
County, Québec. According t
o t
he c
ensus o
f 1
860, Ephrem had b
een t
he
 
h
ired h
and on t
he Durepos f
arm. The c
ouple o
ccupied t
he o
ld Durepos
 
homesite, p
resently t
he E
rnest Chasse home.
 
H
ISTORIC PROPERTIES
 
On J
une 2
6, 1
871, t
he n
ewly e
stablished S
t
. David p
arish s
ecured
 
a
 portion o
f Lot 1
46 f
rom Epbrem a
nd Lea Michaud. I
n e
xchange f
or t
he
 
p
roperty, t
he Michauds were g
iven a
 f
ree p
ew i
n t
he n
ew c
hurch. When
 
t
he b
ishop p
resided a
t
 t
he b
lessing o
f t
he c
hurch b
ell, t
he Michaud  
a
cted a
s s
ponsors.
 
Ephrem Michaud passed away on S
eptember 2
5, 1
886, a
t t
he a
ge
 
o
f f
i
fty-three, l
eaving h
is s
pouse twice widowed. J
oseph P
elletier, a
 
n
ephew, c
ame b
ack f
rom P
incher Creek, A
lberta, t
o t
ake c
are o
f t
he
 
e
lderly widow. Lea Michaud d
ied on December 1
1, 1
891. The p
resence
 
o
f s
everal members o
f t
he c
lergy a
t
 h
er f
uneral (
including p
riests fro m
 
S
aint-Basile, Edmundston, S
ainte-Anne, a
nd S
aint-Leonard, New
 
B
runswick) i
ndicated t
hat s
he was h
eld i
n h
igh e
steem by c
hurch
 
l
eaders.
 
The p
roperty was i
nherited by J
oseph P
elletier, t
he s
on o
f
 
Cyprien Pelletier and Dorument Thibodeau. He was born on J
une 1
,
 
1
862, a
t
 S
aint-Basile, New B
runswick. He i
nherited t
he p
roperty on
 
F
ebruary 2
8, 1
888, a
nd h
eld i
t
 until h
is d
eath on S
eptember 2
3,192 1
.
 The
 
p
roperty was t
hen passed on t
o h
is s
on George. E
rnest Chasse, who
 
a
cquired t
he p
roperty i
n 1
943 f
rom E
rnest Chasse, S
r
., deeded a
 portion
 
t
o t
he Madawaska Historical S
ociety i
n 1
971.
 
Pelletier- Marquis House. Built by f
armer Andr€
I P
elletier i
n
 
1
854, t
he P
ellitier-Marquis House i
n S
t
. Agatha, Maine, i
s
 owned by t
he
 
S
t
. Agatha Historical Society, which maintains i
t
 a
s a
 public museum.
 
Unlike o
ther p
roperties r
eviewed by t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey,
 
t
he P
elletier-Marquis House i
s
 not l
ocated on a
 " treaty l
ot" o
r a
 " ri ver
 
l
ot." I
nstead, t
he l
ot on Long L
ake i
s
 on l
and l
ocally known a
s "
l
es
 
c
oncessions." This n
ame d
erives f
rom a
 p
rovision o
f a
 homestead a
ct o
f
 
t
he S
tate o
f Maine. Under t
he t
erms o
f t
he a
ct, homesites c
ould b
e
 
s
ecured f
a
irly c
heaply, but t
he n
ew owners were r
equired t
o s
ettle d
 u
 t
i
es
 
and perform r
oad l
abor b
efore l
and c
ertif
icates were i
s
sued. Each
 
c
ertificate o
r g
rant was c
alled u
ne c
oncession by l
ocal F
rench-speakers.
 
I
n a
n a
ttempt t
o e
ncourage r
ailroad development, t
he Maine
 
s
tate government i
ssued a
 l
and g
rant o
f a
 million a
cres t
o t
he European
 
&
 North American Railway i
n 1
869. This g
rant c
reated c
onf
licting c
laims,
 
and t
he Commission on C
laims o
f S
ettlers on P
roprietors' Lands i
n t
he
 
County o
f Aroostook was e
stablished i
n 1
873. The c
ommission i
ssued a
 
r
eport i
n 1
874. Among t
he c
laims l
i
sted i
n t
he r
eport i
s
 one made h
'
 
André P
elletier o
f Township 1
8, Range 4
.
 The r
eport i
ndicates t
hat
 
Pelletier "
took up" t
he p
roperty i
n two p
ieces i
n 1
853 a
nd 1
871. I
n t
he
 
y
ear o
f t
he r
eport, t
he f
i
rst parcel was improved with a
 house, b
arn, a
nd
 
s
table. While t
he o
riginal s
tate g
rant f
or t
his l
ot h
as not b
een l
ocated, t
he
 
o
ldest portion o
f t
he Pelletier-Marquis I
 l
ouse i
s
 b
elieved t
o
 d
ate f
rom
 
1
853.
 
I
n 1
875, André P
elletier r
eceived a
n e
viction notice f
rom a
n
 
a
gent o
f Thomas N
. Egery and Daniel B
.
 Hinckley o
f B
angor, bond
 
holders f
rom t
he European &
 North American Railway. Because t
he
 
r
ailway defaulted on i
t
s notes, Egery a
nd Hinckley s
ought t
o r
ecover
 
t
heir l
osses by a
ttaching t
he r
ailroad's p
roperty. Because t
he r
ailroad's
 
c
laims c
onf
licted with s
ettlers' c
laims, P
elletier and 1
27 r
ear-lot f
armers
 
r
eceived e
viction notices. Documentary e
vidence i
ndicates t
hat Pelletier
 
c
ontinued t
o o
ccupy h
is homestead despite t
he c
hallenge t
o h
is owner-
s
hip.
 
André P
elletier's f
amily c
an b
e t
raced b
ack e
ight g
enerations i
n
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Québec t
o Guillaume P
elletier and Michelle Mabille. They were married
 
a
t
 S
t
. Aubin d
e Tourouvre, P
erche, F
rance, on F
ebruary 1
2, 1
619. They
 
immigrated t
o Québec, where Guillaume d
ied i
n 1
657 and Michelle d
ied
 
i
n 1
660. André P
elletier was t
he s
on o
f A
lexandre Pelletier and
 
Angelique L
ebel, who h
ad married a
t
 S
t
. Louis de Kamouraska on April
 
2
5, 1
814. André married S
cholastique Chamberland a
t
 S
te. Luce Church
 
i
n F
renchville on November 2
3, 1
847
. They had twelve c
hildren.
 
L
ater owners o
f t
he P
elletier-Marquis House i
ncluded two
 
f
amilies l
iving i
n i
t
 a
t
 t
he s
ame t
ime: Horace Sylvain and Nere P
icard
 
a
nd t
he J
ules Marquis f
amily. Consequently, t
he s
uccession l
ines became
 
e
xtremely c
omplex. F
or e
xample, i
n t
he s
uccession o
f ownership, Damas
 
P
elletier, Andre's s
on, d
eeded h
is i
nterest t
o Henry A
. Gagnon, a
 busi-
n
essman f
rom Van Buren, Maine. Gagnon t
hen deeded i
t
 t
o Horace
 
S
ylvain, who o
ccupied h
alf o
f t
he house
. Widowed i
n 1
896, Sylvain t
hen
 
married Odelie L
aplante i
n 1
898. When Horace Sylvain d
ied i
n 1
903, h
is
 
w
idow r
emarried i
n t
he f
ollowing y
ear t
o Denis Chasse. (
In t
he deeds,
 
s
he s
urfaces a
s Odelie Chasse, who deeded t
he portion o
f t
he house t
o
 
Nere P
icard.) Thus, while t
he Marquis f
amily o
ccupied half o
f t
he house,
 
t
he S
ylvain, Chasse, a
nd P
icard f
amilies e
ach i
n t
urn o
ccupied t
he half
 
t
hat d
escended f
rom Damas P
elletier's i
nterest. Meanwhile, Ozithe
 
P
elletier's portion was passed down t
hrough t
he Marquis f
amily i
nto
 
which s
he h
ad married.
 
I
n 1
927 t
he home c
ame i
nto t
he h
ands o
f t
he Marquis f
amily.
 
And i
n 1
978 t
he S
t
. Agatha Historical Society a
cquired i
t
 f
rom a
 member
 
o
f t
he f
amily.
 
E
loi Daigle House. The E
loi Daigle House i
n Fort Kent, Maine,
 
s
i
ts on i
t
s o
riginal s
i
te on R
iver Lot 5
3. The l
and was deeded by t
he
 
Commissioners o
f Maine a
nd Massachusetts t
o J
ean Baptiste Daigle
 
(
1791-1846) on J
uly 1
2, 1
845. Daigle was t
he c
ousin o
f Daigle- S
t
. J
ean o
f
 
B
aker B
rook, New B
runswick, whose home, t
he Augustin Daigle House,
 
was a
lso s
tudied by t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey. The c
urrent
 
owners o
f t
he E
loi Daigle House a
re r
esidents o
f Massachusetts, who u
se
 
t
he house a
s a
 s
ummer home.
 
J
ean Baptiste Daigle was t
he g
randson o
f J
oseph S
imon Daigle
 
(
1738-1814), who h
eaded t
he Acadian migration t
o Madawaska i
n 1
785.
 
I
 i
ke h
is g
randfather, J
ean B
aptiste Daigle i
nitially r
esided a
t S
aint-Basile,
 
New B
runswick, where t
he f
amily r
eceived B
ritish g
rants i
n 1
790. His
 
n
ine s
ons f
anned out f
rom t
he e
arly s
ettlement s
i
te and e
stablished
 
r
esidences f
rom F
ort Kent t
o Van Buren. Deane and Kavanaugh note t
he
 
p
resence o
f t
hree o
f
 J
ean's s
ons on Daigle I
s
land, between Baker B
rook
 
a
nd Fort Kent, by 1
810. The s
ame r
eport notes t
hat one s
on, J
ean Baptiste
 
Daigle, J
r
., owned t
he point o
f l
and f
ormed a
t t
he j
unction o
f t
he F
ish and
 
S
t
. J
ohn r
ivers. This i
s
 c
onfirmed by a
 l
a
ter g
rant o
f t
he l
and, i
dentified a
s
 
L
ot 3
2, t
hat h
e r
eceived i
n 1
845 f
rom t
he s
tates o
f Maine and Massachu-
s
etts.
 
J
ean B
aptiste Daigle, J
r
., married Emilienne Morin (
d. 1
877) a
t
 
S
aint-Basile, New B
runswick, on J
anuary 1
3, 1
818. The c
ouple had
 
s
eventeen c
hildren. I
n o
rder t
o p
rovide f
or h
is o
ffspring, Daigle t
ook up
 
s
everal l
ots i
n F
ort Kent, i
ncluding Lots 5
1 and 5
3. However, he d
ied a
 
l
i
ttle over a
 y
ear a
fter r
eceiving t
he g
rants, which apparently went
 
unrecorded a
t
 t
he r
egistry o
f d
eeds until 1
924.
 
About t
hree months b
efore Daigle d
ied, l
ocal merchant t
rader
 
A
. &
 S
.
 Dufour o
f
 S
aint-Basile noted t
hat Daigle had been a
sked t
o
 
H
ISTORIC PROPERTIES
 
4
 
deliver s
eventy-one bushels o
f o
ats t
o
 J
ames I
'
erlev's l
umber operation.
 
This i
ndicates t
hat Daigle was working a
s a
 s
upplier t
o t
he l
umber
 
operation.
 
I
n 1
858, i
n a
 deed s
igned by J
ean Baptiste Daigle's widow and
 
t
hirteen o
ther f
amily members, V
ital Daigle (
1836-1899) r
eceived t
i
tle t
o
 
t
he f
amily homestead on Lot 5
3. V
ital Daigle a
lso went t
o develop new
 
l
and i
n Township 1
7, Range 6
,
 t
he t
ownship immediately s
outh o
f t
he
 
o
riginal f
amily s
ettlement now known a
s New Canada P
lantation.
 
The e
ntry f
or New Canada P
lantation i
n t
he Maine Register f
or
 
1
882 l
i
sts Docite Daigle a
s a
ssessor, A
lcime Daigle a
s t
ax c
ollector, J
ohn
 
B
. Daigle a
s t
reasurer, Mrs. Arthemise Daigle a
s s
chool c
ommittee
 
member, and V
ital Daigle a
s l
umber manufacturer
. The p
rominence o
f
 
t
he Daigle f
amily a
t t
hat t
ime may s
uggest t
he r
eason why New Canada
 
P
lantation b
ecame known l
ocally a
s Daigle, Maine
.
 
I
n 1
888, l
ong a
fter V
ital Daigle and h
is wife J
ulie Cyr Daigle
 
b
rought twelve c
hildren i
nto t
he world, V
ital deeded t
he o
ld S
t
. J
ohn
 
R
iver Lot 5
3 t
o h
is s
on Raymond (
1858-1952). As i
f
 i
n k
eeping with
 
f
amily t
radition, Raymond and h
is wife r
aised a
 dozen c
hildren o
f t
heir
 
own. One c
hild, Arthur Daigle (
1887-1952), went i
nto t
he c
ar s
ales
 
business i
n Fort Kent. Another s
on, E
loi Daigle (
1904-1963), went t
o
 
Bates College i
n Lewiston, Maine, g
raduating i
n 1
929. I
n 1
950, E
loi w as
 
e
lected p
rincipal o
f t
he n
ew Madawaska High S
chool. His wife, L
illian
 
S
t
. P
ierre (
1913-1987), t
aught s
chool af
ter g
raduating f
rom Madawaska
 
T
raining S
chool i
n 1
931.
 
I
n 1
934, E
loi Daigle s
ucceeded i
nto ownership o
f t
he e
ast half o
f
 
Lot 5
3 which c
ontained t
he Daigle homestead. After E
loi's death, h
is
 
wife deeded t
he p
roperty t
o h
er daughter, Eulalie Mae Daigle-Martin. I
n
 
1
972, s
he deeded t
he o
ld homestead out o
f t
he f
amily.
 
Daigle-St. J
ean House. The Daigle-St. J
ean House s
i
ts by
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver next t
o t
he Catholic Church p
roperty i
n C
lair, New
 
B
runswick. I
t
 i
s
 a
 p
roperty o
f t
he C
lair Historical Society and houses
 
n
ineteenth- and twentieth-century f
urnishings and o
ther a
rtifacts fro m
 
t
he l
ocal a
rea. According t
o a
 material c
ulture s
urvey (
"Perspective-
J
eunesse") c
onducted i
n 1
974, t
he house o
riginally s
tood on R
iver Lot 8
2
 
i
n t
he Caron B
rook s
ection o
f t
he t
own o
f Baker B
rook, New B
runswick.
 
The c
onstruction date f
or t
he house i
s
 c
a. 1
850.
 
I
 
Maison Daigle-St. J
ean,
 
C
lair, New B
runswick
.
 
T
his m
id-nineteenth-centu ry
 
h
ouse was moved t
o
 i
t
s
 
p
resent l
o
cation.
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Data c
ollected i
n c
onnection with t
he Perspective-Jeunesse
 
s
urvey l
i
st t
he house's p
roprietorial s
uccession a
s f
ollows: Augustin
 
Daigle, Hector Daigle, A
lbert Daigle, J
oseph S
t
. J
ean, Lévite S
t
. J
ean. I
t
 i
s
 
b
elieved t
hat t
he builder o
f t
he Daigle-St
. J
ean House was Augustin
 
Daigle, J
r
. (
b
. 1
831).
 
60
 
CONCLUSION
 
T
h
e United S
tates Congress b
ased p
assage o
f t
he Maine Acadian Culture
 
P
reservation Act p
rincipally upon t
he s
ignificance o
f Maine's Acadian
 
c
ultural r
esources, a
nd t
he r
i
sk o
f l
oss o
f o
r e
rosion t
o t
hese r
esources.
 
Both a
rguments were p
resented by t
he s
ponsors and s
upporters o
f t
he
 
Act.
 
Congressional t
estimony posits t
hat Acadian h
istory and
 
c
ultural f
eatures a
re s
ignificant t
o t
he p
eople o
f Maine and t
he n
ation.
 
Testifying b
efore a
 House s
ubcommittee (
July 1
7, 1
990), Congress-
woman O
lympia Snowe s
tated,". . . t
hese v
ery e
thnic c
ultures.. .
 h
ave
 
g
iven t
o t
his c
ountry t
he r
ichness and d
iversity t
hat makes America
 
unique among n
ations. And i
t
 i
s
 t
he Acadian c
ulture which, f
or t
hree
 
c
enturies now, h
as e
nriched, a
nd h
elped s
hape t
he c
haracter o
f...
 
Maine
." At t
he s
ame h
earing, Speaker o
f t
he Maine House o
f Represen-
t
atives J
ohn L
.
 Martin a
rgued t
hat Acadian h
eritage must b
e "
preserved
 
f
or t
he n
ext g
eneration o
f Maine and American c
i
tizens —and not j
ust f
or
 
t
hose o
f F
rench a
ncestry." He f
urther r
emarked t
hat t
he Acadian s
tory i
s
 
e
xemplary o
f t
he "
contributions o
f F
rench-speaking Americans t
o our
 
h
istory a
nd t
o t
he f
abric o
f American s
ociety."
 
Advocates o
f t
he b
ill a
lso pointed out t
hat Acadian h
eritage i
s
 
p
resently e
ndangered. S
enator William Cohen, f
or i
nstance, r
emarked a
t
 
t
he March 2
8 S
enate Subcommittee h
earing
: ".
 o
lder members o
f t
he
 
[
Acadian] c
ommunity f
ear t
hat t
heir c
hildren a
nd g
randchildren will
 
e
ventually l
ose t
ouch with t
heir h
eritage a
s buildings decay and c
ommu-
n
ity members move o
r p
ass away. S
o t
here i
s
 r
eal c
oncern a
bout t
he
 
f
uture o
f t
he Acadian c
ulture among t
he Acadian c
ommunity i
n Maine."
 
He c
ontinued, "Once a
 f
acet o
f our h
istory i
s
 l
ost, i
t
 c
annot b
e r
etrieved,
 
and we a
re d
iminished a
s a
 c
onsequence."
 
The s
ource o
f danger t
o t
he c
ontinuity o
f Acadian h
eritage was
 
described by Congresswoman Snowe b
efore t
he House s
ubcommittee:
 
"
Traditional c
ultures. . . f
ace s
ubstantial p
ressures i
n modern-day
 
America. Mass c
ommunication, mass media, i
ncreased i
ndividual
 
mobility —all o
f t
hese f
acets o
f our s
ociety make t
he v
ery s
urvival o
f
 
t
raditional c
ultures d
ifficult
. "Senator Mitchell c
oncurred i
n h
is s
tate-
ment b
efore t
he S
enate s
ubcommittee (March 2
8,1990): "
[Acadians] a
re
 
a
t
 a
 c
rossroad. Their e
nemy now i
s
 not deportation but t
he possible
 
o
f c
ustoms, o
ral h
istory, f
olksongs t
o a
 modern a
ge t
hat a
l
l t
oo o
ften
 
s
acrifices t
he t
radition o
f t
he p
ast t
o t
he immediate
."
 
The Act does not p
rescribe t
he g
eographical r
each o
f t
he Maine
 
Acadian c
ulture p
roject, e
xcept t
o s
pecify t
he s
tate o
f Maine. Public
 
t
estimony r
elated t
o t
he f
ederal l
egislation f
ocused on t
he Upper S
t
. J
oh
 i
 
Valley i
n northern Aroostook County, g
enerally a
ccepted a
s t
he hearth
 
o
f Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine. Cultural r
esearch c
onfirms t
hat t
he Valley
 
i
s
 s
trongly i
nf
luenced by Acadian c
ulture and i
s
 bounded i
n t
he United
 
S
tates by r
egions which a
re, t
o a
 l
arge e
xtent, c
ulturally d
istinct. The
 
Acadian s
ettlements o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley a
lso r
epresent a
 
c
ultural a
rea d
istinct f
rom o
thers i
n Canada. The a
rea's h
eritage i
 
d
istinguishable f
rom t
hat o
f t
he l
arge F
rench-speaking p
rovince o
f
 
Québec. And t
he i
nland l
ocation o
f t
he r
egion, i
t
s l
and-based e
conomy,
 
4 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
a
nd i
t
s h
istoric r
e
lationship w
ith t
he United S
tates d
istinguish i
t
 f
rom t
he
 
Acadian-inf
luenced a
reas i
n t
he Maritime P
rovinces. The h
istory o
f t
he
 
Valley a
nd t
he p
eople who s
ettled t
here p
rovides an important k
ey t
o
 
our understanding o
f t
he s
ettling o
f North America and t
he h
istorical
 
d
evelopment o
f t
he United S
tates. Furthermore, t
he i
nclusion o
f t
he
 
words "Acadian s
ettlers a
nd t
heir descendants" i
n t
he Act does not
 
d
ictate t
he i
nterpretation o
f t
he Acadian s
tory i
n any particular h
istorical
 
period. The wealth a
nd s
ignif
icance o
f c
ultural r
esources i
n t
he r
egion's
 
c
ommunities, a
nd t
he n
eed f
or p
reservation and c
onservation e
fforts,
 
s
upport t
he p
artnership underway b
etween t
he l
ocal entities and t
he
 
National P
ark S
ervice
.
 
The i
nterpretation o
f Acadian h
istorical s
i
tes and p
roperties i
n
 
t
he Valley c
an p
rovide unique a
nd s
ignif
icant i
nformation r
elating t
o t
he
 
d
evelopment o
f American material c
ulture and s
ociety. Material c
ulture
 
f
eatures i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, mostly v
ernacular, a
re l
argely
 
unknown outside t
he Valley a
nd t
oo o
ften under-appreciated by t
he
 
l
ocal c
ommunity. Graceful a
nd h
istorically s
ignif
icant Catholic c
hurches,
 
a
ssociated r
eligious buildings, a
nd s
hrines s
tretch a
long t
he Valley l
ike a
 
s
t
ring o
f
 j
ewels. There may b
e a
s many s
olid-wall (
log and heavy s
awn
 
t
imber) wooden s
tructures r
emaining i
n t
he Valley a
s anywhere i
n t
he
 
United S
tates. Many Acadian houses o
f t
he n
ineteenth c
entury were
 
built p
ièce-sur-pièce a
 t
enons e
n c
oulisse, a
 f
orm o
f l
og c
onstruction r
are
 
i
n t
he United S
tates. A
 r
ange o
f o
ther material c
ulture i
t
ems, f
rom b
arns
 
t
o weaving, possess d
istinctive f
eatures and warrant public r
ecognition.
 
But j
ust a
s important a
s p
reserving a
rtifacts and h
istorical
 
p
roperties, i
s
 t
he d
istinctive l
iving, e
xpressive c
ulture o
f Maine
 
Acadians. F
or i
nstance, S
t
. J
ohn Valley F
rench i
s
 d
istinct i
n s
ome ways
 
f
rom a
l
l o
ther O
ld World F
rench f
orms. This l
iving heritage c
ontributes
 
t
o t
he c
ultural d
iversity o
f Maine and t
he United S
tates. Many a
spects o
f
 
c
ontemporary c
ulture i
n t
he Valley —songs, c
ustoms, f
igures o
f s
peech,
 
d
ance s
tyles, f
oodways, a
esthetic v
alues, and s
o f
orth —are not s
imply
 
h
istorically s
ignificant but v
ital t
o Acadian i
dentity. Cooperative c
ultural
 
c
onservation e
fforts i
n t
he Valley r
equire a
 p
rogram t
hat encourages t
he
 
maintenance, t
ransmission, a
nd public p
resentation o
f l
iving Acadian
 
h
eritage
. Such a
 p
rogram c
ould v
alidate and e
nergize l
ocal t
raditional
 
l
i
fe, a
nd a
t
 t
he s
ame t
ime b
e o
f i
nspirational, educational, and r
ecre-
a
t
ional v
alue t
o v
isitors f
rom t
hroughout North America.
 
The mission o
f t
he North Atlantic Region's Maine Acadian
 
c
ulture p
roject f
lows f
rom t
he mandates and t
he s
pirit o
f t
he Maine
 
Acadian Culture P
reservation Act
. Three mandates a
re s
pelled out i
n
 
t
he l
egislation: (
1
) r
ecognition o
f t
he s
ignificance o
f Maine Acadian
 
h
istory a
nd c
ulture; (
2
) a
ssistance t
o s
tate, l
ocal, and p
rivate e
ntities i
n
 
i
nterpreting t
he Maine Acadian s
tory, a
s well a
s p
reserving Acadian
 
music, a
rts, c
rafts, a
nd f
olklore; and (
3
) a
ssistance i
n i
dentifying, g
ather-
i
ng, a
nd p
reserving s
i
tes, h
istorical data, a
rtifacts, and objects a
ssociated
 
with t
he Acadians o
f
 Maine. Fulfilling t
hese mandates r
equires a
ttention
 
t
o c
ultural r
esource management, h
istoric p
reservation, a
cquisition and
 
c
onservation o
f c
ollections, a
nd i
nterpretive p
resentation o
f c
ultural
 
materials. But t
he mandates may a
lso guide t
he National Park S
ervice
 
a
nd i
t
s c
ooperators t
oward s
trategies f
or c
onserving l
iving c
ulture.
 
Cultural c
onservation i
s
 a
 s
trategy designed t
o r
ecognize and
 
e
ncourage t
he d
iversity o
f t
raditional l
i
feways i
n p
lural s
ocieties. The
 
c
oncept o
f c
ultural c
onservation h
as g
rown out o
f c
oncern a
bout t
he
 
e
rosion o
f t
raditional c
ommunity l
i
fe (
Loomis 1
983). Expressing an
 
6
2
 
CONCLUSION
 
Recommendations
 
f
or Further
 
Research
 
integration o
f f
o
lklife s
tudies v
t l
i
t 
h
e h
istoric p
reservation movement
 
(
Jabbour and Marshall 1
980), i
t
s s
trategy i
s
 t
o document and c
onserve
 
i
ntangible a
s well a
s t
angible c
ultural e
xpressions v
ital t
o t
he heritage o
f
 
t
raditional c
ommunities. Much a
s e
nvironmental and h
istoric p
reserva-
t
ion e
fforts p
rotect t
he d
iversity o
f n
atural r
esources and h
istoric p
roper-
t
i
es, c
ultural c
onservation h
elps s
afeguard t
he v
ariety o
f c
ultural e
xpres-
s
ions t
hroughout t
he nation a
nd t
he world.
 
The National Park S
ervice s
upports c
ultural c
onservation
 
objectives s
uch a
s t
hose mandated i
n t
he Maine Acadian Culture P
reser-
vation Act. For i
nstance, s
ince 1
973 t
he National Park S
ervice h
as
 
c
osponsored, a
long with t
he Smithsonian I
nstitution, t
he F
estival o
f
 
American Folklife, an i
nternationally a
cclaimed model f
or r
esearch and
 
public education i
nvolving American f
olklife. I
n an i
ntroductory
 
s
tatement published i
n t
he p
rogram book f
or t
he 1
991 f
estival, J
ames M
 
R
idenour, D
irector o
f t
he National Park S
ervice (
Ridenour 1
991), p
ro-
v
ided t
he f
ollowing c
omments with r
egard t
o t
he a
gency's r
ole i
n
 
c
onserving c
ultural heritage:
 
We h
ave worked w
ith numerous l
ocal, s
tate a
nd r
egional a
gencies
 
t
hroughout t
he United S
tates t
o
 p
romote t
he p
reservation, under-
s
tanding, a
nd i
n
terpretation o
f
 f
o
lklife a
nd g
rassroots c
ultural
 
t
r
aditions
. We h
ave c
ooperated c
losely w
ith t
he American F
olklife
 
Center a
t
 t
he L
ibrary o
f
 Congress i
n
 d
eveloping c
ultural c
onservation
 
p
olicies a
nd s
pecific r
esearch p
rojects w
ith L
owell National H
istorical
 
P
ark a
nd n
ow a
n Acadian Cultural Center i
n
 Maine
. Ongoing
 
f
estivals, p
erformance p
rograms a
nd s
kills d
emonstrations s
uch a
s t
he
 
National F
olk F
estival h
eld a
t
 America's I
ndustrial P
ark i
n
 J
ohnstown,
 
P
ennsylvania, a
nd o
thers a
t
 J
ean L
afitte National H
istorical P
ark i
n
 
L
ouisiana, Golden Gate National R
ecreation Area i
n
 California,
 
Hawaii Volcanoes National P
ark, Chamizal National Memorial P
ark
 
i
n
 T
exas, B
lue R
idge National P
arkway i
n
 V
irginia a
nd North Caro-
l
i
na, Cuyahoga National R
ecreation Area i
n
 Ohio, a
nd V
irgin I
s
lands
 
National P
ark o
n S
t
. J
ohn t
e
stify t
o
 o
ur c
ommitment.
 
The i
nitial f
olklife s
urvey h
as documented much o
f c
ultural impor-
t
ance —especially g
iven t
hat f
i
eld work was l
imited t
o two months —but
 
t
his r
eport must not b
e r
egarded a
s a
 s
uff
icient base f
or f
uture p
rogram-
ming and p
reservation e
fforts. Much has y
et t
o b
e d
iscovered and
 
understood a
bout Acadians i
n Maine. For i
nstance, t
he s
urvey does not
 
g
ive an overview o
f t
he worldview t
hat Acadians s
hare a
s a
 s
ubcultural
 
g
roup. Their i
nstitutions and what t
hey mean t
o Acadians have not y
et
 
been s
ystematically s
tudied o
r analyzed. Historical c
ontext has been
 
g
iven f
or c
ertain physical manifestations o
f material c
ulture, but t
here i
s
 
no data a
bout what c
hanges o
ccurred, t
he mechanisms f
or c
hange, and
 
how t
he c
hange has b
een i
ncorporated i
nto t
he worldview o
f t
he people.
 
The g
eographic s
cope o
f t
he s
urvey was l
imited t
o a
 f
ew c
ommunities i
n
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley; a
 b
roader s
cope i
s
 needed i
n t
he Valley, northern
 
Aroostook County, and o
ther a
reas o
f Maine.
 
I
t
 i
s
 t
empting, with p
rogramming i
n mind, t
o mount r
esearch
 
k
eyed t
o s
pecif
ic a
rts o
r f
orms o
f c
ultural e
xpression. But a
 s
ystematic,
 
e
xtended, i
n-depth documentary s
urvey o
f t
he culture would be more
 
p
roductive i
n t
he l
ong r
un. Based on a
 c
learly s
tated r
esearch design, t
he
 
methodologies employed s
hould i
nclude l
i
terature r
eviews, participant
 
observation, mini-surveys, l
i
fe h
istories and o
ther o
ral h
istory, a
nalysis
 
o
f c
ensus data, a
rchival r
esearch, and i
n-depth i
nterviews. Research
 
61
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
s
hould i
nclude members o
f t
he Acadian c
ommunity a
s r
esearch a
ssoci-
a
tes a
nd o
thers f
rom t
he c
ommunity a
s r
eviewers, p
roviding f
eedback
 
on t
he e
nd p
roducts. The f
ollowing a
re s
ome s
pecific a
reas which
 
warrant s
erious r
esearch.
 
Archaeology. Archaeological r
esources a
re a
n i
ntegral p
art o
f
 
t
he i
nvestigation i
nto Acadian c
ulture. A "walk-over" s
urvey i
s
 needed
 
t
o document a
nd d
escribe s
i
tes, a
nd a
ssess t
heir potential t
o p
rovide data
 
on t
he material c
ulture a
nd c
ultural adaptations o
f t
he e
arly Acadian
 
s
ettlers i
n t
he s
tudy a
rea. The overview s
hould b
e f
ollowed by s
pecif
ic
 
s
i
te i
nvestigations a
nd documentation, a
s c
alled f
or.
 
Architecture. Vernacular a
rchitectural r
esources warrant a
 
c
omplete a
rchitectural s
urvey o
f p
roperties over f
i
fty y
ears i
n age. Such a
 
s
urvey c
ould e
nlist t
he s
kills a
nd r
esources o
f t
he s
tate h
istoric p
reserva-
t
ion o
fficer o
r t
he Historic American Buildings Survey o
f t
he National
 
P
ark S
ervice. The g
eographic a
rea o
f t
his s
urvey s
hould i
nclude S
t
. J
ohn
 
R
iver s
ettlements, v
i
llages, a
nd t
owns b
etween A
llagash and Hamlin;
 
s
ettlements a
long Maine Route 1
1 f
rom Winterville north t
o Fort Kent;
 
a
nd b
ack s
ettlements, e
specially i
n t
he t
ownships o
f S
t
. F
rancis, S
t
. J
ohn
 
P
lantation, F
ort Kent, Wallagrass, E
agle Lake, New Canada, S
t
. Agatha,
 
Madawaska, Grand I
s
le, Van Buren, Cyr P
lantation, and Hamlin. The
 
t
owns o
f Caribou a
nd P
resque I
s
le a
re a
lso r
ich i
n a
rchitectural f
eatures
 
a
ssociated with Acadians.
 
S
ome o
f t
he most important p
roperties f
all within t
he f
ollowing
 
c
ategories: (
a
) dwellings: Acadian l
og f
armhouses and v
illage houses
 
f
rom t
he e
arly t
o l
a
te n
ineteenth c
entury; e
arly- t
o mid-twentieth-century
 
f
armhouses; s
easonal l
ake c
amps; (
b) f
arm buildings: Acadian p
ignon-
s
imple (
s
imple-gable) b
arns; twin b
arns; c
omble-cassé (
gambrel-roof)
 
b
arns; l
arge, e
arly-twentieth-century, s
imple-gable g
rain and hay barns;
 
potato houses; t
ool a
nd e
quipment s
heds; (
c
) r
eligious p
roperties and
 
s
i
tes: a
l
l c
hurches over f
i
fty y
ears o
ld; p
resbyteries; c
onvents; r
oadside
 
a
nd memorial c
rosses a
nd s
hrines; c
emeteries; s
acred s
prings; (
d) s
chool
 
buildings: Catholic Church s
chools; o
lder wood-frame public s
chool-
houses; e
arly- t
o mid-twentieth-century b
rick buildings; (
e
) mills and
 
h
istorical mill s
i
tes: buckwheat, c
arding, l
umber, and o
thers; (
0 h
istorical
 
s
i
tes a
ssociated with t
he r
ailroad: F
renchville S
tarch F
actory; r
ailroad
 
potato warehouses; t
rain d
epots a
nd s
tations. These p
roperties a
re
 
p
resently f
a
lling i
nto d
isuse a
nd a
re t
hus e
ndangered c
ultural r
esources.
 
Cultural l
and u
se s
urvey. A
ll l
ands i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley h
ave b
een u
tilized a
nd/or modified by Euro-Americans t
o s
ome
 
d
egree, e
ven portions t
hat appear t
o
 b
e p
ristine. A c
omprehensive
 
knowledge o
f t
he g
eological, e
cological, and c
ultural h
istory o
f t
he a
rea
 
i
s
 a
 p
rerequisite t
o understanding Acadian c
ulture. A c
ultural l
and u
se
 
s
tudy f
rom t
he c
ultural/ 
h
istorical g
eography approach —utilizing
 
g
eography's emphasis on d
iscovering patterns —will best l
ay t
he f
oun-
d
ation f
or understanding s
ome o
f t
he p
resent l
and f
ormations, l
and
 
boundaries, e
xploited/ 
e
xploitable n
atural r
esources, e
xtant c
ultural
 
r
esources, a
nd potential a
rchaeological r
esources. Defining patterns,
 
developing a
 c
ontext f
or t
he p
atterns, and a
ssessing t
he r
esources within
 
t
hat c
ontext will p
rovide t
he n
ecessary b
ackground f
or understanding
 
t
he f
eatures o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley l
andscape
.
 
Subjects t
o
 b
e a
ddressed by t
he l
and u
se s
urvey i
nclude: (
a) l
and
 
1
1
 
6
4
 
CONCLUSION
 
p
roperty s
ystems, s
uch as t
he a
rpent s
ystem o
f l
and a
l
lotment u
tilized
 
during e
arly s
ettlement, i
n r
elation t
o
 n
atural f
eatures; (
b) l
and owner-
s
hip and l
and e
xchanges s
uch a
s s
ale, l
ease, and i
nheritance s
ystems;
 
(
c
) e
xtractive i
ndustries, s
uch a
s l
ogging a
nd mining, with a
ssociated
 
l
and modifications a
nd i
nfrastructures; (
d) a
gricultural s
ystems, l
and
 
modifications, a
nd a
ssociated i
nfrastructures; (
e
) a
nimal husbandry
 
p
ractices a
nd a
ssociated i
nfrastructures; a
nd (
f
) t
ra ns portati o n systenis
 
and a
ssociated i
nfrastructures.
 
E
thnic a
scription/group i
dentity. The s
ubject o
f g
roup
 
i
dentity i
s
 c
omplex i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley. Dr. Adrien B
éruh
 
o
f t
he Centre Universitaire S
aint-Louis-Maillet, i
n Edmundston, New
 
B
runswick, s
urveyed northwest New B
runswick t
o g
auge g
roupncss
 
and i
dentity among t
he F
rench-speaking population. His e
xtensive
 
questionnaire e
xplored a
 r
ange o
f r
egional a
ttitudes c
orrelated with
 
i
dentity l
abels l
ike "
Brayon," "Acadian," "Canadian," a
nd
 
"Madawaskan." A
 s
imilar s
ociological/ 
g
eographical s
tudy on t
he Maine
 
s
ide o
f t
he Valley would b
e h
elpful t
o c
ultural p
rogrammers t
rying t
o
 
t
a
ilor i
nterpretive c
ommentary t
o t
he r
ealities o
f t
he r
egion.
 
Folklife. Additional documentation o
f t
he r
egion's e
xpressive
 
c
ulture i
s
 r
equired f
or a
dequate d
evelopment o
f p
rograms o
f many
 
k
inds, i
ncluding p
erformances, e
xhibitions, publications, and apprentice-
s
hips. Areas o
f e
xpressive c
ulture t
o
 b
e documented s
hould i
nclude
 
f
oodways, music, dance, o
ral t
raditions, o
ccupational l
ore, material
 
c
ulture, r
eligious t
raditions, a
nd f
amily a
nd c
ommunity c
elebrations.
 
Historical documents. Copies o
f p
roperty r
ecords, s
uccessions,
 
deeds, v
endor/vendee r
ecords, a
nd o
ther documents p
ertaining t
o e
arly
 
Acadians must b
e g
athered a
nd made a
vailable t
o r
esearchers o
f Maine
 
Acadian h
istory. Existing documents r
ecorded p
rior t
o United S
tates
 
ownership o
f a
 portion o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley (
1785-1842) a
re
 
p
resently i
n Canada (mostly i
n New B
runswick). Records pertaining t
o
 
t
he e
arly h
istories o
f t
he o
ldest known Acadian s
tructures a
nd s
ites i
n
 
t
he Valley a
re g
enerally not a
vailable i
n Maine.
 
L
inguistics. L
inguistic s
tudy i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley a
nd
 
v
icinity s
hould i
nclude: (
a
) b
asic phonological a
nalysis, documentation,
 
and c
omparison with o
ther New and O
ld World F
rench f
orms;
 
(
b) applied s
ocio- and p
sycholinguistic s
tudy t
o determine t
he c
haracter
 
a
nd d
epth o
f a
ttitudes a
bout l
anguage u
se; (
c
) e
thnolinguistic s
tudy t
o
 
i
dentify s
ignificant Acadian F
rench l
exical domains a
nd t
o c
ollect l
exical
 
i
t
ems a
ssociated with f
arming, l
ogging, c
arpentry, weaving, f
olk r
i
tual,
 
p
lants, animals, t
he weather, a
nd o
ther a
reas o
f t
raditional knowledge;
 
(
d) F
rench p
lace-name s
tudy.
 
Material c
ulture. The purposes o
f t
he Act c
learly c
all f
or t
he
 
p
reservation o
f t
angible c
ultural r
esources. Fulfilling t
hese purposes w
ill
 
c
all i
nto p
lay t
he s
trategies o
f h
istoric p
reservation, and t
he n
eed f
or
 
a
rchitectural, a
rchaeological, a
nd l
andscape s
urveys a
re d
iscussed a
bove.
 
Many o
ther material f
orms o
f e
xpression p
rovide i
nsight i
nto Acadian
 
c
ulture, however. A
 s
urvey o
f c
ollections h
eld by i
nstitutions i
n Maine
 
a
nd New B
runswick i
s
 n
eeded. A
 t
e
lephone a
nd/or questionnaire
 
s
urvey will p
rovide a
 b
asic l
evel o
f knowledge a
bout t
he c
ollections
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
known t
hat r
elate t
o Maine Acadians. I
t
 s
hould b
e noted t
hat "
identify-
i
ng, g
athering, a
nd p
reserving" Acadian material c
ulture r
equires
 
s
pecial e
xpertise i
n Acadian v
ernacular t
raditions.
 
Natural r
esources. The Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation
 
Act authorizes t
he National P
ark S
ervice t
o e
nter i
nto c
ooperative
 
a
greements with owners o
f p
roperties o
f n
atural s
ignificance a
ssociated
 
with t
he Acadian p
eople o
f t
he s
tate o
f Maine. Natural r
esources, t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver b
eing c
hief among t
hem, have had a
 p
rofound i
nf
luence
 
on l
i
fe i
n t
he Valley. A
 l
i
terature r
eview a
nd b
asic overview o
f t
he a
rea's
 
b
iotic and a
biotic r
esources will h
elp define t
he c
ultural c
ontext o
f
 
Acadians i
n Maine. The i
dentification o
f s
pecific s
i
tes o
f i
nterest s
hould
 
b
e i
ncluded i
n t
he overview. G
iven t
hat n
atural r
esources do not r
espect
 
polit
ical boundaries, t
he e
ffort s
hould b
e c
onducted i
n c
ooperation with
 
e
ntities i
n Canada.
 
What Next?
 
The National P
ark S
ervice will c
onduct p
lanning a
ctivities t
o determine
 
how t
o
 a
ssist l
ocal a
nd s
tate g
overnments a
nd o
ther public and p
rivate
 
e
ntities i
n t
e
lling t
he s
tory o
f Maine's Acadian s
ettlers and t
heir descen-
dants; t
o f
acilitate c
oordination with o
ther agencies and i
nterests; t
o
 
a
ssist i
n i
dentifying, g
athering, a
nd p
reserving t
angible Acadian r
e-
s
ources f
or t
he b
enefit a
nd e
ducation o
f t
he public; t
o a
ssist i
n p
reserving
 
Acadian music, a
rts, a
nd f
olklore; and t
o i
nvolve t
he public i
n decisions
 
a
bout National P
ark S
ervice a
ctivities, Acadian r
esources, and potential
 
f
acilities d
evelopment
. The Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Com-
mission will a
dvise t
he National P
ark S
ervice t
hroughout t
he p
lanning
 
p
rocess. A
 t
hree-step p
rocess will b
e f
ollowed:
 
1
 A
lternatives/
 e
nvironmental a
ssessment
 
2
 Implementation s
t
rategy
 
3
 Implementation
 
S
tep One will i
nvolve t
he d
evelopment and analysis o
f a
 r
ange
 
o
f a
l
ternatives t
o a
ccomplish t
he p
reservation and public p
rogramming
 
mandates o
f t
he Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Act, while a
ssess-
ing t
he e
nvironmental impacts o
f e
ach a
lternative, a
s r
equired by t
he
 
National Environmental Policy Act (
42 USC 4
371 e
t
 s
eq.). The a
lternative
 
f
utures document t
hat will r
esult f
rom S
tep One will address i
ssues o
f
 
s
ignificance, t
he s
uitability a
nd f
easibility o
f p
roposed National Park
 
S
ervice a
ctivities, a
nd a
n a
ppropriate r
ange o
f management a
lternatives.
 
I
nnovative, p
ractical, a
nd c
ost-effective s
olutions t
o t
he i
ssues will b
e
 
c
ontained i
n t
he a
l
ternatives. At t
he c
onclusion o
f S
tep One, t
he North
 
A
tlantic Regional D
irector will, with t
he i
nvolvement o
f t
he Maine
 
Acadian Culture P
reservation Commission and t
he public, s
elect t
he
 
a
l
ternative t
hat b
est a
ccomplishes t
he purposes o
f t
he Maine Acadian
 
Culture P
reservation Act
.
 
A
 s
trategy t
o implement t
he s
elected a
lternative will be devel-
oped i
n S
tep Two. An i
nterdisciplinary t
eam o
f p
lanning p
rofessionals
 
will develop i
nterrelated p
roposals f
or r
esource p
rotection and manage-
ment, c
ooperation with l
ocal i
nterests, i
nterpretation and public p
ro-
g
ramming, v
isitor u
se, Native American a
ctivities, a
ccessibility f
or
 
d
isabled v
isitors, c
arrying c
apacities, and operations; a
long with a
 
g
eneral i
ndication o
f t
he l
ocation, s
ize c
apacity, and f
unction o
f physical
 
d
evelopments. A
 s
chedule a
nd c
ost e
stimates will b
e i
ncluded. Specif
ic
 
(
10
 
CONCLUSION
 
p
lans t
hat might b
e c
ontained i
n t
he implementation s
trategy i
nclude
 
development c
oncept p
lans, l
and p
rotection p
lans, r
esource manage-
ment p
lans, c
oncession management p
lans, i
nterpretive p
rospectus,
 
h
istoric s
tructure r
eports, a
nd e
xhibit p
lans. These p
lans will b
e p
repared
 
i
n a
ccordance with guidelines d
eveloped by e
xperts i
n t
he r
espective
 
p
rogram a
reas.
 
S
tep Three will i
nvolve implementing t
he s
trategy developed i
n
 
S
tep Two. I
t
 will c
onstitute t
he ongoing National Park S
ervice p
rogram
 
t
o r
ecognize and i
nterpret t
he important c
ontribution made t
o American
 
c
ulture and h
istory by Maine Acadians. At t
his s
tage t
he National Park
 
S
ervice may e
nter i
nto c
ooperative a
greements with t
he owners o
f
 
p
roperties o
f n
atural, h
istorical, o
r c
ultural s
ignif
icance a
ssociated w
ith
 
t
he Acadian people i
n t
he s
tate o
f Maine
.
 
Throughout t
he p
lanning p
rocess, opportunities will h
e p
ro-
v
ided f
or t
he public a
t
 t
he n
ational, r
egional, a
nd l
ocal l
evels t
o v
oice
 
t
heir c
oncerns a
bout p
lanning a
nd implementation o
f t
he Maine Acadian
 
c
ulture p
roject p
roposals. Certain c
onsultations with s
pecific parties a
nd
 
a
gencies a
re r
equired by l
aw, r
egulation, and National P
ark S
ervice
 
policies. I
n addition, positive a
ctions will b
e t
aken t
o i
dentify and
 
i
nvolve t
he public a
s i
ndividuals a
nd t
hrough public i
nterest g
roups a
nd
 
o
rganizations a
t
 t
he e
arliest possible s
tages i
n t
he p
lanning p
rocess a
nd
 
b
efore p
lanning decisions h
ave b
een made
. Those i
nvolved will i
nclude
 
f
ederal a
gencies, s
tate a
nd l
ocal g
overnments, r
egional p
lanning c
om-
missions, Native Americans, t
he s
tate h
istoric p
reservation o
fficer,
 
Acadian c
ultural g
roups i
n t
he United S
tates a
nd Canada, t
he Maine
 
Acadian Culture P
reservation Commission, a
nd o
ther i
nterested p
arties.
 
Opportunities f
or public p
articipation may i
nclude public workshops
 
and meetings, i
nformal work s
essions on p
articular i
s
sues, a
nd public
 
r
eview and c
omment on d
raft documents.
 
The National P
ark S
ervice will d
evelop, g
ather, c
ompile, s
tore,
 
analyze, and update i
nformation a
bout n
atural a
nd c
ultural r
esources
 
a
nd r
egional demographic, e
thnographic, a
nd s
ocioeconomic data
 
r
elevant t
o p
lanning a
nd implementation. These data will s
erve a
s a
n
 
i
nformation b
ase f
or f
ormulating p
roposals, e
valuating a
l
ternatives, a
nd
 
making d
ecisions during p
lanning. The s
urvey o
f Maine Acadian c
ulture
 
p
resented i
n t
he p
receding p
ages, with i
t
s r
ecommendations f
or f
urther
 
r
esearch, i
s
 t
he f
i
rst s
tep i
n p
roviding a
n adequate i
nformation b
ase
 
a
bout Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine
.
 
Three points will b
e borne i
n mind during p
lanning. F
irst, t
he
 
c
ultural t
raditions o
f t
he Valley a
re s
hared and e
xtended by c
ommuni-
t
i
es s
cattered t
hroughout Maine a
nd New England t
o which Acadians
 
f
rom t
he Valley h
ave migrated during t
he p
ast c
entury. Such c
ommuni-
t
i
es r
etain l
inks t
o t
he Valley a
nd t
hus r
epresent a
 s
ort o
f c
ultural
 
d
iaspora (
not unlike t
he e
arlier d
iaspora which b
rought Acadians t
o t
he
 
Valley i
n t
he f
i
rst p
lace). Considering t
hem i
n p
lans f
or c
ultural p
ro-
g
ramming, despite t
heir d
ispersion, makes good c
ultural s
ense.
 
S
econd, t
he Valley i
s
 d
ivided by t
he boundary b
etween Maine
 
and New B
runswick; but t
he boundary i
s
 p
rimarily political r
ather t
han
 
c
ultural. I
t
 would b
e a
 c
ultural d
isservice t
o i
gnore t
he Canadian s
ide o
f
 
t
he Valley i
n p
rogram m
ing a
nd i
nterpretation.
 
And, t
hird, t
he c
ulture o
f t
he Upper S
t
. John Valley i
s
 p
lural,
 
i
ncluding h
istorical i
nf
luences a
s well a
s c
ontemporary r
epresentatives
 
f
rom o
ther c
ultural g
roups. The F
rench-language c
ultural h
eritage
 
i
ncludes Quebecois a
s well a
s Acadian F
rench t
raditions, and t
he
 
6
7
 
ACAI)IAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
English-language t
raditions a
re a
lso v
aried. Further, t
here a
re h
istorical
 
a
nd c
ontemporary c
ultural f
eatures which a
re n
either F
rancophone nor
 
Anglophone i
n o
rigin, r
anging f
rom American I
ndian t
r
ibal t
raditions t
o
 
t
he t
raditions o
f e
thnic g
roups l
i
ke t
he Swedes. Many t
raditions (
includ-
i
ng t
hose r
egarded a
s Acadian) r
ef
lect multiple o
rigins and i
nf
luences, t
o
 
t
he point t
hat t
hey may b
e a
s much r
egional a
s e
thnic i
n c
haracter
. One
 
c
annot understand t
he Valley without t
aking t
hese c
omplexities i
nto
 
a
ccount, a
nd p
rogramming which s
eeks t
o a
void t
hem i
n o
rder t
o f
eature
 
only "
pure" Acadian t
raditions will not only d
istort c
ultural r
eality but
 
s
t
ir c
ontemporary r
esentment. Though Acadian c
ulture may c
omprise
 
t
he c
hief f
ocus o
f j
o
int National P
ark S
ervice/community p
rogramming,
 
r
esponsible c
ultural p
resentation a
nd c
onservation will r
equire p
roper
 
a
cknowledgment o
f a
l
l t
he c
ultural s
trands t
hat have c
reated t
he f
abric o
f
 
t
he r
egion.
 
08
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
 
North Atlantic
 Marie Rust, Regional D
irector
 
Region
 
Robert McIntosh, Associate Regional D
irector, Division o
f P
lanning and
 
Development
 
Terry W. S
avage, Chief, D
ivision o
f p
lanning a
nd Development
 
S
arah Peskin, B
ranch Chief o
f P
lanning, D
ivision o
f P
lanning a
nd
 
Development
 
B
ruce J
acobson, Maine Acadian Culture P
roject Manager; Resource
 
P
lanner, B
ranch o
f P
lanning, D
ivision o
f P
lanning and Development
 
Maine Acadian
 C
. Ray B
rassieur, Survey F
ield Coordinator; P
rograms Coordinator,
 
Cultural Survey
 University o
f Missouri Cultural Heritage Center
 
Camila B
ryce-Laporte, P
rogram Coordinator, American F
olklife Center,
 
L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Guy F
.
 Dubay, S
urvey H
istorian; H
istory P
rofessor, University o
f Maine
 
a
t Fort Kent
 
S
tephanie A
. Hall, Archivist, American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f
 
Congress
 
Alan J
abbour, D
irector, American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Howard W. Marshall, Survey Folklorist; D
irector, University o
f Missouri
 
Cultural Heritage Center
 
L
isa Ornstein, Survey F
olklorist; D
irector, Acadian Archives/ 
Archives
 
a
cadiennes, University o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent
 
David A
. Taylor, Survey P
roject D
irector; Folklife Specialist, American
 
Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
David A
. Whitman, Survey Cultural Geographer; Researcher/Photogra-
pher, University o
f Missouri Cultural Heritage Center
 
Consultants
 
Many i
ndividuals, i
n addition t
o t
hose l
i
sted a
bove, c
ontributed t
heir
 
s
kills t
o t
he p
reparation o
f s
pecific e
lements o
f t
he r
eport. The publica-
t
ion was designed by Dale Swensson, Swensson Design, and e
dited by
 
J
ane Crosen, Crackerjack Editorial S
ervices. The c
over photo was t
aken
 
by J
ack Delano, and J
ane Crosen c
reated t
he map i
l
lustrations.
 
6
9
 
ACADIA
 I
V C
ULTURE [I
V MA I
NE
 
The Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey was f
ortunate t
o r
eceive
 
assistance f
rom many people i
n Maine and e
lsewhere. The National Park
 
S
ervice and t
he American Folklife Center a
re particularly g
rateful t
o t
he
 
dozens o
f people i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley who s
hared t
heir knowl-
e
dge o
f t
he a
rea's h
istory and c
ulture with f
leidworkers; t
o t
he Univer-
s
i
ty o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent, which p
rovided o
ffice s
pace and o
ther s
up-
port during t
he f
ieldwork phase o
f t
he s
urvey; and t
o t
he Acadian
 
Archives/ 
Archives a
cadiennes a
t t
he University o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent
 
f
or c
onsiderable r
esearch a
ssistance and l
ogistical advice.
 
Although i
t
 i
s
 impossible t
o l
i
st everyone who c
ontributed t
o t
he
 
p
roject i
n one way o
r another, t
he National Park S
ervice and t
he Ameri-
c
an Folklife Center wish t
o a
cknowledge t
he f
ollowing i
ndividuals who
 
were e
xceptionally helpful: Bernette Albert, Madawaska Historical
 
Society; G
ilbert "Gil" Albert, Fort Kent; J
ulie Albert, Madawaska; J
ulie
 
B
ayley, University o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent; Dr. Marcella Belanger-Violette,
 
Van Buren; Dr. Adrien Bérubé, Centre Universitaire S
aint-Louis- Maillet;
 
Dr. Barney Berube, Maine Department o
f Education; Phil B
rown, Port-
l
and; Geraldine Chasse, Madawaska Historical Society; Mark Chasse,
 
F
ort Kent Historical Society; Cathy Corey, d
irector o
f t
he Madawaska
 
Chamber o
f Commerce; C
laude "Blackie" Cyr, Madawaska Historical
 
Society; Don Cyr, p
resident o
f l
'
association h
istorique e
t c
ulturelle du
 
Mont-Carmel; Laurel Daigle, p
resident o
f t
he Fort Kent Historical
 
Society; P
rof
. Lowell Daigle, University o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent; Dr.
 
R
ichard Dumont, p
resident o
f t
he University o
f Maine a
t Fort Kent;
 
Herman and Rena Deprey, Fort Kent; J
ayne F
arrin, Office o
f Community
 
Development, Van Buren; F
rances Albert Gendreau, S
t
. David; Dr.
 
Madeleine G
iguere, University o
f Southern Maine; J
ames Henderson,
 
Maine S
tate Archives; Teresa Hollingsworth, Dr. Edward D
. I
ves, and
 
Mary O
' Meara, Northeast Archives o
f Folklore and Oral History; Dr.
 
B
ernard LeBlanc, d
irector o
f Musée Acadien, Université de Moncton;
 
Dayle Ashby, S
enator Cohen
's Office, P
resque I
s
le; Marion Higgins,
 
Representative Olympia Snowe
's Off
ice, P
resque I
s
le; Mary LeBlanc,
 
Office o
f S
enator George J
.
 Mitchell, P
resque I
s
le; Don Levesque, manag-
ing editor o
f t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley T
imes; Tony Levesque, Office o
f Commu-
n
ity Development, Fort F
airf
ield; B
lanche Long, Maison Daigle-St. J
ean,
 
C
lair, New B
runswick; Sheila McDonald, Maine Bureau o
f Parks and
 
Recreation; J
ohn L
. Martin, Speaker o
f t
he Maine House o
f Representa-
t
ives; Kathleen Mundell, Maine Arts Commission; David Potter, North-
e
rn Maine P
lanning Commission; Patrick Ouellette, Fort Kent; F
ather J
im
 
P
lourde, S
aint Agatha Catholic Church; Karen Levesque, F
renchville
 
Historical Society; David Raymond, a
ssistant p
rincipal a
t Wisdom High
 
S
chool, S
aint Agatha; J
anet Roberts, Maine S
tate Archives; Ann Roy,
 
p
resident o
f Notre Heritage V
ivant/Our L
iving Heritage; Earle G
.
 
Shettleworth, J
r
., d
irector o
f t
he Maine Historic P
reservation Com mis-
s
ion; Dr. Cyril S
imard, Centre Universitaire S
aint-Louis- Maillet; Alden
 
C
. Wilson, d
irector o
f t
he Maine Arts Commission; and David Wylie,
 
Madawaska Chamber o
f Commerce.
 
Members o
f t
he North Atlantic Region's Maine Acadian culture
 
p
roject p
lanning t
eam have a
lso been helpful i
n r
eviewing t
his document
 
and helping t
o s
et t
he overall d
irection f
or t
he p
roject. I
n addition t
o
 
Team Captain, B
ruce J
acobson, t
hey a
re: Dick P
ing Hsu, Regional
 
Archaeologist; Karen Michaud, I
nterpretive Specialist; Drew Parkin,
 
Chief o
f R
ivers B
ranch; S
arah Peskin, Chief o
f P
lanning B
ranch, and;
 
Robert W. Reynolds, Superintendent, Acadia National Park.
 
GLOSSARY
 
T
h
is
  p
reliminary g
lossary o
f Acadian F
rench t
erms r
elated t
o v
ernacular
 
a
rchitecture and c
ultural l
andscape was p
repared f
rom f
i
eld r
esearch
 
c
onducted during t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991 i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley
 
o
f northern Maine by Howard W. Marshall. I
t
 makes no a
ttempt t
o b
e
 
h
istorical, and, s
ince i
t
 i
s
 based on s
hort-term f
i
eldwork, i
t
 c
annot b
e
 
definitive. Most o
f t
he t
erms g
iven below c
an b
e l
ocated i
n s
tandard
 
d
ictionaries o
f t
he F
rench l
anguage. However, s
ome t
erms a
re f
ound
 
(
heard) only i
n t
he l
iving c
ontext o
f s
poken F
rench u
sed i
n t
he Valley.
 
A
lthough t
here a
re s
tudies o
f F
rench v
ernacular building
 
t
raditions i
n North America (
see Gowans 1
964, Kniffen and Glassie 1
965,
 
Moogk 1
977, Edwards 1
987, and Upton and V
lach 1
986), data c
ollected
 
during t
he c
ourse o
f t
he Maine Acadian c
ultural s
urvey i
ndicates a
 n
eed
 
t
o r
ethink t
he f
eatures o
f t
he t
echnology and t
he houses, b
arns, and o
ther
 
f
eatures r
elated t
o a
rchitecture and l
andscape.
 
S
tudies o
f t
he F
rench-derived a
rchitecture o
f Louisiana (Kniffen
 
1
965, Edwards 1
987), Missouri (
Thurman 1
984, Peterson 1
940 4
1), and
 
Québec (
Gowans 1
964, Moogk 1
977) c
ontain a
rchitectural t
erms s
up-
p
lied by s
cholars a
s well a
s t
erms e
l
icited f
rom r
esidents o
f a
reas where
 
e
xamples o
f t
his a
rchitecture's f
eatures a
re f
ound. This i
s
 a
lso t
he c
ase
 
with s
tudies o
f Acadian buildings i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley.
 
There i
s
, not s
urprisingly, d
isagreement among Acadian s
chol-
a
rs on t
hese t
erms. Most t
erms a
re not f
ound i
n s
tandard d
ictionaries o
f
 
a
rchitectural h
istory and t
echnology. S
cholars who have e
xplored
 
documents s
uch a
s t
ravelers' a
ccounts, d
iaries, and l
egal r
ecords e
ncoun-
t
ered a
 v
ariety o
f s
pellings and g
losses. I
n addition, a
 r
esearcher f
amiliar
 
with published s
tudies o
f F
rench Creole o
r Cajun building t
raditions i
n
 
Louisiana will not necessarily know t
he permutation o
f a
 F
rench word i
n
 
northern Maine. I
n Louisiana, t
he t
erm c
olombage, f
or e
xample, i
s
 
g
enerally u
sed i
n t
he published s
cholarship t
o denote heavy f
rame o
r
 
box c
onstruction with i
n-fill (
f
achwerk i
n German; half-timbering i
n
 
English), but i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley, people understand i
t
 t
o r
efer
 
t
o a
 particular k
ind o
f p
ièce-sur-pièce (
piece-on-piece) c
onstruction i
n
 
which v
ertical g
rooved c
olumns r
eceive t
he e
nds o
f t
he f
lush horizontal
 
p
ièces (
madriers).
 
S
till one o
f t
he b
est works, a
lthough a
bout F
rench s
ettlers i
n a
 
d
ifferent r
egion, i
s
 McDermott's 1
941 monograph, A G
lossary o
f
 Missis-
s
ippi Valley F
rench 1
673-1850. McDermott, who t
aught F
rench a
t
 
Washington University and was knowledgeable a
bout t
he Acadian
 
e
xperience i
n North America, based h
is g
lossary on F
rench t
erms f
ound
 
i
n e
arly documents. I
n t
he p
resent g
lossary, t
erms f
ound i
n t
he Valley
 
t
hat a
re i
dentical t
o t
hose i
n McDermott's s
tudy a
re noted with an
 
a
sterisk M .
 
Some h
istoric t
erms i
n McDermott were not heard i
n Maine,
 
s
uch a
s b
oulin f
or "
log u
sed i
n building houses o
r f
ences" (McDermott
 
1
941:33), and b
ousillage (
used i
n Missouri t
oday) f
or t
he c
hinking
 
b
etween l
ogs i
n a
 building (McDermott 1
941:34). A
lso, s
ome t
erms i
n
 
McDermott have a
 d
ifferent meaning i
n S
t
. J
ohn Valley s
poken F
rench.
 
For e
xample, c
arré i
n McDermott i
s
 e
xplained a
s t
he small s
pace b
eneath
 
7
1
 
D
1AN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
a
 r
oof (McDermott 1
941:43), but i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley t
he word g
renier i
s
 
u
sed f
or t
his (
the l
oft o
r a
ttic l
evel); Valley F
rench-speakers use t
he word
 
c
arré only f
or t
he s
pace b
elow t
he p
lates (
loft l
evel). I
n o
ther words, c
arré
 
i
s
 t
he s
tructural s
quare t
hat t
he r
oof s
i
ts upon.
 
Equally important, but more c
losely c
onnected t
o t
he s
urvey's
 
s
tudy a
rea, i
s
 t
he outstanding c
ollection o
f e
ssays a
bout t
he h
istory and
 
c
onstruction t
echnology o
f v
ernacular houses i
n Québec f
ound i
n L
a
 
maison t
r
adition
 n
e/ic a
n Quebec, e
dited by Lessard and V
ilandré
 
(
Lessard and V
ilandré 1
974).
 
The f
ollowing p
reliminary g
lossary i
s
 based p
rimarily on
 
c
onversations with s
cholars o
f Acadian c
ulture, and on d
iscussions with
 
F
rench-speakers i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley during f
ield r
ecord-
i
ng o
f v
ernacular buildings undertaken during t
he s
ummer o
f 1
991. A
 
number o
f t
erms r
elated t
o Acadian building and buildings a
re English
 
i
nstead o
f F
rench
. Those which a
re e
specially important k
eys t
o t
he
 
v
ernacular a
rchitecture i
n t
he Valley a
re g
iven below. F
rench t
erms a
re
 
s
hown i
n i
t
alics; English t
erms a
re not i
talicized. I
t
 i
s
 a
ssumed t
hat t
he
 
a
verage r
eader will know, o
r c
an e
asily l
earn t
he meaning o
f t
erms s
uch
 
a
s: r
after, decking, p
late, g
irt, c
ollar b
eam, b
race, mortise, t
enon, s
i
ll, s
ash,
 
auger, b
roadaxe, adze, f
row, p
lank, t
ongue-and-groove, j
oinery, spline,
 
r
oof p
itch, whitewash, and o
akum. I
f
 words have s
ynonyms o
r r
elevant
 
definitions i
n t
he s
tandard Cassell's F
rench Dictionary, and i
f
 t
his
 
i
nformation appears h
elpful, t
his i
s
 i
ndicated i
n parenthesis f
ollowing
 
t
he e
ntry
. (
See, f
or e
xample, t
he e
ntry f
or p
ianche.) Words o
r definitions
 
c
ontributed by s
urvey r
esearcher C
. Ray B
rassieur which a
re r
elated t
o
 
Louisiana F
rench a
re noted by "CRB."
 
a
rmoire * A t
a
ll wooden c
upboard
 
made t
o s
tore household material
 
s
uch a
s d
ishes (
i
f i
n
 t
he d
ining r
oom
 
o
r k
itchen) o
r c
lothing (
in a
 b
ed-
r
oom). The American English t
erms
 
t
hat c
an b
e s
ubstituted, d
epending
 
on s
ize a
nd f
unction, a
re "ward-
r
obe," "
chifforobe," "
press," a
nd
 
"
s
ideboard." Armoire r
ouge (
gros
 
r
ouge) i
s
 s
ometimes u
sed t
o d
enote
 
t
he s
pecial f
l
at, d
eep r
ed c
olor (
a
lso
 
c
alled s
ang d
e b
oeuf
, "
oxblood")
 
h
istorically p
ainted o
n a
rmoires a
nd
 
o
ther k
inds o
f f
urniture i
n t
he
 
Acadian household. (
see s
ang d
e
 
b
oeuf)
 
a
rmoirette (
CRB) A
 s
horter, more
 
t
ypical Acadian a
rmoire
.
 
a
rpent * (
a
rpent = a
cre; e
quivalent
 
t
o
 a
bout one-and-a-half English
 
a
cres /
 C
asseil's 4
9) The o
fficial
 
s
ystem o
f F
rench "
long l
o
t" l
and
 
d
ivision b
rought t
o North America
 
w
ith t
he f
i
rst Acadian s
ettlers. An
 
a
rpent i
s
 a
 unit o
f measure, r
oughly
 
1
92 English f
eet i
n width; t
here a
re
 
d
ifferent i
nterpretations o
f i
t
s p
recise
 
d
imensions h
istorically. For e
xample,
 
L
essard and V
ilandré g
ive t
he meas-
u
rement a
s 1
91.835 English f
eet.
 
baluster A
 v
ertical post, t
urned o
r
 
r
ectangular, s
upporting handrails.
 
b
atterie * (
batterie = t
hreshing f
loor;
 
b
atter e
n g
range =  t
hresher; b
atteuse
 
= t
hreshing machine /
 Casseli's 8
3)
 
The middle b
ay (
hall, passage) o
f a
 
t
hree-bay Acadian b
arn (with l
arge
 
opposed doors) u
sed a
s a
 t
hreshing
 
a
nd winnowing a
rea.
 
bay An a
rea b
etween t
he p
rincipal
 
s
tructural members o
f a
 building,
 
e
specially a
 b
arn.
 
b
ergere (
berger =  s
hepherd;
 
b
ergerie = s
heepfold /
 Casseli's 8
7)
 
The l
ow outbuilding where s
heep
 
were k
ept on t
he Acadian f
arm.
 
'h'riiis p
tnind i
n t
he Valley t
hat a
re i
dentical t
o t
h
ose i
n McDermott's 1
941 s
tudy.
 
GLOSSARY
 
b
race A 4
5-degree-angle su p port
 
p
laced between v
ertical a
nd hori-
z
ontal beams t
o i
ncrease s
tability.
 
The F
rench t
erm f
or t
his i
s
 l
i
en.
 
c
amp A t
emporary s
helter u
sed by
 
l
umbermen and hunters, o
r, a
s o
ften
 
t
oday, a
 v
acation o
r l
e
isure-time
 
c
ottage o
r dwelling. The F
rench
 
t
erm f
or l
umber c
amp i
s
 c
han
 t
i
er
.
 
c
arr The s
pace below t
he p
lates
 
(
loft l
evel) o
f a
 house; i
n o
ther
 
words, t
he s
tructural s
quare t
hat t
he
 
r
oof s
i
ts upon; moving v
ertically,
 
t
he c
arré i
s
 t
he s
i
lls, walls, g
irts, a
nd
 
p
lates. (
see s
quare o
f t
he house)
 
c
ave (
caveau = small c
ellar; c
aver =
 
t
o hollow out /
 Cassell's 1
36) The
 
c
ool, damp, dug-out potato b
arrow
 
o
r c
ellar beneath a
 f
armhouse where
 
potatoes were s
tored b
efore t
he
 
c
oming o
f r
ailroads i
n t
he l
a
te
 
n
ineteenth c
entury l
ed t
o t
he
 
c
onstruction o
f s
pecial potato
 
houses a
t
 t
he r
ailheads.
 
c
avereau The entrance (
outside,
 
g
round-level) t
o t
he c
ave (
cellar),
 
u
sually c
overed with a
 s
hed o
r
 
g
able r
oof
.
 
c
hinking I
nsulation o
r i
n-f
ill
 
between t
he horizontal l
ogs i
n t
he
 
bearing walls o
f a
 house. Peat moss,
 
b
irchbark, and buckwheat c
haff a
l
l
 
s
erved t
he Acadians v
ery well a
s
 
c
hinking i
n t
heir p
ièce-sur-pièce
 
houses. This c
hinking i
s
 r
ather more
 
l
ike marine "
caulking" t
han c
hink-
i
ng (
of t
he s
ort f
amiliar i
n o
ther
 
r
egions o
f t
he United S
tates where
 
l
ogs a
re l
a
id up with d
istinct g
aps
 
between t
hem t
hat r
equire s
ubstan-
t
i
al i
n-fill o
r c
hinking) i
n c
ases
 
where t
he l
ogs o
r p
ièces f
i
t t
ightly.
 
S
ince t
he l
ogs f
i
t f
lush, t
he peat
 
moss and o
ther materials work well
 
a
s c
hinking material.
 
c
or
n
 b
le c
assé (
comble c
assé =
 
b
roken c
omb /
 CRB) S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley F
rench words f
or t
he "
gam-
b
rel r
oof" f
amiliar i
n t
he r
egion, on
 
twentieth-century b
arns e
specially.
 
COIIC'SSiO?l * Grants o
f l
ands t
o
 
e
arly s
ettlers o
f means and position.
 
I
n l
a
ter s
ettlement, t
his r
efers t
o t
he
 
"
back s
ettlements," l
ands g
ranted o
r
 
s
old t
o s
ettlers o
r t
he o
ffspring o
f
 
o
riginal s
ettlers c
oming a
fter t
he
 
i
nitial l
ands were t
aken up a
long t
he
 
main a
reas bordering t
he r
iver; t
o he
 
f
rom one o
f t
he "
back s
ettlements"
 
(
away f
rom t
he r
iver i
n t
he i
nterior)
 
s
t
ill means t
hat one i
s
 not o
f t
he best
 
s
ocial c
lass, and t
he t
erm s
t
ill c
arries
 
derogatory c
onnotations (
e
.g., u
s
 
v
iennent d
es c
oncessions).
 
c
oude (
see Ship's knee)
 
c
oulisse This i
s
 t
he g
roove c
ut i
n
 
t
he e
dge o
f a
 board t
o r
eceive t
he
 
t
ongue o
f t
he adjacent board i
n
 
p
lanche d
ebout Acadian c
onstruc-
t
ion. Coulisse i
s
 a
lso t
aken t
o b
e t
he
 
t
erm f
or t
he p
rincipal v
ertical
 
g
roove c
ut i
nto t
he c
olumns f
or
 
p
ièce-su
 r
-pièce c
onstruction.
 
c
ouverture * (
a
lternately c
ornble)
 
The r
oof o
f a
 building.
 
c
loture d
e p
ieu (
CRB) Split post-
and-rail f
ences with wire f
astenings.
 
The h
istorical t
erm, i
n McDermott,
 
i
s
 b
arrière. P
ieu h
istorically, i
n
 
McDermott (
117), means a
 s
plit o
r
 
hand-riven post, r
ail, o
r s
take.
 
c
olombage I
n Moogk (
1977),
 
c
o
lombage r
efers t
o wall c
onsti i
.
 
t
ion f
eaturing c
losely s
et v
ertici
 
s
tructural members. E
lsewhere t I
 
t
erm i
s
 s
ometimes u
sed f
or what i
s
 
c
alled h
alf-timbered c
onstruction
 
(with heavy f
rame) f
or B
ritish I
s
les
 
and B
ritish-American i
nstances, a
nd
 
f
or what i
s
 c
alled f
achwerk in
 
German-speaking European
 
c
ountries and i
n most Germanic
 
c
ommunities i
n t
he U
.S. Howe ii,
 
i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley c
olombage h
a
 
b
een applied t
o t
he c
olumns t
hat a
re
 
one o
f t
he v
ital i
dentifying f
eatures
 
o
f p
ièce-sur-pièce o
r l
og c
onstruc-
t
ion i
n which t
he horizontal hewn
 
l
ogs o
r t
hinner s
awn p
lanks (
both
 
f
l
at on a
l
l f
our s
ides) a
re f
i
tted v
ery
 
c
losely t
ogether i
n t
he Aca
 d
 i
an
 
*TL,rnls f
o
inul i
n t
he Va1lei f
l
int a
rc ,hnfual I
n t
/
iosc i
ll McDernuif I
 •  1
941  t
iolii.
 
7
3
 
ACAL)IAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
t
radition. I
n Moogk (
1977), e
n
 
c
o
lombage r
efers t
o wall c
onstruc-
t
ion f
eaturing c
losely s
et v
ertical
 
s
tructural members.
 
d
épanneur A quick-stop/conve-
n
ience s
tore. Dépanneurs a
re t
he
 
l
ocal v
ariant o
f t
he American
 
c
onvenience s
tores, but t
hey a
re
 
p
rivately owned. They s
ell many
 
k
inds o
f homemade l
ocal f
oods and
 
a
 wide v
ariety o
f materials. Many
 
o
ffer v
ideo r
entals. Dépanneur i
s
 t
he
 
word u
sed on s
torefronts i
n New
 
B
runswick.
 
d
euxième r
ang (
deuxième =
 
s
econd) The s
econd r
ank o
f l
and-
holdings i
n t
he Acadian l
and-
d
ivision s
ystem b
ased on t
he a
rpent
 
t
radition o
f d
ivision and a
l
ignment.
 
These were o
ften o
f l
esser quality,
 
but t
hey were developed p
rior t
o
 
t
he "
back s
ettlements" (
conces-
s
i
ons); t
hey were l
ocated well b
ack
 
f
rom t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver's more
 
sought-af
ter l
ands.
 
d
cl,elle Gauvin (
1965) s
uggests t
hat
 
t
he Acadian é
chelle derives f
rom
 
t
he maritime c
onnotation o
f t
he
 
word a
s a
 "
gangway" o
r "
ship's
 
l
adder," but t
he i
nspection o
f a
 
number o
f n
ineteenth-century
 
Acadian homes i
n t
he Valley l
eads
 
one t
o b
elieve t
hat é
chelle b
est
 
describes t
he s
et o
f s
teep s
teps u
sed
 
t
o a
ccess a
ttics o
f Acadian houses.
 
I
nterestingly, t
he word é
chelier
 
(
another f
orm o
f é
chelle) i
s
 u
sed i
n
 
Louisiana t
o designate p
recisely t
he
 
s
ame s
ort o
f s
teep s
tairway l
eading
 
t
o t
he a
ttics o
f Acadian houses.
 
English barn A
 b
arn t
ype t
hat i
n
 
p
lan i
s
 c
omposed o
f
, u
sually, t
hree
 
b
ays i
n width and one o
r more b
ays
 
i
n depth; t
he p
rincipal doors a
re
 
l
ocated i
n t
he c
entral bay and a
re
 
opposed. This b
arn t
ype i
s
 c
alled an
 
"Acadian b
arn" (
grange a
cadienne)
 
i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley.
 
f
lats The l
ow-lying f
loodplains
 
a
ttractive f
or t
he e
arliest Acadian
 
a
gricu
 I
to
 r
o
, c
ommerce, a
nd e
t
tIe
 
ment, which begins a
t t
he bank o
f
 
t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver and r
uns gently
 
i
nland t
o t
he r
ise o
f t
he h
ills beyond
 
garconnière  (
garconniere =
 
b
achelor's r
ooms /
 Cassell's 371;
 
CRB) The t
erm u
sed i
n Louisiana
 
f
or t
he s
eparate upstairs s
leeping
 
quarters f
or males.
 
"
le g
rand ménage"  (ménage =
 
housekeeping; ménager = t
o s
ave,
 
t
ake c
are o
f; t
hrifty, f
rugal /
 
Cassell's 4
81; g
lossed by one i
nfor-
mant a
s "
the b
ig housekeeping";
 
"
the b
ig upkeep" /
 CRB) This i
s
 t
he
 
annual c
ycle o
f s
pring c
leaning o
f
 
one's house, barns, outbuildings,
 
yard, e
tc. The Acadian t
radition o
f
 
s
pring c
leaning here goes f
ar be-
yond t
he s
tandard American c
on-
c
ept o
f "
spring c
leaning." I
t
 means
 
t
o c
lean anything, i
ncludes r
e-
t
arring d
riveways and demolishing
 
(
"cleaning up") o
ld buildings t
hat
 
have f
allen i
nto d
isrepair. This t
end-
ency o
r c
ustom has s
ignificant r
ami-
f
i
cations f
or h
istoric p
reservation.
 
When an o
ld s
hed o
r outbuilding i
s
 
d
isused and f
alls i
nto a
 s
tate o
f ne-
g
lect, t
he f
orce o
f t
he s
pring=
 
c
leaning t
radition p
ressures people
 
t
o g
et r
id o
f t
heir o
ld buildings.
 
g
range A barn. The t
ypical
 
Acadian barn (
grange a
cadienne) o
f
 
t
he e
arly period i
s
 a
 t
hree-bay, s
ide-
opening, g
able-roof barn much l
ike
 
t
he s
o-called "English" barn i
n i
t
s
 
f
loor p
lan. There i
s
 a
 c
entral pas-
s
ageway t
hrough t
he middle o
f t
he
 
s
tructure, and o
ften a
 s
hed addition
 
on one g
able end. At l
east s
ome
 
parts o
f t
his barn a
re s
ided with
 
s
hingles, particularly t
he a
reas
 
(
inside t
he barn a
s well a
s outside)
 
where f
arm ani mals were s
tabled
 
during t
he c
old s
easons.
 
g
renier  G
reniers a
re t
he c
ommodi-
ous s
leeping and l
iving s
paces
 
under t
he r
oof. Many a
re quite l
arge
 
and n
icely f
inished, s
ome being
 
made i
nto two r
ooms by t
he
 
addition o
f a
 v
ertical board parti-
t
i
on/divider wall. Some '
r
eniers a
re
 
I
'r,iis f
oinid i
ll t
i
n' I
/al/oj t
h
at a
rc l
d
L
'iltwal t
o t
hose
 
i
i McDermott's 1
941 s
tudy.
 
GLOSSARY
 
i
nsulated with b
irchbark, n
ews-
paper, o
r o
ther materials. I
n Louisi-
ana, t
his s
pace i
s
 c
alled g
arconnière;
 
e
lsewhere, t
his s
pace i
s
 c
alled a
 
"
loft" (
i
f i
t
 i
ncludes s
leeping s
paces)
 
o
r an "
attic" (
i
f t
he purpose i
s
 
e
ssentially f
or s
torage and u
tility
 
purposes).
 
g
ris A l
ight g
ray c
olor, c
ommon-
p
lace on e
arly f
urniture a
nd u
sed
 
t
oday i
n c
ombination with s
ang d
e
 
b
oeuf (
gros r
ouge, o
xblood c
olor)
 
by Acadians o
f t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley. I
t
 o
ccurs f
requently i
n a
 two-
t
one c
ombination with s
ang d
e
 
b
oeuf.
 
half-dovetail (
see We d
e c
hien)
 
k
ing's b
road a
rrow A mark u
sed
 
by a
gents o
f t
he K
ing o
f England t
o
 
b
laze o
r i
dentify t
he b
est o
f t
he o
ld-
g
rowth white p
ine t
rees; r
eserved
 
by t
he English Crown, t
hey were
 
mainly h
arvested and s
hipped out
 
o
f t
he r
egion and u
sed f
or s
hips'
 
masts and s
pars by t
he Royal Navy
 
i
n c
olonial t
imes. There were s
evere
 
penalties f
or c
utting a
 t
ree marked
 
with t
he k
ing's b
road a
rrow.
 
l
i
en A d
iagonal wooden b
race
 
b
etween v
ertical and horizontal
 
f
raming members o
r t
imbers i
n a
 
barn.
 
l
og building For t
he Acadian
 
v
ernacular buildings i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley, "
log building" may describe
 
any k
ind o
f s
tructure i
n which l
ogs
 
o
r t
imbers a
re u
sed i
n t
he b
earing
 
walls o
f t
he s
tructure. During t
he
 
e
arly phase o
f s
ettlement, l
og
 
buildings o
f t
he Anglo-American
 
v
ariety a
s well a
s l
og buildings t
hat
 
e
xemplify t
he f
inest Acadian
 
t
radition o
f horizontal l
og c
onstruc-
t
ion (
f
requently with v
ertical posts
 
anchoring t
he horizontal p
ièces i
n
 
t
he e
n c
oulisse t
reatment) were
 
p
redominant. Thus, i
n t
he s
tudy
 
a
rea, a
 p
ièce i
s
 s
imply a
 l
og o
r p
lank
 
u
sed i
n a
 b
earing wall o
f a
 building.
 
I
n t
his r
egion, t
herefore, and i
n
 
c
ontradistinction t
o t
he description
 
i
n t
he s
eminal e
ssay by F
red Kniffen
 
and Henry G
lassie (
Kniffen and
 
C
lassic 1
966), any l
og building with
 
l
ogs p
laced horizontally t
o p
rovide
 
a
 b
earing wall, r
egardless o
f c
orner-
notching o
r c
orner-timbering
 
methods, may b
e t
hought o
f a
s
 
p
ièce-so
 r
-pièce c
onstruction. Thus
 
t
he Acadian t
radition i
n t
he Upper
 
S
t
. J
ohn R
iver Valley i
s
 t
o describe
 
t
hese buildings a
s being e
i
ther "
log"
 
o
r p
ièce c
onstruction. A p
ièce i
s
 a
 
l
og o
r p
lank. (
see madrier)
 
madrier A t
hick p
lank. This i
s
 a
 
d
ialect t
erm (
CRB) t
hat i
s
 s
ometin 1
 
d
ifficult t
o d
istinguish f
rom p
ièce.
 
Any Acadian c
arpenter will d
istin
 
guish b
etween madrier and p
ièce,
 
but, f
rom a
 l
exicographer's perspe
 
t
ive, c
onfusion o
ften r
esults f
ro
 i
 
1
1
 
t
he f
act t
hat d
ifferent c
arpenter.
 
define t
he t
erms v
ariously with
 
r
espect t
o p
recise d
imensions. \
 
madrier measures a
bout 2
 i
nches b
 
8
-lU i
nches by a
bout 1
6 i
nches; ,
i
 
p
ièce measures a
bout 3
-4 i
nches o
r
 
g
reater i
n t
hickness and i
s
 v
ariable
 
i
n h
eight and l
ength.
 
maison A house.
 
o
akum Loosely twisted h
emp o
r
 
j
ute f
ibers u
sed t
o c
aulk s
eams o
t
 
s
hips and boats; i
n t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley, o
akum i
s
 s
ometimes
 
f
ound a
s c
aulking (
insulation)
 
b
etween t
he horizontal p
ièces o
r
 
l
ogs o
f a
 l
og house and i
s
 s
ometimes
 
made o
f buckwheat f
ibers.
 
p
erche (
CRB) A l
ong pole.
 
paneling Many o
f t
he Acadi,in
 
dwellings h
ave p
aneled c
eilings
 
i
nside; t
hese o
re o
ften p
i i
n
 t
ed
 
white.
 
pegs (orved n
.00deii p
egs o
r
 
"
trunnels" t
hat s
ecure mortise- md-
-
t
enon and o
ther k
inds o
f j
o
ints i
n
 
t
he f
raming o
f Acadian buildings.
 
(
see t
runnels)
 
p
ièce-sur-pièce *  I
n t
he Valley, t
he
 
s
horthand t
erm p
ièce i
s
 o
ften u
sed
 
Teriii  f
j
iiiiii/ i
l
l thc V
illIC11 I
/
ial arl , h
/l/lt h
a! t
o t
/ul e i
l
l MeL)1ii,iott
 1
041  l
n!ii
 
ACADIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
i
nstead o
f t
he entire t
erm. Local
 
c
i
tizens f
requently s
ay p
ièce when
 
r
eferring t
o t
he c
onstruction o
f
 
h
ewn l
og walls o
f houses l
ike t
he
 
F
red Albert House. P
ièce-sur-pièce
 
c
onstruction i
nvolves developing a
 
wall by building up l
ayers o
f
 
horizontal hewn o
r s
awn, s
haped
 
l
ogs o
r p
lanks. The e
ffect i
s
 not
 
e
ntirely unlike t
hat o
f a
 l
og building,
 
and, i
n f
act, s
ome people c
all t
hese
 
buildings "
log buildings."
 
Sometimes t
he t
erm i
s
 r
eplaced
 
by "American-style l
og c
abin." The
 
l
ogs a
re s
ometimes h
ewn i
nto
 
r
ectangles with a
 b
roadaxe and t
hey
 
a
re s
ometimes p
it-sawn by h
and o
r
 
s
awn a
t
 a
 l
ocal s
awmill. They f
i
t
 
f
lush and a
re o
ften c
aulked with a
 
l
ocal material f
e
tched f
rom t
he f
i
eld
 
o
r f
orest s
uch a
s f
l
ax, buckwheat
 
c
haff, b
irchbark, o
r o
akum.
 
The l
ogs a
re l
a
id a
top e
ach o
ther
 
until t
hey r
each f
rom t
he s
i
ll t
o t
he
 
p
late. I
n a
 s
tandard "American-
s
tyle" l
og house (
that o
f t
he Ger-
man-speaking and Anglo-American
 
builders), t
he p
ièces a
re notched a
t
 
t
he c
orners. I
n t
he Acadian t
radi-
t
ion, t
hey a
re o
ften built e
n c
oulisse;
 
a
long t
he way o
f t
heir r
i
se t
hey a
re
 
s
et i
nto t
he v
ertical c
olumn's g
roove
 
(
coulisse) t
hat r
eceives t
he t
enon o
r
 
t
ongue a
t e
ach end o
f t
he l
og (
pièce)
 
o
r p
lank (madrier). One o
f t
he
 
v
irtues o
f p
ièce-sur-pièce c
onstruc-
t
ion e
n c
oulisse i
s
 t
hat t
he builder i
s
 
a
ble t
o u
se s
hort p
ieces (
l
ogs,
 
p
lanks) i
nstead o
f r
equiring l
onger
 
l
engths n
eeded i
n t
he s
tandard
 
Anglo- o
r Germanic-American l
og
 
building.
 
I
t
 i
s
 important t
o note t
hat p
ièce
 
i
s
 u
sed t
o r
efer t
o more t
han one
 
t
ype o
f l
og c
onstruction.
 
p
ignon s
imple (
p
ignon = g
able e
nd
 
/
 Cassell's 5
63) L
iterally, "
simple
 
g
able." I
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn R
iver
 
r
egion, t
he t
erm r
efers t
o t
he Aca-
d
ian barn t
ype with g
abled r
oof, t
he
 
b
arn o
f t
he e
arly g
eneration.
 
p
lanche d
ebout (
planche = board
 
o
r s
helf /
 C
assell's 5
68; p
lanchette =
 
small board; p
lancher = f
loor) This
 
Acadian t
erm r
efers t
o t
he method
 
o
f p
lacing v
ertical boards (
about 2
 
i
nches by 8
-17 i
nches, hand-planed
 
o
r s
ash-sawn) f
lush on t
he e
xterior
 
and i
nterior walls o
f a
 house. The
 
p
lanche d
ebout p
rovides t
he
 
i
nsulation and f
inishing f
or a
 wall,
 
when t
he s
ystem i
s
 employed here
 
a
long with p
ièce-sur-pièce bearing-
wall c
onstruction. The vertical
 
boards a
re u
sually t
ongue-and-
g
roove c
onstruction and f
i
t t
ightly
 
t
ogether s
ide by s
ide f
rom s
i
ll t
o
 
p
late.
 
I
n a
 house l
ike t
he F
red Albert
 
House, t
he p
lanche d
ebout i
s i
t
self
 
c
overed on t
he e
xterior by l
apped
 
horizontal weatherboarding. This
 
"
siding" s
erves t
o d
ress up t
he
 
building and a
lso p
rovides an
 
additional l
ayer o
f p
rotection and
 
i
nsulation against t
he c
old. The
 
h
istorical t
erm f
or s
tanding t
imber
 
i
n McDermott i
s b
ois-debout.
 
p
lanche galbee (
galbée =  p
lank
 
with a
 j
o
inted edge, u
sually t
ongue-
and-groove). This i
s
 a
 t
ongue-and-
g
rooved vertical board t
hat i
n
 
a
ssemblage makes t
he p
lanche
 
d
ebout (
vertical f
lush board wall-
i
ng).
 
porche A t
erm t
hat s
ome people
 
apply t
o a
 l
ow l
ean-to addition t
o a
 
g
range a
cadienne (Acadian barn,
 
s
ee g
range), o
ften built onto t
he
 
g
able end.
 
porcherie (
porc = p
ig) A swine
 
s
table (
pigsty) within a
 l
ean-to o
f a
 
barn; a
 building used a
s a
 swine
 
s
table.
 
potato house This i
s
 t
he l
arge barn
 
t
hat i
ndividual potato g
rowers
 
(
farm owners) built adjacent t
o t
he
 
r
ailroad t
racks f
or t
he t
emporary
 
s
torage and p
reparation o
f har-
vested potatoes p
rior t
o t
heir
 
s
hipment t
o market c
enters. The
 
F
rench t
erm i
s c
ave a
 p
atate. Often
 
two o
r more potato houses were
 
a
ttached end-to-end with c
oncrete
 
f
i
re walls between t
hem. Potato
 
houses a
t t
he r
ailheads do not, o
f
 
/
 '
r
i/iS f
e
ii i
id i
ll f
/
u' Vu/hut f
l
i
tif u
i' it
h'u f
icu/ t
o f
/
io'u' i
l
l McDermott's 1
941 s
tudii
 
1
6 
 
course, p
redate t
he c
oming o
f t
he
 
r
ailroad t
o particular l
ocations.
 
Another t
ype o
f potato house i
s
 
t
he b
arn on t
he potato g
rower's
 
f
arm where potatoes and e
quipment
 
a
re s
tored. Many o
f t
hese f
armstead
 
potato houses were built partly i
nto
 
a
 h
illside i
n o
rder t
o p
rovide
 
i
nsulation t
hat h
elps maintain t
he
 
potatoes a
t
 a
 more-or-less c
onstant
 
t
emperature. A t
hird t
ype o
f potato
 
house i
s
 t
he metal, Quonset-style
 
building t
hat i
s
 not built i
nto a
 
h
illside.
 
poutre  (
poutre = b
eam, g
irder /
 
Cassell's 5
85) A p
rincipal v
ertical o
r
 
horizontal t
imber i
n a
 h
eavily
 
f
ramed Acadian barn.
 
p
remier r
ang The f
i
rst r
ank o
f
 
l
andholdings i
n t
he Acadian l
and
 
d
ivision s
ystem b
ased on t
he a
rpent
 
t
radition o
f d
ivision and a
l
ignment.
 
These were t
he f
i
rst l
ands s
ettled
 
and a
l
igned f
acing t
he S
t
. J
ohn
 
R
iver, and t
hey t
ypically i
ncluded
 
t
he l
ow-lying "
f
iats."
 
s
ang d
e b
oeuf (
s
ang d
e b
oeuf =
 
oxblood; t
he c
olor c
alled g
ros r
ouge
 
i
n Louisiana CRB) The deep r
ed
 
"
oxblood" c
olor t
hat c
ontinues t
o
 b
e
 
popular among Acadians o
f t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley. S
ang d
e b
oeuf
 
o
ccurs a
s t
he painted c
olor on e
arly-
n
ineteenth-century f
urniture
 
(
particularly a
rmoires and c
hairs) i
n
 
Acadian houses. Today i
t
 o
ccurs i
n
 
many p
laces, o
ften i
n a
 two-tone
 
c
ombination with l
i
ght g
ray. L
ight
 
g
ray (
gris) was a
lso c
ommonplace
 
on e
arly f
urniture. The c
olors a
re
 
s
een now i
n c
ombination on two-
t
one p
ickup t
rucks and c
ars
 
t
hroughout t
he r
egion, and t
hey a
re
 
f
ound on modern c
ommercial
 
buildings and houses a
s well a
s on
 
o
lder houses.
 
I
n New B
runswick, t
he c
ombina-
t
ion o
f l
i
ght g
ray and r
ed i
s
 a
lso
 
f
a
irly c
ommon. But i
n New Brun-
swick, a
cross t
he S
t
. J
ohn R
iver, t
he
 
r
ed t
oday t
ends t
o b
e a
 g
lossy and
 
b
right r
ed i
nstead o
f a
 muted s
ang
 
d
e b
o
t'uf a
s i
n Maine.
 
GLOSSARY
 
s
hip's knee The s
hip's k
nees a
re
 
s
i
tuated opposite e
ach o
ther i
n t
he
 
l
oft o
r r
oof a
rea and p
rovide a
 s
tout
 
additional b
racing t
o s
tabilize t
he
 
f
ramework both horizontally a
nd
 
v
ertically. I
n n
autical u
sage, a
 s
hip's
 
knee i
s
 def
ined by i
t
s f
unction and
 
l
ocation, s
uch a
s "
stern knee" o
r
 
"
hanging knee," v
ital t
o a
 vessel's
 
s
t
rength. Ship's knees a
re made h'
 
b
isecting t
he l
ower t
runk a
nd r
oot
 
s
ystem o
f a
 whole t
ree t
o g
ive a
 
p
iece o
f wood with t
he g
rain
 
r
unning with t
he c
urve o
f t
he knee,
 
f
or s
t
rength. They a
re o
ften f
astened
 
by d
rift p
ins (wrought-iron p
ins
 
h
ammered t
hrough d
rilled holes).
 
Ship's knees a
re an important
 
detail t
hat marks and i
dentifies t
he
 
c
onstruction t
echnology o
f t
he
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley Acadian houses. I
t
 i
s
 
possible t
hat t
hey r
epresent a
 k
ind
 
o
f r
emembered a
rchitectural
 
f
eature, employed not s
o much i
n
 
t
he n
ineteenth c
entury f
or necessity
 
(
these f
rameworks a
re e
xtremely
 
s
tout a
s t
hey a
re) a
s f
or t
heir
 
r
ef
lection o
f o
lder, European t
imber-
f
raming h
abits t
hat were e
stablished
 
(
brief
ly) i
n t
his r
egion o
f Maine and
 
New B
runswick. Some Valley
 
r
esidents u
se t
he F
rench t
erm c
oude
 
(
e
lbow) i
nstead o
f t
he English
 
"
ship's knee."
 
s
quare o
f t
he house The l
ocal
 
t
erm f
or t
he p
rimary o
r o
riginal
 
s
ection o
f an Acadian house, o
ften
 
made o
f s
ome t
ype o
f l
og c
onstrue
 
t
ion; t
he l
arge, s
quare s
pace i
s
 o
il
 
r
emodeled by a
dding r
oornsant I
 
f
i
xtures. The F
rench t
erm i
s
 c
a
ii'.
 
t
ête d
e c
hien (
t
ête d
e c
hien = h
ead
 
o
f t
he dog) This t
erm r
efers t
o t
he
 
manner o
f j
o
ining h
ewn-log b
earing
 
walls a
t
 t
he c
orners i
n a
 c
arefully
 
s
awn-joint r
eminiscent o
f a
 c
abinet-
making j
o
int i
n which h
alf o
f a
 f
ull
 
dovetail i
s
 u
sed. The p
ractice i
s
 
f
amiliar t
o s
tudents o
f l
og c
onstruc-
t
ion t
raditions t
hroughout North
 
America a
s "
half-dovetailing." T
i1i'
 
d
e c
hien, a
long with V
-notching, a
re
 
t
he two most p
revalent l
og-building
 
c
ornering t
r
aditions i
n t
he L
 n
i
 t
ed
 
*
Te
rms  f
ound i
n t
h
e V
alley t
h
at a
re i
dentical t
o t
hose i
n McL)L
'riiiott'  1
941 s
l
ii/i
 
7
7
 
CADIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
S
tates when h
ardwoods a
re em-
p
loyed. (
There a
re e
xamples o
f f
ull
 
dovetailing on l
og houses i
n New
 
Sweden, Maine, built by Swedish
 
immigrant f
armers and builders i
n
 
t
he l
a
te n
ineteenth c
entury.)
 
t
runnels Wooden pegs t
hat s
ecure
 
mortise-and-tenon and o
ther k
inds
 
o
f j
o
ints i
n t
he f
raming o
f Acadian
 
buildings. The F
rench t
erm i
s
 
c
heville. T
runnels (wooden pegs,
 
c
hevilles d
e b
ois) appear t
o b
e t
he
 
p
referred device i
n t
his r
egion f
or
 
l
ocking j
o
ints i
n buildings. They
 
p
rovide a
 f
l
exible but s
tout l
ock f
or
 
important j
o
inery, s
uch a
s t
he r
after
 
c
ouples and a
l
l manner o
f
 b
racing
 
and f
raming members. A
 t
runnel i
s
 
s
imply a
 c
arved wooden peg t
hat
 
t
apers g
ently t
hroughout i
t
s l
ength.
 
I
t
 i
s
 made f
rom a
 s
awn and r
ounded
 
p
iece o
f p
ine o
r o
ther wood and
 
u
sed i
n a
 r
ound hole made with an
 
auger. Trunneling i
s
 an i
ngenious
 
t
echnique t
hat s
olves a
 c
r
itical
 
p
roblem: how t
o s
ecure d
ifficult
 
j
o
ints without benefit o
f nails o
r i
ron
 
s
pikes.
 
twin barn A n
ineteenth- and
 
twentieth-century barn t
ype t
hat i
s
 
an important f
eature i
n t
he Upper
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley's r
epertoire o
f
 
v
ernacular s
tructures. I
t
 i
ncludes
 
s
paces f
or hay and g
rain s
torage,
 
t
hreshing (
i
f n
eed b
e), a
nd s
talls f
or
 
d
raft a
nimals a
nd l
i
vestock. The
 
twin barn i
s
 a
 balanced, s
ymmetri-
c
al c
omposition o
f t
hree s
tructural
 
e
lements: a
 s
imilar i
f
 not i
dentical
 
pair o
f r
ectangular t
hree-bay,
 
g
abled-roof Acadian barns (
compa-
r
able t
o t
he "
English" barn t
ype)
 
p
laced one behind t
he o
ther with
 
t
heir r
idges parallel; t
he t
hird
 
e
lement i
s
 a
 f
ramework (
i
ts r
oof
 
t
ransverse t
o t
he parallel r
oofs o
f t
he
 
two main s
ections) t
hat encloses t
he
 
i
ntervening s
pace. V
iewed f
rom
 
a
bove, t
he barn has an "H" s
hape.
 
Twin barns observed during t
he
 
s
urvey a
re a
l
l f
rame built, u
sually
 
with a
 s
trong f
ramework o
f mortise-
and-tenon c
onstruction employing
 
l
arge hand-hewn s
i
lls, posts, beams,
 
b
races, g
irts, and p
lates. Many a
re
 
s
heathed with weatherboarding,
 
which i
s
 i
n t
urn s
heathed with
 
s
hingles t
o p
rovide additional
 
p
rotection. Twin barns a
re generally
 
painted r
ed o
r l
eft unpainted. The
 
D
. L
. Labrie twin barn i
n S
t
. Agatha,
 
Maine, i
s
 an outstanding e
xample o
f
 
t
his h
istorically important s
tructural
 
t
ype.
 
wainscoting Paneling (
usually o
f
 
v
ertical boards) on t
he l
ower part o
f
 
i
nterior walls, with a
 baseboard and
 
a
 c
hair r
ail a
s a
 c
ap. Wainscoting,
 
l
ike paneled c
eilings, i
s
 most of
ten
 
f
ound i
n t
he f
iner r
ooms o
f a
 
dwelling, s
uch t
he f
ront hall, best
 
parlor, and best bedroom.
 
Jinis t
u
e;iI i
i
i f
l
u 1
 t
hat a
rc i
tL',itical t
o f
/
iosc i
n McDcri,iott's 1
941 s
f
1/dY
 
REFERENCES
 
REFERENCES
 
Ahiborn, R
ichard, and Howard W. Marshall
 
1
980
 Buckaroos i
n Paradise. Washington: L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
Rpt. 1
981, L
incoln, Ne
.: University o
f Nebraska P
ress.
 
Albert, J
ulie D
.
 
1
969
 Madawaska Centennial, 1
869-1969. Madawaska, Me.:
 
S
t
. J
ohn Valley Publishing Co.
 
1
971
 Centennial: 1
817-1971: S
t
. David Parish Centennial.
 
S
t
. David, Me.: The Church.
 
Albert, Thomas
 
1
920
 Histoire du Madawaska. Québec: Imprimerie
 
F
ranciscaine Missionnaire.
 
1
982
 Histoire du Madawaska: e
ntre l
'Acadie, l
e Quebec e
t
 
l
'Amérique. New e
d. e
dited by Adrien Bérubé, Benoit
 
Bérubé, and Georgette Desjardins. Lasalle, Québec: Editions
 
Hurtubrise HMH.
 
1
985
 The History o
f
 Madawaska. T
ranslated by S
ister Therese
 
Doucette and Dr. F
rancis Doucette. A
 Madawaska Hist
 
c
al Society B
ic' F
'np1 rrlil-i
r
 Mada\va4,1 Me Nort
 
e
rn Graphics
 
Allen, J
ames, P
.
 
1
974
 
Perspective,"Acadiensis 3
 (
Autumn 1
974):34-37.
 
1
981
 "
Franco-Americans i
n Maine: A
 Geographical Perspective."
 
I
n A F
ranco-American Overview. Vol. 3
, p
t. 1
,
 edited by
 
Madeleine G
iguère, 8
3-111. Cambridge, Ma.: National
 
Assessment and D
issemination Center f
or B
i
lingual/
 
B
icultural Education.
 
American Folklife Center
 
1
990
 "Roundtable Recommendations a
nd Resolutions." I
 o
il
.
. l
i
fe
 
Center Nezi's 1
2
, n
o,. 3
-4 (
Summer F
all ]
9
(
-
)0):l408 I
 
Ancelet, Barry J
.
 
1
987
 "
Louisiana Oral T
radition: An Overview." I
n 1
'
J
ie Cajuns:
 
Their History and Culture, e
dited by Hamilton and
 
Associates, Vol. 3
,
 p
t
. 9
,
 2
77-342. New Orleans: J
ean I
 ,
a
fitte
 
National H
istorical P
ark.
 
Anon.
 
1
973
 L
ivre S
ouvenir C
e,itenaire d
o Madawaska: 1
873-1973.
 
N
.p.: Np.
 
7
9
 
\
CADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Anon.
 
1
988
 Ouellette Family Reunion: J
uly 1
-2-3, 1
988, Madawaska,
 
Maine. [Madawaska, Me
.]: N
.p.
 
Anwati, J
oey, and Daniel Roy
 
1
981
 "Le moulinà buckwheat." Revue d
e l
a s
ociété h
istorique du
 
Madawaska 9
,
 nos. 3
-4 (
September-October 1
981):18-20.
 
Arsenault, Bona
 
1
965
 Histoire e
t g
énéalogie d
es Acadiens. 2
 vols. Québec: Le
 
Conseil de l
a
 v
ie f
ran(aise en Amérique.
 
1
966
 History o
f t
he Acadians. Québec: Le Conseil de l
a v
ie
 
f
rançaise e
n Amérique.
 
Arsenaul t
,
 S
amuel
 
1
982
 "Geography and t
he Acadians." I
n The Acadians o
f t
he
 
Maritimes: Thematic S
tudies, edited by J
ean Daigle, 8
7-124.
 
Moncton, New B
runswick: Centre d
'études a
cadiennes,
 
Université de Moncton, 1
982.
 
Attwood, S
tanley Bearce
 
1
946
 The L
ength and Breadth o
f Maine. Augusta, Me.: Kennebec
 
J
ournal.
 
Babineau, René
 
1
984
 "
Résumé d
'histoire d
'Acadie, 1
604-1984." R
ichibouctou, New
 
B
runswick: R
. Babineau.
 
Beckwith, Cynthia
 
1
989
 "Our Lady o
f L
ille." Echoes, Spring-Summer 1
989, 27-29.
 
B
elanger, Marcella V
iolette
 
1
953
 "
Le f
ait f
rançais au Madawaska américain." Ph.D. t
hesis,
 
Université de S
aint-Louis (
Edmundston, N.B.).
 
B
ernard, H
. Russell
 
1
988
 Research Methods i
n Cultural Anthropology.  Newbury
 
Park, Ca.: S
age Publications.
 
B
érubé, Adrien
 
1
979
 "La Marévie? Qu'est-ce que c
'est." Revue d
e l
a s
ociété
 
h
istorique du Madawaska —Le Brayon 7
,
 nos. 2-3 (April-
S
eptember 1
979):2-3.
 
B
éruhé, B
arney
 
l
9qua
 Data Collection Report on Language Minority Children.
 
Report p
repared f
or t
he U
.S. Department o
f Education.
 
Augusta, Me.: S
tate o
f Maine Department o
f Education.
 
I
 
L
)
l)()h
 Data Collection Report on Language Minority Children:
 
Appendix. Report p
repared f
or U
.S. Department o
f Educa-
t
ion. Augusta, Me.: S
tate o
f Maine Department o
f Education.
 
REFERENCES
 
1
991a
 Data Collection Report o
n Language Minority Children.
 
Report p
repared f
or t
he U
.S. Department o
f Education.
 
Augusta, Me.: S
tate o
f Maine Department o
f Education.
 
1
991b
 Data Collection Report on Language Minority Children:
 
Appendix. Report p
repared f
or U
.S
. Department o
f Educa-
t
ion. Augusta, Me
.: S
tate o
f Maine Department o
f Educa-
t
ion.
 
B
lodgett, Wentworth P
.
 
1
964
 "
The Crooked Knife
." Chronicle of t
he Ear/it American
 
I
ndustries Association 1
7, no. 4
 (
December 1
964):287.
 
Bouchette, J
oseph
 
1
968
 The British I
Joniinions i
n North America: A Topographi-
c
al and S
tatistical Description o
f t
he Province o
f Lower
 
and Upper Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia. Rpt.
 
e
d. New York: AMS P
ress.
 
Boudreau, Ephrem
 
1
988
 G
lossaire d
u v
ieux parler a
cadien: i
i
iots et e
xpressions
 
r
ecueillis "
 R
ivière-Bourgeois (
Cap-Breton).  Montréal:
 
Editions du F
leuve
.
 
Bourque, I
.
 Rodoiphe
 
1
971
 Social a
nd Architectural Aspects o
f Acadians i
n New
 
Brunswick. F
redericton: Research a
nd Development
 
B
ranch, Historical Resources Administration, Government
 
o
f New B
runswick.
 
B
raën, André
 
1
986
 "
Les Droits L
inguistic." I
n L
es d
roits l
inguistique au
 
Canada, e
dited by Michel B
astarache. Montréal: Les
 
Editions Yvon B
lais, I
nc.
 
B
rainard, Newton C
.
 
1
962
 "
The Crooked Knife." Chronicle o
f t
he Early American
 
I
ndustries Association 1
5, no. 2
 (
June 1%2):175.
 
B
rasseaux, Carl A
.
 
1
987a
 The F
ounding o
f New Acadia. Bat on  Rouge: I
 oui ia na
 
S
tate University P
ress.
 
1
98 T
h
 "Acadian History." I
n T
he Cajuns: Their History a
nd
 
Culture, edited by Hamilton a
nd Associates, Vol. 1
,
 p
t. 3
,
 
1
21-229. New Orleans: J
ean Lafitte National I
 I
i
storica1 P
ark.
 
B
rassieur, C
. Ray
 
1
990
 "The Duclos-Pashia Houses: Survival o
f Creole Building
 
T
raditions i
nto t
he Twentieth Century." Material Culture
 
2
2, no. 2
 (
Summer 1
990):15-26.
 
8
1
 
\
CADlAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
B
rassieur, C
. Ray, a
nd Howard W. Marshall
 
1
990
 T
raditional Arts i
n Missouri, 1
990. Columbia, Mo.:
 
University o
f Missouri Cultural Heritage Center.
 
B
rebner, J
ohn B
.
 
1
927
 New England's Outpost: Acadia Before t
he Conquest o
f
 
Canada. S
tudies i
n History, E
conomics and Public Law, no.
 
2
93. New York: Columbia University P
ress.
 
B
réland, Mario
 
1
986
 Louis J
obin Master-Sculptor
. Québec: Musée de Québec.
 
B
reton, R
ita, J
oan B
rooks, Catherine Fox, F
lorence I
reland,
 
a
nd Edward D
. I
ves
 
1
986
 The Northeast Archives o
f Folklore and Oral History: A
 
Catalog o
f t
he F
irst 1
800 Accessions. Orono, Me.: North-
e
ast Folklore S
ociety.
 
B
rosseau, Mathilde
 
1
980
 Gothic Revival i
n Canadian Architecture. Canadian
 
Historic S
ites, no. 2
5. Ottawa: National Historic Parks and
 
S
ites, P
arks Canada, Environment Canada.
 
B
run, Regis
 
1
982
 Dc Grand-Préà Kouchi-Bou;ouac: l
'histoire d
'un peuple
 
e
xploité
. Moncton, N
.B.: Les Editions d
'Acadie.
 
Caron, I
vanhoe
 
1
831
 La c
olonisation d
e l
a Province d
e Quebec d
e 1791 a
 1
815:
 
L
es c
antons d
e P
est
. Québec
 
Cassell
 
1
977
 Cassell's F
rench Dictionary: F
rench-English, English-
F
rench. Rev. e
d. New York: Macmillan.
 
Churchill, Edwin, a
nd Sheila McDonald
 
1
988
 "Ref
lections o
f Their World: The Furniture o
f t
he Upper S
t
.
 
J
ohn Valley, 1
820-1930." I
n Perspectives on American
 
F
urniture, e
dited by Gerald Ward, 6
3-91. New York:
 
Published f
or t
he Henry F
rancis du Pont Winterthur Mu-
s
eum by W. W. Norton.
 
C
lark, Andrew Hill
 
1
968
 Acadia: The Geography o
f Early Nova S
cotia t
o 1
760.
 
Madison, Wi.: University o
f Wisconsin P
ress.
 
Collins, Charles W.
 
1
907
 The Acadians o
f Madawaska, Maine. New England
 
Catholic Historical Society Publications, no 3
. Boston: P
ress
 
o
f Thomas A
. Whalen &
 Co.
 
Craig, B
eatrice
 
1
973
 The F
ranco-Americans o
f t
he S
aint-John Valley. [
Presque
 
I
s
le, Me.]: University o
f Maine a
t P
resque I
s
le, 1
973.
 
REFERENCES
 
1
983
 "
Family, K
inship, a
nd Community: F
amilies on t
he Cana-
d
ian-Québec Border, Madawaska." Ph.D. t
hesis, University
 
o
f Maine, 1
983.
 
1
988
 "Agriculture a
nd t
he L
umberman's F
rontier i
n t
he Upper
 
S
aint J
ohn Valley, 1
800-1870." I
n J
ournal o
f F
orest History
 
(
July 1
988):125-37
.
 
Cyr, C
laude
 
1
981a
 Cyr Reunion Booklet
. Madawaska, Me.: S
t
. J
ohn Valley
 
Publishing Co.
 
1
981b
 Cyr L
egacy. Madawaska, Me.: Northern Graphics.
 
Cyr, Leo G
.
 
1
985
 Madawaska Heritage: A History a
nd Genealogy o
f our
 
Family, A Branch o
f t
he S
ire (
Cyr) Family i
n t
he New
 
World. Bethesda, Md.: L
. G
. Cyr
.
 
Cyr, Marguerite
 
1
977
 Meinoires d
'une f
ainille a
cadienne d
e Van Buren, Maine.
 
Madawaska, Me
.: S
t
. J
ohn Valley B
ilingual Education
 
P
rogram
.
 
Daigle, j
ean, ed.
 
1
980
 L
es Acadiens d
es Maritimes. Moncton, N
.B.: Centre
 
d
'études a
cadiennes.
 
1
982a
 The Acadians o
f t
he Maritimes: Thematic S
tudies.
 
Moncton, New B
runswick: Centre
 
Université de Moncton, 1
982.
 
1
982b
 "Acadia, 1
604-1763: An Historical Synthesis. I
n 1
 h
e
 
Acadians o
f t
he Maritimes: Thematic S
tudies, e
dited by
 
J
ean Daigle, 1
7-46. Moncton, New B
runswick: Centre
 
d
'études a
cadiennes, Universif
t
' de M oncton, 1
982.
 
Daigle, J
ules 0
.
 
1
984
 A Dictionary o
f t
he Cajun Language. Ann Arbor, Mi.:
 
Edwards B
rothers, I
nc., 1
984.
 
Daigle, Laurel J
.
 
1
989
 His t
ory o
f Public Education i
n Maine S
chool A
t1;ii
 i
n
 i
s
 t
ra-
t
ive District No. 27: A Long T
radition o
f S
ervice and
 
Excellence. Madawaska, Me.: Northern Graphics.
 
Davis, Nanciellen
 
1
985
 E
thnicity a
nd E
thnic Group P
ersistence i
n a
n Acadian
 
V
illage i
n Maritime Canada. New York: AMS P
ress.
 
Day, C
larence
 
1
963
 Farming i
n Maine 1
860-1940. Orono: University o
f Maine
 
P
ress.
 
83
 
1
DIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
D
'Entremont, C
larence
 
1
972
 "The Acadians i
n New England." I
n The F
rench i
n New
 
England, Acadia and Québec, edited by Edward Shriver,
 
2
3-42. Orono, Me
.: New England—Atlantic P
rovinces—
 
Québec Center.
 
Denys
,
 N
icolas
 
1
908
 The Description and Natural History o
f t
he Coasts o
f
 
North America (
Acadia). T
rans. o
f 1
672 ed. Toronto: The
 
Champlain Society.
 
D
itchy, J
ay K
.
 
1
932
 L
es Acadiens Louisianais e
t Leur Parler
. Baltimore:
 
The J
ohns Hopkins P
ress.
 
Doty, C
. S
tewart
 
1
991
 Acadian Hard T
imes: The Farm S
ecurity Administration
 
i
n Maine's S
t
. J
ohn Valley 1
940-1943. Orono, Me.: Uni-
v
ersity o
f Maine P
ress.
 
Doughty, Arthur C
.
 
1
916
 The Acadian Exiles: A Chronicle o
f t
he Land o
f
 
Evangeline. Toronto: Glasgow, B
rook and Co.
 
Dubay, Guy F
.
 
1
978
 "
Le F
ait F
ranco-Americain." L
e Bra
 yon 6
, no. 1
 (
January—
 
March 1
978):10-14.
 
1
983
 Chez-nous: The S
t
. J
ohn Valley. Augusta, Me.: The
 
Maine S
tate Museum.
 
1
989
 The S
tory o
f Germain Dubé
. Madawaska, Me.: S
t. J
ohn
 
Valley Publishing Company.
 
1
992
 "Appendix I
V: Descriptions o
f S
elected Historic P
roperties
 
i
n t
he Upper S
t
. J
ohn Valley." I
n "The Maine Acadian
 
Cultural Survey," c
oordinated by C
. Ray B
rassieur. Wash-
i
ngton, D
.C.: The American Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f
 
Congress.
 
Dufour, A
. &
 S
.
 
NA.
 A
. &
 S
.
 Dufour J
ournal o
f Accounts, 1
844  
1
848. Photocopy
 
o
f ms. a
t Madawaska Public L
ibrary, Madawaska, Maine.
 
Dunn, C
laire Deveau
 
NA.
 There Never Need Be Discouragement: History o
f t
he
 
Deveau Family. N
.p.: t
he author
 
Dupont, J
ean-Claude
 
1
979
 His t
oire populaire t
i
e l
'Acadie.  Ottawa: Editions Ler
néac.
 
84
 
REFERENCES
 
Edwards, J
ay
 
1
987
 "A Geographic I
 l
i
story o
f Acadie." I
n The Cajuns: Their
 
History and Culture, e
dited by Hamilton and Associates.
 
Vol. I
,
 p
t. 2
,11-23. New Orleans: J
ean L
afitte National
 
Historical P
ark.
 
F
ennelly, Catherine
 
1
969
 L
ife i
n an Old New England Country V
illage. New York:
 
Thomas Y
. Crowell Company.
 
F
inegan, Edward, and Niko Besnier
 
1
989
 Language: I
ts S
tructure a
nd Use. New York: I
 l
arcourt
 
B
race J
ovanovich.
 
F
likeid, Karin
 
1
984
 La variation p
l
ionétique d
ans I
c parler a
cadien d
i
i i
j
ord-
e
st du Nouveau-Brunswick: é
tude s
ociolinguistique.
 
American University S
tudies, s
eries X
II, l
inguistics. New
 
York: Peter Lang.
 
F
reeberg, E
rnie
 
1
989
 "Voice o
f The Valley." Down East magazine, November.
 
1
989:78,95.
 
Gauvin, Marie Anne
 
1
969
 L
inguistic a
nd Cultural Heritage o
f t
he Acadians o
f
 
Maine and New Brunswick. Madawaska, Me
.: S
t
. J
ohn
 
Valley Publishing Co.
 
G
iguere, Madeleine, e
d.
 
1
981
 A F
ranco-American Overview. Vol. 3
, p
t
. 1
. Cambridge,
 
Ma.: National Assessment a
nd
 
Gowans, A
 
1
958
 Looking a
t Architecture i
ii Canada.  I )
u
t . )I  id
 
University P
ress.
 
1
964
 Images o
f America;, L
iving: F
our Centuries o
f Architec-
t
ure and F
urniture a
s Culti;ra
 I
 t
i
vpressioii.  ['I
l
i 
1,
1`
1
  e
lphia:
 
L
ippincott.
 
1
966
 Building Canada: An A
 r
c
l,itt
'ctural l
l
istor"t o
f lanai/ia;,
 
L
ife. Toronto: Oxford University P
ress.
 
Griffiths, Naomi F
. S
.
 
1
973
 The Acadians: C
reation o
f a
 P
eople. Toronto: McGraw-
Hill Ryerson.
 
Gruss, Robert
 
1
978
 Dictionnaire Gruss d
e n
,arine. 5th e
d. P
aris: Editions
 
maritimes &
 d
'outre-mer.
 
8
5
 
 
I
 
\DIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
Guignard, Michael J
.
 
1
984
 La f
oi, l
a l
angue, l
a c
ulture: t
he F
ranco-Americans o
f
 
B
iddeford, Maine.  N
.p.: N
.p..
 
Hamilton and Associates, e
ds.
 
1Q
8 ,/
 The Cajuns: Their History and Culture. 5
 vols. New
 
Orleans: J
ean Lafitte National Historic Park.
 
I
 l
amilton, Catherine
 
1
988
 "
Les Acadiens du Madawaska." Salt 3
2 (May 1
988):46-57.
 
I
 -
l
amlin, Helen
 
1
948
 P
ine, Potatoes and People: The S
tory o
f Aroostook. New
 
York
: W. W. Norton &
 Co.
 
I
 l
arris, R
ichard C
.
 
1
966
 The S
eigneurial System i
n Early Canada: A Geographical
 
S
tudy. Madison, Wi.: University o
f Wisconsin P
ress.
 
Hebert, Donald J
.
 
1
979
 I
ndex and Key Words t
o Histoire e
t Genealogie d
es
 
Acadiens by Bona Arsenault
. Cecilia, La.: D
. J
.
 Hebert.
 
1
980
 Acadians i
n Exile. Cecilia, La.: Hebert Publications.
 
1
-
lowe, Lois L
.
, and Constance Fuller
 
1
913
 Details F
rom Old New England Houses. New York: The
 
Architectural Book Publishing Company.
 
Hoyt, Edmund S
.
 
1
87l-9
 Maine S
tate Y
ear-Book and L
egislative Manual. Portland:
 
I
 l
oyt, Fogg and Donham.
 
1
 luftord, Mary
 
1
986
 One Space, Many P
laces: Folklife and Land Use i
n New
 
J
ersey's P
inelands National Reserve. Washington:
 
American Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
F
 l
vnies, Dell
 
"
Folklore's Nature and t
he Sun's Myth." J
ournal o
f A
meri-
c
an Folklore 8
8:345-69.
 
J
abbour, A
lan, and Howard W. Marshall
 
19
80
 " F
olklife and Cultural P
reservation." I
n New Directions i
n
 
Rural Preservation, edited by Robert E
. S
tipe, 43-50.
 
Washington: U
.S. Department o
f t
he I
nterior.
 
K
idney, Dorothy Boone
 
1
976
 A Home i
n t
he Wilderness: Away F
rom i
t All i
n t
he
 
.
1
11agash Woods o
f Maine. South B
runswick and New
 
York: A
. S
.
 B
arnes a
nd Company.
 
REFERENC'IS
 
Kniffen, F
red B
.
 
1
965
 "
Folk Housing: Key t
o D
iffusion." Annals o
f t
he Associa-
t
ion o
f American Geographers No. 5
5 (December
 
1
965):549-77.
 
Kniffen, F
red B
.
, a
nd l
-l
enry C
lassic
 
1
966
 "
Building i
n Wood i
n t
he E
astern United S
tates: A
 T
ime-
P
lace Perspective
." Geographical Review 5
6 (
January
 
1
966):40-66.
 
Konrad, V
ictor A
.
 
1
982
 "Against t
he T
ide
: F
rench Canadian B
arn Building T
radi-
t
ions i
n t
he S
t
. J
ohn Valley o
f Maine." The American
 
Review o
f Canadian S
tudies 1
2, no. 2
 (
1982):22-36.
 
Konrad, V
ictor A
., and Michael Chaney
 
1
983
 "The Madawaska Twin Barn o
f Maine's S
t
. J
ohn Valley."
 
J
ournal o
f Cultural Geography 4
 (
1983):65-73.
 
Lacourcière, Luc
 
1
972
 "Oral T
radition: New England a
nd F
rench Canada." I
n The
 
F
rench i
n New England, Acadia and Quebec, edited by
 
Edward Shriver, 9
3-113. Orono, Me.: New England-Atlantic
 
P
rovices-Québec Center.
 
Lang, Nicole
 
1
987
 "
L'impact d
'une i
ndustrie: l
es e
ffets s
ociaux de l
'
arrivée de l
a
 
Compagnie F
raser L
imited "Edmundston, N
.B., 1
900-1950."
 
Revue d
e l
a s
ociétd
 
(
Jan-june 1
987): 4
 
Langlois, Henr
 
1
979 
D
it
 
Basile, N
 .
B
.: \
lsgr. E
rnest L
ang.
 
LeBlanc, Dudley J
.
 
1
932
 The T
rue S
tory o
f t
he Acadians. Np.: Np..
 
1
966
 The Acadian Miracle. L
afayette, L
a.: Fvangehnc Publish-
i
ng Company.
 
LeBlanc, Emery
 
1
963
 L
es Acadiens. MontrC
'al: I
 e
s E
ditions L
i
e  I
.
'
 I
 l
omme.
 
L
eBlanc, Robert C
.
 
1
979
 "
Les migrations a
cadiennes." Ca1,iers d
e c
z
,ogra/'J!ie do
 
Québec 2
3, no
. 5
8 (
April I
 9
79)*
)9 -
 1
24.
 
1
981
 "The Acadian Migration ,,
.
" I
n 1
 f
ra,,ca-A,,u'rieaii Over-
v
iew. Vol. 3
,
 p
t
. 1
,
 e
dited by Madeleine G
iguère, 4
9-67.
 
Cambridge, Ma.: National Assessment a
nd D
issemination
 
Center f
or B
ilingual 
/Bicultural Education.
 
8
7
 
pop 
 
0Ai)IAN C
UlTU RE I
N MAINE
 
8
8
 
I I
\ ]
),i o
, AI 
I
  
\
 1
 
doe (
 )
uellet, L
ise Ouellette, C
laude S
aintonge,
 
8
erge Thibodeau a
nd B
enoit B
érubé
 
9
79
 "Connais-toi t
oi-même: r
apport d
'un s
ondage s
ur l
'
identité
 
e
t l
e
 s
entiment d
'appartenance de l
a
 population du '
t
erritoire
 
z
'
." Revue d
e l
a s
ociété h
istorique du Madawaska —Le
 
Bra
 yon 7
,
 nos. 2
 and 3
 (April-September 1
979):4-138.
 
Lessard, Michel, and G
illes V
ilandré, e
ds.
 
1
974
 La maison t
raditionelle au Québec. Montréal: Les Editions
 
de L
'homme
.
 
Levasseur, F
rancis
 
1
970
 Acadian Cook Book. Madawaska, Me.: S
t
. J
ohn Valley
 
Publishing Co.
 
Loomis, Ormond, c
oord.
 
1
983
 Cultural Conservation: The Protection o
f Cultural Heritage
 
i
n t
he United S
tates. Washington: L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
Lower, Arthur R
. M.
 
1
957
 Colony t
o Nation:A History o
f Canada. Toronto:
 
Longmans, Green and Company
.
 
Lunt, C
. R
ichard K
.
 
1
981
 The Maine Folklife I
ndex: Resources f
or S
tudy. Orono, Me.:
 
Northeast Archives o
f Folklore and Oral History, University
 
of Maine a
t
 Orono.
 
MacLaughlin, J
ames
 
J
ames MacLaughlin Papers. Ms. a
t
 New B
runswick Mu-
s
eum, S
aint J
ohn, New B
runswick.
 
Maine S
chool Administrative D
istrict No. 3
3
 
[
19911
 "
Bilingual Education P
rogram MSAD No. 3
3." N.p.: N.p.
 
Maine, S
tate o
f
 
1
907
 "
The Potato a
s a
 Commercial Crop." I
n Report o
f t
he Com-
missioner o
f
 I
ndustrial and Labor S
tatistics. 1
907, 4
5-79.
 
Augusta, Me.: S
tate o
f Maine.
 
Maitland, L
eslie
 
1
984
 Neoclassical Architecture i
n Canada. Ottawa: National
 
Historic Parks and S
ites B
ranch, Parks Canada, Environm ent
 
Canada.
 
Marshall, Howard Wight
 
1
981a
 American Folk Architecture:
 A S
elected B
ibliography.
 
I
kib1ications o
f t
he American Folklife Center, no. 6
. Wash-
i
ngton: American Folklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress.
 
1
98 l
b
 F
olk Architecture i
n L
ittle Dixie:A Regional Culture i
n
 
Missouri
. Columbia, Mo.: University of Missouri Press.
 
REFERENCES
 
Martin, J
ohn
 
1
985
 "
Les Acadiens e
n Nouvelle-Angleterre: au-deli de l
a
 
s
urvivance
." I
n L
es Acadiens: é
tat d
e l
a r
echerche, e
dited
 
by J
acques LaPointe a
nd André LeClerc, 2
43-48. Québec:
 
V
ie F
rançaise, 1
987
. [
Proceedings o
f c
onference h
eld i
n
 
1
985.1
 
Massignon, Genevieve
 
1
962
 L
es parlers f
rancais d
'Acadie. 2
 vols. Paris: L
ibrairie C
.
 
K
lincksieck.
 
McDermott, J
ohn F
rancis
 
1
941
 A Glossary o
f Mississippi Valley F
rench 1
673-1850.
 
Washington University S
tudies, Language and L
iterature,
 
no. 1
2. S
t
. Louis: Washington University.
 
McDonald, Sheila
 
1
990
 "
The War After The War: Fort Kent B
lockhouse, 1
839-1842."
 
Maine Historical S
ociety Quarterly 2
9, nos. 3
-4 (Winter-
Spring 1
990):142-168.
 
McGrath, Anna F
ields, e
d.
 
1
989
 The County: Land o
f Promise: A P
ictorial History o
f
 
Aroostook County, Maine. Norfolk, Va.: The Donning
 
Company f
or t
he F
riends o
f Aroostook Coup
 
McInnF
 
1
969
 Canada: A Political a
nd SOiit
 
R
inehart and Winston o
f Canad.
 
McKay, Donald
 
1
979
 "The Canadian Logging Frontier." 1
(1
11010! of 1
 o
rest I
 I
t
s-
torij 2
3, no. 1
(january 1
979).
 
McNutt, W.S.
 
1
963
 New Brunswick: A H
istory 1
784-1867
. Toronto:
 
Macmillan o
f Canada
 
Melvin, Charlotte Lenentine
 
1
975
 Madawaska: A C
hapter i
n Mai,u
'-Nczt' Brunswick
 
Relations. \
lad
 a
 na Li, \
11 -.
:
 \
 h
id
 a
 v
a ka I
 I
 
it  r
i a
l
 
\
'
l
 e
rrian-\Vebst(,r
 
1
984
 J
Nebster's New Geographical L
)
ictio;iar. Spit
 n
gtield,
 
Ma.: Merriam- Webster, I
nc.
 
Michaud, Albert J
.
 
1
974
 "Mornault House Dates f
rom 1
857
." S
t
. Jo/itt Vallei l
in's
 
[Madawaska, Maine], April 1
0, 1
974.
 
Mitchell, Roger F
.
 
1
978
 I
'm a
 Man That Works: The B
iography o
f Don Mitchell
 
o
f
 Merrill, Maine. Orono, Me.: Northeast Folklore Society.
 
KL)
 
\ADIAN C
LII T
U RF I
N MAINE
 
I
 
9
77
 Building a
 House i
n New F
rance: An Account o
f t
he
 
Perplexities o
f C
lient and Craftsmen i
n Early Canada.
 
Toronto: McClelland and S
tewart.
 
New B
runswick, P
rovince o
f
 
1
851
 Census o
f New Brunswick, 1
851. S
aint J
ohn, N.B.: P
rovince
 
o
f New B
runswick
.
 
1
861
 Census o
f New Brunswick, 1
861. S
aint J
ohn, N
.B.: P
rovince
 
o
f New B
runswick.
 
Ornstein, L
isa
 
1
991
 Folklore and Folklife i
n t
he Upper S
t. J
ohn Valley:
 
A Preliminary B
ibliography. Fort Kent, Me.: Acadian
 
Archives/ 
Archives a
cadiennes, University o
f Maine a
t Fort
 
Kent.
 
P
alardy, J
ean
 
1
963
 L
es meubles anciens du Canada f
rancais. Montréal: Le
 
Cercie du L
ivre de F
rance L
tée.
 
1
965
 The Early Furniture o
f F
rench Canada. T
ranslated by E
ric
 
McLean. Toronto: MacMillan o
f Canada; New York: S
t.
 
Martin's P
ress.
 
l
'
aradis, Roger
 
1
975
 "Culture i
n Twilight: Report on a
 F
ield S
tudy Research i
n
 
Madawaska." Paper p
resented a
t t
he annual meeting o
f t
he
 
American Folklore Society, New Orleans, Louisiana, October
 
2
7, 1
975.
 
P
eterson, Charles E
.
 
1
940-41
 "
Early S
te. Genéviève and I
t
s Architecture." Missouri His-
t
orical Review 3
5 (
1940-41):207-232.
 
P
icard, C
laude
 
1
989
 "
La petite h
istoire de l
a musique au Madawaska." Revue d
e
 
l
a s
ociété h
istorique du Madawaska 1
7, no. 1
 (
January-
March 1
989):41-2.
 
P
itre, Marie-Claire, and J
ames E
. Condow
 
1
986
 La Deportation d
es Acadiens/The Deportation o
f t
he
 
Acadians. [Ottawa]: Minister o
f Supply and S
ervices
 
Canada.
 
Polley, C
. I
 l
enry
 
1
914
 The Architecture I
nteriors and Furniture o
f t
he American
 
Colonies During t
he E
ighteenth Century. Boston: Geo. H.
 
I
k
)llev Co. Publishers.
 
RE
 F
E
 RE
 NC
 
P
otter, David, e
d.
 
1
991
 Northern Maine Overall E
conomic Development P
ro-
g
ram 1
990 Update. Caribou, Me.: Northern Maine Regional
 
P
lanning Commission.
 
Pullen, C
larence
 
1
902
 I
n Fair Aroostook. B
angor, Me
.: B
angor & Aroostook
 
Railroad Co.
 
Quintal, C
laire, e
d.
 
1
984
 L
'émigra;it t
i
catlh'ii c
ers h
's bats-Unis, 1
842-1950.
 
Québec: L
e Conseil d
e l
a
 v
ie f
rançaise e
n Amrique.
 
Raymond, William Ober
 
1
914
 "
State o
f t
he Madawaska a
nd Aroostook S
ettlements i
n
 
1
831," Collections o
f t
he New Brunswick H
istorical
 
Society 3
,
 no. 9
 (
1914):344-84.
 
1
950
 The River S
t
. J
ohn: I
ts Physical F
eatures, L
egends and
 
History f
rom 1
604 t
o 1
784
. Rpt
. e
d. S
ac k
ville, NB.: t
he
 
F
r
ibune P
ress.
 
Reid, J
ohn C
.
 
1
976
 Acadia, Maine, a
nd New S
cotland: Marginal Colonies i
n
 
t
he S
eventeenth Century. Toronto: University o
f Toronto
 
P
ress.
 
R
idenour, J
ames M.
 
1
991
 "
Preserving America's Cultural Heritage." I
n 1
991 F
estival
 
o
f American F
olklife 6
. Washington: Smithsonian
 
I
nstitution.
 
Robert, P
aul
 
1
988
 L
e p
etit Robert: d
ictionnaire a
lphabétique e
t analogique
 
d
e l
a l
angue F
ran
 c
aise. Vol. 1
,
 A
. Roy and J
.
 Roy-Dehove,
 
e
ds. Paris: D
ictionnaire Robert.
 
Rooney, J
ohn F
.
, Wilbur Zelinskv, a
nd Dean R
. L
auder, g
en. e
ds.
 
1
982
 This Remarkable Continent: An Atlas o
f United S
tates
 
and Canadian Society and Culture. College S
tation, Tx.:
 
Published f
or t
he Society f
or t
he North American Cu
l t
ural
 
Survey h Texas A
 & M University P
ress.
 
Roy, Muriel K
.
 
1
982
 "
Settlement and Population Growth i
n Acadia." I
n The
 
Acadians o
f t
he Maritimes: Thematic S
tudies, edited by
 
J
ean Daigle, 1
25-196. Moncton, New B
runswick: Centre
 
d
'tudes a
cadiennes, Université de Moncton, 1
982.
 
Rumitiv, Robert
 
1
981a
 L
'Acadie a
nglaise: 1
713-1755. Montr'at: L
a Corporation
 
des Editions F
ides.
 
L
) I
 
\AT)IAN C
LIITLIRE I
N MAINE
 
I
 9
81b
 L
'Acadie f
ran
 c
aise: 1
497-1713. Montréal: L
a Corporation
 
des Editions F
ides.
 
S
chiereth, Thomas J
.
,
 e
d.
 
1
985
 Material Culture: A Research Guide. Lawrence, Ks.:
 
University o
f Kansas.
 
S
chroeder, Walter
 
1
983
 "Types o
f S
ettlement Patterns i
n t
he S
te. Genevieve District,
 
1
750-1806." I
n Cultural Geography o
f Missouri, edited by
 
Michael 0
. Roark. Cape G
irardeau, Mo.: Southeast Missouri
 
S
tate University.
 
S
eguin, Robert L
ionel
 
1
963
 L
es g
ranges du Quebec du XVIIe au XIXe s
iècle. Bulletin
 
1
92, Musée National du Canada. Ottawa: Imprimeur de l
a
 
r
eine.
 
1
968
 La maison e
n Nouvelle-France. Ottawa: Imprimeur de l
a
 
r
eine.
 
Sharpe, E
rrol
 
1
976
 A
 People's History o
f
 Prince Edward I
sland. Toronto: S
teel
 
Rail Publishing.
 
Shriver, Edward, e
d.
 
1
973
 The F
rench i
n New England, Acadia and Québec. Orono,
 
Me.: New England—Atlantic P
rovinces—Québec Center.
 
S
imard, Cyril
 
1
988
 "
Le l
in au Madawaska au 1
90me s
iécle: l
es '
Brayon' n
'étaient
 
pas s
euls a
 f
i
ler c
e 'mauvais c
oton
." Revue d
e l
a s
ociété
 
h
istorique du Madawaska 1
5, no. 4
 (October—December
 
1
988):9-25.
 
S
ingleton, E
sther
 
1
903
 F
rench and English Furniture: Distinctive S
tyles and Periods
 
Described and I
l
lustrated
. New York: McClure Phillips &
 
Company.
 
S
irois, George
 
1
976
 "
Les Acadiens e
t
 l
a
 n
aissances du c
ommerce do bois dans l
e
 
Nord-Est du Nouveau-Brunswick 1
820-1840." L
es c
ahiers
 
d
e l
a s
ociété h
istorique a
cadienne 7
,
 no. 4
 (
1976):183-93.
 
Sno w, C
laude
 
1
977
 L
e parlement du monde o
rdinaire. Caraquet, N
.B.:
 
Imprimeur du Nord L
tée.
 
S
t
. George, Robert B
lair, e
d.
 
1
988
 Material L
ife i
n
 America, 1
600-1860. Boston: Northeastern
 
University P
ress.
 
9
2
 
REFERENCES
 
S
tadig, R
ita B
.
 
1
978
 Our Maine Heritage. Soldier Pond, Me.: R
. S
tadig.
 
1
989
 The S
t
. J
ohn Valley S
tory and t
he Wallagrass S
tory. Soldier
 
Pond, Me.: R
. S
tadig
.
 
Sunderland, Terry
 
1
980
 S
till S
tanding: Cape Breton Buildings F
rom Days Gone By.
 
Sydney, N
.S.: The College o
f Cape B
reton P
ress.
 
Tallant, Robert
 
1
957
 Evangeline and t
he Acadians. New York: Rando m House.
 
Thériault, Leon
 
1
982a
 "Acadia, 1
763-1978: An Historical Synthesis." I
n The
 
Acadians o
f t
he Maritimes: Thematic S
tudies, e
dited by J
ean
 
Daigle, 4
7-86. Moncton, New B
runswick: Centre d
'études
 
a
cadiennes, Université de Moncton, 1
982.
 
1
982b
 La question du pouvoir e
n Acadie. Otta wa: L
esEditions
 
d
'Acadie.
 
Thompson, Deborah, e
d.
 
1
976
 Maine Forms o
f American Architecture. Camden, Me.:
 
Downeast magazine.
 
Thurman, Melburn D
.
 
1
984
 Building a House i
n 1
8th Century S
te. Genéviève.
 
S
te
. Genéviève, Mo.: lendragon's Press.
 
Trueman, S
tuart
 
1
970
 An I
ntimate History o
f New Brunswick. Toronto:
 
McClelland and S
tewart L
imited.
 
Upton, Dell, and J
ohn Michael V
lach, e
ds.
 
1
986
 Common P
laces: Readings i
n American V
ernacular
 
Architecture. Athens, Ga.: University o
f Georgia P
ress.
 
U
.S. Bureau o
f t
he Census
 
1
853
 The S
eventh Census o
f t
he United S
tates: 1
850. Washing-
t
on: Robert Armstrong, public p
rinter
.
 
1
864
 Population i
n t
he United S
tates i
n 1
860. Washington: U
.S.
 
Census Office.
 
1
883-88
 T
enth Census. J
une 1
,
 1
880. Washington: U
.S. Census
 
Off
ice
.
 
1
892-97
 E
leventh Census: 1
890. Washington: U
.S. Census Office.
 
1
901-02
 Twelfth Census o
f t
he United S
tates t
aken in t
he Y
ear
 
1
900
. Washington: U
.S. Census Office.
 
93
 
CADIAN CULTURE IN MAINE
 
2
-14
 Thirteenth Census o
f t
he United S
tates t
aken i
n t
he y
ear
 
1
910. Washington
: U
.S. Census Office.
 
1
973
 Census o
f Population: 1
970. Subject Reports, F
inal Report
 
PC(2)-IA, National Origin and Language. Washington: U
.S.
 
Government P
rinting Off
ice.
 
1
982
 1
980 Census o
f Population. Vol. 1
,
 Chap. B
, p
t. 2
1, PC8O-1-
B21. Washington: U
.S. Government P
rinting Office.
 
1
983a
 1
980 Census o
f Population. Vol. 1
,
 Chap. C
, p
t. 2
1, PC80-1-
C21. Washington: U
.S. Government P
rinting Off
ice.
 
1
983h
 1
980 Census o
f Population. Vol. 1
,
 Chap. D
, p
t. 2
1, PC8O-1-
D21. Washington: U
.S. Government P
rinting Off
ice.
 
1
988
 County and C
ity Data Book, 1
988. Washington: U
.S.
 
Government P
rinting Off
ice
.
 
1
991
 1
990 Census o
f Population and Housing
. Summary
 
Population and Housing Characteristics. 1
990 CPH-1-21.
 
Washington: U
.S.  Government P
rinting Office.
 
U
.S. Congress
 
1
976
 American Folklife Preservation Act
. 9
4th Congress, 1
976.
 
P
.L. 9
4-201,86 S
tat. 1
129,20 USC 2
101.
 
1
990
 Maine Acadian Culture Preservation Act
. 1
01st Congress,
 
1
990. P
.L. 1
01-543,104 S
tat. 2
389,16 USC 4
61 note.
 
U
.S. Department o
f t
he I
nterior, National Park S
ervice
 
1
985
 Guidelines f
or Local Surveys: A Basis f
or Preservation
 
P
lanning
. Rev. ed. Washington: U
.S. Department o
f t
he
 
I
nterior, National Park S
ervice.
 
V
iolette-Lippe, R
ita
 
1
984
 The Descendants o
f t
he F
ran
 ç
ois V
iolette. Lawrence,
 
Mass.: Naiman P
ress.
 
Wade, Mason
 
1
972
 "
The Loyalists and t
he Acadians." I
n The F
rench i
n New
 
England, Acadia and Quebec, edited by Edward Shriver,
 
7
-22. Orono, Me.: New England-Atlantic P
rovices-Québec
 
Center.
 
Wallis, F
rank E
.
 
1
888
 Old Colonial Architecture and Furniture. Boston: Geo. H.
 
Polley and Company Publishers.
 
Warren, H
. L
angford
 
1
899
 P
icturesque and Architectural New England: Architec-
t
ural F
eatures. Vol. 1
. Boston: D
. H
. Hurd & Co.
 
04
 
T
 
REFERENCES
 
Werner, Oswald, and G
. Mark 5
choepf1e
 
1
987
 Systematic F
ieldwork. Vol. 1
. Newbury P
ark, Ca.: S
age
 
Publications.
 
Wiggins, Edward
 
1
922
 History o
f Aroostook. P
resque I
s
le, Me.: The S
tar-Ilerald
 
P
ress.
 
Wilson, Charles Morrow
 
1
937
 Aroostook: Our Last F
rontier
. B
rattleboro, V
t.: S
tephen
 
Dave P
ress.
 
Witthoft, J
ohn
 
1
963
 "Notes on t
he American I
ndian Crooked Knife." Chronicle
 
o
f t
he Early American I
ndustries Association 1
6, no. 1
 
(March 1
963):199-208.
 
Wood, J
oseph S
.
 
1
988
 "Village and Community i
n Early Colonial New England."
 
I
n Material L
ife i
n America, 1
600-1860, edited by Robert
 
B
lair S
t
. George, 1
59-169. Boston: Northeastern University
 
P
ress.
 
9
5
 
\ADIAN CULTU RE IN MAINE
 
O
o
 
APPENDIX
 
Maine Acadian
 
Culture P
reservation
 Public Law 1
01-543
 
Act
 1
01st Congress
 
PUBLIC LA W 1
01-543  NOV. 8
, l)0
 1
04 STAT. 2
381)
 
An Act
 
To p
rovide f
or t
he p
reservation and i
nterpretation o
f s
i
tes a
ssociated
 
with Acadian c
ulture i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine
 
B
e i
t e
nacted b
y t
he S
enate a
nd House o
f Representatit't's o
f f
l
it , L
I
,ii!c1
 
S
tates o
f America i
n Congr
ess a
ssembled,
 
SECTION 1
.
 SHORT T
ITLE.
 
This Act may h
e c
i
ted a
s t
he "Maine Acadian Culture P
reserva-
t
ion Act".
 
SEC. 2
.
 PURPOSES.
 
The purposes o
f t
his Act a
re t
o —
 
(
1
) r
ecognize an important c
ontribution made t
o American
 
c
ulture and h
istory by t
he Acadian immigrants f
rom F
rance who
 
s
ettled i
n Nova S
cotia and, f
ollowing e
xpulsion by t
he B
ritish i
n
 
1
755, r
esettled i
n various North American c
olonies, i
ncluding
 
t
he t
erritory t
hat e
ventually became t
he S
tate o
f Maine;
 
(
2) a
ssist l
ocal and S
tate governments and o
ther public and
 
p
rivate entities i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine i
n i
nterpreting t
he s
tory o
f
 
t
he S
tate's Acadian s
ettlers and t
heir descendants a
s well a
s
 
p
reserving Acadian music, a
rts, c
rafts, and f
olklore; and
 
(
3
) a
ssist i
n i
dentifying, g
athering, and p
reserving s
i
tes, h
istori-
c
al data, a
rtifacts, and objects a
ssociated with t
he Acadians i
n
 
Maine f
or t
he benefit and education o
f t
he public.
 
SEC. 3
. MAINE ACADIAN CULTURE PRESERVATION
 
CO M MISSION.
 
(
a) ESTABLISHMENT —There i
s
 hereby e
stablished t
he Maine Acadian
 
Culture P
reservation Commission (
hereaf
ter i
n t
his Act r
eferred t
o a
s t
he
 
"Commission"), which s
hall c
onsist o
f 1
1 members appointed by t
he
 
S
ecretary o
f t
he I
nterior (
hereafter i
n t
his Act r
eferred t
o a
s t
he "
Secre-
t
ary") not l
ater t
han 6
 months a
fter t
he date o
f enactment o
f t
his Act, a
s
 
f
ollows:
 
(
1) One member, who s
hall s
erve a
s Chair, appointed fro m
 
among r
ecommendations s
ubmitted by t
he Governor o
f t
he
 
S
tate o
f Maine.
 
(
2) One member appointed f
rom among r
ecommendations
 
s
ubmitted by t
he Speaker o
f t
he House o
f Representative o
f t
he
 
S
tate o
f Maine.
 
(
3
) One member appointed f
rom among r
ecommendations
 
s
ubmitted by t
he P
resident o
f t
he S
enate o
f t
he S
tate o
f Maine.
 
(
)
7
 
\
CADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
(
4
) One member appointed f
rom among r
ecommendations
 
s
ubmitted by t
he Chancellor o
f t
he University o
f Maine System.
 
(
5
) Three members appointed f
rom among r
ecommendations
 
s
ubmitted by t
he S
tate and l
ocal h
istoric, c
ultural o
r h
istoric
 
p
reservation o
rganizations.
 
(
6
) Four members who a
re n
ationally r
ecognized e
xperts i
n
 
f
ields o
f h
istory, h
istoric p
reservation, anthropology, and
 
f
olklore, appointed by t
he S
ecretary.
 
(
b) TERMS. —
 
(
1
) Members o
f t
he Commission s
hall b
e appointed f
or t
erms
 
not t
o e
xceed t
hree y
ears.
 
(
2
) The S
ecretary may s
tagger t
he t
erms o
f i
nitial appointments
 
t
o t
he Commission i
n o
rder t
o a
ssure c
ontinuity i
n operation.
 
(
3
) Any member o
f t
he Commission may s
erve a
fter t
he e
xpira-
t
ion o
f h
is o
r h
er t
erm until a
 s
uccessor i
s
 appointed. A v
acancy
 
i
n t
he Commission s
hall b
e f
i
lled i
n t
he s
ame manner i
n which
 
t
he o
riginal appointment was made.
 
(
c
) VOTING. —The Commission s
hall a
ct and advise by a
ffirmative vote
 
o
f a
 majority o
f i
t
s members.
 
(
d) COMPENSATION. —Members o
f t
he Commission s
hall r
eceive no
 
pay on a
ccount o
f t
heir s
ervice on t
he Commission, but while away f
rom
 
t
heir homes o
r r
egular p
laces o
f business i
n t
he performance o
f s
ervices
 
f
or t
he Commission, members o
f t
he Commission s
hall b
e a
l
lowed t
ravel
 
e
xpenses, i
ncluding p
er d
iem i
n l
i
eu o
f s
ubsistence, i
n t
he s
ame manner
 
a
s persons employed i
ntermittently i
n Government s
ervice a
re a
l
lowed
 
e
xpenses under s
ection 5
703 o
f t
i
tle 5
,
 United S
tates Code
.
 
(
e
) EXEMPTION FROM CHARTER RENE WAL REQUIREMENTS. —
 
S
ection 1
4(b) o
f t
he F
ederal Advisory Committee Act (
5
 U
.S.C. App.)
 
s
hall not apply t
o t
he Commission.
 
(
U TERMINATION. —The Com m
ission s
hall t
erminate 1
0 y
ears f
rom
 
t
he date o
f e
nactment o
f t
his Act.
 
(
g) SUPPORT. —The D
irectory o
f t
he National Park S
ervice i
s
 autho-
r
ized t
o p
rovide s
uch s
taff s
upport and t
echnical s
ervices a
s may be
 
n
ecessary t
o c
arry out t
he f
unctions o
f t
he Commission.
 
SEC. 4
. DUTIES OF THE CO M MISSION.
 
The Commission s
hall advise t
he S
ecretary with r
espect t
o —
 
(
1
) t
he s
election o
f s
i
tes f
or i
nterpretation and p
reservation by
 
means o
f c
ooperative a
greements pursuant t
o s
ection 6
;
 and
 
(
2
) t
he development and implementation o
f an i
nterpretive
 
p
rogram o
f t
he Acadian c
ulture i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine pursuant t
o
 
s
ection 7
(d).
 
SEC. 5
. STUDY.
 
Within 1
 y
ear a
fter t
he date o
f e
nactment o
f t
his Act, t
he S
ecretary s
hall
 
p
repare and t
ransmit t
o t
he Committee on I
nterior and I
nsular Affairs o
f
 
t
he United S
tates House o
f Representatives and t
he Committee on
 
Energy and Natural Resources o
f t
he United S
tates S
enate a
 c
omprehen-
s
ive s
tudy o
f Acadian c
ulture i
n Maine.
 
SEC. 6
. COOPERATIVE AGREE MENTS.
 
(
a
) IN GENERAL. —In f
urtherance o
f t
he purposes o
f t
his Act,
 
t
heSecretary i
s
 authorized, a
fter c
onsultation with t
he Commission, t
o
 
e
nter i
nto c
ooperative a
greements with t
he owners o
f p
roperties o
f
 
9
8
 
APPENDIX
 
natural, h
istorical, o
r c
ultural s
ignificance a
ssociated with t
he Acadian
 
people i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine, pursuant t
o which a
greements t
he S
ecretary
 
may mark, i
nterpret, r
estore, and p
rovide t
echnical a
ssistance f
or t
he
 
p
reservation o
f s
uch p
roperties and pursuant t
o which t
he S
ecretary may
 
p
rovide a
ssistance, i
ncluding management s
ervices and p
rogram
 
implementation
.
 
(
b) R
IGHT OF ACCESS. —Each c
ooperative agreement s
hall p
rovide
 
t
hat t
he S
ecretary, t
hrough t
he National Park S
ervice, s
hall have t
he r
ight
 
o
f a
ccess a
t a
l
l r
easonable t
imes t
o a
l
l public portions o
f t
he p
roperty
 
c
overed by t
he agreement f
or t
he purpose o
f c
onducting v
isitors t
hrough
 
s
uch p
roperties and i
nterpreting t
hem t
o t
he public.
 
(
c
) ALTERATION OF PROPERTIES. —Each c
ooperative a
greement
 
s
hall p
rovide t
hat no c
hanges o
r a
lterations s
hall b
e made i
n t
he p
roperty
 
c
overed by t
he agreement e
xcept by mutual a
greement b
etween t
he
 
S
ecretary and t
he o
ther party t
o t
he agreement.
 
SEC. 7
. ACADIAN CULTURAL CENTER.
 
(
a) IN GENERAL. —The S
ecretary i
s
 authorized, a
fter c
ompletion o
f t
he
 
s
tudy r
equired by s
ection 5
,
 t
o e
stablish a
 c
enter f
or t
he p
reservation and
 
i
nterpretation o
f Acadian c
ulture within t
he S
tate o
f Maine.
 
(
b) ACQUISITION OF LAND. —The S
ecretary i
s
 authorized t
o a
cquire
 
l
ands and i
nterests t
herein, not t
o e
xceed 2
0 a
cres i
n t
otal, by donation,
 
purchase with donated o
r appropriated f
unds, o
r e
xchange and t
o
 
develop, operate, and maintain f
acilities and t
o develop and operate
 
p
rograms a
t t
he c
enter i
n f
urtherance o
f t
he purposes o
f t
his Act.
 
(
c
) OPERATION. —The S
ecretary may c
ontract with public and p
rivate
 
entities f
or t
he operation o
f t
he c
enter i
n a
ccordance with p
rogram
 
s
tandards approved by t
he S
ecretary.
 
(
d) INTERPRETIVE PROGRAM —In c
oordination with t
he Commis-
s
ion, t
he S
ecretary s
hall develop an i
nterpretive p
rogram o
f t
he Acadian
 
c
ulture i
n t
he S
tate o
f Maine.
 
(
e
) STATUTORY AUTHORITY. —The S
ecretary s
hall a
dminister
 
p
roperties a
cquired and c
ooperative agreements entered i
nto pursuant
 
t
o t
his Act i
n a
ccordance with t
he Act e
ntitled "An Act t
o e
stablish a
 
National Park S
ervice, and f
or o
ther purposes", approved August 2
5,
 
1
916 (
16 U
.S.C. I
 e
t s
eq
.) and o
ther s
tatutory authority f
or t
he c
onserva-
t
ion and management o
f natural, h
istorical, and c
ultural r
esources.
 
SEC. 8
. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 
(
a
) COMMISSION.— For t
he purposes o
f c
arrying out t
he f
unctions o
f
 
t
he Commission, t
here a
re authorized t
o be appropriated s
uch s
ums a
s
 
may be necessary, not t
o e
xceed $
250,000.
 
(
b) OTHER PURPOSES. —
 
(
1
) To c
arry out t
he o
ther purposes o
f t
his Act, t
here a
re autho-
r
ized t
o be appropriated s
uch s
ums a
s may be necessary, s
ubject
 
t
o t
he l
imitations o
f paragraph (
2).
 
(
2) With r
espect t
o c
ooperative agreements entered i
nto pursu
-
ant t
o s
ection 6
,
 and t
he p
rovisions dealing with t
he Acadian
 
Cultural Center i
n s
ubsections 7
(a) t
hrough (
c
), t
he Secretary i
s
 
authorized t
o e
xpend not more t
han 5
0 percent o
f t
he aggregate
 
c
ost o
f performing t
hose f
unctions. The r
emainder o
f s
uch c
ost
 
s
hall be paid by non-Federal f
unds.
 
ACADIAN CULTURE I
N MAINE
 
Development
 
o
f t
he Legislation
 
October 1
6, 1
989 —The Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Act was
 
i
ntroduced a
s b
ill S
. 1
756 before t
he U
.S. S
enate by S
enators George J
.
 
Mitchell and William S
.
 Cohen o
f Maine.
 
F
ebruary 2
0, 1
990 —Senator Mitchell s
upport t
he b
ill i
n t
he Senate.
 
March 2
8, 1
990 —Senators Mitchell and Cohen; J
ohn L
. Martin, Speaker
 
o
f t
he Maine House o
f Representatives; and J
ames M. R
idenour, Director
 
o
f t
he National Park S
ervice, t
estified c
oncerning S
. 1
756 a
t a
 hearing o
f
 
t
he Subcommittee on Public Lands, National Parks and Forests o
f t
he
 
S
enate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
 
May 2
3,1990 —The S
enate Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
s
ources approved t
he b
ill.
 
J
une 7
,
 1
99
0
—The S
enate Committee r
ecom mended t
hat t
he S
enate pass
 
S
. 1
756 a
s amended. (Amendments a
re described i
n S
enate Report 1
01-308.)
 
J
une 1
4, 1
99
0
—The b
ill was c
onsidered and passed by t
he Senate.
 
J
uly 1
7,1990 —The Subcommittee on National Parks and Public Lands
 
o
f t
he House Committee on I
nterior and I
nsular Affairs heard t
estimony
 
c
oncerning t
he b
ill by Congresswoman Olympia J
.
 Snowe o
f Maine, J
ohn
 
L
. Martin, and J
ames M. R
idenour.
 
September 1
3,1990 —The House s
ubcommittee held a
 mark-up hearing
 
and approved t
he b
ill.
 
September 1
9,1990 —The House Committee on I
nterior and I
nsular
 
Affairs approved t
he b
ill.
 
September 2
4,1990 —The House Committee r
ecommended t
hat t
he
 
House pass t
he b
ill a
s amended. (Amendments a
re described i
n House
 
Report 1
01-742.)
 
September 2
7,1990 —The b
ill was c
onsidered and passed, with amend-
ments i
n t
he House.
 
October 1
6, 1
99
0
—The S
enate c
oncurred i
n t
he House amendments,
 
with amendments.
 
October 1
6, 1
99
0
—The House c
oncurred i
n c
ertain S
enate amendments
 
but d
isagreed with o
thers.
 
October 2
3, 1
99
0
—The S
enate r
eceded f
rom i
t
s amendments.
 
November 8
,1990 —The Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Act was
 
enacted by t
he S
enate and House o
f Representative o
f t
he U
.S. Congress
 
a
s Public Law 1
01-543.
 
December 2
0, 1
99
0
—The P
resident s
igned Public Law 1
01-543, t
he
 
Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Act. (Due t
o t
he adjournment o
f t
he
 
)
lst Congress b
efore t
he b
ill c
ould b
e s
igned by t
he P
resident, t
his
 
'
ublic l
aw was not published i
n t
he Congressional Record; r
eference t
o
 
I
gning o
f t
he b
ill c
an b
e f
ound i
n t
he F
ederal Register.)
 
Escourl
 
Sa+ion  
i
v
i re- ; l
eue
 
&au
 
Lake
 
glazier
 
Lake
 
j
1
1
cgasJt
 
J
"t
 e
ruirnlicook
 
Les
 
E+roiIs
 
C
onnors
 
5
' . 
•
 S
l: Francis
 
EE&ENV
 
1
J
.5
.A /Canada  ' B
o
u
n
dary
 
(ioi s
howr
' in r
iver
, f
or c
lar
ity)
 
Eac
 
'
Baker
 
Lac 
-Baker.
 
C
aron
 
'
Brook.
 
Soldier '
Pon
*{
.
 
'
)
a1Iajrass.
 
Eagle L
ake.
 
S. fr
-old
 
Lake P 
Quimby
 
5a
.in+- ac,ues
 
1 a1
 I I n
, 
'
 
muncisro .
 
Sain
.-
 
1
1-i
 i
l
c
i
.ire
 
C
ross
 
Lake
 
Eagle
 
Lake
 Square
 
Lake
 
1A
l
inierville
 
5aiiv
1-
'
Basile
 
L
ong
 
L
ake
 
J1ucL Lake
 
j
 u
eref
le
 
)
'1
 a
dawaska
.
 
Lake
 
Upper S
aint J
ohnValley
 
L
a v
allée du Haut-St
. J
ean
 
SMILES
 
MAC  Ooo1
 
S
ept
.91
 
J
'
4or h A tl
antic ..egio,t
 
3
'aion L Yark Service
 
1
.
_
i
. S
. D
eparbien o
f
 +
J
u T
n
.erior
 
K
ivire-
'
Verle
 
Quisibis
 
5a
e,Arule-de
 
•
 S
Iockkoint
 
Sweden
 
e
egart
 
5
+-1 e
'onar
 
S
 
Van
.
 
/
1 
'
Bren
 
.
Connor
 
TO
 
Cari b
aw
 
TO
 
£
1tnes1one
 
I
)
Ii'1 RF MLN F
 01 THE 1\TERIOR
 
The National Park S
ervice i
s
 an agency o
f t
he
 
U
.S. Department o
f t
he I
nterior; members o
f t
he
 
Maine Acadian Culture P
reservation Commission
 
a
re appointed by t
he S
ecretary o
f t
he I
nterior.
 
As t
he nation's p
rincipal c
onservation agency,
 
t
he Department o
f t
he I
nterior h
as r
esponsibility
 
f
or most o
f our n
ationally owned public l
ands
 
and natural and c
ultural r
esources.
 
This i
ncludes f
ostering wise u
se o
f our l
and
 
a
nd water r
esources, p
rotecting our f
i
sh and wildlife,
 
p
reserving t
he environmental and c
ultural v
alues
 
o
f our n
ational parks and h
istorical p
laces,
 
and p
roviding f
or t
he enjoyment o
f l
i
fe
 
t
hrough outdoor r
ecreation. The department
 
a
ssesses our energy and mineral r
esources and
 
works t
o e
nsure t
hat t
heir development i
s
 
i
n t
he best i
nterests o
f a
l
l our people.
 
The department a
lso p
romotes t
he goals o
f t
he
 
T
ake P
ride i
n America c
ampaign by e
ncouraging
 
s
tewardship and c
i
tizen r
esponsibility f
or t
he
 
public l
ands and p
romoting c
i
tizen participation
 
i
n t
heir c
are. I
n addition, t
he department
 
h
as a
 major r
esponsibility f
or
 
American I
ndian r
eservation c
ommunities
 
and f
or people who l
ive i
n i
s
land t
erritories
 
under U
.S. administration.
 
PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER