American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
Italian Americans in the West Project collection (AFC 1989/022) 
afc1989022_07_100 
Documentation/Audiologs - 
Siporin, Steve: IAW-SS-A001 to IAW-SS-AO27 
" a k %l •, 
/fie 
Document: IAW-SS-A001 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/19/90 
Informant/Event: Rachiele, Guido 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A001 
Date: 
6/19/90 
Informant: 
RACHIELE, GUIDO 
Coworker Initials: 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/19/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
w• 
The Checkerboard Grocery that Guido owns is located at 90 South 
100 West in Price Utah. 
He was born in Carbon County, Utah, where the golf 
Born in a dugout in an area next to the river in a 
in 1925. 
Both of his parents were born in Italy. 
born in Reggio di, Calabria Italy in 1889, and his 
Cosenza in 1899. 
Both areas are in southern Italy 
club now is. 
rock formation 
His father was 
Mother born in 
[Calabria]. 
His father came to the United States after other Italians who had 
immigrated to the United States wrote to him about the 
opportunities here. 
In 1909, Guido's father came to the United 
States. 
He landed at Ellis Island, then went to Philadelphia 
where he worked as a cook in a construction crew. 
Then, from the 
encouragement of others who had gone west, he headed toward 
Southern California because he had been told it was a lot like 
Italy. 
He got to Salt Lake City, then he and two other friends 
got on a train to Southern California. 
The train stopped in 
wa 
IAW-SS-A001 - 
2 
Elko, NV where there was a holdover. 
A cattle drive came into 
Elko and they were scared by the rowdy cowboys and got off the 
train to protect themselves from all the shooting. 
They slept in 
sagebrush overnight and then got onto a train not knowing that it 
was heading back to Salt Lake instead of going to California. 
When he got to Salt Lake he met another Italian who said he was 
going to Bingham to get a job at the mines in Bingham Canyon. 
This occurred in November and it snowed about 3 feet and it was 
the first snow they'd ever seen and they didn't like it so 
returned to Salt Lake City. A man there said he was going to 
Carbon County to get a job in the coal mines so they took the 
train to Carbon County and he got a job working in the coal mines 
in Moreland, just south of Hiawatha. 
Guido's father and his friends lived in a boarding house in 
Moreland and then decided to send for wives who were women in 
Italy. 
Discusses arranged marriages (musciatla). 
In 1913 his mother, at that time age 15, was brought over 
along with her sister who was 17 and their aunt who was 19. 
All 
three came over to get married to his father and his two friends. 
They came by train to Carbon County. 
The marriages had been 
arranged. 
Guido has 6 brothers and 4 sisters, 11 total children. 
His aunt 
who came with his mother had 12 children. 
His great aunt also 
had 11 children. 
Only one of the aunts and her husband made it 
to California. 
II 
In Italy, Guido's father was very poor. 
Describes the country 
his father was from; little could be grown there. 
They raised 
some animals. 
His father's real father died when he was 3 and so 
was raised by a step-father. 
ays that many of the Italians and other immigrants hoped that 
I/S 
eventually they could return to the Old Country. 
Describes how 
many of them who sent money back to Italy lost it due to events 
surrounding WWII. 
His mother and father stayed in Moreland until 1924 when the mine 
shut down, then they moved to the dugout where Guido was born. 
Then his father got a job with Kenilworth and they moved to 
Helper in 1926. 
The family was raised in Helper and his parents 
lived there until their death. 
His mother died at 78 years old, 
and his father died when he was 92. 
His parents emphasized education because neither of them had been 
able to attend school. 
All 11 children, except his oldest sister 
attended school through 12 grades. 
She only went through eighth 
grade then was expected to stay home and help with the family. 
Five of his siblings went on to college. 
Describes the 
occupations of some of his siblings. 
10 of the siblings are 
IAW-SS-A001 - 
3 
living. 
Four of the children still live in or near Helper. 
More 
description of siblings and their occupations. 
Guido has been in his store 42 years. 
He worked at a fruit 
market in Helper at age 12 and continued until he graduated high 
school. 
He then worked on the railroad for three years. 
Then he 
began working at a grocery story in Price. 
In 1946 he bought his 
present store. It was built in 1945. 
He was a city councilman and a county commissioner. 
Active in 
local politics since 1966. 
Still serves on several government 
appointed committees. 
Parents became citizens. 
Guido grew up speaking Italian. 
Learned English in school mainly, but learned a little bit from 
his older siblings at home. 
Little discrimination in school, 
because there were many immigrants in Helper. 
Didnit 
ahve many 
problems. 
[Train goes by.] 
Guido's father didn't discuss very much about his home in Italy 
except that it was very difficult and that it was a tough life. 
His father's brother came to America. 
His mother's family ended 
up in Argentina, although they had wanted to come to America. 
Some in the family have kept in touch with them, but not Guido's 
mother or immediate family. 
Says that some other connection with 
family in Italy, but not very much. 
No one has ever gone back to 
Italy. 
Guido hopes that someday he will be able to visit there. 
Discusses strangeness of Rachiele name. 
Each of Guido's brothers 
spell it differently. 
Guido is the only one who spells it with 
the "i". 
This is the way that his father registered it at Ellis 
Island. 
Guido's family was raised in four rooms and they were poor. 
They 
had no electricity, no indoor plumbing. 
They cooked bread in an 
outdoor oven, as did many of the other Italians. 
His mother 
baked 20 loaves of bread a week. 
Every family built their own 
ovens. 
Discusses the fond memory of how the bread was baked 
using cedar wood in the outdoor ovens. 
Detailed description of 
process. 
Relates story about working on the railroad when he was 16 and 
not telling his father. 
Guido's father learned to read English, and his mother could 
write her name. 
END OF SIDE A, INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON SIDE B 
IAW-SS-AO01 - 
4 
SIDE B 
Guido relates an immigration interview story: [This is a story 
about] 
one of the old Italian fellows that went before the 
judge. 
Course the judge immediately says "Who's the President of 
the United States?" 
Well being in Utah and the name that became 
more prevalent to everybody he says "Brigham Young", the 
President of the Mormon Church. 
That has been remembered down 
through the years of this Italian stating that Brigham Young was 
the President. 
The judge was quite taken by it all. 
Guido remembers his father studying for his naturalization 
examination. 
In 1931 there was a mining strike and because of that Guido's 
father started working as a caretaker for Helper City's cemetery 
and park lawns. 
He worked there until he began working for the 
Rio Grande railroad where he worked until he retired at 65. 
Describes contract work in the mines during his father's time. 
Guido's father was 4'11 high as was his mother. 
Guido's sons are 
all over 6' tall 
Discusses processing of meat and use of animal products by his 
father--sausage, salami, lard, etc. 
The entire family was 
involved in gardening, raising animals, harvesting and processing 
of food. 
All the foods made within the family were traditional Italian 
foods. 
Spaghetti and meatballs were traditional Sunday meals. 
A 
chicken was killed and cooked for a treat. 
Dandelions were eaten 
in the spring. 
Relates story about how you can tell it's Spring: 
There was an 
old saying in this country, you can always tell when Spring is 
here because as you go through the countryside and you see all 
the rear ends of people sticking up they're either Italians or 
Greeks picking dandelions. 
And I still eat them and my children 
learned to eat dandelions. 
Dandelion greens. 
Today, almost everything Guido eats is still Italian food. 
Guido's wife is Danish and Welsh, but she learned Italian cooking 
from Guido and from his mother. 
She learned to cook spaghetti, 
to can peppers, fry peppers in tomato sauce, cook squash fried 
with tomato sauce. 
Most everyone from their area of Italy are 
tomato sauce eaters. 
During Christmas Italian cookies were 
baked. 
There was a bread donut and a honey baked cookie that was 
pure honey. 
[Mustazolli], Tortitti which was a cookie like a pie 
crust that was soaked in wine. 
After they were baked so they 
looked like a meatball, then they were soaked in honey. 
His wife 
IAW-SS-AO01 - 
5 
can still make them. 
Nothina wa-s wa-sted_, Guido's mother made blood pudding that had 
raisins and walnuts added to it. 
Some Italians made blood 
sausage. 
Guido's children also have Italian tastes, but have 
more varied food interests too. 
Guido still uses olive oil for 
everything he cooks and still raises the Italian tomato that 
looks like a pear. 
His wife cans tomato sauce. 
Describes his 
likely dinner that evening. 
Spaghetti is a family favorite meal 
f,or Sunday dinners. 
Fried peppers will be fixed as well. 
Characterizes regional groups of Italians. 
(Northerners are 
"intellectuals." 
Sincerity, hard work, honesty and respect for the law are ways 
Guido says he and his family express their Calabrian heritage. 
His father emphasized those qualities while raising the children. 
Again discusses the emphasis on education he received while 
growing up. 
Guido thinks that his ability to speak Italian has contributed to 
his business success. 
He could also speak Spanish because the 
languages are so close and this helped with his Mexican 
customers. 
Today, a few still come into the store who speak 
Italian. 
He recalls that at family gatherings they would bring out wine 
that his father made from grapes brought in from California. He 
made 200 gallons of Zinfaundel every year. 
Families got 
together and sang and danced and drank wine. 
No one ever got 
drunk. 
These gatherings occurred during the 1920s to 1940s. 
Guido sold the last wine grapes in the late 1960s. 
Federal 
prohibition didn't curtail the wine making, it was the state laws 
that limited it in the 1960s, prevented it in the 1970s. 
It also 
died as the older Italians died. 
He has a Zinfaundel vine, but 
it doesn't produce much. 
Italian gardens are different than others. 
They raise fava 
beans, zucchini, red leaf lettuce, Italian flat beans, and hot 
peppers. 
Discusses musical interest of his siblings. 
His father played 
the squeeze box. 
Discusses Christmas eve celebration. 
His mother cooked a 
Baccala, and corn meal bread with tomato sauce on it. 
They made 
their own paper decorations, and pitched walnuts at other nuts 
for entertainment while the adults danced and sang. 
They 
"bowled" the walnuts at a mound of other nuts. 
They would also 
eat Italian cookies. 
Bocce was played in the sand along the river in Helper, but they 
T 
IAW-SS-A001 - 
6 
don't play anymore. 
Discusses the music that was played for celebrations and the kind 
of dancing they enjoyed: 
"O Sole Mio", tarantella (describes it 
in detail). 
The older people still know some of the dances but 
they don't dance them very much anymore. 
Accordion, squeeze box 
and mandolin were used. 
None of Guido's siblings, nor himself married other Italians. 
This was alright with his parents because they wanted to become 
Americanized. 
They did all marry Catholics. 
Negative response to questions about folk belief. 
[End of IAW-SS-A001] 
Document: IAW-SS-A002 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/20/90 
Informant/Event: Bruno, Yolanda and John 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A002 
Date: 
6/20/90 
Informant: 
BRUNO, JOHN AND YOLANDA 
Coworker Initials: 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/20/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
John's father and a friend-came over—tto--the--United St-ates----€-r-om 
I 
r 
n 
That' worked on the raiA=ad-_ They would work on 
the railroad for a year then return to Italy. 
He didn't always 
return to Helper. 
He got his citizenship papers in Chicago. 
He 
made two or three trips, then got tired of going back and forth 
and built a home in Helper. 
Then he sent for the family in 1913. 
The Columbo family and John's family came across together and 
lived in Helper. 
His father began coming to the United States 
about 1900, and got his citizenship papers about 1901. 
John's 
father is from [Dimanico?] Italy Cosenza, the county. 
John, his 
brother and mother came to the United States in 1913 along Mrs. 
Columbo and her three children. 
They all lived in a house 
together in Helper. 
Some discussion about changes in house-
Colombo family still lives there. 
Yolanda was born in Green River, UT. 
She wasn't sure what year 
her parents came to the United States. 
Her father went right to 
Green River, UT because he had an uncle there. 
Her father ran a 
pool hall and hotel there and the family lived there until 1930. 
Her parents were married in Italy but came to the United States 
separately, first her father then her mother came along with her 
IAW-SS-AO02 - 
2 
brother. 
They were from [Figline?] Italy. 
Yolanda says there were no stories she can remember about the 
family coming to Green River, just some about parties. 
Her 
mother and aunt used to sing, but she doesn't remember any of the 
songs. 
She thinks there were less than a dozen Italian families 
in Green River, a "Mormon town." 
Her father died when he was 49 
years old in 1932. 
By that time the family had moved to Helper 
because business climate was bad in Green River. 
John was four years old when he moved to the United States and he 
doesn't remember anything from Italy or the trip here. 
His 
father worked for rich people in Florence[?]. 
He made salami for 
them, soprasattas, and worked in the fields, but could barely 
make a living in Italy so he started coming to the United States. 
John's father had four brothers who all came to the United 
States, but they all separated, all worked for the railroad. 
His 
father worked in Chicago for awhile, but not on the railroad. He 
moved to Helper, worked on the railroad, farmed, raised animals 
(pigs). 
He recalls the salami his father made and the 
brread-his 
mother made. 
Lard in big crocks. 
Says she made 50 pounds of 
flour [bread] a week and sold bread to the neighbors for 50 cents 
a loaf (10 pound loaf). 
Describes how money was scarce. 
Relates 
how his father slept in rocks along side the railroad tracks 
while working for the railroad. Describes father's railroad work. 
John worked on a section crew for the railroad, then was section 
foreman. 
Discusses travelling due to his railroad profession. 
He enjoyed working on the railroad. 
He also worked in the mines 
for Kenilworth and also at Castlegate (Independent coal, both 
sites) for a total of 27 years. 
Worked hard all his life. 
He 
dropped carts and was a weighmen. 
Describes his work in the 
mine. 
There was mainly work in the mines in the winter when 
there was demand for the coal. 
Worked on the railroad for 17 
years before working for the mines in 1942. 
He could make more 
money in the mines. 
Tells story of how he lost his leg. 
Misdiagnosis by doctor. 
Almost died. 
After that the only job he could do was "pickin' 
boney." 
Describes "pickin' boney." 
Today the processing of coal 
is different. 
John and Yolanda discuss the strikes by the miners. 
The mine 
companies didn't care about their employees, only production. 
They discuss hardships of working the mines. Many were killed. 
Most of the employees were immigrants. 
There were some Japanese, 
but few still live in Helper. 
John goes on to discuss how 
machines have taken over the work of men. 
They also discuss how 
many of those who worked the mines got black lung, and had to be 
on oxygen. 
John recalls the working conditions in the mines (use 
of respirators) and Yolanda discusses the wives' perspective. 
;t_ 
IAW-SS-A002 - 
3 
Constant dirt. 
The Brunos always had a garden and still do. 
John's father had 
fiq trees that was brought from Tennessee. 
First, he would carry 
them into the basement in buckets each winter. 
In the winter he 
bent the trees over and put dirt on them, and then uncovered them 
and straightened them out in the summer. 
He made a shed around 
one that got too big to bend down and filled it with leaves and 
put a tin roof on it. 
The trees bore nice figs. 
When it got too 
much work he let them go, and John couldn't keep them either. 
[John laughs; very animated about this.] 
John's father was 101 1/2 years old when he died. 
John and 
Yolanda cared for him for 25 years in his/their home. 
John's 
mother was 76 years old in 1952 when she died. 
They describe 
taking care of John's father. 
She fried potatoes for him every 
morning; he made coffee and milk in bowl. 
They describe him 
making coffee. 
The Brunos discuss how their cooking today is about half Italian 
and half American. 
John says he likes spaghetti, macaroni and 
the beans, and the pasta with the kidney beans. They call the 
small macaroni/bean dish (pasta fasoli). 
She gives recipe. 
Potatoes could be added too (pasta patate). 
They also make 
minestra which includes cabbage or beans. 
END OF SIDE A, INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON SIDE B 
SIDE B 
The Brunos continue talking about food and cooking. 
Pork meat 
and fresh sausage that is made at the local grocery goes into 
making minestra. 
The sausage is Italian but not like John's 
father used to make. Yolanda explains how minestra is made. 
Beans, spinach, zucchini, or even dandelions can be used. 
John 
discusses the various ways dandelions are eaten--in minestra, in 
salad, or cooked. 
John says that in the Spring many people are 
in the fields collecting dandelion greens. 
A man in town gathers 
them from surrounding fields and sells them for $3.00/lb. 
They 
also make gnochis, raviolis, and noodles from scratch. 
She 
doesn't use a cookbook and learned to cook from her mother. 
John 
discusses the drying of zucchini for use in the winter, as well 
as preserving cabbage which they used to do to. 
Preserving by 
burying in earth. 
Carrots, too, beets. 
[All this food 
discussion is very animated.] 
Yolanda says she thinks a local church cookbook has been put 
together or is being put together. 
John says its hard to qe t the 
Dalian foods in Helper and that they_go—to—the—It 
e in 
Silt Lake Cry. 
He goes on to discuss preserving green olives. 
They were cracked and soaked for several weeks and then put in a 
bottle with a brine. 
They can still be purchased in Salt Lake 
City - Granato's. 
John cured the black ones once. 
While 
IAW-SS-A002 - 
4 
visiting their daughter in California they picked some. 
John put 
house salt on them and stirred them everyday. 
They shriveled up 
a little than in about a week or ten days they were alright. 
Some of the Italian foods can be ordered - Mediterranean store as 
well as Granoto's. They like the imported cheeses, especially the 
goat and parmesan combined (pecorino-Parmesean). 
They stock up 
on Italian food when they go to Salt Lake. 
John says he doesn't 
like to go to restaurants to eat, he thinks Yolanda is the best 
cook. 
He also doesn't want to experiment with new things. 
On Christmas eve, as Yolanda and John describe, no meat was on 
the table. 
They served Bacala, smelt, and other fish and 
spaghetti with bacala sauce. 
Yolanda's mother used to fry bacala 
then put it in a pan and add cheese. bread crumbs, seasonings and 
a little water then bake it. 
A vegetable dish and lettuce were 
served. 
They had to have 13 different dishes on the table. 
No 
meat only fish was served. 
Christmas day included a big meal as 
well, but the big celebration was Christmas eve. 
Easter included 
a large dinner as well. 
No meat was eaten on Good Friday, and 
then Easter Sunday a baby goat was cooked. 
That is still done-if 
a kid can be gotten. 
Spaghetti and vegetables was also a part 
of Easter Sunday Dinner. 
Christmas cookies scalilis and tordilis 
were popular. Tordilis were made with wine and oil and scalilis 
is made of egg, flour and other things. 
Yolanda describes 
briefly how they're made, scalilis are put on a pole. 
Mostazolli 
is the cookie made especially on weddings, but enjoyed anytime. 
Many of these cookies can be kept a year. 
John and Yolanda describe the marriages of their grandchildren. 
One of their granddaughters will be married soon. 
Their 
daughter, who is married to a man who is part Italian and part 
Norwegian, cooks Italian and American things. 
She uses some of 
Yolanda's recipes. 
They discuss the professions and marriages of 
their children and grandchildren. 
Yolanda discusses her mother's bread. 
She used 50 lbs. of flour 
a week and mixed the bread in a tub. 
The bread was made of 
yeast, flour and water and was baked in a large bake oven in 
Green River. 
COven still there.) 
Frazines and Torolles] were 
also baked. 
Yolanda brings out some frazines to eat. 
Yolanda 
says her Mormon friends love the frazenes -anddren't 
 aware of the 
belief that anise seeds resemble rat droppings. 
John announces 
v_ery proudly that the anise seed is from Italy. 
John says scones 
were also made for Christmas from potato water. 
Describes how 
made. 
John and Yolanda don't drink wine. 
They don't like it. 
Ice 
cream is her weakness. 
John's mother believed in the evil eye as did others of the older 
people. 
He explains that if you had a pig outside and somebody 
commented on how nice it was they would believe that the person 
IAW-SS-A002 - 
5 
would "fascina them," make them get sick. 
John's mother used to 
throw salt on them so they wouldn't get the evil eye. 
Yolanda 
says the same thing was true with beautiful babies. 
If you said 
"Oh, what a beautiful baby." and then that night the baby got 
sick, they thought it was the evil eye. 
John and Yolanda don't 
believe in it, but they remember there was a prayer you could say 
out loud only on Christmas eve that would get rid of the evil 
eye. 
[I.e., that was the only time you could learn it.] 
It was 
called fascina. 
Pascina meant to remove the "fascina." 
There 
was a lady in the area who knew the prayer. 
The only protection 
against the evil eye they remember dealt with carrying salt in a 
little embroidered bag, or putting them on babies. 
They both 
conclude that all these things came from the old country and 
maybe they really worked. 
John didn't remember any superstitions associated with the 
mines. 
The Brunos discuss home health remedies. 
For colds, garlic and 
onions were fried and placed on the sick person. 
Yolanda relates 
a story about her dying relative, Richard Saccomano, being cured 
by an onion plaster. 
Her aunt used to drink a mint tea for 
medicinal purposes. 
END OF IAW-SS-A002. 
Interview continued on IAW-SS-A003. 
Document: IAW-SS-A003 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/20/90 
Informant/Event: Bruno, John and Yolanda 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A003 
Date: 
6/20/90 
Informant: 
BRUNO, JOHN AND YOLANDA 
Coworker Initials: 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 6/20/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
John and Yolanda discuss the Nick family and how they used to own 
a restaurant in Price and would come to Helper in a truck to pick 
wild oregano ("'rigano") for use in their restaurant. 
The 
oregano was spread from plants grown in gardens. 
The Brunos have 
a ore ano 
lant the 
use that was 
rown from seed that c am
e'ro 
illy 
Neither of the Brunos have been back to Italy. 
Several of their 
family members have been there. 
John's father had six brothers 
who all had big families and so he has many relatives, most of 
whom are in the United States, many are also in Canada. 
John 
doesn't know many of his relatives on his mother's family. 
Some 
were in Argentina. 
Some ongoing contact with family in Memphis. 
Neither of the Brunos have any object s , except a hoto ra h that 
came from Ita y w en 
eir 
117dhilies immigra e 
When John's 
father came to the United States he was detaihed on Ellis Island 
for awhile. 
(Calls it batteria [battery].) 
They discuss how 
IAW-SS-A003 - 
2 
difficult it was for the immigrants getting into the country. 
Neither of the Brunos parents played music and they are unaware 
of anyone in Helper who still plays the Italian music. 
They are 
also unaware of the custom of St. Joseph's table. 
Yolanda discusses the saints involved with their church. 
St. 
Anthony's festival 
had just ended--she describes briefly what 
went on. 
Some recollection of playing bocce -but seen as a North 
Italian game. 
There is a Stella di Italia lodge is in Helper, but neither of 
the Brunos are members. 
The Brunos say they don't know of any special Columbus Day 
celebrations. 
Yolanda does all her cooking by hand and doesn't use any special 
utensils. 
John discusses his siblings and their birth dates. 
Talks about 
brother killed in WWII. 
Also how his brother was born during the 
flu epidemic of 1917 when his mother was sick with the flu. 
Many 
people used garlic to keep from getting sick and some still do. 
Yolanda discusses making spaghetti without tomato sauce using a 
garlic fried in oil for a dish called [macaroni aglio e olio]. 
John says that spaghetti can be fixed many ways, often with fresh 
vegetables mixed in. 
They both like spaghetti very much. They 
prefer semolina spaghetti. Lasagna was made by Yolanda's mother, 
but she doesn't make it very much because John doesn't like it. 
Yolanda discusses making a round steak dish with cooked egg, 
spices, cheese called [rezolli?]. 
The meat is rolled around the 
egg and tied with string. 
Few recipes are used, some for Italian 
food. 
Yolanda says John likes Italian food better. 
John's mother couldn't speak English, and his father spoke a 
little. 
Neither could read or write. 
Italian was spoken in 
their homes when they grew up, but in their home after they were 
married, they spoke English. 
Laugh at how their grandchildren 
now have to go to school to learn Italian. 
"They could have had 
it at home." 
John didn't know English when he started school. 
Now he barely remembers Italian. ("That's a shame. ") 
Yolanda's 
mother spoke English, but she had to because there were fewer 
Italians in Green River. 
Recall an aunt who "waited to die." 
Felt "God had forgotten her" 
in Green River. 
END OF SIDE A IAW-SS-A003. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Document: IAW-SS-A004 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/21/90 
Informant/Event: Romano, Edna 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A004 
Date: 
06/21/90 
Informant: 
ROMANO, EDNA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/21/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Edna is a native of Helper, Utah. 
Her great-grandfather and 
grandmother arrived in Helper in 1895. She describes how her 
great-grandparents witnessed the Butch Cassidy holdup in Castle 
Gate. 
It's a story her mother tells. 
Edna's great-grandfather 
was 15 years old when he and his father came to Helper from 
Italy. 
"They were at Castle Gate at the mine office in the store 
and they said that these men were hanging around that had horses 
that looked like they were ready to drop. 
And, when they, after 
the robbery this is those horses really [tape break] life and 
took off." 
The two men worked in the mines for awhile then 
returned to Italy where Edna's grandfather married. 
He returned 
to Carbon County and then sent for her grandmother. They moved 
around with the jobs living in Colorado, Butte, Montana, and 
several mining camps in Carbon County, Utah. 
They finally 
settled in Castle Gate. 
Her grandfather decided to go back to 
Italy, but her grandmother stayed with the six children. 
Two 
children had died in Butte, Montana. 
They raised milk cows and 
had borders. 
None of the children went to school. 
When the boys 
were old enough they began working in the mines. 
IAW-SS-AO04 - 
2 
Edna's family is from the Piedmont area of Italy. 
Her father was 
born in Noli?, but lived in Uzalia? which was the last town 
before the French border, founded to help guard the border. 
His 
family was shepherds and he went through high school in Italy. 
Her mother was born in Wyoming, but they lived, traveled country 
to country, back and forth to Italy, frequently. 
Her grandmother 
lived in Castle Gate 61 years and died at the age of 93. Edna's 
mother's family came from Turin, Italy. 
She says in her mother's 
time they married only within their province and describes a 
marriage between two from different provinces. 
Her grandfather 
returned to Carbon County 28 years after he returned to Italy and 
voiced concern over a family marriage that involved two from 
different regions. 
Edna believes there is still tension between 
the various regions of Italy. She describes the Italian lodge and 
how it only allowed Southern Italians within the last 25 years. 
She thinks Italy should be two different countries because the 
people are so different between the north and south. 
Edna hasn't been back to Italy, but her mother has been back 
several times. 
Her mother was born in the United States than 
went back and lived in Italy until she was 10. 
So she has 
friends and family there. 
Her father still has family there. 
Edna would like to visit Italy. 
Edna describes that when her mother's family came to sign up for 
work their name was changed (Ariotto to Ariati), probably 
misunderstood. 
Her father's name wasn't changed. 
Her father 
spoke five languages, English, Italian, French, German and 
Spanish which he learned in Italy. 
His father was a mason and 
their entire family immigrated together and then his father 
returned to Italy after his mother died. 
Her father was 21 when 
they immigrated and was educated in Italy. 
He had traveled as a 
stone mason in several countries with his father and had learned 
several languages because of their work. 
Much of her 
grandfather's stonework is still standing in Carbon County. 
His 
name was Louie Borla. 
In Spring Canyon, many of the mine 
buildings were built by him. 
She describes how to get to Spring 
Canyon on Canyon Road which is where Latuda, Standardville, 
Mutual and Spring Canyon used to be. 
Along with masonry the 
family had a farm near Carbonville. 
Her father's mother died 
when she was 48, and his father returned to Italy and remarried. 
Both her father and his sister were married by that time and so 
stayed in Carbon County. 
Grandfather (Louie Borla) lived rest of 
life in Italy. 
Edna's father worked in the mine and farmed. 
He was killed in 
the mine when he was 61. 
Her mother is still living. 
Her father 
was a union organizer for UAW and describes her discouragement 
with how the mines are run today and demise of the union. 
She 
feels it had to do with union officials being paid too much. 
During strikes, they all worked together to survive. 
The people 
living in her neighborhood were all from Northern Italy and all 
IAW-SS-AO04 - 
3 
helped each other with produce, meat and milk. 
She doesn't think 
this happens anymore and describes how bad unemployment is in the 
county. 
Technology has taken over many of the mining jobs. 
She 
says that a Japanese company is coming into Emery county with 
"hydro-mining" soon. 
Edna describes her mother's father as a drifter and not very 
ambitious and when her mother and her aunt married, they and 
their husbands helped the family get through. 
Description of his 
lack of concern for family. 
She thinks her grandfather came to 
the United States because they were tired of farming and wanted 
to work for wages. 
Her father and his family immigrated because 
they, too, wanted to work for wages. 
Cheese, salami and sausage were made by Edna's father. 
She 
describes trips to the sheep camps she visited with her father in 
the summer. 
Most of them were French and Italian and were 
friends he knew from Italy. 
The Italians worked for the French 
herders. 
Best friend was Grifini 
Edna's parents spoke Italian in the home, but never taught the 
children. 
(She regrets not learning.) 
Her father served in WWI 
and earned his citizenship in that way. 
She says he was very 
proud of that experience and taught his children WWI songs. 
He 
was 40 when he was married and her mother was quite a bit 
younger. 
In WWI, her father was an interpreter. 
He sang church 
songs in Latin and sang songs in French also. 
Edna discusses her 
father's dialect and comments that her mother said when her 
father was with friends from his own town she couldn't understand 
him because his dialect became very pronounced. [Even though she 
was Piemoutese, too.] 
Edna has her master's degree in Educational Administration from 
Brigham Young University 
Edna comments that the southern Italians speak what she thinks is 
real Italian, because they didn't have as much influence from 
other countries. Her father's grandmother was French and she ran 
the house and also worked out in the fields. 
Edna describes how 
her father deferred to and respected his mother throughout her 
life. 
"She's the oldest, she's right." 
She died in 1910 and had 
a difficult life, and two difficult births. The first baby died, 
the second lived but Edna's father wasn't aware of him. 
Edna's 
father died in 1951 not knowing that his oldest brother was 
alive. 
Her mother discovered him in a resthome in Italy in about 
1953. 
Edna describes how her father was killed in the mine. He was a 
track man and was fixing track when box cars came down on him and 
he was crushed. 
He had attended the Italian Lodge convention in 
Detroit and came home early to work. 
She thinks it was his time 
to die and that he was to die in the mine. 
He was killed in 
IAW-SS-A004 - 
4 
1950. 
She was a child at the time and had 4 siblings. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Edna describes her work with the Carbon-Emery Historical Society 
and her interest in cemeteries. 
The Helper cemetery was begun in 
1912. 
Some talk about gravestone carver who did many of the 
gravemarkers. 
Not Italian. 
She says that when people quit 
wanting to help care for the cemetery, Helper had an ordinance 
that upright stones couldn't be installed. 
Edna helped pass an 
ordinance that upright stones could be placed in the cemetery. 
She mapped the cemetery last year and a list is placed at the 
entrance to the cemetery with the names in alphabetical order. 
She describes how this has aided in the location of graves, and 
how difficult it was to locate the graves of her mother's brother 
and sister in Butte, Montana. 
Her mother also has relatives 
buried in Eureka, Utah. 
She relates a story about how one of her 
mother's uncles was killed when he fell off a horse and the pipe 
he was smoking went into his throat. 
Her mother's family lived 
in many places including: 
Trinidad, Colorado; Eureka, Utah; 
Butte, Montana and in all the mining camps around Helper. 
Each 
child born in a different place. 
When the mines laid off in January or some years in April, Edna 
discusses how her father worked his farm in the summers. 
She 
relates a story about how her father and his brother-in-law went 
up to Scofield to remove some machinery in the mine and how they 
were excited to go up there without the women and children and 
could do as they pleased. 
But they stayed there alone only a 
couple weeks because they didn't have anyone to cook or clean for 
them. 
So then the families came. 
The families didn't live up 
there very long because there was no doctor. 
Edna discusses superstitions. 
One story involved her mother 
viewing a calf born with deformed hooves when she was pregnant 
with Edna. 
Another Italian woman present cautioned her that her 
baby might be born with deformed hands and feet because she 
looked at the calf. 
Her mother asked the doctor about Edna's 
hands and feet when she was born because this had upset her. 
Her 
family doesn't have any evil eye beliefs-not Northern Italian 
belief. 
Brings book entitled The Italian American Cagalogue, son 
got in Salt Lake City. 
She discusses other beliefs involving 
infants and that most of the common ones involved southern 
Italians. 
(Like salt placed in new cars.) 
She thinks the 
southern Italians have more superstitions and that its cause is 
partly due to the northern Italians not accepting them. 
Regarding the tombstone in the cemetery which alludes to a 
murder, Edna says she thought it related to a woman cheating on 
IAW-SS-A004 - 
5 
her husband in Mutual, Utah, and the husband came home and found 
the two together. 
She says some people put who paid for the 
tombstone on the stone. 
Her father included that on the stone he 
erected for his mother. 
She discusses others who do that and 
also put on the names of the children. 
She says many Italians 
are buried in Helper, Price and Sunnyside, also one in 
Carbonville and in Spring Glen even though it is LDS. 
Edna discusses her father's character and his love of people and 
how her youngest son is similar to that. 
Her family is Catholic, 
but religion didn't play a large part in her father's life. 
He 
said the priests were mean in school and had stories related to 
that and Edna relates his ideas toward religion. 
Story about why buried by Methodists: 
wanted Sunday funeral so 
friends could come. 
Also story about building erotic "snow 
woman" --priests' reaction. 
The biggest difference between northern and southern Italians, 
relates Edna, is literacy. 
She says that many in the South were 
illiterate which also generated more superstitions. 
She thinks 
they were also more sheltered from the outside influences of 
people from other countries. 
She sees many Mormons from small 
towns as having a similar experience and that many in Emery 
County have this experience. 
She says that many had a hard time 
adjusting to public power because of their sheltered background. 
She thinks Carbon County is much more diverse because of the many 
different ethnic groups and discusses the Jewish community in the 
county. 
Edna recalls strict Mormon domination in Utah County and 
examples of the Mormon lifestyle. 
Critical of Mormonism. 
Edna's maiden name is Borla. 
Her husband is from Rome and many 
of his relatives are still there. 
She explains that there are 
Italians in the area whosp families are from a variety of areas 
in Italy (Lombards, Tyrols, Toscani, Sicily, "every part. "). 
She 
considers Rome southern Italy and laughs that her father 
considered anybody who came from a town south of his southern 
Italians. 
She explains that most people who immigrated did so 
because they felt they would be better off working for wages than 
living off the land. 
Today, people's expectations also are much 
greater. 
END OF IAW-SS-A004. 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-AOO5 
Document: IAW-SS-A005 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/21/90 
Informant/Event: Romano, Edna 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A005 
Date: 
06/21/90 
Informant: 
ROMANO, EDNA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/21/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Continuation of interview with Edna Romano. 
Edna's husband was born in Castle Gate, Utah and she says that 
very few people who live in Helper were born there because the 
hospital is in Price, Utah. 
Many were born in Castle Gate and 
some of the other mining camps. 
She says her mother-in-law 
doesn't discuss the immigration of that family very often. 
Edna's mother-in-law and her sister were mail order brides and 
moved directly to Carbon County from Italy. 
She discusses sex 
roles in marriages of the past. Women were to tend the house and 
children and knew their role. 
She says the marriages were very 
happy and discusses how that differs today. 
Edna describes family gatherings and how the extended families 
spent time together. 
"People liked people then." 
She also 
discusses the Italian Lodge and says it's mainly meeting-oriented 
with only a spring picnic. (She's remembering.) 
Conflict also 
between needs of young and old. 
Men's lodge is Stella di  
America, women's is Sorelle (sisters) of the Stella di America. 
It's not as close knit as it once was because so many members 
have now married non-Italian people and the people don't need the 
IAW-SS-A005 - 
2 
association with other Italians quite as much as they did in the 
past. 
She describes that until the 1950s they had a Columbus Day 
celebration with big spaghetti meal and other festivals and now 
the Columbus Day event is only a formal dinner. 
(At the country 
club -- "The old-timers--that would never have been their idea of 
a good time. 
There wasn't any pretence." 
She thinks that there 
isn't the interest in the lodge that there used to be. 
In its 
last days. 
She says the same thing has happened to the local 
Elks Lodge. 
She thinks the reason the Italian lodge is dying out 
is because they haven't tried to include younger people. 
This is 
happening to both the men's and women's lodges. 
She explains 
that the lodges meet the second Thursday of each month and that 
the men's and women's lodges meet separately in the civic 
auditorium. 
Edna describes where their meetings used to be held 
in another building downtown. 
All the Northern Italians once 
belonged. 
Negative response to a question about Italian card playing at the 
lodge, however Edna says some play at the pool hall. She 
discusses unemployment in the county and that they should have 
left to have better educational access for their children and so 
their children could have better job opportunities. 
Also 50% of 
Helper is retired. 
She says young people can't find jobs in the 
Helper area and discusses 
coal mining as an occupation. 
Edna discusses the economic situation of Carbon County which is 
bleak. 
Edna relates how the Greek people of the area stick together and 
the Italians do not because the Northern Italians didn't m;Sr w;t 
the Southern Italians. 
The CoI?mhu 
on wasn't a  
community event, it 
She discusses-how tie 
Northern Italians assisted each-tether- and-how-the lodge helped 
crea
-fie- this support system between NQrtiern Italians. 
Describes 
how people helped each other-mother once was paid for providing 
care for someone in milk bottles. 
Southern Italians weren't 
included in this support s)Lp_t_em. The Northern Italians were in 
the county prior to the southern Italians. 
Edna describes the 
Northern Italians in her neighborhood and what businesses they 
established and maintain. 
Southern Italians were excluded. 
Priests in Church were usually 
Northern Italians. 
They "had the upper hand." 
Edna discusses the founding of Helper, Utah by Teancum Pratt who 
was LDS and a proponent of polygamy and wanted to continue the 
practice even though it was outlawed. 
Edna relates a story about her mother's relationship with the 
first town president who was Jewish, Tom Fitch. 
Second 
president, Moss, also Jewish. 
Then Italian, mostly. 
END OF SIDE A 
IAW-SS -A005 - 
3 
SIDE B 
Edna relates that everything in her life is Italian because both 
she and her husband are Italian. 
However, her best friends have 
been LDS mainly because she finds so much in common with them. 
"Our wold life is Italian." 
Edna relates a story about how she 
seldom cooks spaghetti. 
She cooks_no•therxl-1-talian food like 
polenta  and  raviolis. 
Her father didn't like spaghetti so her 
mother didn 't cook it . She also makes _southern Italian cookies. 
She describes how she uses chicken and sometimes pheasant when 
making polenta. 
Mother makes sauce called tatrin (?) - milk, tomato: 
"Looks like 
throw-up, but it's good!". 
Christmas cooking is described by Edna . Cod is used in bacala. 
Her mother prepared it in oil, her mother-in-law uses tomato. 
Fish is eaten on Friday and it is usually baked . At Easter lamb 
is eaten and her family used to go on a picnic. 
Goat wasn't 
eaten , but her father liked goat cheese and they used to make 
their own cheeses . (Tuma?) 
Edna discusses the naming of children by her parents. 
They used 
American names for first names and Italian names for middle 
names . Her mother wanted it that way even though her father 
wanted the children to have Italian first names. 
Red rice rissoto is Edna 's mother's favorite dish. 
Edna 
describes how it is cooked with tomato sauce and how as she was 
growing up they did not eat beef but ate veal . Her father raised 
animals . Edna discusses butchering of animals and the making of 
sausage by the men and wine making in the fall. 
"Every fall you 
could smell all the Italian houses-the -wine fermentin .1--56Me of 
e wine was kept in -barrels and some in jugs and some were kept 
in special bottles to be kept for special times. 
Edna says that her uncle played the button accordion and that 
many of the Italians sang a lot. 
Mostly church songs. 
Giacoletti may still sing. 
Those of Piemontese descent are discussed by Edna. 
Edna describes her experiences with oral histories, restoration 
of a local cemetery and editing of Teancum Pratt's diary which 
was published in the Utah Historical Quarterly . 
She also 
discusses the Helper 100th anniversary celebration in 1981 which 
she helped organize . She says that although the town was founded 
by Mormons it is far from a Mormon town today. 
More discussion on how the Northern Italians stayed together and 
Edna relates a baptism story and says it was very noisy in their 
r 
IAW-SS-A005 - 
4 
part of town because Italians are very loud. 
Group baptism-2 to 
3 days. 
Priest got drunk, too. 
She describes how while it 
appeared the man was the head of the house, it was really the 
woman who was in charge of everything in their family. 
He gave 
her his paycheck. 
Edna says her family used to gather wild mushrooms (by the 
bushel) and her mother canned them. 
Still does. 
They called 
them fungi and they gathered several kinds for their own use. 
Edna talks about people who have lived in Helper whose families 
were from Tuscany, Italy. 
(Tabone-nick-named "Toscana.") 
Daughter-in-law still here-"the best Mormon married the best 
Catholic." Ideal marriage 
END OF SIDE B. 
END OF IAW-SS-A005 
Document: IAW-SS-A006 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date:. 6/21/90 
Informant/Event: Davido, Til 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A006 
Date: 
06/21/90 
Informant: 
DAVIDO, TIL 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/21/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Til's maiden name was Felice. 
Her husband is in the Carbondale 
Nursing Home. 
She says that she was born in Helper, Utah in 1919 
and now lives in Price. 
Both of her parents were from Calabria, 
Italy. 
Her mother was San Giovane in Fiore and her father was 
from Cleto, Provincia di Cosenza. 
She describes how her parents 
met. 
When her father was in the United States some friends of 
his told him about her mo 
er an 
a egan writing her in Italy. 
Her 
a er 
e t his home town when he was 16 and went to Sardinia 
then Africa. 
He was a contractor in France and really en]oyed 
living there and intended to return to France at the time of his 
death. 
Through correspondence her father and mother became 
acquainted and he eventually sent her money to come to the United 
States. 
Shortly after she arrived they married. 
They built a 
small home and at that time he worked for the railroad earning 
about $1.75 a day. 
They then built a large home and began a 
grocery business in Helper (Felice's). 
Til's mother baked 100 
lbs of flour into bread everyday to be sold in the grocery. 
She 
baked the bread in an outside oven and was known for her bread 
baking abilities both in Italy and in this country. 
(Knows of 
another oven still standing in Helper.) 
The grocery store took 
IAW-SS-AO06 - 
2 
14 
groceries up into the mining camps. 
Til says that her mother was 22 when she arrived in the United 
States . Til relates her mother's immigration story. 
She got 
very sick on the trip over and when in New York she realized she 
didn't have enough money to get to Helper, Utah . While sitting 
in New York , a person helped her get a telegram to Til's father 
who then sent the money for a train ticket to Helper. 
She 
traveled to the United States by herself and did not know English 
and the person who helped her with the telegram gave her a banana 
which was the first one she ever saw. 
Her immigration story was 
translated and written by Til 's niece who had it published in tlhe 
local papers and won several writing awards with the story. 
[Se 
copy in miscellaneous materials] 
Til continues talking about her mother who was a small women yet 
very strong . Very proud of her mother 's strength . Tills father 
died in 1922 and her mother was left with four children 9 years 
old, 6 years old, 3 years old and 22 months old. 
He was shot 
accidentally which is an incident Til can remember. 
He picked up 
a loaded gun and it shot and killed him. 
It happened on January 
25. 
Til ls mother remarried in 1926 and they built a greenhouse 
business. 
When Tills mother left Italy, describes Til, her mother ran 
crying after the carriage . Never saw her again. 
Til's mother's 
brother immigrated to Helper , but then went back to Italy after 
about three or four years in the United States . Tills brother 
visited him 16 years ago--still spoke English . Tills father was 
preparing to move to France when he was killed, but they never 
intended to return to Italy. 
Til says that her mother 's second husband was from the same town 
in Italy that her father was from. 
His name was Joe Marelli (?). 
He was smuggled into the United States and worked as a miner. 
Til describes her husband's family. 
His father was Russian and 
his mother was Czechoslovakian but born in Denver, Colorado. 
Tills step -father died in 1976, and she wasn 't sure if°he and her 
mother knew each other in Italy. 
Til describes her family 's Italian traditions . For Christmas Eve 
13 different dishes were on the—table comprised of fish and 
vegetables , and food was left on the table for t 
r•  — Child. 
This isn 't done anymore . 
The ].3 •
hpG rppresented the 13 
di-f-fir-ent—apo 
les . Everything that was left over was left on 
the table overnight, then it was cleared off . Christmas--Eve 
dinner was an important and popular one in the fam--
ly 
rod—tsh, 
!Lail-but, smelts were eaten. 
Codfish was prepared in a stew then 
poured over spaghetti . Tills family still prepares this dish for 
their Christmas dinner which is usually held now the Sunday 
before Christmas . They use fresh codfish. 
Everyone loves it--
IAW-SS-A006 - 
3 
"little kids and all." 
Other festive meals are discussed by Til. 
Ravioli, homemade 
noodles and turkey were served , although the Italian items were 
more popular than the turkey . Her mother prepared stuffed 
eggplants which were very popular and still are. 
Til discusses her garden . She grows her own peppers , eggplants, 
because they like red roasted peppers. 
She makes her own tomato 
sauce and so grows tomatoes and raises some herbs; parsley, basil 
and oregano and dries her own. 
Gives it as Christmas gifts to 
those who don't grow own. 
She doesn 't like rosemary and so 
doesn't use it in her cooking . She bakes her own bread just as 
her mother did, however her mother never shared her bread recipe. 
Til uses her mother's recipes for Christmas cookies scalili, 
turdili, and Pita which is a wine, egg and oil dough with raisins 
and nuts added. 
Til further discusses festival foods. 
For Easter they prepare an 
Easter bread, for Christmas they prepare scalili, turdili, Pita  
and chinolili . 
chinolili uses dough like scalili except they're 
rolled out and made like a popover and filled with nuts and 
raisins and sometimes a cooked filling made with honey. 
Til describes her children's Italian eating habits. 
She has a 
son who is married but not to an Italian. 
Her daughter-in-law 
cooks Italian and maintain the Italian traditions. 
Tills 
brother 's children enjoy very Italian foods even though his wife 
is not Italian . Til's mother taught them how to cook Italian 
foods . She even calls Italian foods by Italian names. 
True of 
all non-Italian in-laws . Learned from Tills mother. 
Til describes how to prepare and stuff eggplant which was a 
favorite in the family. 
All the Italian cooking she does was 
learned from her mother--no cookbooks . Til says that at least 
four or five days a week_she-cooks Italian_meals !•, 
Til discusses her tomato sauce and describes how she prepares it. 
She cans it and freezes it then so it can be used all year long. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Til describes how they prepared their own olives. 
They preserved 
300 pounds of olives a year that were imported from California. 
She says that most people in the area pr_esPrvpd their own olives 
and that many continue to do so. 
She-says they cured their 
— 
olives 
y using salt water and by putting them in crocks with a 
brine that was changed periodically . Made own salami and sausage 
which was prepared by her father and uncle . She says that her 
uncle was a master salami maker . Wine was made by her father, 
IAW-SS-A006 - 
4 
and her step father made 300 gallons of wine a year, and he also 
made beer. 
Til states that with all the alcohol in their family 
she never saw anyone drunk and it was something they grew up with 
and so it wasn't a problem. 
Til describes how her step-father tested the sugar content of the 
grapes he purchased. 
Til says there were no musicians in her family, but there were 
musicians in neighborhood, and she listened to stories as a 
child. 
There was one person in their neighborhood particularly 
who told them stories, Nicola Fecchico, and another man later on 
who was a good storyteller, Fred Nicastro who was a shoemaker and 
from the same town in Italy where her father and step-father were 
from. 
She always enjoyed listening to stories during the 
gatherings the families had in the evenings, all of whom were 
from Italy. 
Til describes the storytellers and how good they 
were. 
Very evocative description of storytelling. 
One told 
"1,001 Nights." 
Neighborhood called "Townsite." 
Nice anecdote about non-Italian laughing at Italian jokes in 
Italian--because told so well. 
Til describes her childhood as being very good despite their 
hardships and how they had many places to play--the outdoors. 
Til discusses how she demonstrated gnochi in the Salt Lake Arts 
festival several years ago. 
She also mentions the other people 
from the area that demonstrated making other foods, especially a 
local cheese maker. 
(Mrs. John Vea--see later interview). 
Talks at length about Mrs. Vea's cheese business. 
Til learned to speak Italian in the home and she still speaks 
Italian some although she doesn't know it as well now. 
Her son 
knows Italian because she taught him. 
Her brother visited Italy 
and met some of Til's mother's family who still lives there. Her 
other brothers have visited there too. 
She describes their 
visits and those of their family who still in Italy and those who 
may visit there in the future. 
Her brother, Ernie, would like to 
live there but he wouldn't go as long as their mother lived here. 
Their mother died in March of 1990 and she would have been 100 
years old on July 4, 1990. 
The family always celebrated their 
mother's birthday on July 4. 
Til describes the celebration. 
Italian food was served. 
Til says that her mother lived on her 
own until she was 90 and that she cooked the Italian foods, 
gardened and canned through that time. 
Til discusses the 
celebration for her mother's 90th birthday. [We look at photo of 
her mother.] 
Til describes how many of the people in the Helper area live up 
into their 90s and points out several examples and the 
celebrations that surround their birthdays. 
When you're 100 in 
IAW-SS-A006 - 
5 
Helper , you get a ride on the fire engine! 
Tills step -father kept a fig tree in their greenhouse and says 
that many others keep them as well and harvested figs. 
She 
describes the figs her step-father 's mother sent them one year. 
They were cut in half , arranged and stuffed with almonds. 
Her 
cousin had an almond tree in Helper. 
At Tills place in 
Carbonville, which now belongs to her son , they have cherries, 
apricots and peaches. 
They still preserve their produce. 
Food, closeness, ideas and some traditions define Til's 
T•i 
a e_as. 
She says 
orce 
ecause  they didn't 
feel they were accepted by others in the community. 
END OF IAW-SS-A006 
Document: IAW-SS-A007 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 6/22/90 
Informant/Event: Colosimo, Lou 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 1 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A007 
Date: 
06/22/90 
Informant: 
COLOSIMO, LOU 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/22/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Lou is the Mayor of Price, Utah. 
His mother was born in Naples, 
Italy, and immigrated when she was one year old. 
She was raised 
in West Virginia. 
Lou's father immigrated when he was 25 years 
old. 
His parents met in West Virginia then moved to Utah to work 
in the mines. 
His father and his mother's family all worked in 
mining in Morgantown, West Virginia. His mother's family still 
lives there. 
His father was encouraged to come to Utah by 
friends who had come here to work and said there was plenty of 
work. 
He recalls that when he lived in Moreland, Utah, where he 
was born that they only had work about one day a month. 
Lou's father was from Calabria, Italy, and his parents spoke 
Italian in the home. 
He is the youngest child and doesn't speak 
Italian but his older brothers and sisters do. 
He can understand 
it, but neither he nor any of his family has gone back to Italy. 
He had 7 siblings but now only two of his sisters are living. 
He 
really has no desire to visit Italy. 
Lou discusses his father's immigration experience. 
His father 
came to the United States by himself and was frightened, although 
IAW-SS-A007 - 
2 
he had friends in West Virginia that helped him get a job in the 
mines. 
Lou's mother had visited Italy with her parents when she 
was 14. 
Lou's parents married when his mother was 17. 
They 
moved to Latuda right after their marriage, then Moreland and 
then Hiawatha and other mining camps trying to find better jobs. 
Lou says the immigrants had a difficult time being accepted. 
Lou discusses the mining currently being done at Hiawatha. 
He 
says "it's sad" because there isn't much going on. 
He thinks 
there are probably descendants of Italians working there now. 
Lou shows pictures of a WWI [doughboy] (used to be in Hiawatha) 
and describes how the city council is trying to erect a statue 
for the people from Hiawatha killed in WWI and how he would like 
to include all the people from Carbon County killed in both WWI 
and WWII. 
Lou describes how few people are in Hiawatha now and how many 
people used to live in that area. 
10 families now, with 6 
children. 
Lou's mother never learned to read or write English and his 
father had a difficult time with it. 
Lou admires their efforts 
in adjusting to a new country. 
For Christmas few toys were available--but food was plentiful. 
Lou describes sausage making by the family and how a group of 
Italians would get together and make sausage for each other. 
There was always something to eat hanging in the basement. 
He 
says they smoked the sausage and hams in the basement and the 
whole house would then smell like the meat. 
Wine was also made 
by his father and family. 
Bought one ton of grapes. 
Wine was 
always available when he was a child, although he didn't really 
like it. 
Lou's father used mine boots when he stomped the grapes 
for their wine in the earlier years, then got a machine that 
would do it. Describes the care of the boots that were used only 
for wine making. 
He says that everyone he knew used boots that 
way. 
Often the grapes were unloaded from the trucks late at 
night and speculates it was either against the law. 
When people 
visited each other cheese and wine were always served. 
Lots of 
Mormons visited to taste the wine. 
In the mining camps each ethnic group had its own section of town 
and they kept to themselves. 
Accordion music was very prominent but Lou doesn't know anyone 
who continues to play. 
Harmonica music was popular in the camps 
also. 
Lou describes a photograph that hangs on his office wall. 
It is 
of himself and councilmen dressed up. 
His friends gave it to him 
IAW-SS-A007 - 
3 
after he was sworn in as mayor. 
A Mormon bishop appears to be 
pouring wine in Lou's mouth. 
They look drunk, but not so. 
Gardens were prevalent. 
His family ate spaghetti twice a week; 
Wednesday (w/meatballs) and Sunday (w/chicken) and he continues 
to like Italian food. 
He says his wife can cook spaghetti as 
well as any Italian. 
He describes his nephew's wonderful garden, 
but Lou doesn't garden much. 
On Fridays fish was always eaten. 
Often sardines were eaten and in the summer his brother caught 
fish which they ate. 
On Christmas Eve codfish (bacala) was eaten with a tomato sauce. 
He describes how he took his wife to his parents for Christmas 
eve when they were dating and she didn't like the codfish. 
His 
wife is part Italian and part Scottish. 
They have been married 
for 35 years. 
No meat, bacala was always eaten on Christmas eve. 
Lou says that Sammy Farlaino in Price cooks very good Italian 
food in his restaurant called Farlaino's. 
He is only open for 
lunch and no good Italian food is available locally for dinner. 
He says there used to be good Italian restaurants in town. 
Lou doesn't see much evidence of people expressing their Italian 
heritage. 
He says Octoberfest at the church expresses a bit of 
Italian heritage and compares their experience as being minimal 
to that of the Greek community which has a large and popular 
festival every year. 
Lou thinks there is little interest by local people to learn 
Italian and that there are few descendants of Italians that would 
be interested. 
He says he is disgusted with himself for not 
learning. 
His parents spoke to each other always in Italian and 
he could understand it, but never learned to speak it. 
He says 
the younger Greek people could speak their language. 
He thinks 
the Greek parents made their children learn it. 
Lou says as he looks back he thinks his family really wasn't 
poor, they had more than they thought they did then. 
He 
expresses concern that perhaps people aren't continuing the 
recipes for the sausage and other foods he grew up on. 
He 
describes how some people think he is related to the people who 
have the Italian market in Magna. 
Lou doesn't think an authentic 
Italian restaurant in Price would survive very long. 
Lou discusses how the city council is trying to attract tourists 
by working with the travel council and other ways to stimulate 
jobs so they can keep the younger people interested in staying in 
the area. 
He describes how the mines are using machinery instead 
of people to mine the coal. 
END OF INTERVIEW IAW-SS-A007 
. 
IAW-SS-AO07 - 
4 
Document: IAW-SS-AO08 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/4/90 
Informant/Event: Ori, Teresa 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-AO08 
Date: 
08/04/90 
Informant: 
ORI, TERESA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/04/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Discusses the Manina House. 
Teresa rented it in April of 1936 
right after her wedding which was a double wedding with her 
sister Mrs. Marshton. 
Her sister moved to Provo. 
The house was 
built when she was a child. 
The bottom was built first and it 
was rock. 
Mr. Manina moved around a lot because he was a mason 
and rarely lived in the house. 
He was a friend of Teresa's 
husband's aunt and she asked him if the Oris could rent the 
house. 
Teresa like it because it was close to her mother. 
There are two rooms in the upstairs of the house, one was a 
bedroom and one was a kitchen. 
Inner door between them. 
The 
same arrangement was downstairs. 
She says that there were no 
cabinets upstairs when she moved in and her husband built some. 
Teresa says Mr. Manina didn't use the upstairs when he lived 
there. 
She didn't like the downstairs as well. 
There was an 
outhouse they used. 
The outbuildings were used by Mr. Manina. 
She is not sure how 
each of the buildings were used. 
She is unsure what the small 
IAW-SS-A008 - 
2 
room off the kitchen with the dirt floor was used for and thinks 
it was not there when she lived there. She discusses renters who 
occupied the house after her [interruption by police scanner 
radio.] 
Teresa lived in the house for a year, then her sister 
lived in the first floor for about a year. 
They both then built 
their own houses. 
Teresa and her sister are about 18 months apart in age. 
She 
laughs that everyone thought they were twins because they looked 
alike and went everywhere together. 
Their maiden name was 
Fazio. 
The building at the far end of the property that was part log was 
used to keep some tools in Teresa thinks, but she says she didn't 
see Mr. Manina very much. 
He came every couple of months to 
collect the rent which was ten dollars a month. 
She says her 
husband was only making $7.80 a day working in the mines and they 
only worked one or two days. 
Teresa says she knew John Manina and that he lived with the 
Narzios. 
There were three bachelors living there that raised 
four children. 
One of the men was a widower who moved there with 
his children. 
She says she didn't have much association with the old people 
(the men) when she lived in the Manina house and that they kept 
to themselves. 
Teresa grew a garden and says there were fruit trees there. 
The 
garden space was large. 
She didn't raise any animals and she 
doesn't think Mr. Manina was around enough to raise animals. 
She 
guesses that Mr. Manina was about 40-50 years old at that time. 
She was 22. 
Teresa was born in Sunnyside, UT. 
She moved to Spring Glen when 
she was 6 years old. 
Her parents were from Italy. 
[phone rings] 
They were from the same place that Vito is from--Catanzaro [?]. 
Teresa describes the four families that first moved to the town, 
and that it was all sage brush. 
She worked in the dairy before 
she was married. 
She and her sister milked about 30 cows each, 
each morning before they went to school in the morning. 
The woke 
at about 3:00 a.m. to get ready for school. 
Her father later 
bought milking machines that make the work go faster. 
Teresa says it's important to her that she lived in the Manina 
house because it is still there and it was the first house she 
and her husband lived in. 
She describes the work her husband did 
in their kitchen. 
The stairs in the house are the same as when 
she lived there. 
She says Mr. Winklereed took care of Mr. Manina's estate, and the 
I 
IAW-SS-A008 - 
3 
property belongs to him. 
She says he is a difficult person. 
END OF INTERVIEW IAW-SS-A008 
-t 
Document: IAW-SS-A009 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/6/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Ann 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A009 
Date: 
08/06/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, ANN 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 06/06/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Ann discusses bread baking in the outside ovens. 
She said the 
authorities made them knock the ovens down because they were 
afraid they would start fires, even though they had been used for 
many years without trouble. 
She feels they were safe to use. 
She says maybe it was because they were Italians, but that they 
wouldn't exist now anyway because the younger generation wouldn't 
be interested in using them. 
Everyone buys their bread now. 
The 
ovens were also used to roast the chickens for weddings and 
Capretti the kid goats. 
They cooked these for baptisms also. 
Easter is when the goats are mainly cooked because they're ready 
at that time. 
She describes the goat herder who lived in the 
mountains and made cheese out of goat's milk which they ate 
often. 
She describes the making of various cheeses from goat's 
milk: 
rigotla, and something like mozzarella. 
She used to like 
it and not cheese made of cow's milk, but now prefers it to goat 
cheese. 
The goat herder came out of the mountains by wagon and sold the 
cheese. 
Mrs. Romano, the older Mrs. Romano (98) may know more 
about him. 
Ann discusses the centenarians in the community. 
Most of the older people who would still remember him are dead. 
She recalls going to the herder's place in the mountains when she 
was a child and how she became ill from the goat smell. 
His 
IAW-SS-AO09 - 
2 
family lived up there and herded goats. 
She doesn't think his 
children continued the business because of the restrictions on 
selling unpasteurized milk. 
The period she remembers the herder 
selling goat products is from 1924-1930. 
The bake ovens were used for a variety of things. 
She describes 
the process. 
Wood was burned until the oven got very hot, then 
the ashes were swept out with a special broom. 
Then with a 
bucket of water and a mop, the ashes were mopped off of the 
stones on the bottom and then flour was thrown in. 
If the flour 
burned the oven was too hot and more water was applied to cool 
the oven down. 
When the fire was a golden brown, then it was 
time to put the bread in. 
Then they put the door on while the 
bread baked. 
Her great aunt made pizza for the children. 
It was 
more simple than they are today. 
She put olive oil, black 
pepper, onion and bell peppers and crushed, fresh tomato on the 
dough. 
A little bit of cheese was put on it. 
She called it 
pitta. 
Talks about pizza vs. pitta (term). 
The Verde oven is the typical kind. 
Most of the people had 
wooden covers over their ovens to protect them in the winter. 
She describes the people she knew who had ovens. 
Her 
neighborhood was almost all Italians and most of them had ovens. 
She mentions the two families who had stores in the neighborhood 
and that they each had ovens. 
She says there aren't as many 
Italians in the neighborhood anymore, nor are there many full-
blooded Italians. 
She describes her neighbors and the various 
ethnic groups they represent. 
Mrs. Schiro, one of her neighbors, 
were Sicilian and there was another family who were Sicilian-
Barones. 
Ann was married in 1941, and she thinks the bake ovens were torn 
down just prior to that. She says that the Italians used to make 
their own sausage and lard from their own pigs which they 
butchered. Ann's godfather was a good sausage-maker and made 
sausage for Ann's family. 
He also made prezutti (prosciutto). 
Ann's grandmother made liver sausage using chopped liver, lungs 
and heart. She would add it to greens she cooked in the winter. 
She says in Canada, Italians still make suprasatta and it's 
imported by local stores. 
It's made from pork loin and is very 
expensive. 
She slices it and eats it with bread. 
Sausages were 
hung on the rafters in the basement and smoked. 
Ann says that her father used to make his own wine. 
During the 
Depression, when they couldn't afford grapes, they went into the 
mountains and pick choke cherries for choke cherry wine. 
They 
also went into the mountains to pick mushrooms and then canned 
them. 
Ann used to live in Englewood, California and worked for United 
Way. 
She retired and returned to Helper, Utah ten years ago to 
live with her brother. 
She talks about her work with United Way 
IAW-SS-A009 - 
3 
and the people she worked with as well as the birds that were 
kept in the office she worked in. 
She talks about her cousins in 
Italy who immigrated to Ottawa, Canada, and how well they have 
done in Canada. 
Meanders quite a bit to Israel, relatives, etc. 
Ann's father was 14 when he immigrated to the United States and 
he came by himself. 
His parents died in Italy, and he was raised 
by his aunt and uncle. They immigrated to the United States and 
lived in Colorado (Pueblo and another mining town). 
Ann's father 
immigrated in 1904 and stayed in a hotel in New York. 
Ann 
relates a story of her father's arrival in New York. 
His uncle 
put some money for him in the Bank of Italia but he didn't know 
where the bank was. 
He was befriended by an Italian who had a 
bakery who took him to the bank and to the train depot. 
Story of 
woman on ship yelling "Siamp pevduti" in New York harbor. 
He 
stayed in New York for three days then took the train to Colorado 
to be with his uncle. 
His uncle worked for the railroad and they 
were moved by the railroad to Helper, Utah where they then lived 
for the rest of their lives. 
Ann's mother worked in her aunt's 
store and that's where she met Ann's father. 
There was a store 
and hotel there that were run by Ann's great aunt and uncle, the 
Scalzos. 
Ann's mother used to say that her father would come to 
the store to see her pretending he had forgotten to buy matches. 
Ann's father's name was Montuoro. 
One of his brothers joined the 
U.S. army during WWI and when he signed up they changed the 
spelling to Montoro. 
They were from Cosenza, Calabria, Italy. 
They actually lived in a small town called Cleto. 
Ann says her_ 
father used— to say -that  nothing grew  
there but oranges and 
lemons. 
- - 
-  
 
Talks about picture she has of town. 
Ann has never been to Italy, but she would like to go because she 
has cousins there. 
One cousin now lives in Verona, but the rest 
still live in Cleto. 
Ann's father and his brother were the only 
ones of his immediate family who immigrated to the United States 
and so Ann says they maintained contact with the rest of the 
family remaining in Italy. 
Ann's father's brother also lived in 
Helper. 
Her father sent money to his relatives in Italy who were 
very poof. 
She says now her relatives in Italy are doing very 
well. 
After WWII many of her cousins moved to Canada. 
She  
visited t  
m in Ot awa, and several of her cousins visited her 
parents at one time. 
[END SIDE A] 
[SIDE B] 
She describes how successful and self sufficient many of her 
cousins in Canada have become. 
IAW-SS-A009 - 
4 
Ann's great-grandparents on her mother's side immigrated to the 
Unites States in about 1890. 
Her mother was born in 1898 in 
Carbondale, Pennsylvania. 
Her grandmother was 12 or 13 years old 
when she immigrated and Ann's mother was her first child. 
Ann's 
great-grandparents, Maria and Ross Scavo, and her other great-
grandmother, Caselli, are all buried in the Helper cemetery and 
they were all from Calabria. 
Her grandmother came from Casanove. 
Ann remembers her great-grandparents and tells how her great-
grandfather would buy her ice cream from the man who came around 
in a carriage selling ice cream. 
She recalls her great-
grandparents often eating bread and milk and describes how her 
great-grandfather ate apples even though he had no teeth 
(chopping it fine). 
He had Jordan almonds (confetti) in a jar at 
his store. 
They used to be thrown at weddings along with money. 
Ann's grandparents lived in Dawson, New Mexico, where her 
grandfather was killed while working on the railroad. 
Her 
grandmother had six children at the time and following the 
accident she moved to Helper, Utah, to be near her parents. 
Ann 
says that perhaps he worked in Dawson after several children were 
born in Helper. 
The railroad gave her grandmother $600 and she 
bought property next to her parents' home. 
Ann's father was a plumber, she was born in Hiawatha. 
He worked 
with a master plumber there. 
Because her mother wanted to live 
close to her mother, they moved to Helper when Ann was about 3. 
Her father then worked as a pipe fitter and boiler washer with 
the railroad. 
In 1922 he was involved with the railroad strike 
and so was not rehired and went to work in the mines (35 years). 
He worked in Castlegate, Spring Canyon, (Peerless), Stores, Rains 
(?) and in Kenilworth mines. 
Mining wasn't dependable work. 
There wasn't very much work in the summer. 
One wav to get by was the gardens. 
Everybody had gardens, and 
Ann's qrandmother often worked in the garden. They grew their  
own 
tomatoes for tomato sauce and paste. 
Tomato paste was dried in 
the sun on large boards with netting covers. 
It was then put in 
crocks with a thin layer of olive oil to store it. 
It was dried 
to a paste, but not totally dried. 
Fruits were canned; peaches, 
pears and many apricots in their family. 
Hardly any apricot 
trees left. 
Ann had a garden when she first retired in Helper, but this past 
year she didn't grow one. 
She canned tomatoes when she had them. 
Ann says her daughter doesn't know about preserving food like 
they used to. 
Ann shows a photograph of her siblings and parents. 
She has one 
daughter, two grandsons and a granddaughter. 
Ann says that her 
daughter cooks spaghetti, but didn't marry an Italian and doesn't 
IAW-SS-A009 - 
5 
try to cook Italian foods. 
She says there aren't many Italians 
left. 
Discussion of the men who worked on the addition Ann put onto her 
house and how they all claimed to be half Italian, including a 
tall blond man. 
Ann discusses the women she worked with in California, some of 
whom were Jewish. 
At length. 
Ann's great aunt and great uncle lived in Brooklyn, New York when 
they first immigrated from Italy. 
Her great aunt called it 
"Brookylino". 
A woman they knew, Litorina, saw her first banana 
while travelling from New York to the West. 
They were sold on 
the train. 
She started eating it with the peeling on it, and an 
American woman on the train showed her how to eat it. 
Litorina 
was a friend of Ann's parents. 
A male relative of Ann's tried to 
learn English during his train trip to Utah from New York by 
repeating the words of the vendor who was on the train. 
[She 
imitates him reciting "Cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, cigars, 
Castlegate" with an Italian accent.] 
The coal miners were coaxed to come to Utah to work with promises 
of wages of $5.00/day, which they never saw. 
Ann describes a 
half-way house that was located near Castlegate. 
Ann's parents lived in Castlegate when they were first married 
and walked to Helper. 
They then moved to Hiawatha and lived in a 
company house that only had cold running water piped in. 
The town of Castlegate is totally gone and there is a cemetery 
located there in the back of the town. 
In 1924 the mine exploded, and Ann remembers her parents taking 
her up to the mine to see the destroyed mine. 
Ann lives in the part of town called "Townsite". 
Ann's parents 
moved there when she was 6 years old. 
It is the Northwest side 
of Helper. 
She thinks that everything past the dugway could be 
considered part of Townsite, which includes Canyon, Roosevelt, 
Duchesne, Uinta, and Hill Streets. 
She doubts children today 
would recognize that part of town as Townsite. 
Says nearby 
mountain called Steamboat Mountain when they were children. 
hTe Townsite part of town was mixed northern and southern 
Italian, the piemontese and the Calabrese, and Ann describes how 
there was always tension between the two, yet they lived and 
worked together. 
Sha says the southern Italians called the 
northerners macaroni-eaters  and the northerners called the 
southerners polenta-eaters. 
Talks about Antonette Muller in Orem who worked in a store 
IAW-SS-A009 - 
6 
serving Piemontese, (She was Calabrese.) 
END OF IAW-SS-A009. 
Interview continued on IAW-SS-A010. 
Document: IAW-SS-A010 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/6/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Ann 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A010 
Date: 
08/06/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, ANN 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/06/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Ann talks about Antontte, a woman she grew up with. 
She worked 
in her parent's store and only completed the eighth grade. 
The Helper State Bank was built by Mr. Barboglio who made his own 
blocks to build the building with. 
He was Piemontese. 
Ann continues a story about Antonette who went to the bank to 
make a deposit. 
There were two Piemontese women talking badly 
about the Calabrese. 
The women didn't know she could understand 
their dialect. 
Antonette was so angry she told Ann she felt like 
taking all her money out and putting it in the Mormon bank in 
Price. 
Ann discusses the tension between the Piemontese and the 
Calabrese. 
She says it wasn't the Calabrese who caused the 
trouble but the Piemontese. 
They were from the north and felt 
they were better because they had more up there. 
"More money, 
more everything up there in the North." 
There isn't that 
distinction any more. 
The Italian lodge is still going and there was a Piemontese who 
didn't want any southerners in the lodge. 
Ann says the 
IAW-SS-A010 - 
2 
southerners then decided to start their own lodge in Price. 
There was one Piemontese man in Helper who didn't want 
southerners in the lodge. 
Eventually the lodge in Price stopped 
because the people in Helper had to go down there. 
Some were 
invited to join the Helper lodge, but many wouldn't because they 
weren't wanted at first. 
Ann's cousin wouldn't join for that 
reason. 
Still some of the animosity left. 
Ann thinks there were more Italians from the Calabria and 
Piemonte regions than from any other regions in Italy. 
There 
were a few from Tuscany, Rome, Abruzzi, a few Sicilians, some 
Marchegian. 
There was some prejudice against Italians, some feeling that if 
they got anywhere and made money that they must be affiliated 
with the mafia. 
Ann discusses a neighbor who defended the 
Italians' hard work. 
She laughs because there wasn't any money 
to be jealous of. 
Ann says they never forget about the mafia 
stereotype. 
"Everybody in the east is a 'Don'." 
Everytime 
anybody does something then he is seen as the head of the mafia. 
She laughs about that and how some in Helper thought there was a 
mob in Helper. 
She told a woman "What mob are you talking about? 
You mean the Mormon mob?" 
She told her about the white collar 
crime in Salt Lake City and how it is mostly Mormons who hold 
those jobs, not Italians. 
Ann says they're prejudice. 
She says 
it's the Mormons who conduct all the investment fraud and white 
collar crime in Salt Lake City. 
"They're the mob, not us." 
Ann's grandmother told Italian fairy tales. 
Her great Uncle, 
Frank Scavo, told some too. 
She loved to listen to them as a 
little girl. 
They were told in the evenings when people got 
together, especially in the winter when everyone gathered around 
the kitchen stove, which was coal. 
Sometimes the neighbor joined 
them. 
[Tony the Yugoslavian comes in] 
Ann talks about he 
parties they had during the Depression. 
Her step-grandfather 
loved parties. 
Her uncle Tony Bonacci sang. 
Sausages, bread and 
fruit were served, and if the party was near Christmas they had 
nuts also. 
Oranges were a luxury and sometimes they had them at 
Christmas. 
The stories were for everybody. 
She mentioned 
Cinderella and says she thinks the English copied the fairy tales 
from the Italians and she laughs and says she knows the Italians 
didn't go to England to get them. 
She can't really remember many 
of the stories. 
One about a mean witch who turns a prince into a 
butterfly and he flies to the window of the palace. 
They always 
rhymed, then she recites a section in Italian and translates it: 
This is what the butterfly prince says at the windows - 
"Cuoco, cuoco della cucina 
the fa it re 
con la scava regina?" 
"suona a canta e balla" 
IAW-SS-A010 - 
3 
{"Cook, cook of the kitchen 
what is the King doing 
with the slave queen? 
"He plays [an instrument], 
sings, and dances. "} 
Eventually in the story the prince gets turned back into the 
prince. 
Only certain parts of the story rhymed. 
Her step-
grandfather told some too. 
His name was Nick Vecchio. 
Tilly's 
aunt told good fairy tales also. 
Her name was Carmana Felice. 
Carmana's daughter Margaret told them too. 
Several people told 
these stories at the gatherings. 
They were all Calabrian. 
One 
of the stories was a version of Cinderella called Cicirinella. 
Ann says that many of the stories were about the saints, but she 
can't recall them. 
Many of the Italians migrated to California during the Depression 
because the mines weren't running. 
Many of them did very well. 
She discusses some people she knows who did that. 
Ann's neighbor 
in California held the mafia stereotype of Italians who succeeded 
in California. 
She describes an example of an Italian who went 
into business with a Jewish man and made a good living in 
California. 
Ann talks about her relatives in Canada who are well 
off and have worked hard. 
The women are great seamstresses. 
Ann's grandmother had a coffee grinder she remembers, but she 
wasn't sure if it came from Italy. 
She can't recall any other 
items that might have come from Italy. 
Her grandmother loved 
fresh coffee, they used American coffee because they couldn't get 
Italian coffee. 
Ann doesn't like espresso--too strong. 
Ann's husband was from Helper, but he moved to Detroit to work 
for Ford. 
He played in their drum and bugle corps as their head 
bugler. He travelled to California to play, and he liked it. 
They met and he asked her to marry him about 1941. 
She wanted to 
get out of Helper. 
They lived in Detroit for about 5-6 years, 
They lived in Dearborn actually. 
He always wanted to move to 
California, so after the war they moved to California because 
Ford hired returning servicemen and fired those who had worked 
there during the war. 
Her husband wasn't well and couldn't pass 
the military physical. 
They moved to California in 1946. 
They 
lived on 153rd street in Los Angeles. 
While in Detroit they 
associated with Italians and Polish people. 
The church she went 
to was a Polish Catholic church and the services were in Polish. 
Her husband died of cancer. 
Ann liked California when they first 
moved there. 
She discusses her friends there and favorite 
restaurant. 
They moved to Englewood and she said she heard it 
was a Klu Klux Klan town at that time. 
Now the Catholics are 
IAW-SS-A010 - 
4 
everywhere there, but at first she was hesitant. 
She lived there 
35 years and didn't think she would return to Helper. 
But 
eventually did to be with her brother after her parents died. 
[Her brother Johnny enters the room.] 
She's happy she lives in a smaller, quieter place now. 
Discusses 
how the Englewood area isn't as nice as it was when she first 
moved there. 
Others are moving away from there and are retiring 
back in Helper--like Frank Magliocco. 
She talks about him. 
There are too many people in California according to Ann. 
Ann discusses the selling of her home in California. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Ann talks about the people who still make sausage, Mike Milovich 
is one. 
He makes the Piemontese garlic sausage. 
Richard Colombo 
makes the Calabrese sausage that Ann likes better. 
[Ann brings 
out sausage to eat.] 
Jokes about Mike Milovich making good 
sausage because he's half-Italian. 
Ann says there were a lot of farmers in Spring Glen and that 
there are still some there. 
She says there were stone houses 
built by John Biscardi in the area. 
He built Ann's grandfather's 
"rock" house on Canyon Street. 
He looked like Santa Claus, but 
was a good stone mason. 
Mr. Bianco was also a stone mason. They 
were both Calabrese. 
Bianco drank a lot and abused his wife. 
Ann relates a story she heard about Jews owning New York. 
A man 
she knew said the Italians built New York, the Jews own it and 
the Irish run it. 
Many of the doctors in the areas were Italians. 
Dr. Deman [?] 
worked his way through school by working in the coke ovens during 
the summers. 
Chris Pascuzzi[?], her cousin, was a doctor also. 
He worked at the Mayo clinic, then taught at Notre Dame and other 
places in Indiana. 
There were also Italian dentists and lawyers 
in the area. 
A book was written about the Piemontese in the area 
by Stanley Lizetti [Littizette], a local lawyer. 
Many Italian 
school teachers also. 
Ann discusses one of her teachers, Sally 
Mauro, who has a school in Helper named after her. 
On Labor Day the coal mine unions had a picnic. 
She isn't sure 
if it is still done. 
Now they have Butch Cassidy Days. 
The Italian lodge has a banquet on Columbus Day at the country 
club. 
Ann belongs, even though it is mainly Piemontese. 
Discussion about the North-South prejudices. 
Ann shows her photo album at great length. 
Some of the p otos 
are very old and include___image-_of_.he 
_grfat gbandppa _ents--and_ 
other family members [See slides]. 
She isn't sure where all the 
IAW-SS-A010 - 
5 
photos were taken, some were taken in Helper, Utah. 
A lot of 
relatives in Ottawa. 
Discussion about people in the photographs. 
There used to be a Catholic church up near the cemetery. 
It was 
given to the Greeks and then it burned down. 
Easter was a very holy day. 
END OF IAW-SS-A010 
s 
_s - 
vx•— 
•t/y •Ji✓ • S 5 
• 
•w• _ 
\ 
•l•v 
•> 
Vas--• y 
•' •-*/--•- •--•- y 
`• 
••`- 7 
• 
• 
 d-t•..c c.,.••-• 
— 
1•`•o.•l-c.•. cam-- 
t/•--• c
,•-• 
•-•. 
--
_ 
-+ 
1y L"- 
dv 
v. 
k- 
- 
•-,,• 
uj.j , 
4-
V\-,•-- 
•/1cvw-•_. l 
CI 
-1-
Document: IAW-SS-A011 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/2/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Filomena and Vito 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A011 
Date: 
08/02/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, Vito and Filomena 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/02/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Discuss the Manina House. 
It was built by Camillo Manina. 
They 
think he had no relations near. 
He had someone living with him 
for much of the time, but they can't recall his name at first. 
After some discussion they remember his name was Mr. Marzio. 
[pronounced "Margio"] 
Marzio's wife left him. 
Manina never 
married. 
Mr. Marzo had four children which the two men raised, 
two girls and two boys. 
One of the girls lives there still. 
Another girl lives in Provo, and the two boys are dead. 
One died 
in the mine, another (Battista) was injured in a timbering 
accident, then died several years ago. 
Helen lives in Provo, 
Margarit is the one that lives in Spring Glen. 
Filomena 
describes where she lives. 
Vito also describes where she lives. 
They discuss who Margarit married and her husband's various 
marriages. 
They recall her last name is Ariotti, Margarit 
Ariotti. 
The Bonaccis discuss the Manina house. 
It was built before they 
moved their house. 
Her sister and her husband lived in the 
Manina's house in 1937 or 1938. 
Manina lived there until he 
died. The Bonaccis say their house wasn't built until after the 
IAW-SS-A011 - 
2 
1930s. 
Maria Notarianni asks [in Italian] that they had donkeys, 
two or three.[everyone laughs] 
There was a storage room built 
after Mr. Monina left. 
Discussion about the dialect word for 
donkey (Chooch) and everyone laughs. 
Winklereid owns the house now and Bonaccis say they know him. 
They say he has had a death in his family. 
His son-in-law had 
leukemia and died. 
Discussion about his family. 
They call him 
"Orthodox Catholic"--meaning Greek Orthodox. 
Manina had chicken, rabbits and pigs says interviewer. 
Filomena 
said there was a peach orchard but she isn't sure there was a 
pig. 
Mendoza built the shed in the back of the house, not 
Manina. 
He only built the house that is behind the trailer. 
They don't think he built the rabbit hutches or other out-
buildings. 
They say he was a loner and aren't sure where he was 
from, just that he was from the North. 
Filomena says the small 
room on the front of the house that had a stove in it was his 
kitchen. 
He used an outside kitchen. 
She says he also had a big 
garden. 
Vito discusses how the houses in the area were situated. 
They say Maninao worked in the mines. Filomena discusses how 
Manina came up to get his irrigation water but said very little. 
She laughs that Mr. Bruno was the one that talked a lot. 
Manina 
"Was a nice guy--didn't bother nobody." 
Filomena says Mr. Marzo's daughter grew up in the Conca house not 
the Manina house. 
It no longer stands. 
[They look at photos of 
the Manina house]. 
They say that the door beneath the steps on 
the Manina house went to a storage room and that both levels of 
the house were built at once. 
Filomena says the bottom was the 
living quarters and the top was sleeping quarters. 
Vito says 
Manina was a stonemason for the mine, 
He built vents,  _
 led 
N
es, in the mines and so he was able to bluild his house 
hiM. 
Th 
s oppages were ma a for ventilation inside the 
mine, reinforced with wood. 
Vito describes how they were made. 
The Bonaccis discuss the woman who lives in the trailer. 
The 
house that was nearby, the Conca house, was torn down recently 
and was situated just below where the trailer now is. 
The 
Mendozas built the sheds and other buildings onto the Manina 
house. 
Vito says Mrs. Mendoza is nicer than her husband. 
Vito 
tells a story about a carnival and Mr. Mendoza. 
Vito describes how horses were used in the mines. 
Vito used to 
work his grandfather's mule when he was young and was surprised 
at the small mules they used in the mine when he came to 
Sunnyside. 
They pulled the coal out with—mules—and—took it to 
motorized containers which took it outside. 
He says the mines 
now use belts and take the coal outside with belts. 
The mines 
used mules in different ways. 
Some kept them down in the mines, 
others took them out every night. 
Those that kept them inside 
had stables inside the mine and when they took them out they had 
I 
IAW-SS-A011 - 
3 
to keep their eyes shaded. 
Compares the horses to miners--also 
always in the dark. 
Filomena relates a story about when she was about 10 she wanted 
to go down into the mine, her father would say at night he would 
take her, then in the morning he told her "I have to risk my head 
in there and take care of my own, I can't watch you". 
She never 
got to go into the mine. 
laughing about how father did take her 
to the tipple and slid her down the chute. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Vito used to do mechanical work in the mines. 
His supervisor 
warned them to never touch the rats, but when you see them run, 
you run too because something is wrong in the mine. 
Filomena, 
talking simultaneously, says thay actually fed the rats to keep 
them around to warn them. 
He tells a story about seeing the rats 
looking for something to eat and when they start scurrying around 
the gas is close so it's time to leave. 
Vito didn't know of any 
superstitions regarding the mine. 
He says it was spooky there by 
yourself. 
He tells a story about a time he was loading cars and 
heard noises. 
At that time the coal was cut from the wall and it 
left a lot of dust. 
They had to buy their own tools. 
It took 
him all day to load one car. 
For $3-$4. 
Vito discusses working 
conditions-xind-how-ha
ard-they-wGr-ked with-1,it
ttle_pay. 
When they 
brought out a car, the company man weighed it, and wasn't always 
accurate. 
A "company man" did the weighing. 
Discussion of superstitions. 
Filomena discusses her son, 
Dominic, who worked in the Spring Canyon mine where there was an 
explosion. 
He was there checking the passages and he said he 
knew someone was walking with him all the time. 
He said he 
wasn't afraid, but he could hear the footsteps. 
Many of the men 
say they've heard them too. 
They say that men who are killed in 
the mines stay there until the time they were supposed to die. 
(They laugh) They don't recall any good luck charms. 
Vito said 
you had to protect yourself and have good luck. 
Things happen 
when you least expect them too. 
Vito says the timbers they used 
to use were safer than the bolts they used later. 
The roofs 
could come down without warning. 
Vito tells about one of the 
straw bosses who had a roof come down on him, timber and all. 
He 
was killed. 
But at his funeral, he was. 
Vito says anytime you 
go in there you're never sure you'll come out. 
Especially in the 
mines around there. 
The mines were very deep and they would go 
in at Spring Glen and go all the way over to Castle Gate. 
The 
old number 1 mine from Kenilworth goes down under homes in 
Helper. 
Filomena says maybe that's wrong with their house, it's 
settling. (Laughs] 
Vito says no, he was worn out when he built 
the house and he just couldn't dig anymore, and had to build the 
foundation around the rock. 
The man who poured the foundation 
IAW-SS-A011 - 
4 
said it would crack. 
Vito says that the ground under Price is 
all swamp and houses shift there a lot. 
Vito tells a story about 
a sheepherder who dug down only a foot and a half to get water 
for their sheep. 
Mr. Monier (?) was the sheepherder and was 
French. 
There were Italian owned mines. 
Frank Latuda owned one. 
At 
Latuda. Jim Ronco had one too. 
Kennilworth bought it from him, 
it laid behind Kennilworth. 
He had another mine in Spring 
Canyon, above Standardville in Mutual. 
Pavianni, Ronco's 
brother-in-law, cheated Ronco out of his mine. 
Aronko then moved 
near Kennilworth and opened a store. 
Vito worked in the Ronco 
mine. 
There he worked with Jim Bianco who was a stonemason, but 
was a drunk. 
They started in Kennilworth then worked in Ronco's 
mine. 
Vito discusses his jobs in each and how difficult it was 
to get a good-paying job. 
He talks about how good jobs were 
promised to them and then would be given to others. 
Stories of 
being exploited. 
That is what made him a union man. 
He 
discusses a conversation he had with his son Dominic about 
foreign-made cars. 
Vito won't have one because they're made by 
scabs. 
Dominic has a foreign truck and it hasn't run very well. 
Vito says they might be better than American cars, but they're 
scab cars and he doesn't like them. 
The locally-owned mines were sold before the unions came in. 
There were no unions. 
Vito discusses the building of the plant 
in Helper and how inefficient the heating system is. 
No cold air 
return was put in. 
Vito helped with maintenance there for 14 
years. 
END SIDE B 
END OF IAW-SS-A011 
Interview continued on IAW-SS-A012 
Document: IAW-SS-A012 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/2/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Filomena and Vito 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A012 
Date: 
08/02/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, VITO AND FILOMENA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/02/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Continuation of interview 
Videotape is being shown that was made by Phil Notarianni with 
Vito's relatives in Decolatura, Catanzaro, Italy who send their 
greetings to Vito and his family. 
Notarianni narrates 
occasionally. 
[Copy of videotape included in Phil Notarianni's 
fieldwork] 
END SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Videotape of trip to Italy continues. 
Videotape ends. 
Discussion of the holiday feast shown in the videotape [by Maria 
Notarianni] 
Discussion of the area she is from--Rizzuti, in 
Colosimi--especially how it has declined. 
Filomena says she hasn't seen much of that country. 
Vito 
describes where he was from (Casanova). 
He describes the church 
altar "bigger than half the church in Helper"--in the church that 
was in his home town. 
Filomena likes the changes in the church 
where the priest now faces the parishioners. 
Vito discusses his 
work experience when he was young. 
He wasn't able to attend 
IAW-SS-A012 - 
2 
church because he worked. 
He went to the priest in the evenings 
for teaching. 
But he was too tired. 
Vito mad_ea-hoe--{--aappa or 7 a   o --]-himself that is the same style 
as the one he used in Italy. 
He won't use-the-new [American] 
hoe. 
They had a big hoe to work ite land and a small one to 
-revel it ott. 
Filomena says Vito plants his garden in very straight lines and 
it all has to be just right. 
Vito describes his garden 
irrigation process and how that necessitates having straight 
lines. 
Vito discusses Filomena's brother's garden that has too 
many weeds. Vito says rows must be strai ht to look 
ood. 
( or 
the looks.") 
He a so 
esigns 
is gar-den so the drrigat-ion-runs 
properly. 
He says he makes the most of his garden space. 
Filomena teases him about the amount of space he uses for his 
garden. 
Filomena says every three weeks-„rto-is ut 
ti-1-1-ing t:he 
soil until -it_is 
v_er_y___&oft. 
Vito says tha 
; 
s how-they-did it in 
the old--country. 
He discusses his neighbor's weedy garden. 
But 
his neighbor is always pulling weeds. 
Vito says you kill weeds 
by_working the soil. 
Pulling them is better than poisoning them, 
he says. 
He,likes it that way because that is how he was raised. 
Vito discusses the deep holes his neighbor (brother-in-law) dug 
to plant tomatoes. 
Laughs. 
He and Filomena express disapproval 
of how their neighbors were gardening. 
Vito-continues 
criticizing neighbors_gardeninq practices (his brother-in-law). 
Very disdainful of their lack of Gardening knowledge. 
Filomena 
says the sons -were pampered in the old country, they did little 
work. 
The girls did all the work. 
Maria says that's still true 
in Italy 
Vito talks about cooking in the summer kitchen. 
END SIDE B 
END OF IAW-SS-A012 
Interview continued on IAW-SS-A013 
Document: IAW-SS-A013 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/2/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Filomena and Vito 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A013 
Date: 
08/02/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, VITO AND FILOMENA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING 
RECORDED 08/02/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Continuation of interview 
Vito says he had three brothers and three sisters. 
The girls did 
more for the family than the boys did. 
Two conversations ensue at once--very difficult to follow either 
consistently. 
Filomena discusses cooking. 
Vito discusses 
families and work. 
Vito says b-e farms the game way he-d-i-d1i.nL_jta1_y. 
Desscribes_how 
he had to rework landscapes around house_to.plan 
garden. 
Removed 
rock, brought in soil. 
Talks about growing potatoes; describes 
how they-sarere-ri anted--in_-1ta-1y. 
He used to sell potatoes, corn, 
wheat. 
In Italy, he also raised pigs, and fe 
-- potatoes and 
bran _ap_d_ c rn_,-sometimes chestnuts. 
Over here they feed slop and 
al •afa. 
In Italy they fed them acorns too, but never any slop. 
Filomena says her mother never fed them slop. 
She'd mix together 
potatoes, bran, and corn. 
Vito says they fed slop here because 
it was cheaper to feed. 
They talk about Charlie [Saccomano] 
feeding pigs. 
He is about 79. 
Vito says he feels that if you 
give them good food, you'll get good meat. 
You feed them slop 
and that's what you'll get. 
Vito discusses getting water to the pigs and helping another man 
farm who had a lot of land, in Italy. 
One problem with 
IAW-SS-AO13 - 
2 
irrigating (here) is that it brings weeds. Describes his brother-
in-law in Italy who had visited the United States talking to his 
family about the differences. 
In the United States, the man 
said, you don't have to pay certain taxes. 
This man, Ralph 
Scalzi, lived in California and kept buying and selling houses. 
Vito describes how most of the nice houses he saw in San Jose, 
California, were owned by the Japanese and they had the best 
lettuce because they watered it by hand like in Italy. 
Vito says 
in Italy they didn't waste water. 
They recycled it, here they 
don't. 
Vito describes water use in the surrounding area--
wasteful. 
Vito talks about a neighbor who was a truck driver then went into 
the construction business when the law required a second driver. 
The man can do anything. 
He describes a farm he is familiar with 
in Pennsylvania and how the father started it and the sons took 
it over. 
Vito save thPv don'thave any utensils or machines that they used 
to have in Daly. 
Years ago they had some spoons, etc. 
Desbcriibeess  the land he thought he might have (right next door) and 
that he would have one or two pigs, and ho
`
 w they-used to_make_ 
their own sausage, etc. 
Now, exary-thing-comes from-the--stare. 
Discusses soprasatta available in store. 
They-made-salami, 
bacon, sausage_ 
pork, red pepper, salt went into the sausage 
they-made, says Filomena. 
She says it has to be kneaded for a 
long time until the fat sticks to your hands. 
Her mother took a 
patty and fried it to see if it had enough salt. 
No one makes it 
locally commercially anymore. 
Columbo and Siena are the best 
brands. 
Siena is just like they used to make it. 
They buy some 
fooAsT? i 
ke-soprasathaf  from the_ltalian  store, Granato 
I s,  in 
S;lt Lake City. 
Filomena says her mother used to make capicola, 
bacon, sausage. 
Pigs were killed right after Christmas, but 
Filomena doesn't remember the process. 
Her mother was a good 
cook. 
The fresh pork wasn't used for about a week. 
Sometimes 
the liver was fried for the men. 
Sausage was made with the lungs 
polmona or polmonata]. 
Filomena says some of their neighbors 
from San Giovanni came to get the blood for blood sausage and 
then her mother made it with raisins, nuts, vanilla or lemon in 
it and it was pretty good. 
Filomena said when she made it they 
bought the hams, boston butts. 
Sausage is better if the shoulder 
is used. 
Her mother used to make prozutto (prosciutto). The meat 
was cut around the bone and put into a wooden vat and salted 
heavily for many days, turning the meat. 
Then, salt and pepper 
was put on it. 
This is done for at least 40 days. 
A cloth and 
weight was put on it prior to hanging in the smoke house. 
Apple 
wood was used for the smoke. 
Vito talks about the smoke house. 
The meat has to be in a place 
to get a lot of air from all over. 
Here, most can't do that. 
In 
Italy, his family had a place in the top of their house. 
Meat 
isn't cured with smoke, he says, it's exposure to the air. 
IAW-SS-A013 - 
3 
Bonacci's have some sausage that was made by their nephew. 
Vito 
says in the old days the sausage was made all the same. 
The 
soprasatta was made out of the hams, the sausage out of the 
shoulders, bacon (pancett' or pancetta) out of the belly, 
capacolla from two loins and also out of the neck. 
The skin and 
meat made the buscio(?) for Good Friday. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Vito says deer meat and horse meat are put in salami here in the 
United States. 
In Italy good meat was used. 
Sometimes cow meat 
was mixed in to make it go further. 
He remembers frizoli. 
Filomena's mother made it and sutzo both. 
For sutzo, head meat 
and feet were used. 
Jelled. 
Frizoli is made from what's left 
over from making lard. 
Frizoli was fried with potatoes, Filomena 
says she liked it best when her mother made it and pitas (i.e. 
pizza). 
Frizoli was put on the pita then it was baked. 
Her 
mother had an outdoor oven, but she used the indoor stove oven to 
heat the Pita. 
The indoor oven used coal. 
Filomena says she no 
longer has an outdoor ovens, but if she did she would certainly 
use it to bake bread. 
Vito says you tell how the oven is ready 
for the bread when a flat rock is inserted and it turns white, 
then the ashes are pulled out. 
Then the mop is put in. 
Filomena 
says her mother's mop was a blanket put around a stick. 
It is 
inserted in the oven and the inside of the oven is mopped with 
several buckets of water. 
Then flour is thrown in. 
If the flour 
browns fast, more water is put in the oven. 
When it browns 
slowly, then the oven is ready for the bread. 
The bread then 
bakes for about an hour. 
The bread is put in on a board shovel 
and shaken off in the oven to bake. 
Every family had their own 
bake oven. 
Often it was shared with an extended family. 
In 
Italy the ovens were shared between several families. 
Vito 
recalls the large oven that—wa 
 hich 
was coMmunal for the whole town. people-took—turns. 
Paid for 
use with one loaf. 
He tells how one women made bread for many of 
the bachelors who then purchased it from her (in Sunnyside). 
Vito bought his last loaf of bread there in about 1922 for about 
15 or 20 cents. 
Then she "got wise" and began making whiskey and 
sold that. 
The outside oven was used mainly for baking bread all seasons. 
Easter bread was made in it too, by Filomena's mother. 
It was 
made by including, eggs, milk and sugar in the dough. 
[A snack 
is served.] An egg was washed and put in the center of the dough 
and it was braided (treccia) around the egg. 
Several eggs were 
sometimes used. 
One Easter bread was made for each child and 
grandchild. 
Martini is what they're called? 
Filomena made them 
too for her children, but she hasn't the last two years because 
kneading the dough is difficult for her. 
IAW-SS-A013 - 
4 
The Bonaccis don't know of any bread ovens still standing. 
The 
women made the bread in the bread ovens. 
Filomena said when she 
was in Italy she thought she would be able to get some good 
bread, but she didn't like what they made there. 
Vito says it 
wasn't home made, but made by a baker. 
Vito says he never liked 
steak; he always ate veal. 
Filomena says "American" people used 
to come by to buy her bread. 
Vito says he can't buy veal here. 
Filomena says she used to get veal steaks cut length wise like 
she liked it. 
They were dipped in egg, then flour, then fried. 
When she was in Italy, Filomena liked all the food they cooked 
there. 
Once she made chicken and mashed potatoes for the people 
there for an American meal. 
They liked it. 
They ate a lot of 
spaghetti. 
A magazine with news and other things about Italy is examined and 
discussed; 
Italian lifestyle magazine. 
Filomena got a cookie 
recipe from it. There was some problem with their subscription 
and they haven't received it for several years. 
Discussion of sausage-making. 
Several neighbors would help 
butcher the pig, hold it down and scrape it. 
They were cleaned 
very well, using boiling water. 
Filomena's dad did most of the 
butchering, Vito did their half of the pig. 
Vito says that in 
Italy there was one man who killed half of the pigs for 
butchering by himself. 
He used a knife. 
Vito describes the 
process in detail. It produced clear meat, because the heart was 
cut and the blood didn't pump through the meat. 
Relates a story 
about one difficult time killing a pig--pulled his shoulder out 
of the socket. 
The man was 65 or so years old. 
He may have been 
paid with a piece of meat. 
Vito says the people in Italy when he lived there may have been 
poor, but they weren't dumb. 
Smart people. 
Vito relates a story of discrimination while working  at 
Kenilworth. 
The night foreman called him a Dago, and Vito 
'responded aggressively. 
The man never called him that again. 
Filomena says her father used to say they were discriminated 
against in getting jobs. 
Only the dirty-ones were given to them. 
Filomena says she worked wi h two Mexican girls w o ca 
a 
r— 
gringo. 
She told them they were all discriminated against in the 
same manner, and it takes time to build respect. 
Vito talks about the stores at Sunnyside--and-how-the _Ca abrese 
and piementese] stayed with their own. 
Vito talks about the 
languages; 
s ea ing Eng is —Story- about confrontation over 
language. 
Only dogs speak one language. 
Vito discusses a man in 
New York who was from Italy (Calabria) and his views about 
Americans and Italians. Michele Pani. 
Vito knew the family in 
Italy and read a book of his and enjoyed his writing. 
e 
IAW—SS—A013 — 
5 
Vito became a citizen many years ago, but can't recall the exact 
date. 
END OF SIDE B 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-A014 
Document: IAW-SS-A014 
Document Type: Audiocassette Log 
Fieldworker: Siporin, Steve 
Date: 8/2/90 
Informant/Event: Bonacci, Filomena and Vito 
Coworker: 
Tapesize: 60 
Tapesides: 2 
Configuration: A2 
Site: 5 
U 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A014 
Date: 
08/02/90 
Informant: 
BONACCI, VITO AND FILOMENA 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/02/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview continued 
yito continues-disr-uss-incr his citizenship hearing. 
A judge from 
Salt Lake came to Price. 
25-30 people were getting citizenship, 
Greeks, "Japs," and one lady from England. 
Vito said he read the 
book, but when he went to tell the judge, he got nervous. 
Judge 
McConkey (?) from Salt Lake performed the examination. 
Vito 
remembers one question was, How many judges are in the United 
States [Supreme Court], but he didn't tell him federal or state. 
Vito was very nervous and answered nine. 
The judge looked at him 
but didn't say anything, then turned to the uniformed man next to 
him and asked him if that was right. 
The man said yes. 
Then the 
judge said you go, you're ready to go. 
Vito said he was very 
relieved. 
The lady from England was turned down. 
She was angry. 
Fred Bonso and John Quilico were Vito's witnesses. 
Judge gave 
English woman a harsh time. 
Vito laughs about a Greek he knew 
who was a sheepherder and was "sweating blood". 
He answered the 
question, "Who is President?" with the name Joe Barboglio who was 
president of the bank in Helper. 
The judge didn't ask who was 
the president of the United States, just who is the president. 
Filomena relates a story about her father getting citizenship. 
The judge asked 
a man ahead of Filomena's father the question 
"Do you believe in polygamy?" and he answered "Oh, sure." 
The 
IAW-SS-A014 - 
2 
judge then asked him if he knew what that was and the man 
responded no. 
The judge told him it meant more than one wife. 
The man said "I don't want one." 
Everyone in the court laughed. 
Vito describes further his experience getting his citizenship. 
His sponsor, John Quilico coached him to act dumb, and not too 
smart. 
If they tried to act too smart the judge would test them 
further. 
Mary Bruno failed by overconfidence. 
Vito got through 
easily. 
Some had to go back several times. 
Filomena says when Vito gets worried or nervous he sweats a lot. 
She recalls when he went to Italy in 1963 and how nervous he was 
prior to the plane trip. 
Vito says he wasn't afraid to go to 
Italy but was afraid to go on the plane. 
He still is afraid of 
plane travel. 
A discussion of plane travel ensues; its dangers 
and recent accidents. 
Vito relates it to Reagan's firing of the 
air traffic controllers. 
Filomena says-she expresses her Italian heritage through her 
cooking.  
At Christmas she makes grispelli, and gther Dalian 
th 
i n
gs. Grispelli are bread dough fried like donuts. 
She 
describes how her dough requires her hands to be in oil the whole 
time. 
Vito says he had to clean the yard in Italy and he has to 
here, too. 
That's what is Italian about his life here. 
Vito 
speaks Italian about-had f-the--time. 
He was 19 when came to 
the 
United States and he  is 89 at the time of the interview, 
die 
recalls making his first trip back to Italy. 
He recalls that 
trip where he visited at his mother's house and spoke English and 
was chastised. 
Vito says he doesn't.-andQrstand-anything but the 
Calabrese dialect and so when visiting Italy it made him afraid 
to speak Italian. 
In his own town there was no language problem. 
He thinks-now-he would have trouble be-c-use they-speak-d3f-€erent 
now- rrthey-dons 
use-the dialects-as much,, Those that have 
traveled have lost their dialect. 
Bonaccis discuss their 
relatives and their language. 
Filomena learned to read Italian 
by reading letters from Italy. 
Vito says he didn't know about discrimination between northern 
and southern Italians. 
He discusses the Italian lodge (stella 
d'America), 
When it- first-organised,-only northern I-taliaps 
could join. 
Later, they could all join. 
Vito discusses his 
initiation into the lodge and how there was some discrimination 
against him being Calabrese]. 
Two simultaneous conversations, 
both about northerners thinking they were better than 
southerners. 
Italian flag at lodge bothered people, removed during WWII. 
The 
Bonaccis say it was difficult being Italian during 
WWII. 
Other 
Americans kept an eye on th-em;- Vit3) was followed at Kennilworth 
mine by a company guy named Armstrong. 
Truman spoke, from train 
in Helper. 
He was accused of being a Nazi. 
He had trouble 
getting a job at one point, because they thought he wasn't a 
IAW-SS-A014 - 
3 
citizen. 
Filomena says before the war, Vito and his friend Mike 
Muglietto (?) likeed Mussolini. 
Vito discusses his views on 
Mussolini. 
He took land away from richer people who weren't 
producing and gave it to the poor and helped their situation. 
Liked that he built roads in Tripoli. 
Vito liked what he was 
doing then, regardless of his involvement later with Hitler. 
Vito describes that when he came to the United States, to make 
passage through Gibraltar they had to pay England, even though 
the boat belong to England. 
Vito says few of his relatives are left in Italy. 
But when his 
brother and mother were there, they wrote every two or three 
week 
of the let ers were kept ; 
Vito's brother never 
visited in the United States. 
They were never very close, 
because he wasn't born when Vito came to the United States. 
They 
got closer when Vito visited there. 
Vito says those people are 
different, very friendly and warm. 
Italians tell Americans by their clothes, especially shoes and 
hair. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Italians tell Americans by their clothes, especially shoes and 
hair. 
Vito says he knows some people in Italy who are ashamed to 
be Italian, but he feels you should never be ashamed of who you 
are. 
Friendliness of Italians in Italy. 
Filomena recalls being 
greeted as "signorina", "miss", rather than "signora ," "Mrs ." 
The Boner-i 
losex to thQi r Tta 13an-background 
since they've visited Italy because theme was a friendly 
connPr:tion. 
Vito said that if it wasn't €o-r-4i-is-chi1x1ren.,_he 
would-.probably go over there tQ-di- 
That is-where he would like 
to end up, but he is settled here now. 
Kids keep him here. 
There is not really anything missing in America, but the Bonaccis 
say the warmth and friendship in Italy made them feel very much 
at home. 
Her Italian relatives, who she met for first time, 
accepted her right away. 
Vito says maybe because people here 
have more money, they are less willing to accept people. 
Filomena discusses how some women dress permanently in black when 
someone dies. 
Filomena's mother followed custom for awhile in 
USA. 
It used to be much more common than it is now. 
Briscola used to be played, but not anymore. 
Filomena's mother 
didn't like her playing cards because women weren't to play 
cards. 
Thought it was a disgrace. 
IAW-SS-A014 - 
4 
Filomena's mother made soap from pig or cow fat that was gathered 
over a period of time. 
Then she ground it, boiled water and put 
in the fat and lye. 
She stirred it with a wooden paddle. 
Filomena said the soap was very good for cleaning clothes. 
[photographs are taken of the Bonaccis and the paddle used for 
stirring jam. Previously it was used to render lard.] 
Maria tells how no one makes soap or bread in Italy anymore. 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF IAW-SS-A014 
END OF INTERVIEW 
I 
Item Number: 
I 
AW- SS--AO 15 
Date: 
08/06/90 
Informant: 
SACC:OMANO , CHARLIE 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKL I 
f- E CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/06/90, BY STEVE_ SIPORIN 
(Rich Colombo, Charlie's nephew and godson, present during 
interview) 
SIDE A 
Discussion of Charlie's land and i 
t 
s• 
boundaries. 
It includes an 
orchard that was somewhat commercial. 
They grew apricots, pears 
and apples. 
Charlie's father worked it. 
They peddled fruit to 
the mining cramps by horse, and vegetables too. 
Sausage was made 
just for themselves. 
Rich's grandmother made the cascavalla  
cheese. 
Alfalfa was raised for the horses. 
Charlie was born on 
this land 76 years ago. 
The water line was dug by hand from the pump house in 1908. 
Beans, tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes were grown and peddled to 
the mining camps. 
These crops were discontinued in 1966 or 1967 
and hay was grown in the fields after that.. 
There wasn't enough 
market in the mines to continue the business. 
Rich went along 
peddling the vegetables which were sold house to house. 
Charlie 
also worked in the coal mine. 
Charlie shows the pear trees which are about 90 years old. Csee 
slide] Charlie's father arrived in Utah about 1898 and bought the 
land. 
He lived in a log cabin built by the original owner that 
is still on the: 
property. 
CThey look: at the original house site 
built by the homesteader. 
Charlie's father bought it from him.] 
Charlie discusses the layout of the farmstead. 
(180 acres.) 
Charlie relates farming anecdotes about his uncles.. 
Joking about 
Pete ' 
s drunkenness. 
Grapes were grown and the vines still exist. 
The family owned 188 acres. 
Fete was the brother that bought the 
land; he sold it to Charlie's father, Ralph, and his brother 
Frank: who then lived 
 on the land. 
Fete went back to Italy. 
The 
farm was split and Frank: built another house which is still 
standing. 
Ralph stayed in the original. house. 
They split the 
farm in 1936 (after being together- for 40 years) . Frank's house 
has two sections moved in and put together from other buildings 
I', 
on the farm. 
Story about driving a '26 Oldsmobile right through 
the garage wall. 
It is stucco over wood. 
[t...ong silent_ time whale 1 shoot slides. a 
They look at a building that was a boiler room that kept the 
heater for the house. 
And another building that housed the 
horses. 
Identifies chicken coop. 
Frankie Saccomano owns the 
land now; he is Ralph's grandson. 
Charlie talks about gathering 
firewood 
 (cedar) for making bread. 
Would chain-up wagon wheels 
going downhill to prevent runaway wagon. 
Went a little 
 ways in 
mountains to gather. 
Charlie used to make soprasatias sausage, 
capacolal and "Prizutu" (prosciutto) and zutzu which is pickled 
feet. 
Charlie says they used all the pig. 
"The only thing that 
got away was the squeal." 
He hasn't made sausage for two or 
three years. 
Charlie talk:} about buying ice from the Kenilworth 
ice house. 
They survey an old potato cellar-. Charlie's clad 
didn't work: in the winter, he went to town and played cards. 
They look: at old hot beds where the vegetable plants were grown 
until they could be set outside. 
They began in March/Feb. 
Every 
night they were covered with gunny sack blankets. 
During the 
day, they used glass. 
[Arrival at main house.] 
Both families lived in the same house which was four rooms. 
There were a total of 13 children between the two families. 
There_ were two front doors, one for each family. 
2 sets of 
steps. 
The ori.gi.nal house was one room, and when Charlie's dad 
was married they added the other three rooms. 
Each family had 
its own kitchen outside. 
There was also a smokehouse. [slidel 
Charlie uncovers some of the boxes that they made to peddle the 
fruits 
 and vegetables. 
Esee sl i 
deal 
The bottom level of the 
house that was stone_ was used as a basement, a kitchen. 
Earlier 
it was where hogs were butchered. 
In 194^ Charlie wired the 
house. 
At first they used kerosine lamps and then they used gas 
lamps. 
Charlie discu=ses butchering pigs. 
Use of long knife to 
supposedly reach the heart. 
Charlie killed them. 
He learned how 
to do it from his uncle Frank. 
They had sheep, too (^5), 
rabbits, chicken. 
They were used mainly for their own purposes, 
but they sold wool. 
The families shared everything equally. 
They each milked one side of cow. 
They took: turns gathering eggs 
on alternate days. 
They sold some lambs to the Greeks. 
The bake oven :is still standing and they examine it. 
It was 
built by Dominic Putri. 
He built the foundation on Charlie's 
house also. 
He built a lot. 
The stone was quarried around the 
immediate area. 
Spring Canyon had a lot of rock: which was used 
in many of the !
-louses right in the area. 
END OF SIDE A 
Discussing an outside oven, which Charlie thinks was only used 
for baking bread. 
He discusses how the breed is made using a 
long board called a pp.l eta. 
The bread was carried to the oven in 
flour 
 sacks. 
They threw flour 
 in to see how hot the oven was. 
If it burned they mopped the floor down, and then check it with 
flour 
 again. 
Roger Taylor- and son arri ve. 
Some interaction. 
They look: at the outhouse of the house they are examining and 
discuss 
 its various features. 
They look: at Charlie's hearses and 
discuss them. 
EPhotographs are being taken by Steve.] 
They 
examine the old house and outside oven as well. 
Charlie talks 
some about how he uses/used the barn. 
They discuss butchering a 
pig and hanging it. 
They killed them then laid 
 them{ on a board 
to cool overnight. 
Charlie butchered them. 
He took: the cordia . 
(rinds) off. 
They stopped doing it in 1957 after Rich's 
grandmother died. 
Charlie kept butchering some at his, house 
after that. 
Sometimes he would take them to the slaughter house 
to be gilled and then butcher them himself. 
Now he (Saccomano) 
raises them, takes them to the slaughterhouse to be killed, then 
to kids to be cut and wrapped. 
Butchering was done in February. 
Sometimes in December or January too. 
Had to be cold. 
Everything was cut and ground by hand with a knife. 
A horn 
z 
i 
nsonata was used to make the sausage with intestines. Rich 
compares with the 150 1bs of sausage he made today. 
Describes 
the various ways the entrails were used for making capacoi l 
as and 
ssoprasattass. 
The meat was then smoked. 
Sausage and pulmune 
Clung] were made with head and neck: meat. 
Liver with a little 
meat were cooked in vinegar for another- sausage. 
Plenty of salt 
was used. 
Both recall grandmother's measurements: 
20 mlonate  
(handfuls) of meat to one upume (fistful) of salt. 
Recall Ralph 
making it too salty. 
Charlie and Rich talk: more about the house, which was made from 
local stone. 
Charlie describes bringing stone from hillside with 
a "stone boat." 
The basement was mostly storage for saddles, 
coal, etc. 
The pigs were butchered there. 
Bread was kept there 
too in a special wood box called a casha. 
Charlie says f 
1 
our- was, purchased by the ton in 50 pound bags 
which were stacked up in their bedroom twice a year. 
Anchovies, 
spaghetti, etc were also purchased and were fried with eggs or 
put in pita bread which was then fried. 
Squash flowers were also 
fried to eat. 
Squash were dried on the clothes line 
 for use in 
the winter. 
Sugar, coffee and flour- were purchased, but 
everything else was made or grown. 
Charlie talks about eating 
chocolate pie at a contest when he was a child, during the 
Depression. 
Discussion about: their relatives and how Charlie wanted a son to 
4 
carry on his name. 
Wife asked how many kids they had "to go" 
before having a son. 
Charlie said if they had to go 15, they'd 
go to 15. 
After four daughters they got a son. [Charlie's 
comments inaudible and machinery gets? closer] 
They discuss harvesting hay and an accident that occurred when 
they were shocking i 
t 
. A load was tipped over and the kids who 
were involved scattered. 
They talk: about Rich's father 
harvesting hay. 
Charlie and Rich's father were close. 
(Charlie 
is Rich's godfather.) 
The group looks at farm equipment and Charlie explains what each 
piece is used for. 
Charlie describes a "stone boat"--made of 
wood, but with steel. rudders. 
Charlie has 188 acres of land. 
Discussion about the value of the house and land Ebarel y 
audiblea. 
They look: at how much land used to be farmed in 
potatoes and hay. 
Charlie knew Cami l 
o Mani na. 
He was short. 
Charlie tells about visiting him and scaring him out of a sleep. 
Charlie said Mani na was a stone mason and worked in the mine too. 
Rich points to the house of Charlie's daughter, which is on the 
farm, too. 
Charlie tells a story about a man who was thrown from his horse. 
Man was Dominic Putri , one of the active stonemasons. 
Charlie's family 
 lives near and they look at each of h 
i 
s 
relative's homes and land. 
rich tells: how Charlie offered him 
land to build his house. 
EBreak:. 
What follows is Rich Colombo talking to Steve Si por 
i. n as 
we drive away in his Fiat sports car. 
You can hear gears 
shifting!] 
Discussion of how land was divided by two families and how it 
caused problems, pain. 
One Sacr_omano family got 13 acres, the 
other almost 180 acres. 
First Saccomano bought from original homesteader. 
Discussion about how they area viewed was so rich with history and 
intact. 
Rich reiterates how his godfather, Charlie, offered him 
land when the coal boom was on and it was valuable. 
Rich requests a copy of the tape and catalog. 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF I 
AW-SS-ACS 15 
END OF INTERVIEW 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A016 
Date: 
08/06/90 
Informant: 
COLOMBO, RICH 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/06/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
(Sausage making in progress.) 
Pork boston butt is used for all the sausages, just the 
seasonings change. Shoulder was used for capacolla, the loin was 
used for suprasattas. 
Hams were used for prozuttos 
The rest was 
for sausage. 
His grandmother measured with her hands and it was 
a certain number of handfuls of meat to a certain number of 
handfuls of salt. 
Now, Rich weighs the meat to decide how much 
salt to use. 
(Sale going on in background.) 
Last week Rich made 500 pound of sausage and sold about 300 
pounds. 
They sell more in the winter. 
Rich's grandfather (his mother's father) came to the United 
States with his two brothers, Pete and Frank Saccomano, in 1889. 
They settled in Spring Glen. 
In 1912 his wife came out at the 
age of 16 to marry. 
It was an arranged marriage. 
Her last name 
was Potestio, and they married in Salt Lake they day she arrived. 
His last name was Saccomano. 
They had 10 children, 8 of which 
lived. 
She was a small woman (4'8")who never spoke English. 
Nor 
did his other grandmother. 
Rich's paternal grandfather was a 
Colombo and his wife's maiden name was Marino. 
They were married 
in Italy, and he came to Utah to work on the railroad and 
returned to Italy off and on. 
Eventually he sent to Italy for 
his wife and three children. 
Rich's father was 2 years old when 
he moved to America. 
They took the train from New York to Utah 
where Rich's father was working for the railroad. 
The sausage Rich makes comes from the Saccomano family. 
Rich 
cuts the meat and remove the bone and glands. 
His family always 
took out the glands. 
They used to make blood sausage and used 
every part of the pig. 
They caught the blood and used milk to 
keep it from coagulating. 
They killed the pigs right after 
2 
Christmas and they scraped them in large troughs. 
Stuck rather 
than shot. 
They were left one day before butchered. 
Intestines 
were used for the sausage casings. 
Now they buy the pork casings 
already washed. 
They add salt, red pepper and fennel as seasoning to the sausage. 
Nothing else. 
The customers for the sausage are all ages and 
Rich sells some to people in Salt Lake now. 
It used to be he 
sold mainly to the older folks, but his homemade sausage has 
caught on. 
Rich also sells suprasatas imported from Canada. 
Rich's grandmother made pruzuttos, hams that were salted and 
smoked for a whole year. 
Discusses the family's farm near Spring 
Glen. 
His grandmother used to have a bake oven and used to make 
round bread in it. 
[Rich calls his Uncle Charlie to see if his 
grandmother's oven is still standing. 
It's still there - I 
photographed it later.] 
[Rich waits on customers] 
All 3 grocery stores in Helper make sausage. 
They used to prepare the garlic by putting it in a rag and 
mashing it in water and then poured the water in the sausage. 
Now Rich uses garlic powder. 
Meat was ground with a hand 
grinder. 
[Rich conducts business. 
Guy ordering 500 lbs. of kielbasa for 
labor Day picnic.] 
Rich discusses the family farm, the outhouses are still standing 
and some of the other buildings as well. 
(Charlie Saccomano's 
farm - Rich's maternal uncle and godfather.) 
[Long passage of Rich conducting business] 
The store was opened in 1970 and Rich owned it with Armond 
Saccomano who was Rich's uncle who passed away in 1982. 
Rich had 
just returned from Viet Nam (1968-1970) and opened the store just 
when he got back. 
Rich is 44 and turns 45 in November. 
Discusses Viet Nam and the war and how difficult it was to return 
to people who were against the war. 
Says the whole thing was a 
tough time. 
Recalls his return to U.S. after war--meeting 
pickets in San Francisco on return. 
Discuss patriotism of 
Helper. 
They grind the sausage and then stuff it. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
3 
[Sound of sausage-grinder in background.] 
Rich used to help on the farm when he was a child. 
They raised 
fruits and vegetables and peddled them to the mines. 
The 
peddling used to be done by horse and wagon. 
They raised corn, 
peas, tomatoes, cucumbers, and had an orchard. 
They made their 
living that way. 
Rich's grandfather Saccomano didn't work in the 
mine. 
The farm was started in 1888 when they first arrived in 
America. 
The brother Pete died, and Frank and Ralph continued to 
farm together. 
They both had 8 kids in one duplex home. 
The 
boys slept out in a shed. 
Rich says his business stays pretty busy. 
He keeps charge 
accounts just like the company stores at the mines used to. 
Discusses how the company stores worked. 
He says his store is 
the last one left that allows charges. 
People were used to that 
type of system so he continued it. 
People are good about paying 
their bills. 
The meat is ground 
The casings for the sausage come salted, so they have to be 
washed. 
[Grinding of meat makes conversation inaudible. 
About smoking 
vs. curing. 
Also recalls 600 lb. hogs.] 
Pigs were well fed and had a lot of fat on them. 
Back fat was 3-
4" thick (used for lard). They were kept in pens all of the time. 
The pens are still standing at the farm. 
Three or four pigs were 
raised, some were sold and calves were sold also. 
Rich's 
grandmother made cheese (called cas cavallo) and sold that also. 
The horses were used to plow and to pull the carts to peddle the 
vegetables. 
The horses, big Morgan horses, were always named 
Bill. 
The Saccomano family were farmers in Italy before coming to the 
United States. 
[Stuffing of sausages going on.] 
[Rich waits on customer ordering food for Kenilworth Days--Aug. 
25.] 
Rich's grandmother had to get all the air out of the sausage when 
she made it. 
The casings are filled and Rich tries not to have any air in it. 
Rich's grandmother died in 1967, and the family didn't make 
sausage again after that. 
Each link used to be tied and now 
they're twisted and linked that way. 
Rich's grandmother used to 
use a chair that she used to wrap the string and cut them so they 
4 
would be all even. 
They smoked the sausage and had to check them 
everyday to make sure the sausages weren't touching. 
If they 
touched there would be a raw spot on the sausage. 
The sausage is just pork, salt and pepper and a little bit of 
seasoning. 
The pigs they used were very large, up to 600 pounds. 
They were fed cooked potatoes sometimes. 
Spaghetti sauce is made with the sausage Rich makes. 
Brown the 
sausage and put the tomato paste and sauce with the seasonings 
and let it simmer all day. 
Sometimes potatoes are fried with the 
sausage. 
Or barbecued. 
(Pronounces "Eye-talian.") 
[We make plans to meet at 6 pm.] 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF IAW-SS-A016 
A 
v 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A017 
Date: 
08/06/90 
Informant: 
COLOMBO, RICH 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 08/06/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview continued 
Discusses the family farm. 
The pig pens and oven are still 
there. 
Ricci remembers bringing the hay in using horses. 
It was 
shocked instead of baled. 
They used a Jackson fork on the barn 
to get it up into the barn. 
In the summer and on weekends Rich 
used to help work on the farm. 
He learned to drive a tractor in 
the fields there. 
Recalls having to pull a calf out with ropes 
so it could be born. 
Sausage making now is really fast because sausages aren't tied 
and they have a machine to grind the meat. 
The grinder was 
something they got when they came to America because Rich's 
grandmother said they used to use knives to grind up the meat. 
Rich grew up in Helper. 
The farm is only about 3 miles out of 
town, in Spring Glen. 
The farm house is a rock house with siding put over it. Sheds 
boys slept in built of railroad ties. 
They raised rabbits there 
also. 
They raised everything they used except sugar and coffee. 
All four of Rich's grandparents spoke Italian. 
The men could 
speak English, but the women couldn't. 
Men did the shopping. 
Rich's older brother (10 years older) could speak Italian, but 
Rich can't, although he can understand it. 
His family is 
Calabrese and he understands that. 
Discusses the various 
dialects. 
Rich recalls Italian tourists coming through Helper--couldn't 
understand each other. 
He would say "Buona Zita" for "buona 
notte" (good night). 
More on dialect. 
[More waiting on customers, explaining what I'm doing.] 
The houses from Castlegate were moved over to the Castlegate sub-
division. 
The mine company wanted to use the land. 
The ground 
2 
was owned by the company. 
The company moved everybody and their 
homes and gave them ground to relocate at edge of Helper. 
The 
old cemetery is still there, and Rich describes where it is just 
past the power plant. 
Talks about a mine explosion that killed 
100 people. 
Discusses Klu Klux Klan activities in area that his 
father used to tell about. 
END OF SIDE A 
END OF INTERVIEW 
SIDE B IS BLANK 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A018 
Date: 
10/07/90 
Informant: 
BESSO, DOMINIC 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/07/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Subject is Mormon-Gentile relations: 
Besso says that although 
there was some animosity with Mormons, much of his shoe repair 
business has been with Mormons, and they have gotten along 
alright. 
Discusses Bishop Guyman whose family was original 
settlers of the area. 
He would bring his good shoes to Besso's 
father to fix, as did all the other bishops of the Church. 
But 
took farm shoes to LDS shoemaker, saying "These are for Orson. 
We gotta help him." 
Story about buying a four poster bed and dresser from a Mormon 
furniture store. 
They were treated very well by the manager of 
the store. 
When the Elks Club celebrated their 60th wedding anniversary last 
year, Mormon friends sent them regards. 
All the area church 
officials have their shoes fixed by Besso. 
Story about Besso's wife telling a bishop's wife she wasn't 
interested in Mormonism; said she was a Catholic and slammed the 
door. 
She was a small German woman who always said what she 
felt. 
The Mormons came to visit and help when she was sick and 
after she died. 
"The right way, the wrong way, and the way my 
mother did it." 
Talks about daughters. 
Besso's father was born Feb. 18, 1882 and was about 22 when he 
married. 
Mother was 18. 
His father was a school teacher and 
wanted all his children to become priests, the oldest one did. 
Besso's father started seminary but didn't finish. 
He learned 
shoe repair from the priests. 
They were from a town 40-60 miles 
north of Torino, Italy, Baldissaro Canavesse. 
Castelmonte was 
the county seat. 
As children they would go across the French 
border and work and so he learned French. 
Besso's father married 
his mother, she was 18. 
He wanted to go to Buenos Aires, but 
ended up going to Rock Springs, Wyoming in about 1904-05. 
A 
2 
couple years later his wife and Besso's brothers came over. 
It 
took them 30 days on the boat to get to the United States. 
They 
had tags on them, like shipping tags. 
Besso's mother moved to 
Rock Springs about 1907-08. 
His father worked in the mine for 
about 3 days and didn't like it so he opened up the shoe repair 
shop. 
Besso's mother took care of cows and his brothers sold milk. 
10 
cents a gallon. 
Besso and one brother were born in Rock Springs 
and then the family moved to Price in 1917. 
They saved their 
money and moved to Price with about $10,000. 
They homesteaded a 
farm east of town intending to be farmers, but it didn't support 
the family. 
He worked part time for a French shoe repairer and 
an LDS shoe repairer, and then they moved into town in 1923, and 
he opened his own shop on Carbon Avenue the next year. 
In 1928 
they opened the shop where it is today. 
Story about borrowing 
money from Martin Bianco, his brother-in-law's brother ($3,000). 
He kept his money in a lard can in the wine container. 
Besso's mother's maiden name was Ferrero, and she was from the 
same town as his father. 
Her family were peasants, and she was 
the youngest of 10 children and was the last to leave home. 
She 
worked in the fields with her father. 
She always loved to be 
outdoors. 
They called her Martha, but her real name was Martina. 
His father's name was James (Giacomo). 
Discussion about 
Americanization of Italian names. 
John was "Nino." 
Dominick was 
named for his mother's father. 
The first born was always named 
after the grandfather. 
Besso's father never liked the names Americans gave their 
children. 
Discusses the names of women in his family, and his 
children. 
Both he and his wife's father were disappointed they 
didn't have any boys. 
They named a daughter after his father 
(James), Jamie. 
Story about name mistaken for "Jaime" when 
living in Puerto Rico. 
Besso's parents spoke Italian (Northern Piedmontese dialect) in 
the home and Besso spoke it also. 
His mother never learned to 
speak English very well. 
At home only Italian spoken. 
Besso and 
his wife moved next door to his parents and soon after that his 
mother learned English. 
Besso's daughter learned some Italian. 
Lack of boys (grandsons) a real problem for his father. 
Begins 
story about man who wouldn't leave things to his wife but to his 
son. 
END OF SIDE A 
3 
SIDE B 
Discusses the tradition of wanting male offspring and naming them 
after the grandfather. 
Those traditions have now relaxed. 
Most 
of the ethnic groups in the area--Greeks, Slays--did the same 
way. 
His mother-in-law's family (German) had 10 children and 
couldn't think of any other names and so named the youngest one 
Josephine 2. 
Similar story about sons named William. 
Besso's parents spoke some about the old country. 
He couldn't 
understand who they were talking about because they never used 
their names, sometimes they just used their last names. 
His 
father always addressed a French woman "Madame." 
Sometimes when 
people from the South came in they used Signor and Signora. 
(Refers to these as "gooey-gooey southerns", i.e., South 
Italians). 
Besso's parents said they were herded like cattle during their 
trip to America. 
They probably left from Genoa. 
Besso discusses 
the distinction of people from the North and South. 
He says the 
only good thing Mussolini did was send the people to school. 
There were many illiterate people. 
People came to his father to 
write letters, to have things read to them. 
Besso's father was 
educated, both at a school and at the seminary. 
The religious 
orientation in his family was very strict, though his uncle 
refused to be involved. 
Besso's father said he came to this 
country because his family was hungry, and they had to make a 
living. 
They had nothing in Italy. 
His mother's family had a 
very small farm, maybe 3-4-5 acres, and had to feed the family on 
that. 
House built on hillside. 
The family lived on top and the 
animals lived on the bottom. 
His niece has visited the town 
where his family is from. 
They spent time with extended family 
(cousins) in Italy. 
Dominick has seen photos of house. 
Besso's father used to ride his bicycle to work in France when he 
lived in Italy. 
His home town is at the base of the Alps 
mountains, just below Switzerland and eastern France and is 
mountainous country. 
(Gran Paradiso) 
Some people in Helper 
from Locana--town in mountains. 
Mainly farming peasants, but 
Besso's father's family was a little better off because he had an 
income. 
When Mussolini invaded Ethiopia, people would come into the shop 
and ask Besso's father what was going on because they couldn't 
read. 
They would also talk about their towns in Italy and were 
proud of where they came from. 
They would refer to their own 
"bel paese." 
One man [Besso describes his clothes and nasal 
accent] used to say "Io sono from it gentile Abruzzi!" [I am from 
the courteous Abruzzi!] Stories about men who came in and bragged 
about the provinces they were from. 
Dominick and brother 
laughed, thought it ironic because of their poverty there. 
The 
4 
Northerners and the Southerners stayed separate and married 
within, but they were still pretty much friends. 
The Greeks were 
like that too, mainland versus Cretians. 
In Italy there was a compulsory military participation of 2 
years. 
Besso's father got his citizenship papers in 1907 and was 
very patriotic. 
The whole family got citizenship when the father 
did. 
Besso's mother talked about the military participation in 
Italy--Northerners served in South and vise-versa--and when the 
mothers learned the soldiers from Calabria were coming through, 
they kept their daughters in the house. 
They didn't want them 
mixed up with the "Calibrucci." 
Besso's mother was much more broad minded than his father, even 
though she stayed home all her life and he was out in business. 
His English was pretty broken, but his mother eventually picked 
it up. 
Discussion of dialects, southern USA. 
Story about an 
Englishmen, Sterling Wilson, coming into the store having a 
dialect: 
"And will they fire me feet?" (i.e., burn my feet from 
heat) 
Beginning discussion of his father's tools--bought here or 
brought from Italy? 
END OF SIDE B 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-A019 
END OF IAW-SS-A018 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A019 
Date:10/07/90 
Informant: 
BESSO, DOMINIC 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/07/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview continues 
Besso shows tools used for working on shoes. 
Describes the 
process for making shoes. 
He thinks his father brought several 
of them with him to the United States from Italy. 
Several 
hammers are shown [see slides], but Besso doesn't like to use 
them except for a few things. 
All of Besso's tools were 
inherited from his father. 
They were made in Germany. 
Describes 
other tools his father had that are no longer in his possession. 
Besso's father worked until he had a stroke in 1939. 
Besso's father began as a shoe maker in Italy. 
Shoes weren't 
repaired because they lasted so long. 
He continued to make boots 
after he moved to Utah. 
Besso has a pair of boots his father 
made, and describes in detail the procedure he used for making 
them. 
The back was one piece and the front was another piece. 
His father always said you should never pound a piece of leather 
on metal, only on wood. 
He sold his boots for $15 per pair. 
The 
men who bought them worked for $25 a month. 
They lasted a very 
long time. 
They were made differently than boots are made today. 
Puts down Tony Lama boots. 
Most of the men who bought them were 
ranchers. 
The quality was great; men wore one pair of boots all 
the time. Besso sewed the patterns on them when he was in the 
fourth grade. 
The patterns were fairly simple. 
The boots were 
custom made to fit each man's foot. 
Besso describes how the feet 
were measured for each man's boot using a piece of newspaper, 
making little tears for different measurements. 
Describes the 
feet sizes of his siblings and how they wore small sizes, 
although fairly wide. 
He says measuring the instep properly is 
very important in getting a proper fit. 
Besso's wife's family is 
very flat-footed. 
He discusses his inlaw's feet in detail, and 
also his children's feet. 
Describes the webbed hand of his 
[brother-in-law?]. 
Besso got involved with the shoe business because he was too 
2 
young to work on the farm with his brothers, and his family 
always said when you were big enough to crawl you were big enough 
to work, so he came into the shop with his father. 
He went 
straight from school to the shoe shop. 
He started this when he 
was about 8 years old. 
He learned to sew first and also pulled 
off the soles and heels of shoes. 
He didn't get paid for 
working, that wasn't how their family ran. 
(Nor any family from 
Europe.) 
If Besso needed something, his father always saw to it 
he had it. 
Besso had his first store shoes when he was in third 
grade. 
They were purchased from a store owned by Italians 
(Tyroleans) that claimed to be Austrians. (The Bootery) 
Up until 
that time his father made "stogies" for him to wear that Besso 
hated. 
His first shoes were brown Buster Browns. 
They were very 
popular. 
When he was 14 or 15 he had a pair of black oxfords. 
Besso describes the way their home was heated when he was a 
child, mostly by wood and a "heaterola"--a wood burning stove. 
They also used coal. 
Everyone had chores to do, no matter if 
they owned stores or had a farm. 
Besso had to help with the farm 
some as well as work in the store. 
Besso's father died in 1948 and then sold the farm in 1950. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Besso says his father often went to Salt Lake to witness for 
people's citizenship and on those days Besso stayed in the store 
and took over for his father. 
Since he worked in the store more 
than any of his brothers, it went to him when his father couldn't 
work any longer. 
Besso was 23 when his father had his stroke 
(1938). 
Besso tells a story about he and his friends intending to take a 
trip to Salt Lake on July 24, Pioneer Day, but ending up in the 
park near Price with a jug of beer. 
His father saw them, but 
they hadn't done anything wrong so he wasn't in trouble. 
They 
had a lot of fun, but didn't get in trouble. "If we felt like 
doing something we just did it". 
Contrasts self with more 
reserved brother who disappointed father (oldest son) who left 
for Colorado with a girl. 
Besso said he was very close to his father. 
Besso discusses the 
cars he owned. 
Besso was married in 1941. 
She worked at the 
hospital that was near the coal mine in Standardville. 
Children 
used to knock on her door very early in the morning wanting cough 
syrup for their pancakes. 
They were married in July of 1941 in 
Montana. 
She worked for several different doctors in town. 
Their daughter, Margaret, had a congenital hip problem. 
Besso's 
wife worked while raising the family. 
Talks about his daughters, 
3 
their relationship to Mother. 
Besso's wife died when she was 49 
years old, 24 years ago. 
Besso is 74 and says he lived pretty cleanly. 
He was never very 
able to drink, he got sick after 4 drinks. He smoked when he was 
young,(he and his friends had a communal corn cob pipe) but never 
got into the habit. 
He is thankful he has his health. 
Story about smoking vs. not smoking as it relates to health. 
Why did he become shoe repair man? 
Besso just got used to 
working in the shoe business, and it was left to him so he just 
decided to stay with it. 
There was no conscious decision, but he 
has never had a desire to do anything else. 
He would be lost 
without it. 
There have been other shoe repair stores in Price throughout the 
years and Besso got along with many of them.. 
Besso discusses medical benefits. 
Besso doesn't advertise and 
doesn't need to. 
Has 6 weeks worth of work in shop now. 
They 
have never been without work in his shop. 
Besso has had several 
apprentices. 
Last good one was Sicilian but had a "weird" wife. 
Her Sicilian sense of cleanliness: 
scrub a steak, or a roast; 
parboil stew meat; sent to Italy for spices, even spaghetti. 
[He 
sees it as pretentious.] 
The last two were Greek brothers. 
One 
was there for about four years and then went on to university. 
He had one man who trained under the veterans training program. 
He was there for six or seven years. 
Another man was a janitor 
who was a veteran and worked part-time for Besso. 
He had several 
others work in the shop throughout the years. 
Besso discusses 
the various other jobs some of his apprentices have had. 
He discussed the prejudices against non-Mormons for those wanting 
jobs at Utah Power and Light. 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF IAW-SS-A019 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON A020 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A020 
Date: 10/07/90 
Informant: 
BESSO, DOMINIC 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/07/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview continues 
The Greek brothers were the best he ever had. 
Then he had a 
Sicilian 
apprentice who was there for 4-5 years who was 
excellent who had learned the trade in Italy. 
He had made 
sandals in Sicily. 
Worked for relatives first. He worked for 
Besso in about 1965. 
Eventually went to California. 
Besso's 
wife died in 1966. 
Besso's father always said never work for a person of your own 
nationality. 
Those who have an upper hand will use it. 
Mid-
level bosses will use members of their group to show "big" bosses 
how good they were, make an impression. 
Story explaining how 
coal was weighed, credited and how foreman got more money. 
Besso 
praises Tennessee Ernie Ford's "16 Tons." Story of how women 
couldn't remain friends if one husband became a boss--class 
consciousness. 
All the nationalities will do it. 
Talks about 
how poorly the miners were treated. 
Discusses the arrogance of 
the bosses towards the workers in the mining camps. 
There was a 
strong class consciousness. 
The people from Europe worked hard 
and saved their money which was how they were successful. 
Also 
why they were resented.za Besso said they came here because they 
didn't have anything inf•their home countries. 
Story about local millionaire who had to have one shoe always 
built up; leg had been stretched when he was in chain-gang 
(Sicilian). 
Besso says that schooling was the key to the success of some of 
the immigrants. 
People like Mary (Nick) Juliano and Olivetto 
wrote letters for others. 
The one good thing Mussolini did. 
Besso doesn't recall any bad feelings during WWII. 
He got his 
draft notice, but was able to avoid going into military service 
because shoe rationing was mandated which made his work an 
essential industry. 
He was then reclassified. 
Local judge let 
2 
kids in trouble choose between jail and volunteering--that met 
the quotas. 
Story about his wife wanting to go home to Montana 
to have their child at about the same time as his draft notice. 
But April 1, 
1942, shoe-rationing began, and then he was 
reclassified and didn't have to go. 
Friend on leave threatened 
him if he volunteered--didn't want him to suffer, too. 
Story 
about getting his military physical and having the commander look 
at him because he was Italian but had fair skin. 
Story about a friend, Bob Carnevale, who was Italian that was 
rated 4F and who was angry about that. 
Finally got in, stationed 
in Montana. 
He was from around Milan, and Besso says those 
Italian people are arrogant. 
This man got very angry at Besso's 
deferment because he thought he should get one. 
Besso thinks the 
people who were treated worst during the war was the Japanese 
from the coast. 
There were a few Japanese in the Price area. 
Most of the coal camps had a few Japanese, quite a few lived in 
Helper. 
Discusses the various Japanese he has known in the area. 
Criticizes the news media for bad treatment of Japanese. 
Story about visiting the Presidio in San Francisco. 
Besso's 
daughter, Kate, lives there. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Discussion of the closing of military bases. 
Besso discusses 
attending civilian military training at Fort Douglas in the 
summers of 1935 and 1936 in order to apply for a reserve 
officer's commission. 
Story about wanting to join the army and 
go to the Philippines. 
His family got wind of that and drove up 
to Salt Lake to keep them from doing it. 
End of "military 
career." 
Besso says one brother went over to Colorado to be a sheep 
herder, and he thinks he is still living. 
Another brother was a 
coal miner (died 2 years ago), and another one left with a woman 
and they wandered around because his wife could never settle. 
Besso said he was the one who was interested in the business, so 
he stayed home. 
Besso describes the property his family owns in 
Price. 
Besso says he has a sense of pride and is a perfectionist, and 
this has brought him satisfaction in his life. 
Describes his 
attention to detail in his work. 
Story about fixing a guy's 
boots way beyond what was needed. 
Besso thinks the source of his perfection comes from his father. 
They would fix things the customer didn't even know was wrong 
3 
with his shoes in order to make them good shoes. 
The quality of 
his work is very important to him. 
Describes the process his father used to resole shoes which is 
the same one Besso uses. 
The method involves resoling boots for 
cowboys so their boots will slip out of the stirrup quickly when 
needed; won't catch or get hung-up. 
Shows newer boots and how they are poorly made. 
Newer shoes are 
of very poor quality. 
Uses cardboard in places. 
Besso says most 
anything you get now is that way; shirts, pants and everything 
else. 
Tires. 
Besso says quality and pride are non-existent in products today. 
He says he continues to be fussy with his work, no matter how 
crazy people think he is. 
Arrange to take photos of objects next day. 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-AO21 
Date: 
10/05/90 
Informant: 
VEA, ROSE 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/05/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Rose's daughter Francis also present. 
One son enters at one 
point. 
Rose is from southern Italy, Cosenza, the town of Remardi. 
It is 
a town of about 4,000 people. 
She left there in 1947. 
She went 
to Canada in 1948 and then arrived in Salt Lake City in 1949. 
Her grandparents were living in Salt Lake and also her uncle, 
Joe, who had a macaroni factory (American Beauty). 
Her father 
was in Canada and Rose and her sister went there with him. 
They 
lived in Vancouver, BC. 
Many Italians went there. 
Rose married 
John in Salt Lake City. 
She was brought to Salt Lake City to 
marry him. 
He was born in America. 
[Conversation in Italian. 
She speaks Calabrese dialect but 
learned "Italian" in school. 
Went up to elementary.] 
Rose was 26 when she left Italy. 
She wasn't able to go to high 
school because they didn't have enough money. 
Her mother died 
when she was 12 and her father went to Canada when she was young 
(4 years old). 
She was raised by her grandparents. 
Her sister 
stayed in Vancouver. 
Her father worked in the railroad office in 
Canada. 
She never really knew her father when she lived in 
Italy--too young. 
She remembers the war in Italy very vividly. 
She talks about the 
bombs blowing up and making holes in the city. 
Lost a cousin. 
"Lots of blood." 
Her father made her go to Canada. 
She didn't want to come. 
He 
had been to the United States during the depression (Sunnyside) 
and because things had been so bad then he decided to live in 
Canada. 
She was surprised when she met her father because she 
hadn't seen him since she was four. 
When she left there it was 
21 years before she saw him again. 
Knew him by photo. 
She 
discusses her children. 
She lost several children. 
[Rose's daughter, Francis, is present and joins in discussion] 
Her husband farmed in Spring Glen, and she raised her children in 
a one room house. 
Near the current house. 
The house she presently lives in [shifts to Italian but restates 
in English.] 
was moved from Hiawatha, probably during the 
depression. 
She was married in 1950. 
Describes problems in 
arrangement of kitchen (in Italian) earlier. 
Her husband raised sugar beets, grain, potatoes. 
Not dairy. 
Mainly grains and vegetables. 
They sold much of what they 
raised. 
No one wants to work now. 
They also raised peaches, 
apples, and pears. 
Now nothing. 
People came to the farm to buy stuff. 
Mentions making provolone. 
Describes how to make tuma cheese (fresh). 
They're made in 
special baskets that she still has. 
She doesn't make it any 
more, however. 
She made it for the Salt Lake Arts Festival. 
She 
made tuma for people all over the country--California, Wyoming, 
etc. 
She sold them (provolone) to individuals. 
She talks about 
the difference between provolone and tumor. 
They still make sausage. 
Each family (each of her children) 
makes their own. 
It is usually made in November around 
Thanksgiving. 
[Brings out samples.] 
Describes her son's process 
in Italian. 
They hope not to have to clean the casings this 
year. 
To make the salami they need large casings, which they may 
have to clean themselves. 
She discusses how the sausage is made. 
"Lots of lavoro" to clean them. 
[Makes coffee.] 
They kill 5-6 pigs right there--one for each 
child's family. 
Offers to show me smokehouse later. 
Discusses her family and making food. 
Her husband's family were 
all born in the United States. 
Shows photographs, Salt Lake 
Tribune article. 
Includes photo of Nick sisters, who she calls 
Paesani. 
Her first husband died in Italy at 18 in 1943. 
Rose has never 
gone back to Italy. 
Her sister visited. 
She doesn't want to 
return. 
Discusses the trip to the U.S. 
Travel by ship is wonderful 
unless you are sick--and she was. 
It was a long trip. 
Fear of 
airplanes. 
She left Naples and it took 6 days to get to New York 
City. 
Ship was "Count of Savoy." 
Then she took the train to 
Vancouver, and that also took 6 days. 
She is afraid to travel now. 
Because of tv, she's afraid of a 
lot. 
She had travelled to Rome and to Napoli when she lived in 
Italy, but didn't have money to travel. 
She likes living in 
small towns better than large cities--not New York, not even Salt 
Lake City. 
All her children understand Italian, except for her youngest son. 
3 
Especially daughter who is present (Francis). 
Many people she 
knows speak Italian. 
Her husband, though born in USA, speaks 
Italian. 
She says if he didn't, she wouldn't have married him! 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Rose didn't learn English until she came to the United States. 
She doesn't subscribe to any Italian newspapers (an uncle did) or 
listen to any Italian radio shows. 
She remembers her town 
fondly. 
There are several people in Spring Glen that are from 
her town in Italy. 
Rose's daughter, Francis, wishes she could visit Italy. 
Rose 
says it costs very much. 
They discuss the Italian economy. 
Italian money isn't worth much 
either. 
She receives her first husband's pension, but its 
nothing. 
Now it is pretty good there--all changed. 
Rose writes 
friends in Italy. 
Doesn't phone much because of time difference. 
Francis describes a friend, Forenzo, that visited once. 
A group 
of European cowboys comes to USA, including Price, periodically. 
Francis heard one (Forenzo) speaking Calabrese dialect. 
They 
still write their friends in Italy. 
They call also. 
Many of the 
people in Spring Glen still speak or at least understand Italian. 
Rose's relative don't wish to come to United States. 
Rose's father's wife (stepmother) was from England, but he didn't 
want to travel and didn't visit her family when she went. 
Rose talks about making espresso. 
Joke about American coffee 
being "aqua calda" ("hot water"). They all drank espresso. 
She 
didn't drink coffee when young. 
When she first came to USA, she 
couldn't stand American coffee. 
Now she can't drink Italian 
coffee; too strong. 
We sample salami and soprasatta. 
Mmmm! 
Story about sister-in-
law trying to make rigotta, but Francis's 13-year old could tell 
it wasn't his grandma's, wouldn't eat it. 
"This ain't nunna's." 
[Also calls English grandma "Nunna"!] 
They miss having the fresh 
provolone. 
They can all tell that what they have now isn't the 
same as what Rose makes. 
Mentions fried peppers, stuffed eggplant as Italian dishes. 
Italy has great vegetables. 
Rose (to me). 
"Mangia, non 
vergognate, mangia." 
["Eat, don't be ashamed, eat."] 
Francis says that Americans serve a lot of soda pop with their 
meals. 
European cowboys didn't like soda. 
Rose doesn't drink, 
her husband drank coffee. 
They rarely made wine, because they 
didn't drink it very much. 
She used to like a glass of wine with 
a meal. 
Some Mormons drink more than anyone. 
Rose's husband's 
family made it to sell. 
In Italy she used to wash clothes in the river. 
Rose still 
carries a basket on her head when she gathers garden produce. 
[Grandchildren enter the home; confusing.] 
Rose makes her own spaghetti sauce and use filopina [jalapeno?] 
peppers. 
Rose used to have a garden. 
They discuss making fried 
zucchini and pomodori verdi (green tomatoes). 
In salt brine, 
fermented, for 2 months. 
In Italy, in winter, you ate olives, tomatoes, eggplants--kept 
better in Italy. 
More discussion of green tomato recipe. 
Also 
puts pig skin in salt brine. 
Rose comments that Francis is American because she likes some 
foods that aren't Italian and doesn't like Italian style beans 
(fagiolini). 
Rose likes lots of verdura--cauliflower, broccoli, etc. 
Francis cooks a lot of the Italian foods. 
At Christmas she makes 
Italian cookies: scaleti (wine cookies), pitta [she describes--it 
takes all week], turdini. 
She lives near Rose in Spring Glen--
right next door. 
Other kids live on same land. 
One brother 
makes sausage for sale. 
Francis comments that kids aren't interested in their past. 
Rose sings "Avanti Popolo." 
[Francis's brother visits; some confusion.] 
Takes 2 years to cure a ham; only one year in Italy. 
Rose says 
everything is different in America. 
They make fresh bacon. 
Francis packs hers in a salt brine. 
Rose 
describes how. 
Rose says there was a storyteller 
(raccontastoria) at her home in Italy. 
They would joke, and 
there were dances--they did polkas, tangos, mazurkas, waltzes--
but never tarantellas. 
She loved dancing. 
END OF SIDE B 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-AO22 
Item Number 
IAW-SS-A022 
BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FORM 
Last Name: 
Vea 
First Name: 
Rose 
Street: 
833 West 4000 North 
Town: 
Spring Glen 
(Price) 
State: 
Utah 
Zipcode: 
84501 
Telephone: 
(801) 472-8881 
Date of Birth: 
Ca. 1921 
Place of Birth: 
Remardi, Cosenza, Italy 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A022 
Date: 
10/05/90 
Informant: 
VEA, ROSE 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/05/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview continues: 
Rose sings a few lines of a song that she heard in Italy--"La 
Luna e Mezzo Mare." 
"Lots of songs in Italy." 
Sings part of 
another song, about Firenze. 
Sings a whole song, a political 
song ("Facetta Nera"--"Little black face"). 
It was a popular 
song in 1936, during the invasion of Africa. 
Little discussion 
of fascism and Mussolini--"he did some things well, others not 
well." 
Good for education. 
Discusses the many Italian wars in 
her lifetime--4-5. 
Her husband, her cousin, and many friends 
died. 
Many in Africa--recites list of battles. 
Francis discusses her husband's family. 
Rose says her 
grandchildren have 3 nationalities: Italian, English, and Irish. 
Everyone has a temper, including the Italians, she says. 
"Testadure"--hardheads. 
Rose recalls carrying things on her head, not in hands. 
Francis 
says her mother still makes homemade noddles with a large rolling 
pin. 
Also makes gnocchi. 
She discusses her pasta--tagliarini. 
Made lasagna for daughter's wedding. 
Says with women working 
today, and running about, they can't really cook. 
Sings "Mama 
Mia," a song she heard on the radio in Italy. 
Sings another 
song--"La Signorina di Cosenza."--about a girl with short skirt. 
Discusses Francis's sister who used to wear short skirts to 
school. 
Rose didn't like that. 
Rose doesn't like change, she 
liked her old washer better than the new automatic one. 
Discusses the activities of kids today. 
Bad stuff on tv. 
END OF SIDE A 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A023 
Date: 
10/08/90 
Informant: 
LITIZZETTE, STAN 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/08/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Stan tells a story about Garibaldi. 
He says its apocryphal. 
When Garibaldi was going south to unify Italy (which took a long 
time). He would identify the North and the South. 
Italians are 
not great warriors. 
He had to separate the North and the South. 
He had a tablet that said, "Say two eggs fried in oil." 
The 
Southerners would say 'Tue ove fritto in olio" 
The Northerners, 
Piedmontese as Stan is, would say "pu oeuf coeut in tillurli", 
almost in French. 
Stan's grandfather, who was Piedmontese, spoke French and 
Italian. 
All of the Piedmontese there spoke that dialect. "Il 
Birittin di Turin"--newspaper of Torino. 
Stan's grandfather, 
Augusto, moved to Helper in 1910-12 and built the house that 
Stan's office is located in. 
He worked in the Colorado mines 
first, Colorado Fuel and Mine. 
He heard about mining in 
Castlegate and so moved there. 
Stan's grandmother told him they 
were on their way to Oregon to buy a fruit farm. 
The train 
stopped in Castlegate, then the railroad center of Carbon County, 
and met an Italian, Milano, there who encouraged him to settle in 
Castlegate. 
He decided to do that, and his grandmother cried 
when she told the story. 
Stan's grandparents were married in Italy. 
Two of the sons were 
born in Italy, the rest in America. 
Bosconero Canavesse (Black 
woods) is where his grandparents were from. 
Everyone had nicknames. 
Busnar was his grandfather's nickname. 
(Black wood). 
He was a stone mason. 
He didn't do any when he 
got to America. 
Stan's father, Victor, was born in Castlegate. 
There were seven or eight children. 
Augusto worked as a contract 
miner, which most of them were. 
He was paid by the tonnage 
mined, not by the hour. 
It went by the "check weighman" who was 
known to cheat in favor of the company. 
The union wanted that 
man to not be an employee of the company. 
Being the chief and 
having a crew, Augusto amassed some money. 
Augusto built his own home; he didn't live in a company house. 
He also bought a farm in Cleveland: 40 acres. 
He was naturalized 
on Sept 26, 1892. 
His name was spelled Lizzetti, but it was 
changed somewhere along the way. 
Stan says the first Italian in Helper was a southern Italian, 
Martell, who worked on the railroad. 
Stan's father and 
grandfather told him this. 
His home's foundation is still 
standing. 
The earliest Italians in Helper came from Castlegate. 
Stan's grandfather no longer worked in the mine in 1903 but lived 
in Helper. 
Stan shows family history documents. 
Even though their name is spelled Litizzette, people pronounce it 
Lizzetti. 
Stan can remember his grandfather a little bit, 
although his memory is not good. 
Discusses the way Helen Zeese [Papanikolas] is quoted for the 
history of their area without going to the original sources. 
Discusses the deeds of the land in Helper, and the history of 
Helper along with his family's property in Helper. 
Stan's grandmother told him that the family wasn't received in 
the area very happily. 
They worked in the mines sporadically--in 
winter. 
Farmed in summer. 
People would plug up their chimney, 
and their horses were unhitched when they were at the store, etc. 
The Bonaccis had a farm in the area at the same time--only other 
Italians in area early on. 
Southerners. 
The Mormons still don't 
treat the Italians very well. 
The early experience was 
particularly bad. 
Stan says that individually there were some 
nice Mormons. 
Says Augusto loaned Teancum Pratt money to go to 
Provo to face charges of polygamy; so they evidently got along 
well. 
[break in the discussion] 
Stan says that the houses standing now in central Helper were 
built by his grandfather and his uncle Joseph. 
Five or six were 
built by Augusto. 
The home Stan lives in was built by him as is 
the house Stan's office is in, which was the original family 
home. 
Stan discusses the Italian founding fathers of Helper and their 
stores and houses. 
He goes down the street, mentally, building 
by building, recounting who built each building. 
Describes 
Albert Risi who was a butcher. 
When asked "How are your steaks 
today?" he would reply "Tender as mother's love." 
Bizoni, Tony 
Labori, Joe Barboglio were all founders. 
Joe founded the Helper 
State Bank. 
The nsantas, Delpazs, Elegantes from Spring Canyon, 
Sam Stein (Lowenstein), Joseph Barboglio also had a bar, Domeni -
a Greek, were also founders. 
Story about a Greek festival seen 
by Stan's grandfather; a cloud of dust. 
Steve Lendarus, also a 
Greek; Crowleys (Mormons although non-active), Bettinos--Stan's 
maternal family who were also Piedmontese. 
Stafford, McColm were 
also builders of Helper. 
Downtown Helper was built largely by 
3 
Italians. 
George Zeese also built part of it. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Story about Joe Barboglio. 
Supposedly an Italian was taking 
citizenship exams and the judge asked him who the head of the 
U.S. Treasury department was and the Italian said "Joe 
Barboglio." 
Many of the charter members of the Helper State Bank 
were the important members of the town. 
It was the cornerstone 
of the business and commercial development of the town, according 
to Stan. 
Augusto was among them. 
Says there wasn't a southern 
Italian who was commercially successful. 
Outside of Aquina. 
Looks for incorporation papers. 
Litizzette says Calabrese didn't dominate the immigration until 
1915-1920. 
Many immigrated to Helper then. 
Most all the 
businessmen were northern Italians. 
Stan says Joseph Barboglio 
was the most effective, successful of them all. 
He started by 
lending money in the bars in town. 
Says there were 24 bars in 
the town at one time. 
Discusses the neighborhood bar, many exist in Chicago. 
He says 
they were predominant in mining towns where there were many 
unmarried men. 
The other minorities who came to the mining towns 
weren't as good, in a commercial sense. 
Mostly single men. 
Only 
the Italians had fewer bachelors represented; most were married. 
Most Asians were single males. 
Mainly Japanese. 
Stan says everyone took pride in the Helper State Bank and it 
still remains a popular successful branch. 
Italians didn't want 
to owe anyone, so they saved to educate their children. 
The 
railroad, which owned a lot of the town, never owned the bank. 
He says that even though the Italians founded the town, few of 
them were ever mayors. 
He says the Italians weren't clannish 
like the Greeks. 
The early Italian Carbon County male didn't go 
to church regularly and was critical of the Church because of the 
dominant role it played in the old country. 
This made them less 
clannish, because they weren't as bound by their church as the 
Greeks were. 
Anti-clerical. 
Iconoclastic. 
Stan's clients are not predominantly Italian. 
It was the woman's role to go to church, and Stan says that is 
still that way today in Italy. 
That is an Italian trait. 
Says 
there was jealousy between the ethnic groups. 
Stan went to the University of Notre Dame in 1938. 
One of first 
from Helper. 
His father, who was Catholic, felt that was 
important. 
Stan also went to Georgetown. 
Stan says he is 
critical of the Polish Pope as archconservative. 
Says he is 
probably like his grandfather. 
He is critical of society and of 
many things Italian. 
He continues the division between northern 
and southern Italy. 
Feels the north is superior. 
"Renaissance 
happened in Florence, not San Giovanni in Fiore." Stan says his 
grandfather wasn't clannish and was an independent thinker. "And 
that's how it should be." 
Stan's father, Giovanni Battista, was even more successful than 
Augusto, as were several of the sons; very business oriented. 
One of the sons died young, but had potential. 
Stan, however, is 
the only professional among his cousins, although he doesn't know 
many of them anymore. 
Stan is the last of the Litizzettes in 
Helper. 
Stan says there are many stories yet to be told about Utah. 
The 
Slovenians, Croatians and Dalmatians also played a role in the 
development. 
He says he doesn't like the term melting pot. "The 
only thing you get out of a melting pot is pig iron." 
It means a 
lowering to him. 
"Chrome steel does not melt." 
Their story 
still needs to be told. 
The Greek story has been told by Helen 
Zeese. 
The Greeks enjoy a greater acceptance than the Italians 
in Utah. 
Stan says he had to fight when he was a boy to get 
along. 
He thinks it is just because they are Italian. 
He isn't 
sure why the Greeks were more accepted. 
He thinks it is because 
the Greeks didn't lose their heritage, they stayed very Greek. 
Italians were more threatening because they Americanized more. 
The Italians were competitive among themselves and lost some of 
their cohesiveness. 
Stan's father always said his son had to be better than him; not 
a better Italian, but a better businessmen. 
He says it was 
always a struggle. 
He came back to Helper because he thought the coal would continue 
producing, and he liked living in Helper. 
He generally liked the 
people in Carbon County. 
Even LDS people in Carbon County were 
different from LDS elsewhere. Says everyone had to get along and 
did get along. 
It is a place where people feel welcome, no 
matter where you come from--even though it is always pointed out. 
Says this is unique about Helper. 
He came back from Washington DC because the economy was good; the 
Eisenhower years were great. 
He had opportunities in D.C. 
But 
the boom really didn't materialize, it was a "bubble." 
It was 
peaked and was all over in two or three years. 
Mechanization of 
the mines made the difference. 
Mining no longer labor-intensive. 
Production can be increased substantially without hiring more 
people. 
It doesn't effect the county any longer like it used to. 
Stan would not want his son to come back to Carbon County, 
because there isn't any economic growth and he doesn't see any 
potential for growth. 
Discusses common misconceptions about Italians. 
Stan says 
Italian women didn't bake their own bread. 
They all had bakers 
that they went to and bought bread from. 
There was not an oven 
in every yard as Helen Zeese wrongly claims. 
They didn't all 
5 
make sausage either, according to him. 
They bought it from 
butchers. 
They each had their trades. 
Claims this is a big 
misrepresentation. 
END OF SIDE B 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-AO24 
Item Number 
IAW-SS-A024 
BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FORM 
Last Name: 
Litizzette 
First Name: 
Stanley 
Street: 
26 South Main 
Town: 
Helper 
State: 
Utah 
Zipcode : 
84526 
Telephone: 
(801) 472-5463 or 5811 
Date of Birth: 
1920 
Place of Birth: 
Helper, Utah 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A024 
Date: 
10/08/90 
Informant: 
LITIZZETTE, STAN 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/08/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview Continues: 
Continues discussing the misconceptions of Italians. 
Wine was made generally by all Italians. 
Stan is going to write 
a book about it. 
If someone could make wine better than you, why 
make your own? 
There was a lot of wine making. 
There was a 
grape broker who got them from San Bernadino, California. 
People 
ordered their grapes from there. 
Carloads of grapes were 
purchased. 
The train cars were iced and were set off on the side 
near the train house. 
The day the grapes were in was a big day. 
They were always zinfandel grapes. 
Stan says they were Hungarian 
grapes and soon became the Italian favorite. 
The Slovenians used 
a dry grape, muscatello. 
The grapes were either pressed or later there was a grape 
crushing machine that was used. 
The juice went into a barrel. 
Stan says the American oak barrel was a great contribution. 
Neither Stan's grandfather nor his father made wine; however, he 
remembers going to other people's homes who made wine. 
The wine 
was bottled, not always kept in barrels. 
When it was kept in 
barrels the kids like to go get the wine, because when siphoning 
it they'd always take a sip. 
Wine was always served with meals. 
Kids got theirs diluted. "The art of drinking wine is the most 
civilized art there is today." 
Stan says they have a good wine 
selection in Price, much better than Helper. 
Beer was also made in the home during prohibition. 
Some Italians 
made it, but not as many as "Austrians". 
Discounts presence of mafia. 
Stan says "the black hand" was 
around some; however, no northern Italians belonged. He knew of a 
couple in Helper and can recall only one incident. 
It never got 
off the ground in the county. 
They were the "most unorganized 
organized group." 
Rosario Prince was one convicted. 
They burned 
buildings. 
Stan says they really weren't stereotyped with the 
mafia image. 
But Grandmother's story about English vs. Italian 
immigrants. 
During WWII there were no charges of disloyalty of Italians. 
During the McCarthy era the "Austrians" were troubled by 
stereotypes of communism; as were others associated with the 
unions. 
He was city attorney then. 
The Italians weren't 
persecuted during those times, however. 
There was prostitution in the bars and houses, but open 
solicitation was not tolerated. 
The houses were run by a madam, 
but there were never more than 8 or 9 of them. 
Stan says the 
problems encountered by Jim Hansen and a prostitution house--the 
last whorehouse in Helper, the Carbon Hotel--and the allegations 
that organized crime was involved--was false. 
"Black Hand" 
extortion was earlier. 
The drug problems are recent and they all come from out of town. 
No large scale action in Helper. 
Bootlegging was a common thing, 
but it was local, not part of organized crime. 
Stories about lots of slot machines are exaggerations. 
During 
WWII there were slot machines in Carbon County, but they were 
considered therapy and didn't last very long. 
Pan guinea was always played, but the gambling with that was 
mild. 
Poker was played also. 
Solo was played in the pool halls 
with lots of Italians. 
It is a two one on one game. 
Bocce was 
played. 
There were two courts in town. 
(Describes where.) 
Not 
for a long time. 
Morra was also very popular. 
It involved a lot 
of shouting. 
It was played during public gatherings; weddings 
etc 
Stan remembers a Japanese pool hall in town when he was young. 
Japanese cards. 
Recalls a Japanese woman in full gown with her 
hair piled high, dealing cards and smoking a cigar. 
'Sin! Oh! 
It was great!" Describes music. 
"Chinese lottery" (Keno). 
The 
Japanese men gave the children silver dollars. 
Stan says they 
were the most law-abiding citizens. 
Never a felony. 
Japanese 
brought in fresh fish--supplied Catholics with their halibut. 
END OF SIDE A 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Ilk 
1 
Item Number: IAW-SS-A025 
Date: 
10/08/90 
Informant: 
BORLA, WALTER; DALPIAZ, FRANK 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/08/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Walter is the postmaster in Helper and Frank was the previous 
postmaster. 
Walter was born in Castlegate. 
His parents were both 
Piedmontese. 
His father was born in Uzeglio in the French-
Italian Alps. 
75 Km NW of Torino. 
His mother was born in 
Wyoming in 1902. 
Her family immigrated from Italy in 1900. 
They 
lived in Wyoming for a short time, then lived in Butte, Montana. 
When she was 5, they returned to Italy to Ozegna (NE of Torino) 
where she lived until she was 12. 
They then returned to the U.S. 
where they first settled in Colorado, and then Eureka, Utah, and 
then to Castlegate then to Helper. 
Her father returned to Italy 
in 1924, and then in 1948 he returned to Helper. 
Her mother 
never left the U.S. 
Walter's father and grandfather and moved to the U.S. in 1910. 
They then sent for Walter's grandmother and aunt. 
His 
grandmother became ill with the flu and died shortly after 
arriving (1910-11). 
Walter's father became an American citizen 
and served with the U.S. forces in France during WWI. 
Walter's 
grandfather returned to Italy in 1920, remarried and had another 
son that is still living in Mathi (15 Km from Torino). 
Walter 
visited him in 1983 when he visited Italy. 
Walter saw the house 
his father was born in and met his cousins who still lived there. 
He also visited his mother's family in Ozegna. 
Walter said he was treated royally in Italy. 
Story about eating 
with his relatives, and eating a lot at their family reunion 
dinner. 
Made them gnocchi. 
They all served them food. 
Wine is 
served all the time, but no one ever over indulges. 
It was what 
he expected. 
He had met several of his mother's cousins when 
they visited the U.S. in the 1970s and so they weren't strangers. 
Frank's parents were both born in Italy. 
His father was born in 
Campo Tusullo in the Tyrol, in the Dolomites, and his mother was 
born in San Colombano near Turin. 
He shows a photo album. 
His 
Item Number: IAW-SS-A026 
Date: 
10/08/90 
Informant: 
BORLA, WALTER; DALPIAZ, FRANK 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/08/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Interview Continues: 
Walter talks about the stonemason work. 
His father spent a 
summer in Yellowstone National Park with Angelo Giordano (North 
Italian) during the depression working as stone masons. John 
Biscardi and Robert Zeragnani ("Berto"), Frank Seppi and Jim 
Bianco were all stone masons. 
Frank's father also worked with 
masons, mixing mortar, at Yellowstone. 
There were many stone 
masons--Frank Borzaga, too. 
Walter has steps his father made in 
his backyard. 
He took them from his mother's house when the 
highway went through her property in Castlegate. 
It was an art 
and it can be seen all over town. 
Walter says when he was in 
Italy he saw a lot of that work. 
The stone masonry is another 
characteristic of their Italian heritage. 
-Break 
Discuss how hard working the older Italians were. 
They became 
successful, but continued working hard and saving money. 
They 
continue a frugal lifestyle even though they have the money 
to 
live more lavishly. 
"It's just the way they are." "It comes from 
when they had to live that way." 
Stories about using things till 
they are in shreds--using "both sides" of gloves, etc. 
Millionaire who reads newspaper without buying it. 
Story about an uncle who remembers seeing the Statue of Liberty 
from the window of the boat as they entered New York harbor. 
Frank and Walter say that they feel life is short and you have to 
take advantage of opportunities to travel and enjoy their lives. 
Frank leaves. 
Break. 
Walter discusses his trip to Italy. Episode in Venice in which 
someone tried to cheat him. 
END OF SIDE A 
END OF INTERVIEW 
2 
father came to the U.S. in 1898. 
His brother, Celeste, and 
sister, Qtelia, also immigrated. 
Frank's father prospected in 
Sunnyside then he worked for his brother who owned a beverage-
distributing business. 
Then he was a policeman at coal camp in 
Latuda and also worked in the coal mine. 
Frank's father died in 
1951. 
Frank had a twin brother who died when he was 3, and a 
sister died when she was 10. 
They died only months apart which 
devastated Frank's mother, and she never really got over that 
loss. 
Frank's mother, from San Colombano, followed a sister from Italy 
to Helper. 
Her sister was married to a Bosone. 
Frank's parents 
were married in 1907. 
Frank was born in 1914 in Helper where he 
has lived most of his life. 
In 1936 he took the test for mail 
clerk and got the job. 
Then he went into the service in 1943 as 
a mail clerk in the Navy. 
He served in New Guinea, Manila and 
Samoa Island. 
His station in Samoa was the main postal center 
for the area. 
Several people from Helper went through his post, 
and he helped them; had a special box, for their mail. 
Frank 
returned home in March of 1946. 
Walter and Frank discuss family immigration stories. 
Frank's 
mother got off the boat and had never heard of ice cream before. 
It was so cold that she put it in her pocket to warm it up. 
Walter's relative, Remol lived in Trinidad, Colorado. 
He was 
only 6 months old when he was brought to the U.S. 
Walter's 
mother always told how her mother had held Remol in her arms the 
whole way over. 
Her arms were sore by the time they got to 
Colorado. 
Then they decided to move to Eureka, UT. 
The children 
enrolled in school in Eureka. 
Their first day they went to the 
school on Feb. 22 to begin, but it was a holiday and the school 
was locked. 
His grandmother asked them why they weren't in 
school and his aunt said to her that the school was closed 
because of some man who "washed the tongue." (Washington's 
birthday). 
Walter says Remol was still living when Walter 
visited Italy and Walter took a photo of the house Remol was born 
in and was taken from when he was 6 months old. 
Walter showed 
the photo to Remol and he said it hadn't changed a bit since he 
left. 
Frank discussed the way a family member would immigrate and then 
send for the rest. 
Then they moved a lot and the children were 
born all over, as in Walter's family. 
Walter discusses that his 
grandfather left to return to Italy just before the mine 
explosion. 
Suspects he had a premonition. 
Walter said the older people talked a lot about Italy and kept 
close ties. 
Walter's father died in a mine accident when he was 
61 (1950). 
Didn't get to go back to Italy to visit. 
Frank says his father's sister was sent for from Italy because 
3 
his father had remarried and his stepmother was difficult. 
So 
Frank's father wanted his sister to be with him. 
Walter's father's sister is still living (96 years old) in 
Redding, California. 
Discuss food preparation. 
Walter discusses Jim Bruno and his father slaughtering pigs and 
making salami and sausage. 
Frank says Adolf Bruno (Jim's son) still makes sausage, 
slaughters lambs, etc. 
Discuss wine making. Walter says when he was a child taking his 
lunch to school, you could always tell who was making wine 
because the kids would have grapes in their sack lunches. 
The families would get together and bring in rail car loads of 
grapes. 
Walter says his father was active in the union (UMWA--was 
president of local). 
People transferred from mine to mine a lot 
and came to his father for transfer cards. 
People often came to 
their home looking for transfer cards. 
One day two brothers came 
to the house. 
Walter's father would always offer visitors wine 
and offered the brothers wine. 
One of them said his brother was 
a good Mormon and so wouldn't drink, but he said he would drink 
his for him! 
Neither family had a bread oven, but they remember the ovens and 
the women who baked in them were in Castlegate, too. 
Walter and 
Frank say it was the southern Italians who mainly baked in the 
outside ovens. 
They discuss the various bakers they knew. 
They 
say Ed Riceta was the best baker and the best man in the world. 
He always gave food to the bums who jumped off the trains. 
They 
discuss the ways bums always knew where to go for food in the 
town. 
Went to "The American Bakery" (Ed's). 
Ed made Italian 
breads, pastries, French bread, grisin, as well as everything 
else. 
He was Piedmontese and from Ivrea which was near where 
Walter's mother's family was from. 
Frank shows photographs of his parents and other relatives. 
Joe 
Lizetti married Frank's aunt. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Frank shows photographs from his photo album. 
Discuss the origins of the Stella di America Lodge. 
It was 
4 
organized in 1898 in Castlegate as a mutual association 
group/fraternal order for the Italians who came to the U.S. 
It 
helped with insurance, etc. to help some of the men with illness 
and burial when they died. 
Men would take care of each other 
when ill. 
In 1902 there was a big strike in the mine and many 
Italians were chased out of Castlegate and the lodge moved to 
Helper. 
It's the oldest fraternal association in the state. 
It 
still meets the first Thursday of each month and now it's mainly 
a social group, although they still have insurance benefits. 
Frank is president, Walter is recording secretary. 
Walter's 
father had held both offices. 
They are affiliated with the 
Columbian Federation of Italian American Societies. 
Both Frank 
and Walter have attended the national meetings of the society. 
The lodge has picnics, a Columbus day celebration, dinner 
meetings, and regular meetings. 
They often go to Jimbo's 
restaurant. 
(Jimmy Paletta's--an Italian restaurant in Helper.) 
Frank says the lodge wouldn't take the Southern Italians into the 
lodge. 
Walter and Frank laugh about Mike Pagano, the one 
Calabrese that was in and the way everyone would look at each 
other and say "How did he get in? 
Who let him in?" 
Was in 
1930s. 
Frank says that when he was in Italy, he noticed that a lot of 
the people from the South who are mainly farmers had emigrated to 
the North to work in the industries. 
Walter says that the Southern Italians really didn't try to join 
the lodge. 
Their lodge was mainly for people in the northern 
part of the county, mainly Helper. 
Later, when the Price lodge 
disbanded they included them and there were Southern Italians 
there. 
Frank laughs that his cousin Joe was president of the 
lodge for 36 years. 
Frank tells a story about remembering when Joe became president. 
He has been recording secretary for 40 years. 
Frank says theirs 
is Stella di America Lodge 77; women have Sorelle di America 31. 
Walter discusses the women's lodge. 
They started in 1934. 
Few 
lodges are still separate by gender like the one in Helper. 
Most 
of the activities the lodges do are together, except for the 
election meeting. 
The records of the lodge were donated to the library of the 
University of Utah, and they continue to send their records 
there. 
They say that the lodge has been able to attract younger 
Italians. 
They think the lady's lodge doesn't have as much luck. 
The two laugh saying there is a lot of bickering when old ladies 
get together. 
Discuss the younger members of the lodge. 
Discuss 
the oldest members of the lodge. 
Laugh about extending a life-
5 
time membership to some of the older men on their birthday 
celebration. 
The only requirement for membership is that you are of Italian 
heritage or are married to someone of Italian heritage. 
They 
think most of their members are of Italian heritage themselves. 
They say there was never a locally published Italian paper, but 
they used to get a paper published in Pueblo, Colorado. 
The 
publisher was the president of the Columbian Federation. 
All the 
lodges got a copy of the paper. 
He was in the Colorado 
legislature. 
No particular connection with Pueblo, Colorado. 
Frank says most 
of the Italians they knew that had lived in Colorado had lived in 
Walshenberg, Trinidad. 
Many people remembered the Ludlow 
massacre that occurred there. 
Frank tells a story about visiting a deaf relative. 
Frank and Walter say that when they think of their Italian 
heritage they think of the camaraderie, closeness, and the way 
the people take care of each other. 
Anytime they meet someone 
whose names sound Italian they strike up a conversation and 
become acquainted that way. 
Gives examples of meeting other 
Italians at national conventions. 
There is a closeness. 
There 
is pride in being Italian. 
Frank says that there is also the 
food. 
His wife, even though she isn't Italian, (Yugoslavian) has 
learned to cook good Italian food. 
Makes polenta, gnocchi, 
spaghetti. 
Frank discusses polenta with sausage, chicken sauce. 
The corn meal is mixed on the stove with water, milk and butter. 
It is stirred a lot until it is in a solid ball. 
Then there is a 
sauce that is served with it and cheese. 
Frank says he likes it 
left over the next day best. 
Warms it in a microwave with sauce-
-"a feast!" 
Frank's mother used to make it differently. 
He would layer 
polenta slices with butter and cheese, "like a 4-layer cake." 
Frank discusses bagna cauda. 
Not a restaurant dish! 
It is 
sardines with garlic, butter and the northern Italians also put 
cream with it. 
It is heated over the stove and eaten with celery 
stalks, or green peppers, bread, cauliflower, mushrooms. 
Dipped 
in it. 
It is a hot sauce and is often eaten over the stove. 
Many of their relatives liked bagna cauda very much. 
Frank and 
Walter made it in the post office one day and laughed about how 
they stunk the office up. 
END OF SIDE B 
INTERVIEW CONTINUED ON IAW-SS-A026 
1 
Item Number: 
IAW-SS-A027 
Date: 
10/08/90 
Informant/Event: 
Quilting Group (Notre Dame Church) Price, UT 
Tape Size: 
A-60 
Recording Configuration: 
A-2 
ITALIAN AMERICANS IN THE WEST PROJECT 
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
CASSETTE SOUND RECORDING LOG 
RECORDED 10/08/90, BY STEVE SIPORIN 
Members of the group include: 
Til Davido of Price, Sheila 
(Marinoni) Martino who was born in Italy (in Bergamo), Mary 
(Falsoni) Colosimo, (of Price), Doris Ramil [?] (of Wellington), 
Carmella (Saccomano) Nigra (born in Salt Lake City--says "I'm a 
Mormon," and everyone laughs, Sandy Colosimo (Price), Margaret 
(Rina) Sicilia (of Price). 
Sheila was born in Bergamo and came to the U.S, in 1919. 
She was 
8. 
It took them 17 days to cross in the boat. 
In the middle of 
the ocean, the crew wanted to practice maneuvers and they started 
lowering life boats. 
Were there for 3-4 hours. 
Then the sailors 
went to put the children in the life boats. 
She found out later 
that there was a fire in the engine, and sirens were blowing and 
the children were scared. 
Her father was already a citizen, and 
so the family came as citizens and they were the only children on 
the ship. 
Her father was in Lava Hot Springs, Idaho, building a hotel. 
He 
said he would meet them in New York but wasn't able to leave, so 
he sent $100 and a picture of the family to an Italian agency in 
New York. 
When they got off the boat, she can't remember if they 
were at Ellis Island, they waited all day and no one came to meet 
them. 
The children held onto their mother's skirt and they 
followed her to the train. 
They were hungry and her mother bought them 
3 hershey bars and 3 
apples. 
They took $2.50 for that. They first went to Buffalo 
where they had to catch another train. 
Her mother began to cry 
(unclear why) and three Italian boys came up to her and asked why 
she was crying. 
The boys said their train wouldn't be there til 
the next morning and went to take the family to a hotel. But in 
the meantime they met a woman from Canada who told them their 
train was there and to go get on it. 
The boys were evidently 
going to rob the family. 
They got to Chicago where her mother's 
cousin lived. 
And then they finally got to Idaho three days 
longer than it should have because they were lost part of the 
time. 
2 
Sheila didn't like her father right away; she wanted to go back 
to her grandfather. 
Her father gave her milk and they were used 
to wine. 
Milk had been a luxury during the war in Italy. 
The women discuss the way wine was served often at meals. 
Wine 
was made in the homes. 
Carmella's father was already in the U.S. in Salt Lake and then 
her mother came over. 
(Carmella was born in U.S.A.) 
Her family 
was from Cosenza in Southern Italy. 
One of the women's families was from Sicily (Palermo), others 
from close to Rome. 
Women discuss the language problems their families had. 
Carmella's father couldn't get the grocery to understand that he 
wanted eggs, so he brought back egg shells. Another man wanted a 
pound of butter and ended up getting peanut butter. 
He tried to 
put it in the frying pan and realized it wasn't quite right. 
Carmella's family moved Spring Glen when she was 3, and moved 
away from there when she was 25. 
Til: 
"Saccomanos are known for 
their farming." 
Her family farmed. 
They grew everything and 
peddled the fruits and vegetables. 
The raised pigs, cows, sheep, 
horses, chickens, ducks, everything. 
Other families, like Margaret Sicilia's (talking now) worked 
truck farms. 
Margaret's family was right in Price. 
She and 
brother peddled from a cart. 
Had a one-half-block garden. 
Saccamonos were known for their gardening and farming (Til's 
comment.) 
Carmella's family's farm was 40 acres. 
The others say she is 
known by her cooking. 
She says she worked like a slave on the 
farm--baled hay, etc. 
Til says everyone knew about the 
Saccomanos. 
In Carmella's family there were 6 boys and 2 girls. 
Carmella did much of the caring, sewing and cooking for the 
family. 
She still makes cheese. 
She makes mozzarella. 
Til says 
everything she does is beautiful. 
She teaches the other women 
how to cook the older Italian foods--ravioli, noodles, pastries. 
Sandy [who is young] says not many younger Italian women are 
learning the traditions because they have to work. 
She adds 
she's lucky, doesn't have to work. 
Til says some families 
continue them more than others. 
Sandy says that some of the 
younger women who aren't Italian but have married Italians try to 
continue the traditions (like herself). 
Besides food, they say "mannerisms" are also important 
traditions. 
The bonds between the families and the kinds of 
things people do for the holidays. 
3 
The women discuss the differences between the Northern and 
Southern Italians and their traditions. 
Margaret Sicilia's family is Sicilian, and she discusses making 
the St. Joseph's table. 
Her aunt used to do it all the time. 
Large loaves of bread were made that resembled the holy family. 
She put them on the table on March 19, and then made some kind of 
fish and browned cookies grispelle that were dipped in honey. 
Different vegetables were also served. 
Someone in the family 
would be St. Joseph and others played the roles of each of the 
holy family members. 
Would invite people to eat this meal. 
Another woman's family put 13 different foods on the table for 
Christmas eve. 
Many of the women's families did this and made 
bacala. 
No meat. 
Items included lupini, spaghetti (with 
anchovies), pasta asciutta, cecci. 
Everything was left on the 
table when they went to midnight mass saying that the baby Jesus 
would come when they were gone. 
Carmella and another women still 
do it every Christmas eve. 
12 apostles and baby Jesus. 
The women talk about having to combine several Italian regional 
traditions from their own and from their husband's family. 
Sandy 
laughs about her non-Italian Christmas tradition of candy being 
rejected by the Italians who wanted pastries instead. 
Stories 
about liking, not liking Italian Christmas food. 
Til's family 
repeats Christmas meal for Easter because its so well liked. 
Bacala is available from the grocer in Price. 
Story about a 
grocer who used to carry the real stuff that stank. 
He used to 
have to keep it outside in a truck because the Mormons came into 
the grocer and complained. 
Now it doesn't stink, but "probably 
doesn't taste as good." 
Mary's father came to the U.S. first and went to Colorado and 
raised goats. 
Seven years later her mother came over with two of 
Mary's sisters. 
Her mother only said it was a long and tiring 
trip over. 
They lived in Colorado 3-4 years then moved to Price. 
The raised goats and sold the cheese. 
They were well known for 
that. 
Margaret discuss the way the Italians made all their bacon and 
ham. 
Carmella's family usually made cheese out of cow's milk. 
She 
jokes about someone getting her a cow so she can make cheese 
again. 
[She's very old.] 
The women said there wasn't a big division between the northern 
and southern Italians in Price. 
Margaret says everyone had to 
work together because they needed to help each other out. 
Mary says there were a few that felt superior, but not all of 
4 
them. 
END OF SIDE A 
SIDE B 
Til discusses the dialects of the northern and southern Italians. 
Most say that they could understand all of them. 
Talk about Mrs. 
Bruno who had a different dialect. 
Discuss the fact that everything is grown and made from scratch, 
as is the tradition. [I am taking photos.] 
Some people don't 
share recipes, traditions. 
Mary and Carmella leave. 
Til regrets Carmella didn't talk more. 
The women say Carmella still has a garden and cooks for the nuns 
and still works very hard. 
The others have learned a lot from 
her. 
Her family was very well known and sold goats and produce. 
She still cooks with anise grown in Italy $60.00 per pound. 
Carmella makes a hard biscuit that the other women would like to 
know how to make, but she won't teach it. 
Til tells a story about her daughter-in-law learning to cook the 
Italian foods. Sandy tells how Carmella taught her to make 
noodles. Macaranattos (like broom handles) were used to make the 
noodles. 
The women discuss how they're made using a method that 
involves twisting the dough on. 
They marvel at how well Carmella 
does it, and says it has to all be done a certain way. 
They say 
she has so much knowledge of the Italian heritage. 
Sheila says her family sold the hotel in Lava Hot Springs, Idaho, 
and moved to Ermoe, Idaho and farmed. (Near Downey.) 
But he 
didn't really know how to farm. 
Left Italy on Lincoln's 
birthday, arrived in U.S. on Washington's birthday. 
They were 
there for 8 years and then the depression came, and they couldn't 
sell anything. 
Couldn't make payments. 
They left the farm, 
then, and moved to Price to work in the mines. 
Her family was 
the only foreign family in Lava Hot Springs. 
She talks about 
ordering coffee from the store. 
They ordered it, but others also 
bought it even though most people around there were Mormon. 
Jokes about Mormons drinking coffee. 
They made their own wine 
also. 
The group quilts on Mondays and Tuesdays mornings. 
They call 
themselves the Notre Dame Sewing Guild. 
Til talks about teaching an MS patient Italian as therapy. 
Rose 
Cameriata suggested as good lead--Mary's older sister. 
Sandy--of German, Norwegian stock--says that the hardest thing 
for her marrying into an Italian family was all the hugging and 
P 
f 
5 
kissing. 
"But it grows on you real fast." 
"I can't get my 
husband to eat sauerkraut, but he sure wants me to eat 
spaghetti." 
Another woman says she makes polenta for her family, her husband 
is northern Italian (Piedmontese). 
Met her husband in Helper. 
Discuss that the Italian people are very religious and liked 
food. 
Sandy says that was noticeable to her too. 
There is food 
at all the ceremonies, especially at baptisms--which are like 
wedding receptions. 
Huge. 
[Eating a quick lunch.] 
None of the women have travelled to Italy. 
Discussions while eating (difficult to understand). 
Discussion about, needlework, raising flax, silk worms and 
growing silk. 
Carmella's mother known in Italy for her silk. 
Did it for a while in Spring Glen. 
What people did to survive., 
Discuss cheese-making. 
END OF SIDE B 
END OF INTERVIEW