1 
 
Lorita Leframor Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Ngoff, Rull, Yap 
Age of Interviewee: 55 years 
Island of Birth: 
Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_012_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:35 Meka ngang ichil mem’mangi mo irel yai ngang bibidah 
ralakawe le, yathla ngo chil kael yal yarmot ma feur deur mo iril 
mil yuch mo gulfei. 00:45 Malah ahh cholop yarmat le almost 
every week ngo hobe werwer yarmat le ro,  Yilulap kawe le 
ramala sopsop yuch. Yuch mo ngo ye-tugil chog tapel yuch 
kala  yarmat rema taptap. 00:58 Ye wol wares yuch, te wulul 
mele sa cholop bo chil wares yuch.  Le rebel la dafdaf yuch ye 
lamol ngo resa yothlu ngal chog kawe yar rosa buthog irot hare 
rebidah wol sulbos kawe rebe hamale bo Liliyar ngo rosa…01:14 
Iwe ngo mala mo millal raruel yuch ngo wol tuggul makla hobe 
taptap iyang ma yor ahh sima feur sew ral gulfei bo loch ngo 
sima wol for yach rarui.  01:26 Ma yor rarui le sima taptap.  Iwe 
ngo ikla makla ngang iwiri ngo, ngang mo ngo iwol curious irel 
mala.  01:35 Yathla ngo wares wares mwol bo, yathla ngo Fr. 
Walter chog mele kekasidoh  mwol wol Ulithi. 01:42 Iwe ngang 
isa, ima daber Yilulap kala irel yar faru fedalei mekla ngo 
inguch iyang bo pangal yai faru ngo, ibe rarui ngo ima 
hatawasi fedalei, hatawasi fedalei, tor yai patient irel yai be 
faru mokawe bo pangal-loh formel irel process iyang ngo sew 
formel kawe ye delicate yam be faru bo, hobe radu yuch kawe 
ngo hobe halimdi yam be radu. 02:05 hobe hachuyawei mokawe 
faral ye lamol, ngo hobe wol hapale ngo hotowe itowei mulwe 
fal Yal. wululul mulwe ngal yei cholop hames hafarul mo 
yengangal mo. Le mala chog ibe mol isa harodu tetugul fedalei 
mokawe isa hatwasi fedalei. 02:20 Ite dipli.  Ite dipli bo ye kal 
hames yengangel. Iwe ngo ngang ikomahoi wululul yar maell 
ngo ila mala tholpal fafel yothla ngo rema faru le, yemmomai 
yar faru bo yir ma patient irel yar la mari yuch we rebe taptap, 
ngo rehasi part kawe ye memmai le rebe taptap mo iyang. Sa 
radu ye lamol resa hapale, resa bugsu. 02:44 Pangal loh 
mokawe rebele bugsu ye lamol, resa feur deur mo iyang. Resa 
chow resa dedeur mo iyang. Ngang tholpalyad ite kai deur le 
yilasangal bo tomol ngal yei le ibe faru bo tor yai patient iyang. 
02:58 Ngang ikai deur mo irel ito. Meka kasefas ito le be yog 
ngalir makla cholbugtai ralkawe, ngo ikla makla. Ngang ila kai 
doh deur le isa kai mo irel mwol ito.  Sa mol mele ngang ifaru. 
03:15 Isa taptap mwol irel chow mo Makala ngo sammomai bo 
ye machrag bo te ma mosmos lohchog. Makla yir mataptap 
ralakawe le yekael yal ma mosmos lohchog. 
2 
 
Interviewee in English:   What I remember from growing up was that ladies were still 
making local lavalava from banana and hibiscus.  Almost every 
week, you would find old ladies cutting banana stalks.   The 
kind of bananas used for weaving were not plentiful at that 
time because not every kind of banana is used for weaving.  
These old ladies would cut the stalk of the banana, strip the 
layers, put them in their baskets, and come home or find a 
good place to sit and scrape the inner portion of the banana 
strips.  Scraping the inner portion of the banana strips requires 
a tool, which is a piece of hibiscus wood about 2-1/2’ to 3’ in 
length and a about 3-1/2” to 4” diameter, and  a bean shaped 
clam shell. I was curious about what I saw them doing back 
then. At that time, thread would seldomly be in your 
possession.  Father Walter was the only person who brought 
us thread.  I joined the old ladies in scraping the banana strips, 
and they kept breaking on me because I didn’t know how to do 
it, and it tired me easily. How you scrape takes a lot of 
patience because it’s very delicate, and I didn’t have the 
patience.  After you scrape off the inner portion, then you must 
dry them – not under the sun, but in the shade where the 
breeze will blow the fibers dry. All these preparations were too 
much work, and I didn’t like doing it. But those ladies had 
patience. They would go look for the right kind of banana, they 
tore the strips that were good to use, they scraped and dried 
them, and then they connected the fibers together until they 
had enough to weave. I did not learn because I didn’t have the 
patience. I learned to weave using the little bit of thread that a 
relative had.  I was able to learn to weave with the thread, and 
it was good because the string does not break. 
03:27 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:45 Ngang ye kal yai fel ibe, fel ngal meka bisi le ibe kai deur 
irer mimol mokawe wulyetigmem bo, mokawe wulyetigmem 
ma wodu fedalei meka gumchumem mo meka hathumem le be 
machei yamem be faru sew formel. Iwe ngo habe mem’mal le 
be tafel chog sew formel ngo reble kasigsig ngalugmem. Iwe 
sa wu’lulul bo mokawe bisiy mele ngang ifel ngalir irel yai kai. 
Yir rema patient yar kangal yei mokawe ma machei ngo yir 
resa tipingiyei ibe habngu. yir mele ngang, ibe luluwalei tefali 
ngo yir mele ye mommai yai memory irer irel yar kangaluyei 
deur.  04:20 Wululul mulwe rekangal ye ingo so moch lol chemei 
wululul yar kangal yei mokawe isa dadaber irel kai ye la mol 
ngal yei le ngang ibe dedeur. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I associate weaving lavalava more with my sisters than my 
parents.  My parents scolded me and spanked my hands when 
I made mistakes.  So, I learned more from my sisters because 
3 
 
they were patient with me, and when I made mistakes they 
took their time to correct me and show me how to do it right.  
When I think back, memories of what my sisters taught me 
about weaving are what I hold on to. 
 
04:34 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:47 Ngang yepaling fal deur ngal yei bo ifasul la repiy doh ngo 
Iwe ngo deur sew feurmel kala yarmat ye kalkal yar value igle 
mo lulul formel irel lubus kala si grow up mo iyang.  Bo ilas 
chog mala sitaptap le si yaya, iwe ngo ila mele sitaptap le 
sidugmi ngal wulyetigich, ila mele sitaptat irel ah mil yach sibe 
05:17 kawraloh yam hasorow, hare yam dipli hobe fang le sew 
fang hare mada ngo wululul bo ila mele sew peteg le ye paling 
le hobe fang. Ila mala ye palign pelal mala ngal yei, most 
especially mala ila mala si kapalpal.  Towe mol le be tor 
hapalech. Bo ila mele Siyaya sew formel le Siyaya doh. Be 
hola chog sew part irel gel semal fafel, be hola chog sew yath 
05:50 le hobele la teureng, ngo hobele need le hobele yaya gow. 
Sew form  irel respect le gel hosa lefechig le hobele hasorow. 
Pangal wulfului, irot mangam, especially mengam mo chol 
bugtam irot. Taifel le hobe te yaya gow hosa buthog sulbos le 
yor yarmat iyang. Hobla loh irel gathering ka yal yarmat ngo ho 
need le hobele yaya gow bo hosa paling le hobe yaya gow. 
06:20 Iwe, ngang isor bo ye kal yal value igli mala bo sew furmel 
le, te kawriloh chog, te hamngagug chog hare yefang hapalom 
bo hobe yaya bo ye wol kawraloh respect ngo ye kawraloh 
pangal mitmetal meka gich sibe luwalei ngo Iwe ngo yemel irel 
mala yemel irel deur. Ila mala ngang isor bo ye kal yamem, yal 
important ngalugmem gow iyang, Ngalyei as, ngang semal 
fafel, ila fal le ye kal yal important gow. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Lavalava is very important to me because, when I grew up and 
began to understand our culture, I understood that lavalava is 
one of the most valuable things for our people. That is what we  
wear, and we them give to our parents. It is something that we 
use to show respect.  And, if there’s something that you really 
like and you want to give something in exchange, lavalava is 
the appropriate thing to give. That’s why lavalava is very 
important to me, especially because it is what we wear. When 
a girl reaches puberty, she must wear lavalava. And when the 
first lavalava is placed on you, then you are “lefechig” (young 
women wearing lavalava), and it’s a form of respect.  You wear 
it out of respect for the people on the island and respect for 
your home, especially your brothers and relatives. Once a 
lavalava is placed on you, you cannot go to where people are 
without wearing it. It is not good if an older girl still doesn’t 
wear lavalava but is around where people are. So, for me, the 
reason I value lavalava the most is because it not only serves 
the purpose of clothing but also serves as a form of 
4 
 
respectfulness. Lavalava is involved in almost all the things 
that you could think of that happen in the daily lives of our 
culture.  Therefore, lavalava is very important to me. 
 
06:57  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
07:11 Ngo isor bo irel yathwe ngang igula doh deur e iye ngo sa 
paling paling yal ahh sa dil yal yarmat feur deur.  Ralkawe 
ngang igula bo, wululul mulwe hare igla ngo gich sibe sor bo 
ye simple feurel feurmel. ye plain colors ngo ye plain, yo 
wululul mulwe yarmat refefeur malgur yar fafel, guluch yar mal. 
le sew chog mala farul. 07:47 Haramo la yor padal ngo yetugul 
chog le sigula bo gurul mo padal. Igla sa palingpaling, Iwe mo 
wol yalyarmat yaya meka, iwe ngo ralakawe sibe kalngali chog 
ngachel deur mo puel ngachel deur, siya gula,  hawulyal deur 
siya gula hare yar chol fulu fa? Yar chol ahh… riy-ya 
remradah, hare reulithi hare refais hare yar riya deur. 08:17 Igla 
sa paling paling yal sa  dil ahh… milal deur bo hawul yal chog 
duer, hawulyal chog deur ngo sa paling yal change.  Sa wululul 
mulwe sa cholop colors le resa add igli dah iyang, ngo sama 
mol le be off colors ka re taptap, tai hafedeg. Iwe ngo ralakawe 
le ye wululul sew pattern. Ye feur deur le sew pattern.  Hobe 
kalngali chog mulwe ngo hosa wiri pattern we yebuyui mo 
iyang. Igla tai ila sangal sa wululul mulwe, 08:49 sama yog le be 
sera deur samat ngo sera deur samat. Iwe ngo yar mo… yelal 
mo yal yarmat deur ngo sa wululul bo samat. Sa thulpal deur 
igla ngo sa palingling tang mala hamem ha fasul taptap doh 
ralakawe. Generation le igla sa samat yar taste irel farul 
patterns ka yar mo farul meka. 09:17 Sa wululul mulwe, 
ngalugmem, sa wululul mulwe hamem, hare ngang ibe 
kaltefali, irel yathla ngo wululul mulwe, cholop meka resa faru 
irel deur igla le sa wululul bo tai hasorow. Taifel lol yach koloh 
le sibe pai sulbos sa budoh semal. Bo ralakawe, ye kalkal 
hasorow irel farul deur especially meka mel yaya le yehafelfel 
farul bo te respectful le be tafel sew formel le hobe yaya iyang 
hosa budoh luwul yarmat. 09:48 Iwe ngo igla, tholpal meka resa 
feferu igla irel ferul deur ka yar sa wululul bo tai appropriate le 
rebe yaya iyang rosa buthog lol ahh… luluwul yarmat, lol 
public places mom eka, especially irel yimach, le yetafel le sibe 
rol tei fangal ngo resa yaya tapel makla yar pepai fadal. Ngang 
ila mala yi wiri le te sew chog changes irel deur igla bo sa 
cholop. Iwe ngo sa hadidil fadal wululul yal yarmat ahh feur yar 
ngach, 10:20 ngachel deur mo pol deur mo hawulyal deur. Sa 
change colors ngo ye change wululul hawwului, ngo sa wol 
change wululul yal yarmat faru yar deur. Sa wululul mulwe 
resor bo sa mechrag bo sa sew mokawe mechrag farul deur 
kawe sa mechrag bo change ngali yimele yar  fal mo-le le rosa 
5 
 
moch faru.  Ila mele ngang yiwiri le palingel change le sa 
budoh irel deur igla. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
From the time I started learning about lavalava until now, there 
have been big changes.  If I think back to those days, the 
colors we used were very simple, we would say. Just plain 
colors. People were weaving lavalava for women (malgur) and 
lavalava for men (guluch), but just one style for each.  The 
lavalava are made with a pattern that, when you looked at it, 
you could immediately see what kind of lavalava it was. When 
you looked at the edge of the lavalava, you would know which 
island the lavalava was made on.  Nowadays, people add 
more colors to decorate the edge, and they use different 
colors.  They can make the peg-style lavalava one color on 
one side and a different color on the other side.  Even the size 
of the lavalava is different now.  There is a certain width of 
lavalava that is acceptable in the eyes of the people which, 
when worn, is just over your knees. And when you wear your 
lavalava, there is a certain way it must be folded so that the 
ends lay in the center front. The new weavings these days are 
not appropriate to be worn in public, and they are especially 
not appropriate to wear at home where all the family members 
are gathered. Those are the big changes I see. 
  
10:51 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
11:12 Hare ngang ibe malili ngal layi irel ahh..lol layi hare lol lol 
layi, Iwe ngo mala palingel mala ngang ibe dipli le yir rebe 
madfagli mo irel makla ngang ibe kangalur irel deur le lapal yal 
important deur. mala value le ye pai irel deur. Bo deur te 
semakala chog be ahh hamngagur bo respect la ye pai irel 
deur le ye buthog, mo irel, ye chap mo irel yim, sa loh ngal 
fului sa loh ngali pangal lubus ka yarmat ro mem’mel iyang. 
11:48 Bo yir rebe gula lapal yal paling pelal mala.  Bo ilang yir be 
wowol yarmat yar bibidah. Bo respect la pai irel ahh irel deur le 
ye play igli sew important role irel yach feur formel irel yimach 
mo luwul yarmat mo ilang yir be mel ahh medagel ahh… 
hasorow la lol depar le tetugul sulbos le rebe loh iyang, 12:18 
iwe ngo deur la mala ye pach uwor be hapaslagirdi wototal, be 
hamangyardi wototal. bo pangar, deur la le semal fafel be yaya 
deur ngo temommai le yiy be sufadal luwul yarmat, temommai 
le yiy yebe dar lol yalap, te-mommai le yebe hachrong le be 
paling le yarmat rebla kalngali le yiy ye-yaya deur. bo ila mala 
yar fafel bidiy wototal bo rebe hasorow ngali yarmat chol yimar 
mo chol bugtar, mo chol fulyar mo chol sew mo sew fului le 
rebe buthog. 12:56 Iwe ila mala ngang ibe dipli le ibe kangalu lol 
laiyi mo lol, layi, mo lol lol layi le yir rebe carry out igli value la 
6 
 
yepai irel deur bo yir rebe, mel hasorow la. Hasorow la mele 
hartal paling yal ahh… yal ahh… hasi doh ahh poss, mo  rraiy 
mo ahhh… mada mulwe, yal hafele yal chol sew mo sew 
community robe rol pai mo chol sew mo sew hailing mel irel 
bugtar. Ila mala ngang ibe kangalur layi. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
If I talked to my great granddaughters, or great-great-
granddaughters, the main thing I would like them to 
understand is how important lavalava is. I would want them to 
know of the high value that is associated with the lavalava. 
Lavalava is not something that will only clothe you, but it is 
also something that has a value and respect to its name that 
starts at home, and extends to the community and to anywhere 
that we are living. When they know the importance of lavalava, 
then they will be humble and will grow up respectfully.  The 
lavalava they are wearing is holding them down to a respectful 
level where they respect the people, their relatives, and other 
people coming from other islands. The respect associated with 
lavalava plays an important role in how we do things at home, 
in the community, and in public. It’s this respect that also 
brings peace, happiness, and togetherness between families, 
communities, and the islands. These are the things I would like 
to tell my great-granddaughters.