Interview: Walter H. "Butch" Wingo, Jr. 
Time Code  Content 
00:00:01 
Introduction. Walter H. "Butch" Wingo, Jr. Interviewed October 11, 2017, at the 
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Interviewed by Jeanne Drewes, librarian. 
00:01:15 
Interest in Industry: Had a friend, Barry George, who was the Vice President of the 
bookbinders union in Washington D.C. and at worked at Merkle Press. Directed Butch to 
bookbinding position in Shady Groves, MD.  
00:02:38 
Learning the Trade: Learned from a gentleman who created the prototypes, but could not 
do apprenticeship with him because a union shop. 
00:03:19 
Career: Moved to California because had great union contract for bookbinders; struggled 
to find a bookbinding position at the union offices because scarcity of jobs. Worked for 
a printer in an advertising business for 1 year.
00:04:55 
Mentors: Moved back to the East Coast. John Dobbs of Dobbs Brothers Library Binding 
sent him to train from bookbinders in St. Augustine, FL in 1974. Trained by Sammy 
Daniels on finished end. Learned about Library of Congress library binding contracts.   
00:06:59 
Mentors: Moved to Dobbs Brothers location in Colonial Heights, VA. Worked with 
Leonard Hess, a bookbinder and plant manager. Exposed to conservation and restoration 
aspect.  
00:07:51 
Career Change: Left bookbinding industry to work for his father in a jewelry store. After 
a few years, decided to leave retail and return to bookbinding.  
00:08:15 
Career: Bookbinding position for Simon’s Trade Bindery. Managed library bindery case 
binding area until Simon’s went out of business. Union wanted him to learn how to run 
folders, but declined. Found another hand bookbinding job with Distinctive Bookbinding. 
00:09:34 
Industry Changes: Became self-unemployed with Book Works. Market and projects 
changed so less demand for his work. Found part time-and contractual work. Developed 
case bindings and worked as plant manager for Virginia Binding Corporation in 
Richmond, VA.   
00:11:35 
Greatest Accomplishment: In 1992, offered hand bookbinding position at GPO.  Calls it 
one of the highlight of his life. Learned good habits from his co-workers: being clean, 
fast, and efficient. GPO well run and very structured.  
00:15:19 
Greatest Accomplishment: Story of how head forwarder lost tip of his finger while 
nipping books. Butch now responsible for learning how to do lace-style binding of the 
U.S. Code. Eventually became head forwarder; very proud of this accomplishment. 
00:19:08 Mentors: Anecdote from time in St. Petersburg. Sammy Daniels said all bookbinders 
either drunks or crazy. Sammy taught him how to bind left-handed. Sammy and 
Leonard Hess, his mentors, saw bookbinding as a craft and not a job.  
 
00:24:16 Technology: Shady Groves was an addition bindery; machines very labor intensive 
and fast. Dobbs Brothers was a library bindery; each worker performed one specific 
task, except Butch who did all of the tasks to learn all facets of library binding.  
 
00:27:19 Salaries: Paid better when working for unions. One day a week, would make book 
deliveries from Richmond to D.C. for extra pay.    
 
00:29:45 Technology: Simon’s in D.C. a trade bindery, including folding, cutting, case binding, 
for union shops. Very mechanized; learned how to use Muller Martini binding 
machine; case binding an after-thought for Simon’s. Dobbs Brothers and Simon’s used 
hot glue pots. Distinctive Binding doing case binding, library binding, leather, gift 
items. Applied glue with brushes. Learned whip stich from Iranian bookbinding at 
Distinctive Binding.  
 
00:33:15 Business: Started own business in Fredericksburg. Involved with James Monroe 
Museum and Library.  
 
00:34:20 Apprentices: His son, also a bookbinder, worked with him in the summer at 
Fredericksburg. Then moved into basement of a rare book store; David Lee Wilson 
worked as his apprentice and given the equipment when Butch went to GPO. 
 
00:37:23 Technology: Have the equipment at the GPO to do all types of binding, including 
saddle-stitch binding, adhesive binding, case binding, library binding, fine-leather 
binding. GPO a self-sufficient print shop; web and sheet-fed printing. Had to replace 
outdated equipment, including adhesive binders; updated cutters and folders; new 
saddle-stitch machines. New machines more digitally-run and operated, automatic; 
saves significant time. Acquiring a nipper station to replace separate nipper gluer; 
allows serial sets to be moved to addition line instead of made and cased-in in library 
binding section.  
 
00:41:32 
 
 
Changes in Business over Time: Pressure to reduce number of employees. Led to 
purchasing more efficient equipment. Unskilled laborers and bookbinders forced to 
learn new skills. Have to establish priorities because less manpower; Congress always 
the priority at the GPO.  
00:44:04 Differences within Industry: Shorter runs and production pressures main differences 
between GPO and commercial bookbinding.  
00:44:43 Regret: Not attending more workshops, learning about conservation  
00:46:13 Advice to Next Generation: Something new to learn every day. 
00:46:33 Associations: Member of LBI. First exposed to association at Dobbs Brothers. 
Attended conferences.  
00:47:40 Greatest Accomplishment: GPO LBI certified .
00:51:44 Interesting Projects: First rare book bound was Andersonville Death Register, U.S. 
Code made bookbinding fun, public papers for President very satisfying, Mercedes-
Benz US clamshell boxes for lap belt and steering wheel.
00:56:27 Changes to Industry: Had to learn the craft in a non-union shop. Given journeyperson 
bookbinders union card after working at Dobbs Brothers. Describes differences 
in union and non-union shops  .  
01:00:21 Goals: Revamp apprenticeship program at GPO.
01:01:57 Advice to Future Generations: If want to be a good bookbinder, need experience 
working in a production environment and not just learning in the classroom. Learn 
graphic arts because industry becoming more digital. Keep moving.    
01:05:41 Changes to Industry: Roll-to-roll inkjet 
01:07:37 End of Interview