Friday, March 21, 2014 
Commerce and Community--Ethnic Grocery Stores (Deepam India) 
Commerce and Community--Ethnic Grocery Stores (Deepam India, Toledo) 
The idea that ethnic grocery stores can be places for the creation of community hit home in my 
visit to an Indian grocery store and deli (Deepam India) on the outskirts of Toledo. Surprisingly, 
though, the community surrounding this store is not an ethnic one, but mostly "American." It is 
made up of people from diverse ethnicities and nationalities who all share an interest in Indian 
food. And that interest comes from a 
variety of motivationstaste, ethos and beliefs (vegetarian), 
curiosity, and health and wellness concerns. As the owner, a 
woman, by the way, who earned a 
masters in sociology at the local state university and previously ran a 
business teaching 
technology skills to teachers, pointed out to me, the store's community represents the ideal 
American community—one in which people are drawn together by common interests and values 
that cut across the usual culprits of discrimination: race, class, gender, nationality, and religion. 
Some of that is intentional on the part of the owner. She generally hires women to work in the 
kitchen and the cash register, but looks first at personality and personal habits rather than 
ethnicity. She wants people who are friendly and personable, hard workers, and respectful of the 
business and customers. Hence, the Lebanese woman who was working there when I 
visited. She 
was wearing the hjab traditional to her Muslim heritagea colorful headscarf that covered her 
hair but not her face. She was friendly and helpful and immediately understood what I 
was 
talking about when I 
asked about her connections between food and culture. She laughingly 
pointed out that this was not the food that she knows (she wasn't familiar with one of my favorite 
Indian dishes, malai kofta), but her enthusiasm and helpfulness made up for any lack of 
knowledge of the cuisine. She also said she likes learning about another culture's food—and the 
culture represented by that food. Another woman working there was Indian, dressed in a 
modern 
shalwar gameeze (tunic over pants). She also was friendly, but couldn't stop to chat (lack of time 
is a 
recurrent theme in ethnic grocery stores). 
It probably helps the business that current trends promote eating a 
vegetarian diet and consuming 
Indian spices for health reasons. Turmeric and ginger, in particular, are in the news this year (late 
2013 and early 2014) for giving all sorts of health benefits. Also, the explosion of programs 
about food in the media is bringing new cuisines to the masses and also encouraging more 
adventurous eating. Ethnic grocery stores and restaurants everywhere are benefiting from these 
trends. (And also possibly from the opening up of American society in recognizing diversity, but 
that's a 
sul ject for another time.) 
Back to the idea of community, though. One of the critiques of capitalism is that it turns all 
transactions into commercial ones valued according to monetary profit. "Commodity fetishism" 
becomes rampant and shapes the way we go through our daily lives and relationships. That 
seems to me a 
pretty accurate observation, and I 
can draw upon all sorts of scholarly writings to 
support it, but this particular business seems to have successfully bucked the system. The owner 
told me that money is not the goal of the business. Of course, it has to make enough money to 
sustain itself, but for her, it is a 
way to do something meaningful, to utilize one of her skills 
(cooking) as well as her cultural background (Indian, Hindu), and to interact with people. 
It's the last point that struck me about the grocery store. Although it initially did not seem busy 
with customers, it is actually the center of a 
community in a 
very real sense. Individuals come 
there seeking ingredients for dishes they've heard about and receive an education about Indian 
cuisine and culture. (Cooking classes are offered occasionally when enough people request them.) 
Individuals also come looking for spices and foods for health or medicinal purposes and find 
themselves welcomed into a 
network of others who have similar concerns, led by a 
business 
owner who cares more about their health than about profits. And individuals come there out of 
curiosity and are treated as new friends. All of these attitudes and interactions lay the 
groundwork for an actual community of individuals who care about each other as well as the 
food that brought them together. 
And on the practical side, the store is doing very well financially. It has even introduced a 
line of 
"healthy salads," featuring mostly beans with some Indian spices and cooking touches. (They 
even supply 3 
area hospitals with these salads.) Maybe it's a 
lesson other businesses can learn 
from—promoting community through a 
commercial endeavor and putting it before profit 
actually creates more profit----and strengthens the social relationships we all need. Meanwhile, 
I'm taking home several dishes from the deli to share with friends and family and to strengthen 
my own little community. 
--Lucy Long 
http:Hnourishingfoodconnections. blogspot.com/2014/03/commerce-a nd-community-ethnic-
g 
roce ry. ht m 
I