Jack Tolbert Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:00 
Introduction. Jack Tolbert, National Library Bindery Company of Georgia, Roswell, 
Georgia. Interviewed June 4, 2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New York. Interviewed 
by Whitney Pape, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:33 
History: Company founded in the early 1900s by Dutch immigrant Gerard B. Van Dean.  
He opened his first bindery in Springfield, Massachusetts, then several other locations, 
including Atlanta, Georgia.  Jack's aunt worked at the bindery in the 1920s and met her 
future husband, Zack Haygood, who eventually became plant manager.  Another of Jack's 
uncles, J. T. Tolbert, went to work at the bindery in 1932. In 1946, Zack Haygood 
purchased the bindery from Mr. Van Dean.  Jack's father went to work at the bindery 
after World War II as an office manager.  Another uncle also worked at the bindery part-
time. 
  
  
00:04:06 
Interest in Industry: Jack visited the bindery often as a child, and there was never a 
question that he would work at the bindery during the summers once he was of age.  His 
first summer was 1971.  He started out with some physically demanding work (unloading 
a shipment of 20 tons of binding board), but grew to enjoy the challenge and 
craftsmanship involved in binding.  Jack majored in business management in college with 
a mind to working in the bindery after graduation.  He started full-time in 1977 doing 
customer service and handling walk-in business.  In 1980, worked with Steve Roberts of 
the Library Binding Company of Philadelphia, to develop a system for pre-printed 
binding slips.  Around the same time, they were moving to Jerry Flesher's System II 
machines for stamping titles on covers.  Automating projects became Jack's 
responsibility, along with training staff how to use new equipment and maintaining the 
machinery.  Jack also undertook the work of analyzing the jobs in the bindery and writing 
job descriptions. 
  
  
00:12:27 
Mentors: Jack learned the business from his uncle, J. T., and the technical side of 
binding from the plant manager for more than 40 years, Raymond Cagle.  Jack also 
learned about managing people from Mr. Kegel.  Jack has also learned from his 
associates in the industry, including Paul Parisi, Jim Larsen, and Bruce Jacobsen. 
  
  
00:16:47  
Roles: Over time, there was less of an emphasis on sales and customer service and more 
of an emphasis on technology.  In 1985, the bindery starting using ABLE (Advanced 
Bindery Library Exchange) software, and also installing hardware, software, and 
conducting training at client libraries.   
  
  
00:20:26 
Changes in Business over Time: In the 1970s, personal sales contact was important, but 
RFPs (Requests for Proposal) became the basis for doing business over time.  This put a 
lot of pressure on pricing.  The economic downturn in 2003 and resulting budget 
constraints for libraries resulted in the loss of business.  Although it was unlikely that the 
periodical binding numbers would rebound, Jack thought that libraries would continue to 
invest in their other materials, but the business didn't really come back. 
  
  
00:22:44 
Goals: Even when Jack made the decision to go into the binding business, he knew that it 
was a stagnated market.  His goal was to continue to be profitable through greater 
efficiencies, motivating employees, and expanding into other business like pre-bound 
books.  He hoped to make the company grow despite the challenges of the industry.  Jack 
sold the business and customer base to HF Group in 2015, and it was one of the most 
difficult decisions of his career.   
  
  
00:28:01 
Regrets: Jack wishes that he had had the resources to adopt technologies sooner, and 
weren't able to get into the print-on-demand market.  He wishes that he had had sole 
control over the company instead of sharing it with his uncle and that steps to devalue the 
company to minimize estate taxes when they inherited it from his aunt hadn't drained 
cash reserves to the extent that they did.  Some decisions were made with the heart 
instead of the head. 
 
 
00:32:51 
Greatest Accomplishment: No one accomplishment stands out.  Jack is proud of the 
company's move from Buckhead in Atlanta to Roswell, Georgia, and the thought and 
planning that went into the new facility.  They were also able to make the move debt-free.  
Jack takes pride in the technological advancements the company made.   
 
 
00:34:42 
Building and Plant: The original building was rectangular and had support beams 
breaking up the production floor.  This increased the amount of human handling and 
moving of the work.  Adding a basement meant that an elevator had to be used to move 
work.  When they had their second addition, expanded their space to 17,000 square feet, 
it became an L-shaped space, which didn't really help with efficiencies.  When they 
moved to Roswell, they moved to a 25,000 square-foot space that was square.  They 
installed roller conveyers that helped moved materials throughout the plant.  Pete 
Heckman, the production manager for Heckman Bindery, helped Jack in the planning 
process and invited him to tour their 100,000 square-foot facility.  Pete was another of 
Jack's mentors in the business.  Ample parking and a loading dock were other 
improvements at that new facility. 
 
 
00:40:02 
Employees: The maximum number of employees at the height of their production was 
approximately 100.  They were like extended family.  The management team consisted of 
people Jack had grown up with, and some of the long-term employees knew Jack when 
he was a kid.  There was a true bond among the workers and tremendous loyalty.     
 
 
00:41:14 
Changes in Business over Time: Technology has made the work go away.  There was a 
lot of walk-in business in the early days, from local law and doctor's offices.  One of their 
biggest customers was Bell South binding customer appreciation copies of the phone 
book.  They had always done some pre-binding and edition binding. 
 
 
00:44:43 
Interesting Projects: Margaret Mitchell was a customer in the late 1930s.  The bindery 
made custom enclosures for foreign editions of Gone with the Wind.  His aunt said that 
she used to come in to the bindery talking about the book she was writing and how she 
(MM) didn't think it was going to be very good.  They also made an enclosure for David 
O. Selznick's working copy of the script held at the University of Georgia.  They made an 
enclosure for the bible that belonged to Martin Luther King, Jr., which was used at 
Barack Obama's swearing-in ceremony as well.  They also did a small run of books of 
Anthony Hopkins's art, Tyler Perry's screenplays, and Vince Dooley's (University of 
Georgia football coach) play books. 
 
 
00:49:59 
Changes to Industry: Competitive bidding for contracts.  The number of periodicals 
being bound decreased from 6-7,000 volumes per week down to 2,000.   
 
 
00:52:19 
Advice to Next Generation: Jack isn't sure there will be another generation.  His son 
didn't choose to go into bookbinding, and is studying to be a CPA (Certified Public 
Accountant) instead.  It's a dying market.  There will continue to be library binding, but it 
will be important to be efficient and nimble, as well as poised to diversify. 
 
 
00:55:34 
End of interview.