Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Client:  
Interviewer: Greg Sharrow 
Interviewee: Jonathan Wright 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: 
Taylor Farm, Londonderry, Vermont 
Date: June 4, 2015 
Length: 01:07:29 
Recording Format:  
Accession: au2015-2025 
Collection: vfc2014-2005 
Indexer: Marty Dewees 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:00 – 05:01 
Family came to South Londonderry, about 6 miles from Taylor Farm. Father 
was a doctor in New York City and in 1950 he came up to Vermont, with his 
mother and bought what would become the family home. It was a summer 
property.  In the 1950s that area was undeveloped and quite poor. In early 
60s when ski areas came in, economy started to turn around.  Was an old 
hill farm, 380 acres in South Londonderry which they still have. Several 
barns. Loved coming up from the city, loved the environment with all the 
animals and all. Went to Milton Academy in Boston. In senior year they had 
a work study semester; he worked on Taylor Farm. Loved it. Tenant 
farmers, the Amadons (?) at the time. 560 acres now in Vermont Land Trust. 
Came in the 1940s and stayed up until the 80s. He came as a teenage in 
1975 to work for them. First real exposure to dairy farming. Were 15 
working farms then, they were family run, traditional dairy farming, rustic 
experience. Didn’t know it at the time but a life that was “on its way 
out.”[04: 06] Adopted the lifestyle, intriguing to him. Grandparents helped 
with watching children and making meals. A large amount of their food was  
grown on the place. Worked really hard but had fun also—has molded what 
Early life 
 
 
Introduction to farming 
and rural life 
 
 
 
 
First work on a farm as a 
teenager 
 
 
Family emphasis important 
to him 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
he does today. 
 
05:01 – 12:23 
The Amadon family went out of business at the early 80s when he was at 
UVM. He was offered the job of herding the cows and he considered 
dropping out of school to go run the farm but decided against it. Is glad of 
that today. In the late 80s farm was basically vacant. Many of the other 
farmers had gone out of business, which should have been a red flag to him, 
but wasn’t.  He moved back in, very naïve, on a shoestring, had a wife and 
was expecting first child. “Went on a wing and a prayer.”[06:10]. Shipped 
milk to a co-op and quickly realized that milk wasn’t going to be enough. 
Opportunity to diversify, living on route 11, surrounded by ski areas. 
Recognized an opportunity to open farm up to the public. As farms were 
diminishing, especially attractive to demonstrate farming, did sleigh ride 
business (has been for 22 years); a big draw for the farm. Got into making 
cheese, and has a retail shop on the farm. Square dances, potluck suppers, 
etc. Good location for that. Has kept the farm sustainable. Still milk cows 
today, 70 today. Needed to do another product that was more profitable. 
Started making cheese in 90s. Worked with Peter Dickson to learn how. 
Eventually built cheese room; all of the milk now from 22 cows go into 
cheese production. Still belongs to milk co-op but such low prices for milk, 
it’s better to go into the cheese. Has been a wonderful adjunct to what they 
do. He now needs to do marketing, etc. Interesting thought process on how 
to diversify farm. 
Amaden family leaves 
Taylor Farm 
 
 
Move to the farm in the late 
80s with family 
 
 
 
Need to diversify 
recognized; started with 
tourism, sleigh rides, and 
then cheese production 
12:23 – 15:45 
Committed to the cows, still involved in dairy, working landscape, still have 
cows—important to him. Made sense to utilize the milk for diversification. 
Considered yogurt but issues with pasteurization that made it more 
expensive to start. Likes the synergy of working the land, raising the cows, 
harvesting the milk, putting the milk into a product,  at the end of the day 
have a beautiful product. Kept the integrity and complements what they’re 
trying to do. Have a raw milk cow’s cheese. Every day they need to 
Synergy of cheese 
production 
 
 
Marketing 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
marketing, events, tastings, store demos, etc. with the public. 50 artisanal 
cheese makers. More competition than used to be. Got in very early so 
recognized and immediately won some awards. He’s very visible. Does a 
little television show for local public access TV. Interviews community 
members—exposes him to the public.  
 
 
 
15:45 – 24:02 
Greg asked about how they came to make gouda. Worked with Peter 
Dickson and looked at a number of different types. Wanted to do something 
different (from cheddar). Can be very diverse with different flavoring, aging, 
cook with it. Smoked it with maple wood, won award. Got stopped for a 
speeding violation and state trooper saw logo on vehicle and said he loved 
the smoked gouda and he got only a written warning! Cheese makers not 
competitive with one another. Dickson trained them and they still consult 
with him. Once in awhile they have a total failure (not often); that’s why 
they have pigs (to dispose of by-products). Chemistry and intuition. Get 
familiar with the product.  “cutting the curd.”Like baking bread. Hopefully 
get better.  Sometimes surprised!  Pleasant ones too.  Made some more like 
cheddar. Has made a lot of cheese. Wife at the time was also engage in it, but 
he likes outside work better. Not his favorite thing to do. Networks of 
cheese makers. Word of mouth. Lots of young people involved. Some 
become disenchanted with making cheese. Or want to go off by their own. 
They have a guest house on the farm where employees can stay. 
Gouda 
 
 
Famous maple smoked 
gouda 
 
 
 
 
 
Cheese makers 
24:02 – 32:06 
Greg asked about cheeses. Aged gouda (a year); several smoked cheeses; 
garlic smoked; nettle cheese; caraway, caraway-cumin; chipotle pepper; 
washed rind with beer, etc. 60% wholesale, 40% retail. Farmers’ markets all 
over, found it time consuming. Mostly stay there now. Small store on the 
farm to sell cheese. As he gets older, would rather stay on the farm. Has 
been on a number of boards. A team there, he’s the visionary. Sister Mimi 
manages the retail shop on the farm. Employees have to do a lot of things. 
Bookkeeper, couple that farm, dairy side has young boy who comes in the 
Selling cheese 
 
 
 
 
 
Team work 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
morning to help with chores and milking; an older gentleman in the 
evening. About 8 employees now. Wanted safe active educational 
environment. Three daughters who have had experience in all aspects of it. 
Wanted more time with kids than his father had with him. Largely lost as a 
culture. Few farms left; husband may work on farm and wife go off to work.. 
 
 
Family structure he values 
32:06 – 42:26 
Greg asked about Landgrove community. His parents came to the area 
independently from it. Father’s motivation was escape from NYC to have 
some remote isolation. All 6 in the family, specialized in some interest of the 
parents. Brother a doctor, one an architect; one a landscape architect, etc. 
Taylors still own the property. He started as a tenant farmer. Taylors lived 
in Connecticut; but Talyors have summer home on the property. They didn’t 
want to make any capital investment but happy to let him do what he 
wanted. Supportive. William Taylor died in 1998: wonderful man; when he 
died property almost came up for sell. A nephew bought it and sold part to 
him with house and 22 acres with the rest in Vermont Land Trust. Farm is 
an icon for the area. Signage is circus like—farm is lively and entertaining 
and interesting. Sister Mimi has been active for 8 or 10 years. Making 
decisions; tourism, cheese making, sleigh ride, etc. all on the farm. 
Producing food should be a viable occupation but losing the capacity to 
raise food for ourselves. Nutritional areas appalling, work ethic is appalling, 
etc. Hopes small farms can be supported again. Food has been plentiful and 
fairly cheap but not good—sentiment is turning around though. 
  
Farm as retreat for his 
father; sanctuary. 
 
 
 
 
Taylor Farm 
42:26 – 49:34 
It’s a hard sell, since more expensive. Small scale just costs more. Tough 
issue. Would like to think that local food sourcing would be more 
widespread. Unrealistic to think small farm will save the world but 
petroleum. Petroleum usage and disease outbreak pose real problems to 
large scale producers. Tries to be independent. Put in large woodburning 
furnace for their house and buildings. He’s entrenched in the system too. 
Food 
 
 
 
Role of smaller local farms 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Thinks unforeseen technologies will come. Hopefully a place for small scale 
farming. He’s gourmet now and sensitive to issue of helping poorer people. 
Hoping it will change at some point. With chaos comes opportunity. Human 
beings are clever creatures. “World population exceeding caring capacity of 
our planet [49:34]” 
 
Gourmet vs. feed the world. 
49:34  -- 57:26  
Greg asked about age; Does he want to slow down? The activity and 
stimulation there keeps his young. Outside more than inside; eat well; 
beautiful environment; good friends. Feels young and healthy which is 
offered by hi lifestyle. Doesn’t go to the gymn. Not jogging. Asked about 
NOFA. Wonderful organization but Taylor Farm isn’t organic. They do buy 
non-organic grain for feed. But cows out on pasture as they can be. Good 
environment in their barns. Transition period is 3 years. Can’t afford the 
feed; consumers care about being humane, small family farm, open to the 
public. Has done some video interviews for NOFA. Did Howard Wilcox; 
oldest ice cream producers in the state. Weaver farm in Fair Haven. 
Marjorie and Marion were instrumental in encouraging them to do cheese 
production. Middlebury Coop markets them. 
Reflections on lifestyle 
 
 
Non-organic but close 
 
 
Choice not to go organic 
57:26 – 
01:02:35 
Greg asked if daughters were interested in continuing the farm. Three 
daughters. Middle daughter, Molly, loves the farm. At Johnson State College, 
youngest daughter, Leah, helps in cheese making. Hard to know if they 
would want to take it on. So hard, he almost doesn’t wish that on them. 
Considering making it a non-profit. Might help with sustainability and 
stability. Hard just to milk cows twice a day, every day. Things younger 
daughter may go off to Paris. He has no regret that he has confined himself 
to the farm but wouldn’t want children as entrenched as he is. Farming is 
daunting. 
Legacy 
 
 
Children  
01:02:35 -- end 
 Greg’s sense about dairy farming(from family and dissertation research) 
was a mechanism to be on never-ending treadmill. Many professions on a 
treadmill. Medicine the same. Asked him what he sees for future. Depends 
Future of small family 
farming 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
on the young people. Fortunately many are interested in lifestyle and food. 
Won’t be traditional. That’s done. Have to target the areas that make 
sense—Champlain Valley, Connecticut River Valley. Much better areas than 
southern VT. Young people will come, perhaps cooperative living, sharing 
the enterprise. Food production will continue to be important. Not many 
farms that are gone now will be revived, but ones going now will continue 
with some creative thinking.