Taking Care--Documenting the Occupational Culture of Home Care Workers 
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2014-2015
(AFC 2014/021: 01661)
Archive of Folk Culture, American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
David Rogers interview, 2015-02-23 : interview conducted by Nathan J. Moore
INTERVIEW LOG
00:00:39  Name is David Rogers.  Lives in Eugene, Oregon.  Born in San Francisco, California, 
1949.
00:01:03  Works as a home care provider.  Has been a home care worker with Senior & Disabled 
Services for last couple of years.  Previously worked with people with disabilities through other 
agencies, including Safe Inc., a drop-in center.  10-11 years of total experience.
00:01:47  Became caregiver through professional music career.  Played gigs at nursing homes 
and disabilities agencies.  Director of Safe Inc. offered him a regular shift.  Relates well to adults 
in the mental health system.  Mentions connections between disabilities advocates and the 
Oregon Country Fair.    
00:03:26  Recently transitioned to being a home care worker.  Connected with an agency right 
down the street from group center where employed.  First client was a man with cerebral palsy.  
Helped client use technology that allowed him to work, providing a “telephone service.”  
Mentions importance of alternative work concepts.  Also, wheeled client around town in 
non-powered wheelchair.  Discusses occupational health issues associated with transporting 
clients in wheelchairs.  
00:07:10  One-on-one care is positive, if client likes you.  Gives you a feeling of importance.  
00:07:39  Currently working with two clients through Senior & Disabled Services.  Also was 
working with third client on a temporary basis.  One client is a well-known mental health 
activist, involved with Oregon Country Fair; knows Patch Adams and other “psychiatric clown 
activists.”  Temporary client was a truck driver.  Just starting to work with a new client who is 
moving to Eugene and has connections to Lane Independent Living Alliance.  Likes to see 
agencies work together and likes to work part-time for different agencies.
00:10:13  Would have liked more specialized training with operating wheelchairs and working 
with immobile clients.  Important to learn the right ways to twist and bend.  
1
00:11:48  Works at Lane Independent Living Alliance's peer support club, “manning the desk for 
people who come in.”  Working in groups and providing one-on-one care has “fallen together.”  
Client with telephone service also was member of Lane Independent Living Alliance.  
00:12:39  Special skills needed?  Patience.  Knowing who you connect to better.  Has eccentric 
traits and likes working with people with whom he connects.  
00:13:33  Typical day? – Depends on the time of year.  Part-time jobs are different pieces of a 
puzzle.  Also, works for Harry & David (food and gift retailer) during part of the year.
00:15:34  Relationships with clients – friendly, but it is understood that he is a caregiver.  Does 
not share details of personal life.  No religion or politics unless client brings up those topics.  
Believes in the “consumer model” of respecting rights and boundaries of client, letting client call
the shots.    
00:16:47  What if a client wants to make a bad decision?  Will say something if client's health is 
threatened.  
00:17:15  Talks about forming relationships with family members of clients.  
00:18:35  What do you talk about with clients?  Lets clients choose discussion topics.  One client
talks about all aspects of driving a log truck; another talks about being an advocate for people in 
the mental health system.  Does not initiate conversations about personal topics unless relevant 
to work.  
00:19:49  Approaches intimate tasks with “very courteous detachment.”  
00:20:20  Any particular stories that capture the essence of being a caregiver?  Early morning 
jokes with one client – He has a roommate who is a joke book salesman; shares jokes with client.
Credits “hippie connections in Eugene” with giving him a good sense of humor.  
00:21:44  Represented one of the agencies for whom he works at the Oregon Country Fair. 
“Doors of Perception” booth at fair represents agencies that work with people with disabilities.  
Performed skits with “famous psychiatric clowns” Patch Adams and Carl Hammerschlag.     
00:23:03  Likes to use experience with different agencies to help others.  Discusses importance 
of networking.  Working for more than one agency makes is easier to steer clients toward better 
resources.
2
00:24:20  Is a member of SEIU [Service Employees International Union], but wants to be more 
involved.  Understands that caregivers are not paid enough; one of the reasons why many 
caregivers have multiple jobs.  Very supportive of SEIU.
00:25:36  Would like to get together more with other caregivers.  Meets some when working in 
group setting.  Hard to meet co-workers when doing one-on-one care.  
00:26:21  Discusses experiences working at Lane Independent Living Alliance.  Clients come to 
connect with others and participate in activities.  Activities include creative writing, art, karaoke, 
watching games and movies together.  Sometimes gets paid musical gigs through organization.    
00:27:59  Performs music at assisted living facilities.  
00:28:38  Most gratifying part of job: “the feeling that it seems to be working out.”  No 
complaints from clients.  Disabled people can be unhappy; likes adding humor and friendliness 
to their lives and empowering clients.  
00:29:32  Discusses humor as a disarming mechanism.  Helps alleviate depression.  Tells two 
detailed stories about dealing with specific clients.  Sometimes things get to you – tells story of 
having to call police on a woman.  Not a painless job.    
00:32:16  How do you relax?  Good to have positive relationship with somebody you can talk to.
Discusses the problem of self-medication; emphasizes importance of dealing with stress in other 
ways.  
00:33:46  Still plays music for money on the “organic finger-picking circuit.”  Not as many gigs 
as in the past.  Sees performances at assisted living facilities as directly related to caregiving 
work; part of the whole experience.  Music can be profoundly therapeutic.  Old-time music—the 
old corny stuff—seems to work better than other songs.  Very rarely plays when working in 
one-on-one settings.  Clients have other priorities.  
00:36:18  Taught music lessons at Lane Independent Living Alliance.  Hoping to expand lessons 
for disabled people.  
00:36:45  Talks about the experience of being a musician and having a day job.  The day job 
relieves stress caused by difficulties associated with the music industry.    
00:37:57  Do you define yourself as a musician first and foremost?  Caregiving and music are 
both important.  Just different parts of psyche.  
3
00:38:26  Has not been involved in the union's legislative activities, but wants to participate more
with SEIU.
00:38:48  Discusses union songs and mentions musicians Woody Guthrie and Harry Stamper.  
00:39:18  Has written songs influenced by previous day jobs.  Has not yet written a song about 
caregiving.  Recites occupational poem written for SAFE Inc., a drop-in center in Springfield, 
Oregon, for mental health clients.    
00:41:15  Talks about connections between country-western and folk music and occupational 
songs.  
00:42:43  Previous jobs – surveyor for Bureau of Land Management.  Was severely injured 
working as a forest fire fighter; experienced being temporarily disabled.  
00:45:18  Has worked mostly with men, but is willing to work with women.  Depends on what 
the client wants.  Has worked with women in group settings.    
00:46:06  Wants clients to feel that they have power.  Without that, you are going back to the 
“old medical model” where doctor gives orders and patients follow.  Learned a lot about client 
empowerment from client who has been an activist for a long time.  Mentions the influence of 
Ken Kesey's “One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest” and the “hippie radical movement.”  
00:48:16  What are some things that people in the community might not know about your job?  
Technical stuff like handling wheelchairs and other technology.  Many people cannot imagine 
themselves working with people with disabilities.  
00:50:08  Discusses occupational culture of working at Harry & David.  Refers to job taking 
orders over the phone as being a “pear jockey” and tells humorous work-related story.  
00:51:30  How do you balance multiple jobs and hobbies?  Good at “goofing off,” although 
music is a job, too.  Makes sure to have “goof off” time that is not about music.  Likes to hang 
out and tell jokes.  
00:53:25  How long do you want to be a care provider?  Wants to retire from day jobs at some 
point and just play music.  Does not have a union pension through SEIU.  Also talks about 
previously being a relief driver and a member of the Teamsters.  Does have Medicare and 
Oregon Health Plan coverage.  Talks about various health care systems around the world and the 
need for better health care coverage in the U.S.
00:59:13 End of interview.   
4
5