afc2020008_008_ms01 
 
Krzysztof Burek interviewed by Vyta Pivo on May 25, 2021 at the Lehigh Cement Company 
Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. The interview transcript has been edited for clarity.  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Vyta Pivo: Today is Tuesday, May 25th, 2021. This is an interview for the occupational history 
archive, which is part of the Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, funded by the Archie 
Green Fellowship. As part of this project, I am interviewing cement workers in the Lehigh 
Valley, Pennsylvania, the birthplace of the modern cement industry in the United States. The 
recording and transcript will become part of the permanent collection at the Library of 
Congress. I am Vyta Pivo and today I'm speaking with Krzysztof Burek at the Lehigh Cement 
Company Nazareth Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. And just to confirm, you give me the 
permission to record this interview, correct? 
 
Krzysztof Burek: Yes.  
 
VP: 
Excellent, thank you. So, could we start with you telling me your full name, your birth 
and where you were born?  
 
KB: 
OK, so, Krzysztof Burek, actual pronunciation is Krzysztof Burek, but it's hard for 
Americans. I was born in Opole in Poland in 1981.  
 
VP: 
Excellent. Is that where you grew up as well?  
 
[00:01:06] 
 
KB: 
Yes. Yeah, I grew up, actually I knew cement plant. My father was a cement plant 
worker. He built the Górazdze plant, which is the biggest cement plant in Europe, and he 
worked there for over thirty years. Yeah. And then basically the same year when I joined the 
Górazdze plant, he went to the other industry.  
 
VP: 
What year did you join the plant? 
 
KB: 
2005, but I got a scholarship from Heidelberg Cement in 2003. So, basically when I 
was on the third course at the university, I got a scholarship basically signing up papers that 
after I graduate, I will get to the plant. 
 
VP: 
And how many years were you expected to work in the plant? 
 
KB: 
I'm going to say I thought this will be my future, actually. So, when I joined, I thought 
the future will be in cement. I mean, it's funny because after the during the high school, I was 
thinking where to go. I'm going to say I'm good at math, I was thinking about maybe studies 
connected with math. But my mom told me that, you know what? They will be always building 
houses. So, maybe you will go to the cement industry and, you know, as Górazdze was nearby, 
this was part of our life because my father worker there. I thought, OK, and there is a very good 
university in Poland, in Krakow, University of Science and Technology. And basically all the 
plant managers, process engineers in Poland are coming from this university. So, this is where 
I joined in 2000. I started my study at the university.  
 
VP: 
And what did you study at the university?  
 
KB: 
It's a chemical technology. I have a Master of Science in chemical technology.  
 
VP: 
Did your father discourage you at all or was he optimistic?  
 
KB: 
No, no. I mean, he was optimistic. He work as a lead man in the in the maintenance 
department. So, he was a millwright, but a lead man at the group of the people. So, no, he was 
he was OK with that because the Górazdze plant in the area that we, that they live still, but I 
was living in, was considered a good employee.  
 
VP: 
And did you go to the plant for tours when you were growing up?  
 
[00:03:14] 
 
KB: 
Yes, they were organizing like some kind of open days. So, during some summers there 
was a picnic nearby on the parking spot. And then I’d say there were tours in the plant. And 
actually after I was already in the plant, I was doing the tours with the people around. So, it's 
like open doors for the community and also the families of the employees. So, I was during and 
after I got a scholarship, I was able to basically go during the weekends when I was like every 
second week I was coming home from university. I studied at Krakow, so, it's like 160 miles 
away. And I was able to go. I had the permission to go to the cement plant. So, basically what 
I was studying, I was checking at the plant and this was neat.  
 
VP: 
So, you were doing an internship or…?  
 
KB: 
No, it was like doing this scholarship program, but I did their internship, the official 
one with the same cement plant. But on top of that, I was able to go and visit the plant.  
 
VP: 
So, it's kind of like you studied at the school, but then you would go to see it in person.  
 
KB: 
Yes. Yes, that's right.  
 
VP: 
Is that because you had special access to the plant?  
 
KB: 
Yes. Yes. Correct.  
 
VP: 
So, was there a particular part of the plant that you liked the most particular work that 
you liked the most or particular work?  
 
[00:04:29] 
 
KB: 
I mean, overall, I think that process control so not just on the control room, but also 
let’s say, like how you are really moving all the materials through the system and how you are 
producing the cement in the end. So overall, I was always, let's say, like it was exciting to see 
that you are taking the rock and then you are getting cement on the other end. So, all of this 
process was always let’s say, like, very interesting for me.  
 
VP: 
So, when you finished school, you started working in the plant?  
 
KB: 
Yes, as a process engineer. So, I was not assigned to any specific process. I was process 
engineer. So, within a year I was basically learning the plant more, more going into the how it 
works and who is responsible for what. And after a year, I was assigned as a kiln engineer, so 
I was responsible for the, uh, grinding of raw materials and sintering of raw materials to 
produce clinker. This was my part and as I mentioned, this is the biggest plant in Europe. So, 
the responsibility was high. But yeah, I handled it, so.  
 
VP: 
So, this is the plant in Poland. It’s the biggest in Europe? 
 
KB: 
Yes, it's the biggest. Yes, it's the biggest in Europe, it's part of Heidelberg Cement, 
Heidelberg Cement acquired the plant in 1990s and I think it was 1993 and then I'd say, like 
invested a lot of money, optimized the plant and modernized the plant. And right now, it's one 
of the biggest plants in Europe. and Heidelberg.  
 
VP: 
And Heidelber, is that a German company?  
 
KB: 
Yes, it's our mother company. So, Lehigh Hanson is part of Heidelberg Cement.  
 
VP: 
And so how many years did you work at this place as a process engineer?  
 
[00:06:05] 
 
KB: 
So, I work three years in the plant. And then it is a funny story because then one, as 
Heidelberg Cement have many locations in the world. Then after one of the meetings, 
production meetings, our technical director said that they are starting a new plant in Georgia, 
which they basically relocated from Germany. So, they stop the plant in 2001, when Heidelberg 
went into Georgia, they decided, OK, we'll cut this plant in Germany, package to the containers, 
move it to Georgia and build it there. And so this was 2008. I think it was like February or 
March. And the technical director said that I would need to have two maintenance millwrights 
and two electricians to go support the commissioning of the plant. And after the meeting, I 
went to him and I asked, you know, maybe I can go. And this was for like a month. Maybe I 
can go and learn something new, because this will be a new experience for me, starting the 
equipment, because Górazdze plant which I joined, it was commissioned in 1977. So, let's say 
that when I got there, it was running like a Swiss clock. There was nothing let's say like really 
happening, like, you know, many issues or whatever. And with commissioning period, you 
have new plants, new people, you need to train them and so on. So, I thought that this would 
be exciting. So, I went in April 2008 to Georgia and we did not start the plant within a month. 
So, I asked for another month permission and then I stayed two and a half years. So, I was 
working in the capacity of kiln engineer, commissioning engineer. But I was responsible for 
also one shift because we have multinational teams. So, I had, you know, my Polish guys from 
Górazdze, two electricians two millwrights with me. And this is this was my shift. Then there 
was a check shift. So, the guys from Czech Republic, from our plant in Mokra, they were there 
then the guys from Ukraine, from our plant, and then let's say like Loka. So, each one of us has 
its own shift. And we were basically running, teaching the locals how to run the plant. And 
yeah. And soon after half a year, I became a production manager of that plant. And like you 
mentioned, I stayed overall two and a half years.  
 
VP: 
So, what do you mean by packing up and moving to Georgia?  
 
KB: 
Yeah, so in 2001, they basically stopped the plant because there was, I don't know if 
there was the other plant in the area were able to cover for the market or they were out of raw 
materials, but they basically, let's say like cut the plant in pieces, put it in the containers, ship 
it to Georgia and then rebuilt it. You know, they changed a bit technology because in Germany, 
the kiln was with Lapolt system and in Georgia, they built preheater towers. So, this is more 
let’s say, like modern way of producing clinker.  
 
VP: 
Is that a common process?  
 
KB: 
No. No, it's not. It was pretty interesting because then, say, it’s like some people from 
Germany came for commissioning who work in that plant in southern Germany. And they said, 
oh, it's unbelievable to see this plant in that location.  
 
VP: 
So, do they ship it in shipping containers?  
 
KB: 
Yes. Shipping. I don't know if this was by sea or they were transferring by my trucks. 
I'm not sure. But yeah, this is what they did. Yeah. And it's still in operation.  
 
VP: 
How was it to work with the locals and teach them how this process works? 
 
[00:09:40] 
 
VP: 
I mean, Georgians are known from their hospitality. I mean say this is the, you know, 
the very interesting country, very interesting people. At the beginning there, maybe a little 
barrier was the language because I was going out with English and Polish. But the older 
generation in Georgia, like, let's say over thirty years old, they speak Russian from the post-
Soviet Union era. So, I needed to start speaking Russian. So, I started to, you know, to get some 
classes after I was done with work. And the work was like, you know, 12, 14 hours per day. 
And then on top of it, you know, learning Russian. But I did it and, you know, and they were 
very friendly. I mean, it's unbelievable. And after commissioning was done, I was able also to 
like on the weekends, go to different part of the Georgia. And they say, like, you know, I know 
more Georgia than them because I was in so many places. I was just like sometimes on Saturday 
morning took a map of Georgia, OK, today I will go there and I was just going. So, yeah. 
I was also there when the war started between Russia and Georgia. And this was also a 
crazy time because, so the first two shootings were on the border on Thursday and this was in 
August 2008. Then Friday, some part of the people didn't show up at work because they were 
taken to the Army Reserve. And then on Saturday, we were warned because the Russian troops 
were closer to Tbilisi where we lived and there was like 14 expats working in Georgia at the 
time. And we were warned by our embassies that there might be bombing of Tbilisi. So that 
time we basically packed everything, organized the transport and go to Yerevan, to Armenia 
to fly to our homes. The war lasted like two weeks because there was negotiations where 
Germany, France were involved and so on. And I was back in Georgia beginning of September, 
just after the war was over. And I was the only one expat because the other countries like 
Germany, they didn't lead the people to go there. But, you know, and I was restarting the plant 
with only locals, myself and only locals. And this was funny because, you know, I was in the 
cement industry just only like third year, fourth year, let's say. So, when we had an issue, I was 
calling to my colleagues from Górazdze, from HTC Germany, like saying, OK, what they need 
to do. At the same time, I was to say, like, drop on the deep sea and they needed to swim. So, 
I gained a lot of experience from that time. And this was very interesting.  
 
VP: 
Did you have any accidents or any kind of really …?  
 
KB: 
No, no. I mean, there were some challenges like day-to-day challenges, especially, you 
know, with the people who are not yet experienced to the level. But we went through them and 
it was OK.  
 
VP: 
So, what did you do after Georgia?  
 
[00:12:38] 
 
KB: 
So, after Georgia, as I had already the commissioning experience, I was proposed to go 
to Russia. So, I work in a cement plant Tula. So, this was a new project for Heidelberg Cement, 
a greenfields project. So, Heidelberg was erecting a new plant in Russia. I went there in 
September 2010 and I work in the capacity of production manager. So, basically for the first 
year I was training the production employees and then let's say we started the plant. I was also 
deputy commissioning manager and then later commissioning manager of the plant. And then 
I spent like three years in Russia. It's like 200 kilometers, so 120-30 miles from Moscow. So, 
after commissioning was over, then I was able to also visit Moscow every other week and so 
on.  
 
VP: 
That’s amazing. So, after Russia, then you went to …  
 
KB: 
After Russia, I went to Kazakhstan. So, then after I already had the production and 
experience in Russia and commissioning and the company proposed me to go to Kazakhstan 
as a plant manager and commissioning manager. We were also building a new plant over there. 
So, I came in the end of July 2013 and I stayed for three and a half years, the end of January 
2017.  
 
VP: 
And this was a brand new plant? 
 
KB: 
This was a brand new plant like in Russia, brand new plant. So, you needed to and you 
know, and in Kazakhstan, the plant was located on the on the steppe, far away from anything. 
So, my family, they lived in Aktau, which is like two hours driving from the [unclear] on the 
steppe. So, I was always, you know, describing you said nothing, nothing, nothing, steppe 
plant, nothing, nothing. Because it was on the steppe just nearby the village. So, most of the 
employees were, like, villagers nearby the plant. It was like 65 percent. And then 35 percent 
was coming from the nearest actor.  
 
VP: 
Why was it located so remotely? 
 
KB: 
Because of the raw materials positioning. So, location of the raw materials was over 
there because there was some sea. So, there was formation of the chalk and the limestone over 
there, also clay. So, resources, raw materials which are needed for the cement industry.  
 
VP: 
Did you have to build roads and infrastructure?  
 
KB: 
Yes. Yes. I mean, let's basically from the village, from the main roads, the whole 
infrastructure was built. We also built a camp for the employees. And because at the beginning 
we were living in, like, shipping containers. They were also like they were OK because they 
were shipping containers by, let’s say, that you can live there inside. So, OK, I had a bath, I 
had a desk, shower, toilet and that was basically all. And commissioning is very specific job. 
So, you are working like this 14, 16 hours. So, you are it you are going to sleep and then see 
the cycle continues like that for at least a year of the first commissioning, but very, very, you 
know, very hard job but at the same time, there is a huge satisfaction because you are starting 
new, then you are seeing that this plant is really running something that you put a lot of, you 
know, a lot of effort to do. And yeah, but you are learning a lot. I would say that I'm always 
saying that the personal development during commissioning is just going, you know, like , 
exponentially because you are every day there is something different. Every day you cannot 
really, let’s say, sometimes plan the day because it plans itself.  
 
VP: 
So. So, what would you do on a normal day when everything is so different all the time? 
 
KB: 
Yeah. I mean, yeah, we were starting with some, some meetings, you know, planning 
the day and then if something happened, we were reacting to that. We are trying to do some 
kind of preventive actions that everything will be fine, but not every time in the cement plant 
you can do that. I mean, cement plant I always compare it to, like, a living organism. So, 
anything can happen. You can break a leg, OK, the burning on the kiln can, you know, can fail.  
 
VP: 
And so it's not really conducive to family life, the camp arrangements? 
 
[00:17:07] 
 
KB: 
No, I mean, let's see my wife at that time hours. So, I have three children right now. So, 
in Russia, my first daughter was born. I mean, let’s say, she was born in Germany, but we were 
at the time living in Russia. Then my son was born when we were in Kazakhstan. And, you 
know, she stayed in the city because then we had the better, let's say, like medical service, if 
anything happened and so on. So, I was leaving home at, yeah, in the morning of Monday and 
I was coming back Friday evening. Sometimes I was not coming back because something was 
going on in the plant, so I needed to stay. So, maybe, let's say, like for one, two days they were 
coming to me because then after, you know, we built a camp for the employees, then there was 
normal, let's say, like rooms and so on so I could accommodate for a few days my family there.  
 
VP: 
So, did the plant expand to the local town as well?  
 
KB: 
Yes, yeah. Yeah, of course. Because normally there is nothing nearby. There are 
basically shepherds. And due to the fact that on the western Kazakhstan there is a lot of oil 
business. So, the people from the village, they're like going to the oil platforms for like three 
weeks, then they are coming back for a week. So, this is the job which also has an impact on 
that, on the family life. And we were proposing them, look, you are staying each day at home. 
You will work for us. So, actually this work for them. And of course, we are building some 
roads, we are investing some money in the repair for this village which were nearby. So, and 
we are also organizing this, like, open days, like the picnics. So, I used my previous experience 
from Górazdze to implement it for the community. We built like a bridge over the railroad for 
them. So, this was a total investment of like two million euros invested over there by the 
company, so.  
 
VP: 
Did you notice that the local residents started using cement as well?  
 
KB: 
Yeah. I mean, so then they had it just nearby. In the past, they needed to bring it from 
the other areas. And, you know, so this area of western Kazakhstan, there was no cement plant 
before. So, cement was imported from Iran to go to the local market because the nearest cement 
plant was like 2,000 kilometers away in Karaganda or the other also in Russia. So, there were 
more import imported cement than the local one.  
 
VP: 
So. And so, you left after one year?  
 
KB: 
No, no. I stayed there for 3.5 years. So, from July 2013 till January 2017.  
 
VP: 
And did other people that you started working with, did they stay or did most of the 
original workers…?  
 
KB: 
So, normally for the first year of operation of the new plant we have a group of expats 
from the other plants, Russian speaking expats, which are helping the locals. So, after that, 
basically, we are trying to run the plants with the locals and hand it over to them. So, after I 
left, I don't there was no expat at all in the plant. They were just locals from, you know, the 
local community. And also they say, like from Kazakhstan, from different areas.  
 
VP: 
And so, after Kazakhstan, where did you go next? 
 
[00:20:37] 
 
KB: 
Here. Here to Nazareth. So, it is also interesting story, because in July 2016, so when 
we were still in Kazakhstan, I flew to us for the vacation with my family and we have the big 
operation Lehigh operation here on the U.S. and I know a couple of people from here. So, we 
flew to New York for a couple of days, then we went to L.A., San Francisco, drive to San 
Francisco, go to Washington to visit our friends, which we I work with in Russia. They live in 
Maryland where our Union Bridge plant is and then go to the western Pennsylvania to visit 
another friend. And then on the way back to New York, I stopped at Allentown when we have 
the headquarter for the north region, north region and also the HTCH Technology Center. So, 
this is a part of the of Heidelberg Cement, which is serving the technical support for the plants. 
And I knew, basically a manager of HTCH from the past because he was responsible for a 
couple of the projects that I was running in Europe. And at that time, July 2016, Heidelberg 
Cement acquired Italcementi. Italcementi was also a group to produce cement and they own a 
couple of the plants here, and Nazareth was one of them. So, my company acquired its 
Italcementi, acquired Nazareth plant. And he told me that because I told him that, look, I'm 
almost finished my job in Kazakhstan. I will be looking for other opportunities within the 
Heidelberg Cement Group. And I wanted with my kids to go somewhere, see like Western 
because I already was like over 10 years in the East. So, I was thinking about Western Europe 
or even the US. And he said, you know what, we just acquired the company here. So, you might 
be needed here to implement the standards of Heidelberg cement and so on and so on. So, I 
came here in the capacity of assistant plant manager because they said that, OK, first you need 
to learn local rules, environmental, safety, union, which is much different than in the other 
countries. But very soon after half a year in September 2017, I was promoted to plant manager 
and this is the position I held. I have held up so.  
 
VP: 
So, can you talk a little bit about the transition? Because you had experience creating 
new plants and came into an existing plant that's in a region steeped in cement history and the 
industry. So, that was a little bit different.  
 
[00:23:22] 
 
KB: 
Yeah, I to say the most important was that the employees in the plant were experienced, 
so there was no need for this additional training. It was more, let's say, like maybe tweaking a 
bit. We changed the organizational structure of the plant to mirror the basic organization charts, 
which are in Heidelberg Cement. We reorganized the departments a bit. We basically clarified 
that the communication because we learned that the main issue here was the communication 
between the management of the plant and the employees. So, we put it on the different level, I 
would say. So, for example, this CIP boards is basically one of the communication which came. 
So, we have on the left on the board the information which equipment is running. It's green. 
So, we have number one here and number one and two in grinding facility. And on the right, 
you have basically on a weekly basis we update the information for the employees. So, this is 
one of the things that we are doing to improve the communication and give people some more, 
let's say, like knowledge. OK, where the company is going, what we are doing. So, they have 
a target in their daily business. So, they are not just coming and working. They know why their, 
let's say, like work is important for the overall success of the plant.  
 
VP: 
So, how many of these boards do you have at the plant? 
 
KB: 
We have in each department. So, basically say like here in this building, we have three 
boards then we have in the mechanical workshop, in electrical workshop, in the quarry, in plant 
three in there, let's say, like, canteen room where employees are eating. So, we have them all 
over the place.  
 
VP: 
And you mentioned you worked on updating the standards to kind of reflect the new 
owner. Can you talk a little bit about the process?  
 
[00:25:18] 
 
KB: 
So, so basically some standards was to standardize, like, the meetings. OK, when are 
we doing what kind of meetings, how we are, let's say, like, running them and who needs to be 
involved. The other point would be, uh, preventive maintenance. So, how we need to run the 
plant to prevent issues from happening, how to repair, how to create the budget for the coming 
year, how to fulfill the budget and so on and so on. So, different processes in place.  
 
VP: 
And so, you mentioned that with the union is a different experience, too.   
 
KB: 
Yes. Yes, sure. Because, for example, in Russia, in Georgia, in Russia and in 
Kazakhstan, there was no union environments because they were just new plants. So, the union 
was not yet form. Of course, we also like having the meetings with their employees, we were 
discussing. Here is much more formalized because you have a contract and you need to stick 
to the contract. You cannot do anything against the contract because this is negotiated things 
between the union management and the plant management or company management. So, this 
was a new experience for me for sure. So, there is really this written rules that you need to 
follow. And then two years ago, I think it was 2019, I was for the first time part of negotiating 
the contract because normally the contract is valid for, like, 3-4 years and that there are new 
negotiations. So, it was very interesting for me to learn. OK, what do you need to look when 
you are, how you need to prepare for the negotiations, how you need to negotiate to put 
everything, what you know, what basic company management would like to have. But at the 
same time, it's like give and take.  
 
VP: 
So, how did you prepare for this?  
 
[00:27:12] 
 
KB: 
I'm going to say I went for like two courses to Chicago and Ohio, which the companies 
run, how you need to prepare for the negotiations, what you need to do. And then internally, 
we are preparing with, you know, people who run the negotiations for many, many years. So, 
they also made the preparation and there was a committee basically from one, his position is 
like labor relations and he's working for the north region of Lehigh. And then we have HR and 
then we have a couple of people from the plant, including myself on the committee. And then 
we have the group of union employees, union management, basically.  
 
VP: 
And so, is this for just this one plant, or …? 
 
KB: 
This was just something for the single plant. So, we have these negotiations happening 
in the other plants, but they are separate. So, the contract is just only for the one plant. Of 
course, union would like to do the contract for many places because then they have more 
bargaining power because, of course, if the plant management is not following, they could 
receive, for example, go for a strike, which we hear that in other companies they are doing so. 
So, if they would have, let's say, like power over the couple of the plants, of course, this would 
put the company in a different situation. So, normally you are really still not trying to combine 
it together, but keep it separately for the plant. And it's also say, like, I think it's very valid 
because sometimes you cannot translate the situation which is happening in one plant to another 
plant. They are just different animals, let's call it.  
 
VP: 
And you mentioned, also dealing with kind of local regulations for the environment? 
 
[00:29:01] 
 
KB: 
Yes. So, there is DEP, Department of Environment. So, of course, you have a couple of 
the things that you need to meet to be in the compliance with the environmental standards. So, 
for example, we are doing the measurements on the stack to see what are the emissions. And 
you need to comply to have these measurements at that time of the year, you know, with this 
frequency unit, due to the fact that we are so close to the township, you know, our company 
started to invest and replace the old dust collectors because you cannot have any dusting 
outside. I mean, there are some situations that might happen and then you need to report it to 
the DEP, but, you know, but we want to avoid all of them. And that's why the company started 
to replace and invest in the plants here.  
 
VP: 
How old were the previous dust collectors?  
 
KB: 
It depends. Some of them, they were, like, from the beginning. So, this plant was 
commissioned in 1977. We have the other plants, which we which we have here, because this 
is this is Nazareth is a very unique plant. The point is that in time there were like three cement 
plants here in Nazareth. At some point, one owner owned them and then later it was sold to 
Essroc Italcementi. And right now, one plant is fully demolished, there is just only shipping 
silos existing. One plant there is just grinding of cement there and this plant is the biggest from 
all of them, is the kiln is here and also the finished grinding and shipping, so due to that, we 
have the locations on one side of the town and on the other side of the town. OK, from the 
management perspective is very, very unique because normally you have everything in one 
place. And right now, we are running, like, different places. So, that plant over there, it was 
like built, you know, like in 1960s. So, it's very old. Some of this dust collectors were from 
like, you know, 50 years ago. So, we were, let’s see, like, replacing, you know, gradually one 
after another.  
 
VP: 
Why do you think the previous company didn't do that?  
 
KB: 
They did in some extent. But yeah, this was the way that they were managing. I mean, 
let's say, you can compare both companies and you cannot say, like argue, OK, who ran the 
plant better and so on. We think that this way is the best for the company and for the plant and 
this is how we do it. 
 
VP: 
What were some of the challenges? 
 
[00:31:39] 
 
KB: 
I think one of the biggest challenge was that in 2019, 15 employees retired at the same 
time. So, they were starting at the same time in 1970s, late 1970s. So, this was the time that the 
people are going to retirement. So, this was a huge challenge because then we needed to train 
the other people, the newcomers, together with them. And, you know, it's still it's challenging. 
So, I would say that retirement and then retaining the people is very challenging because we 
are in the area where you have different industries, you have big cities, nearby, New York and 
Philadelphia. So, there is a lot of job opportunity in the area. And before Covid, the 
unemployment rate was very low, below three percent. So, basically, if somebody offered a 
better conditions, you know, people were leaving. So, it's very hard right now to retain talent 
in the cement industry and to bring the new talents. I mean, let's say, we were laughing, but at 
some point we will see, like within the company on the plant management, the managers 
meetings, we were, let's say, like saying, OK, what we can do as a company to make cement 
industry sexy. Yes. And to bring more people, because right now it's an issue to get the college, 
you know, the degree the college people coming to the plant because they think, OK, cement 
plant is just dusting and, you know, they are not good conditions and it's old technology. But 
it's just a wrong perception because we have a lot of automation. We are within the program of 
industry for zero. So, to digitalize to put, let's say, like more digitalization within the plant 
operation, there is a lot of automation. Of course, there are big pieces of equipment rotating 
and you have all these new programs like lean manufacturing, so preventive issues and so on. 
So, it's very interesting industry. But I think that we are as an industry, we are not advertising 
good enough. 
 
VP: 
Is it different regionally? Does it work differently in other countries? Is there a cultural 
component?  
 
KB: 
I think I think at some extent, yes, but here is very unique. And I can speak for myself 
because like I said, there is a lot of job opportunities. Out in Kazakhstan, in Georgia and even 
Poland and in Russia, the cement plants were in very remote locations. So, you don't have this 
much opportunities to get the job. So, we did not have issues with fulfilling the positions. Here, 
it’s challenging. So, we need to step up. And they know that our company is like going to the 
universities for some, how we call it, a job fair or whatever, you know, to get some people and 
get some information about what the industry is about so much.  
 
VP: 
You mentioned there are conversations are making the industry more sexy. In addition 
to going to universities, what else?  
 
[00:34:50] 
 
KB: 
I mean, trying to you know, the young people right now, they are looking more for 
work-life balance. It's not anymore that, OK, I will work whatever overtime is accessible, I will 
go for it. It's not like that anymore. So, people are not so much interested in the job. They 
wanted to have the family life besides the job as well. So, this is, I think, very, you know, very 
important to create this balance. And right now, Covid showed that especially for the salaried 
positions, there is no need to be at the plant for the all time. So, for example, we are starting 
the first meeting at 6:30 in the morning. So, sometimes when I'm like waking up at 5:00 or 
whatever and I'm exercising and I might be late for the morning meeting, I do it from my car 
and I still kind of like join and do it efficiently. So, this is the way how you can like create this 
work-life balance. Like, for example, if my process engineer will tell me, you know what, I 
need to stay with my kid because he's sick or whatever, but I will check the transfer and connect 
to the control room, whatever, do my job basically at home, I'm fine with that because I know 
that it works. And I think that the Covid was a big push to show to our management that it 
works. I was already doing some of this stuff before, but then let’s say, basically Covid proved 
the point. And right now we are trying to do this as well.  
 
VP: 
So, could you tell me, like a typical day in your life, a typical work day? 
 
KB: 
So, typical day, I wake up like 5:00 o'clock, exercise, do a breakfast and at 6:00 o'clock 
I'm starting to drive to the plant. At 6:30 we have the first meeting, which is a coordination 
meeting. So, both departments, maintenance and productions, are meeting. Right now, we are 
doing it over Teams, Microsoft Teams, and we are discussing, OK, what happened during the 
afternoon shift and the night shift in the plant, so production supervisor just described it and 
then we have our plan for the day, OK, what kind of repairs we need to do from the maintenance 
part. So, both from the mechanical and electrical part. And then we are looking if we need to 
correct the plan because of what happened during the night, then we are talking with our labor 
department and production department needs to do. And then basically, we are starting the 
meeting with safety because safety is very, very important for us. So, we are asking, OK, were 
there any issues with safety? OK, how we can work safely today? Then we are talking about 
the environmental part: were there any issues with the environment or like, you know, the back 
in the dust collector blew up and we need to replace it or whatever. And then we are going to 
do the daily business, so, we are planning for the day. This meeting like last like 10-15 minutes 
and then after a few of the supervisors are staying with me. So, we are talking with the quality 
and the shipping supervisors about, OK, were there any issues with the quality of product that 
we produce? And then we are reviewing what inventory we have. So, we are prepared for the 
clients coming. So, this last basically from 6:30 to like 6:55/6:50 and then I have an hour 
between 7:00 and 8:00 just to start my day plan my day, maybe go to the control room, see, 
OK, what's going on. Maybe do my rounds in the plant. At 8:00 o'clock, we have usually like 
half an hour meeting of process. So, we are reviewing the trends. So, how the plant was running 
during last day or the weekend, if it's Monday. This last half an hour, then I have half an hour 
or an hour for doing my, let's say, like, plant having some kind of meetings. And then I have a 
management meeting at 9:30. So, the plant management, including myself, assistant plant 
manager, HR, our safety manager, environmental manager, maintenance manager, purchasing 
quality and plant accountant. So, this is the group we are meeting and we are discussing the 
current business. OK, so what is going on in each department, just to coordinate? So, this 
meeting last like half an hour from like 9:30 to 9:50 to 10:00 o'clock and then depends on what 
we have. I might have, let's say like, some time to organize my meetings with, you know, some 
suppliers or let's say, some meeting with the with the group, with HTC or whatever. So, this 
last till 12:00 or go somewhere and do some kind of inspection in the other plants or whatever 
and meet with people, talk to them. Then there is a lunch between 12:00 and 1:00. At 1:00 
o'clock, I usually have the same kind of meetings which I planned for the day, like, you know, 
talking with the maintenance or the production or whatever. At 2:00 o'clock we have like this 
fifteen minutes, same coordination meeting like we had in the morning. So, we are also seeing 
how the day went in the different departments and we are planning for the afternoon at night 
and then from 12:15 until basically, like, 4:30, I might have some meetings. I might do my, 
you know, some the responsibilities, writing an email, reading an email, fulfilling some kind 
of requirements. And then basically 4:35-5:00 o'clock, I'm leaving the plant. That would be the 
day.  
 
VP: 
That’s a long day. Do you sometimes travel to visit other plants, or communicate…  
 
[00:40:30] 
 
KB: 
Not, not during the Covid. So, Covid slowed down but we still have some meetings via 
Microsoft Teams with the other plant managers. So at least once per month we have, you know, 
White plant managers with within the north region we have five cement plants. So, we have 
VP operations, who is our boss. And he, let’s say, like, you know, keeping us together to 
basically talk with each other. What is going on in each plant? Maybe there was some kind of 
a safety incident that we are sharing between each other. And we are, let's say, like, reviewing 
how we can do to prevent it in the future. And then let's say, like, once per year, we have our 
plant managers meeting, which is bringing the all plant managers from all the regions. So, we 
have a region North, region Midwest, South, Canada and West. So, all these regions are 
meeting. So, we have like I think 14 or 15 cement plants. We are meeting together and 
discussing the things, each plant has a presentation to on the specific topic. And, you know, 
and sometimes if we, for example, we have a failure of some equipment and we might not have 
a spare part, other, let's say, like, plants might have it, so then we are getting from. So, there is 
a cooperation between the plants. Or for example, they struggle with the with the kill 
production and they might be like very low on the inventory. So, we are shipping between each 
other, cement or clinker or whatever. So, there is a network, you know, between us and we I 
think that that's why the company is so strong, because we have this possibility to share the 
knowledge and share the resources. And for example, if when I had some issues, you know, 
here in the plant and I needed additional specialists, I was calling from the other plants. They 
were coming, they were doing the work.  
 
VP: 
So, do you also, what do you do to connect to the broader industry beyond Heidelberg?  
 
KB: 
Yeah, so I'm a part of a couple of the groups of LinkedIn, dedicated for the cement 
industry. I'm also [in the] committee for a triple E, which is an industry-wide conference, 
actually today we started the National triple E conference and this is fully virtual, but I'm on 
the committee for the East Coast. So, basically we as a committee, we organize the conferences 
like today's workshop seminar and so on. We visit in the plant that we are like and this is with 
the with the people from the other plants or the, let's say, suppliers. So, we have this committee. 
So, I'm also, let's say, like, you know, updated what is going on in the industry. We are creating 
something for the industry.  
The other thing I would say, like keep up with the with the networking is, of course, 
having subscription of some magazines, like what International Cement Review and the others. 
So, via this you have the contact, but mostly to say I would say there is a lot of going on the 
LinkedIn to have the personal network. 
 
VP: 
What is the conversation in the industry about climate change? 
 
[00:43:43] 
 
KB: 
OK, so actually Heidelberg Cement is a leading company within the industry. It is very 
interesting that, if you will, let’s say, like, look on the industries which are emitting the 
greenhouse gas, CO2, cement industry is the biggest one, because there is a calcination process 
where the calcium oxide is going into the clinker and CO2 is released to the atmosphere. So, if 
you will look, let's say, like, from the global perspective, China and US are the higher emitters. 
And if we will combine all the cement industry from the world, we would be the third biggest 
emitter of CO2 into atmosphere. So, there is a big, you know, a big push right now from our 
management from Germany to reach the zero carbon emission by 2050. So, we have a clear 
roadmap where we would like to be by 2030, where we would like to be by 2050. And there is 
a lot of initiative. So, the base year for that is 1990. And in 1990, the emission of CO2 by ton 
of clinker was 749 kilograms. Right now, it's below 600 and our goal is to reach below 500 by 
2030 and zero by 2050. So, the company that runs right now, some projects in different 
locations in the plant. So, there is a project in Brevik in Norway, there is a project in Leeks in 
Belgium, there is a project in Readding plant in California where on the industrial scale, we are 
building the installation to capture the CO2. So, and then basically use it in the other industries 
or pump it to the reservoirs where the oil was pumped before. So, just to, you know, to reduce 
our footprint of CO2. And this is huge.  
And so this is one part one part is capturing. The second part is limiting the usage of 
fossil fuels. So, our main, let's say, like, fuels are the coal and natural gas. So, we are 
introducing the alternative fuels. So, like shredded rubber, shredded textile. So, plastics or 
something which has our calorific value to burn and cement industry is a natural utilizer of 
such kind of fuels, because if you are building that waste utilization plant, you need to have a 
requirement of 850 Celsius degree and for two seconds the fuel needs to be there. In our case, 
naturally, without changing any things where we are injecting the fuel, we have like 
temperature of a 1,000 degrees and the fuel stays at least eight seconds. So, we are much higher. 
And this is natural. That's why that's why the cement kilns cement plant kilns are the best 
utilizer for such kind of fuels. And in Europe, there is a huge industry of processing trash and 
basically making the alternative fuel and some plants they reach, like, 100 percent of running 
on alternative fuels of the here to replace. Here, unfortunately, in the US, this is just the 
beginning. I would say the main issue is that the landfill costs are so low that it's more economic 
for the people just to landfill the trash, then process it and then, let's say, like, you know, burn 
it and then replace the fossil fuels. I think it's starting and with the new, you know, new 
administration and the initiatives which are coming for the industries and pushing for this 
change of the climate and initiatives, I think that we are going into the right direction. So 
actually, my plant here in Nazareth, we can replace according to the permit, which was acquired 
by Essroc, we can burn only 7 percent of alternative fuels and the rest is natural gas right now. 
And the installation is not fully utilized, the installation to put the fuel in. So, we have still our 
spare capacity. So, this year, in June, we will run the test to increase the permit to a 30 percent 
to be able to burn more alternative fuels. But like I said, the main struggle is to get the suppliers 
of it. And I think that the future using alternative fuels and we need to do it. So, this is, let's 
say, the second. So, the first, carbon capture, the second, alternative fuels and the third one is 
the energy. So, you might need to, let’s say, look into some sources of alternative energy 
production other than from coal. So, I'm talking the wind, like solar and so on. And the 
company are looking on all of this options. And whenever, you know, this industrial scale 
projects will work, I guess that it will be translated to the other plants. So, at the end, the 
company will reach the goal of being carbon neutral by 2050.  
 
VP: 
That’s fascinating. So, you mentioned some challenges in working in the plant and the 
industry. Can you talk a little bit about some pleasures, something that keeps you going and 
working all these hours?   
 
[00:48:59] 
 
KB: 
So, my pleasure in working in the in the cement plant is every day is different. I'm not 
bored at the plant at any time. I mean, let's say I'm coming, I might, let's say, plan my day and 
the day will go just different. So, this is this is one pleasure there. The other pleasure, of course, 
is that you are in control of such a big, you know, plant and also such a big equipment that all 
of this is properly coordinated, that the process is set up and, you know, tweaking some kind 
of parameters you can get, let's see, like different quality and so on. This is what was always, 
like, very important for me. At the same time, being in the company like Heidelberg Cement 
Lehigh. So, I'm getting a lot of opportunities to grow and to develop within my career. So, right 
now, actually, I started in 2017 when I came here, I started my MBA and the company is 
reimbursing the MBA. So, I'm doing this on the Lehigh University, which is just nearby, it's a 
good school. I really like it. I will be finishing in fall after fall semester, so very close to 
graduation. But the company is giving you this opportunity to do it and you don't need to spend 
any of your own money. And the other point which keeps me is that the company is 
international. So, you have this huge diversity of the different groups of people, not just only 
nationalities, but also ethnic groups. We are right now, I think that companies much more going 
into diversity, you know, to diversify the teams and even you see it on the board member level. 
So, let's say, like, fifteen years ago, the board members were only Germans because the 
company’s from Germany and so on. Right now, each area and we have like Western Europe, 
we have north and east, central Europe, Asia, we have Asia Pacific, we have Mediterranean 
and Africa, and we have NAM, which is North America. Each board member responsible for 
the area is different nationality. Our CEO is German, our CFO is German, but all the other guys 
are, let's say, like, one is a Polish guy, actually, the other one is from UK, and the other one is 
Turkish guy, there is American and Australian. So, you have this. In my opinion, the next step 
will be that there will be women at the board because, you know, many researchers showed 
and I'm really like promoting this within the group, shoe that, you know, having women on the 
board is basically giving, you know, additional kick and a different view and perspective. And 
within the company we have we use Yammer. So, Yammer is our internal Facebook. So, we 
have groups on the Yammer. And one of the group which I'm running is the diversity, equity 
and inclusion leadership challenges. So, I'm posting this stuff from TED Talks about the topic, 
some books and so on is really a very interesting topic. And I think that my company's in line 
what I really like. So, right now there is a European Diversity Week and each board member 
just post a video on Yammer, what diversity means to them. And I'm very happy to see that 
they are in line with what I'm thinking. So, this is also keeps me here in this company that, you 
know, that my management is basically doing good things for the environment, would like to 
improve and would like to, you know, be a carbon neutral by 2050 and also diversifying the 
teams, because I think that the strength is really in such teams.  
 
VP: 
That’s awesome. So, in wrapping up our conversation, is there a question that I didn't 
ask or is there something that you would like to mention before we close out? 
 
KB: 
I would just like to mention that I'm very happy to be a part of, you know, of the plant 
within the Lehigh Valley where the cement industry grew up from in the US. This is really a 
very historical area. I would wish that within the plants here, we could create some kind of 
network to somehow, let's say, like, not just only help Ed Pany, who runs the museum here. 
And this is a huge thing, but what's next after Ed is, you know, is gone. I mean, to say, do we 
really see, like, I think I would like to preserve all of this and I would like let's say, like us to 
really, like, look into that, this is our, you know, something which will last forever. And this is 
reflecting the cement industry here. But like I said, I'm very happy to be part of here of the 
Lehigh Valley. And overall, yeah, life is good.  
 
VP: 
Thank you so much for this conversation.  
 
KB: 
OK.