AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
1 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewees: James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
Interview Date: December 4, 2015 
Location: Mississippi Cultural Crossroads, Port Gibson, MS 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: 1 file; approximately 2 hours, 21 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1: From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National Museum 
of African American History and Culture. 
EMILYE CROSBY: All right. So, this is Emilye Crosby on December 4, 2015, 
and Em here with Mr. James Miller, Ms. Carolyn Miller at Mississippi Cultural 
Crossroads in Port Gibson, Mississippi. We’re here with the Civil Rights History Project, 
which is co-sponsored by the Library of Congress, and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. And with us are John Bishop and 
Guha Shankar. Good morning. Thank you for joining us. 
CAROLYN MILLER: Good morning. 
JAMES MILLER: Good morning, good doctor. 
EC: Could you tell us about when and where you were bom and growing up? 
One of you can start and then—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
2 
CM: Well, I was born actually at Alcorn State University now, but I was bom 
in the Infirmary at Alcorn A&M College then, back in 1953. Because back during the 
’50s and before, there were only midwives. My mother was having a difficult pregnancy. 
And my grandmother, who was an educator in the community, she had a little pull and 
she was able to get my Mom down to the infirmary. So I was born there. I was the only 
one in my family actually bom in the hospital, so to speak, or with a professional medical 
person. 
EC: 
CM: 
first, though. 
EC: 
CM: 
JM: 
community. 
EC: 
JM: 
CM: 
JM: 
CM: 
JM: 
EC: 
JM: 
CM: 
Did your brothers and sisters have—. 
They had midwives. They were all bom by midwives. Yeah. I was the 
I gave her a little trouble. 
That was the only time. 
Yeah. The only time. Yes. 
Yeah. In terms of midwives, Ms. Disney was the premier midwife in this 
What was her name? 
Ms. Jessie. 
Jessie. 
Jessie. Yeah. 
Jessie Disney. 
Jessie Disney. Yeah. I think she’s the one, she brought me here. 
Is that her claim to fame? 
Yeah, yeah. 
Yes. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
3 
JM: Her and my mother was close, Ms. Disney, that’s all. But she was a 
beautiful midwife. So that’s the way you say—. I didn’t know her personally. 
CM: Right. Unplanned. Wow. Yeah. But she, Ms. Disney, probably 
everybody in the ’50s, she was the one. 
EC: So she delivered a lot of—. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: A lot of babies. 
CM: Yeah. A lot of babies. 
EC: Did she just deliver babies for black families or did any white families go 
to her? 
CM: I’m not sure about that, but I bet you—. I’m sure she probably did. 
EC: Yeah. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. Poor black fam—and the poor white families. Probably there was 
some of them. Yeah. But I was born here in 1949, and I was, my Dad was a 
sharecropper, all right? And with that, I don’t rank up with some of that earlier, okay? I 
was born out that way. And it was—growing up in the [19]50s in Port Gibson, 
Mississippi, I was just running around carefree. I felt happy as a little kid growing up 
here, right? Then all of a sudden things changed. I don’t know. It was like the civil 
rights movement showed up and so you had something to focus on that was different. 
And because of the way society was structured; white folks had everything, black folks 
didn’t have nothing. Running around in a lot of cases, living a servitude kind of 
existence, trying to support their families. So it was crazy, crazy. It was a crazy 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
4 
existence. There were some crazy relationships between black folks and white folks. I 
don’t think you talked about it a lot, right? There was a lot of perversity, obvious racism 
going on too, right? But poor blacks and poor whites, in a lot of cases, built coalitions in 
the community. They supported each other and supported each other’s families. I think 
that was kind of like behind the scenes kind of thing. You know, one-on-one kind of 
relationships, not no group dynamics, but still separate and apart. 
EC: Can you give an example of how that might have worked, either with 
people or just an example of what it would have been like, how that would work? 
JM: Well, like my old man, right? Okay. Mr. Dan, the sheriff in the 
community, right? McCay. My father was a World War II veteran and so he saw a lot of 
stuff when he went over on [5:00] the European Theater. And when he came back home, 
he talked a little bit about it. So it kind of opened up our eyes to stuff, right? So for some 
reason or other, Pop was always moved. You know, he was always—half over laughing 
and going on and stuff. So him and Mr. Dan had a pretty cordial relationship. He would 
help Pop from time to time, and give him little monies and stuff, besides paying him. I 
remember one instance in particular when I was at Alcorn and they were one of the 
Howard—, I was going to get to school, right? Well, I got a little fellowship, but I still 
needed some money. Mr. Dan gave Pop the money. Then Pop came to me and said, 
“Hey, look, boy. Mr. Dan gave me this.” Then, when that happened, the movement 
came. So you got some dynamics going on between Pop and me and Dan. 
EC: I was just thinking. 
JM: You see what I’m saying? I mean, those kind of things, right? But Pop 
never scolded me. He never said, “Boy, don’t be in the movement.” He never said that. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
5 
I know Mr. Dan called Pop in numerous times about me running around here throwing 
bricks and stuff, marching, and doing other kind of stuff in the movement. Because those 
kind of relationships some black men had with other white men of authority in the 
community, right? It was a paternal kind of relationship. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: But there was a little bit of respect there, too. You know what I’m saying? 
EC: Mm-hmm. 
EC: So you were just talking about how, when you were ready to go to Alcorn, 
Dan McCay, who was the sheriff, gave your Dad some money to help you go to Alcorn 
because they had a working relationship and a sort of—. And at the same time, you’re in 
the movement, and McCay’s trying to control you in the movement. 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. I think it says, too, you know, in a roundabout kind of way, 
too, is that black men back in the time, in order to try to support their families, had to 
jump through a lot of different kind of hoops and stuff. And make a lot of psychological 
trade-offs, okay? What? Of manhood, compromising a lot on their manhood and stuff, 
right? In order to provide for their family. I think Pop was a good example of that. 
And that’s one of those—. The only other one I would mention really quickly is 
Mott Headley did the same thing, ditto. Because Pop worked for him, too. Mott Headley 
was one of the supervisors and leaders in the community. Pop had that kind of 
relationship with a lot of powerful white men in this community back in the day. Yeah. 
A lot of them didn’t work—. I’ll explain the situation. I think, too, it had to do with class 
in the community. Because see, Pop was not—what’s the right word? He wasn’t of 
bourgeois set, you know? He was like a salt-of-the-earth kind of person. A sharecropper. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
6 
Then you had the educators in the community, black educators. And at that time, 
business leaders, too. Because we had thriving black businesses in the community. So 
there was a middle class, a thriving black middle class that existed in the community, that 
Pop and white folks for the most part interacted with. 
EC: Do you think their interactions with that sort of elite class—like the 
teachers, the ministers, the business—. Is that going to be a different relationship from the 
one that they had with somebody like your father, who they know primarily because he 
works for them, right? They can rely on him as a worker? 
JM: I think the relationship between the middle class and whites at that time 
was hypocritical. They were trading off each other. They were stroking each other’s 
egos to a large degree. But I think the relationship between, say, Pop and some of the 
powerful white folks that he dealt with, I think it was more honest. Honestly, you know. 
It was like, okay, well—. And it was just—there was a human interaction. It was 
paternalistic, for sure, but I think it was more genuine. 
EC: So they make the connect—. Well, I remember interviewing Mr. Mott 
Headley. He talked about actually being out in the fields with the people that were 
working on his land. So that they actually have a chance to interact with each other 
outside of—. Okay, Em trying to—Em a black educator and Em trying to get money for 
the school, so Em going to tell you what you want me to say, kind of thing. 
JM: But they had their hands in everything. That’s what Em saying. They 
were the school board members. They were like merchants. They ran the banks. You 
see what Em saying? They were elected officials. It was all interwoven. 
EC: You’re talking about the black leadership. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
7 
JM: Yeah. The leadership. 
EC: Sorry. The white leadership. 
JM: No. The white leadership. Yeah. The white leadership. So that’s why 
when the blacks and the locals, like George and them, put on the boycott. Their 
argument was, “Why are you boycotting the merchants? The merchants ain’t got nothing 
to do with the fact that black folk can’t vote.” Which is bullshit. Because they’re all 
[10:00] one in the same. The same people who were running City Hall, and over here in 
the courthouse, was the same people who run the school board, who ran the businesses. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: You know what I’m saying? 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: So that’s the boycott that started in [19]66. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
EC: And it was a whole list of demands that—. 
JM: Oh. 
EC: Some of the merchants said, “We got nothing to do with this. Why are 
you boycotting us?” 
CM: Yeah. That’s exactly what they said. 
JM: Human demands. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: It wasn’t nothing outrageous. Mister and Misses. We come and we shop 
in the businesses. Put somebody here to work, like me. You know? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
8 
EC: When you say “Mister and Misses,” what are you talking about? 
JM: Mister and Misses whoever their last name is, their first name. Mister and 
Misses. You know, when you address me—. 
CM: When we went in the store, it was, “boy,” “girl.” 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: As opposed to calling you by your name. 
JM: Ain’t doing it. 
CM: Or referring to kids working—. The white kids working in the store would 
refer to my grandmother, for example, as “girl,” as opposed to Mrs. Tumipseed. So it 
was just, you know, respect. 
JM: A basic lack of respect. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. 
EC: So can you both tell me a little bit more about your childhood growing up? 
You mentioned that you felt like really free, carefree as a kid. So did you both grow up 
in the country? 
CM: Yeah. I grew up in Hermanville. And my growing up was a little bit 
different from James’, because I guess my family was considered a bourgeois as he said. 
My grandmother was a schoolteacher. And my Dad was in the Army. So he was a 
Korean veteran. And because my Mom and Dad were young, my grandmother decided, 
well, Dad was being transferred to different bases. She decided, “Well, you guys are not 
going to take Carol with you. She will stay here because she’s got to go to school.” Like 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
9 
there wouldn’t be schools other places, but anyway. I ended up living with my 
grandparents. My Dad’s parents raised me. 
And my grandmother was a schoolteacher in Hermanville for many years. And 
my grandfather was a big farmer. He had his own—. We had about three- or four- 
hundred acres of land. He had workers on the property, you know, black people. So they 
had a sort of different relationship, I guess, to the relationship like what James was 
explaining. Because they were educated and had money, they were treated a little bit 
different than maybe Pops was, my father-in-law was. I think it was respect, but not 
mutual respect. Respect for the fact that they did have an education. My grandfather, 
actually, he did not go to college, but he made it on his own. So, and he acquired all of 
this just from hard work. 
My growing up was a little bit different because I don’t—everything we needed 
was on the farm. We ate from there. We ate everything from there. The only time we 
came into town to buy from the stores was to get furniture. Or sometimes, sometimes we 
bought staples like meal and things like that. But I had an uncle who was right the down 
road who actually had his own mill. So we didn’t have to do that very much, very often. 
Neighbors were like a mile from you. Or two miles. So it wasn’t like everybody 
was right there together. So we played right there on our farm. But once we got—. So 
I’d never had any interaction with any white children. Actually, the only time I saw any 
was on the school bus, going through by the house. 
EC: Did you think about the fact that they were going to a different school? 
CM: At the time, no. Because I didn’t—I had no sense of what was going on, 
because I was kind of sheltered. But my grandmother always taught me that I was just as 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
10 
good as anybody else, and that I didn’t have to worry about that. A lot of people talk— 
I’m referred to as sort of [15:00] as a bitch, because I have—. [Laughter] I’m very self- 
confident so I don’t worry about what other people think about me. 
And growing up, I had a lot of responsibility as the oldest. And my grandfather 
always told me that, “You’re the oldest. You’re going to acquire all of this stuff once 
we’re dead and gone,” which didn’t work out that way because of other reasons. But 
they expected a lot of me, and I tried to live up to that. 
I never actually played with any white kids, anybody other than family or some of 
the people who worked for my grandfather, their children. And when I went to 
Hermanville School. I went to Hermanville from first through sixth grade, because we 
didn’t have kindergarten back then. Then we’d have to come to Port Gibson to go to 
middle school. And that’s when things started to happen here in the county. The civil 
rights movement began. That was that year when we moved, when I started riding the 
bus to Port Gibson to school. Then my Dad and Mom separated. And my Dad moved to 
Port Gibson. So that’s how I got involved. 
EC: Did either of your parents try to register to vote when you were young, 
before the movement started, or talk about voting? 
JM: No. Well, my parents didn’t. Mom then was just—. My mother was not a 
radical, so to speak. She was kind of laid back and always trying to make peace, get 
people to get along and that kind of shit. But she never discouraged us from not being 
radicals. There was three of us, right? Don, me, and Lois. But she always—. Things just 
don’t happen in a vacuum. That’s what I’m trying to say here, right? Because the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
11 
experiences that happen within our little family, right? Okay. My uncle. Fm going to 
hook it up in a minute, okay? 
My uncle, who was World War I veteran, all right? Uncle David came back, 
man. He and my grandmama, they used to talk about France, and the world, and that 
kind of stuff. So I was sitting there, a little kid. Fm listening to this shit, right? Fm 
saying—. What am I? Seven? Eight? Fm listening to this, right. And like I said. Fm 
just carefree, ignorant, just running around, just happy, in a segregated society, right? 
Don’t even got no little idea of how I fit in this. Separate or equal. Okay? 
CM: Right. 
JM: And Uncle David would talk about world kind of stuff, right? Shit I never 
heard of. It was like Star Wars shit, right? Then Pop, he goes. Pop comes back, right? 
He talks about world things, stuff that change our—. And you got to understand. Here is 
a man who had never left home, who probably hadn’t travelled a hundred miles in any 
direction all of his life. All of a sudden, now, he’s on the European Theater. He had a 
profound experience. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: You know? Then get back here, right? And be faced with this hypocrisy, 
you know? Get a bus in Alabama, trying to get back to Mississippi, coming back—or 
New York or wherever, right? You might not make it because—. And you got—. And 
you’re black. Put a uniform on. Just fought Hitler. And this foolishness, right? And you 
might not be able to get back home in the United States. I think that part of what the 
white psyche didn’t understand or didn’t appreciate is that if you’re going to live in a 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
12 
democracy, okay? And that’s what this is. How can you say that I’m not supposed to 
participate in it? 
EC: Mmm. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: You know? This is hypocrisy. And it’s worse, okay? And that’s what the 
movement was doing. The movement was pointing out America’s hypocrisy. Them 
brothers and sisters who went out, and came back, and brought knowledge and stuff, 
empowered us over a long period of time. It empowered us. And by them empowering 
us, man, it took our psyche to another level. 
EC: Did you think about that at the time? Did they talk about it that way? Or 
is this you putting it together—. [20:00] 
JM: Oh, no, no. 
EC: When you were a bit older? 
JM: I was a— But what I’m saying is that it was something in the back of the 
psyche that was there that you remember. I guess as you get older, stuff starts to trigger 
your recall. 
CM: Things—. Yeah. 
EC: Well, I was actually thinking about that when you started talking, where 
both of you had parents who were fathers that served in the military. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: That took them away from home. 
CM: Yeah. We often talk about that because my dad—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
13 
JM: The profound implications of that. 
CM: Yeah. Daddy fought on the front lines and was shell-shocked. And when 
he came back, he couldn’t get any kind of services that he needed. And we struggled 
with him with schizophrenia, and just all kinds of medical issues until he died. When did 
Dad die? About eight years ago. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: I didn’t get as much about what he did there because he kept it inside. 
And we didn’t know what was going on with him. My grandmother didn’t know what 
was happening with him, because he couldn’t talk about it. But as James was saying, as I 
got older, I realized that here you took a man from a small community like Claiborne 
County, and take him way over in Asia. He was shooting at people. He don’t even know 
who they are, why he’s shooting them, any of this. Then bring him back to the United 
States and he’s treated like he’s a second-class citizen, or not even human. So he shut 
down. And it was very hard on the family for a long time. 
Dad was on meds until he died. And went through some extreme situations just 
right here in the county. And just to talk a little bit about how whites did help in some 
sense. Allen Burrell. 
JM: Yeah. Allen did. 
CM: When Dad got older and it was obvious that somebody had to take care of 
him, well, being the oldest and it had always been taught, “Well, it’s your responsibility.” 
I took on Dad because Mom and Dad was divorced. My mom never not helped me when 
I needed it with him. But he was more responsive to me for some reason. And whenever 
he would go off his meds or just would drink, and get into an episode, it was all kind of 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
14 
red tape to try to get him over the VA. Well, Allen Burrell, I would call Allen, “Please 
help me. I need some—.” He’d make a phone call somewhere. I don’t know to who, but 
the sheriff would come and we would have to restrain—. It was very heartbreaking, but to 
keep him from hurting himself or hurting someone else. We did that at least what? 
Three or four times? 
JM: Mmm. You see, I that’s the humanity I think that Carol’s talking about 
that’s so often missing, man. I think so often not understood in communities and stuff, 
right? It aint that people don’t have differences or agreements about this, that, and the 
other, man. That happens. That’s human nature, right? But what Allen did was an act of 
humanity. He didn’t have to do that. I’m just saying. 
EC: And what was his position in the county at the time that allowed him to do 
that? 
CM: He was just an attorney here. 
JM: He was a prominent attorney. He was a prominent—. 
CM: He was an attorney of—. 
JM: Attorney for the board. 
CM: He was kind of—attorney for the board. 
JM: A board supervisor. Yeah. 
CM: Board supervisor. But I can’t even remember how I even developed a 
relationship where I felt I could go to him and ask him to help. I just did and he did. 
JM: Yeah, yeah. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
15 
JM: Which is the same kind of thing. All this kind of hope ties up, right? I’m 
just saying, like when Pop went to Dan. And with Ma, okay? And got a little piece of 
money, got a little help to support his family. I mean, Allen did the same thing. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: Your said your dad’s a Korean war veteran. Do you know if the unit 
where he served [25:00] was integrated or not? Did he ever talk about that? 
CM: He didn’t. 
EC: Yeah. 
CM: He didn’t. 
EC: I believe that—. I think they integrated some during that war, so I just 
wondered if he mentioned that one way or the other. Were your grandparents—did they 
ever register to vote or try before the movement? Do you know? 
CM: Probably not Daddy trying it, but Em sure my grandmother did. Her 
brother, Everett Jennings, he was one of the first people to run for elected office here. 
JM: Mm-hmm. Yeah. He—yeah. 
CM: He ran for school board. Lester Commission. 
JM: Lester Commission. Lester Commission. Yeah. Lester Commission. 
CM: So that side of my family was active in trying be—. 
EC: What was your school like in Hermanville? 
CM: Oh, obviously it was all black. The principal was F. A. White, Sr. And my 
grandmother was a second-grade teacher. It was just six teachers because there was first 
through six. Everybody there was from the community. All the teachers lived right there 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
16 
in the community, in the Hermanville area. I think we had one teacher that came from 
Port Gibson to teach there. 
EC : You want to take a break? 
JM: I moved [but I’m sorry?]. 
Male 1: Oh, that’s okay. 
JM: Okay. 
CM: The classroom sizes were thirty of us probably in the classroom. We 
didn’t have hot lunches. We didn’t have a cafeteria. We had to bring lunch to school 
with us. They brought us milk. It was a milkman used to come and bring just white 
milk. We didn’t have a choice of milk, which was good for us. Just thinking about that 
now, it’s funny. The milkman brought milk, and whatever you had for your lunch. There 
were many children who did not have food. My grandmother, because she had a lot, she 
fed many kids. Every day she would bring enough food, because she knew who was 
going to need something. She wasn’t the only teacher, but because I lived with her, and I 
knew how she was about the community, and about kids. She took care of all of her 
children, her brother’s children, one of her brother’s. Sam Jennings, he had twelve kids 
and their Mom died early. So she helped raise them. Everybody called her Ms. 
Tumipseed. But she was Lula B. Tumipseed, was her name. Lula B. Jennings- 
Tumipseed was her name. She was well-known in the community, and well loved, 
because of her good nature and her eagerness to help people. She always wanted to help 
others who were less fortunate. 
The school was—it was a community. Everybody got along. Everybody took care 
of each other. And if there was one bad apple, that one bad apple was made an example 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
17 
of, and everybody else fell into line. So we didn’t have to have any school suspension at 
all, the kind of things that we do today. 
JM: Time out. 
CM: Time out, go in the corner, all that kind of thing. All you had to do was 
get the biggest bully in the school and they got it. And everyone else got it without the 
pain. So, yeah. But you know, back then we didn’t know that we weren’t getting 
everything that the white kids were getting until—. I do remember wondering why our 
books were so raggedy all the time. And every once in a while you might get ten new 
books. And everybody wanted those new ones. [30:00] In some classrooms, it will 
always be certain kids got those new books. But even getting a new book, it was 
probably the oldest edition of whatever it was we got. I’m sure over here in Port Gibson, 
at Port Gibson School, at the white school, they had something even newer than what we 
got. But everybody was expected to do the right thing. We were all taught to love each 
other and look after each other, and to respect one another. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Okay? We were raised up in the classroom just like you would be at 
home. And if you got in trouble at school, you had got in trouble at home. But that never 
happened, because like I said, it was just one person got it. I remember one kid who got 
it good, and boy, I don’t want that. 
JM: Okay. Could I echo that, Carol’s so right. I mean, okay. I was not the 
easiest kid to get along with in school. I was always in shit. Always. And Moms would 
come over there and bake cakes and pies and shit, and bring it to the principal, right? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
18 
You know. [Laughter] Got to keep my kids out of trouble and stuff, right? I remember 
once this story. Ms. Rachel, Kimberly’s mom. 
CM: Rachel Wilson. 
JM: Ms. Rachel Wilson, Kimberly’s mom, right? Okay. She was a beautiful 
teacher, man. I was in her room. A bad little sucker. I remember Rachel telling a story 
how she came out. Pop was plowing the fields. She came out and told Dad on me, right? 
How foolish I was, all the foolishness I was doing and stuff. Then she said Pop stopped 
the mule, told her, said, “Look. How many hours do you have him?” She said, “I got 
him,” oh, whatever. So he said, “Well, when you got him, you do what you need to do to 
make him do what he’s supposed to do. And when I got him, I’ll do what I need to do. 
Giddup, mule.” Right? Rachel always tells that story. She said, “And what Pop was 
saying was basically right.” “Look, you’re the teacher. Do your job. I got your back. 
All right? He ain’t going to be acting a fool in class. If he does, then beat his little ass.” 
Nobody you know we don’t say—. But I get the point is that people were so close, man. 
The families were so close, right? And this is an all-black system back in the—. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: You know? Wasn’t no white folks in there, okay? Taking care of the 
business. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Taking care of the business, right? Educating kids, right? Separate, 
unequal. Okay? But at the same time, at the same time, all these dynamics were going 
on. Over here, across the street, they got the best of everything. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
19 
JM: You know? All of the modern stuff, right? And we know it’s good, but 
we can’t get to it. I think the slippage—and I’m going to make this a quick piece, right—is 
that all the good stuff we had, once we did integrate, right? We dropped it for all of their 
stuff, which we assumed was the best. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: You know? So we integrated at the expense of our culture and our 
heritage. 
CM: That’s so right. 
JM: And assimilated. Totally assimilated. In a lot of cases, right? Okay, I 
don’t know if—. I’m sitting here. To me, true integration is about, okay, a little bit of 
your stuff, and a little bit of my stuff. Good stuff. Good stuff. Good stuff. Good stuff. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Bad stuff, out. Both sides. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: All right? Getting along, right? And integrate that, and that’s what 
America’s about. Okay? All cultures. We all got some issues, right? But let’s come to 
the table with the best practices from each culture, and make the community a better 
place. But that’s, I think, all the civil rights movement was saying. Now, we made some 
blunders along the way, obviously, right? But those are growing pains, I think. I know 
the rich history of Addison High School, okay? A rich history. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: A rich history, man. A rich history. I mean, beautiful educators. The 
Reeves. Old man Reeves and them, right. The Martins, right? Okay. You know, the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
20 
Shaeffers. I’m just going to name some of the families. Great educators was in this 
system, running the system. Mr. Dodds and Ms. Hoses and all of them folks. Those 
people just come to mind. There were a lot of others. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: So my premise is this, is that we have always been strong education, the 
black community, right? They always [35:00] saw that. Like Malcolm said, “Our 
passport to the future.” I know them old folk. Mom and Pop and them. They always 
told that to us, how important education was. Something happened. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Something happened along the way. And you know, the ball was dropped 
somewhere by somebody. It need to be picked up. Okay. 
EC: So did you believe them about education? Did you take it to heart what 
they said? 
JM: No. Not at first. No. No. Young and foolish and ignorant. Then again, 
all of the stuff that they diagnose now that kids have when theyTl be growing up in 
school, when that stuff—. And everybody had some stuff that was going on with them. 
With me, right? I didn’t get all that I was supposed to get. I know I didn’t. I missed a lot 
in education. And a lot of it had to do with probably my attitude, and the foolishness I 
was doing, and all that. But, you know, I stumbled out okay. [Laughter] Now, my 
brother and my sisters, right? They’re still all right, okay? I guess they learned from my 
mistakes. [Laughter] But to God be glory, right? I’m saying we’re all, that it is about 
helping each other. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
21 
JM: I guess is what I’m trying to say, you know? And that was produced as a 
good community, right? I mean, look. We’re all here on the planet together. Why can’t 
we just get along? 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: We do. That’s what Allen was trying to do. That’s what he said. I mean, 
I’m serious, man. I keep quoting that. I mean, he was a good human being. Was he 
perfect? No. Ain’t none of us perfect, but he was a good human being. He could meet 
you on common ground. He was key when I came back here, man, and was trying to 
make a contribution as the county administrator to the community, right? Allen was a 
key point in all of that, in helping me. You know when the—. 
CM: I remember the day—. 
JM: Oh, okay. 
CM: I remember the day they finally, because it was going through all these 
changes about hiring James. He would have two of the supervisors, was in his corner one 
day. The next day, it was three. But they kept putting the vote off. 
EC: Is this the first time or the second time? 
CM and JM: The second time. 
JM: The second time. Yeah. 
EC: And this is when he’s applied for the county administrator position. 
CM: Yes. 
EC: And was this like 19—, 
CM: Had to be nine—. This was ninety—. Second. In the late’90s. 
EC: Okay. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
22 
CM: I was teaching at the A.W. Watson, at the elementary school. I was 
coming through town and Allen was—, I stopped at the bank, at Port Gibson Bank. And 
Allen’s office was right next to the bank. I got out of the car, and was headed inside the 
bank, and Allen was coming. He happened to be coming out of the building, out of his 
building. He, “Carolyn, Carolyn.” I said, “Yes. Hey, Allen. How you doing?” He said, 
“We got us a county administrator today!” He was just so excited about it. I said, “Oh, 
great.” I’m sure he genuinely wanted to work with James, and wanted to help make the 
community be better. He was happy to have somebody that probably he could hold an 
intelligent conversation. I guess, too, I’m sure that had a lot to do with it, but—. 
JM: But it was mutual. I’m saying, you know—we have to—oh, I’ve got the—. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: All right. Those people who get elected to public office, right? I think is 
one of the mistakes that we made, too, man. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: Is that just because you’re black and you run for public office, and you get 
elected, it don’t mean you’re going to act in the best interest of black folks, or white 
folks, all right? Old folk, young folk, poor folk. You’re going to act in the best interest 
of your own self, which is classic Machiavellian bullshit. 
I’m saying, and so, you got to hold these suckers accountable. I think that’s the 
lesson that’s being learned, too, right? And you got to forge alliances and relationships. 
They are built on trust. They’re built on mutual respect for each other, right? It will 
come and go. All right? I mean, ain’t nobody—. We don’t live in a dictatorship. We 
live in a democracy, right? And it means that everybody brings a little something to the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
23 
table. You stood up, and you hopefully—. [40:00] You get some kind of consistency 
with it, and it takes form. And if small communities are the laboratories of democracy—. 
That’s what they say, right? If small communities are the laboratories of democracy, we, 
here, Port Gibson, Claiborne County—and I’ll say this. We should be a shining example 
of what the civil rights movement was about. We should be a shining example of 
communities working toward the common good, and the greatest good being done for the 
greatest number. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: And we dropped the ball. 
EC: Yeah. I want to come back—. 
JM: I know. I’m sorry. I know I digress—. 
EC: No, I mean, that’s important. 
Male 1 : Hold on for a sec. I’m going to—. 
EC: But can you all tell me what—. So we’re located at Cultural Crossroads. And 
one of the buildings is at the corner of Main or Market and Fair Street. And can you tell 
us what Fair Street was like when you were growing up? 
CM: Boy, that was like going—. 
JM: I mean, it was like a carnival. [Laughter] 
CM: It was. On the weekends, now. During the week it was just normal. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
CM: But Saturday, whenever my granddad would say, “Carol, get ready. 
We’re going to town.” Oh, boy. I got excited, because you wanted to ride down Fair 
Street, because you saw all kinds of people on the streets hanging out. Music blasting 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
24 
from the different businesses because of the juke joints. And little grocery stores, little 
shops. And people just would be out mingling. You could be, it seems back then, it 
seemed like we were there all day just—. And it was a festival every Saturday. It was 
fun. 
JM: Yeah. The thriving black businesses all up and down the street. I mean, 
doing businesses, man. And like the corridor, right? I mean, back in the day, you know, 
in the ’50s and early ’60s and stuff. You know, Fats Domino, and Albert King. All of 
them just come up through here. Danny’s, to be down to Danny’s, man. On the corner 
down there, there was a two-story building. Ms. Laura Kitting’s[?]. Remember her? 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Ms. Laura Kittings [?] had a cafe there. My grandma and me used to work 
downstairs as a cook. And upstairs they had rooms and stuff. And Ms. King was like— 
she was like half white, high yeller. They called them yellow-boned back in the day, 
right? But a beautiful personality, right? And across the street was Danny’s Café, 
Danny’s Playhouse. They called it—. Then it was a playhouse. 
CM: No. The playhouse was—. 
JM: The house was across—. 
CM: Was across—. 
JM: Eighteen. 
CM: Yeah. It was eighteen. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: But this was just Danny’s little restaurant. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
25 
JM: Was Danny’s number two, right? [Laughter] That’s basically what it was. 
Then Ms. Bird had her little place there. 
CM: Yeah. A fish market. 
JM: Yeah. The fish market. 
CM: You get live fish. 
JM: The only white—. Check this out. The only white business on “Nigger 
Street” was the fish market, which was owned by Mr. Gladule. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: That was the only—. And that was the only white business on the—. 
CM: On that street. 
JM: On Nigger Street. 
EC: Do you know how he landed on that street? Did whites come to his place 
or was it all black business? 
JM: He had—. He had this little Cajun kind of personality, you know. Yeah. 
He had that kind of personality, right? And check this out. 
CM: Everybody bought fish from him. 
JM: No, everybody did. Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. They came, yeah. 
EC: So white people come—. 
JM: It was like—. 
EC: —get the fish? 
CM: They probably came through the week. 
EC: Uh-huh. 
CM: See? Because through the week—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
26 
JM: Yeah, yeah. 
CM: It was quiet. You could come to town and go to--. You rarely see 
anybody. 
EC: I have heard that from some of the whites, that they never would come on 
Fair Street on the weekends. 
JM: Oh, no. Oh, no, no, no. 
CM: Oh, Lord. 
JM: No, no. No, no. 
CM: It was full. I mean, you could hardly walk on the sidewalk. 
JM: Which is another issue about perception. You see what I’m saying? In 
racism. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay. Now, okay? There could not have been a more profound 
experience by any human being who walked down Fair Street. 
EC: How many blocks was Fair Street? 
JM: Around one block. 
CM: One block! 
EC: Ijustwant—. Not everybody knows what downtown Port Gibson—. 
JM: Oh, one block. One block. 
CM: One block. 
JM: One block. 
CM: One whole block. 
JM: 
One block, two sides. [Laughter] 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
27 
CM: And it would be literally full. 
JM: Full. 
CM: I mean, full. Both sides of the street. 
JM: People would hang out the rafters, man. I mean—. 
CM: Children. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Old people. 
JM: Yeah. B.B. King blasting out of the juke joints and stuff. Right, okay. 
Bobby Bland and all them. John Lee Hooker, man. I mean, Muddy Waters. Shit. It was 
a downhome fest. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay? Catfish frying. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: Okay? Chicken frying. Okay? And Falstaff s beer. Oh, chitlins. 
Falstaffs beer. 
CM: Chitlins cooking. [45:00] 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. Jack’s. You know. Bud was coming on, right, but they 
were drinking like Falstaffs, man. Jack’s beer, right? I remember that. Miller High 
Life. 
CM: Country Club. 
JM: And Country Club. Colt 45. [Laughter] 
EC: Miller High Life. You thought that was your beer. 
JM: Oh, Miller High Life. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
28 
CM: Oh, he still thinks that. 
JM: Yeah, shit. I thought I owned the company, right? [Laughter] 
CM: He should have stock in it as much as he drank. 
JM: Look it. It was a thriving community, man. Thriving community. 
CM: And you weren’t—. We weren’t afraid, but we knew not to go outside that 
border. We didn’t come, what is the street? 
JM: Fair Street. 
CM: Main Street. You knew to turn around at the corner of Main and Fair. 
EC: So you didn’t go up in the white part of town. 
CM: No. 
JM: I got a Main Street story. I, can I say it now? 
EC: Yeah, yeah. Let’s hear your Main Street story. 
JM: Okay. I told you I was always into shit, right? Always doing stupid stuff, 
and trying to be the class Richard Pryor. So I’m coming down—. And we’re supposed to 
be uppity because I’m hanging out with my grandmother at the cafe. I must have been 
what? Seven, eight, seven, eight, something like that. Anyway. So we’re hanging out 
there at Daddy’s little shanty and won’t be on Fair Street. Same as down here. “Yes, 
man. Yes, man.” I sneak out the place. I come up here on Fair Street, because it was 
like Christmas. 
CM: You mean on Main Street. 
JM: I mean on Main Street. But it was Christmas. It was Christmas, right. So 
all the lights—. 
CM: Decorated, yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
29 
JM: Decorated, you know. It was just lit up, man. So I wanted to see what the 
hell was going on up there, right? So I’m up there, and I’m coming, running down. And 
this is on the second block up here. I’m running down the street, right? And looking all 
around and stuff. I run into this little white girl, right? And, man. Damn. But I hit the 
little girl, all right? It was an accident. She fell, right? She had her Daddy, and her 
Mama, and her little sister were with her. The Daddy was a classic, six-foot something. 
Big old dude, man. Like 250, 300 pounds, right? 
CM: Well, he’d look that way probably. 
JM: Nah. Uh-unh. No. This guy was the classic redneck. I’m telling you. 
CM: Oh, that I can believe. 
JM: No. He met all the stereotypes. I’m sorry. His wife was the plat—. The 
little girl. And when I knocked that little kid girl down, man, then something—. He 
grabbed me. He said, “Nigger.” I said, “Shit. I’m dead.” I said, I was crying. I was 
crying. I was crying, right? He said, “Don’t you ever, little nigger, jump into, step into 
our, bump into my daughter again, hear?” And threw me back down on the concrete, 
right? Well, man. I’m pissing on myself and shit, right? So I run my little ass back 
down to where I was supposed to be. I was in my own—. I went in the back and laid 
down. He said, “What’s wrong with you?” I said, “Nothing.” I just sat there, man. I 
never told nobody that shit. That shit scared the hell out of me. I just knew I was dead. I 
mean, aka Emmett Till. 
EC: I didn’t know we came so close to losing you. 
JM: But I never told nobody that story, man. But that kind of thing sticks in 
your psyche. And you don’t remember, and you don’t never forget that. You know the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
30 
kind of experience, right? I could have lost my life because I bumped into a little white 
girl. 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: By accident. 
CM: Because you wanted to see the Christmas lights. 
JM: Because I wanted to see a Christmas tree. 
EC: And why wouldn’t you? 
JM: In the—. 
EC: Who doesn’t want to see Christmas trees? 
JM: No. See, Allen Motor Company was right over here, right? All this 
wasn’t here. There was a big car dealership—. 
CM: Car dealership. 
JM: Over there. There was a, there was one black café, Mr. Cain’s where the 
pavilion is, later on. But the point is, on both sides of the streets, people were parked, 
right? They were—. It would be like a showcase of cars from all ki—. I mean, and the 
bourgeoisie of the black community, right? Okay. Now, how they would show it out, 
right? So their wealth and they would come park their cars up on Mayfield if you could 
get a parking—. Like over here in front of Sherman Furniture Company, some place like 
that? There was JC Penney Store, no, not JC Penney. What was it? Five and dime store 
right next to that. So they would park the cars there, right? And let the windows down, 
and all of family would sit in the car. So when you walked down the street, you would 
see the couple, three—every once in a while, bourgeois blacks, okay? Downtown Port 
Gibson in their fine cars and shit, right? You’d be like, “Goddamn. Damn. I want to be 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
31 
like when...” [Laughter] “That’s a bad ride, that one.” And it was stuff to do, but you 
shouldn’t lose your life. 
EC: Yeah. For an accident, running into a little kid. 
JM: Because you want to see the lights. 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: Because you want to be around folks, be around excitement and stuff, 
right? You shouldn’t [50:00] lose your life. And that’s what I said. The irony, the twist 
to all of this is that—. Like Trayvon Martin, you shouldn’t be—. If you walk down to the 
store to get some skittles and walk back to the house to your own neighborhood, or your 
own house, you shouldn’t be dead. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: I mean, it was always sort of—. You see the parallels. Fifty years later, 
we’re still doing the same shit. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: I rest my case. I mean, it’s crazy. It’s insanity. 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: You know, and you can multiply that. The latest one is just—. Chicago. 
Sixteen shots. Running away from the person. They weren’t doing. Running away from 
him. [Laughs] That’s all. But I’m just saying. So we got some issues. We got some 
stuff to do, man. So when those rare moments in history put black—, I know it’s my pet 
peeve. I’m going—. But in those rare moments in history when black leaders—when 
history puts black leadership in positions of authority, and they are so ignorant and so 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
32 
arrogant, not to try to cultivate what’s in the best interest of the whole community, right? 
They are doing everybody who sacrificed in the civil rights movement a—. 
CM: Disservice. 
JM: A slap in the face. It’s a slap in the face. 
CM: Yes. 
JM: That’s what I’m saying, okay? These suckers need to be held accountable. 
That’s what I’m telling you. I know we say that it’s a matter of democracy, but these are- 
-. I’m going to suggest this, is that these civil rights organizations and stuff, right? These 
watchdogs really, all right? They have to be as vigilant on incompetent, corrupt, black 
leadership, just like they were with the Kluckers, and corrupt whites—. 
CM: No. 
JM: When they were in position of authority. What’s the difference? 
EC: Yeah, I-. 
JM: ( ) 
EC: I know there’s people that say there’s a lot of organizing to put people in 
office, but not to organizing to hold people accountable—. 
CM: Right. 
JM: Yes, yes. That’s my point. That’s my point. That’s my point. 
EC: Well, can you all tell me when you first—. Actually, before the boycott 
movement, outside of Port Gibson, like the Montgomery bus boycott—. Or did you hear 
about Emmett Till? Or Martin Luther King before the movement came here? 
CM: Oh, yeah. Yeah. We did. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
33 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember the Emmett Till stuff. I was a kid. I 
remember some old folks talking about it, him getting killed. I mean, that was the thing, 
the Till killing, man. It was, it just—. It had like a ripple effect. And even as a little kid I 
understood that. I guess I understood it, but I understood that everywhere I went around 
the black community people were talking about it. 
CM: Yeah. I think that’s when I became conscious of—more conscious of—or 
more fearful of not being somewhere that I wasn’t accepted for who I was. Being fearful 
for if I was outside of my family, who I knew would take care of me. I would be worried 
about that. I started to, well, all these people—. I started to learn about being afraid. 
EC: Mm-hmm. 
JM: Yeah. You weren’t so carefree no more. 
CM: No. 
JM: It wasn’t so—, I mean, you weren’t so carefree no more. 
CM: It became—. 
JM: It changed. 
CM: The killing of Dr. King, I just—. Oh God. I remember the day it 
happened. We were in school and they made an announcement. And every—. The 
whole—. You couldn’t hear anything. I don’t know why, but the whole sky just was 
dark. I was scared to get on the bus coming—just after in Port Gibson. I had to be—go 
back to Hermanville. I was scared to get on the bus because I’m thinking, “Are they 
going to come kill all black people? They killed Dr. King. Are they going to kill 
everybody? Are they going to kill us all?” So I was scared to go—even scared to leave 
the house to go to school the next day. It’s a hard, it’s hard to explain being that young 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
34 
and things happening around you that you have no control over, that you have not caused. 
And you are being targeted [55:00] because of your skin color. I know you know these 
people. Why do you want to hurt me? I never done anything to these people. Why do 
they want, and why am I so different? What is it about me that I don’t—I’m not supposed 
to be here? 
JM: As I reflect back on it, I mean, this is piggybacking. That Emmett Till 
killing was the first time that my mama and my grandmother had the conversation that 
our people had with their males that are black about ways, what you should and should 
not do, where you should and should not be. I mean, matter of fact, there’s my 
grandmother, [were friends of Jackson?]. She said, “James, look. You see what they did 
to Emmett Till?” You’d see it in Jet Magazine, see? Because Jet, the big picture was in 
the Jet. So it—. Anyway, every black person reads Jet. You know what I’m saying. 
Come on. 
CM: Even if it was the old one. 
JM: Yeah. Then what they can’t read, look at the pictures. So that’s why Jet 
was so good. So they were so good at communicating in the black community because 
they knew their market. They knew their target market, right? And oh, and those 
pictures are everything. You know the old saying, “A picture’s worth a thousand 
words”? That was just philosophy. And when they did that—. I think it was philosophy 
because Emmitt Till pictures. I mean, come on, man. That—. Ooh. The mother. The 
courage that she had to do what she did, right? To say, “Okay. Look. Yeah. Y’all are 
going to take the picture of my son, put it up there? Because what them suckers did was 
wrong. I want the world to know.” I’m saying the courage that they—. See, these are the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
35 
untold stories, man, of folks that was in the movement that brought us to where we are. I 
know I’m being—I’m getting old and I’m being repetitious, right? But that’s why I’m 
going back to these suckers who are in positions of authority, right? And being 
accountable. Okay? When people do that—. 
I mean, right here in Port Gibson, right? I mean, our local man, Jesse, old man 
Jesse. You know, always get people out of ja—. 
CM: Jesse Jones. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Jesse Jones. 
JM: Mr. Jesse Jones. He was one of the older blacks in the community who 
had a little land still, right? He would get people out of jail like that. 
CM: He was bailing people out. 
JM: Bailed them out. Just like that. 
CM: He was providing money to get—. 
EC: And this was in the movement? 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: He was one of the first people to register. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: He was. 
JM: Yeah. That’s what I’m saying. I’m saying that these are the kind of 
people who shape communities, who make communities good, and what have you. So 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
36 
the question that’s always so poignant with me, right? Where is that leadership now? 
Where is it? What happened? Did they all go to Mars or what? What the hell? 
EC: What did you think when your Mom and grandmother talked to you? 
JM: I really didn’t take it serious. I’ll tell you again. When you are like 
twelve, or thirteen, fourteen years old, man, eight or nine—. 
EC: So you must have been about seven—. 
JM: Oh, now about seven. Yeah. 
EC: Kind of little. 
JM: Yeah. You hear and you know this. And you know fundamentally in your 
mind, you ain’t stupid, that you ain’t supposed to be hanging out with white folk. But I 
will say this, though. It kind of brought it home because one night I was walking home. 
We stayed up late in Port Gibson, I’m walking home across the bridge here. These were 
the little CHA kids. They were throwing up mess, too, in the community. That’s another 
untold story. Because CHA was a mixture of the little bad kids of the upper white crust, 
who couldn’t go to public schools and stuff, or a private school. So they’d send that little 
bus up here to the military academy, try to get them right. 
EC: So at that time, CHA was a private—. 
JM: Oh, yeah. Oh. 
EC: Boys’ school? 
JM: Yeah. Yes, yes, yes. Them little suckers used to ride around through the 
community, because at that time they had cars and stuff. I mean, they were little, rich 
white boys, right? I was going across the bridge one night, from football practice, and, 
“Hey, nigger.” They threw eggs on my ass, right? I got shot. Shit. [Laughing] Then I 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
37 
grabbed them and it was fucking eggs, right? I said, “Lord, thank you Jesus.” [Laughter] 
I was about to call in the dogs and piss on the fire. Goddamn. Them white folks had 
killed me. I was so glad it was eggs. I didn’t know what to do. [1:00:00] But it hit me 
there, sort of right there. Boom. Damn. Sorry about that. 
EC: So what’s your first memory of the movement here in Port Gibson? 
JM: That’s a good question. 
JM: Sixty-seven years old, all right? And a lot of this stuff, man, I had forgotten. 
When you talk, when you ask questions, I don’t know. You have that magic, girl. 
CM: And when you get older—. 
JM: Yeah. I guess you start—. 
CM: You start—. It’s just something like it’s all going back. 
JM: Yeah. Like a film. Yeah. Going back, good stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 
He came back to shoot me. I said, “Damn, boy, I’m dead.” You know? 
EC: So do you remember when you first heard about the local movement or—. 
JM: Oh. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Oh, yeah. Okay. I guess—. 
CM: The situation with Dusty? 
JM: Yeah, but—. 
CM: Probably before that. 
JM: The meetings. The meetings. 
CM: Yeah, going to the—. 
JM: They had an AME Church. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
38 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: The NAACP meetings. 
JM: Yeah. 
EC: So did you find out about it from other kids? From your family? From 
seeing people get together? 
CM: Family. 
JM: Oh, no. 
CM: My grandmother for me. Mama Celie. My mother’s mother was very 
active in the local NAACP. She would, “Y’all want to go to the meetings?” We would 
walk from—. Because by this time, Mom and Dad had totally separated and I’m with my 
Mom’s side of the family. So we’re out on five forty seven. We would walk to town. 
EC : That’s a long walk. 
CM: Yeah. We’d walk to town. Somebody usually would bring us back home, 
but we would walk. 
EC: How long a walk is that? 
CM: Pffwew. 
JM: It was seven, eight miles 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: At least. 
EC : So you would walk with Mama Celie. 
CM: We would walk with Mama Celie to the meetings. That’s where I started. 
EC: What do you remember about the meetings? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
39 
CM: At the time, it was just an outing in the beginning. And as I got older and 
started actually doing things within the youth chapter—. I was involved in helping 
register people to vote. Going out canvassing, and helping with voters here because I 
was consider one of the brighter kids. Even though I was—. 
JM: You were too bright for here, though. 
CM: Just about eleven. 
EC: I was going to say. The movement really starts here in about 1966. So 
you would have been about thirteen? 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: Twelve, thirteen, fourteen? 
CM: Yeah. Well, I was—. 
JM: But you were— 
CM: I was double promoted two times, so I was way ahead of my peers. And 
because of the way I had been raised with my Dad’s parents, I always taught to be 
responsible and take on challenges. So my grandmother saw the same thing, my other 
grandmother. And, “Come on, Carol. Let’s go to the meetings.” So that’s how I got 
involved. They trained us how to go and canvass, and how to register people. And that’s 
how I’d really gotten involved. 
EC: Would you canvas in town or would they carry you out in the country? 
CM: We did town, country. 
EC: All over. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: You said they trained you. Who were you working with? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
40 
CM: We worked with—. 
JM: Okay. Yeah. George—. We had a grant on the Board of Education 
project, but George and them was the—. 
CM: George Walker. 
JM: George Walker. He was the point person. He was the guy that was 
getting everything together. 
CM: He was our leader. 
JM: Yeah, yeah. 
CM: For the youth chapter. 
JM: Yeah. For the youth chapter. 
EC : And that’s George Henry Walker? 
CM: Yes. 
EC : And that’s the youth chapter of the NAACP? 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
JM: Yeah, yeah. George was. He was like premiere organizer. He really was. 
Then when dudes like Rudy and them. I mean, Rudy sharpened George’s skills in my 
humble opinion. Because he was like a mentor. Because Rudy was an old organizer 
from way back, you know, Chicago and stuff, right? Hanging out with Evers. But he 
was a Korean vet, too, I believe. I always say he had a world perspective on stuff, Rudy 
did. I think what he did—. I don’t know this for a fact, but I’m sure that there must have 
been conversations [1:05:00] between George and those other guys that George hung out 
with. Like with James Earl and all of them guys, right? Because they were all part of the 
same group basically, George and Rudy and them. And with their experiences, too. See 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
41 
what I’m saying? Because all of these guys were basically veterans. That’s where I’m 
trying to go with this. There’s this whole cadre of veterans that is like a timeline from 
World War I, World War II, Korean War, Vietnam War, all the way through. For lack 
of—I can’t say the word—militarized. Became militant. Okay? I say they brought that 
energy back to their communities. 
EC: So they had training in—. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like with Deacons. 
CM: And a new strategy. 
JM: Yeah. That’s what what-you-call-it was doing with the Deacons, right? 
They had weapons training. I remember them guys with guns and stuff, right? 
EC: So tell us about what you remember of the Deacons. 
JM: Well, I didn’t get to hang with them, because I was too young. But what I 
remember is that they kept the peace. They didn’t put up with no foolishness. They were 
sort of like the Black Panthers, if you would. 
EC: I think—. 
JM: Come on. Take this out. I’ll tell you, the most I can tell you is that, can 
you imagine twenty-five or thirty black men at that particular point in time in history 
walking around with guns in Port Gibson, Mississippi? 
CM: Well, when black—. 
JM: You can’t imagine that shit today. 
CM: When the black—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
42 
JM: With this no-carry gun shit they’re talking about now? Okay? You want 
to stop this shit? Go get twenty-five black men, [Laughter] give them AK-47s, and let 
them walk down the street. I bet you—. 
CM: The laws’ll change. 
JM: The laws’ll change. Nope. We won’t do it no more. We’re going to do 
something else. 
EC: Well, in fact, that is actually what happened in Port Gibson. Do you 
remember that? Did you know about that little movement? 
JM: Unh-unh. What? 
EC: So when Rudy, and George Henry, and Julius Warner were organizing the 
Deacons and they were carrying the weapons, Dan McCay came to them was wanting to 
de-escalate. 
JM: Okay. 
EC: Said basically the City Council was going to do a law that you couldn’t 
carry a gun in public. 
JM: Wow. 
EC: They were like, “Well, we’re not the ones that started it.” 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: And Dan said—. 
JM: I didn’t know that. 
EC: He was going to make everybody put the guns away. So Rudy said, 
“Well, we’ll give it a try.” 
JM: Damn. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
43 
EC: And that was the story—. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay. Okay. 
EC: But so, yeah. What was it like as kids to see these black men carrying 
guns in the community? 
CM: I felt protected. 
JM: As a black man, I felt good. I can tell you. I mean, these guys were like 
superheroes. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: I ain’t never seen no shit like this. They had the black hats on. They’d 
ride around. It was like the mafia stuff, little stereotype, the Godfather kind of stuff, you 
know? I’m going to tell you a story about the little Reverend that they beat, that they 
whooped, right? See, they didn’t beat with baseball bats. It was psychological, but it was 
dehumanizing, too, the way they would do, right? During their preaching they told you, 
“Don’t break the boycott.” “Hey, Reverend.” What was his name? Damn it. I can’t 
think of his name. 
EC: Emerson Davis? 
JM: No, it wasn’t Emerson. 
EC: No, older Reverend? 
JM: The Reverend. They beat his butt. What was it? I can’t think of it. He 
was a little chump, fat kind of guy, right? Dark-skinned. I don’t think he was—. 
CM: That man had no good understanding. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
44 
JM: Yeah. That’s what I was going to say. I don’t think the elevator went all 
the way to the top, either, right? But you know what I’m talking about, right? So you 
know I ain’t lying. So this is back here on Nigger Street, Fair Street. He done went in 
the store about two or three times, right? So they says, “Look. We’re going to get that 
sucker tonight.” 
CM: ( ) 
JM: Well, I don’t know anyway. “We’re going to get him tonight.” So it 
was—I can tell you this, everybody did, it was Julius. [Laughs] Okay. And George and 
them. And Fluty, okay? And who else was in there? 
EC: Fluty, his name was Whitney? 
JM: Whitney. Yeah. Whitney. One other of them. I can’t think of their 
name. So grabbed him down there in the alley down there. Then a big old limb. It was 
like a switch, right? They took him back in that alley behind King’s Shoe Shop, pulled 
his clothes down and shit, right? And tore that ass up. Tore that ass up. He come out 
there hooping and hollering with his pants down. And we already told you how crowded 
Fair Street be, and this was like on the weekend. This was like a Saturday night or 
something. Man, look. That dude ain’t never broke the boycott no more. 
CM: Nobody else broke it. 
JM: Nobody else. 
EC: So did you see [1:10:00] that? 
JM: I saw that. I saw that. I saw that with my own eyes. My grandmother’s 
cafe was right across the street. There was a little alley. Well, across from my grandma’s 
cafe was King’s Shoe Shop. But at that time it was like a two-story building. And it 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
45 
burned down. The present one that’s there now is the one that was there now. But back 
then it was like two stories. You had to walk up. You remember that? 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay. There was a little alley there. And that’s where they took him, in 
between the alley, between the alley of King’s Shoe Shop and Fair Street. There was a 
little alley there. They threw him up in there and tore his ass up. He come out there 
ripping and running—. 
JM: [Laughing] I mean, now how you forget? How you not remember that? I 
mean, I must have laughed about that shit for about ten to fifteen years. But it was 
standard laugh in the movement. 
CM: Well, yeah. Everybody heard about. 
JM: Yeah, yeah. 
CM: In the black community. 
JM: In the black community. Right. 
EC: It wasn’t like Reverend White? 
JM: I can’t—. What the hell was that man? 
EC: I’ll figure it out during the break. 
JM: Okay. 
EC: We’ll come back to it. And you say breaking the boycott, so give us the 
context for the boycott and what was going on. So what was the boycott? 
JM: The boycott was put on the white folks who were the merchants because 
they were the same people who were the politicians. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
46 
EC: And what was the whole thing about breaking the boycott? How did that 
work? What was the setup in town? 
JM: You couldn’t go in the store. 
CM: Yeah. You couldn’t go in the store. Not buy anything. Black people stay 
out of the stores. Don’t purchase anything from any white merchants. The Deacons had 
people watching. You might not have seen the Deacons, but the Deacons could see you. 
JM: They had a paper that they put out with everybody’s name on it. They 
circulated it through the community so everybody knew. 
CM: Yeah. If your name was on that list, probably you’re going to get a visit 
from the Deacons. 
JM: ( ) 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: How big a factor was that in keeping people out of the stores? 
JM: I think that it was a true factor, but I think for the most part people didn’t 
break it. 
CM: Yeah, people were—. 
JM: Everybody was tuned into the times. I mean, people’s eyes were wide 
open. They saw the atrocities that were happening there. Come on. We got King killed. 
We got the Kennedy boys, right? We got Medgar. The Freedom Summer always going 
on. 
CM: Always going on at that time. 
JM: Yeah. So people ain’t ignorant. They see shit. It just don’t add up. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
47 
CM: The majority of the people were going to honor the boycott, anyway. That 
was for the hard heads, okay. We’re not playing. We’re serious about this. And we 
don’t need no Toms. 
JM: Then back to what Carol was saying earlier about by the bully. You put 
that sucker in check, everybody just fall in line. 
CM: No. 
EC: I know you were a little ahead in school of Carolyn, right? 
JM: A little bit. 
CM: A few years. 
EC: A little bit. She was catching up with you fast and furious. [Laughter] 
She just about beat you out. So you remember some of those early meetings that you’ve 
told me about. 
JM: Oh, yeah. 
EC: What are the—. 
JM: Okay. What it means. Okay. One in particular is how Rudy Shields was 
a master organizer in terms of—I mean, I had to love to watch him, man. Obviously now 
in hindsight, I have more appreciation for it. Not much so then. I just thought he was a 
bad dude. But how he developed leaderships. Now, there was a big meeting down here, 
and people went down there, and so and so. A lot of discussion was going on about what 
the problems were, and what needed to be done, and blase, blase, and blase and blase. 
EC: Is this the meeting at the AME— 
JM: Yeah. AME Church. And Calvin Williams is one of the people that was 
at the meeting. Now, Calvin Williams is also part of the bourgeois class, right? We 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
48 
talked about it earlier. He was a big-time security officer, maybe the chief or something, 
down at All Corps. 
CM: He was the chief at All Corps. He ran for chair. 
JM: Sure. He ran for sheriff. Right. Which is another whole story, right, but 
yeah. So he was down at the meeting, and a lot of other black men. And mostly they 
were of the bourgeois class. They were like, well, working class. So people like, let’s 
say Lewis Montgomery, who worked for the city. They were there. Buster Bob, 
[1:15:00] who worked at Allen Motor Company. Them kind of people were there. So as 
people were talking, everybody would say words. And Rudy would throw stuff out there, 
right? Say, “What do y’all think about this?” “What do we want to do about this?” 
Somebody would respond. Calvin would start to respond, Calvin Williams. Then Rudy 
threw one, but I don’t remember what the question was, but it kind of like did that to 
Rudy, right? Calvin’s response did. It kind of knocked him back. And Rudy pause for a 
minute. “Hey, you come on up here.” And from that point on, man, that dude was our 
leader in this community. I saw that with my own eyes, man, materialize. But I’m 
saying he was elevated to another level within the civil rights movement. Now, whether 
or not it was genuine, I don’t know. Time would tell. Whether it proved history, but 
speak to that, right? Was he sincere or not. But he was the first one to run for sheriff in 
the county. 
EC: Heran-- 
JM: He should have won. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
49 
EC: —in [19]67 in that first election after the Voting Rights Act and the voter 
registration drive. So Rudy Shields. Who was Rudy Shields? Can you describe him for 
people that wouldn’t have any idea who he is? 
JM: Someone that you would not—. If you saw him walking down the street, 
you wouldn’t—. I mean, he would have kept your attention. He could blend in like a 
chameleon. He always came humble from what I can remember. 
CM: Well, he came from where? 
JM: I think his home was Yazoo City, if I’m not mistaken. I think he’s 
originally from Yazoo City by way of Chicago, because he had some people in Chicago, 
too. 
EC : I think he settled in Yazoo after. 
JM: Yeah. After all this. 
EC: I think he’s from Ohio, and then Chicago, and then here. 
JM: But I never understood a lot about his history, about where he came from 
and all that. Just the interaction when he came here. But he always seemed to be 
somebody who was very bright, seemed to be committed to the community. I saw 
examples of that. He wasn’t the kind of person, like some I saw, who came who totally 
was about their self ( ). What could I do for me? How can I capitalize on this 
personally? 
CM: Very genuine. 
JM: He was very genuine. Yeah. He was genuine. I never saw that. Not that 
we all should die a pauper, but I think he died a pauper, man. Basically, right? His ass 
had a lot of bad breaks I guess in life in the end. It didn’t end up, you know—. For all 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
50 
good men, don’t get your reward. But be that as it may, to answer your question, I think 
he was a godsend for this community. He really changed, I think, the political trajectory 
of this community by the organizing skills that he brought, and how he empowered other 
people who lived here. He got shit done by doing it through other people, and 
empowering. 
CM: Through the local people. 
JM: Yeah. Through the local people. And empowering the local people, 
which I always thought was a beautiful model for community development. If everybody 
is sharing in the wealth of the community, then there seems to be less friction. There’s 
less racial tension. So if I’m white or I’m black and I’m living in a community that’s 
profitable, right? If I don’t want to be with a certain somebody, I ain’t got to do it. I go 
to Paris. Or go to Europe. Or go to Africa or whatever, right? You got those kind of 
options. But the ideal thing would be utopia, right? We’d all get along and sing—what’s 
that little song? Kumbala or what is it? 
EC: Kumbayah. 
JM: Kumbayah or something. Yeah, right. But I guess as you get older, man— 
. I’m concerned about racism, but I really don’t have a lot of time to spend on it. You 
know what I’m saying? The few years I got left. I’m about trying to build some bridges. 
And if you don’t want to build them, that’s cool. Go your way. That’s cool. Just leave 
me alone. 
EC: So that meeting. I think that meeting was one of the first meetings right 
after Rudy started organizing in the community. How did whites respond when Rudy 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
51 
Shields and then Charles Everest followed behind Rudy, and they were working in 
Claiborne? How did the white community respond to that? 
CM: They considered them agitators [1:20:00] coming in, stirring up trouble 
between the blacks and the whites. 
JM: But you know what was unique about this place, about Mississippi, in 
relationship to that? I mean, the whites here, the Kluckers, they put them in check. They 
went another way. That White Citizen Council stuff. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: You know what I’m saying? They took the Ku Klux Klan model out of 
the street in terms of Bull Connors and all of that, right? I think they learned something 
from what had happened. Some whites did. Now, here, look y’all. The position is right 
that we’re taking, but we got to clean up our act. It can’t be one-on-one confrontations. 
We have got to figure out how we make the institutions put these urn in check. You see 
what I’m saying? So what they started doing, they started infiltrating bulwarks, the 
Democratic Party, Republican Party, whatever. They took them over at the precinct level 
and organized it. These lawyers, right? Again, back to Allen. Good human being. 
These lawyers in these different communities, right? They started doing all kinds of little 
stuff, like—. How do you think Addison High School got built? Addison High School 
got built because they didn’t want no black folk coming over to Port Gibson High School. 
The little man. The Drake, he was one of the agitators in that. I ain’t got no documented 
evidence, Emilye. Okay, but, it was genuinely a point of conversation among them 
buggers I was hanging out, listening to, that that’s what went down. Old man Drake was 
very instrumental behind the scenes doing some things, manipulating some things and 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
52 
shit like—. Mosswood?] Country Club, case in point. You see what I’m saying? These 
were the comprises, okay? So we’ll just have to get a new school. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: And Addison happened in [19]59? 
JM: Fifty, yeah, I believe it was. 
CM: Yeah. [19]59. 
JM: So that’s a brown, right? 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: So that’s what I’m saying. And that was the one strategy that was put in 
place. But my point is, the white folks—. It depends on where you were in the state. But 
here, I think the response was more institutionalized, as opposed to one-on-one racism. 
You know what I’m saying? 
EC: Yeah. Can you tell me about the Human Relations Committee and the 
Biracial Committee? 
CM: Is that the one Reverend Spencer—. 
JM: Yeah. Again, if you had asked me that question twenty years ago, I would 
have had a—. But as you get older, you kind of reflect on stuff. And you mellow and 
stuff hopefully. It was the bourgeois sect. It was a sect of black folks that white folks 
had picked. That’s what I’m saying. They became more sophisticated in terms of trying 
to keep separate but equal in place. So we’re going to pick us some hand-picked niggers, 
right? And we’re going to put one, two over there. We’ll try to do them to the right. 
They’ll follow them in there, right? Make it look good. I think Reverend Spencer was a 
man that was caught up in change. He couldn’t figure out what side of the fence he 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
53 
wanted to be on. And a lot of blacks of the bourgeois class ended up like this. And white 
folk played along with it, and it was to their advantage. It’s unfortunate, but that’s the 
way it was. I didn’t make it like that. [Laughs] 
EC: So that meeting at the AME Church, I think my understanding from 
talking to people is that there was sort of a showdown that night, that the Human 
Relations Committee was trying to encourage the black community to do one thing. And 
Rudy Shields was there representing the NAACP, and Charles Evers, and trying to 
advocate another route. And you must have been like a high school student. 
JM: I was. Yeah. I remember the incident, but obviously I don’t remember all 
the dynamics and behind the scene, and what was going on. But I remember what you’re 
talking about. I remember it, man. But here again, reflecting on it back now. Now, 
okay? It was obvious there were three competing interests in the room at that time. And 
Evers, man. That dude. [Laughs] But you can say what you want about Evers. 
[1:25:00] Charles Evers. I have a great deal of respect for Charles Evers. I honestly do. 
You know why? Because he told you what he was. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: And what would he say he was? 
JM: A pimp. 
CM: A pimp. 
JM: He said that. He said it. He wrote it. He said, “Look. I’m a gangster.” 
Out of Chicago. I don’t think like my brother. My brother ain’t me. I’m me. Here 
again, some quarters, you say that, people look at you like you’re crazy. Well, I didn’t 
say it. He said it. Read a book. So now, as that relates to what was happening here in 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
54 
Claiborne County. Then that meeting you mentioned. That’s what I’m saying. You see, 
the sophistication that was at play. The White Citizen Council in there, right? Them big- 
time lawyers. Because at this point, this racism stuff goes all the way up to the state 
level. So these people talking to Evers—obviously, I think. I think history will bear me 
out. Had different conversations going on between Evers and them people. Had to be 
about this is how it works down in Port Gibson and how we deal with that. Because it 
was the premier case in the country for this whole issue of whether or not blacks have the 
right to use economic sanctions against those who are oppressing them. 
EC: And you’re talking here about the Claiborne Hardware case? 
JM: Yes. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: So that was filed by the white merchants in [19]69 to try to stop the 
boycott, and put the NAACP out of business. 
JM: Out of business. Out of business. And ( ). 
CM: I think that was—. When you guys were talking about—when you were 
asking the question about the meeting at the church. I think the discussion was 
something about that boycott. 
EC: There might have been another one, because there was one meeting that 
was in late [19]65. 
CM: Oh, okay. 
EC: And it was—. My understanding was the Biracial Committee, whites 
founded a Biracial Committee—. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
55 
EC: The black section was the Human Relations Committee, and they were 
trying to keep Evers and NAACP out of Claiborne County. 
JM: Yeah. 
EC: So did you ever see Rudy Shields in action? 
JM: The only time I saw him after—. Well, action. The most profound thing 
for me was that time when Emerson Davis had the gun and was going to shoot him. He 
walked up to him and took the gun out of his hand. The one other confrontation around 
him was the guy that had the furniture store. Those are the two times I really saw him. 
EC: Can you describe those incidents for people that don’t know? 
JM: Well, I mean, the whites here had— obviously, had to geek mister Davis 
up, man, to kill Shields. He had a gun. They say it was white boy’s going to get him. 
That’s what they say. I don’t know. But I do know this. I know Rudy, he had a gun. I 
know what the gun looked like, all right. The sucker didn’t go off. I guess he thought 
Shields would kill him or he wouldn’t do it. I don’t know. But the gun didn’t go off. 
And Shields walked up to him right there on the street, man. Rudy and a lot of Deacon 
guys were standing around, right? Because it just happened out of nothing. And it 
something that led up to it. I don’t know what the confrontation—where that happened 
prior to it, because I was down here, and it happened right down here I believe it was. 
Right, if I’m not mistaken, on that comer there ( ). Yeah. I believe that’s where the 
confrontation took place. Anyway. He walked up to him, Rudy did, walked up to old 
man Davis, man, and took the gun out of his hand. Then they arrested him and took him 
off. There wasn’t nothing done to him. 
EC: And Davis was white or black? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
56 
JM: Davis was white. 
CM: He was black. He was a black man. 
JM: Davis was a black man. Yeah. Well, what we like to refer to a Tom in the 
community. I mean, you know. Whites. But he went that way. The other guy was the 
guy that owned the furniture store. I forget—. 
EC: James Jones? 
JM: Jones, yeah. Jones, yeah. Yeah. Jones, yeah. That guy had a funeral 
home round that way. Okay. Yeah. He had a funeral home. He walked up to him, said 
something to him. I don’t know what it was. Another face-to-face, one-on-one kind of 
confrontation Rudy had with him. I remember that taking place. Yeah. Those were the 
only two times I saw him in action. 
EC: What was that like for you as a young person to see that happen? 
JM: You got to understand. When you live in a community all your life and 
you see black men talking to white men like that. 
CM: As an equal. 
JM: As an equal. Up in their face, man. [1:30:00] That’s—no. Mm-mmm. 
Then confrontational. You know? That shit? That sticks in your psyche. It gives you a 
little balls. [Laughs] Maybe I can do that, too. But see, you got to take it in historical 
context, right? You know, in the time. Do you know what I’m saying? You know what 
I’m saying. Okay. And at that time in history, man, that kind of behavior on black folks 
was just unheard of. I mean, the consequence was death. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay. Now, you could do it, but you’re going to be dead. Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
57 
EC: Do you have any memories of Rudy? 
CM: No. Just, I remember him up talking in meetings and things. Yeah. 
EC: Can you all describe mass meetings, what they were like, for people who 
never had the good fortune to be part of one? 
JM: Let me say thing about Rudy, man, that I just want to say it. I want to 
make it part of the record. I really honestly hope, man, that history records the 
contribution that Rudy made to the struggle. I’m serious. I mean, unsung hero. Unsung 
hero. Okay. 
CM: The mass meetings were exactly that. Mass meetings. 
JM: Mass. 
CM: There would be people. When we started going to First Baptist Church, 
that church was the biggest church in the community at the time, black community. And 
it would be full. Outside the church, people would be standing outside trying to get in. 
They had the windows up and stuff where people could hear, because nobody had 
loudspeakers and—. 
JM: And Deacons outside, guarding. 
CM: Yeah. Deacons standing around guarding to make sure everybody was 
safe. 
JM: Them freedom songs coming out of the rafters. You could hear them. 
Man, shit. Rosa Lee Wells, man. I hear that little sister right now. Whooping and 
hollering. Her and Dolly. Old Jessie. 
CM: Jessie Howard. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
58 
JM: Jessie Howard. I mean, they were singing their hearts out. Vera Groves, 
man. I’m just saying. It was like sweet honey in the rocks. It was profound. It really 
was. It was a time that--. I am so glad that I lived in revolutionary times. [Laughs] I’m 
here to tell you. I would not give nothing to have lived—. We lived in some 
revolutionary times, man. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: And that’s where I met my wife. 
EC: In a mass meeting? 
JM: At the movement. 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: In the movement. At the mass meetings. I mean, it was a perfect for little 
guys to go and meet girls, because all the good-looking girls were at the meetings. 
CM: So that’s why you went. 
JM: What? 
CM: Go on. 
EC: He’s not the only one who went to the meeting to meet somebody. 
[Laughter] 
JM: I’m just saying. You know. But yeah. I mean, whooping and hollering, 
right? Singing. Always smiling sister. They had a little TWA. She had a little Teenie 
Weenie Afro. She didn’t have a big Angela Davis afro. Was a teenie weenie. [Laughs] 
Like the one she’s got now. 
CM: Oh, hush. Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
59 
JM: But a little skinny thing, too, right? Weigh about what? Seventy-five 
pounds? But we was fighters. We were comrades in the movement. Yeah. For a long 
time. 
EC: ( ) voter registration and—. 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, running the mimeograph machine, right? You 
know, typing and stuff. 
CM: Whatever they needed us to do. 
JM: Doing envelopes and stuff. Canvassing. Breaking the ice. Talk to the 
little old ladies and stuff. Going out canvassing and trying to get people registered to 
vote. Yeah. 
EC: I know you already mentioned George Henry Walker. Who were some of 
the people in the community that you saw as leaders? Can you describe some of them 
and what they were like? 
CM: Well, back in the day, remember, Thelma—. 
JM: There was Thelma. Yeah. 
CM: —was considered—. Thelma Crowder-Wells. She was considered a leader. 
Ms. Mose Ella Carpenter. 
JM: Oh, yeah. 
CM: She had her own business. She was considered one of the big-time leaders 
in the community. Very active in NAACP. And was a mentor to the youth chapter. 
JM: Ms. [Margaret Lee Leads?]. 
CM: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
60 
JM: She was a support to the movement. 
CM: Yeah. And Ms. Margaret—. 
JM: And Mr. [Clyde. Mr. Clyde Harvey?]. 
CM: Yeah. Ms. Marguerite—. 
JM: Thompson. 
CM: Thompson. [1:35:00] 
JM: Thompson. Yeah. 
CM: Thompson ( ). 
JM: Obviously, yeah. Right. 
EC: What was Mr. Nate like? 
JM: One of the good bourgeois. 
EC: Yeah? Ms. Thompson. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: What was Mrs.—. 
EC: Mr. Nate Jones? 
CM: Yeah. Mr. Nate like? 
JM: What was Nate like? Cool. Cool. Calm. Collect. I mean, he was the 
epitome of no nonsense, no foolishness. Just straightforward. Hard—. 
CM: But he never raised his voice that I can remember. I never—. 
JM: Never talked about anybody. 
CM: But he was always the—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
61 
JM: The voice of reason. 
CM: Yeah. The voice of reason and the consciousness of the room when 
something was going on. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
CM: If it looked like it was getting a little bit ready, without raising his voice, 
he could calm the room. 
JM: It’s so right Nate used to say that, right? I remember him doing just that. 
I don’t know. It was Mr. Matt and Mr. Williams. Yeah. Check this out. We were about 
to head out down by—. This was after that [19]75 election, the one I was telling you 
about where Williams ran and he lost, and everybody thought he should have won. 
Okay. Now I don’t know what happened, right? But they said, and they being Mr. Matt 
and them. That Calvin. Okay? And that’s why he lost the election. They ain’t got to him 
and gave him money, right? All right. So Mr. Matt, he takes a little nip every now and 
then, them old dudes. I was fortunate to be around sometime when they’d be nipping and 
shit, right? Try to steal me a little one, too. And it got a little testy there. And it was 
Jones. He just happened in this setting at that time, right? And Matt, they were going at 
it, him and Calvin. They were going at it, right? Got kind of testy there for a minute and 
shit. But Jones was, “Hey.” “Calvin” What’d he call him there? “Matt. Y’all stop that, 
man. Y’all stop that.” And they both shut up. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: And it was like they were about—. Well, they weren’t about to go to fight, 
but it was a little bit out of order. You know what I’m saying. 
EC: ( ) 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
62 
JM: I think—yeah. Here’s what I think. I think the conversation had 
something to do with that lecture. 
EC: That incident was an election where people thought that Calvin Williams 
was kind of a shoe-in, but that maybe he had thrown the election. 
JM: Exactly. Exactly. 
CM: That he had taken money. 
JM: He had taken money. 
CM: Right. 
JM: That would be the thing, but I don’t know. Oh, we don’t know. You see, 
that’s the other piece of the untold story. See, it might have been influence of that 
institutional piece I was talking about earlier. Not individual Kluckers going to the polls, 
you know, stopping blacks from going to vote, but by our folks collectively by way of 
institutions. The bankers, the prominent whites in the community, right? We could keep 
the sheriff spot. They’re going to get all these other, but we can buy the sheriff spot. 
That might be where I’m going. I don’t know. 
EC: I want to talk about the election soon and some of what you already know 
on that, but did you participate in the demonstrations out at Alcorn in early 1966 when 
Charles Evers was leading protests out there? 
JM: Yeah. Didn’t we all? Everybody went down there. Everybody went out 
there. We’re talking all these police officers, right? Highway patrol, okay. There were 
like bayonets in there. It was like Kent State as I reflect back. It was like a Kent State 
situation with National Guard. They had surrounded the whole place, the whole campus, 
man. We were all in the back. Everybody was trying to get on campus. They were 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
63 
determined not to let anybody get on campus. So it was a standoff for what? A couple of 
days. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Maybe a couple, three days, a standoff. They were gathering down at 
Patton’s store. Evers was coming to give a fine speech. He always made those speeches 
at night. As I reflect on it, I don’t think he never made any of those speeches in the 
daytime. It was always in late evening. He’d get them fired up, man. [Laughs] And you 
know, boy, when they broke that picket line and went across that fence? Man. I just 
knew somebody—. I just knew there was going to be a whole bunch of dead people, 
right? But right off nobody got killed. Nobody even got seriously hurt. They were 
dragging people—literally, man [1:40:00]—out of the woods. 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
EC: Who was dragging? 
JM: The highway patrolmen, the cops from the different, surrounding areas, 
counties. 
CM: Jefferson. 
JM: Like Jefferson County and Warren County, because all the—it was a 
massive police presence. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Okay? Both highway patrol and local yokels. They were all there, right? 
But Dan was there with his full force. But I remember, and I told you story, when I 
jumped the fence, right? I ran right past Dan. Dan could have killed me that day. He 
chose not to. He tripped me. He stuck his foot out and tripped me, and I fell, and I look 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
64 
over and like that stuff in old Vietnam, fall and roll, fall and roll. [Laughter] I fell, 
rolled, got my ass back up and boom. It was scary. 
EC: You told me you used to bait the highway patrol. 
JM: Oh, yeah. We did some low-down dirty stuff, man. We really did. I 
mean, we did when we were young and ignorant. We did not know any better. We just 
stand up to the highway patrol man and we used to talk about their mamas, and their 
wives, and their children and shit. Say all kind of derogatory, nasty shit. [Laughter] We 
were closer to them than—. Like me and Carol right here. We’d be that close. We’d be 
that close, talking crap, man. And this guy got a—I don’t know if it was M-60s they were 
carrying, with a bayonet on the end of it, right? Standing like this, right. And all outright 
gear on, okay? I’m standing there and I ain’t got shit on. I’m dressed like I’m dressed 
now, talking shit. I say, “You’re stupid,” when I think about that. You were stupid. You 
were stupid, man. You were stupid. Young and stupid. Young and stupid. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Mm-mmm. 
EC : Were you there when they used the teargas? 
JM: I was there, but I didn’t get affected by it. But I remember it. Yeah. 
CM: That was the only time I was down there, but we were in the car with my 
Mom. Yeah. Mama took us. Wow. I forgot about that. Mama took us. They weren’t 
letting anybody in. You couldn’t get in and by the time they started doing the teargas, we 
got away from there. We left. So that was my interaction with it. Very limited. Yeah. 
EC: I know you said earlier you would walk with your grandmother, Mama 
Celie, to the mass meetings. I know you’ve told me about her. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
JM: Mama Celie. 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
65 
EC: Can you all describe her? What kind of role she played? What kind of 
person she was? 
CM: She was Mama Celie to everybody in the county, even before the 
movement. But Mama Celie could have been one of the black hat boys. 
JM: She was a big woman. [Laughter] 
CM: She could have been one of the Deacons that you felt protected. Not just 
me. Any kid. If they were with Mama Celie, they knew. She was a big woman. 
JM: ( ) 
CM: Yeah. [Laughing] She carried a gun—. [Laughter] But she was quiet. 
She was one of those quiet soldiers. I mean, she did things behind the scenes that a lot of 
people didn’t know about. She probably did hurt some people that I don’t know about. 
She always made sure that we were safe. What were you going to say? 
JM: No. See? She was the stabilizing force in all of the foolishness that was 
going on around, internally, within the move—as it relates to the children, moreso than 
anything else. She just made sure that all the children were safe. She was one of the 
premier people in the Head Start Program, when they first came to the community, right? 
I’m just saying. For obvious reasons. The woman has, what? Seventeen children. You 
know? So she was like the paternalistic mother of the movement. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: All due respect to Ms. Thelma, Ms. Thelma had what a couple children? 
I’m just saying. Ms. Thelma was kind of different. You know what I’m saying? Mama 
Celie was—you could go over to her and hug her. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
66 
CM: Yeah. You could be with her. 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. 
CM: And you could talk to her about anything. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
EC: She told me when I interviewed her about owing one of the Ellis’ 
something on account? 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
JM: Oh, yeah. 
EC: That Ms. Ellis would try to get her to come in the store and pay, and she 
would make Ms. Ellis come to the door to take the money because she wasn’t going to 
break the boycott. 
CM: Exactly. She was something now. She’d stand her ground, now. Yeah. 
[1:45:00] Oh, I can see that happening easily. Yeah. She was smarter than the white 
people probably thought she was, okay? She had wily ways. She knew how to get things 
done. 
EC: You mentioned those relationships between blacks and whites that don’t 
necessarily fit the mold that people think, and then you know, how did the movement 
impact those kind of relationships? Do you have a sense of that? 
JM: Hmm. That’s an excellent question, Carol. I think to try to answer that 
question—. That has profound coincidences. That’s the way it is. You got to know, I 
mean, the impact of slave—. This goes all the way back to slavery. I’m saying these 
relationships were relationships that were put in place as a result of slavery, which was 
free labor to a class that became the most powerful on the planet. That labor produced a 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
67 
class of people who were probably the most richest on the planet, at that given point of 
time in history, okay? Because of cotton or whatever, right? And for them who were at 
the top, in control, it was beautiful. Things were hunky-dory. But the folks who were 
producing the wealth, they were getting screwed. All right? So now what happens here? 
Right? All the dynamics are changing. What’s being put on the board now is that these 
relationships have got to change. We cannot go on relating to each other the same way 
we did a hundred years ago, or even fifty years ago, right? I mean, the relationship of me 
and Allen I think is a good example, okay? Allen had the option, man, of saying, “Look, 
I want it to be the old way. I don’t want a change.” He had that option, okay? No 
progress would have been made. The little progress you see that was made that we talk 
about with Cultural Crossroads and all this, and how we’re waiting to get Patty some 
money to do some of the things that she was doing. And do this downtown improvement 
things that’s still here, that’s now literally falling apart. Okay? Were the results of 
people sitting saying, “We’re going to change the order. And we’re going to change the 
relationships. We’re not going to treat each other the same way.” 
Now that’s changing. And it’s bad, it’s almost sad that there are certain segments 
of people who don’t want to change. I think that’s part of what’s wrong with this 
community, right? Whites just left. They abandoned the community, right? Okay. Then 
so now what you got left here, because we didn’t do like they did in South Africa. 
We did not do race reconciliation. We did not sit down and say, “We made some 
serious mistakes here on both sides, if that be the case. Let’s talk about it. And let’s 
figure out now what do we need to do to try to move this community forward if we want 
it to be the kind of place that we all can live in? Say the school system is strong. My kid 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
68 
can go in and he can graduate, he or she. If he has the potential, then he can go to 
Harvard, and he can go to Howard.” 
We got a healthcare system in place in this community that’s producing good- 
quality healthcare for the people who live here. Carol’s Mama, who’s eighty-two years 
old, right? If she wants the good healthcare service, she’s got access to that. And we’re 
going to do everything that we can in this community to make sure that that happens. 
A little child that is born here ought to have the same kind of rights and privileges 
to reach his or her potential, just like somebody who’s born in the Hamptons. Now, 
somehow or another, we dropped the ball. I’m back to that, right? And it forged into that 
kind of relationship. The thing that we talked about earlier, I mean, community. The 
people here have to buy into what kind of community that they want to have. And what 
you ask is complicated. It’s complicated. The dynamics are—economics dynamics are at 
play. Because some folks, if they got to give up something, they’re going to lose 
something. They don’t want to do that because they’re happy. They don’t feel the pain 
of the person that’s suffering. There’s no empathy, okay? 
So I hope the relationships change, all right? I have seen examples of it. Again, I 
say Allen. I’ve seen examples of it. I’ll even references Gage, man, Robert Gage, 
[1:50:00] right, as opposed to, say, his father. When I was the County Administrator 
here, we were able to sit down and have—. Show you how the mindset is, right? The first 
time I went to talk to him as the County Administrator—Gage, right? I sit down, I say, 
“Well, you know, my father could not come and sit down and talk to your father like I’m 
able to come and sit down and talk to you.” He got up, a fist, offended. Why? Because 
he was not listening to what I was saying, right? He said, “No, no, no, no. Your Daddy 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
69 
could come here and get some money any time he wanted to.” I said, “That’s not what 
I’m talking about.” I said, “What I’m talking about here, Robert, is this, man. You ain’t 
hearing what I’m saying. I have the ability to come to sit down with you to talk about 
public policy, how we try to reshape this community and make it a good place. My 
father couldn’t sit down with your father and talk about no public policy.” 
EC: He’s the-. 
JM: Banker. 
EC : He’s a man of the bank. 
JM: Yeah. 
EC: And like the fourth in his family. 
JM: The fourth in his family. Yeah. 
EC: The president of the—. 
CM: Right. 
JM: Yeah. 
EC: Four generations of Robert Gages? 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I guess I left four generations of the Gage’s 
family, right? The fact that somebody within that will sit down with a sharecropper’s son 
and have a conversation, some would say is progress. But he still had the option of not 
doing anything if he didn’t want to do it. He said, “I don’t have no problems with y’all 
doing that.” I tried to answer your question. I don’t know if I did, right? But 
relationships have to change. They have to grow. They have to evolve. If they don’t, we 
all go by way of the dinosaur. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
70 
EC: Were you working for--. Hmm? 
Male 1 : Could you say something more about the possibility of the truth in a 
reconciliation? 
EC: Can we do that later? 
Male 1: Okay. 
EC: Thanks. Because it comes up very much in the context of Cultural 
Crossroads, and the programs, and all that. The interactions between the community and 
the programs. I think when we talked before that you mentioned that George Henry and 
some others had you all trying to go to some of the white churches one time? Do you 
remember that? 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
EC : Can you talk about that? 
CM: I remember that like yesterday. 
JM: [Laughs] 
CM: I must have been what? Fifteen. And we went to Church Street. It was 
the one where actually we met, my dear, at the King Shoe Shop. One Sunday morning at 
the specified time that we all meet up, and get in our orderly lines, and be peaceful, and 
go to church. So went down on Church Street. We went South. We went on the South 
side and then we crossed the street, come over, come back up North. But we went to the 
Catholic Church where they opened the doors. We left the Catholic Church and 
proceeded on down to—. 
JM: With the finger. 
CM: The church with the finger. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHPOl 19 12/4/2015 James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
71 
JM: Yeah. Presbyterian, wasn’t it? 
CM: Yeah. And that’s where all the big-shot whites were members. So the 
closer we get, we see these men outside of the church with guns. I’m thinking, “Oh, 
Jesus.” You know? And Joyce told us to look straight ahead. Don’t say anything. Keep 
walking. But we were going to attempt to go in the church. So we stopped there and 
George had dialogue with the people standing there with the guns. 
JM: The Deacons. 
CM: And Mom’s standing there. I recognized—. 
EC : But she’s talking about white folks with guns. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: The Deacons for the church. That’s the way of the world. 
CM: That church. 
EC: Sorry. I was thinking Deacons—. 
JM: No. The Deacons of the church. That’s the way it goes. 
CM: The Deacons of that church. So I’m looking at these white men and I 
recognized one of them in particular. Well, two of them, because they were both 
Hudsons. And James Hudson, who owned Piggly Wiggly. The times that I had seen him 
in the store, you know, it wasn’t, at his store we didn’t have any kind of intimate 
relationship or had an intimate conversation. He was polite, [1:55:00] I would say. And 
I’m saying, “This man’s got a gun. I can’t belief this. He’s got a gun.” George started 
talking to him and he, “You’re not coming in here. You’re not going to come here. Go 
and worship your own God.” I’m going, “Oh, God.” He said, “Go and worship your 
God. Go to your own church.” You know? So George, we went on. And that whole 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
72 
time—, I didn’t think it was but one. What is he saying? I never knew of any other God 
but one. I was raised with one God. So I’m confused. What is he talking about? What 
other God is there? Then just to be fifteen years old, you got about twelve men standing 
out there with guns. None of us had anything. And all of us were—. 
JM: Sunday’s best dress. 
CM: Twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fif—. Nobody was over eighteen but George. 
Well what? You’re going to kill the kids because they wanted to come inside your 
church? I remember the first time I went in that church. I went to Allen’s wife’s funeral, 
and the whole time I was in there, I was in there thinking about that. Now, the one time I 
get in here, I’m coming to somebody’s funeral, and I’m thinking, “Hmm.” I look around. 
I don’t know what it was he was trying to keep me from seeing in here. I mean, it’s a 
church. 
JM: Yeah, the confrontation. The confrontation, it wasn’t the Presbyterian 
Church. It was the other one, Emilye. It wasn’t the one with the finger. It was the other 
one. 
CM: The one next to it? 
EC: Methodist church? 
JM: Yeah. Joan Beesley and them’s church. That one. Okay. But you don’t 
know it. Okay. 
CM: ( ). 
JM: Yeah. I can’t remember the name of the church. 
CM: It was one of those big ones. 
EC: They’ve got a Baptist Church, too, over there. Was it—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
73 
JM: Now, see, we hit all of them. 
CM: We went to all of them. 
JM: We went to all of them. 
CM: But they had people, but this church, these people had guns. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: There was people out front of all of them except the Catholic Church. 
That’s the only. 
EC: That church was the only one you didn’t get in. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: And this particular one is the one with—. 
CM: The one with the people with the guns. There was about ten or twelve of 
them standing there with guns. 
JM: Yeah. It was scary. 
CM: For about twenty kids. And George. 
JM: But it comes full circle. It comes full circle, right? I’m just saying. Go 
back to Charleston. It comes full circle. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: I mean, it’s foolishness, man. God. A human being. I mean, what are 
you going to do? Shoot children down like dogs because they want to come to church? 
These are grown men. These are the deacons of the church. Then they go right back in 
and finish service. 
CM: Yeah. Yeah. And expect you to come to their store. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
74 
EC: Right. 
JM: Right. 
CM: Okay. And purchase from them. 
JM: These are the same people. 
CM: These are the same people. 
JM: The same people. 
EC: Something like that will reinforce the boycott. 
CM: Oh, Lord. It did. 
JM: Oh, it did. 
CM: It did for me. I was just fifteen then. Once the boycott was lifted I did not 
go in Piggly Wiggly for that reason. I recognized him and said, “Oh, my God. You 
won’t get a dime of mine.” 
EC: So at a certain point, you go from being one of the young people to 
organizing in your own right. So can you describe sort of how you became an organizer 
and what you were trying to accomplish? 
JM: Okay. All right. Let’s see. Okay. After Mr. Ross got elected in [19]67, a 
lot of us men sat around and we were just talking about what was the next step. 
Obviously, Mr. Roberts kept saying that he needed some help. He was the only black on 
the board, okay? He said, “Y’all send me two more. Just send me two more. I can get 
things done.” 
EC: And that’s the board of supervisors—. 
JM: Which consists of five people. Right. 
EC: He kind of runs the county. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
75 
JM: Right. It’s the board of supervisors, the governmental policy of the 
county. They formulate public policy for the county, right? So some of us sat down, 
man, and started talking about, “Well, okay. Where’s the power?” See, you have to 
understand. We never even knew about politics and how it worked, and where the power 
lies, right? For a long time, because of the people like sheriffs, and right, [2:00:00] who 
were always profiled, we thought that was the power in a lot of cases, right? We thought 
people like the chancellor clerks was power. Obviously, the voter register was the power, 
personal power, right? So while all of this is going on, right? It’s like smoke and 
mirrors, right? Behind the scenes, you’ve got the supervisors, really who are the 
policymakers for the community. They run the county. They set policy. That’s where 
the power is, right? Okay. And it wasn’t the tax assessors, assistant collectors, okay? 
[Laughing] 
So after we kind of figured that out, we started leading up to the [19]75? No, it 
was [19]60. Was it [19]60? The [19]71 elections, [19]71 elections, okay? In [19]71, we 
know about how we’re going to put a strategy together for it. So we start talking about 
Delta Ministry. There was Bob and them, and Jesse Morris, people like that. And a little 
sister by the name of Barbara Phillips. Okay? I was talking with her. She came into the 
mix, right? She brought some dynamics to the mix. 
So how did Mr. Matt win? All right. Matt won out there in District 1. How can 
we duplicate that in one of the districts? So this whole thing about gerrymandering and 
how the lines are drawn, we didn’t understand that at the local level, okay? But other 
folks did. There was a lot of folks said, “Well, this is what’s happening. You got to 
redraw the lines.” So when the sisters came up, the powers to be, made it right. So this 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
76 
county was reapportioned. So then there was some districts that we could win. So 
District 2, boom. All right? Then District 4. All right? So Mr. Aikerson and Mr. 
Burrell? Out in 4, all right? They came to the board. 
But how do we do voter turnout? What’s the key? We have to go canvas in the 
districts, find out how many votes the candidate got the last time. How many do we need 
to beat that? What was the voter turnout in the primary, in the general election? We did 
research on past elections and seen how the voter pattern was, right? And this stuff was 
foreign stuff to the locals, man, the folk. I was working with the young bloods, right? I 
like to think of them as the modern-day—. What’s the little youth that are running down 
the streets? Black Lives Matter kind of scenario. 
So Joyce and them, they had a political machine in place by the way of the 
NAACP. They would vet the candidates. There was a process there to go through, right? 
You just didn’t up and run, because you’d feel like you woke up one morning, and all of 
a sudden you’ve been crowned with all the wisdom, and knowledge, and understanding, 
and therefore you ought to be sheriff. No. It don’t work like that. We’re going to have a 
process in place, right? There was a process in place in NAACP, and George and them, 
they’d vet the candidates. And we young bloods, we went out and did the voter 
registration, did the canvassing, did the voter turnout. How many votes we need to turn 
out to get the people elected? Campaign material, got it distributed for the candidates 
that NAACP would support, because they had a political order. 
CM: We picked up people. 
JM: Yeah. We picked up. Right. 
CM: Bring people to the polls to vote. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
77 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. Then who controlled the political machinery. Of course, the 
Democratic Party at that time was controlled by whites, right? So at the precinct level, 
what do you got to do to gain control of the party? You can have people running for 
office. And you can have good candidates running for office, right? And you can turn 
out the votes. If they steal the election, you’re right back where you started from, all 
right? So put that in place and took that on, okay? 
So we’re ripe. We’re ready now. So the [19]71 elections come around, right? 
We get two more on the board. Doss gets elected. Julia Jones and all of them. That’s 
[19]71. I don’t know who all they were, but it was a nice group of people who got 
elected. 
EC: So I think in [19]67, which was the first one, there were like seven 
candidates. Matt Ross is board of supervisors, and Mrs. Collins is—. 
JM: Chancery clerk. Yeah. 
EC: So those were two of the more powerful people elected statewide in the 
county. Then [19]71,1 know it was more, and I know Ms. Jones—. 
JM: Ms. Jones. 
EC: As circuit clerk. 
JM: Yeah. Ms. Jones and Doss, I think. Jones, Doss, obviously. I can’t think- 
EC: I can’t remember whether anybody was elected to the board of supervisors 
in addition to Matt Ross or not, until [19]75. 
CM: No. Because Mr. Ross was on there a long time [2:05:00] before. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
78 
JM: Right. Because we split those two election cycles going for the bullshit, 
going for the glamour positions. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: And didn’t really understand that [19]75 election. 
EC: I’m going to get to that, but having said that, when Evan Doss was elected 
tax assessor, can you talk about the re-assessment? Because that was really important. 
JM: Property re-assessment? 
EC: Yeah. 
JM: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. See, I’m going to set a point here about Doss. I 
think it needs to be said, too. Evan, when he got elected, right? What Evan had behind 
him was that whole youthful generation. They supported him, man. That’s what I was 
going to say. And at that time, that first year, that first cycle for him was what brought 
about that new awareness about how politics worked by the younger generation. You see 
what I’m saying? Okay. So that’s why Carol and all of them came into the mix, right? 
So Carol worked for him for a while. I was working in there. Duvall and all of us came 
into the mix. James. And we were working for Doss. So Doss was producing out of his 
office young revolutionaries that were going out making serious political change. 
EC: And if I remember right, he was barely old enough to be qualified to run 
for office. So it’s this real youth movement. 
CM: Oh, yeah. 
JM: Oh, yeah. Yeah. He was the youngest tax assessor in history of the state, 
you know, and the first to be elected since reconstruction. Yeah. So they were all 
youthful, youthful people, early twenties. What? Twenty-four, twenty-five maybe at the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
79 
most, right? And that set in chain a whole dynamics with all of the other support, outside 
support, the Delta Ministry support and that kind of stuff. Technical assistance that one 
would need to understand this stuff, right? The access to lawyers and what have you for 
to file suits for reapportionments and all that kind of crap. So what happened, it changed 
the dynamics. And in [19]75, boom. We got a majority. And that’s when all hell broke 
loose. But at the same time, Grand Gulf was coming on line. 
EC: Grand Gulf is the—. 
JM: Nuclear power plant. Right. 
EC: How did that change the dynamics? 
JM: From one aspect, the community had something that no other community 
had when black folks took over political. They had an economic base. We had a budget 
prior to Grand Gulf of about two point five, maybe three million dollars than ran the 
county. All the county services and stuff were for that many. After Grand Gulf came, it 
shot up from two to ten million dollars. And this was even before all the foolishness was 
going on about taking away the Grand Gulf monies, right? We had a steady tax stream 
coming in of around ten million dollars a year. So it changed the dynamics. 
It changed the profile of locally-elected officials because salaries for supervisors 
were based upon the assessed valuation of the county. The assessed valuation of the 
county, by way of largest economic development picture ever to take place in the State of 
Mississippi at that time, was the Grand Gulf Nuclear Power Plant. It shot up the 
assessment of the county, okay? 
So a supervisor who was making twelve thousand dollars a year now makes forty- 
thousand dollars a year. See, but every year it gradually went up and up because the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
80 
assessment went up and up, okay? And it capped out around fifty-thousand dollars a year 
for a supervisor, who the year before made twelve. So that creates another whole 
dynamics in terms of people wanting to run for public office, whether it’s from the heart 
or not. For a lot of folks it was about the pocketbook. 
EC: Now there’s a just huge incentive. 
JM: Yes. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Yes, yes. Then, to add insult to injury, as a result of that, and infighting 
among leadership in the county, it gave the quote-unquote, “racist,” if you will, state 
legislators, who they were, the impetus they needed to take away the money. Because 
their position was it’s too money going into this predominantly black community, and 
they don’t know how to spend it. So therefore, we need to take some of it away from 
them. 
EC: How would they put that publicly? How would they say that in public? I 
mean, they’re going to try to avoid having it be about race because that might stop them. 
But so how would they put it publicly in order to justify, or try to justify—. Because 
there’s no precedent for that, [2:10:00] right? There’s no precedent for taking utility 
taxes. 
JM: Mm-mmm. It was a classic move again, out of the remnants of what I 
considered to be the conservative part of the Ku Klux Klan that was dressed up in three- 
piece suits marching through the state legislature. And all these other counties who got 
money, right? They were big counties. Hinds County got a piece of the action. Wayne 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
81 
County got a piece of the action. And all of the other counties that MP&L serves in that 
service area got a piece of the action. 
CM: And that’s what they used. 
JM: And that’s what they used. 
CM: To answer your question. That’s what they used for saying, “Well, all 
these other counties—” 
JM: Need it, too. 
CM: “—are recipients of services from MP&L.” So that’s how they put it out, 
that that was their justification for taking the monies away from Claiborne County. 
EC: Even though they don’t do that for other utilities. 
CM: Right. We don’t buy it. They still were setting a precedent, but that was 
the PC-. 
EC: Rationale. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: The public version of what was going on. 
CM: Yeah. We serve these—. They’re paying into the system, as well, so this 
is why we’re taking the money. 
JM: Now, the counterargument’s going to be, again, the hypocrisy and bullshit, 
right? The county that has this coal-powered plant over here. I forget the name of the 
county. It’s in Mississippi, right? The only difference between that plant and Grand Gulf 
is that one is coal-powered and one is nuclear-powered. 
EC: And probably one is a black community—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
82 
JM: And one is a white community. This one’s a predominantly black 
community. That is a predominantly white community. Now, let’s see how history 
speaks to what happened over there, because these same questions have been raised, 
okay? This is the only county in the continent of the United States, I think, that had its 
local taxing authority taken away from it. Every other county in this country that you go 
in, right? Whatever entity comes through that county, that local government has the right 
to tax it. This is the only exception. Only exception, okay? Now, did local leadership do 
a lot of foolish things that allowed racist people to move to do that? Yes. But it was 
wrong. We had the right to enjoy the fruits of what was in our community, given that we 
were taking the risks of this power plant being located here. 
EC: So when did you decide that you wanted to have the credentials that you 
needed to be county planner? And what were you trying to accomplish? 
JM: Well, I guess, again, I don’t know why I assumed that if you go and get 
some credentials from some place, and then you come back to your community, that 
somehow other people will view you differently. I was naive to believe that. I really 
was, yeah. And if you’re sincere and you really want to do something good, man, go 
make yourself qualified to be able to do it. So you go back to school and you get the 
degree in regional planning. Now that I got that degree and I come back to Port Gibson, 
if I say something, they’ll listen to me now. No. They won’t. They don’t care. So that 
was the reason for going there, right? 
And again, back to the basics that we talked about earlier about education. It was 
always the premise in the black community, right, that education. You had to get 
education if you expected to move ahead and to make a contribution. You had to be 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
83 
educated. So we come back. The community is dying. I mean, all of this downtown area 
over here was a vacant lot, as you know. Downtown buildings all boarded up. 
Infrastructure falling apart in this whole community. Cultural Crossroads standing here, 
trying to stay up freight, above the water. It was a chaotic condition. It was a chaotic 
condition. 
And as a result of the boycott, and what came out of the ’70s and ’80s of the 
boycott, the boycott has destroyed a whole bunch of businesses. The community was just 
at its lowest. So how do we try to come back? [2:15:00] 
You keep the alliances with the folks that you grew up with, right? So Tm often 
over there with Patty talking noise, right? Tm going to coach my little boy too. And 
Patty always talking about, you know, “Man, we got to get all this as soon as possible.” I 
said, “Patty, I know. I don’t know what we’re going to do.” So I’d say, “I’m inside now. 
Maybe I can do something.” 
And we had many discussions about how to bring the community back. And to 
make a long story short, I think basically what we came to the table with—and Patty can 
speak to it—is how do we infuse the cultural, the arts, the cultural depository here locally, 
which is Cultural Crossroads, right? How do we infuse that into downtown 
redevelopment, right? How do we marry the public and the private sector with state 
monies? Hopefully we get a bond issue to put up some money to bring back the 
downtown area. 
Then we threw the race piece into it, right? The race reconciliation piece, right? I 
said, “Yes, Patty.” I said, “We have got to figure out a way. I mean, white folk and 
black folk got to sit down and say, ‘Look.’” She say, “I agree.” I say, “Well, can we do 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
84 
it through the arts?” I don’t know. I think maybe that day got together and talked. You 
and whatever. But the end result was that there were a lot of projects that we did. The 
plays. Carol was in one of them. And it was wicked. 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
EC: So you want to talk about that after we get everybody, get the others in 
here? 
JM: Oh, I’m sorry. 
EC: So what are the things that you would want people to know about the 
things that you try to do as county planner, about what you hope to be accomplished? So 
there’s a movement. You get black folks the right to vote and you organize to get people 
elected. What are you hoping is going to be accomplished, and sort of what’s your 
assessment of where we are? 
JM: What I hope is going to be accomplished is that the greatest good will be 
done for the greatest number. I keep saying that. I know I’m being repetitious, but that’s 
what I hope we’ll accomplish. If we were able to stabilize the community—. There were 
so many dynamics happening at one time. It’s hard to explain that to somebody who 
wasn’t back there in that day. I’m telling you. When Grand Gulf came to this 
community, it changed the whole dynamics of the community. I mean, there was so 
much money flowing through this place, but it was just flowing. It wasn’t taking roots 
nowhere. 
There was no businesses being created. There were no institutions in place. 
They were taking the money and leveraging the money, and reinvesting it back into the 
community, right? There were no businesses being developed, no jobs created. The 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
85 
school system was falling apart. People were moving. Even our best and our brightest 
were moving, leaving, and not coming back. There was a brain drain. So the middle 
class, that’s essential to any given community, stabilizes communities. Our middle class 
was just dying out, both black and white. And what we had left was a void. You had the 
very poor and the very rich. Nothing really in between as a buffer. And it was a recipe 
for disaster. 
Now, how do you change that? How do you reverse that? Part of what we 
thought was that if we just could get black folks and white folks talking, and interacting 
with each other, maybe that would break down some stereotypes and find some common 
ground. And for a minute that happened. We was effecting a lot of stuff, right? I mean, 
the ventures we did with the festivals. The Blues and Cruise Festival is a classic example 
of that. I mean, if somehow or another, that could have stayed in place, it would have 
been one of the premier festivals in this part of the state. But no. I know it would have 
been. It couldn’t help but have been. I mean, you ask Patty. I mean, the people that 
came through this community, man. We must have had what? Thirty, twenty-five, 
thirty-thousand people on motorcycles coming through here. They stayed here for a 
whole day, and half of the night. Some stayed over, rode through the community, had a 
festival. You don’t know who owned the motorcycles, but they do. It showcases 
[2:20:00] your community, right? Okay. So, I know. Yeah. 
EC: So shall we take a break? You want to go see Mom and Dad? 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0119 
12/4/2015 
James Miller, Carolyn Miller 
86 
Female 1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 28 2017