Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
1	  of	  20	  
Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  
Louisiana	  Division	  of	  the	  Arts	  
	  
Cheryl	  (Baker,	  Decorator),	  Felix	  Sr.	  (Baker,	  Manager),	  	  
and	  Felix	  Jr.	  (Marketing,	  Cake	  Delivery)	  Sherman,	  Owners	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  
	  
Baton	  Rouge,	  Louisiana	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  
April	  1,	  2015	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green,	  Ph.D.,	  Fieldworker	  
	  
Interview	  Identifier:	  afc2014023_02260	  
	  
INTERVIEW	  LOG	  
	  
NOTE:	  Direct	  quotes	  are	  indicates	  in	  italics.	  Also	  present	  during	  the	  interview	  is	  Yvette	  Folse,	  an	  
Ambrosia	  employee	  and	  Sherman	  family	  member	  by	  marriage.	  Throughout	  the	  interview,	  she	  
was	  working	  at	  a	  nearby	  desk	  in	  the	  wedding	  consultation	  room.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
00:01	  
Talking	  about	  silencing	  her	  cell	  phone.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
00:21	  
Asks	  about	  how	  much	  time	  they	  have	  for	  interview.	  Introduces	  the	  interview.	  Asks	  about	  how	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  got	  started.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
01:08	  
Getting	  started	  with	  The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  
He	  had	  lost	  his	  job	  24	  years	  ago,	  in	  1991.	  Cheryl	  had	  learned	  some	  cake	  decorating	  and	  had	  
been	  doing	  cakes	  for	  friends	  and	  relatives,	  and	  she	  worked	  for	  a	  small	  bakery	  down	  in	  Houma,	  
Louisiana	  for	  a	  couple	  of	  years.	  She	  taught	  them	  how	  to	  decorate	  cakes,	  because	  they	  were	  a	  
start-­‐up	  bakery	  at	  that	  time.	  The	  company	  he	  had	  been	  with	  was	  transferred	  to	  Baton	  Rouge,	  
and	  eight	  months	  later,	  "they	  merged	  with	  another	  company,	  and	  I	  had	  to	  find	  another	  career.	  
So	  I	  kind	  of	  teased	  Cheryl,	  I	  said,	  'Listen,	  I've	  supported	  you	  for	  25	  years,	  now	  it's	  your	  turn.'	  So	  I	  
said,	  'Why	  don't	  we	  open	  a	  bakery,	  since	  you	  can	  decorate	  cakes	  and	  have	  that	  expertise	  in	  that.	  
So	  we	  found	  a	  small	  place	  to	  lease,	  and	  that's	  how	  we	  started.	  We	  had	  one	  employee.	  And	  two	  
months	  after	  that,	  we	  had	  our	  second	  employee.	  And	  essentially,	  we've	  just	  grown	  leaps	  and	  
bounds."	  	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
2	  of	  20	  
The	  first	  little	  location	  wasn't	  as	  big	  as	  the	  lobby	  area	  of	  their	  current	  bakery.	  They	  first	  opened	  
the	  bakery	  on	  December	  1,	  1993.	  They	  opened	  in	  time	  for	  Christmas,	  Mardi	  Gras,	  "the	  whole	  
works."	  Cheryl:	  “Everything	  came	  on	  us.”	  They	  couldn't	  afford	  to	  advertise,	  so	  it	  was	  all	  word	  of	  
mouth,	  people	  stopping	  in,	  tasting	  their	  cakes,	  telling	  others,	  and	  it	  spread.	  This	  was	  in	  Baton	  
Rouge.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
03:19	  
Learning	  cake	  decorating;	  Baking	  in	  the	  family;	  Getting	  involved	  with	  the	  Retail	  Bakers	  
Association;	  Getting	  certified	  through	  the	  RBA	  
How	  did	  Cheryl	  learn	  cake	  decorating?	  When	  they	  were	  living	  in	  Metairie,	  Louisiana,	  New	  
Orleans,	  Cheryl	  was	  pregnant	  with	  their	  third	  child,	  and	  it	  was	  Felix	  Jr.'s	  13th	  birthday.	  A	  friend	  
of	  Cheryl's	  wanted	  to	  give	  her	  a	  cake	  for	  his	  birthday.	  This	  friend	  had	  learned	  cake	  decorating,	  
and	  so	  she	  brought	  over	  a	  football	  cake,	  with	  a	  football	  field.	  Cheryl	  looked	  at	  the	  cake	  and	  told	  
her	  friend,	  I	  can	  do	  this.	  She	  asked	  for	  the	  icing	  recipe,	  and	  she	  picked	  it	  up	  quickly	  and	  it	  
became	  a	  hobby.	  "Not	  knowing	  I	  would	  be	  opening	  a	  bakery	  so	  many	  years	  later."	  This	  would	  
have	  been	  1983.	  "My	  good	  friend	  Carol	  was	  the	  one	  who	  introduced	  me	  to	  even	  knowing	  
anything	  about	  learning	  to	  decorate	  a	  cake.	  I	  didn't	  have	  much	  experience	  at	  all.	  But	  I	  just,	  I	  just,	  
I	  loved	  it.	  My	  mother	  baked	  her	  own	  cakes	  at	  home.	  My	  grandfather	  baked,	  in	  World	  War	  II,	  in	  a	  
bakery	  in	  New	  Orleans,	  he	  did	  all	  kind	  of	  pies.	  He	  made	  their	  wedding	  cake,	  which	  I	  never	  knew	  
before,	  that	  happened.	  And	  we	  have	  a	  picture	  of	  my	  grandfather	  standing	  in	  front	  of	  a	  tin	  
building	  in	  New	  Orleans,	  holding	  a	  French	  bread,	  during	  World	  War	  II.	  So	  actually,	  it	  kind	  of	  
went	  down,	  I	  guess,	  and	  I	  picked	  it	  up.	  I	  was	  just	  fascinated	  with	  it."	  Did	  her	  grandfather's	  
baking	  have	  something	  to	  do	  with	  World	  War	  II?	  "It	  was	  just	  something	  he	  did.	  He	  baked	  pies,	  
and	  bread,	  and	  things	  like	  that,	  I	  guess,	  just	  to	  survive	  during	  World	  War	  II.	  And	  I	  mean,	  three	  
loaves	  of	  French	  bread	  were	  only	  a	  nickel	  back	  then,	  that	  was	  back	  in	  the	  '40s.	  And	  I	  have	  a	  
picture	  of	  that.	  I	  have	  to	  get	  it	  refurbished,	  but	  it's	  clear	  as	  day."	  She	  doesn't	  know	  the	  name	  of	  
the	  bakery	  where	  he	  worked.	  
	  
Her	  grandfather	  baked	  her	  parents'	  wedding	  cake.	  There	  is	  no	  photo	  of	  it,	  but	  her	  mother	  told	  
her	  about	  this.	  Cheryl's	  grandfather	  died	  when	  she	  was	  about	  nine	  years	  old,	  and	  she	  didn't	  
know	  he	  was	  a	  baker	  until	  after	  she	  was	  married.	  She	  only	  knew	  that	  he	  baked,	  she	  didn't	  know	  
anything	  else	  until	  years	  later.	  But	  they	  found	  these	  historic	  photos,	  taken	  during	  World	  War	  II.	  
It	  was	  astonishing	  to	  Cheryl	  to	  learn	  this	  about	  her	  grandfather.	  He	  also	  worked	  for	  Hubig's	  
Pies,	  baking	  pies	  for	  them,	  too.	  	  
	  
Before	  she	  learned	  to	  decorate	  cakes,	  she	  had	  just	  baked	  cakes	  for	  the	  family.	  As	  she	  learned	  to	  
decorate,	  she	  ended	  up	  doing	  family	  wedding	  cakes	  and	  birthday	  cakes.	  "It	  was	  just	  a	  hobby.	  
Not	  knowing	  that	  this	  hobby	  would	  turn	  into	  a	  business	  that	  we	  desperately	  needed."	  "It	  is	  an	  
amazing	  story,	  because	  everything	  I've	  learned	  since	  we've	  been	  married,	  really	  hindered	  
everything	  that	  was	  put	  together	  to	  make	  this	  bakery."	  As	  they	  moved	  from	  Metairie	  to	  Houma,	  
she	  started	  baking	  and	  decorating	  and	  learning	  more	  and	  more.	  And	  since	  she	  worked	  for	  a	  
company,	  she	  started	  working	  faster	  in	  decorating.	  That	  took	  her	  into	  learning	  about	  the	  bakery	  
business.	  From	  there,	  they	  were	  transferred	  to	  Baton	  Rouge,	  she	  didn't	  want	  to	  work	  in	  a	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
3	  of	  20	  
bakery	  because	  it	  was	  too	  much	  work,	  not	  knowing	  they	  would	  end	  up	  owning	  a	  bakery.	  "But	  I	  
still	  had	  the	  love	  of	  baking	  and	  decorating."	  	  
When	  they	  decided	  to	  open	  the	  bakery,	  they	  joined	  the	  Retail	  Bakers	  of	  America	  (RBA),	  and	  
they	  taught	  the	  Shermans	  a	  lot.	  She	  got	  her	  certification	  through	  them—which	  was	  a	  three-­‐day	  
test	  of	  learning	  and	  getting	  her	  certification,	  and	  knowing	  the	  things	  she	  was	  taught	  during	  the	  
process.	  She	  began	  saying,	  wow,	  this	  is	  going	  to	  be	  a	  fun	  thing	  to	  do,	  but	  it's	  going	  to	  be	  hard	  
work.	  And	  that's	  how	  it's	  been	  created,	  a	  lot	  of	  hard	  work.	  Felix	  Sr.	  became	  the	  president	  of	  the	  
RBA	  after	  several	  years	  in	  the	  business.	  In	  that	  capacity,	  they	  traveled	  all	  over	  the	  country	  and	  
visited	  other	  bakeries	  and	  learned	  and	  taught—people	  shared	  ideas	  and	  techniques—it	  was	  
wonderful.	  That’s	  how	  they	  grew.	  The	  members	  of	  the	  RBA	  meet	  once	  a	  year,	  all	  over	  the	  
country.	  	  
	  
The	  elder	  bakers	  taught	  them	  a	  lot—took	  all	  of	  their	  formulas	  and	  helped	  them	  formulate	  the	  
small	  batches	  Cheryl	  made	  into	  big	  batches.	  This	  was	  really	  important,	  because	  you	  lose	  
consistency	  when	  you	  create	  something	  bigger.	  So	  they	  taught	  her	  to	  take	  her	  recipes	  and	  
recreate	  them.	  The	  RBA	  mentors	  knew	  the	  chemistry;	  Cheryl	  didn't.	  There	  was	  a	  lot	  of	  
mentoring	  there.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
09:46	  
Ambrosia's	  recipes	  
Where	  did	  Cheryl's	  recipes	  originally	  come	  from?	  "My	  mom.	  I	  still	  have	  some	  written	  on	  a	  
brown	  piece	  of	  paper	  that	  my	  mother	  wrote,	  was	  her	  Jam	  Cake.	  And	  I	  have	  not	  introduced	  it	  yet.	  
And	  she	  wrote	  it	  on	  a	  brown	  paper	  bag.	  A	  jam	  cake	  .	  .	  .	  ho	  ho	  .	  .	  .	  it's	  a	  spice	  cake	  that	  has	  nuts	  
and	  fruit	  in	  it.	  And	  more	  like	  a	  jam	  in	  the	  batter.	  And	  then	  the	  outside	  is	  a	  pecan	  praline	  icing,	  
with	  pecans	  in	  it.	  And	  I	  could	  still	  smell	  her	  making	  that	  and	  pouring	  it	  over	  the	  cake—it's,	  it's	  
fabulous.	  It's	  a	  lot	  of	  hard	  work	  in	  that	  cake.	  A	  lot	  of	  time	  consuming—that's	  why	  I'm	  not	  
introducing	  it	  yet!	  I	  gotta	  get	  it	  formulated."	  Cheryl	  has	  created	  all	  the	  recipes.	  There	  were	  
some	  recipes	  she	  didn't	  know	  how	  to	  do,	  for	  example	  a	  fruitcake.	  She	  wanted	  to	  offer	  a	  real	  
good	  fruit	  cake.	  Her	  father	  had	  a	  grocery	  store	  and	  served	  Benson	  Fruitcakes.	  Cheryl	  loved	  
them.	  Not	  everyone	  likes	  fruitcake,	  but	  she	  wanted	  to	  make	  a	  special	  fruitcake.	  
	  
While	  Cheryl	  was	  in	  Wisconsin,	  getting	  her	  certification,	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  went	  to	  a	  meeting	  and	  
there	  was	  an	  older	  gentleman,	  Dexter	  Lawson,	  demonstrating	  how	  to	  make	  fruitcake.	  Felix	  Sr.	  
says	  he'll	  never	  forget	  him.	  Felix	  came	  back	  and	  said,	  "You're	  going	  to	  love	  this	  fruitcake."	  
Cheryl	  said,	  "Oh	  yeah?	  Prove	  it."	  And	  he	  did,	  and	  that	  recipe	  is	  now	  their	  fruitcake	  recipe,	  that	  
this	  gentleman	  shared	  for	  everyone	  at	  this	  meeting.	  She	  says	  it	  is	  the	  best	  fruitcake.	  Cheryl's	  
fruitcake	  cookie	  recipe	  came	  from	  Houma,	  and	  it's	  about	  "this	  long."	  Ambrosia	  makes	  it,	  as	  a	  
seasonal	  thing.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sr.	  also	  bakes,	  and	  did	  more	  especially	  when	  they	  started	  out.	  He	  has	  other	  people	  now	  
who	  do	  it	  for	  him.	  They	  now	  have	  65	  employees.	  They	  have	  the	  one	  location.	  
	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
4	  of	  20	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
12:05	  
Felix	  Jr.'s	  role	  in	  the	  bakery;	  David	  and	  Michael	  Sherman	  working	  in	  the	  bakery	  
LMG	  asks	  Felix	  Jr.	  when	  his	  generation	  became	  involved	  in	  the	  business?	  It's	  been	  about	  13,	  
going	  on	  14	  years.	  How	  did	  he	  get	  involved?	  "I	  needed	  a	  job."	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
12:16	  
"And	  we	  needed	  help.	  We	  wanted	  him	  in	  Baton	  Rouge,	  so	  we	  took	  him	  from	  New	  Orleans."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
12:24	  
He	  had	  moved	  from	  New	  Orleans	  to	  Baton	  Rouge,	  working	  for	  another	  company.	  When	  that	  
stopped	  happening,	  it	  was	  his	  turn	  to	  come	  and	  work	  for	  the	  family	  business.	  He	  went	  from	  a	  
corporate	  office	  with	  a	  floor-­‐to-­‐ceiling	  window	  overlooking	  the	  lake	  one	  day,	  to	  decorating	  
orange	  icing	  on	  top	  of	  cupcakes	  the	  next	  day.	  “It	  was	  interesting,	  but	  if	  that's	  where	  it's	  meant	  
to	  be,	  that's	  where	  it's	  meant	  to	  be.	  “	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
12:55	  
They	  brought	  him	  in	  and	  shared	  everything	  with	  him,	  taught	  him	  the	  ropes.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
13:14	  
Felix	  Jr.	  was	  in	  his	  early	  thirties	  when	  his	  parents	  opened	  the	  bakery.	  He	  would	  come	  up	  and	  
help	  out	  during	  king	  cake	  season,	  and	  the	  interest	  in	  what	  they	  were	  doing	  drew	  him	  to	  Baton	  
Rouge.	  At	  the	  time,	  he	  didn't	  expect	  to	  be	  working	  there,	  or	  that	  they	  would	  be	  expanding	  to	  
where	  they	  are	  today.	  Felix	  Jr.	  is	  one	  of	  three	  brothers	  who	  work	  at	  the	  bakery.	  He	  handles	  all	  
the	  marketing	  and	  advertising,	  repairs	  and	  maintenance,	  putting	  fondant	  on	  cakes,	  decorating	  
cakes,	  baking,	  repairs.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
13:56	  
"He	  can	  do	  it	  all	  now—plus."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
13:57	  
"You've	  got	  to	  know	  all	  these	  things."	  He	  delivers	  and	  sets	  up	  wedding	  cakes.	  Cheryl	  says	  he	  is	  
the	  only	  one	  she	  trusts	  besides	  herself	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  "You've	  got	  to	  learn	  a	  little	  bit	  of	  
everything."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
14:11	  
Felix	  Sr.	  and	  Cheryl	  occasionally	  do	  wedding	  cake	  deliveries—since	  Felix	  Jr.	  can't	  be	  in	  two	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
5	  of	  20	  
places	  at	  one	  time.	  Michael	  is	  the	  youngest	  son.	  He	  is	  is	  a	  computer	  engineer,	  and	  he	  works	  
with	  Dow.	  If	  they	  need	  him	  for	  something,	  he'll	  occasionally	  come	  in	  and	  help	  out.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
14:37	  
All	  of	  her	  sons	  know	  how	  to	  bake.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
14:41	  
Michael,	  their	  youngest	  son,	  was	  13	  years	  old	  when	  the	  family	  business	  started,	  so	  he	  started	  in	  
on	  the	  ground	  with	  them.	  The	  current	  building	  is	  Ambrosia’s	  third	  site.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
15:10	  
Going	  into	  business	  for	  themselves	  
How	  did	  it	  feel	  to	  start	  a	  bakery,	  after	  working	  for	  others?	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
15:13	  
It	  was	  tough	  for	  her,	  because	  she	  didn't	  know	  if	  she	  could	  do	  it,	  to	  make	  enough	  cakes	  for	  
people	  to	  buy	  to	  support	  them.	  Her	  opinion	  was,	  "Oh	  my	  God,	  I	  can't	  do	  this."	  She	  didn't	  have	  
the	  confidence	  to	  pull	  it	  off.	  Her	  brother	  said,	  'You	  know,	  if	  you	  put	  your	  heart	  into	  it,	  you're	  
going	  to	  do	  it.'	  And	  so	  finally,	  after	  a	  year,	  she	  realized	  she	  could	  only	  do	  what	  she	  could	  do,	  and	  
put	  out	  what	  she	  could	  put	  out,	  so	  they	  got	  help	  that	  they	  had	  to	  train	  and	  teach.	  Felix	  Sr.	  
taught	  them	  how	  to	  make	  icing,	  how	  to	  bake	  the	  cakes.	  Felix	  Sr.	  made	  the	  best	  cinnamon	  rolls,	  
ever.	  She	  hadn't	  known	  that	  about	  him	  before.	  All	  of	  her	  sons	  could	  take	  over	  right	  now	  and	  do	  
just	  about	  everything.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
16:09	  
About	  cake	  decorating,	  Cheryl	  observes,	  you've	  got	  to	  find	  talent	  when	  you	  decorate.	  Cheryl	  
couldn't	  do	  it	  all,	  the	  business	  grew	  too	  fast.	  They	  started	  hiring,	  up	  to	  five	  people.	  Some	  had	  
talent,	  some	  had	  to	  be	  taught.	  Some	  started	  as	  stackers,	  and	  Cheryl	  caught	  onto	  them,	  
recognized	  their	  talent,	  and	  began	  teaching	  them,	  and	  she	  could	  see	  some	  beautiful	  work	  
coming	  through.	  That	  helped	  her	  sit	  back	  and	  say,	  okay,	  now	  I	  have	  the	  confidence	  to	  get	  this	  
place	  going.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
17:12	  
Growing	  the	  business;	  Expanding	  the	  product	  line,	  naming	  the	  cakes;	  Strawberry	  cake	  stories	  
LMG	  asks	  how	  long	  it	  took	  before	  they	  realized,	  this	  is	  really	  going	  to	  happen?	  It	  happened	  
quickly!	  Cheryl	  describes	  the	  first	  location,	  having	  the	  oven	  behind	  her,	  the	  customers	  in	  front	  
of	  her,	  it	  was	  about	  1,000	  square	  feet.	  One	  Sunday,	  she	  just	  decided	  they	  were	  going	  to	  make	  
Turtle	  Cakes.	  She	  just	  began	  working	  on	  this	  project,	  had	  them	  lined	  up,	  with	  the	  customers	  her	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
6	  of	  20	  
watching	  her.	  It	  was	  on	  a	  Sunday	  morning,	  she	  says	  she’ll	  never	  forget	  it.	  People	  bought	  them.	  
"We	  just	  started	  with	  what	  we	  knew	  how	  to	  do,	  what	  to	  make."	  That	  was	  seven	  days	  a	  week,	  
and	  she	  is	  really	  glad	  not	  to	  be	  working	  seven	  days	  a	  week	  anymore.	  Back	  then,	  they	  would	  
come	  in	  at	  4:30	  am	  and	  work	  to	  close.	  They	  couldn’t	  do	  that	  now.	  They	  are	  grateful	  to	  have	  
help	  that	  can	  do	  that	  now,	  work	  open	  to	  close.	  "But	  a	  long	  time	  ago,	  it	  was	  rough	  hours.	  Long	  
hours."	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
18:01	  
"Dark	  o'clock	  to	  dark	  o'clock."	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
18:07	  
What	  was	  the	  starting	  line-­‐up	  of	  your	  recipes?	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
18:10	  
Cinnamon	  rolls,	  brownies,	  cookies,	  cake,	  muffins,	  wedding	  cake,	  yellow	  cake,	  chocolate	  cake.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
18:23	  
We	  started	  making	  strawberry	  cake.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
18:23	  
She	  began	  naming	  her	  cakes.	  Overnight,	  she	  had	  to	  think	  of	  names	  for	  these	  cakes,	  because	  it	  
was	  no	  longer	  a	  homemade	  recipe.	  So	  the	  chocolate	  cake	  became	  Scarlett	  O'Hara,	  and	  it's	  a	  
delicious	  cake	  that	  has	  turtle	  filling,	  chocolate	  butter	  cream	  filling,	  and	  a	  raspberry	  filling,	  with	  
two	  chocolate	  pours.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
18:46	  
Tell	  her	  why	  we	  call	  it	  Scarlett	  O'Hara	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
18:46	  
"We	  call	  it	  Scarlet	  O'Hara	  because	  after	  you	  eat	  it,	  you	  don't	  give	  a	  damn.	  I	  know	  I	  should	  have	  
called	  it	  Rhett	  Butler,	  but	  no,	  I	  call	  it	  Scarlett	  O'Hara.	  So	  I	  had	  a	  name	  for	  that	  cake."	  Turtle	  
filling	  is	  chocolate,	  caramel,	  and	  pecans.	  A	  Turtle	  Cake	  has	  a	  fudge	  pour	  over	  it,	  real	  fudge.	  	  
	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
19:09	  
They	  now	  have	  22	  specialty	  cakes.	  They	  are	  set—this	  is	  what	  they	  are	  and	  what	  they	  always	  will	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
7	  of	  20	  
be.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
19:14	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Cake,	  Fresh	  Strawberry	  Cake,	  Italian	  Cream	  Cake,	  Half	  and	  Half	  Doberge	  Cake,	  
you	  name	  it.	  That's	  their	  typical	  line.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
19:30	  
Tells	  the	  story	  of	  a	  call	  coming	  in	  to	  the	  call	  center,	  someone	  wanting	  to	  know	  how	  many	  
calories	  in	  a	  slice	  of	  strawberry	  cake.	  They	  put	  her	  on	  hold	  and	  went	  to	  find	  out,	  and	  when	  they	  
got	  back	  she	  said,	  'Oh	  never	  mind,	  I'm	  on	  my	  second	  slice	  anyhow.	  It	  doesn't	  matter.'	  “It's	  not	  
that	  heavy	  in	  calories,	  no	  it's	  a	  very	  light	  cake.”	  (laughing.)	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
20:04	  
It's	  one	  of	  the	  cakes	  they're	  known	  for,	  it's	  a	  very	  old-­‐fashioned	  cake.	  It's	  one	  of	  Cheryl's	  
mother's	  recipes.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
20:12	  
He	  went	  to	  a	  Sysco	  show	  in	  New	  Orleans	  today,	  and	  there	  were	  different	  booths.	  People	  at	  two	  
different	  booths	  stopped	  him	  to	  talk	  to	  him	  about	  their	  strawberry	  cake.	  Felix,	  Sr.	  tells	  a	  story	  
about	  how	  one	  said	  they	  were	  somewhere	  in	  a	  restaurant	  and	  someone	  shared	  a	  piece—which	  
surprised	  Felix,	  Sr.—that	  someone	  would	  share	  a	  piece	  of	  this	  cake!	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
20:35	  
When	  they	  first	  introduced	  the	  cake,	  it	  was	  expensive,	  because	  strawberries	  were	  expensive.	  It	  
was	  around	  Christmas,	  New	  Year's,	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  said,	  we're	  not	  going	  to	  make	  the	  cake,	  the	  
market	  price	  for	  strawberries	  are	  too	  expensive,	  $40	  a	  flat,	  we’ll	  wait	  for	  the	  price	  to	  come	  
down.	  A	  customer	  came	  in	  and	  fussed	  at	  them,	  he	  wanted	  them	  to	  make	  the	  cake.	  When	  Felix	  
Sr.	  explained	  about	  the	  strawberry	  prices,	  the	  customer	  said	  he	  didn't	  care,	  you	  make	  that	  cake	  
for	  me!	  That	  was	  years	  ago,	  and	  he	  still	  comes	  in—in	  fact	  he	  was	  there	  today.	  So,	  now	  they	  
make	  that	  cake	  every	  day,	  twelve	  months	  a	  year.	  That	  customer	  taught	  them	  a	  lesson!	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
21:22	  
There's	  an	  entire	  crew	  of	  women,	  eight	  ladies,	  and	  that's	  all	  they	  do,	  is	  prep	  the	  strawberries.	  
There	  is	  one	  woman	  who	  hulls	  strawberries,	  that's	  all	  she	  does.	  They	  have	  an	  electric	  slicer	  
now,	  but	  back	  then,	  the	  hulled	  and	  sliced	  them	  all	  by	  hand.	  	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
21:50	  
They	  found	  a	  strawberry	  slicer,	  a	  Robot	  Coupe,	  at	  a	  convention	  in	  California.	  They	  saw	  it	  and	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
8	  of	  20	  
they	  knew	  they	  had	  to	  get	  it.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
22:02	  
They’ve	  really	  cornered	  the	  strawberry	  market.	  In	  the	  beginning,	  would	  use	  three	  to	  six	  flats	  a	  
day,	  every	  other	  day.	  Now	  they	  are	  in	  excess	  of	  100-­‐150	  flats	  a	  week	  of	  just	  strawberries.	  We	  
keep	  the	  strawberry	  market	  going.	  This	  is	  to	  make	  hundreds	  of	  cakes,	  they	  sell	  out	  every	  day.	  
They	  sell	  more	  during	  the	  holidays.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
22:30	  
On	  a	  normal	  day,	  they	  sell	  about	  75.	  That’s	  on	  a	  normal	  day—they	  hope	  to	  do	  more	  over	  the	  
coming	  holiday	  weekend.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
22:50	  
Ambrosia	  Cake	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Cake	  is	  a	  yellow	  butter	  cake,	  with	  fillings	  of	  strawberry	  cream	  cheese,	  coconut,	  
and	  pineapple	  between	  the	  layers.	  It's	  covered	  in	  a	  cream	  with	  fresh	  coconut	  in	  it.	  It's	  a	  
delicious	  cake.	  She	  has	  done	  weddings	  with	  that	  filling,	  with	  the	  fresh	  strawberry	  cake,	  with	  just	  
flowers	  and	  fruit.	  "People	  love	  that	  cake—it	  really	  put	  us	  on	  the	  map."	  She	  didn't	  introduce	  that	  
cake	  right	  away,	  she	  thought	  it	  would	  be	  too	  homemade.	  Big	  mistake—as	  it	  has	  been	  very	  
popular.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
23:36	  
A	  lot	  of	  people	  confuse	  the	  Ambrosia	  Cake	  with	  the	  strawberry	  cake.	  Cheryl	  says	  she	  should	  
have	  named	  the	  strawberry	  cake	  the	  Ambrosia	  Cake,	  as	  people	  get	  confused.	  People	  call	  to	  
place	  phone	  orders	  and	  say,	  “I	  want	  one	  of	  those	  Ambrosia	  cakes,”	  meaning	  the	  strawberry	  
cake.	  They	  have	  trained	  their	  staff	  that	  when	  they	  are	  taking	  phone	  orders	  and	  people	  order	  
"that	  Ambrosia	  Cake,"	  to	  ask	  whether	  they	  mean	  the	  cake	  with	  the	  strawberries	  or	  with	  the	  
coconut.	  	  They	  need	  to	  be	  specific.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
23:58	  
You	  can	  always	  tell	  when	  they're	  a	  new	  customer!	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
24:01	  
Naming	  the	  bakery	  
Cheryl	  didn't	  want	  to	  call	  the	  bakery,	  Sherman	  Bakery,	  Cheryl's	  Bakery,	  or	  Cheryl's	  Cakes.	  But	  
she	  couldn't	  think	  of	  a	  good	  name.	  Their	  son	  Michael	  was	  taking	  Latin	  at	  Catholic	  High	  at	  the	  
time,	  and	  he	  said,	  "Ambrosia"	  means	  "food	  of	  the	  gods."	  Cheryl	  said,	  it's	  a	  very	  special	  name,	  
and	  Michael	  said,	  well,	  why	  not?	  It’s	  a	  very	  good	  name.	  And	  so	  Michael	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  decided	  on	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
9	  of	  20	  
the	  name.	  Other	  bakeries	  have	  taken	  the	  name,	  in	  Arizona	  and	  Arkansas.	  The	  Shermans'	  store	  is	  
The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
25:07	  
Felix	  Sr.	  talks	  about	  traveling	  an	  hour	  and	  a	  half	  to	  Houma,	  Louisiana	  with	  the	  Ambrosia	  cake.	  
They	  kept	  it	  cool	  with	  air	  conditioning.	  They	  also	  use	  a	  traveling	  rod	  for	  tall	  cakes.	  This	  is	  a	  
stainless	  steel	  rod	  that	  is	  driven	  through	  the	  middle	  of	  the	  cake	  and	  it	  anchors	  to	  a	  board	  at	  the	  
bottom.	  The	  board	  was	  a	  double	  board,	  to	  it	  was	  1"	  thick.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
25:46	  
We	  have	  developed	  techniques	  over	  the	  years	  for	  special	  situations,	  to	  support	  the	  cakes.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
26:01	  
Wedding	  cakes;	  The	  art	  of	  delivering	  cakes	  
They	  started	  out	  with	  wedding	  cakes	  when	  they	  opened	  the	  business,	  and	  they	  are	  an	  Ambrosia	  
specialty.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
26:02	  
It's	  actually	  part	  of	  our	  slogan,	  "Weddings	  are	  our	  specialty."	  Sometimes	  they	  have	  to	  turn	  
people	  away,	  depending	  on	  the	  distance	  for	  the	  delivery.	  If	  there	  are	  weddings	  on	  both	  sides	  of	  
the	  river,	  or	  even	  in	  New	  Orleans,	  Felix	  Jr.	  will	  take	  one,	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  and	  Cheryl	  will	  take	  the	  
other.	  Two	  weekends	  in	  a	  row,	  they	  had	  deliveries	  in	  Hammond,	  Louisiana.	  They	  can't	  handle	  it	  
if	  there	  are	  too	  many,	  too	  far	  apart,	  and	  Cheryl	  doesn't	  want	  just	  anybody	  to	  deliver	  a	  cake.	  
"We	  take	  pride	  in	  what	  we	  do,	  we	  want	  to	  be	  sure	  it	  gets	  there.	  We	  don't	  want	  to	  disappoint	  a	  
bride.	  So,	  we	  cannot	  take	  forty	  and	  fifty	  weddings	  a	  weekend,	  there's	  no	  way.	  No	  way.	  I	  don't	  
want	  to.	  I	  want	  my	  sanity."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
27:13	  
You	  could	  probably	  bake	  them,	  but	  it	  would	  be	  physically	  impossible	  to	  decorate	  them	  and	  get	  
them	  delivered.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
27:17	  
He'll	  have	  three	  or	  four	  in	  their	  van	  at	  a	  time,	  and	  he'll	  go	  from	  one	  venue	  to	  the	  next,	  making	  
round	  abouts,	  then	  coming	  back	  and	  getting	  more.	  These	  three	  are	  only	  ones	  who	  deliver	  the	  
cakes.	  Occasionally,	  David	  or	  Michael	  will	  deliver,	  but	  the	  vehicles	  are	  important.	  They	  put	  grip	  
in	  the	  van,	  and	  they	  have	  special	  techniques	  to	  make	  sure	  the	  cakes	  don’t	  slip.	  Some	  of	  the	  
cakes	  are	  really	  tall,	  so	  they	  have	  to	  take	  special	  care	  of	  them.	  People	  wonder	  how	  they	  do	  
what	  they	  do.	  They’ve	  been	  doing	  it	  such	  a	  long	  time	  and	  they're	  professionals,	  that's	  what	  they	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
10	  of	  20	  
do.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
28:06	  
They’ve	  had	  different	  techniques	  shown	  to	  them	  at	  conventions	  and	  such,	  but	  they	  look	  like	  a	  
circus	  to	  the	  Shermans—they	  say	  no	  thanks,	  they	  have	  their	  own	  tried	  and	  true	  methods.	  
	  
Cheryl	  had	  just	  done	  a	  wedding	  consultation	  before	  the	  interview.	  She	  takes	  wedding	  
consultations,	  Tuesdays,	  Wednesdays,	  Thursdays,	  occasionally	  Fridays,	  and	  very	  occasionally	  
Saturdays,	  if	  she's	  not	  real	  busy	  in	  the	  decorating	  room.	  They	  are	  closed	  on	  Mondays.	  What	  is	  
the	  process	  for	  doing	  wedding	  cakes?	  People	  make	  an	  appointment	  or	  see	  them	  at	  a	  bridal	  
show—they	  do	  two	  bridal	  shows	  a	  year.	  The	  customers	  will	  sign	  up,	  and	  Ambrosia’s	  will	  get	  
their	  name,	  the	  date	  of	  the	  wedding,	  and	  check	  their	  calendar—having	  eight	  and	  ten	  weddings	  
in	  a	  weekend	  is	  highly	  booked	  for	  them.	  They'll	  have	  to	  turn	  people	  away,	  in	  that	  case,	  and	  
people	  understand.	  If	  they	  have	  that	  many	  weddings	  between	  Friday	  evening	  and	  Sunday,	  they	  
have	  to	  split	  up	  the	  deliveries.	  She	  doesn't	  trust	  just	  anyone	  with	  the	  deliveries.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
29:44	  
Groom’s	  cakes	  
They	  do	  a	  lot	  of	  groom's	  cakes.	  Cheryl	  confirms	  that	  groom's	  cake	  is	  a	  Southern	  phenomenon,	  
until	  recently.	  Previously	  in	  the	  north,	  they	  never	  heard	  of	  groom's	  cake,	  but	  now	  it's	  becoming	  
popular.	  It's	  become	  very	  popular	  in	  Louisiana.	  Most	  of	  the	  time,	  the	  groom	  comes	  with	  the	  
bride	  to	  plan	  the	  groom's	  cake.	  Occasionally,	  the	  bride	  surprises	  the	  groom.	  If	  the	  groom	  has	  a	  
set	  thing	  that	  he	  wants,	  he	  describes	  it	  to	  the	  Ambrosia	  staff.	  If	  they	  can	  do	  it,	  Cheryl	  will	  tell	  
them.	  She	  gets	  Felix's	  assistant	  to	  help	  if	  they	  have	  to	  build	  a	  prop.	  Some	  of	  these	  groom's	  
cakes	  get	  so	  intense,	  they	  have	  to	  build	  props.	  It	  depends	  on	  if	  they	  can	  do	  that	  particular	  kind	  
of	  groom's	  cake	  on	  a	  particular	  weekend.	  It's	  not	  just	  a	  sheet	  cake,	  it's	  building	  a	  truck,	  an	  
airplane,	  a	  building,	  a	  bridge,	  a	  castle—"You	  name	  it,	  I've	  got	  hit	  with	  it.	  Or	  sculpting	  a	  dog."	  	  
	  
For	  two	  veterinarians	  who	  were	  getting	  married,	  they	  had	  Cheryl	  do	  a	  football	  field	  with	  their	  
dog	  sitting	  on	  it,	  and	  they	  actually	  gave	  her	  the	  measurements	  of	  every	  inch	  of	  that	  dog,	  from	  
tip	  to	  tail,	  and	  she	  had	  to	  follow	  the	  measurements.	  She	  also	  had	  a	  photograph	  to	  work	  from.	  It	  
was	  intense,	  to	  measure	  the	  neck	  just	  so,	  etc.	  And	  then	  they	  had	  to	  deliver	  it	  an	  hour	  away.	  
Does	  she	  enjoy	  the	  challenge?	  She	  enjoys	  the	  challenge	  if	  she	  is	  not	  rushed,	  if	  that's	  what	  she	  
has	  to	  work	  on	  that	  weekend,	  if	  she	  has	  enough	  time	  to	  work	  on	  it,	  because	  you	  have	  to	  have	  
skilled	  help.	  If	  they	  are	  not	  there,	  she	  has	  to	  do	  it.	  She	  judges	  what	  she	  can	  take	  on	  by	  what	  she	  
knows	  she	  can	  do,	  and	  what	  help	  she	  can	  get	  to	  do	  it.	  She	  has	  learned	  from	  experience.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
32:02	  
Getting	  certified	  as	  a	  decorator;	  Judging	  national	  competitions;	  Participating	  in	  Retail	  Bakers	  
of	  America	  and	  the	  Retail	  Purchasers	  in	  Action—professional	  organizations	  
Felix	  Jr.	  points	  out	  that	  his	  mom	  is	  the	  first	  certified	  decorator	  in	  Louisiana.	  Cheryl	  corrects	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
11	  of	  20	  
him—her	  daughter-­‐in-­‐law	  Holly	  did	  it	  first.	  Cheryl	  did	  the	  certification	  in	  Wisconsin.	  What	  does	  
it	  mean	  to	  become	  certified?	  You	  do	  testing	  on	  the	  knowledge	  that	  you	  know.	  Judges	  from	  the	  
RBA	  and	  culinary	  judges	  judge	  those	  going	  through	  the	  certification.	  You	  have	  to	  pass	  the	  test—
making	  icing,	  sculpting,	  putting	  a	  wedding	  cake	  together.	  And	  you	  only	  have	  so	  many	  hours	  to	  
do	  this.	  You	  have	  to	  make	  your	  own	  icing	  at	  the	  judging,	  sculpt	  a	  cake—it's	  an	  entire	  day	  of	  
testing.	  That's	  why	  Cheryl	  has	  a	  CD	  after	  her	  name	  and	  embroidered	  on	  her	  chef’s	  jackets,	  it	  
means	  Certified	  Decorator.	  Felix	  Sr.	  doesn't	  have	  this.	  Most	  people	  pass.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
33:17	  
The	  RBA	  have	  asked	  Cheryl	  to	  judge	  competitions	  since	  she	  became	  certified,	  and	  for	  a	  few	  
years	  she	  did	  judging	  for	  RBA	  national	  cake	  decorating	  competitions.	  It	  was	  a	  two-­‐day	  process,	  
sculpting	  one	  day,	  decorating	  the	  next	  day,	  and	  they	  would	  be	  judged	  on	  performance.	  You	  
learn	  through	  experience,	  and	  know	  what	  to	  look	  for	  as	  a	  judge,	  in	  the	  contestants'	  work.	  How	  
do	  they	  make	  their	  shells?	  Do	  they	  make	  the	  icing	  correctly?	  Is	  the	  cake	  leaning,	  is	  it	  straight?	  
You	  have	  about	  ten	  points	  of	  interests	  to	  judge	  them	  for	  this.	  	  
	  
One	  of	  the	  girls	  who	  used	  to	  work	  for	  Ambrosia	  won	  the	  Pillsbury	  National	  Competition,	  and	  
she	  started	  at	  Ambrosia	  as	  a	  stacker.	  She	  won	  Grand	  Champion.	  There	  is	  only	  one	  Grand	  
Champion	  a	  year.	  Cheryl	  couldn’t	  judge	  that	  one,	  since	  this	  contestant	  was	  an	  employee.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
34:36	  
Preparing	  for	  the	  certification	  process	  entails	  studying.	  To	  even	  qualify	  for	  being	  tested,	  you	  
have	  to	  have	  been	  working	  in	  the	  business	  for	  at	  least	  five	  years.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
34:48	  
All	  their	  cakes	  are	  on	  display	  over	  the	  entire	  weekend	  of	  the	  event.	  And	  so	  you	  can	  look	  at	  them	  
and	  see	  who	  really	  knows	  their	  stuff	  and	  who	  doesn't.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
34:54	  
And	  how	  fast,	  too,	  they	  judge	  on	  time.	  The	  meetings	  used	  to	  be	  once	  a	  year,	  now	  they	  are	  
every	  three	  years.	  The	  Shermans	  have	  made	  friends	  all	  over	  the	  United	  States.	  They	  visit	  each	  
other's	  bakeries.	  A	  group	  of	  them	  will	  go	  on	  tours	  of	  the	  bakeries.	  They	  look	  inside	  the	  bakery	  
and	  outside	  the	  bakeries,	  to	  see	  the	  different	  things	  they	  do.	  The	  groups	  come	  to	  The	  Ambrosia	  
Bakery.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
35:28	  
There	  is	  another	  group	  of	  bakers	  they	  belong	  to,	  and	  every	  year	  they	  have	  a	  meeting	  (RPIA,	  
Retail	  Purchasers	  in	  Action).	  Last	  year,	  the	  meeting	  	  was	  in	  New	  Orleans.	  The	  group	  consists	  of	  
75-­‐80	  bakeries	  from	  all	  over	  the	  country—New	  York,	  Arkansas,	  California,	  New	  Jersey,	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
12	  of	  20	  
Washington	  State,	  all	  over.	  They	  met	  in	  New	  Orleans,	  and	  on	  the	  last	  day	  they	  got	  on	  two	  buses	  
and	  toured	  Ambrosia	  and	  three	  other	  bakeries,	  all	  the	  way	  into	  Mississippi.	  It	  was	  right	  during	  
king	  cake	  season.	  It	  was	  rough.	  These	  are	  bakery	  owners	  of	  bakeries	  that	  have	  been	  in	  business	  
fifty,	  sixty,	  eighty	  years.	  Ambrosia	  is	  only	  22	  years	  old.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
36:19	  
"Some	  of	  the	  bakery	  owners	  own	  one	  location.	  Some	  of	  them	  own	  two	  locations.	  Some	  of	  them	  
own	  thirteen	  locations.	  And	  we	  have	  a	  brand	  new	  member	  that's	  part	  of	  the	  RPIA	  (Retail	  
Purchasers	  in	  Action)	  that	  owns	  over	  100	  bakery	  locations.	  And	  so	  they're	  incredible	  peers.	  And	  
iron	  sharpens	  iron,	  and	  these	  guys,	  you	  know	  we	  all—they're	  just	  a	  phone	  call	  or	  an	  e-­‐mail	  
away,	  and	  everybody's	  always	  willing	  to	  help	  each	  other,	  it's	  amazing.	  It's	  a	  great—it's	  a	  great	  
organization.”	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
36:46	  
They'll	  call	  us,	  we'll	  call	  them.	  That's	  what	  the	  organization	  does.	  We	  have	  benefited	  from	  the	  
organization.	  They	  really	  encouraged	  them	  to	  go	  further	  and	  to	  know	  more	  things	  than	  we	  
knew.	  Because	  you	  don't	  know	  everything.	  We're	  still	  learning	  techniques,	  and	  flavors,	  and	  the	  
conventions	  help	  us	  with	  that.	  Because	  these	  are	  people	  who	  actually	  make	  the	  flavors,	  they	  
have	  chemistry	  on	  making	  these	  flavors,	  that	  the	  Shermans	  can	  use,	  different	  vendors.	  Christina	  
Nicosia,	  at	  the	  [Louisiana]	  Culinary	  Institute	  [at	  Louisiana	  State	  University],	  will	  come	  to	  
Ambrosia.	  Ambrosia	  staff	  teaches	  some	  of	  Nicosia’s	  students	  how	  to	  decorate	  cakes.	  They'll	  
stay	  at	  Ambrosia	  for	  little	  while,	  and	  they	  learn	  how	  to	  make	  a	  rose,	  to	  ice	  a	  cake—because	  
they	  only	  learn	  so	  much	  over	  there.	  And	  so	  we	  share	  with	  the	  Institute.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
38:01	  
There	  are	  a	  lot	  of	  benefits	  to	  belonging	  to	  the	  RPIA,	  they	  have	  buying	  power.	  It's	  like	  a	  co-­‐op,	  
almost.	  You	  have	  access	  to	  equipment,	  ingredients.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
38:29	  
They	  found	  a	  mixer	  that	  they	  fell	  in	  love	  with	  at	  the	  convention	  in	  Las	  Vegas,	  and	  so	  they	  
bought	  it.	  It	  was	  shipped	  it	  to	  them,	  and	  they	  love	  it.	  It’s	  an	  added	  tool.	  It	  helps	  them	  deal	  with	  
the	  added	  volume	  at	  king	  cake	  season.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
38:41	  
Building	  success	  
What	  do	  you	  think	  accounts	  for	  your	  success?	  
	  
	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
13	  of	  20	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
38:45	  
"Hard	  work.	  Dedication.	  Determination."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
38:49	  
"Striving	  for	  excellence	  by	  all	  means,	  because	  I	  think	  that's	  why	  most	  people	  come	  to	  us,	  
because	  what	  they	  see,	  through	  all	  the	  photographs	  and	  everything	  that	  we	  do,	  they	  actually	  
get,	  you	  know?	  So	  we	  deliver.	  And	  so,	  we've	  really	  developed	  a	  high	  expectation.	  We’ve	  got	  very	  
high	  expectation	  clients,	  customers,	  that	  expect	  a	  lot	  from	  us,	  and	  so	  we've	  got	  to	  step	  up	  to	  the	  
plate	  and	  make	  sure	  that	  gets	  done.”	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
39:15	  
Yeah,	  that	  keeps	  us	  on	  the	  move.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
39:23	  
Wedding	  cake	  
How	  did	  the	  wedding	  cakes	  become	  one	  of	  your	  specialties?	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
39:28	  
I	  don’t	  know,	  it	  just	  happened!	  What	  can	  I	  say?	  Excellence	  in	  decorating.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
39:28	  
Well,	  it's	  a	  piece	  of	  art.	  It's	  art.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
39:34	  
And	  of	  course,	  the	  taste,	  the	  flavor.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
39:34	  
It's	  artwork	  and	  the	  flavor,	  and	  the	  taste	  of	  it.	  And	  if	  you've	  got	  a	  wedding	  with	  200	  people	  at	  it,	  
some	  of	  those	  200	  people	  will	  wonder	  where	  the	  cake	  came	  from,	  and	  they'll	  come	  to	  
Ambrosia.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
39:56	  
It	  has	  to	  be	  just	  as	  good	  on	  the	  inside	  as	  it	  looks	  on	  the	  outside.	  	  
	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
14	  of	  20	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
40:05	  
"One	  of	  the	  biggest	  compliments	  that	  we	  get	  is,	  especially	  from	  the	  locations	  that	  are	  hosting	  
the	  wedding,	  is	  that	  they	  love	  cutting	  our	  cake.	  They	  love	  the	  consistency	  of	  what	  we	  actually	  
have	  to	  offer.	  A	  lot	  of	  couples	  getting	  married,	  they’ve	  got	  to	  save	  money	  and	  do	  what	  they	  can.	  
And	  so,	  they'll	  do	  the	  best	  that	  they	  can	  do	  with	  the	  wedding	  and	  cake.	  And	  they	  may	  cut	  it	  and	  
it	  may	  start	  falling	  apart,	  and	  it	  really	  gives	  them	  a	  real	  struggle.	  And	  one	  of	  the	  biggest	  
compliments	  we	  get	  all	  the	  time,	  every	  weekend,	  over	  and	  over	  again	  is,	  'Fantastic—oh	  thank	  
God	  it's	  an	  Ambrosia	  cake,	  I	  know	  exactly	  what	  I'm	  getting.	  I'll	  be	  able	  to	  cut	  this	  one.’	  You	  
know?'”	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
40:46	  
This	  is	  from	  the	  vendors.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
40:49	  
What	  do	  you	  think	  makes	  your	  cakes	  so	  special?	  So	  consistent?	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
40:53	  
(sighs)	  "Consistency.	  Consistency,	  consistency."	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
40:57	  
"Love,	  sweat,	  and	  tears."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
40:58	  
"Consistency,	  and	  .	  .	  .	  "	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
40:58	  
"And	  love,	  sweat	  and	  tears.	  Because	  occasionally	  you	  have	  a	  baker	  that	  over	  bakes	  it.	  And	  thank	  
God,	  I	  have	  the	  lady	  who	  stacks	  my	  wedding	  cakes.	  She	  knows	  what	  to	  look	  for,	  and	  if	  she	  
knows	  it's	  over	  baked,	  back	  to	  the	  drawing	  board	  she'll	  go.	  And	  she'll	  tell	  'em,	  'Not	  acceptable—
do	  it	  again.'	  And	  she	  knows	  what	  I	  want.	  She	  knows	  what	  quality	  we	  want.	  And	  she's	  been	  with	  
us	  thirteen	  years.	  And	  I	  expect	  her	  to	  know	  that,	  because	  I	  don't	  see	  her	  stacking	  my	  cakes	  every	  
day.	  She's	  so	  fast,	  and	  she	  comes	  in	  very	  early	  in	  the	  morning."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
41:33	  
She	  comes	  in	  at	  3:00	  in	  the	  morning.	  	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
15	  of	  20	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
41:35	  
“She	  lives	  in	  Lafayette.	  She	  drives	  here	  with	  her	  husband	  every	  morning.	  And	  she'll	  know	  when	  
the	  cake	  is	  over	  baked,	  because	  when	  the	  cake	  is	  over	  baked,	  people	  think	  it’s	  dry.	  So	  you	  can't	  
over	  bake—you	  have	  to	  get	  it	  just	  right.	  And	  she's	  the	  one	  who	  tells	  us.	  Okay,	  this	  is	  good	  
enough.	  This	  is	  fine.	  Okay.	  Thank	  God.”	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
41:58	  
It's	  the	  foundation	  for	  our	  wedding	  cake.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
41:58	  
“And	  the	  flavor	  and	  everything	  like	  that	  is	  definitely—'cause	  if	  not,	  I'll	  go	  back	  there."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
42:07	  
"They	  don't	  want	  her	  to	  go	  back	  there."	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
42:08	  
“They	  don't	  want	  me	  to	  go	  back	  there!”	  What's	  the	  most	  popular	  flavor	  for	  the	  wedding	  cake?	  
They	  have	  about	  thirteen	  or	  fourteen	  fillings	  that	  they	  pick	  from.	  Lately	  it's	  been	  plain.	  Brides	  
don't	  want	  fruit-­‐filled.	  The	  mothers	  do,	  but	  the	  brides	  want	  plain.	  She	  shows	  a	  brochure	  with	  a	  
list	  of	  the	  fillings	  they	  offer.	  The	  raspberry-­‐cream	  cheese,	  seems	  to	  be	  the	  most	  popular,	  from	  
the	  plain	  butter	  cream.	  The	  pecan	  praline	  takes	  about	  four	  hours	  to	  make	  that	  sauce,	  so	  they	  
start	  that	  early	  in	  the	  morning.	  It's	  a	  great	  sauce	  to	  put	  between	  layers.	  They	  have	  Bavarian	  
creme.	  There	  is	  a	  fresh	  strawberry	  filling.	  Occasionally,	  a	  bride	  doesn't	  want	  any	  of	  what	  they	  
have	  on	  their	  list,	  and	  she	  tells	  them	  what	  she	  wants,	  and	  Cheryl	  says,	  okay,	  if	  	  I	  can	  make	  it,	  I'll	  
do	  it.	  Most	  of	  the	  time	  the	  brides	  go	  with	  what	  Ambrosia	  already	  offers.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
43:22	  
Shows	  a	  popular	  design,	  with	  the	  magnolias,	  he	  has	  started	  calling	  it	  the	  Louisiana	  State	  
Wedding	  Cake.	  It's	  unofficially	  the	  Louisiana	  State	  Wedding	  Cake,	  but	  maybe	  if	  we	  keep	  talking	  
about	  it,	  it	  could	  become	  the	  official	  wedding	  cake	  of	  Louisiana.	  It's	  a	  great	  representation,	  it's	  
really	  popular,	  especially	  when	  it's	  sitting	  inside	  of	  a	  plantation	  house.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
43:42	  
Or	  the	  Old	  State	  Capitol—that's	  perfect.	  The	  flowers	  are	  made	  from	  gum	  paste,	  you	  couldn't	  
have	  fresh	  magnolias	  on	  the	  cake,	  they	  would	  turn	  brown.	  Occasionally,	  wedding	  cakes	  have	  
fresh	  flowers,	  from	  the	  florist,	  on	  the	  cakes,	  and	  they're	  beautiful.	  	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
16	  of	  20	  
What	  is	  their	  signature	  wedding	  cake?	  [Cheryl	  gets	  up	  to	  show	  it.]	  Honestly,	  this	  little	  cake,	  with	  
the	  fleur	  de	  lys.	  Holly,	  their	  daughter-­‐in-­‐law,	  came	  to	  work	  for	  Ambrosia	  when	  she	  was	  in	  high	  
school.	  Cheryl	  taught	  her	  to	  decorate.	  She	  created	  this	  “deco.”	  Holly	  hasn’t	  decorated	  at	  
Ambrosia	  for	  about	  ten	  years.	  She	  married	  their	  son,	  and	  they	  went	  to	  college.	  Holly	  got	  a	  
master's	  degree.	  She	  developed	  this	  design	  over	  time.	  It's	  been	  the	  most	  popular	  design.	  Then	  
they	  created	  the	  other	  designs.	  Cheryl	  likes	  the	  fancy	  border,	  but	  some	  brides	  will	  come	  in	  and	  
say,	  'I	  want	  something	  plain.	  I	  want	  something	  simple.'	  Working	  with	  the	  brides,	  Cheryl	  draws	  
up	  their	  creativity,	  asking	  as	  she	  goes,	  would	  you	  like	  a	  little	  bit	  of	  this,	  and	  a	  little	  of	  that?	  And	  
she	  draws	  it	  up	  for	  them.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
45:14	  
Points	  out	  Holly	  and	  Michael	  in	  a	  wedding	  picture,	  15	  years	  ago.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
45:22	  
Holly	  designed	  and	  made	  her	  own	  wedding	  cake,	  with	  Cheryl's	  help.	  Cheryl	  said	  she	  made	  Holly	  
do	  this.	  Cheryl	  did	  Yvette's	  wedding	  cake,	  David	  and	  Melissa's,	  and	  all	  the	  nieces	  and	  nephews	  
in	  the	  family,	  from	  way	  back.	  They	  have	  even	  taken	  a	  cake	  to	  Alabama.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
45:45	  
Talks	  about	  the	  groom's	  cake	  for	  that	  wedding.	  The	  groom	  went	  to	  Lafayette	  State	  University	  
(LSU)	  and	  the	  wedding	  was	  in	  Alabama,	  so	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  there	  went	  to	  the	  University	  of	  
Alabama.	  The	  cake	  was	  a	  football	  field,	  with	  one	  side	  LSU	  and	  the	  other	  Alabama.	  The	  people	  
from	  Alabama	  would	  not	  eat	  any	  of	  the	  LSU	  side.	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
46:03	  
"It	  was	  a	  joke.	  But	  they	  wouldn't!	  They	  were	  going	  to	  have	  house	  divided.	  We	  had	  the	  biggest	  
kick	  our	  of	  that.	  But	  that	  was	  the	  furthest	  we	  ever	  went	  with	  a	  wedding	  cake,	  to	  Alabama.	  And	  
it	  made	  it,	  it	  was	  beautiful	  when	  it	  got	  there.	  I	  said,	  'Thank	  you,	  Lord!'	  It	  made	  it."	  
	  
Does	  Cheryl	  stay	  in	  touch	  with	  the	  brides	  after	  the	  wedding?	  "I	  see	  their	  children!"	  Sometimes	  
they	  do	  the	  children's	  wedding	  cakes.	  The	  parents	  come	  in	  and	  talk	  about	  it.	  Cheryl's	  youngest	  
brother	  who	  was	  working	  at	  the	  bakery.	  He's	  an	  OB	  GYN,	  and	  what	  he	  did	  to	  help	  Ambrosia	  
when	  they	  were	  first	  starting	  out,	  he	  would	  give	  a	  prescription	  for	  a	  free	  cake	  from	  Ambrosia	  
when	  a	  baby	  is	  born—either	  for	  a	  christening	  cake	  or	  a	  first	  birthday	  cake.	  And	  that's	  how	  he	  
helped	  Cheryl.	  He	  would	  give	  the	  prescriptions	  to	  Cheryl	  and	  he	  would	  pay	  for	  the	  cake.	  People	  
still	  talk	  about	  it—the	  other	  day	  a	  gentleman	  came	  in	  and	  said,	  “'You	  want	  to	  see	  the	  
prescription	  cake	  baby?	  He's	  eighteen	  years	  old	  now.'	  He	  says	  he's	  never	  forgotten	  that,	  my	  
brother	  writing	  out	  a	  prescription	  for	  a	  cake.	  It	  was	  his	  gift	  to	  the	  couple."	  That	  helped	  develop	  
clients,	  because	  they	  didn't	  advertise,	  it	  was	  all	  word	  of	  mouth.	  It	  brought	  customers	  to	  
Ambrosia.	  He	  kept	  that	  up	  for	  about	  a	  year	  or	  two,	  until	  he	  moved	  on.	  	  	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
17	  of	  20	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
48:01	  
Baton	  Rouge	  and	  Cakes;	  King	  cake	  
What	  is	  it	  about	  Baton	  Rouge	  and	  cakes?	  Cheryl	  says	  that	  people	  love	  desserts	  and	  people	  love	  
to	  eat	  good	  food.	  	  
	  
They	  do	  a	  lot	  of	  king	  cakes.	  Their	  employee,	  Yvette	  Folse,	  writes	  up	  the	  orders,	  and	  Felix,	  Sr.	  
handles	  the	  shipping.	  It's	  a	  lot—they	  hire	  extra	  help	  for	  that,	  as	  it's	  all	  from	  scratch.	  It's	  a	  lot	  of	  
hands-­‐on,	  a	  lot	  of	  nights.	  A	  lot	  of	  people	  want	  that	  king	  cake	  when	  they	  walk	  in	  the	  morning.	  
They	  ship	  king	  cakes	  all	  over	  the	  U.S.	  They	  are	  shipped	  out	  the	  day	  they	  are	  baked.	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
49:10	  
Ambrosia's	  signature	  king	  cakes	  are	  traditional.	  Cheryl	  says,	  “Nah	  .	  .	  .	  ”	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
49:17	  
That's	  with	  cinnamon	  sugar.	  They	  created	  a	  Zulu	  King	  Cake,	  that	  is	  chocolate,	  coconut,	  and	  
cream	  cheese,	  with	  chocolate	  on	  top.	  It's	  reminiscent	  of	  the	  Zulu	  Parade	  in	  New	  Orleans,	  
they're	  from	  New	  Orleans	  originally,	  so	  there's	  a	  lot	  of	  history	  behind	  that,	  and	  it's	  extremely	  
popular.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
49:42	  
Cheryl	  has	  done	  a	  pecan	  praline	  version	  and	  a	  strawberry	  cream	  cheese—these	  are	  very	  
popular.	  Felix	  Jr.	  says	  those	  were	  his	  mother's	  invention.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
49:50	  
When	  they	  were	  in	  the	  first	  shop,	  there	  was	  a	  professor	  from	  LSU	  who	  was	  a	  member	  of	  that	  
organization	  (Zulu	  Aid	  and	  Pleasure	  Club).	  He	  heard	  about	  their	  Zulu	  king	  cake.	  He	  had	  his	  
secretary	  type	  up	  the	  history	  of	  the	  organization.	  So	  every	  Zulu	  king	  cake	  that	  they	  shipped	  out,	  
they	  put	  the	  history	  in	  there.	  You	  had	  to	  be	  a	  member	  of	  the	  organization	  to	  be	  able	  to	  buy	  the	  
beads	  and	  the	  balloons.	  He	  would	  go	  and	  buy	  these	  things,	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  would	  buy	  them	  from	  
him,	  and	  the	  customer	  would	  get	  the	  Zulu	  beads,	  balloon,	  and	  cup	  in	  the	  package.	  The	  
customers	  loved	  it.	  It	  was	  interesting	  to	  the	  customers.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
50:38	  
They	  have	  done	  innovations	  on	  the	  king	  cake,	  but	  they	  try	  to	  keep	  it	  traditional,	  "because	  the	  
king	  cake	  itself	  is	  a	  tradition,	  you	  know?	  And	  there's	  a	  tradition	  behind	  the	  oval	  shape	  of	  it,	  the	  
colors,	  the	  purple,	  green,	  and	  gold,	  and	  the	  history	  of	  it.	  So	  we	  try	  to	  keep	  it	  within	  that	  
tradition.	  A	  lot	  of	  bakeries	  now	  are	  just	  trying	  to	  come	  up	  with	  all	  these	  crazy,	  fancy	  ideas.	  But	  
it's—it	  all	  boils	  down	  to,	  it's	  a	  tradition.	  And	  so	  we	  like	  our	  traditional	  king	  cake."	  The	  write-­‐up	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
18	  of	  20	  
on	  the	  history	  of	  king	  cake	  is	  all	  available	  on	  their	  website.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
51:18	  
Baking	  cakes	  for	  Governor	  Jindal	  and	  Governor	  Mike	  Foster	  
Cheryl	  got	  to	  bake	  Governor	  Jindal's	  wedding	  cake.	  She	  did	  Governor	  [Mike]	  Foster's	  
inauguration	  cake,	  his	  birthday	  cake.	  [Yvette	  Folse	  says	  they	  have	  some	  king	  cake	  on	  the	  
counter;	  Cheryl	  tells	  her	  to	  go	  get	  LMG	  a	  piece	  of	  it.]	  The	  governor	  is	  now	  married	  and	  with	  
children	  now,	  but	  every	  time	  he	  sees	  the	  Shermans,	  he	  remembers	  exactly	  what	  filling	  was	  in	  
that	  wedding	  cake—raspberry	  cream	  cheese.	  How	  did	  that	  come	  about?	  Bobby	  Jindal	  came	  
into	  their	  very	  first	  shop,	  before	  he	  was	  governor.	  He	  and	  his	  wife	  sat	  down	  and	  Cheryl	  did	  their	  
wedding	  cake.	  The	  wedding	  was	  at	  the	  Governor's	  Mansion.	  Then	  he	  later	  became	  governor.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
52:26	  
Governor	  Jindal	  was	  working	  for	  the	  state,	  under	  Governor	  Foster,	  which	  is	  why	  his	  wedding	  
was	  at	  the	  Governor's	  Mansion.	  Cheryl	  and	  Felix	  Sr.	  don't	  think	  they	  let	  wedding	  parties	  in	  there	  
like	  that	  any	  more,	  because	  of	  security.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
52:43	  
Governor	  Foster's	  inaugural	  cake	  huge,	  done	  in	  tiers.	  It	  was	  very	  cold	  that	  day,	  Cheryl	  
remembers.	  This	  was	  at	  the	  State	  Capitol.	  The	  cake	  was	  made	  from	  squares	  on	  top	  of	  squares,	  
on	  top	  of	  squares.	  She	  believes	  she	  had	  the	  date	  on	  there.	  For	  his	  birthday	  cake,	  it	  was	  
delivered	  to	  the	  Governor's	  house.	  He	  loved	  to	  ride	  a	  motorcycle,	  so	  there	  was	  a	  little	  
motorcycle	  going	  up	  a	  path,	  going	  all	  the	  way	  up	  the	  cake.	  All	  she	  remembers	  is	  she	  and	  Felix	  
Sr.	  serving	  the	  cake,	  and	  it	  was	  also	  cold	  that	  day.	  It	  was	  a	  white	  almond	  cake.	  	  
	  
53:20	  
King	  Cake	  
[Yvette	  Folse	  member	  gives	  LMG	  a	  piece	  of	  king	  cake	  to	  try.]	  Ambrosia	  bakes	  king	  cake	  on	  order	  
year	  round—they	  don't	  bake	  them	  and	  put	  them	  out	  on	  the	  shelf,	  except	  during	  Mardi	  Gras	  
season.	  But	  people	  can	  order	  them	  any	  time	  of	  year.	  They	  may	  put	  a	  few	  out	  for	  Easter.	  They	  
had	  them	  out	  for	  St.	  Patrick's	  day,	  with	  green	  sugars,	  and	  people	  bought	  them.	  Some	  people	  
like	  to	  have	  them	  for	  Easter	  Morning,	  for	  the	  kids.	  Christmas	  morning,	  they	  want	  a	  king	  cake	  for	  
the	  kids.	  At	  Christmas	  they	  decorate	  them	  with	  red	  sugars.	  	  
	  
She	  does	  a	  lot	  of	  groom's	  cakes	  in	  king	  cakes.	  She	  stacks	  them	  up	  and	  puts	  a	  crown	  on	  it,	  and	  
puts	  lemon	  leaves	  all	  around	  it,	  they're	  beautiful.	  She	  stacks	  them	  up	  in	  a	  symmetrical	  stack.	  
They	  try	  to	  be	  creative.	  	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
19	  of	  20	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
55:14	  
Closing;	  Gratitude	  for	  customer	  loyalty	  
Any	  last	  thoughts?	  "Well	  you	  know,	  one	  thing	  I'd	  like	  to	  comment	  on,	  being	  in	  this	  business,	  that	  
we've	  gained	  a	  lot	  of	  friends	  and	  friendships.	  A	  lot	  of	  people,	  I	  don't	  remember	  their	  names,	  but	  
just	  to	  see	  them,	  and	  you	  	  know,	  it	  brightens	  my	  day.	  And	  they	  brighten	  their	  days,	  too."	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
55:34	  
“We	  just—and	  just	  being	  grateful	  for	  the—“	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
55:35	  
“And	  we	  really	  appreciate	  all	  they	  have	  done	  for	  us.”	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
55:35	  
“The	  patronage	  of	  all	  these	  people	  that	  had	  faith	  in	  us,	  to	  help	  us	  grow.	  'Cause	  really,	  it's	  the	  
customers	  that	  help	  us	  grow."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
55:42	  
"Had	  a	  lady	  yesterday	  that,	  she	  was	  at	  the	  register,	  I	  was	  up	  there	  and	  she	  was	  buying	  the	  
clamshell	  with	  the	  cut-­‐up	  brownies	  and	  pastries	  (?),	  and	  all	  that.	  And	  she	  says—she	  had	  three	  of	  
them—she	  says,	  'Can	  I	  take	  the	  price	  tag	  off?'	  She	  said,	  'The	  people	  I'm	  giving	  them	  to'—she's	  
giving	  them	  to	  customers,	  or	  clients—'They	  don't	  need	  to	  know	  what	  I'm	  paying	  for	  them.'	  And	  
she	  says,	  'Anything—they	  know	  that	  anything	  that	  comes	  from	  A,	  is	  great!	  Ambrosia.'”	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
56:14	  
“They'll	  make	  us	  put	  a	  sticker	  over	  the	  price!”	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
56:15	  
“So,	  I	  mean,	  that's	  flattering,	  you	  know."	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
56:20	  
"It's	  very	  flattering.	  But	  I	  thank	  God	  every	  night	  for	  the	  patronage	  of	  these	  customers."	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Sr.	  
56:21	  
“I	  had	  a	  man	  one	  time,	  a	  customer,	  tell	  me,	  he	  had	  a	  morning	  meeting	  and	  his	  customers	  were	  
coming	  in,	  and	  when	  his	  customer	  walked	  in,	  he	  said,	  'Oh	  come	  on	  over	  an	  get	  some	  coffee	  and	  
Cheryl,	  Felix	  Sr.,	  and	  Felix	  Jr.	  Sherman-­‐The	  Ambrosia	  Bakery	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
20	  of	  20	  
we've	  got	  some	  king	  cake.'	  'Oh,	  I	  don't	  want	  no	  king	  cake.'	  'Came	  from	  Ambrosia.'	  'Oh,	  well	  
that's	  different.'	  That	  flattery	  goes	  a	  long	  way.”	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
56:42	  
When	  you	  hear	  brides	  say,	  my	  guests	  are	  asking	  where	  the	  cake	  came	  from,	  and	  when	  they	  
hear	  it’s	  Ambrosia,	  they	  say	  they’re	  coming.	  Cheryl	  says,	  Oh	  my	  God,	  put	  on	  the	  pressure!	  Felix	  
Sr.	  jokes	  they	  should	  put	  it	  on	  the	  wedding	  invitation,	  that	  the	  cake	  is	  from	  Ambrosia.	  Cheryl	  
says	  she	  tries	  to	  be	  humble,	  just	  let	  me	  do	  my	  job	  and	  do	  it	  right.	  	  
	  
Felix	  Sherman,	  Jr.	  
57:15	  
He	  has	  to	  go.	  He	  thinks	  his	  parents	  enjoyed	  the	  interview,	  after	  all.	  He	  takes	  his	  leave.	  Cheryl	  
wraps	  up	  the	  king	  cake	  for	  LMG	  to	  take	  home.	  He	  offers	  to	  send	  all	  the	  photos	  she	  might	  need.	  
He	  tells	  about	  the	  mural—an	  artist	  from	  New	  Orleans	  did	  it.	  It	  is	  inlaid	  and	  has	  things	  about	  the	  
bakery	  in	  it.	  It's	  all	  hand	  painted.	  Cheryl	  commissioned	  him	  to	  come	  in	  and	  paint.	  Talking	  about	  
the	  paper	  work,	  release	  forms	  from	  the	  Louisiana	  Division	  of	  the	  Arts	  and	  the	  Library	  of	  
Congress.	  	  
	  
Cheryl	  Sherman	  
59:14	  
LMG	  talks	  about	  buying	  an	  Ambrosia	  cake	  and	  bringing	  it	  to	  Houston.	  They	  recommend	  getting	  
a	  styrofoam	  cooler	  and	  having	  ice	  in	  there.	  They	  once	  drove	  five	  hours	  with	  a	  cake	  and	  it	  was	  
fine.	  And	  have	  sent	  cheesecakes	  to	  Mississippi.	  Just	  put	  plastic	  around	  it,	  so	  it	  doesn't	  get	  wet.	  
It	  will	  travel	  well.	  They	  only	  ship	  specialty	  cakes	  in	  the	  winter.	  They	  freeze	  them	  for	  24	  hours	  
and	  then	  ship	  them.	  They	  ship	  king	  cakes	  all	  year	  around.	  
	  
END	  OF	  INTERVIEW	  
	  
	  
END	  OF	  RECORDING