Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers 
Interview Date: 
 
March 21, 2013 
Location: 
Voorhees College, Denmark, South Carolina 
Interviewer: 
 
 
Dr. John Dittmer 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
01:48:00 
 
John Dittmer: My name is John Dittmer, and I am here in Denmark, South Carolina, with 
videographer John Bishop to interview Dr. Cleveland Sellers, the president of Voorhees College. 
This interview will become part of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American 
History and Culture in Washington, D.C. Dr. Sellers, we are delighted to be here today and we 
thank you for taking the time to talk with us. 
Cleveland Sellers: Thank you, thank you. 
JD: I would like to start with your early childhood. You were born and raised right here 
in Denmark, weren’t you? 
CS: Born and raised in Denmark. The irony is, is that it’s been pretty much a complete 
circle for me, in that I started out here as a mascot for the college in—when I was three years old. 
And I came back in 2008 as president of the college. So, it’s a very interesting experience 
returning home. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
2 
JD: Yeah, must be. 
CS: Yes. 
JD: What was it like growing up in Denmark? Tell us something about your childhood, 
your family. 
CS: Well, the first bit of information is, is that the college here was the center, cultural 
center of and educational center for the community. I actually went to high school on this 
campus. The state of South Carolina, rather than building a high school for black students, paid 
Voorhees a tuition for each student. So, all the students in this area, when they started eighth 
grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, and eleventh grade—I’m sorry, ninth grade, tenth grade, 
eleventh, and twelfth—they would come to this campus. And this school was actually founded 
by a woman, twenty-three years old, who was a graduate of Tuskegee. 
JD: Oh, wow. 
CS: And so, she used the Tuskegee model, in terms of building educational institutions, 
and came to Denmark to found her school. She had a couple of other efforts in South Carolina, 
but they were all—two cases of arson and one of malfeasance. So, she ended up here in 
Denmark. So, the school is made under the Tuskegee or Booker T. Washington industrial 
education model. That kind of philosophy was very prevalent here. Even though you had the Du 
Bois influence also at Voorhees College, it was the kind of “build yourself up, educate yourself, 
have faith in your community,” and those kinds of ideals that grew out of Booker T. Washington. 
So, that was the kind of community I grew up in. It was segregated, I mean, originally 
segregated. 
JD: Talk a little bit about race relations in Denmark. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
3 
CS: Race relations were as a segregated community in the South, all throughout the 
South, and that is separation in terms of schools, social activities, almost complete separation up 
and down the ranks. There were no busses, so we didn’t have segregation on the busses, [laughs] 
but we did have in the theater. Even in terms of patronizing stores, there were certain things that 
you had to buy without actually having an opportunity to use the dressing room and that kind of 
thing to see if it fit, and all of that kind of stuff. 
JD: What was the, roughly, the racial breakdown between black and white in the town? 
CS: Denmark has been majority black for a long period of time, and it was majority black 
at that point. But all of the official offices were held by whites: superintendent of the schools, 
school board, and that kind of thing. 
JD: What was the economy back then? What were people doing for a living? 
CS: Back then, it was a pretty busy kind of and alive and well economy. We had three 
railroads that actually came through Denmark. That was the unique environment in which we 
kind of grew up in. And there was a pickle plant, a furniture plant, a Coca-Cola bottling 
company, and all those kinds of things. When the railroads went away, and when the economy 
reverted back to pretty much agriculture, rural agricultural economy, those jobs also went away. 
And so, you had a decreasing of the population since the period of desegregation. Many whites 
moved out of the community. The schools in Denmark actually integrated or desegregated 
around 1972, so you’re talking about some eighteen years after Brown. 
JD: What happened to—? 
CS: There was resistance to desegregation—[0:05:00] 
JD: Did the white students leave the schools when desegregation came, or did you still 
have—? 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
4 
CS: Yes, sir. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
CS: Over the last ten years, it’s been about 98, 99 percent African American in the 
schools. 
JD: Pretty typical in many areas. 
CS: Pretty typical, in terms of these areas. But, now, the unique part about the Voorhees 
connection and the school connection was, was that there were a lot of cultural incentives and 
there were a lot of educational opportunities that were afforded students. The teachers provide a 
certain respect for education and dignity for education and also provide nurturing that built up 
these, I guess, values and principles: the importance of education, the importance of faith, and 
the importance of service. 
And so, we learned that as we went along. We learned about, you know, the Harlem 
Renaissance and literature and art. We learned about the importance of actually developing 
skills, going out and returning something to the community that nurtured you and actually got 
you started. Those kinds of values were very important values for young African Americans to 
have going out into this new world that would very soon become desegregated. The other was, 
was that we also were able to tie into the black press and we were able to read about and 
understand what was going on in Montgomery, and you could discuss that in school. Emmett 
Till— 
JD: Well, talk about that a minute. You were, I think, 11 years old when Emmett Till was 
murdered in Mississippi. 
CS: Yes, sir. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
5 
JD: What kind of impact did that have on you? And I want to talk—you to talk about 
your folks, too, in a little bit. 
CS: Um-hmm, yeah. Well, I was devastated by the fact that Emmett could have been me 
or any other black kid around that same age. And so, I related to that very quickly. And we had 
discussions in our class about Emmett Till. I had a cover of the Jet, took it to school. Some other 
students had the same thing. And so, we had rational discussions about it. And, you know, the 
question comes up: How do you address that? 
And I think, for us, it was projected out, that that would be our destiny to try to find 
remedies to a society that would allow that to happen, would condone that, and would actually 
free those who were responsible for that murder. And I think that that was a way in which we 
actually got away from revenge and hatred and those kinds of things. We talked about how we 
were going to use Emmett Till to build on, that we would rectify in our work and in our effort the 
dastardly tragedy that happened to Emmett Till. 
JD: This was—it’s become obvious to me that you’ve had a unique opportunity here in 
school to do these things. 
CS: Yes. 
JD: I mean, these kinds of discussions would not be going on in Mississippi classrooms. 
CS: Right, yes. 
JD: And people would be—teachers could be fired for doing something like that. 
CS: Absolutely. Absolutely. 
JD: In this rural outpost, why, you—[laughs] 
CS: Rural outpost, that’s right! And when the independence of the British colonies in 
Africa was taking place, we could actually relate to that. And some of the professors at the 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
6 
institution related to Kwame Nkrumah because he was a graduate and a student at Lincoln 
University. 
JD: Oh, yes. 
CS: So, there was a kind of common thread here. So, with Patrice Lumumba in the 
Congo, and Kwame Nkrumah and Jomo Kenyatta in Kenya, those kinds of discussions were very 
commonplace. And we did have students here from Africa. So, they were able to actually bring 
news back through literature and dispatches in Africa. And those things would show up in the 
campus newsletter or newspaper that the students would actually put up. 
And so, it was that kind of nurturing and that kind of educational environment that we 
came up in. Most of the students that graduated with me went on to college. Some made a detour 
and went to the armed forces in order for them to get the G.I. Bill so they could come back and 
go to school. And we’re talking about probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 85, 87 
percent of the students who graduated with me went on to some kind of college. 
JD: Wow, that’s amazing! 
CS: That’s very high. That’s very high. 
JD: Tell us something about your folks and your family. [0:10:00] 
CS: My family, both natives of South Carolina. My mother comes from Abbeville, South 
Carolina, which is up in the northern part of the state around Greenville and Anderson, South 
Carolina. She was in a family of eight sisters, and it was a large family. She lived on a large 
farm. And they actually were farmers and they raised horses on that farm, and other things, but 
that was their primary focus. 
My father grew up in Denmark, South Carolina, and he graduated from high school in 
1933. Education was very important to him, because he was in Denmark, and education was very 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
7 
important to all young African Americans in this community. He was an entrepreneur. He 
followed in the tradition and footsteps, the things that he had learned from the Booker T. 
Washington influence at the school. So, he was a farmer, he was a realtor—not realtor, but built 
and rented houses and property. He drove a cab. Anything that he could find a way in which he 
could actually generate some revenue from, he did that kind of thing. And the latest, the last 
major thing that he did was he built a motel. He understood the movement of people in and out, 
and the need for the colleges that were here to do that kind of thing. And so, that’s what he did. 
My mother was an educator. She graduated from South Carolina State back, I think, it 
was around ’27, somewhere around that time, and she then went on to Hampton University and 
she got her masters—and was able to—she got it in nutrition and English, and she was able to 
come back to South Carolina. She started at Voorhees College and worked here for about twenty 
years. And then she moved over to the technical and trade school for the state of South Carolina, 
which was also located here in Denmark, and she worked there for fifteen years. And she had 
several years, after graduating from South Carolina State, teaching in high schools. 
So, she was an educator and she also was very much community-oriented and actually 
ran, for a number of years when I was younger, a center that was built in Denmark by donations 
and contributions—the Denmark Recreation Center. And she managed that all the way until she 
was much older and past her retirement, and she passed that off to another gentleman. But, so, in 
that, she was very much concerned about working with young ladies and actually helping them 
kind of grow up and find their way and empower them to be, to take advantage of whatever 
educational opportunities there were and be good at what they did. 
JD: And you have a sister, as well? 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
8 
CS: Yeah, I have a sister, Gwendolyn. She was a year older than I was. I was born when 
my father was in the military in World War II. He was stationed in France, and he was very 
proud of his work there. He had a business, a kind of café-restaurant business that he left to go to 
fight. And he was in the motor pool, I think, in France, and he went off and came back. Met a lot 
of people, seemed to have created some good friendships as a result of his experience in France 
and that kind of thing. And he came back to Denmark and continued. 
My sister was born a year before me, and she kind of grew up, also, with our father being 
out of—for two years in the military. But she went to school here, too, matriculated through, 
went on and became a schoolteacher, master schoolteacher, school counselor in New Jersey. She 
was there for thirty years and has returned to South Carolina now. 
JD: Was church very important in your family life? 
CS: Church was very important in my family life. There was a schism. You know, we—
[0:15:00] my mother was an AME when she was born and reared and as she grew up. And when 
she married my father, he was a Baptist. So, she then went to the Baptist church. And when she 
came to work at Voorhees, Voorhees was affiliated with the Episcopal church. And she and my 
sister and I all affiliated with the Episcopal church. And so, she was there for a minute, and then, 
later in life, after she retired, she went back to the AME church. And so, we remain in the 
Episcopal church. We’re—my sister and I are pretty—almost cradle Episcopalians. 
And I have been affiliated with the Episcopal church from that time until now. There 
were stints in which, you know, I was doing other kinds of things and didn’t have the same kind 
of affiliation that I had before or after, but it has been, even through the Movement experience, 
very much involved. When I was at Howard at the Nonviolent Action Group, we used to meet at 
the Episcopal-affiliated Youth Club there at Howard University. And through my experiences 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
9 
with SNCC, we had at various and sundry times support from Episcopal priests from all over the 
country and all over the South. So, it’s been good. 
JB: Can we pause for a second? 
CS: Um-hmm. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
CS: Okay. 
JD: Well, with this kind of background, it was naturally assumed, I think, that you were 
going to go to college. But the Movement came along. 
CS: Yeah. 
JD: And in February of 1960, the sit-ins began in Greensboro, North Carolina, and they 
spread to Denmark, South Carolina. 
CS: Absolutely! 
JD: Talk about that for a moment. 
CS: Well, again, I’m a high school student. I’m here. I actually work in the student 
center. I have—my high school assistant principal’s wife runs the student center. So, she asked 
me if I’d work in there, and I do. 
And it’s on February 1, 1960, the sit-ins occur in Greensboro, North Carolina. And the 
first night it gets a blip on the news. The second night it has more time, because the news is 
actually talking about the students and the kind of tactics that were being employed and what 
was going to happen and all that kind of thing. So, the student center used to fill up every night 
for the nightly news to see what was going on in Greensboro. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
10 
And so, students actually began to talk about the sit-ins and began to talk about having 
meetings, and then, “What are we going to do and how are we going to do that?” And so, I had 
the opportunity, because they were in the center, usually, and they would start meeting in the 
center. And then, they would go to other places, because they felt like they needed to be kind of 
out of sight of the administration, because nobody knew how the administration was going to 
accept this. This was just a kind of—students being really actively engaged in this process. 
So, they decided to do a demonstration themselves. And they actually were aboveboard 
with that. They went to the president and asked the president—because it’s about two-and-a-half 
or three miles downtown to the pharmacy—if they could use the school bus, in order for them to 
go to that. And the president agreed. 
JD: Really? 
CS: Yes. And so, then the D-day came. I think it was a Thursday. And the students were 
assembled. And the president had been called by a number of the Board of Trustees, who were 
local, who said that they didn’t think it was a good idea, that he needed to not do the bus and 
discourage the students from coming downtown. They didn’t know what was going to happen 
and they were concerned. So, he asked that the bus be withdrawn. I think that I would agree that 
he was a lot like Warmoth T. Gibbs, who was president of [North Carolina] A&T at that time. 
And his thing was, was that, “I trust you and I trust your judgment,” to the students, “but I am 
not going to be able to be openly supportive of your actions.” 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
CS: So, he told them that, you know, “I cannot allow the bus to be used.” And that meant 
that the students had to march from the campus [0:20:00] all the way down, which is a main 
thoroughfare on Voorhees Road, downtown to another main thoroughfare to go to the drugstore 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
11 
that they were protesting at. And it was a kind of—an interesting kind of day. It looked like a 
very somber march, and the students were single file. It was about seven of them. And they had 
on their Sunday best and they had on trench coats [JD coughs] because it was kind of cool. And 
they marched all the way downtown. They went down and they were arrested at that point. A 
priest from the school— 
JD: Hold on. [Begins coughing] 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re rolling. 
JD: So, there was a sit-in. People were arrested. Where were you in all this? 
CS: Well, I was—first, let me just say that because nobody actually knew what the 
consequences or even unintended consequences were going to be, the guys decided not to have 
any of the young ladies involved, because they didn’t know whether or not there was going to be 
some police brutality and arrests and all those kinds of things. And they refused to allow any 
high school students to be involved. Now, you could be involved in the planning and strategy 
and all that kind of thing. So, I was involved in the planning and the strategy and all that, but I 
couldn’t be involved in the demonstrations. 
They were arrested, and the priest from the college actually goes down and retrieves them 
and brings them back to the campus. I don’t think charges were ever affixed to that, because 
there was never a trial or anything. And I stayed actively involved with these students as they 
went to churches and other places that were known to be segregated in Denmark and were 
refused except at the First Baptist Church and a couple of other churches and that kind of thing. 
So, we stayed active and we stayed connected to the other groups that were engaged in protest 
during that particular period of time. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
12 
JD: In your autobiography, The River of No Return, you write that your father was not too 
excited about your activities. 
CS: Well, my activities begin to accelerate. And one of the things that I wanted to do was 
to put together an organization, so I was thinking about a youth chapter of the NAACP and I 
began to organize a youth chapter of the NAACP. And once we got it all organized and we got 
our cards, and the college got its official charter, I wanted to have a rally that would just simply 
say to the community that there was a youth chapter of the NAACP in the city of Denmark. At 
that point, there was no NAACP chapter. And when I did that, I invited one of the 
representatives out of Atlanta to come and speak for the rally. I got the church room, Baptist 
church, and all of that kind of stuff. And then, I think it was the day of, or the day before, my 
father said that I would have to refrain from being engaged in this activity and I could not go to 
the meeting. 
JD: How did you respond to that? 
CS: Well, I was real upset, because I had done a lot of the legwork and pulled people 
together and gotten people to commit themselves to going. And, all of a sudden, he said that 
you’re not going to even be there at the program. I was really upset and indicated that kind of 
upset and disgust with him, but I did not go. I mean, I stayed, but I figured that it was time for 
me then to start looking for other places to be, because I had been bitten by this bug of Emmett 
Till and Movement activities that were going on, etcetera. 
So, I began to look at the possibilities of going to a private school. And I wrote Stanton 
Military Academy up in Virginia, and I sent the application in and all that kind of thing. And 
where they had race, I didn’t put anything. And so, they called me and asked me—you know, 
they were looking favorably at me and they said they saw that I did not put in race and they 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
13 
asked me if I was Negro. And I said, “Yes,” and they said, “We’re sorry, but we are not going to 
be able to accept you.” 
JD: So, you thought [0:25:00] you’d have a shot there? 
CS: I thought I was going to have a shot somewhere. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: I was just trying to get to an environment where I could kind of be my own person in 
regards to the Movement. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: And after that went by, I figured that I was going to do the rest of my time there. And 
so, I really got more involved with trying to tap in and support other movements. So, one of 
those efforts was that we got the same group of young people that made up the Youth NAACP, 
and we went up to Rock Hill when the Freedom Riders had come through. And then, you had 
protests of that by what was then known as the Rock Hill Nine. And— 
JD: And this was before you were in college? 
CS: This was before I was in college, yeah. And when I went up, Charles Jones and 
Diane Nash and Ruby Doris Robinson had gotten arrested. They had come in from Atlanta to 
protest the arrest of the— 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: So, that’s where the “jail, no bail” kind of— 
JD: So, this is the first time you had met these future colleagues? 
CS: I didn’t meet them. I went up to— 
JD: Oh, I see. 
CS: Meet them, and they were in jail. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
14 
JD: Oh. [Laughs] 
CS: And they had a session in which you could actually go out, but we went up early one 
morning. We had the principal’s car, the priest’s car, and my mother’s car. We had three cars, 
and we took three cars full of students from here up there. And I think that in that way, we stayed 
connected. But I learned of Charles Jones and I learned of Ruby Doris and Diane. And there was 
another person there, and I can’t remember who it was. I just don’t want to say somebody who it 
wasn’t. 
But there were four SNCCers who had come to that area to give their support, and they 
went to jail and they talked about—Ruby Doris talked about the fact that there was so much 
outpouring of support in that community. And food! I think she said she gained about eleven 
pounds [JD laughs] in the thirty days that she was out there. But anyhow, that was another link 
and another connection. 
And then, I began to find in the state of South Carolina there were other students that 
were becoming more active. Millicent Brown down in Charleston was getting ready—her father 
was the head of the NAACP—they were getting ready to file a suit to desegregate the schools in 
Charleston. And Attorney Matthew Perry also was getting ready to file the suit on behalf of 
Harvey Gantt at Clemson. And then, later, the three students at the University of South Carolina. 
So, there was a lot of activity beginning to brew, and we tried to tap into that to get that kind of 
support. And then, we’re off to Howard. 
JD: Yeah, talk about—you enrolled in Howard in the fall of ’62, I think. 
CS: Yes. 
JD: What kind of a school—what were you expecting? And what did you find? 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
15 
CS: Well, I expected Howard, because it was considered one of the larger HBCUs, with a 
lot of history and tradition, I expected it to be a hotbed. You know, I had come out of Voorhees, 
and there was a lot of activity and action and a lot of students involved. And, you know, we 
come from—I guess Booker T. Washington schools were considered to be the kind of blue-collar 
schools, you know, the kind of laborers and workers and those kind of schools. And I didn’t 
know that there was a kind of professional, white-collar, kind of bourgeois campus like I 
discovered at Howard. 
And so, it was common for us to wear jeans to school. And coming out of the South, your 
hair was a little bit longer than the average who had the skinned-down and all that other kind of 
hairdos. And so, that was a kind of contentious kind of relationship that I had with Howard that 
people had some difficulty with my wearing jeans at Howard. The young men wore pants, 
slacks, and shirts. And it was—if you were really very spiffy and [0:30:00] upbeat, you would—
at lunch you would change your shirt. You know, you wouldn’t go back to class with the same 
shirt on. 
JD: So, they were striving to become members of—? 
CS: They were striving to become part of the status quo. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: And we were saying, essentially, that we need to be opening that whole process up. 
We don’t need to be trying to be the token. And so, that’s the way I felt that my experience 
would be there, that I would be groomed to be up-and-up. 
JD: You discovered the Nonviolent Action Group, NAG. 
CS: Yes. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
16 
JD: Talk about your activities there, what kinds of things you were doing, who you were 
with. 
CS: Well, I was, for a long time, trying to find that niche. And then, I found maybe Mike 
Thelwell, some of the others, and Stanley Wise, and they told me about a meeting that they were 
having. And I said, “Okay, well, I’ll come to the meeting,” and went to the meeting. And there 
was a group of maybe fifteen or twenty. It grew after I joined and some of the others joined. It 
was Charlie Cobb and a number of other folk. Plus, there was a SNCC office in Washington, 
D.C., and it would have—you know, Ivanhoe Donaldson and some of the other field staff would 
be coming through periodically. 
But what we were committed to was learning more about the Movement in the South and 
trying to address issues that needed to be addressed, communicating information. For an 
example, the whole issue about protection of voting rights and civil rights workers in the South. 
We ended up going to the Justice Department and picketing. We ended up at the FBI and 
picketing. We ended up at the White House and picketing. That was our job and that was our 
role. 
But we also had issues that were germane to D.C. Home rule was one of those issues. The 
busses—I think it was run by a guy by the name of Chalk, as I remember it—and desegregating 
of the busses and the employment of black drivers and that kind of thing. So, we tried to 
mobilize the school to respond to those kinds of things. And one of the things we recognized was 
that you had to be in those critical places at the school in order for you to be effective in 
communicating. So, we had people who went on The Hilltop—that was the newspaper, the 
student newspaper—the Lyceum program, the student government association, and many of the 
organizations. We wanted to have people— 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
17 
JD: So, you were infiltrating? [Laughs] 
CS: Infiltrated all those things and actually began to have that kind of impact, and we 
began to try to target those kinds of things. On the Lyceum program, we started out trying to 
secure the services of Bayard Rustin. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
CS: And the administration backed up, because Bayard was supposed to be a socialist. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: And we kept pushing, and we kept pushing, and we kept pushing, and we actually 
got Bayard there. After these programs, we would have an opportunity to have a kind of one-on-
one with whoever that speaker was. And we had a one-on-one with Bayard about tactics and 
history and all those other kinds of things. We recognized Bayard as being a good organizer and 
we weren’t about to try to take that away from him. 
And so, when you get around to the March on Washington, then Bayard reached back to 
get some of us and some of the other SNCCers to work on the March, on the logistics. A couple 
of weeks before the March, we were in D.C., and we had the responsibility for various and 
sundry kinds of logistics: moving people around, crowds, setting up the designated areas for 
people to arrive and marshaling them from the Washington Monument down to the Lincoln 
Memorial, those kinds of things, even making the signs and making the sandwiches. So, we had 
those assignments, and that was a unique opportunity and experience. 
But before we even got there, we also decided that, once we were successful with Bayard, 
that we would go for Malcolm. And we were able to push the school on the Malcolm issue, and 
Malcolm actually came to the campus. Had a wonderful presentation; the auditorium was 
absolutely filled. And after it was over, we had an opportunity to talk with Malcolm. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
18 
JD: What did—the conversation was interesting, because at that phase of his life, he 
didn’t have many kind things to say about the Civil Rights Movement. 
CS: That’s absolutely correct. So, you know, we had that kind of debate and we pushed 
[0:35:00] on those kinds of issues. And I think that one of the things that—Malcolm used to refer 
to us as “the students of the Movement.” You know, “the students of the Movement,” that’s how 
he referred to that whole group. And we used to run into each other, and I’m talking about with 
the SNCCers, in Washington frequently and we would always stop and have that discussion 
about, you know, what was going on. 
Matter of fact, when the March on Washington was going on, Malcolm was in 
Washington, and he called it the “Farce on Washington” and he talked about the “Big Six” and 
all that other kind of stuff. 
JD: The only time he met King in person, I think, was at the March on Washington. 
CS: Yes, at the airport. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
CS: Um-hmm, and they just kind of ran into each other. It wasn’t planned or anything. 
JD: The March—Bayard Rustin was the principal organizer, and it was to be a protest 
march. But it didn’t really turn out that way. 
CS: Yeah. 
JD: Talk about your feelings about you’ve done all this work, you’ve done all this 
organization, you’ve got hundreds of thousands of people there. 
CS: Well, I think that for many of us, even including the SNCCers, you know, we were 
on the edge. And it was a fledgling kind of movement of SNCC at this point. You know, we’re 
still in an infant stage, even though we have been in Albany and we’ve been in Danville and 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
19 
we’ve been a lot of other areas. We were growing. And you had a small number of people 
involved in SNCC at that point, on a regular basis, on a full-time basis. So, we were using a lot 
of students who would come during the summer, or come during a spring break, or whenever it 
was. And so, we hadn’t really gotten to the point where we’re talking about full-time organizers 
working in any particular area. So, the March on Washington was one of those learning periods. 
John Lewis’s speech, for an example, the changing of that speech. 
JD: What was so controversial about it that it needed to be changed? 
CS: Well, there was some objection—one of the cardinals, O’Boyle, I think is his name, 
he was concerned that John used the language that we would go through the South “like 
Sherman,” and “burning the vestiges of segregation to the ground.” 
JD: Wonderful metaphor! [Laughs] 
CS: I understand, but they said, “Too violent, too— 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: You know, and “It’s going to create more.” And I think, you know, just Southerners 
objected to that kind of terminology. But the critical piece was that A. Philip Randolph actually 
came to the SNCCers and said, ”You know, I’ve been working on this ever since 1940. I’m close 
to having a dream fulfilled. Can you help me with this? And I really would appreciate it if you 
would make that.” And I think, out of our, I guess, commitment to a kind of person whose 
shoulders we were standing on, we said that we would actually make those changes and not feel 
any guilt about that. 
But I think that was also a critical point for the organization, because then we had to 
come to the conclusion that we had to—if we had voice, we had to be able to control it and we 
had to be able to live up to it. So, after that, you didn’t have people kind of coming in and saying, 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
20 
“This is what you need, and that’s what you need. And would you change your position for the 
sake of me or anything else?” 
So, we were very idealistic. And so, we thought that the March would have the kind of 
impact that it may have, and that is getting the message out about civil rights, education, you 
know, health, welfare, employment—those are the kinds of things. And we also saw that as the 
first real time that, on a national scale, you had the coalition of civil rights, church, and kind of 
democratic liberalism that would kind of come together for that particular thing. And so, there 
was a euphoria, I think, for many of us. We were tired, exhausted. We had worked very hard. 
And there was a kind of euphoria. 
And we were in a kind of ideal world, in terms of now. You know, after Montgomery, 
and after all the things that had gone on, including [0:40:00] Medgar Evers, and the students in 
Birmingham, and the horses and the dogs and the fire hoses, and all that kind of stuff, that we 
had actually found a way to bring some kind of, not closure, but bring some consolidation of all 
those things. And the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church bombing kind of destroyed all of that. And 
so, you’re back to the real world. 
And I think that at that point, you know, our eyes began to open up, and we knew that we 
had to get back to real business. But we also, for many of us of the Emmett Till generation, 
recognized that we probably couldn’t do this as part-time. And so, we had to make some serious 
decisions about going full-time with civil rights, or leaving that to who could go full-time and get 
busy about our academics. You couldn’t do both. 
JD: So, when did you drop out of Howard? 
JB: Excuse me. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
21 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
CS: Okay. 
JD: So, you were realizing that you were going to have to be full-time. When did you 
leave Howard to drop out of college? 
CS: Yeah. We were assigned by Bob Moses, we being NAG, to be responsible for 
generating and getting volunteers for the summer of ’64. And we also understood that we would 
be committing ourselves, so all of NAG, probably 90 percent of NAG, would go down. But we 
had to recruit from the University of Maryland, Morgan State, George Washington, Georgetown, 
American University. Those schools in that Maryland-D.C. cluster would be the schools that we 
would actually recruit from. 
And one of the unique parts about the recruitment that we were doing is that most of the 
students that we were recruiting were going to be African Americans. There were whites in there 
that actually went down from that area, but we would have the largest contingency of African 
American volunteers that would go down. And so, we kind of leveraged that to get into the 
Second Congressional District of Mississippi, which was the plantation area, and that was the 
Black Belt of Mississippi. And we felt like if we could get into those areas we could be much 
more effective in trying to get down in and get these communities to kind of empower them to 
organize and to put us out of our job, put us out of work. 
But I probably knew as soon as I made the commitment to go to Mississippi that that 
would probably be it. So, I finished the semester at Howard, but most of that time, at the end of 
that semester, I was in Cambridge, Maryland. 
JD: Talk about the Cambridge Movement. It became very violent, with Gloria 
Richardson leading it. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
22 
CS: Yeah. Well, Cambridge, when we first went over, was basically trying to organize 
the community to have protests in that community. And each time, the protest ended up in some 
kind of violent scuffle, and at a point there, you had martial law in Cambridge. And then, the 
opposition in Cambridge invited in George Wallace. We were in—I was in Cambridge at that 
particular time, and the National Guard was in charge. I, along with Stokely [Carmichael] and 
Stanley Wise and Gloria were arrested and kept in a National Guard Armory overnight. We were 
freed the next day. 
But at that point, the Cambridge Movement itself, there were elements in it that wanted to 
strike out, and there was efforts made to kind of contain that. But Gloria was a little bit more 
radical than most people had expected. And she was one of those—first, she was a Howard 
graduate, so that was one of the connections that she had with NAG. And so, she was able to get 
additional NAG—John Batiste from Howard actually goes up, and Reggie Robinson is in 
Cambridge, Maryland. 
And then, it got to the point where Robert Kennedy [0:45:00] wanted to intercede and see 
if he could find a remedy for Cambridge. And so, I think what he ended up doing was extending 
the martial law. It stayed in place for a little over a year in Cambridge, and they began to have 
some dialogues between the community about desegregation of Cambridge. So, during that 
spring is when Wallace came to Cambridge. 
And the National Guard had this tear gas, I don’t know if they had some kind of 
combination mixture of tear gas and some elements or chemicals that actually made you 
nauseated, you know. And so, we had all these things going on at the same time. Cliff Vaughs, 
one of the photographers for SNCC, was actually arrested, and some way he was hit with a 
bayonet through the calf of his leg. So, it was a very scary night, when the tear gas was used, you 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
23 
had these young National Guardsmen out there, and they just—kind of the police brutality kind 
of thing, and throwing everybody in the truck, and we were all arrested, and that kind of thing. 
And we ended up going to the stockade, as I said, and we were released. 
The general in charge of that operation, I think his name was Gelson, and he was trying 
to negotiate this stuff, and he’s an Army general. He’s trying to be a police chief, and so it got 
real confusing and complex. At that point, that’s when, I think, Robert Kennedy interceded. 
Now, what we were trying to do is we were trying to have a march from the black section of 
Cambridge over to the—I think it was at the National Guard Armory where George Wallace was 
speaking. And that’s how this whole thing kind of got out of whack over there. 
I left Cambridge, went back to Howard to try to finish up my semester and prepare to go 
to Mississippi for that summer, because we were not only trying to recruit student activists to go 
to Mississippi, we were also trying to get automobiles and other resources that we would take to 
Mississippi. So, I think we ended up having two or three cars donated, all of which we drove out. 
And then, in June, we drove out to Ohio for the orientation. 
JD: Freedom Summer was a project that SNCC and COFO, Council of Federated 
Organizations, initiated in part because the federal government was not paying attention to all the 
abuses in Mississippi. And the idea was that by inviting upwards of 1,000 volunteers to spend 
their summers in Mississippi, it would shine a spotlight on the state and force the federal 
government to do something, among other things. Freedom Summer became international news 
when three civil rights workers, Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner, and James Chaney, 
were abducted and killed by the Klan. What people, most people, think is then the FBI came in, 
and all you hear about is the FBI. But it was very interesting that you and other people who had 
just come to Mississippi were out looking for them. They had disappeared. Their bodies would 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
24 
not be found for months. Talk about going into Mississippi and who was there and how you went 
about looking. 
CS: Well, when we get out to Ohio, Miami University at Ohio, or in Ohio, we had the 
orientation session set up and we were going through the orientation sessions. And then, we got 
some information that a church had been burned to the ground in Philadelphia. And so, Michael 
Schwerner and—Michael “Mickey” Schwerner, and Chaney, and they had to pick someone, a 
volunteer, to go along with them, or they wanted to pick a volunteer to go along with them. And 
so, they got Goodman as a volunteer, who volunteered to go, and they were going to go back and 
investigate the church burning. And so, they left. And we actually saw them off, and they were 
gone. 
And they went back to Meridian, checked in. [0:50:00] They went straight from Meridian 
over to Philadelphia. And they didn’t return to Philadelphia, so we got an alert that they were 
missing. And so, we gave it about maybe 12 or 24 hours. And then, that’s when, I think, many of 
us knew that they didn’t respond to any of the security messages and all, that something deadly 
probably had happened to them. 
Bob assembled—Bob Moses assembled all of the folk there. And he said, “I have you 
here because I want to let you know that three of our volunteers, who were here yesterday, have 
been missing.” And that he had concluded, as many of the other seasoned veterans, that they 
were dead. And that many people sitting in the room had a choice, a decision to make, and that is 
whether or not they still wanted to go to Mississippi, in spite of the fact that there are three 
people who were like you that are already dead. And at that point, he said that he was still going 
and he hoped that everybody else would go. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
25 
And at that point, there was a real quiet in the room, and I think that Jean Wheeler 
actually gets up and says, starts singing a song, and everybody kind of marches out. Well, when 
everybody marches out, a collective of us get together with Bob, and we said that we are going to 
go into Philadelphia and we can see what may have happened. And so, that consisted of, I think 
it was Featherstone, and Donna Moses, Bob Moses’s wife at that time, Gwen Roberts, I think 
was her name, Stokely, Charlie Cobb, I think it was Featherstone, and myself. We got in four 
different cars and we said that we would enter the state from four different directions. 
Stokely and Charlie were in one car, and they came in through Arkansas. There was 
another group that came in through Alabama. We came in through northern Mississippi, down 
the Mississippi Trace, I think that’s what it’s called. And there was another group that came in 
through Memphis. And that we would all meet in Meridian. And once we got into Meridian, 
we’d get together. And there would be some farmers who would go out during the day to see if 
they could find places that bodies would be hidden or where hostages might have been held. 
JD: You still held out some hope, didn’t you? 
CS: Well, you always have that in the back of your mind. But, you know, in reality we 
were thinking about bodies that we may find more than we would hostages. And so, we all left 
Meridian and drove up to Philadelphia at night. And during the day, we would be up in the loft 
of a barn. And at night, somebody would come by in a truck, and they’d pick us up and they’d 
take us out. And they’d give us a map, and we’d go out and into the valleys and into old houses 
and all that kind of stuff and see if there was any signs that hostages were held there or any of 
that kind thing. 
We had no lights. We couldn’t wear belts, because the buckles would glare. And there 
were fire towers all over, across the South. That was one of the safety things that were set up, so 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
26 
that people go up the tower, and they could look out over the flatland, and they could see where 
there was any smoke or fire, and they could get to it quickly. So, we had to be very concerned 
about those kinds of things. And after a certain period of time, we would come back, maybe 
three hours, something like that, they would come back and pick us up. We’d go back to the 
house and we’d sleep until—and kind of stir around, but we couldn’t let people know that we 
were there. 
JD: How many nights were you doing this? 
CS: We did that for—I think it was two nights we were out there. And then, we had a 
discussion. We used to have discussions [0:55:00] all the time about what we were doing, and 
our commitment to the Movement, and our friends and how we felt like they were really a part of 
us, kind of comrades in arms, you know. And so, we began to feel as if we were being 
compromised, in terms of our being out there, and we didn’t want to have the pressure come on 
the farmers who were going out looking and transporting us and the people where we were 
staying. 
So, we pulled the plug on it after the second night and said that we were going back to 
Meridian. And then, we’d all be dispersed to our respective project areas, and Featherstone and I 
went to Holly Springs. 
JD: Tell us about Holly Springs. What kind of a place was it? What did you find there? 
CS: Holly Springs was a community in which there were two colleges, two HBCUs. One 
was in decline, and the other one is still very vibrant and still there now. We found a community 
that was—had a lot of hope in that community. We found that among many of the people who 
were there. There had been some other folk in Holly Springs before we got there. I think, um, 
what’s his name? McLemore. Actually graduated from— 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
27 
JD: Leslie, yeah, at Rust. 
CS: Graduated from Rust, yeah. And so, there had been some organizers in Holly Springs 
before we actually got there. But because we had the largest project, and I’m talking about, we 
took in, I think it was five or six counties, including Oxford, which was Fayette County, and 
Marshall County, and many of the other counties, Union County, in that area, that we probably 
had one of the larger staffs there. It must have been about twelve or thirteen. We had three 
master’s student teachers out of Boston. We had a nurse, so we could do clinical work and 
prevention. We could actually go out and have her examine people sometimes who may not have 
been able to access a doctor and that kind of thing. And we were able to establish a Freedom 
School. We operated a community center and had activities in for the young people. And we 
actually solicited the largest number of applications for the Mississippi Freedom Democratic 
Party. And we also represented in larger proportion because we had more delegates that went to 
the state convention and later to Atlantic City. But that was what the project was like. We had an 
editor from the Crimson, who— 
JD: The Harvard Crimson? 
CS: Yes, who was Peter Cummings, I think was his name, and we had a little newsletter 
that we put together. We kept meticulous records of our work there in, out of Holly Springs. 
JD: Who was the project director there? 
CS: The project director was—started out being Ivanhoe, and then I took over as project 
director and was official project director. 
JD: That was in the fall? 
CS: Yeah. Ivanhoe left after the summer. 
JD: Yeah. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
28 
CS: And so, I took over after the summer and was project director. 
JD: What sort of reaction did you get from the white community for this invasion of all 
these outside agitators? 
CS: Well, Holly Springs was in the north, and it was more moderate in Holly Springs 
than it was in other places. 
JD: It was not a Delta city? 
CS: It was not a Delta. It wasn’t—it certainly wasn’t Southwest. Southwest was just, you 
know, clandestine groups and shootings and, you know, arbitrary killings and that kind of things 
were common. We did have fire bombings and school burnings and church burnings and all that 
kind of thing, but generally not the kind of individual, you know, people getting killed at night or 
lynched or any of those kinds of things. Those things did not happen. We did have Freedom 
Days, in which we actually took people down, and their names ended up in the newspaper. 
JD: You took them down to register to vote? 
CS: Register to vote. And we went along with our people, though, every time they went 
down, to make sure that things were handled very well. 
JD: Did anybody get registered that summer? 
CS: We had a couple of people that got registered, not very many. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: It just wasn’t going to work. It wasn’t going to happen. [1:00:00] But we did have a 
number of Freedom Days, in which people were actually taken down. They just didn’t register 
them. But we had tremendous success in getting young people involved and engaged. We had a 
number of students that we sent off to college at the end of 1965. We had colleges that were 
willing to accept students if we referred them to them. Roy DeBerry was one of those students. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
29 
He ended up being a council member down in Jackson for a long period of time. He was a young 
kid when we came along, and we kept providing the kind of nurturing and education that we 
thought he needed, and he turned out to be quite a success. 
We had a local project director shortly after I left, and that was Rita and her husband in 
Holly Springs. They were locals. They started out when we started out in the beginning of the 
summer, and Rita became an excellent organizer and community leader. She died, and her 
husband took over for a couple of minutes and stayed around for a period of time. We saw our 
job as going into communities and actually organizing those communities so that the leadership 
for giving direction to and organizing would be turned over to the local people. We were trying 
to work our way out of a job. So, I never felt bad about leaving when I did, because I knew Rita 
was very much capable and very competent to run that. 
Holly Springs became a fairly progressive city, in that they were able to elect a black 
mayor in the ’90s and they were able to work out a kind of coexistence with the sheriff and the 
police chief in that city. I understand the police chief has just a bevy of film, of photos, from that 
summer. But he won’t release them and he won’t—he’ll show them to some people who go 
down and ask about them. But I understand that he has a treasure trove full of records. 
JD: That would be a project for somebody to put together. 
CS: Right. And we’ve had several reunions of the group from Holly Springs, and we 
have a large number of volunteers who come back. We had collected all the material that we had 
on that, notes and newsletters and all that kind of thing, and we put that, we archived that at Rust 
College. So, those records are there, with photographs and all that, including the reunions. And 
so, Larry Rubin was one of the people in that project there. And we had a number of people—the 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
30 
attorney for President Clinton on the—what did they call them? They were going to de—what 
were they going to do with Clinton? There were going to take him out of office. 
JD: Oh, to impeach, yeah. 
CS: Impeach! The one that was his private attorney was on the project there in Holly 
Springs. 
JD: Oh, really? 
CS: So, we just chat about those kinds of things throughout the years about the various 
and sundry experience. Hardy Frye was also a producer on one of the documentaries on 
Mississippi that summer. He and Connie Field and a couple of others did the movie Where Do 
We Go from Here? 
JD: No, Freedom on My Mind. 
CS: Freedom on My Mind, yes, Freedom on My Mind. And so, we’ve had a lot of very 
positive things come out of that experience in Holly Springs. 
JD: Yeah. You mentioned the organizing for the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. 
The idea was to get a representation to go to Atlantic City to challenge the legitimacy of the 
seating of the all-white segregationist party. Blacks were not permitted to participate in that. Talk 
a little bit about Atlantic City and your time there and your reactions to everything. 
CS: Okay. The Atlantic City experience was very interesting because, you know, we 
managed to box up all of the applications that we had received. [1:05:00] We actually had what 
we called [1:05:06] logs on the experiences of that summer, where we kind of documented every 
event that went on. We even documented the fact that the Democratic Party in the state of 
Mississippi was not loyal. It didn’t vote for the Democratic Party ticket in the presidential 
election in 1960. They didn’t just deny blacks an opportunity to come to the precinct meetings 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
31 
and all that; they usually shifted it away. They wouldn’t tell you where they were being held in 
some instances. And so, they were not just discriminatory. They just outright said, “No. Blacks 
would not be in that.” 
The idea was to follow the procedures of the Democratic Party in electing delegates to 
represent the state of Mississippi going forward. And what we were able to do is we were able to 
document that we followed that procession: the precinct meetings, the district meetings, the state 
meeting, and the election of delegations, open elections, democratic process. The state chose not 
to use that and made it very clear that they were not going to use that. 
I had the pleasure, I guess, of taking the bell off of the church in Philadelphia that was 
burned. We put that on top of the truck. And we had the burned-out station wagon on the back of 
the truck. So, we took every visual— 
JD: You were able to get the station wagon from the FBI, yeah. 
CS: We were able to get the station wagon. We put it on the back of the truck. And we 
took both of those things up and we had that on display so people could actually see it. And we 
had a caption on the bottom of it of what that actually was. 
JB: Which car? Which station wagon was this? 
CS: This was the station wagon that Goodman, Schwerner, and Chaney were in when 
they were arrested and later murdered in Philadelphia, Mississippi. And what happened was they 
took the station wagon out—the sheriff and the deputies and the rest of the folk took it out to 
kind of a dirt road, and they burned it up. And that’s what we had. So, we wanted to let people 
see the level of violence and destruction that people were willing to resort to in order to maintain 
the system of segregation. And we all set those things up so people could see. And we kind of 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
32 
followed the delegation around in order to make sure that they could maneuver through whatever 
they needed to maneuver through— 
JD: And the Johnson— 
CS: And they would be at the right place at the right time. And what we discovered was, 
initially, as the delegates moved around other delegates, they seemed to get a lot of support. And 
then, I think the issue became—it began to look like for the Democratic Party that it was going to 
be an issue that was much larger than what they expected. So, the Johnson administration 
decided that they needed to have a person in charge of making sure that the convention would 
not be disrupted against the president. And so, he delegated that responsibility to Hubert 
Humphrey, who then delegated it to Mondale. 
And, you know, they decided that there needed to be a compromise, because the 
delegates from the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party was asking to be seated in place of 
and replacing—and they were building that on a moral case. They were committed to the 
Democratic Party, they were not discriminatory, they had a diverse delegation that was there, and 
they wanted to be considered citizens like everybody else. The issue that they were willing to 
push for is the right to vote for everybody, and they figured that if they had gotten the right to 
vote that they probably would have been in the ranks of the Democratic Party. So, they were 
loyal in that sense. 
And the—when it got time to decide on what was going to happen with those issues, 
Mondale and Humphrey came up with the idea that they would be granted two seats at large. 
And those were with, I think, [1:10:00] either the New Jersey or the Connecticut delegation. 
They had accepted the fact that they would be there. And they came back to the delegation to say 
that this is what we are prepared to give. And at that point, the delegation was to meet. But 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
33 
before they met, they had this bevy of coalition folk from the March on Washington speak to the 
delegation to try to convince them that that was, in fact, a victory. Dr. King and Whitney Young 
and somebody from—I can’t remember all the names of the people. It must have been nineteen 
or twenty people that spoke in a church before this delegation. 
But what—when Johnson actually found, President Johnson actually found out that this 
was going to be a serious offense is when Fannie Lou Hamer spoke. And she was about to speak 
on national TV, and at that same moment, he called a press conference that took the press away 
from that. And some of the major networks decided to go ahead and run that tape later on that 
night, because President Johnson didn’t have anything to talk about at that particular press 
conference. And that’s the speech where Fannie Lou Hamer said, “I question America. If you 
don’t, you know, seat this democratically elected and selected delegation, where are we in 
America?” 
And after the meeting and all of that kind of stuff, all of the, I guess, labor-liberal kind of 
folk left. The delegation was sitting there, and they had to decide whether or not they were going 
to accept the compromise. And after meeting, I think it was Fannie Lou Hamer who said that, 
you know, we’ve worked too hard and we’ve come too far to accept that compromise. And we 
came here to be seated, and we’re not going be seated. And we’ll go home and start over again 
and continue this process to see if we can get the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party 
represented in the Democratic Party as a legitimate entity. 
JD: So, how did you all feel after this? You had gone up there. You had been given a 
compromise that wasn’t acceptable. Your liberal friends in the North were not accommodating. 
CS: Oh, no! We were very proud about the position taken by the Mississippi delegation, 
the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party delegation. But we were devastated about the fact 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
34 
that, inside of the Democratic Party, morality wasn’t the basis upon which decisions are made. 
It’s power politics at its rawest. And we hadn’t—we were still very idealistic about, you know, if 
we do the right things and if we follow the procedures, then good things will happen to you. That 
wasn’t the case. And so, it was devastating. And at that point, I think folk in SNCC began to put 
all of those elements, including the Democratic Party, to the side. These are not going to be the 
vehicles that we can ride in order to get to freedom, justice, and equality. 
And then, there was the search on then for where do we go from here, in terms of the 
transition from the old-line politics of working within the Democratic Party and working within 
with these coalitions that we currently had. And so, that’s when we began to look at the 
possibility of establishing links with other minority groups and see if we could talk about 
empowerment and self-determination, and those kinds of issues were issues that we were 
beginning to look at. 
And we were beginning to move outside of the mainstream of just looking within 
America. We began to look at other movements that were going on in Asia and Africa and South 
America and the West Indies—not the West Indies, but in the South America basin, Gulf basin 
down there. And so, we began to look at what was going on in Cuba and we began to send 
people down there, and Russia, and Asia, and a number of other places where there were 
independent movements—in Mozambique and Guinea-Bissau and Guinea and all those places 
[1:15:00] where movements were actually going. 
JD: So, SNCC is undergoing some transformation? 
CS: Going through transformation, absolutely! 
JD: And then, we have the Selma campaign of ’65. SNCC had been in Selma for several 
years. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
35 
CS: Yep. 
JD: And Martin Luther King and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference chose 
Selma as the spot where they were going to stage demonstrations and push for the passage of a 
voting rights law. 
CS: Right. 
JD: When did you get to Selma? And what did you do there? 
CS: I was in Mississippi, as we were having a state MFDP meeting there. But before that, 
we had had a staff meeting, and the issue of Selma came up. And most of us agreed that there 
was a difference in—a strategic difference between SNCC and SCLC, and that is that we 
believed in building organization, as opposed to mobilizing for some particular objective. And 
John raised the question about Selma. And he said it was in Alabama and it was, you know, it 
was close to his hometown, and that he wanted to participate. 
JD: This is John Lewis? 
CS: John Lewis, yeah. And we took the position that, “John, we are not going to be 
engaged in the demonstration in Selma.” First, we didn’t know of the strategic plan that had been 
put together between SCLC and the Johnson administration. We didn’t know that, if that push 
got going, that the Voting Rights Act was going to be tied to how effective that was. And so, we 
said, “John, you cannot independently,” because that’s what he was talking about, “as chairman 
of SNCC, be a part of this march.” And John said that he reserved the right to be able to, on 
conscience, be able to go on this march. And so, I think the conclusion was, was that, “John, we 
really don’t want you to do this. But if you do this, we will have some SNCC people there with 
you.” So, you see Bob Mants is with John on this march. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
36 
And then, when John goes over the bridge, John ends up suffering a concussion and is 
actually kind of airlifted out of Selma to Boston in order for him to get the head checked out for 
the concussion and see how severe that was. Now, anytime anybody in SNCC is ever injured or 
wounded or is in jail or whatever it is, the philosophy of the organization was, was that we send 
somebody in right away. And so, when we were called in the afternoon of Bloody Sunday, we 
immediately called together some of the people who were at the assembly and found out who 
had vehicles, who could go, and how many people were going to be in the vehicles. And then, 
we launched those people for Selma almost immediately. 
So, it was a period of probably between an hour, an hour-and-a-half before people were 
actually leaving that convention going to Selma. And once we got to Selma, Jim was coming 
down from Atlanta. He was flying in. I think he got a helicopter. 
JD: Jim Foreman? 
CS: Yeah. He got a helicopter, or some kind of way, he got something to fly into Selma. 
And so, we all got there. We knew where we were supposed to be going. We met there. And we 
were told that there was nothing left to be done. We got an update on John. And we said, the next 
day, we would spread out and begin to work through the process of what would be the next steps. 
We were still kind of ambivalent about being there, but the injury to John—that has always been 
an operational principle. If one among our ranks had some difficulty, we would rush in and try to 
provide the kind of support and try to continue the work that they were doing until they could 
either recover or we could find a replacement for them. 
I took over the logistical parts, and that is, [1:20:00] trying to work with Hosea and the 
other logistical people in SCLC on where the march was to go. And we also brought in Willie 
Ricks, who could mobilize the young people. And so, we wanted to keep the pressure on. Now, 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
37 
if we hadn’t used all of our resources to build up support for the march, we would. And then, we 
had that issue with the injunction to march, the injunction from Johnson, I think it was, federal 
judge. And the question was whether or not Dr. King was going to violate that injunction. And I 
think he concluded that he was going to violate that injunction. 
But when he marched, he marched across the bridge and then turned around and came 
back to the church. And that kind of threw everybody off. And, to be honest with you, it pissed 
most of SNCC off, because nobody told us what the plan was. And here we are operating, and 
we don’t have a sense of plan. So, at this point, Jim decides to go down to Montgomery and start 
another set of demonstrations in Montgomery, and kind of make sure that we understand that 
there’s a connection between that. But we’ll do that in Montgomery and create the kind of 
protest down in Montgomery. 
And that started, and we began to try to work out and try to find out what is going on 
here. I mean, why is it that we are not informed about the objectives? And so, we kind of worked 
through that, and we got a time and a date that we were going to actually start out of Selma, and 
we worked the logistics out to get the march all the way into Montgomery. There is a point in 
which Jim and some other folk are in Montgomery—this is the leadership group—and Jim is 
talking about knocking the legs out from under the table if everybody can’t be equal around that 
table. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: And I think that it became very clear that there was some missing information and 
links that we didn’t have. But we figured that, you know, once the march got into Selma, that 
would be over with, and we’ll move on. And we did not know about Johnson’s speech after that 
about the Voting Rights Act and “We Shall Overcome” and then, later, the passage of the Voting 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
38 
Rights Act. So, that was kind of tense in there, but it wasn’t tense because we didn’t like people. 
It was tense because we were on different pages about where we were, in terms of protest. 
And we had been in Selma for two years prior to SCLC coming in there, and we knew 
that a march would only last maybe thirty days after the march had concluded and that people 
would dissipate because you hadn’t organized them into anything. And that was our real concern. 
We were trying to build in Selma. And we stayed there and we continued and we did build a 
little something in Selma. But that was because we went to the next plan, and that is building 
independent political organizations. 
JD: Okay, talk a little bit about Lowndes County and how that represented a change for 
SNCC, in terms of— 
CS: Right. 
JB: Before you start— 
[Recording stops and then resumes]  
JB: Okay, we’re on. 
JD: Okay. One of the effects of the Selma March was that Stokely Carmichael and others 
went through Lowndes County, and they started organizing people there. And the result was a 
project for SNCC after that, where a number of SNCC field secretaries were leaving Mississippi 
and other projects, because they saw something different happening there. Tell me a little bit 
about Lowndes County and your experience. 
CS: Okay. We did go through Lowndes County, and everywhere we went, we knew that 
we had to do something a little different in terms of a march, and not have just a group of people 
marching down a highway, that we had to get people along the highway to at least get involved 
in and actually understand what is going on. So, it was a fertile area. It was part of the Black Belt 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
39 
in Alabama. Stokely was pretty disenchanted, as many of us were, with the response that we had 
received from the Democratic Party with the challenge. And we were looking for other ways in 
which we could actually organize for political power. We called it individual, I mean, 
independent political organizing, and we were looking at Lowndes County, Alabama. [1:25:00] 
But we had a pretty healthy and sturdy research department back in Atlanta. And Jack 
Minnis actually goes through the laws in Alabama, and he finds that you can actually organize an 
independent party in a particular county in Alabama. This was a part of law that was passed 
during the Civil War era and said that we could actually go in and organize a separate party in 
the state of Alabama in any county, but there were certain requirements that you must go 
through. So, we used that to begin to look at organizing in Lowndes County, in Dallas County, in 
Greene County, and there’s another county in Alabama. I can’t remember what the name of that 
one is. And we started out with Lowndes County. 
Now, at that point, SNCC doesn’t have the kind of resources it had for 1964. The 
resources have already begun to decline. And so, the job and the task for making resources 
available fell on me. And so, what I did was I got other SNCCers to go into Lowndes County to 
work along with Stokely, and into other counties, and the majority of those folk were the NAG 
people who had come down in the summer of ’64 who were still working, some in Mississippi 
and some in other places. And we put those in, and we got some out of Georgia, Southwest 
Georgia, to move into that area, because we didn’t have a lot of people who transferred in from 
Mississippi. Those people that left out of Mississippi generally went home or went on some other 
mission. 
But we were also trying to pare down the organization because, after the summer of ’64, 
SNCC ended up taking in about seventy to eighty of those volunteers, and there were a couple of 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
40 
dynamic changes that took place in SNCC. One was that we got up to a membership that was 
over a hundred. And we also went from being a predominantly black organization to a 
predominantly white organization. And that created some ideological and philosophical concerns 
in the organization, also. But what happens is that the stepping-up and the escalation of the 
antiwar movement drained off a lot of those folk who were in SNCC, because that became the 
exciting kind of, in-your-face kind of mobilizing that many people began to shift off to. 
But it was Jack who came up with the idea and the plan. And we took that plan and went 
to Lowndes County and organized what was called the Lowndes County Freedom Organization, 
the same kind of acronym, same kind of freedom that we’re talking about. But we were talking 
about empowerment now. That was one of the things that came out of Mississippi, that people 
wanted to empower themselves, and we thought that this was one of the ways in which we could 
actually do that. We were trying to create a new model, another model, that could be employed 
and taken outside of Lowndes County to urban areas, and wherever else we were, to find those 
pockets where African Americans were the majority and see if we could use that to leverage 
coalition politics with a kind of sound, solid foundation in the African American community. 
So, we used limited resources, and they began to organize the Lowndes County 
organization. And the Democratic Party found out what was going on, and I think that that 
influence on the media at that point made people begin to refer to the Lowndes County Freedom 
Organization as the Black Panther Party. And so, that was supposed to be a negative, and 
everybody was supposed to say, “Oh, this is not going to work.” But for the African American 
community, that was a very positive kind of thing. 
And so, we would—during the period where there were going to be elections, and we had 
organized campaigns and actually got people on the ballot, and they were running for elections, 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
41 
we solicited young men from Philadelphia and Chicago and New York and California to come 
down, just to be poll watchers and to help drive people around [1:30:00] and to do those kinds of 
things. And so, many of them came down, and when they went back to those respective 
communities, they considered themselves to be the Friends of the Black Panther Party. And so, 
this is how the notion of Black Panther gets out to California and Chicago and in New York. And 
all over these areas, you can find that some kind of organization that’s supposed to be Black 
Panthers were created. 
So, it’s not a strain for us to understand that Bobby Seale—and Bobby Seale has now 
admitted—used the Lowndes County model as the kind of model that they were going to employ 
in California, in Oakland, to actually empower that particular community and then spread out 
with the Black Panther Parties going in other directions, basically on kind of standard traditional 
politics. 
JD: So, you were organizing there, and elections were held, and although blacks were in a 
majority, they did not win. What went on with the elections? 
CS: I think that we didn’t have the confidence in all of the people in Lowndes County to 
go out and vote. The next election that was held, they won most of the offices. So, it was just a 
matter of going through it the first time around. But you can explain that to people, and they can 
actually see. One of the things that we always did was SNCC, as an organization, provided 
information. So, we put together these little booklets that people could actually see, with black 
people on the cover in that precinct, Lowndes County. And we also talked about the role and 
responsibility for the sheriff, the qualifications for a sheriff, so that people would feel confident 
that, if they had those very simple qualifications, that they could be a candidate for that particular 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
42 
office. And so, it was a defeat because we were just getting people acclimated to the idea of 
empowerment and the importance of the vote. 
And actually, in lockstep, I think we find that that kind of apprehension was eliminated 
through these kinds of efforts back here when you have the 2008 and the 2012 elections, with the 
African American vote, because people assumed that there was still going to be that kind of 
apprehension, and they weren’t coming out to vote. And I just observed in the 2012 that people, 
even people who were considered to be those who would never vote, because they have some 
kind of dereliction or they had some kind of issue, and they would take that day off—it would 
almost be like their birthday—they would be straight, and they’d be in that line, and because 
Obama said to stay until you vote, they were willing to do that. You know, all the agitation, say, 
“Don’t go for the okey-doke. Don’t get out of line. Stay there until you vote.” Then after you 
vote, you’re on your own. 
But I think, what I’m saying is, is that, yeah, the first time around that wasn’t successful. 
The second time around, they actually won office, and the school board, and the city council, and 
later mayor. I can’t think of the name of the town now in Lowndes County, but one of the cities 
in Lowndes elected a black mayor. And so, you began to see that shift take place. Again, by this 
time, there’s an upheaval in—in—well, let me just take that one back. I’m thinking too far in 
advance. 
JD: Well, let’s—go ahead with that. 
CS: But what I am—where I’m going is, is that, while the election is coming back 
around, and they’re organizing and still going on in Alabama, one of the things that happens is 
that Sammy Younge is killed in January of 1966, and SNCC responds by putting out a statement 
against the war in Vietnam. And so, you begin to see that whole notion that I had talked about 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
43 
earlier about tying into becoming more international and tying into groups that are working on 
self-determination, and we see some of that as some of what it is that we are trying to do in the 
communities in which we are working. 
JD: If we can move here to—and we’ve taken too much of your time, so we’re going to 
wrap this up soon. But I would like for you to talk about, [1:35:00] as you’ve written about, 
SNCC is undergoing all kinds of changes. 
CS: Absolutely. 
JD: And by 1967, it’s in a real crisis. Would you talk about that and your observations as 
a member of the group then? 
CS: Well, several things happened. One is, is that we had been successful, clearly, and 
success has a tendency to make people move on. And I’m talking about successful in terms of 
the 1964 Civil Rights Bill, the 1965 Voting Rights Bill, widespread desegregation. You’re 
talking about the widespread participation in the voting process, registering to vote, numbers of 
people coming on, empowerments of groups that were marginalized for a long period of time. 
So, these are the kinds of victories that you have to recognize that are taking place. And you can 
go all the way back through that period with the long view of the Movement and see a number of 
victories if you use that perspective. 
The other thing is, is that working in areas like Mississippi and Alabama, where you do 
have the shooting in Lowndes County and Reverend Reeb is killed, a seminarian, and the other 
Catholic priest is wounded, that you can do about two years. And after two years, you probably 
need to retool and remove the tapes and all that kind of stuff, because you just can’t do it. It’s too 
much. It’s too much of an emotional kind of strain that’s not good for the—for you, for the 
individual. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
44 
And you begin to see other kinds of things happening. One is, is that you begin to see the 
emphasis shift away from civil rights to the antiwar movement for many young white students, 
and so, there’s a shifting away there. You also begin to see the whole notion about 
empowerment, Black Power, coming on. And the perception is, in how Black Power is actually 
projected, comes from a position paper of the Atlanta Project, never officially voted on by SNCC. 
It was not the position paper on Black Power from SNCC. And what happens in that position 
paper is that it’s a very narrow view about a kind of black-white kind of analysis and, you know, 
“whites feel superior to blacks, and blacks now should put whites out of the organization,” all 
that kind of stuff. That was never the basis upon which Black Power was brought into view, 
because our assessment and analysis was much larger than just a color, skin-color kind of 
analysis. And we fought that argument. We fought that argument in SNCC. But the status quo 
bought into another idea, so many young people were moving away. 
JD: There were newer people coming in, too, didn’t you? 
CS: Newer people coming in. We didn’t have a way to educate those newer people about 
even the more recent history. So, people were coming in, they didn’t know anything about the 
Freedom Riders, and “jail, no bail,” and that whole history and that experience. So, you had new 
people coming in, and it was just extremely difficult for the organization to move forward. Plus, 
we—you know, I hear a lot of people that underestimate the impact of COINTELPRO. 
JD: Yeah, the government. 
CS: COINTELPRO had a massive effect and impact on people. I ended up in prison for 
three months during the summer of 1967 for nothing, other than the fact that the judge said that I 
had—I was a risk. And that they were going to deny me bail until Justice Black at the Supreme 
Court said, “You’ve got to give him bond.” This is on my induction into the military and being 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
45 
found guilty. Even though there was never a case and I have never been retried over that case, 
they held me in prison for three months that I don’t get any credit for anywhere. 
So, those things were real. And the disruption of families [1:40:00] and the credibility 
and the character assassination and all that was going on. So, these are the things that I think 
caused somewhat of the demise of the Movement. It was never Black Power. It was never a 
conflict between SNCC and Dr. King. And, you know, I was—and this is where I want to at least 
say this, and we’re going to write it and we’re going to document it and all. But when Garrow 
did his book back on King, he came and he interviewed me. And I said, “Garrow, I want to tell 
you something that happened.” 
Shortly after Cicero, Dr. King came back to Atlanta. I went back to Atlanta. Dr. King 
asked Stokely, Ricks, and myself to come by the house. He wanted to just have us over for 
dinner, and he had us down in the basement, and we stayed there for maybe four or five hours. 
And he said, “I want to understand Black Power. I want to understand what you’re saying about 
Black Power.” And we went through that and we went through the history. And he said, “But 
what about this? And what about that?” And he asked all the questions that he wanted to have 
answered. And he says that, “Okay, I am not going to be—as an organizational person, we are 
not going to be able to endorse and support Black Power. Okay? We just can’t do that.” 
And we said, “Okay. But because you can’t, then we have to agree that neither of us will 
find ourselves in a situation where we condemn one another. And we’re going to all be able to go 
down the same street, and we’ll all be very supportive.” And we kind of shook hands on that. 
Because he said, “Now, explain to me where you’re coming from and what you’re saying. And is 
this just a hatred of whites and all that kind of stuff?” We explained that we’re not even talking 
about that. We’re talking about empowerment of black, tying our movement to movements 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
46 
outside, and all that kind of stuff, and that’s where we’re coming from. You know our history 
and you know how we have gone through this experience. 
And I think in the From Chaos to Community [Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or 
Community?], Dr. King says that there were some people who articulated Black Power that were 
okay, but there were others who got it all screwed up. And I think that that is the time when he 
makes a reference to this meeting and our agreement, because there was never a moment in 
which there was an antagonism between Stokely and Dr. King. Matter of fact, when Dr. King 
came out in ’67 with his position against the war in Vietnam, he called and asked Stokely and I 
to come to that Sunday morning meeting. And Stokely said something like, “But you know I’m a 
heathen.” He said, “Bring your butt on anyhow, because I have something I want to say.” And 
we got there. We were on the front seat. 
JD: Oh, you were there for that historic—? 
CS: Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! So, I’m there and I’m listening. And he goes—you know. And I 
said, “And that’s what we asked you to do all the time.” You know, “We kept telling you that 
there was a moral basis. Ours is more political, and we understand you’re not—but you have to 
deal with that on a moral basis.” 
So, that is missed sometimes, and, you know, and people keep the myth going about 
these other kinds of things. Now, Garrow said that he couldn’t find, among other lieutenants of 
Dr. King, a confirmation of that meeting. 
JD: So, he thought you made it up? [Laughs] 
CS: I guess he thought I made it up. But I think that’s pivotal. 
JD: Oh, it’s a fascinating piece of history. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
47 
CS: And, you know, I talked to Willie Ricks all the time. I talked to Kwame about that 
before he died, and I said, “You know, that’s a part of the history we need to make sure is kept.” 
But if you read Kwame’s autobiography, you know, he actually talks about the friendship and 
the fondness. 
JD: Yeah. 
CS: When Dr. King goes to—what is it? Resurrection City? 
JD: Um-hmm. 
CS: Was it Resurrection City? 
JD: No, Resurrection—that was after he— 
CS: That was after. He was in Washington, I think, setting up— 
JD: Um-hmm, yeah. 
CS: For that kind of thing. And he was having problems with the black militants up there. 
And he said, “Stokely, I need some help with this.” And he said, “What you need?” And he said, 
“I need for these people to back off for a few minutes, because what’s happening is they’re 
creating so much conflict that I can’t get my message out about poverty.” [1:45:00] And Stokely 
said, “Okay.” And he went around and he talked to all those groups, called them all together, and 
said, “If you all don’t want to be involved with this program with Dr. King, then don’t go! But 
leave him alone!” And so, they still had that kind of working relationship, even as we were 
moving closer to Memphis and his assassination. 
JD: Wow! This has all been fascinating stuff. I think we’re going to have to come back, 
[laughs] if you are willing. 
CS: Alright. 
JD: What we have here is a period when you personally were undergoing much stress— 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
48 
CS: Absolutely. 
JD: With being jailed for refusing the draft, the organizing in Orangeburg and the 
Orangeburg Massacre— 
CS: Right. 
JD: When you were incarcerated there, you were broke— 
CS: Yeah. 
JD: You had limited resources, and yet you came back and you devoted yourself to a 
career in education. 
CS: Right. 
JD: You got your masters at Harvard, your doctorate at UNC. Tell us briefly what you’ve 
been doing these last 40 years. 
CS: Well, what I’ve been doing these last 40 years is enjoying one of the most unique 
experiences that I’ve ever had, and that was being a member of a situation that was almost like a 
university setting, where I had contact with the Archibald Coxes of the world, and Dr. King, and 
Whitney Youngs, and Malcolm X, and Ella Baker, and Fannie Lou Hamer, and Ruby Doris 
Robinson, and a collective of individuals who made a difference in this world. And I got an 
education that I could have not gotten under any other circumstance. 
And so, I am trying to share that with the community from which I have come and share 
that with the community that’s still interested in knowing about the courage and determination of 
these legends. I stand on the shoulders of them. I very proudly stand on the shoulders of them. I 
want to represent that. I want to be able to tell my story and tell their story, too, because in telling 
mine, I always include them in that whole process. 
JD: Part of your story is your autobiography. A copy is right there, if you’d hold that up. 
Dr. Cleveland Sellers, March 21, 2013 
49 
CS: Yeah. 
JD: The River of No Return. It is—was published 40 years ago, and I still think that it is, 
in terms of Movement autobiographies, this is the most insightful and honest I have read. So, 
people watching this or reading the transcript, pick up this book, and you will get even more of 
the story. Dr. Sellers, thank you very much. We are indebted to you for sharing your insights 
with us. 
CS: Okay. Thank you very much, and I’m glad to be able to get the latter part into this 
film. 
 
[Recording ends at 1:48:00] 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Sally C. Council