afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
1 
JERRY CHEEK, Typewriter Repair 
 
Katy Clune 
It is Thursday, Wednesday, March 10. And we're here in Durham, North Carolina, Katy Clune 
and Julia Gartrell with Jerry Cheek. 
 
Jerry Cheek   0:20  
That's correct. 
 
KC  0:21  
And Jerry, let's get started by you just telling us what you did for a living, and we'll kind of work, 
work around from there. 
 
JC  0:31  
Well --  
 
KC  0:32  
Or what you do for a living? 
 
JC  0:33  
What I do for a living? Sure. I actually I got started in the business of working on typewriters and 
adding machines. Some of this is gonna sound really ancient to you, folks. But I started in 1967, 
with Royal Typewriter Company. 
 
At the time, I was working with Gilbarco, in Greensboro, North Carolina, and I was really 
looking for some occupation or profession where I could didn't have to stay inside all the time. 
And one day, I was downtown Greensboro and Royal Typewriter Company had this big sign on 
the window. They wanted to hire somebody to service typewriters. Well, I'd never worked on 
typewriters before, didn't know what it involves. So I just went in and asked, and they gave me a 
test that I had to complete. And, evidently was multiple choice because I did pretty good on it, I 
think. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
2 
 
And the next day, I received a phone call from the Royal branch in Washington in DC, and I 
wanted to know if I wanted to come up for an interview. Well, I did. Hey, it's exciting, because, 
you know, I was, what, 18 years old? 19 years old? So I went up there and stayed a couple of 
days and, and talked with them and they decided that they wanted to hire me. So they did. They 
put me on the payroll, move me to DC paid the expenses. Country boy,  never had been out of 
the state of North Carolina hardly. So it was quite an experience for me. 
 
KC 2:32  
Did they send you up on the train? 
 
JC  2:34  
No, actually, I drove. And they had the, they furnished the place for me to stay in, and that sort 
of thing. And then the next, the next step was that they sent me to school in Hartford. Hartford, 
Connecticut was the home base for Royal Typewriter Company at the time. 
 
KC  2:54  
Is Royal an American company? 
 
JC 2:56  
It was at that point, that's the manufacturing spot was in Hartford. And they also did their 
training there for the technicians. So they went there and stayed a couple months, and took the 
basic training for the typewriter. And then came back to DC.  
 
And from that point on, it was just a constant back and forth from Hartford to DC and back. I'd 
come back to DC and work, make service calls and worked all over Washington and Northern 
Virginia. I was actually based in Northern Virginia. But the Royal office in DC was on, it 
was 1700, Wisconsin Avenue Northwest. Wow. That's amazing. [crosstalk / laughter] I 
remember that. That's been we moved from there in '69. 
 
KC  3:49  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
3 
And what was your job at that point? Were you servicing? 
 
JC  3:53  
I was servicing, I was servicing typewriters. At that point in time, typewriters was, you didn't 
walk into an office without a typewriter being there. And typewriters was the, the bread and 
butter of what was going on, you know, as far as office machines were concerned.  'Course, the 
copiers and that sort of thing kind of came in there too. But everybody had a typewriter. We had, 
we had two divisions in DC. We had the government, we had the commercial. And there was 
about 20, some technicians in each division.  
 
I was in the government division. So I handled places like Fort Belvoir, Cameron Station 
[spelling?], Arlington. And then a lot of things up and down Constitution Avenue, FBI and some 
of those buildings -- which was it was really exciting, you know, to do that to be able to go into 
those places. I had somewhat of a clearance so I could go at Fort Belvoir, I would go into areas 
that you just normally couldn't get into. But I was still, I was still, I guess you might say 
supervised by a, an MP [military police]. I couldn't go in certain areas without, without a 
guardian, so to speak. But that was quite exciting for me. And I enjoyed doing that I enjoyed, and 
said, "Hey, this is this is what I want to do," so, so I continued doing that. I stayed, we stayed 
there. Well, I got married while I was there. [sneeze] And Bless you.  
 
We stayed there until sixty, first part of '69, and move back to Durham. I actually there was a 
gentleman running a typewriter shop here in Durham that was looking for a technician [sneeze] 
and the service manager.  
 
Well, let me let me back up just a little bit, that that point in time in the late 60s, actually, up 
through the 80s. typewriter companies had branches. They had branch offices, and they also had 
dealers, what they called dealers. So the major cities, like for example, in the 60s and 70s, 
Raleigh, Greensboro, Charlotte, the major cities in North Carolina had branch offices. They were 
they were employed by Royal Typewriter Company, and everybody that worked in a branch 
office was employed by Royal Typewriter Company. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
4 
Then they were independent dealers. The independent dealers were in the smaller towns or cities 
like Durham, Winston Salem, some of those. So as a dealer, or as a technician coming from a 
from a branch or from an from the typewriter, Royal Typewriter Company-owned location to a 
dealer was somewhat of a change. But actually, it worked out better. Because I had a little more 
flexibility as to the way I wanted to operate. When you work for a branch, you had to go by their 
guidelines on each and everything. So I had a little more flexibility and then of course, another 
benefit I was furnished to a vehicle. And, so some of the perks were better, and I enjoyed it, and I 
definitely enjoyed getting out of DC at that time and moving, moving back to this area 
 
Julia Gartrell 7:41  
—is a fun adventure. But you weren't. You weren't too sad to come back to this area? 
 
JC  7:45  
No, no, I wasn't sad at all to come back to this. This area was, well, of course, this area is a lot 
like DC was then. 
 
KC:  
What year did you move back?  
 
JC:  
I moved back, it was, I'm always corrected on this. I say I say it's the latter part of '68 either 
November or December '68. My wife says early '69. So I was in DC from '67, first part of '67 to 
the first part of '69. 
 
KC: Gotcha.  
 
JC: And then I went to work for Durham Typewriter Sales and Durham. 
 
KC  8:22  
And before we go down that path, I was curious, do you remember any of the questions on this 
test? Like how could the multiple choice test determine aptitude for typewriter repair? 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
5 
 
JC  8:34  
Well, there was a certain portion of that had to do with mechanical dexterity. You know, can you 
handle a screwdriver? And can you handle a wrench? And, and then you are actually given the 
opportunity to show the folks that were there your ability. And my dad, I guess I can can go all 
the way back to when I was a child, my dad always worked on cars, he was a he was a mechanic. 
And of course I would hang around in his shop and, and help him so to speak. I'm sure it was 
more of a hindrance than a help. But that's where I learned, you know, righty tighty lefty loosey 
type stuff. And so I was capable of handling the tools of the trade, so to speak. And then some of 
the other some of the other questions being the country boy and the age that I was I don't know 
how I managed to get through them because you keep in mind as you're going out to work on 
these machines, you're going into all kinds of offices. And some of these folks are pretty 
elaborate in their thinking concerning, you know, you walk through my door you got to be really 
a top notch type person. And you have to have a little bit of tact, I guess, when talking to folks. 
And so that was part of the testing. And I was kind of kidding about the multiple choice. Some of 
the questions were multiple choice, but a lot of it was actually just straight out testing. 
 
KC: Gotcha.  
 
JC: [windchimes] We had we had, we had the, the, I guess, the opportunity, you would say, to 
kind of say what was on your mind and how you felt about things. So we, you know, it was it 
was a he was when you took that test you were you were kind of free, you were to do what you 
wanted to say what you wanted to do, say what you want to say, do that do what you want to do 
in the way you wanted to do it. 
 
KC  10:49  
And what was the business you found it at in Greensboro? 
 
JC  10:52  
It was Royal, it was the branch office for Royal Typewriter Company. And these branch offices, 
of course, they had the sales department, the head service department and, and the service 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
6 
department, each service, each branch, had its own service manager. So the service managers had 
their little meetings, and they knew what the other service managers wanted, and if there's 
somebody in DC looking for an employee or a technician, and somebody like me happened to 
stumble in and maybe was qualified to be trained. I was not qualified to work on machines at this 
point, but qualified to be trained. Well, then they would put the word out to these others. You 
know, and of course that was done by telephone then. [laughter / windchime] But anyway, that's 
how they that's how a lot of folks realized --  
 
[audio correction/ crosstalk] 
 
KC  12:35  
Um, okay. So my next question for you is you were sort of revisiting how you got to DC was 
before we moved to down to Durham, if you wanted to share any stories from being in those 
office buildings in Washington. Like, even just painting a picture of what it was like, I mean, I 
just imagine a scene out of Mad Men where it's like, women using typewriters and men and glass 
offices. 
 
JC  13:05  
Well, I can give you, I can give you a couple of examples. A couple of things that really, I guess 
will hang in my memory forever. It's this kind of what you're looking for. Cameron Station was a 
was a government complex. I don't know if they're still there or not, they probably are. But they, 
they were in Alexandria, between Alexandria and Arlington, Virginia. And it's totally a 
government complex, but it was it was made up of rows and rows and rows of buildings. And 
each one of these buildings was divided into one person offices. And each of these one-person 
offices had at least one typewriter. 
 
And these typewriters, I might go to Cameron station, and I might stay there two to three days 
working on typewriters, because they all seem to break at one time. [laughter] So that was that 
was one part that I didn't necessarily care for. And of course, every one that was operating a 
typewriter then was female. And, of course, I was a young male. And it was it wasn't, it wasn't 
that I didn't, I didn't have any problems with anybody I was able to, but sometimes, sometimes 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
7 
you just you just get to feeling uncomfortable in certain situations. So that was one of the things I 
was kind of glad to get away from. You know, a lot a lot of people would say, "Well, you know, 
you're just not normal." I think I was very normal. And I didn't I didn't want to be exposed to a 
situation where, I mean, I just been married for a year. And I didn't, I didn't like I didn't like 
being in situations like that. And then if you remember our how, you probably never knew this, 
but I think in DC there was like 20 or 30 females for every male. So, you know, the guys, 
everybody wanted to go there. And I'm not I mean, don't get me wrong, I don't have a halo or 
anything but --  
 
KC  15:36  
You walk in with your typewriter repair case and feel eyes on you? [laughter] 
 
JC 15:39  
Yeah. And I wanted, you know, I wanted to be there to do the job that I was sent there to do. And 
sometimes it became kind of uncomfortable and I got a little nervous at that point. But still we 
got through it, you know. And it I overall, I enjoyed working on the equipment. 
 
But one really tough time comes to mind is is at Fort Belvoir. Fort Belvoir had certain sections 
where you just couldn't go, unless you had a certain secret classification that you can go, Well, 
how was not at the top, but I was, I'd been, I'd been given this, this class that I could go into and, 
and then what I had to do is get, I could go to a certain I could go to a certain area within the, the 
fort, the Fort Belvoir, or you go into a certain area. And at that point, I had to wait for an MP to 
come and escort me to the part four place where I was working on the machine. 
 
Well, this one particular day, and I was familiar with, with these MPs, and they were with me, so 
we had a good relationship. 
 
KC: What does MP stand for?  
 
JC: Military Police.  
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
8 
KC: OK, yeah. 
 
JC: It's really just a policeman within the military. And so I knew this guy, and he and I left our 
location at that point. And, and I mean, I've rode with him, we rode to this location where I was 
supposed to work on the machine. Well, I did, I went in and got, the lady told me what was 
wrong, and when when she was wrong, she got up, she moved over to the other side of the room. 
Well, this MP, he kind of goes over there starts hitting on her a little bit and they start talking and 
I'm over there working on the machine. And I mean, they just really was carrying on a pretty 
good conversations. So I got the machine finished. And I told her that machine's finished. And 
she said, Well, there's a ribbon, would you put a ribbon on for me? I said, Sure. And she had laid 
the ribbon on on the desk. I took the ribbon and put on the machine took the old ribbon off. Are 
you familiar with carbon ribbon? 
 
KC: No.  
 
JC: Carbon ribbon is a just continuous mix of ribbon that you can pull it out and read it. I mean, 
it moves one letter at a time as you're typing on it. And you can actually read the sentence that 
was written on it. And you just continue reading and continue reading. But anyway, it was a 
carbon ribbon machine. So I put a new carbon ribbon on it took the old cover off and I looked 
around for the trashcan I couldn't find a trashcan and I didn't know anything about burn bags. Do 
you know what burn bags are? 
 
KC: No.  
 
JC: Burn bags are simply like the shredder has taken the place of the burn bag. 
 
KC: Like confidential documents?  
 
JC: Exactly, they would put all the confidential stuff, ribbon included, into this burn bag and then 
at the end of the day, the MPs or whoever was in charge of it would take it. The reason they call 
it a burn bag was they took it to the area where they had this huge variance that they would burn 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
9 
all this confidential information. Well, I didn't know anything about a burn bag. So they were 
over there and they were talking really good at each other. So I don't want to interrupt if I just 
chuck it in my toolkit.  
 
KC: Uh, oh.  
 
JC: And close my toolkit and finish up there and we left. Well, I got back to the point where he 
dropped me off, but I did not get to the main gate because she evidently started looking for that 
ribbon that I had taken off and then of course they they put out an all points bulletin I guess.  
 
KC: Wow. 
 
JC: But anyway, they the MPs caught me before I got outside the gate and I mean it was one of 
those It was really kind of like a TV scene where they put you up against the wall, you know, 
search and all that stuff. So they took me to the guy in charge. I don't know what rank he was, 
but I guess it didn't take long for me to convince him how dumb I was, and didn't know anything 
about a burn bag, but anyway, I, before I left his office that day, I knew all about burn bags. I 
knew when he started not know, knew what they were for. 
 
So you know, I was, and and this was kind of a brunt of a joke, we'd have our meetings every 
day, every Friday morning, in, in 1700, Wisconsin Avenue Northwest, in DC. And, of course, 
you'd have both departments there, you'd have about 50 some guys there, you know, and 
somebody from Fort Belvoir had called the service management told him what had happened. So 
the next meeting, I was the brunt of a big joke, you know, guess he knows, JC's gonna give us a 
report on what do you do with a burn bag. So I had to turn tell him what our burn bag was? 
Well, so those things are kind of etched in my memory, and, you know, good experiences. But as 
far as machines are concerned, I don't, I don't know. 
 
The most unusual thing, I guess, was at in DC, when, when a salesperson sold a machine, the 
machine was actually shipped to the buyers location. And then the technician was to go out, 
unbox the machine, check it out and set it up for the, for the user, for the end user. And it was a 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
10 
very unusual switch situation to go and unbox a machine and set it up and it'd be working 
properly. Usually, you had to work on the machine and the customers office, that was not good. 
Because the customer is sitting there watching this brand new machine, come out of a box, and 
then all of a sudden that had to be worked on. So that was that was not that was not a good, good, 
good feeling or a good time to be having to do that. Anyway, these things like that. And of 
course, I guess it was all a part of getting into the business. And that's that was my part of getting 
into the business. I was indoctrinated in kind of a new unusual way, I guess. Because the location 
for one thing DC was a -- 
 
KC: It sounds intense.  
 
JC: -- it was and it was it was so you know, but I did enjoy doing it. So hey, this is what I like to 
do. So I'm gonna, I'm gonna continue doing it. But about that time. Well, Martin Luther King 
was assassinated while we were there. And --  
 
KC:  22:37  
that's right. I didn't even put that together. Wow. 
 
JC  22:39  
Yeah. And so we had that we had a lot of problems, a lot of a lot of rioting and a lot of things 
going on, and a lot of burning. So my wife course, I mean, I didn't disagree with her. But my 
wife says, "Don't you think it's time for us to leave?" So, that's when I started looking for maybe 
another location and where we were. And it was, we were we made we made some friends while 
we were there. Some military friends, because I had had one friend that was at, he was stationed 
that he was stationed at Fort Belvoir, he was a driver. And he came over and picked me up in a 
staff car, while all the rioting was going on. And we rode through DC and some of the areas for 
the normal person couldn't get to during this time. And I observed some of the things that you 
know, just kind of locked into your mind and, and that wasn't good. 
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
11 
But anyway, that was that was aside from working on machines, the machines, the machines are, 
are I guess, the typewriters. And the I hesitate used word "thrill," but I enjoyed working on them 
from the start. So I guess that's what caused me to hang in. 
 
JG  24:16  
Sounds like it really fit your skills, skill set, the mechanical and the interpersonal and the it was 
varied and you weren't always inside, as you said.  
 
JC  24:24  
Exactly. That was that was a, that was a very positive thing for me. I was able to even more so 
when I moved to Durham, because you would go to a location work on a machine and then you'd 
leave and go to another location. So it wasn't you weren't in the same buildings all the time and 
not being able to look out this sort of thing. And so I enjoyed that. I enjoyed the moving around 
meeting the different people I enjoyed meeting, I met a lot of folks. 
 
KC  24:57  
So, paint us a picture of Durham in the '70s, when you arrived back here? 
 
JC   25:01  
Sure could, sure can. Well, when we moved back, Durham was, I don't know how would best 
describe it? Of course it was, it was not the size that it is now, nor the surrounding areas. You 
could you could go, you could come to Durham, you go into town and, and you leave town and 
you go out into the country. You don't go out and be confronted with all these malls and, and the 
housing complexes, and that sort of thing. It just wasn't there. Everybody that lived in Durham 
lived in the city. 
 
We moved to Orange County when we came back, or moved here. And we moved to Orange 
County. And we we lived in Orange County from the time we moved in and still live there. But, 
Durham was, Durham was a little bit of, a not to the degree a city like Washington, but they were 
folks here were a little tense concerning what had been going on. That was that's what I initially 
noticed. They were having, they were having several protest meetings and that sort of thing. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
12 
And, and I, you know, I happen to be in the neighborhood of some of them. So I went to some of 
them and kind of experienced what was going on some of the way in... Some of the things now I 
don't want to elaborate on this, but some of the things that they talked about in the history books 
was not quite the way it was. You can edit this if you want to I'm sure you will. But the pictures 
that are painted now to my kids, and I took offense to this, was not exactly the way it was when 
when they were when they were actually happening.  
 
The villain, in so many cases now were not the ones that were actually creating the problems. 
Some of the some of the folks that were would come to speak when they would have guest 
speakers, I'm talking about the African American folks, when they would have guest speakers to 
come, they would send out people ahead, and I experienced this, they would send out maybe two 
to three weeks ahead of time, we'd have folks come and like go into the different areas like 
_______ and that sort of thing and talk to people and kind of get kind of get people excited about 
things. And of course that sort of things not really mentioned. And maybe they don't have any 
proof of that. But anyway, that's and I'm not a racist person, by any means. Don't misunderstand 
me, I'm not. 
 
KC 28:00  
Why you interested in going to those meetings because I imagined that many honestly, white 
men (part, part of it...) you know, made the effort to go... 
 
JC 28:08  
Well, part of it. Part of it was the youth, I think the fact that I was young. And I like to see 
exciting things and I didn't I didn't grow up as a as a person that never got out amongst them, so 
to speak. So I was, you know, some of those things kind of excited me. And I wanted to just see 
what was going on. And most of all, I guess see what would happen. And I mean, that was that 
was immaturity, somewhat on my part, because I really wasn't there to try to make anything any 
better. As a lot of men that are in that bracket I think, they weren't there to try to to better the 
situation. They just want to be around the excitement and the action. As it is today.  
 
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
13 
KC 29:11  
What was the clientele like at Durham type? What was the first store here you worked at? 
Durham Typewriter Company?  
 
JC 29:18  
Durham Typewriter Sales. They were on The Boulevard and we were on The Boulevard. And -- 
 
KC: What does that mean on the boulevard?  
 
JC: Chapel Hill Boulevard. [crosstalk, laughter] That's what it was called then. It was "The 
Boulevard." The address there was, 2097, 2097 Chapel Hill Boulevard, And the building still 
there just passed it yesterday. Can't think what type of businesses are there now. But it was a 
relatively small dealer. I think the most he ever employed was maybe five or six people that 
included the office staff and technicians and the sales floor. 
 
When I came there, there was one salesman, besides Mr. Cunningham, he was the owner. There 
was one salesman and two technicians besides me. So, and there were times when we had maybe 
half dozen, but it wasn't, it wasn't a huge place by any means. As dealers weren't huge, I mean, 
the, the dealers were in a situation where we would service a given area, so to speak. And then if 
we ran into a problem, now, this was a, this was something that was worked out between the 
dealer and the manufacturer which was Royal, the dealer ran into a problem as far as getting 
behind on servicing, then he could call the branch office and get some help. So we weren't there. 
We weren't there just by ourselves, you know. But a dealer, there were pros and cons, to being a 
dealer. And the, I like to be in a dealer much more. I worked there, I worked with him until '79.  
 
KC  31:39  
And how was the clientele different than in Washington? 
 
JC 31:46  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
14 
Okay, um, you can probably already tell I'm a country boy. I was raised in Moore County of 
North Carolina. And the it's just a different, little different, was a different mindset here than in 
DC.  
 
At that time, you were, you were more  inclined to come in contact with folks that and some of 
them weren't, but folks that a lot of them thought they were real educated, but they weren't. And 
so you were more inclined to come in contact with those folks. We had, we had a little joke, you 
know, about the briefcases especially up and down Constitution, and most of the briefcases were 
empty that people were carrying around. They serve no purpose. I mean, you can, as somebody 
that works on typewriters back then working on typewriters, you could kind of watch observe, 
see what's going on. And you've noticed a lot of stuff that a lot of folks didn't notice. But when in 
moving to Durham, from that area, moving to Durham, this was more of a laid-back community 
more, more folks here are, even though we have Duke and we have some, some very elaborate 
institutions and colleges, and it's just not it's not as fast. Or it was not then as it is up there. So 
there's, there's a difference there. 
 
KC 33:21  
What would the average person have a typewriter in their home? Was it affordable?  
 
JC  33:24  
No, no, no, very, very few. Now what we did, we had a walk-in business also. And that's for 
most of the portables were worked on. They brought people brought the machines to us if they 
had one in their home, and most of the folks that had them in their homes were were students, 
our business people. Very, very seldom did just your regular, I'd say medium class folks, would 
have typewriters in their homes. It just it was it was kind of uncommon. 
 
KC  34:02  
Did you have many African American clients? 
 
JC  34:05  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
15 
Yes, as a matter of fact, we did. We serviced North Carolina Central. So I came in contact with a 
lot of folks and enjoyed a lot of folks over there. We were there, I don't mean to separate them, 
I'm just saying it. It was a different especially the end it was a different part of town. And when 
when I would go there to work on a machine, I felt real comfortable. I didn't feel threatened or I 
didn't didn't feel -- in DC now, you would you would not go to a certain area by yourself. It was 
just a no no. But that was one of the things I really liked about coming back to Durham. My wife 
had lived here, and I was somewhat familiar with there but she before we got married, she had 
lived she lived and she worked, she worked in Durham for a couple years, she worked for Bailey 
Seff and Harris [spelling?], which is an accounting firm here in Durham, and so, I came here 
and, and we were high school sweethearts, so I came here and visited, and I was in schooling in 
Virginia, and I would drive down to Durham and visit her. And so I'm kind of knew what 
Durham was like. And I guess that's one reason that we kind of jumped at the opportunity to 
come here. But we did have a lot of a lot of African American folks that were, were good folks 
that, like over North Carolina Central. Uh, we uh, kidded a lot, and I enjoyed being around a lot. 
But not just there, we had we had individual businesses.  
 
KC 35:46  
And still mostly women using the typewriter in the 70s? 
 
JC  35:50  
In the 70s, it was primarily women. (Yeah) Very seldom did men have the opportunity to use a 
typewriter, especially if they had if they had a secretary or a wife, they never used a typewriter. 
 
KC 36:08  
And did you encounter any other women? Typewriter repair, dealers? 
 
JC 36:15  
No, no, no. 
 
KC  36:17  
It's not surprising. It's just interesting. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
16 
 
KC 36:19  
The technician was was all men. (Yeah) I mean, it was not. And oh, here again, there's a little bit 
of a different mindset then (Oh yeah) as far as women were concerned. But the, keep in mind, 
too, that the normal office typewriter back then weighed about 40 to 60 pounds. Okay, so if you 
had to move it around, especially if you had to walk half a block with it. It was not good for a 
lady to try to do that. And so I think that was one of the things that kind of discouraged the 
women from from wanting to get involved. 
 
KC 37:02  
We found even today it's hard to find professional repair women outside of seamstress and tailor 
--  
 
JC  37:11  
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, 
 
KC  37:15  
-- maybe it hasn't changed all that much. 
 
JC  37:17  
Well, it might not have I don't know, I, I, I believe they would be just as capable as anybody as 
far as repairing the machine is concerned. I don't know. I don't ever remember hearing anyone 
speak negatively. I'm talking to anybody I worked for or anyone I've worked with, concerning 
woman not having the cape capability on fixing the machine. 
 
KC  37:47  
So tell us how you transition from the Durham type store. I'm sorry, I think I keep getting --  
 
JC  37:55  
Durham Typewriter Sales was the name, yeah.  
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
17 
KC  37:58  
-- to your own business? 
 
JC 38:00  
Well, I was gonna have to revert back just a little bit on on Durham Typewriter Sales. I went to 
work, there was a technician, but I didn't stay as a technician, I after a few years, I worked there 
for a total of up to '79, which was nine years, almost 10 years. After a couple of years, I wanted 
to get into the selling part too, and a dealer could do that. See, this is one of the differences 
between being a dealer and being a branch office. A branch office, you were there as a 
technician, you were to do nothing but technician, somebody walk up to you and say, I want to 
buy a typewriter. Okay, I'll send the salesman to you. Yeah, that's the way that's the way it was 
handled. 
 
But as a dealer, you know, you can sell or service. But you still had your service department, you 
had your sales department. And so I talked to to Bob, Mr. Cunningham, after I've been there a 
couple years, and told him that I'd like to kind of get into the selling end. And he said, "Well," he 
said, "I'm not against you selling and I'm not against you doing both."  
 
So that's kind of what I wanted to do. I enjoyed working on the machines. And that's what I do 
today. I'm still doing it. So back then I guess this this had to be right about '72 or '73 that I started 
selling and servicing. And as far as the selling part, I don't realize it came kind of easy for me I 
enjoyed doing it, I enjoy talking to the people and I was able to make a few good sales and then 
of course we had already agreed to that I would get a commission of sales. And one of the one of 
the areas that we know you, you ladies are not going to be able to associate with this, but we had 
typing classes in schools. 
 
KC  40:07  
I actually had a typing class, did you? With computers.  [laughter] 
 
JC 40:11  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
18 
Yeah, no, no, no, I'm talking about with typewriters. Let me give you an example. Durham High 
School, I remember Durham High School having at least three full typing classes. So you're 
looking at 90 to 100 machines. Okay. And we had Durham, Durham High School. At that time, 
there was another city school, Hillside, Durham High School, Hillside, Durham County, Orange 
County, Granville County, Pershing County, and then I activated Chatham County. So you're not 
gonna believe this. But it's what we would do is, each typewriter dealer. And when I went in 
here, again, right to back up just a little bit. When I went into business in 1975, there was five 
dealers in Durham, counting myself. That was the -- [ audio interruption] 
 
There was five dealers in Durham, and we would be at on the business for the county schools. 
They would put out, they would put out a bid request for the upcoming year. And what the dealer 
had to do the one that won the request, and you win it by bidding the lowest to repair these 
machines, but you were locked in for a year. So if you bid X number of dollars on a particular 
machine, you had to repair that machine for the entire year for that X number of dollars. And 
what was also included in that bid was you had to pick up each and every machine in a school 
system, bring it to your office and clean it and take it back. This was, this was, and this got real 
competitive. I mean really competitive. And this, was this was when you would have you hire a 
lot of summer help. If you pick them up, it wouldn't take you just a little while to show him how 
to blow the machine out and wipe them off and that sort of thing. You know, so, so we had a lot 
of high school kids working for us, them. But the part that you're not gonna believe, I can 
remember Orange County Schools going for like $30 a typewriter. 
 
KC  43:07  
Selling them? 
 
JC  43:08  
No, the repair. Service for a year, that included bringing the machine in, in the summer, cleaning 
it take it back. And then as the teacher called and needing repair, you had to go repaired. So it 
was it was really not a money making thing. But a lot of times these dealers were in such dire 
straits as far as needing finances, they would be at a real low just to get that $3,000 or $4,000 
one-time payment. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
19 
 
KC  43:43  
The market is going down by them already?  
 
JC  43:46  
Yeah. Actually it was, I don't know if you remember in the late '70s. It was not a good time. I 
mean, you were talking about gasoline had gone out of sight. We were, we were depressed. I 
mean, we were we were in a recession. And it it was, I remember telling somebody to myself, 
why are you going into business at this point in time? As bad as things are, and I can remember 
telling them? Well, the way I look at it, if I go into business now and I'm successful, then I will 
be successful when it's good times to and so that's what I kind of based on. And then I would go 
home and bite my fingernails. Because I mean I had at this point in time I had three little kids 
and did not have a gob of money in the bank. My wife was working, but she was she was 
working for school system not making much money. 
 
So, and then when I did go into business, I was in business for less than six months. And I called 
her I mean we were just going crazy. I called and I said look, you gonna have to come and help. 
That's all there is to it. So she came she came and we joked about it a lot. But she started 
working, she would run a store. And I would do a lot of the calls. And then we finally hired 
somebody and kind of we progressed from there. But she came to work. And I believe I believe 
this six month thing is what we used, because we would tell a lot of folks Yeah, I was in business 
for six months. I called her she came. And since then she's been the boss. Within six months, she 
was the boss. And she was telling everybody what to do, which that was good, because she just 
kind of came in took over and, and she ran store. And we were able, we were free then to go out 
and do what we like to do as far as the men were concerned. 
 
KC 45:49  
Where was the store and what was it called?  
 
JC  45:51  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
20 
It was called Midstate Business Machines still have the same name, it's an ongoing company. It 
was located at 2604 Hillsborough Road in Durham. And we were there from 1979 to 2010.  
 
Well, let me back up just a little bit again. We originally started up on the corner, across, it's a 
restaurant now, trying to think, yes, we were originally in that building. Now that building was a 
service station. I don't know if you realize that or not. But it was a gasoline station at one time. 
And it was built back in the 20s or 30s. Anyway, we were we were in half of it, and Parker 
Insurance Company was in the other half. And I was renting it, I was renting it for $300 a month. 
No, no, that's wrong. I was renting it for $200 a month. And I rented it for $200 a month from 
from 1979 until 1983.  
 
And we moved to 2604 Hillsborough Road. And there the rent went up, oh boy did it go up! I 
was paying $300 a month. And I mean it was, it was, it was really I don't know just kind of like a 
gift. (laughs) You know, because the I knew the man that was there that had been there for, for 
years it was called Ideal Sundry. And he sold lemonade. He was, oh, we have for years people 
that had been in Durham and moved away. For years they would come bursting in the store, "I 
want lemon -- " and then they would stop. This is not a lemonade place! They had bought 
lemonade there years ago. And and now I'm afraid it's not a lemonade place anymore. But 
anyway, he stayed there for 30 some years. And and of course, he had a he had an odd 
reputation. We use part of his part of his counter, we re-remodeled it and redid it for our 
receptionist counter as folks walked in the door, and we left the backside of it uncovered. In 
other words, we redid the top and the front side and the sides. So that people that came in 
looking for his lemonade, I said, "We don't sell his lemonade. But if you want to come around 
over here to the back, you can stick your finger right there." And you can feel it for the lemonade 
had run down the back of the counter and was sticky.  
 
And it was still sticky when we left. That was 30 some years later. So anyway, we had a lot of 
fun we and he of course he was there so many years he wanted, he would come in every day and 
check on us and we actually rented two buildings there. We rented the 2604 and 2608, which is 
right next to it. That was our building also and we sublet it to him for a year. And till he sold out 
all of his stuff, he had a lot of toys and stuff. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
21 
 
KC  49:13  
And tell us, you told me I think that you sold calculators as well? 
 
JC 49:17  
Yes, we did. When I went into business, I went into business in 1979. At that point in time, a 
dealer would sell nothing but typewriters and calculators. And you could make a good living in 
that area in that timeframe. You can make a good living just doing typewriters and calculators. 
 
KC  49:39  
Did you catch guff from any of the other dealers in town that you were setting out on your own? 
And --  
 
JC  49:45  
Yes, matter of fact competition the only the only enemy I think I had in doing that was the guy I 
worked for. [crosstalk] Yeah, he he told me he said, I'm gonna make you a fierce competitor. I 
said, you have to do whatever you want to do, I said, but I just feel like and then the day I left, he 
came to me. So you know, you don't have to do this. And he offered me. He offered me a raise. 
Now, I think what I told him, and he was a substantial amount of money. Because we had, over 
the years we had, we had kind of discussed my taking the place over you and that sort of thing. 
But he offered me today, the day I left he offered quite a bit of money for me to stay in it. And 
now, I feel like if you had had offered me this, maybe a while back, it might make a difference. 
But now, it would be something to be in both our memories as far as, okay, I'm paying you so 
much more to stay in, you're here you need to be doing this much. And you so I didn't think it 
would be a good situation for you to one of us. 
 
KC 50:52  
Did Bob continue your training or –  
 
JC  50:55  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
22 
What when I moved back to Durham? Yes, as a matter of fact, he did. And back then it was 
really funny. Not funny, but back then, when, when a company would come out with a new 
machine, he was the dealer's responsibility to get his technicians trained. Or he wouldn't hand 
wouldn't be able to handle the machine. He wouldn't be able to sell the machine if he didn't have 
servicing agent. So they and they would have these schools everywhere. I mean, I remember St. 
Louis I remember Lanham (?), I remember Florida, New York, New Jersey, oh, all these 
different schools that they would set up in, usually in motels --  
 
KC  51:40  
For different type brands? 
 
JC   51:41  
Yeah. I mean, the Royal typewriter, before Royal Typewriter Company came out with a new 
typewriter, then this was after they close the plant (?), their, their office, their manufacturing 
plant in Connecticut, they would have a, maybe a motel in Atlanta, and any dealer around that 
wanted to send a technician you can send a technician. The, the school was free, but to the dealer 
had to pay for the technicians transportation as lodging and food and all that stuff. So it was a 
little bit of a an expensive undertaking, but you wouldn't be gone maybe two weeks. And 
because what you had the base, and these are only trained technicians that could go to the 
schools, you couldn't take a person that had not had the basis of the machine repair and send, 
they just that weren't allowed. He had to have someone that was capable of, of picking up from a 
certain level and moving on. So we would we would go to school till three times a year. Because 
that's how often when, the more the more dealerships, in other words, the more companies that 
you were dealing with the more you had to go to school, because you know, every dealer, every 
manufacturer would come out with a new machine every so often. So --  
 
KC  53:07  
Firstly, that's cool that you got paid to go to school. [laughter] 
 
JC   53:10  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
23 
Yeah, well, it was nice. It was I had no complaints there. But then after I became a dealer, I had 
to pay my, I was on the other end of it. I had to pay the bill. 
 
KC  53:20  
Tell us a little bit about some of the sort of like the evolving typewriter technology. So like, what 
was exciting, this new breakthrough? 
 
JC   53:31  
Yeah, that's all yeah, that's this is, I enjoyed that. This is good stuff. When I first when I first got 
into the business, a manual typewriter was you know, pretty much a common thing. Everybody 
had a manual typewriter. Some people had electric typewriters, the electric typewriter was what 
was called electromechanical. And the difference there was that the electromechanical machine 
had a motor, had a device in there called a power roller, a cam (?) shaft or whatever. And when 
you push a key on that machine, you are actually tripping a cam, and this cam would fall down 
into this turning device. And that's where the power would come from to drive the type up and 
hit the type, the cylinder.  
 
KC  54:25  
So the type was more like on a ball? 
 
JC   54:27  
Oh no, no, we're not there yet. No, the type is on type bars. Okay, in these type bars, every type 
bar had its own cam had its own linkage had everything was individual. On a manual typewriter. 
When you push your key, you hit the linkage and the pivot points that drove that type bar up. But 
you had to manually do it, and it took effort. If you did the touch-typing method, you're a little 
pinky boy, if it didn't exert the same pressure on some of those keys on that like on the 1/4 and 
the zero and some of those hard to reach keys, if it didn't exert the same amount of effort, the 
density of the print was going to be different. So you had light, light letters and dark letters, light 
letters and darkness. That's the reason most of the men did what was called the hunt and peck 
method. In other words, two fingers, because that way they could get more that really, they get a 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
24 
lot of speed that way too. But they get more of a consistency with the type with the darkness of 
the time. 
 
But the electric typewriter actually took over for that, when you tripped a key on the electric 
typewriter, and this cam failed down into this revolving roller, then that would actually fire the 
type bar, instead of you moving it up. So basically, all you were doing was turning a like turning 
the light switch on you were just activating a cam. And then that would hold true for any of the 
the outside keys or whatever, that you would normally hit with your pinky or your little finger. 
And they would they would fire with the same effort. But they'd still use a lot of type bars. And 
each type bar had its own typeface, just like the manual typewriter did. Basically, they took a 
manual typewriter and evolved it into an electric typewriter using the same theory of operation. 
Okay? 
 
Then let's get to the ball. The ball was well, everybody thinks was pioneered by IBM, and it was 
not. The ball machine was pioneered back in the '20s, on a manual typewriter, and the device was 
manufactured just like the IBM Selectric. It turned in it locked in and the ball had different, 
different letters on the ball. And it would rotate the ball to a certain area, and then it would it 
would fire, you push the entire ball at there to hit the paper. And that would print that letter. 
Well, IBM used the same, use the same principle, except it was electric. It was called the IBM 
Selectric.  
 
So what it did when you activated the key, let's say you, you push the J and that J  went down. 
And here again, we're still working with cams, and it activated the cam, the J camp, but it would 
set off a different mechanism. There was no rotating roller in there that that fired off that cam, 
there was more linkage in there then. And this linkage was controlled by what was called a main 
shaft, the main shaft had a main clutch and you would trip the clutch each time you push the key 
when you tripped clutch, that clutch would rotate. And when it rotated, that's where the power 
came from for all these linkages to select the proper key and also at the same time to move the 
ball up to the printing point. So it was it was a different type of mechanism, but achieving the 
same thing. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
25 
The benefit with a Selectric over the type bar machine was you could change type style. You 
could take if this, if you had an elite ball, it had a elite print on it, and you wanted pica. It was 
just simply a matter of clip, clip clip clip and you put the pica ball on the machine. So therefore 
you've changed from elite to pica, just that easily. 'Course, they finally realized that the size of 
the type is not the only thing because when you change from elite to pica, pica stands for 10 
spaces per inch. Therefore you have bigger print. You can have bigger print with pica, so you're 
just doing 10, 10 character for inch. Elite is 12 characters per inch. The the difference there is 
that when you put a pica ball on an elite machine, that ten, that twelve spaces per inch, you're 
going to get a little bit of a, impression of the first character onto the second character. They're 
gonna be that close together because you're trying to put a 10 character for each lettering in a 12 
character breach space. And so they decided well, we got to fix that. 
 
So they did they came out with what was called a multiple pitch machine, you can move a lever, 
lever and it would go from 10 to 12. Thus, the Selectric II came on the scene. Well, they've had 
so many people complaining about not being able to correct our mistakes without doing the 
eraser or doing the thing you know, they put a correction feature on also. And the correction 
feature would actually back the printing point up once you made a mistake, realized made a 
mistake, you hit the correction button, it would back up if you'd hit that mistake again. And that 
would then another little ribbon would come up, and it would lift off the mistake. Then you put 
your proper character in.  
 
So in theory it was great. And it worked great. I mean, it was the most wonderful thing. I can 
remember I was still selling well, I was still selling Royals. And I was selling, I sold to Hermes, I 
was a Hermes dealer. I told you that and then we became Olympia dealers. And the the joke was 
when you go out calling on customers, and I came in one day, and somebody asked me, would 
you would you do today? I got two orders, get out and stay out, if you're not selling the IBM 
Selectric. So therefore everybody had to get on the bandwagon. IBM pioneered it. But before it 
was over, everybody was making the ball machine with correction feature.  
 
 
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
26 
KC  1:00:58  
In that in those early days, did you still have stalwarts of the more manual type bar typewriters? 
Or was everyone keen to just try the new thing? 
 
JC   1:01:10  
Oh, no, we sold we probably sold as many manual typewriters as we did. You got to keep in 
mind there was a huge price difference. The IBM Selectric II at one time was selling for about 
$1200. You could buy a manual typewriter for $300, $200 and some dollars. Okay, secretaries 
go ahead stick with a manual typewriter. When the boss put down a rule, he's not going to spend 
that much money. 
 
KC  1:01:40  
So, like Royal would come out with the radio in the lid? (Yeah) To help compete against they --  
 
JC   1:01:48  
No Actually, actually. Actually no, they didn't. They came out with that because the transistor 
radio was on the scene, so many people had had everybody, the statistics was telling us that 
everybody had to have a transistor radio. Well, Royal came out with a typewriter that had a 
transistor radio built into the case! And you could actually have, buy your typewriter, and you'd 
have the transistor radio, as well as the typewriter, all with one purchase. I think that was the 
reason that we were given that it was coming out. 
 
So anyway, we sold quite a few of them. And some simply because of the radio feature. But that 
was not that was not to be used in an office. So then you had you had the electric typewriter, the 
manual typewriter, and the portable typewriter. That was a portable typewriter. These machines 
here a portable typewriters. This one is the office typewriter.  
 
KC: So students would have portable typewriter? 
 
JC: The students would have portable typewriters. Or if a person had a typewriter at home, it 
would be a portable typewriter. Very few commercial size machines were in people's houses. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
27 
 
JG  1:03:10  
So you have to tell us about the inevitable rise of the computer and what that did to this --  
 
JC   1:03:15  
Oh, yeah. Let me tell you what, let me tell you about that. That was that was right interesting. 
Everybody was going to get on the computer bandwagon, [chime] including me. And we did. We 
became a dealer for Etipack. Surely you're familiar with Etipack? [laughter] Oh, wow. 
Yeah, Etipack was, ah, I don't even remember where it was made now. I think Holland. I mean, 
it did. And this was, okay. I'm gonna throw something else at you. MS-DOS. You remember 
that? Anybody? 
 
KC: I couldn't define it. Isn't that a type of printing?  
 
JC: Yeah, no, it was? [crosstalk] No, it was it was it was the, it was the language that was used 
between computers basically, at that point in time. So and that's what that's what it was the era of 
the MS DOS machine. But anyway, we, we uh, we took that on and I recognized right away that 
this is not going to do good. Every, every computer we sold the customer or the majority of the 
customers and maybe it was our fault that we didn't qualify the customers well, but the majority 
of the customers thought we were gonna teach them how to be a computer operator. So you 
didn't just take the machine and and sit it down and say okay, here's your on and off switch. No, 
you had to stay there and you had to, then you had to stay on the phone and you had to over and 
over and over. I said this is this is not what I had in mind. And if you if, you do If you figure all 
the time that was involved, and all the all the effort that you had to put forth, you really weren't 
making any money. 
 
And so, you know, started thinking about is really hard. And, and everybody was saying, Oh, 
yeah, you got to get gotten get into the computers. And are these, these dealers were telling us 
that, you know, you're gonna be left behind. And I said, well, maybe so, but I'm going to put 
emphasis on something else. I'm going to put the emphasis on, instead of on the computer, I'm 
going to put the emphasis on everything but. And that's basically what we did. We became a 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
28 
Martin Yale dealer, we became a cash register dealer. We became a printer dealer. We became a 
Brother dealer. And so we had several different types of equipment out there. And we, and then 
it dawned on me one day, you know, I found I found a niche that I was looking for, really, 
because these things we could work on relatively easily, easy to work on, not complicated. And 
we could sell, let's say, if you sold, and of course, we were still selling typewriters. If you sold a 
typewriter to somebody use a typewriter, basically, that's all you had to do was just take 
typewriter and say this is your on and off button. They knew everything else on the you know, 
you didn't have to train them on how to use it. And the paper handling equipment, Martin Yake, I 
mean, that was great. 
 
KC: What is that?  
 
JC: Well, every big business has a, what's called a mail room. Okay. And that's where a lot of the 
outgoing mail the incoming mail, that's where it that's, that's where it goes to and comes from. 
They have letter openers, in other words, I'm still servicing letter openers for State Employees 
Credit Union, they, there's one, one office in Raleigh that's got four letter openers. And we 
service them on a regular routine maintenance, they have gobs and gobs and gobs of mail come 
in every day, you would not believe it. And this thing just opens these letter openers, just shoot 
the mail through there and slits the top off. So the only thing the person has to do is just reach in 
and pull the contents out. Folding machines, folding machines are machines that churches use 
these when they fold your bulletin. So we have a lot of churches that we have folding machines 
that we service for. Of course, keep in mind, we sell these machines too. And they're they're 
different types. They're joggers, they're these machines that that actually shake the envelopes to 
get the contents down to the bottom of their own lips so it can get through the letter opener. And 
then of course, we sell we and we're still selling the small copier, Brother copier. And we're 
servicing for Brother on that So we've, and the Samsung cash register, I enjoy selling cash 
registers. We sell a standalone cash register, we don't do the point of sale system, but a 
standalone cash register like in the Quickie Marts and that sort of thing? And I travel all over the 
state pretty much for that. I've got several customers in the eastern part of the state that we sell 
the cash registers to and and then anytime that I sell anything or go to service, anything down 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
29 
east, of course, then I'm kind of torn between, do I go to Holden and stay? Or come back to 
Durham? So having a place at Holden is pretty nice. 
 
Julia Gatrell  1:08:52  
So it's interesting because you don't sound bitter about the rise of the computer  --  
 
JC   1:08:56  
Well, I'm not I'm not. The rise of the computer helped me immensely. Because of the decision I 
made, that's what I was talking about. That when I decided to stay with with typewriters, and 
stay with and take on these other paper handling machines, that was it. It was not it was not 
anything because I'm that smart. It's just it just accidentally happened that that was the greatest 
thing for me because these are the dealers that were given me a hard time back then about being 
left behind? They're out of business. There's there's, you know how many you know how many 
typewriter dealers are in Durham? You know, yeah, you know how many typewriter dealers are 
in North Carolina? 
 
KC1:09:51  
Four? 
 
JC 1:09:53  
there, these people are not diggers. There's a place up in the mountains and there's place in 
Charlotte, and there's a place in Raleigh, I think. And there might be a place in Wilmington. But 
these, I don't think they sell new equipment. I think, we sell new equipment. I think they just 
repair machines, and maybe sell refurbished machines.  
 
Julia Gartell  1:10:16  
Who's in the market for a new typewriter these days?  
 
JC 1:10:18  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
30 
Oh, you'd be surprised. You would, next next time you go to the bank, and you're standing there 
waiting to get all that money that they're handing out to you. You look over the counter. And I 
assure you, that behind those tellers back there somewhere, you'll see a typewriter. 
 
KC  1:10:37  
Doesn't it have to do with, like that it's an original document? 
 
JC  1:10:40  
Yes. Now, that's, that's one of the things. There are some types of paper that are being used for 
certain documents, that the laser printer, by the time they say, and they used to use it own checks 
on their bank check, and people would get their bank check, and the printer, the printer would 
print it out. And by the time they get to the car, the amount was gone. It was the type of paper 
that's being used. So that demanded, demanded a typewriter to be used. Forms. forms are, oh, 
man, a person can fill out a form on a typewriter in, in, you know, nothing flat, whereas it's a lot 
of process goes involved and gets involved. But the the insurance companies are big customers, 
real estate, big customers, the banks up until about three years ago, we had every bank in North 
Carolina, that was First Citizens Bank, under contract on their typewriters and just about every 
bank had a typewriter. But they have they have since done something else, what they've done, 
instead of paying me a huge amount to come out to work on the typewriter, they bought these 
little electronic typewriters. And they're making whenever when one of those go bad, let's say 
like a National (?). I mean, it's, instead of paying me to come to Asheville, what they would have 
to pay me I had to pay me a day, really. I couldn't do it in less than a day. And they can go out 
and buy one of these machines for about half what it would cost me to work on it. So I don't 
blame them for that. But we have we have a lot of regular customers that are still using 
typewriters. 
 
KC  1:12:43  
When did you see the rise of more of the hobbyists and collectors? 
 
JC  1:12:48  
Oh, wow. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
31 
 
KC  1:12:49  
And collectors, you can distinguish them for us. 
 
JC  1:12:54  
Okay. Yeah, the collector has been on the scene for a while. People just didn't realize it. And 
some of the collectors didn't realize it. They, they, they might have six or seven machines. And a 
lot of these machines they had run by me to be refurbished. And then this one instance this one 
man, I can remember returning a machine to him. I knew I'd worked on six or seven machines 
for him, I said when did you start collecting these? And he just kind of looked funny and said, "I 
guess that's what I'm doing." [crosstalk] He didn't realize he realized he was a collector. But there 
are folks in in all over the area that are collecting typewriters. And if you go on eBay and look at 
some of the prices, you see how the price has escalated, and the last couple of years. 
 
So in the last couple of years, they started getting scarce. Now the typewriter enthusiast, the 
collector, all they've been doing it 10 or 15 years. Actually, I was already refurbishing machines 
for individuals before I left the store down there. This was in 2010, that's 12 years ago, 11 years 
ago. And this particular machine right here was brought into the store down.  
 
 
KC: What is it?  
 
JC: This is a, a Corona. This is a Corona Portable Typewriter that was manufactured by Corona 
before they became Smith and Corona. You'll see Smith and Corona merged to make Smith 
Corona typewriters. This particular one is like the turn of the century and I'm not talking about 
2000. I'm talking about 1900. This is a portable, one of the first fold down portable typewriters, 
the carriage folds down, so that you can make a portable typewriter out of it. Put case, put it in 
the case of small case and carry it with. The unique thing about this machine is that it has three 
rows of keys instead of four rows. That makes it very, very popular machine. And it is it is 
somewhat of an antique. It's not in a category of some of the older bars and some of the older 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
32 
Oliver's all of our machines that were made back in the 1800s But still, it's a, I have seen these 
machines in in perfect condition advertised for around $2,000. 
 
And the beauty of it, it probably sold for $49 when it was new, but it is it is one of the older, the 
older Corona typewriters. `And then of course, we have a couple of the Hermes typewriters that 
are portable typewriter. Now Hermes, he had to kind of categorize. A lot of folks didn't realize 
Smith Corona, or Corona didn't make anything but portable. Corona might have. But Smith 
Corona didn't make anything with portable typewriters, especially after they became electric, and 
started making electric typewriters. They didn't make the big office size machine. 
 
Hermes made the office size machine as well as the portable typewriter. And Hermes, even back, 
even back before people started collecting typewriters, the Hermes typewriter was one of the 
most popular machines because of the, it was made in Switzerland, with good quality, along with 
Olympia made in Germany and some of the other foreign countries that really make good 
typewriters. But the the Hermes typewriter was, was called the, the Cadillac of the typewriters 
because of the sturdiness of the machine. And it just an all around good job. It felt good. It feels 
good to type on.  
 
The term, and you've probably heard it, the term in the United States is let's go Xerox something. 
And basically what they're saying is let's make a copy. Well, you know, Xerox, Xerox is not the 
term to use when you go make a copy. But they use that term, because the Xerox was the most 
popular copy machine. Well in, in Switzerland, the they use the term Hermes in the same, they 
would say, instead of typing several lists, let's Hermes it. So they would type a document or 
something. But they would Hermes, the document.  
 
And the, the electronic Hermes, I was a dealer when that machine came out. I mean, it was a 
very elaborate machine had, it had a daisy wheel. And that's what the ball evolved into a daisy 
wheel type machine. That's what this IBM has over here, had actually Teflon. The days the 
reason he got the name, daisy wheel, it looked like a daisy flower, it's got the little things sticking 
out. And the the term the  daisy wheel had a Teflon coated printhead the part that actually would 
come in contact with the paper itself was Teflon coated. And, and it was a metal Daisy wheel, 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
33 
everybody else had plastic. But it was would, it made for much better alignment of the type. And 
with that machine it had what was automatically called right margin flush for is you could type 
up like a newspaper columns, you could make an even right margin as well as left margin and 
even left margin. Now that's not as simple as it sounds. In order to do that, you have to have 
proportional spacing. You know, it has to be spaced properly in order for it to to have that right 
margin flush. 
 
KC 1:19:21  
I like the language that translates from typewriters to computer. I mean margins is an obvious 
one but even pica. Like you can choose to set up certain design documents by pica. (Right.) And 
I never knew that that, you know, stands for what it stood for, but then also was a term and how 
you think about --  
 
JC  1:19:41  
Oh, yeah, a lot, a lot of things a lot and you hit on something awhile ago. The first keyboarding 
classes that were taught in our public schools are taught on typewriters. So that's they called they 
changed the terminology from I'm taking typing to I'm taking keyboarding. And of course, this 
was when the computers were coming on the scene 
 
. So a lot of before, before a lot of the schools actually had keyboards to learn on, they use 
typewriters to learn on. And, you know, even even the the people today that are using computers, 
so many of them learned on a typewriter, and I just course transitioned over to just a computer 
keyboard, the I don't remember the date, I don't remember the year, but the standardized 
keyboard came into existence. Here, again, right around the turn of the century of 1900. Before 
then there was all kinds of designs for, let's put the A here, and the B here and C here. And they 
were, they were just out, they made a lot of different keyboards, but then they standardized on 
the keyboard.  
 
And one of the greatest things that ever happened to calculators, before they stopped making 
them, they're still making calculators, some people are but in essence, they pretty much stopped 
making them. Demand is not there. They standardized the ribbon on the calculator. The reason 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
34 
they standardized the ribbon was because every calculator manufacturer, was buying the same 
printer to use a calculator. So I said, well, let's just use the same ribbon. And they use the same 
ribbon. So it made it much easier for a person with the calculator ribbon are made it a lot easier 
on us, we didn't have to stock 100 different types of ribbons and for a type-, for a calculator.  
 
KC 1:21:49  
Jerry, can you take a moment just to reflect on the immense change and technology since you 
started your career? 
 
JC  1:21:58  
Oh, wow. Yeah, and it's been, it's been amazing. And it's been a lot of fun. It's been a lot of fun 
because I have, and I'm not, I'm not saying any rosy pictures from me or anything, I'm just say 
it's been a lot of fun, because I've somewhat kept up with it. And to see it evolve the way it has, 
it's just amazing. 
 
Now not to take away from the engineering of 100 years ago, because I mean, these guys had to 
be smart to come up with something -- especially, if you take a typewriter apart, that was 
manufactured back in the 1920s. And just look at it, and sit there and watch how everything 
works, push a key and watch that linkage, do this and do that. And then ultimately, the end result 
is to push that, that or to pull that tight bar up, the engineering that went into that. And then you 
have to keep in mind to the the flow of the keyboard. The way they position the keys, in what 
was called a segment, that part that that actually guards the type up. I know we didn't have 
perfect alignment on type. But if they had not designed a segment with those little slots in it for 
that type bar to go up in into our we would have all kinds of we would have all kinds of 
problems with with alignment. But that was that was 100 years ago. 
 
And to see what what that has come as evolved into and and we're achieving basically the same 
thing, when it's not as much fun. Now, that's the only that's the only thing that I have that or that 
I can say. But and I asked the lady one time I said, well, what's your attraction to the typewriter? 
She has several typewriters. I said Why? Why do you Why are you so attracted? She said, I don't 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
35 
know. But it just seems like when I type on it, I'm getting something done. And she got that solid 
feel about but to to to type on it.  
 
I mean, I have a book that allows you to draw pictures from typing on a typewriter. Have you 
ever seen one of those books? It tells you how many letters to do on this line, how many letters 
do, and you wind up with a picture of a bird or a picture of something. And and you know even 
to that that was somebody was somebody was had some wheel spinning somewhere to come up 
with some idea like that, hey, we can make this fun. And and it is a lot of fun to type in. It's a lot 
of fun for me to repair a machine and make it work. If something broken, it's a lot of fun for me 
to see a person that that thinks okay this machine is is a graveyard you know it's gone and then 
kind of bring it back to life and and make it a functioning machine. I enjoy doing that. But to see 
what is has developed as far as the electronic what we've come from it's a manual type project to 
the electromechanical typewriter to the electronic typewriter to what was called at one time a 
dedicated word processor. Note, it was no computer, but it was a word processor. The word 
processing originally was just kind of a sideline it was I used to compare it to a motorcycle with 
a sidecar. The sidecar being the word processing part, the motorcycle being the computer. But 
now then they then they came out with a dedicated word processor, which was a, actually a step 
between a typewriter and the computer. Because you couldn't do computing, you couldn't do any 
kind of data stuff on the word processor. 
 
But to see all that take place and in to see the inner workings of it, and how it has evolved and 
how it has how this this part is doing this now for as, at one time, this part over here was doing 
that. It's just it's just amazing to see it's which tells me that, yes, we had smart people back then 
the engineers knew how to, to come up with all these things. But still, we've got smart people 
today, you know, and these these folks today is just we've where we have more available to us, I 
guess you might say, today as far as the unable to decompress so much activity into a small, tiny 
chip that we can do and get it to do so many things that used to we were limited by mechanical 
actions. So if there's been there's been a wonderful evolvement, I think.  
 
KC 1:26:44  
Do you go looking for typewriters to restore? Or do they come to you? 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
36 
JC  1:26:48  
they come to me. [laughter] They really, I have. I have a lot of folks give me machines, these 
folks that are these people that that I've made contact with over the years? If when they see a 
typewriter evidently, they just automatically think of me and I'll have people call me Hey, and I 
know somebody is doing it from away or want to give us some way do you want it? So yeah, I 
go, I go get it. And, and I have a I have a couple of big buildings that I have machines in. And I 
don't know that I'll ever get around to all of them or not. And, and and then at one point in time, 
you don't see it anymore, much anymore, but at one point in time, especially if my wife was with 
me, we stopped at thrift stores. She liked to do the thrift store thing and first thing I do is go to 
that certain section to see if there's any typewriters in there. So I don't I don't actively go look in 
that much. 
KC  1:27:54  
You have a couple buildings, you probably don't need to. 
JC  1:27:56  
I don't I don't I really need to clean out some of that stuff, I guess.  [crosstalk] 
KC  1:28:03  
What's your favorite typewriter? 
JC  1:28:06  
To, I guess, you talking about manual or elec-, or  current? Or there's no such thing as, yeah, 
there is a current typewriter, too. As a matter of fact I said --  
KC: Probably not current. 
JC: I think the Hermes Typetronic (Toptronic?) would be my favorite machine, you can just do 
so much stuff and so much beautiful stuff. And I have a, my wife used to take the Hermes 
Typetronic. And she was she was very proficient with that machine. She knew how to make 
everything work 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
37 
on it. But she used to take these to the school. And she would take one of these and the different 
schools would call us and have us come in kind of, special on career day or something like that. 
And she would kind of show the students, something  just came to mind, she she would actually 
show the students the where we have come from to where we are. Then this were back in the 
80s. So and I have a clipping in the car for the Orange County News about her, when she did 
over at Stanford, it was a junior high then. I did I did the show one time in. We used to call it a 
show, but I did in Roxboro, in Person County, Person Senior High. And they were, they had two 
people come. I was one of them. I have a problem remembering his name, but on the state team 
that won the NCAA championship that Jim Valvano coached, you don't remember that? The guy 
that actually dunked the ball, Lorenzo Charles, he was the other speaker. [laughter] So we had, 
we had a lot of fun, but I didn't realize it was gonna be such a big thing. They had this, it was at 
the high school and they had all the classes brought in to the auditorium, and they had the 
superintendent, and the board members up there on the stage. 
 
KC  1:30:23  
And you were telling students how to become a typewriter repairman? [laughs] 
 
JC  1:30:26  
Partly! Partly. What they wanted me to do, they gave me a topic to cover as far as machines were 
concerned. So, you know, and a certain amount of time. But it was, I was limited as to what I 
should say. I could say, Now, like, you're you guys have pretty much given me free rein to say 
what I want to say. But anyway, it was, it was a lot of fun. We'll do that a lot. We just go around 
to the schools.  
 
KC1:30:52  
And did you train people? 
 
JC 1:30:55  
Oh, yeah, yeah. Now some of that some of that kind of is, is not the greatest memories. Because 
what would happen, folks, you know, I've never had anybody sign a contract. Some of the 
companies like NCR [National Cash Register] and some of the bigger companies, if you came to 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
38 
work for them, then you had to sign a contract, anything that you invented any part that you 
came up with, or you had to promise to, to work for them for so many years, unless it was agreed 
between the employer and then that you'd leave. And then you if you left, you couldn't go into 
business for yourself. So I trained a few people, and some of them went into business for 
themselves! [laughs] 
 
KC 1:31:48  
You were also on the other side of what you did to Bob!  
 
JC  1:31:52  
I was, I was. I guess it all comes around. Because it was, it was one of those things, you don't 
really realize it until it happens to you, what's happening. Now he made a statement one time, he 
says, train people to go into business on sales, because he had a lot of people that went to 
business. And one guy in Oxford, one guy in Chapel Hill, from his organization. Most most of 
my people that left me didn't open their own business, they went to work somewhere else. And 
this is one of the bad things about the schools, you send, send a technician to school, there were a 
lot of headhunters there. And they would hire these people, if they, you know, get the 
opportunity, saw somebody looking to make a change or something. And so, anyway, that's that 
part. You know, I think we should have made some kind of amendment (?) somewhere along the 
way, as far as what you keep. You can't control that. I mean, that's just, that's part of life. 
 
KC  1:33:00  
Yeah. And we've found in talking with people that that the tension between training someone on, 
you know, on your skill sets to repair, but also keeping your skill sets that keep you in business 
to yourself. Like that's partially why I think some of these skill sets are, you know, going away, I 
mean, typewriters, it's a whole other story. (Yeah)  But yeah, like glasses repair, for example. 
Because people are protective of what they want to share. But at the same time, how will new 
people (Yeah) learn how to do the craft? 
 
JC 1:33:36  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
39 
Well see, that's one thing in our business, you couldn't be that way. Because you had to have, 
these folks who were out on their own. In other words, once they left your office, you had no 
control. And therefore you could not help. In other words, if, if a technician that was my 
employee went out to work on a machine, a typewriter or whatever. Once he once he went to 
that, once he left my site, I mean, I had no control over him, you know, and if he got out there 
and got in trouble, then he reflected on me though. So, so my thinking along that land was that, 
hey, I need to give this guy all the ammunition I can make him as smart as I can and let him you 
know, and do the right thing initially, so that you wouldn't have bad feedback. And, and people 
be calling you, be saying, you know what your guy did out here? You know, so that's, uh, I didn't 
I didn't feel like, I didn't feel like in any point in time I was selfish about training people. I 
wanted them to, I wanted him to be as knowledgeable as possible. And I didn't hold back on any 
training schools that we had access to. 
 
KC 1:34:56  
What do you miss about having a storefront? 
 
JC 1:34:58  
Nothing. That, and that's I don't mean to give such a blunt answer, but, I do miss a lot of the 
traffic as far as meeting new people, and that sort of thing. I still meet a lot of new people, but 
they call me and I come to their place, you know, so. But, we used to have a lot of people come 
in, and, and I just I miss talking with them and, and meeting them and, and a lot of people just 
come in to browse, that's fine. You know, that's that's part of the part of the business. But the 
disadvantage is in this business to having a storefront location kinda outweighed things later on. 
And let me try to explain that. 
 
90% of our business was in the customer's office from the very beginning, we would go to the 
customer's office and work on their equipment. Duke has been a customer of mine since 1979. 
But I don't know of a single Duke person that's ever been in my, I'm talking about the people that 
I sell to, the heads of the departments, they did not come in. They don't they just don't do that. In 
other words, if they were looking for a machine, they call you and say we're in the market, and 
you go out there and sell. So the majority of our business was done in the customer's office. And, 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
40 
and that became maybe a thorn later on, because we had, we had very few people coming in. But 
the expense of operating a business kept, I mean, you just kept going up. The uh, I left there in 
2010 the rent $300 a month when I started, and it's still low, but it was $1200 a month when I 
left. And that's just, and compared to the other buildings, you know, that was that was really 
reasonable. 
 
The other expenses, you know, everything! The electricity, the insurance, it's just amazing how 
much insurance a person has to pay, that's in business. Especially if he's got traffic coming in his 
store. That's the reason, one reason we don't have people coming to our location now. So the 
experience of operating a business kept increasing, so therefore, we felt like the best thing to do 
was, was to close the storefront location, and just operate, operate mobile. We want mobile or we 
call mobile. So I don't miss, I don't miss it that much, quite honestly.  
 
KC 1:38:01  
And I know you've told us kind of why throughout the course of this interview. But if you had to 
define succinctly what you love about the typewriter? 
 
JC 1:38:15  
About the typewriter? Or about typewriter repair? 
 
KC: Or typewriter repair. 
 
JC: Well, I would have to revert back to what I said a few minutes ago about the fact of of 
making it operate. You know, you take a you take somebody that works on automobiles, you 
know, there's got to be a certain sense of satisfaction when the engine starts. And it wouldn't run 
before. You know, and when you take a machine that's not operating and you fix it, we use that 
term loosely, but when you repair it, so that it works as it should? You know, that's -- especially 
a machine that was built 100 years ago? I mean, that that part I really like. 
 
The the electronic machines? There's a certain sense of satisfaction working on those, but when 
when a lot of my education is electronics. And the part about fixing the electronic machine or 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
41 
repairing electronic machine back when the electronics first came out, you did troubleshooting, 
whereas now you don't do that much troubleshooting. So that has taken a little bit of the sense of 
satisfaction away from it. You what you do now is, oh, is that board? Is that board, or is that 
board? That's what's causing the problem. So what do you do? You snap that board out, you put 
another board in and it works. Okay. It's kind of like, and I get so upset with my daughter 
because she has, she's a she's a computer nut, and she works, she works for IBM. But she's, if 
something is something that, let's say my wife is on a computer, and she touches something, he 
messes something up. And Kristen will come over there and say, Okay, I fixed it. She didn't fix 
it. You know, she's got it operating, [laughter] she pushed right button. That their, their definition 
of repairing or fixing something is different from mine. Because when I say fix it, you get the 
screwdriver and a hammer pliers and all that stuff is fixing to me. So yeah, I think I think 
probably the typewriter repair. And of course, I'm not saying I couldn't get that same amount of 
satisfaction from doing something else. But he just happened to be typewriters. And since it's 
worked so well for me, that's what I like to do. I'm not I'm not really anticipating a career change. 
[laughs]  
 
[Julia exits interview]  
 
KC  1:42:28   
So we've been asking this question of each of our interviewees because it's fun to hear the 
different answer and what it means? (Okay) What is your favorite tool? I guess it has to be 
limited to typewriters but... 
 
JC  1:42:49  
It's a tool called a spring hook. Without the spring hook, I would have been in trouble many, 
many times. You can substitute, sometimes you can serve to to typewriter touch, a tool for like 
like a screwdriver, you can substitute something else, a case knife or something you can make a 
screwdriver out off. If you don't have a spring hook, working on a typewriter, you're in a lot of 
trouble. 
 
KC: And what does that do? 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
42 
 
JC: It just, it is a, it is a tool that it's different links, and they're about the size of a wire coat 
hanger. And at one end of it, it has a little hook. And with that little hook, you can unhook 
springs or you can re-hook springs. And most of the typewriter springs are way down inside the 
typewriter. So you can't get needle nose pliers or anything on them. You have to have a spring 
hook. I would say the spring hook is is as far as a universal tool is concerned. 
 
Now there are tools that were designed specifically for a particular model typewriter that you just 
could not do without. A Hooverometer, certain gauges like the -- every time you work on a 
typewriter, and we were taught from the very, very beginning there is what's called a sequence of 
adjustments. If you don't do these sequence adjustments properly, you have just demonized the 
machine, because it's not going to work properly. And a sequence of adjustments is nothing other 
than if you do this adjustment before you do this other adjustment, you're, then when you go 
back and do that adjustment you have really messed up this adjustment. 
 
KC  1:44:52  
So it's like when you sweep the stairs start at the top. 
 
JC 1:44:55  
Start at the top. Or if you've washed your car you start on top. And yes, it's a sequence that you 
have to go through. And a lot of these adjustments require particular tools that were made for a 
particular machine. We were talking about the IBM Selectric. The IBM Selectric has what's 
called a cycle wheel. Now, the cycle wheel, you remember I mentioned the main shaft going 
through the machine, that everything works off of, the clutches and the different mechanisms. At 
the end of that main shaft, there is a threaded opening. And that threaded opening is for that 
cycle wheel to screw into. And you screw the cycle wheel into that. And you can turn the 
machine real slowly. And as you're turning the machine, you can see all the linkages falling into 
place at a proper time. If they're not falling in place at a proper time, well then, there's your 
problem. So without the cycle wheel, you can't see this. I mean, you can turn the machine on and 
push the key and all that happens. But unless you have how that cycle wheel in there, so you're 
moving it real slowly, there's no way. So there's there's different tools for different machines. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
43 
 
KC  1:46:10  
Cool, that's almost like a diagnostic tool. 
 
JC  1:46:12  
Yeah, exactly. 
 
KC  1:46:14  
Um, oh, let me see. I know, it's a question. So I just want to make sure I went through that 
through them. I guess, is there an area that you thought we would touch on that we haven't or 
anything else that you'd like to? 
 
JC 1:46:31  
I don't know. And I know a 1000, 1000 things  [crosstalk] will probably come to mind after I 
leave. But it's like, I would say working on typewriters, and I've always thought it, to be a unique 
type of job. It's something that not very many people do. And nope, not many people have the 
desire to do quite honestly, through the years, I've noticed that because occasionally, you'll you'll 
run into somebody though, that that does work on the machine. And, unfortunately, don't don't 
know what they're doing enough to do it right, you know, and create problems. I've had, I've had 
machines brought to me in boxes where they had taken it apart. I mean, machines are easy to 
take apart is to put them back together. That's the problem. But this this guy came in and he had 
his little, little boy with him and his little boy was about two year old, two years old. And I knew 
he was fibbing when he said it, because he said he blamed his little boy for taking that machine 
apart. And I found that he kept saying it. He kept saying, Yeah, Tommy hadn't done this, Tommy 
hadn't done it, I said, sir, let's be honest. I said, I've worked on these machines long enough to 
know that a two year old can get some of these things off that you're talking about. And of 
course, he did finally fess up and said, Well, he said maybe he and I did them together, you 
know. So this guy taking the machine apart and wanted me to put it back together. And that 
happens a lot. So, you know, you've heard the saying, or a lot of folks say, well, I'd rather work 
on a machine, I'd rather work on something that nobody else has worked on. And there's a reason 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
44 
for that is because a lot of times if somebody has been working on it, they don't really know what 
they're doing, they had created more problems than what they had to start with. 
So, what was the question? 
 
KC  1:48:37  
I was asking you if you had anything else you wanted to reflect on but then I also remembered a 
kind of a question that gets asked that too, which is what is there an accomplishment or a 
particular customer interaction or something that you're especially proud of that you'd like to 
share? 
 
JC 1:48:55  
I've had several. I've had some celebrities, at one point in time we were renting machines, and a 
lot of, a lot of folks would come to this area and maybe for the ____ or a different reasons. And 
they would rent equipment from us. Al Hirt comes to mind. Had a lot of you don't know? 
[crosstalk] Okay, trumpet guy. He, he, he was one, and here again I'll date, I'll date his time here, 
was back when Yorktown Apartments, Yorktown Apartments, that's where he stayed. But, uh, he 
was one, and I've had, uh, well, actually another one. They just keep floating back! The guy that 
ran for president years ago back about the time you were born? 
 
KC  1:50:09  
I'm not gonna be able to help you. 
 
JC 1:50:11  
His daughter was at UNC. She graduated from UNC. And you remember I mentioned typewriter, 
the word processor awhile ago? She called me I didn't know it was her. I think I think of the 
name a minute. But she called me and said she was graduating from UNC, wanted to know if I 
bought word processors? I said, yeah, sure do. And she said, well, can I bring it in? And I said, 
by all means. So I kind of forgot about her. And either late on that day or the next day, I can't 
remember which she came in with it. I didn't know it was her. She came in. And this big dude 
was carrying it. I mean, big dude. Excuse me. And he, he sits it down on the counter. And he 
goes over and he stands by the door with his arms crossed. kind of unusual. And that's all I asked 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
45 
if I could help her. And she she starts telling me when I'm finishing school, and I want to sell 
this. And I said, is he with you? She said, yeah. And he just stood there. 
 
So anyway, we I looked at the machine made her price, she said, that's fine. And so I started 
writing a check. And she told me her name. How I wish I could remember that name. [crosstalk] 
I'll call you later with that name. But anyway, she had written a paper, this word processor now 
had little disk drive in it. And I after she left, I was looking at the machine, popped the eject 
button, and out comes this disk, and it was about her daddy that she had written a story on one of 
her classes, and I still have this disk at home. But in a way I called her and told her that she had 
left it she said well, she said I don't really need it anymore. You can have it. And I said alright, 
thank you. Anyway, I kept that, that little disc in it. It was of course she was she was praising her 
daddy for all the accomplishments that he had made. But this bugging me, can I call my wife? 
She knows who that ideas 
 
KC  1:52:43  
You might want to offer it to that person's biographer. 
 
JC  1:52:50  
Well, yeah, you know, and he died not too long ago, this guy did. Okay. I shouldn't even call her 
she hadn't called me lately. He was kind of a short guy.  
 
KC: It's not Kucinich, is it ? 
 
JC: He ran on the independent party. [on phone] Hey, you remember that guy that ran for 
president? That his daughter brought that word processor and I bought it from her? Was? What's 
his name? Perot, thank you! Ross Perot. Yep, thank you, bye. 
 
KC: That's pretty wild.  
 
JC: Yeah. Did you did you know of him? Or had you heard of know the name? That was his 
daughter. Anyway. Ah, I did finally ask her about the guy that came in, bought a machine. She 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
46 
said, Yeah, he's my security. So Ross Perot was, was wealthy in his own right. So I'm sure he 
was paying for that. But I guess that guy went with her everywhere she went. Oh, ah, that was 
another situation. 
 
And then, I've had several like that over the years that, you know, we just, it was enjoyable to see 
some of these people and to be able to talk with them and spend some time with.  
 
KC:  1:54:28  
Any famous writers? 
 
JC 1:54:30  
Ah, yes. But I don't know 'em. Somehow those, I mean, I don't remember. But I have dealt with 
several writers. And there was there was one, there was one guy that lived in, well, he lived in 
Durham originally. What was his name? But he he moved up to, he moved up to, he had placed 
blue and rocky (?) and he moved up there. But he was a writer. And he had written several books 
and published, and he does some fiction work. And he'd done some other type work too. But he, 
he passed away and he left me his typewriter in the will. Can you believe that? That was pretty 
amazing. But I still have it, I still have it at home. 
 
KC  1:55:35  
Maybe he wanted someone else who respected it? [crosstalk] 
 
JC 1:55:37  
Okay. Yes, I guess. Yeah. I've had I've had, I've had several folks that have given me their word 
processors or typewriters, the families have, because of the relationship I had with a person that 
passed on, and they said, they would think Well, hey, who do we need to give this to? Or who? 
Then it would wind up with me, which I was, you know, I'm grateful for I'm thankful for it. But 
those are those people I enjoyed being around. And, you know, you meet you meet folks, you 
never know what's going until they start talking to you. I mean --  
 
KC 1:56:20  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
47 
Did you find that your clients got? Like, more interesting in the later years? Because it's less just 
an everyday tool and more sort of this? [crosstalk] 
 
JC 1:56:35  
Yeah, yeah. Yes. Well, I think I know for you, I think I know what you're saying there. It was a 
typewriter was a, a tool to work with at one point in time, whereas now they're collecting or 
they're yeah. And yeah, I work, I work still work with a lot of people that use them for tools. I 
mean, then that there is definitely a different atmosphere when you're talking with those folks 
than someone that's just interested in having the machine and having it working. And I'll tell you 
what I have found, and more-so somewhat in in for a long time. But just in the last few years. 
The lot of people are wanting their grandmothers or their mothers or their daddy's machines 
restored, so they can keep them. And I see that going on a lot now for as I did in times past. 
 
KC  1:57:40  
That's what started my sister, my grandma's.  
 
JC  1:57:44  
Oh, yeah, yeah, 
 
KC 1:57:46  
Has business picked up in COVID? 
 
JC  1:57:50  
I can't tell much difference. The way I do business, I was doing it before COVID. And, and, and 
I was staying really busy then. I'm working on a two to three-week deal now, where as, I don't 
promise anybody anything within two to three weeks, especially if it's, if it's a refurbishing, 
because there's so much you have to go through, you have to disassemble it, and then you have 
to clean it and then you there are certain expectations you have after you've run it through the 
cleaning s-, situation. And if it doesn't live up to that you had to clean it again, because a lot of 
times some of these, some of these mechanisms within the machines are so sticky and gooey and 
gummy, a one time cleaning won't take care of it. You have to flush it and re-flush it, and we 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
48 
flush a solution to it that cleans all these pivot points out. Then after you get them cleaned out 
and everything's working real free, then you have to go back and re-lubricate. So it's a time 
process takes a while to do that. And I just, and not only that is you know, if I pick a machine up 
today from somebody, it might be four or five days before we get started on it. So it's it's a two to 
three week thing now. Pretty much. 
 
KC 1:59:10  
It's incredible to learn how you found that niche almost just by not wanting to deal with like the 
emotional support of teaching people that computer. [laughter]  
 
JC: Oh, I know it!  
 
KC  1:59:20  
And you're still are in business, I love it! 
 
JC  1:59:22  
Yeah. Yeah, it was a it was a it was a deal where I think about that, quite often, you know, how 
would I, if I had been persistent in trying to to stay with the computer end of it, would that have 
occupied over time? And I think he would have. I think the decision was the right decision. Well, 
I know it was, I know it was now reflecting back on it, but I didn't know at the time. You know, 
it there was a point in my life where I didn't really know which direction to go. And I just I just 
tried to to give it a lot of thought and and actually gave a lot of prayer, because I don't I don't, 
you know, probably not what I need to be all the time, but I consider myself somewhat religious 
person and I'm a Christian. So, you know, I believe, I believe God can lead us in a direction. 
That's, that's right for us. And that's what we need to consider when we're doing things. 
 
KC  2:00:32  
Any thoughts on the future of typewriters? 
 
JC 2:00:35  
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
49 
Yeah, I think you know, Bob Cunningham told me something years ago. And I didn't believe 
him, them. But he said, "You know, when you get to be an old man," this was before I left his 
employee. He said, "When you when you get to be an old man, typewriters will still be here."  
 
And I think they will be, I think there will be for years because people, like there's something 
about typewriters that people like, it's not just, it's just not just what they could accomplish with 
them years ago. I mean, that was the initial reason for the machine. So they could accomplish the 
typewritten letter, you know, or our typewritten document or whatever. 
 
But there's something about them that they like. It's about, it's kind of like, you know, a lot of 
people like cars, certain cars and, and rebuild cars, that sort of thing. I think if nothing else, the 
typewriter will be around for a long time, because of the collector. I don't know how long they'll 
be manufactured. They're still being manufactured today. 
 
KC: By Brother, right?  
 
JC: Well, I don't think this gonna be around much longer, if they're still doing it. The the 
information that I've gotten recently his Brother is, is getting out of the typewriter business, if 
they haven't already. You know, Smith Corona already as years ago, but there is a company 
named Nakajima that's manufacturing typewriters. And I'm a Nakajima dealer, and they 
manufacture everything from the portable typewriter all the way up to the office size. [crosstalk] 
Yeah, that's that they they are in Japan, (Yeah) but there are dealers in United States now. What 
has been Nakajima's Godsend, so to speak, is the fact that okay, Royal, Olivetti, Olympia and 
some of these known typewriter companies that don't want to get out of the typewriter business 
yet. In other words, they still see a somewhat of a market for it, but they not to the point where 
they want to manufacture their own machines. They're buying machines from Nakajima. They 
have contacted Nakajima and say, okay, would you put my name and my cover on your 
machine? And so they contract with Nakajima to do that. So the machine coming from the same 
manufacturing place might have a Royal name on it, or an Olivetti name on it. And then of 
course the, still the Nakajima name on some of them. So whoever they're making them for, that's 
the name they'll put on them. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
50 
And then Royal or these people will market these machines, take the covers off the machines, 
everything's identical. They're the very same machine that the covers are different. And but the 
beauty of it is and the reason that I stick with being the Nakajima dealer, is the fact that the 
Nakajima machine is sold for less than the than the Royal. The Royal, the Olivetti and the 
Nakajima the very same machines, but they're $25 to $35 more than the same than the same 
model. And Nakajima, so you're buying a name in a lot of cases.  
 
KC  2:03:53  
Do you use a typewriter? 
 
JC  2:03:55  
Do I use one? Yeah, I sure do! 
 
KC: For business purposes? (Yes, I do) Nice.  
 
JC: I use typewriter. My wife uses typewriter. My son (Your kids!), my kids use typewriters. 
And I'll buy a, I have a grandson that's eight years old. He'll come over to the shop just to type on 
typewriter. He loves to type. But for for business purposes, the rest of us, of course we use 
computers, too. But a lot of times a lot of time,s a lot of times I'll type an invoice on a typewriter 
just instead of doing it on the computer. So we we still we still use 'em. Yeah, we still use still 
plan to use. 
 
KC 2:04:41  
Thank you so much, Jerry. It was such a joy to learn about. I just am amazed that you know it 
just hasn't been that long. And to, I think for me, what I enjoy about the typewriter is actually it's 
almost educational when you see it work. Even though I can't grasp it entirely, I can kind of see 
how it happens? Whereas the iPad, it's just all a complete mystery. 
 
JC  2:05:07  
Exactly right. 
 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
51 
KC  2:05:09  
But I just think about how you were able to make a good living selling typewriters and 
calculators in the '70s. 
 
JC  2:05:15  
Yeah, well [crosstalk]. It wasn't that long ago. And that's, that's how fast things have changed. 
But the, in the '70s and '80s. That's everybody bought typewriters. I mean, this is before the real 
onslaught of the computer. And what happened? And it's kind of funny and ironic, in a way, 
what happened was, the computer companies got out there and said, Hey, throw your typewriters 
away, throw your typewriters away, you know, you don't need typewriters anymore. And a lot of 
people obeyed a lot of people through their typewriters away. And then I had a lot of people 
come to me and say, Hey, I threw my typewriter away when I bought a computer, now I need a 
typewriter. So they buy another typewriter. So you know, kind of helped the business a little bit. 
But no, I've enjoyed the the part, that's the reason we say Midstate Business Machines instead of, 
you know, we don't narrow it down to a particular item, we don't narrow it down to a typewriter 
don't say Midstate Typewriters, or Midstate This or That. Because we we do deal with a lot of 
different machines, Addressograph machines, we sell Addressograph machines, and service 
Addressograph machines. So it's, there's a lot of machines out there besides a computer. Right? 
 
KC 2:06:31  
Right, all the machines that support paper. 
 
JC  2:06:34  
Exactly. Yeah. shredders, paper shredders, we sell paper shredders. So that's a lot of things that 
we sell. A lot of things we service. We don't sell the small shredder, we sell the big shredder. The 
there are companies that buy the big shredders, RJ Reynolds, you remember? [laughs] I'll just tell 
you this. And then you know, if there's any thing you want to attach to it, that's fine. Or anything 
that you want to surmise from it, that's fine. RJ Reynolds got into trouble a few years back about 
their tobacco, and about the fact that causes cancer and and then they got into trouble because 
they were accused of knowing all this. For years and years and years. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
52 
I got a call from RJ Reynolds, in Winston Salem, just about longest time and they wanted to buy 
a shredder. And I said well, what kind of security? That was one of the first questions, you got 
different levels of security. And they say we want the highest security you can get. So well I've 
got one machine that actually the end result is like powder. It's really, it's really government 
security for the real top secret areas. And they said that's what we want. And I said well, it's 
about $6,000. That's fine, when can we can we get? So I delivered it to him within the next few 
days. And this went on for about a year. They would call me, regularly, and order another one of 
those shredders for a different area. And I knew what they were doing. They were shredding all 
those documents. 
 
KC  2:08:38  
The burn bag comes back around. [laughter] 
 
JC 2:08:40  
Exactly, exactly. But anyway. I guess they got rid of their information because they haven't 
bought a shredder in last year. 
 
KC  2:08:50  
Wow. You certainly got to go into many different worlds by servicing the machine. 
 
JC  2:08:57  
I did. I did and I enjoyed a lot of the places I went to. We had an opportunity to to get in some of 
the government buildings that I would've never been in, the legislator building in in Raleigh. I've 
been in all the senators offices and the congressman's offices, because back then they had 
typewriters. And of course, we were there for other reasons too. We worked on other machines, 
but the typewriter was probably one of the most universal machines that that we we serviced. So 
I had a lot of a lot of good opportunities because of because of the typewriter, because what I'm 
doing with the typewriter.  
 
KC 2:09:48  
I think I'll end the tape there. 
afc2020009_010—Jerry Cheek interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell  
 
53 
 
JC   2:09:50  
Okay, fantastic. 
 
KC   2:09:53  
Thank you so much 
###