Ralph and John Ocker Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:04 
Introduction. Ralph Ocker and John Ocker, Ocker and Trapp Library Bindery, Inc. 
Interviewed June 3, 2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New York. Interviewed by Jeanne 
Drewes, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:32 
Career: Ralph apprenticed as a bookbinder in 1948 at age 14 after working with a local 
bookbinder in Schwäbisch Gmünd, Germany at age 12 and becoming fascinated with the 
work.  Worked in industrial trade book binderies in Germany.  Moved to the United 
States in 1955.  John, Ralph's son, grew up in binderies and started working for his father 
as his first job. 
  
  
00:02:43 
Business: Started business in Emerson, New Jersey with Herbert Trapp in 1964, all work 
done by hand.  They worked seven 15-hour days per week to build the business and 
afford automated equipment. For several years, the business doubled every year.  John 
associates the smell of glue and buckram cloth with his childhood.  John worked at 
bindery to pay for college.  Ralph maintained his interest out of sheer stubbornness.  
Emphasis on customer service. 
  
  
00:08:05 
Mentors: Nora Ligorano from The Center for Book Arts was John's bookbinding 
instructor. 
  
  
00:08:35  
Changes in Business over Time: Started as hand bookbinders, to partial automation, to 
total automation with the Ultrabind machine. Early adopter of double-fan adhesive 
binding instead of oversewing.  Sold business in 2006.  Staff turnover caused great 
disruption to production. 
  
  
00:12:12 
Technological Advances: Used German double-fan adhesive binding machine, then 
upgraded to Ultrabind machine, purchasing the 8th or 9th machine made.  Change from 
animal hide glue to Polyvinyl Acetate, faster drying time and less attractive to 
cockroaches! 
  
  
00:14:47 
Industry Changes: The market has changed and automation has also changed the 
business.  The labor force has also changed, from 25% high school students working after 
school to an increasingly Latino workforce in the 1990s, a more stable workforce. 
  
  
00:16:16 
Employees: Earliest employees were typically local women returning to the workforce 
after having children.  Increasingly relied on high school and college students, but they 
could be unreliable at exam time.  Then found the immigrant workforce which brought its 
own challenges.  Maximum employees 65, down to 50 through attrition in 2006.  Millie 
Suter was an exceptional employee whose interest in bookbinding led her to additional 
study and she now has her own conservation business, O & T Suter Conservation.  Shift 
in workforce from predominantly women to about 50% women with influx of Latino 
employees. 
 
 
00:20:53 
Regrets: John has some second thoughts about leaving bookbinding business.  Ralph has 
no regrets.  Ralph's wife sometimes felt that his business came first, his employees 
second, and then his family.  He felt that might have been true, but necessary to feed his 
family. 
 
 
00:22:48 
Building and Plant: Grew from a garage to an addition to the garage, to a building to 
their specifications, including electrical drops, a lunch room, a good loading platform.  
1000 square foot space to 6000 square feet within six years.  Machinery from state of the 
art new machines to medieval looking equipment like traditional book presses. 
 
 
00:26:07 
Employees: John cites Kurt who made boxes and had a fuller life outside of work. 
 
 
00:26:55 
Interesting Projects: Ralph mentions encapsulation of $10,000 bills for the Federal 
Reserve, brought to the bindery in an armored truck, guarded by armed employees.  John 
mentions project for the St. Joseph Seminary, correspondence from various Popes with 
broken clay seals that were deacidified and encapsulated. 
 
 
00:29:23 
Industry Changes: Change from focus on craftmanship in the hand bookbinding era to 
skills using technology as the processes became increasingly mechanized.  John recounts 
complaining about the complicated process of delivering books to Rutgers Law Library 
because of multiple elevators quite distant from the loading dock, to which Ralph replied 
that he used to carry the books up the stairs.   
 
 
00:31:23 
Technological Advances: Ralph relied on John's older brother to manage technology, 
and felt it was time to sell the business once he passed away. Bridgeport National 
Bindery purchased the business; Ralph stayed on for one year to smooth the transition for 
customers.  John mentions the use of technology for sales activities—PowerPoint 
presentations, for example, and their adoption of the ABLE system to capture spine label 
information for cover stamping. 
 
 
00:37:39 
Roles: Ralph started in his business performing bookbinding duties for the first five 
years.  As they were able to hire talented bookbinders, Ralph had more managerial 
responsibilities, but still repaired the equipment after hours.  Sales and customer service 
became his main focus. 
 
 
00:38:51 
Interesting Projects: Four-foot-tall book of plates for the Avery Library at Columbia 
University, hand bound and hand delivered.  Cloth-covered book boxes were very 
popular.  Developed phase box design with Carolyn Harris for Columbia University 
Libraries.  Ralph personally measured books for boxes if a customer ordered at least 50. 
 
 
00:46:13 
Advice to Next Generation: If going into bookbinding, library binding is not a growing 
market; fine bookbinding never goes out of style.  John:  Follow your dreams and work 
hard at it. 
 
 
 00:47:29 
End of interview.