afc2020008_007_ms01 
 
Lisa Wilcox interviewed by Vyta Pivo on May 24, 2021 at the Lehigh Cement Company 
Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. The interview transcript has been edited for clarity.  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Vyta Pivo:  
This is Monday, May 24, 2021. This is an interview for the occupational 
history archive, which if part of the Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, funded by the 
Archie Green Fellowship. As part of this project, I am interviewing cement workers in the 
Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania, the birthplace of the modern cement industry in the United 
States. The recording and transcript will become part of the permanent collection at the 
Library of Congress. I am Vyta Pivo and I am speaking with Lisa Wilcox at the Lehigh 
Cement Company Nazareth Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. And just to confirm, you give 
me your permission to record the interview, is that correct?  
 
Lisa Wilcox:  Yes, I do.  
 
VP:  
So, could you tell me your full name, year of birth, and where you were born?  
 
[00:00:48] 
 
LW: 
OK. My full name is Lisa Rene Burkestresser Wilcox. I was born in 1964 in Easton, 
Pennsylvania, which is adjacent to Nazareth, Pennsylvania. I could actually see the plant that 
I work at from my bedroom window as a child. So, I'm very familiar with the cement. Just 
because it was such a big part of this area.  
 
VP:  
So, did you have family working in the industry?  
 
LW: 
No, my father was a mechanical engineer, he worked for Ingersoll-Rand. And my 
mother was, she went to college and got her degree, but she stayed home and raised kids. It 
was the 60s and 70s, although she did become a part of the school board. And, no, but I’ve 
always known, I think when I was a kid, they were, like, I think that the max was like 21 
cement plants in the Lehigh Valley. So, it was huge because there's a vein of limestone. You 
can see it on a map of the United States and it runs along the eastern states. And you can 
follow them if you had pins on where all the cement plants, they were right along that vein. 
Some areas, it's actually a perfect match to make cement, you don't have to add anything 
here. Here, we add both the iron and the sand to the limestone to make what they call klinker, 
which is then ground to make the cement. So, I've been familiar with the industry, but I didn't 
start working in it until 2001. So, it's been about 20 years.  
I was working for the Morning Call newspaper and my boss, who had come to Essroc 
asked me if I had an interest in coming to work for her and we had really enjoyed working 
together. So, I came in and interviewed and I got hired at Essroc, where I worked for 15 of 
my years and then there was a merger between Heidelberg Cement and Italcementi. And at 
that time we both had our offices within 20-25 minutes of each other. So, for synergy 
purposes, they only needed one for each of the positions. So, I would say maybe about 200 
people were given, you know, nice packages and moved on. Everyone was given an 
opportunity to go down to Texas where our corporate offices are. Some people did take 
advantage of that. And then other people got picked up in the regional offices. I had been one 
of them because I have both an accounting background and I was the operations analyst. So, I 
 
understood the technical side of cement. But I also had the advantage of having an accounting 
degree. So, I understood the financial side of cement. And so, I was picked up in region and 
worked there for a number of years and when the position opened here, [I] had a real interest 
in it because I like to be watching things working, you know, and kind of interacting with the 
plant guys is very enjoyable, very nice people, very hard-working people. And so, when this 
position opened up, I took it here at the plant.  
 
VP: 
 How has it been different working coming from other industries to then coming to the 
cement industry?  
 
[00:04:31] 
 
LW: 
Well, it was very different for me from an accounting perspective, because I started in 
in Philadelphia, downtown Philly, for an offshoot company of the old Redding Railroad, and 
they were using their land that they had after the bankruptcy of the railroad to build on. So, 
they had built like the Convention Center and Philly was built by the Redding Company 
because it was our old train shed. And we also had a lot of lignite, which is a type of coal 
product that wasn't able to be burned at the time. They had a new technology, so our offshoot 
did build power plants and they had a sell off of the assets. And so when that position closed, 
I came back home to Easton to be closer to my parents, they were getting older and went into 
Morning Call and worked there. The interesting thing about the Morning Call was that the 
paper is obsolete within a day. So as an accountant, you don't really do much on inventory. 
And before it was construction accounting, which is totally different than what we do here. 
Here, I do more cost accounting, really looking at the process and how everything flows and 
how to value everything for the financial statements, but also for decision-making purposes. 
So, I give those answers to the plant manager, Krzysztof. You know, if he has a certain area 
he wants to look at, maybe we're going to substitute a different material in our production 
process, I'll do some calculations for him and, you know, he'll discuss the different 
methodologies. And do we need to bring in a third party to prepare the product? And so, it's 
more of a dynamic, I think, experience for an accountant to be in a plant than it would be to 
be in an office where you just kind of typing into spreadsheets. So, it's very different.  
 
VP: 
So, what were some of the sort of challenges of picking up and understanding of how 
the cement plant worked?  
 
[00:06:36] 
 
LW: 
Well, I was fortunate in that when I took the operations job at Essroc, it was at the 
request of the CFO and the technical director, who was from Italy, and he was an older 
gentleman from northern Italy, white hair, blue eyes, very gentlemanly. And when I came in 
and I interviewed because they asked me to interview, I did decide to do it. I said, “you don't 
really want me because I don't understand technically what's going on.” I said, “I understand 
financially.” And he said, “no problem. I will sit side-by-side and teach you everything you 
need to know.” And, you know, he was a senior vice president who is very busy, but he was 
very hardworking. And I said, “well, in that case, yeah, I love the challenge.” So, he did: 
shoulder-to-shoulder we sat at a table and I would, you know, prepare reports based on what 
my predecessor did, and then he would explain technically what's going on. So, I got a very 
in-depth training on what I was actually producing, not just regurgitating numbers. So, it was 
it was very nice. And I've had nothing but foreign bosses since then because first we were 
owned by the Italians Italcementi and then we were owned by Heidelberg and even Krzysztof 
 
now, he’s from Poland. So, I've worked for the French, the Italians, the British, Americans 
and Polish, so it's been a very rounded experience. And in the cement industry, once people 
get into it, they usually stay. But if they want a new opportunity, they're moving to the other 
companies, so a lot of them know each other. You know, we would have someone come in 
that was a vendor and they [go] “didn't I work with you over in, you know, out in California 
at this plant and that plant.” They all know each other, especially as they get higher up in the 
field. Because if you do move, there's always an opportunity at one of the plants near 
wherever you are.  
 
VP: 
So, when you when you learned about cement work, do you remember what was most 
surprising to you? 
 
LW: 
I think the first time I actually, and more so when I came here because I had had plant 
tours, but they were usually with the executive team because I was the operations analyst, I 
was kind of tagging along. But what surprised me when I came here at the plant was how 
hard the guys worked. I mean, you would, my son-in-law used to work here and he would be 
crawling around in some piece of equipment trying to figure something out. And he would 
come at my and he would just be coated with dirt and grime, and you can't get away from it 
because it's such a fine powdery substance that if you're going to work in the equipment, 
you're going to get it on you. So, it's not an indoor facility. The whole thing is outdoors, so 
you have the coldest days, the hottest days, it can be pouring rain, it can be snowing, and it 
does not stop your job because the kiln, once it starts, it’s very inefficient to bring it down, so 
you want it to continue to run. The one time I went, we had just built a new plant in 
Martinsburg, West Virginia, and I went up to the top of their preheater tower in December on 
one of the coldest, windiest days you can imagine. And they wanted to show us the whole 
area, which you could see from the top of the preheater tower. And I was with a coworker 
who was running our San Juan plant and he was shivering [laughs]. He said, you need to 
bring a better coat. So, we did our little spiel, and we were all going to get back in the 
elevator. But we went around a different way and there were two men in full jumpsuits with 
ski masks on that were up on that preheater or tower that were doing some welding that must 
have been up there. You know, I don't know how long, but I just had such an appreciation for 
these people who, you know, suffer through this physical difficulty to keep the business 
going. And I think that really impressed me on all areas, no matter whether they're in the 
packhorse or maintenance or production, these guys are hustling and they're making sure that 
things get done because they know that we have to continue to run. We can't satisfy our 
customers if we go down. And then because a lot of the recipes that the customers use have to 
be consistent for color purposes or for strength purposes or for what ad mixtures they put in 
to have to send them to another plant causes them issues. So, everyone takes it very seriously 
that we have to keep things going at the plant. And, really, the guys, I mean, just amazing.  
 
VP: 
So, what was your job as an operations analyst?  
 
[00:11:40] 
 
LW: 
So, a lot of what we did was there were a couple of things: budgeting and forecasting. 
And we had, you know, we had accounting, but accounting would be fed by technically by 
each plan accountant and the plant accountants reported to me in the operation analyst role. 
Since, I had been a plant accountant. I mean, since I had been an accountant, I could speak 
their language. So, they don't just manage financial information, they manage technical 
information. So, you know, over time rate, labor hours, ton per hours on machine, how many 
 
thermal values per ton does it take to produce the product? What’s the kilowatt hour per ton 
on the product? So, they gather all this information and then my job as the operation analyst 
is that I would consolidate it, look for anomalies, and then I would present to the management 
team. Only on a few occasions did I send in on the board members over an attachment they 
were meeting that was usually after they had done the meeting with us. Then they, you know, 
got in their suits and they had a, you know, where they could see each other from across the 
ocean on the on the monitor and had their meetings. But yeah, mostly, you know, the guys 
were, I would say, I think I was the first female to be in that role and the first female to sit in 
those meetings. And, you know, they were all very respectful and kind to me. And, you 
know, had patience, you know, as I was learning. But it was very exciting to be sitting in 
there and really listening because once I did my presentation, the meetings would continue. I 
wouldn’t get up and leave, so I could really hear the interaction on discussions of, you know, 
issues, well, maybe we need to reroute this product here, and, you know, we've been talking 
about putting railing down here and we have an agreement with this rail company. And, you 
know, just everything that would come up in a business discussion, I was kind of sitting back 
and watching. And, you know, there's always this give-and-take among the groups of, you 
know, operations, sales, and logistics. So, there was a lot of dynamics going on. And just to 
sit back and watch, that was really very interesting and it allowed me to learn more and more 
about the business. So, yeah, 20 years of that, you know, I'm pretty knowledgeable.  
 
VP:  
So, what did your typical day look like?  
 
LW: 
Well, “oh, come in.” Depending on my schedule, because we had due dates for certain 
specific items that we had to work on. So, even though I wasn't closing the books per say, I 
still was involved in the closing process with my employees at the different plants, the plant 
accountants. So, you know, typical month for an account, you start out and you’ve got to 
close the books pretty quickly, usually within a couple of days. And then it went down to the 
accounting department and they did the settlements in our computer system, which I used to 
do, I was originally hired for. So, I was familiar with that process. And then once the 
numbers were crunched and presented, we would start doing our reports. So, we do all kinds 
of reporting on cost and performance and I would send those out to the different engineers 
and everyone would come back to me and say, you know, this isn't right because someone 
[didn’t] input something correctly. And I would try to figure out what happened and get it 
fixed. But then we would do the reporting process and then we would sit in on meetings often 
to discuss, you know, different aspects of what was going on from an operational perspective. 
So, even though we're 24/7, it doesn't mean that we don't go down and when we do go down, 
there's a lot of discussion on how to get the plant back up. Why did this occur? What can we 
do to prevent it in the future? Sometimes it's within our control, sometimes it's not. You 
know, we could get a faulty piece of equipment. And then we get a concession from the 
vendor, you know, you're barrel only lasted this many months and it should have lasted this 
many months. And so they'll say, OK, no problem, we sell you this and that will be a 
discounted price. So, there's a lot of discussions on trying to, you know, make sure that the 
plants ran and when they did have problems to know why it was so. So, I would sit in on 
those meetings and then gather information for them if they needed it for the meeting. You 
know, how many times as a piece of equipment gone down? What was the length of the 
stops? Is there a cycle to it seasonally? And then what we would do is when we weren't doing 
just the general reporting and we weren't doing the management meetings, then we would be 
working on our budget with a very lengthy process where you go all the way down to the 
base accounts and build it from the bottom up on all the different costs changes that you 
expect in the next year. You would get assumptions from, like, purchasing and you would get 
 
it from the plants themselves that you had to count. Would you be running one versus 
another? And that process would take about three months to get an approved budget. And 
then three times a year you had to reforecast your budget. So, you already had it, but now 
they want to know, come March or April, how close are we to target? You know, are we 
going to do better or worse than target? And then we come around again in about June and do 
it again, and then we do it again around September, October, and then the cycle begins again. 
And that's the nature of being an accountant or anyone that does numbers is that cyclical 
based on the calendar and what's going on. So that would pretty much sum up what my 
position was there when I was in corporate. 
 
VP: 
So, could you say how it’s different now? 
 
[00:17:56] 
 
LW:  I'm more into the day-to-day operations of what's going on. The plant accountant has 
to do a lot of different tasks. I have to do both what the accounting department did at 
corporate and what the operations analyst did, so I'm doing both of my two jobs together in 
one job. And then there's just some administrative tasks that need to be handled to make sure 
that the building is running properly and, you know, all that kind of stuff. But you never 
know what the plant accountant gets. Like we have, you know, occasionally, you know, a 
vendor of ours will back into, you know, something of ours and bust it up. Then, I've got to 
get insurance claim going or, you know, [clears throat] we might be working on some new 
products and I got to get some more information on them. They're always trying new recipes. 
And right now, at least I've seen it more so when Heidelberg came on, but sustainability is a 
big issue now more than ever. I mean, it was important, but it becomes more important. And, 
you know, right now we have, I think they have one plant that's doing carbon capture [where] 
you capture the CO2 and then through a series of pipes, it gets injected under the Earth's core 
or whatever mantle or whatever. But they're getting it underground as a way to store it. And 
I'm not an engineer, so I don't really understand everything, but I think with the pressure of 
what goes, something happens to it that it's the best solution that they have right now as to 
how to reduce CO2 because the cement industry contributes five percent of the CO2 in the 
world. So, it's a big contributor because of the fact that you have to heat the rock and it's from 
the rock that comes the CO2. Like, we'll put 1,600 tons of raw mill into the kiln, but it'll come 
out as a 1,000 and that 600 tons is almost all CO2. So, it's coming out into the atmosphere 
and we're capturing that. Over the years, I've seen other projects where we talk to the EPA 
[Environmental Protection Agency] and we've got ammonia injection and hydrated lime and 
what that does is reduce any, it's called S02 sulfur dioxide, and I think nitrous oxide, might 
not have that right. But the Sox and NOx is what they call it, but we've been reducing those. 
We switched over our kiln from coal burning to natural gas, so you have a cleaner burn, not 
as much ash. So, from a sustainability [perspective], we'll look at those types of things. So, 
whenever something new comes up, then they'll involve me. Like right now, we were looking 
at a certain direction the plant was going to go and it didn't happen because of governmental 
decisions, so we're going in a different way and right now we're looking at doing a rail 
loading at Plant 1. We have multiple plants, but we only load rail at Plant 2. And the most 
efficient way to transport cement is first by water, then by rail, then by truck. So, up here on 
Plant 1, we’re by truck and we want to now do by rail. So, we're looking at a rail loading 
project to distribute our cement out to Little Branch, Ohio, because the plant that is supplying 
that right now has such a hot sales market that they can't produce enough to satisfy their 
customers, so the idea is, OK, Nazareth can send it to Little Branch instead of Union Bridge 
in Maryland, and that will free up cement for Union Bridge to sell. And since we're not in a 
 
sold off market here, it's going to improve our bottom line because we're going to be selling 
more by selling it out in Ohio.   
 
VP:  
So, how has the focus on sustainability changed over time?  
 
[00:22:10] 
 
LW: 
Well, just for the from the every time we do a project, we have to do a capital project. 
So, I end up having, first of all, I do as part of what I report, I do report on environmental 
emissions. So, we're hooked up to with continuous emissions monitor. So, they're continuous. 
We will report to the EPA so that they know what's coming out of our stack. I then as part of 
my operation analyst portion of the plant accounting job will collect that data and report it to 
Heidelberg. Europe is much more ahead of the curve on environmental issues. So, long 
before the U.S. started showing an interest, Europe was and because we work for Europe, 
we've always had these requirements. But if there's a new project that comes out, not only is 
my reporting going to change and what kind of factors that I'm giving them, because I can see 
it's getting more and more information, like, in this area we’re not so concerned about water 
conservation, right, because we don't have droughts in the Lehigh Valley. But because we're 
global, we have areas in the in the world where they are concerned about water. So, one of 
the new ones that we started doing was water consumption: how much are you taking out of 
the groundwater? How much is coming in through the public water? And, you know, how 
much are you putting back into the system? So, all of that kind of environmental reporting 
goes out. But then when you want to do a new sustainable project, it would be considered 
what they call a capital project, because a certain dollar amount, has to be over $100,000 and 
it has to have a life of the project more than three years. So, if they put in a new system, like 
when they put in the ammonia system—I wasn't here at the time in this role—but then they 
would do capital projects. You'd have to do a whole write up with the engineer of how much 
it was going to cost to implement it. And because it was a capital project where it was a 
statutory requirement, you would put that in, like, the EPA. We have a certain level in our 
permit as to how much we can emit. And then if we think we're getting close, we can come 
up with technologies to bring it down. And then also because we're European-owned, a lot of 
our factories are way below our permit because they have a concern about the environment 
that pushes its way down into our thinking, which, you know, now with US, I can see them 
having more of an interest, again, to combat some of these. Now, when I grew up here in the 
70s, pollution was terrible and it was pre-EPA. So, EPA didn't come in until ‘73, I think. So, I 
can remember as a kid just being, you know, the air was dirty, the cars were billowing out, 
you know, your little kid holding your mom's hand and you're in a cloud [laughs] of 
emissions. So, I see, like, all the benefits, but I see us moving more and more towards 
environmental care.  
We have biodiversity program for our quarries that are no longer in operation. So, as 
you mine the stone, you have to pump the water out, otherwise the quarry would fill up with 
water because of where the water table is. But when you're done with the quarry, when 
you've extracted the stone that's usable to make cement, you allow the water to come back in. 
It becomes like a lake, which I'm sure you've seen. But what happens is a lot of the wildlife 
around here, because it's fenced in, will kind of create their own little ecosystem within that 
group. So, we have people come in and, you know, from different agencies or organizations 
that want to observe. We had a nest of falcons actually, where my son-in-law and the kiln 
engineer went up on the roof to grab the falcons so that the baby falcons, so they could tag 
them and so they could observe them. But they live around these areas because of the fact 
that there's no predators, you know, your own ecosystem within there because they're 
 
restricted. There's no trespassing, no nothing. So, you get these and it's a water source, or 
course, they’re going to nest around there.  
 
VP: 
So, do these spaces become public parks? 
 
LW: 
So, you know, because of the fact that quarries in their very nature are dangerous 
because they're mines and shelves, so they kind of step down to the middle so that the trucks 
can, you know, come around and go through it. But what happens is with that is private land, 
that's for one thing. But also, if someone were to dive into it, which I'm sure you've heard, 
they could hurt themselves because the first shelf is not going to be as deep as what you think 
the whole thing is, because in the middle, it's very deep. And then the other thing is 
sometimes you have the high walls, so we have to fence off. And that's why the wildlife likes 
it, because it's fenced off. We don't even go in there unless we have to do any kind of, you 
know, testing of the water or whatever. And here, there's actually a bunch of Canadian snow 
geese that will during their trap, their migration, they hang out in one of our quarries. And my 
boss took a drone, like, had the drone go over so that we could see it. And, I mean, there were 
just so many, it was really beautiful. But these become known areas for the wildlife and it's 
always been that way, but we're more cognizant to make sure that, you know, if people need 
to monitor the animals and make sure that everything is good and learn their behaviors, that 
they have that opportunity.  
 
VP: 
That’s amazing! 
 
LW: 
Yeah, it is! [laughs] 
 
VP: 
Could you tell me a little bit about what a typical day at work looks for you?  
 
[00:28:25] 
 
LW: 
I would come in in the morning. I also used to run APAR, or accounts receivable, 
accounts payable, and payroll. So, I help when there's problems with that. So, I open up my 
computer and first thing I do is I look at my emails, I probably get about a hundred a day, but 
not every one of them needs to be answered and some of them will only take me five minutes 
and some will take me an hour and a half. And because I'm one of the few people that came 
over from Essroc, part of their deal with me when they when they hired me was that I always 
had to be a resource for all old Essroc questions. So, I can get all the questions, I can get 
requests from corporate, I can get requests from my boss, Krzysztof, I can get a problems 
with AP where they need help or payroll that I'm responsible for. So, my first thing is to go 
through my emails and see if there's anything urgent. And then I actually keep a file of all my 
all days of the year and what actually I have to do on each one of those days based on due 
dates. And so once I've gone through opening emails, some I’ll table, and I'll say, “OK, I'll 
get back to that” and then others I got to stop everything and answer that. So, then I start 
doing my regular stuff, which is reporting, you know, gathering the data out of our system. I 
probably understand our system better than most people in the plant, probably actually better 
than all. So, when something goes wrong, if a transaction is skewed or something doesn't 
look right, usually will come to me. So, that will be another troubleshooting. So, there's a lot 
of troubleshooting, a lot of providing data as requested. And then there's the reporting that I 
do as an accountant is very cyclical, as I mentioned. So, you would, you know, on the first 
two days of the month, all I'm doing is trying to close the books from the month before. So, 
I'm reviewing all the numbers, looking for anomalies, researching and then making 
 
corrections, because once those two days are over, I'm done. You can never go back and 
change the numbers, it’s the nature of accounting. They don't want you to, they need a stable 
number set. So if you had something that was wrong and it went through, then you have to fix 
it in the next month. My preference is to always have that month as correct as possible within 
the time frame. When I started in accounting, I had thirty days to close the books. Now I have 
two. So, that's how much has changed since 1986. So, it's been a big change and so you're 
really rushing in trying to get as much in and then once it's in then corporate takes over, 
they're starting to settle everything and now you're, you're still looking for answers, but you're 
also starting to produce some reports. The senior vice president of operations gets a series of 
reports. My boss gets them, my management team gets them. So, I'm going to be working on 
that information and then it probably takes the first seven or eight business days to get the 
closing and all the reports out. And then from that point on, it depends on what month it is as 
to what I'm working on. Like, right now I'm working on forecast. When I get into the 
summer, I'm going to be working on budget. We are actually doing a conversion into a new 
computer system. Same SAP, but different codes and everything and processes, so that's 
going to be a big time chunk for me as an accountant. I know there's times in my career that I 
just have to push. So, I'll be pushing really hard from now until about probably November 
30th, working really long hours just to make sure because we're converting to a new system 
that everything's accurate and comes over correctly.  
But yeah, the budgets take up a lot of time on the months that you're not, you know, 
after the seven-day business days, so it’s usually about two weeks. Audit will take a lot of 
time and that happens around, they do a pre-audit in September, but you get a lot of questions 
in January. You've got to rebuild all your files in January, which is very time-consuming 
because they have to be prepared. The nice thing is that that the Europeans, they don't require 
reporting in January because they know all the accountants are in audit. And so there's a two 
month lag there to get all your files built before you get into a close that you're actually 
officially reporting. And then also the Europeans all take vacation in August. So, that's also a 
bit of a lag month, unless your boss is European then it’s a bit of a problem because you 
might want to do some work, but they're not there to kind of work with you.  
 
VP: 
So, the fact that you're working for European bosses basically means that you’re 
working on different kinds of schedules.  
 
LW: 
Yeah, and different units of measure—we're all metric. So, we have to for our 
customers, we have to be in like US tons, but when all my reporting is metric tons, metric 
tons gigajoules, these are all the metric system. So, I don't even think US system anymore 
because it's been 20 years. And, you know, we were European when I joined Essroc with the 
Italians.  
 
VP: 
So, have you had opportunities to visit other plants in Europe? 
 
[00:33:56] 
 
LW: 
I haven’t had in Europe, but I've been to almost all of them in the US that we owned. 
When I became operations analyst, the first thing they did is they did this series of classes 
with me where, like, they had the head of the chemical quality department come in and they 
had some other like engineers there, but they wanted me there so that I would understand it. 
So, they gave me all the exposure to all the different elements of the business. But then what 
they did was a couple of times, every time we would have a plant managers meeting, which I 
would attend, we would have it at a different plant. It was really nice when we had it in 
 
Puerto Rico, we went down there. We since sold it. But, so, they would make the plant 
managers meeting a tour followed by the meeting itself, which is a two day meeting. And I 
would have some presentations to give the plant managers on where direction was changing 
from an informational perspective. But I went there and then I also went when the plant 
accountants became my employees, my boss told me to go and sit with each one of them. So, 
I went to Canada, went to Puerto Rico again. We had West Virginia, Indiana, Michigan, so 
I've been to them. I never had the opportunity to go to Europe, although a lot of my 
coworkers did of the same level. It depended on the project. If they had had a big project 
going on where the accountants needed to be involved, they might have sent me. But I did a 
lot of preparation for meetings that the guys went to over there. Because my bosses were 
European, you know, they would share with me. One of my bosses actually lived in a castle. 
He would have been like royalty 400 years ago. He’s Italian, but of course, you know, they 
changed the politics. But he still has family still had the money and, you know, still it's 
considered. And he had, like, he had put in floors where it was transparent with under 
lighting like this, glowing, almost like ice, almost look like ice. It was really beautiful. You 
know, he’d come back and he'd show me all the, you know, all the things that they did and, 
you know, and showed me his house. It was really pretty.  
 
VP: 
How do American workers feel like this is this local American industry, but it's owned 
by Europeans living in castles?  
 
[00:36:42] 
 
LW: 
Exactly, that's a good question. I mean, I've never asked the guys about it. And with 
Heidelberg, there's less of a presence then you had with Italcemente, because Italcement, our 
corporate offices were like three miles down the road. So, the plant got visited all the time 
from the Europeans. Whereas in Heidelberg, the only one that I know that's actually from 
Germany is down in Texas. So, you don't get that feel of the European, although, of course, 
my boss is Polish. His father worked in the cement plant, he got a job there, then he goes 
engineering degree and he's been to like Kazakhstan, and I know I pronounce that wrong, and 
Russia and Germany and then, you know, the U.S., but he's very down to earth. So, you don't 
feel that, you know, you're really dealing with, except, of course, his accent. But I think that 
for the people that were in the salaried positions, I think they found it interesting. I don't 
know with the hourly guys, there's always that difference because they're unionized and we 
aren't. So, you have like the salary and the hourly. And, you know, you always have to be 
careful not to violate a union contract, even if what you're doing is for the betterment of 
everyone.  
I know on Earth Day, the president who was Italian of our company said, “hey, why 
don't we just all go down and help pick up trash along the road and all that.” Well, the union 
grieved because in their mind that was their job and we were taking work from them. Well, 
we wouldn't have done it, except that it was Earth Day, you know, it was more symbolic, but 
it was something that they felt was a violation of their contract. So, I don't know if the union 
employees would feel differently about the Europeans than the actual salaried staff, because 
we have more exposure in general, I think, by our lives that we live. You know, having gone 
to school when I went to college, there were other international students at my school. So, I 
had some exposure, but I'm not sure you got that same exposure with someone that, you 
know, out of high school came to work in the plant. 
 
VP: 
So, the union has a president and they communicate, who’s representing the non-
union staff? 
 
 
LW: 
We don't get represented because we're at-will employees. Krzysztof could come up 
here today and say, “Lisa, we don't need you anymore and would you pack up your bags and 
leave?” And that's acceptable because I have no contract and most salaried people don't let 
you really high up in an organization, then you're going to have contract. But most people 
don't. Now, the expats, the ones coming from Europe, they always had contracts because 
you're asking them to leave their home and leave their houses and everything so they would 
sign a contract saying, you'll be here this number of years, we're going to pay you this amount 
of money. But for the for the union guys, they do have a contract with us. They have a union 
contract and it's about four years term or they set the price for every job, what the title of the 
job is, they set, like, the policies on overtime, meals and, you know, shift differential pay. So, 
it's very well-defined in their what becomes then a matter of interpretation would be 
something like the cleanup of along the road 240. Is that really our property? You know, is it 
everybody's responsibility to keep the plant clean? Like, if I'm walking through the plant and 
I see garbage on there, I'll bend down, pick it up and first trash I can, I put it in. A lot of 
times, especially the contractors, will leave their trash behind because they look at a cement 
plant, say “it's a dirty place anyway, what does it matter?” Whereas I look at it and I say, you 
know, if that blows into someone's face while they're welding something, that could be a 
hazard. So, we're very conscious about safety. Like, I can't tell you how much we think and 
talk about safety. Every job they've got a book, take five minutes before you start that job and 
make sure that you know what you need, you have the right tools for the job, you know what 
needs to be done to get the job, you have the proper amount of employees to do the job 
because it's very heavy equipment and it's very dangerous. And I think last year, mining 
accidents, because we're part of mining even it's an open pit mine, but we're part of that, I 
think it was like, I want to say, 26 fatalities just in the mining industry in the US. And it's not 
like they're intentional, you know, one guy recently, because they post them when they 
happen so that we know what's going on in our industry, but he parked his loader, which is 
you know, like three stories high. He went to his car to get something and he didn't put the 
brake on the loader and the loader pinned him in-between the car and he was a fatality. So, 
that is, like, really, really, really, really important and always has been, but I feel it more and 
more that they really want to make sure that the employees are safe. And, you know, if you 
talk to someone who's been there where they had generations, it was not unusual for someone 
to be missing, you know, a hand or a finger because the equipment is unforgiving. You know, 
you get caught in it, you get something, you have a loose piece of clothing and it gets 
wrapped into it. And then, of course, every time something does happen in the industry, they 
analyze that and then they put things in place to prevent it in the future. And I have to 
actually say that the government has a lot to do with that.  
When MSHA was formed and, you know, when they really started to enforce all the 
rules, they do two-ish inspections every year, they don't warn us ahead of time. And then they 
go through the whole plan like it says. One of them comes in from MSHA, our safety 
manager, we have one person dedicated just to safety. Then he will go down with him and 
they walk wherever they want to see whatever part of the plant. And they can cite you for 
things like having dust that's more than an inch. If they could see a footprint and a walkway 
to them, that's a hazard. So, you know, we try our best to keep everything up to spec so that 
when they do come, but there's always something that you wouldn’t see, you know. And so 
we've kind of put the responsibility on all the employees. If you are, you know, walking 
down a walkway and you see someone lift a broom, you know, across, then you pick it up 
and then you put it in the proper place. So, you just are always thinking about it because you 
never know. Like, if you're on a walkway and you're elevated and someone trips, you know, 
what's going to happen to them? Are they going to go down the stairs?  
 
You know, so and of course, the younger people, when they first start, they're not as 
cognizant of it as the older people and the older people almost get used to. “OK, so I've been 
doing this a hundred times, I don't need to relook at it every time.” But in truth, you really do 
because you don't know what's changed from the time you were there the day before. Did 
someone put a barrel of oil over here and someone else knocked it over or, you know, you 
just you have to be very careful. And I'm extremely careful when I go out because I don't go 
out as frequently to make sure that I'm not, you know, taking any chances or because it's not 
just my own self, but, you know, it's everybody. We think of it more as a team. You know, 
they always say when they start the day, everybody's coming home. Alright, so if it's taking 
more time to figure out how to make this safe, just take the time.  
Tends to be the young guys, the newbies, they're like, you know, tough, young guys 
that are you know, they can do it. They can lift that, you know, and we'd be like, “no, don’t 
lift it, I know you can, but let's get the right tool and lift it.” No one's getting a pinched finger 
because any kind of injury, we record everything. And you get in trouble, actually, if you 
don't record it. If you don't tell them if someone hurts themselves and doesn't tell us, we're 
not happy because we need to know what happened to cause this and what do we do because 
we have like standard operating procedures for every task. It's an MSHA mandate. So, you 
know, if you're going to do something like shovel cement, there’s actually an SOP to say you 
have to do this to do it safely. So, we'll update our SOPs, we’ll talk about it among our staff 
and also among the guys. We're required, Krzysztof requires to have six safety conversations 
a month where like someone like me will go, like, I'll decide to go to pack house, I'll drive up 
and park and I'll just come in and the first person I find, “what are you doing? What are you 
working on? What did you do to make sure it's safe?” That kind of thing. Even though I'm an 
accountant, they probably know better than me, they just want a fresh set of eyes to look at it.  
 
VP: 
So, the conversations are between the salaried, the office workers? 
 
[00:46:19] 
 
LW: 
Yeah, usually it's, well, there's salaried that work in the plant and there's hourly that 
work in the plant. So, with the hourly people, they don't have any managerial decisions, but 
we have working supervisors. So, they may be salaried, but they're going to get in and do the 
same, you know, they're going to be part of that whole task, especially maintenance, because 
you don't want someone just standing there saying, turn that wrench [laughs]. You know, of 
course, we have to be careful with the union contract not to step on anyone else's job. We 
have to give them that respect that this is their job, they do that. But there are things where 
we will contribute, but the six a month are specifically for, like, the head of quality, the head 
of purchasing, the head of the accounting, the head of maintenance, and safety manager. So, 
we all have a responsibility to go out and have those conversations and then the maintenance 
supervisors also do and the, like, if there's a quality supervisor, same thing. So, we go out and 
we talk to the guys and I found that it's always been very well-received when I've gone out. 
You know, I always start with, really, I don't know everything you do. Sometimes I go out 
and I'll talk about they have a safety discussion, topics that we get every week and they're 
given by corporate. So, they'll say, you know, work at heights. What do you do when you're 
working from a height? What do you do when you're for fall protection? What you do for 
pinching? Because we get a lot of pinching injuries. You know, now we get, like, gloves for 
them and we get better gloves for them, you know, we try different things to not restrict their 
hands, so they can do the work, but at the same time protect their hands so that they don't get, 
you know, stitches or whatever. So, we can take those out as part of our safety conversation 
and just, “hey, did you guys see this? We sent it out and, you know, what do you think? Is 
 
there something we can do?” I mean, it's always “what can we do to improve? What would 
you like to see from a safety perspective? What worked for you in the past that you're not 
seeing now or is there something we're doing now that was better than before?”  
Because they're always changing it, because they're always trying to find that perfect 
point of, you know, I think the hardest thing is really to get the guys to say, “Yeah, I need to 
stop.” They're so concerned about making sure production happens that they don't naturally 
stop. You know, they're on their a piece of equipment all day long, you know, down in the 
quarry, whatever. They're not stopping to think, but they need to.  
 
VP: 
So, do you feel like that's also given you an opportunity to connect with the workers? 
 
[00:49:06] 
 
LW: 
Yeah, you know, just from my perspective, I mean, I'm 57 years old, and some of 
these guys have been around a long time and some of them are pretty much newbies. But 
either it could be my age or my personality, but they all kind of treat me like I'm their mom or 
their big sister. They're very nice, they're very considerate. You know, I know that the guys 
kind of do that around cursing in the world up there, but when they see me, like they don't do 
that or, you know, when they talk to me, they're just very genuine people. You know, I hear 
salt of the earth being used, but it's really what they are. I mean, these are just, you know, just 
guys working out there in a harsh environment and usually too, I think they like the break. 
You know, someone's coming to say “you're important, your safety is important, it's 
important to us that you come back to your family whole and this is what we're doing to try to 
do that. And what are your suggestions?” I'm always asking for suggestions and then writing 
things down, and then I try to come up with solutions on how to present that to, like, 
Krzysztof and say, you know, “they like this from when I started it 15 years ago. Can we 
implement something similar?” So, we all think of that, like, from a management perspective, 
we all kind of come up with ideas to make everything work better, you know. 
And because of the pandemic, we had to reduce staff and, you know, we had to lay off 
because they shut down the business and then, you know, the governor did. And then we 
started it back up. And, you know, we're having a lot of hiring issues right now because this 
area is so hot right now for employees that it's easy for them to be enticed away with much 
more money. You know, so, you know, right now our thing is to make sure that we're as fully 
staffed as possible and to make sure that, you know, that work life is a good life for people, 
that they enjoy it. I actually was given an employee to supervise here, and that was like my 
first discussion with her: I need to know what you like, what you don't like, because I couldn't 
do these guys’ job. You know, I couldn't go out there, not in a thousand years. First of all, 
physically, I couldn't do it, just not in the best of health. But it's just hard. And to me, it's very 
dirty. And it wouldn't be what I would choose. But for some of them, they're like, there is no 
way they would want to do my job and tell me, “Are you kidding me? I would not want to sit 
in office all day.” They love the fact that they're in the open environment and that they're 
interacting with the guys and two in the fat while they're doing their jobs and you know how 
it is. So, it's just a very interesting world.  
 
VP: 
You're the only accountant? 
 
LW: 
I'm the only one in the plant. Each plant has its own accountant right now. The 
accountant in Evansville is on leave. So, I'm training someone to cover for him until he 
comes back. So, I'm kind of juggling, too, because I have to make sure that Evansville’s 
books are right and Nazareth's books, which is hard to do in those two days of quotes. So, I'm 
 
trying to get him as ready as possible to do as much as he can. But yeah, I’m the only 
accountant here, so I'm the only financial person here.  
 
VP: 
That’s hard! 
 
LW: 
It is because sometimes what I have to say is very dry. I was talking about, I gave like 
a thirty second spiel and they're so honest here. And our safety guy, he's actually a contractor, 
he said, “Lisa, I was listening to you talk about your accounting in your crew and I thought 
nobody is listening to me.” Thanks a lot. But I have to make it interesting because of the fact 
that they're interested in working with their hands and working outdoors, they don't want to 
hear about accruals or taxes or anything. But I have to let them know because the way the 
system is built, they're putting the data in, they're making the decision when they buy from a 
vendor whether or not we owe a sales tax or not. So, they are involved in accounting 
decisions and I try to help them make better decisions. But that for me is I think the hardest 
part. My chosen field is very interesting to me, but to very few people. Just us accountants 
love numbers and, you know, love everything's got to balance and, you know, what goes in, 
what goes out, that's for all works. So, that is that is not something that you can inspire 
someone to, I just have to find and I often sit back and ask my husband because he was in 
processing at Lipton Tea. He's retired now, but he was what these guys are just a different 
industry. And so I kind of work on him to say, “If I told you this, what would it mean to 
you?” He said, “I would have stopped listening after the first five minutes or so, Lisa, so 
make it shorter.” But yeah, that's my biggest challenge, actually, is to because if they just 
learned a few things, it would make their time so much easier because they wouldn't have to 
deal with all the corrections that happen when you don't set something up right, so. I'm still 
working on that and I'm trying to find a way to get it across. I thought about doing, like, 
illustrations, you know, or maybe taking pictures like “here's your story manager and this is 
what he needs” and, you know, tighten it up there, of course, with his permission. But, you 
know, I'm trying to think of ways to get them to understand it so they're not spending 
spinning their wheels when accounting in Texas is saying we can't pay this you didn't do this 
right and they don't understand. And then the vendor calls and like, “we're not going to 
supply you if you don't pay us on time.” So, you know, to their best advantage to learn it. 
But, yeah.  
 
VP: 
What would you say is sort of the best part of your job? Or what is most exciting? 
 
[00:55:39] 
 
LW: 
I like the you never know what's coming. You never know what's coming. And I 
remember the woman who invited me to come work at Essroc for her when I was at the 
Morning Call. She said, you'll never be bored, you will never have a boring moment, there's 
always something that happens, always something new. And you wouldn’t think it with this 
industry, but it is. I never know what's coming down the pike, I never know what new 
program we've got going from Heidelberg. So, everything's always changing, it’s always a 
surprise when I open up an email, “Oh, we’re doing this,” you know. So, it is. You do not get 
into a rut because the company in and of itself is always changing, which is the nature of 
business now. And like I said, I started in 1987. I was working as a kid since I was like 
twelve, I always had some sort of job. My mom was always getting me out of the house and 
the rest of my siblings. But yeah, if it wasn't delivering papers, it was, you know, helping 
someone clean their house or babysit and all that stuff. But yeah, I've seen how business has 
changed because of digitization, which is difficult because there's so much data now. It's 
 
almost like you're drinking out of a fire hose and you can't really get a grip on it. And I was 
so precise when I started in accounting. I mean, I would get down to the last penny on, like, a 
bank reconciliation and my first boss took me aside and he said, “Lisa, please, you don't have 
to find that penny.” But that's accounting! And he's like, “no, not in this day and age. You 
don't you don't have the time. So, you have to learn how to be reasonable.” Like, I'm always 
thinking, how reasonable is this number? No, it's not hundred percent perfect, it doesn't have 
to be a hundred percent perfect – they've built it into the system, but that was fighting against 
my own nature. Now I'm fine with it. But yeah, when I was younger, not so much. 
 
VP:  
So, in concluding this interview, is there a topic that we haven't touched on? 
Questions have been asked that you would like to speak a little bit more about? 
 
LW: 
I can't think of anything in particular. The only thing that I have noticed is that, you 
know, I don't know about the industry, like, going forward because we started I think I said 
25-26 cement plants in the Lehigh Valley. We now have three. So, you know, you're limited 
by your limestone and as that vein is being used, what happens in the US, you know, what are 
we going to be getting our cement eventually from Third World, where they do have it? Or 
are we going to be going in deeper into places that weren't explored before to get that? The 
other thing is there's a lot of innovation, especially in Europe. We have a cement that cleans 
the air. It actually as the sun hits, it's very white. As the sun hits it, it'll actually absorb 
pollutants and stays white and I don’t know how they do it, but they do it. It's very expensive 
and they built some really, you know, like art buildings and stuff like really, really, you 
know, someone that wants to make a statement about the environment. It because it is it's 
going to suck up the smog, we've created a transparent cement where you can, I mean, it's not 
a perfect reflection, but you can see on the other side. They just did a 3D printing of a home 
with cement. So, the innovation you wouldn’t think for a product that's really just a 
commodity would have innovation, but it does. They have a lab, the main lab in Europe, and 
they're just always thinking up of new ways to use the product and improve the product. And, 
you know, it's very interesting.  
 
VP: 
Amazing! Thank you so much for your time.  
 
LW:  Absolutely!