Project name: Agricultural Pilots: Crop Dusters in the Rural Midwest 
Field ID and name: Interview 12 
Interviewee: Lisa Kingsley 
Interviewer/Recordist: Ellen Kendrick, Jackson Kendrick, Samuel Kendrick 
Date: 6/3/21 
Location: Lamar, Missouri 
Others Present: N/A 
Equipment used: Zoom H6 Handy Recorder 
Microphone: Saramonic Wireless Lavalier Microphone 
Recording Format: .WAV 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 
Duration: 01:06:28 
Keywords: Pilots, ground crew, accidents, crop dusting, stories, women in ag, business partner, 
wife, family 
  
Corresponding Materials:  
Context:  
Technical Considerations:  
Transcription prepared by: Samuel Kendrick 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of dash - indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates reported speech. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
EK  0:00   
Mason's gotta help them with that. We're good. Are we recording? We're talking to Lisa Kingsley. 
We are in Lamar, Missouri and it's 9:51 on June 3, Thursday. That's neat, though that you can hear 
him working. 
LK: Oh, he lets me know when he's coming in. He'll do a low pass. 
EK: Yeah. He said. He said, like I didn't know you or know anything about you. And I said, Does 
Lisa worry about you? And he said, Yes. She makes me check in with her. 
LK: Well, that took many years to do that. And many years of griping. 
EK: To check in, let you know what he's up to., But at least you can hear him which is a good thing. 
So when you met him, he was flying? 
LK:: He just had gotten his pilot license when I first met him. I lived in Indiana. And I first met him 
at the farm. And then he flew out to say, Oh, he was in Indiana.  
EK: Was he spraying? 
LK: No, he wasn't currently spraying at that time. That was like 2002, 2003. And then he flew 
down to a family vacation we had. How Kevin I, how I met Kevin was through his sister in law, 
who used to be my best friend in sixth and seventh grade in Mount Vernon, Missouri. So I came 
back, and then I met Kevin and I was going through a lot of things personally. And so then I moved 
here. Due to this was one of the best places I grew up in America. My childhood memories were 
fond here. My ex-best friend lived here. And I met Kevin. So I've moved for a lot of reasons. And a 
divorce.  
EK: Yeah. 
LK: So. And then shortly thereafter, Kevin and I were living together. He got his pilot's or his 
commercial already, but he wasn't crop dusting. Until I think 2005 he began. And then from there, 
we were together, doing work for his family farm. 
EK: So you didn't do any of the business at that point? 
LK: Oh, I I loaded for his family farm. They did it for like one or two years without me. And I saw a 
deficiency there. And plus, he wasn't taking care of himself. I knew it was a dangerous job. They 
weren't eating or drinking. There was a lot of fatigue. I could see in him. They were fighting the 
weather. And so I started loading for myself, I can do this. So I started loading for him and his 
brother. And then about 2007, his oldest brother; Well, he tried to take over the business and we 
didn't see eye to eye on a lot. He's only three years older than me. 
EK: So is it? So when you say family business, like when we go to Springfield, we go 96? Is that the 
business sets off the highway? there?  
LK: Yeah.  
EK; With the restaurant?  
LK: Yes.  
EK: What, did the, the family include just Kevin and the older brother? 
LK: No, Kevin is the youngest out of five.  
EK: Oh, did everybody fly? 
LK: No, no, his sister's in Ohio. His oldest brother flies. But he used to fly pipeline patrol. And 
Kaitland flew, and Kevin flew crop dusting. They're the ones that started the business not Kiman. 
EK: So what about the dad? Did the dad fly? 
LK: Nope. Dad did not fly. They were just farmers. And that's how they started out on their own 
fields and things of this nature. 
EK: Yeah. That’s not uncommon, it seems like 
LK: No, no. And then the business started just growing like crazy. Well, I happen to focus in on this 
area over here in Barton County, because I saw pivots and I know we have a lot of dry years. So 
really took good care of these customers over here, right? And we separated as Kevin broke off on 
his own as they call it. 
EK: A family divorce. 
LK: Oh, well, sort of ways. I just didn't, I wanted Kevin to be safe. I have work ethics, so does Kevin. 
And our business stands for itself now. 
EK: That's important. 
LK: We didn't try to steal the business or anything we just didn't, didn't want to follow the path 
that they were going. 
EK: A lot of the pilots talked about the competition, that as non competition. They say that around 
here. There was enough work for everybody that there's enough to keep you busy.  
LK: If you do a good job.  
EK: Yes. And that is also a recurring theme, that it's really important that you maintain your good 
relationships with your customers. 
[00:05:06] 
LK: It's just not the customers it’s the community. And when you're busy, you know, and as the 
towns grow and people from the city move in, I mean, we've loaded the 911 circuit board. I don't 
know how many time but if you call ahead and talk to the local sheriff's or local law enforcement, 
let them know, Hey, we're going to be enslaughted with airplanes, they're going to be all over. 
You're going to get calls because people think we're wrecking, people think we're doing it for fun, 
or and, you know, we've got a lot of incidents of people threatening to shoot us down. 
EK: Seriously? Around here? 
LK: Yes. In fact, we had the FBI involved a couple years ago, I had a crop duster out of Miami, 
Oklahoma, come help us. And he actually, his airplane was actually shot over towards the Miller 
area. And so he's, he, I don't know if he's currently in jail. He, I know he got sentenced to at least 
five years I think. But he is the only one so far that has been convicted. We've been threatened. I've 
had confrontations with big old boys. If, I've learned from immediately call the FBI not the local 
guys not FAA, because they have nothing to do with it either.  
EK: There aren't very many… 
LK: You've got to call the FBI ‘cause it's the domestic terroristic threat with the aircraft, so yeah, 
Yeah. So I, I don't put up with anything anymore. I'm done. I probably would go to jail for the first 
time thing, but he threatened me again, because I'm tired of it. 
EK: Yeah. 
LK: I'll punch them in the nose  [Laughter.].  
EK: Because, just because like you're flying over there…? 
LK: Their homes, or you know, their property? I don't know. There's all kinds of wackadoodles out 
there. So so far this year, we haven't had any. And I try to work with the bee people too.  
EK: Oh, yeah.  
LK: You know, and try to respect everybody you know, and try to always, within the FAA, state, 
Fed regulations, always consider your community.  
EK: So are you the main point of contact for things like that? 
LK: I hand, I'm the heavy hitter when bad things happen. That's what I do. I used to handle it all. 
But I got out of it a couple years ago, ‘cause, uh, I am an empath, emotional person. I really care 
about people. And I'm a worrywart. When you have a crop duster for a husband, who does what 
he does for a living, I have, have to dye my hair every two weeks. [Laughter.] Because of the gray 
and the worry, but I'm glad now. Because when you live together and work together, it's really 
hard on a relationship. Yeah, we did that for years. And then I got my son, he moved here. And he 
worked for US Cellular. And then I thought I need to get out of this. And I trust him. He's 
intelligent, he's great with numbers. And when you're dealing with the amount of chemical that we 
do, and the cost of that one mess up could be catastrophic. 
EK: So what did you do before Mason took over?  
LK: Um…  
EK: As far as the business endeacoe? 
LK: Oh, I would, I would manage everything and handle all the paperwork, I would load up the 
chemical I… 
EK: Would you be, no one has shared this with us before. So if you would be specific, it would be 
really helpful because I don't think, I don't think that the world really knows. Like, all they see is 
that hot dog airplane.  
LK: Okay.  
EK: And they don't really know that, That it's a legitimate profession, with all of the things 
attached to it. So if you wouldn't mind sharing?  
LK: Sure. When we first set up, I knew that there were certain things so I Googled everything that I 
needed to do. I set Kevin up on an LLC. We were denied insurance and I couldn't understand why 
at first. You have to get insurance. You have to get a part 137 through the FAA, you've got to get 
your state license. Kevin had to, Kevin and I both took our pesticides license. Kevin has plenty of 
hours now, and even back then he did. And you have to know all the regulations and set them up 
on a sole proprietorship as well. To them being a sole proprietorship is like a corporation. So, 
EK: Oh, the S Corp. 
[00:10:09] 
LK: Yeah, the S Corp. Yeah. And we just took, took the customers we had already applied for, 
because they liked the way that Kevin flew. They like, they got familiar with both Kevin and I, 
because we were the ones up at 430 in the morning, or 3:30 in the morning out on the field when 
the sun rises, because you have to, you have to, if you're going to make a success out of yourself, 
like we, like I feel we have. We've got a great reputation. Competition is not a point, like you 
pointed out earlier, you try to network and work with the other reputable aerial applicators in the 
area. And you try to manage it for those busy times, like army worms, or, you know, it's just, it's 
now. You got to get it done. 
EK: You have to know, like, as the business person, you have to know both levels, you have to 
know the ground level. And the air level. 
LK: Air level. Yeah, when we first started, technology's been a blessing. We only had maps, and 
sometimes they were drawn out on cardboard boxes with chemicals and such as that. But now we 
have the satellite systems where it's very easy for Kevin to plug in to his plane and very easy for 
Mason, to look up on the computer exactly where it is. And so that leaves a lot less error number 
one. 
EK: Right.  
LK: But you do have to know your areas that you're spraying, number one, because what 
surrounding it, you don't want drift or non-target areas to be applied to. You need to be aware 
recently, they put in the windmills over here. And to me, I call them at night, all I see is these red 
devil eyes. [Laughter.] That's controversial to some of my farmers, because some of my farmers 
have gone with the windmills but Kevin, 
EK: I worry about ‘em. 
LK: Yeah, I do too. But we'll see, a time will tell. I think they're the largest in the world from what I 
understand. So Kevin has already flown around them. However, it does take more time and it is 
more of a risk, right? You have to be aware of wildlife you have to be aware of power lines. 
So go backing, go stepping back and going how, how it begins is a farmer will come in with acres. I 
have to schedule them and it's first come first serve unless there's priorities, priorities is always 
insects, then it's fungicide, then it's weeds. And, and the critical if somebody is inundated, you 
know, we'll we'll always try to work and we've always been very fair with that. And when we tell 
our regulars, Hey need call ahead and get on the list. Be aware that this is the season for this, this 
is the season for this.  
EK: And so do they, like do they start like in February?  
LK: Oh, some of them call a year ahead to make sure they get the get the fungicide on the wheat 
when it's flowering. So that's one part of it. Too is communication and handling of inventory of the 
high dollar amount of chemical that comes through. And, and another thing too is not just, it’s 
stewardship of the land. I think crop dusters, you have your fly-by-night guys. You've got what 
they call the gypsy guys that come in and do a crappy job and give you a bad reputation. I try to 
avoid that. I've had a couple of units try to come into our local area to try to tell me how to charge 
and what to do and they were going to take over. I said good luck. Our customers in this area has, 
is one of the best communities I've ever been in Barton County, Missouri. I've been all over the 
United States and I've never seen more loyal, more down to earth people than here because they 
have tried every which way to try to take Kevin's business, including his own family. Well actually 
that's three or four people. But they said Good luck trying to get through Lisa Kingsley. She 
protects her man, and I will. Nobody's gonna, Kevin, Kevin's a old farmer boy. He's not in to make a 
fortune but he's in it to make a good decent living and… 
EK: He's lucky to have you.  
LK: I don't know about that. 
EK: Yeah, I think he probably is. I think he probably knows it. 
[00:15:07] 
LK: I don't think he knows. [Laughter.] He thinks I'm a rip. I'm a loud mouth rip.  
EK: The case is when we were talking to him is that he has tremendous respect for you. He was, I 
think it, you know, that we chose to talk to you was not an accident. You know, it was because of 
the way your son talked about you. And the way Kevin, he didn't really talk. But, you know, 
obviously, it's a really important aviation family. You know, even if you're not like 100% doing 
what you did before. He can't do this without you.  
LK: Well, I got him, he can now. I've got him set up pretty good. Doing it for so many years with 
him. But when we first started, it's kind of interesting. We started with his 1987 Ford. It looked 
terrible. We had a nursing rig, which was just like a 500 gallon water tank and a Honda Motor on 
it. And I think it was either a 1966 or 1967 Piper Pawnee, that we, yeah, I feel Kevin earned his 
keep on because we bought three of them at the farm. And I said, Well, there's three brothers that 
fly. I think that would be a good negotiation tool to get out. I said, we can make it work. We can 
make it work. And so we did. And that's how we started. And a lot of people thought we were, you 
know, were questionable, like the farmers used to stand right by you with their high dollar 
chemical and watch you do every ounce and every measurement. And then towards the end, they 
were just dropping it off. And I go, Where's my help?  
EK: Yeah. 
LK: We're, you know, because doing jug after jug, especially when you were doing like fungicide on 
corn, with insecticide, I mean, by the end of the day, my back was killing me,  
EK: I bet it was. It's hard work.  
LK: Yeah, I did it while I was pregnant with her. Our son, Luke, the whole way through. And even 
when he was a baby, he spent a lot of time inside the truck. And I had to be very careful. Because 
he was an infant and exposure to myself from the chemical. So, but it was funny. Kevin one day put 
him as a baby, I think he was like, six or seven months old. And he put him in the cockpit. You 
know, he's stopped and everything. He put him in the cockpit. And Luke leaned out and he goes 
Clear! [Laughter.]  And he goes, How did he know that? I said, I don't know. He's been listening to 
it since he was in my tummy. Yeah, yeah.  
JK: So, so does Luke fly? 
LK: He is a passenger. He doesn't. I told Kevin not to try to force it down his throat because that 
would probably drive this style of kid away even further. I don't know, I think he'll eventually 
mature enough and see the heritage, the history and the honor of it. Because that is a big thing 
with Kevin. I mean, we've gone to National Air museums, we've, we've done all that on time off, 
you know, and it's usually surrounded and high. We have other airplanes as well, you know, we've 
got a 1939 Luska. And then the 172 that we enjoy going around and on our off times and visiting 
little areas. And… 
JK: Kevin says I'm not allowed to fly a Luska, because it'll kill me.  
LK: Oh. It’s a tail wheel, it’s different. 
JK: He, after a lot of like, you know, discussion, I, I finally figured out what he meant by that. Like, 
he means a short couple. So it's easy to ground loop.  
LK: Yes. Yes.  
JK:  Yeah. I understand that about not trying to force somebody. I mean, you know, my first lesson 
zero hours. Kevin just tossed the checklist at me and says fly it. I'm going zero hours here, Kevin. 
[Laughter.] So yeah,  
LK: He asks me all the time. Do I want to do it? I've done it. I've grabbed the yoke a couple of times 
or whatever. Don't, no, not for me.  
JK: It’s hard work.  
LK: Yeah. 
JK: It's a lot of responsibility.  
LK: And I like my feet on the ground. 
EK: That's interesting. So you're you're a loader, not a flier. 
LK: Yes. Yes. I have no inkling, I don't have any inkling of doing that. We have a mutual girl friend. 
That, she's getting into it. And we're really proud of her. I love any women in aviation period. So, 
aviation is, is a unique, unique group of people. I'll tell you that I've met a lot of humdingers and a 
lot of great ones. 
EK: Is Kevin, a member of NAAA? 
[00:20:21] 
LK: We, we were, we have been in the past. I mean, I'm not judging. So, 
EK: Oh, no, no. 
LK: I think it's a, it's  good as far as fighting for a lot of rights, but we like to be down low. We have 
been past members of it, but not currently, no. 
EK: I think about half the pilots in the country are?  
LK: Yes.  
EK: I think on their website, it says 1,600.  
LK: Yes.  
EK: Which is, depending on how many are currently flying. It's two to three thousand. So, 
LK: Right, right. Yeah, I think there's even more than that. But for them, they don't. Some of them 
just do it for their own farms. They don't register nothing. They're in, you know, Timbuktu. You 
know, I think there's a lot more of that that goes on. 
EK: I bet you're right here. Well I know you're right. 
LK: Yeah. But it's funny. When he, when he passes over, like, you know, I'll tell you a couple stories 
about him. He's funny. But I still get that thrill that I used to get. And when my family comes in 
from out of town, he'll always do a little smoke show for them. And, 
JK: Now, that's interesting, because we told him when we interviewed him, Dusty was talking 
about doing smoke shows. And he goes, and so we told him about Dusty saying, Yeah, I like to pass 
over. There's this family. They're always on this hill. And I see him out there. And I'll just pop a 
little bit of smoke. And Kevin goes, Dusty said that? That's not what it's for. [Laughter.] 
LK: Oh, really? Oh, ain't he something? When we first started, we heard stories, Kevin took over 
this area, because before anybody else was around. Well, there was Luke Winn. He was a legend 
around here, Del ProbBert. There was another guy too. Oh, he just recently died. I can't think of his 
name. Kevin really loved him. We bought one of his old Pawnees. And they were legends around 
here. There was one other guy out of Eldorado or Nevada. But they all retired. So Kevin came in at 
a perfect time for this area. So took on all the business for several years. And then Dusty. And 
Aaron showed up. And that's good. Because we were getting so busy. Kevin was so tired. I've got to 
also watch him. Even now today he his work ethic is something off the Richter scale. I mean, even 
around here. This place wouldn't look like this if it wasn't for him and his work ethic. I think, as I 
get older, I'm, what 11,12 years older than Kevin? I am doing far less. So I depend on him much 
more. A life of hard work isn't always so beneficial as you age. [Laughter.] Because I'm 53. I turned 
53 this year, so and… But I watch him. And I have to watch his eyes and see when he's fatigued 
because I’ll call it and I told, instructed Mason to do that every time he flies in, make sure you 
check his eyes. Because that's the telltale sign. Because there's no regulations for a crop duster. 
Like you know, you've got your semi drivers in our zone.  
EK: Mm hmm. Yeah.  
LK: And there's regulations, but there's no regulations for a crop duster, basically.  
EK: That's interesting.  
LK: Yeah, there's a lot of funny things about the aviation world. I've had a couple of run ins with 
the FAA to because they say Don't, don't ever Don't, don't ever mess with them. And Lisa will mess 
with anybody. She doesn't care. Because if I feel something's wrong… One day, I'll give you an 
example. I don't know, I want to make sure I do the terms right. But he was in the Pawnee and 
there was something some AD that was not filed by other crop dusters and many other crop 
dusters had to make an emergency landing and I'm doing the rabbit ear quotations as emergency 
landings. And I was reading a novel out here and he passed over and I could hear him and I gauge 
it sometimes by listening. And I noticed over 40 minutes went by and I go, huh, and then I get a 
phone call and it's Lovey. That's what I call him Lovey and, and I knew something was wrong. And 
so I got on the freeway and I was in Jasper in three minutes. He, yeah, when I got there, I saw the 
plane. He had hit a berm. He did his best, he avoided old, there was a whole bunch of junk, old 
pivots, old tractors, trees, fencing, he avoided it all. This part, there was not an AD on because 
people don't feel that they can go to, like crop dusters and things. They feel like there's a barrier. 
So I called up the FAA and I yelled at them. I said, if you guys were more approachable, you know, 
and, you know, worked with, this would not be an issue. I said, I've heard this and so the AD 
changed.  
JK: Yeah. It's an oil pump.  
LK: Yeah. But I was when I saw that, I lost it. 
EK: What happened to Kevin? 
LK: Oh, nothing. He walked away. That's the best result you could want. 
[00:26:06] 
JK: Those boys down at that Seed Company, that elevator. I was talking to them one day, and they 
talked about that incident.  
LK: Oh, did they?  
JK: Yeah, yeah. I said, Well, you know, we got to talkin’ and I said, yeah, I'm down here on a regular 
basis. I've been learning to fly from Kevin and they were like, Oh, yeah, he had a wreck. And I'm 
like, yeah, we don't call it a wreck. We call it an incident. Oh, yeah. It's such a, like, a high 
consequence occupation. Like when you're driving a truck. If something happens to the truck, you 
can kind of coast to a stop.  
LK: Correct.  
JK: But, but in an airplane, landing is mandatory. And it doesn't matter if something happens, it 
doesn't matter if you'd have a runway in front of you. You still have to land. 
LK: Mm hmm. Yeah. And he also has had, you know, other things that have come up. I'll start with 
a funny story. I don't know if it's funny or not. But it's for the record. [Laughter.]  
We were very busy spraying and I always would check his nozzles underneath to make sure there 
were no leaks. And I just got finished checking them. And I think because I was really diligent, 
because he just had put new ones on. And maintaining your equipment is very important because 
of that, because you can affect somebody else's area, if that's not the case. Well, I had gotten a call. 
And I had just washed Kevin's plane, because you got to constantly wash the planes because of the 
corrosiveness of the chemicals and fertilizer. And so I got a call from this lady just screaming, 
Something wet hit her while she was mowing the lawn. And so I called the farmer and I go Who is 
this person? Well, I go Ma'am, I can assure you I just checked the nozzles. There's nothing leaking. 
He did not. And I started thinking she was mowing the lawn. She was wearing a bikini. Kevin flew 
in there to get a closer look. [Laughter.] Kevin used to chew and he'd hold that to chew wad in for 
so long. That when he spit. He'd spit out the plane. And it covered the brand new washed 
aeroplane, so I caught him in two ways. The phone call and the chew all along the side of the plane 
because it's brown. And mean it wasn't just like a little spit. I'm talking that man can hold spit. 
[Laughter.] So I didn't tell her that it was tobacco spit that hit her. But I assured her it wasn't 
chemical. That's a true story.  
JK: This is gonna make it so much easier to take lessons from Kevin. [Laughter.] 
LK: I don't know if he'll appreciate me telling that story. But that's one of my favorite funny stories. 
EK: You can’t ever tell him that you know You just to be smug in knowledge. 
JK: I'm just gonna sit there with my hand on the yoke. My right hand on the throttle and just know 
that this man, who intimidates me with his flying skills,  he's fallible. 
LK: Yeah, yeah. [Laughter.] You have to deal with also a lot of the city and municipal airports and 
he's had his little run-ins and his mouth sometimes gets away with them. I think that's a Kingsley 
thing. My mouth only goes if somebody attacks Kevin. And my mouth only goes if I know I'm right. 
I fought the airport in Mount Vernon. I said, I suggest you check your FAA laws and your, your 
airport laws because I said you're incorrect. You're discriminating against Kevin, I won that one. 
He also didn't tell me about something out in Oswego. He needed water. They wouldn't open up 
the water for him. 
EK: How'd you find that one out? 
[00:30:32] 
LK: Oh, by an attorney bill in the mail. He went all the way through the attorney process. So once 
again, Kevin didn't consult with me. And there are laws that they cannot do. So I had to inform his 
attorney, that he hired underneath my nose, that he wasn't doing his job properly. And that this 
needed to be wiped out because they also discriminated. You cannot get federal funding and not 
supply water to an aerial applicator. So there's been a lot of that I've had my rounds with the local, 
the old local government, the new local government, I happen to love. But the old one, they 
threatened to move us out. We bought an airplane grandfathered in once you buy an airplane, you 
get that hangar, we fought and fought like heck to have space here. We were treated like you 
know, like I told you when we first came, you know, like we're a poor gypsy band or whatever. But 
we've, here we are now so many years later. And we provide a huge service to this community, 
because agricultural, with all the plants and all the factories closing down here in this small area, 
agriculture is our number one economic high point. So to take care of Kevin is beneficial for this 
whole community. And I keep reminding a lot of people you know, people with money that think 
oh, you look bad. People don't want to land at Lamar airport because of the chemical. They're 
scared. Oh, well, they need to get over this. This is the country.  
EK: You mean, like, just regular small planes? 
LK: Yeah, general aviation, general aviation. And quite frankly, there's only been one business ran 
off of this for a long, long time. And it was Kevin's business. So now that, now that there's more 
growth at the airport, they're putting in new hangars, the city is, but working with the community 
in the city and the government is is very essential to have a good rapport. Because I mean, the old 
city administrator came to me one day and they weren't providing me fuel or water. And they 
refused to, so I call the fuel for my farmer friends. Well they were madder than Hornets. They 
attacked him. He came to the airport and started using the F word at me. I used the F word right 
back. Because these men in the Midwest, I'm from Northern California. I'm a California girl. They 
don't they're not familiar with… 
EK: No, they're not. 
LK: My kind of strange. [Laughter.]  
JK: Well, I mean, the, you know, the culture... 
LK: They know now. 
JK: Especially with the farmers around here, they, you know, they're just like, Oh, we just all want 
to get along. And we'll just be the same old, same old every time.  
LK: Yeah.  
JK: And sometimes you can't do it. I mean, in an industry like this. It's always moving forward. It's 
no longer the guy in the Stearman.  
LK: Yeah, yeah. 
EK: Yeah. Some of the comments that, and I'm not going to name names, but that we had gotten 
about the female pilots, the female ag pilots, one in particular, they were just rude. They were just 
ignorant.  
LK: Oh, yeah.  
EK: You know, and I'm just thinking, because one person said, Oh, you got to interview, you got, 
because I said something about Emily. Oh, you got to interview her? And I said, Yeah, I did. And, 
and it was, like, pretty snotty about whether she, you know, she thought she was better than 
everybody else. And I said, the girl has been flying since she was 13 years old. She's married to a 
guy who's fifth generation pilot. You know, she's like, third generation pilot. What are you? 
Ignorance is great, isn't it?  
LK: It's just like, and you know what it is? It's fear of. 
EK: It's fear of, because there are so many women who are going to take their jobs? 
LK:  Really? Really, but I see it growing since I started, there was none, I don't think and then now. 
They're all over the world. And I'm proud of each one of them. I love it because I belong to a couple 
of social media groups. And I'm always, yeah, proud and love that part. 
EK: Yeah, me too. 
LK: The one thing too. I wanted to go back to the community. And taking care of stewardship of the 
land.  
[00:35:02] 
EK: Can I ask a question? Was it an awareness issue? And you just made them aware? Or were they 
really just like, like, rocking in their ignorance and didn't want to be shaken out of it? Like they just 
wanted to carry on?  
LK: Yes.  
EK: The old ways.  
LK: Yeah.  
EK: Or did they, like once you said, Hey, this is a problem, what was their response? The local 
government, did they step up? 
LK: They had to, because I said, if you don't supply me, what is required by law, then I will call my 
farmers and you will get yelled at. And I will continue. If you come in my face, I'm going to come 
right back at you with what you give me. And they had to tolerate me for a few more years, and 
then we got a new administration. So everything's peachy with that one.  
EK: Good.  
LK: Thank you, Russ. New city administrator. And, I mean, that's the chief of police threatened to 
move all Kevin’s stuff out. And I said, wouldn't do that if I was you, buddy. This is federal property. 
You know, so that would be you know, class felony of some sort. On airport property. Go ahead. 
Yeah, so I am steward, back to the stewardship of the land. There's lots of things that we've done 
and encouraged and I right here, I am not organic, but I'm a very responsible gardener. I enjoy my 
frogs when you have six different species of frogs, and they're everywhere, you're doing 
something good for your land. And like today, you saw me I, I'm spot spraying. I will not let him fly 
over the, with the airplane. Everybody says you got to fill it with poison. Get it? Well, I got fish. 
Yeah, I got fish. I got frogs. I know. So I spot spray. Yeah, I spot sprayed what I needed to spot 
spray. You know what I mean? with Sevin?  
EK: Right?  
LK: I'm not using one. Anything, you know, a lot of… 
JK: Mustang?  
LK: Yeah, yeah, I've had that in my face a time or two.  
JK; A lot of farmers like Mustang.  
LK: Oh, well, it also winds itself down. So as I was talking, not the only thing that we do is chemical. 
We do a lot of seeding, a lot of what do they call it, when you shoot the term’s not coming to me. 
When you plant like turnips and radishes… 
EK: Cover crops. 
LK: Cover crops, which helps that soil thing and a lot of they're catching on these farmers are 
because we're doing a lot more of that work now. And so there's no hazard in that. And fertilizer. 
There's no hazard other than it's a pain in your butt. Especially if you're out in the field yelling out 
the crop duster and you get some in your hair. Well, don't be out there. [Laughter.] You know what 
I mean? So we do that. And we've done a lot of organic spraying too. In fact I called them about 
some organic spray for this place. Because I was afraid because at first I did my research and I 
thought it was army worm because I've never seen anything defoliate something overnight, like an 
army worm because I lived through an army worm run. And it was horrendous. I think we had 
seven airplanes going. 
EK: Wasn’t that ’05? Is that when that was? 
LK: I think so it was a terrible, ’05 or ‘6. And that was before we left the family business. But yeah, 
that was something. I wouldn't want to do that again. 
EK: I think Mason said something about spraying sugar? Sugar water? 
LK: That's what I was talking about. Because I told my farmers, because in the third world 
countries, they use sugar and have used sugar for hundreds and hundreds of years. I said add that 
to that. And they started laughing at me soon as I, and so he went by and I said go take a look at 
that field. And so he went by, and soon as he was, because he was laughing. Hehehe, hahaha, he 
saw that field. And that field was super healthy. And I said it may not work all the time on 
everything, but it stops the resistance of the chemical because if you use chemicals so much it 
becomes resistant. So introducing that to my farmers. They were down at Sam's Club buying 
pallets. It struck me.  
EK: Interesting.  
LK: Yeah. And it's not bad. The reason why sugar works is because they're not able to digest the 
sugar and so they therefore die from that. 
EK: Which is what Terro does to ants. Like rots their little insides. 
LK: Um-hm. It's just those little things and I talked to Kevin, I said my ultimate dream is to drop 
down a whole bunch of wild, wildflower seeds, you know, to get to plant each farmer plant this 
and it became, oh, too much of a thing to take on for these traditional farmers. So I would like to 
help the bee population and things like that, because… But I'm also hypocritical, everybody goes, 
you're organic, you're, you're somewhat organic and your husband's a crop duster that makes no 
sense. But it is because we grow our own vegetables, you know, 
[00:40:36] 
EK: You know, people are not, not just black and white. It's not one or the other, necessarily, you 
know, that, you know, that agriculture has reached a point where you can't just like, cut it off and 
go completely organic that you still have to adapt to, to the situation that currently exists. And, and 
maybe you could phase out, but it would take 40 years.  
LK: Correct. And let me tell you something about that organic crap. I believe there are some people 
that have ethics and values and morals and that are truly organic, but there are so much and even 
our own government. I know this from personal experience. Even if they say they're organic, 
they're using the same chemicals that we are using, but at a lower rate. That's done in Arizona, 
that's done in California, sometimes, not so much California because California is really strict. I 
always say that East Coast and West Coast are 25 years, at least ahead of Middle America. But a lot 
of people don't like that statement. But that's the truth. That's what I've known all my life as far as 
fashion trends as far as government as far as social anything.  
EK: Yeah. 
LK: But anyway. I don't want to sound boring 
EK: Especially with the older people. 
LK: Oh, yeah.  
EK:The younger people catch up in about three years.  
LK: Right, right. 
EK: Three or four years maybe. 
JK: It’s interesting that out of all the pilots we've interviewed… Well, I say this, Kevin's kind of, he's 
not political. But but he's, he's probably the most liberal.  
LK: Really? 
JK: Yeah. I mean, all the other pilots are very, like hardcore… 
LK:  Republicans.  
JK: Yeah, hardcore. 
LK: So this county is 93 percent, no, I'm sorry, 98 percent Republicans, so I did not fare well 
during,,, [Laughter.] the COVID things. Because they politi, they politicized the COVID thing. 
JK: Right. Yeah, we didn't either.  
LK: Yeah, so a lot of people were mad at me. In fact, I lost a couple of friends on Facebook. Farmer 
friends. 
EK: That's okay though. 
LK: It's okay. It's okay if they, I didn't choose to, to distance myself from their viewpoints but, but 
that’s gettin’ off topic. Kevin, I want to tell a funny story about Kevin. 
EK: It is and it isn’t because we have found like, almost… Well, I think probably Kevin, you and 
Kevin are the only Democrats we have interviewed.  
LK: Oh really?  
EK: Yeah. And Mason. 
JK: The rest are hardcore 
EK: MAGA people.   
JK: You know people like Dusty, which Dusty and I are friends,.. 
LK: Dusty thought that getting tested for COVID was implanting brain implants. I go come. On. 
JK: I've known Dusty for 13 years.  
LK: Yeah, I like Dusty and all, but what that just threw me over the fence.  
JK: He said that to me and I go Dusty, are you fucking kidding me?  
LK: Yeah, yeah, that's funny.  
EK: We are in northern Missouri. Well, Lexington, we walked into the man cave of all man caves 
and on the wall was a big sign that said Don't tread on me, the big flag. And I'm like, I think I'll sit 
with my back to it. Because otherwise it will like, color the interview. But that's like, you know, 
that's because and the information that we want isn't necessarily political information. But it 
becomes evident that, that, they that, most pilots are of an ilk where that don't tread on me is part 
of their ethos. You know, they're doing this job because they don't want to be bothered by 
anybody. And it's, they're and like you said, on the good side, for some of them is the fact that there 
are fewer regulations and they can do it the way they want to do it, right. Or they can ignore it 
because… 
[00:45:05] 
LK: They don't matter. They can't get a life insurance policy, or they can't get coverage. Because 
it's just you in the cockpit, FAA, you know, it's important, but it's only important if you know 
you're not doing your, what you're supposed to be doing. It's not important for your safety. It's not 
you know, you're taking a risk with a 137. So, you know, that's just part of it.  
Back to the story, just a cute story, Kevin and I first started and he when he sneezes, he sneezes, 
like five times in a row. And he had a whole bunch of farmers around him. He didn't know 
anything when we first arrived here. And I've taught him a lot to keep his mouth shut at first. But 
anyway, he sneezes he goes, Oh, there must be a Republican in the area. [Laughter.] I go Whatever, 
Kev. 
EK: Like all of them. 
LK: Yeah. And then and another time, I learned too that everybody here is related by marriage by 
cousins. By something. We were out on the highway 160 we were landed on a farmer's field 
because we were trying to localize this army worm run. And we had stayed at the hotel here at the 
Super 8 which was owned by a great gentleman, Frieden. He was known. They were number one 
in Super 8s in Missouri. Okay, they used to have it mack daddy. Well, I was up till 1 a.m. doing 
bookwork. And Kevin and his brother were sleep. We had the family unit there. And Kevin’s 
brother was sleeping in the bed and Kevin was sleeping in the other bed. I started noticing 
fidgeting, fidgeting, fidgeting, I was looking. And I go hmm. I put my paperwork down. I went over, 
turned on the light. They were covered. Both of them were covered in bedbugs. And so I went to 
the farmer field and I did not know that these family that owned the super eight, were related to 
all the farmers I was talking about. And they go Ma'am, we have never had that, and I go, I'm sorry 
to tell you, but you have a big huge nest in this room. They had to burn everything. But I said we 
come here to take care of your bugs. And you guys give us some. [Laughter.] It was funny. That 
was another funny thing. So that was my first and only experience with bedbugs. Yeah, but we 
used to stay in a lot of hotels, and it's rough when it's season and you don't get birthdays, you 
don't get holidays. Or at least we didn't. And you got to take advantage of when it's windy. And 
when it's rainy for family time. Because focusing that in with Kevin, his work ethic, like he's on in 
the wintertime he flew Central Air, you know, doing the tests and lab tests and all over the 
country. And I said, Dude, you need time. We don't have a regular seas-, a regular life of anybody 
else. You need these months to decompress, to spend your family time and to just relax. Because 
he doesn't do that.  
JK: It seems like… 
LK: And then he takes on students and then I'm yelling about that.  
JK: It seems like that's another thing about ag pilots. They can't ever stop. They don't ever.. 
LK: No. 
JK: Like they don't know.  
LK: I've seen some lazy ones in my day.  
JK: You know, I think that that maybe Jacob… 
LK: No, he's just burnt out. He's getting older. He's one of the best pilots I've ever had. He'll do 
exactly what I tell him. He'll do exactly what I tell him. He's never controversial. His mouth and 
women. That's a subject separate from itself. Okay.  
JK: Yeah. Yeah, we noticed that. 
EK: Yeah. But he was he was fine with me. 
LK: Yes. He's very respectful. Yeah. He loves. He loves me. Yeah. And out of all the pilots. He's 
probably one of my favorites.  
JK: Well, doesn't he go on long vacations? And he was talking about vacations?  
LK: Oh, yeah. Yes. Yes. He knows how to enjoy, enjoy life. You don't work this hard not to have 
good time.  
JK: That's exactly what he said.  
L: Yeah, yeah. And it is hard, hard work. Plus, when I first started working with Kevin, I looked up 
how dangerous is a crop duster? And at the time, I think it was the sixth most dangerous job in 
America. Crab fishing was number one. I do know that. I can't remember how it ranks now or 
whatever. But every year we have I think average is 13 deaths a year. 
JK: So far this year, there have been five people. I still, well, I mean, part of that is also there aren't, 
I guess statistically there aren't very many ag pilots. So every single death is significant well, even 
on a grand scheme, everything statistically significant, but it pops more in the ag industry. 
[00:50:05] 
LK: Yeah. And you know, like when I first started I got a lot of they go, you need to calm down. You 
need to not rag on him. You need to not do this. But Kevin wouldn’t listen sometimes. He don't 
listen and I'm, I'm looking out for his butt. you know what I mean? In all areas at all times. I'm a 
mom at heart. I always have been. I'm the oldest of six, I think. Yeah, so I've always taken that role 
and I just want him to be safe and he doesn't listen sometimes and towards the end of why I got 
out. For my marriage, number one, number two, we always had a procedure. We had several 
Pawnees before we bought the Air Tractor, and I had different young pilots working for us. I think 
I've had four work for us. I am in contact with three of them. One is passed on, he was young. He 
didn't die by ag he died by suicide. But they all became like my family and when they, when we 
when we interviewed them, we have their family. We had them over for dinner. We found out who 
they were. And they were young, but they came highly recommended. And then one day Kevin, I 
had three pilots working for me at that time. All through two boys were, no all three boys were 
from Arkansas. I've had five pilots work for me. Yeah, I forgot about that. And he invited this 
person which was recommended by a Fort Scott mechanic to come and fly our best Pawnee. 
Number one, I wasn't involved. I had no knowledge of it. Number two. I already had three pilots. 
This man came without a helmet, that would have triggered me off. Turns out that man died in our 
airplane. We were, we went to the NTSB, the FAA. I was there when the man died. [Crying.] 
EK: I think that we've heard this from a different perspective.  
LK; He died of a heart attack. After all the investigation and having everyone question you, your 
paperwork. This man wasn't honest about his credentials. And there was a lot of incorrect things. 
And I don't even really think he was a crop duster. But anyway, he, he did die of a heart attack. 
That's what they ruled. 
EK: While he was flying. 
LK: Yeah. I, I followed the ambulance to the hospital, the local hospital. They pronounced him 
dead. But I saw the back of the ambulance and that was for me. I was mad at Kevin because he 
didn't follow our procedure. He did what he wanted to do. He was mad at one of the pilots. I guess 
and they were mad at him because they, he brought somebody else in and it just ruined, it just 
changed how the direction of our company went from there. I no longer wanted any liability. 
That's when we went into a larger plane. Got rid of all the smaller Pawnees and I could never ever, 
and I still watch my boys that have, that flew for us. And I still love them all. But I never want 
anybody else to ever be in charge of. And at that point I decided I, I could no longer do it. I've had 
nightmares of Kevin and I just have to know that and trust that he knows what he's doing. 
[Crying.] And he's going to do the best job and come home to me at night. When other wives have 
gone through this that I know of, we always contribute to their children or their funds or 
whatever, because we're such a small community of people. Some misunderstood, you know what 
I mean? But that's when I became an ordained minister and started a wedding business. But I still 
care. And still farmers will call me because they, they know me, they love me. I miss them. I see 
them in town. 
[00:55:37] 
EK: Is there a wife's group?  
LK: Yes, there is. There's a crop duster sisterhood. On Facebook and I belong to that. I don't get too 
political anymore. There's a lot of politics and a lot of those boys too, like you said, you know, 
there's a lot of discrimination especially with the boys down in south and the Arkansas boys. 
JK: We've heard that, that the Arkansas and the Louisiana boys Sam Styron was talking about how 
they're cowboys. He was talking about them cowboyin’around, and they do hammerhead stalls. 
LK: Yeah. 
JK: And they’re rednecks, and… 
LK: Yeah, they do. They do.  
JK: They don’t fly safe. They don’t do a good job. 
LK: There are some that do because they're still alive. You know what I mean? And we, we belong 
to the crop dusters, their used to be, there's Crop Dusters United and Crop Dusters Brotherhood 
on Facebook, and I belong to both groups, and I keep up with some of the oldie, oldie but goodies. 
And they, those boys know how to do it. Right. And that's where I kind of asked them questions, 
legal questions, flying questions, customer questions. Hey, what happens when these people come 
in on your territory? Lowball ya? You know, I said they go, they won't be in business long. Just, Just 
stand your ground. You know. 
JK: That’s what Sam said up in Harrisonville. 
LK: Yeah, did he?  
JK: Yeah, he was just talking about that. 
LK: Yeah. There, there's integrity and all that needs to be considered. 
EK: Fred slaughter talked a lot about integrity. Maintaining your integrity as a pilot.  
LK: Yes.  
EK: And what you do and, because he was talking about, 
LK: I think, I called him, I call him Mickey Rourke. I think a young Mickey are not the current 
Mickey Rourke, but the young Mickey Rourke. He reminds me, Brad Slaughter’s one of my favorite, 
he's very charismatic. 
EK: Yeah, he is. Yeah, I enjoyed talking to him.  
JK: He’s another lifelong aviator, like I would call him an aviator.  
LK: Yeah, well, he's second. His dad also. So I consider him second. And that's what I want for Luke 
to never just cut the cord and not learn. What a perfect opportunity to have a dad that's a CFI, who 
has wonderful experience. 
JK: And you don't have to be commercial. I mean, one thing I realized I'm, I'm never going to be an 
ag pilot. I'm not wired like that. And I am not going to be a commercial pilot. 
EK: But you can always enjoy just flying,  
JK: Just build hours and learn. 
LK: The best advice I'd give to a young wife is number one, be patient. Number two, always protect 
them always look out for him. And it's difficult with Kevin, because we're on opposite ends of the 
personality scale. A lot of other things we're opposite on, but our work ethic, and some of our 
things are very in line, and that's where it worked. It's not, it is not easy. It's not easy, especially 
when you're starting from the ground up for yourself. If you marry into it, that's easy. You know, 
or it's in your family. That's easier. Not easy, but it's easier. And another good reason is I got good 
temper. My whole life, I thought I was Italian and Indian. I found out I'm black Irish. [Laughter.] 
I had a couple of farmers, because Kevin wasn't listening to me. And he did what he wanted to do. 
And I am a hothead and one of my farmers I didn't know was there. He's got this mustache that's 
about this. It's like two inches thick and six inches wide. And that's all you see. When he walks up 
and Kevin and I were in a dispute and I picked up some gravel and I threw it at him. [Laughter.] 
And he heard me screaming and I could be a drunken sailor when I get mad and I got done and I 
saw him I know oh shit. So I walked over to the hangar and he goes, you know, Lise, you're going 
to have a heart attack, if you don't do something different. And I go, yeah, my blood pressure was 
already going up, you know? Because I just want him to be safe at all times and do that, sometimes 
it's hard to guide him. 
EK: Is it good that you can hear him all the time? Or does it, would it be better if you couldn't hear 
him? 
LK: It's, it's good when I hear him. I mean, he'll always at the end of the evening, if he's out late, 
he'll always make one pass over to let me know he's landing. But there's been times like I said, he 
says, oh, at least makes me check it. Oh, yeah. It's been after dark and no answer on the phone. No 
answer. And I I don't know where you are. I don't, yiu know what I mean? 
EK: I do know. 
LK: Now, I said, you know, they have tracking systems that we can put in your tail, because the tail 
is the one that survives, if you are in a wreck, and I can find ya. You know, but when you have 
those dreams, they are so realistic. And the other day he was seeding something, or fertilizing 
something. And he was, you know, going over here and I could see him come up. And this is the 
area that I had the dream on. And I go, don't do it today. Don't do that dream today. And he didn’t. 
Thank God, knock on wood Another day for another, another field, but I always tell him no field, 
no crop is worth your life. And I said if you're fatigued, you can sit out for a couple of hours and get 
some sleep. 
EK: Take a nap.  
LK: Yeah, whatever you need to do.  
JK: Do you think pilots are superstitious? 
LK: Yes. Some are. Kevin doesn't have a routine or you know, anything that he does, like supersti- 
he's not superstitious, but I've seen some of them are. :ike they've got to wear certain things or. 
EK: Put their left sock on first.  
LK: Yeah.  
JK: Dusty is superstitious?  
LK: That don't surprise?  
JK: He was arodeo cowboy and rodeo cowboys are superstitious. 
LK: Yeah, yeah. 
JK: You know, one thing I've noticed about Kevin and I don't know if it's representative, I think it's 
maybe unique to Kevin is that he, he just processes and reacts? There's no question. He doesn't 
think about it. Like one thing he's always telling me is stop overthinking. And he just doesn't think 
about he just flies. He is one with the aircraft. 
LK: I think he's a natural. There are some people that are and some people that work hard at it. 
He's a natural. 
EK: Every pilot who we have talked to talked about what a, what an excellent pilot, Kevin is. They 
have such respect for him. It's really interesting, because, you know, like, we share who we've 
talked to, and, and those that know him, they're just like, Oh, yeah, he's, he's Yeah, good guy, good 
pilot. You know, so… 
LK: Do you have any other questions that I didn't address? Or is there anything else you want to 
know? 
EK: No, I mean, you've told us what it's like to be, you know, to be in the business and part of the 
business and, 
JK: It’s really a unique perspective.  
EK: It is. It's, I think it's been fascinating. I was sitting here thinking I could just keep talking to you, 
because I really like you.  
LK: Well, thank you. 
EK: But we’ll end the formal part of it. I love the stories. Thank you for being cool. Thanks for bing 
so forthcoming.  
LK: You bet. I hope this helps somebody in the future. If it even is around in the future, we don't 
even know it will be.  
EK: Are you, did you cut it off? Oh, okay. No, it will be. I think it's, I think, okay, so, these interviews 
are, will be made available to researchers. And so, you know, people take sabbaticals and they go 
to DC and they, you know, they research. It hadn't been done before, you know, and we're trying to 
present a more full picture of it, not just what people see on the ground as they look up, not just 
the Oh, you just flew over and I got something wet. I love that. 
LK: One of our favorite things is the farmer's kids. Because a lot of them now are farming now 
when we first started. And now their kids. And so their favorite thing is, some people call him 
Kevey. Some people call, you know, him, whatever. But we constantly get photos of the kids out 
the windows or dancing and looking up from their driveways and he’s in the distance. And they go, 
thanks for the air show today. And he knows certain kids, and he'll specifically go around and 
show them the smoke, because the other day he did it to Mason’s kids. And he did the smoke and 
Meg was not aware of what the smoke is. I'm, I'm kind of wondering what that is too Charlie. So 
then I called her and I said, that's just smoke. No chemical, just smoke. 
[01:005:24] 
EK: Yeah. You know, that's a neat part too, that they don't really talk about, the pilots don't talk 
about it. But their connection with the people on, on the ground. And like, you can have a 
relationship with people you fly over, you know, like Dusty buzzing us and we were stupid excited 
about it when he flies over. So… 
LK: A lot of people are. 
EK: Yeah, because it's a neat thing. 
LK: It is. It is and it’s history. It's American history.  
EK: A hundred years.  
LK: Yeah. Yeah. And one thing another little ditty about him, you know, how Dustry flies over? 
Kevin's favorite thing to do is especially with his close farmer friends, is when they're combining 
and he'll sneak up on them. They've had to change their underwear, and the call me cussin’. 
Cussin’ and laughin’. And they go, thanks to Kevin. 
EK: Great. Okay, we're gonna cut this off. let you get back to work.