AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 
Mateo Camarillo 
1 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2016 
Interviewee: Mateo Camarillo 
Interview Date: June 28, 2016 
Location: San Diego, California 
Interviewer: David Cline 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 2 hours, 3 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
David Cline: Good morning. This is David Cline from the history 
department at Virginia Tech for the Civil Rights History Project of the 
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture and 
the Library of Congress. Today, we are here in San Diego, California, and this 
project is being recorded, as I said, for the Civil Rights History Project. We have 
with us Guha Shankar of the Library of Congress, and behind the camera is John 
Bishop of Media Generation and UCLA. Today, we have the great pleasure of 
being with Mr. Mateo Camarillo, and I will ask you, sir, if you could—just as a 
first—the only time that I’ll coach you at all today is if you could introduce 
yourself in a full sentence. “I am.” Or, “My name is.” And, where and when you 
were bom. 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
2 
Mateo Camarillo: My name is Mateo Camarillo. It’s a great honor to 
be a party to this project, because that’s what America is all about; the 
contribution of all its elements that make up this great society. I was actually born 
in Mexico in Tijuana, which is adjacent—sharing the same ecosystem with San 
Diego. I was bom the year World War II started. 1941. So, I’m a Mexican citizen 
by birth. My mother was a US citizen. During the war, she was involved in the 
war effort, working at Convair, making planes between nine bombers and 
working in the tuna factory. San Diego has [a] large tuna factory, especially in 
Barrio Logan—located in Barrio Logan. We lived in Tijuana until 1950 when we 
immigrated. I have a brother and two sisters, and we all immigrated in 1950 and 
lived in San Diego ever since. 
DC : Can you tell me just a little bit more about your family background 
and the role that that played in your life as you started to develop a sense of who 
you were? 
MC: My father was a Mexican by birth. He was from northern Mexico 
in Nuevo León. My mother and her family have roots from Mexico, but they 
immigrated in the early—at the beginning of the century. So, my mom, Rafina, 
was born in Encanto, which is a community in San Diego. They met in Encanto 
where she lived. They were actually neighbors, but my father moved back to 
Mexico and Tijuana. That’s where we were born. The four of us—my brother and 
my two sisters—we were born in Tijuana, but my mother grew up in Encanto. She 
had two brothers that served in World War II, and actually died in fighting for our 
country—our [inaudible] country. So, that’s, basically, being born and coming to 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
3 
this country. Eventually, after graduating from college, I volunteered to serve in 
the armed forces, because we were involved in the battles in Southeast Asia in 
Vietnam and so forth. I felt obligated to pay back for what I had earned—the 
opportunities to be here. So, I served in the US Army. 
DC: So, when you first settled in the US as a small child, can you tell 
me about that process of becoming an American, living in the US for the first time 
and speaking English and what the school system was like for a young Spanish- 
speaker at that time? 
MC: Sure. There didn’t exist such a thing as bilingual education. So, 
when we immigrated, I was in the second grade in Tijuana. So, they gave me a 
test, which, obviously, was in English. I failed it miserably, because I didn’t know 
English. All the classes [5:00] were. Fortunately, it was a very small school, and 
the grades were two grades per room. So, we would all huddle around and ask in 
Spanish, “What did she say—the teacher? Que dijo?” And we’d, among 
ourselves, try to make sense out of what the teacher was saying. It was difficult, 
because we didn’t know English, but most of the students didn’t speak English 
either, because it was a farm labor community made up of immigrants. 
DC: So, how did you survive? How did you move forward? 
MC: It was a struggle. It was a struggle. We did the best we could. 
Fortunately, I had a teacher who invited me to have an ice cream with her after 
school. Then, I realized that teachers are actually human beings. 
DC: Yeah. Just talking about being in the schools as a young—. 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
4 
MC: Initially, they thought we were mentally retarded, because we 
couldn’t communicate, but we eventually, little by little, learned a few words and 
were able to—especially on the playground, where it comes more natural to 
communicate with English-speaking students. That’s how we learned, by trial and 
error, so to speak. 
DC: Now, did you confront difficulties from the Anglo students who 
were there as well? 
MC: Initially, but they learned, especially on the playground, that we 
were actually very good. So, they wanted us on their team. So, that’s how we 
learned to be able to communicate with each other, even though, initially, there 
was some animosity. We got over it as we demonstrated we were human beings 
just like they were. 
DC: So, what was the racial geography of San Diego at that time in 
terms of where people lived? Were things very much separated or not? 
MC: Yes. When we immigrated, my mother got a job in Mission Valley, 
which is agricultural. Mission Valley is close to the first mission built by Junípero 
Serra about the San Diego River. It was agricultural land. Dairy and agricultural. 
Most of the workers were immigrants. So, the transition—we had a support 
system—other immigrants. So, we phased in learning a little bit at a time. I started 
work at age ten when we immigrated. In the work environment, [I] also spoke- 
learned English—beyond school. So, that’s how we gradually learned English. It 
wasn’t the other way around. English speaking students didn’t learn Spanish. That 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
5 
would have been good, though, because we both would have two languages, and 
we could communicate freely. 
DC : That would take a long time before anything like that was thought 
of. How about where you lived—in the neighborhood where you lived, was [it] an 
immigrant neighborhood or were there people who had been here a long time? 
What was the neighborhood like? The neighborhood where your family 
eventually lived in San Diego. 
MC: We immigrated in 1950, and I was ten years old. In the Mission 
Valley area, there were a lot of immigrants because of the labor required in the 
farming and dairy industries. So, that was a safety net, to be able to gradually 
learn English. You learn another language by practice. Just like later years, I was 
stationed in Europe, and I travelled all over Europe and learned languages of other 
countries where I visited. 
DC : Em interested in how you defined yourselves when you were 
young in terms of what did you call yourself? Would you use the term Chicano, 
Mexican, Mexican American? How did your family or those around you talk 
about who you were? 
MC: Well, we were basically identified as Mexican. Others defined us. 
We accepted the definition, because we were from Mexico. So, we were Mexican. 
Gradually, [we] evolved to Mexican Americans, because we were in [the] United 
States. So, [we] evolved to Mexican American, [10:00] because we were 
struggling to become successful participants in this great country. The term 
Chicano evolved several years later. Actually, it was a negative connotation that 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
6 
was more of a slur, but it actually was adopted as a proud term for those that were 
struggling to gain the same rights as other citizens in this country. 
DC: Now, in your schooling, at a young age, but then into high school, 
were you learning about your own people at all? What was the schooling that you 
were getting here in the California state system? 
MC: No. There was no information about Mexico or Mexicans. It was 
independent of schools, where I stayed connected by visiting Tijuana and other 
cities in Mexico to continue being connected, but we transitioned over time to the 
larger San Diego community, which is majority English-speaking. The thing that, 
for me, made it easier in terms of transition, I was pretty good in sports. Through 
sports and the playground is where I started developing leadership skills. I was 
selected in charge of the junior patrols, which is a crossing guard, so that we 
control traffic, so that other students could cross the street. So, that evolved into— 
plus, leadership skills in the playground—so, that actually gave you pride and 
encouragement that you were just as good as the next person. 
DC : So, if you could just walk me through the chronology of high 
school and what you did after high school and your service in the army. 
MC: As I mentioned, in elementary school, I was pretty good in the 
playground. Actually, in junior high, there was a coach that wanted to start a team 
for cross country runners in junior high. He asked me to come out and try, and I 
did, and I was pretty good at it. I was actually the champion of our grade in ninth 
grade, when we graduated. Then, when I graduated and went to high school, the 
coach asked me to come out and run for the track team and the cross country 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
7 
team. I did, and I [did] later, all years I was there. So, that really was the area 
where I built self-confidence and eventually evolved to be able to learn English, 
because I was very active in sports. I lettered, and when I graduated from high 
school, I got scholarships because of my involvement. 
DC: So, what happened after high school? 
MC: Well, as I indicated, I got two scholarships. One was from my alma 
mater, Hoover High School. I got a scholarship. Then a second scholarship I got 
from the LA Gardens Woman’s Club. LA Gardens was the adjacent community 
[inaudible] where I was there. With those two scholarships, I went to college. 
Nobody in my family had ever gone to college, or even graduated from high 
school. That was new territory, but I was also [in] the comfort of having three 
jobs. I was occupied both in sports and in education and in three different jobs. 
DC: Which college did you attend? 
MC: San Diego State. I graduated in four years. That was at the time 
when the Vietnam War was going on strong. While I was in college, President 
Kennedy was the commencement speaker in 1962. I had been very interested 
[15:00] in President Kennedy. He had, actually, an outreaching into the Hispanic 
community there called Viva Kennedy Clubs. I got involved in the Viva Kennedy 
Club in San Diego. Then, when he came and gave the very inspirational 
graduation speech, that even motivated me more to get involved in civic life and 
various aspects of civic engagement: voter registration, helping others become 
citizens. I became a citizen at age twenty-one. I was eligible, because my mother 
was a US citizen. I became a naturalized citizen at age twenty-one where I was 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
8 
eligible to apply. I applied, and I became a citizen. So, as a citizen, [I] became 
more involved in the civic life of our communities. 
DC: So, you talked about Kennedy. Were there other particular 
moments that started to point you towards involvement? 
MC: Well, that was the entry point to getting involved. Then, as I was 
involved in sports, I started getting involved in other aspects of college life. 
Although, I lived at home and worked, I still was participating in various civic 
activities, basically, through voter registration, getting more familiar with how 
government worked, and the partnership between the citizens and our elected 
representatives. I got more familiar with that process and have been involved in 
the civic life ever since. 
DC: So, were there voter registration drives going on in the city at that 
time? 
MC: Yes. Well, the Viva Kennedy Club was beginning. Then, 
subsequently, I started a voter registration project in San Diego connected to the 
Southwest Council La Raza Southwest Voter Registration Project. 
DC : Can you tell me a little bit about that? 
MC: Yes. It was the first multicultural voter registration project in San 
Diego where we included African Americans, Native Americans, Asian 
Americans, because many of them were not participating. They were either, A, 
not citizens, or not involved in the civic life. So, we reached out to them to 
become more broader and more effective, because we’re all on the same boat, and 
we found out that that’s a good way to improve our lives and our communities. 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
9 
We were more successful by including others in similar situations like Asian 
Americans, African Americans, and Native Americans. 
DC : So, about what year was this [that] you were working with that La 
Raza project? 
MC: This was from 1962 from the Kennedy Clubs on. The reason we 
got involved with lots of Native Americans [is] there are fourteen Native 
American tribes in San Diego County. So, they’re a very significant element of 
our communities. 
DC : When you graduated from college, is that when you went into the 
service? 
MC: Yes. Many of my friends actually left the country. They went to 
Canada or Mexico, because they didn’t want to—Vietnam was a very unpopular 
war, especially with young college-aged folks that were eligible to be drafted. 
There was a mandatory draft. They didn’t want to serve in that, but I felt obligated 
to serve to demonstrate that I was grateful for the opportunities to participate in 
our civic life. I served. I volunteered in the army. There was spinal meningitis in 
California where the training was, so I was sent to Georgia. I became more 
familiar with African Americans, being in Georgia and South Carolina. 
DC : So, what year is this that you went in? 
MC: This is in 1965. 
DC: Okay. Was this your first experience of the American South? 
What did they make of you—a Latino friend from Los Angeles or from San 
Diego? 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
10 
MC: Not much. When we finished basic training, we got a three-day 
pass to be able—so, we went into [20:00] Charleston in South Carolina, because 
the closest there—which is on the Atlantic Coast, and we enjoyed—it was just like 
the Pacific. Beautiful. We were in a restaurant. We were waiting to be served. 
We waited several hours enjoying the views of the Atlantic Ocean and so forth. 
Then, we finally went looking for the manager and find out what was taking so 
long to get a meal. We were informed—there was three of us on this. Myself, a 
Mexican American, an African American from Georgia, and a Puerto Rican, 
because there were a lot of Puerto Ricans in the army, also, on the East Coast. So, 
the three of us were waiting. Then, I finally was asked to go check what was 
going on. I asked for the manager and asked when I talked to him—I [said], 
“We’ve been waiting several hours to be served. When are we going to be 
served?” He informed me, “You’re not even going to be served.” I couldn’t 
believe that. I [said], “Did you run out of food?” He [said], “You’re not being 
served.” That was my first experience in real, blatant discrimination. Three 
minorities: Mexican American, African American, Puerto Rican, couldn’t be 
served. 
We experienced similar situations in Atlanta. We went to Atlanta one 
evening. There were night clubs. So, we tried to enter. We couldn’t enter. They 
said we had to have [a] membership card. We subsequently learned that you buy 
those at the front door if you’re the right ethnic flavor [?]. So, that was my 
experience in the South. 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
11 
DC: Had you experienced any kind of discrimination like that in 
California? Not at that level. 
MC: No. 
DC: So, how about in the military itself? How were relations between 
different ethnic groups? 
MC: Well, no, the army, we’re all in it together. No, it was very, very 
integrated. [A] large number of, as I say, African Americans, Mexican Americans, 
and Puerto Ricans. We got along, because we’re in it together. We’re on the same 
side. So, no, I didn’t experience. Also, because I was also involved in sports, we 
developed a track team. We called ourselves the Road Rats. So, sports breaks 
across all barriers. It’s athletic ability. I was pretty good at it, so we got along very 
well. There was no issue with the different ethnic groups in the army, because, as 
I say, we all believe we’re on the same side. 
DC: How about in basic training? Was there anything from the 
sergeants or anything? 
MC: No. One of the things you learn real quick in the army is, you take 
orders. You’re not in a position to argue. So, the transition in the army, especially 
basic training, we were in the learning mode. Basically, we took orders. So, it was 
not a challenge or difficult. Although, the majority of the officers were Anglo, and 
the majority of the soldiers were minorities. That’s a fact of life at that time. 
DC : So, when you got your orders, where were you sent? 
MC: Pardon? 
DC : When you got your orders after training, where were you sent? 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
12 
MC: Fortunately—most of my peers, fellow soldiers, were sent to 
Vietnam. I was fortunate. There was too many—what you call green or rookie 
soldiers dying. So, they changed the mixture of who was being sent to Vietnam 
with experienced soldiers—more experienced, to have better survival rates. I was 
fortunate to be sent to Europe as an infill for those that were in Europe being sent 
to Vietnam. So, I was sent to Germany. That was a tremendous experience. I had 
never been to Europe. [25:00] I was in the Armored Battalion. I was infantry in 
training, but then, when I [was] sent to Europe, where they needed the backfill 
was in the armored division. I was sent to the Fourth Army. I was the training 
office for the Fourth Armor Battalion, and I did my job as a training officer—one 
week’s work in one day. So, they needed to find other things for me to do. The 
children of soldiers don’t have much stimulation or things to do. So, most of the 
Boy Scouts in Europe are dependents—children of soldiers. They asked me to lead 
the Boy Scouts of America in Europe and asked me if I would accept that. I knew 
nothing about Boy Scouts, but I was willing to learn. 
I was named the scoutmaster of Europe—the Transatlantic Council in 
Europe. Fortunately, since I was able to do my job in one day for a whole week, I 
was able to travel all over Europe taking kids through all the countries in Europe, 
because all the military bases had Boy Scout facilities. We travelled all over 
Europe. My two years in Europe were very enjoyable, because I could do the 
work very easy and then enjoy working with—. As matter of fact, being 
scoutmaster and working with children and families is what led me, when I got 
released—when I finished my two years and came back, I came back to San 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
13 
Diego. Since I had enjoyed working with families, I joined the Welfare 
Department to continue working with families in San Diego as a civilian. 
DC: So, you’re back in San Diego and have been hired by the welfare 
department. Can you tell me a little bit about that position and the issues that were 
facing San Diego, and especially Latinos in San Diego at that time? 
MC: When I joined the Welfare Department, I was a rarity. There were 
very few Spanish speaking social workers. Be it Anglo or Mexican or African 
American, they didn’t speak Spanish. There was a large number of Spanish 
speaking families that applied for services. They paid taxes just like everybody 
else, but weren’t getting services, because there [were] no workers available that 
were bilingual. So, that quickly led me to organizing, not only within the welfare 
department, but with probation and the sheriffs department and other 
departments, and then outside the county to recruit more people, because the need 
was so—I had English-speaking social workers like me that spoke only English. 
They had what’s called a caseload. How many families they did—sixty. I had 600. 
Now, that was totally unfair. I couldn’t service them right. My job was to try to 
help them become independent, so they could be off public assistance. That was 
my goal—is to have people be independent and self-sufficient. But, they have to 
know how to apply for a job, where the job market was. Basically, counseling and 
advising them of how they could succeed, but you couldn’t do it with 600 
families. It was just not doable. So, I increased my efforts in recruiting and trying 
to—so, I formed an organization, because you can’t do it by yourself. 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
14 
So, I formed an organization called Trabajadores de La Raza. Workers for 
the people. Other social workers throughout the United States were forming 
Trabajadores de La Raza chapters. So, we formed a national organization of 
Trabajadores de La Raza. We connected with each other to help each other 
[30:00] to build more bilingual social workers, be they Hispanic or Anglo, so that 
their services could be provided to people that needed the services, so they could 
become independent and self-sufficient. 
DC: Now, did that organization work within the city organizations or 
outside or together with? 
MC: Well, the San Diego chapter worked in San Diego. San Diego 
County—all eighteen cities in San Diego, not just one city. We connected with 
other chapters—Los Angeles, San Jose, in Texas, San Antonio, Houston, and the 
East Coast. So, we formed a national, and we helped each other in these various 
cities. 
DC: But, did you work independently of the federal or city programs or 
did you work with welfare department? 
MC: We worked independent within San Diego County. 
DC: But, working with the welfare department or outside of the city 
system? 
MC: Well, a large number of the members work within the County, 
because that’s who provides—has a responsibility of the municipal governments to 
provide social services. The city doesn’t do it, but we did connect with city folks. 
We needed recruits and participants that were bilingual. We did this after hours. 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
15 
We, obviously, didn’t do it as we were getting paid to do our work as social 
workers or probation officers or sheriffs deputies. 
DC: So, it was an addition to—. How did you fund these efforts? It 
must have taken a lot of funding. 
MC: Yes. We did it through membership dues, initially. Then, actually, 
in college, I learned grant writing. I was a community organizer and was able to 
develop funding through various sources of foundations—Ford Foundation, 
government, National Institute of Mental Health—to be able to supplement 
whatever we could do privately. One of the initial successful efforts that we did in 
San Diego is that we met with public officials and demanded that there be more 
bilingual social—as a matter of fact, as an incentive to get more bilingual social 
workers, we were very successful in convincing elected officials—the county 
board supervisors, for example, to pay a bonus on top of the salary—ten percent of 
the salary as a bonus for those that spoke Spanish, because they were actually 
doing twice the work, because they spoke two languages. We convinced them of 
the need and the reward for doing twice the work. That passed [at] the county 
level. With that success, we approached the city and did the same thing and got a 
bilingual pay bonus for city workers. Then, we went to the larger employer in San 
Diego at that time. We’re talking about the early 1970s—was the utility San Diego 
Gas & Electric company. We convinced the board of directors of SDGE, San 
Diego Gas & Electric, to pay a bonus and got that instituted. So, the three largest 
employers in San Diego: the city of San Diego, the county of San Diego, and the 
utility company, SDGE, adopted bilingual pay. 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
16 
That led me to work with the state legislature with African American and 
Hispanic—Richard Alatorre from Los Angeles and Mervyn Dymally—was actually 
from the Dominican Republic, but was resident in California. Those two— I 
worked together. We established a state bilingual pay program in the late 1970s. 
So, we were able to apply it statewide, because it just—common sense. That’s how 
we were able to be very successful. Then, those successes led us to other efforts to 
try to help the underserved communities. 
DC: So, what were the big issues in the ’70s that you were dealing with 
and trying to address—the major issues? [35:00] 
MC: The major issues is being treated equally. The manifestation of 
how unfairness occurred was pretty obvious. The lack of services, for example, in 
the language that people understood, and tried to develop bilingual programs, so 
that there could be a transition in terms of Spanish speakers. So, we worked on all 
those fronts. It took a while. For example, the grand jury—the county of San 
Diego, they change every year who the jurors are. One year, the grand jury 
investigated and came up with the conclusion that bilingual education, as we were 
starting it, was un-American. That so angered Spanish speakers. Here we’re trying 
to, through bilingual education, be able to participate, and they’re talking us as 
un-American, because we’re trying to learn English using bilingual education? 
So, we formed an ad hoc committee of fifteen different organizations and 
demanded that the grand jury be abolished or the jurors be replaced, because how 
could we be un-American by trying to participate in America by the language- 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
17 
bilingual as a transition to English? So, we faced different struggles over time. 
Eventually, we were successful. 
DC: How about other issues? You talked about education. What about 
employment, housing, health care. Were these all issues that were facing folks in 
the’70s? 
MC: Especially employment. That’s basic, which affects the other 
issues of affordability of health or—as a matter of fact, we expanded—I mentioned 
about bilingual services. The other is that there were no food programs for those 
that were either homeless or low income that couldn’t make ends meet. So, we 
eventually convinced the board of supervisors through Trabajadores de La Raza 
to adopt a food program. San Diego County, of the fifty-eight counties in 
California, was the only one that did not have a food program. So, we convinced 
them to adopt a food program starting with the poorest neighborhood in San 
Diego County, San Ysidro, right on the border between San Diego and Mexico 
and Tijuana. So, we were successful through the San Ysidro Women’s Club and 
others to convince the board of supervisors to adopt a food program. That was the 
beginning of broader services available to Spanish speakers. 
Then, we did the same thing in the labor force in terms of trying to open 
up jobs for—we actually had to sue the county of San Diego. I was selected. The 
executive director of the Chicano Federation, which is an umbrella organization 
for Spanish speaking organizations in San Diego. As the executive director, 
obviously, it made the papers, and people—constant stream of employees came to 
me, to my office, asking for help, because they were facing so much 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
18 
discrimination in the job market. The biggest group were coming were county 
employees. I, basically, took their information and, having been a county 
employee, I was very familiar with county government and county employment. I 
informed them that we’d have to take legal action; however, they risked the 
possibility of losing their job if there was litigation involved. I had to inform them 
that was a possibility. Yet, they wanted justice. [40:00] They wanted to go 
forward. 
At that time, this was 1974. There were six Latino attorneys in town. So, I 
notified all six to meet with at our office, because I had so many cases that 
demanded fairness. I shared with them the information, because I had permission 
to do that. I let them know that, as I indicated, that if we moved forward with 
litigation that they could lose their jobs. They agreed to go forward. We went 
forward. And through the—civil rights, it passed. Equal opportunity employment 
became federal law. Under those laws, we sued the county of San Diego. It took a 
long time to get justice. As a matter of fact, it was the longest-lasting civil rights 
case in the history of the United States, but we won and opened up the 
opportunities at the county, which set the example where we could do the same at 
the city and the SDGE and in the private sector. That’s how we did in terms of 
increasing employment opportunities. 
DC : Longest lasting in terms of the lawsuit? 
MC: I’m sorry. 
DC: You said the longest lasting case in terms of the suit? 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
19 
MC: That’s correct, because it was so complicated. We actually added 
other groups, because they came to us. African Americans came to us. We added 
African Americans. Asian Americans came to us. We added Asian Americans, 
Filipinos. So, we had Mexican Americans, African Americans, Filipinos, Asian 
Americans, all the minority groups in San Diego County under our case. That’s 
why it took a long time, because it was complicated. It included all the groups, but 
we won. 
DC: What did you win? What changed? 
MC: The county—the employers, starting with the county, had to 
employ minorities. At the time, before we won, before the case was filed, sixty- 
seven percent of all Hispanics that applied for employment were turned down. We 
won the right to have opportunities for people applying for jobs. How could sixty- 
seven percent of applicants be ineligible? So, there were artificial barriers that 
had to come down. That’s what we won: removal of barriers and equal 
opportunities. That’s what we won. People got jobs. That’s what we won. We 
won beyond the county. We also did that with the city and private sector. It only 
was possible, because we had such a broad base, such broad support. No one 
could do that by themselves or even just one single group. We’re all part of the 
same family. We’re all part of the same situation and experiencing the same kinds 
of discrimination, if you will, or lack of opportunity. Jobs are important to the 
actual survival, and people deserve a right to work if they’re qualified, and they 
were. So, that was very, very rewarding to be able to succeed like that. 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
20 
DC : So, I was going to ask—we were already talking about this with the 
case and the coalitions with other groups. Can you talk more about the need for 
that and what other coalitions you created at that time? 
MC: Another example of working with others, when President Nixon 
was running for reelection, he promoted a program called General Revenue 
Sharing, [45:00] which was providing funds to cities in counties with no strings 
attached. They could do whatever with those funds. General Revenue Sharing. 
Well, we were grateful that was—however, we were concerned, since local 
government, city and county, were not very flexible in terms of serving all the 
populations, especially underserved communities. So, we formed a coalition led 
by the Chicano Federation. I was the executive director. The chairman of the 
board, Dr. Alfredo Velasco, and I, and there was an Anglo coalition umbrella like 
the Chicano Federation that had multiple service delivery organizations under it. 
We teamed up. The Community Congress, which is primarily Anglo. That was 
the time of the hippie movement, the beach community, and young, 
disenfranchised Anglos. So, we had a lot in common. So, we joined forces. We 
travelled to Washington. The leaders of the two coalitions went to Washington to 
find out more about the intent of Congress and how it was supposed to work. It 
was, basically, to serve low-income communities, but that’s not the way it was 
going to be implemented based on what we already knew. Initially, started out, 
the city wanted to fund its own projects, including units of the city, of the 
government. We argued that that was not the intent of Congress. It was to 
eliminate poverty and discrimination. 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
21 
So, we got all these social service agencies in San Diego: family services, 
Catholic services, social services, the city and county services, and the agencies 
funded, as well as United Way as a private agency. Informed a little army of 
civilian citizens and challenged the city and the county—the governments that 
were using it internally. That’s not the intent of Congress. They tried to redefine 
who would be eligible, who was a senior citizen, who was poor. Those were 
already defined in federal law. The Older Americans Act defined who was a 
senior. The War on Poverty defined who was poor or low income. So, we 
challenged them, and they wouldn’t accept that, so we sued them. Basically, they 
had to walk a straight line. We were able to get, the first year, a little over five 
million dollars for the community organizations by passing local government. The 
next year, we got a little over six million. So, working together was a great 
experience, in terms of being able to provide for the needs of low-income seniors 
and so forth that was not government controlled or defined by government as to 
who’s poor and who’s a senior. That’s already defined at the federal level. So, we 
won those battles. It was very rewarding, because that led to other battles, to 
being able to provide for the needs of the underserved. 
DC: Now, were you aware or in touch with other Latino organizations 
around here? But, maybe in Los Angeles or in other places as well? I’m just 
curious, in terms of the Chicano or Latino communities, what kinds of ways you 
were involved with one another. 
MC: Yes. As I mentioned, we formed Trabajadores de La Raza in San 
Diego, and there were other chapters being developed in other cities: Los 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
22 
Angeles, San Jose, Houston, New York, Denver. So, we connected. We kept in 
communication [50:00] with the other chapters and were able to each share. We 
learned from each other, and that encouraged us to move on. The strongest group 
was the Spanish-speaking organizations, because that was the largest ethnic group 
at that time. It still is, even more so. Chicano became in more common use, and, 
as a matter of fact, when I left the faculty at San Diego State, I joined the staff of 
the Chicano Federation, which is the first Spanish-speaking organization in San 
Diego County that was multiply disciplined and included all Spanish-speaking 
organizations in San Diego. I was the executive director of the Chicano 
Federation. Through that organization, as well as through Trabajadores de La 
Raza—I was an officer of that—we connected with other organizations in the 
different cities, and we worked together. As a matter of fact, the strongest chapter, 
in addition to San Diego, was San Jose, Santa Clara County. They were working 
through education and to try to start a school of social work to prepare bilingual 
social workers. They recruited me to join the faculty to start the school of social 
work at San Jose. So, not only was I in communication, I was recruited, and I 
joined the faculty at San Jose State, because of Trabajadores de La Raza. They 
asked me to help them start the school of social work. 
DC: When were you at San Diego State and when were you at San 
Jose? 
MC: When I got out of the army, as I said, I was eligible for the GI 
educational Bill of Rights to be able to get two years of further education. I went 
to San Diego State on the GI Bill to get a master’s degree. During that time, I was 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
23 
working at the county. So, I’ve always did multiple jobs at the same time. While I 
was a student in the school of social worker getting my master’s degree, that’s 
when I was working for the county and developing Trabajadores de La Raza and 
so forth. When I graduated with a master’s degree in social work, and community 
organizing was my specialty, I even trained with Saul Alinsky, who was the 
greatest organizer, in terms of he trained Cesar Chavez. He trained Barack 
Obama. He trained the founders of the National Council of La Raza. So, I applied 
for a Ford Foundation fellowship to go to Chicago to train under Saul Alinsky in 
community organizing and joined the faculty of San Jose to train organizers. 
I left San Diego State when I graduated and went to San Jose to be the 
second in command as the coordinator for field instruction, which is fifty percent 
of the time with students in graduate school in schools of social work and had a 
pleasant two-year experience of getting that school off the ground and seeing the 
next generation of young leaders coming out of graduate schools. At that time, 
there were very few trained social workers with a master’s degree in the whole 
country. 
So, that experience was very—and, I recruited on the faculty, one of the 
founders of the National Council of La Raza, Herman Gallegos, who was 
originally from San Francisco, while he was bom in San Jose in Santa Clara in the 
largest body in California’s Salsipuedes, where Cesar Chavez—they grew up 
together—Cesar Chavez and Herman Gallegos. I asked Herman to join me on the 
faculty, which he did after he had founded the National Council of La Raza. And, 
Herman, I recruited him, because he had worked with many foundations: the Ford 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
24 
Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation. He knew about accessing capital, especially 
in the private sector, as a new school. We needed more than just state funding. So, 
that was the other reason, because he was a good organizer, [55:00] and we 
needed some help in identifying sources of funding to be able to do what we 
wanted to do, because the state wouldn’t fund what we were trying to do as a 
normal course of things. So, we were very successful, because of the team we put 
together, including Herman Gallegos. 
DC: I wanted to ask, slightly related, maybe a little bit different, about— 
but, again, with other groups that you may have worked with. Obviously, there’s 
different approaches in activism, sort of along a spectrum, from radical 
revolutionary to all the way across to working within the system. I’m wondering 
if you worked with other groups that had different approaches and how that went. 
I’m thinking of the Brown Berets who started in California. Did you work with 
labor unions? Did you ever have conflicts or good working relations with groups 
that had a slightly different approach? Some who wanted revolution now, for 
example. I wonder if you could comment on that. 
MC: Yes. Yes. Actually, all of the above. When I was the executive 
director of the Chicano Federation, we were countywide. We worked with all 
those groups. As a matter of fact, my offices were under the Coronado Bridge. 
We worked with grassroots in Barrio Logan, led by my sister, Tomasa Camarillo, 
who was elected chairman of an organization called Chicano Park Steering 
Committee. They were headquartered in Barrio Logan. They, actually, were 
promised, the community, Hispanic community, Spanish speaking community, 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
25 
was promised by the city that there’d be a park under the bridge. Well, it turned 
out that that promise, they were reneging, and they were going to put a highway 
patrol station, because it’s state land under the bridge. The bridge is state funded. 
So, the land stayed. They were going to put a highway patrol. To us, highway 
patrol, police department, sheriffs department, they’re police, and not very 
friendly in various ways. I’ll give you a couple of examples, but at that point they 
physically, led by my sister, took over the land under the bridge and occupied it 
with picks and shovels—developed a park. Chicano Park. There was no parks and 
rec department or any city involvement. So, we physically, led by my sister, 
Tomasa, who’s still the president of Chicano Parks Steering Committee to this 
day. Many of the members were artists. They saw this great surface—the pillars— 
and, they decided, “Hey, we’re going to beautify these raw cement pillars.” That 
was the birth of the mirrorless movement. You now drive, and you see all the 
pillars decorated with murals, which is the history of the Chicano movement. 
My offices, when I was director of the Chicano Federation, were right 
there under the bridge. It was built with federal funds, and, rather than having a 
highway patrol, we had this facility with federal funds, and we housed multiple 
social services. Welfare Rights, Brown Berets, Pinto Union. Pinto in Spanish are 
ex-cons. We recruited government agencies and private agencies like human 
resources from the state of California to have an office there for employment. 
Information on jobs and counseling. We had the welfare department provide 
social workers, and we had social services provided. We did a demonstration 
project how social services ought to be dealt in a more humane and multicultural 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
26 
way. So, we did that with mental health, also, because the mental health approach 
was people are crazy or have a deficit—mental health—that’s not the way to 
approach [1:00:00] mental [health]. We did a demonstration project [on] how it 
should be done. As I said, we housed all various government, private, and 
volunteer organizations, such as the Pinto Union, such as the Brown Berets. 
Those were private. We all got along, because we were in the same boat. We just 
had different ways of doing it. But, we helped each other. 
For example, one of the first persons to visit me when I was selected 
executive director of Chicano Federation, was the changed police chiefs. Bill 
Kolender was selected, and I testified in the selection in support, because he was a 
good human being. He was Jewish by background, but—you know, he knew the 
experience of discrimination. As soon as I was selected, he called me and wanted 
to meet. So, I met with him, and we agreed we would meet on a regular basis. We 
exchanged phone numbers, and we had direct contact. Didn’t have to go through 
intermediaries or whatever. So, we could solve problems directly. 
Just a couple of examples, one of them is hot pursuit. The police would 
run into our building, which had welfare rights, women senior citizens, women, 
various services to the people, and you can’t have police running through your 
building when you’re trying to provide services to people. That just scares the 
heck out of people. I picked up the phone and told the chief of police that was 
unacceptable. Without riots, without having any bullying, that ceased. Why? 
Because we went to lunch and we agreed it’ll meet regularly, and we have access 
to each other via phone. The same thing happened with the mayor. The mayor, at 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
27 
that time, was Pete Wilson. We met, exchanged phone numbers, and agreed to 
pick up the phone whenever we wanted to talk, and we’d meet every three months 
on a regular basis. Those kinds of lines of communication help. That’s why you 
didn’t find riots in San Diego like you had in Watts, LA, or Detroit, various other 
cities throughout the country. In my opinion, it was because we could pick up the 
phone and talk to people that could solve if you had a dispute or a quarrel. 
Another example is, one Sunday evening—the police department has 
different divisions, and the northern division, which covers La Jolla and the more 
fluent communities in the North. Two officers that finished their shift at two a.m. 
in the morning, decided that Sunday evening that they would have some fun after 
their shift. They put on black gloves, went to Barrio Logan. Barrio Logan was the 
headquarters, two blocks from my office, the largest low rider car club in San 
Diego, Brown Image. Brown Image members came to my office that morning, 
Monday morning, to let me know what had happened at two a.m. at their 
headquarters. The police came and saw the lights that were working on their cars- 
-them and their girlfriends’. They had their headquarters there on Logan Avenue. 
The police decided to beat the heck out of—and, they did. Not only the men, but 
the women. They were so angry. They came to me, and they [said], “There’s 
going to be hell to pay.” This is what happened. I immediately got on the phone, 
called the mayor, Pete Wilson, the chief of police, Bill Kolender. I [said], “You 
better get your ass down here before five o’clock. There’s going to be a meeting 
with Brown Image. This is what happened. Your presence is required by five 
o’clock.” 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
28 
Five o’clock. We had Mayor Pete Wilson, Bill Kolender, and the city 
manager. There were 500 low riders and their supporters and their friends. I [said] 
for them to explain what had happened. Brown Image leaders spoke about what 
happened. There was no denial [1:05:00] from the police department, but they 
were readily apologizing. The chief of police apologized, “It will never happen 
again.” The mayor, “This will never happen again.” City manager, “We wanted 
better relations [so] that wouldn’t happen.” The fact that we could communicate 
saved a riot in San Diego. 
Other very disturbing acts by the police was this was the height anti¬ 
immigrant experience, and we’re right next to Tijuana, Mexico. The police had 
authorized taxi cab drivers to take Mexican-looking folks to immigration. That 
came to my attention from residents in San Ysidro. I called Bill Kolender and 
[said], “That’s unacceptable.” [It] immediately ceased. Those things wouldn’t 
have happened if I couldn’t pick up the phone and talk to somebody that could 
solve the problem. That’s one of the differences of the city’s experience versus 
other cities where there wasn’t that kind of communication. So, yes, I did deal 
with folks that had different lifestyles and different methods of getting justice, but 
we got along, because we could solve problems. I didn’t object to how they did it. 
That’s none of my business, and they didn’t object—as a matter of fact, they 
supported what I was doing. So, that was a very rewarding experience to be able 
to solve problems without violence. But, we got justice. 
DC : Why do you think those individuals, you mentioned mayor Pete 
Wilson and the police chief—why do you think that they were amenable to talking 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
29 
with you and actually open in a way that many elected officials in other places 
have not been? Something in the air of San Diego. 
MC: The largest minority group by far were Hispanics, Latinos, 
Mexican Americans. 
DC : So, it’s the power of the vote. 
MC: The number is very significant. They had to pay attention, and the 
doors were not opening. When people get frustrated because there aren’t 
opportunities, things could go sideways. Public officials are not stupid. They may 
be prejudiced, but they’re not stupid. They would rather have peaceful 
resolutions, even if it’s on their terms, but at least, a solution that didn’t include 
violence, because somebody’s going to get hurt. Maybe, it would be them. I give 
them a lot of credit for having common sense, and I think that that’s really why 
we were able to solve problems without violence. 
Now, that is not to say that we wiped away discrimination or differential 
treatment. But we worked at it. We worked at it through the system through 
litigation, through negotiations, through mediation. That’s an avenue that’s 
available, and we tried that first. In our case, we were successful, and it worked. 
DC : Were there times when taking to the streets was necessary as well 
in marches or demonstrations? 
MC: Well, marches, yes. I even joined in some of those marches. Cesar 
Chavez came to San Diego, and I met with him and so forth. We joined the 
boycott. That was marches in the streets and grocery stores. So, yeah, you do 
demonstrations like that, but they’re nonviolent in terms of attacking persons’ 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
30 
private property or private citizens. But, yeah, sometimes, you have to 
demonstrate publicly the wrongs that exist to try to correct them and bring 
attention from the broader community. We feel that the broader community is 
fair-minded, they just need information of what’s going on. That was our belief, 
and that’s what we did. 
DC : Fantastic. Let me ask you when you were doing this work and, as 
executive director of the Chicano Federation, was that paying you a salary or were 
you earning money in other ways? [1:10:00] How were you keeping the bills paid 
for yourself? 
MC: Yes, I was paid a salary. We had a staff. Obviously, the executive 
directors, they headed the staff. I hired other people. I didn’t [do] it by myself. I 
had a very supportive board of directors. The Federation was unique, in that the 
board of directors were leaders of other organizations. So, the Federation, that’s 
what it was, a federation of organizations. When the Federation spoke, it was 
speaking for all of the Spanish-speaking organizations in the town, in the county. 
So, it was pretty well respected. We used nonviolent ways, but we also used the 
political system. We knew how that worked, and we also, in addition to my salary 
and working with others, we also raised money through a PAC—political action 
committee—to help elect responsible and responsive public officials. 
We participated to try to change the system, both externally and internally, 
and tried to enlighten. I met with all of the public officials, the heading of 
municipal governments—county board of supervisors. There’s five supervisors in 
the county, and there’s mayors that serve four-year terms. Some are reelected, not 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
31 
all of them. I met with all the mayors since the 1970s, and the board of 
supervisors. We didn’t have enough registered voters to elect Hispanics, so we 
formed advisory commissions and boards for all the elected officials: mayors, 
board of supervisors, work commission, state assembly members, so that we 
could be heard. We had input into the public officials, even though we didn’t have 
Latino elected officials. There’s only been, in the city of San Diego, for example, 
two Latino city council-people serving at any one time. We haven’t had any 
Latinos on the county board of supervisors. We had to have a different avenue to 
be able to communicate and influence good government. That’s what we did 
through organizations. 
DC : Now, how long were you executive director of the Federation? 
MC: I was there until 1976 when, after having sued the city, the state, 
the county—I’m not a fool. I knew that at some point—that old saying “Don’t bite 
the hand that feeds you.” Well, we were getting government grants. We were 
getting private money, but by suing them, that didn’t make them very happy. I 
knew that that was short lived if I wanted to continue challenging wrongness— 
things that were not quite correct—that I had to have my own private source of 
income. In 1976,1 chose to go into the private sector. I did research as to—I knew 
nothing about renting a business. What I had experience [with] is selling 
newspapers, chewing gum, picking up recycled materials that could be recycled. 
That was my experience—shining shoes. That was my experience in the private 
sector. I had to learn more about how to earn a better living than shining shoes. 
The number one industry as I did my research was the food industry. Within the 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
32 
food industry, for people like me that new zero about how to run a business, I 
decided that franchising was the way to learn, because you’re actually 
implementing a method, a system that already is [1:15:00] successful. The most 
successful within the food and franchising business was McDonalds. I focused on 
McDonalds, even though I knew the founder of Jack in the Box, a friend of my 
mine, Dick Silberman. As a matter of fact, I have a picture with him where he 
stole my hat, and he’s wearing it, and I’m making fun of him stealing my hat. We 
were friends, but that was an original chain, small chain. Nothing compared to 
McDonalds. 
I decided to apply for a franchise for McDonalds. They turned me down 
twice and said I wasn’t qualified. I wasn’t agreeable in accepting their turn-down. 
I visited existing franchisees, and I looked and [said], “I can do a better job than 
they’re doing. Why I’m not—” The third time I asked the regional manager of 
McDonalds for a meeting, and I said, “I’m bringing some guests.” I invited the 
US congressman from this area, the city councilman from this area, board of 
supervisors from this area, state assemblyman from this area. Basically, the 
elected officials who I knew, because I’d been dealing with them—to this meeting 
with the regional manager, knowing that restaurants need over a dozen 
government permits, sound for the drive-thru, signage, lighting, size, parking, 
health, over a dozen different requirements interfacing with government. Who 
better to have than representatives of the people that even McDonalds has to deal 
with? 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
33 
At the start of the meeting—the general manager’s name is Dean. Dean 
Canterbury [?]. I [said], “Dean, before we start, I’d like to introduce the people 
around here, so that you know who you’re talking to.” I went by each public 
official representative. He about fell out of his chair. I [said], “We just have one 
simple question. Could you explain to these good folks why I’m not qualified to 
be a McDonalds franchisee?” “Who said you’re not qualified? You start 
tomorrow.” That’s how I got into business. The rest is history. From there, I 
branched off. I applied for radio stations. I owned half a dozen radio stations. I 
owned other restaurants. I started other businesses. I started Aztec Nut and Bolt, 
marketing promotional companies. I’ve been incorporated over a dozen nonprofits 
and over a dozen for profits. 
So, basically, to be versatile is, you don’t put all your eggs in one basket. 
So, I got involved, but the initial start in business was this McDonalds franchisee, 
but I continued my civic involvement. As a matter of fact, I had more leverage 
and more influence. The secretary of state for the state of California came to me, 
March Fong Eu. She wanted to do a statewide voter registration project and asked 
me. She wanted to have the private sector participate. I agreed with the secretary 
of state to offer free French fries and talked to my fellow franchisees, other 
franchisees to participate. We gave free French fries to people that showed that 
they had voted with that little button. I subsequently, by people that were sore 
losers, [was] accused of trying to influence elections, which is illegal, obviously. I 
was rewarding people for voting. I didn’t tell them how to vote. That’s not my 
job. My job was to try to increase voter participation. That’s what I did. I had to 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
34 
defend myself. It was very rewarding to be get in a statewide project with the 
government with the secretary of state to get more people registered to vote. 
That’s one of the things that is a barrier for participation of underserved 
communities. Hispanics, African Americans, [1:20:00] Asians. Immigrants, 
basically, they’re not all that familiar and don’t have the experience in their home 
countries. So, this country is great by, it does have those opportunities, but 
information doesn’t flow very easily. So, that was my job, to get people informed 
and get them to participate. It’s still a job. We’ve got a ways to go. 
DC: I’ll ask more about that, but can you tell me about the radio 
stations? There’re bilingual radio stations. Can you tell me about what got you 
involved and the power of radio and—. 
MC: The reason I wanted to own radio stations is because information is 
freedom. The ability to communicate with the people that are impacted by 
governmental and private decisions is through information, which is not readily 
available. In San Diego, there were no Spanish-language stations to inform 
Spanish speakers. Those few signals that reached San Diego were from Mexico in 
Tijuana. Tijuana is not interested in informing residents of San Diego about city 
council meetings, school board meetings, information about San Diego. There 
were a couple, also, signals from Los Angeles. That information is about Los 
Angeles. So, you have Spanish-speaking populations not knowing what was going 
on. There were no Spanish-language newspapers. They were a small community- 
two or three Spanish, but they were small and limited in terms of getting the word 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
35 
out. There’s nothing like real time information, rather than history that happened 
last week. 
So, that’s why I wanted to own a radio station to be able to provide real¬ 
time information, because information is power. You cannot remain in the closet 
or ignorant, without knowing what opportunities exist and how to get yourself 
informed to take advantage of opportunities. So, that’s the reason why I wanted to 
start a radio station. Having learned about how to do businesses through 
McDonalds—and, McDonalds is one of the biggest users of radio and television. 
Every franchisee is required by franchise agreement to spend four percent of all 
gross income for advertising radio and television and so forth. So, I knew, both as 
a user and a buyer, about the radio station business. I applied in 1980. Ronald 
Reagan was president, and they deregulated. Under his orders, they deregulated 
the airwaves—the frequencies that were available. 
For example, Ronald Reagan was a sports announcer for the Chicago Cubs 
and Des Moines, Iowa for station 1040. There was only one station in the whole 
country at 1040. There was no way that a 1040 could reach the West Coast. There 
was no 1040 on the West Coast. Deregulation meant that there was a 1040 signal 
available on the West Coast. I applied for it, as did a whole bunch of other people. 
So, I was competing with people from San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, 
but I won, because I was committed and dedicated. I formed a company—a team- 
multicultural. Quetzal Bilingual Communications. The purpose of Quetzal is 
because that’s Aztec. The roots. And, it’s the bird. What better way to 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
36 
demonstrate going over the air as a bird? Quetzal Bilingual Communications. 
That was the company that we formed. 
It took over ten years of struggling, fighting off other competitors, and 
other applicants, but we prevailed. It took a lot of money, and it took a lot of time. 
But, once we got that one—and I, [1:25:00] with other partners, was able to 
leverage and go up the state of California, half a dozen in other cities in California 
to form radio stations—formed other companies to be able to do that. We 
connected them by satellite, so that we could—economy of scale—enjoy better 
success. But, we were able to—IT1 give you one example. In Barrio Logan, 
there’s a lot of pollution because of the bay, and there was no community 
planning group to have regulations about what toxic—there were junkyards next to 
houses, rodents infested, polluting companies, the tuna factory, Monsanto, who 
harvested seaweed, and a byproduct was toxic gas. All of that and the port 
commission, which controls the tidelands on the bay—Barrio Logan’s right on the 
bay—would call me to ask that we run public service announcements when they 
were going to be releasing toxic gases that would flow over Barrio Logan. 
So, obviously, as a public service, I did that. Unfortunately, it was to 
prevent a negative, but the positive was getting information out that was 
noncommercial. We didn’t get paid for public service announcements. We did it, 
because it was a service. We started the station, the company, because we wanted 
to serve. Fortunately, we were able to make money to be able to succeed and 
continue. I’m dedicated by life to public service, even in the private sector. As I 
told you, I did voter registration. I didn’t get paid to do voter registration or give 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
37 
away products, like French fries. I did it, because it was a public service. I believe 
it. I was fortunate that Fd be able to do that, because that’s really what helped me 
along, is others extending a hand and lending, helping out. I truly believe that. 
That’s what America is about is trying to help your fellow man. If you can help, 
why not? How many dollars can you spend? How many meals can you eat? 
How many houses can you live in? How many cars can you drive? You’ve got to 
help your fellow brother to the extent that you can, and that’s what I’ve done all 
my life, and that’s what I’m about. 
DC : What I hear you saying, what I’ve picked up on in our 
conversation is this love for what is possible here, but, also, a need to apply 
pressure to keep that possibility open for others. Did I get that right? 
MC: That’s correct. You see it in various ways. As I mentioned, in 
terms of elected officials that are supposed to represent the people, well, they 
represent the voters that vote. We needed to change that. We needed to influence 
public officials by common sense approaches of showing them where 
discrepancies exist in terms of public services, public access, public policy. That 
wasn’t fair, because it wasn’t representing. They were just representing people 
that voted, but there were other people that needed their attention and their 
services in public laws, like bilingual education, like bilingual pay—things that 
people that voted for them were not going to be advocating. 
So, we learned it took pressure. Some of that pressure also was softened 
by raising money though political action committees to add a little bit of sugar to 
the conversation. When I was at McDonalds, I organized with other McDonald 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
38 
franchisees, a political action committee called MAC-PAC to influence or to raise 
money to contribute. I met with governors of the state of California. I contributed 
significantly to the campaign of Jerry Brown when he first ran in the 1970s, 
[1:30:00] Gray Davis, Cruz Bustamante, and so forth. 
Jerry Brown—whenever there was a judicial position open, the reason they 
called me is because I contributed through the Golden 500. Privately, outside of 
McDonalds, we also had a Hispanic based Golden-and, we had chapters 
throughout San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Sacramento, etc. We taxed 
ourselves. As a matter of fact, the membership was $500, and we raised other 
moneys, and we contributed. For example, the first one where we started, Jerry 
Brown was running for governor, and he was dating a Hispanic, as a matter of 
fact. Linda Ronstadt. He was sympathetic, but we influenced that a little bit more. 
So, whenever he got elected and there was a judicial opening in San 
Diego, I’d get a phone call. Once, it was an opening for six judges. He [said], “Do 
you have any recommendations?” I nominated all six judges, all lawyers in San 
Diego—Hispanic—and they all got appointed judges. Six all at one time and others. 
He appointed me to a board that dealt with the retirement money—pension funds. 
So, we made recommendations on how that should be more adequately distributed 
as its earning returns and so people have to use it when they retire. So, we 
involved—it’s a two-way street. You help them, and they help you, but you get 
more attention when they feel that you contributed to them getting elected. It’s 
been that way, not only with the governor. I did it with Pete Wilson, who was 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
39 
actually hostile to Hispanics when he was governor of California with the anti¬ 
immigrant resolution. 
Ever since that, over twenty years ago, there has not been a Republican 
elected officer in the state of California run statewide, be it governor, be it 
senator. There hasn’t been one Republican, with the exception of one, Arnold 
Schwarzenegger, who was a movie star—well known, and he employed his nanny 
who was a Mexican. So, he employed Hispanics. Of course, there were—the point 
is, he was very—that hostility remains to this day. It’s unfortunate for the 
Republicans that they’re taking such a beating in California, but you have to be 
responsive to the electorate. 
DC: So, has the number of Hispanic registered voters gone up in the 
time that you’ve been working on these issues? 
MC: I’m pleased to say, yes. However, we’ve got a long way to go. We 
have a long way to go. It’s because, as I say, information doesn’t flow very easily. 
Some people that immigrate from countries where there’s dictators, and the 
democracy isn’t as wide open or high corruption, they’re not familiar or willing to 
participate, because they see the cards stacked against them. They don’t 
participate. So, it takes a little bit of reeducation, so to speak, of what the 
democratic process is all about. Although they’re democratic societies they come 
from, they’re not really, in practice, that democratic. 
DC: Have the public schools changed in terms of educating Latinos 
since you were a child here in San Diego? 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
40 
MC: Definitely. Not to the extent they ought to, as you can see by the 
evidence. Over fifty percent of Hispanics entering public school are Hispanic. 
Yet, the graduation rate is horrific. Why is that? It’s still got a ways to go. It’s 
changed, yes. There is such a thing as bilingual education, which, at least, 
provides a starting point where they can start learning as in transition from 
[1:35:00] their native language to English, but it takes time. Language is not that 
easy for some folks. There’s also, in California, a movement to have multicultural 
curriculum, so that they’re learning about different cultures, especially their own. 
The Southwest was Mexican for years, centuries. 
It reminds me of a story that the—when I was in Europe and heard all the 
different languages spoken in the same country—multiple languages. It surprises 
me that there’s a debate that English should be the only language—the official 
language, while other countries [are] very enriched by being multilingual, 
multicultural. It’s a struggle to have it here. The sign of an educated person is 
knowing about other cultures, other languages. When I was going to college, I 
studied about—I was fortunate to have great teachers, and my art teacher, for 
example, was an expert on the Aztecs, the Mayas, the Toltecas, the Chichimecas, 
and their art and culture. I named companies after Aztec leaders. Quetzal is one of 
the gods of the Aztecs. Quinto sol, the fifth sun, is the world we’re in today. I 
named one of my companies. Aztlán is the southwest part where the Aztecs 
originated, and they migrated until they got to Mexico City. I named companies 
Aztec. Aztec Nut and Bolt, and people asked me, “Why?” I [said], “That’s a sign 
of educated person.” 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
41 
I studied about the Greeks, as many college students take curriculums, 
study about other cultures. That’s a sign of an educated person. Why do you play 
down and call it racism or discrimination when you promote other cultures that 
deserve respect and recognition? That’s the sign of an educated person, not an 
ignorant or prejudiced person. So, that’s why I promoted and keep promoting 
multiculturalism, because that’s a sign that you understand we’re all connected. 
As a matter of fact, you asked about La Raza and Chícanos. During the 
Mexican Revolution, one of the members of the revolution was an educator, José 
Vasconcelos. José Vasconcelos wrote a book right after the war, the Mexican 
Revolution, called La Raza Cósmica. The cosmic race. That’s where the concept, 
La Raza, comes from. One of the first national organizations I was asked, invited 
to join was the National Council of La Raza, which is the most prominent Latino 
national organization. I served the maximum terms. During that time, I worked 
with President Ronald Reagan. This was in the 1980s, and we worked with 
Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican, and Senator Ted Kennedy, Democrat, and 
Reagan’s presidential delegates, and the National Council of La Raza, board and 
staff, to develop immigration reform. That passed signed by Ronald Reagan. 
IRCA, it was called. Immigration Reform [and Control] Act. Some people call it 
amnesty. It was actually a way to pardon and legalize people already here fully 
employed and contributing to the building of America. Yet, people said we 
shouldn’t be doing that. We’re a country of immigrants. [1:40:00] Why not let 
people that are working here, contributing to build their country greater, be able to 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
42 
live here without being scared of being deported? They’re already here working. 
Why not just legalize the situation and acknowledge that that’s the fact? 
So, I worked that, but I didn’t do it by myself. I did it with others, because 
that’s how you get things done is working together. I’m very proud of having 
been able to make achievements working with—in the state of California, the most 
influential multicultural organization is the Green Lines Institute. It started in 
housing—green lining. The opposite of red lining, which is done by insurance 
companies and real estate industry to limit access to funding to buy a house 
through banks and lending institutions to green lining to be able to do away with 
mitigating against red lining. That organization is led by African Americans, 
Asian Americans, Latinos statewide. I was the delegate from San Diego to the 
Green Lines board of directors, and served in that capacity for over twenty years. 
We worked on banks, insurance industry, telephone industry, utilities to open up 
green line opportunities for underserved populations. 
Under that role, I was asked by the public utilities commission to chair the 
deregulation of the telephone industry in California. I was chairman of that for ten 
years, and we developed a citizens’ board that reported to the public utilities 
commission, and we provided services in ten languages for all telephone wire and 
wireless companies in California. That’s an example of doing something with 
other multicultural groups in the state of California to be able to have fairness for 
underserved populations. That’s just one example. 
DC : Can you tell us a little bit too about your own involvement in 
electoral politics as an elected official yourself? 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
43 
MC: My own opinion of the response to immigrants? 
DC: No. You ran for office yourself, correct? 
MC: Yes. 
DC : Could you tell us a little bit about that, and then we will get to that 
subject. 
MC: Yes, the first time I ran for public office was school board, because 
education is key. There has never been or had been—today, there is one Hispanic 
on the school board. One. When I ran, there were none, and there never had been. 
The reason why is because the electoral system—the process to get elected was 
district-wide. That’s why we worked to change that system, so that you run by 
districts in neighborhoods, so you’re closer to the schools and the communities 
where the voters are that needed the services of the public officials. That didn’t 
exist when I ran. I had to run district wide. The whole district in San Diego, 
unified—covers the whole city. It was a challenge, but I did win in the primary 
race to go into the general election. In the general election, my opponent was a 
nice lady, senior citizen, who had a lot of knowledge of the political—she was the 
staff of a state assemblyman, so she knew the ins and outs of that. She had access 
to the assemblyman that she worked with and accessed his sources of income. So, 
I was out-funded significantly. Yet, the schoolteachers [1:45:00] endorsed me. 
It was a close race, but I lost. I did a post-analysis of the election. It turned 
out that only nineteen percent of the electorate had children in school. Over sixty 
percent were senior citizens that participated in hot lunches at every school. They 
were more interested in hot lunches than in the education of children. The school 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
44 
race had nothing to do with education. I wrongly focused on education, trying to 
open up the school opportunities for all, including those underserved. That’s a 
novice for you running for opposed—thinking it was about education when I 
missed the boat with the electorate. That’s the unfairness of information and 
education. It’s unevenly distributed, so that people are knowledgeable of how the 
system works. 
DC : And, did you run for other offices? 
MC: Second office I ran was also for education at the community 
college level, because the majority of underserved, their first—after graduating 
from high school, their next step is the community college not a four-year 
university, because they can’t afford it or they’re not—community colleges are 
closer to them and more affordable. So, I ran for the southernmost community 
college district that’s adjacent to Tijuana. It’s called Southwestern Community 
College. I ran for that office. 
Before I decided to run, I pulled together Latino leaders throughout the 
area. They unanimously said they would support me. I decided that I’d run, 
because I had a base. They would support me, and the majority of the ethnic 
groups were Hispanic, obviously in the South Bay route, next to Tijuana. 
Unfortunately, one of the professors got into some hot water in the district, and he 
convinced his brother to run, so that he would have a relative to defend him, 
because he was getting into trouble. This was after the promise of all the leaders 
that they would support me. Well, the end result was that we had two Hispanics 
running and an Anglo, very wealthy, from Coronado. The district also—that’s 
44 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
45 
called gerrymandering—included the wealthy Anglos from Coronado, one of the 
wealthiest communities in San Diego. That was part of the district. I was outspent, 
again, and she was elected official from Coronado. So, it was a close race, and the 
most voters voted for Hispanic, but there were two Hispanics. 
DC: So, it split. 
MC: I came in second. That was my second experience. The last time I 
ran was for city council. I had been involved in redistricting. It’s done every ten 
years after the census count. The enumeration changes districts, because they 
become unbalanced through ten years of growth. Growth is not even. It’s very 
uneven. So, you have to redraw lines to comply with the US Constitution of one 
man, one vote. It’s really one person, not one man, but one person, one vote. You 
redistribute, so you draw lines. I’ve been involved since 1980 in redistricting. 
My first effort was redrawing the lines for the state of California for state 
assembly and state. Ten years later, I was asked by the county chief 
administrative officer to help him redraw the county lines. I served on the county 
redistricting. The next time, there was a change of method of how people got 
selected. [1:50:00] To make it less partisan or political, San Diego chose to have 
judges select commissioners to draw the lines. I was honored to be selected by 
judges to be redistricting the city of San Diego lines. 
The most recent was the 2010 census, and the city, again, had to redraw 
lines. The citizens, the Latino residents of San Diego were being left out, and they 
created a Latino redistricting committee to shadow the work done by people 
appointed by the government. I was selected the chairman of the Latino 
45 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
46 
redistricting committee. So, we influenced the drawing and created, for the first 
time, a district that was majority Latino—Latino residents not voters, but it was 
Latino, and then asked me to run. So, I ran for the last time for city council of the 
newly created ninth district. It was a new district, because of the population 
growth in San Diego, and it was a Latino majority district—the ninth district. 
The voter turnout was less than ten percent. Of those that could vote, less 
than ten percent turned out to vote. Who ran against me? An incumbent city 
council person from another district that moved to the ninth district to—Anglo— 
from a newscaster, obviously well known, because [she] appeared in the 
television every day as a newscaster. Well known. Nice lady. With so few people 
voting, they went with name ID, a person that was already an incumbent who was 
on their television sets every day. So, I gave it my best shot, and that’s the last 
time I ran. 
DC : So, what are you working on now? 
MC: My wife and I, we own a business. Besides being for profit, it also 
has a social benefit to help people that have difficulties. In California, when 
somebody gets a driving under the influence, when they get a citation, a ticket, for 
driving under the influence, especially if it’s the second one, they’re required to 
put a breathalyzer in their car. That’s what we do. We install breathalyzers in cars 
for people that have been cited for driving under the influence. They’re with us as 
a customer until they serve their term, and the length of time they’re on depends 
on their situation—the blood alcohol. Did they hurt anybody? Did they do 
damage? All the circumstances that could happen affect how long they’re with us 
46 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
41 
as a customer, but we see quite a few graduate, because we’ve been at it for half a 
dozen years. We represent the best manufacturer in the country. They’ve been at 
it, since—it’s a German company that’s been at it since World War I. As you 
know, gas was used in World War I, so they’re experts in gas. As a matter of fact, 
they’re the number one suppliers of gas in hospitals worldwide. They make those 
machines, because they’re based on activation of gas—breathalyzers. So, we’re 
providing a service. Yet, we’re making a living. 
My wife and I—she’s also a businesswoman, and she’s the one that 
actually forced me to write the book—my autobiography, Journey in Search of the 
American Dream, because of her. She [said], “You’ve got to do it.” I had a 
garage full of files. “What’s all this?” All the walls with plaques and awards. 
[1:55:00] She [said], “You’ve got to write a book about it.” So, I did with the 
help of the National Council of La Raza, their permission to use—and been on the 
board. A lot of the activities that I did was with the founders of the National 
Council as well as members when I was serving for the maximum of two terms. 
I’ve done that with organizations. I’ve never done anything by myself that’s 
meaningful. Always with others, especially similar-situated underserved 
populations. That’s what I’m about. 
DC: So, maybe a last question. We talked a little bit before. You were 
talking about immigration reform under Reagan. Can you talk a little bit about 
where we are now and your thoughts on, especially, immigration issues? 
MC: Well, the United States, although it’s a country of immigrants, the 
only natives are the Native Americans. The pilgrims were immigrants. As a 
47 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
48 
matter of fact, the Spanish, were here over a hundred years before the pilgrims 
arrived, and other immigrants from other countries all over the world have come 
to this country. We’re a country of immigrants, and we’re proud of it. As a matter 
of fact, our Constitution spells out that we’re all equal under the law, and we all 
participate. As a matter of fact, the French donated a statute welcoming 
immigrants to this country, whether they be Irish from escaping the potato famine, 
be they Italians, be they Irish, be they from South and Central America, be they 
from Asia, we’re a country of immigrants. That’s our history. That’s what’s made 
this country great. 
However, it’s also a dynamic issue. Things have changed over the years, 
whereby it was open borders, welcoming everybody, to being a little bit 
concerned that, maybe, they’re taking jobs away. Nobody paid attention to the 
jobs they took or they got were jobs that people didn’t want. My first wife is from 
Oregon. The few workers that were available to work in the Willamette Valley 
and the farms were immigrants from Mexico, yet there were not enough 
immigrants. You had strawberries rotting in the fields, because there were not 
enough. As a matter of fact, the schools closed early, so the children could go out 
in the fields and pick strawberries, so they wouldn’t be rotting in the fields. 
People don’t realize that they’re creating jobs. Immigrants are creating jobs. Over 
eighty percent of the farm work in California is done by immigrants. 
The reform act that we did is to pardon those that are already here. I agree 
that there should be a regulated process as to how people come here and so forth, 
but, because we are—as a matter of fact, research has shown that immigrants 
48 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
49 
contribute billions of dollars to our economy, having invented developments in 
our high-tech world and contributed significantly. Yet, this persistent concern 
that, A, they’re taking jobs, and now more recently, since we got involved in wars 
in the Middle East, there are people that have hostile feelings, are coming here 
with that hostility from countries, from Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, other countries 
that may not have friendly intentions. That dimension adds to the mix of 
sentiment about immigrants. As a matter of fact, one candidate that’s [2:00:00] 
running for president is talking about building walls and deporting—it’s a debate. 
It’s an ongoing fluctuating debate, but my opinion is that we’re a country of 
immigrants. Yes, it makes sense that we should have a regulated process, so that 
it’s controlled to the extent that it’s absorbed, that it’s needed by our economy, by 
our communities. We don’t put walls. That’s not the reasonable, sensible way to 
approach this. Yes, we should have some kind of a regulated process that—we all 
have a voice to say about having a sane policy on how we manage that. 
DC: Thank you. So, winding up here, any questions that I should have 
asked you today or that you thought I might ask you that I didn’t, or anything I 
should have asked you? 
MC: Well, I’m honored and pleased that you’ve taken the time to talk to 
me, and about sharing my experiences in terms of what the intent of Congress, 
was in terms of sharing the contributions of folks with different backgrounds that 
have been ignored over the years. What I’d like to learn a little bit more [is] the 
end product in terms of the distribution of that and how we can make it more 
accessible. As I said before, education is really what opens the eyes, opens the 
49 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0140 Mateo Camarillo 
50 
minds of folks that don’t have a full understanding of our complete society. I’d 
like to know how we can get it into the hands of those that need it, that should get 
fully enlightened and be more informed of the contributions other folks have done 
that, maybe, [don’t] speak their language or live in their neighborhoods, but are 
here to contribute to make this country greater. 
DC : I think that’s a great point, one we can talk about. 
MC: So, that’s what I’m interested in. That’s why I agreed to 
participate. 
Female 1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 20, 2017 
50