1 
 
Maregrita Eyoeth Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Ruu, Yap 
Age of Interviewee: 54 years 
Island of Birth: 
Fais Island 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_014_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:35 Ila, irel chapdohol yai kai deur ngo ila ikekomahoi yal 
yarmat dedeur.Iwe isa loh isla feur fadal yai wuch kawe isa 
feur ahhh hassomal fadal yai deur iyang ye yadwe isa rippiy 
loh sugfed ngo isa kai, kai chow, ye lam’mol ngal yei, iwe isa 
kai deur. Ye lamol ngo isa 01:13 chap yai dedeur loh ahh mol 
kaw ye, iswol kai mil fulyach, isa kai Machi.  Isa kai mo irel 
mala seley wululul feurel machi. Yor Makala ye m’mol ngali yei 
ngo yor makala ted m’mol  Iwe ngo mala seley sa mes tangyei 
Iwe isa kai fadal mo irel yarmat. Iwe sa chap sew haskunal 
machi wol Fais iwe isa dabei. 01:48  Iwe ngo isa luluwalei tefali 
makala mala seley ye kangal yei.  ila ye tipingyei irel yai kai irel 
sukun la. Iwe sa m’mol ngal yei loh igla iwe sa chap yai feur 
yai machi mo meka mil fulyach. deur ka ye buthog mo irel 
wuch mo gulfei. 02:13 Iwe sa m’mol ngal yei loh iwe sa chap yai 
kek’kangal makala wol bisiy mo wol laiyi Iwe sa wol m'mol 
ngalir le yir rebe wol feur machi. Iwe igala ngo sa paling yai 
gula ngo wol paling yar rochokala gula wulullul feruel machi 
mo meka mil fulyach le gich sima tapeli irel deur. 
 
Interviewee in English:   From the beginning, when I was learning to weave and 
observing people, I went and got banana layers and imitated 
what I saw the other ladies do when they were weaving their 
lavalava.  When I got a little older, I started learning how to 
make a real warp.  After I learned how to make the warp, I 
started learning how to weave with commercial thread.  After I 
learned how to weave, I then started to learn how weave using 
local fibers, and how to make “Machi” (a style of lavalava with 
supplemental weft patterning throughout that is reserved for 
chiefs).  I started learning Machi from my mom.  I learned how 
to do many things from her, but there were still some things 
that I hadn’t yet learned before my mom passed away. So, I 
learned whatever I could from other people, and then a school 
opened that taught people how to make Machi. I attended that 
school.  When we learned some of the techniques of how to do 
the designs for the Machi, I recalled some that I learned with 
my mom, and I realized that she helped me a lot.  Now, I am 
making my own Machi.  I taught my sisters and my daughters, 
and they also know how to weave Machi. We all can do the 
Machi and can make local lavalava out of local fibers. 
2 
 
 
02:56 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:18 Ila matala yekal yai fel ngali irel yamem dedeur, irel yai kai 
deur ila Rita Thoyur.  Ila yaramtala yekel yai fel ngali bo iyoru 
thog bo bisiy mo seley.  03:48 Yi yalwichdah ngo ila yaramtala 
ima wiri loh chog pangal yath. Ila mele ye kal yai fel ngali le ibe 
kai deur ngo Ila chog. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
There is one person named Rita Thoyur that I associate more 
with weaving lavalava (deur).  I was close to her because she 
is my close relative, and I grew up with her, and we did things 
together.   
 
 
04:07 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:21 Ila ye paling pelal ngal yei deur bo ifeur mengagui, ngo 
ifeur mangul makala layi iyang, ngo ifeur yai chuwai iwe mo 
millal ahhh… sew feurmel le be budoh irey ngo yemal bo ibe, 
ila mala ibe fang bo yai wenig ngalir rechokala 04:53 yor yar 
song ngal yei. Iwe ngo ifeur dugdugur Makala chol bugtai bo 
rebla mes ngo yor dugdugur. Mo pangalal log… Iwe ngo irel 
yai molow ngo ye paling pelal mele deur ngal yei bo cholop 
meka yitapeli ngali. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Lavalava is very important to me because that is what I make 
to use as clothing for me and my daughters.  I also weave and 
sell them for money.  And, it’s also something that I use if 
something happens in my family and I need to give a lavalava 
for peace making, or funerals, or anything that might require a 
lavalava.  So, for me, lavalava is something that is very 
important because I use it for so many things. 
05:24  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
3 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
05:47 Ila igla ka, sapling yal suwel. Suwel deur. Ralakawe ngo 
ye hatuwgil chog deur ka gich Siyaya iyang. sitaptap loh luwul 
yaramat. Ye la igla ka ngo  yesa yusuwel bo yor makla siya 
hadili fedalei mo iyang, sa samat mo samat. Sa wochog 
mengag kawe le siyaya iyang le yetab le sibe yali doh luwul 
yarmat. Ngo ralkawe ye hatuwgil chog ngo yehasorow deur mo 
ngo ye hasorow yach be yali loh lulul yaramat. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
There have been big changes in lavalava these days. In the 
past, there were certain colors and patterns used for 
womenswear and certain colors and styles used for menswear.  
These days, there’s so many different colors and patterns that 
this new generation has created, and they are not appropriate 
to wear in public, but people are wearing them anyway.  
Wearing lavalava (deur) in public is respectful. 
 
06:25 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
06:46 Ila sibe kangalu loch wulul’lul deur, ngo sikangalur le ye 
paling pelal mele deur. Bo yir rebe kai bo yor meka gich sima 
tapeli deur iyang. Ikala mele sefeur mengaguch mo iyang.  
Ngo sefaru irel meka loch be liy semal ngo ilang sima fang 
deur bo hamayol depar rechokala siya hawas layur. 07:18 iwe 
mo irel yach mes le ikala Makala sima dugmi ngalir. Yecholop 
makla siya, ahh… deur ye tipingi ngalgich le sibe haskuna ngal 
loch bo yir rebe gula ngo sihamadfa ngalir kofal ahh paling 
pelal mele sima kai deur iyang bo cholop Makala sitaptap ngal 
meka kuch irel meka fulyach.  Hare teyagel deur ilang ngo tor 
mele sigula.  Ila paling pelal deur sibe hamadfa ngal loch bo 
rebe kai ngo sikangalur wullulul makla gich sima tapeli iyang 
hare meka yewewel ngal gich. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
We need to tell our kids about lavalava and the importance of 
it.  We need to tell them what we use lavalava for and why they 
need to learn how to weave. Lavalava (deur) is what we use 
for clothing.  If one of our kids beats up somebody, we use 
deur to give to the victim’s family as an apology and for peace 
making.  When somebody dies, we lay the body on a deur and 
put a deur over them as a shroud. There are lots of things in 
our culture that we use lavalava for.  So, that’s why we need to 
explain everything that involves lavalava to our daughters.  
They need to learn how to weave and know what we use it for.