BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
  
 Photo Log # 
  
 I.D. Form # 
 
 
 Interviewer(s) 
 Maria Zeringue 
Date & Time 
06/20/14 
7:50 AM 
 Recording Title (informant or event)                                                               
 Gerard Lee Duplantis, owner of Jerry Lee’s 
Cajun Foods 
 Location of Interviews 
12181 Greenwell Springs Road 
Baton Rouge, LA 70814  
 Recording Equipment                                                    
 Olympus Digital Recorder DS-4000 
 Format 
WAV. 
 Length of Interviews 
 37m 20s 
 
 Note: Due to the location of the interview, which was in his office at near the kitchen, 
there is heavy background noise in this recording. 
 
 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
Part I 
 
 Gerard Duplantis 
(Jerry Lee) 
0:00 
Jerry Lee talks about how he got started in 1977. He 
also talks about his childhood growing up as one of ten 
children in St. Martinville, LA. His father was a 
sugarcane farmer. After his father’s death, they moved 
“to town” and then eventually settled “in the country.” 
. 
 
1:44 
 
He worked for the Soil Conservation services, and after 
a few years he got a job in Baton Rouge, which is how 
he came to live in the city. After three years, he opened 
his convenience store which eventually became Jerry 
Lee’s Cajun Foods. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
2:30 
After a couple of years of having the convenience store, 
he decided to start making and selling boudin. He called 
on the “Cajuns in Baton Rouge” to help him tweak his 
recipe. In the beginning he was making 40 pounds a 
week. (Now he sells 1000 pounds a day). During the 
holidays he has sold 3000 pounds in one day. Football 
season and the holidays are the busiest times. After he 
bought out his business partner (his father in law-10:03) 
of the convenience store, he started making boudin. 
 
3:38 
 Jerry talks about how he crafted his recipe. In St. 
Martinville, J.C. Huval sold boudin at his store and Jerry 
asked him to teach him how to make boudin. He uses 
Boston butts which is a boneless cut and better grade of 
meat in his boudin. Higher quality meat makes boudin 
processing easier. No bones to deal with. 
 
 4:39 
It took him a year to get a boudin recipe that he was 
satisfied with. In the beginning, he just made boudin 
and hogshead cheese and then stared making andouille 
and tasso sausages. He created his sausage recipes on 
his own as well. He did take some ideas from his 
father’s cooking. “If you can cook one Cajun dish, you 
can more or less cook them all.” 
 
6:24 
He sums up that he learned from “that Cajun family 
background… I grew up with that and brought it to the 
city. And right now I got city people that bring it to the 
country.” He takes pride in his cooking and that fact that 
he is serving his customers a product he would serve 
his family.  
 
7:24 
Explains the process of boudin making. He uses Boston 
butt pork roast. (He does not use cheap cuts of meat.) 
He boils the meat for an hour and then adds the onions, 
celery and bell peppers. He cooks that for two and a 
half hours. Grinds meat and vegetables and then puts 
the ingredients in gravy. 
 
8:26 
He cooks his rice separately, and then adds rice, meat 
and gravy together and then stuffs the boudin. 
 
8:43 
To stuff, he first used a hand crank, but now he uses a 
water pressure machine to stuff the boudin. With the 
new machine, he can stuff 1000 lbs of boudin in two 
hours instead of the 14 hours it took with the hand crank 
machine.  
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
9:35 
He used the hand crank machine for ten years, and it 
took him 20 years to grow from 40 pounds a week to 
1000 pounds of boudin a day. 
 
10:01 
He started the convenience store business in 1977 and 
then started making boudin in 1979. At that time, he 
said he was the only one making boudin on the eastside 
of the Mississippi in Baton Rouge. He guesses there 
were only three people making boudin in BR during that 
time. Now there are about 10-20 people making boudin 
in BR. Talks a little about other boudin makers in BR 
and in Acadiana. 
 
11:28 
 He talks again about getting the Cajuns in Baton 
Rouge to taste his product so he could refine the recipe. 
 
11:43 
I asked if he spoke French. He can understand a little, 
but he doesn’t speak it. His mother was not French, and 
when he was young, it was forbidden to speak French 
in school. 
 
12:00 
Talks about the boudin casing. It is hog intestines. He 
gets it from a company that purifies the casing and then 
sells them in barrels. One hank of casing stuffs 100 lbs 
of boudin. Sheep skin is used to case breakfast 
sausage. 
 
12:58 
I asked what are his qualifications for a good piece of 
boudin. He responds that boudin needs to have a 
“happy medium”: not heavily seasoned and a good 
balance between rice and meat. The rice being fully 
cooked his really important to having good boudin. He 
also adds that the vegetables have to be fresh and 
there is enough moisture so the boudin is not too dry. 
 
13:53 
The texture of the casing: he prefers a thinner casing so 
that it is not too chewy when heating up the boudin. 
 
14:36 
Cooking boudin: Jerry heats his up in a crawfish pot 
submerged in water. Since boudin is fully cooked when 
packaged, the customer only needs to heat it up at 
home. Jerry recommends putting it in water and letting it 
heat up for about 8 minutes. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
15:16 
He talks about the popularity of boudin balls and how to 
make them. He doesn’t make them in the store because 
he does not have enough room in his kitchen. “Where 
I’m at, I just gotta get a piece of the pie. I can’t get it all.” 
 
16:13 
Hogshead cheese: In the old days, people would make 
hogshead cheese with the head, the feet and the ears. 
Jerry does not do that today. He talks about how he 
makes it now using “the modern way.” “It’s kind of like a 
pork pate’ instead of hogshead like the old days.” 
 
17:24 
He sells a lot of his hogshead cheese, boudin, and 
cracklins to the plant workers and industrial salespeople 
down the river near the city. They like to come in and 
get breakfast at the store. 
 
17:49 
Hogshead cheese molds: He has crawfish and fleur de 
lis molds. They are popular during the holiday season. 
The fleur de lis molds of hogshead cheese sell a lot 
during the Saints football season. When the Saints won 
the Super Bowl, they ran out of plastic molds and had to 
get more to keep up with demand.  
 
18:18 
Explains the steps of making cracklins. He cooks them 
until they rise to the top of the pot and then adds a little 
salt. 
 
19:25 
He talks about how boudin was made when he was a 
boy. His family would slaughter a pig and nothing was 
wasted, so the trimmings were used to make the 
hogshead cheese and boudin. 
 
20:10 
Now, he buys the higher quality cuts of meat and does 
not use the trimmings and scraps in his boudin.  
 
21:03 
He buys his meat from four companies that specialize in 
distributing meat. Some are Louisiana based 
companies like Prejean’s near Lafayette and 
Christiano’s in New Orleans. He also uses the national 
company Cisco Foods. Each week he buys meat and 
buys from the cheapest companies that week. Right 
now, pork prices are high due to the pork virus of last 
year. He buys around 6 thousand pounds of meat a 
week. 
 
21:55 
Jerry discusses having to raise prices from time to time 
due to high meat costs. He always lets his customers 
know when he does.  
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
22:33 
He has 14 employees now and when he started his 
business, he had only 4 people working for him. A few 
of his employees have been working for him for over 30 
years. His son had been working at the business since 
he was about 15 years old. His daughter started around 
the same age as well. His children still work at the shop 
with him. He has been in business for 37 years. 
 
23:17 
He went into the boudin business at first to attract 
people into his convenient store with a specialty item. 
Many of the convenient stores were selling the same 
products as him, so he needed something else to attract 
more business. “Everybody ate boudin in Cajun country 
so I said ‘they gotta have tastebuds in Baton Rouge,’ so 
that’s the reason I started making it.” 
 
24:09 
Terry Eldridge and Stephen Cangelosi both worked for 
Jerry Lee when they were in the tenth grade. It was 
their first and only jobs since then. 
 
24:48 
He started the business making only two products: 
boudin and hogshead cheese, and now he has grown to 
make about 14 different products. He also makes 
poboys and barbequed beef.  
 
25:27 
He says it is not too often to have family members 
working at small businesses together. “It is with great 
gratitude that I do have a son and daughter with me that 
can carry on the tradition, of Cajun food”  
 
25:53 
When he goes back home to St. Martinville, he brings 
an ice chest of his boudin and other products to his 
family. 
 
26:06 
He grows tomatoes in his garden. When he first started 
out he would grow his own green onion tops to put in 
his meat products. And in the beginning, he would peel 
all of his onion himself, but now the business is too big 
for that. He gets his vegetables already processed from 
local farmers. 
 
26:44 
Summertime is generally a little slower for the business. 
It is the best time for the employees to take their 
vacations. Once LSU football starts, it gets pretty busy. 
Football, followed by hunting season, then the cooler 
months is the busiest period for Jerry Lee’s. December 
through February are better months. “But they all good 
months,” he says. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
27:33 
Jerry Lee talks about his slogan: “If it’s not Jerry Lee’s. 
It’s not boudin.” He created the slogan himself about ten 
years after being in business. He puts them on t-shirts 
too.  
 
28:38 
Rolling and casing the boudin links: He has four 
employees that stuff boudin for him. He also stuffs 
boudin; and after doing it for over 30 years, he can get 
almost exact measurements just by eying it. His links 
are about a half of a pound in weight. 
 
29:48 
He describes how to make pork skins. It is a dehydrated 
skin of the pig that is cooked in grease for a minute. 
 
30:27 
His favorite item that he makes is boudin. He uses his 
sausages and andouille in his jambalayas and gumbos. 
They do not smoke boudin because “you can only do so 
much.”  
 
31:15 
Smoked sausage: they do not use liquid smoke to 
smoke their meat. They use the natural wood-smoked 
process with hickory or pecan wood. They smoke the 
sausage for 7-8 hours. They can fit 600-1000 pounds of 
sausage in the smoker at a time. They also smoke jerky 
using this process.  
 
31:51 
He talks about making beef jerky. “My main products 
like boudin and hogshead and if you have the jerky and 
the pork skins and the cracklins, they all go together 
with Cajun food. So, it gives the customer more open 
options to buy different Cajun products.”  
 
32:39 
His wood smoke house is the traditional method for 
smoking meat. That is the way his father smoked meat. 
His grandfather was born in the 1800s and he also 
smoked meat that way. He talks about the advantages 
and disadvantages of an electric smoker versus a wood 
smoker. The wood taste gives it a natural taste.   
 
33:43 
I asked what is his favorite part of the job. He says,”we 
got kids working for you since the tenth grade and 
they’re in their fifties now. That says a lot.” He also likes 
talking to people and working with his family. “Treating 
people the way I want to be treated. You know, just 
having a business with integrity behind it.” 
 
34:17 
The future of his business: “I’m 66 years old. I started 
when I was 28. I’ve trained up my son, daughter and 
employees. And they know exactly what I want in a 
business, and I think they’ll keep that tradition going.” 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
35:17 
End of interview so the interviewer (MZ) turned off 
recorder. He continued to talk so MZ switched it back 
on. He talks about Bourgeois Meat Market and the beef 
jerky they make in Thibodaux. The last two minutes is 
casual conversation about eating jerky and tasso. 
 
36:48 
Terry stuffs about 75% of the boudin, and his son stuffs 
the sausage. They stuff the sausage after they are 
finished stuffing the boudin. 
 
37:20 
End of interview.