Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
Leslie DeMuth interview, 2014-03-31 : interview conducted by Ruth Eda Olson 
Interview ID: afc2013017_01400 
Date: March 31, 2014 
Duration: 00:51:37 
00:00:00  
Ruth Olson interviewing Leslie DeMuth, art teacher at Waunakee High School 
March 31, 2014. Born in 1954 in Washington D.C.; father was in the military. Grew up in Ann 
Arbor, Michigan.  Has lived in Kansas, Massachusetts, Maine and now Wisconsin. Father grew 
up in a German farming community in Ohio, but mother is English and is from Appalachia and 
Kentucky. Mother grew up as an orphan in the 30s, was very poor. 
00:01:45  
Leslie's undergrad degree is from University of Kansas-Lawrence, then decided 
to be an artist and did her Masters at University of Wisconsin-Madison. Then went to East 
Coast and lived in Massachusetts for 8 years, exhibited her work there and taught part time in 
business and community colleges, but couldn't really make a living, so got her teaching 
certification at Salem State College while she was teaching there, and then came to Wisconsin. 
They were really cutting jobs around 1990, so no jobs in Massachusetts then. 
00:03:00  
Leslie's undergrad degree was in child development, her Masters was in Art, 
then got teaching degree. She is a landscape painter and has been painting for over 40 years. 
Still sells her art work. Has been teaching in the public schools for around 24 years. Before 
that, taught part time in colleges. All 24 years in public schools have been in Wisconsin. Her 
first job was teaching 750 students, in four schools, would drive 30 miles between schools, 
and taught in Tomah, kindergarten through 6th grade, with no prep time. It was a very poor 
district, with very poor students--they would spend weekends working in the cranberry bogs. 
Leslie was there for two years and felt like a Kleenex that was being used and thrown out, 
because there was no support. If she had had to go on there, she would have left teaching. But 
then came to Columbus and taught kindergarten through 5th grade, then began teaching high 
school at Waunakee. Has been teaching at Waunakee for twelve years now.  
00:05:15  
When she drove between schools in Tomah, wasn't reimbursed for mileage. If 
she had been an older teacher and more pushy, maybe they would have--but other teachers 
who pushed did not get reimbursed either. They had a very tight supplies budget. It was 
exhausting to teach 750 students.   
00:06:10  
Leslie describes her current schedule. She arrives at 7:45 a.m., comes in with 
her husband who also teaches in the high school. She always has a prep period that is 90 
minutes; this semester it is first thing in the morning, which is nice--she checks email and gets 
ready for the day. Then, has three 90-minute classes the rest of the day, with ten minutes 
between classes. Teaches "Art 1" classes that are mostly for freshmen, but can have all grades, 
and also teaches a textiles class and a painting and drawing class. It has switched over the 
years, but that is what it has been the last few years. The students sign up in early February, 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
because art is an elective, so that by late spring she knows what classes she will be teaching 
the following year. It is fortunate that two of the art teachers are retiring this year, because 
they lost an art position, because the social studies requirement in the freshman year was 
increased which means freshmen can have fewer electives. And in the next year, the state of 
Wisconsin is increasing the science and math requirements for graduation, which will also 
mean fewer electives and less art, because they will have to focus on taking their tests. 
00:08:50  
Art isn't necessarily the most popular elective--music is very popular, as are 
languages. Waunakee is very middle classed and everyone is very concerned about their ACT 
scores and being college-ready. Leslie thinks art is a certain brain-set, for maybe 10% of the 
population. They have maybe 1200 students, and about 100 of those students will take every 
art class there is. Leslie and her colleague shared department chair position when they 
announced the increased science requirement.  Leslie knew that wasn't good for her students-
-it wasn't going to help them with their lives. For a lot of students, art is their sanctuary and is 
how they interact with the world.  The school board dictated the increase in the social studies 
requirement. 
00:11:00  
School day ends at 3:25, teachers allowed to leave at 3:45. Leslie's husband 
does a lot of re-testing, or there might be club meetings, so they may not leave right then. 
They both do a lot of union work so that takes a lot of time. Sometimes they have IEPs, 
Individual Educational Plans, staffings on students might require teachers to come before or 
stay after. So, there is no typical day, it depends on what has to be done. And it varies year by 
year, depending on projects and extra work. Leslie has extra duties required as well--lunch 
duty, study hall, also a 90-minute period, every other day, in place of a class. So not an extra; 
you don't have the grading or the prep for that class period.  The day is broken into four 90-
minute periods. 
00:14:10  
Classes meet every other day. Leslie likes the 90-minute periods and can't 
imagine going back to 45-minute periods, where the learning is so truncated. Particularly in 
art, students can get very involved and need the extra time.  Staff meetings: the whole faculty 
meet once a month at 7:30 a.m., and department chairs meet another time once a month. If 
something occurs, principal may contact teachers separately. Over 100 faculty at Waunakee. 
There are some early release days, where they work on school goals, district goals; kids leave 
at 1:30 which gives the teachers two hours to work as faculty or in departments. A lot of focus 
on teacher effectiveness, because there are a lot of requirements now for the administration 
to meet state requirements to evaluate teachers. School goals are not just about content 
students should learn, but also how it gets delivered. This year, a lot of focus on social climate, 
and achievement goals ("improving test scores, improving test scores, improving test 
scores.").  
00:18:10  
Goals change every year; the administration has such little time to work with 
teachers directly, they don't concentrate too much on one thing because something else will 
come along that they will have to provide training for. For example, formative assessment--
something a teacher would be doing all the time any way--they get some training on that, but 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
then another goal is literacy--reading and writing, so that then requires training time. The 
school board sets the focus, the administration follows through. They have a two-day meeting 
right after school, called "the data retreat" in each school building. Teachers stop teaching, for 
example, on June 12 and then have a data retreat on the 13th and 14th, to come up with the 
school goals for the next year. Goals always tend to be: one around social climate, one around 
achievement. It's a frustrating time, because they want all this work done, but really they 
don't have the time to devote to it. And now there is a focus on teacher effectiveness, which is 
really a bad thing, because it overburdens the administration and is a one-size-fits-all, and so 
won't really work. And the people doing the assessments haven't been in the classroom from 
5-20 years. "It's an unfortunate model." Someone from the administration comes into the
classroom numerous times, and has a checklist to check off certain behaviors. It's a formula;
part of teacher effectiveness is based on the test scores, and part is based on these
observations. It's the Danielson model. The state of Wisconsin is doing this as an alternative to
Race to the Top. There are federal funds tied to it, so they have to do it.
00:22:00  
It's an extensive, standardized checklist. The administrators are working hard 
anyway, and have a lot to do already with things concerning students--the administration 
coming into classrooms to check off items on a checklist isn't going to help students.  "I'm sure 
you can feel the frustration if not anger in my voice, because when I come to school, I just feel 
like the most important thing for me to do is to be present to my students. And I don't think of 
their achievement in the same way as the people who are writing those tests off, and I just 
feel that my students have brains and lives that are much...I don't know if you might say 
holistic...but they have so much more to them than whatever is going to be done on that test, 
that I need to serve them in a whole way." Leslie's core belief is that kindness and compassion 
are what will get the best out of her students. They need a creative, safe place to learn and 
achieve and experiment. 
00:25:00  
The shape of the year: everybody is fresh in the fall, and by March, they are in 
the dog days of teaching. People are tired and need a break. After spring break, it's a slide into 
home base, because in high school there is so much that happens in the spring. A slew of tests 
in April, and so many activities like sports. If they really want to improve student performance, 
they should have year-round school.  How does Leslie prepare for teaching? Because of the 
size of the school and staff, she has to know a lot of techniques and be good at a lot of things. 
Over her teaching years, through classes and experiences, she has acquired a lot of skills. 
Leslie thinks of her classroom as a workspace, and tries to put it in a circle. Kids sit where they 
want, they turn on the radio if they want. For the most part, they work. She does have times 
when she talks with them, but not a lot. It's mostly very hands on, very active, they help 
themselves to stuff from the cupboards. Leslie always tries to say yes, and sees herself as 
facilitating their work. They have an extremely generous supplies budget. 
00:29:00  
Some students, Leslie knows extremely well and some not so well; it's up to 
them. [Leslie gets up and shuts the door for privacy] This past year, she had some students 
who were undocumented and homeless, and their mother got inebriated and stabbed 
someone in neck, is going to prison. Their dads are in Mexico. Teachers have gotten really 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
involved with these students because they have special need. Leslie has 24 students in a class. 
Student population in Waunakee is around 1200. 
 
00:31:00 
Which tools--physical, intellectual--do you use the most?  "I guess, a pencil." 
Students do a lot of drawing. In ceramics, there is a ceramics wheel, a slab roller, also do 
felting, beading, papermaking, so use lots of physical tools. Very hands-on. Who do you eat 
lunch with? Leslie eats by herself or with her colleague Pat sometimes. Leslie is somewhat 
introverted and being with people all day is enough, so needs some down time. Leslie has 
three allies at school: her husband Steve, her colleague Pat whom she has taught with for 12 
years, and another young art teacher. Husband Steve does a lot of prep work for her, making 
stretchers on weekends, or fixing things. If Leslie has a big problem--a parent complaining, a 
behavioral problem or something, she could contact the specialists who are trained for those 
situations, but she would also always alert her principal. Her principal is exemplary. 
 
00:34:50  
The school has a quarterly outstanding teacher award, and a yearly outstanding 
teacher award, and teachers are recognized during staff meetings. But the principal, in a very 
personal way, recognizes and thanks people for their leadership and service. Leslie tries to be 
very happy and present while at school, as does her principal. Waunakee is a very happy place. 
Leslie has been very active in the union, going to the representative assembly, where things 
are voted on. She has gone to many, many meetings. Last year she was a secretary and her 
husband was the president, so they planned many meetings and events, lots of strategic 
thinking. They worked at both levels--at the district and state level. It has been very 
disheartening since Act 10.  
 
In Waunakee, they have a benevolent superintendent and school board, so are an exception 
to the rule, so maybe that has led to people being very passive about the loss of their labor 
rights and income. Leslie feels we are at an historic time, where a number of laws have been 
passed in our state to suppress voting rights. She certainly remembers the 60s, and people in 
her lifetime have died registering voters, so maybe she has a different view from younger 
people. We have less opportunity now. 
 
00:38:40  
There is a stereotype of teachers that they don't work hard and are spoiled--but 
Leslie doesn't really know how many people believe that. It's a very politicized view of 
teachers.  Generally, at Waunakee, parents are respectful. "They have been outstandingly 
disrespectful at times." Leslie is a public servant "at the public trough." She is the antithesis of 
a lazy person. In general, people don't understand that teaching is a lifestyle, because it looks 
easy if you just walk into a classroom.  The skill a teacher has makes it look easy, and you don't 
see the preparation that went behind creating whatever is going on in the classroom. Her 
husband is grading every single night except Friday night. And it's an exhausting job to be with 
students all day on top of the grading. It's very fulfilling and important, but certainly 
exhausting. You need to be so present. 
 
00:41:00  
There are stories she tells to other teachers, all the time, about their students, 
the administration, etc. --because you have to protect yourself. There is a principal in their 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
school district who is just toxic, treats staff and children badly. People there are hunkered 
down and afraid for their jobs and being publicly attacked. Leslie hears stories from other 
schools and from other districts. Her network of friends includes other districts. Teachers feel 
like a community, with shared values, but the whole union thing has divided teachers as well. 
Leslie thinks we need to work together and stand up together for public education, for their 
profession, for the students, and doesn't see how we can do that if we don't collectively 
organize and work together. Some people's reaction to what has happened in Wisconsin is to 
say, 'I can manage this for myself, I know I'm fine,' and not think of a wider view. Leslie isn't 
worried for herself, but what is happening now to public education affects our democracy and 
she feels strongly about that. 
 
00:44:45  
How and why do you include community in your work? Did an oral history 
project in Lake Mills. Leslie feels that we are all in this together, and it is only through building 
community that we are going to make this a fair and good place for everybody. This country 
can do that for its citizens. Her work as an artist, as a teacher, as a citizen, she feels we need to 
build community together so that everyone can have a home, enough to eat, etc.  A group 
started the Arts Alliance of Greater Lake Mills, to do public art projects. Now that Leslie is 
retiring she hope to do either a public art piece, or community mapping. They had a chance to 
put up a decorative fence by the old mill site--a grist mill--raised the money and put up the 
fence, and there were still residents in their 80s and 90s who remembered the old mill, which 
was taken down in the 30s, so the Arts Alliance interviewed them about their memories of 
Lake Mills. It was like poetry. Had snippets of the interviews around town, had an opening 
with the city band playing, and officials on a beautiful June day. Leslie transcribed the 
interviews. Now, some of them have passed on or wouldn't be mentally capable of doing such 
an interview any more. Leslie would like to think that she gives her art students a bigger sense 
of themselves, but she isn't sure that she does that.  
 
She wants to encourage their creativity and their thinking skills. When she grades, she 
separates their technique from their conceptualizing. They are at an age when they have so 
much work to do on themselves that they are very focused on themselves. Leslie feels most 
proud of the fact that she has changed some students' lives. At times she has felt diminished. 
"But I'm in such a nice school now, and I have a very nice schedule, and I'm treated very 
respectfully, and I'm fierce when I am not.  And I wasn't like that at the beginning. So, 
[laughing] I'm not the person I once was." Ruth remembers the 750 students in Tomah--"But 
those kids deserved art. You know, everyone deserves art!" 
 
00:51:37 End interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5