DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 
Interview afc2015027_03460_ms03 
Marie Antoine Ketlèn interviewed by Ninaj Raoul 
Translation of interview conducted in Haitian Kreyòl. For original, see 
afc2015027_03460_ms02 
English Translation 
00:00 - 00:05 
Silence 
00:05 - 00:28  
Ninaj Raoul (R): So, I'm Ninaj Raoul and we're here at Haitian Woman for Haitian Refugees 
which is at 208 Parkside in Brooklyn, NY and we are doing the interviews with the members 
of Haitian Women for Haitian Refugees for the, um, D-W, Domestic Workers United, um, 
Library of Congress Project for the (name unclear) Fellowship. 
00:28 - 00:40 
R: And so today I'm going to start with, um, oh let's get going. What is your name? 
A: My name is Marie. 
R: Marie? 
A: Mhm 
R: And what is your...what, uh... 
00:40 - 00:44  
R: I forgot I was supposed to be doing it in Kreyòl... (laughter) 
00:44 - 00:50  
Unknown Voice: Because there are several Maries... 
R: I forgot that I was supposed to be doing it in Kreyòl, your English is so good. 
Unknown Voice: Oh, dear... 
00:50 - 01:11  
Ninaj Raoul (R): What is your name? 
Marie Ketlaine Antoine (A): My name is Ketlèn. 
R: And, what kind of work do you do? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
 
A: I babysit. 
 
R: Where do you live? 
 
A: I live in Queens, Rosedale. 
 
R: Mhm. When you babysit, is it with a lot of different children? 
 
A: My first babysitting job is with two children and my second babysitting job is with three 
children. 
 
01:11 - 01:29  
R: Okay, and, um, where are you from? Where were you born? 
 
A: I am from Haiti, Leyogàn. 
 
R: Okay, an, how did you get into these babysitting jobs? 
 
A: Well, other people pointed me in that direction for work and I've continued working there. 
 
01:29 - 01:47  
R: And how long have you been doing this work? 
 
A: About one year. 
 
R: And it's been in the one year you've been here? 
 
A: Yea. 
 
R: Okay, so, one year, or more than one year? 
 
A: One year and some months. 
 
R: And how many positions and homes do you work in? 
 
A: I work in two homes. 
 
01:47 - 01:52  
R: In two homes since you've been here? 
 
A: Yea. 
 
R: Okay. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
 
01:52 - 02:15  
R: Um, I have a question. Should she be elaborating on these or...because she's giving pretty 
straight or maybe the next sets of questions are gonna get into it more...  
 
?: This conversation one is pretty basic. 
 
R: Okay, good. 
 
(voice in the background) Oh, okay. 
 
02:15 - 02:30  
R: The first page was just basic questions, but the other questions are going to dig deeper and 
you can elaborate if you want, if you want, if you feel like it... So, can you tell me what a normal 
day looks like when you're working and what kind of responsibilities do you have at work? 
 
02:30 - 02:59  
A: Well, this kind of work, when you do it, you come in at 7 in the morning to leave at 4 in the  
afternoon, the first job, and when you get in, there are two children to take care of, to wash up, 
to feed, to make them eat, to put them to bed, those who are going to school, to clean them up 
to go to school, and those who are crying, to quiet them by caressing them, all that you have to 
take care of as if you are their mother. 
 
02:59 - 03:27  
R: Okay. At that time, how many children are there? 
 
A: Two children. 
 
R: Okay, how old are they? 
 
A: One is two years old and the other is seven years old. 
 
R: And, what qualities, um, skills do you need to do this work? 
 
A: Well, the qualities you must have to do this kind of work is the qualities of a mother, a real 
mother... 
 
03:27 - 03:48  
...because if you are not truly a mother, it will be very difficult work for you because when that 
child's mother leaves, you have to give the child all the affection that you would give a child so 
that the child can become used to you, the child can come to love you so that they are not sad 
being in the house. 
 
03:48 - 04:06  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
R: And what kind of training do you have to get for this kind of job? 
 
A: Well, the kind of training for this kind of job has to come from yourself as much as good 
mother. 
 
R: Okay. 
 
04:06 - 04:31  
R: Are there specialists/specialities, or a way in which you could specialize, for this job, or a way 
in which you could specialize in this kind of work? 
 
A: Um, a way in which you could specialize is... 
 
R: Like you personally, do you consider yourself having a specialty in... 
 
A: Yes, I have the qualities to do it. 
 
04:31 - 04:55  
R: For example, what kind of children do you work with? 
 
A: I work with children who really misbehave a lot. I work with children who need a lot of 
affection. And when the children need affection, they will spend the whole day crying, because 
he/she is sad about his mother and he/she has to be treated a certain way so that he/she can 
forget that his/her mother is not at home. 
 
04:55 - 05:13  
...you must give him/her all the affection that you can, all the welcoming that you can while you 
are responsible for him/her. Because as soon as you leave your house and go to those children, 
you have to take on the role of their mother. You have to become a mother to these children. 
 
05:13 - 05:36  
R: Do you work with children who have special needs? 
 
A: Yes, I worked with one already who had mental problems... 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A:  ...where you have to constantly watch the child. Every so often you have to watch 
them, keep your eye on them, take them and have them sit next to you, because it was a 
child who was missing some of his/her good senses. 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
05:36 - 05:56  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4
A: It was a child who, if you didn't watch over them, they would run out into the street. If 
you didn't watch over them, they would break everything that's inside. This child really needs 
constant supervision. You let them be free but with a limitation. 
 
05:56 - 06:05  
R: Like an autistic child? 
 
A: Yes. 
 
R: Autistic. And what experience do you have that allows you to specialize in this or to take care 
of...? 
 
06:05 - 06:23  
A: Well, the experience that I have is that I spent 12 years working in education in Haiti where I 
worked with all kinds of children. All types of children came to the school. Where you had to 
know how to manage all types of children you meet. 
 
06:23 - 06:48  
R: Mhm. When you are taking care of a child, how do you help them get to bed when it is time 
for them to go to sleep? 
 
A: When you're taking care of a child, when it's time for them to go to bed, if you are a good 
mother, you'll see that and after bathing the child, and their belly is full, you take the child... 
 
06:48 - 07:08  
...the best way that you can help a child go to sleep is to sing for them. Put them on your arm, 
sing for them, and pat their back, caress them, rub their heads, all that... and the child will feel 
that they've received all the affection that they wanted when you sing to them... 
 
07:08 - 07:25  
...for example, I have a child named Carla and soon as she would get sleepy, she would cry and 
cry and cry and at the time, she wasn't yet used to me and when she got used to me, I would 
start to sing, I made up a song for her that went like this "Carla, sleep little one, sleep little 
one..." and as I sang, I would caress her and caress her, until she fell asleep...  
 
07:25 - 07:50  
...now, when she is sleepy, she has become used to this, you can just see that she'll show up 
from wherever she was, she'll climb onto me and she'll lay on my shoulder and she'll stare at 
me so that I can sing to her so she can fall asleep. 
 
R: Okay. You know children, they love, oftentimes, they love to eat junk food and sweet things. 
What...are there things that you used to do to make the children eat vegetables or food that is 
good for them? 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
5
07:50 - 08:13  
A: Um, children, from birth, don't like to eat but you are supposed to get them on a path so that 
they can eat. There is no better way to get children to eat than when they are on the move. 
While the child is walking, you walk behind them, you play with them while you're spooning 
food into their mouth, laughing with them as you feed them. 
 
08:13 - 08:39  
R: Okay. Do you ever use natural remedies to help children who are sick, for example, when 
they are teething or the pain they are in when they are teething, okay, anything that you would 
call "homeopathic" in English, natural? 
 
08:39 - 09:01  
A: In Haiti, yes. For example, with my own children, I am a nurse, but I still use tea medicine. For 
example, the leaf that I use especially when they are teething is called "chyendan", a flower 
that you pick for the child, and now, you steep it in water and give it to the child to drink. 
 
09:01 - 09:30  
A: With this, because the child is teething, sometimes they will have diarrhea or little pimples or 
they vomit. As soon as you give the child this tea, nothing will happen to them. Or sometimes, 
there is another tea leaf called...Oh, I don't remember, it has a white flower... 
 
R: Mhm 
 
A: And you just boil the water... 
 
Unknown Voice: "Tooth Flower". 
 
A: "Tooth Flower"? 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A: You just boil the water and you pour it on the flower and you give it to the child just to rinse 
out their teeth so that they don't get pimples or diarrhea due to their teething. 
 
09:30 - 09:40 
 
R: Okay, are there things that perhaps at work you have taught your employer? 
 
09:40 - 10:11  
A: Wow. Um, I taught the child's mother how to feed her. Little Carla is a child who never used 
to eat. But as soon as I came to work with her, she started to eat. Even if she doesn't eat the 
amount that she should eat, she eats something. She drinks milk, she drinks juice. But before 
that, she didn't use to eat. I taught her mother how to give her food. When she was crying, I 
also taught her mother what to do. After all that, the mother became used to her and now she 
eats. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
6
 
10:11 - 10:35  
R: Okay. What part of the job do you like the most? 
 
A: The part of the job that I like the most is staying with the children, caressing them, and them 
giving me affection. Because I don't have any children here with, I have children in Haiti. When I 
am with the children, it makes me miss my children and they give me affection as if they were 
my own children. 
 
10:35 - 11:01  
R: And what part of the job do you like the least? 
 
A: Well, there are a lot of things that I don't like about the job. What I like the least is the way 
my employer treats me as someone who works for them. When you're working for them, they 
treat you any way they want... 
 
11:01 - 11:31 
...they don't treat you like someone who is working with them. They do want they want to you, 
they speak to you in such an ugly way and however they want. Like for example, if someone 
were to spill some juice on the floor, and you were too busy bathing the children to take care of 
it and wipe it up, when they come home, they speak harshly with you about it. Or when they 
have to pay you, it's always a difficult thing for them to pay you. It... the job, it's a good thing 
for them, but paying you is the biggest problem they have. 
 
11:31 - 12:03  
R: When you say it's a difficult thing for them to pay, can you give an example? 
 
A: Well, difficult to pay means if you work for seven days or six days, when they have to pay 
you, they pay you every two weeks even when they talked to you and said they would pay 
every week. 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A: Every time the week comes up, they're always scratching their heads, to tell you that they 
don't have the money yet, they have some bills to pay, wait for it... 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A: ... and when they do give me the money, the money is missing some or they just pay me 
every two weeks... when they do that, they'll pay me for just one week of the two weeks and 
the money will be short. 
 
12:03 - 12:35  
R: What is your relationship like with the people that you work with now? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
7
 
A: Well, we have a very narrow relationship, where you feel that I am necessary for the children 
and they need me, except they don't pay me like they should pay me. 
  
R: Okay. Do you have a relationship with the children that you used to work with that you miss/ 
remember a lot? Whether it be in a good way or a bad way? 
 
12:35 - 13:00  
A: Yes, the children that I used to work with before this, what I remember/miss is the affection 
that they would give me every time I would put them to bed. They would climb up on me and I 
would caress them so that they could sleep.  
 
R: Mhm. How do you manage your feelings and emotions for the children and the families that 
you work with? 
 
13:00 - 13:29  
A: Good question. Um, sometimes there are things that the child will do and you will look at 
them and you feel like you could hit them for that. But when you come to think about it, they 
are just babies, they don't know what they are doing. You manage it in a way by telling them no 
"You must not do that, it's not good" so that they don't do it again. And you just manage your 
emotions, knowing that they are just a child... 
 
13:29 - 13:59  
...even when they do any sort of thing, you're obligated to call them out on it, and also to caress 
them so that they don't do it again. 
 
R: Okay. Do you think that they respect the amount of time that you work or the holidays that 
you should have off? 
 
A: No. 
 
R: Can you elaborate on that? For example?   (laughter) 
 
13:59 - 14:25  
A: Well, how don't they respect...? For example, they will ask you to work five days one time, 
and when you start working, afterwards they will tell you six days. And then, they don't pay you 
hourly, they don't pay you by day, they just pay you the same amount of money, for example, if 
you were working for $250 for those 5 days... 
 
14:25 - 14:51  
...even if they add on another day, you will still be working for that same $250... even if you had 
a schedule with them, from 7 to 3:30, they'll come back at 5:00, they will still pay you the same 
amount of money, which they don't even honor. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
8
R: Do you know, either in your own experience or in other work that you know, if they exploit 
people because of their immigration status? 
 
14:51 - 15:26  
A: Many times. Many times, when a person has issues with their immigration status, sometimes 
they are sexually assaulted. Sometimes, when you go work for a person, in order for them to 
pay you, if it is a man, they will force you to sleep with them. 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A: To pay you the money because they know that your papers aren't straight and you have no 
place to go complain about them. They just abuse you in a way. Now, it's up to you to find a 
way yourself to say, well, I won't get caught in this trap or you leave the job... 
 
15:26 - 15:52  
...it's either learn or leave. Sometimes those are the options you have in front of you. 
 
R: Do you ever share cultural things about your heritage or your family to assist with the  
work that you do? For example, food, language, stories, knowledge? 
 
A: Non. 
 
15:52 - 16:12  
R: No? Because it's the same (unclear). 
 
Unknown voice: There are 5 minutes left. 
 
R: Okay, thank you.  
(laughter in the background) 
 
R: Um, how do you balance your personal life and your family life with your work life? 
 
16:12 - 16:34  
A: Well, sometimes, you find a way to deal with the people you're working for. Sometimes, it's 
not that you want to live like that, but because you know that you have bills to pay, you have a 
series of things you need to do, you have to manage yourself in a way that they dictate... 
 
16:34 - 16:49  
...sometimes, you just have to, if the person, for example, if you already had something planned 
to do at home and then you get to their place and they tell you to do something else, you have 
to do it so take care of yourself because you need the money. 
 
R: Okay. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
9
16:49 - 17:19  
R: Have you ever been a member of or participated in any organization or some other group 
while you have been here? 
 
A: Here, no. I'm not a member of any organization. 
 
R: Mhm, and participating... have you ever participated anywhere else? Work? 
 
A: Yes, here, here, in Human Right...uh, Women... 
 
R: (laughter) Haitian Women for Haitian Refugees. 
 
A: Haitian Women Refugees (laughter) 
 
R: Okay. You can say "Haitian Women..." 
 
A: Haitian Women for Haitian Refugees. (laughter) 
 
17:19 - 17:46  
R: Um, when you're working in the house, do you feel like you are part of a group, a group that 
is bigger? 
 
A: No. When you're working in the house you come to feel like you're alone because you have 
no one to talk to. You just remain closed off with yourself. Your employer goes out, and spends 
the whole day away, and you're obligated to stay in the house with the children even if they 
mistreat you, there is nothing you can say, there is no one you can talk to. 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
17:46 - 18:04  
A: It's just you in the house with the children. 
 
R: Yea. Okay. How did you become a member of Domestic Workers United and how did you 
hear about them? 
 
18:04 - 18:29  
A: Okay. I participate in Domestic Workers because I feel that it's a group that is doing good 
work where they help workers know their rights, know the direction that they can take. Um, 
where it shows you what to do if an employer does something to you, here is what law that 
says you have the right to complain... 
 
18:29 - 18:54  
...here is what law is good for you, all that, that is why I participate. And I heard about it from 
Haitian Women for Haitian Refugees 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
10
R: Ok. Um, what difference did it make, do you think, what do you think it means to you the law 
they passed, Domestic Workers Bill of Rights,  the law that we were talking about, the law that 
they passed in 2010. What effect has it had on you? 
 
18:54 - 19:23  
A: The difference it has made for me had to do with before I knew about Domestic Workers, 
before I knew about the work they were doing, or the law that had passed. I was suffering a lot 
from a series of things that my former employer was doing to me.  But now, with the law that 
has passed that is good for the workers, now I have found the possibility where I can have an 
advantage, if an employer does something bad to me... 
 
19:23 - 19:52  
...I have a law that tells me that I am able to complain or I have a law that tells me that I do not 
have to take anything at the hands of my employer. 
 
R: Okay. What would you like to see done, um, in the future with the Bill of Rights, for the law 
that has passed? 
 
A: What I would like to see done, has to do with the money people are earning. 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
19:52 - 20:21  
A: ...Where, sometimes, you're working for an agency and the agency pays you in a certain way 
and when you're working in a house, they don't look at you the same way. Sometimes, when 
you're working for an agency, you have a normal immigration status where the agency views 
you a certain way but when you are working in a house, the employer will look at you like you 
are a slave. 
 
20:21 - 20:43  
A: ...first, they abuse you when they don't pay you as they should. Second, they don't pay you 
for all the hours that you work. Third, they don't give you any time off. You work the amount of 
time they say, and even if you work 6 or 10 years with them, they always stick to the same 
rhythm, they never change anything because they abuse you like you are a slave. 
 
20:43 - 21:15  
R: Do you think that the community you are a part of know about this law? 
 
A: About the Domestic Workers law? 
 
R: Mhm. 
 
A: No, it's not well-known. It hasn't gotten around. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
11
R: Why do you think Domestic Workers United is important for workers? 
 
A: I just told you a while ago... (laughter) what I think makes it important is because it makes 
sure all the employees know the laws, know what direction... 
 
21:15 - 21:41  
...they can take when a, uh, employer does something bad to them. 
 
R: Are they, are you satisfied with the impact the law has made? 
 
A: The impact it has had on the employers has satisfied me. 
 
R: And what would you like for people, for politicians, who, who, um, what would you like them 
to know, people who vote on these kinds of laws? 
 
21:41 - 22:10  
A: What I would like them to know is to be aware of how the employers are treating the people 
who work for them and how they could let the employers know their duty toward the people 
who work for them. 
 
R: Ok. And you, personally, what kind of education would you like...do you have something you 
would like to learn, some skill or education? 
 
22:10 - 22:39  
A: Well, my dream is to become a doctor. 
 
R: Okay. What skills do you think Domestic Workers United can teach you? Or, if there is a 
training or workshop... 
 
A: Well, the qualities that I know Domestic Workers can teach me is to how I can work and to 
know that laws about my work, and, um... 
 
22:39 - 23:07  
...know um, how can I say that, how an employer is supposed to deal with me as a worker. 
 
R: Okay. Do you have any last words that you would like to share with us? 
 
A: Well, what I would like to share with you as my last words are I am very happy with the work 
that Domestic Workers is doing. And that I am asking Domestic Workers to keep moving 
forward with the work... 
 
23:07 - 23:44  
...because we as workers we need even more. Like, days off, the amount of money that we are 
earning, it's minimum, it can't do anything for us, while we are working as domestic workers. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
12
And the way that they are treating us, we will need even more, even better treatment than 
that. I would like for Domestic Workers to work even more on that. 
 
R: Okay, thank you very much. 
 
A: Thank you. 
 
R: Okay, that was good. 
 
 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
13