1 
 
Vreah Yaloweg Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Talguw, Yap 
Age of Interviewee: 15 years 
Island of Birth: 
Yap Island 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_011_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:41 Ok, ngang yi 12 years old isa kai deur mo wol Yap. Iwe 
ngo ikai mo irel Modesta. Chapdah yai kai ngo mala motamol 
formel le yemol ibe faru le, ye mol ngal yei bo ibe chogu sew 
chow lol saral. Lol saral chog samol ngal yei sew chow.       
01:13 Iwe ngo deur le mach halsew chog yai kai deur le wol 
faleyi ngo ted ifa lapal yai gula. Ngo yidipli ibe gula bo, ye kal 
yai dipli ibe gula deur bo de la mess loh meka wulyetigiy ngo 
ted yor sew deur le ifaru bo yar.  01:41 Iwe ngang idipli bo yir 
rebla mes iwe ngo salap deur le ngang ifaru for yar.  Iwe ngo 
itipngi yarmat irel meka sa wewel doh le sa wolog di chog yal 
cholop di mil mes mo makala ngo sa halsugfed loh yarmat le 
rema fer deur. 02:09 Le ngang idipli ibe kai bo ibe tipngi yarmat 
irel makla, ibe tipngi yarmat irel mekala yewewel doh.  Bo mil 
mele ibe togla deur ngo ite madipli ibe komahoi meka chol 
bugtai yar la  dongor  02:42 dugdug mo gow mo irel yarmat.  
Ngang yidipli ibe kai bo ibe tipngir, ilang be ma hamem chog 
yamem feur milal meka sawewel doh le sa cholop. 
 
Interviewee in English:   I was 12 years old when I learned how to make the warp. I was 
living on the main island of Yap when I first learned weaving 
from Modesta.  The first thing I learned how to do was warping, 
and I was able to finish a warp in one day.  After that, I wove 
once, but I still need to learn and practice more. I really want to 
learn how to weave so I can make some lavalava for my 
parents before they die. I also want to be able to help with all 
the things that are happening in the community, such as 
funerals and other things.  I don’t like to see my family and 
relatives asking others for lavalava because I don’t know how 
to make them, so we don’t have any. That’s why I would like to 
learn how to make them, so we will have them on hand when 
there are needs. 
02:58 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
2 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:19 Ok, yaramtala ye kael yai fel ngali irel milel deur mo chow 
le Mode.  Iwe ngo fal le la yii mele ifel ngali mil mala yiy mele 
ye kangal yei deur, yei mele yekangalyei chow, yiy mele 
motamol yarmat le ngang imel irel ngo hamem hasa chow.  
03:48 Iwe ngo bo ibe machei irel sew milel chow ka yai, ngo yete 
ma tawul, ngo tema complain ngo tema fedeg bo ma hamadfa 
yei, mommai yal hamadfa ngang isla madaf irel milel chow, isa 
salap irel mil hololei mom eka mil padpadal chow.  Ngo ye 
mommai yal haskuna yei, iwe ngo plus ngali wol yai aunty. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
The one person that I strongly associate with weaving is 
Modesta.  The reason I associate weaving with her is because 
she was the one who taught me how to make a warp and how 
to weave. She was the first person who taught me weaving.  
When I make mistakes with my weaving, she does not shout, 
complain, or spank me, but she explains it to me in a good way 
until I know where I made the mistake.  Now I am good at 
warping, but I still need to learn more about how to weave.  For 
the warping, I can make all the supplemental warp patterns, 
especially for the edge of the lavalava. Plus, she is my aunty. 
 
 
04:36 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:49 Yela paling pelal deur ngal yei mil mala, ila mala meka 
wulyetigei re kelangalyei bo, wululul mulwe re kawre ngal yei le 
sew fermel le important le ibe gula farul, iwe mo mala wol sew 
hapalpal le towe mol le hobela lefechig ngo ho yaya fathal 
chog mengag.  hobla lefichig ngo ho need hobele yaya        
05:21 deur, ngo ho need hobe kai be mol be gel chog hosa feur 
hapalem, yok, be ngang chog isa feur haplei ngo ite need ibe 
depend doh wol semal. Iwe ngo ho need hobe wol kai bo sew 
formel le important ngalir, ngalir yarmat ke igla, yarmat. Bo 
bala yor mele yewel doh millal mes ngo deur mele sitaptap mil 
fang. 06:01 Iwe ngo, mo meka milal baking hobe faru sew formel 
le ye tafel mo wol fului, ngo community ma fang punishment 
ngo deur mele hachuchuyal punishment. Mo yach sibe hawasi 
lol semal hare fedeg le be loh ngo deur mele hatefalel paluyal 
cha.  Makala wehaha hare mada.  Ikla mekla ngang igula le 
sima taptap deur iyang le important. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving lavalava is important to me because my parents have 
showed me the importance of why I should know how to 
weave. Also lavalava is what we use for clothing, so you 
cannot go without knowing how to weave. When you reach 
womanhood, lavalava is what you wear. I need to learn how to 
weave so I can weave my own lavalava rather than depending 
on someone else to make it for me.  When there is a death, we 
use lavalava. When you do something bad in the community 
3 
 
that you get punished for, lavalava is what we use to undo the 
punishment. If you fight with somebody and cause bloodshed, 
lavalava is what we use to ask for forgiveness and to make 
peace. Those are the things I know that make lavalava very 
valuable and important to me. 
 
06:48  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
07:11 Ahh… Ngang ila kai doh deur ngo imokawe, ngang ila repi 
doh isa kai deur, yok chow yela hola doh igla ngo wululul 
mulwe chil hafedeg loh chog, chil imokawe ngang ikai doh 
chog irel yath ye la igla ngo chil yila sangal loh chog.  Far 
Imokawe yathkawe mil muswe mele ngang itugla. 
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving hasn’t changed since I started learning how to 
weave. What I saw when I started to learn is still the same as 
now. I don’t know about weaving from the past. 
  
07:37 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
07:55 Yidipli bo ibe kangalur bo rebe kai deur bo ilang towe 
wares irel ahh luwul ralkalai. Te need bo yarmat rebe feur 
ngalir hapaler mo te need bo rebe hafalpeche semal be feur 
hapaler bo rochokala rebe feur hapal le rotowe molow ngali 
chog ye siyal yar lames bo rebe feur ngali chog hapal. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I would tell them to learn how to weave because then they 
would not have a hard time in the future. If they know how to 
weave, they will not depend on people to make lavalava for 
them. They will not depend on their parents to weave lavalava 
for them. Being in a situation where a grown-up girl does not 
know how to weave is not good in our culture.