AFC 2020/004: 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
Suzan Shown Harjo 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Suzan Shown Harjo, 2020 
 
Speaker: Suzan Shown Harjo 
Date of recording: August 14, 2020 
Location: Washington, D.C., poet’s home 
Length: 14 minutes, 29 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
[Suzan Shown Harjo reads “Welcoming Home Living Beings”] 
 
Suzan Shown Harjo:  “Welcoming Home Living Beings” is a very important poem to me because 
it’s about the ceremoniousness of what we were trying to do with federal law, and how we 
were trying to have the human rights of Native peoples recognized when it came to reclaiming 
our ancestors and our sacred objects from places that had held them for a long time. So it was 
museums and federal agencies and educational institutions, where they were either a part of 
the Smithsonian, which was the first repatriation law we got as part of the National Museum of 
the American Indian Act, or whether we were talking about anything that was a holding 
repository that had a federal nexus. And so it represents several decades of my life devoted to 
working with other Native people all around the country to build larger and more expansive 
and more inclusive coalitions that really enabled us to write legislation that was intended to 
allow the greatest number of people possible, with different traditions and different values and 
different principles and tenants of religion and requirements of ceremony, to take advantage of 
the law. And that’s very hard to do because laws are kind of cookie cutter like, and these were 
not those kinds of laws. So when you read the laws themselves, they’re different from a lot of 
laws that sound more like regulations—are more technical than not.  
 
Our main purpose in developing those laws was to try to get as many categories of people and 
things returned to the Native peoples, to the relatives and to the descendants of them, and 
return to their original purpose; so if, for example, once a person died an item was carved in 
wood and placed on their grave, that item represented the person—was a segregate for the 
human remains, for the person himself or herself. So, that beautiful object, which was made 
beautiful because it represented the person, when that object disintegrated and returned to 
the elements, the people would know that their relative, their friend, that their national fellow 
or sister had completed their journey. That they had reached their destination. So when people 
would come—non-native people and people from outside that particular culture and nation—
would go into their cemeteries and take these beautiful wooden carvings from the graves, they 
weren’t just grave robbing (as if you could say “just” about grave robbing). This was no ordinary 
robbing of a grave. This was desecration of a particularly heinous kind because it upset the 
pathway of that person in the minds of everyone that person left behind and it was doing a 
disservice throughout that nation, throughout that culture. It had ramifications. So, it was 
something that really should have been outlawed a long time ago as it was, that kind of 
behavior, for everyone else in the world. And the task fell to my generation to take on because 
it just hadn’t been possible before us. And we envisioned what we had to do.  
 
None of us in 1967 was involved in the making of laws or the making of museums. We just 
knew what our experiences were trying to recover sacred objects and living beings from art 
houses. From auction houses. From doctors’ offices. From people who had had things passed 
down in their families and thought they owned them just because it was passed from one thief 
to another thief to another thief. Even though they wouldn’t think of themselves in that way, 
that’s what they were because not one of them had good title. So, these were all the things we 
had to think about while we were doing the laws. And the opportunities that I got being able to 
approach it through poetry brought me face to face with the same considerations. The same 
dreams. The same nightmares. The same horror stories from the past and the present. The 
same kinds of bad guys that exist every place. And the release was that every single word did 
not have to be perfect. It had to be perfect in a poetry sense that you struggle with this word or 
that word. You do choose your words so carefully to get the point across. But it doesn’t have 
the same charge as a word in a law, where one word can cause your greatest aspiration to fail 
or to succeed and can do tremendous harm if not done right. So, there was a relief in that the 
poems could be poems. Could be stories we told to others about why we did what we did and 
what now and what since then and what else is needed. And it didn’t have to be a legal 
justification with a citation or anything it was done in the language and the cadence of 
ceremony which is orderly and disciplined and fluid and beautiful. There are no jagged edges in 
ceremony. There are no squares in ceremony. There are lots and lots of concentric circles. 
Everything is spherical. There are lots of wavy lines. There’s a different kind of constellation 
that’s set for ceremonies that’s very different from any other thing and it is meant to be. And is 
meant to be a very private kind of thing.  
 
So, while in my poems there’s nothing that is disclosed that should not be disclosed, there is a 
feel and a rhythm of what is being experienced and the conflicting emotions that exist at such a 
time. It’s quite dramatic and it’s a looking both ways: You’re looking behind you; you’re looking 
way ahead of you; and you’re depending on everyone to your sides and all around you to push 
that forward look the farthest that you possibly can, so that when you’re envisioning you’re 
envisioning for a long time and to the future, and you’re trying to do everything in such a 
precise way that it might become its own key to a passage of time. 
 
END OF RECORDING