Kate Lott - Feb 10 2022
Tue, 6/7 4:54PM
31:10
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
cows, dairy, tillamook, feed, milk, farmers, vet, people, animals, laughs, cattle, grass, mkay,
veterinarian, barns, ruminants, ration, dairy cows, horses, eat
SPEAKERS
Kate Lott, Jared Schmidt
Jared Schmidt 00:01
All right, today is January 10th, it's a Monday. This is Jared Schmidt with Dr. Kate Lotte, at, the
Director of Farm Services at the Tillamook Creamery. Dr. Lotte, do I have your consent to
record this interview before we proceed?
Kate Lott 00:20
Yes.
Jared Schmidt 00:20
Great. Well, thank you. Do you prefer Dr. Lotte, or Kate, or...?
Kate Lott 00:25
Kate is fine. A lot of people call me Dr. Kate, so...[Laughs]
Jared Schmidt 00:31
I like that. Well, Kate, I was wondering if you could begin by introducing yourself, when you
were born, where you're from, and how you ended up in, in your current position.
Kate Lott 00:45
Yeah, so my name's Kate Lotte, uh, originally Kate McCarthy, and I was actually born in
Michigan. But, I, my parents are both longtime Oregonians, as well as both of my
grandmother's longtime Oregonians, so, I have a long history both in Tillamook and in the Hood
K
K
K
© 
grandmother's longtime Oregonians, so, I have a long history both in Tillamook and in the Hood
River Valley. So, I grew up there. My parents have an orchard, mostly pears, some apples,
some cherries in the Hood River Valley on the side of Mount Hood. My mom grew up here in
Tillamook, my grandma's lived here almost her entire life. And, so I have strong roots in
Tillamook County, as well, kind of only peripherally to the dairy industry. Just seeing it, going to
the creamery as a kid, you know, eating toMac products my whole entire life. I wanted to be a
veterinarian since I was about 12 years old. So, for me, that was a dream to be a mixed animal,
veterinarian practice, you know, cats, dogs, maybe some cows. My dad had beef cows. I had
sheep in 4H. So I had experience with a lot of different animals. I went to Linfield College in
McMinnville [Oregon]. I got my degree there and then went to vet school at Michigan State. So I
spent some time in the Midwest, and my first year in vet school was really where I found out
about dairy cows in general, dairy medicine. Had a summer job in the mastitis lab and basically
fell in love with dairy cows production medicine, the data analysis that goes on with that, the
herd health, really thinking about it in terms of a herd and not individual animals. So I, I started
my career, basically, going through vet school there, getting interested in large animal, and
then I worked on a dairy when I graduated vet school. So I did an internship, basically, for a
year on 3,600 cow dairy, and then practiced in Michigan for eight years before I moved back
here to the Pacific Northwest.
Jared Schmidt 02:57
Mkay.
Kate Lott 02:57
I ran a dairy in Washington, I actually married a dairy farmer from Michigan. So, we did some
dairy stuff, kind of all over. Practiced in Washington, and then in Oregon, and then got a job
here in Tillamook as a practicing dairy veterinarian, so I drove around in my truck, went to
dairies all day, every day. Production herd health, so a lot of preventative medicine,
vaccinations, pregnancy checks, some sick cow work, obviously, you know, delivering calves,
doing surgeries is about my favorite thing in the world. So, if I can do a C-section, fix a twisted
stomach, those types of things, doing surgery in a barn, that's, that's my dream job all day,
every day. I love surgery, I should have just been a surgeon. But it's hard to be a cow surgeon
full time, all day, every day [Both laugh]. So I have to find some other way to support myself.
Worked with a lot of the farmers here, obviously, that are members of the co-op. And so, I was
approached by some of them about four and a half years ago, wondering if I wanted this job at
the Creamery. It was offered as a promotion and I joke that maybe it wasn't really a promotion,
but it's been great. And it's been an experience that, that I'm glad I did. I still really miss clinical
practice and working out in barns every day. But I'm hoping that I'm still, you know, serving a
purpose. I have a great team that I lead here at Tillamook, and that's been probably one of the
best things about, about this job is bringing together a group of people that want to work for
farmers, and so, we support the farmers across a lot of different things. And I don't know how
much Chandra told you about her role, and how long she's been here, but that's been, you
know, she's a really great communicator with the farmers. We do the newsletter for them every
month, a lot of communications emails, etc., information. And then I have a field team that
basically works with the farmers on everything from, you know, manure handling, milk quality,
cow health, you know, water sampling, really whatever it is, to help farmers basically get milk
here to the creamery, so we can make products.
K
Jared Schmidt 03:56
Why? Why is that?
Kate Lott 05:08
That's awesome. You mentioned that you were drawn to cows and cattle in, during your
veterinary training, was it right? What about cattle as opposed to, maybe, you mentioned the
analytics and everything, what about cows over say, like, sheep, horses, or, you know, pigs,
that made you go, "This is...This is, this feels right"? I like sheep and goats. I mean, I guess, I
call it, classify all that as ruminants. I am not a horse person at all. I hate horses. I don't want to
work on horses. I'm scared of horses. So, I don't know that there's really an upside to the cow
part more than I think cows are very interesting. Their physiology is interesting, being a
ruminant, processing the feed that they, that they do. I'm a very scientific person. So, I guess,
understanding all that. I had a lot of experience with cattle and sheep. And so, I think I have a, I
have a love for them that's been longer than vet school. It was really the dairy side, which was,
I think, just the very organized fashion of which we raise cattle for dairy, milk them every day.
Again, the analytics, beef cows, really, there isn't as much potential data. There's also not as
many jobs, actually, for veterinarians in anything other than dairy.
Jared Schmidt 07:03
Hmm.
Kate Lott 07:04
There's a few beef feedlot jobs around the country, very few sheep specific or goat specific, and
even fewer pigs specific, you know, veterinary practices. And so, dairies, I guess more of an
opportunity if you're a young graduated veterinarian.
Jared Schmidt 07:22
Why, why do you think that is? Is it that there's more for dairy cows than you said, than, for
pigs or sheep or even beef cows, beef cattle?
Kate Lott 07:34
There's all, in the poultry and pig industry for sure, there's very specific, I would say, housing
requirements of those two animals and production systems.
Jared Schmidt 07:46
Mhm.
K
K
K
Kate Lott 07:46
And a lot of that has been dictated by the companies Tyson, you know, Smithfield and, and
therefore, those facilities, often with thousands of animals and various facilities are all
operating under one veterinarian, doing specific things, maybe less hands on stuff for
veterinarians. The dairy industry is still very, I don't want to say unorganized, but very
independent. The dairyman, I mean, there's dairy men of all sizes all across the country, 34,000
of them doing dairy in maybe 34,000 different ways. I mean, literally.
Jared Schmidt 08:28
Yeah.
Kate Lott 08:28
And so, there's not as much consolidation and maybe streamlining of the process, as there are,
in, I would say, beef, pigs, and poultry.
Jared Schmidt 08:39
Mhm.
Kate Lott 08:40
So, I think there's just more opportunity for veterinarians to be involved and help farmers with
each individual problem,
Jared Schmidt 08:49
Mkay.
Kate Lott 08:49
issue, situation, versus having kind of a set up. I mean, like poultry, where it's pretty much just
one way.
Jared Schmidt 08:59
[Laughs] Chickens are this way, and that's all there is to it.
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 09:03
Right? I mean, they're they're raised one way, I mean, there's layers are broilers, and I mean,
it's pretty,
Jared Schmidt 09:08
Right.
Kate Lott 09:09
I would say, less places for things to go wrong, maybe? I don't know.
Jared Schmidt 09:14
I like that.
Kate Lott 09:14
I'm not a bird person, either, so I definitely would not have done birds.
Jared Schmidt 09:18
So we're not horses, and we're not we're not chickens.
Kate Lott 09:20
Yeah, I know what I don't like for sure. So...
Jared Schmidt 09:22
[Laughs] I mean, you know, I've worked with some large horses in the past and, you know, I get
that the fear is there with their size. So...
Kate Lott 09:33
Yeah, so...I think cows are more predictable, maybe easier to read.
Jared Schmidt 09:39
Mkay.
K
K
K
K
K
Mkay.
Kate Lott 09:40
So, I yeah, I just, I don't know that there's a reason why I love them, but I do. And, and I really,
will, I really like supporting farmers in whatever way I can. In terms of, I mean, I have a
spreadsheet open on my computer, a year end data, that I'm trying to analyze for all of our
farmers so we can send them, you know, report. Whatever I can do to help them train
employees, work on animal health, obviously.
Jared Schmidt 10:06
Right.
Kate Lott 10:06
My role as a veterinarian is, is, obviously, always looking out for cows and their health. But, I
also, you know, really want to make sure people and the environment, as well, are, you know,
we can do the best that we can for them while we dairy farm.
Jared Schmidt 10:23
Mkay. You mentioned earlier that cattle are ruminants, right? How would you define a
ruminant?
Kate Lott 10:32
So it's all about their stomach.
Jared Schmidt 10:35
Kay.
Kate Lott 10:35
They have four parts to their stomach, and one of them is the rumen. So, basically, a lot of
cloven foot animals, whether it's deer, elk, sheep, goats, cows, bison, whatever it is, a whole
group of them, right, are able to eat food and fermented in this giant rumen.
Jared Schmidt 10:57
Mhm.
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 10:58
And that's different than, you know, monogastrics like us, or dogs or pigs, which only have one
stomach. Different than horses, which actually ferment a lot of their feed in the hind gut.
Horses and rabbits are fermenting food, too, but it's in a different location. And even llamas
and alpacas, they have a different system with only three compartments. So it's just interesting
to have the different, different ways, basically, that they can take pretty fibrous food that we
can't digest, you know, really stemmy grass and things that have cellulose and hemicellulose in
them, and digest them, and make lovely milk and meat. So...
Jared Schmidt 11:42
Mkay. How does, I guess, the, from your perspective as a vet, and also working with the
farmers, their digestion and their being ruminants, how does that impact, you know, your
operations, like, with feed, environment, you mentioned as being important. Does that impact
things at all, or?
Kate Lott 12:04
Yeah, so cattle are actually, I mean, people think they just go out and eat grass and
everything's fine. Which they can, they can definitely live on just grass somewhere. We have to
remember that dairy cows are very high production animals, so a lot like high performing
athletes. And they're getting a very, very high amount of, of feed, and also a very well balanced
ration with a lot of different feed. So, a lot of farmers are feeding grass in pretty high
quantities, especially in Tillamook, because we can grow so much grass. We don't have the
heat here to grow corn, or soybeans, or alfalfa, or some of the other crops that you might feed
to cattle. So we have to import a lot of that extra feed. So we're trying to maximize the grass
growth and we grow a lot of grass and a lot of good high quality grass that has protein and
energy for cows.
Jared Schmidt 12:37
Mhm. Mhm.
Kate Lott 13:06
We also can grow some corn, chop it is corn silage. And that means that we can chop the whole
entire plant and cattle can use that, they can eat the leaves, the stalk, the cob, the corn.
Jared Schmidt 13:19
Mhm.
K
K
K
Kate Lott 13:19
So very little of that whole thing is corn, right, when you chop up the whole corn plant. So we
can grow a lot of tons of feed as corn silage, ferment that as silage, and then feed it to cows
mixed with a lot of other things. And we feed a lot of other byproducts.
Jared Schmidt 13:39
Mhm.
Kate Lott 13:40
So a lot of things that come from the food industry is that pulpy fibrous stuff of plants that
we're not going to use.
Jared Schmidt 13:49
Yeah.
Kate Lott 13:50
So, soybean meal, we squeeze the oil out, canola, we squeeze the oil out for us to use, and
then there's the pulpy seed part left. Cows can eat that, get energy, fiber, fat, minerals,
vitamins from that.
Jared Schmidt 14:06
Mkay.
Kate Lott 14:06
And so it's a great way to recycle, it's a great way to use a lot of feed stuffs. You've probably
heard, I mean, if you're on the Northwest coast, brewers grains, a lot of breweries are using,
you know, that material and they need to get rid of it.
Jared Schmidt 14:23
Mhm.
Kate Lott 14:23
So, that's something we can use for cows. Cotton seed, we can actually take the cotton off, use
K
K
K
K
K
So, that's something we can use for cows. Cotton seed, we can actually take the cotton off, use
it for clothes,
Jared Schmidt 14:31
Mhm.
Kate Lott 14:32
and then get that seed and use it for feed. And so it has a really nice fat amount, fiber amount.
Jared Schmidt 14:41
Mkay.
Kate Lott 14:41
And cows can digest that through their rumen, get nutrients, and recycle in the process. So
that's, that's a huge thing that I think people don't understand, potentially, is that we can use a
lot of that feed that wouldn't, wouldn't be used for people and recycle it through cows, as really
high quality nutrients to make, to make milk and meat.
Jared Schmidt 15:09
Okay, yeah, I mean, I guess, whenever you drive by you essentially just see cows eating the
grass as you're driving by in the field and you never really see what else is going on. So,
maybe, that kind of shapes people's popular imagination of what cows eat. Then, you, and you
mentioned, like, the different kinds of feed. Does does the Creamery, or do the farmers provide
the feed? Is it all the same feed across the farms? Or, is it dependent on individual farmers
what, like, additional fee they get, or?
Kate Lott 15:44
Yeah, it's very, very variable across our farms and...Not so much the ingredients. So, some of
the ingredients I listed and probably, you know, a dozen more. That's what dairy cows are fed
all over the country.
Jared Schmidt 16:00
Okay.
Kate Lott 16:02
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 16:02
They're in different amounts and different rations based on the herd of cows, their amount of
milk production, and the amount of feed that people are growing here in Tillamook, the amount
that they want to purchase. Some farmers, tends to be smaller ones with less infrastructure
here, will often buy a grain mix.
Jared Schmidt 16:24
Okay.
Kate Lott 16:24
Where some of the bigger ones are buying the individual ingredients, mixing the product here
on their farm as a full ration. So there's kind of every different way, we have some farmers here
that are grazing, very intensively, rotationally grazing and they're, they're getting a lot of grass
as feed material to their cows with very little extra supplement. Where there's a lot of dairies
here where cows are inside, in freestall barns most of the year, not grazing, not getting a
significant amount from actually chewing grass off the ground.
Jared Schmidt 17:02
Mkay.
Kate Lott 17:02
They, they're probably cutting grass with a machine, providing it to the cows, but the cows
aren't necessarily going out there and grazing. It's, it's really dependent on the farm, the
situation, the ground they have. We have some farms, you know, not a lot of ground potentially
around their barn for cows to go out and graze but maybe a whole 'nother area where they can
go and cut grass and corn, bring it to their cows. This time of year, there's not a lot of cows out
because it's flooded.
Jared Schmidt 17:33
[Laughs] Yeah.
Kate Lott 17:33
And so, we have to have barns for these cows to live in multiple months a year. Anyway, and
so, a lot of people have made it consistent throughout the year, keep them in the barns, feed
them.
Jared Schmidt 17:45
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 17:45
Mhm.
Kate Lott 17:45
Basically pile up a big pile of feed every day. Cows are pretty spoiled. People don't, I don't think
realize that dairy cows really don't have to do much.
Jared Schmidt 17:56
Mhm.
Kate Lott 17:58
Fourteen hours a day sleeping or resting, ruminating, laying there. I want to come back as a
cow, I tell people a lot, you know, either someone's house cat, or, or a cow because they're
pretty spoiled. Laying around, someone's cleaning up after them, someone's mixing their feed
and putting it right in front of them every day in a nice balanced ration. Then cleaning that up
for them. They milk a few minutes in the morning, a few minutes in the afternoon, and that's
really the extent of their working life, so, it's not about gig if you can find.
Jared Schmidt 18:36
It doesn't sound so bad. You don't have to wash the dishes.
Kate Lott 18:39
Right? No washing of dishes, or sheets, or anything!
Jared Schmidt 18:43
Folding laundry, I mean, not that they could.
Kate Lott 18:44
No! Someone else comes in beds your stall for you, and cleans it, and...
Jared Schmidt 18:51
[Laughs] You're selling that lifestyle really well, I like it. Then, I was curious, then, how much
does, you mentioned, like our environment, here on the coast, we get so much rain. Like you
said, we literally just flooded in Tillamook last week.
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 19:06
Correct.
Jared Schmidt 19:08
Trying to get the Fred Meyers was a journey. But how does our environment, maybe shape,
how the milk tastes, milk production, and then maybe how the cheese tastes? Does it at all, or?
Kate Lott 19:24
It's, I think there's probably some, it's something that a lot of people talk about. Does the
environment...Obviously weather, and environment, and the feeds can, can have some impact.
I think, in general, like I said earlier, the feed stuffs that we're using in cattle is pretty standard.
Jared Schmidt 19:43
Okay.
Kate Lott 19:43
And even the amounts of forage versus corn versus Canola is fairly, there's a range, there
where, I mean, you can't feed them 75% of the ration as canola. And so, it's going to be pretty
standard across the country. Are there varying, you know, degrees of something, probably.
Jared Schmidt 20:05
Okay.
Kate Lott 20:05
Some taste difference in the milk. You know, depending on some amount of feed. People do
feed, you know, vegetables, you can't feed onions to lactating cows unless you want all the
milk to taste like onions. So there are some things that we have to be careful with, onions,
garlic, those types of things that, that you will have taste and flavor kind of come through into
the milk. So it's not, not out of the question that there are some changes.
Jared Schmidt 20:34
Right.
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 20:35
I don't know if most people can pick that up.
Jared Schmidt 20:38
Can you?
Kate Lott 20:40
Um, no, I'm not, I'm certainly not somebody that can taste differences, I don't think. And we've,
as a company, you know, we have our plant here, and we have our plant in Boardman. And so,
those cows are fed slightly different.
Jared Schmidt 20:57
Mhm.
Kate Lott 20:57
There's definitely a different climate, you know, they get ten inches of rain a year and we get
120. And so, we've, we've done some of that, can we make the same cheese? I think they
found that they can make, they can make the same cheese. Is the flavor always the same even
between batches here? I don't think so. And so, I think that's something that's, that's just
always, it's not a standardized thing, right? It's like wine. You're doing all of that. And I think it
depends on the day. I mean, it may depend on
Jared Schmidt 21:06
Mhm. Right.
Kate Lott 21:27
the moisture in the air and all of that.
Jared Schmidt 21:29
Yeah.
Kate Lott 21:29
K
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 21:29
And so, we've found that we can make cheese in both places, age cheese from both places,
and it's all very good cheese.
Jared Schmidt 21:38
Mhm.
Kate Lott 21:39
There may be some subtle differences that people can, people can notice.
Jared Schmidt 21:44
Right, like some subtle...
Kate Lott 21:45
I don't know if they're good or bad, but.
Jared Schmidt 21:47
Some subtle terroir kind of thing.
Kate Lott 21:49
Right. Exactly, so [Slight chuckle].
Jared Schmidt 21:50
Okay, some, a hoofed terroir, as opposed to just some grape grape terroir. There's, I guess,
then what sets the flavor profile? In your opinion, what you have seen with being a vet, apart,
maybe for the cheese and dairy for Tillamook, as opposed to other creameries or dairy plants
around the country. Have you noticed any at all, or?
Kate Lott 22:17
I don't eat any cheese other than Tillamook.
Jared Schmidt 22:20
Okay. I mean...
K
K
K
K
Okay. I mean...
Kate Lott 22:21
I mean, really.
Jared Schmidt 22:22
Yeah.
Kate Lott 22:22
Like, pretty honestly, I don't. But, I also, I think there's differences, people, I think people tend
to put too much emphasis on the cows, or where they live, or what they eat, when again, it's,
it's very similar throughout the country. And I think there's probably a lot more that matters in
terms of milk quality. And, also, the recipes, and how the milk is, is treated, and what's done to
it even after it leaves the cow. So there's a lot of things that can screw it up.
Jared Schmidt 22:58
Yeah.
Kate Lott 22:59
And so, there, if we're doing all the things, right, I think that that, that quality, you know, may
have more of an impact than whether the milks from Astoria [Oregon] or from Boardman. I
mean...
Jared Schmidt 23:11
Right.
Kate Lott 23:11
I just, I don't know, I don't think there's good science on that.
Jared Schmidt 23:16
Right.
Kate Lott 23:16
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 23:16
There is good science on milk quality. You know, how fast we cool it, that we don't beat up fat
particles as we're moving it through pipes and pumping it into different, you know, containers
and trucks, and then into the plant. And so we monitor all those things, to try to make sure that
we're treating that milk, it's cooled quickly, the bacteria levels are low, somatic cells, low, those
types of things to really, to give, give our cheese team the best, best opportunity and that's my
job. And my team's job is to make sure that that milk, we're getting delivered to the door every
day is the best quality that those, you know, then the cheese, people can go and do their
magic.
Jared Schmidt 23:50
Okay. Mkay.
Kate Lott 24:01
Because I think a lot of the magic happens over there
Jared Schmidt 24:03
Yeah.
Kate Lott 24:04
with the recipes, and the cultures, and that's completely not my department. So, we'll have to
get you talking to somebody else [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 24:11
Okay, no problem. What year, so you said you, we'll back up a little bit more. You mentioned
that you've, you've always had, you had roots in this area for a long time in Tillamook. What
year did you, I guess, start becoming a vet in the Tillamook area, what year did you start and
move here with, for that?
Kate Lott 24:33
I came back here in 2014.
Jared Schmidt 24:36
Kay.
K
K
K
K
Kate Lott 24:37
And I started with Tillamook, my job here, in 2017. So, I was practicing veterinary medicine
those three years, and ten years prior, I graduated from vet school in 2004.
Jared Schmidt 24:50
Okay.
Kate Lott 24:51
The historical dates, those are that yes.
Jared Schmidt 24:57
Yeah. The historical dates, nice. What was it like, what's it like being? Because, again you said
you just focused on cattle as a vet here in Tillamook, or did, you also did other large animals,
or?
Kate Lott 25:15
Yeah, most of my time here at Tillamook was really dairy.
Jared Schmidt 25:19
Mkay.
Kate Lott 25:19
Occasionally a goat, a sheep, a pig. But it's just, again, it's not any way to make a living, so...
Jared Schmidt 25:27
So, I guess, what's it like to be a dairy, or be a vet that works with cows in Tillamook County,
this county that has so much of an emphasis on dairy, what's, what's it like to be a vet in that
setting?
Kate Lott 25:38
Busy [Both laugh]. There's a lot of cows, and a lot of, and there's always a lot of work, which is
good.
K
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 25:49
Right.
Kate Lott 25:49
Again, a lot of it, I think people, they think about veterinarians, and they think about when they
take their sick dog to the veterinarian, potentially. And they don't, they don't understand
production medicine, which is really what I did. And a lot of that is preventative.
Jared Schmidt 26:08
Mhm.
Kate Lott 26:08
I probably spent 80% of my time with perfectly healthy cows.
Jared Schmidt 26:12
Hmm.
Kate Lott 26:13
And so that's, that's something that's maybe hard for people to, to grasp. Very little of my time
was spent, you know, treating sick cows, looking at sick cows,
Jared Schmidt 26:26
Mhm.
Kate Lott 26:26
you know, doing diagnostics. Number one, we don't have a lot of tools to use on farms. I did
have an ultrasound machine. So I did a lot of pregnancy checking with ultrasound, but a lot of it
is physical exam. Being a private investigator, basically, and trying to figure out what the
issues are. Some, obviously sending diagnostic samples to laboratories to try to solve
problems, but a lot of it's trying to keep cows healthy. And again, that goes back to nutrition,
vaccinations, good management at farms, so that cows are healthy, and comfortable, and
doing what they need to do every day. And then you don't have, you don't have issues.
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 26:54
Right. Right.
Kate Lott 27:01
So that, that was our goal. And that was a lot of time that I spent. And then a lot of it is, is
pregnancy checking.
Jared Schmidt 27:17
Mhm.
Kate Lott 27:17
Because we're trying, we're trying to have cows pregnant every year, like they would be, you
know, if they were out in the wild or whatever people think.
Jared Schmidt 27:26
The wild [laughs].
Kate Lott 27:26
They would have a calf every year. And so, we want to have them have a calf, and we want to
know when that is, and we want to give them their dry period, which is two months prior to
having that calf.
Jared Schmidt 27:37
Hmm.
Kate Lott 27:38
They're actually not going to milk, and they're going to be on vacation, and so we want to
know, you know, when that, when are they pregnant, and when are they due, and give them
that two months off.
Jared Schmidt 27:47
Mhm.
K
K
K
K
Mhm.
Kate Lott 27:47
And then, obviously, there's, there's a whole area of this which is calves. Calves are born,
they're young animals, very immature immune systems, that, there, I mean worse than
kindergarteners [Jared laughs]. And so, we're keeping them, you know, germs confined, making
sure they're vaccinated appropriately, fed appropriately, drinking all the bottles that they need
to be drinking, etc., that you would think about for young animals or people. And then working
them, you know, growing them, and then working them into the dairy.
Jared Schmidt 28:24
Mhm. Okay, the last two minutes before, I know you have another meeting in a minute, I was
curious, for this part of our interview, if you have a particular favorite story of working as a vet
here in the Tillamook area that...It can be either a good...or good or bad, whatever you like to
tell.
Kate Lott 28:48
I mean, I have a ton of stories, I'd have to get, probably, actually I did write a book. I started
one, it's not anywhere near anything, but...
Jared Schmidt 28:55
Really?
Kate Lott 28:56
I have a lot of cool stories. Again, I love doing surgery. One that comes to mind. I've done a lot
of C-sections on cows that, I, again I love to do. But there was one night, a storm, you know,
here in Tillamook. A client that I, you know, I'm friends with, out of their dairy, midnight, trying
to get a calf out of a cow. End up doing a C-section. I mean, headlights, there's no good light.
Someone's holding, you know, a flashlight [Laughs]. We actually had power but I've done
surgery in barns where there isn't power, which is hard to do sometimes [Both laugh],
especially when you have electric clippers that you'd like to shave the cow. So, just a lot of
challenges I think people, people don't think about.
Jared Schmidt 29:48
Mhm.
Kate Lott 29:48
K
K
K
K
The other thing is removing a calf from the side of a cow that's potentially 100 pounds, and
you're basically pulling it out of an incision on the side of a cow. So I've got to have somebody,
I'm trying to manage, you know, the surgery site, someone's got to remove this 100 pound calf
from the side of this cow. So, it often involves several people just because of the size of this
animal and the calf that's coming out. So, fun stuff. [Jared laughs] I mean, I have pictures of
that. So, I did, that's why it's in my mind is just thinking about that night. But dark, you know,
trying to work in a barn straw, cows, we do them standing, so cows are standing, but
anesthetize in that area. So, she's standing there, she can locate you, you know, similar to, I
guess, I mean, I've had two C-sections, so I was awake, unfortunately, too, so...
Jared Schmidt 30:45
[Laughs] Oh, my goodness. Well, we'll have to catch up some more. Thank you for sharing that.
I would like to see those pictures actually, that would, of the cow. That would be fascinating to
see.
Kate Lott 30:55
I got hooves, pictures of hooves coming out of the side of a cow. So, if that's, if that what you
need!
Jared Schmidt 31:02
On that note, I'll end the interview to be right here. I would love to see those. So, we'll stop the
interview part right here.
K