1 
Kentucky Folklife Program 
 Interview Transcription 
 
Project name:  Ranger Lore (LOCRP) 
Field ID and name: #0026; Bobby Steenbergen Interview 
Interviewee:  Bobby Steenbergen 
Interviewer/Recordist:  Brent Björkman 
Date:  5/21/2013 
Location:  Mammoth Cave National Park, KY 
Others Present:  n/a 
Equipment used:   
Microphone:   
Recording Format:  
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 audio track 
Duration: [00:49:34] 
Keywords: Mammoth Cave, teaching, Kentucky, National Park System, park guide, cave guide, 
guide force, interpreter, ranger, superintendent, Ronald Reagan visit, World Heritage designation, 
Gothic Avenue, Star Chamber 
Corresponding Materials:   
Forms: KFP2014LOCRP_0026_BBms0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0026_BBms0003; 
Audio recording: KFP2014LOCRP_0026_BBsr0001  
Video files: KFP2014LOCRP_0026_BBmv0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0026_BBmv0007 
Context:  
Technical Considerations:  Audio starts at 1:38.  
Transcription prepared by: Karen Hogg 
 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of em dash — indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates dialogue within conversation. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
Note:  This partial transcription is as accurate and complete as possible.  In any question of 
interpretation, the researcher is referred to the recording itself as the primary document 
representing this event. 
[time elapsed in hours:minutes:seconds] 
 
[00:00:00] 
 
 
2 
[00:01:38] 
 
BS: [Recording starts mid-sentence.] ….the park, his mother, uh, and father ran the gift shop, 
which was a very popular place back then. So, my first encounter of Mammoth Cave was not 
very pleasant. So, as time went on, I, like a lot of students today encounter Mammoth Cave, uh, 
as a student. We came over, uh, on school trips. We went in the cave. We went to the river. Uh, 
that continues on even today. I can remember and I’m thinking that it was somewhere around 
1974, my wife and I, um, brought our first-born, our son, uh, to Mammoth Cave. And I remember 
doing the historic trip. I’m a teacher, a schoolteacher. Uh, I had been teaching about, started in 
1969, so I had been teaching probably about 4 years. Uh, had just completed my master’s so my 
summers where somewhat available. And I told her, I said, “Wouldn’t this be a great summer 
job?” So in 1976, I applied. Uh, I was actually turned down. They couldn’t find a position for me. 
So, in 1977, I applied again. Turned down again! But, had a stroke of luck. There was some 
people that did not, had decided not to come back to work. And, Lewis Cutliff, who was, uh, in 
charge of hiring, um, he called me and probably had a little bit of help because I, like a lot of 
people that started out in that period of time, had a friend or a connection and, um, the core of 
seasonal help, starting in the 19, in ‘70s, and even in the early ‘60s were schoolteachers. Had the 
summer off, uh, was kind, kind of like a local park. They came from a lot of this area. And, so a 
connection through a connection helped me get on in 1977.  
 
BB: Hmm. Yeah. I’ve, I’ve heard a little bit of that story, sometimes about connections, about. I 
do hear it about trying over and over again. 
 
BS: Sure.  
 
BB: And about military service having some kind of— 
 
BS: Absolutely. 
 
BB: But there’s, everyone’s story’s a little different so, when you first came on, what was your 
first job? And, do you remember what that first week was, that first experience was like? 
 
[00:04:25] 
 
BS: Oh, I do. I do. Uh, like, uh, we do now, we had training. When I was, a little bit different 
then, uh, than it is now. Uh, we, we had training and, um, uh, we have training today. But I can 
remember that when I walked in and sat through the training, I thought, “What am I doing here? I 
don’t know that I really want to do this.” Because, uh, they were presenting me in ways that I 
thought, “Hmm. I teach all year. I deal with people all year. Do I really want to do this?” So, my 
first year, I had only 2 trips. I had either the morning, what they call the half a day trip and a 
frozen or I had the afternoon half a day trip or a frozen. So, for 1 solid summer, 5 days a week, I 
had only 2 trips. So, either they were sending me a message, “We’re gonna run you off or we’re 
gonna see if you really want to do it.” Um, I fell in love with it. I enjoyed the people that I 
worked with. It was a great experience. It enhanced my teaching because of the diversity of 
people that I carried on a cave tour. I still do. But as I look back, um, that first few years was a 
challenge because I was balancing teaching. I was a coach. I had all-star games to coach in. I was 
working here during the day, driving to another part of Kentucky and then coming back because 
they wouldn’t let me miss. You didn’t miss when you first started. And so, it was a really b—, 
 
3 
plus building a house in 1977. Um, a challenge, but, um, I never thought that I would be here in 
2014 carrying on an interview with you but, um, uh, it’s been very good. 
 
BB: So, there’s been a thread, one of the threads with your colleagues has been this, have this 
been an educator, a teacher or an educator, and doing this. And then, some people even, Joe 
Duvall or something might move here from away for awhile and then set, settle down here. What 
are those connections? Um, are they as simple as I might think or what do you bring as a teacher? 
What are the connections between that and doing interpretation here? 
 
BS: Well, yeah, great and, you know, in all of it, you’re doing what? You have to communicate. 
And, uh, you’re talking. You’re expressing yourself. You’re organizing and it goes hand in hand. 
Each makes the other better and some of the best interpreters, not just in Mammoth Cave, 
although, I’ll tell you, I’m somewhat partial, I think the best interpreters are at Mammoth Cave 
because we do it every day. But some of the best interpreters that I have ever been with in any 
aspect of the National Park system have been teachers because they have that built-in knack of 
communicating. And your message is only, you might say, as good as you can get it over to the 
people. And it’s, uh, we, we now have people that are, uh, coming here from, that are still in 
school, maybe more so now than they were back then because most people were already out but 
teachers, prospective teachers, um, you can see how they grow. And, uh, they’ve left here and 
made outstanding educators. 
 
BB: So it could go either way. You could, you have this gift for communication. You start out as 
an interpreter. Then, you go and do into an elementary or secondary or what have you or you’re a 
teacher and you love this communication and you— 
 
BS: Well, yeah. It does. It kind of meshes together. It’s, um, it’s a continuation of teaching. Um, 
one of the greatest compliments, now I’m a retired teacher now, have been so since 2001. So I 
can tell you right now and the dialogue that I have with my visitors and, and they ask me how 
long I’ve been here and I say, “Well, now, I haven’t, I’ve been here my whole life but I’m not as 
a perm-, I’m a retired educator.” And I’ll tell you, one of the greatest compliments that people 
give me is when they walk out, and we shake hands and they like the trip and they say, you know, 
“You’re still educating,” or “I bet your students enjoyed you as a teacher.” Because, see, we’re 
still teaching but we’re teaching a different clientele. And school groups that come in, still enjoy 
the school groups, also they can get kind of hairy sometimes, there’s no question but— 
 
BB: How so? 
 
[00:09:52] 
 
BS: Uh, you’ve got 100 students in a big old cave and sometime their voice tends to carry and it’s 
a kind of vacation to them. We have to roll it into an educational classroom. As a former teacher, 
it’s easier to do than people that have never dealt with it. So, uh, Mammoth Cave, uh, when you 
look back to the history, some of the best friends I have, I met at Mammoth Cave, because we had 
a common bond. We were teachers first. We became cave guides and of the group of people that I 
started out with, only 2 are left. Now, that tells me I’m getting older but maybe, uh, everybody 
didn’t look at, in my time here, from 1977 to present, I was here through 1988. I had a change in 
school responsibility and then I backed off. I also backed off because I was fortunate enough that 
my son was hired, the one that was a young child that I brought to Mammoth Cave. He was here 
for about 4 years, uh, spanned lapse of 1 year. And then, fortunate enough again, my daughter 
came here and she guided here through her college days as my son did. And then, she stayed off a 
year and then I came back. So in the ‘90s, I backed away to allow my son and daughter to work 
 
4 
here and I can tell you they’re both, um, have excelled in their careers and they both have to get 
up before people and speak, uh, and their start came from Mammoth Cave National Park. And 
may I add is that I am fortunate enough that as I close out my career at Mammoth Cave, I’m able 
to do that and share that with my son’s daughter, my granddaughter, who is now a park guide, 
seasonal, and she is to be a teacher. So it’s a great circle and, um, 3 generations of Steenbergens 
since 1977 and if you cannot detect a sense of pride that I have in that, then, it’s there. And I 
attribute it all to Mammoth Cave National Park.  
 
BB: Wow. 
 
BS: And the people that’s hired me and it’s hired my son and daughter and it’s hired my 
granddaughter. It’s given them an opportunity and I see it in them, how they’ve excelled but I see 
it in doctors, lawyers, superintendents, people that excelled in their profession. Where’d they get 
their start? Mammoth Cave National Park. Why? Because they can communicate with people. 
 
BB: You came as a teacher so you were somewhat of a practiced communicator and, and 
educator.  
 
BS: Mm hmm. 
 
BB: Those first days where you’re learning how to do the cave talk, er, is there a mentorship kind 
of, um, aspect to it? Are there, are there people that you can about or maybe a story about how I 
learned such-and-such from them or I, and you don’t have to name names or how I, I, maybe you 
developed your own style over time as your, can you speak to that?  
 
BS: Well, I can tell you that we train people better, different today then when I started out. See, I 
came in and I’m so thankful that I did, I came in on the wave of people that actually started in the 
‘40s and the ‘50s and the ‘60s. So, uh, I can tell you right now the first time that I guided a cave 
tour, not by choice. I was with, I know exactly, and I’ll tell you the, Jack Borden, rest his soul, 
and Don Webb, who still lives, is a great friend of mine. Three of us were together, oh green 
guide like me didn’t know any better and I was the last one. They were the front two and they 
walked up and turned to the crowd and said, “I’d like to introduce,” this was before 160 people 
now. “I’d like to introduce your guide.” They walked into the cave and there I stood. So, my first 
time I guided a group of people in the cave was is kind of like the old way to learn to swim. Pitch 
yourself in the creek. You either swim or you drown. Well, I was gonna either talk or drown. 
And, uh, that was my first experience as a cave guide and, um, here I am.  
 
[00:15:02] 
 
 
BB: Was that a bit of a ritual, kind of, you know, every occupation has— 
 
BS: Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It, uh, listen, it was a hardcore group of people. Uh, a lot of love, a lot 
of fun, uh, a lot of friendship, but you better be able to take a joke.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
BS: Uh, it was just a great bunch. We all had something in common. We were teachers. Uh, we 
were local people. We had a little bit of connection to the cave. We could talk about things in the 
past. And, uh, I had been very fortunate to have been around people that knew the surface, the 
 
5 
history better than we do today because they lived it. So, I benefitted from, um, many generations 
that were working here at Mammoth Cave. And, I know when I leave, when Joe Duvall leaves, 
when Kevin Neff leaves, I know when we leave we’re going to leave behind what we know 
existed because we lived it and nobody else on the guide force will be able to say that. 
 
BB: Mm hmm. Um, how is it done today? How is the training different? I mean, just— 
 
BS: I think where I, I think the training is better. I think we prepare people better. Uh, guiding 
today as compared to back when I first started, I don’t want to say it’s more factual, but it’s more 
content-oriented. Uh, back then, um, visitors had a lot of fun. That’s what they used to do. You 
wanted to laugh and have a good time and, and, uh, we, we did that. And now, it’s more content-
organized. It’s a lot more factual. I think it’s great to blend the two together. You can have the 
content and you can tell it as factual and truthful it is, but also to bring the past into the present, I 
think is a very effective way. And, uh, the new people tend to learn to do that by going with 
older, more seasoned guys. We have a great group of people on our guide force today. And, 
people that, uh, help younger people and, um, uh, I think that’s one of the, I, any time you can 
take a young person and blend in with old seasonals that think they’re young, not only do we talk 
about what’s going on in the cave but maybe some, uh, life story that will benefit them down the 
road as well. That’s one of the great things that I have seen that, of my son and my daughter, now 
my granddaughter. They will tell you they learned so much from Mammoth Cave but they 
learned a whole lot more from the people they worked with. And I think that, and I think that you 
can tribute that back to the, the Lewis Cutliffs and the Joe McGowans and the Don Rogers and 
the Rachel Wilson and, uh, Joy Lyons, how can you not talk about Joy Lyons when, you know, 
she came here and she lived her dream. She became what she wanted to be and she was in charge 
and she has set the way we guide today, uh, because she became more factual. And, uh, and 
Kathy Proffitt today has taken and going and moving the, the boat ride down the stream with, 
without any hesitation in the paddle at all. And, when you look back at the many superintendents 
that have, that, uh, I have worked under but, uh, we meet the public first. We’re the ones that has 
to have the smile, the neat uniform, and, um, and there’s ways to do it and there’s ways not to do 
it. But, the people that have been over us, I think have been very, very beneficial to how 
Mammoth Cave serves the public today. And I think we do it, maybe, I say I’m partial, but I 
think we do it as well because everything we do, you have to have somebody to guide you 
through. You can’t take an audio and cassette and you can’t get a V.I.P. to, it’s got to be by guide 
to show, so you have to interpret and, um, I’ve often told young people what Mammoth Cave will 
do to you is that you don’t know yet, is that when you go in to sit down to do an interview, you 
can’t text. You have to verbally be able to look the person in the eyes and talk to them. And that’s 
what Mammoth Cave does to people right now, but you got to earn it. That’s what it does. And 
that’s what’s been one of the special things about it. The cave is obvious. It’s a natural, geological 
wonder that’s nowhere else in the world like it, obvious, but the ingredients that go with the 
position, you don’t know about it until you’re long gone.  
 
[00:20:37] 
 
 
6 
BB: One of the greatest things about me doing this project is I get to learn from, from all of you 
and thinking about how they classify what a ranger is and, and learning about this idea that was 
presented to me by several, but initially, the word David Spence talked about, “I’m part of the 
guide force.” It was one of my earlier interviews and I thought, “Oh. Guide force.” So what does 
that mean to you? Uh, uh, what does that, is it, do, are, are you, are you a ranger and, and a guide? 
Is, is the, how is the guide force a special thing? Was that used back in the old days? Is that a 
new— 
 
BS: Well, I’m a cave guide. Uh, it’s, it can be interpret division. We’ve been called rangers. 
We’ve been called, I’m a cave guide. And, um, we talk to people but the guide force, uh, are 
people that are in our domain. They’re in our locker space. These are people we share, um, not 
only jobs with but, you know, we, we console. We help. We talk. The guide force means more 
than just the job. And even as a teacher, you had that but I can tell you the guide force, over my 
time, since the ‘70s, has had it more. And it is an intangible that you can’t see. Um, it just exists. 
Once, a guide, I give you an idea, um, had a guy that used work here and he was somewhere and 
saw the grey and green walk by and he had to stop and talk about, “You work at Mammoth Cave? 
Do you guide at Mammoth Cave?” W-, wanted to know how things were because of the grey and 
the green. And a lot of the local people that are around here now that were such a big influence on 
me have become very aged. Many are deceased and, uh, even the families still recognize and talk 
about the grey and the green and Mammoth Cave and what it meant to their families. So there is, 
um, but I was interviewed, uh, 2 or 3, well, a couple of years ago, when we had a superintendent 
change and they, uh, Mary came and wanted to talk to me. And, and I told her the success of our 
superintendent and a lot of people don’t understand this, is to recognize this is a local national 
park because what goes on outside the boundaries effects it so much on inside the boundaries 
because so many people that were dispersed and had to leave still have family around that has 
great ties to the national park and in those ties, people have guided here over the years. So, it’s a 
local national park and that gets right smack dab of the past history, getting in to your guide force. 
And so, there is a, even though they’re gone and, and not many are left, they still attach 
themselves to the guide force at Mammoth Cave.  
 
[00:24:53] 
 
BB: After people retire from here, whether they’re interpreters or management, are they, do they 
still keep connected or are they included in, in, in different kinds of things? 
 
BS: We have a reunion every 5 years, a guide reunion. Uh, Joe Duvall is a big part of that. Um, 
it’s very well attended. Uh, people that have gone on, that left here and gone are superintendents 
at other national parks that were basically guides here. We have that. Um, although they know, do 
they come back? Not very often. Not very often because once your family changes, the memories 
are there but you don’t come back much. And, and that’s lot the case as, as it is today. Uh, when I 
retire, I’ll come back initially. I won’t make it a habit but I know its there if that makes sense. 
And so, um, and you know, to your question, um, we have a breakfast every Christmas. Um, we 
have people to come in that were here in the ‘30s, in the ‘30s, uh, that worked here or just started 
5 years ago. Um, we do keep in contact but not as it was when the family was together.  
 
BB: Mm hmm. What’s the most meaningful part of your job today, or maybe it’s evolved over 
time? Maybe it’s satisfaction that you get or— 
 
 
7 
BS: Meaningful, satisfaction, um, when I first started, uh, I’ll be honest with you. I did it because 
I needed the money. I was a teacher. Uh, I was coaching but I still was able to work in the 
summer. I used to be a, a ranger at a corp of engineers. I did that for 2 years, finished up my 
master’s and I, I needed the money. Uh, I had kids to get through school, uh, house payment. Uh, 
so it was money and that carried on, still money and then in 1988, after I completed, I had school 
responsibility change and I left not knowing that I would ever be back. I thought I was done but I 
did encourage my son to apply and my daughter because by 1988, I had recognized that it was 
such a meaningful job. It helps you in so many ways. As I chose to end my teaching career after 
32 years, I thought, “What am I gonna do?” So, I called Joy. I said, “Joy, I’d like to come back.” 
And she said, “It’s changed.” And I said, “I know that it’s changed.” So I came back a summer to 
see, really a summer before I retired to see if I really liked to come back. And I, I did. It took me 
awhile to get used to it because I’d been away for, for a decade. 
 
BB: You start got, doing a little guiding and— 
 
BS: I came back a summer and guided. And, uh, I recognized, “You know, I think this is 
something that, um, that I could do to close out my career. Um, it was in 2000 and this is 2014. 
So now, the 2nd tenure is a lot different from the 1st tenure. Money-driven, now the satisfaction of 
talking to people from various parts of the country, uh, satisfaction of helping a young person 
start their career, um, satisfaction of knowing that this is probably the last job that I will have and 
it’s physically and mentally good for you. Many things but the job itself is a reward to me, not 
only please a visitor but to help somebody on our guide force. And that’s very satisfying to me. 
And I’m not going to lie at all, watching my granddaughter mature is not bad either. 
 
BB: Right, right, right. 
 
BS: Yeah.  
 
BB: Right. Do you have any stories from your, from your guiding time that you could, that you 
might share with me? Just something that, maybe it’s a meaningful or satisfaction or an episode 
that happened or maybe it’s something that was frightening or, or, um, “I’m glad I made it out of 
that situation or—“ 
 
[00:30:01] 
 
BS: Yeah, of course, if, if you stay here long enough, you’re always gonna have situations and 
uh, uh, I remember Ronald Reagan coming here in 1984, a highlight. Uh, I remember a guide was 
on a bicycle during that period of time and his tire blew out and secret service surrounded him. 
Uh, I remember all the people lined up, uh, ‘cause that’s the only president that’s ever visited this 
national park. And, I remember that, uh, like it was yesterday. Uh, also remember, a sad note and 
that was, uh, Labor Day weekend of 1978. I think I’m correct, ’78, the last trip before I was 
shutting down and full-time teaching. Um, we had just completed a short trip and a lady was 
there and I asked her. I said, “Ma’am, do you not want to go down the steps?” She said, “No. I’d 
rather not.” And I opened the gate. She walked through. I close the gate and [makes smacking 
 
8 
sound] she fell and she was dead immediately. And that death, uh, in the cave, because that was 
my last day, I didn’t have, I couldn’t come, I didn’t come back to work until the next summer, 
lingered with me quite some time. And, uh, I remember that I can even walk by that even today 
and it’s been, my goodness, 35 years ago just about and I can still see that instance. Um, so many, 
the, watching a young person guide their first trip and how the people responds and the smile on 
their face. It’s very satisfying to me especially if you have any, um, had anything to do with 
maybe molding that person or helping that person. Uh, the, um, watching the old visitors’ center 
being demolished and building of the new visitor center and the exhibits. And as a Kentuckian, 
forget about employee, but as a Kentuckian and a local Kentuckian, uh, was a great sense of pride 
for me because I had been to other national parks and we were really behind time. So that was, 
uh, you know, ha-, you know it just, as a local person, a sad part was when the old hotel was torn 
down. I was here. And, uh, to see how that historical building was torn down by a decision away 
from here is still a sore spot for a lot of locals. Those are things that I never forget. But, uh, but, 
but highlights? The main highlights come from the visitors, the visitors that you talk to and the 
many people throughout this world that you exchange, uh, families, my, I’m Dutch. People from 
the Netherlands, “Come on over and see me!” It, the people that you talk to, the cave is the same. 
It’s a geological wonder. The rock right there, I’ve seen time and time again but the people that 
you take through. It’s always different. It makes every trip different. So those are always 
highlights and you never know when the unexpected is around the corner, whether good, or 
whether bad. 
 
BB: Did it change the park after it got this world heritage designation? 
 
BS: It did. It did. It put us more on the limelight. People recognized, people identified that, um, 
negatively and positively. Positively, yes, because it’s one of the few in our country. Uh, 
negatively because they thought it was attached to another organization that would, that they 
weren’t in favor of. So as it first got st-, not an issue now, but as it first got started, yeah, you had 
good and bad. Uh, but, uh, aw yeah, any time that you can get any good ink about this place, it’s 
a plus and it makes it more of a world-wide and I, I told a group of people this morning. I said, 
“We’re the local national park. We’re Kentucky’s national park. We’re this country’s national 
park system but we’re also world-wide park because people all over the world come to see us.” 
And that’s, and just to, just to talk and relay stories and, and experiences of life through them. It’s 
very, very satisfying. But, uh, you can do all that. You can talk about it all that, but it’s the 
relationships with your coworkers over the years that still one of the satisfy, visitors, yes, 
absolutely, but the coworkers. Um, it’s different than teaching, uh the coworkers— 
 
[00:35:42] 
 
 
BB: The guide lounge is different than the teacher’s lounge. 
 
BS: No question. Um, no question at all. And that’s the more liberty. Uh, we’re not judged by 
age. Uh, you know, we can be just a big a kid as somebody 21 and, uh, it’s, it’s, uh, yeah, very 
satisfying. 
 
 
9 
BB: When you, you spoke of your kid being proud, that your kids were, had the chance to be able 
to do some interpretation too, family vacations, was it, were you drawn to parks in other parts of 
the country or did you, did you have to time to do vacations when you were? 
 
BS: No. Um, worked every summer. Tried to get in short vacations. Uh, sometimes our vacations 
came, um, you know, it couldn’t come during the school year ‘cause I was coaching and, you 
know, athletic director, administration, so I was tied up a lot, but we still tried to get in short 
vacations. Uh, we took a couple long vacations. I guess that’s the reason why, uh, I try to take my 
grandkids on as many vacations as we can. Uh, because it’s just different as a working mom and 
dad and trying to go through school and, and get them through school and you have an 
opportunity to have a job like this, there are sacrifices, no question. Family’s one of them but the 
positives outweigh the negatives and by me being here, by Lewis Cutliff hiring me in 1977, uh, it 
opened the door of what was down the road that I didn’t know and, um, after my son worked 
here, then my daughter worked here, I could see how it enhanced them, how I’ve seen other 
people, um, mature and mold into their professions. We’ve had outstanding people that are in 
other professions that got their start in Mammoth Cave and they all have to be able to talk, 
verbally talk and that’s, I don’t care if it’s in a marriage, a job, uh, going to, what you gotta be 
able to communicate and what [indecipherable], what better place to communicate is in natural 
geological wonders with a group of people. It just, um, it’s been good.  
 
BB: The, one of the things that I’ve been asking people is that if somebody was coming up to you 
and you’ve kind of answered this already but, somebody’s coming up, younger, wants to do this 
ranger job, what advice do you give them? You, you’ve mentioned communicating, those skills, 
but are there other little tips that, that, that kids, younger folks, coming up today might want to be 
thinking about?  
 
BS: Yeah. Well, unfortunately, it’s more difficult now to get in the national park system than it 
was in 1977. And, you can talk about, you know, uh, lack of money, um, many different, uh, 
reasons for that. Um, young people that get in and they, they fell, they fall in love with Mammoth 
Cave. They want to have a career in, in the national park system. And I said, “That’s good, but 
you’re not gonna get it here.” You’ve got, uh, and you go talk and they’ll say what I say, 
“Resume. Resume. Resume. Send them out. Send them out. Send them out.” You gotta do that. 
And we’ve got people that I have been involved with that are all over the country now, uh, and 
they probably would tell you, “Resume. Resume. Resume” But the difficulty of getting in, I think 
is, I look at it as a negative. The jobs are not there but is, is that not the case in all professions? 
Um, selective ones get in, take advantage, learn from it. You’re probably not gonna have a career 
in interp, now other aspects of the national parks system maybe, yes, but interpretation, um, that’s 
one of the fields that’s reducing because of the V.I.P.s, cutting trips, cutting personnel, budget 
restraints, sad part of it that a lot of people are not going to have that opportunity but take 
advantage of it. Learn from your peers. Communicate. Um, use this as a stepping-stone for 
whatever else you’re going to do in life. And it’s, it’s a great tool. It’s a great, great tool. 
 
[00:40:34] 
 
 
10 
BB: What else would you like to be able to tell me? Um, thinking about coming here and talking 
to me, is there anything else, you got, you got across a lot of great information and very personal, 
thoughtful things, anything about the working lives with some of these people? You know, 
you’ve mentioned, I think, you were alluding to Joe Duvall and Kevin Neff as being a couple of 
your— 
 
BS: Yeah, I— 
 
BB: Go ahead. 
 
BS: You know, I’ve seen a lot of people come and go. And I’ve seen a lot of people that left that 
weren’t ready to go. Uh, we’ve had a lot of death in the guide force. Uh, we’ve had a lot of 
people, the best friend that I ever had, uh, was a Mammoth Cave guide and a former teacher. His 
name was Jeff Foster, best friend I ever had. Died unexpectedly, uh, from a heart attack. Healthy, 
we thought. We just had another death, it’ll be a year this July, in our guide force. Um, when you 
stay around long and I’ll be approaching 30 years, 30 seasons, when you stay around, then 
obviously, there’s gonna be people that are gonna be deceased, are gonna leave, or they’re gonna 
have illnesses, are gonna have tragedy and I can just go down the list and name. I feel very 
blessed and fortunate that I’m here, able to still talk to you today. And when you look back at that 
and you take the little bits and pieces of the people that you’ve been around and mold them in. 
It’s helped shaped my life. I’m not gonna lie to you. Um, because we learn from people and I 
have been very fortunate. Here at Mammoth Cave, separating teaching now, here at Mammoth 
Cave, I’ve been very fortunate to be around some of the best. And not as much now as it was 
back then but from all corners of our country, we were, we say local but there still were people 
that from other areas of our countries that came and actually worked here as well and then some 
stayed here but some moved on as well. But we learn from each other and, um, it’s been an 
education. It’s been a good education and I only hope that I’ve given back a little bit of what I 
have received and Mammoth Cave has done that to me. It’s been very good to my family and, uh, 
it’s provided a foundation for their success and I, I might also add, though she might get mad, my 
daughter-in-law also worked at Mammoth Cave in tickets. That’s my son’s wife today. So, uh, if 
I can, if I’ve been able to give back to other people, to what it has given to me then, it’s very 
satisfying and very blessed. 
 
BB: So Bobby, we’re talking a little bit about the, the trip, the Gothic trip and, and can you tell a 
little bit about that particular tour and, and why you like it and a story about it? 
 
[00:44:05] 
 
BS: Yeah. Yeah. I, I think I had said in some course of our discussion that, you know, around the 
corner, you never know what’s gonna be around the corner. It could be good. It could be bad and, 
and, uh, actually, my partner that night was Joe Duvall. Joe Duvall and I had the night trip, which 
was the Star Chamber trip. And I was at the information desk, um, and a young couple came up 
to the desk. They live in central Ohio. And something that I wish my family had done, uh, their, 
her grandmother, as she was approaching her deathbed, she took a cassette and recorded her 
 
11 
history of her family as far back as she could remember. And so, they were driving, they had the 
cassettes and they were driving down I-75, I’m assuming somewhere, maybe Lexington or going 
down, I’m not sure but, um, plug in the cassette and they were listening. Plug in another cassette. 
They were listening. All of the sudden, Mammoth Cave came up and, uh, her grandmother started 
talking about and I, I, I can’t recall that, whether it was her, the grandmother’s uncle or 
grandfather or great-grandfather but one of the two. But they were talking and she said, “Now 
supposedly, I had an uncle or grandfather that worked at Mammoth Cave and was a carpenter at 
the old hotel and it’s been rumored, I don’t know whether there’s any truth to it or not, but it’s 
been rumored that he, somewhere, wrote his name in Mammoth Cave.” So, the couple came. 
They, they said, “Well, let’s go to Mammoth Cave.” So, they veered right off I-75 and they came 
right to the park. She walked in to the information desk. I happened to be there and she told me 
that story. And she said, “Have you ever seen the name George A. Tapscott?” And I looked at her 
and I said, “I have.” And I said, “What are you doing tonight? Would you like to join us on a 
trip? I can present that signature to you.” So she went with us and we went right up into Gothic 
Avenue, sat right on the benches, and I told the group. I said, “I have somebody that would like to 
talk to you and they’re gonna tell you about a real-life experience.” And so, she did and I can see 
her right now, standing on the little bit of the slope, as the benches were to her left and she told 
that story and she said, “His name was George A. Tapscott.” And everybody looked up, said, 
“There it is! There it is!” It was right above the ceiling, right at the seating, right to the, uh, by the 
benches. And from that signature, then we’ve been able to kind of mesh together that, yeah. The 
guides actually took the piece of paper and had the visitor to write the name and the guides put 
that up there because they misspelled Tapscott. It was Tapsott. Then you look to the left and they 
corrected it on the side and much smaller after they were tired by holding that stick and candle up 
so long. So that was a great story and, um, I tell that every time I go in and always the, uh, 
expression on people’s faces are, “You’re kidding me.” And they say, “There it is.” ‘Cause I ask 
them. I said, “You know, George A. Tapscott was the name.” And they’ve already seen that up 
there because they looked up, in big long letters, all the way across the ceiling of Gothic Avenue. 
 
BB: How satisfying for you! 
 
BS: Great! Great, because it, we can tie some things together of things that we thought, but we 
can tie it together. Plus, it’s a real-life experience and I think it was so neat. I had a grandmother 
and great-grandmother that was living at the same time. I wish I had cassettes of the family of my 
great-grandmother that went all the way back into the mid-1800s. How neat would that have 
been? So when you get a real-life experience like that, ay, icing on the cake.  
 
BB: Yeah and, and the fact that you loved the signatures and the words and— 
 
BS: Yeah. 
 
BB: —you knew where that was.  
 
BS: Absolutely! I knew exactly where it was and I’ve seen it in other places of the cave now. I’ve 
looked and, “There he was again!” He did more nailing boards than he did, he did more signing 
 
12 
his name in the cave so, yeah, very satisfying and, um, I feel like the people that I have on a cave 
tour, um, get a great deal of pleasure out of that as well. And that’s what it’s all about.  
 
[00:49:27] 
[End of recording] 
 
[End of transcription]