1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator:  Shirley Warden 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: June 21, 2019 
Place:  Barnet Town Clerk's Office, Barnet, VT 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen  
 
00:00 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. This is Ginger Nickerson and I am interviewing Shirley Warden at the town 
clerk’s office in Barnet, Vermont on June 21, 2019. So, Miss Warden, can you tell me the town 
and the year in which you were born? 
 
Warden:  I was born in 1940 in Barre Town. 
 
00:38 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, Barre, okay. So can you tell me what your current job is and how long you’ve 
been doing it? 
 
Warden:  In the trash business, my current job is on Wednesday afternoons I run the compacter 
and collect the fee for stuff that people are throwing away. In Barnet, we have a compactor for 
the household trash. And then we have two construction roll offs that people can put stuff in over 
there. And there’s a fee for that, too. So I have to keep track of all of that. 
 
01:27 
 
Nickerson:  And how long have you been doing that for? 
 
Warden:  I can’t tell you that. (laughter) Running the compactor, probably maybe five years. But 
don’t hold me to that.  
 
Nickerson:  That’s perfectly okay. This is great. This is not about specific dates. 
 
Warden:  Oh, okay. 
 
01:56 
 
Nickerson:  So can you just sort of tell me the story about how did you start working at the 
transfer station? Where did it all begin? 
 
Warden:  Actually, my involvement in recycling—and really, that’s my passion is recycling—
and that I started in 1989, and maybe a little bit before that, as a Barnet coordinator for Green Up 
Day. So managing the trash, the roadside pick-up stuff. And then I got involved with a group of 
people in the Saint Johnsbury area wanted to start [recycling]. That was in the early ‘80s. We 
formed a 501C3 or whatever the numbers are, and I think there was six towns that participated. 
2 
 
We built little sheds. And each town had a shed and they collected the stuff at their transfer 
stations or dumps. Most of us had dumps at that time. And we collected all this stuff, the 
volunteers. It was all volunteer. We collected all the stuff and there was an old dance hall on 
Route 5 that we rented. We collected newspapers, tin cans, glass, and cardboard. That was all we 
collected at that point. And then we had a guy from Springfield, an insulation company in 
Springfield, Vermont, that bought all of our newspapers. And they paid us for that, and that’s 
how we paid the rent for the building and kept us going. And we moved that around for a while.  
And then, about 1996, we started recycling in the county. And I was part of that. And 
that’s what became the solid waste district, the Northeast Kingdom Solid Waste District. And I 
was on that board when it was being formed.  
 
04:55 
 
Nickerson:  Can you tell me about that? What that was like? 
 
Warden:  Well, I mean, you know, we had directors organizing it. And we had to follow the state 
laws. And we had a very good person that was organizing it. It was a lot of work.  
 
05:14 
 
Nickerson:  Was that also all volunteer? 
 
Warden:  No, I think the, well, we didn’t, as a director, we didn’t get paid. They still don’t pay 
the directors. But every town that belongs has a director. I can’t tell you how many we started 
with. There’s almost 50 towns now, and Caledonia, Orleans and Essex County are all part of it 
now. Except Saint Johnsbury wouldn’t join. They didn’t want to get saddled with a bill, I guess. 
 
05:54 
 
Nickerson:  So what does Saint Johnsbury do? 
 
Warden:  They do it themselves. 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, I didn’t know that. 
 
Warden:  Yeah. They run their thing by themselves. 
 
06:02 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So when you first started the Northeast Kingdom Solid Waste District, 
was that in the location that it is now? 
 
Warden:  Yes. 
 
Nickerson:  The offices were there? 
 
3 
 
Warden:  Well, the coop, that was at the old potato sheds going toward Burke. 
 
06:28 
 
Nickerson:  When you say the coop, what do you mean? 
 
Warden:  There was a recycling coop, just for recycling. And we collected stuff in that old potato 
shed. And they had the mechanism for selling it. That’s why it was easier to move down. And 
then they did, they’ve been pretty much there since they got organized at the railroad station. 
 
06:57 
 
Nickerson:  Mm hmm. In the early days, when you were just starting the solid waste district, 
were there challenges? Was it hard? Or did everything just go smoothly? 
 
Warden:  I’m sure there were challenges. But I wasn’t that much involved at that. I mean, well, 
each town kind of built their own facility, anyway. It wasn’t the transfer stations. The waste 
district helped a little bit with that. But they didn’t build any structures or anything. (coughs) 
Excuse me. Like in Barnet, we closed our dump in 1991. The state required us to close the dump. 
And that’s when we organized a transfer station. And to begin with, the, not the waste district but 
the other, where we had, the private organization to, it was called the Northeast Kingdom 
Recyclers, or something like that. We had our little sheds at most of the dumps [that] is where we 
located them. And we had a shed up at the Barnet dump. So when they closed the dump and they 
started a transfer station, they just started it with a roll off. They used our shed as their office. 
They weren’t doing recycling. So I did the leg work and the Northeast Kingdom did give us a 
grant to build the initial recycling shed. We’ve already added onto it once. And right now, we’re 
negotiating to double the size of it because we’re collecting so much stuff, just being open 
Wednesday afternoons and Saturdays, it’s full to overflowing. 
 
09:29 
 
Nickerson:  And what towns does that transfer station serve? 
 
Warden:  Just the town of Barnet. 
 
Nickerson:  Just Barnet. And you’re overflowing. 
 
Warden:  Right. Yeah.  
 
Nickerson:  And you need more space. Wow. 
 
Warden:  Yeah. Yeah. It should be overflowing more than it is, because there’s a lot of people 
that don’t recycle, even though it’s the law. 
 
09:49 
 
4 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. So tell me about, you said that your passion is recycling. 
 
Warden:  Oh, I’ve always wanted—well, you know, we didn't have a lot of stuff when I was 
growing up. And I mean, it’s important to make use of stuff. It’s a crime what people throw 
away. It’s a really bad job for me, because I recover too much stuff. (laughs) But, to tell you how 
far we’ve taken it, when my second husband and I were looking for property in Barnet, we 
bought one of the houses that was going to be demolished when they built the interstate. My 
house is total, except for the foundation, it’s all, parts of it are over 100 years old. That we 
moved to the lot we had. 
 
Nickerson:  So you took a house that might have been demolished and— 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  --you made sure that it didn’t go to waste. 
 
Warden:  Right. We also, we built a building that we lived in for three years while we were 
trying to find a house that we could move. That was something that my husband owned over in 
Woodbury. He owned a store over there when I married him. It wasn’t a functioning store, but it 
was an old general store over there. We took the side walls. It was two stories. So we had to 
build the ends in. And so we made it, supposedly it’s supposed to transfer into a garage, but that 
never happened. It’s one of those things that never happened. But that’s where we started our life 
here.  
So, anyway, so that’s what I started. And then we went from collecting the stuff in the 
sheds and we were collecting it before the building up at the transfer station. We collected it on 
Saturdays at the back of the schoolyard. We bought a U-Haul box. They get rid of those after—
and then we bought a metal roll off, which was a big waste of money. (laughs)  
 
12:39 
 
Nickerson:  Why was it a big waste of money? 
 
Warden:  Well the thing wasn’t watertight. And you can’t recycle wet paper. We thought, it had 
compartments in it. And the way it was designed, like if you had a lot of newspapers but you 
didn't have very many bottles and cans, if your newspapers were way in the front, you had to 
empty it from the back. So you couldn’t control how it was filled up. And stuff, the newspapers 
got wet in it. The doors weren’t sealed on it. Which I don't know why it was designed that way. I 
guess we kind of picked it out of a catalog kind of thing and nobody really inspected it. But we 
converted it. We did the bottles and the plastic in that. And that’s why we bought the U-Haul, to 
get the cardboard and the newspapers. And we collect them on, I don't know, do you know what 
a Gaylord is?  
 
Nickerson:  Mm hmm. 
 
Warden:  Yeah. We collected those in the Gaylords. We’re still using those in the shed up there. 
 
5 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Those are those big four-by-four cardboard boxes. 
 
Warden:  Right. On the pallets. And then they can, the waste district comes down and collects 
those for us. 
 
14:05 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So the materials that you were collecting for recycling, were you finding 
markets for those? 
 
Warden:  They were going to the waste district. The waste district was picking them up.  
 
14:21 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah, yeah. So can you tell me that, you mentioned that when you were a kid, 
your family didn’t waste a lot. Can you tell me about some things that you might have been 
recycling or reusing when you were a kid? Do you have memories of that? 
 
Warden:  Mostly clothes, I guess, is what I’d say. 
 
14:47 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Did you grow up on a farm? 
 
Warden:  Well, farm, sort of, but not an operating farm. Well, my folks only had eight acres. 
 
15:03 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. And that was in Barre Town? 
 
Warden:  No, no, no. That was down in Strafford.  
 
Nickerson:  Oh, okay. 
 
Warden:  My dad, when I was born, my dad was working on a farm in Barre Town. And I 
actually was born in the house of the guy that owned the farm. And my dad was driving a bread 
truck and working on the farm. And then he got a job in the copper mine down in Stafford. And 
he worked there until I graduated from high school. That mine closed the year I graduated from 
high school. But we had a big garden. I tell people today I grew up poor, but I didn’t know 
anybody different. Everybody in the neighborhood was, I mean, I remember when they put 
electricity in the house. When we moved there, there was no bathroom. The water ran to a tub in 
the kitchen, it was gravity feed, from a spring. 
 
16:16 
 
Nickerson:  In those old wooden, was it in wooden pipes? 
6 
 
 
Warden:  No. It was lead. (laughs) If you want to know the truth. And my brothers say that’s 
what was wrong with some of them. And we had cows, two or three cows. And we always had a 
beef animal. So we had beef. And we raised pigs. So we had our own meat. We had chickens, 
and had our own eggs. And a few failures along that line, but I mean—so there wasn’t a lot of 
stuff to throw away. I mean, we had the house, it was heated with wood. So papers and stuff all 
went in the wood stove. 
 
17:09 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. What, when you were growing up in Strafford, was there a town dump? 
 
Warden:  I’m sure there was. I don’t ever remember going to it. 
 
17:28 
 
Nickerson:  You said that in Barnet there was a town dump— 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  --that closed in ’91. Where was that? 
 
Warden:  Where the transfer station is. It was on the same property. 
 
Nickerson:  Uh huh. Uh huh. And what was that like, the town dump? 
 
Warden:  It was just a big—they had like a side hill and they just filled it up. It’s where the 
gravel pit is now. As a matter of fact, the gravel pit’s kind of getting too close to it. Because it’s 
sealed off. 
 
18:11 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So I’m old enough that I remember going to town dumps. But there’s 
probably a lot of people now who’ve never been to a town dump and don’t know what it was 
like. Like what days was the town dump here? 
 
Warden:  It was open on Saturdays. I don't remember the hours. Probably something like eight to 
five or something, I don't remember. 
 
18:45 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Was there someone who worked there? 
 
Warden:  Oh, yeah. There was a town employee that worked there. So you took it up and you 
took your stuff up and you dumped it. There wasn’t really a hole. You just dumped it on the 
7 
 
ground and he’d run a bulldozer over it and squash it up, and then they covered it with the gravel 
on site. 
 
19:10 
 
Nickerson:  So did they ever burn things at that town dump? 
 
Warden:  (laughs) You want me to tell you what they—no, I don't think they burned stuff there. 
The only thing that was ever burned up there was the state police harvested a pickup load of 
marijuana and they took it up there and burned that. (laughter) Stunk up the whole valley! Yeah. 
Because you can see it from Route 5. And people are coming down Route 5. And there’s a fire at 
the dump! (laughter) So, and they didn’t tell us that’s what they were doing, or didn’t tell 
anybody. So of course people kept reporting a lot of smoke and a fire up at the dump. So the 
firemen went up, and that’s what they found. It’s like, okay. That was a good many years ago.  
 
20:18 
 
Nickerson:  Were there rules about what people could bring to the dump? 
 
Warden:  No. Not that I remember. 
 
Nickerson:  So what kinds of things might you see there? 
 
Warden:  Everything. Pretty much what we see today. Right now we’re going through, for some 
reason we’re going through, and there was quite a few of them last year, we’ve had a lot of 
elderly that have passed away. And people have been cleaning out their houses. Either their kids 
are getting rid of their stuff or they’ve been sold and they pretty much just, I mean, they just 
walk out and they don’t clean it out. So we’ve only been open, what, three, four weeks? For the 
Wednesdays, the day I work. And there’s been load after load of stuff. And people say, “Well, 
we’re cleaning out Mother’s house.” Or, “We’re cleaning out, we just bought this house and the 
previous owners left all this stuff in it.” And it’s everything, from furniture to what was left in 
the refrigerator. You know, it’s pretty massive loads of stuff.  
Yeah, whatever you needed to get rid of went to the dump. The only thing they did was 
they separated out the metal. There was a separate pile for the metal. 
 
21:38 
 
Nickerson:  And do you know what would happen to that? 
 
Warden:  I’m assuming they sold it, because it was valuable at that point. Although there was a 
lot of it left. They had a contractor come and pick it up when they closed it off, because they 
cleaned that up, too, when they sealed the rest of it. 
 
21:58 
 
8 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So today, like if I was cleaning out, if one of my relatives passed and I 
was cleaning out their house and I brought everything to the Barnet transfer station, what 
happens to it next? Because obviously it doesn’t stay there. 
 
Warden:  Well, a lot of people will not separate it out. We encourage them to recycle all they can 
recycle. But there’s a law but there’s no enforcement of it. So we decide, depending upon what it 
is, which place to send it. If they have recycled it, we can accept it over there. We do accept a lot 
of usable stuff. We have a little trading entryway. It’s not a big area. We might be able to 
improve that a little bit. We do collect books, hardcover books and softcover books that go to the 
waste district eventually. But if we find some that we think are interested, we have like a shelf in 
there and we put books on it. But after a while, we just sort them into recycling. We don’t—but 
there’s a lot of glassware and stuff that is perfectly fine. We have kind of a little swap, I guess 
you’d say.  
Actually, one day there was a lady brought in a beautiful big braided rug, hand braided 
rug. It was like over, I would say, it was over 12 feet. It was a huge braided rug. And the only 
thing wrong with it was the outside braid was frayed. And I was inspecting it and saying, I really 
don’t, I was working in the recycling building. That was before they had the compactor. “I really 
hate to have you put that,” I was trying to figure out, because one of Barnet’s residents, long-
time family resident, she taught us how to braid rugs. And she and her husband, and they made 
these beautiful rugs. So I was trying to figure out if it was one of her rugs. And while I was 
looking at it, another lady came along. So the end of the story is, it went from one trunk to 
another trunk. (laughter) It never hit the ground. 
 
Nickerson:  So just from one car trunk to the other. 
 
Warden:  Right.  
 
25:04 
 
Nickerson:  Does that happen a lot, where somebody’s bringing something to throw out, and 
someone else is like, “Oh, I want that!” 
 
Warden:  Yeah. And we have people that come in and they take stuff out of the dumpsters. Yeah. 
There’s a lot of people that find, and I’m guilty of that. (laughs)  
 
25:25 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. You said that it wasn’t a good job for you because you recover too many 
things? 
 
Warden:  Yes. (laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  Are there particular types of things that you’re more likely— 
 
Warden:  I do picture frames. Picture frames, a lot of the older ones are really nice. And 
doorknobs. That’s one of the things I did. I used to do a lot of doorknobs. I don’t see that stuff so 
9 
 
much running the compactor as I did when I was recycling stuff, and we were sort of all in the 
same building. 
 
26:07 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. What do you do with the picture frames and the doorknobs? 
 
Warden:  Well, use them in places. Actually, last week I just, I made a new price list to hang on 
the outside of the building, and I put that in a picture frame, was one of the picture frames that I 
picked out of the dumpster. It had somebody’s old photographs in it, and they just throw the 
whole thing away. So I just replaced it with that. It looks pretty neat on the building, actually. 
 
26:44 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. You talked about learning how to make braided rugs. But now talking 
about the picture frames, do you like to do crafts? 
 
Warden:  Oh, yeah. I have a craft business. 
 
Nickerson:  Oh. Tell me about that. 
 
Warden:  I’ve done that for years. I do craft shows. I started out, I started out with Holiday in the 
Hills. You may not have ever heard of that. Holiday in the Hills was started in the early ‘60s, 
which I wasn’t involved in it at the beginning. But it was started by the towns of Victory and 
Granby to bring attention to the state that they did not have electricity. It’s very sparsely 
populated. And it was taking them forever to get electricity up there. So they decided to have a 
festival. It started with what they called the cook shack. They had cook shack dinners, suppers, 
up there to draw attention to the fact that they had no electricity.  
 
And then in the ‘60s, when we came back, we got organized as the official Holiday in the 
Hills, Incorporated, to keep them from building a dam and flooding Victory Bog, which is now a 
state park. And it’s still going today. But my initial thing, they wanted old-time things to do. And 
my ex-husband worked at Old Sturbridge Village. And we were looking for old crafts. And I 
said, “Well, you know what? I can dip candles.” So I got my equipment together. So I started 
dipping candles. And I did that for them. And then along with that, I crocheted and knit all the 
time. So I said, well I can sell my crafts and do my craft stuff. And then I got into, I like 
miniatures. And I built a replica of my own house for my daughters as a doll house. The one inch 
to one foot scale. The accessories weren’t readily available. So I started making them. And then I 
started selling them. (laughs) So that’s one of the things I sell. And then I do dish cloths and 
baby stuff and other things. 
 
29:38 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So do you get ideas and things to use in your crafts when you’re working at 
the recycling center or the transfer station? 
 
Warden:  Not so much. Sometimes I might pick up something I think I can use. But, yeah.  
10 
 
 
29:58 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So I got off-track a little bit. 
 
Warden:  Yes. I said—(laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  I wanted to hear about the history of your involvement at the transfer station. So you 
said that you set up the roll off and the U-Haul at the back of the schoolyard. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  So I’m trying to get a sense of all of the different jobs that you’ve had involved in 
recycling and trash over the years. So I guess going back to when you guys were set up at the 
schoolyard, could you take me forward? 
 
Warden:  Well, from the schoolyard, we moved it up when we got the building built up to the 
transfer station. And then, at that point they hired somebody. It was all volunteer at the 
schoolyard. It was me and I had a list of people. And actually, while we were at the schoolyard, 
we charged 25 cents for a brown paper bag. We were charging for it. But it was a dollar a bag at 
the dump. And we had a lot of people that recycled. And we had, I don't know, maybe up to ten 
people. We rotated. And we were only open one Saturday a month when we were down there. 
 
31:28 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. But you were the person who was coordinating that. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  And it was all volunteers.  
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  So how many other volunteers, would you say, were helping you? 
 
Warden:  I would say between six and ten. If you need numbers, I can look it up. 
 
Nickerson:  That’s okay. So then what were you doing next? 
 
Warden:  Well, when they built it up at the transfer station, I was taking my stuff. But after the 
recycling building was built at the transfer station, I basically got out of that. I wasn’t, and then 
they wanted somebody to work up there. So I’ve worked up there in the recycling building, 
helping with that. And then they had an older guy who was running, the compactor wasn’t built. 
I can’t tell you exactly when that was built. But we ran, there was a guy running the garbage. We 
had one office. They took a corner of our recycling building for an office, so they insulated it, 
and he did that. Because it was just a big old open barn, the recycling shed was. And he had that 
11 
 
little six by eight shed that we were collecting in. He had a woodstove in there. Why he didn’t 
burn that up, I don't know. (laughs) He burned wood that people were throwing away. 
 
So anyway, they built the office in the thing. And then he was in there. People would 
come there and then somebody was watching the recycling section. And then they built a 
compactor. But anyway, I was working some hours in, and I was getting paid for it when I 
started working up there. 
 
But then he passed away. And they hired somebody else. And he passed away in the 
wintertime. And so I filled in a little bit on Saturdays. But I told them, I said I don’t want to give 
up every Saturday. I mean, that’s a commitment. And I said, “But I will do the Wednesday 
afternoons if you can find somebody to do Saturday.” So that’s how I started running the 
compactor was. And then this winter, the second guy passed away. So I did a couple of 
Saturdays. But they worked that around. But I still had my Wednesdays. 
 
34:30 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So do you remember when or how long you worked at the recycling shed? 
 
Warden:  No, I can’t tell you that. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah, because when I went the other day, Mr. Marston, was that his name? 
 
Warden:  Marston. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. He said that you had trained him. 
 
Warden:  Well, yeah. (laughs) One of the first times I went up there after we got the shed and 
they’d hired him to manage it, one of the other volunteers that had worked at the schoolyard with 
me, we were talking about how nice the building was and stuff. And he started complaining 
about how much he was getting paid. (laughs) And we just looked at him. And he said, “I 
shouldn’t mention getting paid, should I?” (laughs) We said, no, we did it all for nothing. So, 
anyway. But yeah, like I said, I designed that building. And I had been working in it enough so I 
know about sorting and stuff.  
 
35:49 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So can you tell me a little, can you describe what’s the, you said you 
designed that building, the recycling shed. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  What did you have to think about? What was that like, that process? 
 
Warden:  We had to have the good foundation for the recycling truck to back up, because they 
have a lift on the back of the truck and they use what you call a hand truck to move those 
Gaylords around. So we had to have that. We had to have the door wide enough to move the 
Gaylords through, and high enough. And I went and visited one shed where, that’s why it had the 
12 
 
slant roof, because they had it designed so the eaves ran right across the doorway when you 
walked in and out. And basically I, at that point I used the knowledge I had of how we were 
collecting what we had for room down there. And we were doing that. 
 
The other thing that we were doing, and this isn’t, this is a little thing, but while we were 
at the school, I was approached by the PTF, which is Parents, Teachers and Friends. Wanted to 
know if on the Saturdays that we opened if I would collect the nickel bottles and cans as a 
fundraiser for them. And so I said sure. I said, “But you guys are going to have to take care of 
them.” So people would bring their bottles and cans, and we just collected them outside in plastic 
bags. And then the PTF cashed them in for their projects.  
Well, they decided, basically the parents that started that fundraised, all of their kids 
graduated. So they weren’t involved with the Barnet school anymore. So then the Boy Scouts 
took it on. And then they disbanded. So we were, and by that time, we had moved up to the 
transfer station. And so people were still bringing in their bottles and cans. So we’ve organized a 
Good Neighbor Club. Which Red Cross gave us an award for this spring. In the seven plus years, 
just from the bottles and cans, we’ve distributed more than twenty thousand dollars. We do it for 
Barnet residents, but we’ve done camp scholarships, we fund part of the cost of the observatory 
up in Peacham, that was built up in Peacham. And we help people that are sick or something, we 
dole out [money]. We use the 211 system sometimes that people recommend. So if somebody’s 
hurt or we know that a family [is in need]—and we give out gas cards if people are traveling for 
cancer treatments. Or food cards, so that people can buy groceries if they’re short. I mean, it’s 
not a lot to each person. But we’re quite proud of that. And that started because of what we were 
doing down at the school. 
 
39:45 
 
Nickerson:  So that’s amazing. You’re taking things that people are throwing away and using 
that to help people. That’s great. 
 
Warden:  Right. We just helped a lady who got injured in a motorcycle accident. But we’ve kept 
it in Barnet. It’s only for Barnet people. [Lattice?], we don’t. But I think it’s a good thing. We 
might just as well. And a lot of people, they don’t mind bringing their cans and bottles rather 
than have to truck them to Saint Johnsbury [to a redemption center]. They’re going to transfer 
station anyways. 
 
40:23 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. So when you were working at the recycling shed, what day of the week 
were you there? 
 
Warden:  Probably, well, on Saturdays. Because they weren’t open on Wednesdays when I was 
working up there. 
 
40:43 
 
13 
 
Nickerson:  So could you walk me through what one of your Saturdays at the recycling center 
would be like? Like what time would you arrive? What would happen? What might a typical day 
be like? 
 
Warden:  Well, you have to be there to open up. I mean, you know, we were opening at seven in 
the morning on Saturdays and closing at three. Sometimes we split up the shifts, so we only were 
there like half the day. We’d switch out. But you open up, make sure the boxes are arranged 
properly and stuff is ready to be collected. And then just keep track of people. Make sure they 
put the right thing in the right place. 
 
41:37 
 
Nickerson:  So what are some of the challenges to doing that job? 
 
Warden:  Basically making sure people do the right thing in the right place. There’s some people 
that they just don’t get it. 
 
41:52 
 
Nickerson:  (laughs) And what’s the best part about that job? 
 
Warden:  Well, you’re saving the landfills. 
 
42:05 
 
Nickerson:  Do you remember like any particularly strange or funny things that people bring in? 
 
Warden:  Well, just this spring, I found a couple of bullets. (laughs) Which is not too good. But a 
friend came along and I know he likes to hunt and shoot, so I gave him them. Okay, I don’t have 
to worry about what to put those in. Now they, we did find a pair of false teeth one time. 
(laughter) And it wasn’t, it was in a can, I think. Some kind of a container. Because the container 
rattled and we opened it up. And it was from a house where the person had passed away. 
 
43:02 
 
Nickerson:  And what are the different categories of containers? So if I’m coming into the 
recycling shed, I’m going to come in, I’m going to see all these different areas for different 
items. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  What are those different categories or areas? 
 
Warden:  Okay. If you go in, and to your left is your bottle collection and deposit ones. And then 
on our back wall is aluminum cans, metal cans. At least two Gaylords for paper, white paper, 
that kind of stuff. And then the rest of the wall is, will hold up to four big plastic bags that the 
14 
 
plastic goes in. In the corner is the oil collection, the oil filters and the oil collection. And then 
down the back wall is the Gaylord for cardboard, the plastic bags, the electronics are around the 
corner. There’s two of them. There’s one with computers and TVs and one with everything else. 
Then there’s a little wall. And on this side of that wall, there are 55-gallon drums. One of those is 
for hardcover books. And behind that is the aerosol cans. And then the rest of them are glass. 
There’s probably six or eight glass ones. And there’s a roll out garbage container that we now 
collect the compost and the food scraps. And there’s boxes for the lightbulbs, florescent 
lightbulbs and stuff. And different containers in the office, or next to the office, for the batteries. 
So we collect all of that stuff. 
 
45:18 
 
Nickerson:  And I, one of the things that I saw that you don’t see in some transfer stations or 
recycling places was the egg cartons. 
 
Warden:  Yeah. Yeah. Well, that’s another thing that gets recycled. I mean, they bring it in. 
There’s a while that they didn’t want them in the cardboard. I think now you can put them in the 
cardboard. But people were, if they had hens, they were tickled to get— 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. That was kind of cool to see all the egg cartons stacked up on the shelf. 
 
Warden:  That’s one of the trading things. And then there is that shelf with the stuff on it.  
 
Nickerson:  That people can, if they see something that they want, they can take that. Yeah. 
 
Warden:  Right. Right.  
 
46:11 
 
Nickerson:  So in all the years that you’ve been working in recycling, have you seen changes in 
the kinds of things that people are bringing to be recycled? Like more of one thing or less of 
another thing? 
 
Warden:  I wouldn’t have a concept of that. 
 
46:31 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Any other changes that you’ve seen over the years? 
 
Warden:  Only the laws. And I wish the law was different, but— 
 
46:55 
 
Nickerson:  Which law and what do you wish was different? 
 
15 
 
Warden:  I think Act 148, I think it’s 148-- I almost said 146. That’s something else—was, I 
don't know if I want to say that for the public. (laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  Do you want me to stop the recording? 
 
Warden:  No. I guess what I’ll say is, it was not designed for the Northeast Kingdom. What that 
law requires you to recycle and this curbside pickup that it requires, does not work in our system. 
I think our system was doing really good. I mean, Chittenden County was only recycling like 1 
percent. We were over 4 doing what we were doing. The law did not help us recycling a bit, 
except it makes me a little irritated that more people will pick stuff out of their garbage. (laughs) 
But, and that’s the problem with it. There’s no consequences. It’s fine to have a law that says 
everybody’s got to recycle. But like I challenged a person last Wednesday. He threw in a couple 
of water bottles, empty water bottles. And I said, “You know, those should go over in the 
recycling building.” I said, “It’s against the law to put them in here. That’s what they law says. 
You can’t send that stuff to the landfill.” 
 
And he says, “What are you going to do? Fine me?” 
 
And I said I wished I could. He didn’t care. And that’s not the only one that has that 
attitude. I was very proud of myself when we first started enforcing 148. This young lady came 
in with, I bet she had 30 tall kitchen bags. She had a whole pickup load of them. 
 
49:23 
 
Nickerson:  Of trash? 
 
Warden:  Well, stuff. To go, she put it all in the compactor. And so I noticed that a couple of 
them sounded like they had cans and stuff in it. And I said, “You know, if you sort this out, all of 
the recycling is free. We don’t charge you for that.” So I gave her a list. And the next time she 
came, she was so proud of herself. She had two bags of garbage and the rest of it went in the 
recycling building. Now that is the kind of thing that I like to see. Not, “Well, I don’t have time 
to sort it.” 
 
50:05 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So when you told her that she could save money— 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  --she put the time and energy into sorting things out. 
 
Warden:  Right.  
 
Nickerson:  So you said that Act 148 doesn’t work well for the Northeast Kingdom. Are there— 
 
Warden:  Well, that’s my opinion. 
 
16 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Are there, because, well, things that could improve, you know, that 
could make it work better in the Northeast Kingdom? 
 
Warden:  Well, there should be more things on the list. It only requires that you recycle one and 
two plastics. And newspaper and cardboard. And now they’re getting into this composting food 
scrap thing. That was part of that. But yesterday there was big news thing. And I knew it was 
going to happen. Now they’ve got bears at UVM, in the compost piles. And that’s when they 
said curbside pickup of your garbage. And I said, you keep hearing reports of rabid raccoons and 
skunks. And what’s going to happen when you stick your bucket of household food scraps out on 
the sidewalk? You can’t wait for the truck to come by to pick them up. I don't know that they’ve 
started that yet. But they said, “Well, we’re going to organize it.” And I said, well, you know—
we had a bear up at Barnet transfer station. The compactor has a section like this. 
 
Nickerson:  About a foot high. 
 
Warden:  About a foot high that’s open across that. You run the plunger all the way in at the end 
of the day. We had a bear that would climb on that. And he’d pull the bags out of the compactor 
and drag them up in the woods. I bet he went half a mile up in the woods that we had to go up 
and pick up garbage. 
 
Nickerson:  Oh my gosh. Wow. So what— 
 
Warden:  And they’re persistent. Once they find something they want to eat, they’ll just keep 
coming back. 
 
52:31 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So do you have ideas for what might work better to keep kitchen waste out of 
the landfills in the Northeast Kingdom? 
 
Warden:  Well, I don't know how the district is managing it. I haven’t looked into that. But what 
we do is, think they’re 55-gallon, the bigger garbage cans on wheels. And they put sawdust in the 
bottom and then they layer it in and then they cover it with the sawdust. And they say that, well, 
it helps keep the smell down. But it also, they say that keeps the bear out of it. But we just put 
those out on the days of collection. And then they’re locked inside the building. We don’t leave 
them out. But the compost pile that they showed where the bear was over in Burlington a couple 
of days ago was what I have at home. I just have a place I put stuff. I used old tires for the front 
of it, and I just throw stuff over. I’ve never taken any compost out of it, but it just goes away out 
there. It’s far enough away from the house so it doesn’t bother anybody. But that’s one of the 
things that they didn’t think some of this stuff through. 
 
And there should be, part of the law should be consequences. You should be able to say 
either charge more if you don’t sort it, or to give them a ticket if they don’t sort it. 
 
54:21 
 
17 
 
Nickerson:  So one of the things that’s special about the Northeast Kingdom Solid Waste District 
is that you don’t have single stream. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So what are your thoughts about that, about single stream versus having 
people separate their recyclables into categories? 
 
Warden:  I always have separated. So the single stream is, and that’s, I mean, [unclear] people 
put the wrong stuff in. So it messes up his [the material recovery facility or MRF operator’s] 
machines. I mean, that’s one of the things that he does, that he won’t take in his single stream is 
the paper bags, the plastic bags. But we can collect those because we send them, we collect them 
in the Gaylords and separate it out. And then we, I’m assuming they sell them. I don't know. The 
markets aren’t good right now. Recycling markets have gone up and down for years. But people 
weren’t being careful what they were sending to China. China was one of our biggest buyers of 
our recyclable stuff. So they were getting a lot of garbage. And they didn’t want our garbage. I 
don’t blame them for that. And then this whole tariff thing has screwed everything up. So there’s 
a worldwide trash problem. 
 
56:04 
 
Nickerson:  What, I’m trying to figure out how to ask this. When you’re working at the recycling 
center, is there something that people throw out or that they’re not reusing or whatever, that 
bothers you the most? Like I have a hard time with the plastic water bottles. You know, because 
they’d be so easy-- 
 
Warden:  Well I think those ought to have the five cent on them. I think every single-service 
drink bottle ought to have a five-cent deposit. Actually, it would be really good if we were like 
Maine. They charge five cents on everything. Mayonnaise jars, whatever. 
 
56:56 
 
Nickerson:  Maine charges five cents on all containers? 
 
Warden:  Yes. 
 
Nickerson:  Wow. 
 
Warden:  They’ve done that for years. My sister lives up there. 
 
57:04 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Because I’m looking at, you have a little juice bottle [in a crocheted 
shoulder holder]. 
 
18 
 
Warden:  Yeah, I have my Gatorade. It’s a Gatorade bottle. I took the label off, and it was sticky. 
So I made a thing. I didn’t want people to know I was drinking Gatorade. And I wasn’t. But I 
have to drink a lot of water. 
 
57:26 
 
Nickerson:  So you have a little crocheted cozy around it. 
 
Warden:  Right. That’s one of the things. That’s one of the things I’m thinking about selling. I 
thought, I haven’t had this very long. But I was thinking that. And I was thinking about 
collecting the bottles. And then somebody said, “Well, why don’t you sell it with a whole bottle 
of Gatorade in it?” And then you’d just, then they could reuse it, rather than throwing it away. 
But yeah, but for some reason, somebody in Montpelier doesn’t think, I’ve proposed that many 
times to my legislators and stuff, that five cents should be on, not just carbonated. You do Green 
Up and you pick up tons [of bottles and containers]. 
 
58:26 
 
Nickerson:  You know, nobody who I’ve interviewed yet has talked about Green Up Day. So 
could you explain what Green Up Day is? 
 
Warden:  Green Up Day was started by Governor Dean. No, before him. Well anyways, it was 
early days of the interstate going through Vermont. And he was horrified how much trash was 
along the interstate. And that first year, he closed down the interstate so we could pick up trash 
on the interstate. (laughs) Well, the federal government had a little problem with that. And now, 
this is what really angers me, now it’s been almost 50 years. And now, they haven’t talked about 
it this year, but last year they talked about it. They pay the highway crew to pick it up. Our 
highway dollars are going to picking up trash on the state highways and the interstate. And of 
course the interstate, it’s the whole length of Vermont, one end to the other, I-91 over here and 
then 89’s over the Burlington way. But anyway, and they told how many tons they did last year. 
And I mean, it’s, why do people think that they have to just throw stuff out their window? That’s 
my second biggest gripe, I guess. 
 
1:00:05 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So the other thing you do now is operate the compactor. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  Can you just tell me what a shift operating the compactor is like? 
 
Warden:  Uh—(laughs) Basically you have to open it up, take out the board that closes it off so 
the bear can’t get in. Open the building. Make sure you’ve counted the cash, because it’s fees for 
trash. And you turn it on and you run the plunger back. Then when the hopper gets full, then you 
run the plunger in. And that’s basically it. And close it up at the end of the day. Count your 
money. 
19 
 
 
1:00:56 
 
Nickerson:  So the compactor is, it’s a big machine that squishes people’s trash. 
 
Warden:  Right. It has a big roll off. But it’s an enclosed roll off. It’s not one of the open ones. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. And was that hard to learn how to do? 
 
Warden:  Oh, no. (laughs)  
 
1:01:19 
 
Nickerson:  Is it unusual for a woman to be operating the compactor? 
 
Warden:  I haven’t looked into that. It may be. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  Do you ever get any comments? 
 
Warden:  No.  
 
1:01:35 
 
Nickerson:  How about, you know, I’ve heard that working in solid waste is the next most 
dangerous job, next to police and fire. Do you feel like working at the transfer station, that there 
are dangers or safety risks to the people who are working there? 
 
Warden:  Not usually? I did and I— 
 
1:02:06 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
00:00 
 
Warden:  When I was working in the recycling building, I had a guy come in with his little kids. 
And the little girl was, she was like this eye level to the glass barrels. And he was letting her 
throw those bottles in there. And I spoke to him. I said, “She can’t do that.” 
 
And he said, “She’s just recycling.” 
 
I said, “She can’t throw those bottles in there. That’s too dangerous.” I said, “If one of 
those breaks, it’s going in her eyes.” 
 
And rather than say, he said, “Well, you can’t help me. Go get in the car.” And stomped 
out of there. And it was like, I mean—(laughs)  Guess what would have happened if she’d 
actually got hurt? That’s just, and it’s people like that, how do you deal with that? But, yeah, it 
can be dangerous. But you have to be careful what you’re doing.  
20 
 
And that’s why the law is, and I don’t even think that was Act 148, because we were 
doing that before. No aerosol cans in the compactor. Somebody got killed in Massachusetts. 
Because when you’re compacting that, they explode. I mean, there’s a list of stuff. And the 
mercury lightbulbs and the dangerous stuff. That’s why you try to catch stuff. But, we keep 
finding them in the wrong places. 
 
2:02 
 
Nickerson:  But you can’t, like if someone’s throwing a bag of trash into the compactor, you 
don’t really have any way of knowing what’s inside it. 
 
Warden:  No. No. I mean, I’ve had the hopper be empty and I’ve had somebody throw in 
something and it was full of beer cans. Aluminum. You can tell when it was in. But no, you 
can’t, you can’t tell what’s in there. I did have a lady and she said it was her first time. I think her 
husband had passed away or something. And she said, “I have two bags of trash. Can I put them 
in?” And I said okay. They happened to be clear bags. In those two bags, she had four aerosol 
cans. (laughs)  
 
I said, “Well, no, you can’t put those aerosol cans in there.” 
 
And she said, “Well, I never knew that.” 
 
So, you hand out the handout. We have handouts. I started last year running the 
compactor with a list. This is when we open, this is when we’re here, this is our hours, this is 
what you can’t put in here, these are the charges. You know, everywhere you go. But I’m 
doubtful that very many people even read it. 
  
03:29 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I just have a couple more questions. Is that okay? 
 
Warden:  Okay. 
 
Nickerson:  So if you were to start over again, either with the recycling program or designing the 
shed, are there things that you would do differently? 
 
Warden:  I don't think so. I think on the whole we have a pretty good system up there. And we 
have an excellent crew. 
 
04:03 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So what are you the most proud of in all your years being involved in— 
 
Warden:  I think one of the things is the Good Neighbor Club. I think that was very important. I 
think it’s good to give back to your—and sometimes people can just use a little extra, you know? 
 
04:33 
 
21 
 
Nickerson:  So if there was someone else out there, a young person who was passionate about 
recycling and they wanted to get into the field, what advice would you give them? 
 
Warden:  That’s a really hard one. I don't know. I trained my grandchildren. I think they do a 
pretty good job. So we had a couple of kids who had to do some community service. And a 
couple of them weren’t into the community service.  So, it’s hard, I think with young people you 
have to start. And that’s, they, actually I skipped over the recycling part. The Association of 
Vermont Recyclers. 
 
05:51 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, tell me about that. 
 
Warden:  That was a statewide organization that we had. One of the things we did in that was we 
prepared a manual for every school for teachers to use. And I know Barnet School got one. All 
the schools got one. And I think that’s where you have to start. I think you have to start with the 
kids. 
 
Nickerson:  Start teaching recycling when they’re children. 
 
Warden:  Right. 
 
06:29 
 
Nickerson:  Did you help start the association of recyclers? 
 
Warden:  No, I don't think so. Actually, if you want to know, one of the big pushes to start it was 
Casella. But no, you know, yeah, we used to meet down in Hartford, the town manager’s office 
down in Hartford. So I used to drive down there once a month. But that was before the solid 
waste districts and, but it was trying to get a statewide organization to do something. There’s 
been a lot of people in Vermont that have been interested in recycling for a long time as a way to 
reduce trash. 
 
07:32 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So that was created before the solid waste districts were created. It’s fine if 
you don’t remember this, but do you remember around when the solid waste districts were 
created? 
 
Warden:  Actually, this one here, let’s see, October 1996 was when we were going from the 
coop, the recycling coop. And that’s when our incorporation papers, I did find those. I did a little 
looking up some stuff. North Country Recycling, Incorporated. We started that in ’93, so that 
was before the waste district. That was the little sheds. And Association of Vermont Recyclers 
was 1982. So that was quite a while before. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. That was a long time before then. 
22 
 
 
Warden:  Right. Well, there was, that was when, see, in ’91 was when the state required that our 
landfill be filled. And that’s when they stopped the open landfills and they wanted all those 
stopped. 
 
Nickerson:  When they closed the town dumps. 
 
Warden:  When they closed the town dumps. And so that’s when people started thinking about, 
seriously thinking about well, if we don’t have any more dumps, we’ve got to save space, you 
know? 
 
09:20 
 
Nickerson:  So did you ever go into schools and talk to school kids about recycling? 
 
Warden:  Not me, no. Not me, personally. 
 
09:28 
 
Nickerson:  When you were training your grandkids to recycle, is there anything special that you 
tell them? 
 
Warden:  Actually, when they could hardly walk, we took them in wagons and did Green Up 
Day with their little buckets to pick up. And I mean, we picked up everything. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  So you started training them young. 
 
Warden:  Yes. And that’s why I think you have to, I think it’s easier for the younger people. 
Because it’s just people out there that just don’t think it’s, they don’t think it’s a problem, and 
they just don’t see any sense to— 
 
10:21 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. But your grandkids got the message. 
 
Warden:  Oh, yeah. The three that were here that I was able to train. No, my kids do, too. 
 
10:37 
 
Nickerson:  So is there anything that we haven’t covered that you would like people listening to 
this, people in the public to know about in terms of what it’s like working with recycling or 
trash? 
 
Warden:  Well, I think we have to continue to be mindful of number one, what we’re buying. 
Number two, how we’re throwing stuff away that we don’t want anymore. Because we don’t 
have landfills and it’s obvious that we can’t keep doing what we’re doing to the ocean if we want 
23 
 
to keep an ocean. I mean, it’s tragic when they’re finding whales with pounds and pounds of 
plastic. I mean, that’s not a good thing.  
 
11:51 
 
Nickerson:  No. Yeah. What do you think about the plastic bag ban? 
 
Warden:  I don't think it’s going to amount to anything. I take my own bags. [STORY ABOUT 
SAVING PLANT AND TAKING HOME IN BAG, EDITTED OUT BY MISTAKE] 
 
Nickerson:  Wow. Wow. Well, Miss Warden, thank you so much. This has been really wonderful 
hearing this history. And I really appreciate your sharing. And also I appreciate all the work 
you’ve put in these many years. 
 
Warden:  Thank you.  I had a good time. 
 
  
12:55 
[End Track 2. End Interview.] 
Total time = 75 minutes