DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 
Interview afc2015027_03259_ms02 
Amy (Phoebe) ________ interviewed by Patricia Francois 
00:00:00 
Interviewer: So my name is Patricia and we are documenting domestic workers' stories, 
so this is why I am interested in having your story, so we can document it so in years to 
come it will be archived in the Library of Congress and your story will be still heard of. So 
could you tell me your name, what is your name? Is that the name you'll be using to do 
your interview? So today is April 4, 2016. 
My name is Amy. Yes. 
00:00:49 
Interviewer: What is your current occupation, Amy? 
I'm a housekeeper and an elderly caregiver. 
00:01:04 
Interviewer: What borough or neighborhood do you live in? 
I live in Brooklyn. 
00:01:22 
Interviewer: Where are you originally from? 
Well, I am from the beautiful island of St. Lucia. 
00:01:35 
Interviewer: How did you become a domestic worker? 
Well, I became a domestic worker when I came to this country because that is the way 
you start. When you migrate to this county that is the way you start, because getting a 
job in an office or any other job is not easy, so the easiest thing to get is being a 
domestic worker. 
00:02:02 
Interviewer: How long have you done this work? 
Well, it's about 8 years now. 
00:02:15 
Interviewer: What motivated you to be a part of this project? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
Well, because I would like my story to be heard. I wanted to be part of the project 
because I think that's how people will get to know about what we've been through and 
my experience in domestic work. 
 
00:02:41 
Interviewer: Please walk me through a typical daily routine. What are your day-to-day 
responsibilities? 
 
Well, as an elderly caregiver, first of all I have to provide the patient with breakfast, 
lunch, dinner, wash and clean the patient, make sure I keep the surroundings clean, do 
the dishes, do the laundry, clean the bathroom and make sure everything is in order. 
Give medication. 
 
00:03:26 
Interviewer: So you're sort of a nurse or something like that? But you administer 
medication. 
 
No, I'm not a nurse. Yes, I do. 
 
00:03:38 
Interviewer: What skills do you need to be a domestic worker? So could you elaborate a 
little bit more on your training?  So that training makes your work-- 
 
Well, as an elderly caregiver you need to be trained and they give training. Like two 
weeks training [unclear.] where you get a certificate. So that's what you need, training 
and then from the training you gain experience on the job. Well, on the training I 
learned how to take care of the patient in bed, and how to use the [unclear.] in the 
training. Easier. 
 
00:04:44 
Interviewer: Is there some specialty or expertise that you have? You don't have any 
specialty? Something that you're really good at within the job? Or something that you 
can handle, something that you can do best? So that is your specialty? 
 
No. Oh. Yeah, what I do the best is washing of the patient. Making sure that the patient 
remains clean and dry. That is my specialty. To make sure that the patient will not get 
any pressure wound. That is my specialty. 
 
[Static on the microphone.] 
 
00:06:38 
Interviewer: Is there some specialty or expertise that you have? And being happy also 
helps with their health. Help them to recuperate if they're sick. Recuperate faster. 
Happiness is a sort of medicine in itself.  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
 
Yes, I do have some expertise. My expertise is having the patient--to keep the patient 
happy. When taking care of an elderly person sometimes that person is depressed and 
they are very sad, so my expertise is to talk to the patient and keep the patient happy. 
So that's what I'm good at. I don't like to see sad people around. So even if the person is 
sick, I want you to be happy. Yes, uh huh. Yes. 
 
00:07:34 
Interviewer: Is there any special skills you might have taught your employer? Something 
that you're good at that your employer didn't know that you taught her to do? Could 
you-- You teach her to cook? What kind of cuisines? What kind of meals did you teach 
her to cook? You taught your employer to cook jerk pork and curry chicken? You taught 
her all these things? 
 
Yes. It's cooking. Cooking. I teach her to do the curry chicken and the jerk pork. Yes. And 
how to do the bread for that, to cook the bread for it and do it in the smoked herring. 
Yes. 
 
00:08:25 
Interviewer: So how did she get to know about your culture? Your cultural food? You 
enjoyed showing her how to do it? That was a sort of bonding with your employer in a 
form, right? That's nice to hear. 
 
Because I came to work with my food and she liked the smell so she wanted to do it. So I 
showed her how to do it. Yes, I did. She's been doing it from then. Yes. 
 
00:08:59 
Interviewer: What conditions do you face throughout your work experience as a 
domestic worker in the industry? Could you elaborate and give me an example of what a 
good experience was like and what a bad experience was like? So if you get sick, why--
you know, you would have gotten better, you would have recuperated, so why she 
didn't want you to come back to work? So, what made her think--what gave her that 
assumption? Aren't you a human? Because I don't see that you’re mechanical. Just put 
some oil in you and you start going again, because if you're--even a vehicle needs 
attention. It goes to the mechanic [unclear.] car has to go to the car doctor, you name it, 
you know.   
 
What kind of experience do I face? Well, sometimes I have good experiences, 
sometimes bad ones. It's not always the same. Well, I had a bad experience once with a 
lady that I was cleaning for. I was doing cleaning for her Monday to Saturday, and I got 
sick on my way to work and I couldn't make it, and I ended up in the hospital. And I 
really wanted to work with her and I called and told her I couldn't make it, because I 
wasn't feeling well. I was kept in the hospital, I hesitated, I didn't want to go, but I ended 
up in the hospital. But the next day while I was in the hospital she told me that she 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
didn't want me to work anymore, and I was very disappointed, so I'd say that was a bad 
experience. Because she thought I would never get well, I would die. She tell me that 
she didn't think I could ever work for the rest of my life. Well, she's a person that 
doesn't want to know that you're sick. She doesn't want to know that you're sick, 
because when I told her I had a doctor's appointment she was always disappointed, she 
always said, 'Why are you going to see the doctor? Are you sick?" So she just did not 
want to know that you're sick. [laughs.] Yes. 
 
00:11:44 
Interviewer: What is the worst part of your job? Give an example. Well, yeah, definitely I 
could see that be the worst part. Especially when you've got a sick person. 
 
The worst part of my job? Well, the worst part of my job is to clean up the patient, 
because I always want my patient to remain dry and clean, which is an elderly sick 
person. So the worst part is to clean the patient and then you have to smell that odor 
when you clean, so that is the worst part. You have to breathe. And you have to do it. I 
have to breathe the smell because I have to do it, there's no way I could stop breathing. 
Sometimes I cover my nose, but-- Yes, bedridden. 
 
00:12:46 
Interviewer: What challenges or source of tension do you face on the job? So let's say 
you're late one day, what happens? But if you do, by circumstances beyond your 
control, as in the trains and buses and they get caught up, what happens? 
 
The challenge on my job is I have to be there on time, that's a challenge. I cannot afford 
to be late. If I have to be there at 8, I must be there at 8. Well, that can be a problem if I 
am running late, so my challenge is to wake up in the morning and be there on time. 
Well, I have to call and let my employer know that I will be late, and she will understand, 
but if I am not able to call, probably I'm on the train somewhere I cannot call, that's a 
problem. 
 
00:14:05 
Interviewer: How is your relationship with your current employer? Example. Why do you 
say you have a good relationship? 
 
Well, we have a very good relationship. Well, she will go out and do whatever she could, 
she would go the extra mile, she would take me to dinner, she would buy me gifts, so I 
think I could say I have a good relationship with her. 
 
00:14:43 
 
Interviewer: Are there relationships with previous children you have cared for that are 
particularly memorable in a good or bad kind of way? But you have an elder you work 
with that is very memorable? Well what was that memorable moment? Give me one 
example. So how did you take that? As caring or as intimidating? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4
 
Well, I have not done that much nanny work. My work is mostly cleaning and elderly 
caregiver, so I do not have any children to be memorable of. Yes. Well, I used to take 
care of an elderly lady and we would sit and talk for hours and she would tell me about 
all her experiences and about her children and about things I never knew. And one time 
she told me, 'I want you to always be on time, because my children, who are your 
employers, they would fire you if you just come like a minute late after the time, so 
always try to be on time because I love you.' She told me that one time. Well, I think she 
was caring because she was not the one, it was her children. They were the employers, 
but I was taking care of her, yes. 
 
00:16:18 
Interviewer: Do you feel that the amount of hours you work and your holiday schedule 
are being respected? Could you explain? So you see how good it is to stand up for your 
rights? Because if you didn't you would never get that overtime pay, and especially 
when you give up your holidays. You deserve to have that time. 
 
No. It was not respected, but I got respect after. For a long time I was cleaning and this 
lady asked me to come and work for her, it was on Labor Day she asked me to work, so I 
went to work and at the end of the week she gave me the same money that she was 
supposed to pay me, so I said to her, 'I work on a holiday and you didn't pay me for a 
holiday.' She said to me, 'I paid you. You worked and I paid you for that day.' I said, 'No. 
It was a holiday, and if I work on a holiday, I expect extra.' She said, 'What?' I said, 'Yes.' 
She said to me, 'How much do I have to pay you?' I said, 'Well, if you pay me $50, I 
expect another $50 for that day, which makes it $100, because it was a holiday.' She 
was mad with me, but she gave it to me. And from then on, she started paying me on a 
holiday whenever she asked me to work on a holiday, she would pay me double, she 
would pay me extra for the holiday. I got it because I asked for it. If I didn't ask for it, I 
would work until, I don't know, and I would never get paid for the holiday, because she 
always wanted me to work on a holiday. Yes, it's good to talk. I would never get it. So I 
would say it's a good thing for people who work as nannies, babysitters, they have to 
talk. Stand up for their rights and when their time comes, don't let the people exploit 
them, because sometimes they will do it if you don't say anything. 
 
00:18:31 
 
Interviewer: Don't you think sometimes they test you to see how strong you are, or if 
you're going to stand up for your rights? 
 
I think that's what they do. They test you. And if they see you don't say anything they 
just take it and just do it all the time. Yes, that's what they do. But if you talk from the 
first time they do it, they won't do it again. 
 
00:18:53 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
5
Interviewer: Would you say that you or any worker that you know has been exploited 
due to immigration status? Why do you say that? So you think because she knows that 
you're under connected that she treats you the way she does? But do you know 
undocumented people have rights? You probably haven't met the right people to know 
what you can do at that point in time. It's too late, but know that you always have 
options. 
 
Well, I think maybe I was being exploited for immigration status because I was fired 
because I was sick. Because to me a person who has an immigration status that would 
not be a problem. I think so; I think if someone is documented she wouldn't fire a 
person because they were sick. I think that has something with immigration, because 
there's nothing you can do and there's nowhere you can go. Yes, you've got rights, but 
in a case like that there's nothing you can do. Now it's too late. I didn't know what to do; 
I didn't know where to go, so I just left it alone. 
 
00:20:38 
 
Interviewer: Do you ever share cultural things from your heritage with the family you 
assist? For example: food, language, folktales, or beliefs about life and death? What 
about life and death? You're the first person--I think--we've interviewed who deals with 
elder care. Do you talk about those things? Do you talk about death? Do you share 
beliefs about it? Give an example. So you sort of comfort them in that time? 
 
Well, I share with them beliefs about life and death and food. Yes, I talk about it with 
them. I tell them that when the person is dying they have to be prepared for the death 
so that when the person dies they don't panic. So when the person is sick and the 
person is suffering, and that's when you're preparing. Expecting a death. So when the 
person dies, you're not going to panic. So I help them to prepare. Yes, I comfort them in 
that time. Tell them to be strong, because you see the person is very sick and that 
person is suffering and that person is not getting any better and I talk to the family and I 
tell them to be prepared and don't panic and expect anything will happen any time, 
when the time comes they're strong. 
 
00:22:30 
 
Interviewer: Do you currently have your own children or family or individual 
responsibilities that you are taking care of? Can you give an example? You're 
responsible for yourself? That includes, like--maintaining your own self. 
 
Yes. Well, I have no children here to take care of, but it is my own responsibilities. Yes. 
Taking care of myself that includes when I'm not working I have to do my laundry, clean 
my apartment. Yes, my whatever, pay my rent, yes, that's what it is. 
 
00:23:20 
 
Interviewer: Do you manage balancing your personal life and your work life? You want 
to give me an example of how you-- 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
6
 
Yes.  
Well, I don't work 24 hours. So when I'm not working I have enough time for myself to 
do whatever I want to do. I could go to church, I can go to the movie, I can go out with a 
friend, so I have a good balance between work and family life. 
 
00:23:50 
Interviewer: How does being a domestic worker impact your family life? 
 
Well, it impacts my family life because it puts bread on my table. That is one of the way-
-being a domestic worker is a way of bringing and income. It gives you a sense of 
purpose so it really impacts me and my family. You can pay your bills you can provide 
[unclear.] being a domestic worker. 
 
00:24:28 
Interviewer: Are you a member of other groups? 
 
No, I'm not a member of no other group. Domestic Workers United. 
 
00:24:39 
Interviewer: When you are doing domestic work, do you feel supported or have you felt 
like you are working in an isolated environment. So which group are you really talking 
about that you get that kind of security? 
 
Well, at work. I feel isolated when I'm at work because I'm all by myself, but when I 
come to meet with the group I feel, I get support. I feel I'm not alone with the group. 
But at work, when you're with the employer you feel that you're isolated, you're just 
there with the employer. It's Domestic Workers United. 
 
00:25:19 
Interviewer: What do they do for you? Because you know this group, Domestic Workers 
United, will support you? 
 
Well, it's a group where we support one another and we encourage one another and we 
help one another to stand up for our rights. So if someone has been exploited you don't 
step back. If you have to stand up, you stand up. When exploitation comes your way. 
Yes. Especially when you're being exploited. 
 
00:25:59 
Interviewer: Have you had an exploited experience? Give an example.  
 
Yes, I had an exploited experience one time. I took care of an elderly lady who was sick. 
She was dying. And her daughter was responsible; she was my employer. She refused to 
pay me. She would never pay me after I worked. And I got the money through Domestic 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
7
Workers United. Had it not been for Domestic Workers United, I would never get a cent 
from her, and I did everything I could to ask her to give me my money, and she would 
not. I kept calling her phone and she finally--I kept harassing her, she said that I was 
harassing her, because I kept calling her phone asking her for my money. And I called 
her phone so many times a friend of mine told me, 'When you call her phone and she 
don't answer the phone call her 20 times and never stop even if she doesn't answer, and 
don't leave a message. Just when the phone stops ringing call again.' I did that one time, 
I called her 20 times and just the phone ringing and she never picked up, and I called 
again and I called, and she finally said it was harassment and she said, one time she 
answered and she said, 'Is that Amy?' I said, 'Yes.' She said, 'Don't you ever call my 
phone again.' And she [unclear.] so I just left her alone. And that's when I went to 
Domestic Workers United and that's where I got my support, because that was 
exploitation. 
 
00:27:45 
Interviewer: So what happened? How did you retrieve your money? She never 
responded to the lawyers? That could have been very intimidating for you. Wow, and 
you took care of her mother. So after the mom passed away, she discarded you like you 
were disposable? But eventually through Domestic Workers and Urban Justice Center 
you got some justice. I congratulate you on your victory, because you got your money. 
So you didn't have to pay Urban Justice Center? They worked pro bono? 
 
Well, it was a long process. It was not easy. It took a long time; I had to go to the Urban 
Justice Center, that's where I got help through Domestic Workers United. They wrote 
letters to her, they asked her if she could please send me the money, she never 
responded. Did everything we could. The lawyers. She never responded. No, she never 
responded. They called and they talked to her and they sent letters. She never 
responded. So they had no choice, they told me what do I want? I did not want to go to 
court with her, but all I needed was the money, so if there's a way to get the money 
without being in court, that's all I need, because I work and I do not want to be in court 
for my money. So they told me they'd try and work and see how they could get the 
money without me being in court with her.  
 
So they took it to the legal department, and that's how I got the money from her, 
because I told them I was not willing to go to court with her for the money. If I had to go 
to court with her I would just leave it alone. Yes. So I got it without going to court 
through the legal department and when she finally, when they finally got her she said 
that she never knew me and that I was lying. Yes, because she didn't want to pay me. 
Yeah, I took care of her mother who was elderly and sick, very sick, the mother passed 
away. Yes, she never paid me and I kept calling her phone to pay me and she would not 
answer the phone. Yeah, eventually that's how I got the money. Because I really didn't 
want to end up in court with her, I said if I had to go to court with her I would just leave 
it alone because I didn't want to be in court with her for the money that I worked for. I 
would just leave it alone. Yes, well, when I got a check from her from the legal 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
8
department I took it to Domestic Workers United and I asked them to make a copy of 
the check before I cashed that check, I said I got the money, now what I want you--
thank you--and I even asked them how much I have to pay to compensate them for the 
money, and they tell me, 'Don't worry because--' They tell me they just trying to assist 
me and are happy that I get it, so they didn't take a dime from me for the help. Nothing, 
yes, not one cent. I didn't have to pay one cent or one dime for the help that I got for 
the money. 
 
00:31:00 
Interviewer: How long was that process? How long did it take? After Urban Justice 
Center dealt with it? Well, the process took like maybe a year. While Urban Justice 
Center was dealing with that thing, it took about a year for them to get the money. They 
didn't get it right away. It took some time. 
 
00:31:21 
Interviewer: She didn't want you to get that money. 
 
She didn't want to give it to me. And I didn't want to be in court with her. And I said I 
didn't want to call her phone anymore because she is claiming like I am harassing her, I 
don't want to be harassing her. And I didn't want to leave any message on her phone. So 
I just said, 'I'm going to leave her alone.' Because she doesn't want to talk to me. 
 
00:31:49 
Interviewer: So when and why did you become a part of Domestic Workers United? 
How did you hear about it? How long ago was that? Wow, you've been a member of 
Domestic Workers United. So what keeps you in that organization? Would you say a 
house of refuge for domestic workers that have--for domestic workers would be the 
right thing to say? A house of healing. But at least you know what it is like being a 
member of Domestic Workers United. You know how supportive of domestic workers 
Domestic Workers United are? They support no discrimination, they will support 
anybody who comes through their doors regardless of race, color, creed, immigration 
status, they all come through to Domestic Workers United and feel at home, which is a 
wonderful thing, I would say. It's one of the organizations who also organize mostly 
black women, not only black women, but all women.   
 
Well, I went to a meeting. It was a lawyer whose name is Mr. Figaro. He had a meeting 
somewhere and someone invited me to the meeting and then I met a member of 
Domestic Workers United and she told me about this organization. From that, I got 
excited and I said, 'I have to be part of that organization.' She told me that night on the 
next day I was in the office. It's like six/seven years ago. Well, it's togetherness. It's 
unity, it's love, it's a place where people look out for each other. That's what keeps me 
there. There is unity, there is love, there is--they support yes, in this organization, yes. 
Yeah, it's a house of refuge. It's a house of refuge. It's a house of healing; it's a house of 
refuge. I meet a lot of friends and tell them about Domestic Workers United, but the 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
9
problem with them--my friends who I tell about that--they will not come to Domestic 
Workers United, but the only time they want to come is when they have a problem, 
because they know that's a place where they will get the support. When someone's 
exploiting them, they ask me, 'What is the number? I want to call Domestic Workers 
United, because I have a problem with my boss.' But when everything is okay, they don't 
want to hear about Domestic Workers, because they don't have time for Domestic 
Workers United. So that's what I have to say concerning my friends, because I try to tell 
other people about this organization. Yes, I know. Yes. 
 
00:34:58 
Interviewer: What has it meant for you and your work that Domestic Bill of Rights 
passed in 2010. What the Bill of Rights stated what it gave? So that bill was-- 
 
Well, it has not been much to my work, because many of my work I sometimes get more 
than what they ask for and I always when I get a job I talk to them about my holidays, so 
whatever the Bill of Rights is asking, doesn't really impact me because I try to talk for 
myself. I--sometimes I even ask for more than what the Bill of Rights says, so it doesn't 
really impact--it'd impact for someone else. Because when I go to talk to my employer, 
when I meet them for the first time, I talk to them about holidays, I talk to them about 
sick days, I talk to them about everything before I start the job. So I don't start the job 
and don't say anything and when I start working tell them something. I talk to them 
before I start the job, so I get what I'm supposed to get. 
 
00:36:11 
Interviewer: So at any point in time, what you started the job with, your work 
description. Have they ever added on anything to what you started off working with? No 
extra services? And if they do, what happens? Do you demand that? That they pay you 
extra? Which is a good thing. Good for you. 
 
No. They don't add anything. No extra services. What they ask for, that's what they ask 
me to do. No extra thing. If they make me do anything extra, they pay me extra. I don't 
demand it. I don't demand it, but whenever I work extra, they pay me extra, so I cannot 
complain. If I work extra, they pay me extra. 
 
00:37:02 
Interviewer: What would you like to see happen in the future with the Bill of Rights? 
Because at this day and age it's still hard. Workers getting paid under minimum wage, 
yeah? That's right. It's not right and it's not fair. 
 
Well, I would like to see that they ask that Domestic Workers get at least one week 
vacation for the year. One week you have to stay home and you get your pay and that is 
the time to go and relax and if you want to go and get your massage and take care of 
yourself. And I think they should also ask for sick days. That if you are sick that your 
employer does not fire you if you are sick, that if you're sick you get your sick days off 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
10
and when you can come back to work, you go back to work. That's very important. 
Another thing they should do is put a minimum wage, at least $15 an hour so that you 
have enough money to pay your bills. Yes, minimum. It's not good, because you cannot 
pay your bills. You work and you end up begging. You cannot be working and be a 
beggar. It's not fair. If you work you have to be able to take care of your business. You 
cannot work and end up begging people and you're going to work. You should be able to 
pay your bills if you go to work. 
 
00:38:31 
Interviewer: From your perspective, why is DWU, Domestic Workers United, important 
for domestic workers? So that's what's important for you about Domestic Workers 
United? 
 
Well, it is what brings the workers together and it is when they unite that is what brings 
strength, and that is how the employers, whoever employs them, that is the way they 
are going to respect them. When they know they have support. So if you're exploited 
you have support from Domestic Workers United and your employer knows that you 
have support, you're not by yourself; that is one of the ways you get respect from your 
employer.  
 
00:39:26 
 
Interviewer: What do you want legislators to know? Sad, right? Sometimes you're 
working and can't even pay that rent. 
 
Well, I want them to know that a minimum wage is very important. $15 an hour is very 
important as minimum wage, because $10 is not enough. Because the money, the cost 
of living in this country is too high, and we have enough homeless people cannot pay 
their rent. We have enough homeless people in this country and if people have a decent 
salary they could pay their rent and live comfortably. We need a minimum wage of at 
least $15 so everybody could pay their rent and stop having homeless people on the 
train and on the streets, because they cannot afford to pay their rent, and they do not 
want to be in the shelter, because being in the shelter is like being in prison. Who wants 
to be in the shelter? They prefer to be in the train. And this is terrible. Yes, because the 
money that you make is not enough. $10 an hour is not enough when you compare to 
the cost of living in this country. The rent is expensive and you have all of the bills to 
pay. Even if it's you alone. You still have to pay bills, you have to pay for the phone, you 
have to pay the cable, you have to buy groceries, and everything is expensive. The 
metro card is getting expensive, every day is getting more expensive. You cannot board 
the bus and the train free; you have to pay. 
 
00:41:01 
 
Interviewer: Are you happy with the Bill's impact? So you're not happy at all with that 
bill? 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
11
No, I'm not happy. It's like, I don't know, I think domestic workers have to stand up for 
themselves. When you go to a job you have to ask what you want for yourself. If you 
keep quiet they exploit you. From the first day you can ask them what you want. If you 
don't, they will give you $5 an hour. They'll make you work on the holiday and they will 
make you work extra and you don't get extra pay. That's what they're going to do; treat 
you like a slave. No, I'm not happy. I get what I get because I talk. I talk when I go to my 
employer. When I meet the person for the first time I tell them what I'm looking for. I 
tell them how much I'm looking for. I don't say $10, I don't say $10 an hour, I ask them 
more than ten and they agree. So it's up to the person who goes to the job, if you don't 
say what you want they will just tell you, 'Okay, I'm paying you $5 an hour,' and because 
that you think that you are so much in need you will take it, but then it's like you're 
working and you never work, because the money is never enough. So what are you 
going to do? You cannot work in bed. You have to work and pay your bills. 
 
00:42:32 
Interviewer: So would you [unclear.] say that the things that you learned in Domestic 
Workers United had helped assert you? So Domestic Workers United empowered you? 
Strengthened you? Asserted you in the work place? 
 
Yes, it did a lot, because Domestic Workers, they're the ones who helped me to know 
my self-worth and to know the worth of my work. So when I go to the people who 
would be my employers I know what to tell them, I know what I want, what I should ask 
for. Yes, that's exactly what they did. They strengthened me. So when I go to a job, I go 
to the interview for the first time I ask what I want. I don't go and tell the person--the 
person who tells me $5 an hour and then start working and come back and say $10--no. 
You agree for $5, you cannot come back and say $10 after. Say it on the first day. Talk 
about your holidays on the first day. Talk about your sick days on the first day that you 
come. Don't wait 'til the time comes to say something else. 
 
00:44:11 
 
Interviewer: What area of education/skills are you looking to gain? Are you looking to 
improve on your education or improve on your skills? And what kind of education and 
skills are you looking for? 
 
Yes. Well, I'm looking for a college degree and I would like to be--my skills--I would like 
to be a massage therapist, that's what I like doing. 
 
00:44:55 
Interviewer: What skills did Domestic Workers United teach you? And what type of 
training? So what did CPR and your nanny training course do for you? So, to my 
understanding with the nanny training courses that Domestic Workers United gave to 
their members the training that they get also helps to assert them in the work place and 
give them that confidence, because Domestic Workers United is in partnership with 
Cornell University, which gave you a Cornell University certificate so that makes you feel 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
12
more assertive in your work place, that when you go on an interview you feel strong and 
sufficient with this certificate and the CPR training, more empowerment for you? 
 
Well, Domestic Workers United taught me--they gave me the skill of CPR. And I also did 
a nanny training course. So that I gained from Domestic Workers United. Well, it helped 
me, but I have not been doing the nanny work, so I have the certificate, but I have not 
really been using it, but in case I should get a job as a nanny, that is one of the things I 
will take to the parents to let them know that I know how to take care of a newborn 
baby and a young child. I have the certificate, but I have not been doing much of nanny 
work. More empowerment from Domestic Workers— 
 
00:46:42 
 
Interviewer: What do they teach in the nanny training course? And within the nanny 
training course what do they teach you about to help the kids in the workplace? You 
know, like child pediatrics. You know, if for instance the child doesn't feel well could you 
assist that child? Help that child? You know, because with kids you have accidents 
happen all the time. 
 
The nanny training course? Well, they teach you how to take care of the baby, the child, 
how to dress up that child appropriately and how to take care of the cash, because 
sometimes the parents give you money to shop so you have to know how to deal with 
the cash that they give you. Petty cash. To give them the change right and to buy exactly 
what they ask you to buy. All of these things are very important. And how to keep the 
place organized, how to keep the place clean, and do your work properly. To help the 
kids? Yes, they teach you how to assist that child and if you have to take that child to the 
hospital. They also show you how to interact with the parents respectfully when they 
talk to you, how you look them in the eyes and you talk to them in a very respectful 
way, and you don't cross your eyes and you don't do your lips and certain things that 
you do you make them feel disrespected, so all of these things I learned in the course. 
So that you will have a good relationship with the parent, because in order to take care 
of the child, you must have a good relationship with the parent. 
 
00:48:31 
 
Interviewer: So, what I'm hearing, this organization Domestic Workers United, they do 
good work for the Domestic Workers members.  
 
Very good, very good. Excellent work. They empower you, they show you how to do 
certain things, I learned a lot from them, CPR, if the child is choking, how to take care of 
the child. Yes, and if you have to take the child to the hospital you let the parents know, 
but sometimes the parents, if you don't get them you have to take the child to the 
hospital even before the parents, you could call them in the hospital because you were 
really concerned about the child's safety. Sometimes you cannot get the parents, 
sometimes something happens with the child and you cannot get the parents at the 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
13
moment, so if you cannot get the parents you still have to take the child. Don't wait until 
you hear them, because you're concerned about that child's safety. 
 
00:49:35 
 
Interviewer: Well, I'm so happy to hear that Domestic Workers United are doing so 
much good work for their members, which empowers them, encourages them, certifies 
them, and most of all the sisterhood. You know, because what I'm getting is that when 
you get in that space with sisters around you, you can like people power, when you 
leave that space you leave it in encouragement, leave it in empowerment, very good to 
hear. How is culture expressions used as a tool for advocacy and outreach of Domestic 
Workers United, such as music, dance, or poetry/proverbs? Have you ever been a part 
of the culture shows or dance or music or poetry? Never been? And why is that, because 
the time? 
 
How is it used? Well, it expresses a lot about domestic workers. They could perform 
something and maybe [unclear.] and they would understand what they're saying, so 
they could do a lot in performing. They could do a lot in poetry and all the different 
things just to show the work that domestic workers do. No. Well, it is because the time I 
am working sometimes and the time that they go to do it. Sometimes I am at work and I 
cannot take off, but it is not that I would not like to do it. 
 
00:52:32 
 
Interviewer: It would be nice, because I hear a lot of different stories within Domestic 
Workers United there's a cultural committee. This committee is a part of the writer's 
workshop, which includes workers as well as the public theater; they also invite the 
members to their shows and things like that. Have you ever been to a show? Have you 
ever been invited to one of those shows? Could you share a little bit about the shows 
you have attended? Well, Domestic Workers United is in partnership with the Public 
Theater where Domestic Workers United members performed with the Public Theater. 
So a sort of partnership, it's all about Domestic Workers United too. Domestic Workers 
United invited you so could you elaborate a little more on it?  
 
Yes, I have. I'm not sure if it's Domestic Workers United or if it's the Broadway show, I'm 
not sure what it is. I went to a show one time, there were some members of Domestic 
Workers performing in the show--I'm not sure it if is Domestic Workers United or 
Broadway, I don't even know what it was. Well, this show, was--how do I put this--it was 
like something just watching on TV. I have not seen anything like this before. It was so 
magnificent, colorful, and the players--the people who were performing--they were like, 
I don't know if they act on TV, I don't know. Everything was so--everything was so well 
done. At one time I thought I was just watching TV. 
 
00:54:19 
Interviewer: So do you think if you weren't a part of Domestic Workers United, you 
would have had the opportunity to see Shakespeare in the Park? If it wasn't for— 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
14
 
No, I never would have seen that, no. No I would never have seen that. I wouldn't have 
even known about it if it wasn't for Domestic Workers United. 
 
00:54:46 
 
Interviewer: Well, I applaud you for being a member of being a member of that dynamic 
organization and I'm happy to know that they helped you solve your issue and you got 
justice, which is a very wonderful thing. So it's nothing good that came to you but good 
from Domestic Workers United. It's nice to know that. I feel power just talking to you. So 
do you have any last words or parting shots you would like to share? 
 
--good from Domestic Workers United. They empowered me. What I would like to share 
is that I would like Domestic Workers, this organization, to grow from strength to 
strength. That is what--I don't want it to remain the way it is, I want it to grow bigger 
and have more impact on the legislators. Let us have more influence to go there and 
talk to them to see how they could assist us in passing the Bill of Rights at least having a 
minimum wage of $15 an hour. 
 
 At least having the worker have at least one week off--one week vacation so that they 
could relax after they work so hard every day of the year. And I think that's very 
important. Yes, sick days are very important. When you are sick they should give you 
your time off and when you can come back to work you go back to work. I think people 
should not be fired because they are sick. It's not good. 
 
00:56:30 
 
Interviewer: Yes, because they don't want any sick people on the job. You need that sick 
day so you can go and take care of your health. And that vacation week it also allows 
you to not only have a little time for yourself, but also to spend time with your family, 
especially with workers who have kids. Give them that leisure time to spend with their 
kids and things like that. So it's really just listening to you, it also motivates me to keep 
on doing the work that I'm doing. Supporting domestic workers in every way, every form 
and fashion that I can. You know, and it's always a good thing when a worker can get 
victory. It's always a good thing when the worker can have a place to turn to that they 
can get assistance, without having that fear, because you know, the majority of 
domestic workers, immigrant workers, undocumented, so that fear prevents them from 
standing up for their rights. 
 
So they're prepared to work even if they would get $5 an hour, they're prepared to do 
it. Because they don't want to say anything. Yes, but if you work $5 and hour, what 
happens? You're going to beg. You'd end up begging on the street because there's no 
way $5 an hour can pay no bill. 
 
00:57:59 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
15
Interviewer: So let me ask you, would you be willing to go back to Albany to reinforce 
the bill that has already passed? And how do you feel about Domestic Workers United 
being the first organization to have a bill of rights, which set a precedent so that other 
states could have a bill of rights, which will include their domestic workers within the 
labor laws. As far as my understanding, the one that followed was Hawai'i, 
Massachusetts, California; all these other states got the bill of rights. How do you feel 
about that? 
 
Yes, I am willing to go. Well, I feel very proud of Domestic Workers United. I'm proud to 
be a member of Domestic Workers United, because that is a good example that they set 
so that others could follow. Others see [unclear.] and they see that's a very good thing, 
that's why they follow, to try to get the bill of rights, because it's very important for the 
worker.  
 
00:59:00 
 
Interviewer: State to state, coast to coast, east coast, west coast, and you know I always 
like to mention the farm worker, because he's also a domestic worker, and without farm 
workers, where would our food come from? Where the feast come from? And these 
workers are--so many workers are also being exploited, you know, and it's so unjust. But 
domestic workers are also willing as well to stand with the farm workers. Are you willing 
to stand with the farm workers? Yes, so we're going back to Albany to reinforce that bill 
and get that bill more recognition so that employers can recognize and respect that bill 
and implement that bill. 
 
Yes, I'm willing to stand. I'm willing to stand. Yes, that's what we're supposed to do. Yes, 
very important. 
 
01:00:04 
 
Interviewer: So therefore, I want to thank you and as well thank you for your victories 
that you had from Domestic Workers United. And I congratulate you of your 
empowerment and your assertiveness within the whole experience that it made you 
stronger and less afraid. So thank you very much. 
 
I won a lot of victories because of Domestic Workers United. A lot of victories. 
 
 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
16