Date 
June 15, 2021 
Time 
10:00am 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Dakota Miller 
Location 
Ed’s Office at Castellani 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Field Notes 
 
Pre Interview 
 
Before Dakota arrived for the interview, which we agreed to do at my office at the Castellani, I 
cleaned up my office space and the chair in the corner, where he’d be sitting for the interview. 
Rechecked my gear about 30 minutes before he arrived as well, and once he arrived and rang 
the front bell of the museum to come in, got up to greet him at the door, and led him to office. 
We then went over the paperwork and release form, talked a little bit about where the interview 
would be located, some of the other folks have interviewed so far and the remaining few would 
be interviewing to close out the interviews.  
 
Interview 
During the interview, Dakota opened by talking about his family’s connection to racing: not as 
racers, but as working at tracks in the area. Coming from Lancaster, Dakota’s dad (Dale Miller) 
worked as the Cameraman at the Holland Speedway, and growing up they’d go watch races 
there and at Spencer Speedway. Dakota shared he started out as something called a ‘junior 
starter’; basically an unofficial thing at the track, being a kid with the same flags as the starter, 
but sitting in the grandstands and copying the starter as the race is going on. From an early age, 
Dakota knew he wanted to be a starter, and part of that interest in the beginning he links to his 
dad working in the tower, right over the grandstand/flagstand at Holland Speedway. Although 
Dakota didn’t bring the flags with him (which for an audio interview wouldn’t matter as much 
anyway!), he walked through all the ins and outs of the starter role, including what the different 
flags mean. He also expanded on the types of gestures that sometimes accompanied the flags 
when you’d make a call.  
 
Dakota noted that he is one of the few young starters also as most starters out there now tend to 
be at the older age, having done it for so long. He counts himself lucky to learn from and get 
tips and everything from older starters and mentors like Doug Kearns, Larry Woodruff, Jipp 
Ortiz, and many more. As Dakota had been going primarily to asphalt tracks growing up to, he 
provided insight into the differences between asphalt tracks and dirt tracks, and also about how 
his family now (including brother and sister) also work at Ransomville or other tracks.  
 
Post Interview 
 
After the interview, Dakota and I chatted for a bit and I shared how I made a similar mistake in 
going to the speedway for the first time, deciding to wear contacts instead of glasses (as didn’t 
have prescription sunglasses at the time, just standard aviators). Needless to say learned my 
lesson with that. After exchanging some more small talk and going over when would be 
sending him a copy / link to download a copy of the interview, I walked Dakota back to the 
door, and we exchanged our goodbyes, and got on with the rest of our day.