1 
Interviewer: Kim Stryker 
Interviewee: Jenni McCloud 
Date of Interview: November 30, 2017 
Location: The Manor House – Chrysalis 
Transcription by: Emily Zinger 
Subjects Covered: 3:17-7:00 #ChrysalisWinery #AnimalHusbandry #Horticulture #Chickens 
7:00-14:52 #Norton #Albariño #Viognier #PetitManseng #Tempernillo 
14:52-30:28 #HortonCellars #Norton #ASVE #Phylloxera 
30:42-33:30 #Pangaea #Soil 
33:30-37:18 #Norton 
39:52-45:50 #ChrysalisWinery 
45:50-48:00 #Norton #Tempernillo #Viogner #PetitManseng #Albariño 
48:00-59:08 #Cattle #Dairy #NRCS #DogwoodFarm 
59:08-1:03:31 #Grain #AldiMill #Cheese 
1:03:31-1:05:46 #BlueRidgeMeats #SlaughterHouse 
1:06:06-1:07:40 #HollinEstates #Orchards 
1:07:40-1:13:28 #SlaughterHouse #Greenhill #Dairy #Cheese 
1:13:28-1:17:07 #Florida 
1:17:07-1:22:16 #Viognier #Barboursville #Horton #ShockoeCemetery #Norton 
1:22:22-1:31:56 #SupremeCourt #DucksUnlimited #PiedomontEnvironmentalCouncil 
#ConservationEasement 
1:31:56-1:36:30 #Swedenburg #SupremeCourt 
1:36:30-1:42:18 #QuattroGoombas #Greenhill #BarrelOak #CASA 
1:42:33-1:49:02 #Chickens #AnatolianShepard 
[0:00:03] (KS) This is Kim Stryker and I’m here on Thursday at approximately 2:26 pm on 
November 30, 2017 and I’m sitting in, you call this the Manor House? -with Jenni McCloud. 
Your full name is Jennifer? 
[0:00:29] (JM) Yes. 
[0:00:40] (KS) The address here is? 
[0:00:46] (JM) XXXXX, Middleburg, VA. 
[0:00:56] (KS) I didn’t realize it was so close to the Fauquier County line. I just drove down to 
see what was there. What’s the zip here? 
[0:01:07] (JM) 20117. 
[0:01:10] (KS) Can I get an email? 
[0:01:13] (JM) XXXX 
[0:01:26] (KS) A phone number, maybe the business phone number? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
2 
[0:01:30] (JM) 540-XXX-XXXX 
[0:01:37] (KS) Do you go by any other names? Jenni I guess. Just in case people are looking for, 
they know you as Jenni and they want to search Jenni and you don’t come up. I put down both 
names, so that they have you. Date of birth? 
[0:01:56] (JM) 1954 
[0:02:01] (KS) I don’t know math. What age does that make you? 
[0:02:04] (JM) 63. 
[0:02:05] (KS) Thanks. And what would you say your job title is here? 
[0:02:10] (JM) Legally I guess it’s the managing member, because it’s an LLC. The owner, the 
proprietor, the proprietress. Proprietor probably is best. 
[0:02:28] (KS) What other job titles have you had in the past? Other work that you did before 
this? 
[0:02:34] (JM) I’ve been chief executive officer, I’ve been CEO, I’ve been CFO, owner, 
president. And then no title. 
[0:02:55] (KS) I like to make sure I have at least these basic details down and then, because as 
we start talking we could go anywhere as this evolves. Do you have a middle name? 
[0:03:09] (JM) Yes, Lynn. 
[0:03:13] (KS) Describe where we are right now. 
[0:03:17] (JM) We’re in my office in what I call the Manor House, because there’s a couple 
other houses. Jenni’s House, it’s just easier. We’re on a large farm in Middleburg, Virginia, 
almost 412 acres. We’re in the portion of the farm which we call Locksley Estate. The other 
portion is called Caelei Estate. It was a separate purchase, so I just kept them their original 
names. 
[0:04:10] (KS) Like you say, you have to keep track of all these different spaces. Is this where 
you live here? 
[0:04:16] (JM) Yep. This is my house and acts as my office and generally staff meeting place if 
we have meetings. 
[0:04:28] (KS) What else is going on on the farm besides grape growing? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
3 
[0:04:34] (JM) Other animal husbandry and also other horticulture. On this farm there’s fifty 
acres under vine, but we also are a commercial nursery for the Norton Grape. We’re a provider 
of Norton plants for other commercial vineyards and also to individuals who just want to have 
some Norton plants. We will soon be producing artisan cheese from our herd of American 
milking Devons, Hershisers, Jerseys, and maybe coming up some brown Swiss. We also raise 
chickens. I laugh because they’re sort of my, there’s not a lot of money in chickens, but they’re a 
hoot. They’re really interesting creatures and I enjoy them. They’re eggs are just fabulous. You 
never want to buy store bought eggs again after you’ve had one of these from girls that walk all 
around and eat grass. They get all the bugs. 
[0:05:50] (KS) I have three chickens that I’m not supposed to have. They’re backyard chickens. 
[0:05:56] (JM) That’s excellent. What kind? 
[0:05:59] (KS) They are, I have a lavender orpington, an Americana, the Easter egg one, and 
Blackie is a silver laced Wyandotte. They’re great. They’re hilarious. 
[0:06:21] (JM) I have buff orpingtons, golden laced wyandottes, americanas, marans, 
barnevelders, heritage leghorns, California whites. I like the idea of the multi colored eggs for 
the customers. We sell the eggs in the tasting room. I also provide eggs to a chef that’s associated 
with us. And then we have some pigs, some hogs, the idea being to raise heritage breeding hogs. 
We have tamworths right now. Part of the theme on the farm is things American. The Norton 
grape, which is my passion, is America’s native grape named after Daniel Norton of Richmond, 
Virginia. We are planning, we have another greenhouse, beyond the Norton propagation 
greenhouse. We have what’s called a high tunnel, which is just a place to keep the weather, it’s 
warmer inside. That particular building, or greenhouse, is not heated. The Norton one is heated. 
In order to get a jump on vegetable growing. I leased several acres to a fellow to introduce a 
whole plethora of lettuces and carrots and cuces and melons. It didn’t happen this past year even 
though I gave him the high tunnel and he had the whole thing filled. He had some unfortunate 
relationship issue, divorce and it just really absorbed his attention. So the grapes. On this farm is 
the largest planting of Norton in the world, as well as other unusual grape varieties. We kind of 
focus on, not unusual because I’m trying to be unusual necessarily, but trying to zero in on those 
varieties that will really do well in this climate. So that we can present wine products that we 
don’t have to suffer through that backhanded compliment of, well for a Virginia that’s pretty 
good. No, no, no. I want to be able to produce a wine that can stand on it’s own in the world 
stage and be a fine example of that variety. And we do that with several varieties. Certainly the 
Norton, but also Viognier and also albariño, which is great premium white variety from Spain. 
[0:09:45] (KS) I’m familiar with that one. That’s a nice one, especially in the summertime, a nice 
albarino. 
[0:09:52] (JM) It’s an ñ, so you have to get the ñ. It’s Albariño. 
[0:09:53] (KS) I know, I’m not good at the ñ. God forbid I ever go to Spain. They’d totally make 
fun of me. You were talking about the different varieties. What are some of the other varieties 
besides Norton that you do that maybe other people don’t do? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
4 
[0:10:13] (JM) We actually have two separate vineyards. I have long term land lease, in fact 
that’s what I was working on, the annual crop payment which is a percentage of the crop. That’s 
about 20 acres. All told we farm 70 acres of grape vines, 50 acres on this property. The number 
one variety is Norton. The number two variety is Albariño. I’m one of the primary sources of 
albariño, if not the primarily source for albariño in the United States. Probably, we’ll leave it at 
that. The Department of Agriculture might wonder how that got through quarantine, but 
somehow. And then our number three variety by acreage is Viognier. And then we do have some 
unusual varieties, although Nebbiolo is a world class grape, not much is grown in this area. We 
grow Nebbiolo, Petit Verdot, which is one of the Bordeaux varieties, Tintacão. Tintacão is one of 
the port varieties, to make port wine. We grow Tenat. We’re also kind of a pioneer in two other 
kind of varieties, Petit Manseng. All of the Petit Manseng is the United States, as far as I’m 
aware of, has come from this farm or Dennis Horton, because we picked up the cuttings from the 
Virginia Tech research station in Winchester. They grow through a number of different varieties. 
They grow them, get rid of them, and then bring in some more, because they don’t have 
unlimited land. We zeroed in on Petit Manseng being a really good variety for a quality dessert 
wine. That’s exactly what the ??? Sanc in the South of France, that grape Petit Manseng is what 
they make that dessert wine from. So those wonderful dessert wines, that’s the primary grape 
variety. Another grape that we preserved through Virginia Tech’s test station is their Servadou, 
or Borcale is an alternative name for it. In addition, I’ve experimented with, and we do have 
some Tempernillo, which is Spanish, Graciano, which is Spanish. I really like Spanish wines. 
We’ve experimented with Ajo and Loureiro. We always called it Lureira, but these days I think 
people are calling it Loureiro. In testing these different varieties, tried to zoom in on those, again, 
that can produce wines of world class quality and can stand on the world stage with other fine 
wines from those varieties. 
[0:14:13] (KS) I think when I was talking to the folks over at Cana, did you help them with the 
Tempernillo? Because they wanted to get Tempernillo. He said, he gave you credit for 
something, because he said that he fell in love with Tempernillo tasting it and wanted to grow it 
here and didn’t really care if he could make it work or not. He just wanted to grow it. 
[0:14:41] (JM) We’ve supplied cuttings to large number of wineries. 
[0:14:50] (KS) To help them get going. 
[0:14:52] (JM) For those that were interested, the fair that’s in Hillside came from this farm, the 
fair of Servedout. The Albariño’s been all over the world from this farm. The Petit Manseng, as 
I’ve said, basically either came from cuttings from here, from Chrysalis or from Horton Cellars, 
because those are the only two places where it was planted, that I’m aware of. 
[0:15:20] (KS) Where’s Horton Cellars? 
[0:15:22] (JM) There’s in Orange County I guess. Kind of close to Charlottesville, east south 
east of Charlottesville if I’m not getting turned around. We can look that up real quick. Horton 
Cellars is here. Barboursville, another fine winery is here. If we go out we’ll find, oh it’s a little 
north east, not south east. I’m glad I did that. It’s north east of Charlottesville by about 12, 15 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
5 
miles. Dennis Horton was an inspiration to me, because that’s where I first tasted Norton was his 
Horton Norton and I fell in love with the grape. It’s like the Cat in the Hat. It’s like Seuss, 
Horton Norton. Isn’t there a Horton character? 
[0:16:56] (KS) Yeah, “Horton Hears a Who.” -So he was growing it before you had even, it 
came into your world through him. 
[0:17:12] (JM) That’s right. The story of Norton is fascinating. You know it originated in 
Virginia in Richmond on Magnolia Farm, which is Daniel Norborne, Norton’s suburban farm. 
Right now it’s in downtown Richmond, but at the time. He was trying to create a fine red table 
wine from American grapes. Enough time had passed I think from Thomas Jefferson’s attempts 
to grow vitis vinifera, which is the European grape. It failed and then in the revolution they 
tromped all over it. They never really got it going. Dennis actually, Dennis Horton had grown up 
in Herman, Missouri. Herman, Missouri was a center of German grape growing. I don’t want to 
get all over the map here, but the story is fascinating. Norton, Daniel, Dr. Norton, became friends 
with William Prince Jr., the third or whatever, at the Prince Nursery in Flushing, New York. That 
nursery was the same nursery that some years after the 1820s, when Norton was propagating his 
Norton grape, received cuttings that at the time were called Zanfindel and the Zinfandel went to 
California and the Norton went to the Midwest with the German immigrants. That’s why 
Missouri, Arkansas, Southern Illinois, there was a lot of Norton planted there. It was also planted 
here in Virginia. Virginia prohibition preceded nation prohibition by some number of years and 
the vine died out in Virginia, commercially anyway. It was kept alive in Missouri. So Dennis, 
starting up Horton Cellars in the 80s, thought it would be a good idea to return the Norton vine, 
grape, back to it’s native soils. I happened to taste the Horton Norton and Horton Viognier 
literally two weeks to the day after I sold a previous business and it was serendipity. You know 
how things can just sort of happen. In 1995 the ASVE, the American Society of Vinology and 
Viticulture Eastern section, the big one’s in the west, in California, but there’s an Easter section 
annual meeting and they hold them in different cities each year in the east. This one just 
happened to be in Virginia, in Charlottesville at the Omni. I thought, wow that’s really great, 
because the theme for the 1995 ASVE Eastern section was alternative grape varieties. That really 
spoke to me because I had been collecting wines over the years. The Bordeauxs and some 
Chardonnays I was getting a little ABC. Do you know what ABC is? Anything but Chardonnay. 
Anything, but Cabernet. These are great grapes. These are the wonderful, some of the finest, but 
variety is the spice of life. I was interested in exploring and developing my personal 
connseiuourshp. Not in the snooty sense, but just being a connoisseur. Being able to recognize 
identity and similarity and to enhance your appreciation of wines. The idea of alternative grapes, 
well shoot, let’s explore that. That was interesting. Atlas Peak from out west was here with their 
Sant Gervasi. There were some other ones that came from different areas from the country to 
bring unusual grape varieties. It’s where I really tasted Viognier, knowing I was tasting Viognier. 
Because in Europe, in France, they don’t list their wines by the variety. They list the region, or 
the place name, where that wine comes from. And then the Appalachian laws specify what kind 
of grapes must be grown if you want to call that wine a Condreiu, for example. You’ve got to use 
Viognier. I went, wow, this is really great white wine. At lunch time I glommed on to Dennis and 
sat down next to him and introduced myself as being someone who was interested in growing 
grapes here. In the afternoon session, the morning session was white wines, a little lighter. The 
afternoon session was reds and the inky, dark stuff called Norton came out and I was like, what 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
6 
 
the heck is this. I really liked it. It had a really grapey, fruity character. Super extracted, dark. It 
fascinated me. And then when I found out it was native and it grew on it’s own roots. It’s not 
impacted by phylloxera, which is the little vine louse that decimated the European vineyards. In 
fact it was probably one of the grapes that the vine louse was probably transported to France. In 
the late 1800s the French experimented with different American grape varieties and they didn’t 
really realize, but along the roots and the soil that went from America to France introduced this 
pest. Just some more on the Norton. If I didn’t like it, if I didn’t really think it made good wine, I 
didn’t care that it was native. It had to be something. I developed, I’ve thought a lot about Norton 
obviously I grow a lot of it and made a lot of it. I’m more excited now to be involved with 
Norton even than I was when I started. I really see the versatility of the grape and the potential 
for it. We’re now being able to taste some wines that have some age on them and I’m just 
amazed at this grape. One of the ideas is that a grape of world-class quality or character really 
has to be unique. It shouldn’t taste like something else. I should have it’s own identity. Not to 
denigrate Chambourcin, but I often hear people, which is a French-American hybrid grape, but I 
often hear people say, wow, Chambourcin when it’s done really well it often tastes like Cabernet 
Sauvignon. And I’m like, well shit, why don’t you just get some Cabernet Sauvignon. Norton 
tastes like Norton. It’s very different. Not to be flippant when people ask me, but when people 
ask me what Norton tastes like, I’m like, well it tastes like Norton. It’s like trying to ask 
somebody what does an orange taste like. It tastes like an orange. Sort of like a lemon, but you 
can try to create some imagery in somebody’s head by bringing in some different fruit. You 
know it’s got a spicy character, often has a clove or cinnamon, but Norton is Norton. 
 
[0:25:47] (KS) With that, so you’re at the conference, you’re tasting it, you’re falling in love, 
you’re thinking, what is going on with this crazy grape, and then how, what was the time period 
between when you actually started to take the plunge into growing? 
 
[0:26:05] (JM) That was in July of 1995. That had to have been something like July 14th. It was 
two weeks to the day. I closed the sale of Landmark International Research Corporation on June 
30th. The 14th, I guess? Something like that. After tasting the Norton, after connecting with Allen 
Kinney, who was Dennis Horton’s consulting winemaker, I developed discussion with Allen. He 
sort of interviewed me to pick my brain as to what do you like? I told him, I don’t want to grow 
something that I don’t like. I want to grow something that I’m excited and passionate about and 
want to share with people. We traveled to Spain in January and February of 96. Six months later 
we were visiting Galicia. That’s where I first tasted Albariño. I was like, holy smokes, this is 
wild stuff. Through Rioja and the regions across Northern Spain. That was ‘96 and then I began 
to investigate land. I did further research on the Norton grape. When I found out it was native, 
that it was very highly disease resistant, perhaps the most disease resistant grape grown for 
commercial grape production in the world. If you look at a list of all of the grapes it always is, 
resistant, resistant, resistant, resistant. I thought, what a great idea. First of all, I like the grape. It 
died out in Virginia. It was nearly lost to the world and no matter how good we do a Cabernet 
Sauvignon, or a Merlot, or a Cab Franc or whatever, the standard is still over there. In thinking of 
America, never excelling and being the pinnacle of something either culturally or product-wise, 
and at that time you go back 30, 40 years, frankly our cheese sucked, our bread was bad, our 
coffee was thin. It was like, all the wonderful staple foods were kind of an amalgam of the least 
offensive, is what our staple foods, how that went about. So the idea of a great grape that 
historically had been renowned, gold medals in Paris and being acclaimed the best red wine 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
7 
worldwide. I thought, wow, what a neat story, so the idea of championing Norton just seemed 
really appealing to me. The idea of being a little bit of a bigger fish in a smaller pond seemed fun 
in an entrepreneurial sense. And then I just love Virginia. It’s just so beautiful and it is, to me, 
the quintessential countryside. The Rocky Mountains are majestic in their own way, but they’re 
sterile. There’s no humanity there. Maybe there’s a mountain climber or something, but Virginia 
with it’s rolling hills and it’s horses and it’s historical background of agriculture and history just 
was real appealing to me. 
[0:30:28] (KS) Definitely. It obviously appeals to a lot of people, because it’s so iconic and it’s 
so desirable to maintain it. The fact that we’re an hour outside of D.C. and there are still farms 
here is amazing. 
[0:30:42] (JM) Isn’t that wild? That we live on a dirt road and we’re thirty five miles from the 
White House? I feel very fortunate. That’s the dividing line. I’m pointing out the window at the 
Bull Run Mountains, but you get over on the other side of the Bull Run Mountains and it’s very 
different from everything over East. It’s not only now culturally and density, lifestyle different. It 
actually is physically different. This is where Pangaea split. We were dead center of Pangaea and 
the Bull Run Mountains, the hills that are the Bull Run Mountains, you go 22 miles west and you 
hit the Blue Ridge Mountains. At one point that was one big, huge mountain. It’s all eroded 
down and that’s left are these little ridges. This was a huge mountain range and you can find the 
soil from that mountain in Morocco, because Virginia was crunched into the Atlas Mountains of 
north western. Anyway, it’s not only different culturally, it’s actually different geologically. 
We’re still in the Blue Ridge geological province here and it ends right there at the Bull Run 
Mountains. 
[0:32:18] (KS) And so that’s part of why the wine is good perhaps, because of what’s actually in 
the ground, it’s good for growing grapes? 
[0:32:26] (JM) In my estimation, it’s a little bit of a misconception that people have that soil is 
what makes the grapes. Actually, more important is the climate and the soil characteristics, not 
the type of soil. You can have great wine coming from clay, like in Chateau Petruc in Pomerol. 
That’s heavy clay. You can get the loose gravelly soils. What’s important is drainage and for 
Virginia, some relative elevation so that cold air drains off and doesn’t pool. 
[0:33:27] (KS) And circulation too? So you don’t have as much fungus problem? 
[0:33:30] (JM) That’s kind of a tough one for Virginia. It’s a good segue into one of the super 
advantages of Norton. If one is interested in environmental, good environmental stewardship 
when farming, you really should not leave out native plants. Let’s grow something that really 
wants to grow here, so you don’t have to coax or cajole to grow here and consequently have to 
do all these inputs of pesticides to keep the fungus. So Norton is completely phylloxera resistant. 
It grows on it’s own roots. It doesn’t have to be grafted onto your American root stalks like 
European. You don’t have the issue of crown gall, which is where the join between the scion 
wood and the root wood can introduce bacteria that causes galls and problems. Again, it’s one of 
the most disease resistance grapes, so the number of prophylactic sprays, pesticides, which for 
grapes is really fungicide is what we’re concerned with. It’s powdery mildew, downy mildew, 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
8 
 
phenopsis, black rot. You name all sorts of fungi that can invade grapes. Norton is highly 
resistant to it. Consequently, because that resistance is based on the vine’s capacity to introduce 
chemicals to ward off those chemicals are super good for human beings. They’re they 
antioxidant, polyphenolic compounds, one of which is called resveratrol. If you’ve ever heard of 
the chemical resveratrol it’s the one that’s really good for your heart. I’ve had a number of 
university research labs ask for Norton grapes and Norton wines to test. Norton has an order of 
magnitude ten times the amount of resveratrol as, on average, cabernet sauvignon would have. 
It’s good for you too. Relatively speaking. The doctor’s go up and down up and down. Oh it’s 
good for you and that’s why the French live forever. Oh it’s bad for you and it causes cancer. 
And then it’s good for you and then it’s not. And now butter’s bad for you. When I grew up we 
ate Fleischman’s margarine. I couldn’t stand the stuff. Since I moved out of the house I haven’t 
had a bite of margarine by choice in thirty, forty years, eating butter. Now they find out that 
butter is actually really good for you. At least not as bad as the manufactured margarine stuff, 
which is really, it always grossed me out as being some kind of oily, weird stuff. 
 
[0:37:01] (KS) Like from a lab. We were talking about the qualities. You got into, you went to 
Spain. It was ‘96 when you went to Spain. 
 
[0:37:18] (JM) I actually went to Spain in ‘96, ‘97 and ‘98. In ‘98, incorporated Portugal into the 
travels as well. In ‘96, sorry I got off track there, I started to look for land up here. I thought, let’s 
do Virginia. That’s great. Let’s grow grapes. I hadn’t really evolved into let’s have a winery yet. 
I was like, let’s grow grapes. Basically because I’m a type A, active, wanting to be doing 
something. It actually kind of scared me. I thought, uh oh, if I’m not doing something I’m going 
to go south fast. So I thought, what can we do, what’s the next game to play, next project. And 
that was, hey, I’ve got it. I know. I love wine. Let’s grow grapes. And that got into, my mom told 
me, Jenni, you have to slow down honey. You’re going to have a heart attack. Relax a little bit 
and I bought into that for all of about two weeks and then I had this wonderful epiphany. And the 
epiphany was, well wait a minute. I sleep like a log. I have low blood pressure. My cholesterol is 
actually off the chart on the high side, the good side, and this is what I do. That was an 
interesting moment, because it dispelled any of this work is not, work is work and fun is fun. I 
always knew when we were most productive I seemed to be the happiest. Having an organization 
that’s all aligned in the goals and common purposes is like a juggernaut. It’s just so exciting. 
Everyone is cocky. You’re winning. Hanging out and being idle, that didn’t seem. That’s why, 
two weeks, to the day, I’m here learning about grapes. 
 
[0:39:44] (KS) When did you find, was this the first location, or part of the property that you first 
bought? 
 
[0:39:52] (JM) That was a process, because I wasn’t quite sure. I was in Charlottesville when I 
came in here and I thought, wow this is really pretty around here. And then you would fly into 
Dulles and you would drive around here and I thought, wow this is really pretty too. I kind of 
zeroed in on Northern Virginia for a couple reasons. Number one, I felt that from a marketing 
perspective, being closer to D.C. would be a better location, business-wise. Also, being close to 
hop on to an airplane for travel, to facilitate ease of travel, instead of having to drive two hours 
before you even wait to get on an airplane. So I said, okay let’s zero in on Northern Virginia. 
And I had a realtor and the realtor’s of course trying to sell a property. Oh I found the perfect 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
9 
 
property. And I’d hop on an airplane and come up and I come up and I’d go, not really. I 
thought, this isn’t working. I have to be here. So in January of 97 I moved to the region. I 
actually went into D.C. for a month or so and lived with my cousin, he’s a lawyer in D.C., 
while I found a place to live. I rented a really cool row house in Old Town Alexandria, on Duke 
Street, XXX Duke Street. It was wonderful. If I wanted to fly out of Reagan it was literally a 
five   minute cab ride. Now I could, on a regular basis, investigate properties that were coming 
available. I found this property twenty years ago this season, in the fall. Probably September or 
October of 97. I just fell in love with it. I was like, oh my god it’s gorgeous. I put in an offer on 
the property, closed on it in the end of February of 98 and started pounding posts in the ground 
before I even moved in. 
 
[0:42:49] (KS) Twenty years. From that point, you got it. Did you plant spring? How quickly 
were you? 
 
[0:43:00] (JM) Right, so now it’s early March and it’s time to begin the construction of your 
trellising in anticipation of planting your first plantings in the spring, late spring. In 1998 we 
built and planted 16 acres of grapes. In 99 planted another 20 something acres. I leased this, no 
more than that. Let me get my facts right here. I had 44 acres at the end of 99, so we did another 
28 acres in 99. Now we’ve got 44 acres and then in 2000 I built the winery facility. 
 
[0:44:16] (KS) This is, the one that’s up here, that was your original. Because I remember going 
to your tasting. 
 
[0:44:23] (JM) Right, that was our original tasting room, which was a house that the folks who 
built this house, I didn’t build house or the other house. They were living in that house while 
they built this house. I turned that, which was a residence when I bought it, into our tasting room 
and offices. 
 
[0:44:40] (KS) Yes, because I remember going there. It was in my early 20s. Probably right 
when I could drink. Going there with friends and being like, oh this is great. I totally remember 
visiting this particular place. So when I went out to the ag district recently to check out what you 
had done there I was like, wait a minute, this isn’t where it was. What is this? Where am I? This 
is totally different. But it was a very homey, it almost felt like you were in someone’s backyard. 
 
[0:45:17] (JM) It does have that character. That’s kind of like the, you know, you have to, that’s 
somewhat of a compromise from the center up there with all the big trees and everything back 
there. Kind of the way it goes. 
 
[0:45:36] (KS) It’s interesting to see how, cause the tasting room you have now is so modern and 
beautiful and architectural. It feels very California and cool. 
 
[0:45:48] (JM) This is where 
[0:45:49] (KS) The layout, right. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
10 
 
[0:45:50] (JM) This is where you, this was the old tasting room, so we built this, the winery in 
2000. And then in subsequent years, beginning in 2003 I planted all of this. This is another 22 
acres here. This is all Norton here. We’re looking at a map, an aerial, just for the folks who 
might be wondering what the heck is going on. And then I added some Albariño here. This was 
originally planted to Chardonnay here. I pulled all that out and replanted this to Norton and 
replanted this to Albariño. I’ve got my Graciano, Tempernillo, some Viognier and the Petit 
Manseng. By the end of, now we’re talking 2004, ‘05, ‘06ish, ‘07 timeframe we’ve now planted 
out to little over 71 acres of grapes. But then starting in 2006. 
 
[0:47:19] (KS) That’s huge. Even 16 acres is bigger than some of the wineries and vineyards 
around here. You are massively larger in plantings than a lot of the ones around this area. 
 
[0:47:34] (JM) It’s true and I think a lot of the ones now realize the commitment to farming. 
That’s really farming. To give you an idea, 70 x 605 vines per acre, that’s 42,350 plants that 
we’re touching multiple times every year. We have 70 x 605 is our density of plantings. Actually 
it’s a little more than that on the Albariño. Over 42,000 plants. In addition to handling the 
nursery. We do about 20,000 Norton cuttings every year. And now raising the cattle. We have 
140 milk cows, males and females. We sold about 40 steers off a couple of years ago, but we still 
have over 100 milk cows now. 
 
[0:49:00] (KS) How do you do it all? How many people have to work here to make this happen? 
Do you bring in seasonal? 
 
[0:49:12] (JM) Yes and no. We have our crew of guys that have been with us and that’s kind of 
one of our decisions, is to employ folks year round, so that it provides for stability for their lives 
and also ensures that we have skilled labor that knows our vines. 
 
[0:49:43] (KS) Which is the big area of issue here in this area particularly, is finding continually 
stable, experienced laborers, because we have so little here. 
 
[0:49:54] (JM) It’s going to get tougher and tougher. As we become more and more urban in our 
thinking, fewer and fewer people want to be outside and doing the hard work of farming. It’s hot 
and it’s hard. 
 
[0:50:17] (KS) Or cold or whatever. 
 
[0:50:19] (JM) Or cold and can be dangerous. We’re dealing with 15 hundred pound animals 
with horns on them. 
 
[0:50:28] (KS) I noticed that one of them looks like a buffalo. Do you have a buffalo? 
 
[0:50:32] (JM) No, those are heritage American milking Devons. They’re not bulls. They have 
horns. The girls and boys have horns. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
11 
 
[0:50:44] (KS) I was driving by and I stopped and I look and I stopped and I was like, is that a 
buffalo? What is that big shaggy thing? And the milking operation, how do you use mechanical 
milking? 
 
[0:51:00] (JM) Yeah, we have an eight station with the claws that hook up. 
[0:51:04] (KS) The cows just walk in? 
[0:51:07] (JM) We haven’t, we’re milking now on sort of a minimal basis and transitioning our 
cows to getting familiar with walking into a milking parlor and getting touched. They pretty 
much have been raised as a beef herd by itself. It’s a slow process. They’re not used to it. But it’s 
an eight station, four and four on either side with an alleyway lower level where you can easily 
work with the animal in front of you. They walk in. Actually this is part of a really 
environmentally smart system. We worked with the NRCS, Natural Resource Conservation 
Service, to, they do a cost share, co-share program. This is the milking center and what makes it 
really neat is, this was our milking parlor and this was added a couple years ago, is a 13,000 
square foot pack barn and this was all ribbed concrete so that the cows, during inclement weather 
or during the wintertime or when the ground is too saturated to receive any more water, we 
sequester the wash-down water in a 90,000 gallon manure tank, so we’re not putting manure 
heavy water onto the surface that will runoff into the streams, that will runoff into the 
Chesapeake and cause that nutrient imbalance. We’re really, you can see here, do you see this 
sort of extra green area? That’s a riparian buffer. We keep the animals out of surface water. You 
can see now, this is the Google Maps, it’s a more modern image. We have waterers that are well. 
All of the waterers in these fields, in every one of these pastures is water coming out of the 
ground, not from the surface. We don’t let the cows get into the water. We have some of the 
cleanest water, we’ve been told, stream water, in the whole region. That’s cows. 
 
[0:54:15] (KS) That’s kind of an in process project. You’re kind of grooming the cows to get 
ready for being full time milking cows. 
 
[0:54:26] (JM) That’s right and in the basement of the ag district center, which is off of John 
Mosby Highway, the whole basement, which is a full 12 foot high ceiling under the basement of 
that building, is production, agricultural production. On the west side of the basement is our class 
A dairy. We’re not quite complete. We were supposed to be done by the end of the year, but it 
looks like we may not be complete until the end of January, but that will have three aging cells 
and will make room all with specialized humidity and temperature control. Being a class A dairy 
it’s inspected and regulated by the Virginia Department of Agriculture. 
 
[0:55:18] (KS) And that’s very unusual. There’s very little dairy production going on in a lot of 
Virginia, especially Northern Virginia. 
 
[0:55:28] (JM) It’s kind of a shame. 
 
[0:55:32] (KS) I know from talking to some old timers they would say, yeah it’s because it’s a 
pain in the ass. Dairy is a very labor intensive process, because they do need to be milked twice a 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
12 
 
day and you can’t go anywhere. Like for a small family farmer a lot of them get out of dairy 
farming, because it’s so demanding. 
 
[0:55:50] (JM) That’s exactly right. This is a good segue into how do you make that work, why 
would you want to do that? What we do on this farm is value added agriculture. There’s a reason 
why you don’t see much commodity agriculture anymore. It’s because there’s no money in it and 
it’s a hell of a lot of work. There were more than 100 dairy operations in Loudoun County 55 
years ago. Loudoun used to go back and forth with Augusta County in the Shenandoah as the 
Milk Capital of the Mid-Atlantic. When we commercially milk, when we start doing something 
with the milk to create a product, either by selling the milk, which we don’t do, we’re just 
feeding it to our hogs, and or we take it over to the creamery to make cheese, this is kind of a sad 
state of affairs, but we’re going to use it for our marketing advantage. When the first drop of 
milk hits the bucket we’ll be the second longest continually operating dairy in Loudoun County, 
because there’s only one left. That’s Potts. I guess it’s Eddy Potts’ cousin. I’m trying to 
remember the name of their farm. He’s a world renowned dairy. Loudoun’s defiant dairy 
outpost. That was in 2008. Eddy and Marty Potts. I forgot the name of their farm. 
 
[0:57:54] (KS) Is it Dogwood Farm? 
 
[0:58:00] (JM) Might be. Dogwood Farm Potts Dairy. Just had Eddy Potts out here. I have a new 
herdsman who starts out here tomorrow. He’s just a young, dynamic fellow, 30, 31ish, who used 
to work as a teenager for Dogwood Farm. He’s friends with Eddy Potts and he brought Eddy out 
here to show him the whole dairy operation and the building. We have a real resource to help 
pass off some of the knowledge. That’s of value and interest to me. I’m proud to be involved in 
the restoration of agriculture in Loudoun County. 
 
[0:59:00] (KS) Is that part of why you named the winery facility, the tasting room, the Ag 
District? 
 
[0:59:08] (JM) In 2009 we had enough land that I created my own agricultural and forester 
district. An actual registered in the Commonwealth of Virginia agricultural district. That’s sort of 
our positioning shift to let people know that it’s not just Chrysalis vineyards. It’s Chrysalis 
vineyards at the Ag District. It’s Locksley Farm Cheese, at the Ag District. Jenni’s baked 
goodies at the Ag District, because the one thing that we haven’t touched on is that the whole 
front field that you drive through when you come in, this is where I leased those acreage for the 
horticulture vegetables and this whole area here is where I want to grow heritage wheat. Here’s a 
neat concept. Aldie Dam is on my land. Aldie dam backs up the water that runs Aldie mill, 
which is a restored double overshot mill. It’s one of two left in Virginia. I wouldn’t say it’s fully 
restored, but it functions and it grinds. In fact, I made cornbread from the first grindings of corn 
in modern times at the mill, since they got it back up. So I’ve been working with the director of 
the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority who now owns Aldie Mill, to have them get 
certified to grind grain for human consumption. Take the heritage wheat down the road a mile, 
have it ground, brought back, and baked in our bread pavilion. This space right here in the center 
already has the pad port and all of the footers for it to be our bread pavilion. We will be utilizing 
our wheat to bake artisan bread products. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
13 
 
[1:02:25] (KS) I know where I’m coming in the apocalypse. You’re going to have everything set 
up here. 
 
[1:02:30] (JM) I’ve already pulled the trigger with the architect to, here is the bread pavilion and 
it’ll have, I’m kind of holding things up. This is already in place. All of this is already poured, 
which is the foundation. Then there’s actual foundations under each one of these locations here. 
You can come out and watch artisan breads get baked and have some wine and cheese and 
maybe a little bit of charcuterie. The reason why I want to have pigs is to have some artisan 
salamis and pates. 
 
[1:03:31] (KS) Do you know the guy, I can’t think of his name, but he’s out at Blue Ridge 
Meats? He has the little slaughterhouse there. It’s in Front Royal. 
 
[1:03:42] (JM) Oh yeah. Blue Ridge Meats butchers our cows. 
 
[1:03:49] (KS) Oh yeah, they have that beautiful slaughterhouse where they do very small 
processing. I got to tour it a couple years ago. I was so impressed and fascinated with what 
they’re doing there. It really, for me, brought attention to the idea that when we talk about eating 
local and supporting local farmers, if we don’t have facilities like that, there aren’t enough places 
like that, slaughterhouses that are processing animals for us to really have the kind of products 
that we would love to have. 
 
[1:04:20] (JM) It’s an issue. Especially if you want to, if you want your animals to be cared for 
humanely and they have the highest rating, I forgot the organization that rates them, but they 
don’t make appointments. They just show up. These assessors of, if you’re a member of this 
organization, they just come to your slaughterhouse and they do an inspection unannounced. 
They maintain the highest rating. You bring your own food for the animals. That’s also part of 
the whole thing. That part of the caring of the land and good animal husbandry. We’re not 
organic, but we’re very holistic in how we deal. If an animal gets ill we’ll call in a vet and 
administer an antibiotic if that’s needed. 
 
[1:05:16] (KS) That’s what I think a lot of people don’t understand about, when they say organic 
I’m like, you know what happens to a dairy cow that gets sick? They just don’t make that 
connection. They’re like, well don’t they take them somewhere and let them get better? I’m like 
no, no, no. That dairy cow goes bye bye. That dairy cow is no more, no more having nice life. I 
think that’s just one of the very many, many things that people are disconnected from. 
 
[1:05:46] (JM) It’s really interesting to me. Somebody should pick your brain, because you have 
gone out and investigated a lot of different areas that relate to agriculture. I can tell in your 
talking to Blue Ridge Meats and understanding that this is a limitation. 
 
[1:06:06] (KS) I guess I didn’t really explain my background with it. My thesis work was with 
the apple orchards in Fauquier County all along Leeds Manor Road and I know that you have 
some 
 
[1:06:20] (JM) Hollin Estates is up there, the Davenports. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
14 
 
 
[1:06:24] (KS) The Davenports are friends of mine. We actually just spent Thanksgiving 
together. But it was from the initial work for me on my thesis where I documented all the life and 
work of all of those different families that grow apples on that road. If you go from there, you’ve 
got Charles Strother who’s before Hollin Farms. Then Hollin Farms. Then you have, there were 
orchards all the way down, but Stribling and Heartland is before Stribling and then Stribling is 
on the other side of 66. So I interviewed people from all of their families and worked on their 
farms and hung out there and observed. That’s where I learned a lot about agriculture in Virginia 
and the history of it and what was going on. You have to, and I just started following tons of 
farmers on Facebook. I go to the extension trainings that they’ll do where they’ll do farm tours 
for fruit growers or dairy farmers and I’ll just go. I’m on the mailing list. 
 
[1:07:40] (JM) The infrastructure of agriculture is an issue. You’ve spotted it with the number of 
slaughterhouses. There’s Fauquier’s Finest and you’ve got Blue Ridge Meats and you have to, if 
you have a little bit of a change in demand. Let’s say you make a nice sale to a quality 
restaurateur, you have to wait months to get a slot to butcher the animal. It’s really a problem. I 
mean we investigated briefly, what if we had our own slaughterhouse. And the problems with 
that are some of the regulations for meat safety. You actually have to have a USDA inspector 
that you pay to be on site and I’m like, Jesus, we can’t handle that. 
 
[1:08:35] (KS) It’s a nightmare. They make it so difficult. 
 
[1:08:37] (JM) They do. They do make it difficult. I get it. Historically the importance of meat 
safety. 
 
[1:08:46] (KS) We all want it to be safe, but I think the thing is that not many people want to 
invest in that work and then the USDA has to be able to support it more fully, so they’re not 
scrambling to get an inspector in to keep their business afloat. 
 
[1:09:01] (JM) And some of the regulations get really goofy. And also they particularly treat 
small farmers as if they’re big corporate farming enterprises. Case in point: had an inspection 
once and they said, where’s your manual and instruction on how to operate this fork lift? 
Madam, there’s one person who works in this building. They would be the one to write the 
procedure. Are you telling me that they should write the procedure so they can go and read it 
back to himself? That’s some of the stuff that gets ridiculous and then they wonder why there 
aren’t more small businesses. 
 
[1:10:00] (KS) It puts a lot of burden on, especially a smaller producer. But then you do get 
exemptions for being in agriculture. There are benefits to being in agriculture. I know a lot of 
people who have gone into wine making maybe primarily because of the tax advantages of 
having their land used for agricultural production. I was at Greenhill and that guy’s the one who 
owns SatCom International, David Greenhill. He’s not there. He’s running his international, 
global empire, but he’s got enough money that he can say, bring in a great French wine maker 
and go to town. Have fun. Just make something good I can drink. You’re obviously a very 
different business model in that you’re so ag focused and hands on involved in what you do, but 
there’s a lot of different varieties of vineyards and wine makers out there in Virginia. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
15 
 
 
[1:11:11] (JM) No doubt and that goes back to what I see as our differentiation in the 
marketplace. First of all, what I have to do here is to add value to the raw commodity product. 
With the milk for example, what do you get for a hundred? You know, you sell milk by the 100 
weight. 100 pound of milk, $18 or something like that? I think that’s what the current price of 
milk is. 
 
[1:11:41] (KS) Milk producers are having a particularly tough time. But then when you make an 
artisanal cheese. 
 
[1:11:50] (JM) I think it’s going to be around, let’s see. $17.80 cents for a hundred weight. 100 
pounds of milk, $17.80. That hundred pound of milk will produce about 10 pounds of cheese at 
about $20 per pound. So now you’re taking the 100 pounds of milk and turning it into $200 
instead of $18. The problem being the barrier for entry for people, especially for cows. You’re 
going to see more goat dairy, goat cheese and some more sheep cheese, because frankly it’s 
easier to raise a goat than to do deal with a horned cow. That’s a differentiator in the marketplace 
as well. Again, the idea of things American through good animal husbandry and good land 
stewardship and the crafting of high quality artisan food products that are complimentary to one 
another is the vision here. 
 
[1:13:28] (KS) How much time do you have still. I never know how long these interviews are 
going to go, so I like to leave it pretty wide open. I don’t like to double book my interviews 
because it would never work. Focusing a little more on Virginia, were you from Virginia 
originally? 
 
[1:13:57] (JM) No, I was born outside Detroit at a point in time when Detroit was a hopping 
town, right after World War II. The auto industry and all the manufacturing that was going on 
there. At the time Detroit was the fifth largest city in the US and it was dynamic and growing. 
Anyway, my dad moved us to Miami when I was 11. I had an interesting, Florida was fun for 
kids, snorkeling and the beaches and driving down to the Keys and stuff like that. That was a lot 
of fun. And I’m still appreciative of Florida. For the better part of the year you wake up and you 
go, oh my god it is just gorgeous today. But, it also is flat as a pancake and I wanted a change 
and you can’t grow grapes in Florida. Well you can. I did, but not wine grapes really. 
 
[1:15:15] (KS) What brought you to Virginia? You were in Charlottesville. Was it your business 
or did you just decide to live there? 
 
[1:15:24] (JM) No, I came up because I had just sold Landmark and I wanted to investigate grape 
growing. 
 
[1:15:33] (KS) Oh you were coming up all the way from there. I thought you were coming from 
Charlottesville. 
 
[1:15:34] (JM) No, I came up from Clearwater area. I had moved over to the Clearwater area, to 
attend this conference in Charlottesville in 1995. Now, prior to that, I had, or subsequent to that, 
to July of 1995 I had thought about maybe southern Oregon as an area to grow grapes, but when 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
16 
 
I went out there they had just gone through a seven year drought and everything was dead 
looking. To me, coming from Florida everything was brown. I was like, I don’t know if I can go 
through this ecological shock of everything looking dead. No, Virginia is really where it’s at. 
 
[1:16:30] (KS) But, you didn’t really have much to go on at that point in Virginia. How many 
people were doing wine? 
 
[1:16:37] (JM) 46 wineries, I think in 95 when I counted them. And I hit a good portion of them, 
driving all over the place. Tasting that Norton convinced me that it can be done. 
 
[1:17:05] (KS) These grapes in this place. 
 
[1:17:07] (JM) Yeah, so those actually were, I was actually the second producer of Viognier and 
Norton. Barboursville, Horton Viognier and some other people had a few planting of Norton, but 
they would up blending it in. There was really only one variety labeled Norton when I came to 
Virginia and that was Horton. Number two was me, and I made it our flagship grape variety. 
Dennis never really made Norton his flagship grape variety. Something happened recently that 
I’m proud of. I was instrumental in helping the friends of Shockoe Hill Cemetery to erect a 
monument to the memory of Dr. Daniel Norton. This is the bottom of the cemetery. Dr. Daniel 
Norton remembered 175 years and lent a significant hand in getting to see this new monument 
blah blah blah. And for my efforts and contribution as well, Chrysalis vineyards is memorialized 
on a monument that will hopefully last for a long time. Norton’s gravesite was one of those flat 
slabs and over time with the rain and the animals and all it was getting difficult to read the 
inscription. They wrote a little bit about him and the inscription from his grave marker. Shockoe 
Hill Cemetery’s a historic place. Chief Justice John Marshall is buried there. But I spoke at the 
dedication ceremony and I said, with absolutely no disrespect from any of the incredible 
Americans buried at this cemetery, I think, I find it interesting that out of all the thousands and 
thousands of folks there’s probably, with the exception of Chief Justice John Marshall, there is 
probably not a person in here who is having as profound an effect on us right now in 2017 as Dr. 
Daniel Norton. 
 
[1:19:58] (KS) Is that part of it for you? Maybe to just, to be, you’re like continuing that work? 
You’re pushing it forward and then maybe the next generation down the road someone else is 
going to pick it up. 
 
[1:20:13] (JM) Yeah, I think the game was, wow, what a neat game to play to be involved in the 
restoration of America’s real grape. That’s a registered trademark of mine, Norton, the Real 
American Grape. We put it on our labels and stuff. It goes back to the, you brought it up at the 
first part of our meeting, where America has this sort of inferiority, this lack of something that 
we can raise a glass to and say that this is quintessentially American and the Norton grape is one 
of those. It’s ours. It’s our contribution to fine wines and it was lost. It was gone. And it’s our 
responsibility to carry it on. Not only Norton, but the farm. The whole concept of, I put 20 years 
of hard work to develop this. I think about now, how is that passed on. That’s why I’m so excited 
about bringing in some of these young farmers as well, start seeing a restoration of traditional 
farmland that has had this incredible pressure to be subdivided and turned into residential area. 
Which is fine. Everybody needs a house to live in, or a place to live in at least. But we should 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
17 
preserve this and the only way I feel personally, or the most legitimate way to preserve this land 
is to again make it actually productive. 
[1:22:16] (KS) Otherwise it becomes a museum of agriculture instead of actual agriculture. 
[1:22:22] (JM) And there’s only so many deep pocketed folks to go around to put big tracts of 
land in conservation easements and then they don’t want anyone coming out. I’ve had my share 
of battles. One of them went all the way to the Supreme Court of Virginia. 
[1:22:39] (KS) Oh, to be able to sell in Virginia? Your case was… 
[1:22:36] (JM) No, no, no. That was not my case. My case was… that was the old Greenhill that 
Anita Sweetenburg bought. No mine had to do, do you want to hear this story? It’s a great story 
in the right to farm. Maybe not everybody would agree with it, but. I purchased Caelei, the 222 
acres in 2008. There was a conservation easement on that property held by Ducks Unlimited and 
their agency that holds them, Wetlands America Trust. I read the easement multiple times. I 
studied the easement. I went to two separate lawyers to get an opinion on what it was we intend 
to do. I wrote multi-page emails to Duck’s Unlimited’s attorneys with photographs of buildings 
on the property. Well, I think everything’s okay. We’ll have our biologist that what you plan to 
do is going to be okay and that was all okay. 
[1:24:02] (KS) I feel another shoe dropping soon. 
[1:24:05] (JM) In 2011 I put a drawing from the architect, the concept drawing of the building 
and a neighbor passed that along to the Piedmont environmental council and the Piedmont 
Environmental Council said, yikes look they’re building a building out here and about two weeks 
later I got a cease and desist letter from Ducks Unlimited. And I go, wait a minute, first of all, the 
easement, one of the conservation values of the easement was agriculture. And the easement 
specifically allowed for commercial and industrial agriculture. How can you guys say I can’t 
build this building? Well you can’t build the building. So then we had this mediation that didn’t 
work. So then they sued me. Five day trial in the 20th circuit court in Leesburg. Five days and 
they brought 14 counts. 
[1:25:33] (KS) And the was the PEC or Ducks Unlimited? 
[1:25:35] (JM) Ducks Unlimited since they held the easement. But I was told that they were 
intimately involved in this. The bottom line is they lost. The judge found in favor of our position 
in all but two counts. And the two counts were kind of snickery counts. When we built that road, 
I didn’t want to lose my topsoil, because you take your topsoil off and put in the gravel, so I 
piled up my topsoil and didn’t want it hauled off the farm. It’s topsoil. It’s valuable stuff. Well, 
you can’t have those piles of topsoil. So that just took two hours to spread in the fields. And the 
other one, the prior owner had a crossing that was poorly constructed and that we wanted to 
repair, but since it was an NRCS project we thought maybe we’d have to go to them, and now 
the judge ordered us to repair that crossing and that was it. Well then, they filed an appeal to the 
Supreme Court and we waited and we waited and we waited for the opinion out of the court. 
Meanwhile I’m building the building and rolling the dice and yeah. At that point we spent three 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
18 
 
quarters of a million dollars defending our right to farm. In a most unbelievable, in fact I have 
audio for you. Watching this. 
 
[1:27:33] (AUDIO) Jenni it’s Andy, we won. Please call. We’re so happy. Bye. 
 
[1:27:40] (JM) That’s my attorney. I’ve saved the message. In basically two sentences, in the 
matter of Wetlands America Trust, blah blah blah versus blah blah blah we find that the lower 
court made no error in their determination. Appeal denied. It was an important case. There’s a 
whole bunch of conservation agencies. Which is really annoying to me, because we’re really 
good land stewards. This wasn’t at all about wetlands or conservations or anything. This was 
about elitist, nimby, not wanting the great unwashed to come out to Middleburg. Now we have a 
precedent, from the Supreme Court of Virginia, that conservation easements are restrictive 
covenants and in common-law going back hundreds of years, going back even to England, 
ambiguities and confusions in restrictive covenants should always be found for the freest use of 
land. Not the most restrictive use. 
 
[1:29:07] (KS) I mean on the one hand I quite admire that they have been able to preserve quite a 
lot of land, from being developed, for just like townhouses or something like that. But I know of 
people who have had big fights with them over lots of different issues farming related. 
 
[1:29:30] (JM) The thing that irks me is that they, some of these folks, and it’s just some of these 
folks, because you’re right, the impetus to preserve this farmland and keep it from disappearing 
is a laudable goal and mission, but there’s a lot of folks who wrap this politically correct mantle 
of environmentalism around them that hides a very elitist agenda. 
 
[1:30:03] (KS) You definitely see that. But I do see this changing a bit now. With the 
development that’s been going on in Marshall, how there’s been a lot of loosening of some of 
those restrictions, so that there can be some more development, which people need there. They 
need places to live. 
 
[1:30:20] (JM) Well, I mean we’re human beings and we’re advancing through time and we 
can’t hold onto, it’s great that we want to preserve that stuff, but it can be carried to the absurd 
where nothing ever changes. 
 
[1:30:36] (KS) Which is kind of how it was. I feel like there was this big dead zone for a long 
time for Middleburg and Marshall and the Plains and all these areas. It was just old wealthy 
people hanging onto their land and wanting to keep it that way, but people need internet access 
and they need resources and shops and things to go to. There just wasn’t anything being built 
because they were so blocking. 
 
[1:31:04] (JM) That’s right and being able to do it smartly and being able to do something like 
we’re doing, where we’re creating products that are of interest to the savvy, young consumers 
that are coming up and inviting them, one of our greatest assets is the beauty of this land. We can 
share it. We can use that to allow folks that don’t have this environment and the beauty in their 
lives to come out and enjoy it. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
19 
 
[1:31:39] (KS) Which is a huge part of it. 
 
[1:31:43] (JM) I was, it’s, I hope that that’s the case and that we’re seeing a loosening and I think 
we are. 
 
[1:31:56] (KS) And then you mentioned the Swedenburg case which then is why we’ve seen 
such a boom in wineries and tasting rooms and vineyards, because they changed the laws that 
were very uptight about serving alcohol and allowing people to even have tasting rooms and sell 
to the public. 
 
[1:32:17] (JM) Yeah, but the Swedenburg case was actually about other wineries outside of 
Virginia. We always had, as a matter of fact, Virginia farm wineries with the Virginia farm 
winery statute that was crafted by Archie Smith, Sr. from Meredith Vineyards, they were down 
the street, no longer there, in 1980 allowed for ABC licensure of the full gambit, producer, 
wholesaler, and retailer. When I started I could wholesale my wines without a distributor and I 
could ship my wines without any reporting other than just general reporting in our quantity sold. 
The Supreme Court case was a bit of a mixed bag for Virginia wineries. The case held, rightfully 
so, that the dormant commerce clause of the US constitution applied here, that Virginia could not 
allow its in-state wineries to ship to consumers and forbid it from outside wineries to ship to 
consumers. So the Supreme Court of the United States basically ordered that you have to do 
something about that and level the playing field. So they could have leveled up, which is let 
everybody ship to Virginia consumers, or they could have leveled down, and forbid anybody 
from shipping to Virginia consumers. Fortunately they leveled up. What it did to us though, is it 
added an additional burden of reporting. I have to send every month every single person that I’ve 
shipped wine to has to be in a list in a report that goes to the commonwealth and so does 
anybody else. Plus I now have to have this direct shippers license. I have to pay a fee. There’s 
just this layer of bureaucracy. What happened after that and which was perhaps not envisioned, 
was that that opened the door for distributors to complain that Virginia farm wineries had the 
right to distribute their wines, or other wineries, but they did not have the right. In that case they 
leveled down. We lost our ability, now this wasn’t a part of the Supreme Court case, but it 
wound up happening subsequent to that case, because it opened that Pandora’s Box, so to speak, 
is that our right to distribute was lost. Now, and the whole Virginia wine distribution corporation 
thing. Do you know about that? This was sort of this Rube Goldberg way of satisfying the law 
that we have to take our hats off as wine producers. We have to have special place in the facility. 
I have to keep special records in the place where the wine comes to rest and then you have to put 
your hat on as a distributor’s agent when you deliver the wine. You gotta pay them $6 to handle 
the transaction. So if you want to distribute your own wine you have to go through this whole 
process. You have to mail in the invoices. Anyway, that is what happened with Swedenburg 
going to the Supreme Court. 
 
[1:35:56] (KS) Okay, I think I had it a little bit mixed up. 
 
[1:35:59] (JM) It didn’t really impact, let’s put it this way, it just added burdens to the industry, 
but those burdens weren’t significant enough to thwart the industry, just because people want to 
come out. They want to enjoy the camaraderie. You know there’s a camaraderie in our industry. 
Maybe a little bit less so now than there used to be. It used to be when a new winery was coming 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
20 
 
into an area that was interesting and positive, because it lent legitimacy. Now you have a couple 
wineries that somebody could visit instead of just one winery out in the boondocks. But now 
we’ve got Cana across the street, 50 west, the cidery that’s right across Middleburg. 
 
[1:36:54] (KS) The Goombas. 
 
[1:36:58] (JM) Yep, Quattro Goombas and you’ve got Greenhill, so we’re seeing, it’s 
competition now. We’re having again to, we’re counting on the presentation of these artisan 
products to compete with these other. I don’t, oh and how about Stone Tower. I don’t own a 
furniture company. I can’t put leather sofas everywhere for people to lounge around in 20 million 
dollar facilities. 
 
[1:37:37] (KS) I think that’s interesting though, because I think each group is, or each winery 
tasting room is having to develop their own signature style, personality, that people will come 
for. You know what I mean, like Barrel Oak is the party frat house kind of place and other places 
are very snooty snooty. Like Greenhill is really trying to be really fancy and really elite and 
whatever. I think you see, some places have spaghetti dinners. It’s interesting. Everyone’s trying 
to carve out what their niche is going to be, above and beyond what does the actual wine taste 
like. 
 
[1:38:25] (JM) I agree with you. In fact, unfortunately, from my perspective, I think almost what 
the wine tastes like and the quality of the wine is almost secondary. You know, people, well I 
really like to go there and hang. Barrel Oak is an example. They may not produce the highest 
award winning wines and put that same amount of care and attention into their wines, but they’re 
always packed because people are really going for the experience. And that’s true. I told our staff 
ages ago that we don’t really impact where our wines might sit on a wine retailer’s shelf. Or even 
if they’re picked up by a wine retailer. And we really can’t impact too much, because we don’t 
have any large marketing budget to drive people to come down this crummy dirt road over here. 
But what we can impact and what we absolutely must is that when they do get here, what do we 
do? How do we treat? And we’ve developed a reputation, which I think is we have to continue to 
improve, continue to understand and treat the folks that are visiting us. They are so important. 
And our VIP members, our wine club members, mean the difference between sustainability and 
not. I spoke at CASA, Chesapeake Alliance of Sustainable Agriculture, some years ago and I 
talked about, well first of all it was like the general foundation was, growing a native plant. But 
in talking about sustainability there’s the ecological or environmental sustainability, there’s the 
cultural sustainability, benefits to the culture, brining local foods, but the third thing is the 
sustainability of the farmer, of the family. If you don’t have a sustainable of the farmer, you 
don’t have any of that. It’s tough in agriculture to make a buck and as more and more of the 
experienced kinds of facilities, supported by some deep pockets like Greenhill, or like Stone 
Tower, but I’m thinking of the furniture company behind them. And again, our vision and what 
we will begin to communicate more and more, because I’ve also just engaged a social media 
guru to get our website cleaned up and stuff like that, is to tell the world that we’re an 
alternative. This isn’t to denigrate anyone else, and this is a long term vision that I’ve had for ten 
or twenty years. I cellar, I have Nortons multiple cases, I saved thirty cases of Locksley Reserve 
and Estate bottle Norton and I have a Locksley going back to 2000, our very first vintage, 
because I’ve had the idea of sitting down people and having a whole vertical line up, maybe it’s 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
21 
all the odd years one time and then we’ll do the other one. Because I have a fully licensed 
commercial kitchen, actually we’re licensed as a restaurant, we’re just not a restaurant. You have 
to go into the basement of the building. I need to have you get over there sometime. 
[1:42:18] (KS) We can set up another, maybe after the holidays or something. I could come and 
take some pictures if that would work. 
[1:42:25] (JM) Yeah, that would be fine. 
[1:42:28] (KS) We’ve been talking. 
[1:42:33] (JM) We probably have to wrap up pretty soon. I do have something and then I’ve got 
to worry about the chickens. 
[1:42:40] (KS) True. The dog just lives out there with the chickens? 
[1:42:42] (JM) Yeah, that’s Ruby. She’s an Anatolian Shepard and this is why I have not lost, 
you’ll appreciate this. I bought 126 new birds in May and there are probably 15, probably 18 or 
20 boys out of that and we got rid of some of the boys, kept some boys and one of the animals 
was not a layer, it was a meat bird, so I ate her. But I have not lost one bird and that’s why. Good 
girl. 
[1:43:33] (KS) Oh my god it got a fox. 
[1:43:34] (JM) A big fox too. Look at the size of that. She’s probably killed 30 raccoons. She’s a 
sweetheart of a dog, but woe is anything that gets inside of her space. 
[1:43:47] (KS) I had a friend who had a litter of them, that lives out in Rappahannock, of 
Anatolians, and I was like, oh maybe we’ll get an Anatolian and I started reading and that’s 
something you need to Google. If you Google Anatolian it’s like, tell me about, there’s this 
hilarious description of the breed that someone wrote that’s like, like to have huge craters in your 
yard? Get an Anatolian. Want your neighbors to be complaining about barking all the time? Get 
the Anatolian, but they were like if you have a farm and you have high fences if they need to be 
in a fence and train them to do something, that’s what they’ll be happy doing. 
[1:44:29] (JM) The reasons those extensions are on the fence is because she would just walk 
right up and jump over the fence. They have this huge protective zone area. She would go kill a 
raccoon, come back, drop it, go out and kill another raccoon, one day there’s like two of them 
and she’s just sitting there smiling and then Johan, who’s there in the picture and helps me care 
for the birds and the animals, he calls me, Jenni, I’m worried about Ruby. She’s not eating. I 
look at her and I’m like, she’s eating something. Well she’s eating raccoons. So she’d go out and 
get her food. So the neighbor across the street, Jenni, Ruby’s getting in my garbage and listen, I 
can’t keep having this. If she does it again I’m going to pull out the shotgun, and I’m like uh oh. 
So we had to extend the fence. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
22 
[1:45:28] (KS) That’s what they were saying, minimum eight foot fence, because either they’ll 
go over or they’ll go under. 
[1:45:39] (JM) One of the descriptions that I read that I found, is that people consider that 
Anatolians are not very smart dogs. They’re not border collies, well first of all, probably because 
they did not have as much human interaction. But the fact is that it’s actually not that they’re not 
smart and that when you give them a command it’s not that they don’t understand it, it’s just that 
they don’t give a shit. 
[1:46:10] (KS) That’s so true. And I’ll find the description and send it to you, because it’s 
hilarious, but just reading that. I read it out loud to my husband and he was like, yeah, we’re not 
going to get one of those and I was like, yeah probably not in the suburbs. 
[1:46:22] (JM) So I read a lot about them and she’s, I co-own her with a breeder in Richmond. 
She was the pick of the litter and her daddy was an international champion from New Zealand 
and I wanted to breed her, but she’s never, she came into heat once and then she would let the 
sire mount her and two trips to Charlottesville and all the expense of pregnancy testing and all 
that. She just does her own thing. She’s a sweetheart of a dog. But it’s a work dog. She doesn’t 
not come in the house ever, except when she’s a puppy. 
[1:47:07] (KS) We have two Bernese Mountain dogs and they’re lover lovers. 
[1:47:13] (JM) So where are you that you’re not supposed to have chickens? That’s ridiculous/ 
[1:47:15] (KS) XXX  
[1:47:20] (JM) But didn’t they change that? Didn’t they have some backyard birds? 
[1:47:23] (KS) I think Arlington did, but I mean technically I think I could get a permit and go 
through this whole thing and pay $500. 
[1:47:31] (JM) Well, you don’t have a rooster crowing. It’s just three hens. 
[1:47:35] (KS) It’s just three hens and we have a fenced in backyard and it’s, we’re on the 
corner, so we don’t have neighbors on three sides. 
[1:47:41] (JM) Do they have a little coop? Do they go inside? Do you have to close them or do 
they, because they’re so safe? 
[1:47:47] (KS) No, I have to close them because we have so many hawks. The hawks are the 
biggest issue. They’re big, but the hawks, we even have bald eagles in my neighborhood that are 
flying around and have swooped through my backyard before. They’re pretty good at staying 
under brush if they think something’s around, but all my friends that have backyard chickens it 
was mostly hawks that got them. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
23 
 
[1:48:15] (JM) You know, when I said I haven’t lost a bird. I don’t know, because we don’t 
count a hundred and odd chickens. It’s very difficult because they’re all running around and I did 
see two hawks and I was just showing off the birds. I went to the back and all of a sudden I see a 
bunch of tussling going on and these two hawks fly up and drop a bird from about 15 feet up in 
the air and there’s a bunch of the little under feathers there. So they’re here too, but I don’t think. 
I once saw a young hawk wrestling with a Buff Orpington and I look at the hawk and I go, you 
idiot, that bird weighs more than you do. You’re not flying off with a Buff Orpington. 
 
[1:49:02] (KS) You have a huge Buff Orpington out there. There’s one of them that’s like way 
bigger than any one them that I’ve ever seen. But they’re gorgeous. They’re gorgeous birds. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017