American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 1
3.02
 
c
orporate a
ctivities
 
administrative r
ecords
 
NEA, 1
977-1992
 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 20, 1987
 WASHINGTON -HONOLULU
 
Long hours, long flight.  Twelve hours e
lapsed time from Washington to arrival
 
in Honolulu,  Was met by Nancy
 and Art
 members of the
 
board of the Hawaii Foundation on the Arts.  Pleasant chit-chat, a little dis-
appointing somehow, had come so far.  Drove Prank to the Kahala Hilton way out
 
past Diamond Head, a splendid place, then drove me back to my hotel, much simpler
 
establishment more or less in downtown Honolulj near the Ala Moana shopping center
 
which appears to be quite a landmark.  The hotel i
s very comfortable, has a little
 
kitchenette and is quite spacious.  Except for its distance (
beyond walking) from
 
the beach it would be absolutely fine.  Government rate $50.00 a night; it has
 
a pool but is closed from midnight until 7
:30, so if you want  to come in late you
 
have to make very fancy and complicated arrangements.
 
Lynn called and met me for dinner accompanied by Clyde Sproat, whose nickname is
 
Kindy, also his wife Cheri.  We had a pleasant meal at a Thai restaurant and I
 
went off to bed pretty tired.
 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2
1, 1987
 HONOLULU
 
Breakfast with Bernie Lopez at my favorite old hotel, the New Otani and afterwards
 
went for a sii.  Bernie and I talked  about a lot of things.  As seems to be his
 
habit Bernie was not very forthcoming; I felt I told him about nine thousand things
 
and he told me about two, one of which is that he may decide to return the grant
 
for the Micronesian cultural meeting to plan a survey of Micronesian cultural needs/
 
He can t seem to raise 
,the match.
 I told him I was afraid that it had come out of
 
86 money; he seemed to believe it had come out of 87.
 I told him I would try to
 
check i
t out with Dan.
 BESS CHECK
 
We discussed the possibility of working up a kind of special tour fund for travel
 
expenses for Micronesian and Alaskan tauxsxzsime-
azatizlhi
Esi
Rzxzeaxziiaxoiyzd touring
 
performing groups, since all of them require using lots of people and Bernie says
 
hey simply don't even think about touring to such places as Alaska or Guam because
 
f the simple airline xx costs.
 If the air fares themselves could be taken care of
 
the rest of it could be pretty self supporting he feels.
 
\
fter he left, I had a swim, dressed and then walked across the park and sat down
 
t
o watch a bit of a hula group rehearsing on the outdoor band she l . n extraordinaril'
 
athletic duck walk wasinvolved amongst other things.
 I bussed back to Ala Moana,
 
and grabbed a bit of lunch and then went up and lay down in my room for a while,
 
s
till pretty tired.  Dinner with Lynn Martin, discussed a lot about projected
 
exhibit of cowboy stuff.
 I
t seems to be coming on well; she's dividing the exhibit
 
up into three section s
:  as she said, she's gotten the gobbledy-gook (
academic)
 
out of her language and :
it the first section will be called Working Hard,  (
that
 
will have the saddles and the tack and the bridles etc) the second Looking Good,
 
which has hats and leis and hatbands, which are feather, shell and sisal which she
 
says is a newly revived craft under the impetus of this particular exhibit.  The
 
last section is called Having Fun and that's mostly music plus the instruments.  She
 
plans to record Kindy and an accompaninist the next day and also ix has decided to
 
get Ric Treinillos to go back to the island of Hawaii and record sounds of the cowboys
 
working with the cattle.  She says each cowboy has a special call or click or whatever
 
and thereSalso the beautiful sound of the spurs and metal things on the stirrups that
 
c
link musically.  She thinks that this would be a lovely sound background for the
 
exhibit and I cgree.  She told me, by the way, that Rick T
, is a cityboy and had a
 
l
ot of trouble in the country and that's one reason he seemed not to have such a good
 
I
 
time doing the recording.  They did however on one occasion take Rick's mother
 
(who was visiting him)along on a recording session and Rick commented afterwards
 
that they really should have taken a Rent-a.Grandmother along on every recording
 
trip Q '
1 had all gone so much easier that way.
 
Generally speaking Lynn seems extremely tired, tense, i
s working every night,
 
all weekend, cheerful as always but I talked to her very seriously about driving
 
herself too hard and not getting back what she needs in the long haul.  She is
 
clearly greatly beloved by the artists.  She has talked all these old cowmen ø
.X into
 
of turning their stuff over  to her,which many people thought was clearly impossible.
 
She goes to infinite pains to make sure everybody is feeling good and I think
 
in fact errs in that direction
 Everything for the artists, nothing for her and
 
zero for the rest of the surround -
-
 the arts council people and so on -
-
 I
t's
 
bad politics, and I told her so.
 
ompet in
 
SUNDAY FEBRWARY 2
2, 1
987
 HONOLULU
 
I sort of tried to pull myself back together a bit in the morning and/went out to
 
lunch with Frank Hodsoll,  I
t took from about 10:30 a
.m. on to get t
itQr  anyway.
 
We had about a two hour session, quite productive, I thinks I went over a l
ot of
 
issues with him that I thought were important, and have sort of come down to
 
agenda of i
tems that Pm going to try to emphasize during this particular trip, no
 
matter where I am going.  @fzxaxrseXzxpprnn1ixexhipx
 
Of course, apprenticeships , for one thing.  The second thing i
s talking to people
 
about
 raising the standards of presentation, and I did discuss that, by the
 
way, with Lynn.  The next i
tem I want to talk about i
s publications i
n
, the are ,p
. 
crafts
 brochures and information
 that can be sold for the benefit of
 
those interested in learning about crafts. Next i
s the idea of s
ouvenir i
tems  1
5f by
 
crafts l
um  people, the miniature things and other kinds of devices that can be worked
 
out to provide tourists with authentic materials at not too great a cost and keep
 
the crafts people a l
itt
busier and a little bit better paid.
 
I spoke about a
ll these ideas with Frank; he was very supportive.
 I a
lso took up
 
the issue of the possible funds for touring large performing groups and suggested
 
the possibility that we might be able -
-
 considering the redistribution of f
light
 
schedules between airlines in the Pacific at this time -
-
 to get some of
 
e"irlines to be interested in helping us out with funding.  He again was very
 
supportive.  WxtaI1c
 
We talked a l
ittle bit about the s
ituation in the Arts Council and he feels that
 
Sarah
. Is okay and r told him that r thought she was okay too but that she simply
 
had to be pushed.  During the afternoon I went to a recording s
tudio where Clyde
 
Sproat was being recorded by Lynn.  I
t was a commercial recording studio with a young
 
engineer s Clyde was accompanied by HAUNAN] APOLION A a woman of perhaps mid-thirties
 
who was accompany
'ing on s
lack keF guitar.  I thought she was doing an extxa r ø ax
 
extraoridInary job considering particularly that Clyde recorded perhaps twelve
 
songs all in the key of G which made i
t a l
ittle difficult for hr to come up with
 
a lot of new ideas a
ll the time.  F
 suggested increasing the bass so as to bring
 
her work out a bit more and got into a bit of a squabble with the engineer who
 
took it personally and said that his bass was within the normal hearing range and
 
I was full of prunes.  Lynn got upset with this, Haunani xxg  indicated to me in a
 
very subtle way that she was not totally happy with the sound; I finally drew back
 
i
d sat there sort of steaming and thinking r
 shouldn't do i
t(and I probably shouldn'
 
wondered, you se e , at th e time  if th is sort
 of  Jangly
 treble
 was  what
 the  aeasthetic
 
)
 the culture requIred.
I later heard from Rick Tremillos that that s
tudio i
s
 
n
otorious for putting out stuff with intense treble and minimal bass.
 I learned
 
s
omething from this -
 I should go with my instincts and not be so damned hold-back 
and also that Lynn will a
lways decide things on the basis of what she thinks the
 
original artists prefer or at the least she will decide on the basis ofnot disturbing
 
the traditional artists.
 I think this is her problem, which i
s just as bad as my
 
problem,  Anyway, I don't think i
t was a bad recording session, i
tjust could have
 
been a
. l
ot better if I had stuck
 to my guns and hung in there a l
ittle bit more
 
I could certainly could have bullied Lynn and the 06und man as well.  Clyde was i
n
 
excellent voice, feeling very good, and - .-
 on the other side of the situation, maybe
 
he would have gotten upset if the overall scene hadn't moved smoothly.
 )'
 -
Q
 
Anyway, I sR went off to dinner with Bernie and Kate at their house and at that point
 
Bernie made a couple of suggestion s
.  He knows Spider Ked
lelsky and had difficulty
 
with him al so
, suggested that the way to handle him i
s to request that he come in with
 
five workable i
deas including mechanisms for carrying them out from which the folk
 
Arts Program could do a reasonable selection, but make him do a recognizable proposal,
 
and not put the burden on us all the time.  He XEKN
,  Rick and Lynn -
-
 all at various
 
times -
-
 asked if I would talk to Kauai and NoeNoe about the problem of Kaui's
 
never letting her stuff be recorded, and I 1said I would.  Katie and I then went to
 
a hula concert sponsored by Dances We Daneelin
 a nice auditorium in a local university
 
campus.
 I thought i
t was extremely interesting, weliproduced, well mounted and
 
certainly up to standard university kind of entertainment.
 It's not big-time, but
 
I thoroughly enjoyed the evening.
 
Haunani says she
 
N
.B.  KixX)msxyxxkx plays in the Taro Patch tuning: D G D C B D
.  There is also a
 
C tuning -
-
 C G D C B D
 
MONDAY, February 23, 1978
 HONOLULU
 
I had breakfast with Lynn and she took me to the Honolulu Academy of Arts where
 
I met with George Ellis, the Director and discussed with him some problems that
 
Lynn had been worried about basically involving what she felt was a lack of sympathy
 
between her and the exhibit designer whosk services were being donated by the
 
Academy so she couldn't exactly fire him.  She says he is Japanese and doesn't
 
like working with women much and is very set in his ways.  She wants to have lots
 
of photographs of the artists and photo murals and things; he wants to have little
 
teeny pictures and great big objects -
-
 the usual kind of conflict.  Ellis went
 
out of his way to be supportive and got downright enthusiastic when I mentioned
 
to him that Bob Garfias had been out to the i
sland and told him a little bit about
 
Bob's background and that he is now on the Council and that he is interested in
 
Asian art and
 has worked a in Japan and W  likes Okinawan stuff.  And Ellis
 
just went up in flames and said,' Gee I wish I had known he was here;  1
% Bounds
 
like a wonderful man; we are applying for a Challenge grant and I hope to earn his
 
support
.,'
 
So i
t turns out that Rttixx .s more than half the collectionA is Asian art, mostly
 
Japanese -
-
 some Okinawan, some Thai and SE Asian but mostly the big places.  And
 
according to him and certainly seconded by Lynn who seems to like Ellis a lot, he
 
has daxx made a real attempt to reach out to the minority communities in Honolulu,
 
has film series of interest to Asians in the museum, turns over the central court-
yard for local ethnic festivals, had a big Okinawan hash not too long ago with
 
2000 people attending, food being cooked and dances being danced -- everybody very
 
happy.  He took me through an extraordinarily beautiful exhobit,A collection of,as
 
he said pre-Zen Japanese prints  very beautifully mounted with all kinds of nice
 
touches
 Ikebana floral arrangements WE through*4ims" Whdo
mp
 done b daily by
 
local Japanese ladies, a beautiful little pool with a waterfall and so on.
 I liked
 
him very much.  We had to rush1 because I had to meet the Chairman for a  lick lunch
 
with Sarah, the first time I s
 her.  She was friendly and I was friendly.
 
r
 
 
 then took off and the Chairman and I went to the Bishop
 
eum where we talked
 
a bit with Duckworth, the Director) an d then  got  a tour
 throj(gh the back end of
 
the museum.  Lynn says that Duckworth has not yet sold the  community on the fact that
 
they should support the Bishop; it is still kind of stodging along And-
. one of
 
the big reason4is that the salaries are so low.  She says that they start in at
 
[
bout $12,000 a year and maybe reach the dazzling heights of $
15 or $16,000,  She
 
ays this is a general problem in Hawaii, that peoples to live there a lot  '
o they
 
don't fight h  d for better wages or better working
 nditions and bette
fringe
 
benefits
i  his is okay when you're older but the  oung people come a
l/mg and see
 
i
t and see that they don't have any kind of chance t get ahead really  o they cut
 
out and go to the mainland.  The result i
s that ther  are older people t
or frankly
 
just not highly qualifed people in an awful l
ot of jobs.
 She says there are still
 
a number of people working in the Arts Council staff who )for example have no fringe
 
benefits whatever because Sarah never fought for them and they are scared to cut
 
out and go find another jobs
 they just barely can do what i
t is they do.
 
-
'
 _ \_
 '
 
The
'rwas extremely interesting as always
 I saw Betty,(
(- ..
 
she seemed genuinely glad to see me; I promised to call her when I got back on my
 
day off.
 (
DIDN"T CALL: DROP BETTY A LINE AND EXPLAIN)  One of the curators we
 
visited turns out to be a friend of Caroline Sinaviana who i
s John Enright's
 
Samoan wife, a folklorist/anthropologist, Xmilixg with an MA in folklore from
 
Berkeley and getting her PhD from the U of Hawaii.
 
After the tour -
-
 which was the usual thing 4 "
o
-he problem
 th the Bishop is that
 
it isn't really
' an art museum and it doesn't really f
it
 guidelines.
 It's
 
kind of a mixed cultural anthropology cum Pacific scientific museum.
 I
'm going to
 
continue to urge the Endowmnet to pay some attention to i
t along with the Honolulu
 
Academy.
We went back to the Hotel and changed clothes and went back to the Museum
 
for a dinner and part
 I saw Rick Tremillos, I saw Barbara Smith, I saw Kaui
 
Zutterneister and Noej*e and Kat i x Mealii Kalama.
 I talked over some
 -'
 
problems with Alan with Barbara Smith; it turns out that Alan didn't use t e
 
material she sent  im on Micronesia in the early days of his cantometricking.
 (
Alan
 
says he never got I '
 she assumed he had it and didn't believe i
t was an  good.
 
I think they really ought to
 
a
,
lk it out; it seemed sort of sad.  She's not a terribly intellectually creative
 
lady; I can see that Alan wouldn't especially like her and that she wouldn't like
 
him
but she does her job and so does he, as he sees it.
 
ø
 
Outside of that I had a pleasant evening.  Frank gave a nice talk and there was
 
very homespun style entertainment that got quite sentimental and
 sweet.  Kaui
 
did a chant with a prayer; the hula halao that went to the quilt affair in NY
 
at the Statue of Liberty that Alan enjoyed so much adxt e)rz-&an  dx
q was there
 
and they danced, '
very vigorous young ladies and they danced hard, kind of nice
 
sort of countryfied hula
 Then Kinty sang with Haunani and brought on his apprentice,
 
a young woman from Molokai.  Everybody has always told me that Molokai is kind of
 
country and backwoodsy and she certainly exhibited that, absolutely charming, delightful
 
young woman who sang very well but clearly a genuine nonsophisticate.
 It was really
 
awfully nice -
 great fun to see somebody so innocent.  Drove home with Benjd
 
Bennington from the East West Center, talked a bit of politics with her. She will
 
try to make a move or two concerning the Center and getting more active cultural
 
program.
 
NB.  ASK BOB TO SEND A TAPE OF OKINAWAN MUSIC FOR ALAN, ALSO FOR FRANK WHO IS INTERESTED
 
TUESDAY February 24
 HONOLULU  TO SAMOA
 
In a
.m. called up Carolina Sinavaina and we had a nice l
ong friendly conversation
 
A
i xxk She sounds like just the kind of person I could and would enjoy working with
 
and we look forward to meeting when I come back through.
 I talked also with Lynn
 
briefly and went out and bought another tape recorder (
Sony portable -
-
 by the way,
 
they are ext emel  cheap in Honolulu, should remember in future) t
hn case the one
 
I have  goe an the fritz.
 
Carol Fox,who no longer works for the Bishop but i
s now the publicity director
 
for the T Nature Conservancy,picked me up and took me to the airport.  Great
 
crisis at the airport because no one had told me to bring a passport.  Apparently
 
to
t to Samoa you have to have a passp
  the Samoan immigration people finally
 
cabled that it w a
 
s
 
a
l
l
 
r
i
g
h
t
 
o
r
 me to come at the very last second and I dashed
 
on to the plane, running the last half-mile with a Hawaii A
j
.Jneclerk urging me on.
 
They had refused, by the way, to x acce
verbal assurances over the phone from the
 
f
f WkdztxzSamoaiaxembzsxX Samoan embassy people because iXkRc "we have to have it
 
in writing".  Apparently teletype is, okay.  Talk about the M'sterious  ast. .
t
.j
 
i
roughout the trip, f
aii (
Air was discourteous, inefficient , all-round
 
cheap-o,
 Ill tri anything else uex \tiine if there is a next time.
 
w
 r
'
,
 4
 
A few little extras I neglected to put in the proper places:
 
The Chairman is very interested in getting Tom Selleck on the Council.  He
 
says Reagan likes F
ilm a lot and he seems to be a decent fellow.
 I talked to Lynn
 
and several other people about Se leck,  They all agree that people in Hawaii think
 
that Selleck i
s a really nice guy, he appears to have a real interest in Hawaii
 
Itself and the H.wa ians appreciate that very
' much. T+ 1
Sr
4
 e
 .
 ç
p
L
.J
 
. I discussed with
 also the local reputation of Taj Mahal -
-
 not so good.
 
He keeps a low profile, isn't unpleasant but hasn't made Hawaii his own home base
 
in the s
ame sense as Selleck.
 
I
 
• I discussed with Bernie and also with Lynn the question of reprinting Margo
 
Vitarelli s research paper on Micronesian crafts and renewable resources.  They both
 
agreed it s an excellent idea; Bernie will carry the ball on it; when I get home
 
Pm to write Margo and urge her to consider allowing it to be published and to conside
 
modifying it slightly also in the direction of making i
t plain that crafts are
 
only for tourists but also for the people who live there.
 BESS WRITE MARCO
 
• George Ellis turns out to be an Alabaman.  GET HANK OR JOEY BRACKMAN TO WRITE
 
ELLIS ABOUT THE POTTERY TRADITION AND SPLIT OAK BASKETRY.  He has two enormous
 
cotton picking baskets with hin
Hawaii, expressed considerable nostalgia to hear
 
how things were coming along at home.  He can't even get them in his house so he's
 
storing them at the Museum.
 Shoudl also WRITE GARFIAS ABOUT ELLIS' INTEREST IN
 
PACIFIC AND SEND HIM THE NEWSLETTERS ON THE ORGANIZATION
 XXRISX RXINR PACIFIC
 
ARTS ASSOCIATION,  Ellis i
s Vice President.
 -
 
WEDNESDAY February 25.  AMERICAN SAMQA, PAGO PAGO
 
Woke up earl
/
s
e
a
ms
 
reakfast, took a swim in the ocean right outside
 
the window of the Rainmaker Hot
 Lovely, 
Lovely, except sea full of plastic bags; found
 
out later they wash down th
 from the mountain villages where for centuries
 
unwanted baskets have been 
into the local brooks.  Apparnently it's very
 
difficult to stop this habi
r breakfast was interviewed by a local newspaper
 
reporter, very nice, whose nickname apparently is To'o To'o.  He is a reporter for
 
the Samoan Times.  We had a very interesting conversation -
-
 at least I enjoyed it.
 
He asked some very sharp questions, was particularly interested in a general compara-
tive aesthetic point of view and seemed to enjoy thinking about largerissues than
 
specifically grants or anything of that kind.  He was concerned with cultural
 
preservation and liked to talk about it.
 
After that J hn Enright turned up with a friend of his named John Kneubuhl who is
 
a gentleman of about my age, grey haired wearing a lavalava who has a really remark-
able life and who impressed me very much.  Apparently he was born in Samoa and was
 
sent away to school and spent most of his life on the mainland, travelled extensively
 
in Europe, became a writer, a playwright, worked for a long time in Hollywood where
 
he wrote scripts during the 50s and 69s, a very fresh and fallow period for TV.
 
He was apprently one of the earliest writers on THE WELD WILD WEST and similar shows
 
of the period, He was very successful, made quite a lot of money and then decided
 
at a certain
, point that he wanted to go back home zxdxwitkzkixzwifx And with his
 
wire and grown children, he did so
 We went by his house -
-
 he has a marvellous
 
house, tremendously beauti
'fully cared for spread of land with all manner of native
 
plants, a whole bunch of virgin forest that he is keeping that way for purposes of
 
preserving the environment,  On his return to Samoa, he was one of the people involved
 
in the founding of the community
' college and was also deeply involved in trying to
 
evolve a multi-cultural bi-lingual school system for Samoa.  A very impressive
 
£
q fellow.
,
 
The three of us droye around in a truck almost the rest of the day, went to visit
 
Mary Pritchard( ho is a tough old lady, undoubtedly extremely difficult to work with,
 
has an extraordinarily beautiful house.  The whole area i
s landscaped to her own
 
taste, a very Samoan taste full of little structures and hanging shells and ornaments
 
of all kinds and glass globes picked up along the beach and all manner of decorative
 
found objects.  We talked a lot about tapa and we talked a lot about her past history.
 
Once she gets the bit between her teeth she does not let the conversation go.
 I think
 
it was a pleasant visit for  e(as well as for
 We drove around and visited
 
John's house; we looked at
 an assembly place in Samoan architectural
 
style which is an open platform with a roof supported by a whole series of posts
 
arranged in a circle -
-
 the fala.
 I Xkxxx
øx took some photogr
Z
parti
�cular
 
-
 very
 
beautiful, especially the complex wrapping and tying  k of the ro
s.  They
 
'ld me also of a
t point of land w
1i k, when the local children si
 
r
ng calling upo4 a shark and a tuttle to appear, a shark and a t
ndeed
 
)
pear in the su f,  Nobody can qu te explain this.  We tried tø'get to the point
 
but the almost Ld to
 tant rain had maçle the road into a vast m K puddle at that point
 
and nobody want
 try really.
 \
 
The falas are made in all kinds of ways -
-
 out of cement, out of wood, with tin roofs,
 
with the sides filled in -
-
 all kinds of attempts are being made to update this
 
basic structure -
-
 none of them of course as beautiful as the handmade originals.  But
 
the shape and the functiqn seem to be surviving.
 I found this to be generally
 
true about many aspects of Samoan culture. "We had lunch and I had a long talk
 
with John Enright after we dropped the other John off.  Went back to the Arts
 
Council, I chatted a while with Tillie and was escorted through the Museum which
 
is in a room right off the Arts Council office room.
 I
t has extraordinarily
 
interesting stuff in it though it is indeed very limited in coverage and could
 
surely use some money and some serious curatorial work.  They are setting up a
 
special "major" exhibit of l
oaned pieces of art somewhat, I gather s in honor of
 
the Chairman's arrival.  We went outside also and looked at the regular twice a
 
week open air sort of crafts classes in which various crafts people come and
 
demonstrate and other people can learn from them.  About 1
5 people there, carving,
 
one working on model canoes, one weaving fish traps
 beautiful fish traps -
-
doing tapa designs, a general variety of local crafts being both demonstrated and
 
taught.  Tillie confessed to me that basically the people who come are the
 
Samoans who teach and the Axg palangis [
the local word for Angles) tot come to
 
learn.  The Samoan youngsters do not turn up for
 
After thatl had  some supper and went to bed early.
 
r
 
THURSDAY  February 26
 PAGO PAGO, AMERICAN SAMOA
 
There are some special problems here that I am not at all clear about.  My sense
 
is that efforts towards cultural preservation -
-
 and there are a number of them
 
being made -
-
 are being responded to as rather boring by the local youngsters and
 
j
JJy the l
ocal S;
II
oansx who, according to Tilly, just count on somebody
 
else to do it -
-
 maybe western Samoa, maybe somebody in the s
tates, but not them,_—,
 
they're not the ones that have to get out and do all these things.  They just assume
 
that somebody else will keep the traditions alive.
 
Q c t
 
I sense that the R
 ]
4
 activities have become a bit on the dreary side, that
 
you have to make
 and you have to go to church and sing and you have to have
 
a kava ceremony  and so on not because p
rou want to but because it's the Samoan way
 
and everybody has to kind of shape up.  Only they aren't shaping up very well
 
according to Tilly who is very upset about the low standards of performance.
 I
'm
 
going to suggest maybe some changes in xkx tactics C
at least to Enright and Tilly)
 
I
'm not quite sure what they might respond to but I was thinking tonight that
 
perhapsX thinking in terms of some secular good times might at least spark things
 
up more than they appear to be at the momenta perhaps there might be some kind of
 
feast or general celebration that has fallen into disuse that could be re-established
 
and that might be kind of fun rather than so doggone proper and rigid.
 
L
' 1
1 e s
i c
 f
 
This morning after my-'
 swim, I was picked up and taken to the arts council wheti-.
 
I was escorted on a '
visit to the Samoan legislature.  The Senate was in session.
 
Conducted entirely in Samoan, it was quite a sight -
-
 large room with gentlemen
 
in lavalavas sitting in big swivel chairs round a circle l
af table with the
 
Senate president raised above wielding the gavel.  The nice Samoan policemen who
 
was escorting me said that the debate concerned relief funds for the islands that
 
have been hit by the typhoon recently.  The sergeant at arms .-
-
 two of them -
-
 stood
 
grins folded at both entrances; bare-chested with red lavalavas, bare-footed each
 
of them with a
 massive Und
. of shullaley  I would not '
venture to disturb the peace
 
around those two gentlemen.
 
During the morning I went to visit a
 i
ple of xxJmmtx classes in a school escorted
 
by the Samoan ATE poet in residence / She was quite charming -.
-
 I liked her and
 
talked with the kids who seemed to l
ike
, me all right too.
 I copied down one poem:
 
hat Someone Said "
Then He Was Spanked on the Day Before  
Lrthday
 
mdx
 rG
 day
 
ixm rxx
 I
 may
 
Pack my bag and run away.
 
Some day
 
I may
 
But not today.
 
Some night
 
I might
 
Slip away in the moonlight
 
samexxigkt
 
I might
 
Some night
 
But not tonight.
 
Some 1
Some
 
I
 
-
 
But right now I
'll stay.
 
By Juanita Ofisa, aged 13.
 8th grade.  (
Note 
 importance of the birthday)
 
She tells me they 
 
t of their poetry in English;,j*e got into a discussion
 
o
th
f in
wg
he
s th
yo
eu
r 
 o
cr
o un
ld
o t 1
I I  in English ,
 and  I had  to be d ragged
another place.
 
i
i
 
0  
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 27
 
Took it easy -
 swam and idled in the morning, then wandered over to the arts agency
 
because I really had not had a chance to talk to Tillie and I got the feeling she
 
was avoiding me.  Think I was right.  So I just hung around, writing post cards and
 
chatting with people.  Talked to a lady named Donna Masaniai
 
P
.O. Box 1522
 
Pago Pago, Am Samoa
 96799
 
who had put together a quilt exhibition that she said almost nobody paid any attention
 
to,10 She had gal borrowed quilts from various people, xSkRxxkmKmd and had examples
 
from US, Tonga, Hawaii, Samoa, Fiji, etc.  The three Samoan quilts she showed me
 
were sensational, I thought, much moreinteresting than any of the others.  Apparently
 
Dotsie Kneubuhi
. collects Tongan quilts (
they're rather like Hawaiian) but no one
 
has paid any attention at all to Samoan. (By the way, apparently Tongan ladies are
 
all required by law to make quilts and every once in a while the Queen of Tonga
 
xxys sends out the word and all the T6ngan
 ladies have to put all their quilts out
 
on display and the Queen walks around and says, P11 take that one, and that one...
 
Tongan quilts have no batting . , ,
 the Samoan ones seem to have just a front and back.)
 
Anyway I urged her to pay especial attention to the Samoan ones and she looked kind
 
of vague at me and said what she really wanted to do was learn how to make a log
 
cabin square a-da
,y pattern and intends to go to the US and learn just that.
 I told
 
Tilly and John about my
' fe lLngs about the Samoan quilts (
very black American I thought)
 
Maybe they'll do something.
 
Drove back to the hotel with Clara Reid; she wants to work on arts promotion, is
 
tired tm of being a poet in schools.  Probably would be good at it too.  We visited
 
one other s
chool and I copied another poem by one of the kids
 
Space is an endless black sky
 
No starting; no ending;
 
Continuously black, and leading nowhere
 
With unexplored places and distant planets.
 
pace is the endless galaxy
 
"f
iat is yet to be explored
 
V
ithout a goal of destination
 
Just sitting -
-
 is SPACE.
 
c
 
Dion T
. Noovao, Matafeo School, Fagaalu, American Samoa
 
Dion is ten years old; he is the son of a medical doctor. SHOWED THIS POEM LATER
 
TO FRANK,  HE WANTS ME TO GIVE IT TO THE ARTS REVIEW...)
 
Back at the Arts Council, r
 got Tillie to cough up a bit.  She says that no member
 
of the Fono [
the legislature) has ever walked the one blOck over from the Fono to
 
i
sit tke Museum!  Pretty shocking.  She says no one in the Samoan government takes
 
rt in the least seriously; they simply feel that the Endowment will take care of
 
f
unding and the Arts Council will sponsort the necessary activities.  She feels under
 
the circumstances that AlE is the most important thing they can do, since she hopes
 
to be g
 g_
.ar
.
.
..
. .
children that way.
 In addition the Arts Council manages several
 
activities that attract large quantities of the Samoan public:
 
( 
the Arts Fiafia C
happy happy arts).
 Began in 1985 to celebrate
 
the 20th anniyer ary of the NEA (
Memorandum : TELL CHAIRMAN ABOUT THIS)  Every
 
art form extant on the island was presented; it lasted 6 days ending with a carnival.
 
I
n 1986 they shortened it to 3 days.
 In the course of this event they discovered
 
i
ey really require a facility im  -
-
 a permanent stage (
they build one every time
 
they need one and then dismantle it)
mvat storage etc.
 
)n additio
9 the Arts Council
 
onsors a Festival of Performing Arts every April at Flag Day (
the 16th or 17th of
 
\ril this year).
 In connection with
. this, Tillie wants to work towards getting
 
parti ipation by other islanders on Samoa -
-
 Fijians, Tongans, Chinese, Koreans
 
etx. I Then around Christmas, they have a Ho
.1
!day music festival in which every
 
village presents their choral organization.
She says those three major events
 
plus running the museum (
to which so few come) 1 the outside demonstrations of crafts
 
and the artists in Schools program1is about all she can handle.  She has an
 
enormous staff
, tr ats them all l
ike her relatives, everybody turns to a
t to do
 
everything '.
 — 
I
r
works until they drop s 
- she clucks around and worries about
 
their health and whether or not they got the brakes fixed on their cars.  Quite
 
like a village actually, and she 's the chief... Currently, by the way, she has
 
in AIE,a poet in residence, a stained glass maker, ceramicist, a drama coach
 
and a wood carver.
 
official
 
After dinner we went to the airport to welcome Frank.  Bi'/turnout especially
 
Tuaolo Lemoe (
Chairman of the Arts Council) John Enright of course and Lieutenant
 
Governor E
rii F
lunkin.  A massed Choir on hand; I took a mi quick recording -
-
 I
 
do believe it might have been the Arts Council chorus; every town, agency, school
 
and institution apparently has a choir.
 It's a bit like being in a Marx Brothers
 
movie -
7 everywhere you go you are greeted by a full-throated beautifully dis-
ciplined choral group.  Frank was really pretty Impressed, I think.  I briefed
 
him quickly when we got back to the hotel, mostly telling him what politics I
 
had gathered and off to bed.
 
The AtE coordinator's name, by the way, was Ann Cortez, should mention when
 
I write,  Also Clara '
Reid's address is  Box 1045
 
(
Poet in residence)
 Pago Pago, Am Samoa
 96799
 
Finally:  Thank you %  faafetai
 
Goodbye
 tofa
 
Hello
 talofa
 
SATURDAY FEBRUARY XV 
PAGO PAGO, AMERICAN SAMOA
 
ow
 
Got up early feeling very depressed, thought I didn't understand anything really
 
and I would never be able to explain things to Frank in a wayk that wouldn't seem
 
defensive or apologetic,  Personally, I was l
iking the place just an awful lot...
 
Went swimming and began to feel a bit better as I swam.
 I decided I was going
 
to concentrate on making about three points to Frank:
 
a
.  this whole trip would give him a chance (
exclusive of
 
Honolulu) to see first hand how rural communities work.  They §ifnply don't have
 
the numbers of population to provide a well balanced arts program, therefore
 
what you have to do in such is to examine carefully all your resources and use
 
them to the maximum and then start figuring out what you don't have and how to
 
get it in from the outside,
 
b
 with that in mind, we should attempt to work on two
 
strategies (
in terms of the outside) -
-
 getting in better television programs
 
c
 saw so much Sesame Street on their single public television channel that it was
 
really disgusting).
 I suggested to Frank and also to Enright and Tillie that we
 
try to see about setting up a Pacific network of qAoI
. arts shows that could be
 
sent round the whole Pacific,  Second to work on touring, XXVRxi featuring two
 
ways: the bringing in of small ensembles from the mainland -
-
 jazz ensembles,
 
mimes, one-man theater performances, string quar
tets , sma
ll dance
 j r
oup
c% etc,
 
and then try to develop in-reach touring with large numbers of Pacific Islanders.
 
c
.  we should stress the nifty stuff they have -
-
 _
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
 
the chorusesA  Many of them, I hear, have bought little electronic portable
 
pianos with those dreadful rhythm-boxes, and I recommended to Frank and Tillie
 
that at the yearly chorus festival every group be required to sing one or two
 
a capp Jla pieces.
 r
'd also like to get somebody to Samoa who could diagnose
 
the repertoire.
 ] am sure there must be some better tunes,.. They sing all in
 
Samoan ; so I don't know what the songs are, mostly, r believe, old protestant
 
hymns and anthems. * Dancing, crafts especially basketry, are all strong and doing
 
well  should possibly' be gotten out from the museum and the arts council which
 
has a kind of dead fish- approach to everything -
-
 a mean remark but so it is.
 
Need to develop new contexts within which crafts might more amusingly occur.
 
Anyway ; we went on a round of official activities.  Breakfast with the vips and
 
speeches adjourning to a fala near the arts council for a full dress ava ceremony
 
complete with floor sitting, token lavalavas wrapped around Frank and me, many
 
speeches, complicated and almost em
i g gift presentations including cases
 
of corned beef and tuna, traditional dancing -
-
 mostly floor sitting in parallel
 
rows men on one side, women on the other, a mountain of lunch, inspection of crafts
 
and all manner of mutual formal exchanges of views.  Frank is very good at this
 
sort of thing and I think had a good time.
 Back to the hotel; change and
 
back to the museum for exhibition opening. 
- 
This wa 4retty disastrous.
 It was a very mixed,g
ibit consisting mostly of pieces
 
of "art" that people had brought from their ho  s
, totally without sense or theme.
 
rank, I think, was quite shocked.
 I got him 
the traditional hall but it
 
y then looked pretty pitiful too.  Variou* people -
-
 big turnout in our honor -
-
t
old about a new gallery that had just opened so we manfully and womanfully went
 
over to look at it and it was about as sad as the exhibit.  Frank worked hard
 
as did Ibut this was really the low point; they just can't hack it in terms of
 
western art, they do not have the personnel and frankly I don't see why they try.
 
I
t would be so much more interesting, I would think, to let the western art come
 
in via t
.v  
,(I suggested to Enright that he get hold of The Gospel at Colomus,
 
which I bet they would love and would fit in with his course on mythology x etc.
 
etc,
 I
'd bet there would be a million good ideas once you got started,
 
SUNDAY
 AMERICAN SAMOA TO HONOLULU
 
Off to church with Tillie.  Amazing.  Three crashes on a drum and in sweeps the
 
minister clad all in white.  The fØnt rows are filled with white garbed Samoans
 
who later turn out to be the choir.  Most people in the church actually are in
 
snow white, ladies often with white hats.
 Long responsive reading L plus N -
-
group highly correlated rhythmically.  Perhaps 50 a voices in the chorus,
 
directed inconspicuously and gracefully by a woman; organ accompaniment.  Deacons
 
and minister in white shirts, white lavalavas and white jacket.  Two different
 
people from the congregation called up to bless the bread and wine -
-
 nice democratic
 
idea, I thought.  Hymn books have only words; most of choir harmony thus is probably
 
traditional, leader not really required but perhaps adds a bit of intensity.
 
Rhythmic quality of the chorus absolutely outstanding -
-
 really thrilling stuff.
 
Lengthy sermon in Samoan ended with a graceful speech apologizing to Frank and me
 
for having left us out and summarizing the text briefly.
 
. 
Afterwards (
or perhaps it was the day before -
- things got a bit mu ddled?
we stopped
 
bytEni Hunkin's house so that I could see Mrs. Hunkin' s qu i
lt s , ver y n ice  thoug
h
 
not outstanding I suppose.  Then we stopped by a local cricket match between two
 
girls' teams (
that must have been Saturday) and I recorded a bit.  Two biscuit tiii
 
drums beating away, the outfield clapping offbeat rhythms, somebody blowing improvisa-
t
iqn lly o
rl a
, police whistle and whenever anybody got a hit, everybody stopped and
 
did a
, little dance to thense ve ,  Two ToQti
'ng  '
ec ions with call and response song
 
leaders,
 It really sounded great,  Sports are apparently the thing in Samoa.  While
 
I was coming in, the King of Tonga had just arrived to challenge Samoa to a boat
 
race  and right away the fautassis came out to start practicing for the honor of
 
being the one picked -t
jx for the international match.  Fautassis are the old-time boats
 
rowed by 40 to 50 paddlers sitting side by side jammed
ntogether; no wonder they have
 
such great group coliesion,  Chief Lemoe (
Chair Samoan Arts Council) is a village
 
fa
,utass&trai
'ner  he told me they, pick only mature rowers aged 28-48; the teen-agers
 
he says are too
-under -
,
'developed and the severe training might harm them physically.
 
Last night a
, delegation from the Olympic Committee came in to tell Sam
 that they
 
had been accepted into t
ile Olympic fam Ny,,, they are thinking of enté Hng in volley
 
ball and wrestling.  Frank will try to get them some shells to practice Olympic style
 
rowing in; fautassis are apparently too local.
 
We took a bit of a ride up past the tuna
l
fac )
ir es and then the opposite way to
 
Eni Hunkin's village, a lovely peaceful, beautifully tended village decorated with
 
all A
lkinds of flower arrangements and had another ava ceremony complete with more gifts
 
and more speeches.  Frank was informed that he would do better if he had a talking
 
chief to speak for him so that he wouldn't make mistakes and could blame them on
 
his aide whereupon he announced that I would be his talking chief for the rest of
 
the visit,
 Big lunch, much jollity.  Hunkin was obviously terribly pleased that all
 
had gone so well in his own neck of the woods.  Off we went to the airport to disdover
 
that SPIA wasn't flying and we would have to take a later flight on Hawaii Air.
 
Back to the hotel, repacked, off to the airport and on to the plane around midnight
 
rllowing  numbers of speeches, a major delegation taking us to the airport, lots of
 
h
inging and good wishes, tears, a
ll the best.  Of  to hawaii, for an all night f
light.
 
Monday March 2
.
 HONOLULU
 
)
4
ôtel
 
Arrived at dawn or something, got through customs finally and off to hotel.
 
+
ry had not expected me, since I hadn't turned up the night before and
 
said I would have to leave at noon.
 I went upst airs, phoned Lynn, Caroline
 
Sinavavaiana,( amoan student, 4rs. John Enright)) also Don Jbnnstein.
 
Went to lunch with Don and Caroline.  Don is executive director of the
 
Center for Asian and Pacific Studies, University of Hawaii, an anthropologist
 
and very nice.
 Should be extremely useful contact; Lynn says he knows
 
more about Micronesia than anybody e
lse.
 I was tired and not at all at my
 
best but I hope kept
 the conversation reasonably intelligent.
 
Caroline wants to be the Samoan FAC but will be taking her PhD comprehensives
 
in November and therefore may not apply.
 I suggested she not make up her mind
 
right away, there would be much time to think it all over.
 She is interested
 
in doing her dissertation research in American Samoa on local curing system$
 
Should be able to work the two together -
-
 FACing and research, I mean.
 
After lunch met with Tina Rehuher who is on a two year fellowship at the East-
West Center, discussed working out a completion grant for Charlies Gibbons
 
film (
still not  ode)
 possibly  postponing the next storyboard project
 
until she gets back to Palao to stay in aother year (
she has one more academic
 
year t
o to),
 She says political tensions are extremely high at this point and
 
she 's just as glad she is away; therefore will postpone the s
toryboarding until
 
a year when she will come in for a village storyboard center idea
 Later
 
Dan Baker brought film oyer for me to look at with L
ynn.  It's more or less
 
done, I guess, though he wants to "fine tune" i
t; the big problem is providing
 
a Pal an sQund tra
,ck.  They think maybe $3000 would do it,
 I said to come
 
in to the April meeting.
 BESS CALL LYNN AND RE-DISCUSS THIS.  FILM REALLY
 
NOT TOO GOOD BUT AT LEAST IT'S THERE ,
 AND THE MATTER SHOULD BE CONCLUDED
 
FOR HEA EN'S SAKES.
 I
t's okay but amater sh with a,
 few really brilliant moments.
 
Nothing to be asha ed of I guess.  Went to airport took an a
,
ll nighter to Guam
 
and lost a day or something in the process.
 
,
 a 
.
 
4 4 \ 1
1 k 4%.115  cto fsej-
/Stayed at hotel until time to leave for ai
'rpo
, paid for two days -- a bit of
 
a
, cheat but there was no way around i
t and I l
ost a day anyway,..
 
WEDNESDAY March 4
 GUAM
 
Arrived after flying all night at 4
:45 a
.m. Guam rime (
goodness knows what ours).
 
Journey reasonably comfortable thanks to riding
r
S
td V_
 
siness class.  Plane pretty
 
full,  Met at airport by complete complement of 
 Tony Lamorena, Judy
 
Flores, Paula B
amba and various outriders.  Many leis,much conviviality.  Took
 
us to hotel and we all separated to try to s
leep.
 I mostly sorted my things
 
and possibly the contents of my head out a bit.
 
Lunch with the Rotary Club, a bit bizarre, much s
inging of songs, paying of
 
fines (
for lateness, failure to wear badges, singing badly etc.).  Frank appeared
 
in his e
lement, enjoyed himself and spoke well.
 Kelp Duckrow,
 
back in favor and chairman of Guam Arts Council 1 escorted me and filled me in
 
on the gossip.  Apparently Tony L
. is determined to hit the business realm for
 
dollars; the government is supporting the arts council actually pretty well,
 
the new governor, Joseph Ada appearing to be pretty supportive and planning to
 
zgø e
 x1± keep things moving along briskly.
 
New Council and new director; Paula Bamba i
s the only carry-oyer on regular
 
civil service status, everyone e
lse on contract but i
t appears their positions
 
(
esp. Judy Flores' )
 are reasonably stable.
 
Drove to visit the I
sla Center for the Arts (
University of Guam) a relatively
 
new building, small but quite nice -
-
 big exhibit rooms and large workroom
 
i
n back, good sized s
torage area,
 Kathleen and  Marvin
 Montvel-Cohen run i
t.
 
hey were putting up a small exhibit of prints, Frank very impressed because they
 
tarted with a Rembrandt and went on to include some contemporary print-makers.
 
Lovely Yapese crafts in the back and some good Melanesian statues e
tc etc.  A nice
 
visit.  Witxon
 Marvin is an anothropologist, worked mostly in Yap, studied
 
under Conrad Arensburg and Margaret Mead at Columbia, nice guy, a l
ittle hard to
 
take,
, quite nervy,
 Kathleen his wife is a history of art person; Lynn had bad
 
run-ins with her when she l
ived on Guam, she seemed okay to me,
 
Marvin and Kathleen Montvel-Cohen
 
IS14 Center for the Arts
 
at the University of Guam
 
P0 Box 5203
 
University of Guam Station
 
Mangilao, Guam
 96913
 (
671) 734 2786
 
Useful people, delighted to see them involved with arts agency; in previous visits
 
no one would associate with the U of Guam  -
 ,
 real
, town-gown split of great depth.
 
-
.t
 
Frank and I with Judy next visited Joaquin Lujan whtle the rest went elsewhere.
 
He is the blacksmith who has the apprentices
 three chunky gentlemen, all beaming
 
and showing the
 beautiful machetes and fosinos (
the Guam hoe blade)
A
iW Francisco Liza a  Deputy Fire Chief 
  
was  
Mxzx ±zam x
 
one apprentice; Joe San Nicolas and
 
Fank
uz, a
IsQ of the fire department were the others; in their 50s, I would say,
 
and planning to keep on making their iron work after retirement.  Really concerned
 
about preserving the art form.
 I
t was a most pleasant v
isit; Frank got concerned
 
over Mi
' s Lujan's difficulty in getting coal  (
he flies to Rota
 
and brings it home  
from an old Jap anese
 bunker)
 and  wants
 to  get  him  some
 FIND OUT WHAT KIND OF COAL
 
NEEDED FROM JOHN VLACH -
-
 ALSO TR  TO GET PHILIP SIMMONS TAKEN CARE OF TOO.
 
Next paid courtesy calls on the Governor (
Joseph
: Ada)  and Senator Elizabeth
 
Ariola a
,s well as Speaker and various oth er  dignitaries
 Back to hotel to change
 
or dinner  at  Governor's mansion -
-
 a bountiful buffet with lots of people, maybe
 
sixty or so.  A c
lassical violinist and an opera singer performed before dinner,
 
a bit depressing with few l
istening, after the meal entertainment by a group of
 
young dancers, really awfully poor.  They're busi'y making up their culture -
-
bad stick dancing, bad singing, just weak stuff
 
on tour of mans
i
 all round s Ad a too k Frank
 and  me  
on and gave us some of his campaign glasses.  Actually it was a
 
pleasant sociable evening with awfully nice people, just the art was Pretty sad...
 
Thursday, March 5
,  GUAM — S
P
ci(7,
A
pJ
 
Early breakfast with Frank plus Lamorena, Flores, Bamba et al.  Frank shown various
 
newspapers concerning visits (
perhaps this happened on Samoa but I don't think so).
 
Anyway at some point on our voyages he was shown a newspaper interview which had
 
him referring to something or other as "crap".  He was asked if he minded, and
 
replied, "I believe it was Ernest Heininingway who once remarked that there are so
 
words that people generally understand that you ought really to make use of the ones
 
that they do".
 I
 thought I should remember that one.
 
Off to the airport to intending to fly out via SPIA.  A total lack of life-forms
 
i
t  the SPIA desk.  Prank, being a direct actionist, ducked through the baggage s
lot
 
and went into the back office emerging to say that no one was there and the safe
 
was standing open with most of the drawers pulled open, all of them empty.  We
 
decided to seek alternate xaxtix routes (
roots?) and wound up at Maui Air where I
 
had the familiar hassle about my identification.  Finally got aboard for
 
SAIPAN
 
k
t
T
o
 
I
 
where we were met by the Saipan Sunset Cruisers (
two relaxed and hirsute gentlemen
 
playing uke and guitar and singing F
rafa dai, hafa dai, hafa hafa hafa hafa dai (
hafa
 
dai1) 4
 I went over and joined in a little close harmony to my own and their amuse-
ment, if no one e
lse s.  Frank had been coralled by Ana Teregayo and the Lieutenant
 
Governor (
Acting Governor Tenorio) as well as Georges, the staff photographer et al.
 
We were lei-ed and taken to the hotel and later lunched with Ana, Sandy McKenzie
 
who turns out to lk be the assistant director of th4 Arts Council for the past several
 
months (
I had last known her as a functionary in th4 Department of Education much
 
involved with Arr-'E), Vic Pangelinan, R
d Chai  of the CNMI Arts Council and
 
a few others,
 
c
 
Frank was scheduled to tour the island with Pangelinan; I begged off and went to the
 
Council headquarters with Sandy where I tried to catch her up to date with what she
 
needed to know from us and she likewise in reverse.  Apparently there are two short-
term AlE teachers on the i
sland:
 Pearley Gates (
1 kid you not) from New Hampshire,
 
billed as a folksinger, and Polly Motley, Dancer.  We discussed last year's debacle
 
over the festival and film briefly; F found I was still too emotional to get too far
 
into i
t.
 She says that Ana wants to do a pageant a la Guam for the coming year.  Over
 
all i
t appeared to me that Sandy
 terms with Ana
 
. for long, that she had to learn to back off and I told her so.  She agreed but said
 
it  was tough and I expect it is. As usual there was an awful lot of time used up in
 
her telling me now isolated they were and now no one really understood them.
 I
 
id tell her I would smmd make sure they are on FOLK ARTS MAILING L
ISTS, ESPECIALLY
 
SHOULD GET ANYTHING ON FOLK ARTISTS IN SCHOOLS.  ALSO THEY CAN USE ANY AND ALL VISUAL
 
ARTS POSTERS.  Mail to
 Sa f
t
ly McKenzie
 ALSO FLOWER SEED CATALOGUES
 
P
.O. Box 145 CHRB
 
Saipan, CM  96950
 
She also mentioned to me that after the most recent typhoon
 
was no kind of disaster relief for artists.
 I mentioned to
 
particularly outraged, don't know whether to pursue farther
 
she had discovered there
 
Frank and he wasn't
 
or not.
 
We went to a local grocery store and I bought quantities of Ponapeian pepper and
 
then back to Convention Center for Board of Directors meeting with Ana and others.
 
Major issues raised with Pranki concerned questions of relaxation of match require-
ments for Challenge, Locals, Advancement, and (
apparently by mistake) Design Arts.
 
Frank logically said point of the first three was entirely to raise match, therefore
 
relaxation of  requirements not especialy useful.  They then talked to me about
 
preparations for 1988 Festival of Pacific Arts.  Ana . w the Navigator play in
 
Hawaii and admired the Guam pag
t of last year.
 She wants to bring off a similar
 
event for 1988 and asked me if Polk Arts would pay for bringing the author and
 
director of the Navigator play to Saipan for a couple of months.
 I said no.
 
(
Later found  that Guam wants to involve CNMI in preparation a for 1988 festival
 
with demonstrations of varying Ixz itxjix and similar traditions -
-
 wish I had
 
known that then, I could have plumped for such a useful self-examination.)
 
All in all, the session was a bit acerbic; the general atmosphere was full of
 
"you don t know how it is out here" and "well, that's the way it is" and similar
 
fruitless statements,  Glad when it was over.  Went back to Hotel and organized
 
myself for dinner at the Saipan Beach Hotel next door, a pleasant outdoor setting
 
where I arrived too early, bEing on neurotic mainland time.  There was an enormous  
buffet with a side table full of authentic Marianan dishes which nobody told me
 
about until I was already loaded down.  They then introduced us and gave us
 
quantities of gifts (
a record album and several l
ovely small baskets for me).
 
Afterwards there was entertainment -
 - 
Tanapag Men Stick Dancers -
-
 terrific, full of spirit.
 Leader: Felipe Ruak
 
Sa ipan Original Carolinian Dancers -
.
 lovely young girls, singing,
 
not as exciting as the boys but really nice.
 Leader:  Domenica ftaik m Olopai
 
Sunset Cruisers and dancers
 Leader Jose Limes -
-
 hotel enter Uinment
 
but kind of fun,  They had some kind of Beach boy singing and then some very little
 
girls came on and hula.ed in a sort of Saipanish way, not a lot of side and side
 
but more forward and back or round and round, a little bit on the elegant side.
 
I quite liked it though the general atmosphere was a hit decadent for my taste.
 
There were other parts, not so good....
 
A few extra notesi  the bead necklace characteristic of Saipan (
like the fancy one
 
I have) is called a Ligatutur.
 
SEND SANDY MCKENZIE THE KLICKITAT BOOK AND OTHER STUFF ON WEAVING.  FIND OUT ABOUT
 
AVAILABILITY OF SONG FOR SATA
L AND SEND TO ANA TEREGAYO.
 
r
 
Friday, March 6
 SAIPAN
 
Early breakfast with all interested parties.  Was /upposed to include educational
 
officials but they didn't come, much to Ana's emblrrassment.
 My private sense
 
throughout this visit i
s that Ana's star i
s perh
s waning a bit.  She seems
 
tense, and thiggs haven't gone exactly smoothly  verall...  After breakfast she
 
went off and Sandy escorted Frank and me around f
to some schools, first to an
 
e
lementary school where we saw a beadwork class plus a l
ocal backstrap loom weaver
 
who appears to be a bit remarkable in Saipanese terms (
t.e. there i
s nobody else
 
who knows how to do it).  The big bead work was Ligatutur (
like my fancy necklace)
 
Sandy and a weaver have an idea to do a special book on another kind of palmetto
 
weaving (
not the kind they already did).  Sandy says the book we funded was very
 
well received locally; I said we had been disappointed by amateurish photography
 
and printing.  She said they did the best they could and I said they could have
 
done better.  One thing we did get straightened out on: they had thought they
 
could not buy from Japan (
e.g. have material printed in Japan); I checked this
 
out with Frank and he said he thought no restrictions would apply.
 
Anyway ,
 we then went to look at their only large performing arts space -
-
 a badly
 
floored gym with the roof blown off
 and stopped by the Nauru Building where
 
space is loaned to them for exhibits,
, then off to the beach where Purley Gates
 
was working with a c
lass of handicapped children.  Pretty grim stuff but everybody'
 
doing as well as you could imagine
 Purley very interesting and enthusiastic,
 
children trying
 hard, teachers in there working..
 
Back to lunch at the hotel with many many local supporters of the arts including
 
a fellow from Duty Free.  Frank spoke well
, and so, frankly, did I -
-
 I seemed to
 
have found m y  yoièe
, and waspleased at how neat a job I did of bringing in all the
 
relevant factors.  T (
The Duty Free fellowapproved also; he got me off to say how
 
well I had spoken -
-
 and I Must say I was hard-pressed to respond since I think
 
his firm has done an awful l
ot of harm throughout the Pacific.)  Purley demonstrated
 
the work she
, had done on Rota in showing children how to construct instruments -
-
cane pan pipe
,s and coconut mb i
tas -
-
 and the Dance lady showed her childrens'
 
s
tuff (
not so impressiye).
 I was able to hiss at Frank
 that the mbiras were tuned
 
to a pentatonic scale that was  pretty close to a universal and he made a bit of
 
use of the inYorma
,tion.
 We answered a few questions and separated to pack and
 
get to the airport,
 
Overall,
, I found this trip a bit sad and dispiritjng.  .
1 w ish that I had known
 
before I went that Guam wants to join forces;
 at least in terms
 
f projects to develop Chamorro culture.
 I xamif could at least have qAW0wn W
 
,
there, but overall the debacle of the film project kind of poisoned the air between
 
us all
  I forgot to say that after lunch I spent an hour looking at slides of
 
the Pacift 
associated recorded commentary; it was a
 
nice show and Frank even got in
 
a bit of it.
 I think i
t i
s a show that could
 
be circulated around the Pa cific.  Must write Ana and say so.
 
Things to do:  TELL ANA SLIDE SHOW ON PACIFIC ARTS FESTIVAL SHOULD BE CIRCULATED
 
N
,
 FIND OUT ABOUT BOOK: SONG FOR SATAWAL -
-ANA TEREGAYO WANTS IT AND SO DO OTHERS;
 
SEND SANDY MCKENZIE THE KLICLITAT WEAVING BOOK PLUS OTHERS -
-
Taken to airport, off to Gaam, met by Judy Flores and husband John who took me
 
to supper and then drove me around the i
sland to Inarajan Shores hotel.  Went to
 
s
leep a
lmost immediately.
 
Friday, March 6
 SAIPAN7GUAM
 
Somewhat embarrassing early breakfast with Frank and Arts Cuncil staff to meet
 
Education officials none of whom came except the current a   coordinator who
 
is Philippino, not an artist and has only been on the i
sla d three weeks.  Under
 
the circumstances Sandy McKenzie took over and did well, tiough I can't think that
 
her somewhat aggressive competence won't eventually get o
r Ana's and other's
 
nerves.  Anyway, she discussed the situation effectively  ith Frank; we were then
 
taken to visit several schools where t
xw x x Balbina
 was teaching beadwork,
 
another traditional artist was working on a back-strap loom, and the artist-in-
schools young pleasant folkie f
rom New Hampshire, Pearley Gates, was working with
 
sub-normal children.  About all you could tell from the morning was that everybody
 
was working very hard and effectively with what they had which wasn't much, and it
 
must have been a bit dashing for Frank's l
ovely over-view of arts education.
 
Lunch at the hotel with speeches from Frank and me, both well received, plus a
 
demonstration from the AlE modern dancer (
not insf(ring) and Pearley, who did a
 
nice demonstration with some Rota children of how they had learned t
ip make simple
 
shepherd's pipes and a charming coconut mbira.
 (
She gave Frank and me one and
 
had us perform, and Frank was quite fascinated by what I was able to whisper to
 
him about pentatonic scales).  The director of Duty Free was there, Frank made a
 
bit of a hit with him, and he was very pelasant to me as well.  After the guests
 
left I watched a 25 minute s
lide tape slow done by George (
?) on the Papeete
 
festival
 very competent.
 
Sandy McKenzie drove me to the airport to return to Guam later in the afternoon.
 
Discussed many things including heir chronic need for visual materials for the
 
s
chools.  Skexs gge t
 NB : SHOULD MENTION AT PD MEETING WE OUGHT TO MAIL
 
POSTERS TO PLACES LIKE SAIPAN INSTEAD OF THROWING THEM AWAY -
-
 THEY CAN USE
 
ANYTHING VISUALLY INTERESTING TO PUT UP IN CLASSROOMS.  She alsot urged me not
 
to let Frank forget to approach Shell, Mobil etc. to help them out with funding
 
for their cultural center -
-
 number one on their list of priorities.  They do indeed
 
need a place to do their things, especially a permannent stage that they won't have
 
to build and tear down all the time (
same as in Samoa and Guam) and a place to
 
store their things.  REMIND FRANK TO WORK ON CULTURE CENTER PROBLEMS FOR THE WHOLE
 
PACIFIC.  ZX
Xä1
Z
XZ
1 Also SEND SANDY OUR FOLK ARTISTS IN SCHOOLS INFORMATION
 
AS IT COMES ALONG, and generally check that Sandy and the CNMI are on our mailing
 
lists.
 BESS, DISCUSS WITH PAT MAKELL.  Also Sandy McKenzie wants me to SEND HER
 
SEED CATALOGUES, ESPECIALLYFLOWER SEEDS. The recent typhoon messed up everybody's
 
gardens and seeds are hard to come by; she would rather order her own directly.
 
Esther Aldan made two lovely small baskets, pandanus, I think, awl that were given
 
to me at the luncheon -
-
 write her a THANKYOU LETTER, care arts council.
 
Frank went off to Tokyo, I to Guam where Judy met me.
 I felt that somehow I should
 
have stayed in Saipan, they have so little and apparently had understood I would
 
be there until the 10th, but then I thought I should get back to Guam where some
 
things were really beginning to perk... I never feel good about such conflicts.
 
Probably I did the right thing; Judy
' took me to the kml Inrajan Shores and I s
lept
 
l
ike the dead.
 
Sandy McKenzie
 
O Box 145  CHRB
 
Saipan, Commonwelath of the Northern Marianas  96950
 
Memo:
 
Saturday, March 7 GUAM
 
Staying at Inarajan Shores
 
P
.O. Box 3308
 
Agana, Guam  36910
 828/8343
 
Lunch d with Lamorena, Flores and Paula
 
aba  as t  d±r ,
 plus Ric Duke (
Intern
 
with s
tateside arts administrative
 
background, somewhat s
lick)
 
CIO  
Very simple accomodations on beautifully landscaped grounds; t/lked with hosts
 
Mr and Mrs Kiaaina during outdoor breakfast about their idea' on cultural facility.
 
They want to have school children bussed in mornings and to cist busses at noon;
 
would make their money on lunches and cold drinks, are wel
,t set up for producing
 
simple mass food.  Very nice people, not very experienced/ a bit like Judy.  Perhaps
 
it's worth a try; it certainly would be to their interest and perhaps it would also
 
be a good place for Guam's older Chamorro artists.  They already have one traditional
 
hut built, very pleasant, very pretty, a nice place to be.
 
Judy picked me up and took me to see Segundo B
las, the wood carver.  He has been
 
doing story boards am  (
Palauan types) concerning Chamorro legends and myths, also
 
quantities of large sculptural figures, not especially traditional.  Judy tells me
 
she k is trying to work out some commissions for him from a new hotel that wants to
 
decorate in a Guamanian fashion.  He is certainly a pleasant old gentleman; got in
 
the car with us and we went to Rob Limtiaco's apartment on the beach where their
 
jointly made traditional outrigger canoe wxs i
s kept.  We rolled it down over a series
 
of bamboo rollers into the shallow water and Rob -
-
 an extraordinarily handsome
 
young man -
-
 took i
t out for a sail.
 Keith Duckrow went with him and took some
 
pictures.  Jk6hr-WOnt off on his own bat and rigged the sail (
a beautiful pandanus mat)
 
up in Truk style rather than what Tun  B
l as  wou
ld have  pre
ferre
d -
-
 the  upshot
 is  
-
 
that to come about or jibtyou have to pick up one end of the sail and put it back
 
down in the other end of the boat -
-
 as Tun B
las said, an extremely dangerous manouevre
 
Rob is has gotten a grant from the Guam Arts Council (
GAHA) to go to Rongelap or
 
some such to work with another master on naviagation and canoe building; he will
 
then try to sail back (
1
 nautical miles) to Guam whereupon he will go around to
 
the high schools and talk about his trip and what he has learned out of the whole
 
experience.  Sou nds like a great idea.
 r
 hope he makes i
t.  Judy didn't think
 
this fit into our apprenticeship ideas so funded i
t through separate sources.
 I tol
 
her she needn't feel totally stuck in the framework that the Guam Apprenticeship
 
Program first evolved.  Generally, she seems just green; 1xdmxkopt we talked about
 
her going to the Fife Conference and I think she will try.
 
We then had lunch with various GAHA staff and board members; I got into an argument
 
with a very tough lady, Flora Baza Quan who was bound to straighten out the entire
 
NEA and me along with it.  Was annoyed with myself; should learn to duck these
 
people, but I thought maybe the staff wanted me to take her on.  Afterward, we
 
ix looked at videotapes of their thatching party (
a week-long event at Inarajan
 
Shores where they put the roof on the traditional house they build, very pleasant
 
affair full of nice people sitting around working and singing Chamoritas in a
 
casual sort of way). Discussed Judy's position, got assurance from Tony Lamorena,
 
Executive Director of CAHA,that Judy will be working full-time as FAC; she will
 
be applying for third year funding in April 1
, also will include some programatic
 
costs for experimenting with the Inajarajan project.  She will also apply at that
 
Im time for a more loose jointed apprenticeship project. SEND JUDY ALL A FAC
 
NEWSLETTERS AND THE ENDOWMENT CRAFTS REPORT: SHE HAS THE APPRENTICESHIP.
 
Drove back to Inajaran shores where they were having a big Chamorro teachers party
 
(
end of Chamorro week).
 I
t is really gratifying how interested folks on Guam are
 
about their Chamorro-ness, a real revival and revitalization movement is going on,
 
especially in the lan uagè
 My last trig I rarely heard ChamQrro spoken, this time
 
frequently.  Overall, again, as throughout the Pacific, a general lack of
 
information concerning the Endowment;TELL BERNIE HE AND ROMALYN SHOULD CONDUCT
 
INSERVICE TRAINING WORKSHOPS FOR BOARD MKN AND STAFF MEMBERS ON GUAM,  I
F
 
NOT CNMIx AS WELL,
 
Ju y S
. Flores
 
Special Projects Coordinator
 
Guam CAHA P
.O. Box 2950
 
Agana, Guam  96910
 
477-7413 or 1454
 472-8059
 
Judy is Anglo, born in Colorado Springs; family moved to Guam when she was 1
1
 
years old and she lived there ever since, learned Chamorro as a child.  Married
 
to a Chamorro fellow who retired from the American military in his forties, g
 
built their house, got bored, and now works for the post office, a very decent
 
somewhat shy gentleman named John Flores.  Judy seems to be in the thick of
 
matters Chamorran, has two grown children, lives in a traditional village, and
 
seems to be generally very well accepted
 
Final note:  Judy presented me with a couple of Guahan Arts Calendar ; GA is
 
a
, pretty unusual organization for teen-agers designed to help youngsters get
 
s
tarted in the arts world by teaching them and exposing them to various kinds
 
of professional arts activities.  Members can get points for participating in
 
setting ub Qxhibits, working on design of labels, brochures, catalogues, postcards,
 
art calendard and the like either as  fting or doing the work themselves.  They
 
can also get points for producing artistic works themselves, participating in
 
exhibits of their own stuff, selling, laying out newspaper ads etc.  At the end
 
of the year there i
s a banquet with donated prizes.  Judy is not working intensively
 
with the group this year because of her folk arts commitments, but clearly has
 
a heart for i
t still, and I think a special concern with marketing because of her
 
experience with Guahan Arts,
 
e
Z
.
'
 'G- '  includin  ch singers
 i—the 41o.tthern
 
M
a
r
i
a
n
a
s  everything to be much announced
 
o
 the radio an UEr and put on in big-time style.  They suggested the first prize
 
should be $2,500.
 I recommended scaling the idea down at least in its initial
 
phases until more Chamorros are involved in the planning.  Perhaps they could have
 
a series of contests village against village or school district against school
 
district until they learned how ymx the whole complex works.  Anyway, they are
 
rethinking the whole idea and may come in for some preliminary funding April 1
.
 
b
)  Monte is working with an NEH grant to put on a symposium concerning
 
new evidence out of contemporary material culture concerning archaic migration
 
patterns in Micronesia.  The conference is scheduled for October ixxaxxmx at the
 
University of Guam and he wishes to put up an ancillary exhibit at the Isla
 
Center for the Arts plus demonstrated crafts to bring the whole i
ssue firmly into
 
the present.  He asked me if we could come in to support the craftspeople
 (
who
 
would have to be brought in from Yap, his stamping ground).
 I said mxzxXxExbxzxzxz
 
maybe but it would have to be strong enough to be a Chairman's action.  I think
 
he could build up a good case.  He told me incidentally that Dave Rubeistein at
 
the U of Hawaii did his dissertation on Micronesian child-rearing practices.
 
Checked out; hosts Melvin (
Leialoha) and Lorelei (
Haunani) Kxx Kiaaina, bstza
zx
 
hste&sx lovely peop e, Hawaiian but have lived on Guam many many years.  Asked
 
me to tell LYNN MARTIN ABOUT MR PURDY IN WAIMEA WHO IS AN OLD PANIOLO SADDLE MAKER
 
RELATED TO THEM: HE IS GREAT).
 I think Judy i
s right; they would try very hard
 
and would be sensitive cultural hosts for a Chamorro village on their grounds.
 
Drove to airport with Judy and John, checked my baggage, talked a good bit on the
 
way.  Judy is planning to attedd Fife Conference as well as Smithsonian Festival.
 
SEND JUDY FLORES INFO ON SMITHSONIAN FESTIVAL WHEN AVAILABLE. She is green but
 
good.  ToQki
e to
 a
±n Lujan, the blacksmith.  He and his wife again
 
super cordial hosts, must add them to my regular list. BE SURE TO KEEP CHAIRMAN
 
Sunday, March 8 GUAM-HAWAII
 
Kv
C
,t(ecJ
 
S 7-'fa.
 
kM -
(
3 -
-2? c
 
MCI y  • ( b /
 G
—
CJ
 
1
1 67
 
At I ajan Shores, swam and snorkeled with Judy Flores who lives in the nearby
 
xx village with her postman husband John.  Packed; at noon lunched there with
 
Judy and John also Kim Bailey (
1) and daughter (
age ft 6 name of Megan) and
 
Mr. and Mrs. Monte Montvel-Cohen.
 Inrajan Shores has a sheltered outdoor
 
dining room that can accomodate a pleasant business lunch like ours or expand
 
into a real major bash.  Only five overnight rooms; they really are set up for
 
tourist type visitation only. Apparently they maintain themselves because of
 
the associated plant nursery and landscaping business.
 
At lunch discussed two business items:
 
a
)  Kim and RauJudy want to develop a project concerning the chamorita
  
a song form especial to Chamorro culture.  Judging by yesterday's videos, chamorit s
 
hasi
'c four line
 repeated strophic melody (
there are perhaps
 
four or five basicz tunes to which they improvise) around which people sing
 
in alternating style a series of standard and improvised lyrics.  The general
 
pattern is man vs woman; I suggested they look into the possibility that you could
 
work village against village.  The language is Chamorro; the aesithetic point is
 
to be witty and amusing.  Judy and Kim want to pull off a major chamorita festival
 
N QUI VIVE ABOUT COAL.
 
Flew o
ou
ut
t 
 to }
4xaii Honolulu.
 In Hoialulu Airport talked to Lynn also Barbara
 c
 
Smith concerning her prp ectto record Micronesian music for UNESCO.  Tried to
 
reahhc Bernie Lopex to update him but failed.
 
e(