HALLEY, MESONIE T. 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
October 14, 2017 
 
HALLEY [0:00:00]: I lived in Toledo Bend when I got started.  
SIMS: Okay. 
HALLEY: And, then we, it was time to come back down here and so 
I worked with, had, he had some property just outside of the 
south gate there, on Highway 10. 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
HALLEY: And I have a travel trailer, and I had a travel trailer 
there and, Ken Johnson and he, let me get all this off of here. 
SIMS: Okay. 
HALLEY: Cause you, maybe some of this will be reminded. 
SIMS: Oh okay, that’s- 
HALLEY: Remind me of some- 
SIMS: Could I put this over- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: Yeah. 
SIMS [0:00:41]: I just got a couple back up recorders. Well 
actually if we could start, if you could say and then spell your 
name. Make sure I have it right. 
HALLEY [0:01:04]: My name? 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY [0:01:06]: Okay. Mesonie T. Halley, M-E-S-O-N-I-E T H-A-
L-L-E-Y. I’m a retired pediatric dentist.  
SIMS: Okay. And where did you grow up? 
HALLEY [0:01:22]: We moved down in this area when I was about 10 
and I, so, I call this home, Maplewood, Lake Charles. 
SIMS: Did your family have any experience with the military? 
HALLEY [0:01:30]: No, I had one uncle that was in, World War II. 
SIMS [0:01:40]: And, tell me about your career choice, did you 
go straight to college and then to- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: No. 
SIMS: Dental school? 
HALLEY [0:01:5]: No, I, missed my graduation exercise from high 
school by two weeks, I still got my diploma, I joined the NAVY, 
I spent four years in. I was not mature enough to go to college 
at that time. I like to say that NAVY helped me mature and put 
my life on the right path. I was a medic, I think I did pretty 
well in the NAVY, I could have stayed in but that’s not what I 
wanted to do. I made E-6 in three and a half years, during the 
Korea conflict. I did not have to go to Korea, I was a medic. A 
little bit about my NAVY deal, I spent some time in the naval 
hospital at Great Lakes. They sent me to Council Bluffs, Iowa 
one summer in ’52 to work in a civilian hospital during the 
polio epidemic. I spent a couple months out there doing that, 
went back to the Naval hospital, and, during Christmas time, I 
almost got sent to the fleet marine force but I was the only 
person there at the time and, they couldn’t ship me out so I got 
delayed. So I spent four years in and came home. I had a family, 
got married, started McNeese University here- 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:03:40]: And, had a child right away and I had to go to 
work and I worked at an oil refinery and traded off my day 
shifts, would work at night to do my undergraduate work to go to 
dentist school.  
SIMS: And why, why did you choose dentist school? 
HALLEY [0:04:0]: Well, my daughter was three years old and, I 
was in pre-med and, I, had to take her to the dentist and he 
allowed me to watch and I said, “I can do that” and I found my 
niche.  
SIMS: Cause you’re a pediatric- 
HALLEY: Pediatric dentist, yes. And I taught at the University 
of Texas in Houston for a while. Then I did three years at the 
dental school in San Antonio but I wanted to practice again and 
this was home. This is where I came back to. I could have had a 
good future, in, in education. I’d have been an associate 
professor if I had stayed another month.  
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
HALLEY [0:04:58]: But, that was not what I wanted to do.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS [0:05:0]: Right. How long did you work as a dentist, until 
what year? 
HALLEY: Probably, altogether, right at 30 years, you know, in 
teaching and practice. I practiced a while, then went back and 
did a residency then I taught for a while then I came back and 
practiced. And I retired a little early for health reasons. And, 
that’s, got involved in Fort Polk. 
SIMS [0:05:41]: Right, so where were you when you started 
working at Fort Polk. 
HALLEY: I lived at Toledo Bend, we had a place up there and I 
had a friend that, he had lived there all his life or mostly, 
and he was a former police juror, but he knew things going on 
and he called me one day, said, “Buck they need role players at 
Fort Polk”. I called him up, told him I was coming, and told him 
you were coming so that’s how I got down there. And I had a 
great time, wonderful friends.  
SIMS [0:06:10]: Was there a job, what was the job application 
process like? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:06:25]: Well you just went in and you put in an 
application and they looked it over and if you met the 
qualifications, I guess, they, then you did a drug test, and you 
going on.  As a part time employee, that’s what they call it, 
part-time on-call.  
SIMS [0:06:4]: So did they, knowing that you were a dentist, did 
they assign any special duties outside or were you-  
HALLEY: No, no. 
SIMS: Basically- 
HALLEY: I was just a regular role-player. I was just, just as 
everybody else and then, I got recommended to work with the 
IONGO group, International Organization of Non-Government 
Organizations. And, when, that gentleman who was a great 
gentleman, one of the smartest men I’ve ever known, he decided 
to leave and go to Iraq and work in Iraq, I think with one of 
the companies, they asked me to take his spot as work group 
leader.  
SIMS [0:07:50]: So how long were you, from when you started 
until you were work group leader? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: Okay, let’s see, three, four years. 
SIMS: Uh-huh.  
HALLEY: I can’t remember the exact time but, I think I became 
work group leader, I think 2005, somewhere in that area. 
SIMS [0:08:10]: Okay so let me ask first about the period before 
you were work group leader. 
HALLEY: Okay. 
SIMS [0:08:20]: Can you tell me about the first time you were 
out, in the village or in the box and you know, what were your 
impressions? 
HALLEY [0:08:30]: Well, I thought it was different, it’s 
something that I’d not done before and I think my first 
experience was with a group that, they were supposed to be, kind 
of anti-army, raise a little ruckus and do things like that. In 
between rotations, I mean, in between scenarios, we would go in 
and lay around at the edge of the woods and wait to be called 
out again, meet the army.  
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: That’s been a good time ago,  
SIMS [0:09:30]: Right, so were, tell me about the other 
villagers, are they mostly folks in your age range or were they 
younger? How, how did everyone get along? 
HALLEY: Most, well, a lot of them were older, retired, semi-
retired, doing some of that, being on part-time call, that’s 
not, nah I won’t say this, the best scenario for a young man 
that’s trying to support a family. 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY [0:10:20]: So, but, General Bill David, program manager, 
he was a, in my opinion, super individual and they would hire 
folks that had infirmities that they could use on the training 
field, like, like me with a gimpy leg now, some were in 
wheelchairs, some were on crutches, things like that. So, it was 
a mixture of people, young and old, see, I was probably 65, 67, 
somewhere in that area when I went out there. 
SIMS [0:11:10]: And are, would you say most people who are 
retired or are doing it, is it out of financial interest or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
wanting to help the army or, you know, to have something to do, 
or a combination of those reasons? 
HALLEY [0:11:30]: Well, it adds to the income a little bit, 
that’s, and they pay a little, but to be honest with you, if 
they had said, “We need you but we can’t pay you”, I’d have 
still done it. That’s how much I thought about the service out 
there, the training. That, that’s my opinion and I think that 
was the opinion of a lot of folks.  
SIMS [0:12:08]: So when you were in the Navy, was there 
anything, in terms of training, similar to this? 
HALLEY [0:12:]: No, no, not, not, not that I went through. I 
just did normal boot camp, hospital course school, general war 
training, the med training, then I got into a little bit of the 
administrative portion of it, and then I got the ship. And then, 
I was on that for six months, I was out of Jacksonville, 
Florida.  
SIMS [0:12:4]: So, during the time when you were a role player 
in the village, can you tell me about some of the characters 
that you played? Did you have specific identities or jobs- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:13:01]: You had a specific identity and, and a 
specific job. I could probably tell you more about when I was in 
the IONGO group, some of the roles that I played there. 
SIMS: Sure.  
HALLEY: I, when I went in, I was assigned the USA ID 
representative and I did that for a good while. Several 
instances, my translator and I would be, captured, you know, 
we’ll say captured, and the army would be looking for us and 
would give the intel group where we were located, come in and 
rescue us. And those instance when you would be interviewed by 
the, I’m not gonna be able to say this, the security or whoever 
it would be, they would wanna know where everything is, that’d 
been, that you had done.  
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY: Or what you’d been through, with the enemy. And you had 
to get your stories, like you and your translator, you had to 
have your stories the same because you interviewed separately. 
And by different ones. You had to have your, everything in 
order.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS [0:15:09]: Tell me a little bit about the translators. So 
obviously, you’re speaking English but is he actually 
translating to another language? 
HALLEY: Well- 
SIMS: Or are they pretending?  
HALLEY: With, the way we would work with a translator, we would 
speak English, and, she, or he, would repeat what you said in 
English to the, but then, when they would say something back, it 
would be in their language but you understood what- 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY: So you could, they would get the training of using and 
going through a translator interpreter. 
SIMS [0:16:00]: Right. To give them practice about how long it 
takes and sometimes it might not be exact. 
HALLEY: Yeah. I think one thing that, when, when I would be, be 
interviewed by the military and going through an interpreter, 
they would look at me, but the interpreter was to the, you know, 
to the side. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: Is that what they’re supposed to do? 
HALLEY: I think so, because they’re carrying a conversation- 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY: If I were, if I were, or, if I were, excuse me, if I 
were, speaking with them, one of them, the Iraqis or something, 
you know, you’d have to have the process be realistic. 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY [0:17:20]: I have a few things here, if you would like 
to-  
SIMS: Sure. Should we look at those- 
HALLEY: Look at some of this- 
SIMS: And describe them. 
HALLEY: This, what we, this is some of the way we would 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: The garb.  
SIMS: This is, Iraq? 
HALLEY: Yes, that is. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY: That was before the Afghan. This is, well, this is a 
picture here where, the two of us got the Hero of the Battle for 
that there. 
SIMS: Is this inside that museum they have there? 
HALLEY: That’s inside the, the room, the conference room, where 
you train, classroom. 
SIMS: In here, in this picture, with the Iraq, clothes on, it 
looks like you have a T-shirt on, an Oxford shirt and then that 
white tunic. 
HALLEY: Yeah, you wore your clothes and you had that over it. 
SIMS: Right. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: This over you. 
SIMS: It must have been awfully hot. 
HALLEY: Well, it was at times, and then during the Afghan 
rotation, one of the, my very first, I’mma say translator, that 
I had, I was playing and I can’t remember the role, but I was 
meeting with the Army, I was meeting with the army and I was 
playing the Afghan. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY: And she told me, “You did it all wrong”, (laughs). And 
then, you know, a female soldier came in, well I stood up and 
greeted her, she said, “No, you’d have never done that, you’d 
have probably not given her much time because, of that”. But she 
said, “You did it all wrong”. 
SIMS: (laughs) 
HALLEY [0:19:50]: These are some pictures of the prevention 
construction team when they started those. 
SIMS: So were you, so you had a, were you USAID? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: Yes. 
SIMS: Part of this? And so, we’re looking at a group picture 
here and, so, where are these buildings located? In the box or- 
HALLEY: Yes, this was, that was FOB Sword- 
SIMS: Okay. 
HALLEY: Which is out there, I don’t think now, as they said, 
yes. 
SIMS [0:20:30]: And most of the time, when you were in that 
role, are you on the FOB or are you also going out into- 
HALLEY [0:20:40]: Well, when I was in that role, we, we would be 
back at, at the, at roleplay, and we had a certain building 
there that we were in and we would go out from there. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY [0:21:11]: At that time. And then when they started the 
re-, prevention reconstruction team, we would be at, on the FOB.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: So which did you, prefer? Was it more interesting to be in 
the village as a villager, or to have a job as, like in the 
reconstruction team? 
HALLEY [0:21:30]: What I enjoyed this here because you got to 
meet with a lot of different folks. You got to interact with the 
military more so, we, this is a picture when I was work group 
leader, you know, and, and, in there. Here are some, this is, I 
just happen to have these, it’s the Talatha Times, you probably 
would see them- 
SIMS: Uh-huh. So were you ever in the newspaper?  
HALLEY [0:22:20]: Yes. Here’s- 
SIMS: Oh so here you are. So they used your real name in this 
article. 
HALLEY [0:22:50]: Yeah, well that was, that was when I was 
playing, I was an American citizen.  
SIMS: So tell me, tell me about this, talking about when you got 
rescued from being kidnapped, so tell me- 
HALLEY: Well I think at that- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: How you got kidnapped, what happened? 
HALLEY [0:23:18]: Well, they had a scenario, of you being 
kidnapped and I can’t remember what that was but, for two or 
three days, you would be kind of off limits and the Army would 
be developing intel as to where you may be and then, when they 
found out basically where you were to be, I would be taken to 
that spot, and put, put there.  
SIMS: But where are you during the time after you’ve been 
kidnapped but you’re not actually- 
HALLEY [0:24:00]: I was kind of off limits, I was back at the- 
SIMS: Just sitting back at the office? 
HALLEY: Yeah, out of, out of sight.  
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
HALLEY [0:24:16]: One time I was put down in a hole, in a 
village, in an area, and, at night, they came on strong, guns 
blazing, you could hear the firing- 
SIMS : Mhm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: This business here, got me out, took me away and- 
SIMS [0:24:40]: What sort of hole was it, was there a cover of 
any sort? 
HALLEY: It was kind of a little tunnel. 
SIMS: Uh-huh. And what were you thinking while you were down 
there? 
HALLEY [0:24:50]: I didn’t like that. 
SIMS: (laughs) 
HALLEY: (laughs) That wasn’t too fun. And, then another time 
they put you in a building back in a closet and were, made, they 
stored you away. 
SIMS [0:25:10]: Did you know in advance if you were gonna be so-
, they were going to try to kidnap you or would you just be- 
HALLEY: Well that was in the, that was in the planning of it, 
that was in the MIMNS event, that was, for me, for a USAID 
person to be kidnapped, you would be, it would be a MIMNS event, 
planned event. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY [0:25:30]: For the army to- 
SIMS: So you would kind of know it’s gonna, likely gonna happen? 
HALLEY: Yes. 
SIMS: You wouldn’t know exactly where or when or? 
HALLEY [0:25:40]: Well actually you would not be captured, that 
the Army, I mean the, the Afghans or the Iraqis would not put 
their hands on you, it was a planned event- 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
HALLEY [0:26:10]: That, like, let’s say he’s been captured and 
it would go on for two or three days, I guess it would be little 
tidbits of information of where you may be located or would be 
located. Sometimes I think some of the role players would be 
told, “Hey, call this tipline, whatever”, and then on the day 
that they think the scenarios is supposed to take place on, they 
take you out and put you there.  
SIMS [0:26:40]: Were you ever killed during an exercise? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: No, I can’t, I can’t remember ever being killed, because 
if you’re killed you have to take on a new responsibility or 
identity and move somewhere else. 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY [0:27:12]: You can’t. And then the later part of my time, 
the last few years of it, as a work group leader, I was not too 
involved in the daily activities. My job was making sure 
everybody was in their proper role or place. 
SIMS [0:27:37]: So if you’re a work group leader, you’re not 
actually playing a character? 
HALLEY: Sir? 
SIMS: If you’re a work group leader, are you still in character 
or you- 
HALLEY [0:27:40]: Yeah, you have to be in character, you still 
are but you’re not, you’re not as active. 
SIMS: Right. And were you a, work group leader of regular 
villagers or people like the reconstruction team?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:28:08]: Well, on occasion, I would, on a certain type 
of rotation, I would be, maybe have a village. I can only 
remember a couple, I think, that we, we did that, that was, at 
nighttime mission one time, I think that was, that was about it. 
Most, after the reconstruction team started, most of my time was 
spent on the farm, getting there and planning, getting things 
done, being kind of a liaison between the army and our group. 
I’mma tell you this, but word kind of got around at, from one 
unit to the other coming in that if they needed something, call 
on me. Cause I, somehow I managed to help the Army out, if they 
needed something. 
SIMS : I can see that. What was the hardest part of the job, in 
your opinion? 
HALLEY: The length of hours.  
SIMS: Oh, it’s twelve hour days? 
HALLEY: Yeah, usually. 
SIMS: Sometimes more? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:29:40]: Usually, yeah. I had a friend who worked with 
me and he was a retired colonel in the Army Reserve, and he 
spent, but he lived right there in Fort Polk, but- 
SIMS [0:30:00]: Terry? 
HALLEY: Terry Bounds? 
SIMS: I met him last week. 
HALLEY [0:30:12]: He worked with me, we worked together, super 
individual, one of the finest men I’ve ever known. And then, Ken 
Johnson, who’s passed away now, he, we would have, we would have 
a meeting every morning and get, kind of our marching orders 
from the MIMNS event and everybody had their certain thing to 
do. Ken liked to chair me-, he liked to handle meetings, and he 
was good at it. So when you have someone that way, you let them 
do it. 
SIMS: Right.   
HALLEY: And it was, really, he was a great guy. Have you met 
Bill Chance yet?  
SIMS: Not yet, I think we talked on the phone. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY Okay, this is a picture of him. 
SIMS Okay. What was his role? 
HALLEY I can’t think of it right now, I can’t. 
SIMS [0:31:2]0: He was part of the reconstruction team or?  
HALLEY: He was on the reconstruction team, yeah, he was, this is 
a little bit better picture, would probably see better, right 
there where my thumb is. 
SIMS: Uh-huh. Do you remember any particularly interesting or 
unusual stories while you were- 
HALLEY: Well, 
SIMS: A role player? 
HALLEY: [0:32:09]: This gentleman right here, Mr. Sadiq, I think 
that was his name. He was Afghan and, no that may have been 
Iraq, well anyway, he would, everybody catered to him. This was, 
this was Iraq, everyone catered to the, to this fellow. He had 
nephews there, role players also. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
HALLEY: [0:32:50]: And, one day, he comes storming into our 
building, and, or up there, threw his bag down, he was not gonna 
ride in the car with the young lady, in the backseat, to be 
taken back to the barracks. That was beyond him, that was 
beneath him, you know, in doing that. And, I was the work group 
leader, and it was, I did not see any reason why two cars should 
be sent to take her and him, and, I kinda, as we say here, told 
him how to carry the cabbage that he would get in that vehicle 
right now, and if he didn’t, I’d call redhats and they’d come 
get him.  
SIMS: Who are the redhats? 
HALLEY [0:34:10]: Around, that was the ones that were over the 
translators. They have, you know, a big group out there. And 
then, he did, with a lot of huff and huff. And then the next 
day, I took him and his nephew back, and, they were talking, I 
could get the gist that they were giving me a little bit of a 
guff, and I, I told them, I says, “Speak English, right now, 
cause I know you’re talking about me” and, and you know what? He 
became one of the best friends I ever had, just, he would do 
anything I asked. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS [0:35:13]: Was it in that moment that he felt, because you 
were straight with him- 
HALLEY: I think so, I was on his level. 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
HALLEY: And that he was here and not there and, would do 
anything that I asked and became a great role player but, it was 
just that situation. 
SIMS: Right. 
HALLEY: And, now I have another little story here, that I don’t 
know if you’re interested in or not. 
SIMS: Sure.  
HALLEY [0:36:03]: But this is, this is Jamal Salay and I wrote 
about him and he became, that is his story of how he got here. 
And this is the young man, the young man, the picture of him 
right there. But the hardships that he went through to get to 
this country. 
SIMS: Was he from Iraq? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY: Yes. 
SIMS: Uh-huh. But how did you come to know his story? 
HALLEY [0:36:59]: I asked him one day, we were, we were just 
chatting, and he said something about this being a great country 
and I ask, I said, “Jamal, would you just write your history, 
how you got here?” and he wrote that. It’s a little difficult 
reading, but it’s interesting, some of the hardships he went 
through. 
SIMS: Do you mind if I take a picture so I can read it later? 
HALLEY: Yeah, you’re welcome to. 
SIMS: Okay, thank you. I have a phone so I could, you know, take 
a quick picture of each one. 
HALLEY [0:37:50]: But, I, as I said on there, I thought, it was 
a little short man but a great, great guy. 
SIMS: But where, was that pretty common to have those types of 
interactions with cultural role players? Would you say most 
villagers have that experience or people from around here got to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
talk and know people who, you know, were from Iraq or 
Afghanistan? Or did the groups not always- 
HALLEY [0:38:28]: No, I think some of them got real close, and 
some didn’t. Naturally, you had some that were, I got cross 
wires with a couple, because they were not doing what I thought 
that they should do and they didn’t like me telling them. 
Especially when they were assigned to our group and that 
business there but, let me look, I think you saw this. Saw that. 
This was the colonel that’s passed away, he had pancreatic 
cancer, Ken Johnson, brilliant man, him and Terry Bounds were 
great friends, they knew each other from all that time, and we 
wore red on Fridays. 
SIMS: Why’s that? 
HALLEY [0:39:4]: Red Fridays means you support the army, the 
military.  
SIMS: Oh, I haven’t heard that, is that a, common thing? 
HALLEY: Yeah. 
SIMS: Okay.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:39:59]: Up there, our, our group, our IONGO group 
would wear red every Friday, just to say that we support the, I 
have a T-shirt I’ll give you that has that on it. 
SIMS [0:40:10]: Oh, thank you.  
HALLEY: But I don’t know what else to tell you, I, I worked at, 
doing this, you know, I enjoyed what I was doing, this is, the 
IDS group, the subject matter experts, when I left, they gave me 
that. 
SIMS [0:40:51]: In appreciation Dr. Halley, thank you for all 
your hard work from all your friends at IDS, international, the 
IDS is International Development- 
HALLEY: Yeah.  
 
HALLEY: And they, those guys were the subject matter experts. 
This is a letter from this group here, the military portion of 
it, from- 
SIMS: So how long altogether did you work there? 
HALLEY: 12 years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: 12 years. Why did you choose to retire, was it- 
HALLEY: It, well, I’m 84 now so I was 80, I been back here, I 
was 80 and my wife had started showing signs of dementia and I 
needed to be home. Just early signs, I needed, I need to be 
here. 
SIMS: Mhm, makes sense.  
HALLEY: And, I only had her 62 years now so. 
SIMS: Do you still keep in touch with people, people from- 
HALLEY [0:42:30]: Oh yeah, Freddy Monroe, I fish with him still. 
On occasion, I talk to Terry, I call him here a while back we 
just chatted. Doug Danzy, on occasion I talk to him but he’s, 
you met him yet? 
SIMS: No, I haven’t heard that name. 
HALLEY [0:42:50]: Okay, he’s a role player, very, you might want 
to visit with him. 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:43:02]: He’s, he played the role of, construction, 
engineer, because he had been all over the world, and, in 
construction, doing, in fact, he met his young lady in Hanoi and 
brought her home, went and got her. 
SIMS:  
HALLEY [0:43:30]: She’s a very sweet lady. But, he’d be 
interested, he’s an interesting person.  
SIMS: Is there anything we haven’t covered that you think would 
be important for people to know? 
HALLEY [0:43:49]: The fellow that I took his, I took his 
position, he, Ed Frasier, was his name and again, I’d like to 
say I met some brilliant men there, people. This was a man that 
joined the Army at 16, he told a fib about his age, he told me 
one day, he said, his commanding officer said, “You will tell me 
how old you are, if you want to get out of basic training. He 
said he never did. But this fellow went in, I think he was a 
sophomore, still in high school, he was 16, but he ended up with 
a master’s degree from the University of Tampa, he, he advanced 
in rank, and retired as a major. He flew helicopters, he was 
shot down four or five times. He had four Bronze Stars, the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, I think it’s 
Distinguished or Service Cross or something. The Silver Star 
would have probably been a Medal of Honor had it not been a 
covert mission. But, I like to talk to people about their 
military careers, I enjoy listening to them because I was never 
in combat on the ship I was on. Wondered sometimes how I would 
have reacted but, just talking to him and that, he, brought in 
his, he brought a stack of papers about this thick and put them 
down on my desk and said, “This is my military career right 
here, you’re the only person that has ever asked me or been 
interested in what I did”. So I took that home, put it in 
chronological order, and wrote a foreword for it, as a legend in 
our mix. And, - 
SIMS [0:46:40]: I’m sure he appreciated that. 
HALLEY: Yeah, he’s passed on now, but, super individual, Ed 
Frasier was his name. I don’t know what else to tell you but, 
except, there’s a comradery of the role players and the work 
group leaders, the, have you met Mr. Bill Goudy? 
SIMS: No. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:47:19]: Okay, he’s kind of over the, that, Dave, I 
mean, Dave Detz he’s there. He’s, I think he’s, right under Mr. 
Bill, General Bill David. He’s, he’s a very nice guy. Some of 
the . . . This is some of the things I received. 
SIMS [0:4:]: Oh wow. 
HALLEY [0:48:04]: And, working there, the Stryker division was 
there. They took me around and I’d collect, or I’d go make a 
payment or collect something, did, schedule, you know MIMNS 
event, so I got, I got a, I got, from there, here’s one. Let’s 
see, this is, this is here, this is General Ed Soriano, he gave 
that to me and his card. 
SIMS: Oh, okay. Those are nice.  
HALLEY [0:49:00]: But I got, I got several of these, different- 
SIMS: Like, commander coins they’re called? 
HALLEY: Yeah, yeah.  
SIMS: Basically when you would meet the commanders they would 
give that- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:49:20]: Well, if you did a job pretty well, they would 
have, they would give you a coin.  
SIMS: There’s CIA, there’s 519 military police battalion. 
HALLEY: I liked it. 
HALLEY: Like to think that my, last (laughs) few years as a work 
group leader there, that I was a facilitator, especially at FOB 
Sword, Ken Johnson, the picture I showed you, that passed away, 
they, the army gave the reconstruction team a building to use. 
We, it was just a, just a big building, with one division in 
there. We designed that thing, and made a conference room, we 
made individual areas where the SMEs could meet and would have 
their own space. We made a little kitchen, you know, with a 
coffee pot and, and our conference room got so, was done quite 
well, it got to the point that I had to take appointments for 
the use of it. And whenever Force Com would come down, that’s 
where they met. They liked that room we had set up so, I’m just 
saying I was more of a facilitator in getting our guys out than 
being, I had a title, but, it was running that area. 
SIMS: You’re the people who make it run behind the scenes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HALLEY [0:51:50]: Yeah, if someone needed a flag, I’d get them a 
flag. If they needed a plaque, I could get this or I could, 
manage, to, to do a few things. 
SIMS: Right.  
HALLEY: I was not bashful in asking. (laughs) 
SIMS: It sounds like a great retirement job. 
HALLEY [0:52:10]: Well it’s part-time on-call and the friends I 
made were very good, and, lasting friendships. Freddy Monroe 
comes down from Simpson, you should speak with him if you get a 
chance, super individual. And, he’s, he’s quite a guy. Wonderful 
friend. But, I, I enjoyed the people, the interaction, they paid 
you a little, it was not a lot but as I said I’d have probably 
done it for nothing.  
SIMS: Yeah. Yeah, I can see the appeal, especially, you know, it 
seems like you would, retirement, you would want some structure 
and then some free time. 
HALLEY: Just, one incident that, I can’t think of the colonel’s 
name, he made general, I, my mind, when you get to 84, things 
start slipping a little. I could picture him. He came, and after 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
he made general, come back there for a little bit, just, and I 
didn’t see him, but anyway, in our design, there’s a fault that 
we didn’t make a door going into the kitchen area, and we’d have 
to go outside and around and all this business. I asked, and he 
was the COB, I ask him one day, I said, “Colonel, what would it 
take to get a door put right here?” He said, “You need a door 
here?” I said, “Yes, we have to go out and around and, to get in 
here to get a coffee, a cup of coffee or something.” And when 
we’re having a meeting in there, they’re using it quite often, 
“You want a door right here?” I said, “Yes”. He takes his radio, 
he calls, he said, “This is colonel so-and-so, we need a door at 
FOB Sword and I want it done by three o’clock this afternoon” 
and it was. You know, that way. Another incident, we had one of 
the, translators, interpreters, he wanted a picture with a guy, 
one of the generals or something and he asked the guy that was 
taking the pictures with, “Would it be alright?”, and he said 
“Yes, yeah, I’ll take it, yeah, you’ll be fine”. And he asked 
me, I said, “Well what did he say?” “He said it’d be okay”. “He 
says okay then it’s okay with me”. He got his picture taken. 
Well, that afternoon they said they want that guy off of the 
base, off of the FOB now, immediately. What, the major came in, 
I said, “Wait, wait, just a minute, he asked permission to get 
that done, and if he has to go, I do to because I gave it, I’m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the one who told him he could do it because the photographer 
said he could”. Well they let it slide but I was at much- 
SIMS [0:56:30]: What was the reason why it was- 
HALLEY: I guess they did not want pictures taken with the 
foreign nationals, with the, but the photographer was doing 
that, had been doing it all the time, he said, “Yeah, we’ll do 
it” so he said okay, it’s okay with me. Well I couldn’t let the 
guy bite the dust, you know, without, cause I was responsible 
too. (laughs) Just little things like that but- 
SIMS: Well I appreciate your time. 
HALLEY: Well, I don’t know if you gained any knowledge though 
(laughs). 
SIMS: I did, you know, I think the thing that happens is, you 
know, no one really writes this stuff. I mean, you did here, you 
wrote down this one part of the story but think about all your 
experiences, they’re not really automatically captured, right? 
HALLEY: Yeah.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: I mean you, even your friend that, Ed, that you were 
talking about- 
HALLEY: Yeah. 
SIMS: You know, if he had all these stories and history but 
people didn’t ask him, you know, this work is important- 
HALLEY: Yeah, I- 
SIMS: For history to know about. Really fascinating places that 
those people don’t know about. 
HALLEY [0:58:10]: Just, I, somewhere I have, in, one of my thumb 
drives, what I wrote about him, if you’d like, give me your 
address and I’ll try to- 
SIMS: Sure. 
HALLEY [0:58:30]: Send you some information if, if it’s alright. 
SIMS: Yeah, I would be really interested to read that. I have a 
card I can give you. 
HALLEY: Okay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMS: Has my e-mail. 
HALLEY: Okay. I’m, I’m hoping that what I’ve said has been 
(laughs)- 
SIMS [0:58:50]: Yeah, it’s been, it’s been great to talk to 
everybody because everybody has a different story, right? 
HALLEY: Yeah. 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 59:19]