1 
NEW BEDFORD FISHING NERIIAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: February 3, 2017 
Fortin, Sarah ~ Oral History Interview 
Fred Calabretta 
Fortin, Sarah. Interview by Fred Calabretta. Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: February 3, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
2 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Sarah Fortin [SF] 
Facts about this person: 
Age 29 
Sex Female 
Occupation Gear manufacturer 
Residence (Town where lives) 
Ethnic background (if known) 
Interviewer: Fred Calabretta [FC] 
Transcriber: Millie Rahn [MR] 
Interview location: Reidar’s Trawl & Scallop Gear & Marine Supply, New Bedford 
Date of interview: February 3, 2017 
Key Words 
Nets, chafing gears, codends, sweep, twine knowledge, knife belt, knives, twine, spikes, fids, 
splice rope, combo wires, thimbles, sleeves, presses, vices, grinders, impact guns, torches, 
wrenches, chains, Alfredo hook, net reels, shackles. Spectra, net bellies 
Abstract 
Sarah Fortin describes herself as “a Jane of all trades.” She’s now 29 and has been working at 
Reidar’s since she was in high school, first starting part time after school to learn specific skills, 
and then went full time and has been there ever since. She talks about being a woman in a largely 
male industry, her knowledge of nets and other tasks, what she’s learned on the job from her co¬ 
workers, especially Tor Bendiksen, and how gear has and hasn’t changed over time, describes 
the tools of her trade, the physical demands of the job, learning from physical mistakes, and the 
state of the fishing industry and its potential impact on her own job and that of companies like 
Reidar’s. 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
3 
Index 
[00:00] Intro; Sarah Fortin was bom on October 28, 1987, at St. Luke’s Hospital in New 
Bedford. Grew up in Fairhaven. Started working at Reidar’s part time after school while in high 
school and went full time later, building nets and learning the trade. She describes herself as “a 
Jane of all trades.” Not from a fishing family but when she was in her teens, her father worked 
there as a machinist and she looked for a job 
[05:21] Describes a typical work day, schedule, working conditions, and her tasks working with 
nets and on other things as needed. 
[10:08] Never been on a working fishing vessel. Talks about usually working by herself in the 
shop, described more about a typical day, and that not two days are alike. 
[15:05] Names and talks about tools of her trade. Tells the derivation of the term “Alfredo 
hook,” which is unique to Reidar’s. Explains when/when not to wear gloves when working, and 
describes the many occupational hazards of working in wet, cold, snow in winter, and how she’s 
learned from injuries she’s had on the job. 
[20:04] Talks about being a woman in largely a man’s industry and how she’s perceived by 
fishermen. 
[25:03] Reflects on the state of the industry and its implication for her own work and the 
industry’s future. Also talks about the physical demands of the job and who is/isn’t suited to it. 
[30:01] Thoughts on hardest and best parts of the job, and learning how her nets work from 
fishermen who come into the shop. 
[34:31] End of Audio 
Sarah Fortin interview, Febmary 3, 2017 
4 
[00:00] 
Fred Calabretta: Today is February 3, 2017. This is an interview for the New Bedford Fishing 
Heritage Center, funded by an Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of Congress. As part of 
this project we are interviewing workers in the New Bedford/Fairhaven fishing industry to record 
their stories, document their skills and knowledge, and better understand their important role in 
the fishing industry. The recording and transcript will become part of the permanent collection at 
the Library of Congress. Fm Fred Calabretta. Today Fm speaking with Sarah... 
Sara Fortin: Fortin. 
FC: Sarah Fortin at Reidar’s Trawl and Scallop Gear and Marine Supply in New Bedford. You 
give us your permission to record this for the project? 
SF: Yes. 
FC: So then just to start with your full name, first of all. 
SF: Sarah Fortin. 
FC: And your date of birth. 
SF: October 28, 1987. 
FC: Where were you born? 
SF: New Bedford at St. Luke’s. 
FC: You grew up in New Bedford? 
SF: Yes. Well, I grew up in Fairhaven, but near New Bedford, yes. 
FC: Okay. Was your family involved in the fishing industry in any ways? 
SF: I never had any fishermen in my family, but my dad used to do some work painting boats 
and stuff like that down by the docks. Then he actually worked for this company, he was a 
machinist, like a welder, and he worked on trawl doors and stuff I was a 15-year-old kid that 
needed a job so I came here and then Tor just kind of just gradually taught me things and I never 
left. 
FC: When was that? What year did you start? 
SF: Geez. I was still in high school so that’s what? Fm 29 now, so that’s about 2003 maybe? 
2002? 3? 
FC: Did you start full time? 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
5 
SF: No, I was coming in after school and building some chafing gears and that’s kind of, I don't 
know if you know what that is, but just little piece things that I could make a certain amount of 
money and I could just take my time and get them done. Then I got quick at it, so Tor decided to 
keep me and teach me some other stuff 
FC: I guess maybe just a little bit more about what you were doing especially when you first 
started and then you got into doing different stuff 
SF: When I first started, I was kind of doing, it was building chafing gears that go on codends on 
the bottom of the codends so that when it brushes up against the ocean floor it doesn’t chafe out 
the expensive twine. And I just kind of started doing those. My dad used to bring them to the 
house and I learned how to do it at home and then I just ended up coming into the shop and 
doing them here. It was, you know, 15-, 16-year-old kid making 80 bucks in four hours, so that 
was gold. So I stuck around and kept doing that and as I got better at it. Tor decided to have me 
build like little survey trawls and stuff He’d cut out all the pieces and start out all the seams for 
me and get everything lined up and then I’d just go on and do it and have him come cut it out 
when I did it wrong and have to re-do the whole thing. It was kind of a painful process, but over 
time he saw some kind of potential in me, I guess, and taught me all sorts of stuff Now I can 
take a net plan and a bale of twine and turn it into a trawl. I ask him questions all the time, but 
for the most part I can do most of it by myself 
FC: When you first started, you were working with all synthetic twine? I mean, it’s all what poly 
or something? 
SF: Yes, a lot of it’s I forget if it’s polypropylene or ethylene, but it’s some kind of plastic 
material. I work with nylon and that like polyethylene probably, propylene, whatever. Something 
like that. 
FC: By then cotton twine and everything was gone? 
SF: No, I’ve always worked with the plastic-y stuff I didn’t, I mean, sometimes you get an old 
net in that you got to fix things on, some older stuff in it, but for the most part we just used that 
plastic-y kind of twine, yes. 
FC: I guess maybe just talking a little bit more about what you do, what your job is, and what 
you do today. You talked about it a little bit, but other kinds of projects and stuff you work on. 
SF: I’m kind of I guess Jane of all trades. I do all sorts of stuff around. Like I’ll make wires and 
the sweeps. I don’t do that that often, that’s usually the guys that do that, but I can build the 
sweeps and all the ground gear and then the net that goes with it and put all that together and 
working with the shackles and the chains and all that stuff 
[5:21] SF: [continued] We’ve done a few little projects here and there for different trials and 
things like that, people testing out different things with cameras and all sorts of stuff for the 
government or like an institution, institute, not institution, like a college or something. UMass 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
does a lot of stuff that we work with them and do a lot of little projects to test out different 
things. 
6 
FC: So you’re working with not just the nets but also like the hardware like you said? 
SF: Yes. 
FC: And the shackles? 
SF: Like just this morning I was helping a crew outside running another wire through their 
sweep and we’re forklifts and pulling it and cutting handle locks and shackles with the torch and 
stuff I can do all that stuff on my own. Yes, it’s pretty cool. 
FC: So a lot of different stuff? 
SF: Yes. Fm kind of, whenever there’s something that has to get done. Tor can usually call on 
me to do, unless it’s welding. I can’t do that, [laughs] It’s a little too serious. 
FC: What’s your regular schedule? What days and hours do you work? 
SF: Monday through Friday, 8 to 4:30. And here and there I’ll come in on a Saturday if we got a 
lot of stuff to do or need an extra, a little bit of cash that week or something. I’ll come in for 
Saturday mornings, but for the most it’s a straight 40 hours. 
FC: Do you ever get sort of like emergency work if somebody tears up a net on the bottom? 
SF: Oh, yeah. I’ll be in the middle of a brand-new net project on the floor and then Tor will get a 
call that somebody snagged up on something and they want to go fishing tomorrow or the next 
day or something, so we’ll get a net, they’ll bring in a net and we’ll just have to drop everything 
that we’re doing and get to that. It depends, you know. He balances out what’s emergent and 
stuff like that. I don’t really make that call. That’s more him, but yes, I have to jump between 
things all the time for people coming in. Oh no, I broke my wire. Oh no, I lost half my stuff I got 
a new everything. It’ll be a net I just built two months ago and they lost the whole thing or 
shredded it all up. It’s heartbreaking, [laughs] 
FC: How does that work out, like if you’ve got a job all laid out on the shop floor and stuff and 
got to kind of put that aside and make room for something else? 
SF: Either that or I can wind up what I got done. We got net reels downstairs so I can just wind 
it up just like on a boat and get it out of the way or I’ll work outside. It all depends. We got a lot 
more area here now than we ever used to, so we’ve got more of an option to put it, I can use the 
storage room to lay something out. I got plenty of space outside in the parking lot and all that 
stuff 
FC: A lot of room to work with. 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
7 
SF: Yes, a lot more, a lot more room now. 
FC: Are you on your feet for most of this? 
SF: I sit when I can, but that’s not often because Fm kind of moving down the line all that time, 
you know? You build a net from the top and you work your way down, so Fm always backing 
up and moving around and sitting down just kind of slows me down. 
FC: You don’t have to work on your knees, though, really. 
SF: Um, sometimes. It depends. If Fm working inside with my cleats and all the stuff I can pin 
my twine up nice and easy, I can generally stay on my feet or sit down if Fm staying in one spot 
to, like, sew something, but if Fm working outside, who knows? You got to work with what you 
got. 
FC: Yes. So if you’re working on your knees you use knee pads? 
SF: Sometimes. It depends on how much time I got on my hands. Yes. 
FC: The concrete floor can be rough on the knees. 
SF: Yes, but Fm resilient. 
FC: What about, like, do you get regular breaks during the day? Or always have lunch at the 
same time? 
SF: Well, I usually take my lunch around noon, but it all depends on what Fm in the middle of 
doing or if Fm helping a customer or something. But yes, pretty much I got my lunch break and 
yeah, that’s about it. We don’t really do organized breaks for anything else. I can stop and go get 
some water or whatever anytime I want, but — 
FC: Are you working alone most of the time? 
SF: Now, yeah. We used to have another like strictly nets employee, but she left for another job 
opportunity, so for the past, I don't know, little less than a year. I’ve been mostly by myself Tor 
helps when he can, but he’s got all the business end stuff to do and phone calls and customers 
and things like that to handle, so for the most part Fm alone. 
[10:08] SF: [continued] I pull help when I need strength, extra hands, or some like that, but I got 
another guy that can do some things and Fm teaching another one, so I get help when I can, but 
for the most part, Fm on my own. 
FC: So you’re at a point where you’re showing other people what to do? 
SF: Yeah. I’ve had to train a handful of people over the years because I’ve been here for so long 
that I kind of, Fm unique in twine knowledge because I know Tor’s way so I can do everything 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
8 
the nice new, brand new fancy way and the way he wants to do it as opposed to a fisherman 
comes in and he’s got past knowledge. He knows how to do it quick on the boat when you’re 
listing back and forth and stuff like that. I have a cleaner knowledge I guess you’d say because 
I’m taught right from Tor, who has been building the nets for years. 
FC: Have you spent any time at all on boats or seen how the nets are handled or used on the 
boats? 
SF: Actually I have not. I’ve helped load up nets and things like that on boats. I’ve been on, like, 
friends’ boats to go and check out the boat, but I’ve never actually been on a fishing vessel while 
it’s moving, because, I don’t know. I’ve got plenty of work to do here, and to let me go for a 
whole fishing trip is, you know, when I’m the only person building nets, it’s kind of hard for the 
shop to let that go. 
FC: To take the time, yes. 
SF: I’m sure at some point Tor’s talked about potentially getting me involved in some projects, 
not anything decided yet, but just kind of like the general idea. And if, another employee that we 
used to have used to go out for short trips with a science something. I forget what it was. It might 
be like UMass or something, but she went on like projects and stuff She wasn’t gone for too 
long and she got the full experience out of it, so now that she’s gone it’s probably my turn if we 
get another opportunity for that. I’m looking forward to that. Just nice weather. I want to go in 
the summertime, [laughs] 
FC: Yes, you don’t want to do it in January. 
SF: No. 
FC: It sounds like you do spend a lot of your time where you’re working alone pretty much. 
Like you said, you bring somebody in if you need an extra pair of hands, but do you mind 
working alone or do you like it? 
SF: It has its ups and downs, you know? It gets lonely sometimes, but I kind of, I don't know, I 
get to race myself and put my music on with my headphones and just zone in on what I’m doing 
and not have to worry about people asking me questions or having to chat with anybody else. I 
can just kind of focus. It’s not that bad. I don’t mind it. 
FC: And you do listen to music? 
SF: Oh yeah. 
FC: What do you listen to? 
SF: Everything. 
FC: Yeah? 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
9 
SF: [laughs] I grew up on classic rock, so I had the Eagles on downstairs when you came and 
grabbed me to start the interview, so I listen to all sorts of stuff Usually something upbeat so that 
I can keep moving. 
FC: Yes, you don’t want to be listening to ballads or something, nod out down there. Yes. If you 
were going to describe a typical day, like say they’re probably all different, but say you got here 
today. What did you do? What’s sort of a normal day? A normal workflow type of thing? 
SF: Well, generally first thing. I’ll come in and it depends on what I left myself the night before. 
So, like for instance, today at the end of the day yesterday I was working on a net downstairs and 
I came in and Tor was on the phone or dealing with a customer or something, I couldn’t talk to 
him about the day’s plans yet so I just go out there and start working on what I was working on 
and I did that for a little bit. Then, either Tor will come out and give me, this is what we’ve got 
to get done today, go cut this. Or, go start this net, or whatever, or today I had a customer come 
in and I had to help them with their gear outside, so I ended up working pretty much till 
lunchtime with them, helping them out. It all depends. It varies from day to day, but generally 
sometime in the morning I get a little chat with Tor so we can talk about, you’re going to be 
working on this for the day. I got to have this done before two. Got to put this order together to 
get shipped out and stuff like that. I get a general synopsis in the morning and just kind of go 
from there. 
FC: Is it easier, though, like if you’re working on a bigger job and then you know like exactly 
kind of what you’re going to be doing for two or three days? 
[15:05] SF: Yes, it’s always nice to start like a big, like a nice net fresh, start from cutting the 
pieces and just do the whole thing, because it’s nice knowing I’m coming in. I’m going to do this 
and this and this, and then I get to go home. You know? It’s nice to know, but it doesn’t always 
go that way. 
FC: Yeah. 
SF: I’ll come in expecting to do the net I’ve been working on and I’ll get a curveball. 
FC: Yeah, like a lot of jobs, I guess, [laughs] What are some of the tools and the gear and stuff 
you use? I mean, you mentioned it a little bit, but it’s dependent on what you’re working on, but- 
SF: As far as nets go? 
FC: Yeah. 
SF: I got my handy-dandy knife belt [laughs] and then I use the plastic needles to lace the twine 
on to pass it through and all that stuff Sometimes I got spikes that I use and fids and things to 
splice ropes and combo wires and stuff like that. Then when you get into the wires I got all sorts 
of things. I got the thimbles and the sleeves and the presses and the vices and grinders and I can’t 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
10 
even think of the words for all... Most of them I just call thingamajigs, because I can’t remember 
[laughs], but impact guns and torches and wrenches and all sorts of stuff 
FC: That’s like, it’s totally different stuff, I mean, working with a wire. If you go from like 
working on a net to working with a wire. 
SF: It’s nice to switch it up. 
FC: Really? Yeah? 
SF: It’s nice to do something different every once in a while. Because we got the guys on the 
wire side that usually handle like chains and wire orders, but sometimes they go on deliveries or 
they’re working on a project or something, and I got to jump in. So, sometimes it’s nice to have a 
little break in the monotony because if you’re doing the same net project and I get to stay and do 
the same project all day, it gets a little tedious sometimes when you’re just sitting in the same 
spot going up, down, and up and down and up and down and up and down. 
FC: You talked about fids and other stuff that you use. Is it all pretty much off the shelf stuff or 
is any of it like stuff that you’ve modified or messed with a little bit so it works for you? 
SF: For the most part, I use pretty standard stuff I’ve had to get creative here and there with 
little projects and things where I got to stuff something in the end somewhere, it’s too small, but 
for the most part, most of my stuffs— Oh, we have the Alfredo hook. That’s my favorite little 
thing. We got little holes on sides of the net reels and you pick up the twine and hook it up and 
we just, I take a welding rod and make an S out of it and hook it up. That’s my little nifty tool 
that I use every single day. Fishermen will come in and be like, oh, this is neat. I’m going to do 
this. And then they make them on the boat and stuff, so that’s pretty cool. 
FC: You started something. 
SF: It’s called an Alfredo hook because we had a guy, this fishermen guy that used to work for 
us that was like [mimics] Hey, [mumbles], and he put it together and gave it to me and hence the 
name. But, yeah, a little random story, [laughs] 
FC: Yeah. What about do you wear gloves? I notice your fingers are taped up a little bit. 
SF: I wear gloves when I can because, like, when I’m doing wire and chain and stuff like that. 
I’ll wear gloves because you get caught on the little burrs and stuff like that all the time, but with 
twine, I choose speed and dexterity over gloves because I got to, like, hold things and then bring 
the twine around and pull a knot over my fingertips and I’ll lose the tips of the gloves all the 
time, so I can’t do gloves. I need to feel what I’m doing. 
FC: You just get a better feel. 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
11 
SF: The cracks, I mean, the tape and all that right now, that’s kind of winterized because I was 
working out in the cold and the snow the other day and my hands got wet and then in the winter 
my skin dries out and I get little cracks on my knuckles and stuff so that’s kind of — 
FC: I know what you mean. 
SF: A lot of this is preventative, too, so that I don’t, you know, reopen anything or whatever. 
FC: Yes, working with the wire must be pretty rough on the hands. 
SF: No, Fve, here you got to pick something up and I don’t have my gloves on or whatever and 
Fve gotten some good little cuts on my hands from handling the wire. 
FC: Are there any other parts of the work that are a little tricky like that or you get banged up a 
little bit? 
[20:04] SF: Yeah, I mean, Fm kind of a clumsy person to begin with, so Fm always walking into 
stuff, but I got good with a hammer now I don’t bash my thumbs anymore. But, you know, you 
got to tighten shackles on some gear that’s on the floor and you got to hold the spike this way 
and pull this, this way and sometimes things don’t line up right and the wrench will slip off an 
Fll whack myself on something. Stuff like that. And Fll slice my hands every now and then 
when Fm cutting twine too fast, but that Fve kind of gotten past that over the years. 
FC: That’s good. 
SF: So, not so bad with that anymore. But everybody’s got those stories. I stabbed myself in the 
leg once and sliced my hand open another time and tripped up on twine and almost, you know, 
broke my knee another time, so I got some decent injuries that have taught me some lessons, so 
Fm careful now. 
FC: Careful. 
SF: So, Fve been all right. 
FC: How has like the stuff that you work with, the tools and you talked a little bit about the type 
of twine and stuff, but since you first started, what’s different now? 
SF: Well, the tools pretty much, what I use at least has pretty much stayed the same. I mean, 
we’ve got a bigger press to use for bigger wires and things like that, but for the most part, all 
that’s the same. My needles are pretty much the same. Gotten some better knives throughout the 
years, and twine has changed a bit. I mean, a lot of the stuff I was working with years ago was 
cheaper. Now we’ve got, they’ve put more research into it and figured out how to make it tighter 
knit so that it doesn’t chafe out and stuff like that. And different materials they’ve tried and trial 
and error. They’ve come up with some good stuff I got Spectra and really durable rope and stuff 
like that, that I use sometimes. So, we got some high-quality stuff now. Definitely some stuff 
that’s a bit better than what it used to be. Just time and what fishermen say about stuff 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
12 
FC: Do you hear much back from fishermen? Or like, do you have a chance to hear from a guy? 
Like, if you worked on a net and do you ever run into fishermen and have them say, ah, yeah, 
boy that net worked out great or something? 
SF: Oh, yeah. 
FC: Yeah? 
SF: Guys, they come in. They’ll come in one week and be here for two or three days doing a 
project and then they’ll come in after that trip that they made when they left, they’ll come back 
and [mimics] Oh, I got to get some more shackles and balls of twine to stock the boat. So they 
come in and say hi all the time and they’re chatting about how their nets are working and all that 
stuff, so I get some feedback. 
FC: What about the whole thing about like not being a guy? Was it tougher getting into the 
work? I mean, did you feel you had to prove yourself because you’re a woman? Did you get into 
any of that? 
SF: I mean, there’s been a bit of a struggle here and there with some of the old-timers like 
because they don’t, they’re just not used to seeing a woman that knows as much as I do about the 
twine and stuff, and it’s kind of hard for a 60-, 70-year-old man who’s been working with men 
on a boat his whole life sometimes to accept that there’s a 20-something-year-old girl that knows 
more than him. I mean, there’s been a little struggle there, but for the most part, everybody’s 
nice, you know? They understand that I know what Fm talking about. I haven’t really struggled 
with the whole respect thing. I mean, it’s there. I mean, a lot of times Fll get that little, like, 
damn, you’re really going for a girl. Like, look at you. You know? Stuff like that, but it’s all 
positive. I haven’t really gotten anything negative from— Fm just the girl at Reidar’s. Pretty 
much everybody knows who I am because there’s not that many women in the industry. 
FC: And you feel like, I mean, they can see you, you know what you’re doing, and you do good 
work. 
SF: Yeah. 
FC: And you feel like mostly they respect that. 
SF: Yeah. They’ll come in and compliment my stuff all the time or let me know that what I built 
for them is working out. They’ll thank me all the time and helping them with stuff outside and 
their gear and all that. They’re good. 
FC: Yeah? 
SF: Yeah. I made some solid friends. I have a little handful of fishermen friends that I have that 
Fve had probably for about a decade or so that Fve made from working here, so yeah, I get on 
with them pretty well. 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
13 
FC: Let’s see. 
[25:03] FC: [continued] Like, say someone you knew was looking for work, is this something 
that, and they said hey, I like what you’re doing. Maybe Fll get into that or something. Would 
you encourage them to do it? 
SF: In terms of working here or becoming a fisherman? 
FC: No, just working in the business or building nets somewhere else? 
SF: I mean, it all depends because you got to have, you got to be able to do the hard labor. Like, 
I have a few friends that have needed work throughout my life or whatever that have said, hey, is 
your place hiring? I kind of got to be a little choosy about it because, like, I can tell who’s going 
to be able to hack it and who’s not. Like, you got to be able to be on your feet all day and work 
all day and show up and, you know, stuff like that. Like, I mean, I haven’t, I had a few friends 
apply over the years. It didn’t end up happening because they either had another job or we found 
whoever we needed or whatever, but, no, if I had a friend that was able-bodied enough and 
needed a job. I’d probably bring them by. We’ve had other employees throw their friends a line 
about coming to work here a few times and we’ve had a few guys come in and out of here that 
references from other employees that have worked out pretty well. 
FC: Yeah? The whole fishing industry has been struggling so much lately. 
SF: Yeah. 
FC: I mean, do you worry about that? I mean, does that sort of affect your work? 
SF: I mean. I’ve stayed busy through it all because I mean, we have loyal customers that 
continue to come back to us for business and stuff, so we haven’t, it doesn’t seem, at least to me, 
I don’t know the whole business end of everything. They don’t share that with me, but it seems 
like we’ve been consistent, busy, throughout all the trials and tribulations of the industry. But, I 
mean, it’s something that’s in the back of my mind, obviously, like with all the stuff that’s been 
going down in regulations and cutbacks on everything and the guys not being able to make 
enough money to pay. Obviously, that’s going to trickle down to me eventually and that’s a 
concern, but I try not to worry about it. It’s not really anything I can control. I’m here for as long 
as I can be here and as long as Tor can keep me working. 
FC: What’s the hardest part of the work? Or what’s the toughest part or what don’t you like so 
much, you know? 
SF: The hard part is probably staying on point, like staying energized and on my game 40 hours. 
I mean, it’s physically demanding being on your feet all day and lifting and pulling and tugging 
and doing all that kind of stuff It’s tiring, so it’s, sometimes some days it’s hard to get through 
the day just because I’m just tired, you know? My body’s tired or my hands are hurting and 
they’re tired. You know? That’s tough, but as far as tasks go? Working with baby mesh is, little 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
14 
tiny like one-, two-inch, that’s hard on my hands. That’s tough. It’s hard on my eyes, it’s hard on 
my hands, it’s tedious, but it’s cool. It’s pretty. It looks really cool once it’s done and it’s 
something to be proud of, so silver lining and all. But, it’s probably just the physical demand of 
the job. It’s just you got to get a good night’s sleep. You got to eat well. You got to, you know. 
I’ve learned you can’t go out drinking on week nights and stuff like that, [laughs] You know, I 
learned that lesson the hard way. But, yeah, just staying productive and staying energized five 
days a week, you know, four weeks a month. 
FC: You mentioned your eyes. Do you get like eye strain? Do your eyes get tired if you’re 
working on like a really close-detailed job or something? 
SF: Sometimes. I’ll get cross-eyed when I’m cutting the little meshes, the little, it’s the little 
stuff that gets me. Like, I’ll be cutting out, you know, bellies or whatever, sections of the net, and 
I’ll lose track when I’m cutting. I got to cut like a taper so that it jogs in a little bit as you go 
down. Sometimes my eyes get kind of blurred up, but blink hard a few times, look away for a 
minute, take a breather, and get back to it. It’s not that bad. Nothing permanent, but yeah, it gets 
me cross-eyed and blurred a little bit every now and then. 
FC: What’s the best part of the work? What do you like most about it? 
[30:01] SF: I like working with the guys, with fishermen, when they come in. I really like 
working with crews and seeing how they look at things, because I know how to do everything 
brand new. I know how to make everything perfect and pretty and line up where it’s supposed to 
go all the time. It’s nice to see their little quick fixes and their, because they have so much 
knowledge that I don’t. They know how a net’s going to fish. They understand, like today we 
were doing something outside and debating whether you had to take up links to make things line 
up right. They know no, that’s going to fish out. I’m going to drag that and it’s going to be fine. 
That’s new to me, you know? I don’t know that stuff So I get different knowledge and feedback 
from them that helps me when I’m fixing an old net by myself and things don’t line up right. I 
kind of can finagle it from knowledge that they’ve given me and stuff I don't know. I like 
working with fishermen. That’s fun. It’s usually fun because they’re silly and you get to have a 
good time with them and get some stuff done. They’re always very appreciative. It makes me 
feel better. It makes me feel good at the end of the day when they’re like [mimics] Aw, yeah, we 
get to go out a day early. Thank you. Like, good work. Thanks a lot. You know? A little ego 
boost. It’s nice, [laughs] 
FC: It’s nice for anyone when people appreciate what you do, you know? It sounds like you’re a 
good listener, too. I mean, it’s like you’re interested in what they have to say. 
SF: Yeah, I mean, that’s kind of how I’ve been working here the whole time. I just listen and do 
it how I’m told to do it and get it done and you know; I’ll take any advice I can get. If you know 
something better than I do, teach me. Why not? It’s something else to know. Another question I 
might not have to go and track down Tor in the office to ask him the next time, you know? 
FC: Is there anything else that you’d like to put on the record here that we haven’t talked about? 
Anything about your work? 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017 
15 
SF: [Pauses to think] I know we covered a lot of bases and Fm kind of trying hard to think now. 
Fm not really sure. 
FC: That’s okay. One thing I was wondering. It’s a specific thing, but so at the end of the day 
like if you’re working on a project, do you get to, is there enough space that you can kind of 
leave it where it is and come back to it? 
SF: Yeah. 
FC: So you don’t have to-- 
SF: Now there is. Like, we just moved to this facility probably what? Four, three or four years 
ago, or something like that? We used to work on Fairhaven’s waterfront, down in the center of 
town, and we had a significantly smaller shop where we built sweeps and nets in the same area, 
so we had to compromise for space all the time. Now, there’s enough area for the most part that I 
can leave stuff out, just laid out right where I was so I can just walk in in, in the morning, pick up 
the needle and keep going. 
FC: That saves time. 
SF: Yeah, definitely. Definitely saves time. So, that’s— Yeah, that’s pretty good. And 
sometimes we’ve got to bring the trucks in when it’s going to snow and stuff like that, so I got to 
clear stuff out of the way, but for the most part, now like, we used to have to stop 20 minutes 
early to clear everything out of the way, pull all the forklifts in the building. We had such a tight 
space that we’d have to stop working before the day was over. Now we can work pretty much, 
you know, right up to five minutes before we’re supposed to leave and then run around, unplug 
things, turn off tanks, and it’s done. And then come right in and get right on it. 
FC: It sounds like a lot of it’s pretty hard work. I mean, you must be pretty wiped out when you 
finish at the end of the day? 
SF: Eh, some days. Some days it’s easier than other, you know? Some days I get to stand in the 
same spot or even sit for a change and work on something and it’s not that bad, and then the next 
day. I’ll have a crew outside and we’re physically pulling things this-a-way and that-a-way and 
cutting things and all sorts of stuff like that, so it’s day to day, but yeah, there’s some days that 
it’s pretty exhausting. 
FC: Yeah. That’s really interesting. So, you think we’re set? 
SF: Yeah. 
FC: Okay. 
[34:31] End of audio 
Sarah Fortin interview, February 3, 2017