Fletcher Powell interviewing Terry Rush on May 7th, 2013, in Terry’s home in 
south Wichita. 
 
Terry, let me start by having you say your name, and tell me what your occupation is 
now. 
 
My name’s Terry Rush, and right now I’m a manager of a mobile home park. 
 
OK. Now, are you from Wichita, originally? 
 
No. 
 
Where are you from? 
 
Henrietta, Oklahoma. 
 
Henrietta, Oklahoma. And how long were you there? 
 
18 years. 
 
OK, and what happened after that? 
 
I went into the service, the Air Force. 
 
OK, and you were in the Air Force… 
 
For three years, six months, 22 days. 
 
Where did that take you? 
 
Took me to England, to the Panama Canal zone, and uh, stationed in Fort Walton 
Beach, Florida most of that time. I was what they called TDY, temporary duty, we 
worked in a school and we were teaching people how to deliver their ordnance on 
the battlefield. So, at times we were in Vietnam for six weeks, then we’d come back 
home. So it was back and forth… Did that six times over a period of a year, then I 
was stationed in Fort Walton Beach, Florida, that was our home spot. Then I got out 
of the service, in Virginia for three years. 
 
OK, and, so you got out of the service… 
 
Well, from that point I did a lot of stuff. I… uh… 
 
You don’t have to go through ALL of it… 
 
OK, good… 
 
Maybe sort of just what led you this direction, to Wichita. 
 
What led me this direction, to Wichita, was we were living in Colorado at the time, 
and, uh, the job that I was doing at the time, which was an industrial painting job, I 
was working for a company as a foreman and the job ended—her father, Mary’s 
[Terry’s wife] father lived in Wichita, so we came down here to sort of visit with him 
and just kind of ended up staying. 
 
OK, and, so, let’s say when you were growing up, and certainly when you came here, 
were you generally aware of the Boeing Company? 
 
Not really till I got here. Although, that’s not true, I knew about Spartan Aircraft in 
Tulsa and a lot of people that I have known personally came out of Spartan and went 
to work up here at one of the aircraft industries, and Boeing was one of them, of 
course. 
 
What year was it that you started to work for Boeing? 
 
In, um… 1989. 
 
1989. And what year did you get to Wichita? 
 
’86. 
 
OK, so about three years later you went to work for Boeing. How did you get hooked up 
with them? Did you see a job opening and apply? 
 
Yeah, it was—that was what happened. They had a job fair somewhere and I went to 
it and then it just, because of my Air Force experience it kind of led me into it a little 
bit. 
 
Did you have any difficulty getting that job? 
 
4:30 
 
No, not really. I had enough of the skills that, uh—and I also had to go through a six-
week training course, which, they taught you a lot of the skills, so yeah. 
 
OK. What was your first job with them? 
 
My first job was what they call an assembler. And that’s basically just putting parts 
together for the aircrafts. Whichever one you’re working on. There was several at 
the time, and I started off working on what they called the 757, worked in the wheel 
well section, then I went to the 767 and also worked in the wheel well section on 
that. And then they started a new aircraft, the 737-X, and I got on the very first one 
of those, and through the rest of my career I worked on that particular airplane. I 
think I went from the first one to 2600 or something. 
 
What does that mean? 
 
Means 2600 units, 2600 airplanes came out of there that I worked on during that 
period. 
 
When you first went in as an assembler, did you have specific experience with that 
from your being in the Air Force? 
 
No. 
 
So, was that just what was open? 
 
Uh, yes, that was what was open, and then, for me, I went into it with a whole lot of 
other ideas of what I wanted to do when I got there, but I knew this was the opening 
to get into Boeing, so I went in as an assembler. Which is actually probably one of 
the lower positions, hired-in positions, and then you can work your way up in 
different areas. 
 
You said you had a six-week training course, did you have any, uh, academic 
experience that would have led you this way earlier? What were you, did you do in 
college? 
 
No, what I did in college was totally unrelated to this, this really just got down to 
being a good job that I knew about with good benefits, I had children at the time and 
it seemed like the right thing, right move to make, and it turned out to be the right 
move, as well. 
 
Even though it was completely separate, what degree did you get from college? Or did 
you finish? 
 
I never finished. I went seven years and… I have a lot of hours. 
 
So, your job title then was assembler? Tell me just a little bit more about what your 
responsibilities were. 
 
There are particular parts of the airplane that you build, you assemble off the unit, 
or we call it the jig, where the plane is actually all put together, at least our section. 
So I would build small parts and then we would assemble it onto the jig. So, it was—
consisted of drilling, riveting, measuring, I mean there was a lot, it was technical 
because Boeing required you to do six times greater than what was required. So 
everything was done to a specification that was in minute detail. I mean, everything. 
 
So you had to be six times better than the most stringent requirements. 
 
Exactly. 
 
Did you have to have periodic training as you went along through your years there? 
 
Yes. Yes. Upgrade your skills, changes in the procedures or changes in the parts, for 
that matter. So, it was always an upgrading process as you went along. 
 
And then how long were you at Boeing? 
 
13 years, total. 
 
So, until 2002? 
 
Well, I had a couple breaks there, nobody gets through 20 in Boeing without a few 
years off. But I got 13 in, so… I got laid off in 2002, I think, yeah, 2002, and then we 
moved to Washington, DC and I got called back but I finally decided I’d had enough 
of the Boeing experience. 
 
OK, well let’s talk about the layoffs then. How many times were you laid off while you 
were there? 
 
Three. 
 
And do you remember around when each one happened? 
 
The first one was after six years. Uh, the second one was—I was off for a year, the 
second one was about seven years, so I was right at the time—well, actually I only 
got laid off twice, then. So it was seven years I got laid off again, which would have 
been the 13. 
 
So you were back for seven years after your first layoff— 
 
Yes, after the first layoff. 
 
And you were laid off for a year the first time. 
 
At least a year, yeah. 
 
And then the second time you just didn’t go back. 
 
I just didn’t go back. And I would have been off about a year as well, but I decided 
not to do it. 
 
So when you were off for that one year, were you completely out of work? 
 
No, I did other things, I—at one point I had a, I drove a school bus, I had a paper 
route, morning paper route I delivered, just whatever I could to, you know—cause I 
knew I was going back because of, you know, it was just, layoffs out there are part of 
that life, so I knew it was going to end at some point. 
 
You just knew it was a temporary— 
 
Temporary deal, so that’s the way I approached it. Yeah, I didn’t—everybody told 
me, ‘yeah, it’ll be about a year, that’s kinda how the cycle works,’ and that’s pretty 
much how it did work. 
 
So that was just the sort of thing that everyone around you just kind of took in stride, it 
sounds like. 
 
10:20 
 
You knew that. You knew that when you went out there, um, very few people ever 
make it through in just a straight shot. Of course, there’s a culture out there that, you 
know, that’s very, um, nepotism. And, uh, so a lot of people that were family didn’t 
get laid off. You—it was pretty evident that, you know, you were stepping into a 
culture that was well established and pretty firm in how it was dealt with. So you 
kind of knew if you were a little bit of an outsider to the group that you were 
probably gonna get laid off. But that was ok, after six years I enjoyed the year off 
doing something different, so, and then I came back and went right back to work and 
did what I was doing. 
 
I wonder if that’s more or less stressful, going in knowing that you’re going to be laid 
off for a while, maybe a couple of times. 
 
I don’t think I went into it knowing that, but after I got there and found out how the 
culture worked, I did realize that, ‘well, this is gonna be part of it.’ 
 
So did that worry you, as you went along, you know, maybe this is coming soon? 
 
I would say in the beginning it worried me, but after about four or five years I was 
actually looking forward to it, because I knew it was coming at some point, so I just 
said, ok, I’ll take a few, a year off and do something different and then come back. 
Because the benefits were so good and the money was good, so it was definitely 
something I wanted to continue doing at that point in time. 
 
When you went back did you just kind of slip right back into where you were before or 
did you start something new? 
 
No, actually, I slipped right back into what I did before. It was—well, that’s not 
exactly true, that’s when, sometime in that first six years I went from the 57, 67 to 
the 737, so when I came back I went right back into the 737 program. 
 
So, what I thought you said was interesting, about the nepotism, and sort of like being 
outside of the family, is that a number of people that we’ve talked to have talked about 
Boeing being kind of like a family. But they’ve said that in a positive way. The way 
you’ve said it here makes it sound a little bit different. Tell me about that, being an 
outsider. 
 
Well, the way I looked at it was that, I knew that, I could see that the, the lineage. 
There was a boss and his son was a foreman, and his son had two cousins and a 
brother that worked on the line. So you could see the hierarchy and how it worked 
and, so, you either chose to buy into that and work that to your advantage or you 
decided, ‘I’m not gonna do that, I’m just gonna do my job and try to be good at it and 
let the chips fall where they may.’ And so that’s the attitude I took and a lot of other 
people took it as well. Yes, it was a family, there was no doubt about it. It just wasn’t 
my family. 
 
Did you ever have any run-ins with anybody because of that? 
 
Uh, well, you know, I tried to stay out of trouble. But there were times that we would 
perceive—some of us that were on the outside—that those people received special 
treatment, and when it came time for layoffs, they based it on your job quality. So, 
your quality is rated, I mean you’re rated all the time on it. So if I was looking at one 
guy’s rating against my rating, I knew that my quality was superb and his wasn’t as 
exactly the same, and it was quantitative, we knew what it was. But he got what they 
called retained, instead of laid off. So I always felt a little bit on the outside. But my 
whole idea was—working out there—I’m gonna do the best job I can do and I’ll do it 
as fast as I can and stay out of trouble, and they’ll pretty much just leave me alone to 
do it. Because they want quality work and they want somebody that’ll do that. So I 
kinda set myself a little bit apart from how the process really worked. And I wasn’t 
the only one, there was quite a few people that did that. But that was a decision I 
made. I just saw it—I just wasn’t that type of person, to acquiesce to things that I 
didn’t agree with. 
 
You mentioned benefits and pay. Talk a little bit about the rewarding parts of the job, 
and if that’s all there was then that’s fine. 
 
15:25 
 
Well, um… I enjoyed building a product that I knew was safe, and precise, and 
quality meant everything. As a human being, the quality is important in all aspects of 
my life, and in the work environment it was extremely important. Because you did 
feel a sense that, you know, people depended on you to do a good job. So that part I 
did enjoy. The money was always good, but the overtime was horrendous, I mean, 
we were working, uh, I think in the 13 years I averaged 56 hours a week. So that was 
basically four 10s and two 8s. So you didn’t have a whole lot of time. And my kids 
were growing up and they were in sports and activities and I was sort of taken away 
from that because of the requirement, cause it was mandatory most of the time. I 
think, actually, at several periods, especially when the 737’s program started, we 
were on for three months, seven 12s, and it was just mind-boggling trying to keep it 
together, to do a good job and keep quality up, and have a family life. The money 
was awesome, you know, the benefits were unsurpassed anywhere, so you just 
kinda—that’s what I had to do, so I went ahead and did it. 
 
On the other side of that are the frustrations, and you may have had many, but can you 
give me a general sense of what some of your, sort of, frustrations throughout your 
whole time there were? 
 
Well, I think my main frustration was that I had—when I came to Boeing, I had been 
a general supervisor for this international painting company. So I had a lot of, uh, I 
had a lot of responsibility and people working for me. So I came in with some 
leadership skills that I could see weren’t gonna transpire here, it just wasn’t gonna 
happen. And that was frustrating, because I knew I could do more than what I was 
doing. But at the same time, again, it was the family life, the money that it brought, 
the benefits, I just kind of said, ‘ok, this is what it is, I’ll go ahead and do that.’ I did 
have some opportunities to move into what, uh, Boeing was trying to implement at 
the time, some of these new Japanese management systems, the Deming 
management system was one of them, and that got me really excited and got a lot of 
people excited. Because what they were really trying to do was create a situation 
where we were self-managed. And to me that was like, ‘whoa, that’s exactly what I 
would like to do.’ 
 
So, like, the workers on the floor were self-managed? 
 
Yes, yes. They created pods, and we would take our particular job—whoever’s in the 
pod—we’d go through classes about this, we spent three, four, five months, meeting 
once a week to discuss how this would work. So we were—we had it down pretty 
good, to the point that we thought—and, and they had said as much, that we could 
me self-managed, control our quality, produce more than the regular line people, 
and manage ourself completely. Well, for me that was like, wow, nirvana in the 
workplace, you know? Because I wanted to do that, I knew we could do it, and I 
knew the group that we were with were all buying into that philosophy that, uh, 
‘yeah, we can do this, we can produce a better product, cheaper, faster, and all of 
us—we don’t need everybody watching over us, cause we’ll all take responsibility 
for what we’re doing.’ So that was exciting. 
 
Do you remember about what year that was? 
 
19:33 
 
Uh, that would’ve probably been… probably in the mid-90s. Yeah. 
 
So you said that went on for three or four or five months? 
 
Actually it went on for about a year. But we got to this position where we could 
actually do this. And it became threatening to a lot of the senior people. Especially 
management. Because we weren’t gonna need them. 
 
But whose idea was it in the first place? 
 
Management. Very weird situation. I think the culture out there beat it down. I think 
Boeing, in general, had very good ideas about what this could do and were excited 
that some of us really bought into it and were doing it, but it was gonna destroy a lot 
of the culture out there and take away a lot of these people that were already 
entrenched in the hierarchy. Their jobs were gonna be meaning less and less, and 
they didn’t go for it, they didn’t like it. So they started creating a lot of obstacles for 
us and eventually they just stopped the program. And we were ready to implement, 
we were ready to roll. 
 
You were ready to go with it. 
 
Yes. 
 
And then they just pulled the plug? 
 
Pretty much. Pretty much. Just said, uh, ‘I don’t think we’re gonna be able to do this 
right now.’ And no one gave us a good answer one way or the other. 
 
You said it kind of challenged the culture out there, do you mean that hierarchical 
culture? 
 
Yes. 
 
Ok, and so what kind of obstacles were they putting in your way before they just said, 
‘ok we’re not going to do this’? 
 
I think it was more intimidation, that we were stepping out of the established way of 
doing things, and it threatened people to the point that it might cost them their job, 
because we’re gonna do it better, faster, with better quality, and we knew we didn’t 
need to be managed. We didn’t need inspectors because we would live up to the 
standards—we knew what they were, we could do it, and we would do it. We would 
kinda, in the pod, work together to make that happen and everybody was buying 
into that, so we were all ready to help each other. But it really took us away from the 
rest of the culture and made it appear that we were sort of elitists of a sort. 
 
Were there only a small group of you doing this? 
 
No, there were others. Each of the airplane systems that was being built, they were 
trying the same different things. And, of course, in some varying degree. Some of 
them didn’t work, cause people—you had to have everybody on the same page in 
the pod, and some of those programs didn’t work because they weren’t all together. 
But we were. We were excited about doing it because to us—I’d read Deming and I’d 
read their other systems and I thought, ‘man, this is the way to manage people, this 
is something that could really change the work environment.’ So I was totally 
excited about it, as well as the other people in the pod. So, yeah, we were ready to 
roll. And I guess we knew that we were gonna really shake it up. Because it was 
gonna happen, it was gonna happen fast, and we were gonna be good at it. And so 
we were thrilled. We thought, ‘all right, let’s do it!’ 
 
So what was that like for you when they said, ‘oh, no, nevermind’? 
 
23:15 
 
Very deflating. Very deflating. And it just reiterated that this culture is so nepotistic 
in the sense that families and friends and all of this did not want change. Did not 
want it because it threatened them. And we saw that. So it was deflating. We 
thought, ‘well, god, you put this together, you recruited us to do it, and then we did it 
well and now you’re gonna pull the plug on us.’ So, it was, it was deflating. 
 
And then you pretty much had to go back to the way you were doing things. 
 
Right. And from that point on I knew I was on the way out. I knew that, I could do 
this, I was hoping I could get my kids through high school and then I was done. I 
just—it lost, it lost any thought of a creative future for me there, it just… I went back 
to the line and I was doing what I always did. I did a good job, I did it fast and I kept 
people—they didn’t bother me because I did a good job and I stayed busy. But it 
took the, kinda just took the stuffing out of us. All of us. 
 
So, so there were, everyone else around you kind of just maybe checked out in the same 
way? 
 
They did, they just went back to work. You know, really that’s just the way we 
looked at it. ‘OK, fine, I know my job, I can do it. I don’t know why you wasted all this 
time and money trying to put this together and then when we really thought we had 
it together you decided it wasn’t what you wanted, so ok.’ 
 
I’m thinking, so you said that was sometime in the mid-90s, so it sounds like maybe 
that was shortly before the merger with McDonnell Douglas? 
 
Uh, yes. 
 
And, so, how well do you remember that, when the merger happened? 
 
Um, I don’t think it really threatened us, because they all along had told us it was 
gonna be kind of a seamless transition and that McDonnell Douglas did the same 
thing that we did. It would be more in the management realm that it would be 
different. And it proved out to be that. We saw no demonstrative change at our level. 
 
Not in the day-to-day work, and not in the culture, either, of the business? 
 
No, no. The culture seemed to be the same because the people in charge still were 
the same, nobody left when McDonnell Douglas came. So from the top to the bottom, 
the leaders were still the leaders. 
 
Micala (Terry’s daughter) told me something interesting, which was that she went to 
pick you up from work one time and as you were coming out, she saw a bunch of 
people running, sprinting through the parking lot to get to their cars. You may or may 
not remember this, but she said she got really nervous about what was happening, and 
you just came out and said ‘well, that’s every day, people just want to get out of here.’ 
 
Uh, traffic and—they’re just trying to beat the traffic and, of course we spend a lot of 
our life in there so people were pretty excited to get out and get on with the other 
part of their life and… I didn’t feel much that way, I just walked out normally, but, 
you know, a lot of people would be flying by me, people getting out. 
 
Yeah, ok. That was just kind of a stunning visual in my head— 
 
Well, it is if you were just standing outside and all of a sudden they came out the 
door, because they are running, and there are a lot of them. 
 
In your time, those 13 years you were there, did you experience strikes? 
 
Um, no, I don’t think we ever did. If we did, it was very short-lived. I don’t remember 
any big strikes.  
 
That didn’t ever really feel like anything that was likely to happen? 
 
No, I do think, I do think it was likely at times because, uh—but it, the Boeing, the 
way Boeing had structured it for us you didn’t sense that they were trying to take 
anything away from you. And even when McDonnell Douglas came in, they 
maintained pretty much the same packages that we had. As a matter of fact, until I 
left all our health care was free, all our benefits were free, and we were making 26, 
27, 28 dollars an hour. So we were doing, you know, well at that level. I think it 
changed when Spirit came in and they cut everybody’s pay by 20% or whatever they 
did, but I didn’t feel that—if there was a strike during that period, it would have 
been, honestly it would have been people just wanting a couple weeks off. I didn’t 
see any real crazy issues being addressed. 
 
OK. So, when you left Boeing in 2002 what was your attitude, generally, toward the 
company and toward that job? 
 
28:20 
 
‘Thank god I’m outta here.’ I mean, I had had enough. And part of it was on what had 
happened during that management deal, and the other part was my kids were 
already out of high school and I just didn’t feel like I had any reason to be there 
anymore, for that, from that perspective, so it was time to do something different. 
 
And so, I don’t know if you had friends who continued to work there during that time— 
 
Yes. 
 
Did you pick up any feelings from them about the direction the company was going, 
did you guys ever even talk about that? 
 
Yes, we did. And a lot of them appreciated the job so much that they weren’t gonna 
buck the system. And there were just—not handfuls, there was quite a few—but 
there… my type of attitude there wasn’t that many, but we were a pretty cohesive 
group as far as our dismay about how it was being given to us, and so we were all 
looking forward to getting out and doing other things. Some of them wanted to get 
their 20 in so they could get full retirement. I knew that I would get some retirement 
cause I was vested so, uh, it was just time to get, for me to leave. I was pretty 
unhappy at that point, just—cause you do that kind of job over and over for years 
and you really do think that you can do something different, something more, 
something better, it kinda starts to wear on you after a while and you stars feeling a 
little lackluster about life in general. So it was time. It was time. 
 
Did you have any personal reaction to when Boeing sold part to Spirit and then when 
they announced that they were completely leaving town? 
 
Well, I was away at the time, but I did think back on, ‘oh, wow.’ It didn’t make a lot of 
sense to me because they always told us they were profitable but I guess they 
weren’t as profitable as they wanted to be. So when they sold it to Spirit and Spirit 
started cutting things, I thought, ‘oh boy, this is not gonna set well.’ But then I’ve 
talked to all of my friends that were still there and, you know, they were invested, 
they were—they wanted to get their retirements and they were gonna take 
whatever came down the pike. And the group that I was probably closer with were 
all going, ‘well, that’s the way it goes,’ you know? 
 
And, so, what about when Boeing announced relatively recently that they were pulling 
out altogether? 
 
That was pretty shocking. I thought they were invested enough in this area to 
continue on. Yeah, that was, I never really got the reason in my mind for why they 
did that. But I’m positive it had something to do with money, of course. But it was 
shocking, because they had been here so long, and they had built so much here. And 
to watch them turn that over to a Canadian company just didn’t make a whole lot of 
sense from afar. There might have been clearer reasons if I’d have been here and 
could hear about it through the union and whatnot, but yeah, it was confusing. It 
was like, ‘hmm, that’s odd.’ 
 
So, do you have any speculation on the impact it’ll have on the Wichita community 
with them being completely gone fairly soon? 
 
Well, I think the overall view of Boeing being this very big company and very 
important company for our country was a pride in the community that I fell like 
really took a hit. Because, not that I have anything against Canadians, but it was a 
Canadian company that came in to take over for Boeing and it was like, you’ve lost, 
there’s something lost in this translation here. And so I just felt a little sad for the 
community because I know how much pride people took that Boeing had done so 
much to build this community up. And then just took walk away from it seemed very 
odd. 
 
Some people have talked about that pride that they took. Did you ever feel personally 
any kind of loyalty to Boeing? 
 
33:08 
 
In the beginning, yeah. In the beginning I did. Like I said, I was really proud that we 
were building such a—they demanded such a quality product. And that we could do 
that, we could build that. And when I walked away from that every day I knew that I 
built that—my part of that plane—to a precise measurement, to quality that was 
unmatched, because of the way they demanded it. And I liked that. I liked the fact 
that, ‘man, they’re gonna do this right, they’re gonna build this thing right,’ for all the 
reasons that you could think of, you know, not having it crash and all of those things 
that people would throw at us every once in a while about, ‘you have a 
responsibility now.’ But I bought into that. And it was really when I got into this new 
thing and got excited about it, that’s when I sort of lost my feeling for loyalty to 
Boeing. 
 
Sounds like that was a major turning point for you. 
 
It was for me, it really was. And some of my friends that were in it, too. Just deflated 
us really bad. Because we really bought into it and were ready to roll with it, 
cause—and knew, knew we were gonna be good at it. So yeah, after that it was just 
‘do your job, go home, and first chance to get out of here, I’m gone.’ And that’s kinda 
the way it worked out. 
 
Going back to the community at large—beyond pride, do you feel like Boeing made 
any particular contributions to Wichita? 
 
Oh, I think, I think a lot. Uh, first of all, I think paying people a really livable wage 
with benefits took a lot of stress off people. Um, it kind of created an elitist attitude 
in the community for people that didn’t make that kind of money, or didn’t have 
those kind of benefits, I felt some resentment about that at times. But, from my 
perspective, I was just thrilled to be able to have a livable wage. I had dreams that I 
could actually finance with what I made. I was a musician, buying musical 
equipment, playing in bands. It afforded me a little bit of a lifestyle that I really 
enjoyed. And, yet, I knew I had to go to work out there every day and put in my time, 
but the after hours were starting to pay off and so I was a pretty happy guy about 
that at the time. 
 
So, Boeing’s turning out their lights completely pretty soon here—what do you think 
their legacy might be for the city? 
 
I think the legacy will be—it may be a dying bird, too—the legacy will be, in this 
town there is a place where you could go to work, you could still dream, you had 
money to do everything you needed to do, and you were building a quality product 
that was world-renowned, and, and that was a good thing. I mean, that was—that 
didn’t happen everywhere. And, so, to be part of that was exciting, in the beginning 
of course, and it grew lackluster at the end, but it was exciting and I think for the 
community itself it really did give us a chance to see how things really could work. 
You know, people could be paid a livable wage and they still had money to dream 
and take their dreams to wherever they lead. That’s not always true when you work 
for a wage that you barely make it. And that’s kind of what’s happening now in this 
country is that, you know, there’s not jobs like this around anymore, and they’re a 
dying breed. And, um, it’s sad, because I think that it really built up a middle class 
here in this town that I think is sort of gone now. Or certainly fading. 
 
So what do you think we look like, you pick how many years down the line, without 
Boeing? 
 
Well, I don’t know the pay structure at Spirit, I suspect they’re still making pretty 
good money, I know they have to pay a lot for their benefits now. I think it’s going 
like the rest of the country’s going, it’s just, it’s going to a place where—I hate to get 
into this part, but, just where the haves and the have-nots are getting farther and 
farther apart. So the middle class has really suffered in the last few years and I think 
it’s gonna continue to suffer until, uh, until the middle class decides they’ve had 
enough and demand more. But, uh, I think it’ll go downhill, I think it’s—I just see the 
whole country headed that way and I think Wichita’s just part of it. So I guess I’m a 
little pessimistic.