Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Gregory L. Sharrow 
Interviewee: Scout Palmedo-Proft  
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Someday Farm, East Dorset, VT 
Date: 9 April 2015 
Length: 01:09:14 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-2011 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:28 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:28-00:11:05 
Grew	  up	  in	  East	  Dorset,	  land	  has	  been	  in	  family	  since	  1930s.	  Grew	  up	  on	  
fields	  and	  forests,	  had	  6	  siblings,	  had	  garden.	  Lived	  here	  on	  and	  off,	  came	  
during	  summers,	  then	  full	  time.	  Took	  over	  property	  in	  1979.	  Parents	  are	  
social	  workers,	  so	  moved	  away	  from	  rural	  area.	  Were	  very	  academic	  and	  
outdoors	  people,	  enjoyed	  building	  stonewalls,	  XC	  skiing,	  planting	  pine	  trees,	  
building	  Vermont	  landscape.	  Wanted	  to	  raise	  socially	  responsible	  children	  
who	  would	  try	  to	  make	  world	  better	  place.	  Worked	  mostly	  through	  non-­‐
profits,	  mother	  had	  own	  on-­‐profit	  helping	  young	  people	  go	  to	  school	  or	  get	  
back	  onto	  their	  feet.	  Father	  was	  registered	  doctor	  but	  worked	  for	  visiting	  
nurse	  service.	  Inter-­‐Ed.	  Foundation	  was	  mother’s	  foundation,	  gave	  
donations	  directly	  to	  people	  in	  need,	  mostly	  young	  teenagers	  for	  homes,	  
school,	  cars,	  daycare	  for	  their	  own	  children.	  Mother	  connected	  to	  people	  by	  
word	  of	  mouth,	  same	  as	  what	  Scout	  does	  with	  her	  business	  and	  taking	  care	  
of	  the	  community.	  Grandfather	  bought	  land	  in	  mid	  1930s,	  there	  was	  only	  a	  
shack	  and	  a	  dirt	  road	  2	  miles	  long	  before	  house.	  His	  family	  was	  from	  
Childhood,	  family,	  outdoors	  
lifestyle,	  landscape,	  social	  work,	  
institution,	  Inter-­‐Ed.	  Foundation,	  
community,	  skiing,	  inheritance,	  
sense	  of	  place	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Austria,	  saw	  this	  property	  as	  potential	  ski	  area.	  Bought	  land	  for	  $1/15	  acre,	  
shack	  was	  free,	  started	  many	  ski	  areas	  with	  international	  guests.	  Wanted	  to	  
make	  recreational	  skiing	  part	  of	  community.	  Grandfather	  helped	  train	  the	  
Tenth	  Mountain	  Division,	  was	  an	  adventurer	  before	  it	  was	  acceptable.	  
Roland	  Palmedo	  was	  her	  grandfather,	  mentor	  to	  Scout	  growing	  up.	  He	  came	  
to	  VT	  for	  the	  landscape,	  community,	  eclectic	  group	  of	  people	  already	  here.	  
Worked	  for	  Ski	  Magazine,	  other	  publications,	  and	  a	  local	  bank.	  Wrote	  about	  
skiing	  and	  kayaking,	  about	  outdoor	  environment	  and	  about	  keeping	  
communities	  together.	  Grandmother	  was	  not	  outdoors	  oriented	  with	  
adventuring,	  but	  supported	  him,	  did	  not	  ski.	  Mom	  was	  very	  outdoorsy,	  lots	  
of	  outdoor	  activities	  because	  that	  was	  entertainment	  back	  then.	  Didn’t	  have	  
social	  scene	  in	  that	  area,	  had	  to	  find	  your	  own	  entertainment.	  House	  was	  
very	  rustic,	  no	  electricity	  for	  a	  long	  time,	  had	  outhouse,	  grandmother	  stayed	  
in	  town	  because	  two	  mile	  walk	  to	  the	  house.	  	  Rented	  small	  house	  in	  town.	  
Grandfather	  lived	  here,	  would	  visit	  wife	  in	  Manchester.	  Mother	  was	  only	  1	  
of	  3,	  but	  land	  passed	  down	  to	  her	  for	  $1	  because	  of	  her	  love	  for	  the	  place,	  
then	  passed	  down	  to	  Scout	  for	  the	  same.	  Scout	  1	  of	  7	  children,	  was	  most	  
strongly	  connected	  to	  this	  place	  which	  is	  why	  she	  inherited	  it.	  Knew	  she	  
wanted	  to	  be	  a	  farmer	  on	  this	  land	  since	  very	  young	  age.	  “People	  get	  a	  sense	  
of	  their	  place	  sometimes	  very	  early	  on,	  which	  can	  be	  a	  crutch	  or	  it	  can	  be	  a	  
blessing,	  sometimes	  both.”	  Crutch	  because	  had	  to	  work	  towards	  life	  in	  that	  
place.	  	  
00:11:05-00:19:00 
Went	  to	  UVM,	  studied	  plant	  and	  soil	  science	  and	  education.	  Had	  extensions	  
service	  come	  to	  look	  at	  land,	  knew	  she	  always	  wanted	  to	  farm	  it.	  Loved	  
plants	  and	  animals,	  but	  did	  not	  want	  to	  be	  veterinarian,	  just	  farmer.	  
Extension	  agent	  said	  land	  not	  good	  for	  farming,	  or	  dairy,	  and	  said	  because	  
she	  was	  a	  girl	  she	  couldn’t	  farm.	  Worked	  on	  7	  other	  farms,	  saved	  all	  her	  
money,	  cleaned	  houses	  to	  pay	  for	  tractor,	  riding	  bike	  12	  miles	  to	  work	  at	  
nursery	  to	  learn	  greenhouses,	  worked	  at	  UVM.	  Had	  a	  mission	  to	  learn,	  and	  
Institution,	  University	  of	  
Vermont,	  UVM	  Extension,	  
education,	  community,	  
producer,	  social	  work,	  food	  
security,	  organic,	  diversified,	  
stewardship,	  retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  
gleaning,	  labor,	  employees	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
wanted	  to	  prove	  that	  man	  wrong.	  In	  1970s/80s	  people	  didn’t	  make	  money	  
on	  farming	  unless	  you	  were	  dairy,	  people	  didn’t	  do	  “alternative	  farming.”	  
Knew	  she	  could	  make	  a	  living	  off	  of	  it,	  wanted	  to	  feed	  her	  family	  from	  it.	  
Farming	  requires	  diverse	  knowledge	  of	  many	  trades,	  difficult	  work	  but	  
would	  never	  do	  anything	  or	  be	  anywhere	  else.	  “I	  am	  in	  part	  a	  social	  worker.	  
I	  have	  a	  calling	  to	  help	  feed	  my	  community,	  so	  I’m	  honored	  to	  have	  this	  
piece	  of	  land,	  but	  also	  honored	  that	  my	  community	  wants	  me	  to	  be	  here	  to	  
grow	  food	  for	  them.”	  Will	  become	  more	  important	  as	  water	  sources	  become	  
depleted,	  and	  people	  fear	  biological	  terrorism.	  Likes	  to	  think	  that	  she	  is	  
making	  an	  impact	  of	  educating	  people	  about	  importance	  of	  buying	  local,	  
growing	  own	  food,	  helping	  young	  people	  buy	  land	  and	  start	  farm	  
businesses.	  Scout	  has	  120	  acres,	  plus	  rents	  dairy	  farm	  of	  80	  acres.	  Does	  
8,000	  birds,	  has	  state	  processing	  plant	  on	  farm,	  has	  all	  its	  own	  water.	  6	  
greenhouses,	  compost	  and	  potting	  soil	  from	  their	  own	  animals.	  Raise	  5	  
acres	  organic	  vegetables.	  Have	  compost,	  maple	  syrup,	  honey,	  small	  fruits.	  
“We’ve	  learned	  to	  utilize	  the	  lands	  that	  we’re	  stewarding.	  I	  hate	  to	  say	  the	  
word	  ‘own’,	  because	  I	  don’t	  know	  if	  you	  can	  own	  something	  that’s	  alive!	  
This	  farm	  is	  alive,	  so	  I’m	  not	  a	  believer	  in	  us	  owning	  plants	  or	  animals	  or	  
land	  because	  the	  land	  is	  obviously	  alive	  if	  there’s	  plants	  and	  animals	  on	  it.	  
But	  we’re	  stewarding	  it.”	  Farm	  also	  has	  lots	  of	  visitors,	  not	  always	  good	  
because	  have	  to	  work,	  but	  important	  to	  pass	  on	  knowledge	  to	  next	  
generation	  because	  they	  will	  be	  more	  burdened	  with	  growing	  food	  for	  
community.	  Showing	  it	  on	  smaller	  scale,	  but	  commercial	  scale	  of	  
homestead.	  First	  CSA	  in	  state,	  do	  a	  lot	  of	  gleaning	  to	  local	  food	  shelf	  and	  
neighbors.	  Have	  farm	  stand,	  farmers	  market,	  and	  self-­‐serve	  store.	  Have	  
volunteers,	  people	  who	  barter	  for	  harvest	  pay,	  school	  groups,	  people	  who	  
come	  for	  weeks	  or	  years	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  farm.	  	  
00:19:00-00:33:32 
After	  UVM	  Extension	  man	  said	  it	  couldn’t	  be	  done,	  people	  from	  Vermont	  
Country	  Journal	  who	  lived	  in	  Dorset,	  Scout	  and	  current	  husband	  were	  
Vermont	  Country	  Journal,	  
institution,	  UVM	  Extension,	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
raising	  200	  birds	  to	  feed	  their	  family	  and	  these	  people	  said	  their	  birds	  
tasted	  amazing,	  wanted	  to	  prepay	  to	  buy	  50	  of	  them.	  This	  woman	  got	  10	  
friends	  to	  pay	  $200	  for	  birds	  in	  advance,	  and	  it	  was	  their	  risk	  to	  invest	  and	  
hope	  for	  the	  birds.	  First	  encounter	  with	  CSA	  with	  poultry.	  Barbara	  was	  a	  
sheep	  farmer,	  pointed	  Scout	  to	  Dorset	  Inn	  to	  sell	  lettuce.	  Woman	  in	  charge	  
of	  Inn	  became	  member	  of	  community	  to	  help	  grow	  farm.	  Those	  were	  two	  
major	  events	  that	  helped	  them	  realize	  they	  could	  farm	  on	  a	  full-­‐time	  basis.	  
Community	  has	  different	  needs,	  some	  people	  only	  want	  some	  products,	  
others	  valued	  local	  products.	  Worked	  with	  community,	  listened	  to	  their	  
needs,	  grew	  what	  they	  wanted.	  Scout	  wanted	  to	  grow	  sheep	  on	  large	  scale,	  
but	  community	  didn’t	  want	  sheep	  so	  stopped.	  Slowly	  built	  up	  to	  farm	  stand,	  
then	  was	  offered	  spot	  to	  sell	  farm	  stand	  next	  to	  kitchen	  store	  in	  their	  
parking	  lot.	  People	  started	  to	  see	  them	  as	  serious	  business,	  had	  product	  that	  
was	  valuable	  to	  them,	  people	  started	  not	  to	  grow	  vegetables	  so	  Scout	  could	  
grow	  them	  for	  them.	  Then	  started	  volunteering	  in	  schools	  to	  show	  people	  
they	  were	  eloquent,	  committed,	  and	  had	  something	  to	  share	  in	  education	  
about	  love	  of	  the	  land,	  taking	  care	  of	  animals,	  etc.	  Have	  been	  going	  into	  
school	  and	  running	  field	  trips	  for	  30	  years.	  Anecdote	  about	  student	  she	  led	  
field	  trip	  for	  turning	  into	  farmer	  as	  adult.	  In	  beginning,	  Scout	  was	  more	  
passionate	  about	  farming	  than	  her	  husband.	  Had	  5	  children,	  homeschooled	  
them	  in	  the	  morning,	  had	  them	  work	  with	  her	  during	  some	  part	  of	  the	  
afternoon	  chores.	  Early	  on	  they	  were	  not	  interested,	  but	  as	  they	  got	  older	  
saw	  impact	  on	  community	  and	  on	  their	  health.	  Now,	  they	  want	  weekly	  
updates	  about	  farm	  even	  if	  they’re	  not	  here.	  2	  have	  stayed,	  one	  is	  partner	  
and	  other	  is	  17.	  After	  husband	  left	  farm	  and	  didn’t	  want	  to	  work	  and	  didn’t	  
share	  vision,	  children	  really	  wanted	  to	  help.	  Started	  to	  do	  4	  of	  them	  as	  
working	  partners	  on	  the	  farm,	  helps	  to	  allocate	  certain	  tasks	  and	  allows	  
people	  to	  specialize	  in	  their	  own	  farming	  interests.	  One	  partner	  son,	  other	  
intern	  who	  fell	  in	  love	  with	  son,	  they	  will	  eventually	  take	  over	  farm,	  they	  
retail	  outlet	  CSA,	  consumer,	  
community,	  education,	  family,	  
partnership,	  multigenerational	  
farming,	  model	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
have	  real	  love	  and	  focus	  of	  small	  fruits.	  Everyone	  has	  individual	  interest,	  but	  
all	  help	  one	  another.	  Very	  cohesive	  model,	  could	  apply	  to	  other	  farms.	  As	  
Scout	  gets	  older,	  sees	  other	  farmers	  her	  age	  without	  children	  to	  pass	  farm	  
to.	  This	  model	  allows	  people	  to	  either	  buy	  into	  farm	  monetarily,	  or	  just	  to	  
help	  with	  workload,	  and	  someone	  takes	  over.	  Also	  gives	  farm	  a	  crew	  with	  
vested	  interest	  to	  diversify	  farm	  and	  explore	  different	  areas	  of	  agriculture.	  
There	  used	  to	  be	  multigenerational	  interest	  in	  farming,	  dropped	  in	  
1970/80s,	  interest	  is	  coming	  back	  now.	  Partnership	  is	  not	  legal	  right	  now	  
because	  only	  in	  third	  year	  of	  doing	  it.	  Trying	  to	  solidify	  place	  in	  partnership,	  
will	  be	  legal	  within	  the	  year	  and	  divide	  percent	  of	  work	  and	  profit	  and	  skill	  
among	  partners.	  Needed	  three	  years	  to	  understand	  how	  they	  work	  
together.	  As	  dairy	  farmers	  go	  out	  of	  production,	  single	  farmers	  can’t	  always	  
do	  it,	  but	  with	  group	  becomes	  easier	  to	  manage.	  
00:33:32-00:39:15 
Find	  interns	  through	  word	  of	  mouth.	  Scout	  helped	  start	  NOFA	  
Apprenticeship	  Program	  1982.	  Also	  work	  with	  RAFFL	  doing	  second	  year	  
program	  for	  apprentices,	  but	  mostly	  word	  of	  mouth	  and	  people	  ask	  to	  work.	  
Don’t	  pay	  interns,	  but	  promise	  them	  skills	  to	  run	  a	  farm	  after	  two	  years.	  
Could	  easily	  do	  it	  herself,	  but	  doesn’t	  want	  to	  and	  wants	  to	  pass	  on	  
knowledge.	  Apprentices	  are	  help	  to	  farm,	  farm	  helps	  them	  and	  gives	  them	  
housing	  on	  farm.	  Also	  have	  volunteers	  who	  come	  frequently,	  sometimes	  
once	  or	  twice	  a	  week.	  Paid	  in	  product,	  harvest	  pay.	  A	  lot	  to	  manage,	  write	  
lists	  and	  directions	  to	  leave	  around	  farm	  for	  volunteers.	  Scout	  is	  only	  one	  
who	  knows	  total	  working	  system	  of	  farm,	  so	  never	  leaves.	  Not	  in	  
hierarchical	  way,	  but	  are	  tied	  to	  the	  land,	  Scout	  has	  designed	  it	  so	  she	  has	  to	  
be	  here	  fulltime.	  	  
Employees,	  labor,	  volunteer,	  
institution,	  Northeast	  Organic	  
Farmers	  Association	  (NOFA),	  
NOFA	  Apprenticeship	  Program,	  
Rutland	  Area	  Farm	  and	  Food	  
Link	  (RAFFL),	  compensation,	  
harvest	  pay,	  management	  
00:39:15-00:42:35 
Dairy	  is	  very	  small	  part	  of	  business.	  Have	  production	  crops	  that	  make	  
money,	  all	  the	  birds,	  vegetables,	  compost,	  small	  fruit.	  Then	  have	  things	  that	  
feed	  them	  or	  that	  are	  used	  to	  barter,	  like	  firewood,	  dairy.	  Have	  6	  milking	  
cows,	  provide	  food	  to	  family	  and	  used	  to	  barter	  for	  chores.	  Only	  milking	  2	  
Dairy,	  barter,	  sheep,	  loan,	  
shareholder,	  community	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
right	  now,	  make	  cheese,	  milk,	  yoghurt,	  to	  eat	  and	  to	  trade.	  “We	  have	  to	  
remind	  ourselves	  that	  we’re	  not	  only	  in	  this	  to	  feed	  other	  people	  but	  to	  feed	  
ourselves,	  it’s	  often	  hard	  to	  remember.”	  Now	  raising	  sheep	  to	  give	  to	  
community	  but	  also	  to	  diversify	  their	  own	  diet.	  People	  now	  asking	  for	  lamb	  
in	  community,	  several	  people	  have	  given	  loans	  in	  exchange	  for	  shares	  over	  
5	  years	  and	  can	  use	  share	  money	  to	  start	  lambing	  operation.	  Now	  
mentoring	  other	  person	  to	  help	  raise	  sheep	  as	  sub-­‐partner	  and	  to	  teach	  
them	  as	  well.	  
00:42:35-00:59:51 
Localvore	  movement	  means	  more	  people	  being	  educated	  on	  what	  they	  can	  
grow	  and	  the	  value	  of	  it.	  Local	  food	  movement	  makes	  it	  easier	  to	  market,	  
don’t	  have	  to	  push	  product	  and	  don’t	  have	  to	  explain	  it	  anymore	  or	  validate	  
the	  price.	  People	  are	  understanding	  costs	  and	  benefits	  involved	  with	  local	  
agriculture	  and	  are	  becoming	  more	  involved,	  but	  experience	  and	  history	  of	  
farm	  also	  helps	  Scout	  already	  being	  established	  and	  trusted	  by	  community.	  
Easier	  for	  start	  up	  farmers	  because	  can	  use	  internet	  to	  advertise	  and	  learn	  
practices.	  One	  negative	  is	  farmers	  are	  starting	  to	  step	  on	  toes,	  CSAs	  flooding	  
the	  market.	  Wants	  to	  work	  with	  other	  farmers	  to	  forward	  the	  local	  food	  
movement,	  don’t	  want	  to	  compete	  with	  other	  farmers.	  Wants	  local	  food	  to	  
be	  more	  available	  to	  Vermonters,	  average	  Vermonter	  only	  spends	  $35/year	  
on	  local	  foods.	  Don’t	  need	  more	  CSAs,	  farmers	  markets,	  farm	  stands,	  
something	  else.	  Need	  to	  sell	  to	  schools,	  nursing	  homes,	  Meals	  on	  Wheels,	  
dried	  food,	  cut	  and	  dried	  flowers,	  value	  added	  products	  that	  really	  have	  
Vermont	  foods	  in	  them,	  frozen	  foods.	  So	  many	  products	  not	  yet	  tapped	  into	  
to	  provide	  Vermonters’	  food.	  Most	  food	  still	  brought	  in	  from	  out	  of	  state.	  
Where	  there	  is	  a	  will	  there	  is	  a	  way	  for	  affording	  local	  food.	  NOFA	  VT	  has	  VT	  
farm	  share	  program	  where	  people	  can	  buy	  shares	  for	  others	  who	  are	  in	  
need,	  local	  church	  does	  that	  as	  well.	  Do	  gleaning	  programs	  at	  end	  of	  farmers	  
markets	  and	  farm	  stands	  and	  delivers	  to	  7-­‐10	  families	  from	  Dorset	  Farmers	  
Market.	  Other	  programs	  where	  local	  kids	  help	  process	  local	  foods	  to	  give	  to	  
Localvore	  movement,	  consumer,	  
education,	  marketing,	  
community,	  retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  
institution,	  Meals	  on	  Wheels,	  
NOFA	  Vermont,	  gleaning,	  
farmers	  market,	  processing,	  
distributor,	  church,	  food	  shelf,	  
value	  added,	  advocacy,	  RAFFL	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
chef,	  then	  church	  bags	  and	  packages	  it	  and	  Scout	  stores	  it	  in	  freezers	  to	  alter	  
distribute	  to	  community.	  Give	  fresh	  eggs	  to	  food	  shelf,	  want	  people	  to	  have	  
high	  quality	  foods	  because	  those	  people	  need	  the	  best	  foods	  to	  be	  healthy.	  
Hospitals	  and	  nursing	  homes	  need	  best	  foods	  as	  well	  year	  round.	  Farmers	  
need	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  better	  suit	  those	  markets.	  Institutions	  still	  
underserved	  by	  farmers,	  but	  also	  smaller	  programs	  like	  Meals	  on	  Wheels.	  
Have	  many	  certified	  kitchens	  in	  community,	  let’s	  use	  them	  to	  make	  value	  
added	  products	  for	  the	  community.	  Have	  open	  land	  and	  good	  water	  sources	  
where	  could	  grow	  food	  for	  community	  in	  community.	  Sees	  future	  as	  having	  
many	  more	  products	  grown	  and	  harvested	  within	  communities.	  To	  go	  
forward,	  takes	  all	  groups	  to	  help	  and	  much	  community	  engagement.	  Making	  
plan	  of	  action	  available	  to	  large	  group	  of	  people,	  edible	  landscaping	  and	  
production.	  Reinventing	  the	  community,	  takes	  advocacy.	  Have	  already	  
started	  revolution	  with	  CSA,	  but	  can’t	  stop.	  Need	  national	  and	  statewide	  
food	  security,	  and	  that	  means	  saving	  and	  improving	  soil	  and	  growing	  food.	  
Feel	  very	  hopeful	  based	  on	  history	  of	  Someday	  Farm,	  hard	  start	  but	  very	  
successful	  now.	  First	  have	  to	  market,	  but	  once	  more	  popular	  won’t	  have	  to,	  
need	  to	  keep	  the	  ball	  rolling.	  “It’s	  the	  difference	  between	  a	  trend	  and	  a	  fad.	  
It’s	  no	  longer	  a	  fad	  to	  eat	  local,	  it’s	  a	  trend,	  but	  we’ve	  got	  to	  keep	  in	  peoples’	  
faces.	  And	  that	  in	  part	  is	  up	  to	  us	  farmers.”	  Not	  favorite	  part	  of	  work,	  but	  
have	  to	  keep	  Vermont	  green	  and	  growing.	  RAFFL	  and	  NOFAVT	  have	  done	  a	  
lot	  to	  save	  VT	  agriculture,	  very	  important	  allies	  in	  this.	  Offer	  workshops,	  
networks,	  policy	  changes.	  	  
00:59:51-01:03:50 
Slaughter	  and	  processing	  laws	  are	  currently	  very	  difficult	  to	  work	  through.	  
Young	  farmers	  coming	  up	  are	  determined	  to	  make	  change,	  but	  not	  
insurmountable.	  Legislature	  doesn’t	  always	  trust	  farmers	  to	  grow	  healthy	  
and	  clean	  food,	  but	  will	  change	  that.	  Land	  acquisition	  and	  capital	  also	  very	  
difficult	  in	  Vermont,	  but	  can	  work	  around	  it	  with	  harvest	  pay	  to	  
landowners,	  other	  inventive	  ways.	  Montpelier	  and	  policy	  are	  the	  places	  
Slaughter,	  processing,	  policy,	  
government,	  barriers	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
where	  change	  needs	  to	  happen,	  legislature	  still	  working	  against	  farmers,	  the	  
working	  land	  professionals.	  Need	  to	  and	  will	  get	  by	  these	  barriers.	  
01:03:50-END. 
Landscape	  has	  changed	  from	  homesteading,	  to	  monoculture	  and	  dairy	  
farming,	  now	  back	  to	  diversifying	  farms	  again.	  Community	  needs	  that	  
revitalization,	  and	  history	  is	  repeating	  itself.	  Future	  will	  show	  small	  
agriculture	  as	  beautiful,	  if	  one	  thing	  fails	  still	  have	  many	  other	  crops	  and	  
animals	  on	  that	  same	  farm.	  Monocultures	  cannot	  survive	  disaster.	  People	  
are	  intrigued	  by	  and	  understand	  diversified	  agriculture,	  relate	  to	  them	  
through	  their	  own	  families’	  gardens,	  books.	  Diversified	  are	  economically	  
viable	  because	  diverse	  in	  products	  and	  markets,	  can	  survive.	  Also	  direct	  
marketing,	  so	  gives	  power	  to	  the	  farm	  and	  not	  to	  outside	  players.	  
Changing	  landscape,	  future,	  
diversified	  agriculture,	  market