Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  
Louisiana	  Division	  of	  the	  Arts	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre,	  Owner	  
Variety	  Fashion	  
	  
Baton	  Rouge,	  Louisiana	  
Variety	  Fashion	  
June	  3,	  2015	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green,	  Ph.D.,	  Fieldworker	  
	  
Interview	  Identifier:	  afc2014023_02302	  
	  
INTERVIEW	  LOG	  
	  
NOTE:	  Direct	  quotes	  are	  indicates	  in	  italics.	  Tony’s	  husband,	  Arturo	  Aguirre,	  was	  present	  for	  the	  
interview	  and	  participated	  at	  times.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
00:11	  
Introduces	  the	  interview	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
00:39	  
Background	  
Tony	  grew	  up	  in	  South	  Korea,	  where	  she	  and	  her	  family	  worked	  together	  on	  their	  rice	  farm.	  
Everyday	  life	  was	  busy	  with	  farm	  work.	  The	  place	  where	  she	  grew	  up	  is	  a	  small	  country	  town,	  
near	  Kunsan.	  Did	  fashion	  and	  clothing	  have	  anything	  to	  do	  with	  her	  life	  in	  South	  Korea?	  No,	  she	  
never	  thought	  she	  would	  end	  up	  in	  this	  business,	  but	  she	  came	  to	  it	  while	  living	  in	  the	  U.S.	  Tony	  
met	  her	  husband	  in	  South	  Korea,	  and	  they	  moved	  to	  the	  United	  States	  together	  in	  1979.	  While	  
she	  and	  Arturo	  were	  raising	  their	  children,	  they	  needed	  more	  than	  one	  income.	  She	  felt	  best	  
suited	  to	  running	  a	  business.	  Her	  husband	  supported	  her	  in	  this,	  and	  here	  they	  are	  now.	  	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
02:52	  
Background	  
Arturo	  grew	  up	  in	  Laredo,	  Texas,	  a	  border	  town.	  He	  spent	  17	  years	  there,	  until	  he	  joined	  the	  
military.	  He	  spent	  six	  years	  in	  the	  military,	  went	  back	  to	  Laredo,	  spent	  a	  year	  and	  a	  half	  there,	  
then	  went	  to	  Kingsville,	  Texas.	  He	  finished	  his	  Bachelor	  of	  Science	  at	  the	  Texas	  A&I	  University	  in	  
Kingsville.	  Then	  he	  was	  hired	  by	  the	  agency	  for	  which	  he	  still	  works	  (the	  federal	  highway	  
department),	  and	  has	  been	  working	  for	  them	  for	  31	  years	  now.	  He	  spent	  two	  years	  in	  South	  
Korea	  in	  the	  military,	  which	  is	  how	  he	  and	  Tony	  met.	  The	  couple	  didn't	  move	  directly	  to	  Baton	  
Rouge.	  Through	  the	  agency	  that	  he	  works	  for,	  they	  lived	  in	  Colorado,	  New	  Mexico,	  North	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
2	  of	  22	  
Carolina,	  Pennsylvania,	  and	  Virginia.	  Then	  they	  came	  to	  Louisiana.	  They've	  been	  in	  Baton	  Rouge	  
for	  almost	  29	  years.	  	  
	  
After	  his	  training	  program,	  he	  was	  given	  a	  choice	  of	  where	  to	  work,	  and	  he	  told	  the	  agency	  he	  
wanted	  to	  live	  anywhere	  west	  of	  the	  Mississippi.	  But	  they	  sent	  him	  to	  Baton	  Rouge,	  which	  is	  
just	  east	  of	  the	  Mississippi!	  That	  was	  where	  he	  got	  his	  first	  permanent	  office.	  The	  intent	  was	  for	  
him	  to	  be	  there	  for	  a	  year	  and	  then	  move	  to	  another	  office,	  but	  here	  he	  is,	  29	  years	  later.	  Baton	  
Rouge	  has	  become	  home	  for	  them,	  by	  now.	  Tony	  and	  Arturo	  raised	  their	  children	  in	  Baton	  
Rouge,	  they	  have	  grown	  up	  and	  moved	  away.	  They	  have	  three	  sons.	  One	  son	  lives	  in	  Baton	  
Rouge,	  the	  other	  two	  live	  in	  Boston.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
06:22	  
Getting	  into	  the	  millinery	  business	  
How	  did	  they	  end	  up	  in	  the	  millinery	  business?	  Tony	  was	  selling	  knick-­‐knacks	  at	  a	  flea	  market,	  
but	  wanted	  to	  get	  into	  selling	  clothing.	  So	  she	  started	  out	  selling	  a	  little	  clothing	  at	  the	  flea	  
market.	  At	  that	  point,	  she	  didn't	  know	  much	  about	  the	  business,	  but	  her	  husband	  was	  very	  
supportive.	  After	  a	  little	  while,	  they	  recognized	  that	  this	  was	  something	  she	  could	  do.	  She	  
realized	  she	  had	  to	  learn	  about	  people's	  tastes,	  the	  styles,	  what	  they	  like.	  From	  there,	  she	  had	  
to	  get	  different	  things,	  to	  carry	  things	  that	  people	  wanted.	  They	  have	  grown	  to	  include	  hats,	  
because	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  wear	  them	  to	  church.	  "Now,	  it	  just,	  we	  grow	  with	  hats	  too,	  because	  a	  
lot	  of	  people,	  they	  wear	  this	  type	  of	  clothes	  in	  the	  church.	  So	  it,	  just	  to	  bring	  the	  clothes	  was	  not	  
enough.	  They	  want	  more.	  And	  the	  whole	  fashions,	  and	  jewelry	  and	  suits	  and	  hats.	  And	  so,	  I	  
started	  learning	  from	  the	  people,	  so	  there	  we	  [are]—I'm	  here	  now!"	  	  
	  
The	  flea	  market	  where	  Tony	  had	  a	  booth	  was	  the	  one	  at	  the	  Broadmoor	  Shopping	  Center,	  on	  
Florida	  Boulevard.	  There,	  she	  was	  selling	  handbags.	  But	  her	  desire	  was	  to	  sell	  more,	  so	  she	  
started	  carrying	  dresses,	  ladies'	  fashions.	  They	  started	  with	  little	  girls'	  clothing,	  but	  that	  was	  not	  
successful.	  "But	  it's	  everything,	  it's	  ladies'	  fashions.	  So,	  I'm	  loving	  it.	  The	  people,	  they're	  coming	  
over	  here,	  they	  dress	  it	  up,	  hats	  and	  suits,	  and	  you	  know,	  they're	  happy,	  I'm	  so	  happy,	  too,	  
because	  some	  of	  them	  looks	  gorgeous	  when	  you	  put	  it	  on.	  You	  know,	  it	  looks	  .	  .	  .	  so	  that's	  my	  
desires,	  and	  making	  other	  people	  happy.”	  
	  
How	  was	  it	  that	  she	  knew	  she	  wanted	  to	  do	  clothes?	  She	  doesn't	  know	  how	  she	  got	  started;	  she	  
didn't	  know	  what	  she	  was	  doing	  a	  first.	  She	  started	  going	  to	  the	  wholesalers,	  and	  she	  had	  to	  ask	  
people,	  what	  is	  good	  for	  Louisiana	  people	  to	  buy?	  She	  had	  to	  learn	  from	  people	  in	  the	  garment	  
industry,	  the	  background	  of	  the	  church	  people,	  how	  they	  dress	  up,	  as	  she	  didn’t	  know.	  Tony	  
dresses	  very	  simply	  and	  casually.	  So,	  she	  had	  to	  learn	  from	  garment	  people	  about	  the	  formal	  
wear.	  They	  showed	  her	  what	  people	  like.	  Little	  by	  little,	  she	  gradually	  learned	  more.	  "Now,	  I'm	  
loving	  it!"	  
	  
She	  worked	  at	  the	  flea	  market	  in	  someone	  else's	  booth,	  and	  then	  she	  told	  her	  husband	  she	  
wanted	  to	  have	  her	  own	  shop.	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
3	  of	  22	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
11:08	  
After	  the	  boys	  got	  a	  little	  older,	  there	  was	  no	  need	  for	  Tony	  to	  stay	  in	  the	  house	  and	  she	  
wanted	  to	  do	  something.	  She	  looked	  around	  and	  people	  gave	  her	  excuses,	  told	  her	  she	  didn't	  
have	  the	  education,	  etc.	  One	  of	  her	  friends	  had	  a	  booth	  at	  the	  flea	  market,	  and	  Tony	  worked	  for	  
her.	  Then	  they	  found	  a	  location.	  Initially,	  they	  started	  really	  small	  with	  beauty	  supplies,	  kids’	  
clothing,	  ladies'	  church	  wear.	  None	  of	  these	  items	  was	  successful,	  except	  for	  the	  church	  wear.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
12:09	  
Honing	  in	  on	  the	  right	  inventory;	  Specializing	  in	  church	  wear;	  Generational	  differences	  in	  
clothing	  styles	  
"We	  do	  have	  a	  little	  bit	  of	  everything.	  We	  tried,	  I	  tried	  a	  little	  bit	  of	  everything,	  but	  none	  of	  them	  
success.	  But	  these	  clothes	  was	  success."	  She	  tried	  casual	  wear,	  but	  that	  was	  not	  successful	  
either.	  But	  the	  dressy	  suits	  and	  dresses,	  more	  special,	  going-­‐out	  clothes	  were	  more	  successful.	  
These	  clothes	  are	  not	  like	  what	  you	  find	  in	  the	  mall.	  This	  little	  boutique	  carries	  a	  little	  bit	  
different	  garments	  than	  what	  they	  sell	  in	  the	  mall.	  	  
	  
The	  shop	  is	  in	  its	  original	  location.	  It	  opened	  in	  1997.	  Hilton	  (a	  well-­‐known	  milliner	  a	  few	  doors	  
down	  from	  Variety	  Fashion)	  was	  already	  in	  the	  same	  shopping	  area,	  but	  they	  specialized	  in	  
rentals	  and	  formal	  wear,	  like	  gowns,	  wedding	  dresses,	  and	  such.	  When	  Tony	  started	  her	  
business,	  Hilton	  started	  carrying	  the	  same	  kind	  of	  clothes.	  	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
14:02	  
The	  two	  shops	  carried	  different	  merchandise.	  Variety	  started	  with	  young	  girls'	  sundresses,	  
beauty	  supplies,	  and	  some	  church	  wear.	  Hilton	  was	  more	  on	  the	  rental	  side,	  carrying	  prom	  and	  
other	  special	  occasion	  gowns,	  party	  wear,	  wedding	  dresses,	  when	  Tony's	  business	  first	  moved	  
there.	  Eventually,	  some	  things	  didn't	  go	  well	  for	  Variety,	  but	  the	  women's	  apparel	  for	  the	  
church,	  the	  suits,	  were	  something	  that	  people	  were	  looking	  for,	  along	  with	  the	  accessories—the	  
hats,	  the	  costume	  jewelry,	  shoes,	  gloves,	  and	  handbags.	  Now,	  Variety	  fashion	  is	  known	  for	  
church	  wear,	  which	  accounts	  for	  about	  90%	  of	  the	  store’s	  inventory.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
15:39	  
How	  is	  church	  wear	  different	  from	  other	  types	  of	  clothing?	  When	  you	  say	  "church	  wear,"	  what	  
do	  you	  mean	  exactly?	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
15:46	  
The	  younger	  people	  don't	  dress	  like	  the	  older	  people.	  The	  older	  people,	  in	  their	  fifties,	  sixties,	  
seventies,	  still	  dress	  well	  to	  go	  to	  church.	  "Their	  tradition	  still	  keep	  it	  in	  themself,	  but	  the	  older	  
generation	  tried	  to	  teach	  younger	  generations,	  but	  it	  don't	  really	  success.	  But	  still,	  the	  older	  
generation,	  that's	  the	  way	  they	  learned	  this,	  so	  they	  dress	  it.	  So	  I	  have	  to	  learn	  the	  way	  the	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
4	  of	  22	  
individual,	  the	  way	  that	  they	  dress,	  go	  to	  the	  church.	  But	  some	  of	  them	  is	  real	  dress,	  dress	  
dressy-­‐dress.	  But	  some	  of	  them	  here	  are	  a	  little	  lower	  key.	  But	  the	  overall,	  is	  everybody	  going	  to	  
the	  church	  is	  very	  dressed.	  But	  I'm	  worried	  about	  the	  future	  generations.	  And	  so	  my	  stuff,	  all	  this	  
church	  wear,	  might	  disappear	  with	  future	  generations."	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
17:31	  
Learning	  the	  business;	  Knowing	  her	  customers’	  tastes	  
How	  did	  Tony	  and	  Arturo	  go	  about	  learning	  from	  the	  garment	  industry?	  They	  went	  to	  the	  
Houston	  garment	  district,	  where	  they	  bought	  wholesale.	  Now,	  they	  don't	  have	  to	  go	  over	  there	  
any	  more,	  because	  salesmen	  from	  the	  big	  manufacturing	  companies	  come	  to	  the	  shop.	  Before	  
they	  even	  make	  the	  clothes,	  Tony	  has	  the	  privilege	  to	  see	  what	  they	  will	  make	  in	  the	  future,	  
then	  she	  chooses	  from	  there.	  The	  garment	  district	  in	  Houston	  was	  in	  the	  Harwin	  area.	  But	  that	  
is	  changing	  now,	  as	  more	  small	  shops	  like	  Variety	  Fashion	  buy	  from	  the	  traveling	  salesmen	  from	  
the	  manufacturers.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
18:35	  
Now	  the	  bigger	  garment	  districts,	  like	  New	  York	  and	  California,	  are	  sending	  out	  their	  sales	  
representatives,	  so	  they're	  bypassing	  areas	  like	  the	  Dallas,	  Atlanta,	  and	  Houston	  areas.	  So	  the	  
Chicago,	  California,	  and	  New	  York	  manufacturers	  are	  coming	  directly	  to	  the	  shop.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
19:14	  
Without	  the	  middlemen	  in	  the	  garment	  district,	  shops	  like	  Variety	  can	  buy	  the	  goods	  at	  a	  better	  
price,	  and	  they	  can	  give	  their	  customers	  better	  prices.	  So,	  they	  are	  skipping	  the	  wholesalers,	  
and	  buy	  directly	  from	  the	  factory,	  so	  the	  customers	  are	  happier,	  and	  shopkeepers	  like	  Tony	  are	  
happier	  too,	  can	  carry	  a	  better	  selection.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
20:08	  
LMG	  is	  familiar	  with	  the	  Harwin	  area	  in	  Houston.	  Were	  the	  styles	  in	  Houston	  similar	  to	  those	  in	  
Louisiana,	  or	  could	  the	  vendors	  there	  advise	  Tony	  what	  to	  get	  for	  their	  Louisiana	  customers?	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
20:17	  
The	  styles	  are	  not	  necessarily	  the	  same.	  But	  the	  vendors	  are	  familiar	  with	  the	  small	  stores	  
throughout	  the	  area,	  so	  they	  can	  tell	  you,	  this	  is	  what	  people	  from	  that	  area	  buy.	  The	  vendors	  
could	  tell	  you	  what	  will	  and	  will	  not	  sell	  to	  their	  niche	  market.	  When	  they	  first	  opened	  eighteen	  
years	  ago,	  the	  customers	  they	  have	  now	  were	  much	  younger.	  Are	  some	  of	  their	  earliest	  
customers	  still	  coming	  in?	  	  
	  
	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
5	  of	  22	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
21:34	  
Some	  of	  them	  are,	  they're	  faithful.	  The	  customers	  like	  what	  she	  carries,	  and	  so	  they	  come	  to	  
Variety	  Fashion.	  Tony	  appreciates	  these	  customers	  being	  faithful	  to	  her	  store.	  When	  she	  first	  
opened,	  her	  customers	  were	  in	  their	  thirties	  and	  forties.	  Now,	  her	  customers	  are	  in	  their	  fifties	  
and	  sixties;	  the	  twenty-­‐	  and	  thirty-­‐year-­‐olds	  wear	  a	  different	  fashion.	  	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
22:22	  
Tony	  has	  some	  customers	  whose	  siblings	  bring	  them	  in.	  The	  old	  customers	  try	  to	  bring	  the	  
younger	  members	  of	  their	  family	  to	  Variety,	  but	  they	  wear	  different	  fashions,	  so	  they	  don't	  like	  
her	  selection.	  She	  has	  younger	  customers	  who	  come	  to	  buy	  for	  their	  aunts	  and	  mothers.	  They	  
know	  what	  their	  mothers	  or	  aunts	  like,	  because	  they	  shop	  there	  all	  the	  time,	  but	  they	  don't	  buy	  
from	  Variety	  for	  themselves.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
23:15	  
These	  customers,	  the	  younger	  generation,	  buy	  gifts	  for	  their	  elders.	  They	  can	  surprise	  them	  
with	  a	  gift	  of	  clothes	  because	  Tony	  knows	  them	  so	  well—their	  size,	  what	  colors	  they	  like.	  "Yeah,	  
because	  they've	  already	  been	  that	  regular	  customer.	  We	  know	  their	  size,	  I	  know	  the	  fashion	  of	  
their—what	  they	  like.	  So,	  as	  soon	  as	  they	  come	  in,	  I	  know	  what	  they	  told	  me,	  the	  colors.	  And	  
then,	  I	  know	  their	  aunts	  and	  their	  mothers'	  fashions,	  so	  I	  can	  represent	  it.	  Then	  they	  like	  it	  and	  
they	  just	  take	  it,	  they're	  happy.	  Like	  today,	  the	  family	  came	  in.	  She	  been—I've	  been	  knowing	  her	  
about	  ten	  years,	  so	  .	  .	  .	  her	  husband	  passed.	  But	  she	  was	  looking	  for	  the	  real	  pretty	  silver	  suit.	  
And	  I	  didn't	  have	  too	  much	  in	  silver,	  so	  we	  looked	  at	  the	  books.	  So	  I	  know	  her	  style,	  soon	  as	  I	  
pointed	  this	  one,	  say	  'Yeah!'	  You	  know?	  And	  she	  ordered	  the	  suit	  and	  hat.	  And	  it	  came—the	  hat	  
came	  in,	  I	  said,	  I	  looked	  at	  it,	  I	  said,	  'Oh,	  that's	  not	  for	  her.'	  So	  I	  have	  a,	  prior	  to—yesterday,	  
more	  hats	  came	  in,	  so	  I	  say,	  "Just	  a	  second,	  I	  know	  exactly	  what	  you	  like!'	  So,	  I	  get	  it	  and	  I	  show	  
to	  her,	  she	  just	  loved	  it."	  This	  was	  the	  whole	  family,	  the	  daughters	  shopping	  with	  their	  mother,	  
to	  be	  sure	  she	  was	  presentable.	  They	  already	  knew	  that	  Tony	  knew	  what	  she	  liked,	  that	  she	  
dresses	  their	  mother	  well,	  and	  wanted	  to	  make	  sure	  their	  mama	  was	  buying	  the	  right	  kind	  of	  
clothes.	  They	  were	  shopping	  for	  the	  husband's	  funeral.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
25:39	  
Changing	  colors	  for	  funeral	  attire,	  new	  traditions;	  Dressing	  the	  deceased	  for	  burial	  
Even	  for	  funerals	  in	  Louisiana,	  people	  don't	  dress	  casually,	  they	  dress	  like	  they	  dress	  for	  church,	  
the	  same	  styles.	  A	  nice	  suit,	  a	  nice	  hat.	  So	  this	  woman	  was	  going	  to	  wear	  silver	  to	  her	  husband's	  
funeral.	  Is	  that	  usual?	  Over	  the	  years,	  the	  traditional	  funeral	  colors	  have	  changed.	  It	  used	  to	  be	  
black	  or	  navy	  or	  a	  dark	  color.	  But	  now,	  Tony	  has	  found	  that	  for	  funerals	  people	  wear	  pink.	  If,	  for	  
example,	  someone	  dies	  of	  breast	  cancer,	  the	  family	  wears	  pink.	  "So,	  tradition	  is	  changing	  it.	  It's	  
old	  tradition	  changing,	  and	  new	  traditions	  coming	  in.	  So	  not	  many	  black	  is	  selling.	  Still	  the	  old	  
tradition	  is	  there,	  it's	  black.	  But	  there's	  more	  now,	  it's	  white,	  grey,	  silver.	  Some	  people,	  blue.	  So	  
the	  more,	  even	  the	  funeral,	  more	  color	  is	  in	  there."	  When	  did	  that	  start	  changing?	  Tony	  doesn't	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
6	  of	  22	  
remember,	  it	  just	  gradually	  started	  changing.	  She	  was	  shocked	  one	  time,	  someone	  said,	  we	  
need	  a	  pink	  suit,	  and	  when	  she	  asked	  them	  what	  for,	  they	  said	  a	  funeral.	  "I	  said,	  'No	  .	  .	  .	  '	  I	  said	  
it	  like	  that,	  but	  then	  the	  people	  said,	  'Yes.	  Now	  we're	  going	  to	  get	  away	  from	  the	  tradition.	  We	  
want	  color.'"	  If	  people	  wear	  pink	  in	  support	  of	  someone	  who	  died	  of	  breast	  cancer,	  why	  do	  
people	  wear	  silver	  and	  white?	  Now,	  the	  tradition	  is	  more	  about	  the	  family	  of	  the	  deceased	  
often	  wearing	  the	  color	  that	  the	  person	  is	  wearing	  in	  the	  casket.	  	  
	  
Families	  also	  buy	  clothing	  for	  someone	  to	  wear	  in	  the	  casket.	  They	  dress	  the	  person	  the	  way	  
they	  liked	  to	  dress	  when	  they	  were	  alive,	  hat	  and	  all,	  to	  honor	  that	  person.	  Tony	  says	  she	  has	  
never	  seen	  this,	  but	  she	  has	  heard	  that	  the	  back	  of	  the	  hat	  is	  cut,	  adjusted,	  so	  that	  a	  person	  can	  
be	  buried	  wearing	  a	  hat,	  to	  make	  it	  fit	  and	  look	  right	  in	  the	  casket.	  Tony	  has	  helped	  family	  
members	  of	  the	  deceased	  who	  come	  in	  to	  buy	  clothes	  for	  their	  mother	  or	  aunt	  who	  passed	  
away.	  They	  are	  usually	  looking	  for	  certain	  colors.	  More	  or	  less,	  Tony	  knows	  the	  design	  the	  
deceased	  liked	  to	  wear.	  She	  knows	  that	  the	  front	  part	  and	  the	  top	  part	  of	  the	  outfit	  have	  to	  be	  
pretty.	  She	  doesn’t	  worry	  about	  the	  bottom	  part,	  just	  for	  the	  front	  part.	  “It's	  a	  sad	  time,	  but	  you	  
gotta,	  the	  person	  have	  to	  dress	  nice,	  too.	  So	  I	  provide	  it,	  help	  them	  out.”	  Sometimes,	  the	  
deceased	  was	  a	  customer	  of	  Tony's.	  Sometimes	  family	  members	  who	  are	  customers	  come	  to	  
her	  for	  help	  in	  dressing	  their	  deceased	  loved	  ones	  for	  burial.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
30:17	  
Changes	  in	  fashions	  over	  the	  years;	  Hat	  shows	  at	  local	  churches;	  Fascinators	  coming	  into	  style	  
as	  a	  result	  of	  the	  2011	  Royal	  Wedding	  
What	  other	  changes	  in	  fashion	  has	  Tony	  seen	  over	  the	  years?	  When	  she	  first	  started	  out	  in	  the	  
business,	  she	  used	  to	  carry	  small	  pillbox	  style	  hats.	  Now,	  the	  tradition	  has	  changed,	  and	  some	  
people	  like	  more	  dramatic	  styles.	  There	  do	  have	  a	  Louisiana	  hat	  show	  [a	  tradition	  of	  hat	  shows	  
in	  Louisiana].	  Some	  churches	  have	  hat	  shows.	  It’s	  interesting;	  Tony	  thinks	  that	  people	  win	  prizes	  
for	  the	  most	  unique	  hat,	  and	  so	  on.	  Tony	  has	  been	  asked	  to	  go	  to	  represent	  or	  sell	  hats	  at	  these	  
shows,	  but	  she	  wouldn't	  do	  it	  because	  if	  people	  have	  already	  tried	  at	  hat	  on,	  she	  cannot	  sell	  it.	  
She	  wants	  to	  stay	  in	  the	  business	  of	  selling	  new	  hats.	  So	  she	  tells	  them,	  “If	  you	  want	  to	  be	  in	  the	  
hat	  show,	  you	  have	  to	  buy	  your	  own.	  You	  have	  to	  represent	  it	  yourself.	  You	  want	  to	  put	  in	  my	  
store	  name,	  that's	  up	  to	  you.	  It's	  nothing—we	  have	  to	  do	  it	  that	  way,	  because	  sometimes	  the	  
people	  buy,	  they	  return."	  Where	  is	  the	  hat	  show?	  Most	  of	  the	  time,	  in	  the	  church,	  it's	  like	  a	  
fashion	  show.	  They	  might	  do	  this	  two	  or	  three	  times	  a	  year;	  she	  doesn't	  know	  of	  a	  particular	  
time	  they	  do	  this.	  Sometimes	  they	  tell	  her	  about	  what	  they're	  doing,	  sometimes	  they	  just	  buy	  
the	  hats	  and	  go,	  without	  telling	  her.	  She	  thinks	  the	  hat	  shows	  are	  probably	  a	  fundraiser	  for	  the	  
church.	  One	  time,	  she	  and	  Arturo	  took	  the	  hats	  and	  opened	  a	  boutique	  at	  the	  church,	  during	  a	  
hat	  show.	  It	  wasn't	  successful,	  so	  she	  doesn't	  go	  any	  more.	  She	  doesn’t	  ask	  a	  lot	  of	  questions,	  
so	  she	  doesn't	  know	  the	  details	  of	  the	  hat	  shows.	  	  
	  
Her	  customers	  attend	  different	  churches.	  Most	  of	  them	  attend	  Baptist	  churches.	  The	  Baptist	  
ladies	  dress	  up	  in	  hats	  and	  suits.	  At	  one	  time,	  the	  fascinators	  were	  really	  popular,	  because	  of	  
the	  English	  Royal	  Wedding	  (Prince	  William	  and	  Princess	  Catherine	  Middleton's	  wedding	  in	  
2011).	  At	  that	  time,	  fascinators	  sold	  like	  hotcakes.	  Tony	  didn't	  watch	  the	  Royal	  Wedding,	  but	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
7	  of	  22	  
her	  customers	  told	  her	  about	  it,	  were	  looking	  for	  this	  kind	  of	  hat.	  They	  told	  her	  it	  wasn't	  a	  full	  
hat,	  just	  a	  hat	  band.	  So	  she	  called	  the	  garment	  district	  and	  asked	  them,	  what	  is	  going	  on?	  The	  
manufacturers	  already	  knew	  about	  it,	  so	  she	  started	  ordering	  the	  fascinators.	  Young	  people	  
wear	  the	  fascinators,	  sometimes	  for	  weddings,	  sometimes	  for	  showers,	  girls’	  day	  out.	  Since	  
some	  of	  the	  women's	  hats	  can	  be	  kind	  of	  expensive,	  the	  fascinator	  can	  be	  reasonable	  for	  
everyone.	  So	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  started	  buying	  the	  fascinator.	  It	  was	  an	  economic	  thing,	  as	  well	  as	  a	  
fashion	  trend.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
35:31	  
Buying	  from	  traveling	  salesmen	  
Now	  the	  reps	  from	  the	  manufacturers	  bring	  catalogs	  and	  samples	  for	  Tony	  to	  see.	  They	  come	  
twice	  a	  year,	  for	  spring	  and	  summer,	  and	  then	  autumn	  and	  winter.	  They	  bring	  samples	  of	  
clothing	  colors.	  Sometimes	  the	  reps	  ask	  Tony	  what	  colors	  work	  for	  her	  customers,	  so	  now	  they	  
are	  asking	  for	  her	  opinion	  about	  what	  her	  customers	  like,	  since	  she	  is	  the	  one	  who	  works	  with	  
the	  different	  colors	  and	  designs.	  They	  ask	  her	  about	  ideas	  and	  sometimes	  she	  gives	  them	  
feedback.	  Now	  they	  are	  learning	  from	  her,	  since	  she	  is	  the	  one	  who	  works	  directly	  with	  the	  
customers.	  The	  reps	  bring	  clothing	  samples	  for	  her	  to	  see.	  They	  bring	  samples	  that	  the	  factory	  
hasn't	  made	  yet,	  so	  they	  can	  still	  adjust	  the	  design	  a	  little	  bit,	  based	  on	  feedback	  from	  shop	  
owners	  like	  Tony.	  What	  kinds	  of	  things	  would	  she	  tell	  them	  to	  change?	  She	  might	  tell	  them	  to	  
change	  the	  buttons.	  Or,	  because	  now	  our	  body	  shapes	  different,	  they	  have	  to	  make	  the	  clothing	  
fit	  accordingly.	  So,	  she	  tells	  them,	  ‘You	  might	  have	  to	  make	  it	  a	  little	  larger	  here,	  might	  need	  to	  
move	  the	  decoration,’	  or	  they	  might	  have	  the	  wrong	  decoration,	  etc.	  So	  the	  reps	  take	  her	  
feedback	  and	  make	  adjustments.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
37:28	  
Mostly	  it's	  the	  color	  scheme.	  She	  might	  tell	  them	  which	  colors	  go	  better	  with	  others.	  They'll	  
take	  that	  input	  and	  change	  it	  before	  they	  send	  out	  the	  line.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
37:44	  
"Sometimes,	  they	  say,	  'Look,	  I	  made	  exactly	  what	  you	  say!.'	  .	  .	  .	  But	  sometimes	  we	  women,	  we	  
know	  the	  design	  we	  want.	  Sometimes	  those	  designers	  are	  men."	  She	  wears	  these	  clothes,	  too.	  
What	  would	  she	  want	  to	  wear?	  Her	  taste	  is	  simple.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
38:18	  
“Conservative.”	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
38:21	  
Tony	  agrees.	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
8	  of	  22	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
38:27	  
She	  is	  not	  a	  flashy	  dresser,	  not	  a	  lot	  of	  rhinestones.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
38:27	  
Her	  customers	  call	  it,	  "bling-­‐bling."	  She	  doesn't	  wear	  the	  bling-­‐bling,	  just	  simple.	  She	  doesn't	  
dress	  out	  of	  her	  store,	  her	  clothes	  are	  more	  simple.	  Her	  store	  is	  more	  for	  the	  bling-­‐bling	  
fashion.	  Some	  things	  she	  gets	  from	  her	  store,	  but	  not	  everything.	  Some	  people	  are	  moving	  
towards	  more	  conservative	  fashion.	  Sometimes	  the	  salesman	  comes,	  and	  the	  regular	  customers	  
are	  there,	  and	  so	  Tony	  asks	  the	  customers'	  input,	  too.	  Tony	  doesn't	  go	  to	  the	  big	  markets,	  the	  
shows,	  since	  the	  salesmen	  come	  to	  the	  shop.	  She	  knows	  other	  shop	  owners	  in	  town	  go	  to	  the	  
big	  shows	  around	  the	  country.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
40:07	  
Selling	  hats;	  Dressing	  for	  different	  roles	  in	  church;	  Word	  of	  mouth	  referrals	  
Have	  the	  hats	  always	  been	  part	  of	  what	  she	  does?	  "No,	  first	  we	  never	  had	  a	  hat!	  We	  just	  had	  
garments.	  And	  then,	  the	  customers	  said,	  'I'd	  like	  to	  have	  a	  hat	  to	  match	  with	  this	  suit.	  So	  from	  
there,	  so	  I	  have	  to	  learn	  from	  customers,	  so	  what	  the	  customer	  wants,	  I	  have	  to	  provide	  for	  
them.	  So	  my	  choice	  was,	  I	  had	  to	  bring	  the	  hats,	  too."	  This	  was	  something	  that	  happened	  right	  
away,	  and	  she	  learned	  quickly	  from	  the	  customers,	  and	  had	  to	  adjust.	  Where	  did	  she	  get	  the	  
hats	  at	  first?	  She	  didn't	  know	  about	  hats,	  so	  she	  went	  to	  the	  wholesale	  market	  at	  the	  Harwin	  
district	  in	  Houston.	  Then	  she	  began	  looking	  on	  the	  internet.	  She	  began	  calling	  the	  
manufacturers,	  and	  they	  began	  sending	  catalogs.	  Sometimes	  the	  companies	  make	  matching	  
hats	  for	  the	  suits,	  out	  of	  the	  same	  materials,	  as	  a	  set.	  
	  
Do	  all	  of	  the	  hats	  she	  has	  in	  stock	  have	  matching	  outfits	  to	  go	  with	  them?	  She	  matches	  them	  by	  
color	  scheme.	  For	  example,	  she	  has	  ivory	  colored	  suits	  and	  hats.	  Sometimes	  the	  customers	  
make	  different	  choices	  about	  which	  hat	  goes	  with	  what	  suit.	  How	  often	  does	  she	  order	  new	  
hats?	  She	  tries	  not	  to	  order	  them	  too	  often.	  It	  depends	  on	  how	  quickly	  they	  go	  out	  of	  the	  store.	  
She	  orders	  hats	  about	  three	  or	  four	  times	  a	  year.	  If	  they	  go	  out	  quickly,	  she	  orders	  more.	  She	  
has	  some	  of	  her	  hats	  in	  the	  back	  of	  the	  store;	  not	  all	  of	  them	  are	  out	  on	  display.	  Sometimes	  the	  
churches	  place	  group	  orders	  for	  the	  ushers	  and	  deaconesses;	  they	  wear	  the	  hats	  and	  gloves.	  	  
	  
The	  ushers	  pass	  the	  offertory	  basket.	  They	  don't	  wear	  a	  hat.	  But	  the	  deaconesses,	  who	  are	  
more	  elderly,	  they	  sit	  in	  the	  front,	  in	  an	  important	  spot,	  and	  they	  wear	  fancy	  clothing.	  They	  
wear	  gloves	  and	  hats,	  and	  they	  try	  to	  match,	  like	  a	  uniform.	  The	  first	  lady	  is	  either	  the	  pastor's	  
wife,	  or	  the	  oldest	  member	  of	  the	  congregation,	  Tony	  thinks.	  The	  deaconess	  provides	  for	  
people,	  teaches	  the	  way.	  She	  is	  not	  sure,	  she	  hasn't	  attended	  these	  churches.	  From	  her	  
perspective,	  she	  knows	  that	  the	  deaconess	  dresses	  better	  than	  the	  ushers.	  
	  
LMG	  asks	  Tony	  if	  her	  customers	  come	  back	  and	  tell	  Tony	  how	  people	  respond	  to	  their	  hats?	  
"For	  me,	  it's—they	  try	  to	  keep	  the	  tradition,	  I	  think,	  the	  older	  people.	  But	  the	  younger	  people,	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
9	  of	  22	  
they	  are	  more	  into	  the	  show,	  into	  it.	  But	  older	  people	  try	  to	  teach	  the	  tradition,	  they	  said,	  'That's	  
the	  way	  that	  we	  used—that	  that’s	  the	  way	  they’re	  supposed	  to	  be	  dressed	  in	  the	  church.'	  But	  
younger	  people,	  they	  buy	  hat	  and	  suit,	  and	  I	  find	  out	  it's	  more	  like	  a	  show—‘I	  could	  wear	  this.’”	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
46:18	  
"But	  to	  answer	  your	  question,	  yeah,	  they	  come	  and	  they	  tell	  her	  how	  they	  admire	  the	  hat,	  and	  
how,	  trying	  to	  find	  out	  where	  they,	  where	  she	  obtained	  it,	  and	  especially	  when	  she	  takes	  a	  
variety	  of	  hats,	  and	  they	  see	  her	  with	  different	  hats.	  And	  sometimes	  they	  even	  refer	  pictures	  of	  
them	  wearing	  the	  hats."	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
46:49	  
"Uh	  huh,	  they	  show	  me,	  said,	  'Look	  at	  that.'	  They	  say	  that,	  'I	  love	  your	  hats,	  I	  love	  your	  suits,	  and	  
people	  loved	  it.	  And	  so	  they	  admire	  it.'	  And	  so	  they	  thank	  for	  me	  to	  dress	  them."	  The	  customers	  
pick	  out	  what	  they	  like,	  know	  their	  own	  fashions.	  "Regular	  customer,	  I	  know	  their	  fashion.	  
Sometimes,	  (inaudible).	  But	  even	  though	  it's	  how	  many	  years?	  Almost	  thirty	  years,	  but	  some	  old	  
people	  not	  knowing	  this	  store.	  Still	  learning	  with	  the	  word	  of	  mouth,	  still	  people	  coming	  in.	  
Some	  strangers	  sometimes,	  their	  family	  members	  coming	  from	  Chicago,	  or	  Georgia,	  saying	  'My	  
sister	  dresses	  so	  good,	  then	  up	  north	  they	  don’t	  have	  those.	  They	  coming	  in,	  they	  buy	  it	  and	  they	  
take	  it	  home,	  like	  that.”	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
47:59	  
“We	  have	  had	  customers,	  where	  they	  come	  from	  California	  to	  visit	  and	  shop	  here.	  And	  we	  send,	  
we	  ship	  it	  back	  to	  them,	  and	  we	  probably	  got	  it	  from	  California	  to	  start	  off	  with,	  you	  know.	  She	  
has	  numerous	  customers	  from	  the	  surrounding	  communities,	  that	  they	  have	  heard	  of	  her	  and	  of	  
the	  store,	  and	  they	  come	  from	  Hammond,	  Lafayette,	  Plaquemines	  .	  .	  .	  ."	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
48:37	  
"Lake	  Charles.”	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
48:47	  
The	  importance	  of	  attitude	  in	  customer	  service;	  Tony’s	  love	  of	  her	  work;	  Hat	  trends	  and	  
traditions	  
What	  is	  it	  that	  people	  like	  about	  her	  store?	  Why	  do	  they	  come	  to	  her,	  when	  there	  are	  other	  
places	  to	  shop?	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
48:53	  
"I	  don't	  know.	  This	  is	  what	  people	  say,	  it’s	  the	  attitude.	  The	  salesperson's	  attitude."	  What	  does	  
she	  think	  people	  like	  about	  her	  attitude?	  "For	  me,	  it’s,	  I’m	  enjoying	  what	  I'm	  doing.	  I	  love	  to	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
10	  of	  22	  
dress	  them.	  I'm	  not	  wear	  a	  dress	  myself,	  like	  them.	  But	  when	  you	  put	  it	  on,	  and	  hats	  and	  suits,	  it	  
makes	  me	  so	  happy!	  So,	  you	  know,	  it's	  the	  way	  they	  dress,	  and	  sometimes	  now	  I	  bring	  the	  shoes	  
to	  the	  lady,	  just	  today,	  the	  funeral,	  she	  bought	  the	  hats	  and	  suits	  and	  everything,	  shoes.	  So	  
when	  you	  dress	  like	  that,	  it's,	  I	  don't	  know,	  it's,	  it's	  something	  about	  my	  heart,	  it’s,	  you	  just,	  joy	  
in	  my	  heart.	  Yeah."	  "I'm	  sure	  if	  your	  mother	  is	  a	  hairdresser,	  so	  she	  fixes	  people's	  hair,	  and	  the	  
person,	  'Oh,	  my	  hair	  come	  out	  nice,'	  and	  then	  she's	  so	  happy,	  right?	  The	  same	  way	  I	  do."	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
50:27	  
How	  have	  hat	  fashions	  changed	  since	  she	  started	  working?	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
50:31	  
"It	  started	  with	  the	  little	  	  small	  sizes,	  and	  now	  it	  gets	  a	  larger	  size,	  like	  popular,	  it's	  like	  people	  
are	  wearing	  a	  lot	  now,	  is	  the	  larger	  size,	  big	  hats."	  She	  doesn’t	  know	  why,	  it's	  just	  the	  trend,	  the	  
changing	  fashions.	  The	  hats	  look	  big	  to	  her,	  but	  the	  size	  of	  the	  person	  determines	  what	  size	  hat	  
will	  work.	  A	  tall	  person	  looks	  gorgeous	  in	  a	  big	  hat,	  but	  not	  a	  short	  person.	  Tony	  tells	  people	  
what	  she	  thinks,	  about	  whether	  a	  hat	  works.	  Some	  of	  them	  get	  upset,	  so	  she	  tries	  not	  to	  say	  
very	  much.	  So	  she	  asks	  them	  kindly,	  What	  do	  you	  like?	  The	  customers	  try	  the	  hats	  on	  at	  the	  
shop.	  	  
	  
Do	  people	  buy	  the	  hat	  or	  dress	  first?	  Some	  regular	  customers,	  for	  special	  occasions,	  they	  buy	  
the	  hats	  and	  suits	  together.	  Some	  other	  people	  who	  come	  in	  already	  have	  a	  garment,	  so	  they	  
come	  in	  for	  a	  matching	  hat.	  Sometimes	  if	  hats	  wear	  out	  over	  time,	  the	  customer	  has	  to	  buy	  a	  
new	  hat.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
52:12	  
When	  they	  first	  started,	  there	  was	  a	  summer	  hat,	  and	  a	  year-­‐round	  hat,	  which	  was	  new	  to	  us,	  
because	  we	  didn't	  know.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
52:23	  
When	  they	  first	  started,	  there	  was	  a	  summer	  and	  winter	  hat.	  A	  summer	  hat	  was	  a	  straw	  hat,	  a	  
winter	  hat	  had	  very	  thick	  fabric	  and	  warm	  looking.	  But	  she	  had	  to	  learn	  about	  that.	  But	  over	  
time,	  there	  are	  not	  summer	  or	  winter	  hats,	  there	  are	  just	  year-­‐round	  hats.	  	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
53:04	  
The	  wholesalers	  she	  works	  with	  now	  carry	  the	  year-­‐round	  hats.	  The	  other	  ones	  are	  probably	  
still	  out	  there,	  but	  it's	  not	  what	  they	  carry.	  Tony	  likes	  the	  year-­‐round	  hats,	  because	  she	  doesn't	  
have	  to	  change	  them	  out.	  The	  displays	  can	  stay	  the	  same.	  These	  hats	  are	  more	  expensive	  
because	  they	  are	  made	  from	  different	  materials,	  from	  fabric.	  	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
11	  of	  22	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
53:49	  
The	  hats	  are	  made	  from	  the	  same	  materials	  as	  the	  garments.	  What	  makes	  them	  stiff?	  Tony	  
thinks	  it's	  cardboard.	  Some	  of	  the	  hats	  are	  very	  soft.	  People	  go	  to	  conventions,	  and	  they	  buy	  
soft	  hats	  because	  they	  are	  easy	  to	  carry.	  You	  can	  flatten	  them	  out	  and	  then	  open	  them	  up	  and	  
put	  them	  on,	  no	  problem.	  But	  in	  the	  beginning,	  they	  had	  more	  heavy	  stiff	  hats.	  But	  now	  over	  
time,	  hats	  have	  become	  very	  light.	  Some	  people	  travel	  with	  hat	  boxes.	  But	  other	  people	  send	  
their	  hats	  ahead	  to	  the	  hotel	  lobby,	  at	  the	  convention.	  This	  would	  be	  a	  Baptist	  convention.	  
Before	  they	  carried	  hats,	  when	  they	  could	  bring	  them	  on	  the	  airplane.	  But	  with	  the	  changes	  in	  
air	  travel	  they	  ship	  the	  hats	  to	  the	  convention.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
55:39	  
"You	  hear	  them	  talk,	  you	  know,	  so	  many	  days.	  They	  know	  their	  colors	  that	  they're	  going	  to	  
wear,	  they	  know	  the	  hats	  that	  they're	  going	  to	  take,	  I	  mean,	  their	  shoes."	  They	  have	  a	  color	  
scheme	  for	  each	  day—the	  convention	  has	  a	  color	  scheme,	  from	  what	  Tony	  and	  Arturo	  hear.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
56:07	  
The	  customers	  sometimes	  start	  shopping	  for	  these	  conventions,	  and	  then	  Tony	  will	  ask	  them	  
what	  they	  are	  shopping	  for,	  and	  that's	  how	  she	  finds	  out	  the	  color	  scheme	  for	  the	  convention.	  
The	  same	  thing	  happens	  with	  the	  churches,	  people	  will	  be	  shopping	  for	  a	  certain	  color	  because	  
the	  church	  demands	  that	  they	  wear	  a	  certain	  color	  for	  a	  particular	  occasion.	  This	  might	  be	  for	  a	  
church	  anniversary,	  that	  type	  of	  occasion	  might	  call	  for	  a	  color	  scheme.	  She	  says	  she	  used	  to	  
hear	  more	  about	  Woman's	  Day.	  People	  wear	  more	  white	  for	  that	  day.	  She	  thinks	  they	  have	  
changed	  the	  name	  of	  Woman's	  Day	  because	  she	  doesn't	  hear	  about	  it	  any	  more.	  People	  used	  to	  
wear	  a	  lot	  of	  red	  for	  Woman's	  Day,	  now	  she	  sells	  more	  white.	  The	  mall	  doesn't	  carry	  white,	  so	  
Tony	  carries	  white	  all	  year	  round.	  She	  sells	  it	  year	  round.	  	  
	  
Tony	  has	  a	  few	  long	  garments	  mainly	  for	  older	  customers.	  At	  church	  they	  sometimes	  have	  
formal	  wear	  parties,	  so	  people	  come	  in	  looking	  for	  long	  gowns	  and	  such.	  So	  Tony	  carries	  a	  few	  
gowns	  in	  the	  shop.	  Not	  prom	  dresses	  but	  women’s	  formal	  wear.	  Tony	  doesn’t	  enjoy	  working	  
with	  teenagers.	  But	  mainly,	  she	  carries	  the	  church	  wear—suits	  and	  hats.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
58:59	  
Taking	  care	  of	  customers	  
LMG	  noticed	  that	  Tony	  spends	  a	  lot	  of	  time	  with	  customers.	  How	  does	  that	  work?	  "Some	  
people,	  I	  don't	  know	  them.	  But	  I	  have	  to	  learn	  their	  fashions.	  So	  I	  provide	  a	  lot	  of	  clothes	  to	  try	  it	  
on.	  But	  I	  like	  my	  regular	  customers,	  because	  they	  are	  quickly,	  because	  I	  know	  their	  style.	  So,	  
easy	  to	  provide	  the	  regular	  customer	  than	  newer	  customers."	  With	  her	  regular	  customers,	  
"Sometimes	  they	  tell	  me	  colors	  they're	  looking	  for.	  Sometimes,	  because	  they	  want	  to	  buy	  
something,	  because	  they	  want	  to	  buy	  something,	  you	  have	  to	  take	  your	  time	  with	  them.	  
Because	  I	  don't	  know	  what	  they	  wanted,	  so	  we	  have	  to	  come	  out	  with	  all	  different	  colors,	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
12	  of	  22	  
showing.	  I	  like	  the	  customer	  come	  and,	  'I	  need	  this	  color	  for	  this	  day.'	  So	  I	  just	  concentrate	  in	  one	  
color.	  And	  it's	  easier	  for	  me.	  But	  they	  say,	  because,	  'I	  want	  to	  buy	  some	  suit,'	  that	  means	  I	  have	  
to	  come	  out	  with	  all	  different	  types	  of	  color.	  So	  that's	  why	  I'm	  taking	  more	  time."	  LMG	  
remembers	  when	  she	  was	  there,	  a	  customer	  was	  in	  the	  store	  for	  an	  hour.	  Tony	  says	  that	  
sometimes	  they	  stay	  longer.	  Some	  people	  are	  in	  there	  for	  five	  minutes,	  and	  then	  go.	  Others	  are	  
in	  there	  a	  long	  time.	  "But	  you	  have	  to	  [be]	  patient	  with	  the	  customer!"	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
1:00:54	  
Do	  the	  customers	  sometimes	  talk	  to	  her	  about	  other	  parts	  of	  their	  lives?	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:00:56	  
Yeah.	  "Sometimes	  it's	  not	  just	  selling	  the	  garments,	  sometimes.	  I	  have	  to	  hear	  their	  problem,	  
too.	  Yeah,	  because	  I	  guess	  we	  women	  like	  to,	  you	  know,	  talk	  to	  the	  things	  to	  the	  other	  people,	  
their	  problems.	  So	  sometimes	  I	  have	  to	  hear	  their	  problems.	  So,	  but	  the	  Bible	  shows,	  exchanging	  
the	  problem.	  And	  sometimes,	  the	  women,	  we	  need	  to	  let	  out	  whatever	  is	  in	  your	  heart,	  so	  .	  .	  .	  ."	  
Do	  the	  women	  also	  talk	  to	  each	  other	  in	  the	  store?	  Do	  they	  hang	  out	  there?	  "Yeah,	  sometimes.	  
It's,	  sometimes	  it's	  a	  full	  house	  over	  here!	  That	  little	  store	  is	  a	  full	  house,	  and	  I	  just—it's	  fun!	  You	  
know?	  Because	  sometimes	  they	  just	  came	  in,	  and	  another	  person	  comes	  in.	  Sometimes	  they	  
know	  each	  other.	  So	  it's	  just	  like	  a	  family	  fun	  day!	  That's	  why	  I	  like	  this	  job!	  Long	  as	  the	  
customers	  are	  here,	  I'm	  happy.	  But	  if	  I	  have	  no	  customers,	  I	  have	  my	  personal	  time."	  She	  keeps	  
the	  shop	  organized,	  she	  straightens	  up	  right	  away	  when	  she	  has	  waited	  on	  a	  customer	  and	  
there	  is	  a	  pile	  of	  clothes.	  When	  there	  have	  been	  a	  lot	  of	  customers	  in	  the	  store	  and	  she	  has	  
been	  pulling	  out	  a	  lot	  of	  clothes,	  it's	  a	  good	  tired.	  Her	  legs	  might	  hurt	  and	  her	  body	  might	  be	  
low	  on	  energy,	  but	  it's	  a	  good	  tired	  at	  the	  end	  of	  the	  day.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:03:28	  
Customizing	  hats;	  Out-­‐of-­‐town	  customers	  
Are	  the	  hats	  arranged	  in	  a	  particular	  way?	  No,	  they	  just	  put	  them	  up.	  Even	  though	  the	  hats	  
have	  a	  lot	  of	  decorations	  on	  them,	  customers	  still	  ask	  Tony	  to	  put	  on	  more	  embellishments.	  She	  
sometimes	  puts	  more	  decorations	  on	  the	  hats,	  she	  has	  had	  to	  learn	  that,	  too.	  She	  might	  put	  a	  
flower,	  pin	  or	  pendant	  on	  the	  hat.	  Sometimes	  the	  customers	  bring	  their	  own	  pendants,	  wanting	  
to	  change	  what	  is	  on	  their	  hats,	  and	  she	  does	  that,	  too.	  She	  pins	  or	  glues	  the	  pendants	  onto	  the	  
hats.	  She	  has	  learned	  to	  do	  this	  over	  the	  years	  and	  it's	  fun,	  kind	  of	  like	  a	  craftsman.	  
	  
Arturo	  says	  that	  sometimes	  they	  want	  more	  rhinestones.	  Tony	  says,	  "You're	  working	  over	  here,	  
you	  have	  to	  be	  versatile,	  you	  have	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  sew	  a	  little	  bit.	  You	  have	  to	  know	  how	  to	  do	  
the	  decorations.	  Sometimes	  my	  husband	  helps	  me.	  And	  earrings,	  and	  soldering	  the	  earrings	  that	  
are	  broken.	  We	  have	  to	  learn	  all	  that,	  so	  he's	  a	  tremendous	  help,	  too!"	  
	  
Arturo	  comes	  to	  the	  store	  in	  the	  evenings,	  right	  before	  she	  closes.	  Especially	  when	  it	  gets	  dark	  
early.	  Tony	  says	  he	  is	  like	  her	  bodyguard.	  And	  that	  way	  people	  already	  know	  that	  she's	  not	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
13	  of	  22	  
alone	  in	  the	  store.	  He	  comes	  in	  off	  and	  on,	  on	  Saturdays,	  depending	  on	  what	  Tony	  needs.	  Most	  
of	  the	  time,	  the	  customers	  don't	  like	  for	  him	  to	  be	  there.	  Sometimes	  they	  ask	  him	  to	  go	  outside.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:06:12	  
The	  Aguirres	  tell	  a	  story	  of	  five	  customers	  who	  came	  from	  New	  Orleans	  and	  told	  Tony	  to	  ask	  
Arturo	  to	  get	  out,	  and	  to	  lock	  the	  door,	  as	  they	  will	  provide	  for	  her	  day's	  business	  that	  day.	  They	  
have	  out-­‐of-­‐town	  customers	  who	  come	  and	  "take	  over"	  the	  store.	  They	  want	  to	  be	  free	  to	  try	  
on	  clothing	  and	  have	  Tony's	  undivided	  attention.	  They	  often	  show	  up	  at	  closing	  time,	  after	  
calling	  ahead,	  and	  they	  might	  stay	  from	  one	  to	  two	  hours,	  or	  longer.	  They	  buy	  suits	  and	  hats,	  it	  
adds	  up.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:08:04	  
Talking	  about	  style;	  Ordering	  hats	  for	  the	  shop;	  Women's	  hat	  collections,	  what	  happens	  to	  a	  
woman's	  hats	  and	  wardrobe	  when	  she	  passes	  away	  
Does	  Tony	  see	  a	  particular	  Baton	  Rouge	  clothing	  style,	  i.e.	  if	  someone	  walked	  into	  the	  store,	  
would	  they	  know	  it	  was	  a	  Baton	  Rouge	  shop?	  "I	  don't	  think	  so,	  because	  I	  think	  the	  individual,	  it’s	  
a	  different	  style	  they	  like.	  It	  all	  depends	  on	  individual	  people,	  some	  people	  they	  like	  big	  hats,	  
some	  people,	  they	  like	  the	  small	  hats.	  But	  I	  know	  some	  of	  my	  customers,	  they	  like	  the	  small	  hats,	  
big	  hat,	  doesn't	  matter	  for	  a	  person.	  But	  some	  people,	  they	  like	  the	  big	  hat,	  they	  wear	  the	  big	  
hat."	  She	  orders	  hats	  from	  catalogs,	  and	  from	  the	  manufacturers	  who	  make	  their	  own	  hats	  to	  
go	  with	  the	  suits.	  She	  buys	  whole	  ensembles.	  Some	  customers	  like	  buying	  as	  an	  ensemble.	  
Others	  will	  buy	  the	  hats	  or	  suits	  as	  separates.	  She	  knows	  she	  is	  always	  taking	  a	  chance	  when	  
she	  buys	  the	  matching	  suits	  and	  hats.	  Sometimes	  the	  pieces	  go	  separate	  ways.	  	  
	  
Does	  Tony	  think	  of	  particular	  customers	  when	  she	  orders	  her	  inventory?	  With	  the	  suits,	  yes,	  but	  
not	  with	  the	  hat.	  It's	  hard	  to	  know	  with	  the	  hats,	  the	  size	  from	  the	  picture,	  and	  to	  know	  what	  it	  
will	  really	  look	  like.	  She	  gives	  the	  example	  of	  the	  woman	  who	  was	  in	  her	  shop	  earlier,	  who	  was	  
looking	  for	  a	  silver	  outfit	  for	  a	  funeral.	  Tony	  had	  ordered	  the	  hat	  and	  suit	  from	  the	  company.	  
But	  the	  woman	  didn't	  like	  the	  hat,	  so	  they	  found	  another	  one	  to	  match	  in	  Tony's	  merchandise.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:10:21	  
Early	  on,	  there	  was	  a	  vendor	  who	  used	  to	  come	  in	  an	  RV	  type	  of	  vehicle.	  He	  used	  to	  come	  in	  an	  
RV	  and	  he	  sold	  the	  hats.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:10:47	  
Tony	  has	  found	  that	  the	  vendors	  in	  New	  York	  will	  do	  custom	  designs,	  with	  material	  that	  the	  
customer	  sends,	  from	  a	  photo,	  but	  these	  hats	  are	  very	  expensive,	  around	  $200,	  $300.	  She	  
hasn't	  gotten	  into	  this,	  but	  she	  knows	  it's	  there.	  Her	  customers	  couldn't	  afford	  this.	  The	  hats	  in	  
her	  shop	  range	  from	  $29-­‐$80.	  Tony	  orders	  hats	  that	  are	  already	  made.	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
14	  of	  22	  
How	  often	  do	  customers	  buy	  hats?	  It	  varies.	  Some	  of	  the	  customers	  have	  two	  or	  three	  closets	  in	  
their	  homes,	  with	  one	  just	  for	  hats.	  They	  take	  very	  good	  care	  of	  them,	  always	  keep	  them	  in	  
boxes.	  Some	  women	  have	  up	  to	  100	  hats.	  They	  label	  them,	  know	  how	  to	  find	  each	  hat.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:12:48	  
LMG	  remembers	  a	  woman	  in	  the	  shop	  earlier	  in	  the	  year,	  talking	  about	  her	  son	  joking	  that	  he	  
was	  going	  to	  auction	  off	  her	  hats	  when	  she	  dies.	  But	  LMG	  has	  found	  in	  her	  research	  that	  what	  
happens	  to	  a	  woman's	  hats	  when	  she	  dies	  is	  serious	  business.	  What	  is	  Tony's	  experience?	  She	  
remembers	  a	  customer	  named	  Miss	  McGee.	  She	  loved	  suits,	  when	  she	  came	  to	  the	  shop,	  she	  
would	  just	  shake	  when	  she	  came	  into	  the	  store,	  she	  loved	  clothing	  so	  much,	  she	  would	  want	  
everything	  in	  the	  shop.	  She	  had	  many	  suits	  and	  hats.	  A	  couple	  of	  years	  ago,	  she	  passed	  away.	  
Her	  son	  says	  that	  her	  hats	  and	  clothes	  are	  still	  in	  the	  house,	  they	  have	  left	  them	  there.	  Some,	  
they	  have	  given	  to	  friends	  and	  family.	  	  
	  
Families	  don't	  just	  give	  away	  a	  woman's	  wardrobe,	  and	  these	  pieces	  are	  hard	  to	  sell	  because	  of	  
pricing.	  Sometimes	  people	  donate	  the	  hats	  and	  suits	  to	  their	  church	  for	  a	  garage	  sale,	  as	  a	  
fundraiser.	  But	  some	  stay	  in	  the	  family.	  Since	  they	  are	  more	  versatile	  in	  size,	  other	  family	  
members	  can	  wear	  the	  hats.	  Or	  some	  daughters	  keep	  the	  hats	  to	  remember	  their	  mothers,	  
keep	  them	  with	  them,	  and	  then	  give	  them	  away	  one	  by	  one,	  over	  the	  years.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:14:47	  
Sizing	  hats;	  Hat	  pins	  
The	  hats	  are	  one	  size.	  At	  one	  point,	  the	  customers	  would	  make	  the	  hats	  fit	  by	  using	  newspaper	  
or	  paper	  towels.	  But	  now	  the	  hat	  companies	  sell	  a	  foam	  band	  that	  can	  make	  the	  hat	  smaller;	  
you	  can’t	  make	  a	  hat	  bigger.	  The	  foam	  band	  already	  has	  the	  glue	  	  tacked	  to	  the	  side,	  to	  affix	  it	  
inside	  the	  hat.	  When	  customers	  buy	  a	  hat,	  Tony	  provides	  the	  foam,	  if	  needed.	  Tony	  would	  see	  
people	  stuffing	  newspaper	  or	  paper	  towels	  inside,	  so	  she	  began	  providing	  this	  foam	  as	  an	  
alternative.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:16:20	  
People	  used	  to	  wear	  hat	  pins	  on	  more,	  when	  hats	  were	  more	  plain,	  but	  these	  days	  there	  are	  so	  
many	  pretty	  embellishments,	  there's	  less	  need	  for	  a	  hat	  pin.	  Tony	  doesn't	  carry	  them.	  She	  tried	  
carrying	  them	  and	  it	  was	  not	  successful.	  Sometimes,	  customers	  would	  not	  buy	  a	  hat	  because	  of	  
the	  size.	  At	  first	  the	  hat	  companies	  would	  just	  provide	  the	  foam	  bands	  as	  a	  courtesy.	  Then	  they	  
caught	  on,	  and	  began	  selling	  them.	  It's	  something	  to	  have	  on	  hand,	  especially	  when	  the	  size	  
might	  be	  the	  only	  thing	  that	  would	  keep	  a	  customer	  from	  buying	  a	  hat.	  	  
	  
Tony	  also	  keeps	  hat	  boxes	  on	  hand	  because	  some	  people	  won’t	  buy	  a	  hat	  without	  a	  hat	  box.	  
She	  orders	  them	  special	  from	  a	  company.	  Tony	  pays	  for	  the	  hat	  boxes,	  and	  provides	  them	  as	  a	  
courtesy	  to	  her	  customers.	  These	  boxes	  are	  heavy	  and	  expensive	  to	  ship.	  Some	  customers	  ask	  
her	  to	  provide	  a	  box	  for	  a	  hat	  they	  already	  have,	  and	  she	  doesn't	  do	  that,	  it's	  too	  much.	  But	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
15	  of	  22	  
whenever	  someone	  buys	  a	  hat	  from	  her	  store,	  she	  provides	  a	  box.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:20:22	  
Adjusting	  to	  customers'	  needs	  and	  desires	  
As	  with	  the	  hat	  boxes,	  Tony	  has	  always	  provided	  a	  clear	  plastic	  wrap	  for	  the	  hanging	  clothes,	  for	  
people	  to	  take	  home.	  Now,	  the	  customers	  want	  a	  colored	  wrap,	  not	  clear	  plastic,	  because	  they	  
don't	  want	  others	  seeing	  what	  they	  have	  bought.	  Tony	  doesn't	  know	  why	  this	  is.	  Also,	  they	  
always	  ask	  her	  how	  many	  of	  a	  certain	  outfit	  or	  hat	  she	  has	  sold,	  because	  they	  don't	  want	  to	  
have	  the	  same	  outfit	  as	  someone	  else.	  For	  that	  reason,	  Tony	  doesn't	  buy	  a	  lot	  of	  one	  thing.	  She	  
is	  always	  learning	  from	  her	  customers,	  having	  to	  adjust	  accordingly.	  	  
	  
Tony	  knows	  the	  popular	  sizes—right	  now,	  they	  are	  14,	  16,	  18,	  20.	  She	  tries	  to	  stock	  those	  sizes	  
more	  than	  other	  sizes.	  Companies	  won't	  sell	  just	  one	  garment;	  she	  has	  to	  buy	  at	  least	  three	  of	  
the	  same	  style.	  Sometimes,	  if	  she	  has	  a	  particular	  customer	  in	  mind,	  she'll	  buy	  the	  same	  outfit	  
in	  multiple	  sizes.	  It's	  fun	  when	  the	  salesman	  comes.	  She	  loves	  the	  clothes	  so	  much,	  there	  are	  so	  
many	  pretty	  things,	  "I	  just	  get	  lost	  in	  my	  head,"	  Tony	  says.	  She	  realizes	  that	  she	  can't	  just	  buy	  
the	  clothes	  she	  likes,	  her	  taste.	  She	  has	  to	  provide	  for	  all,	  buy	  a	  range	  of	  things.	  	  
	  
How	  did	  she	  name	  her	  shop?	  The	  whole	  family	  was	  involved,	  her	  husband	  and	  three	  sons.	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:22:43	  
How	  did	  she	  name	  the	  shop?	  At	  the	  time	  she	  opened,	  Tony	  was	  undecided	  about	  exactly	  what	  
she	  wanted	  to	  carry.	  They	  started	  out	  with	  some	  beauty	  supplies,	  little	  girls'	  dresses.	  Tony	  
started	  out	  thinking	  she	  would	  be	  selling	  a	  little	  bit	  of	  everything.	  Hats,	  shoes,	  etc.	  That's	  where	  
the	  name	  came	  from,	  "We're	  going	  to	  try	  everything,	  so	  we're	  going	  to	  do	  the	  variety!"	  She	  has	  
since	  found	  out	  that	  there	  is	  another	  business	  with	  the	  same	  name,	  in	  a	  different	  city.	  When	  
she	  calls	  the	  manufacturer	  to	  place	  an	  order,	  they'll	  ask	  her	  where	  she	  is	  calling	  from,	  since	  
there	  are	  two	  shops	  with	  the	  same	  name.	  The	  other	  shop	  is	  Variety	  Fashions.	  The	  vendor	  won't	  
tell	  her	  where	  the	  other	  business	  is.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:24:18	  
The	  love	  of	  hats	  
Why	  do	  Tony's	  customers	  love	  hats	  so	  much?	  Has	  she	  talked	  to	  them	  about	  why	  they	  wear	  the	  
hats?	  "I	  think	  they	  try	  to	  keep	  the	  tradition.	  Some	  of	  older	  people,	  they	  try	  to	  keep	  the	  tradition.	  
My	  main	  things	  that	  I	  understand	  is,	  they	  try	  to	  keep	  the	  tradition,	  they	  try	  to	  teach	  the	  younger	  
generation	  to,	  hey,	  wear	  the	  hats."	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:24:51	  
"The	  older	  ladies	  that	  express—they	  don't	  feel	  completely	  dressed	  if	  they	  don’t	  have	  a	  hat.	  I	  
heard	  that	  several	  times."	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
16	  of	  22	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:25:03	  
"Uh	  huh.	  They	  say	  every	  Sunday,	  they	  have	  to	  wear	  a	  hat.	  They	  can't	  go	  without	  a	  hat.	  Some	  of	  
the	  hat	  lovers.	  But	  I'm	  sure	  some	  people	  just	  like	  the	  suit,	  but	  the	  people	  who	  wear	  the	  hats,	  
they	  have	  to	  wear	  a	  hat	  with	  the	  suit.	  They	  say	  they	  can't,	  it's	  like	  you	  say,	  not	  complete	  without	  
that	  hat."	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
1:25:38	  
Is	  there	  a	  religious	  reason	  that	  people	  wear	  the	  hats?	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:25:42	  
Tony	  thinks	  so.	  She	  knows	  of	  certain	  clubs,	  the	  Red	  Hat	  Club,	  a	  Purple	  Hat	  Club.	  She	  thought	  
that	  would	  be	  good	  for	  business,	  but	  she	  hasn't	  had	  success	  with	  those	  groups.	  Tony	  and	  Arturo	  
have	  seen	  them	  around,	  and	  they	  thought	  it	  would	  be	  something	  to	  cater	  to,	  but	  it	  didn't	  pan	  
out.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:27:10	  
Other	  hat	  businesses	  around	  town	  
Is	  Tony	  in	  touch	  with	  the	  other	  hat	  businesses	  around	  town?	  Tony	  says	  the	  other	  store	  owners	  
"are	  all	  hush-­‐hush,	  with	  their	  own	  things	  .	  .	  .	  .	  "	  She	  is	  aware	  of	  them,	  who	  they	  are,	  some	  of	  
them,	  but	  they	  don't	  get	  together	  and	  talk	  or	  anything.	  Tony	  would	  like	  for	  them	  to	  learn	  about	  
each	  other,	  thinks	  it	  would	  be	  helpful,	  but	  she	  senses	  a	  competitive	  attitude	  from	  the	  other	  
business	  owners.	  Does	  Tony	  have	  any	  way	  of	  knowing	  how	  her	  business	  is	  distinctive	  from	  the	  
others	  around	  town?	  She	  thinks	  that	  each	  business	  owner	  has	  her	  own	  personality.	  She	  knows	  
that	  the	  Four	  Seasons	  caters	  to	  a	  little	  more	  upper	  class	  customers,	  they	  have	  higher	  prices.	  
Tony's	  prices	  are	  lower,	  to	  make	  the	  items	  more	  affordable	  for	  her	  customers,	  to	  work	  with	  
their	  budgets.	  She	  doesn't	  want	  to	  provide	  expensive	  goods,	  she	  wants	  her	  customers	  to	  enjoy	  
wearing	  the	  clothes	  she	  sells,	  that's	  her	  main	  thing.	  She	  tries	  to	  keep	  the	  prices	  right.	  She	  offers	  
a	  layaway	  plan.	  Some	  customers	  take	  advantage	  of	  that.	  With	  the	  hats,	  most	  customers	  need	  
them	  right	  away,	  "in	  that	  little	  moment,"	  so	  they	  usually	  buy	  the	  hats	  outright.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:29:23	  
The	  future	  of	  the	  hat	  business	  
"So	  I	  hope	  that	  they	  keep	  the	  tradition,	  whatever	  tradition	  is,	  because,	  I	  don't	  know,	  there's	  
some	  worry	  about	  these	  younger	  generations,	  a	  different	  way	  they're	  thinking,	  a	  different	  way	  
they	  do	  things.	  So,	  hopefully,	  they	  keep	  the	  same	  tradition,	  they	  all	  the	  time,	  they	  have	  it.	  So	  my	  
main	  thing	  is,	  I	  don't	  know	  how	  long	  I'm	  going	  to	  do	  this?	  Well,	  until	  then,	  until	  not	  wanted	  (?),	  
I'm	  going	  to	  do	  my	  best.	  My	  knowledge	  is	  to	  help	  the	  other	  people."	  
	  
	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
17	  of	  22	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:30:16	  
Providing	  customer	  service	  
LMG	  remembers	  seeing	  Tony	  walk	  an	  older	  customer	  to	  her	  car.	  Tony	  acknowledges	  this:	  
"Yeah,	  it’s	  a	  courtesy.	  I	  try	  to	  be	  courteous,	  and	  I	  try	  to	  be,	  what	  do	  you	  call	  it?	  Treated	  the	  way	  I	  
want	  to	  be	  treated.	  So	  I	  try	  to	  treat	  it	  the	  same	  way	  to	  the	  other	  peoples.	  And	  sometimes	  I	  have	  
to	  cry	  with	  them,	  like	  if	  their	  husband	  dies.	  Today	  I	  say,	  ‘Your	  husband	  was	  here	  and	  he	  loved	  
the	  way	  you	  dress.’	  That's	  when	  she	  started	  crying,	  oh	  man,	  I	  hurt	  her	  feelings,	  so	  I	  was	  like,	  we	  
are	  hugging	  a	  long	  time,	  we	  have	  tears	  come	  out	  together.	  You	  know,	  sometimes,	  I	  have	  to	  be	  
at	  their	  level	  to	  understanding	  feelings.	  You	  know,	  sometimes	  the	  people,	  the	  older	  peoples,	  
they	  can't	  move	  together.	  You	  know,	  you	  go	  in	  the	  mall,	  they	  say,	  there's	  the	  fitting	  room,	  do	  
whatever	  you	  want	  to.	  Over	  here,	  it's	  different.	  You	  have	  to	  provide	  [for]	  their	  needs.	  The	  older	  
people,	  you	  cannot	  move	  too	  much.	  They	  come	  and	  they	  try	  it	  on,	  I	  have	  to	  provide	  it.	  I	  have	  to	  
learn	  how	  to—you	  know,	  some	  people,	  they	  have	  wheelchairs.	  So	  .	  .	  .	  'You	  go	  ahead	  and	  sit	  
down.	  I	  help	  you	  up.’	  I	  dress	  them	  up.	  That's	  because	  they	  want	  to	  try	  it	  on,	  they	  fit.	  So	  I	  learned	  
a	  way	  to	  put	  it	  on,	  so	  .	  .	  .	  so,	  so	  different	  service,	  so	  they	  like	  that.	  Mm	  hmm.	  But	  sometimes	  
there're	  are	  some	  people,	  I	  know	  the	  ones,	  they	  give	  me	  sometimes,	  some	  people	  give	  you	  a	  tip.	  
Because	  they	  say,	  'You're	  so	  kind,’	  they	  say,	  ‘let	  me	  give	  you	  a	  tip.	  Buy	  some	  cold	  drink.’"	  "But	  I	  
like	  it,	  the	  way	  they're,	  I	  treated,	  I	  want	  the	  people	  to	  treat	  the	  same	  way	  I	  treat	  them,	  and	  they	  
appreciate	  it.	  And	  then,	  (inaudible).	  And	  that's	  why	  I	  think	  that	  people	  keep	  on	  coming.	  Because	  
I	  always—my	  attitude	  is,	  I'm	  on	  their	  level."	  	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:32:42	  
Arturo	  had	  told	  LMG	  prior	  to	  the	  interview	  that	  if	  customers	  don't	  show	  up	  when	  expected	  to	  
pick	  up	  a	  special	  order,	  the	  Aguirres	  will	  go	  over	  to	  the	  customer's	  home	  to	  check	  on	  her.	  
Sometimes,	  they	  customer	  is	  not	  able	  to	  get	  to	  the	  shop.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:32:57	  
A	  few	  times,	  the	  customer	  calls	  the	  shop	  and	  tells	  Tony	  what	  they	  want,	  what	  size,	  what	  color,	  
and	  the	  Aguirres	  either	  bring	  the	  items	  to	  the	  customer's	  home,	  or	  Arturo	  will	  pick	  up	  the	  
customer	  and	  bring	  her	  to	  the	  shop—"Taxi	  cab!"	  Tony	  jokes.	  These	  people	  don't	  have	  the	  
means	  to	  get	  to	  the	  shop,	  they	  live	  across	  town	  and	  they	  need	  something	  for	  whatever	  function	  
they	  have	  going	  on.	  They’ll	  call	  Tony,	  and	  then	  Tony	  sends	  Arturo	  to	  bring	  them	  to	  the	  store	  
and	  take	  them	  home	  again.	  Tony	  says,	  "You've	  got	  to	  do	  that.	  But	  you've	  got	  to	  do	  the	  nice	  to	  
the	  people,	  you	  want	  to	  make	  your	  name,	  so	  that	  Variety	  Fashion	  means	  the	  people	  on	  the,	  that	  
Variety	  Fashion	  provides	  good.	  I	  want	  to	  hear	  that.	  That's	  why	  the	  regular	  customers,	  they	  keep	  
on	  coming.	  Because	  there’s	  the	  service."	  
	  
Tony	  tells	  a	  story	  about	  a	  customer	  who	  went	  to	  another	  store	  and	  didn't	  like	  the	  attitude	  she	  
encountered	  there,	  so	  she	  said	  she	  would	  spend	  her	  money	  where	  she	  likes	  the	  attitude.	  When	  
people	  come	  out	  shopping,	  they	  are	  carrying	  their	  money,	  as	  they	  are	  looking	  for	  something	  
they	  need.	  When	  people	  are	  not	  treated	  right,	  they	  don't	  want	  to	  spend	  their	  money	  there.	  Her	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
18	  of	  22	  
customers	  tell	  her	  stories	  about	  how	  they	  are	  treated	  at	  other	  shops,	  and	  how	  they	  won't	  shop	  
where	  they	  don't	  like	  the	  service.	  "So	  I	  think	  the	  service	  is	  very	  important	  to	  the	  customer.	  The	  
main	  thing,	  that	  service	  is	  the	  number	  one	  reason	  that	  people	  keep	  on	  coming	  to	  here."	  She	  
feels	  like	  she	  has	  to	  take	  good	  care	  of	  her	  customers,	  because	  her	  livelihood	  depends	  on	  the	  
people.	  This	  is	  happy	  work	  for	  her.	  "And	  there	  were	  days	  that	  people,	  they	  bought	  the	  clothes,	  
they're	  happy	  with	  it.	  And	  sometimes,	  they	  wear	  [the	  clothes	  to]	  the	  function,	  and	  people	  
admire	  the	  clothes.	  And	  they	  come	  and	  told	  me,	  and	  I'm	  happy."	  They	  don't	  tell	  their	  friends	  
where	  they	  get	  their	  clothes,	  they	  want	  to	  keep	  it	  for	  themselves,	  so	  their	  friends	  don't	  buy	  the	  
same	  clothes.	  But	  sometimes	  the	  friends	  find	  Variety	  Fashion,	  anyway.	  People	  still	  come	  in	  and	  
say,	  "I	  didn't	  know	  you	  were	  here."	  In	  all	  the	  years	  she	  has	  been	  in	  business,	  she	  has	  never	  
advertised,	  it's	  always	  been	  word	  of	  mouth.	  	  
	  
Tony	  tells	  the	  story	  of	  a	  customer	  who	  was	  in	  the	  shop	  the	  day	  before,	  and	  everyone	  in	  the	  
church	  was	  looking	  for	  black	  clothes	  for	  a	  particular	  function.	  The	  customer	  didn't	  want	  the	  
others	  in	  the	  church	  to	  know	  about	  the	  store,	  but	  ultimately,	  she	  had	  to	  tell	  them,	  as	  they	  
wanted	  to	  order	  from	  the	  same	  place.	  But	  they	  didn't	  get	  the	  same	  dresses,	  just	  the	  same	  color.	  
Tony	  says,	  "I	  can't	  provide	  the	  same	  dress.	  Because	  I	  always—friends	  tell	  me	  there's	  a	  function	  
going	  on.	  So	  sometimes	  I	  ask,	  ‘What	  function	  [are]	  you	  going	  to?	  Because	  I	  don't	  want	  you	  to	  
buy	  the	  same	  dresses.’	  So	  most	  time	  they	  never	  have	  the	  same	  dresses,	  because	  I	  know	  the	  
customer."	  She	  knows	  which	  church	  they	  go	  to,	  and	  about	  what	  functions	  they	  are	  shopping	  
for.	  Tony	  tries	  to	  keep	  her	  customers	  from	  buying	  the	  same	  dress	  for	  the	  same	  function.	  She	  
doesn't	  want	  them	  to	  come	  back	  and	  be	  mad	  at	  her.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:40:49	  
On	  wearing	  hats	  
Tony	  has	  never	  in	  her	  life	  worn	  hats.	  But	  this	  year,	  she	  wore	  a	  hat	  because	  she	  had	  a	  head	  cold,	  
and	  she	  even	  slept	  in	  it.	  It	  was	  a	  small	  men’s	  hat.	  	  
	  
LMG	  asks	  Tony	  if	  she	  has	  encountered	  symbolism	  in	  the	  color	  of	  people's	  attire?	  She	  says	  she	  
thinks	  people	  just	  like	  to	  match	  the	  hat	  to	  their	  suits.	  She	  is	  not	  interested	  in	  the	  meaning	  of	  
their	  clothes.	  Her	  customers	  might	  tell	  LMG	  about	  the	  religious	  significance,	  but	  they	  don't	  tell	  
her	  about	  the	  meanings	  of	  different	  colors.	  A	  lot	  of	  people	  like	  royal	  blue	  and	  purple,	  because	  
they	  say	  they	  are	  the	  colors	  of	  royalty.	  Tony	  says	  that	  some	  things,	  she	  doesn't	  want	  to	  know	  
too	  much,	  because	  these	  topics	  can	  turn	  into	  a	  very	  long	  story.	  Sometimes	  she	  has	  to	  cut	  
people	  off	  a	  little.	  To	  Tony,	  people	  just	  buy	  their	  hat	  because	  it's	  a	  color	  they	  like	  and	  it	  matches	  
their	  suit.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:45:00	  
Maintaining	  traditions;	  Dressing	  for	  church	  
What	  else	  does	  Tony	  want	  people	  to	  know	  about	  her	  business,	  her	  work?	  "My	  thing	  is,	  I	  want	  
them	  to	  be	  the	  traditions.	  And	  people,	  they're	  faddish,	  they	  keep	  on	  changing	  it.	  Keep	  the	  
traditions,	  continue	  to	  go	  on.	  And	  this	  younger	  generations,	  to	  dress	  nice	  to	  the	  worshipping	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
19	  of	  22	  
God,	  they	  say,	  they	  dress	  nice	  to	  go	  to	  their	  churches.	  Not	  just	  go	  any	  kind	  of	  way	  to	  go	  to	  the	  
churches.	  Because	  I	  believe	  in	  God	  as	  the	  most	  highest	  spring,	  and	  so	  give	  Him	  [your]	  best,	  or	  
even	  the	  dress	  have	  to	  be—I	  believe	  in	  dress	  to	  be	  nice	  to	  go	  to	  the	  worship."	  Tony	  is	  a	  Jehovah's	  
Witness.	  "We	  don't	  bling-­‐bling,	  but	  I	  dress	  nice.	  I	  try	  to	  be	  nice.”	  
	  
Tony	  says	  that	  the	  young	  people	  dress	  "any	  kind	  of	  way"	  to	  go	  to	  church	  now.	  The	  lap	  scarves	  
came	  about	  because	  the	  skirts	  the	  young	  women	  are	  buying	  in	  the	  mall	  are	  too	  short.	  It's	  the	  
deaconesses	  who	  put	  the	  lap	  scarves	  on	  people,	  not	  the	  ushers.	  Tony's	  customers	  tell	  her	  
stories	  about	  that,	  the	  older	  women.	  The	  older	  women	  try	  to	  teach	  the	  younger	  women	  to	  
dress	  properly,	  wear	  dresses	  or	  skirts	  with	  lower	  hemlines,	  present	  themselves	  the	  right	  way.	  
Some	  of	  the	  younger	  people	  get	  mad	  and	  leave.	  She	  thinks	  you	  don't	  have	  to	  wear	  nice	  (i.e.	  
expensive)	  clothes,	  you	  just	  have	  to	  be	  presentable.	  There	  are	  always	  affordable	  clothes.	  
People	  are	  willing	  to	  spend	  $200	  or	  $300	  on	  a	  dress	  for	  a	  wedding.	  But	  they	  don't	  want	  to	  
spend	  the	  money	  on	  a	  dress	  that	  is	  presentable	  for	  church,	  and	  “representing	  worship.”	  But	  the	  
attitude	  is,	  ‘Nobody	  can	  tell	  me	  anything.’	  Tony	  thinks	  that	  people	  in	  the	  South	  dress	  more	  
formally	  than	  they	  do	  in	  the	  North.	  She	  says	  she	  has	  customers	  from	  Chicago	  and	  Georgia	  who	  
come	  and	  get	  her	  clothes,	  and	  wear	  them	  at	  their	  home	  church—it's	  new	  to	  them	  and	  they	  love	  
it.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
1:49:47	  
Is	  there	  a	  particular	  time	  of	  year	  when	  people	  buy	  hats?	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:49:52	  
It	  all	  depends	  on	  when	  they	  are	  looking	  for	  something	  to	  match	  an	  outfit.	  If	  they	  can't	  find	  
something	  in	  their	  wardrobe,	  they'll	  come	  in.	  They	  come	  in	  throughout	  the	  week,	  not	  on	  any	  
particular	  day.	  They	  shop	  when	  they	  have	  money.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
1:50:37	  
Tony's	  love	  of	  her	  work,	  for	  her	  customers	  
What	  is	  it	  that	  keeps	  you	  in	  this	  business?	  
	  
Arturo	  Aguirre	  
1:50:42	  
"To	  me,	  I	  think	  she	  likes	  it!	  I	  think	  she	  likes	  the	  association	  with	  her	  customers."	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:50:53	  
"When	  I'm	  sick,	  when	  I’m	  sick	  I	  can't	  stay	  home.	  I	  like	  to	  see	  the	  people.	  I	  can't	  just	  sitting	  down	  
and	  doing	  things	  around	  the	  house.	  I	  gotta	  go	  see	  my	  friends	  at	  the	  store!	  They	  coming!"	  How	  
has	  it	  been	  for	  her,	  coming	  from	  South	  Korea	  to	  Baton	  Rouge?	  What	  are	  some	  of	  the	  important	  
things	  she's	  learned	  about	  the	  culture?	  She	  left	  South	  Korea	  when	  she	  was	  young,	  she	  doesn't	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
20	  of	  22	  
know	  that	  much	  about	  the	  culture	  at	  home.	  Most	  of	  her	  adult	  life	  has	  been	  spent	  living	  in	  Baton	  
Rouge.	  She	  has	  learned	  about	  dressing,	  grooming,	  adapted	  to	  the	  older	  people's	  styles.	  She	  has	  
learned	  from	  older	  people.	  What	  is	  it	  about	  the	  older	  people	  that	  she	  likes?	  "They	  are	  just	  
attached	  to	  me,	  and	  sometimes	  I	  feel	  like	  they're	  my	  aunts,	  they're	  my	  mothers.	  And	  so,	  I	  want	  
[them]	  to	  be	  treated	  like	  dignity,	  their	  dignity.	  They	  are	  somebody,	  you	  know?"	  "But	  now	  that	  
we	  talk	  about,	  now,	  the	  older	  people,	  we	  talk	  about	  it	  and	  this	  generation	  of	  people,	  there's	  a	  
lot	  of—good	  language	  is	  gone,	  they	  say.	  Yeah,	  like	  'thank	  you,'	  'excuse	  me,'	  'sorry,'	  and	  'yes	  
ma'am,'	  'no	  ma'am.'	  .	  .	  .	  That's	  what	  the	  older	  people	  say,	  those	  language	  is	  gone,	  they	  say.	  
They	  say	  it's	  so	  sad	  to	  hear.	  And	  younger	  people	  now,	  they	  do	  using	  the	  computers	  and	  the	  text	  
messaging,	  and	  they	  have	  their	  own	  language,	  like	  the	  teenagers,	  like	  their	  own	  teenager	  
languages.	  It's,	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  say	  it's	  sad,	  older	  people	  still,	  I	  learned	  it	  today,	  a	  little	  kid	  came	  
with	  a	  grandmother.	  And	  she	  did	  something,	  'Say,	  sorry.'	  And	  I	  was	  doing	  something,	  giving	  
something,	  [and	  she	  said]	  'Thank	  you.'	  I	  was	  like,	  wow,	  it's	  still,	  and	  the	  older	  people,	  when	  you	  
do—train	  the	  younger	  people,	  the	  grandkids,	  it's	  good.	  But	  their	  mothers	  should	  train	  their	  kids.	  
It's	  a	  different	  way.	  That's	  why	  they	  say	  language	  is,	  those	  good	  language	  is	  gone,	  they	  say.	  But	  
I	  heard	  it,	  though.	  But	  I	  see	  the	  customers	  say	  it	  like	  that,	  and	  I	  go	  in	  public	  places—they	  bump	  
you,	  they	  don't	  even	  say	  sorry,	  they	  keep	  on,	  just	  look	  at	  you,	  keep	  on	  going.	  .	  .	  so	  I	  don't	  know	  
what	  the	  twenty	  years	  from	  now,	  I	  don't	  know!"	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:55:04	  
Looking	  ahead	  
Tony	  plans	  on	  keeping	  the	  business	  going	  for	  now.	  She	  can’t	  give	  a	  particular	  time	  when	  she	  will	  
close	  the	  shop.	  "My	  heart	  is	  still,	  I	  want	  to	  do	  it."	  She	  is	  not	  making	  plans,	  she	  is	  taking	  it	  one	  
day	  at	  a	  time.	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:56:31	  
Out-­‐of-­‐state	  customers	  
Tony	  has	  a	  customer	  from	  Georgia.	  Every	  year,	  she	  determines	  that	  she	  will	  spend	  a	  certain	  
amount	  of	  money	  at	  Variety	  Fashion.	  She’ll	  ask	  Tony,	  “Did	  I	  finish?”	  Tony	  will	  say,	  “I	  think	  you	  
did,	  maybe	  even	  a	  little	  more.”	  The	  woman	  will	  say,	  “That’s	  good,	  I	  don’t	  want	  it	  to	  be	  any	  
less.”	  One	  year	  it	  was	  $2,000,	  and	  another	  it	  was	  $1,000.	  When	  it	  was	  $1,000,	  she	  also	  had	  
other	  customers	  helping	  to	  reach	  that	  goal.	  She	  would	  keep	  in	  touch	  with	  Tony	  to	  see	  how	  
close	  she	  was	  getting	  to	  her	  goal.	  That	  kind	  of	  loyalty	  really	  touches	  Tony's	  heart,	  because	  the	  
customer	  really	  wanted	  to	  help	  her.	  	  
	  
Tony	  is	  aware	  of	  millinery	  shops	  in	  New	  Orleans	  and	  Hammond	  that	  sell	  the	  church	  wear.	  Tony	  
thinks	  that	  people	  travel	  to	  her	  shop	  because	  of	  the	  service,	  and	  the	  clothing.	  She	  thinks	  people	  
like	  the	  "bling-­‐bling"	  look	  of	  her	  clothes.	  She	  tries	  to	  keep	  a	  certain	  amount	  of	  bling	  in	  the	  store,	  
as	  well	  as	  more	  subtle	  attire.	  The	  suits	  are	  not	  only	  for	  church,	  but	  also	  for	  weddings	  and	  formal	  
occasions.	  Older	  people	  are	  versatile	  in	  the	  ways	  they	  wear	  the	  clothes.	  Sometimes	  the	  
customers	  can	  mix	  and	  match	  the	  outfits	  and	  hats,	  with	  new	  things	  and	  things	  they	  already	  
own.	  She	  tells	  them	  sometimes,	  "You	  already	  have	  a	  hat,	  just	  buy	  a	  new	  suit."	  	  She	  asks	  them	  if	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
21	  of	  22	  
they	  already	  have	  something	  in	  their	  closets	  in	  the	  color	  they	  are	  looking	  for,	  and	  tells	  them,	  
"Something	  new,	  something	  old."	  	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
1:59:19	  
Care	  for	  hats	  
How	  do	  people	  care	  for	  the	  hats,	  to	  make	  them	  last?	  Tony	  tells	  them	  not	  to	  wear	  them	  in	  the	  
rain,	  not	  to	  wear	  them	  in	  cars,	  to	  keep	  them	  in	  a	  plastic	  bag	  when	  they	  are	  taking	  them	  out	  so	  
they	  don’t	  get	  dirty.	  The	  rain	  will	  cause	  color	  spot	  changes.	  Plastic	  bags	  are	  good	  for	  storing	  
hats	  on	  shelves.	  But	  Tony	  thinks	  the	  best	  thing	  is	  to	  put	  them	  in	  a	  hat	  box,	  without	  a	  plastic	  bag.	  
She	  thinks	  that	  if	  they	  take	  it	  off	  and	  put	  it	  away	  right	  away	  in	  a	  hat	  box	  or	  plastic,	  it	  could	  get	  a	  
fungus	  or	  some	  such.	  There	  is	  not	  a	  professional	  service	  for	  having	  hats	  cleaned,	  like	  a	  dry	  
cleaner	  for	  clothing.	  Sometimes	  people	  get	  make-­‐up	  on	  the	  hats,	  make	  them	  dirty,	  when	  they	  
try	  them	  on	  in	  the	  store.	  Tony	  cleans	  them	  with	  a	  stain	  remover	  she	  buys	  at	  the	  Dollar	  Store.	  
This	  was	  something	  else	  she	  had	  to	  learn.	  Tony	  gives	  them	  a	  plastic	  bag	  to	  put	  on	  under	  the	  hat	  
when	  they	  try	  them	  on.	  She	  also	  had	  to	  learn	  to	  clean	  the	  clothing,	  too,	  remove	  make-­‐up	  from	  
the	  clothing.	  She	  tries	  to	  prevent	  this	  from	  happening,	  to	  ask	  the	  customers	  not	  to	  get	  make-­‐up	  
on	  her	  clothes.	  Some	  people	  don’t	  care	  about	  other	  people’s	  clothes,	  if	  they	  get	  them	  dirty.	  
Sometimes	  the	  customers	  get	  upset	  and	  walk	  away,	  but	  she	  tries	  to	  take	  care	  of	  her	  clothing.	  
	  
Tony	  Aguirre	  
2:03:01	  
Closing	  
Is	  there	  anything	  else	  that	  Tony	  wants	  to	  say?	  "All	  I'm	  saying	  is,	  I	  love	  what	  I'm	  doing.	  But	  I	  hope	  
people	  still,	  twenty	  years	  from	  now,	  they	  still,	  they	  dress	  good,	  keep	  the	  tradition	  the	  same	  way.	  
That's	  all	  I	  worry	  about,	  the	  later	  on,	  and	  then	  people	  go	  to	  the	  church	  any	  kind	  of	  way!	  You	  
know	  what	  I'm	  saying?"	  Tony's	  customers	  don't	  talk	  much	  about	  their	  elders,	  from	  their	  
childhood.	  Some	  of	  the	  older	  women	  still	  wear	  gloves.	  Some	  of	  the	  older	  women,	  in	  their	  
eighties	  and	  nineties,	  they	  don't	  want	  to	  dress	  up	  as	  much.	  They	  can’t	  come	  by	  themselves,	  so	  
they	  rely	  on	  their	  children	  and	  grandchildren	  to	  buy	  clothes	  for	  them.	  	  
	  
When	  customers	  are	  still	  working,	  they	  buy	  clothes.	  Some	  of	  them	  are	  older,	  including	  one	  
woman	  who	  is	  in	  her	  upper	  eighties	  and	  nineties,	  and	  is	  still	  driving.	  She	  is	  glad	  she	  bought	  nice	  
clothes	  when	  she	  could	  afford	  it,	  and	  is	  glad	  to	  have	  a	  closet	  full	  of	  clothing	  since	  she	  can't	  buy	  
them	  any	  more.	  She	  wears	  whatever	  around	  the	  house,	  since	  she	  retired.	  This	  woman	  talked	  
about	  the	  cost	  of	  living	  going	  up—medicines,	  etc.	  She	  comes	  into	  the	  store	  and	  admires	  the	  
clothes,	  says	  she	  would	  like	  to	  buy	  them,	  and	  says	  that	  when	  the	  prices	  come	  down,	  she	  wants	  
to	  put	  something	  on	  layaway.	  This	  woman	  has	  stayed	  the	  same	  size,	  as	  opposed	  to	  other	  
customers	  who	  gain	  or	  lose	  weight.	  A	  change	  in	  weight	  doesn't	  make	  any	  difference	  for	  the	  hat	  
size.	  	  
	  
LMG	  says	  she	  will	  come	  the	  next	  day	  to	  take	  photos,	  since	  it	  is	  getting	  late.	  
	  
Tony	  remembers	  traveling	  to	  Houston	  every	  two	  or	  three	  weeks	  to	  get	  inventory.	  Last	  year,	  
Variety	  Fashion	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
22	  of	  22	  
they	  went	  three	  times	  over	  one	  year.	  Arturo	  mentions	  that	  there	  is	  less	  clothing	  and	  more	  
electronics	  in	  the	  Harwin	  area	  of	  Houston.	  	  
	  
Tony	  observes,	  "Yeah,	  garment	  is	  a	  lot	  of,	  clothes	  is	  changing	  now.	  Only	  a	  few	  people	  still	  keep	  
the	  tradition."	  
	  
END	  OF	  INTERVIEW	  
	  
END	  OF	  RECORDING