1 
1 
Mr. Right 
 
 
 
 
 
     “Hey Castle.” It was Bob Burton from across the loose circle of longshoremen. I looked up 
from where I was sitting. 
    “Did you ever forget to take your tampax out?” 
    An explosion of muffin crumbs sprayed from the mouth of the guy next to me as he snorted in 
surprise. Jesus. Was there a right answer to that question?   
   Moments before, we had all emerged from the refrigerated bowels of the Arctic Lights for 
coffee. Fans kept cargo on the ship as cold as an icebox. My nose was running. Bruises had begun 
to form on the insides of my arms from the sharp edges of forty- pound apple cartons. Burton had 
been hassling me all morning. 
    “The reason I ask,” he said congenially, “is that I was eating my girlfriend last night. But she 
forgot to take her tampax out. You wouldn’t do that would you, Castle?” 
    Snickers greeted his remarks and the audience looked in my direction. I was the only woman 
on the job. 
    Bob had made it plain that he didn’t care for women working on the waterfront.  A fringe of 
dark brown hair over big blue eyes belied his nasty wit. “Beast of Burton” was what they called 
him. Even the men gave Bob a wide berth.  
    “The thing is, “ he said, “now I think I’m suffering from toxic shock syndrome! 
    I scanned the circle of men. One had his styrofoam cup tilted, coffee pouring to the ground as 
he laughed. Another had his mouth wide open in a guffaw, a half eaten doughnut writhing inside. 
 
 
2 
2 
Another was stamping his feet to keep from wetting his pants. I’d shoved my feelings so deep by 
now I was numb. 
    “Cargo!” called out the ship boss. “Let’s get to work!”  
    We descended singly down the ladder. Each rung brought us deeper into the refrigerated air 
that protected the fruit. By the time we got to the bottom deck the smell of Red and Golden 
Delicious apples filled the air with a fresh sweetness and lifted my spirits. 
    “Hey, down below!” Stormy, the winch driver, called. “Heads up! 
    I looked up quickly.  The robot, a large steel frame used to transport cargo between the dock 
and the ship, landed in the square beneath the hatch opening. Wally, who was working Bob’s side 
of the hatch and I inserted our pallet jacks into the two apple pallets and backed them off the 
frame. The small wheels made a clacking noise as they ran over the floor’s wooden slats. 
    From then on, the ceaseless swing of the winch driver’s hook would sound the beat of our 
morning, bringing us pallets loaded tall with apple boxes and moving out the pallets we steadily 
emptied. 
    When I reached the aft end of the hatch I pulled the jack from the pallet of boxes and then 
pitched in to help my partners, Tory and Glen, strip it. I set one carton down tight to a row and 
turned to see another box fly three feet and touch down squarely against mine. Thunk!  The 
bottom layer of cartons grew, and a second tier was started.  
    “Hey were you on that car ship last week? ” Tory asked Glen. 
    “Nah. I took the day off.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    “Those Nissans are sharp. But you’ll never guess what happened.” Tory pulled a carton off the 
pallet and parked it snug to the bulkhead. “I drove my first car off the ship and I’m half way down 
 
 
3 
3 
the dock when I hear this voice. It’s, like, a fucking woman, in the back seat or something 
saying ‘FUEL LEVEL IS LOW’. I thought I was going to total the damn thing.”   
     Glen laughed. 
    “I kid you not, man,” Tory said. He used the tail of his shirt to wipe the sweat from his face. 
    As we stood there waiting for the robot to return I could feel the sweat trickle down my back. I 
fanned my face with my glove. 
     “You know, a blind girlfriend is the best kind to have,” Bob said from the forward end of the 
hatch. “Think about it. She pisses you off, you just change the furniture around.”  
    He made sure his comments were loud enough for me to hear on the aft end of the hatch. 
Everyone laughed. It was funny--if you weren’t a woman.  
    As we waited for the winch to drop into the hatch I glanced over at Bob. He stood, leaning 
against the bulkhead like he owned the place.  
        I just concentrated on the work. Maybe he would tire of toying with me.  
    “How come you never tell us about your love life, Castle?” Bob called. I was pulling boxes off 
the pallet and stowing them in the stacks, my back to him. I didn’t turn around.  
    “I'm serious, Castle,” Bob said even louder. “I talk about my love life all the time. Tell us. A 
good looking girl like you must have a real knight in shining armor.” This joker wasn’t ever 
going to stop. 
    “Oh, I bet she’s got a secret lover,” Bob elbowed his partner, Randy and they both chuckled. 
“’Mr. Right.’” 
    Did the other men enjoy his relentless campaign?  
 
 
 
 
 
4 
4 
    The robot swung back with another load of apples. It had to be near lunchtime, I figured. 
Fatigue was setting in. I rolled the pallet into place next to Glen and Tory and then pulled a carton 
from the top.  It slipped and the sharp corner of the box jammed into the crook of my arm. I could 
feel a welt rising. A flash of anger shot through me. These boxes were close to half my body 
weight. They were beating me up. And that asshole wouldn’t let up. 
    “So tell us, Castle. Who’s Mr. Right? 
    I turned around, rubbing the welt on my arm.  
    “To tell you the truth, Bob,” I said slowly. 
    “Yeah?” 
    “You’re Mr. Right.”  
    His head jerked up slightly from the cartons he was stacking.  
    I could hear some low laughter from my side of the hatch. Nothing 
that Bob would hear. But still. 
    “I wouldn’t lie to you.”  I knew I had his attention. “You’re my Mr. Right. “ 
    Bob's partners turned in his direction. They expected a clever retort. A dry cough was all he 
produced.  
“I’m not kidding, Bob. I’ve known all along it was you.” 
    A snort escaped from Randy. 
“Who’re you laughing at?” Bob shot back. 
    With a scrape of metal against the wood deck the robot fell between our gangs. I pushed the 
forks of my jack into one of the two pallets it carried, jacked it up and rolled it backwards toward 
my gang. I paused as the robot cleared the square. 
 
 
5 
5 
    “In fact, Bob,” I said. “I was thinking maybe you and I could go to lunch.” 
    Silence settled over the deck. Only the thunk  of cartons landing against the stacks could be 
heard.  
    “Hey, man,” Wally said finally. “The lady is asking you out to lunch.” Bob remained engrossed 
in his work while the rest of us digested the turn of events.  
    “C'mon, Burton, take her out to lunch!” It was Randy, his other partner.               
    “Yeah, what's the matter?” Glen asked. “You got something better to do?” 
    There was still no answer from the Beast. 
    “You're breaking my heart, Bob.” I said. 
    “Hey, down below! Chow time!” 
   We looked up to see the boss leaning over the hatch making shoveling motions towards his 
mouth. Bob Burton was the first to hit the ladder.  
    It was a small victory. But I relished it. As one of only twelve women in a workforce of a 
thousand, I had learned to aim small. 
    I took my time climbing up the ladder. When I emerged the sky was bright. It was going to be a 
good afternoon.