Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Christopher Wang 
February 23, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Chris Wang is the founder and owner of The Gypsy Fish Company in Santa Cruz, California. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Chris Wang joined the 
interview from Santa Cruz, California, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:35 
Chris grew up in a 
traditional Chinese family. His parents immigrated to the 
United States via Taiwan. Chris's dad was very into eating, and with four boys in 
the family, they ate a 
lot of food. They ate mostly Chinese food, but when they 
had western food, it was usually simplified, industrial food like Campbell's soup, 
cereal, and hamburgers. 
00:01:35 
When Chris was a 
kid, he always thought he would be a 
doctor. Most of his 
interest and knowledge around food came from helping his mom cook. He learned 
a 
lot by being around it growing up. 
00:02:32 
Chris's family put a 
lot of value into food. They would eat dinner together every 
night, which shaped sitting down and having meals together as a 
core value. It 
also moved him to want to become a 
chef, which later led him back to fishing. 
00:03:49 
Chris started fishing after his sophomore year of college in 1991 or 1992. He 
received a 
summer job in central New York through a 
scholarship at his college, 
but he didn't find it interesting. Instead, to get away from central New York for 
the summer, he ended up going to Alaska and finding a 
summer job in the fishing 
industry. That was the biggest adventure he had had in his life up to that point. 
Chris was attracted to both the idea of making some money, and the idea of 
having a 
big adventure in the outdoors. He had a 
romanticized vision of what it 
would be like. 
00:05:27 
Chris describes his first summer working in the fishing industry in Alaska. He 
took away a 
willingness to work hard and put himself out there. With zero 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
1 
experience, he walked the docks every day asking for work. He learned a 
lot of 
resilience. Early on in the process, someone told him that it's a 
numbers game. 
"You're not going to get it if you don't go and find it. The more you try and find 
it, the more possibility you'll have." When he got back from that summer, he 
couldn't stop telling Alaska stories. It was the most independent thing he had ever 
done in his life, far beyond the scope of his regular experience. 
00:07:09 
When Chris was walking the docks looking for work, he received a 
range of 
reactions. People would usually ask if he had any experience, and he would 
answer with, "No, but...." Some encouraged him to keep looking and keep 
trying, which was important for him to hear. 
00:08:38 
That summer, Chris ended up getting a 
job on a 
longliner baiting hooks and 
unloading the boat when it came back into the harbor. They would fish for about 
forty-eight hours and come back into the harbor with sixty-thousand pounds of 
halibut. Chris recalls the sights and smells of that first job. He remembers the 
feeling of being somewhere he belongs. 
00:11:13 
Chris and his brothers did well in high school, and his parents brought them up to 
be very education-focused. However, to their credit, his parents also supported 
them when they were exploring. Chris says his mom must have supported his trip 
in some way, because she likely gave him money for his plane ticket to Alaska. 
When he came back, he didn't tell his parents much of what happened during the 
trip. There was a 
point of growth for him where the scope of his experience went 
beyond anything his parents could imagine, or beyond what he felt safe sharing. 
00:12:50 
After that first summer in Alaska, Chris continued going to Alaska for the 
summers while in college. He says he never saw fishing as a 
career choice for 
him. It did, however, evolve and lead to an interest in the maritime industry. He 
gravitated toward working on boats in the ocean. 
00:13:50 
After finishing college, Chris felt pretty lost. He didn't know what he wanted to 
do, and he moved back into his parents' house. He began working in the 
restaurant industry, starting at a 
fast food Chinese restaurant. Eventually, he 
moved to delivering Chinese fast food, working the night shift at a 
bakery, and 
working in fine dining. Concurrently, he started working on traditional rig 
sailboats and going sailing on long ocean voyages. 
To his parents' credit, they supported his education, and he went back to school to 
study traditional wood boat building. During this time, he learned a 
craft and 
started to value the trades and explore his relationship with them. As part of 
the program, they did a 
lot of writing and processing using art. Art had always 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
2 
been an interest of Chris's, and this gave him a 
way to learn his voice. This was 
the first time he could hear his own voice in the work he was doing. 
Chris ended up melding his work on traditional rig sailboats and his work in 
restaurants and fine dining to become a 
chef on yachts. At some point, someone 
hired him to travel with them as their personal, private chef. Some of his early 
clients were quite politically connected. Their family used to run the Rockefeller 
Brothers Fund, which is the philanthropical arm of the Rockefeller family. He 
says they supported his ideas about food and social justice. 
Chris went through a 
process of seeing food as a 
way to connect people and 
support different food systems and food security. That early job made him feel 
like he had a 
voice and the ability to connect people to different ideas through 
food. In fine dining, you never really have a 
connection to the people for whom 
you're cooking. Chris liked the idea of working in situations where he could know 
where the food comes from, plan the menu together with his client, serve them, 
and tell them about the origins of their food. They would eat all of their meals 
together, and they could sit down and forge a 
real connection around ideas about 
food. 
Through that job as a 
personal chef, Chris had free time to travel. While traveling, 
he met a 
fisherman who invited him to Alaska to fish for a 
season. Chris went, 
and they had a 
great season. It got him thinking about how he could connect all 
of the dots in a 
closed loop system by catching salmon, preparing it, and serving 
it. 
00:21:25 
Chris was in his late twenties when he started connecting with the ideas behind 
agriculture. He came to understand that by supporting local farmers, people can 
support stewardship. Growing up in the suburbs of central New York, food grew 
in grocery stores. 
00:22:18 
Chris describes how he started learning about agriculture and food's connection to 
other points in the system. Early on, he had a 
job in a 
vegetarian restaurant. He 
also became friends with a 
lot of young farmers in the area, and had a 
desire to be 
connected to the land and grow food himself. Working in restaurants and being an 
eater, he says the seeds for these ideas were planted along the way. 
00:23:16 
Chris didn't see himself working in the food industry long term. He has always 
followed his curiosity, which led him to work seasonally and change jobs a 
lot. As 
he changed jobs, he kept having to recalibrate what he was interested in, what he 
wanted to learn about, and if the work fit his value system. 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
3 
00:24:46 
Chris recounts what it was like returning to Alaska to fish. The first summer he 
went back, he says it was tough. The boat he was working on was bare bones, and 
it was one of the coldest, wettest summers he had ever had. They were living in a 
semi-feral way, which is pretty standard in Bristol Bay. It's a 
six-week season 
with four weeks of intensive fishing. The run happens very quickly, so it's full on, 
and then it's over. If you miss fishing, you miss out. The ten months between 
seasons allows you to forget about the hardships, and when March or April rolls 
around, it sounds like a 
good idea to go fishing again. 
00:26:35 
After finishing his first season back in Alaska at the end of July, Chris was invited 
to start working in the marijuana industry. He was piecing together seasonal work, 
and in the fall of that year, he got involved in food security projects. 
During that time, Chris was interested in the anti-GMO (genetically-modified 
organisms) movement, and he attended a 
screening of The Future c 
f 
Food, made 
by Deborah Garcia. After the movie, he told Deborah he wanted to help distribute 
it. He ended up helping her set up screenings of the film around the country. 
00:29:21 
Chris also cooked and was an instructor at a 
cross-cultural environmental 
leadership program. It was a 
social justice bootcamp for kids that lived in 
California's Marin and Sonoma counties. He learned a 
lot about race from the 
kids who attended the camp. They came from less privileged families and talked 
about the obstacles they face in school. 
Chris grew up upper-middle class, and was always taught that success is about 
working harder. He had always believed this for others too, but hearing people tell 
their own stories made him realize that the playing field is not level. Some of the 
kids' fathers were incarcerated or absent, and they were working to support their 
families. How do you study more and do more in school when you have so many 
other things to deal with? This experience opened his eyes to the disparity of 
opportunity that exists. 
00:31:23 
Chris says he didn't have a 
lot of self-awareness about his identity when he first 
went to Alaska. Even after he kept going back and worked with indigenous people 
on the boat, he didn't identify more with them than others. There's always this 
experience of feeling "other," but he didn't let it deter him or see it as an obstacle. 
00:32:44 
As Chris reflects on how his identity intersects with his career, he says that going 
back to Alaska now is about trying to be more involved in the community. The 
year-round community where he fishes is largely a 
subsistence community with a 
lot of indigenous people. There's a 
lot of opportunity to provide good mentorship. 
For example, in the past, he was able to teach a 
cooking class at an after school 
program. Many times in these fishing communities, it's about exploiting the 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
4 
resource (fish). Fishermen go in, catch, make money, and leave. Chris says it's a 
tough balance. Because the fishermen are there to work, there's not a 
lot of time 
for interaction. During COVID, they are trying to isolate completely. 
Someone Chris worked with emphasized that the fishermen bring a 
wealth of 
experiences from across the world to this small fishing village, and it's good to 
provide some sort of integration into the community. 
00:35:32 
After Chris returned to Alaska from his fishing hiatus, he started going back 
almost every summer. 
00:35:56 
Chris started his own company eight or nine years ago. Partly, he wanted a 
freezer 
full of salmon for himself, friends, and family to eat. The natural progression was 
to then offer it to clients. The business started small, and he played around with it. 
He made money doing other work until his fishing side hustle had to become the 
hustle. Fortunately, it happened at the right time. People were becoming more 
interested in the origins of their food, and he could invest a 
lot of thought and 
energy into how to grow the business. 
00:37:43 
Before starting his company, Chris had a 
yearly cycle. He would go to Alaska in 
the summer, travel to Indonesia in August to surf, return to California in 
September to work for a 
few months, and then go back to Indonesia for the 
winter. He worked seasonally to support his surfing and travel habit, and took 
private chef clients where they popped up. 
00:39:07 
Chris describes the evolution of his company. For him, there wasn't a 
laid out 
plan. Aside from taking advantage of the Small Business Administration, he had a 
big social community around the Bay Area, and he believed in the power of the 
network. He may not be the person that can help, but he probably knows the 
person that can help. With this in mind, he did a 
lot of networking to feel 
supported. 
As for the backend technology part of the business, he learned how to use 
technology to be more efficient. For a 
long time, he did all orders and invoices 
individually by hand. Now, everything is automated. 
It was also a 
time when there was a 
lot of prosperity in the Bay Area. Chris would 
do fish deals in Facebook's parking lot, and he saw these corporate pop-ups as a 
model for quick distribution. However, he quickly learned that he could do the 
same thing at the community level by creating hubs where individuals organize 
their own communities for a 
similarly efficient drop-off. 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
5 
00:42:45 
After starting the business, Chris had to figure out the pacing. The business 
started out very small. The idea was that instead of owning him, it would 
support him living the rest of his life. He values the business's connections and 
what he is able to support through it, especially his own creativity, travel, and 
community. 
00:43:45 
The first year, Chris started out with about one thousand pounds of salmon. 
Eventually, it started to grow. Now, it's closer to fifteen thousand pounds. 
00:44:46 
Chris and other fishermen cooperatively pool their fish through the processor. The 
processor buys it from them, and then Chris buys it back. As they're catching fish, 
a 
boat comes out to the fishing ground, picks up the fish, and brings it to land 
where it can be processed. In Naknek, everything is processed and frozen before 
being put on a 
barge to Seattle. In September, the fish travels to San Francisco on 
a 
tractor trailer and is stored in a 
warehouse there. Chris goes to the warehouse 
throughout the year to pick up fish and distribute it. 
Although there is the opportunity to do national distribution, the carbon footprint 
of the styrofoam and air transportation necessary for that type of distribution is 
too great for Chris to overcome. He always faces challenges around figuring that 
out. 
00:47:01 
Chris distributes his fish locally and throughout California. The hub system 
allows him to establish a 
hub anywhere in California and go there every six weeks 
or so to drop off fish. He still wants to maintain a 
direct connection to his 
customers, and use food to build community, connection, and stewardship. 
00:47:56 
Chris says many of his customers are scientists and engineers involved with 
oceanographic research. They know the industry, and they know the value of 
supporting sustainable fisheries. However, there is a 
wide range of people that 
support it. 
00:49:30 
Chris describes a 
day in the life. In early June, people converge from around the 
world and prepare the boats. It is a 
social time, but they are also on a 
tight 
timeline to have the boats ready by the time the fish arrive. There's a 
window, but 
because it's a 
wild fishery, they don't know exactly when the fish are coming. As 
they approach the summer solstice, it is light almost twenty-four hours a 
day, 
allowing them to work late into the evening. Before they go fishing, they try to 
include a 
day off for mental health. 
Once they start fishing, it's a 
relentless schedule. They are constantly following, 
finding, catching, and delivering fish. In some ways, it's a 
natural cycle because 
the fish are moving with the tides, and the fishermen are moving with the fish. 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
6 
There are four of them on the boat, and they share the duties, which include 
engineering, cooking, finding fish, mending nets. If there's a 
closure through Fish 
and Game, or the processor isn't taking fish, they will get an opportunity to have 
time off on the boat. However, most of the time during the season, they're fishing. 
00:52:47 
Chris is known for changing his crew every three to four years. He has a 
lot of 
experience, and he has worked for a 
lot of amazing people. He is always looking 
for new experiences, for learning, and to follow his curiosity. 
00:53:55 
On the boat, there is usually a 
captain who is often financing the whole operation. 
He owns the boat, holds the permits, has a 
network, and is finding the fish. 
Chris is typically the deck boss. He likes to look for systems and efficiencies, and 
he cooks on their boat. There is also an engineer and another deckhand who 
generally has less experience. 
Part of boat culture is the idea that they are all working together towards the same 
goal. Because it's potentially dangerous and it's their livelihood, they put a 
lot of 
trust in each other. Special relationships develop from that circumstance. 
00:56:04 
Several of his best friends are from fishing. Working together and having a 
shared 
experience and high level of trust in each other has led to significant friendships 
where his friends will call him out. 
00:58:11 
Chris worked with an Asian American woman for a 
couple of years. He wanted to 
support her in being empowered, but saw it more as a 
result of her gender than her 
race. 
00:59:33 
Chris's Asian American identity has influenced his experiences as a 
fisherman. 
First, there is the stereotypical idea that he's smart. 
1:00:10 
Chris talks about his time in prison. He went to prison for a 
marijuana crime in 
South Dakota. Early on when he was there, he would do sitting meditation to 
regather and center himself. Other inmates could look into his cell and see him 
meditating, and they started to assume he knew martial arts. Years later, he 
learned that some of them assumed he was a 
kingpin. Even though he was just 
trying to meditate to keep it together, he saw the value in not dispelling the myth 
that he had martial arts superpowers. 
He learned the most about race while incarcerated. In South Dakota, while over 
half of the incarcerated population is Native American, they make up only around 
five percent of the free population. Because Chris is nonwhite, he fit into that 
group. He was able to see and understand institutional racism and genocide from 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
7 
the ground level as he learned about the poverty, lack of choices, and perceptions 
that brought people there. He notes that we often believe how other people see us 
is who we are. 
1:04:28 
Chris's time in prison prompted him to seek more opportunities to serve. He also 
began trying to tease out other people's stories more, to listen, and to see beyond 
his assumptions. Everyone has a 
story. Being able to share that story is healing, as 
is being able to have your story be heard. A 
person's story goes far beyond your 
assumptions about them. 
1:06:10 
Within the fishing community, Chris doesn't necessarily feel seen and heard. 
What they try to convey through social media is very focused and goal-oriented. 
Because of this, there are parts of himself he's not expressing. The fishermen and 
women he works with have a 
broader sense of who he is, because they are living 
and working together. He feels most alive when they are in crisis, and they're 
trying to find creative solutions to problems. 
1:08:46 
As Chris has gotten older and worked in the industry for longer, he thinks more 
about ideas of mentorship. There are students from his sailboat days that have 
ended up fishing. The mentorship he refers to is more about letting people know 
that this way of life is okay, it's possible, and it's possible to do well. It's possible 
to support yourself and your interests. 
It doesn't make sense for him to work in an office fifty-two weeks of the year. For 
some people, this is a 
much more sustainable way to live (working intensively 
showing one side of yourself and then using the rest of the time to show another 
side of yourself). It buys you time to explore other sides of yourself. 
1:11:16 
Economically, whether fishing can support you depends on how you live and how 
well you and your crew do fishing. It can be a 
significant income. For example, 
deckhands can make sixty or seventy thousand dollars in six weeks or two 
months. Even if it's less, there is time to find other work during the rest of the 
year to make more money. 
1:12:29 
Chris doesn't go to Indonesia anymore, but he still tries to surf in Baja or Mexico. 
For him, there's a 
real value in being isolated, living by the ocean, surfing all day, 
and eating simple meals. After fishing, he usually goes to Baja for three to four 
weeks by himself or with one or two friends. His mom 
is aging, so it's more 
challenging to be away for periods of time. COVID has also complicated things. 
1:13:40 
Chris isn't necessarily worried about the impact of aging on his career, but his 
body is definitely changing. He's more cautious, but at the same time, he has a 
lot 
of trust in his skills and ability to support himself as time goes on. He has trust in 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
8 
his creativity and curiosity. However, he does wonder: what does retirement look 
like? How is that going to play out? 
1:15:43 
In the early time of COVID, his business grew quite a 
bit. It's slowing down now, 
because people are feeling the economic impacts of the pandemic. He still has a 
lot of inventory. 
Chris talks about the racial tensions in 2020. He says Asian Americans are often 
on the fringes of a 
lot of racial issues. He recalls the story of an Asian American 
man who started going to protests and calling out other Asian Americans for their 
lack of support. Part of it is that Asian Americans have had the benefit of being 
the model minority, and they didn't grow up with the same exposure to police as 
other racial groups. 
People have to enter the space where they feel called. From his own experience, 
there's a 
feeling of invisibility. There is both a 
safety in that invisibility as well as 
a 
feeling that your voice is not always going to be heard. Growing up, Chris's dad 
would say, "Silence is golden." A 
lot of the time culturally, they are looking for 
ways to fit in and stay quiet. 
Even when coming home from prison, he experienced the great privilege of not 
having a 
significant sentence and knowing he could afford good representation. 
Bearing witness to genocide and institutional racism drove Chris to ask where his 
voice is in that. 
He's currently finishing a 
book on that topic, but there's always a 
great fear of 
oversharing. In some ways, Asian American survival isn't immediately threatened 
all the time like it is for other racial groups. 
1:21:29 
With the fishing industry, continued strong management is important. There is a 
significant disparity between how the indigenous culture fishes and how he and 
his crew fish. A 
tension exists for Chris knowing that they are there to exploit a 
resource. He wants to contribute to the community. 
Within the food system, Chris wants more support for farm workers. There are 
mass numbers of immigrants, many of whom are undocumented and don't have 
support. They are often overlooked, especially in the wake of disasters like 
California's wildfires last year. 
1:24:10 
With fishing in particular, the stakes are high because there is a 
lot of 
interdependence amongst the crew. It can be a 
real meritorious system. People 
who are good are able to keep working, because everyone is so dependent on each 
other. People look beyond race and gender to survive. Chris tells other people of 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
9 
color who want to get into fishing to keep trying. Do your best, work hard, and 
you'll find a 
way. 
1:26:05 
Chris feels lucky that he survived. We're here to experience life, and learning to 
trust our inner compasses and quiet our minds is a 
significant lesson to learn. We 
actually know what we want, and we can feel it in our bodies. If you're paving 
your own path, you have to learn to listen to yourself. 
Action is good, and making choices is important. You can always change your 
mind. There's a 
lot of freedom in that. You can take greater risks if you give 
yourself permission to change your mind. 
1:28:13 
End of interview 
Christopher Wang Interview Log, February 23, 2021 
10