afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
1 
RANDY & MEGAN WINN, Chair Caning  
 
Katy Clune  0:00  
Hi, this is Katy Clune with Julia Gartrell here in Stokesdale [NC] on June 1, 2021. And we're 
sitting here with, please state your full name and what you do. 
 
Randy Winn  0:16  
Um, well, I'm Charles Randolph Winn, everybody calls me Randy. And I'm the minister here, 
Stokesdale Christian Church. 
 
Megan Winn  0:25  
And I'm Megan Wynn, and I'm an administrative assistant and an all natural pet food distributor. 
 
KC  0:37  
Cool. Um, for some reason I thought you were a nurse. 
 
MW  0:41  
Oh, no. I did baking before this. But (Gotcha), now I do like a little bit everything at my job now. 
 
KC  0:48  
Um, so Randy, would you start the story of chair caning and your family? 
 
RW  0:56  
Um, my father-in-law moved to a little community in Franklin County, Virginia. Back in, not 
sure the exact month but it was about mid year in 1968. And in that community, there was a 
store, it was an old country store, and truly a general store. And the name of it was Overstreet. It 
was the man and his wife, their last name over, Gordon Overstreet. 
He was a pretty talented individual. He not only ran the store, he could tell the denomination of 
bills by feel. He was blind. He was not blind at birth. He was he lost his sight, when he was fairly 
young, in a hunting accident. A shotgun just exploded in his face. Gordon, as a result, he went to 
a training school for the blind, and he learned how to cane chairs. And it was course all by feel, 
'cause he was totally blind. He would walk to and from work, from his home, which was about a 
tenth of a mile away. I guess he knew exactly how many steps or whatever. But Gordon and his 
wife to help make ends meet, not only did they run the store, they also caned chairs. And they 
were very popular in that area. 
And my father-in-law, once he moved there, he's, he grew up in Carroll County, Virginia, and so 
he was used to country folks. And so he fell in thick as thieves with 'em. And so Gordon, uh, and 
Mamie, his wife, taught Berlin how to cane. And then years later, uh, he taught me and then by 
attrition, Megan got taught. So, that's how, kinda sorta how the tradition started in that family. 
 
KC  3:23  
What did you tell us what town and Franklin County? 
 
RW  3:27  
Snow Creek.  
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
2 
KC: Snow Creek. Okay.  
 
RW: Snow Creek, two words. And there's actually a group of ladies who have a book out, and 
they have pictures of Gordon caning chairs, my father-in-law caning chairs, as well as Megan 
and I. And I forgot that all about that book, to bring it. But we've got a copy of that at the house 
too. So, yeah.  
 
KC  3:56  
Oh, cool. So you learned in Snow Creek? 
 
RW  4:01  
We, at the time, my father-in-law when I learned my father-in-law had retired. He retired at the 
end of 1996. And, he taught me, it was another community in Franklin County about 20 minutes 
away from Snow Creek called Fort Mountain Fork, as in the eating instrument, and, uh, that's 
where, where he taught me in his little shop in the basement of his house, so.  
 
KC  4:34  
And your father-in-law's first name was Berwin? 
 
RW: Berlin, like the city, German city.  
 
KC: Ah, gotcha, Berlin. And it's hard to imagine making bringing an extra money through cane, 
chair caning at a general store? 
 
RW: Yeah. 
 
KC: Was that like, how would that work? Would he buy the frame and then cane, or  -- 
 
RW  4:59  
People brought the chairs to him. Yeah. 
 
KC: So most of it was repair?  
 
RW: Yeah, it was. I'd say 99% of it was. There's a few, you know, we've, we're doing more, or 
have done more, bind the chair frames and doing 'em ourselves, and then we sold them at Ferrum 
[Blue Ridge Folklife Festival at Ferrum College in Ferrum, Virginia], so ... yeah. 
 
KC  5:26  
So there was a demand for --  
 
RW  5:30  
Some, somewhat, yeah. And, and, when Berlin after he retired, he was doing somewhere in the 
neighborhood of 300 chairs a year. So, yeah. He was doing a lot. 
 
KC  5:45  
And how old were you when you learned from him?  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
3 
 
RW  5:55  
I was 36. 
 
KC: Why did you decide to take it up? 
 
RW:  
I had been working in a textile plant. We, the plant that I ran, we extruded poly-, polypropylene 
carpet yarn. And one day at work I had, was sitting in my office with one of my mechanics, and 
we were discussing what they were going to be doing that day on the machinery, and all of a 
sudden, I started, um, long story short, vertigo. And so vertigo, put me out of work for quite a 
few years, a couple of years anyway. And then I got the opportunity to preach it the home church 
there in Snow Creek. And that's where my ministry actually began was through that, so. It just 
was something to occupy my mind, because it was, you know, when you get laid off from work, 
it's quite easy to go into depression if you don't keep yourself busy. 
 
KC  7:03  
Absolutely. When you say home church, do you mean the church like near where your family, 
your wife's family's is from? 
 
RW:  
Yes, yeah. Snow Creek Christian Church? 
 
KC: Wow. Yeah. Do you associate chair caning with your ministry at all? And that they kind of 
started at the same time and we're in the basement of your church? 
 
RW: Yeah, to a degree. Yeah, I think so.  
 
KC: Can you say a little more? 
 
RW: It's, in, in ministry, there's a lot of stress. And people have no clue as to how much. But, I've 
talked with insurance folks, and we're, ministers are a high risk group for insurance folks, um, 
because of all the stress. And chair caning, at that time, was an outlet to just, I could put my mind 
in neutral and not think about anything else. So that was that was helpful. 
 
Julia Gartrell  8:13  
Could you describe the process? Like, I'm getting the sense that it's pretty repetitive in a way? 
Could you describe, kind of, there's also a lot of different types of chairs that you have here. So 
maybe where you started, and how that process kind of developed? 
 
RW  8:37  
The first chair, it may have very well been the first chair that I ever caned, may be sitting in this 
room. It's the closest one to this side. That chair was one of my grandmother and grandfather's 
maternal grandparents. It's a set of six, and granny, as I call her, she gave us all six of them. The 
the bottoms, as we call them were out. It was just a depression. And she actually had a bunch of 
pillows, so people could still sit on. And so I took one and just I just asked her if I could re-cane 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
4 
the seat in it. And so I took one and she eventually gave me all six, but granny said that set of 
chairs was the set of chair she and her husband, I tried to think of the term she used, took up 
housekeeping was a term she used. 
But yeah, that's that's a very special set of chairs. I mean, I've done all of them now. And I don't 
think there's, even if we don't ever use them again, no way I'm gonna sell them. 
 
JG: So what's that style of caning? 
 
RW: That, it's actually bamboo reed. And my father-in-law call call that particular width, quarter 
inch bamboo, everything's metric. And, cause, it's all, you know, all these materials, maybe with 
the exception of the fiber rush, come from China. It's a bamboo rattan-based market. So you 
know, there have been a number of people over the years who've asked me if I use oak split 
anymore. I said, well, years ago, when I could actually find them to purchase them, there's no 
way I have time to do, to actually harvest the tree, make the splits and whatnot. But when I could 
find those splits to purchase, just the material I'm talking talk probably 25, 30 years ago, just the 
material would have been about $100 for one chair. And with these, with the half inch stuff 
we've got here, we can do a chair and for $40 or $50 dollars. That's labor and everything, so.  
 
JG  11:17  
And, what would it have originally been, your Granny's chairs? 
 
KC: Yeah, or like, where did Berlin get his supplies? 
 
RW  11:24  
Same company I'm getting mine from actually. Peerless Rattan, and they did sell the business. It 
was in Ohio, and then, they, the lady that ran that business I guess she retired sold it to a, I'm 
guessing a family, and they're in Michigan. So we get all of our I mean, even the fiber rush. We 
get it from Peerless Rattan in Michigan. 
 
KC  11:59  
But they import from China? 
 
RW  12:01  
The retain bamboo stuff? Yeah, I'm not sure. I've never even looked to see where, if they have a 
manufacturer. But this, the fiber rush, it's brown paper. It's, and it's just a machine twists it. And I 
buy it and you know, comes either like, depending on the weight, 40 to 50 pound rolls. She's 
cheaper to buy that way. And I've got a roll for a dozen or more chairs that way, so.  
 
JG  12:36  
So what, sorry, just to go back, what would the original seat of your grandma's chairs?  
 
RW: The very same thing.  
 
JG: So even back in, what --  
 
RW  12:45  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
5 
They bought them in the '40s. So yeah, it was and I'm guessing, you know, I'm guessing they 
bought them from from a company that actually made the chairs in a factory. I know, I don't 
know that any of these chairs I've got here were actually homemade, but I have homemade chairs 
that you can tell they're homemade. 
 
KC  13:15  
And how was the process of learning from Berlin? 
 
RW  13:20  
He was very patient. Cause, you know, it is repetitive, but you've really got to pay attention to 
what you're doing. Because you're counting constantly counting, regardless of the pattern, you've 
got to count, you've got to pay attention to what you're doing the whole time. 
 
JG  13:41  
Do you feel like you're inclined to hand crafts? Or was the patient because it was something that 
fell out of your depth, in a way? 
 
RW  13:49  
Oh, no, it was. I've, I like to think of myself as handy. And as my stepdad said, 'jack of all trades, 
master of none.' There's not much I can't do if I put my mind to it. So, yeah. 
 
JG: And you taught Megan, (mmm, hmm) how was that process for you, Megan? 
 
MW  14:18  
I don't remember a lot about it, because honestly don't remember how old I was. unless you 
happen to remember. But, I remember there was a lot of pulling the material out and starting 
over because I was messing up. I think what my desk chair that I had for a while I was the first 
chair out and it's still even on the bottom because you do the same pattern on the top and the 
bottom. The bottom wasn't right. But the top was right, so.  
 
RW  14:43  
I would guess you were probably 13 or 14, something like that. I'm guessing. 
 
MW  14:48  
Yeah, I can't remember if it was like middle school or high school or. But I know I watched Pa a 
lot, yeah, especially like the fiber rush chairs. I remember him doing those, because when he did 
the fiber rush, you try to have as long of a piece as you can. So he would just be pulling I mean 
constantly and I'd eventually get to the point I go in another room in the basement and I would 
help start helping him pull when I was little. So that would have been on point would have been 
maybe elementary age at that point.  
 
RW  15:18  
Oh, I'd say, yeah. 'Cause she, you'd go up, well, go over, we were living in Pulaski, Virginia at 
that time, and she would go over and what would you spend a couple of weeks with him during 
the summer? 
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
6 
MW: Yeah. 
 
RW:  
Yeah, she go. Berlin'll take her fishing and all kinds of different things. Yeah. 
 
KC:  
Is the Overstreet General Store still in business? 
 
RW: Mmm, mmm. No, Gordon died, and it's been, they've been shut down for probably, I'd say 
30 years now. 
 
KC: It makes me think the Floyd and the Floyd, General Store and music on Friday nights. 
 
RW:  
Yeah, I mean, every evening at Overstreet, there'd be five or six or eight men sitting out on the 
front porch in chairs, just talking drinkin' soda pop, eaten mabs [spelling?] or moonpies or 
whatever. It was literally like you think of The Waltons going to see the Godseys [spellings?], 
he's in a way, so.  
 
KC  16:30  
And you said you had a pretty well, before we, I want to stick with Megan. So you maybe started 
to learn just because you were in it. 
 
MW  16:40  
Yeah, like I was watching my grandpa do it, and then dad do it, so kind of just became 
interesting to want to know what it was that they were doing. And I've always kind of liked 
working with things and building stuff. So, I enjoy it. 
 
KC  16:57  
And do you still do to do it together nowadays? Or independently? 
 
MW  17:05  
People will call him wanting to do chairs, and I sometimes all end up doing them. Because I did 
one, it took me a long time because the material was really thin, but I did the back and the seat 
and a rocking chair during COVID. But I mean, pretty much the only time we really did together 
will be at Ferrum. Otherwise, kind of like he might work on a chair that I don't know how to do 
or if it's a one on know how to do I'll try to do it. 
 
RW  17:30  
When we first started, or when she first started, I would do the initial wrap from side to side. And 
then I would get her started on the other direction. And then she would take over. And but I 
mean now, she'll do the whole thing by herself, so. 
 
JG  17:51  
But there's a lot of different styles. So there's like the fiber rush. There's like a flat weave. And 
then there's, I can't remember what this type is call with the really skinny --  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
7 
 
RW  18:02  
Yeah, this this is fiber rush. This is actually pressed cane. And then that is strand cane.  
 
JG: Right and press cane is like pre-woven? 
 
RW:  
Woven. It's machine woven. That's one thing people ask me all the time. Do you weave this and 
then put it in? Oh no, that's machine woven. It comes in rolls. You can buy it by the foot. And 
there's different widths, but there's a spline that goes down in a groove. And I've got some of the 
tools that you can remove this the old spline. And there was one chair I still remember, I lost 
patience with it. Evidently someone had used either an epoxy or a waterproof carpenter wood 
glue. I almost lost my sanity trying to get that spline out because it was glued in so tight. And 
people look at me kind of funny, but put those in with Elmer's white glue. It's enough to glue it. 
 
KC  19:20  
And the spline is like a strip that fits into the slot in chairs --  
 
RW  19:24  
Yes. And they're different. Again, it's all metric. They're they're different widths, and they're 
more narrow at the bottom. that's what gets it started in in the groove. And then you feel the 
groove with the top of, it because it's almost an oval, in a way? But it's not quite an oval. It's it's 
different, but it's somewhat oval shaped. 
 
KC  19:53  
So with this [inaudible], but so you didn't weave this? You did not? (I did.) You did! So what 
were you saying comes pre-woven? 
 
RW  20:05  
This one the next this, press cane. That's that strand cane, because you actually weave every 
layer. But this is the one that's already woven. (Okay) And the difference. differences usually, 
there's only been one strand cane that looked like a price cane, because that that one chair did not 
have, it was just like this. (Yeah.) See here restraining, right? And you see holes forward 
through. And you see the strands underneath, right? You know that one's been hand woven.  
 
KC  20:49  
Okay. So this was a you know anything about the development of this? Like, did it come out 
later as a shortcut? Or? 
 
RW  20:58  
It was, yes. It was a later development. (Okay.) Originally all those chairs would've been strand 
cane. 
 
KC  21:09  
Yeah, I didn't know that any thing like this existed? I assumed it was all? 
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
8 
RW  21:13  
Yeah. Well, I mean, you can look at it. It's every, every one of these holes is perfect. (Right.) 
And when you look at this, there's regardless of how you drill the holes, there's no way you can 
make it, every one perfect. See, they're all pretty much the same here. 
 
KC  21:33  
Yeah, for how the tension ... bottom of the chair? 
 
RW  21:40  
Here, it's different. And then, you know, ending on all four sides. You're going to have these 
quads coming together. Sometimes it's more sometimes, like this corner, there's only one strand 
that made it through this one, would see there's two here. There's three there. And there's two 
here on this corner. And another giveaway on strand cane versus press cane, strand cane you're 
going to have these at every hole, where it should be at every hole. Whereas this one is just a 
solid piece. 
 
KC: Gotcha. Cool! 
 
JG: Do you have a favorite process I mean, there's such a variety of what you're doing? 
 
RW: My least favorite actually strand cane, and a close second is fiber rush. That takes, that's 
seven different layers. The first two are easy. After that, because they're this and it gets tighter 
and tighter and tighter. And that's when these tools come into play. You know what that is? 
 
KC  22:57  
Would you describe it for us? 
 
RW  23:02  
This was originally a corn shucker. You'd actually grab the shucks and pull them, but in my 
father-in-law wore out, I don't know how many of these things, it would break right here where 
he was just constantly pushing against wood, against the different strands, to get that piece to 
come through from underneath. And then I made this one out of a brass rod, before I found this 
piece here. Same principle, you feed the strand into the hole of this brass tube. And there you go. 
Then I forge,t I guess it was an old store or they sold I guess quote "antiques" and they had a 
junk drawer. And I was going through the junk drawer and I found this. And this is, it still got 
the stamp from the company Dobson, and this has become I think both our favorite tool. (Yeah.) 
Because this one is really good about the half inch, and three eighths inch read flat reed and this 
ends up we can do different patterns with this but usually people are satisfied with herringbone. 
But this, you know, you got to look somewhat concave side and a flat side we have really liked 
the concave side because you can slip it under and catch it and then pull it through. 
 
KC: Tell me what it was originally?  
 
RW: This was a brick and or block layers tool. He would strike the mortar joints with it. 
 
KC: Wow. So now you have to share it? 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
9 
 
MW  25:18  
Well, it would be cool if we could find another one.  
 
KC: What do you call it? 
 
RW  25:25  
I guess, I guess it's a, what? Masonry striker tool.  
 
JG: But what do you call it? If you're like, Dad, gimme that thing. 
 
MW  25:38  
I think I, I usually just say I need the thing. And he knows what I'm talking about. Because a 
couple of times I thought we lost it where we were working. It was like, oh my gosh. What are 
we gonna do?  
 
RW  25:51  
So it was one time I forget where I was at one of these stores where they sell collectibles and 
antiques and I found an old toolbox and old metal toolbox. And that's what I keep all our tools in 
now, so we don't have to worry about losing our stuff anymore. 
 
MW  26:10  
Cuz like when you do the chairs, all of 'em except the fiber rush, the materials wet. So then your 
hands get wet. And if you're trying to do it with your hands, I mean, like you'll tear, tear up your 
cuticles. So that things a finger saver. Yeah.  
 
RW  26:29  
I mean, even this, 'cause you got to keep constant pressure on this. And that's reason for this 
clamp. This clamp, of course, is not wide enough to use on this particular frame. But that, you 
can give your fingers a break, your hands a break, because I've so many years of repetitive 
movement in different jobs I've got what do you call it? (Carpal tunnel?) Yeah, but I refuse to go 
get it taken care of because I've heard horror stories about people who had the operation, so.  
 
KC  27:05  
And tell us about that. Because you did when before we got the tape on.  
 
RW  27:09  
Oh, yeah, this is made out of oak. It's got a, an old square head, square nut with a flat washer bolt 
going through to keep it from splitting. And like you says, it's the same principle as an old timey 
clothes pan. And that but it's a clamp that used for chair caning. 
 
JG: Do you know, so you've got that from Gordon [?]. 
 
RW: This was Overstreet's, originally. And he gave it to my father-in-law and then my father-in-
law when he was getting out of it between he and Opal, his wife, I've inherited a lot of those 
tools from from them, so yeah.  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
10 
 
JG  27:59  
Do you get into the history of the chairs? It's clear you appreciate the lineage of the knowledge 
being passed down. Do you get excited when you see certain types of chairs come in?  (Mmm, 
hmm. Yeah.) What would what would get you riled up? 
 
RW  28:19  
You wanna go first? Or you wanna think? (You can go ahead) Okay. My favorite chair to do the 
is this the split reed, 'cause they take, for me, they take the least thought. You just kind of, 
typically speaking, you go over three under three over three, under three and it's just a lot easier 
versus the quarter inch stuff like my grandmother's chair, you've got to count five over five 
under. And, I guess that's my second favorite is, is the with the exception of it being there and I 
like this because it's it's fast and get one of these done in a couple or three hours, versus days, 
even weeks, with strand cane. But my father-in-law, he could do one in a day or day and a half.  
 
JG: Strand caning? Wow.  
 
RW: Strand caning. He had, like I said, he had a lot of patience. I don't have as much patience as 
he did, so.  
 
JG  29:27  
What about the chairs themselves is there a, is there a you know type of chair body you get 
excited to see? 
 
RW  29:38  
A gooseneck rocking chair. It's pretty neat to see. (Can you describe that?) The arms, they're very 
ornate and actually it comes up and swoops down. And when it comes back like they, they 
bandsaw the piece of wood to the shape of a goose head. It's a profile of a goose head. And those 
are getting more and more rare. 
 
KC  30:09  
My mom has like a bent wood rocker with like a big swirl of a rock. (Yeah, yeah.) So, similar 
but not a goose head.  
 
RW  30:19  
Yeah. Yeah. And that probably has press cane in it. Most of those have press cane.  
 
KC: Now, now, I'm gonna look! Yeah! 
 
JG  30:31  
Do you get tempted, I was just thinking about on my street right now there's two chairs that are 
busted out, do you get tempted and collect them a lot? 
 
RW  30:43  
Yeah, if I've picked up a busted rocking chair, and put it back together before. (And resell it or 
keep it?) Resell it. Yeah, if it's a really special there's one handmade rocking chair, or not rocking 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
11 
chair, it's it's a regular chair. When I took it, to Fairhum, I priced it so high that nobody I knew 
nobody would buy it because I didn't want to sell it. I mean, this thing had the original patina. I 
was hoping to find the thing. I'm not sure where I've got it stored right now. But something that's 
close to it, is this little green knitting [?] rocking chair back here. And if you'll notice, it's sitting 
pretty low to the ground. And that so that granny could reach down in her basket and pull the 
crochet or whatever she's doing out of the basket a little easier. 
 
KC  31:42  
The scale is definitely smaller in general, like even your four six piece from the '40s.... 
 
RW  31:50  
Behinds have gotten wider over the last 50 to 100 years. I mean, seriously, you go back 100 
years ago, average man was like five, eight. That's at least six feet. And we're you know, we're 
getting we take [inaudible crosstalk] as I've as I've gotten older (Expanding?. I used to I used to 
have a 30 inch waist when my wife and I were dating but not anymore. Yeah. 
 
KC  32:29  
Megan, before we move on, did you have a favorite sort of technique or chair you enjoy working 
on? 
 
MW  32:36  
I only basically know how to do the herringbone, so I can I do like the split read or the bamboo. 
But recently on a when you found that they start doing a smoked read and saw like to wave one 
direction using the white and then the other direction using like the gray-brown, so kind of like 
contrast. So I've done that a lot here recently, now like that. 
 
RW  32:59  
And that favorite chair mine is woven with those two colors. 
 
MW: That's like a diamond, reverse diamond. 
 
RW: Yeah, I did a reverse diamond on that one. That when I was the first time I tried that. And I 
guess that's another thing that I don't want to sell it because that was my first reverse diamond 
that I did versus a herringbone so.  
 
KC  33:21  
Have you, how much would you say your skills have developed following the initial sort of 
tutelage by Berlin? 
 
RW  33:32  
It took that first chair with the quarter inch bamboo took several days. Again, I'd have to work on 
it for a few hours we just have to take a break. Not only did my hands get raw and cut and 
whatnot but just my patience level just wouldn't allow. Now, I can do one of them. If I'm not 
bothered a lot I can get one of those done in a day easy. So I mean even if we're at Ferrum, I can 
get one started and by the end of the day at Ferrum, if not don,e be pretty much done. So yeah, I 
know one year Megan did two chairs while we were there, so yeah, chair and a stool, maybe. 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
12 
 
MW  34:20  
Yeah, I'm doing a lot of footstools here recently. They seem to be be pretty popular, people like 
those. 
 
KC  34:26  
Do you also do it to just make a little extra money if you're taking in repairs for people? Or for 
you is it more for yourself and for the craft? 
 
MW  34:34  
It was kind of more of like a hobby but that one rocking chair where I did the back and the seat, 
that was definitely for the money. Because that would I mean it was kind of nice because it 
happened during COVID so I had plenty of ti me to work on it. But I mean that one took a lot of 
time, but the ones that are like the stuff we do for Ferrum, that's more just kind of like for the 
hobby, the enjoyment of doing it.  
 
KC  34:59  
And tell us what Ferrum, is and when you started going, just for the benefit of the tape.  
 
RW  35:05  
Ferrum. It's actually called the Blue Ridge Folklife Festival. It's held at Ferrum College, up until 
last year, every year, on the fourth Saturday of October. And we've been trying to remember, I 
think last year would have been our 12th year. And the reason, the only reason we started was 
because Angela's dad, my father-in-law, he, he developed Alzheimer's. And it got to the point 
that he just couldn't do it anymore. And so then we took over. The first I guess, first couple of 
three years, it was just me. And then Megan wanted to start helping and demonstrating there. 
And so, I'm wanting to think it was your second year, I told him, I said, even if you don't get me 
a name tag, make sure you get Megan one. Because I think that meant a fair bit to her, you know, 
to be recognized like that. (As an exhibitor?) Yeah, I mean, she was, I mean, she was exhibiting 
her talents.  
 
KC  36:22  
So Berlin did it before you?  
 
RW: And Overstreet dated before him.  
 
KC: Really? Yeah. That's so cool. I didn't. I mean, a Folk Festival is all about passing on the 
tradition. But you don't think the people in the booths are also, you know, have kept? 
 
RW  36:39  Well, and that's one thing. I'm not sure if they still stress it. But when I first started, 
if you if it wasn't passed down from family, you didn't get to cut, you didn't get to go to Ferrum. 
It had to be passed down either, like somebody you knew really well or family. So yeah, that I 
mean, I think Ferrum is a Ferrum was life 100 years ago. And so many people today, don't know, 
I don't know how many people haven't seen this, the chair came in and said, that's a dying art. 
And it it, there are not a lot of people that do it anymore. And so that's one thing. I was excited 
when Megan showed interest in it, and oh yeah, we'll teacher, so 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
13 
 
KC  37:34  
Can you, do you? Like Tell me a little bit about how you felt being at Ferrum with your dad? 
 
MW  37:41  
I could tell us while still do I catch a lot of attention, I guess is where people are kind of like, you 
know, there's a younger person doing something. And then even when I was younger, like I 
could tell the parents like the kids then took interest in wanting to watch me when I was younger, 
and they you know, the age closeness they were kind of entertained. But it's been fun, you can 
tell, there's a lot of repeat people, you know, every year they'll stop and talk and a lot of people at 
first were even asking, like if we know Berlin, and we're like, yeah, you know, it's my grandpa. 
So it's, I mean, it's, it's pretty cool. It's a lot of different things there. It's, it's really neat. 
 
JG  38:17  
Have you found a community of young crafts people that you stay up with? 
 
MW  38:23  
I've never actually looked. I mean, I know Facebook's become a popular, I could always try to 
look and see like there's groups on Facebook, but 
 
RW  38:32  
Well, and I think that for myself, I've always been I like, the old ways? I like old furniture. I'd 
much rather have one of these versus a modern piece. I mean, I worked in a furniture factory for 
years. And I still much prefer the antiques because I know what goes into furniture today. And 
unless you get into the multi-thousand dollar pieces, you're not going to get solid wood. And this 
is all solid wood. Even even the old chest drawers, the the blanket chairs, the the dressers, if you 
can find a dresser, wardrobes all that solid wood, there is no I call it fiberboard. Now, it might be 
plywood, but that's just gonna be the panels. It still gonna be better than the new stuff. 
 
KC  39:44  
Yeah, absolutely. And in regards to sort of how many folks know how to do this now, can you 
give us insight into that based on sort of your customers like what if, do you have a place to 
direct them to if you don't want to do it? 
 
RW  40:05  
I have gotten to the point that I recommend, like they Google. Because if you google chair 
caners, you're gonna find maybe none, none right where you are, I've had people bring stuff out 
of state, Pennsylvania is the furthest. They'd come down visit family and area drop off. And then 
next time they come down, they'd pick it up. So but yeah I've, people are willing, if their family 
pieces they're willing to travel, in order to get it taken care of. 
 
And the thing is, if people, if people will follow my recommendations on what to do, these things 
can last decades, as long as you keep knees and feet out of them. They're not made for a knee to 
you know, even a child, that it's gonna break those. It's plant based. So that stuff's gonna break. 
You need to put, at least once a year, preferably twice a year, if it's an air conditioner, and heat, 
in a home a modern home, you've got to put some sort of moisturizer on it. Lemon oil's what I 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
14 
recommend, and that's to moisturize these plants and help them remain flexible somewhat. Yeah, 
I just like the old stuff. 
 
KC  41:51  
Do you see any signatures or unique traces left behind the people who did the original caning 
when you get it repaired? 
 
RW  42:06  
When the biggest thing is, inside each of these quarters on fiber rush, if the person, as I say 
knows what they're doing, you're gonna find cardboard. And it's interesting because some of the 
cardboard had, has advertising on it. And it's not like the cardboard we have today. It was 
actually in color and, you know, it's attractive stuff. And that's, that's always interesting to find. I 
remember one piece that I did, well, that was refinished job that wasn't actually cane. But I redid 
the finish on a morris chair, and a morris chair's the original rocker, just google morris chair, and 
you'll see it. Instead of a mechanism, it was it's a metal bar that you would move on the back and 
you could recline it more or bring it more vertical. And that had the original makers label on it. 
And I've got a picture that somewhere, I don't know where I've got it right now. But that kind of 
thing is just neat to, to find. Because so many times when people refinish, they strip everything 
that patina, the, you know, they would take off those maker's marks and that kind of thing, and 
you destroy the value when you do that. That's the reason on this green chair with the ugly 
alligatored finish, I've left it that way, because that's what it was originally. And that's part of its 
story. Plus, my wife would shoot me if I'dda stripped it! No, 
 
KC: I love it. I think it looks great like that. 
 
MW  43:59  
One of the chairs we did that really big rocker where we ended up having to put newspaper in it 
because we're It was such a wide seat t you know, it needed the extra support. (Yeah.) And so we 
tried to get like, the newspapers from the day we were working on it, or you know, close spots 
then later down the road, if anybody ever we did it, (I had forgotten about that) then then they'd 
open up the newspaper from what was redone. 
 
KC: Nice. That's cool. You could hide all kinds of trinkets in there. Make a little scavenger hunt. 
(Yeah.) 
 
RW  44:32  
Well, and it's funny when pieces have been stored in barns and whatnot, especially the split reed. 
There's just enough opening in those corners for dirt daubers to get in there. (Oh, yeah.) And 
they will build nests inside that image between the layers. 
 
KC  44:52  
Dirt daubers, I think we call it the mud dauber. 
 
RW  44:54  
Yeah, he probably. (It's like a wasp that builds) They're usually black. (crosstalk) But well, I 
don't I've never been stung by one of those. Now the stripe wasps. Oh, yeah, I've been. I had one 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
15 
hit me right here on the eyelid one time, so I wasn't even bothering the stinking thing. So 
anyway. 
 
KC  45:19  
Megan, do you feel like you know it well enough to teach someone? Or are you still learning? 
 
MW  45:24  
I think I can teach somebody to do what I know how to do yeah. 
 
KC: Cool. You've protected the lineage.  
 
RW: Yeah. Praise the Lord! 
 
JG: Is there any other information or stories you'd like to share about your care cheat, chair 
caning --  
 
RW: Yeah, say that fast three times...  
 
KC  45:50  
We can also look at these and I can follow you with the mic -- 
 
RW  45:56  
I mean, y'all are welcome. Take pictures if you'd like or whatever so. 
 
KC  46:17  
So you learned at 36? How many years have you been doing this now?  
 
RW: That would be 23.  
 
JG: Hopefully 23 more years.  
 
RW  46:29  
Well, and that's the thing once I'm hoping to retire before too much longer. I hope I don't have to 
go past 67. But once I retire, I'm hoping to get back into this more. I mean, I'm still, I've told 
people today, you know, in recently, people bugged me about doing it. I'm like, I don't have time. 
Well, I'm not in a rush. I'm talking years now. People. Seriously, 
 
KC  47:01  
You got a waiting list for when you retire? 
 
RW  47:05  
No, no. Because we're not going we're not planning on staying here. Yeah, we're planning on 
moving to the mountains in North Carolina. So and that to me, that'll put me closer to this type 
stuff, too, so.  
 
JG  47:19  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
16 
Absolutely. And there's all kinds of crafts schools and craft fairs so you could really go deep if 
you're out there. 
 
KC  47:27  
Do you know any other one who doesn't like a pal that you've made? 
 
RW: Not personally No.  
 
KC: Too bad. But you have your daughter to talk to you about (Yeah. Yeah.) Are there any other 
words like split that are specific to chair caning?  
 
RW  47:47  
Spline and splint, flat reed, and that's you know, that's actually on the label so. And you know, 
still, this is one of the few things that I'll buy this made in China. Generally speaking, stuff from 
China today's junk. This these actually, these belonged to Berlin. And these are actually the tools 
to take the spline out of the press cane, grooves if, if somebody tried to pull it without using this, 
they probably pull her hair out. Because these things make it so simple. (I've tried it. It's so hard. 
I used a combo of a chisel, Exacto knife, pliers). It's it's a pain especially if somebody uses 
anything other than Elmers white glue. (Right.) And it doesn't take a lot just enough to get the 
thing set up and once it gets tight, it's fine. 
 
KC  49:00  
So you lost your toolbox, you'd be in a tight spot? 
 
RW  49:03  
Oh yeah. Well, this one, the big one I can't find it anymore. It's not in any catalogs I've seen. This 
one the handles different now, but you can buy this from Peerless Rattan. And if you wanted to, 
you could buy several and grind, I'm pretty sure you can see the tool marks here, where my 
father-in-law his file this one down to get into a really narrow groove. And so I did, I did buy one 
that's got the original size, which is a little bit wider than this one. But I mean these tools, you 
know, these were this and this thing here, this is generations, just these three tools.  
 
KC  49:59  
And you know don't even know who used that brick thing before  --  
 
RW  50:02  
Yeah, the brick striker the mortar striker? I had no clue who did that one. And but this one, I 
mean they don't make them like I don't know that they make them like this anymore all metal. 
It's usually a very cheap metal when they do make 'em now. It's all about making money off that 
stuff. But I mean even this this, this was Berlin's hammer that he used in his chair caning, and I 
know it's rough looking. But it was his hammer it's got to even cut the handle short to get in to 
inside the frames when he's having to put the tacks in. That's one thing that too, it's hard to find 
tacks. So whenever I find these tiny these tiny ones (Very small). Yeah. I get excited. You know, 
this one I kept the the original box even. Because, you know, if you ever run up on something 
like this, it's a --  
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
17 
KC  51:19  
Do you find those in resale shops too? 
 
RW  51:22  
I'm not, I can't remember exactly where I found these. But yeah, it was it was in a resale shop. 
These are label says upholstery, upholstery tacks. Number two size --  
 
JG  51:35  
It all seems very satisfying and organized. Do you have the right tool for the job? When you're 
done things look nice and finished? (Yeah, yeah.) 
 
KC  51:45  
What was Berlin's last name? 
 
RW  51:48  
Hanks. And we we've been wanting to do some research. Abraham Lincoln's wife's maiden name 
was Hanks. And he actually, don't you think he looked a lot like Abraham Lincoln? 
 
MW 52:07  
Yeah, he does have some resemblance. Yeah.  
 
KC: And what was his livelihood? 
 
RW  52:13  
He was a minister. (A minister. Okay.) He was the one got me under the ministry. So yeah. 
 
KC  52:18  
It makes sense too, like, also the balance between life and work, to be able to cultivate this 
hobby. And you don't have time now. But maybe ministry was less stressful when he was doing 
it? (Well, and he -- ) A smaller group, maybe...  
 
RW  52:39  
It just, I think it came more naturally to him. Lots of stuff I have to I struggle with. So just 
different personalities. Yeah. 
 
KC  52:53  
What are your hopes and dreams in regards to chair caning in the future? 
 
MW  53:00  
I'll keep doing it as a hobby. But I don't know that, I would probably have to be do it more 
probably years and years and years later when I would retire. 
 
KC  53:10  
I guess, you're still going to Ferrum? (Yeah.) So hopefully it'll be back this year? 
 
RW  53:17  
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
18 
It is gonna be back. Yes. I've already, I talked to the young lady, actually last week. So I was 
excited to find out she, and she was are you going to feel comfortable? And I'm like, oh, yeah, I 
mean, you know, we're -- here in North Carolina, we've done away with the masks, basically. 
Unless I went to the doctor this morning. So I had to wear a face mask there. But otherwise, what 
two weeks now? I haven't hardly ever worn one, so. 
 
JG: New world. Old World. (Gosh)  
 
JG  53:49  
We'll have to see you at Ferrum this year. 
 
KC  53:54  
You would love it. (I would love it) The apple collector. (Yes.) Different apple.... 
 
RW  54:02  
And he actually sends out a newsletter. If you get on his mailing list, he'll send you a newsletter. 
And they're all heirloom apples. (Amazing) And then he, is he the same guy that sells the trees or 
is that somebody else? 
 
KC  54:18  
I'm not sure. I don't remember. I remember his table with the apples and the [________]. 
 
RW: And I'm thinking he's actually got a Facebook page too.  
 
KC: I think he does, actually. 
 
RW  54:32  
Yeah. But he's, gosh. He's got to be in his 80s now, I would think but he's a sweetest little old 
man. And I just want to hug him up. Yeah, just one of those types. 
 
KC  54:47  
Well, let's see. Let's have you walk down the row and kind of name the different weaving 
varieties.... the type of cane.  
 
RW  55:04  
All right, this one here is the quarter inch bamboo, I call it, but it's in a basket weave pattern. 
 
KC  55:12  
Oh, hold on one second. Here you go. This will help us remember what you're talking. Is this the 
one you were saying you like to do the most because it's the three by three? 
 
RW  55:29  
Well, this one is different. I'll show you the one, like, my grandmother's, is my, the herringbone 
pattern's, my favorite. But this one, this is what was in this chair, originally, when I bought the 
frame, and I just wanted to go back with that same style. 
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
19 
MW  55:50  
And whatever pattern was in the chair, that's what he wants to put back in, so.  
 
KC  55:57  
Whereas you're more creative with two different colors. 
 
MW  56:01  
Yeah, I'd like to switch it up. But I mean, I can understand wanting to put the same thing back in 
it. Sometimes, because that basket weaves what I did with that last year I did, and it was what 
maybe eight inch? I mean, that stuff's narrow ..  
 
RW  56:15  
It was extremely narrow. But that was what the customer the man who owned the chair, he I 
asked him, I said now, do you want this width back in there? Yeah. And then we once she got 
done, took it back to him, I wouldn't have mattered. I'm like, Oh, my gosh, it would have been so 
much easier. 
 
MW  56:36  
Yeah, cuz I was like, I would work on it, you know, all day. And I felt like I didn't hardly make 
any progress 'cause it was so thin. Yeah. 
 
KC: Hopefully you charged a lot more than $30 dollars.   
 
MW: Yeah. Cuz that's, you got to take your time and the --  
 
RW  56:50  
Yeah, that one was, I think 75 a panel, so --  
 
MW  56:54  
Yeah. But that was my first chair where I did the basket weave, because I hadn't actually done it 
before. So that was a learning experience, too. But --  
 
KC  57:02  
Was it hard to give up at the end spending all that time on it? 
 
MW  57:06  
I was proud with the results. I mean, it did look really nice. But then, yeah, just the amount of 
time that kind of, you know, hurt a little bit like, well, here's your chair back, I've spent three 
weeks on it, but --  
 
RW  57:22  
Yeah, it's, I don't think people realize the time it takes to do this. I mean, you know, see, I even 
did. And so you can see with this pattern, it's hard to hide the knots. But you can see at least 
three knots I was not able to hide. There's another one right here that's hidden. (It looks really 
good, no one's going to look under there, right?) Well, I do.  
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
20 
JG: I'm an artist, so I always noticed all my mistakes.  
 
RW: Right, yeah. Yeah. And the strand cane, you know, there's nothing, there's no second 
pattern underneath. But at the same time, you still want to try to where you tie it off as neat as 
you can, too. So anyway, yeah, that's, that's another example of the stand cane. 
 
KC  58:19  
Is there any risk of it breaking while you're working? 
 
RW  58:23  
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And basically, you just got a back up to one of the holes and leave a tail 
that you can weave in at the end, but yeah, it's, it really gets frustrating when you get like all the 
way to here, you woven all the way across. And when you go pull in, it just splits off. You've got 
a backup, basically a whole row and start over. So and this is one of my grandmother's chairs. 
(And that's the herringbone...) This is a herringbone pattern. (That's beautiful) And it's quarter 
inch bamboo there.  
 
KC  59:12  
Classy. So you were saying you like the three version of this? 
 
RW  59:18  
Well, the three version is when you're using the flat reed. These on this size and larger, it's five 
over five under when it's a smaller scale will go down to maybe three or four but you don't want 
to go I mean, it's really tough. If you go below three plus it takes a lot longer.  
 
KC: That's beautiful, I like that one the best so far, too.  
 
RW: And this is fiber rush [?]. And I forgot to mention the the shape on the strand cane and the 
shape of this one, it's a harp.  
 
KC: Oh yeah. And do you know when fiber rush was invented?  
 
RW: I do not. I have not investigated that. But I would say it's probably at least 75 years, if not 
more. (Yeah.) Because I mean, you know, you think about my father-in-law, it was in his '60s. 
So yeah, it's he was doing fiber rush in the '60s. (Yeah.) But you can see, if you look, if I pull, 
you can see mean you want to pull down on it. You can see the cardboard. But that just helps, 
give it a little extra, a little extra touch. (Fresh cane?)  
 
JG: The physics of this is incredible. (I know, so beautiful) Now individually, each strand is very 
weak, very weak.  
 
RW: But you put the whole thing together. I mean, I weigh, I have lost a few pounds here. But 
um, 250 plus pounds sitting in that thing. As long as you distribute the weight, you're fine. 
 
(Right?) 
 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
21 
MW  1:01:29  
Yeah, at Ferrum, a lot of people like we actually sit in this?  We're like, yeah, try it!  
 
RW  1:01:36  
There's been several people Oh, I'm too big for it. No, honey, I've sat in there. It's gonna be fine. 
I promise. (So pretty. Great.) I mean, yeah, that even the detail in the chair itself. You know, 
when you get a piece like this, this is actually one stays in my office. And --  
 
MW  1:01:59  
We've even been finding some unusual chairs here recently. We've got like, it was the old school 
desk like a wooden school desk and already did the seat part in it, and then like corner chairs, 
like --  
 
RW  1:02:12  
I did not want to sell that. That's the only corner chair I've ever seen. 
 
KC: What's a corner chair?  
 
RW: It actually (put in the corner, and it actually comes to a point?) Like, (I love it!) a back here, 
another post, it would all be the same height. You wouldn't be higher in the front. But there'd be 
a third post here. And it would be slash, you know, more slats (would be kind of like two backs.) 
And you could actually sit it in the corner that way. (Gotcha) But yeah, that was one I hope I 
thought I had priced it too hard. Somebody paid it. 
 
MW  1:02:50  
That was like the first piece sold that year. We weren't hardly I mean, it hardly started it already 
sold.  
 
KC: I think you should charge more. I think $40 for even the easiest seat (Well) it's not enough. I 
mean, more than 75 per panel. It's a specialty skill. 
 
RW  1:03:06  
That was, that was that was one of the men in Snow Creek. Okay. (Family friend?)  I mean, if he 
had been somebody else out of probably West get 100 bucks out of each panel. 'Cause, again, 
people, if you go to a mechanic car mechanic, your gonna have to pay so --  
 
JG  1:03:26  
Right. Absolutely. It's your time plus the materials. Yeah, your time is valuable, because you're 
such a specialist.  
 
RW  1:03:33  
Well, and the thing is this, this style here. My father-in-law, what you do is charge by each hole 
drilled in the frame. (That's clever.) And my father-in-law would charge 50 cents a hole. I charge 
$1. And that's still not enough. I mean, there's people I've seen in the last 10 years, or more than 
10 years ago, I would check every now and and other people's prices. And people in the eastern 
part of the nation would be charging $1.50 or $2 a hole. And I was charging 85 cents a hole. 
afc2020009_018--Randy and Megan Winn interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
22 
 
KC  1:04:16  
Yeah, I think your price is when you get back to it when you retire. Don't forget about inflation. 
 
RW  1:04:25  
But at the same time, and I'm sort of the same mindset as my father-in-law, I would much rather 
make sure these chairs get passed on versus making a you know, making a living off of it. We 
we've rescued chair out of the dumpsters and off the side of the road. I mean I remember one 
year we were we were leaving Ferrum and we were going back a way we'd never gone before, go 
through that road,  there's a chair sitting on the side. People are going to throw away in the trash. 
And all I do is put a new seat in it! 
 
KC  1:05:10  
Yeah, I can see your shop on in western North Carolina right now, in my mind's eye --  
 
JG: You're going to have a a pilot chairs out back off in the middle of it, drop off in the middle of 
the night. Wow. Well, it's incredible to get to talk to you and what a skill legacy. Really, really 
cool.  
 
RW: I appreciate y'all coming out. 
 
KC  1:05:32  
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you for taking your call and it's wonderful to meet you and know that 
one day maybe you'll also teach someone  
 
MW: Yeah.