Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 20th, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Harry Anderson
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Photographer: Georgia Cravey
Interview Location: Home of Mr. Harry Anderson, Lawrence County Illinois.
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Harry Anderson was raised on his family’s farm in Lawrence County, Illinois. The Anderson
family arrived in Illinois in the early 1800s, as free people of color, before statehood. Harry farmed family
land after returning from his service during WWII. Harry was an outstanding softball player and played
for the Navy softball team, the Seahawks, on Hawaii during WWII. His brothers, Victor and Carl
Anderson, as well as his son Jack Anderson, were all interviewed for this series.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
[0:00] Harry continues to discuss tractor tires.
[5:00] Harry discusses the physical dangers of farm equipment, talks about home remedies used
for illnesses, and outlines what makes a good farmer.
[10:00] Reminisces about the various organizations and businesses in Pinkstaff [presumed
spelling].  Harry talks about how the community would gather to help out if a fellow farmer was
injured and couldn’t work.
[15:00] Because she had light skin Harry remembers his mother was questioned about her
presumed interracial marriage. He discusses various community members and their family trees.
Harry tells the story of how he met his wife at the Gibson County Fair.
[20:00] When visiting a root beer stand with his future wife, Harry was treated differently
because of his light skin color; he was served with a glass mug while she received a paper cup.
Harry discusses Sunday dinners at his grandparent’s home and what was cooked.
[25:00] The methods to prepare various meals are explained. At Harry’s request, ALC asks if he
has enjoyed being a Black person, and he answers yes explaining he has never personally faced
discrimination in his area. Harry recounts instances where racist comments and slurs were used
in his presence when his ethnicity was unknown to those speaking. Harry compares the type of
language used to that employed by current political leaders against who he calls, girls on
television [referring to certain criticisms by the President of Congresswomen Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez, Ilham Omar, Ayanna Pressley, and Rashida Tlaib] specifying these people were
talking about him with a similar message.
[30:00] Harry affirmed he is proud to be a Black farmer and be descended from Black farmers,
he also discusses the complications of being ethnically ambiguous in connection to segregation.
He remembers being reseated in the white section of an establishment because he was presumed
to be white, but had seated himself in the area designated for Black people.
[35:00] Harry discusses his father’s struggle to buy land and explains that the man who sold the
land, Mr. Pinkstaff [presumed spelling] secured a loan for Harry’s father. He mentions some of
his grandchildren are also farming.
[35:13] End of part 2 audio.
2