Date 
January 21, 2021 
Time 
4:45pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
April Matson 
Location 
April’s House 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
 
Pre-Interview 
I got to April Matson’s house in Ransomville around 4:30, leaving right from work. April lives 
pretty much around the corner from Ed’s Garage – which is the original site of the Ransomville 
Speedway back in the day before it moved to its current location. As with a lot of folks in the 
area, when I got there April popped out of the house and mentioned for me to enter through the 
backdoor/side-door. Always reminds me of living in Newfoundland, where there was the exact 
same practice: the front door wasn’t really used that much / wasn’t really the preferred door to 
use. I still remember when I showed up to interview Don Spatorico (also in Ransomville) that 
he joked that I was the first person to use go through the front door / be at that door in a long 
time. April asked if I was afraid of dogs, and mentioned that I wasn’t and soon learned why: 
two of the friendliest and sweetest dogs were trying to barrel past her and see who the new 
person was. 
The first good few minutes in the house was spent with Lily (a pit) jumping all over me and 
trying to climb onto me, reminding me a lot of my own dog except that our dog is a 25lb mix. 
After some corralling of Lily and Daisy, we sat down at the dining room table and started to go 
over the interview. We then moved to setup the interview in the back room so not to disturb a 
remote call with their grandkids in California, who her husband was talking to in the living 
room. 
Before starting the interview we went over the paperwork, signed it, and talked a little bit about 
the structure of the interview – then with no other questions we got started. 
Interview 
During the interview, April traced her history and experience working in the Concessions stand 
at the Ransomville Speedway, and her earliest memories of going to the track – back when she 
was in high school in nearby Wilson, it was the ‘thing to do’ on a Friday night with friends. 
April shared how she first got involved, being connected through a church friend with helping 
out as a substitute cook, and then talked about how the kitchen structure was laid out, and how 
the workflow of taking orders, cooking foods, etc. worked: explaining that there were different 
cooks for each station, and in the old concession stand, those stations were actually in separate 
booths (and only accepted $1 bill payments). Then shifted to talk about becoming a full time 
cook, filling in as a substitute concession manager, and then becoming a full concession 
manager, and the responsibilities that entails. Throughout the interview as I was remembering 
things we did a lot of jumping around / circling back to different themes and things she 
mentioned as a connection would occur to me for clarifying and all of that, which hopefully 
won’t make the interview hard to follow. In the interview also discussed the new concession 
stand and how that changed the structure of the kitchen workflow and staffing (as they weren’t 
separate booths anymore). 
April also talked about some of the different foodways items associated with the speedway, 
including flat dogs (layers of baloney in a roll with peppers and onions) and hand-cut fries: 
with hand-cut fries being the most popular and associated concession item there by far. April 
also touched on the pit concession area, and on her whole families’ connection to racing: 
meeting her husband at the speedway, her husband racing there, and her son racing there. April 
also shared some memories and stories about working in the concession stand. 
As we closed the interview, April recalled just how important the Ransomville Speedway is to 
the area and how she’d been going there and later helping out / working there for so much of 
her life, and the warm family and community at the core of the track, including helping out the 
local foodbank with whatever surplus foodstuffs from that year.   
Post Interview 
After the interview, April and I shared some brief small talk, showing me some photos and 
some of her husband’s trophies over the years, before I left for home around 545/6pm.