Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 25, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Eddie Harris
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Lishawna Taylor, photographer
Interview Location: Lyles Station Museum, Gibson County, Indiana
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Eddie Harris farms land that has been in his family for generations. His primary focus
is cattle breeding. He has often had to work one or two extra jobs in order to continue to farm his
family land, given the lack of support from the USDA and local banks, which he discusses. As
he notes, he has never owned a new tractor. His family owns good land on a rise above the
Patoka River valley, safe from flooding. A tour of both his farm, and some other farmland his
family owns, reveals beautiful old barns and well-kept fences and livestock.
1
Index/Log (10 Minute Time Stamped)
Part 1 of 2
[0:00] Discussion of where in the area Harris’s family had originally settled and lived. Talks
about his birthplace, family lineage, and the death of his grandparents and great-grandmother.
Discusses his age when starting work on the farm and his tasks.
[10:00] Discusses the different things he and his family produced on the farm. Describes various
physical elements of the farm, the specific work he did as a child, and the transfer of the family
land from his great-grandfather to his father.
[20:00] Speaks about daily childhood routines, his sisters, and various stories from the farm. The
different machinery utilized on the farm and his father’s work ethic.
[30:00] Securing loans and family connections in the area. Continues explaining his daily routine
growing up and described what family meals consisted of, the family garden, and the use of
pesticides on the farm.
[40:00] Discussed current changes in farming including the expansion of big farming companies.
Talks about his father and his interactions with people in the community as well as his leadership
in the church.
[50:00] Sunday routine growing up and the current farm work that he does. Discusses the
underground railroad station nearby and the future of the farm in relation to his children and
grandchildren.
[60:00] End of part 1 of this interview – interview continues in part 2 audio
2