1 
BECKWITH, JOHN 
Interview by Christopher Sims 
June 15, 2018 
 
SIMS: [00:00:05] John can we start off by you saying and then 
say your name and then spell your last name for me? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:00:14] Ok. OK. My name is John Beckwith, B-E-C-K-
W-I-T-H 
 
SIMS: [00:00:26] And before your current jobs I know you were 
actually in the Army for quite a while. Could you remind me what 
your details were regarding that? Like what your M.O.s was kind 
of what year you joined? How long you were in for 
 
BECKWITH: [00:00:46] I came in the Army in 1973, first year of 
the all volunteer Army. They got rid of the draft in 72. I was a 
mechanic all the way up until--you're going to make me lie--
nineteen eighty, nineteen eighty one. Then I started, then I 
started cross training that MOS was 63 Bravo, then I converted 
over to 84 Foxtrot which was Audio Production Specialist and 
Audio Video Production Specialist 84-Foxtrot and I stayed with 
that for three years until I got out. 
 
SIMS: [00:01:35] Going back to when you joined did you--that was 
it, I was just a baby at the time. So I was wondering if you 
could help fill me in about how that felt at the time. Did you 
when you were younger did you think you were going to be drafted 
and then the draft ended and you were still interested in 
joining? How was it to kind of join at that time, kind of near 
the end of the Vietnam War? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:02:04] Well being in high school because I 
graduated in 73 it was kind of unique because the draft you know 
they were talking they're gonna get rid of the draft 1972 was 
 
 
2 
the last year the draft. Mom and Dad just the I was raised and 
it was either you're going to go to school or you're going to 
work. I went to maybe two days of college. It wasn't for me 
because I was learning stuff that they were teaching me in the 
ninth grade. And I kind of got my fill and decided to join the 
army. So I went down and saw a recruiter and I originally wanted 
to be a soil tester but recruiters are rather interesting. So 
they convinced me I turned in 63 Bravo, which was a light 
wheeled mechanic and that's how I came in. I loved it. I loved 
it.  
 
SIMS: [00:03:04] So in my experience, you seem to have like the 
perfect personality to work with, you know, the media and 
communications is that was it for that reason that you switched 
over? Or was it like people encouraging you to do that or you 
felt like that would be a good fit, you know, or could you 
explain a little bit about like how you shifted from mechanic to 
this other field? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:03:34] It's kind of interesting that you say that 
OK. I was stationed in Hawaii at the time -- rough duty but 
somebody's got to have it. I was getting ready to get out. I 
loved playing softball and I made the division softball team 
over there. As I was looking at, you know, my enlistment getting 
ready to end, the reenlistment NCO approached me and we got to 
talking. So what I wound up doing was, I took another tour, 
reenlisted for this field 84 Fox field, and I had to laugh 
because I stayed there for another year and got to play division 
softball and thoroughly enjoyed life. When I left Hawaii, you 
know, like I said, rough job, but I went to a Lowry Air Force 
Base in Denver, Colorado for the schooling, and then graduated 
the schooling and came to Fort Polk, Louisiana and started 
working at the production studio here. When I got out of the 
Army in '84, I applied for civilian job and it was editing 
television production is what it was, and then they did a big 
study, looking to go contracting out our jobs, so my skill set 
 
 
3 
they had a position open in public affairs. I applied for and I 
moved over here and that's where I've been since 2001. 
 
SIMS: [00:05:13] So in the years between sounds like 84 or so, 
and when the JRTC moved down here from Fort Chaffee, what was 
the kind of public affairs focus, you know there at Fort Polk? I 
imagine . . . 
 
BECKWITH: [00:05:29] Public affairs. We had a division here. We 
had the Fifth Infantry Division here. So with the Fifth Infantry 
Division being here, concentration everything like that, was 
directed toward them. It was mechanized, so there was a lot of 
tanks running around. Through BRAC, the base re-alignment, they 
decided to move the Fifth Infantry Division over Fort Hood and 
move the JRTC down here. And in the process of doing that 
everything kind of reverted to OK instead of having a big huge 
post--the post size didn't change, but the amount of bodies did. 
So when JRTC moved down here, it turned into the premier 
training center, and public affairs started redirecting their 
guidance toward the training. Now there were there were other 
units on the post, okay? There was like an air defense unit. 
There was the support the MPs, the garrison people that would 
run the post. There were certain units, but everything to me 
that I saw the main game in town was the Joint Readiness 
Training Center. 
 
SIMS: [00:07:00] So before they came down, did the tanks, did 
they use the box? Is that kind of what -- what I know as the box 
-- what it was used for? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:07:10] Exactly. That was their training area. And 
then when we talk about you coming down in July, going to take 
you up to Peason [Ridge], that was there live fire area. They 
would literally shoot the tanks up there too, live fire. There 
were ranges that have been converted over that used to be like, 
the tanks would have to qualify--to make sure that they were 
 
 
4 
capable of performing their mission. So the crews would go 
through these drills on identifying different types of enemy 
armor and engaging them, so they would go through these tank 
tables. And that was pretty much well the box, as you know, 
Fullerton box. That was the training area for the division. Yeah 
yeah. 
 
SIMS: [00:07:56] I know we talked about this once before but a 
lot of people ask me this question and I don't know if I have 
the notes written down. In terms of like the Vietnam era and the 
Tigerland: do you recall you know in the 80s when you were here, 
ever seeing any structures or the places where soldiers trained 
in places that was made to look like Vietnam, like the POW 
camps. Or was that all ...  
 
BECKWITH: [00:08:31] No. That was pretty much well gone when I 
got here. I do remember the way the training goes here. The 
north fort area literally, when, they got ready to send the 
second ACR to Haiti, they created Port-au-Prince up on north 
fort for them to kind of go through their training. Just like in 
the box. When we used to do Iraq rotations, Afghan rotations, or 
whatever kind of rotation, they converted this place over to 
Port-au-Prince. So when the 2nd ACR was getting ready to deploy 
to Haiti, they had the training here. 
 
SIMS: [00:09:24] And did they have role players for that? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:09:28] Yes they did. Now the role players that 
they used there, were pretty much well, military. And that was 
kind of like the start of bringing in role-players through the 
contractor. 
 
SIMS: [00:09:46] So these are like auxillary people like who are 
doing National Guard service or something like that. 
 
 
 
5 
BECKWITH: [00:09:52] Or from the standpoint, Chris, what they 
would do--let's say 2nd ACR, they might turn around and grab 
some individuals from that unit that weren't going to deploy 
with them. Ok? And they would come and they would be the real 
players, because a lot of times they augment, they offset all of 
that. Even now, even now. 
 
SIMS: [00:10:33] So could you give me a little bit of the 
feeling of kind of the base realignment era and JRTC was coming 
down--like looking back do you feel like people had a sense of 
like how big it was going to be, or was it that was sort of 
something much -- or did it turn out to be something much bigger 
than maybe you all thought at the time? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:10:59] I think what happened was people--people 
were set with the division. OK? Because there was a lot of 
soldiers in that era at Fort Polk at the time with the amount of 
soldiers. OK? (coughs) Excuse me. So in the process everybody 
was geared up to the amount of soldiers that were here. People 
saw it as: okay, we're going to lose all these people--how are 
we going to regain the losses that we have? And when I say that 
we're going within communities, you know for economic purposes 
with the housing that was here on post. And everything like that 
there was a lot of a lot of unknown. Once, once they made that 
move and they came down here, they were bringing anywhere 
between roughly five to eight thousand bodies per rotation. But 
they weren't going out to the local economy. They might go out 
and have to buy supplies that they didn't have them. But they 
weren't going out to like the grocery stores, they weren't going 
to the movies, they weren't going to the bowling alleys. So it 
was one of those things where the people had to adjust. When 
they first, when they JRTC first moved down here, this was 
originally geared toward, not so much a brigade but battalion 
size elements. It would only be a battalion in the box. So it 
was one of those things whwere, so you're not going to have that 
many bodies, but that being said, as times change and the army 
 
 
6 
has changed, you've gone from that battalion-sized element now 
to a brigade. And sometimes we get enhanced brigades which are 
even bigger coming in and going through the training. So I don't 
think was the unknown and the thought of losing all the soldiers 
and not really gaining anything back, there was a lot of 
uncertainty. But now they see that this is a excellent idea for 
training. 
 
SIMS: [00:13:25] So could you tell me about the, like, say the 
first experiences you had in the box during, you know, the kind 
of roleplaying era. I think you were saying you started off,as 
you were involved, like as a camera person and kind of were a 
role player in a sense, yes? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:13:51] I was -- I was a videographer. We would go 
out, and we would do interviews. Our job here is to train the 
soldiers on how to deal with the media in the real world side. 
The reporter and I would go out, we'd be scheduled to do a 
battalion commander brigade commander interview. We show up 
certain time, certain location. We conduct the interview, and as 
soon as the interview was over, one of the neat things about our 
jobs is they conduct a after action review. AAR. Or as we like 
to call it a hotewash. What you did good and what you get bad, 
you know, how you can improve and stuff like that. And that was 
the experience as I started to see it from this perspective. OK? 
Versus before I came over to this side, I had the luxury of 
going out and doing Department of Army documentation, shooting 
video of the rotations and submitting it to DA. To where I got 
to see the rotation from that perspective of them doing their 
jobs. And when I shifted over to the public affairs side, now I 
got to specifically see them deal with the media. 
 
SIMS: [00:15:26] So when you're in that role, you and the 
journalists are in play? Right? You're completely kind of in the 
world is that right? 
 
 
 
7 
BECKWITH: [00:15:38] Exactly. So if we were driving down the 
road, and unbeknownst to us there was a minefield, and we ran 
into the minefield --depending on who was going to assess us--we 
might be dead, or one of us might be alive and the unit has to 
get us out or whatever. Or, all of a sudden, a sniper decides to 
shoot at our vehicle. We were part of the we were part of the 
rotation. We wore MILES. And we could get kidnapped. We could 
get shot at. We could get blown up--whatever you want to call 
it. 
 
SIMS: [00:16:15] So did it feel, like, personally different for 
you to sort of be in play, and sort of part of it, versus you 
know a little bit on the outside, filming it more for 
documentation. 
 
BECKWITH: [00:16:28] It is a different feeling because if you're 
out there you're not part of the rotation, if you're just out 
there doing documentation, you know nothing can happen. OK? I 
mean literally from the standpoint, you could get there and run 
with the guys. If the opposing forces firing at the guys that 
you're with, you don't have the MILES, you're not going to get 
shot. Versus you are out there in your role, and you have the 
MILES on, and you decide you want to run with these guys as 
they're going on an attack. You can get shot. So there's a 
difference. There's that different perspective of "Oh, I could 
die." 
 
SIMS: [00:17:19] So how would yo--I guess could you tell me a 
little bit about the types of questions that you would ask the 
general, or the commanders that you would talk to and also 
describe how how was it determined who you would talk to? Was 
that already kind of figured out, or was part of what you needed 
to do is figure it out, or did you just like go in the field and 
like walk up to people and start interviewing them and sort of 
that was partly to see like how they would react? 
 
 
 
8 
BECKWITH: [00:17:56] Now with me on that role: there, we were 
designated it was it was determined that the brigade commander 
would do two interviews, and each battalion commander would do 
one interview. And this was their training. This was their 
training to see how well they were prepared. It wasn't, it 
wasn't "gotcha" media once we got involved in it. And when I say 
"gotcha" media, we're not here to make him look bad. We were 
here to give them, OK: we want to make sure that they can 
conduct an interview and feel comfortable with themselves. So 
when you when you ask about the questions, OK, what is your 
mission here? How long are you going to be here? As the rotation 
would go on, certain commanders would be in certain locations. 
And I'm just going to use this: there are soldiers in the heat 
of a firefight. All of a sudden decided to, let's say, kick 
doors in, and OK, your soldiers came in here and did this. What 
can you do to ensure this won't happen again? You know those 
were some of the questions. They were like standard questions: 
your support personnel, the commanders were like the support the 
support units. What do you do? What do you bring to the fight? 
OK. You know, you bring food, you bring water, you bring this. 
How can you ensure that it gets out to the people, you know, 
when your convoys go out? Do you have patrols they go out with 
them? Do you have a convoy that has, you know, security? And 
things like that which would be the questions. 
 
SIMS: [00:19:50] Did you feel that the people that you talked to 
with those types of questions were generally pretty well 
prepared to answer them and kind of, you know, you felt like 
they had the right training or did you feel like it could really 
vary depending on you know what different unit came through? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:20:16] I can say from a difference of the units. I 
would say during that time frame, when I was a camera operator 
doing that, the commanders were very well versed on what their 
missions were. There was a lot of public affairs training 
guiding them on what their talking points and their themes and 
 
 
9 
messages were, you know. When I say we we would use words to see 
if they would catch our words. The unit comes in, and I'm just 
going to use this: OK, how long do you how long are you going to 
occupy this territory? Well, they're not occupiers they're here 
at the invite of the government, so the commanders would bring 
that up. "Look, we're not, we're not occupiers. We're here at 
the invite, and we'll be here for as long as the mission takes." 
So, yes, I think they were very well versed on those. 
 
SIMS: [00:21:20] Have you noticed say in the last ... let's just 
say since Iraq/Afghanistan. Could you talk about that: any 
differences you've noticed over those years in terms of the 
units that are coming through? So you know I guess the things 
that are changing are the the wars themselves are changing. You 
know, units may have already actually been over there before 
they're coming back through now. So maybe talk a little bit 
about how it's changed over the last 15 years. 
 
BECKWITH: [00:21:57] When we first started going in to the 
different locations, it was kind of different. A lot of people 
didn't know what to expect. There was the unknown. OK? But as 
we've gone through here, and I'm going to even go back to, like 
the Balkans, Bosnia. OK? Kuwait. Different areas that the 
soldiers first started deploying. Once they turned around and 
they started doing that, OK, they got more experience up 
underneath them and it used to be like when we would first do 
these. OK? How many deployments to you? "Well you know I got one 
or I don't have any." Now when you talk to the soldiers, "You 
know, I got five, six, seven, eight, nine deployments under my 
belt." You know and I mean they have that. So they're there more 
well-versed on what they're supposed to be doing. 
 
SIMS: [00:22:57] So a question I get a lot from people that I 
talk to is, say, in that scenario when somebody is, you know, 
deployed six times already, and then they're coming back to Fort 
 
 
10 
Polk. What's the, what's the value or the rationale to have them 
you know go to Fort Polk before they deploy again? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:23:20] Things change. It's a constant changing 
battlefield. So I might have been hearing -- well, I use this: 
our, our senior OCs that come through (coughs). They have just 
come back home for deployment, OK? So they come back in here, 
they turn into the seniors. Now they're here for a year, 18 
months. During that time frame, as it starts getting closer for 
them to leave, they bring an excellent asset because they were 
just on the ground. But just within six months to eight months, 
even a year, things have changed over in the locations of where 
they were at. So it's a constant learning environment. You know, 
I understand, you know, and it goes back to let's say burnout on 
the amount of things that you do and repetition and stuff like 
that. What they have to learn that and they also have to learn 
the different venues of what they're doing to keep that 
relevant. You follow me? They have to be they have to be 
relevant on what happens over there. So, I mean, we have 
observer controllers--the OCs--we'll turn around and I, and I, 
call it like a whirlwind tour. They will go over. At that time 
Afghanistan and spend three, four, five, six weeks there. In 
what they're doing and seeing how relevant our training is and 
how we can improve it? So my my favorite story is: the very 
first suicide bomb that went off in a police station in Iraq, 
within 24 hours that happened here at Fort Polk. Just for 
training purposes. So that's how current we try to stay. 
 
SIMS: [00:25:30] And how does that, I mean, I imagine the people 
who are south fort, where they're writing those scenarios, I 
mean, they have some sort of direct connection to the leadership 
or people on the ground abroad?. 
 
BECKWITH: [00:25:52] Yes, to the people on the ground. Also 
through video teleconferencing and stuff like that. You know, 
people will talk, through secure conference, they'll talk. 
 
 
11 
 
SIMS: [00:26:13] So I want to talk a little bit about the 
buildings and the structures because I know you know I know that 
changed a lot from say 2005/2006 going forward. Looking back on 
it, can you give me a little bit of the history of how things 
came together? I'm thinking maybe at first, it's like whatever 
they could grab. You're out to get it done quickly. And then 
later on it seemed like a bit more kind of professional in a 
certain sense. 
 
BECKWITH: [00:26:46] It goes back on that, because you've seen 
it grow up. OK? That's what I like about this. You've seen it 
grow. You've seen it grow from the standpoint when they first 
hit the ground. A lot of the villages here--and you remember 
this: went up and they were just nothing except plywood. They 
were plywood shacks. And that's what we went with urban, I mean 
urban outskirts towns, to where these people would have to go in 
and clear. As time evolved, they started moving to like portable 
buildings. And they started improving, bringing electricity in. 
And then we went through the phase, as I call it, the 
"Hollywoodization." Where the villages, there were certain 
villages that were made to look like Afghanistan. And then there 
were other villages that were made to look like Iraq. So they 
spent the money just for that, the ambience, just to give them 
the feel of, this is where they're at. And you will get people 
that will shake their heads and think this is exactly where I 
was at while I was over there, you know? So the villages have 
evolved. Chris, you talk to, you, I think you got some 
interviews with some some of the older role players, but when 
they when they first started doing, it was nothing unusual for a 
guy to turn around and be one of the higher officials and have 
to go to a meeting and he would be like a higher official at the 
meeting. As soon the meeting was over with, he would come 
running and out of the meeting, taking off his jacket and tie 
and shirt and, just for lack of a better word, put on his bib 
overalls and heading out to the village to be a goat herder. So 
 
 
12 
they have you know they have a lot of different roles. You just 
you just weren't the policeman, and you just weren't the iman. 
But then they started growing, and that's when you saw the 
amount. Because you've even witnessed that on that lines: of the 
amount of people in the different villages. So I just think 
that, I think the more people you get out there, the more 
realistic it is with the people that you have to deal with and 
the different towns. 
 
SIMS: [00:29:43] I noticed more, and this was a little bit more 
early on, but they would, you know, I'd go into the, you know, 
school and there would be, like, a random bowling ball pin, like 
sitting up on the desk. You know, a lot a lot of like stuff that 
doesn't look like it came from like a prop shop. It's just kind 
of loose stuff. Are those mostly things that role players 
brought in. Or do you remember if there was any effort where, 
like, you know, a contractor went out to flea markets and just 
bought a bunch of stuff to make it seem more like a real place. 
So I'm thinking like a doctor, you know, like that dentist 
office. You know it's just full of like actual dental supplies. 
You know like how that stuff got there? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:30:37] Lot of times, the contractor. Let's say, 
and I'm going to use: this dental, dental clinic here at Fort 
Polk, they're getting new chairs in, so they get new chairs in. 
And the contractor would say, "Can we have your old chairs?" And 
so they would take those chairs and go put them out in the 
villages, like the gurneys and stuff, like, that from the 
hospital. That's how a lot of times they came across that. 
 
SIMS: [00:31:12] Was this somebody's job? As best as you know, 
just, like somebody who is in charge of like, before the 
"Hollywoodization" part of it, you know, where it got really, 
you know, like more organized maybe? Or did people just know, 
hey, you know this might be good in a box I'll just call over to 
you know that building and see if they could use it? 
 
 
13 
 
BECKWITH: [00:31:42] Well, because the people constantly going 
out there saying "Hey we can use this, we can use that." You 
know you might come across, way back when, you might come across 
a TV repair shop. They're out there in the box. Well, he had a 
whole bunch. You had a bunch of TVs. Well, you know, different 
units would turn in TVs. And the contractor would say "Hey, can 
I use those TVs, because we have a TV repair shop out there ,and 
we're going to go put them out there? Or bicycles, and different 
things like that. Within, on the contracted side, there are 
supply personnel would be kind of paying stuff like that 
attention saying "Hey we can use this or we can use that? And 
that's how it was acquired. 
 
SIMS: [00:32:35] And can you tell me about the guest ... not so 
much the horses, the wild horses, but the the animal place? So I 
know there's a place you can check out goats and maybe donkeys. 
Can you tell me like how that worked and what like what animals 
kind of were available and how, how did they figure out you know 
where to take the animals and so on? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:33:07] Where to take the animals is kind of 
decided by the people that that they run the rotation. They 
might say, "OK I want five goats out there in this town," or 
five goats out here whatever. OK? It one time we had geese. I 
think we no longer have geese. There are some donkeys that 
they'll take out sometimes. But there is literally a mule 
skinner who is in charge of those animals. I call it the farm--
it's a little place just inside the box where these animals, 
where these animals housed. And he takes care of them, 
vaccinates them. So what they'll do is, they'll say OK this 
village needs this amount of goats. This village needs this 
amount of goats, so they'll take them out and it just adds to 
the ambience. Number one: it's rather unique to just see these 
goats kind of walking through the village but somebody is in 
 
 
14 
charge of them. So, you know, don't do nothing to mess with the 
goats. It's just they're there. 
 
SIMS: [00:34:24] So, like the geese, they wouldn't fly away or 
anything? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:34:29] As a matter of fact, we used to have quite 
a few ponds like within the villages. They would take the geese 
out and just let the geese kind of hang out in the water. And it 
was just like a training tool for soldiers. You know people, 
people are amazing. They like to feed animals. And geese out 
here are great as long as you're feeding them, but you run out 
of crackers, they have a tendency to get mad. They might bite 
you. You know the goats love you. They'll come a'running. So 
it's just it's trying to set the environment of what they will 
see when they deploy. 
 
SIMS: [00:35:17] I have a question about weather: do they pretty 
much, you know, regardless of the weather, you know, go on with 
whatever training they're going to do? Because obviously, you 
know, but you can't stop everything in Afghanistan. But I'm just 
wondering, just in terms of obviously it's like it's extremely 
hot day or it's been a downpour for a couple of days. How, you 
know, does that change anything? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:35:47] I will tell you, lightning in the area. I 
will tell you, possibly, I can't say possibly, if a tornado was 
in the area or has been sighted in the area. Anything that is a 
major safety risk to the soldier, they will stop the rotation. 
Other than that, the rotation continues. You know I mean it 
sounds kind of weird, but I've been out there in the snow, 
freezing. Been out there in the heat, burning up. Rotation goes 
on. 
 
SIMS: [00:36:25] And what about Katrina: wasn't there some 
damage afterwards to the villages? I remember. 
 
 
15 
 
BECKWITH: [00:36:34] There was some wind damage, but that gets 
repaired rather quickly. There are certain areas during that. 
One of the things that fascinated me was like during that 
"Hollywoodization," what they did was they almost look like 
railroad conexes that they brought out here and they would put 
on their to make it look like the village. Well they have 
certain areas, or certain places in the villages that are 
earmarked "tornado shelters." And I think you saw a couple of 
them. They are literally tornado shelters in case a tornado was 
in the area. You can take cover in those. 
 
SIMS: [00:37:28] I have just a couple of questions left. One is, 
I know, there are some more of the smaller villages now that are 
basically, they seem to be largely unused nowadays. What's the, 
do you know how they determined, you know, like, what one to use 
and what ones are we going to kind of let fade away? You know, 
is there, can you can you determine like how those decisions are 
made? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:38:09] I don't know how that was decided and I, 
and as you say that, it's kind of funny. There was a village 
called Smithvilla, that kind of just went by the wayside. It's 
located pretty close to Dara Lam. And they just kind of stopped 
using it. When here recently, all of a sudden, it's come back 
into play. So I think, in one of the villages I think you went 
to that was a pretty good size was was Sadiq. And there is no 
longer Sadiq. They got rid of all, all the buildings, everything 
except for, let's see, one, two towers. There's two towers that 
was in. like the little JCOB areas—the joint operation centers 
that they had out there. And they had like walls around it, and 
they had guard towers. Really the only thing that's left out 
there now are the simulated guard towers. Everything else is 
gone. I don't know. Again I don't know why. That was a decision 
above me. On why they decided to do that. So I don't know, I 
don't know. 
 
 
16 
 
SIMS: [00:39:44] And can you walk through some of the kind of 
special places that they've built? So I know there was like like 
a water treatment plant, and like maybe a factory for chemical 
weapons. Do you remember any things like that that are, you 
know, like different than like a village per se, but that they 
built for training purposes? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:40:14] Well, they started out. There was a 
concrete manufacturing plant that kind of kind of rolled over. 
It was that way for like six months and then all of a sudden 
through real world stuff, for lack of a better word, scenarios 
start to change and it changed into a chemical plant. And they 
built into locations out there in the box. They have two 
different areas where they have underground chemical 
manufacturing plants. So it constantly changes. And as a matter 
of fact, the forward operating bases have all gone away. But one 
of the places that they decided to put one of the underground 
chemical manufacturing plants was that one of the FOBs. So that 
is still intact. They're still utilizing them. You know you have 
as you said water, a water station. The Marwani the pumping 
station is an amazing thing because sometimes we can use it for 
pumping oil, or we can use it is a water station. It all depends 
on the scenario, what the rotation is. And it's a neat little 
place. Way back when, when division was here, it was a forward, 
or upper observer bunker, for like field artillery. And they 
converted that into something that looks like a oil pumping 
producing plant. So, the imagination out here is just 
fascinating because they got rid of the old fuel point. They 
built a new one. Well in the process of the old one, they took 
some of those fuel tanks that held the fuel, the big ones, and 
put it out there at the pumping station, just to create that, 
like an oil storage right? So that's that's some of the things 
that they've got out there. 
 
 
 
17 
SIMS: [00:43:08] Do they still have a like a prop shop like, 
where they made uniforms and they used to make the gas, like, 
gas station pumps? You know that looks really realistic. Do they 
still make props at this point? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:43:25] Chris, I don't know. As you say that, I 
haven't really seen because it used to turn around and used like 
the plastic pipes to make the mosques. I haven't seen really any 
new props out there, so I don't know from that standpoint. We've 
gotten away from like Afghan and Iraqi rotations, so you don't 
really see the the individuals out there in the garb, to where 
you used to have the people that used to make that stuff? You 
know I don't, I don't know, on that side, because that's that 
contractor side. 
 
SIMS: [00:44:09] And they, do you know, they, are still that 
there was kind of almost like a museum that had like like 
display cases that had like some of the props in them? Is that 
like by where the Cubic offices are?  
 
BECKWITH: [00:44:34] That's still there. Ok. 
 
SIMS: [00:44:40] John, I think that's all I have for the story. 
Is there anything else for the interview you want to include? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:44:52] I think you covered everything. 
 
SIMS: [00:44:54] Ok cool. Real quick, could you tell me your 
birth year? Because I need that for the like labeling the 
interview if you don't mind? 
 
BECKWITH: [00:45:08] 1955. 
 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 45:15]