LINDY LEBERT LOG 
 
Summary: Lindbergh Lebert, pilot remembers how he started his career on the waterfront. He 
talks about “Texas Chicken”, and how it was a safe way for ships to meet, how he was on the 
committee responsible for widening of the ship channel, and how local knowledge is extremely 
important for a pilot.  
 
01:25 
Born 1929 in Lafayette, Louisiana. Came to Houston in 1946. Lindy short for Lindbergh. Family of 
farmers. During depression family did share cropping. In 41-42 started building raw material for WW II. 
Grew cotton, cane, large garden for family crops. Had 5 sisters. Money was scarce. Had animals on farm, 
grew vegetables. Went to store for borrowing not buying. Had homemade clothes. Made by Mom. Sewed, 
cooked, planted, helped father for harvesting. Did not know what money was. Spoke French in school. 
We’re trying to get all French speakers to speak English. Spoke French at home. Father had good 
education. Could speak and write English and French. Only skilled labor was railroad. Did not get 
through high school. Dropped out after 9th grade. Worked in Lafayette from 2 pm- 10pm. Enjoyed 
childhood and growing up. No electricity. Hunted and fished. Mardi Gras was non-existent. Could not 
afford to go to town to watch. Started noticing Mardi Gras when older. Did not go to New Orleans till 20.  
10:40 
Friend’s dad lived in Houston. Was tug captain for Pan American oil company. Invited to go with to 
Houston. Lived with friend’s father and family for week. Started working at 17. Needed minor’s release. 
Learnt work from others. That was the rest of my education. Got 500 ton pilot license. Worked for Bay 
Houston for 17 years. Then worked for electrical power company. Had 20,000 ton barge and moved coal 
from New Orleans to Tampa and brought back phosphate.  Raised license tonnage wise. Have to take test 
to get license. Became a pilot at 38 years.  
17:00 
Met a lot of pilots and became friends. Got opportunities to work as pilot when there was a requirement. 
Started work in 1967 and left in 97. Local knowledge is the name of the game. Taken in by the 
association. Then have to be approved by the port and governor has to sign. Have to sign a bond. Put up 
bond for state. A legal document with state. Showing certificate for physical fitness and license. Goes 
through insurance company. Have to take physical every year. Tested for dope.  
24:15 
When taken in person sponsoring cannot be master. Master or mentor is appointed and is boss for a year. 
After one year of apprenticeship you become pilot. Most apprentices go to maritime academy. Have had 
 
 
two apprentices. Have to bail apprentice out of trouble. Three committee men. Presiding officer, second 
in command and boatkeeper. Boatkeeper takes care of physical assets.  
 
29:45 
Steam ships have agents. Person responsible for ship gives agent what he needs. Agent knows particulars 
of ship. Pilot has to get some notice to get labor. Was 39th pilot. There are roughly 200 pilots right now. 
Channel has widened. Was on committee to widen the channel. Texas Chicken. Channel was 400 ft wide, 
ships were 600-700ft ships. 67 ft -80 ft wide. Now, 1300 ft ships, 140 ft wide. Channel was shallow. Deep 
draft was 36 ft. now 45 ft depth. Texas chicken safe way to meet. Meet head on. Cannot compress water. 
When meeting ship head on half a mile move 1-2 degrees. Each on their own side but looks horrible. 
Have fun with that. As a deckhand, there was no radio. Signals were given with whistle. If the other ship 
gives four whistles he has a problem. Learnt whistle signals as a deckhand. Deckhand was sent up to 
answer whistles. Pilots sometimes give hand signals. No use of flags. Communication before radio 
worked pretty well. In Houston with grain elevators whistles sounds would echo. Some pilots gave hand 
signals.  
42:25 
When ship comes in he gives notice that it will be there in 2-days to one week. If there is a change, agent 
will be notified. Now 3 days notice to be given to coast guard. Passenger lists, cargo lists etc. Pilots don’t 
get notice till a week before ship arrives. May be four or five pilots on the boat at times. Dispatch in order 
of work. If it gets foggy, anchor in channel. If outbound, there is traffic you anchor, start ringing bell and 
blowing whistle to signal fog. Certain pilots wouldn’t meet in fog, don’t trust them. Can’t see ship in 
dense for buy can see lights as they pass by. Texas chicken in fog, good radar. Never taken deep loaded 
ship. Wouldn’t board a loaded ship against loaded ship in fog. All depends on who the person is and if he 
can be trusted. A pilot, Nixon loved to run the fog. Did it well. It was a game with him. Some people 
good at job but not at par.  
53:00 
Meeting two small ships, have to give way a little. Polish ship radar was very poor. Had a magnetic 
compass was all he had. Have to figure the error. Magnetic compass in fog is terrible. Pilots relationship 
with ship captains are good. Maybe some disagreements about how the job is done. Try to please the 
captain. If they know you are reliable they leave you alone. Never had an accident. Had a couple of 
brushes. Had an apprentice in his second year, handled ship by himself. Small mistake, rubbed against a 
ship, cut a gash in the cargo ship all the way across. Like being on a freeway and having a fender bender. 
Had one bad accident. Pilot and some crew members died. Red bluff across from Bayport. Norwegian 
ship run into Chinese ship and caught fire. One of tanks was punctured and lost a lot of cargo. Chinese 
ship burned for 3-4 days. Anchored outside the channel and channel was closed for few days. Tug was 
stationed with ship.  
1:01:00 
 
 
Tugs to help you on dock. If ship is very big 2-3 tugs to help you dock. Tugs are pretty strong with 5000 
horsepower. Might rub a dock or lose an engine. Tugs can help stop or just let the ship drift if in the 
channel if engine is lost and no control on s hip. Tugs help in turning as well. Report to captain about ship 
when boarding. Radars don’t carry cargo, we don’t make money with them, we don’t need them. Now, 
must have 2 radars. Good navigation lights on channel. Night runs are not bad. Good range. 
(demonstrates)  
1:05:50 
Boarding a ship. Two tires ,two big fenders and a boarding platform. The tires will touch on both sides  
without hurting the ladder and you got to board. Going alongside for boarding is no problem. Take radio 
for navigation. Before radio carried a mouth whistle. Now marine radio. Battery operated. Has two 
channels. Now radios have many channels and marine operator. No talking on phone for navigation. 
Dispatcher is on 24 hrs a day.  
1:10:00 
Horse and buggy days, now electronic age. Not so much guesswork. Better communication. Before 
radios, you would see a ship coming and wonder who that is. Mason Wiggins, pilot, lost his life. Had 
heart attack and fell off and died. Westparker on an inbound ship, had heart attack and died. The Master 
has responsibility on ship. Discuss particulars of ship with Captain. (Shows radio used) Channel 13 was 
navigation channel. Channels like 77 was pilot office. Talk about navigation or just chat for a few 
minutes.  
1:16:00 
Socialize with other pilots. Close knit group of people. Retirements, Christmas parties try to meet then. 
Don’t know many of the younger pilots. Paul Brown was first colored man. Commissioner did not want a 
colored man. Now Hensley, another black man as Pilot. Hiring women pilots was harder. During tenure 
worked with two women. There are meetings to air out likes and dislikes. All eat well on pilot boats. 
Grocery bills are pretty high. But since hours are long and tough, nobody complains about food.  
 
1:22:00  
Deckhands can get experience working alongside pilots. Had hired two deckhands during tenure. Both 
presiding officers now. Start small and then increase tonnage on license. Local knowledge is important 
for pilot. Have to have experience on a channel. Need enough trips to make pilot license. Need to know 
all equipment. Have to draw channel down to scale. But have no ship handling experience. Use a mate 
and navigated out in the ocean but did not steer in the channel. Stand watch and notice everything. Earlier 
apprenticeship was one year, then became 2 year, now it is 3 year. Tug people have better sense than ship 
people. Tug people have little more experience and knowledge for Houston ship channel. Ship people are 
steering with help of mate. Quartermaster is usually one who steers. People come from all over to work. 
People like Captain Tom Lightsey stationed in Mississippi would come to Houston on a regular basis and 
then decided to move here.