Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Erica Campbell 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Montpelier, VT 
Date: 08 December 2014 
Length: 01:14:24 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2014-1007 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:47 
Introductions. 
Introduction 
00:00:47-00:03:36 
Worked in health food store in Montpelier as produce buyer 1996-9, got to 
know local growers. Had kids, worked on grants, went back to grad school 
early 2000s for community development and applied economics w/ focus 
on agriculture and food systems. Also doing transportation research, got job 
there as planner. Also did educational research 2000-2005 looking at 
service learning in VT. Got Masters, took job as consultant for RSG, mainly 
transportation, climate change, and land use focus. Then took job in 
Northeast Kingdom for a food systems plan in Hardwick through Regional 
Planning Agency and Center for an Agricultural Economy, developed 
regional food system plan for 3 counties there. Then at Farm to Plate, part of 
Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund. 
RSG, planning, Center for an 
Agricultural Economy, Hardwick, 
Farm to Plate, distributer, 
Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund 
00:03:36-00:05:39 
2009 VT legislature passed Farm to Plate Initiative, non-profits worked on 
it previously, mainly Rural Vermont and Vermont Businesses for Social 
Responsibility. Rural Vermont supported small diversified farms, other 
focused on growing food system businesses. Much growth in local food 
Farm to Plate, Rural Vermont, 
Vermont Businesses for Social 
Responsibility, NOFA, Shelburne 
Farms, producer, Center for an 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
movement at that time. NOFA, Shelburne Farms, Center for an Agricultural 
Economy, many groups working towards initiative but no connections, 
much duplication, so legislature tasked Jobs Fund to make the plan, create 
common goals. 
Agricultural Economy, plan, 
Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund 
00:05:39-00:11:06 
Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund created 1995 by VT legislature to develop 
an accelerate VT’s green economy, sustainable agriculture, forestry, and 
natural resources for energy. Did technical assistance, financing, other 
development. Many statewide forums, focus groups, interviews, data 
collection at local level, then analysis. Developed most comprehensive food 
systems plan in USA, 100s of pages long. Plan completed in 2011, presented 
to legislature. Wanted to develop implementation network, a decentralized 
yet coordinated structure to move strategies forwards and continue 
communication and strategize across groups. Farm to Plate is that network. 
Writes annual reports to legislature, receive some funds from state, mostly 
privately funded. Raise money to pay staff, for other leaders in network, and 
steering committee. A self-governing network. Jobs Fund is a facilitator. 
Looked at network in Midwest called Re-Amp, meant to shut down coal 
plants and promote renewable energy, very successful. Looked to them as 
model for structure, then found article “Collective Impact” by Kanya and 
Kramer about framework for how to create networks for collective change 
based on 5 conditions. Had all conditions in VT, have since used that 
framework to move forward. One condition is backbone organizations, 
which Jobs Fund calls itself to facilitate network, keep big picture eye on 
things to maintain connections, monitor indicators, raise money, etc.  
Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund 
history, green economy, research, 
plan, network, Farm to Plate 
history, collective impact, 
backbone organization 
00:11:06-00:13:36 
Campbell was part of planning in Northeast Kingdom, but did not join Jobs 
Fund until right after launch in 2011 but before network started. Worked 
on chapters after that to finish main executive summary after it was 
presented. Tangentially connected through parallel sub-state process. 
Campbell’s role in Farm to Plate is Program Director, main role is network 
Northeast Kingdom, Vermont 
Sustainable Jobs Fund, Farm to 
Plate, network, coordination, 
research 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
coordination working with different groups, chairs, weaving components 
together in network, being go-to person. Other staff in office too to do these 
things and for more political connections. Farm to Plate Network Assistant 
and Farm to Plate Project Manager, position for research, indicator 
monitoring, and editing the plan, also communications director to grow 
public presence.  
00:13:36-00:18:16 
Working on consumer campaign to connect to goals of Farm to Plate. 
Vermonters only purchasing 5% local food, and even though best in nation 
per capita buying food directly from farmers, not large percent of total. 
Want to move to at least 10% purchases (doesn’t include what people grow 
themselves.) Working with group from UNH called Food Solutions New 
England with vision for 50% local purchases by 2060. Beginning analysis, 
but in VT would need to rapidly increase land and agriculture. Losing land 
and agriculture every year for decades. 2012 agricultural census saw first 
reversal in trend, but would need major upswing to meet 50% of VT and 
New England food needs. Dairy not a problem, but don’t have quantity of 
other foods consumed. Agricultural land mainly replaced by forests, but 
don’t want to deforest again. Don’t know statistics, but know there were 
villages in VT more self-sustaining than currently, such as having their own 
canneries. 
Consumer, local, producer, Food 
Solutions New England, 
processors, canneries, 
institutions 
00:18:16-00:24:09 
Many people ascribe value to local food, but not like organic with process to 
define and label those values. Geography is important in how early on there 
was connection to food miles, less now, but connected to climate change 
mitigation, transportation costs, external costs, but mostly connected with 
sense of place, knowing farmers, seeing working landscapes and vibrant 
agricultural communities. Many people eat locally for food safety, especially 
with meat, as alternative to industrial agriculture. Values in peoples’ minds 
hold strongly, such as food safety, humane treatment of animals, labor 
rights. VT just beginning to pay attention to migrant dairy and apple 
Local, value, organic, geography, 
producer, consumer, cost, 
community, food safety, 
alternative, humane, migrant, 
worker rights, dairy, apple, 
economy 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
workers, but also food laborers across food system. “I see local food systems 
tied in with core values for people and it’s different for everybody and it’s 
not something that you can just go down the list.” Also freshness, and taste 
for chefs is big, many reasons. Values and economic values both big for state 
in supporting initiative.  
00:24:09-00:32:46 
Farm to Plate doesn’t take sides with hard policies, have many groups, 
organizations, and agencies represented in network including dairy co-ops, 
Migrant Justice, Grocers’ Association, anti-GMOs, Agencies of Agriculture, 
Commerce, and Natural Resources, Department of Health, Department of 
Children and Families, Agency of Education, Department of Solid Waste. All 
have interest and tied to food, economy, and environment. Challenging and 
rewarding. 25 goals in Farm to Plate, overarching themes are economy, 
environment, health, and equal food access. Food access and economy were 
always themes for legislature with focus on jobs, environment and health 
new goals for government. VT dairy industry is backbone of VT economy, 
and even with number of farms declining, dairy industry survived, but is 
always in crisis, so people don’t see it as huge economic driver. Local 
movement flourishing, many new VT companies with value added products, 
values in both added monetary value but also the values embedded in that 
product. Farm to School, community gardens, learning how to cook, popular 
media such as Michael Pollan getting people thinking about food more. 
Economic values and new jobs help state get behind initiative reasoning. 
“The food economy in Vermont has grown much faster than the rest of the 
economy in the last few years, so that’s, you know, it’s a big success.” 
Network enables all pieces to move forward and be connected, people are 
also drawing their own connections more between the values tied into their 
food. 
Farm to Plate, policy, economy, 
dairy, local, community, 
consumer, producer, network, 
value, institutions 
00:32:46-00:46:48 
“We call it a ‘double-blind’ in Farm to Plate: how do you make sure farmers 
and food producers are making a living while also providing something 
Double-bind, affordable, 
accessible, institution, direct sale, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
that’s affordable and accessible to people?” VT has great focus on direct 
sale, CSA, farmers markets, farm stands, online CSAs, but some farmers 
markets are saturated with too many producers and not enough consumers. 
Direct sales are leveling off, and not everybody wants to participate which is 
not going to change. Need to focus on retail, restaurants are doing good job 
so far with Vermont Fresh Network with up to 15% local food or more in 
sourcing. Grocery stores not impacted yet, even independent ones, which 
are all major source of peoples’ food. “Stores function on high volume low 
margin,” lots of product but low margin. Local food system is low profit, low 
volume, low margin market. Hard to get into stores, not consistent supply, 
small margins, so need to work on this. With farm liability, producers trying 
to do direct sale, or go into institutions like hospitals, schools. Co-ops are 
exception in retail, have done great job in supporting local foods. Producers 
need to do more wholesaling, but scale and diversification of markets is 
hard to accommodate. To make local food accessible, will need some farms 
to scale up while keeping vibrant direct sales market system, small farms do 
really well with direct scale. Dairy is primarily wholesale fluid milk, which is 
why it’s in stores, but meat, vegetables harder in scale to get into stores. 
Champlain Orchards is exception with produce. Will direct market sales 
stay strong in future to support different levels and sizes of farms? 
Hopefully more choices in types of sales, but still supporting all scales and 
stages of farms, but need more changes at federal level. Can’t continue 
subsidies of processed foods and leaving vegetables out if health is to 
improve with eating habits. Consumer education is key, need simultaneous 
increase of supply and demand and mutual benefits for producers and 
consumers. Market side of food system needs much development, but so 
does production side.  
wholesale, producer, distributor, 
consumer, CSA, farmers market, 
retail outlets, market, local, 
grocery, margin, dairy, co-op, 
subsidy, health, liability, 
Champlain Orchards 
00:46:48-00:52:17 
Small producers are integral, but Farm to Plate just looks for Vermont 
grown in general (+30 miles outside the border). Consumers want to have 
Producer, industrial, value, 
alternative, small, border, local, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
connection with food, and VT land typically hilly and doesn’t lend to large 
farms, so small farms will likely continue. People also hold value in small as 
alternative to industrial food system. Current food system not factoring in 
external costs, so small sustainable systems may look cheaper in future. 
Similar argument exists with climate change, but system out of skew and 
people don’t see changes on small-scale yet, often get frustrated. There is 
currently cheap food, but some people still can’t afford any food.  
consumer, external cost, 
affordable, land 
00:52:17-00:58:50 
Deep Root Co-op vegetable farmer co-op aggregate produce and distribute 
it back out. Producers are not large, but also VT “big” is little compared to 
other states. Aggregating food from small farms in cost-effective way, such 
as subsidized food hubs, can work, but need business model and/or more 
federal/state grants, need efficiency that way. Permaculture efficient in 
never needing outside inputs, but can only ever feed a few, not efficient in 
scale. Food security, world hunger, community reassurance of feeding 
ourselves in face of climate change in big driver in local food systems, also 
health and reversing obesity. Aligning public and federal policy is hard, but 
beginning to change. We can’t grow all of our own food, but a bigger portion 
is possible and desirable. Many challenges, but small changes in buying local 
food are important too. Complex system but many opportunities for change 
that emerge. “There’s a movement happening, and it will be interesting to 
see what happens with that.” “Nationally it’s scary to think about what will 
happen, but we have our little Vermont bubble! To what extent it is a bubble 
but it can be a bubble a little bit, just a little bit.” 
Retail outlet, producer, co-op, 
distributor, aggregate, food hub, 
subsidy, grant, permaculture, 
efficiency, community, food 
security, local, health, policy, 
movement, consumer, Deep Root 
Co-op 
00:58:50-01:08:11 
Sometimes people are mad that local food is expensive and don’t want to be 
told to buy it, especially of they can’t afford it. That’s true, can seem elitist. 
It’s about making sure we have choices, making it more affordable on both 
the farm and access sides. Programs to help with this, but many still cannot 
afford it yet. Farmers and producers are sometimes food insecure 
themselves. There has always been tension in food system, for example in 
Elitism, local, affordable, food 
security, tension, back to the 
landers, Hardwick, profit, value, 
movement, producers, 
consumers, value added, 
distillery, entrepreneur, tourism, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Hardwick known as “the town that food saved,” before there was tension 
between older dairy farms and back to the landers, then changed to tension 
between back to the landers and young food systems hotshots, but back to 
the landers never made money, and new entrepreneurial farmers wanted to 
make money and that wasn’t original goal of organic farming in many 
peoples’ minds. No problem with that though, many new farmers are either 
not college educated or don’t come from money. New farms are creating 
new jobs, opportunities for other new businesses, raw products for value 
added products. Much press about new farmers, older farmers upset 
because no press for decades about farming. Maybe some see Farm to Plate 
as focusing on scaling up and selling out, but staying all small and insular 
means limited impact. “There’s a lot of opportunity to still have a grassroots 
movement based on values, all sorts of really important values to people, 
and an opportunity to grow and produce more food for people, and in doing 
so, help alleviate all sorts of other issues and contribute to food security and 
other things.” Entrepreneurs all over VT now, it seems everybody wants 
that. Bennington doing new facility with distillery and processing for 
farmers to make value-added products, bring in tourism. “People are 
excited about the idea, it’s revitalization, it’s community revitalization I 
think people are seeing it as.”  
community, processors, retail 
outlets 
01:08:11-01:12:50 
USA doesn’t spend as much money on food as it used to, and less than all 
other nations. Other costs are so high, like housing, heating, transportation, 
health care, etc. that food is always one expense you have control over while 
others you don’t. Also a limit to how much food can cost, too expensive and 
people won’t buy it and you shouldn’t be producing it. Some high-end 
products sell, such as Jasper Hill cheese, but they also donate a lot of food to 
the food insecure, but there’s also the middle of people who can’t afford it 
but don’t have government assistance. 
Cost, control, consumer, limit, 
affordability 
01:12:50-END. 
Farm to Plate focuses on local production and local consumption, and 
Local, producers, consumers, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
regionally beyond Vermont. Plan includes the region, doesn’t exclude 
domestic exports, such as maple syrup and milk. 
distributors, retail outlets, 
regional, domestic export, maple 
syrup, milk, conclusion