AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumè 
Civil Rights History Project 
Intendew completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2016 
Interviewee: Norma Mtume 
Interview Date: June 27, 2016 
Location: Los Angeles, California 
Interviewer: David Cline 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 1 hour, 25 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National Museum 
of African American History and Culture. 
Daniel Cline: It is the 27th of June 2016 today and we are here in Los Angeles, 
California. This is David Cline from the History Department at Virginia Tech and 
working with the Civil Rights History Project of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. We have 
with us John Bishop of Media Generation behind the camera. Also, Guha Shankar of the 
Library of Congress is here with us, and we are so honored to be here with Norma 
Mtume. And if I could ask, this is the one time I will coach you at all, to introduce 
yourself with a full sentence, “My name is” or “I am” and where you were born, and 
what year. 
Norma Mtume: Okay. I am Norma Mtume, currently. I was bom in 1949 in San 
Diego, California, Norma Stoker, and later I married so my name was Norma Armour. 
At the time I was in the Black Panther Party, my name was Norma Armour. So, I just, 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumê 
for historical purposes, my children, or my grandchildren, I wanted to make sure that 
those names were on file. 
DC: On file. Thank you. 
NM: Thank you for coming. 
DC: And can you tell me about the adoption of Mtume? 
NM: Well, I married an Mtume, who changed his name in the sixties, as a lot of 
us were doing. We didn’t want our slave names anymore, and so he chose Mtume. His 
name is Omowale Mtume, and it means “the son returns,” and it’s Kiswahili and 
Nigerian. 
DC : That’s powerful. 
NM: Yeah. Yeah. 
DC: Wonderful. And if you could tell—let’s start with your childhood, or even 
before, your parents, and tell me a little bit about that. 
NM: All right. My mother was Doris Simms [?]. She was bom in Louisiana 
but raised in Arkansas and Louisiana. Came to California during the World War II, 
moved to Vallejo where, you know, folks were going to where they could work in the 
war industry. My dad was born in Longview, Texas. He went to the military and after he 
got out, he moved to San Diego, became a librarian of all things [laughs] and I lived in 
San Diego until I was about four. Then moved to Los Angeles with my mom. My folks 
split up, and so I had been in the Los Angeles area most of my life. Moved away when I 
was in the Party for a few years, moved up north, came back home to roost, and pretty 
much been here since. 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumâ 
DC: I wonder if you can tell me a little bit about the racial geography of Los 
Angeles during those years, and if that shaped you at all? 
NM: It did, and I’ll tell you my first experience, even thinking about me being 
in the skin, really, a lot. Where I lived in Los Angeles, it was primarily African 
Americans, or negroes, or coloreds, or blacks, or you know, as we became over the years. 
And very few Latinos, who were pretty much all Mexican; one or two Asian. As you 
came further west, we had more Japanese. You went further north, more Korean. But 
where I lived, it was mainly black people. Very poor neighborhood; I grew up in South 
Central, around 21st and Naomi for those of you who know Los Angeles. And almost 
everybody came to school with cardboard in their shoes when they started wearing out. I 
mean, it was no—. You didn’t think of yourself as super poor until you were able to get 
out of that environment and see what other people had because the other people around 
you, they pretty much had what you had, or didn’t have what you didn’t have, rather. 
When I was in high school in the mid-60s, started to become a little bit more 
conscious about what’s going on there, what’s going on around the world. Some of our 
older brothers, and neighbors, and friends—and as we got to be seniors, some of our 
boyfriends—were drafted, went to Vietnam. I think that opened a lot of folks’ eyes, 
especially when we saw the guys, the ones that made it back. They didn’t come back 
quite the same, and a lot of them have never been the same since then. Like I said, very 
poor. I managed to get a scholarship, two hundred fifty dollars [laughs] from high school 
to go to college. You know? Go figure. That would buy about a book and a half these 
days. So, I went to Jefferson High School, which was basically all black. We had two 
Caucasians, [5:00] two brothers, that—. I mean, we remember the Cromwells [?] because 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumé 
they was the only ones in this whole school! But that’s kind of what the neighborhood 
was like. We were poor, and then when riots started, when people started really, really 
feeling like, “Enough is enough. We really don’t have what we need to survive,” folks 
got angry and they started doing what they thought they needed to do to get some 
attention. 
DC : What year did you graduate high school? 
NM: I graduated in [19]67. 
DC: Okay. 
NM: In 1967, yeah. So, it was just after we had the big Watts uprising. After I 
graduated, I went to Cal State LA and we had a very active Black Student Union there. 
DC: Had you done anything in high school? Were there any organizations yet? 
NM: I didn’t. I was too busy trying to pull myself up by my bootstraps, not 
knowing at the time that I really didn’t have any boots to put straps in. I was going to 
college. I was going to be a math and PE teacher, majoring in math and minoring in PE. 
Then I started meeting some of the students on campus who were active in the BSU, and 
I met my first husband, Albert Armour. He was very active in the Black Student Union 
and later became a Black Panther Party member, and that’s how I got involved with the 
Panthers because I really wasn’t involved in very much before then. 
DC : Are you able to go back and try to remember the first time that you 
became aware of the Panthers and trying to figure out what the ideology was or what this 
was about? 
NM: I know he had Panthers stickers on his car. He had a little blue VW bug 
and when he would come to the house, and then he would have a Muhammad Speaks 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtum§ 
newspaper with him. So he was just always—. He was getting information from 
everywhere, and he would come to the house, and my mother would just be really, really 
upset. She didn’t want him coming over anymore with that, you know, that Black 
Panther and that Black Muslim stuff. He took me to an anti-war protest rally, the big one 
that was out in Westwood, and I believe it was in [19]67, late [19]67, or summer of 
[19]67—and it’s when it disrupted. It just erupted and they started beating heads and 
stuff, and I’m standing around looking. I’ve never been exposed to anything like this 
[laughs] before. So finally, they’re dragging me, “Come on, come on! We got to get out 
of here.” So, I was actually there at that rally and that was my first time saying, “This 
really isn’t right.” I didn’t watch a whole lot of TV. I was always into the books and 
reading, and I didn’t have time. 
So, I saw that. That was early [19]67 and my husband became a full-fledged 
member of the Party. He dropped out of college. I was still going to school. He kept 
trying to get me to come around and do things, but I just didn’t have time for that. I had 
another avenue that I was going to take, but in December [19]69 when the police raided 
all the Party offices here, he was in one of the offices and they beat him up pretty badly. 
He was in the hospital for a while, broke his arm, damaged one of his eye sockets pretty 
badly, and then that got my attention. That woke me up. And that was in December, and 
by January I was volunteering at the local office on 41st Street—what was left of it. We 
still were trying to function out of there. 
I started doing typing for the officer of the day. I would type memos for him or 
whatnot, and then I worked in the breakfast program. And the clinic was starting here, 
and I always had an interest in the body and in health. I guess that’s why I liked physical 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumé 
education, other than it was just fun. I liked to play. And so, I was assigned to work at 
the clinic and I became the coordinator, the person who ran the clinic. That was some 
experience. I was 19 years old. [Laughter] 
DC: It’s amazing how young everyone was and what you all took on. 
NM: Yes. Yeah, yeah. But I had a lot of help from—there were a lot of 
professionals who were willing to lend their time and talents and skills. Marie Branch 
was an RN and she taught at UCLA, and Terry Coopers [?] was a psychiatrist, and they 
helped us to get residents and doctors to volunteer, nursing students and nurses to come 
and volunteer at the clinic. We didn’t have any paid [10:00] staff there and that’s how we 
ran it. 
DC: These are all African American health workers? 
NM: No, no. Marie Branch is African American. Dr. Coopers is white. But 
we had an assortment of—. It was a real good mixture of diversity that we had there. 
DC: Can I ask you, since we’re on that, about other sort of coalitions that 
formed at that time, partners that you worked with? 
NM: Well, there were the student nurses, health educators. Some of the doctors 
who were really liberals, they had their associations that they were with. I was just 
really, really focused on running the clinic and that was a full-time job because besides 
caring for the community, we had to care for the Party members. And now, I’m doing 
work with Drew Medical School and looking at health disparities and we’re the sickest 
people in the world, the community that I come from. We have—. Well, the sickest 
people in this country, and a lot of our illnesses compare real closely to what’s going on 
in some third world countries, in terms of our birth rates, stillbirth rates, low birth weight 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtum§ 
children, and miscarriages, and things like that. But Fm just saying that to say that I 
didn’t really have time to do a whole lot of other things. I was focused on running the 
clinic and the health of the Party members and the people that we served at the clinic, and 
that was more than a full-time job. 
DC: So, let’s start from the beginning because at 19 years old, [laughter] you’d 
had a year of college at this point or so? Yeah. 
NM: Mm-hmm. 
DC: And are assigned this task. 
NM: It was a lot of self-study. 
DC : Had the clinic opened yet? 
NM: The clinic—I was there, the clinic opened. It had a mix [?] opening day. 
DC: Okay. And then you were told, “You’ll be running this.” [laughs] 
NM: Yeah and my main—. 
DC: So, what happens? [laughs] What happens on day one? 
NM: You just get it in gear. You do a lot of self-study. You do a lot of reading, 
and like I said, I had a lot of mentors from—especially from Marie Branch, who was the 
nurse and the nursing instructor. She gave me things to read. She just taught me. I 
mean, she taught me how to eat yogurt. I didn’t even know what yogurt was. I’d never 
had yogurt [laughter] when I was 19 years old. That wasn’t what we ate. But you know, 
various uses for it, and a lot of natural healing practices, we discussed as well. I don’t 
know. It was just, you learned. You got books. You found people. We didn’t have an 
internet, so you had to hustle and get that information the best that you could, and it just— 
I learned a lot in a little bit of time. 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtum8 
DC: Okay, can you describe the physical place of the clinic, the first clinic? 
NM: It was a storefront. We had a lab tech student whose father was a 
construction contractor, so he had been working with his father for a long time. He came 
in and built the lab out for us, and we were able to put up partitions so that we could have 
different operating rooms. So, he built out the lab and he built us a pharmacy area. We 
worked with the pharm—. That was one of the things that the doctors did, was to work 
with the pharmaceutical reps who came to their place and asked them to give us samples. 
So, that was where we got most of our medication so that we could give it to the folks 
who came to the clinic for free. 
So, we got it built out. Fm not a good judge of square footage, but we had three 
exam rooms, a little reception area, an area for the pharmacy, and the lab, here in Los 
Angeles. 
DC : And what was the location? 
NM: It was at 32nd and Central. Yeah. 
DC: And completely free. 
NM: Well, we had to pay rent for the building, but—. 
DC : Right, but for the—. 
NM: And our utility. It was free. Everything was free. We didn’t charge for 
anything. People could give donations when they came in, but all care was free. 
DC: So, did it take some outreach to let people know that you were there and—. 
NM: Oh, yes. 
DC: That there weren’t strings attached? 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtumê 
NM: Yes, yes. And we did that outreach in the community, but when folks 
came out to sell—went out to sell—papers as well, there was information about the clinic 
and there were articles in our newspaper about the various clinics around the country. 
And we collected donations on the street for the clinic too, so folks got to learn about the 
clinic that way. 
DC: Do you remember any of the sort of “why we’re going to do a clinic,” the 
justification or the ideology that said that this is important? 
NM: Yes. It was one of the points of our ten-point platform and program. I 
think it’s number four, that we want decent healthcare. We want healthcare that keeps us 
healthy to start with, but gets us well [15:00] when we get sick. And so, we were just 
carrying out our platform, that we said that the reason that we existed. We knew that we 
had substandard housing, education, healthcare. We were the most that got beat up by 
the police. We were going to prison more than anybody else, although those were the 
things that we really were—stepped out—to address. 
DC: I’ll come back to the clinic, but I want to ask about daily life of a young 
woman in the LA chapter of the Panthers. What was it like? What was daily life? 
NM: The young woman with a two-year-old child. Well, let’s see. Maybe he 
was a year and a half when I finally—. After my husband got out of the hospital and I 
started coming around more, eventually I gave up my apartment and I just moved into the 
Party facilities as well, me and my son. Shortly after, I got pregnant with my daughter. 
That’s Albert Armour III and Leilah Armour. And so, when we went in the Party, there 
were a lot of women just like me. They had children. So, we had to make provisions so 
that the children could be safe and cared for, so we had a nursery for the children because 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtui4@ 
we worked long, long hours. I mean, we would be up in the morning, 5:30, 6:00, in order 
to get ready for the breakfast program. So, we’d get the kids fed, and then folks would 
go off to their various work assignments. I would go to the clinic. Other folks would go 
to the field. Other people might be working in the office where we put together our 
fliers, our posters. A few of the main writers for the newspaper were from the Los 
Angeles chapter, so they would go to Oakland for a few days of the week to work on the 
newspaper. So, the children had to be taken care of, and so that was first and foremost. 
So, we made sure that we put that in place. 
So, you’d go out, strike out to the clinic about 9:30 or 10:00. You worked there 
until like 6:00 or so, and we often had evening clinics as well because the regular people, 
they’d have to go to work, and so they can’t take off work because they lose money. So, 
we had lots of evening clinics, and that’s how we were able to get a number of our 
doctors to volunteer as well because once they got off work, then they could come and 
volunteer their time at night. So, there were days when you may be at the clinic until 
10:00, 10:00 or 11:00, cleaning up and getting ready for the next day. Then if you got 
back to the centers early enough, you ate dinner. You had political education class 
maybe. And if you were on guard duty, because everybody had to have a guard shift. 
We didn’t want what happened to Fred Hampton to happen to us. You just didn’t know. 
Somebody had to be watching all the time. So, we would come back from our daily 
assignments, and if we didn’t do political education class or have some other kind of 
meeting, or a rally or something that we needed to go to, you were lucky. You might get 
into bed by 12:00, 11:00 or 12:00. [laughs] Get a couple hours’ sleep, then you get up for 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhè 
your couple hours of duty on security watch, and go back to sleep. Then you get up, and 
you do it all over again. 
DC: Wow. Yeah. 
NM: So, the work ethic that we got [laughs] at such a young age, how we 
learned how to work like that, nobody can outwork us these days. Later when you go on 
to a regular job, they just can’t do it. They’re not used to that kind of work. I’m not 
saying that that’s something that you should try to sustain for a lifetime [laughs] because 
it’s really hard and it’s wearing on your body over time. But that’s what we felt that we 
needed to do, and that’s what we did. 
DC: You mentioned Fred Hampton, and can you talk a little bit more about the 
harassment, and fear, and intimidation, and targeting that you all experienced? 
NM: Yes. We had—. We were harassed and targeted by the police, but other 
groups that we had different ideological or perspectives. One example was one day, and 
we did this—. Everything was communal; the laundry, everything. If you were assigned 
to do laundry duty, you might have four or five people’s, and their family’s, the kids’, 
laundry to do. So, my girlfriend and I were going to do laundry one evening and as soon 
as we pull out of the parking space, there’s the police. They just stayed right there and 
waited for you to drive off [20:00] so that they could stop you and harass you for some 
petty traffic infraction that they say that you might have committed. And so, we’re 
sitting there and one police goes to his car, and then he comes back, and he’s got this 
whole portfolio of photos. So, he starts asking me these people’s names, people that are 
in the Party, and then, he had my license so he knew my name, so he, first he pulled up 
my husband’s picture, and said, “Who is that?” I said, “Oh, that’s my brother.” So, I 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhê 
think for the longest—without them doing any deep checking, they thought that we were 
brother and sister. Eventually, I think they caught on, but for them they—every time you 
left, you would look to see if there was a patrol car or an unmarked car on the street. 
And I think the women got off a little bit easier sometimes than the guys. The 
guys, they just knew soon as they walked out the gate with their papers under their arm, 
they were going to get harassed. Or they were going to get arrested, or they were going 
to get beat, or whatever. So, it was constant. And at night, especially after the raids on 
the various offices and all, you just, you didn’t know if you were—if your number was up 
next—but you just, if you had that commitment, you stayed. People that didn’t, and they 
figured, “I want to do something else with my life. I don’t want to give it up this way,” 
then they leave. So, people came and they went. Some people stayed longer than others. 
DC : Did you have strategies for coping? 
NM: Drinking and drugging? [Laughter] This might be one of the things I tell 
you to take out. [laughter] But, no. I mean, we—. When we had a chance to cool down, 
we might have a party or a birthday party or something. 
DC: This is stress. This is high stress. 
NM: It is. It’s high, high stress. It’s a wonder some of us didn’t stroke out or 
something. No, I mean, we—. I recognized early on that there were a lot of folks who 
had alcohol problems, and later on started using different types of drugs. But then, we 
have to remember that these are people that came in from the community. People that 
joined the Party, they were already doing those kinds of things. When they came into the 
Party, they were directed, clean up, because it wasn’t allowed. You couldn’t be a drug 
head and alcoholic every day and do the work that you needed to do. So, that wasn’t 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhâ 
condoned. But because we were who we were, some of us slipped back into those habits. 
But, no there were—. 
We had a psychiatrist who worked with us. Like I said, Dr. Coopers was a 
psychiatrist and up north, we had a Dr. Shapiro, I think his name was. And every now 
and then, somebody would really kind of go out there. But everyday, having mental 
health services, or therapy, or support groups and that kind of stuff, other than just 
commiserating among yourselves, not that I can recall, no. 
DC : What about being a woman in the Party? And I know that numerically, I 
think, right, sisters made up the majority at certain points? 
NM: Yeah, at certain points. It wasn’t the easiest thing. I mean we, based on 
principles, we tried to make all things equal, that women could do what men could do. 
And the men cooked, the men cleaned. There were men assigned to the children’s 
centers and whatnot. But like I said, the people that were in the Party were people who 
were not in the Party and came into the Party, so they brought those same behaviors, and 
some chauvinism. Not just men in our community, but all over the world, the patriarchal 
societies. So, that was something that you constantly had to deal with. I would think at 
points it was a little bit alleviated, little bit more alleviated, because eventually more and 
more women came into the leadership positions. It was something we had to deal with. 
DC : Is there a special bond now among the veteran Panther women? 
NM: Oh, yes. Yes, yes they are, and it’s like you were in high school and you 
have four or five people that you bond with. I mean, you don’t bond with the whole 
class, but there are four or five of us who are—still talk and commiserate about things that 
are going on now and reflect on things that were going on [25:00] then. A couple of us 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhé 
were having this discussion about how our work ethic and how we “served the people 
body and soul,” was one of our slogans. After a while, especially when you get closer to 
my age, you just have to start to pull that back and say, “Wait a minute. I’ve got to take 
better care of myself. I can’t give all of me away everyday, all day anymore. I’ve really 
got to reel that back and now spend more time with my grandkids, and my children,” and 
just—. But yeah, we do. We have a good bond and it’s those kinds of friends that you 
probably never, some people, will never make in life. These are people that you trusted 
your life with, for real, [laughs] 
DC : How did you—? Go back a little bit for a second, but you talked about 
your parents’ initial reaction to your boyfriend who would later become your husband. 
How did they handle your involvement in the Party? 
NM: My mother—. Well, we had a free busing to prisons program, and my 
oldest brother was in San Quentin. We were here in Los Angeles, so my mother had 
never been able to go and see him. So, when we had a bus trip that was going up to San 
Quentin, I got my mom signed up and she and I went to visit my brother in San Quentin 
and she—before that and after that—she never went. After that, it was no problem. What 
we were doing in the Party was all right. She got an idea. And over time, she got an idea 
to see some of the things that we were doing. So, she was okay with it. And my father, I 
think he was just more afraid for my safety. He came to accept it after a point, too. 
My first experience with discrimination that I can recall, my father used to take 
my brother and I to Texas every year, and we would drive. And normally—he lived in 
San Diego—we would stop in El Paso for halfway, and we would get a motel. Of course, 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhê 
that was like in [19]55,[19]56, so it was a black motel you would stay at. And then you 
would get up the next morning, get you some breakfast, and drive on. 
DC: Is that “The Green Book” that had--? Do you remember? I think it’s 
called “The Green Book” that listed African American-owned motels for cross-country 
trips? 
NM: I don’t know. My dad just knew because being from Texas and going 
back and forth all the time. 
DC: Oh, okay. He knew the right places, yeah. 
NM: Yeah. But this one particular time we were going, I was about nine years 
old. We got to El Paso and the Black Baptist Convention was going on, so all the black 
motels were taken up. So, we had—. There was no room at the inn, so my dad said, “Eve 
got to stop and get some sleep.” So, he said, “Fm just going to pull over on the side of 
the road here. WeTl get a couple hours of sleep.” He pulls underneath some willow 
trees. Well, you know how the willow trees are going? I said, “Daddy, I can’t sleep. 
[Laughter] The trees are calling me.” And I kept on, and finally he just got up and started 
driving. Well, it was morning. He said, “I need to get some coffee and we need to get 
something to eat.” Well, everything still said, “No coloreds allowed” and “Whites only” 
and “Black water,” I mean, “Colored water,” “White water.” So, my dad, he said, 
“We’ve got to stop.” He pulled up to the restaurant and my stepmom was saying, “Oh 
no, Calvin. You can’t go in there. You can’t go in there.” He said, “No,” he’s from 
Texas. He knows how to handle it. So, he goes around to the back door. In about 15 
minutes, he comes back and he’s got coffee, and donuts, and food, and stuff. He says, “I 
mean, that’s what you have to do. You just have to suck it up. You and your family have 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunhé 
to eat, and you just go and do what they tell you to do, and you come out, and we get in 
the car, and we drive on.” I’ll never forget that as long as I live. That was my first 
introduction to, “I really am treated differently than other people.” 
DC : Do you remember what your thoughts were in your young mind, just right 
at that moment? 
NM: Yeah, and I was wondering, “Well, why does dad have to go in the back?” 
And then when we actually got to my grandmother’s house that year, we’re passing this 
beautiful park with a nice swimming pool. We said, “Ooh!” And you know, Texas is 
humid. It’s like July, and “Ooh, we can go swimming there!” Dad says, “No hon, you 
can’t swim there, but there’s a black pool down the street.” And we pass this beautiful 
high school. I said, “Oh, Dad, is that where you went?” He says, “No.” We go on down 
the street, and you can—. The stark differences in that park and the other park, but the 
thing that really got me is we were going to go to the drive-in one night. So, we get to 
the drive-in movie. We have to go all the way in the back. The black people had to sit so 
far back that they had bleachers. You had to get out of your car [30:00] to see the screen. 
I mean, all of that in one trip. So, that’s really imprinted in my mind. I’ll never forget 
that. 
DC : How old were you, about? 
NM: About nine. Eight or nine. 
DC: About nine. Sounds like that had a big influence. 
NM: Yeah. Yeah, and later on, you start to reflect back on that. But when I get 
back to my community, it’s the same so you don’t really think about it that much 
anymore until you get older and start getting a little bit more consciousness about, “Well, 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MturàS 
there’s a whole bunch of this stuff going on all the time, and we need to do something 
about it.” 
DC: What were some of the other survival programs that the Party had in place 
in Los Angeles? 
NM: We had a food program where we gave away free bags of food, groceries 
to folks who were in need. This is kind of pre-food-bank type of situations. We had a 
free clothing program, free coats program in the winter, especially in those places like 
Chicago and New York where it got really, really cold. Could you imagine kids having 
to go to school and they don’t have coats to wear? What else did we—? We had so 
many. We had a seniors’ program, “Seniors Against the Fearful Environment.” It was 
called “SAFE,” where we would escort seniors to the bank, and to the grocery store, to 
doctor’s appointments. In the clinics, we had outreach programs where we would 
actually go out into the community and do some services. That was kind of novel, and I 
think we learned that from watching what they were doing in Cuba and in China, the 
barefoot doctors who went out into the community to work with the people to keep them 
well and to get them well. Gosh, I have a whole book of what our programs were. 
DC: Right, [laughs] 
NM: A legal program, where we helped folks who needed attorneys, to find 
attorneys, pro bono or at lower rates, and we actually had people in the Party who 
essentially were paralegals. They helped prepare for the upcoming cases and whatnot. 
We had free educational programs. We had the school, which we were so proud of, in 
Oakland. But before you went to school, you went to the nursery, and I’m sure that 
Ericka will talk a lot about that. But as soon as mom was well enough after having the 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MturàS 
baby, and strong enough, well, now the baby would go to the nursery. Folks were 
assigned to work there. They were like, assigned there 24-hour on duty for the nursery, 
and the shifts changed week to week, or however they had it set up, and the same with the 
school. When you were two and a half or so, you were potty trained, and you went to the 
school and you started your formal education. You go to school in the daytime, and at 
night you go to the dormitory, and folks were assigned to be there. And so, that really 
freed us up to continue to work these long, crazy hours we were working. 
DC : And this was how your kids came up? 
NM: Yes. Picked up on Monday morning with their little bags. The van would 
pick them up, and they’d be at school all week, and they’d drop them off on Friday night 
with their little dirty clothes. And you’d clean them all off, and you’d put them back on 
the van on Monday. I mean, you could go and see them during the week if you had time 
to drop in, but that’s—. And they were ecstatic. They were in heaven. They were treated 
like little queens and kings, so it was fine with them. [Laughs] Some of my comrades 
now would tell me how angry their children were—my kids were, especially my oldest 
boy—when we left. They were really upset that we left and they had to leave the school. 
So, it was like their little haven, [laughter] And so advanced that when they came out, I 
was able to put them ahead of—a grade ahead of—where the schools wanted to put them. 
I brought them to Los Angeles, and they wanted to put them in school according to their 
ages, and I said, “No. They’re going to be bored in there.” So, I took them to San Diego 
and they put them in the grades that I asked them to put them in, and they have all done 
well. 
DC: The clinic here, what was the name of the clinic? 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtunh® 
NM: It was the Alprentice Bunchy Carter People’s Free Clinic. 
DC : And can you tell us who Bunchy Carter was, and the naming of the clinic? 
NM: Bunchy Carter is the person who—. He and John Huggins, they started the 
Los Angeles chapter. So, in his honor, and commemorating him, we named the clinic 
after him. And I had the opportunity to go to a luncheon that was held for his mother 
about two months ago, and she was like a [35:00] Freedom Fighter from way back, so I 
could see where he got his desire and understanding about equal justice for folks that 
were disenfranchised and had so many unmet needs. His mother just—. She worked in 
programs in starting and running civil rights-type, issues-based programs here in Los 
Angeles for a long time. 
DC: A long time, yeah. Yeah. Did you ever meet him or did you, was it—? 
NM: I was able to meet him one time at a rally, because that was when I was 
just kind of coming around a little bit. My husband was trying to get me to formally join 
and I wouldn’t, but I met him at a rally once and just very impressed by the way that he 
carried himself and the way that he commanded the other guys to do things. Not 
commanded in a “you do this” kind of thing, but the way that he—the leadership that I 
saw shining out through him, just that one time that I met him. I was really impressed 
with that. And then later on, learning more about him and reading his poetry and 
whatnot, you get to get a better sense of who the man really was. 
DC: What were some of the challenges? I mean, we know the circumstances 
of his death and different ways in which that story has been told, I suppose. What where 
some of the challenges in terms of relations with other organizations at that time? 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiñO 
NM: Well, there was the, probably mainly the US Organization, Ron Karenga’s 
group. And my ex-husband, Albert Armour, was at UCLA when that—he was going to 
school there when—that occurred. So, hearing firsthand from him, and one of my best 
friends from high school was in the Party and was there at UCLA when that happened. It 
just puts a sour taste in your mouth and in your heart. It’s not right towards that group of 
folks. 
DC: Right. Just for the record, could I ask you to describe what happened? 
NM: My understanding is that, and Ericka can give you a much better account 
of it because she was—her husband was—there, was killed with Bunchy. There was some 
difference in ideology about how things should be run in terms of the Black Student 
Union and what was happening with the black students on campus and whatnot. And the 
Panthers, our ideology was based on what had happened in some other revolutions. We 
drew from, some from the Russian, some from the Chinese, and some from what 
happened in Cuba, and tried to—and things that happened in South America and islands— 
and tried to put it together to make it work for what we have here. The dialectical 
materialism would—. You know the rhetoric. And the US Organization, they were very 
Afrocentric, referring everything back to Africa, and that’s not something that we did at 
that time. So, just rifts occurred. Even when I was pregnant with my daughter and I was 
out selling papers one day, I was attacked by people from the US Organization. I mean, I 
just happened to grow up with six brothers and they couldn’t handle me, so. [Laughs] 
We were on the street corner, so they weren’t going to try to do too much but they did try 
to attack me and I was able to fend them off. 
DC: And did those kinds of things happen a lot? 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
NM: Those kinds of things happened. They would catch one or two people by 
themselves and people would beat them up, and yeah, that kind of stuff happened, here in 
San Diego where US and the Panthers were there too, because I don’t think that they 
were around in all the cities where we had chapters. But I mean, and over time you—. I 
considered myself to be someone who has practiced forgiveness in her heart, and 
whatnot. That one with Karenga is just really hard because he did some other things after 
that. He even—. What did he have as his—? I don’t know if it’s his wife or some other 
people, other women from the US Organization that he was holding like captive, and I 
mean just, and he never fessed up to what he did. I mean, and he did, and he was 
convicted, and from what I recall he was convicted. And he’s still a big-time professor 
down in San Diego and running around the country espousing his views and whatnot, and 
I just, I can’t abide. [40:00] I don’t have hatred. I don’t have enough room in my heart 
to be hating anybody, but he’s somebody that I don’t ever have to be in his presence and 
I’m just fine with that. 
DC: So, gunfire actually erupted that day, you said—. 
NM: Oh, yeah. Yeah. It came to a head because I guess these meetings were 
going on, and you know, harsh words and whatnot happened. And from what we believe, 
what I believe, and a lot of other people believe—other people probably have more proof 
than I do—that Karenga gave the order for those guys to shoot Bunchy and John there, 
and operating in collaboration with the police probably, but that’s another whole issue 
that I don’t feel like he’s really cleared himself of. 
DC: And was it not long after that that the offices got raided? Was that—? Or 
is that quite a bit later? 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
NM: That was early on in the year, and I can remember the offices were raided 
in December, but that occurred earlier in the year. Fm thinking like February, in the 
winter, if I remember correctly. Yeah. And that was before I was actually in the Party 
because I didn’t come along until late [19]69, and so he was killed before I came into the 
Party. Well, they were killed; Bunchy and John. Yeah. 
DC : So, do you remember how people reacted to their deaths? 
NM: Like I said, I was not in the Party. 
DC: You were not in yet. Okay. 
NM: Yeah, but what happened then, it just—the carryover afterwards—it just 
kind of kept on. The sentiments between the Panthers and the US Organization got even 
worse. And at that time, you’d go out and you would be collecting donations or selling 
papers, and there were special corners where you would have more foot traffic and you 
would probably get, have more sales and whatnot. On one corner, would be Black 
Panthers and the other corner would be the US Organization, and one comer would be the 
Nation of Islam, and another corner would be the Holy Ghost Christian, [laughs] 
DC: Where were the [inaudible]? [laughter] 
NM: They were at the airport mostly, [laughter] Yeah, so I mean, it was —. 
DC: Just the street comers. 
NM: Yeah. It was the time. I mean, it was very interesting period of time in 
the sixties and seventies just watching all the different ideas that people had about how 
we should be in this country. 
DC: Now we didn’t have the gang situation that we have now, obviously, in 
LA, but the Slausons were around. 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñá 
NM: We had gangs before the Party, and like I said, the community came into 
the Party. And once you came into the Party, you weren’t gang members anymore. We 
had the Slausons, the Pueblos. We had the Body Snatchers. We had the Roman 
Twenties. We had a lot of gangs, but the Party attracted a lot of those folks because, I 
mean, they were out there. They had the misplaced aggression. They were mad and 
upset. They knew something wasn’t right, but they were taking it out on the wrong folks, 
and once they got a little bit of consciousness under their belt, then they saw, “There’s 
another way for me to channel my energies.” And no, we didn’t have this gang kind of 
situation here in LA until the Party left, and then the powers that—be brought the— 
dumped all the crack here, and the gangs, and it then spiraled. 
DC: Were there any times when, because I know this from some of the 
chapters where you are bringing in people from the streets who have legitimate reasons to 
be angry, and a lot of—and you’re trying to be disciplined, right, but things spill out. Was 
there any difficulties? [laughs] 
NM: Yeah, you know. Sometimes people would explode, but I mean, and 
you’d try to handle it diplomatically. And we all know that we all came with a whole 
bunch of different types of baggage, and you just try to deal with it case by case, or you 
know so-and-so is liable to go off at any time, so don’t go talking crazy around him, 
especially today because such-and-such happened, [laughs] And over time, hopefully 
some of those temperaments change. And some of them, they didn’t, and they left or 
they were asked to leave, or kicked out, or whatever. 
DC : And did that happen? 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtunW 
NM: Yeah. People got kicked out. People got suspended. People left on their 
own. 
DC: So, you mentioned earlier but you—. So, you started [45:00] with the 
clinic here and then you got reassigned up north, right? 
NM: Yes. Well actually, here I was working with the finan—, I mentioned that 
a few of the women actually went up north every year, every week, to work on the 
newspaper. Well, the person who was in charge of the finances here knew that I was 
pretty good with math, and so she became my mentor. She trained me how to handle the 
finances as well when she was gone. So, I was doing the clinic but I was also doing the 
finances. So, that’s what I was doing here, both of those. And then, when there was a 
call for all of the chapters to move up north to work in the political campaigns that we 
were starting, I was assigned to the George Jackson Free Clinic in Berkeley and became 
the director there. 
DC : Did you go with the whole family? Is that when the kids were in school? 
NM: Well, actually, my two-year-old was already there. He went when he was 
about two and a half, or maybe close to three. He was already up at the school, and my 
daughter went with me, because she was only a few months old when we moved. So 
yeah, when I went there, I became in charge of that clinic and it was operated pretty 
much the same way. We had a lot of folks that I collaborated with there though, because 
Berkeley’s just a heart of collaboration, and unity, and getting things done. We had the 
Berkeley Free Clinic. We had the Women’s Health Collective. Haight-Ashbury Free 
Clinics sent folks over to teach us about substance abuse, so that was my first training in 
drug abuse. Is that where your dad grew up? [laughs] 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñi 
DC: My dad and his friends know the Haight-Ashbury Clinic. We lived right 
around the comer. 
NM: Oh, okay. Yeah, so we got a lot of help from them, and there was an 
organization called Community Services United, which was a coalition of nonprofits who 
received funding from Berkeley City, and we met monthly to—mainly to let each other 
know what we were doing so that we could avoid duplication of services, so that if you 
wanted to go and ask for money, you wouldn’t ask for money that the City was already 
funding something for. And so, that, yeah, there were a lot of people that we worked 
with, and we worked with UC Berkeley [which] had a group called the Black Health 
Science Caucus. These were pre-med students who came and volunteered their time and 
worked in the labs, and worked in the clinic, and taught us how to do different lab work. 
Here in Los Angeles, but more so in Berkeley, I and some of the other clinic workers, we 
were taught a lot about medicine. 
I tell folks we were probably practicing medicine without a license, but we had 
physicians there who were overseeing what we were doing. We worked with a lot of 
Vietnam vets who were corps men as well. So, they had a lot of on-the-ground skills 
about how do you work with folks in emergent-type situations and whatnot. So, we 
learned how to draw blood. We learned how to do stitches. We worked on frankfurters. 
We worked on wieners [laughter] to do stitching because the skin is real sensitive and it’s 
like real people’s skin, so. We did women’s exams. We did vaginal exams and I have a 
very personal experience with that, that we would practice on each other, and then we 
would send our labs out. So, mine came back positive for cervical cancer, or something 
irregular. So, I said, “No,” so we did it again and sent it out again. It came back again. 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
So, I went to my gynecologist and sure enough, I had to have surgery. But that’s how I 
found out that I had cervical cancer, and I forget that I’m a cancer survivor these days 
because I caught it so early, I just never—. 
DC: Caught it so early. 
NM: Never think in terms of being a survivor, but I am, and that’s how I found 
out. 
DC: Through the clinic. That’s amazing. 
NM: Yeah! But the Merck Manual, I mean it just tells you about all the 
different diseases and illness and whatnot. We just read the stuff like it was a novel or 
something. We just collected all of this information. 
DC: Was Our Bodies, Ourselves out9 
NM: Oh, hey. I got one on the shelf still ! [Laughter] I’ve given it to all my 
girls, my daughters, my granddaughters. Yes, the Women’s Health Collective book, 
yeah. And we tried to teach people to take care of themselves as best they could. Don’t 
get sick, and then you don’t have to worry about getting well. As much as you can, I 
mean, some of it’s hereditary and you just have to watch out for those types of things to 
stay ahead of diabetes, and watching your sugar, watching your weight, and that kind of 
stuff, exercising. So, we were trying to do [50:00] all that. 
DC: Was that part of the Party platform too, to maintain personal health and 
rigor? 
NM: Mm-hmm. Let’s see. What was it? One of our, what I used to tell 
people, “Woe to those who treat their bodies as though they don’t belong to themselves.” 
It was something from Mao or something [laughs] but we changed it around a little bit. 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiñS 
But, yeah. Folks needed to be well. They needed to be well, and we had a 
communicable disease control program, too. We had an outbreak of shigella at one of the 
sites, and we worked with the pediatricians. We had pediatricians from Children’s 
Hospital who came and ran the pediatric clinic for us. Some of the residents came and 
did that, and we were taught that you need to separate them from other people until 
they’re asymptomatic, and then they can go back. Because if everybody’s living 
communal, if one person gets something, then it spreads like wildfire. Same thing with 
chicken pox. Two or three kids in one facility, you know everybody was going to get 
chicken pox. Everybody, we’d just confine there until—, [laughs] 
DC : Bring in the ones that hadn’t had it yet and—. 
NM: Yeah, let the kids go ahead. Let them get it. [laughter] And then, during 
the time of the sixties, free love, free speech, free love, flower children, I think we 
probably treated more STIs, STDs at the clinic than we treated a lot of—especially at 
Berkeley—than we treated other things, but we had control in the clinic. I liked that. We 
were bringing in folks from all over the country, so as soon as you got to town, you had 
to come and get your medical screening, and you got screened for gonorrhea, syphilis, 
chlamydia, whatever, did you have a yeast infection. You got treated if you had 
something that someone else could catch by you having sex with them. You were put on 
a list and you were not to have—that list was published—and you were not to have sex 
with anyone that was on that list. 
DC : This was in the Party? 
NM: There wasn’t no HIPAA laws in the Party! [laughter] But I mean, that’s 
how you controlled, because it was rampant. I mean, in Berkeley there was, in the Bay 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiñS 
Area, there was just a lot of STDs at that time because everybody was “free love.” 
[laughs] 
DC: That’s wild. 
NM: What a time. 
DC: That’s wild. I never heard that before. So, we are in Berkeley. 
NM: Yes. 
DC : So how long were you all up at, were you up there? 
NM: I was in the Bay Area from [19]72 to [19]77 and I ran the clinic from 
[19]72 until about [19]74 or so, and that was, by the time that Huey left the Party, then 
Bobby left, and then Elaine became the person in charge, and she knew that I had the 
experience. The person who handled the finances here was then handling the finances 
there, and she knew that I had the experience from Los Angeles, so she asked me, 
“Would I come and become the Minister of Finance?” So, I left the clinic and started 
handling the headquarters’ finances for the Party. 
DC : Were you there when Elaine was made president, that evening or day 
when she was announced as the head of the Black Panther Party? 
NM: I probably was. Actually, I was just recovering from surgery so I may not 
have been. I was there in the area, but I may not have been at the particular event. Like I 
said, I had a relapse and so she asked me while I was recovering, “Would I take over the 
finances?” Because that’s when the big shift in personnel, I guess you’d call it now—, 
[laughs] And so I told her, “Yeah.” So, that was like in late [19]74,1 started handling the 
finances. 
DC : So, you worked out of headquarters in Oakland? 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
NM: In my home. 
DC : Oh, at your home. 
NM: Yeah, and Oakland headquarters, but yeah, I did a lot of the work from 
where I lived as well. 
DC: So, can you tell me what that was like, especially that transition? 
NM: Yeah. Well, like I said, I was used to handling the finances here, so it was 
just on a bigger scale there. I had to make sure that the funds were accounted for when 
folks came in from getting donations, selling papers, if people gave us donations; to make 
sure that all the properties, the notes and the rents were paid, utilities; and people had 
money for food, and they had the clothing if they didn’t have other kinds of income. But 
everyone who had some kind of income, this was one of the edicts that Elaine came up 
with. Everyone that had some kind of income paid a tithe. Whatever you got, ten percent 
went into the pot for the various survival programs and to maintain the facilities where 
you lived and whatnot. So, I was responsible for making sure that the money got 
collected and [55:00] distributed, bills paid properly. 
Later, we were able to incorporate the school and get grants, so then I had to learn 
to be an accountant and do bookkeeping officially. Before, I was just keeping things in 
ledgers, but I had to learn to actually do the accounting records and keep those together, 
and bring them up to the point of [inaudible] balance and then give them to the CPA to do 
the 990 tax returns. And so, that was my introduction into the real nonprofit world, and 
so I did that from [19]74 until [19]77 and since then, I’ve been doing health and finance, 
[laughs] 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiñO 
DC: So, did you—? A couple of questions. One is, Fm just curious. So, you 
were married. Was it difficult to maintain a relationship during this time? 
NM: Yes. When I moved to Oakland, my husband was still stationed in Los 
Angeles, and I was in Oakland for probably a couple of years. And yeah, it was just 
strained. It was strained and we never really got back together until we both left the 
Party. So, we went our separate ways, and the kids, Fd have the kids one weekend, and 
then he’d have them because he did eventually move there. But he became stricken with 
multiple sclerosis, and was—. What he could do was limited. He actually became my 
assistant in the finance area because he couldn’t do a lot of fieldwork. So, we worked 
there very closely up there, even when we weren’t living as husband and wife. We made 
friends over the years. Yeah. It was difficult. There were a number of folks that came in 
a couple, and I don’t know if any of them left that way, but that’s not to say, with the 
high degree of divorce in our community, that it wouldn’t have happened anyway, 
[laughs] 
DC: Right, [laughter] We’ll talk about that later. So, can you tell me the story 
of leaving the Party? [laughs] 
NM: Yes, I will. Huey came back from Cuba, and things were just starting to 
be so different because when Elaine took over, we started doing more, would you say 
mainstream-type funding. We even had a law enforcement grant to run some of the 
services that—. We had the school nonprofit, then we had a nonprofit that was like a 
social service wing that worked with all these other programs. The clinic fell under that. 
The seniors program fell under that. Clothing, food, other programs outside of education 
fell under that social service wing. So, then we were used to—. We were getting into 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
operating more legitimately as far as other people were concerned, but it also helped to 
bring in monies that made our program sustainable. 
And when Huey came back, things just changed. He had some different ideas, 
and he—, I don’t know. He may have just been so brilliant that it was just, you know a 
lot of brilliant people, they just kind of—especially those that are so forward-thinking, 
“This is my idea”—that he was so forward-thinking, and in a way could kind of see ahead. 
That if we kept going like this, this is where we would be, and it had to be that kind of 
visionary. That can put a lot of strain on a person, especially when you’re trying to get 
other folks to see what you see, and we’re too dumb, [laughter] We’re not that 
intelligent. The general person can’t understand it like that, and what that does to a 
psyche and a mentality of the mental health of a person. So, he kind of started acting 
differently, and so people started leaving. The women started leaving. 
And then, when he came back, he had this charge that he left because of in the 
first place that he was supposed to—shot a prostitute, I believe—and so the witnesses, 
there was one witness. Finally, they publish her address and whatnot. So, he sent 
somebody out to kill this person. I’m putting all this stuff together in my head, so he’s 
not around to say that he didn’t do it, but [1:00:00] this is me, okay? But when he got 
there, when they got there, the person, they went to the wrong house. The lady’s house 
they went to had a gun, when they were trying to get in, and she started shooting through 
the door. So, she shot some of the guys that came to get the witness, and one of the guys 
died on the spot. 
Now, see, we all live communally. So, the guy that died had the same address on 
his license as where I was living. So, once they get his prints, then they get the search 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
warrants and whatnot, then they come and they come to not search, but they come to bust 
in my house, and then they go search everything. And there were guns around almost all 
the houses. They belonged to the Party. They wasn’t our houses, most of them. And 
most of them were arsenals. Most of them had some stuff, but they were only parts. I 
think at that time, they felt that if the barrel was here, and the trigger housing was here, 
and this was someplace else, that they couldn’t put any kind of charges on you. Well, 
that wasn’t true. So, when they went up to this closet that my kids played hide and seek 
in, I didn’t know what it was. They were just little suitcases, valise cases in there. They 
came and they just started carting out all kinds of stuff. I’m like, “Oh, my goodness. I’m 
going to jail. [Laughs] I’m going to jail.” 
But it was an eye-opening time. It really was. That he would order something 
like that to save himself. Why not just stay in Cuba? And so, that was, things just started 
spiraling after that, and then people started leaving more and I went to jail and then I got 
kicked out. [Laughs] Because now, Huey had to fight his case, so why spend the 
resources to fight my case if he’s going to need the resources to fight his case? So, I was 
on my own. 
DC : They kicked you out of the Party? 
NM: Yeah, yeah, with what I had on my back. So, I left and I fought my case 
for a year, and I ended up getting sentenced to two years in California State Prison, which 
I did about twelve or thirteen months, and then I went to work furlough. And while in 
work furlough, there was this Jewish woman there that worked with parolees. While I 
was in prison, that was an interesting experience too. I had never, I didn’t even have 
traffic tickets on my record, you know? [laughs] So I went, “Do not pass go. Do not 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñá 
collect two hundred dollars. Go directly.” [laughs] So it was at the time when it was not, 
“use a gun, go to jail,” but “have a gun, go to jail.” You know how the wind shifted back 
and forth? And it was right during that time, “have a gun, go to jail.” They couldn’t—. 
My fingerprints weren’t on anything. And so there were a couple of people in the jury, 
we got a chance to poll them afterwards, and a couple of them said that they really didn’t 
believe that I had any control over it, but that’s what it would take for you to be guilty: to 
have knowledge, possession, and control. So, it was my house, the utilities were in my 
name. They said I had control of it. But, anyway. 
DC : So where were you incarcerated? 
NM: Here in Frontera California Institute for Women. But when I went there, I 
stayed in the reception center for three months. Normally, they transition you in, do your 
physical, psych, and you’re out in two or three weeks. Well, they were watching me, 
making sure that I wasn’t going to incite a riot or something, or—. 
DC: Foment revolution right there. 
NM: Yes! Yes. They should’ve known I was so far of it. That point in my life 
was like, that was the last thing I was thinking about. And so, when they finally moved 
me to the main campus, they put me in a cell by myself because they didn’t want me in—. 
And that was right fine with me because there were some folks up there that you 
wouldn’t want to sail with, [laughs] I mean, because they were always doing things. 
They would be going to jail in jail for their activities in there. Nothing political. 
Brewing hooch and doing whatever other kinds of things that get you locked up while 
you’re already locked up. [laughs] 
DC : So, did word circulate that you were a Black Panther? 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
NM: Mm-hmm. 
DC: And what kind of response did that get from others inside? 
NM: I got a lot of respect from everybody. The administration were giving me 
a hard time initially, but eventually I became secretary for the Women’s Advisory 
Council, and I had a pass. I could go in and out of administration. I had a typewriter in 
my room. I went [1:05:00] and enrolled in a college class. I got my AA degree while I 
was there. I transferred my credits from Berkeley and Cal State LA and got an AA, and 
took a couple other classes. But when I got out at work-study, this woman sent me on 
interviews and I had four interviews, and I was offered jobs by three people. And so, I 
went back to school, got my bachelor’s in healthcare administration, and kept working 
and went back. Stayed in school and got a master’s in health administration, mostly in 
administrating substance abuse programs. And then at the age of 55,1 went back to 
school and got a marriage and family therapy degree, a master’s. [Laughs] So you know, 
I just kept moving and didn’t look back. It was something, being in the Party. I wouldn’t 
have the skills to do the things that I’ve done since if I hadn’t been there. That was a just 
really unfortunate that happened and that I had to deal with, and be away from my family 
forthat amount of time, but it’s over and you chalk it up to experience and just keep 
moving forward. 
DC: You were saying—. 
NM: Yeah. I didn’t know that I’d ever put that on film. 
DC: [laughs] Yeah. 
NM: So. 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñ§ 
DC: I wanted to ask about the other nonprofits, especially SHIELDS for 
Families, but I don’t know if that was first in the progression. 
NM: No. Well, I work with some other nonprofits here in Los Angeles, but in, 
I guess [19]90,1 was working for the County Alcohol and Drug Program. I stayed with 
them for about a year and a half. I waited too long to become a government employee. 
[Laughs] I couldn’t go through just pretending to work. Because I mean, I’ve talked 
about my work ethic. I couldn’t come into work and push a paper from this side of the 
desk to the other side for the evening, tomorrow come in and move it over here, and act 
like I’m doing something. So, my supervisor and I, we’d be writing grants. We’d be 
there late at night. We’d come in on weekends and we had over twenty million dollars of 
funding to come in and support substance abuse programs, and specifically women’s 
programs for women who had substance abuse problems and their children were born 
prenatally exposed to drugs. We were there when Diane Watson introduced a bill into 
the state legislature asking to have funds set aside for the four county hospitals in Los 
Angeles to address that issue. Because at King Hospital, over twelve hundred children a 
year were being born prenatally exposed to drugs, primarily crack. 
DC: Mmhmm. 
NM: So, the bill passed, became law, so the doctor who was a neonatologist at 
King called us at the county. She had worked with us on the proposal and said, “You 
know, I know how to treat the children, but I don’t know how to run a drug abuse 
program. You guys are going to have to come out here and run it.” So, my boss and I 
left the county, came out and started running the program. Initially, it was under the 
auspices of Drew Medical School, but after about a year or so, we formed our own 501(c) 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
and started getting our monies directly. We started with a grant of about a half a million 
dollars a year, fourteen employees, and after twenty-four years, when I retired, we had 
three hundred and fifty employees and about twenty-five million dollars in funding. 
DC : Can you tell us about the first—? 
NM: Twenty-eight or twenty-nine programs. [Laughs] 
DC: Can you tell us about the “first building,” in quotes? [Laughter] 
NM: The first building? We were given an old trailer. It was set on the land of 
Drew Medical School, but the trailer belonged to Martin Luther King Hospital, County 
Hospital in South Central that was built right after the riots as a direct result of that. But 
the building was so old and dilapidated, it should have been condemned. It had been 
sitting empty for a long time and you just had to watch where you stepped. Certain 
places, your foot might go through to the bottom [laughs] but we pieced it together and 
made it work. So, we ran our program out of there for a while and were able to get 
funding from the Department of Health Services to help us renovate that trailer and to 
build us another one so that we could expand. So, we just started with the one program 
for women who had drug abuse problems who had children zero to five, and they came 
into the program when they were pregnant or right after they had a baby that was tested 
positive [1:10:00] for drugs. Then, we’d work with them on the substance abuse issues. 
Then, we started seeing that they were coming in close to homeless or homeless. 
So, we went out and found some apartments, got some money from HUD, put together 
some packaging, and bought two eighteen-unit apartment complexes that we could house 
some of the women in, and they just kept coming in homeless. And so, we found another 
project in Compton, eighty-six unit. So, we bought that so that we could house more, and 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñ§ 
more of them were coming in with mental health issues, so we got a psychiatrist to come 
and work with us. So, we started looking at the behavioral health, the other behavioral 
health concerns. We were able to get funding from the Department of Mental Health to 
help with that, got more funding from the Department of Substance Abuse where we used 
to work, and they were one of our main funders at the time and still are. Started doing 
vocational services because most of the women maybe had a four to six grade education 
or reading level. 
DC: So, all these are so related. 
NM: They’re similar programs that we had in the Party. 
DC: So, housing, education, yeah. 
NM: I mean, so the thread—. And what I did at SHIELDS is I was the health 
officer for the longest—. We had a major AIDS grant and I was the primary person 
working on that. So, as well as the financial piece, I became the chief operating officer, 
so I had some programmatic responsibilities from time to time. But yes, the programs 
that were and still are run out of SHIELDS, they kind of mirror the kind of work that I 
did when I was in the Party. So, I can’t ever regret what I did because it set the stage and 
helped me to build the skills to do what I needed to do when I came back here. 
DC: And you worked through all these major epidemics. I mean, drug 
epidemic, AIDS, crack, gang violence. 
NM: Yeah. And SHIELDS was very instrumental because it’s in Watts. We 
started right there on 120th and Compton. It now has probably seventeen, eighteen sites, 
and we’re in about twenty schools doing mental health services as well. So, we’re all 
over the South Central Lynwood-Watts-Willowbrook area, and even down, not far from 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiñS 
here we have a resource center. Yeah, I watched—F ve seen a lot of things come and go 
and I’ve seen so much cyclical stuff happening. Now, with healthcare reform, which Fm 
really happy passed, we’re having some unexpected consequences as a result of it. 
There’s still a lot of bugs to be worked out, but we went from—. We’re now going back 
to what they call a “medical model” where they want substance abuse services to be 
treated in the medical facility, and we fought to change that back in the eighties and 
nineties and were able to have substance abuse looked at differently because there are 
some aspects that are a lot different. That’s not to say that it couldn’t be treated, and it’s 
good to have integrative care. It’s just we’re really concerned that they’re now going to 
be excluding the people that have done the treatment services for so long and upping the 
requirements for them to have degrees. And a lot of these folks are recovering people 
who have, they’ve learned certain sets of skills and they—. We just don’t know what’s 
going to happen with that now. 
DC: Is that difficult when you see things cycle back? 
NM: Oh, it is. I think about “Mother May I?” You know, you take two baby 
steps forwards and ten giant steps backwards and you think, “You know, I did all this. I 
stayed up all those long hours for what?” Sometimes you wonder, “How could we have 
let it roll back like this again?” But I think we’ll work out that medical piece, as long as 
Trump doesn’t get elected. We’ll be able to [laughs] work through some of those things. 
But I’ve retired from SHIELDS, but I was asked to become part of community faculty at 
Drew Medical School, which isa—, 
DC: Full circle again, yeah. 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiñé 
NM: It’s a different type of tract of instructors. There are people like me who 
have been working in the community with nonprofits, running nonprofits for years and 
years, and what we are commissioned to do is to work with the medical students, nursing 
students, MPH students, to help them understand the community better, help them to 
understand better the social determinants of health. 
DC: What a phenomenal program. 
NM: Yes. 
DC : Are there others in the country doing this or this—? 
NM: No, no. We’re the only one. [1:15:00] So, and because we think it’s so 
important, that they need to learn those skills. It’s so unfair to send the students out into 
the community to work in, especially ones that aren’t from this community. They don’t 
know. They don’t know that just because you give this person a prescription, doesn’t 
mean they’re going to take it. First of all, it doesn’t even mean that they’re going to buy 
it because they may not have the money. They may not trust you because they keep 
thinking about the research and all that kind of stuff that’s happened with people of color 
over the years. So, they don’t trust the medical system or they don’t—they can’t—read 
what you’ve just written and given to them. It’s just all kinds of dynamics, and then you 
go home with the family dynamics, and they say, “Oh, no. You don’t take that. Here, 
you take these herbs and mix it with this bark and do that. You don’t take that medicine.” 
So, it’s all these other social determinants of health that the students have to be trained on 
and even the existing, the current professors, it’s a hard thing because a lot of the old 
guys, they’re not trying to change what they’re thinking. So, when you go and try to 
teach the students, then they get in the classroom and then they tell them what they’ve 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma MtuiáQ 
always told them, and I keep saying we’ve got to think of a different way to do something 
because obviously, what we’re doing is not working because my people are still dying 
from illness. Something’s not working somewhere, so we need to [laughs] tweak this a 
little bit. 
DC : But to turn to those who have actually been working in the trenches, that 
makes so much sense. 
NM: Yeah, yeah. So, it’s been interesting and I’ve been able to—. Drew falls 
under the auspices of UCLA, so I work with some doctors and nurses there, especially in 
the research department, and I’ve been working on some of the committees to look at 
diversity in the medical education curriculum, and how do we train the physicians and 
how do we train the existing instructors? How do we train the students about some of 
these concepts that we think that they need to know about working in our communities? 
DC: Amazing. So, that’s what you’re doing now. 
NM: Yeah, I do that a little bit, yes. I’m also on some advisory boards for 
diabetes and stroke prevention and things like that, but more health-related things now. 
DC: And when I heard you’d retired, I didn’t think that that would last long. 
NM: How do you retire from a passion? I keep trying. I learned to say “no” 
more. I haven’t learned to say “no” all the time yet, but I’m going to get there one day. 
[laughs] 
DC : Coming back to the Panthers for a moment, what are your thoughts about 
how the Panthers are remembered or thought of? And this is again, like working with 
kids and what people now. I’m curious what your thoughts are on that. 
NM: Things that I think that I’d like to see them remembered for? 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiàè 
DC: Yeah. Fm interested in what you think, you know, maybe the Panthers are 
misremembered or misrepresented, or what you would like kids to know, especially. 
NM: Okay. Well, the whole piece about the guns and self-defense, I mean that 
was important because if you’re dead, all the rest of this doesn’t count. There’s not even 
no need to look at anything else. So, we have to make sure that we’re safe first, but that 
wasn’t the hype. That wasn’t the ultimate of what the Party was about. We had a 
plethora of survival programs, and we called it “survival pending revolution” because we 
knew it would be a long, protracted struggle before we got to see any of the changes 
made that we knew needed to occur in order for us, our people, to start living a better life. 
And when I say “our people,” Fm talking about all poor and oppressed people in this 
country and the world because the United States, they have their tentacles all over the 
place. But I’d like them to know that the Party was interested in children, and in adults, 
in every facet of our lives to make sure that we had the best life possible. And we did 
what we could to make that happen for as long as we could do it. 
DC : Is there anything that I didn’t ask that I should have asked? 
NM: I don’t think so. [Laughter] I don’t think so. It’s just my children, you 
know, it’s interesting that children have a different take on things. My daughter, she’s 
right out there. She’s [1:20:00] an educator, but she’s really for making sure that the 
children of color get what they need, and runs into a lot of obstacles in the educational 
systems because of that. But what she remembers most about the Party was the 
camaraderie, and she still has friends that she still collaborates with. And when she left, 
she was only about, I think maybe she was six or seven years old. 
DC: Right. But she grew up in it, yeah. 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiàê 
NM: Yeah. And she’s still in touch with those people and those are like 
lifelong friends, friends forever, [laughs] 
DC: Right, right. 
NM: But yeah, Fd just like young people to know that. And Fd like for them 
not to make some of the mistakes that we made, to be open to hear our stories, to see 
where we stepped in the ditch so that they don’t have to step in that same ditch. They can 
move around it and go higher and farther than we did. 
DC: Good. I did think of one thing else I wanted to ask you. We talked a little 
bit before we started the camera about working with other likeminded organizations, 
especially the Brown Berets. Could you talk a little bit about what those kinds of 
coalition building forces were? 
NM: Yeah. I can remember working in some of their rallies and just coalescing 
with them in activities and events that they were having, and having similar ideologies. 
And I can remember some of our Party members going out and working with Cesar 
Chavez and the farmworkers, and just forming coalitions with who was ever open to talk 
about, “Let’s make some changes in this country because we know if we can make them 
here, hopefully that’ll be able to extend out through the rest of the world where people 
are oppressed like they are here.” So, like I said, I was mostly focused on the health 
piece. I didn’t get a chance to be out more, and at that time, more people in the top 
leadership were doing that. I didn’t really become in the party’s executive committees 
until I became the finance minister at Oakland. So, a lot had happened before I got to 
that point. 
DC: Yeah. Good. I just wanted to ask about that. 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiàâ 
NM: Yeah. Yeah, but there was a lot of coalescing going on with the Gray 
Panthers and with the seniors, and in the universities, and yeah. 
DC: And the anti-war movement, and the student—. 
NM: Oh, yeah. The women’s movement. Yes, yes. All of those. 
DC: Fellas, any questions? 
Guha Shankar: No. [Inaudible] about that coconut water, [laughter] 
NM: Help yourself. 
GS: Well, I guess I did have one question. You know, you mentioned talking 
to young people today. What you could tell them that might demystify some of the other 
sort of unfortunate and pernicious mythologies about the Panthers? But in your own 
mind, looking back on forty years ago when you walked in that door of the Panther Party, 
did you ever see that trajectory taking you to where it was now? 
NM: I did not. I did not see myself as a visionary. I guess I still don’t. Maybe 
in some regards, I might be, but I was more a day-to-day grinder. Get the work done. 
Make sure the books are okay. Make sure the health is okay. I guess maybe, is it the left 
side of my brain is just totally taxed and I haven’t really exercised the right very much? 
I’m trying to do more of that now and stepping out and thinking about different things 
that might occur, but I never felt like I really had the time to allow myself to let my mind 
go there. It was like, “Okay, here I am today,” and then you go three or four years and 
you look back and you say, “My goodness. How did I get here? I didn’t expect to be at 
this point.” And a lot of times, you didn’t even know you were going to be alive the next 
year. So, that kept a lot of us, I think, from thinking ahead like that. To be thinking that I 
would come out of the Party, especially after being in prison, and being able to keep 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0138 
Norma Mtuiáé 
moving ahead and moving up, and still being able to do the same types of work on a 
broader scale as I came back to this community is just not something that ever even 
crossed my mind. But Fm glad that I had that experience and skills to be able to come 
and do that. 
DC : Well, we’re grateful to you for the work that you’ve done. 
NM: Well, thank you. Thank you. 
DC : And for sharing your story today. 
NM: Thank you for inviting me. Okay? 
DC: Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you. 
NM: Okay. [1:25:00] [Laughter] 
F1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF RECORDING 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcriber name: Mary Dawson 
Transcription date: March 14, 2017 
44